
14                    LINLITHGOWSHIRE.

of families, in connection with the Dissenters, is 40, containing
214 persons, of whom 9 are Roman Catholics, and 11 belong to
other religious denominations. There are 169 communicants be-
longing to in Established Church.
   Divine service is well attended both in the Established Church
and Dissenting congregation; although it is to be regretted, that
many connected with each, are either very partial, or altogether
negligent in their attendance on ordinances. The average num-
ber of regular communicants in the Established Church is 130.
There is a penny a-week Bible society, and collections are annually
made in the church, for various religious and charitable purposes,
which may amount on an average to L.12 or L. 15 annually. The
average of the collections made at the church-door in aid of the
poor funds, amounts, for the last ten years, to the annual sum of
L. 35, but now to about L. 28.
   Education.-There are three schools in the town, viz. the
burgh or parochial, one private and unendowed, and one female
school. The usual branches are taught in the burgh school, in-
cluding English, writing, arithmetic, book-keeping, geography,
mathematics, Latin, Greek, and French. In the private school,
English, writing, and arithmetic; in the ladies' school, the various
branches of female education, including music and drawing. The
salary of the burgh teacher is L. 29, 4s. 6d. per annum, which,
with the addition of the school-fees, can scarcely make an income
of L. 60. The average annual expense of a single pupil varies
from 10s. to L. 1, 10s. The burgh school is numerously attend-
ed, and well taught. A new school-room is just nearly finished
for the reception of the pupils, in room of the old one, which was
the worst in the bounds, while the new erection will be one of the
best in the country.
   Libraries.-There is one subscription library, containing nearly
600 volumes, one under the management of the Associate Burgher
congregation of 400 volumes, and one belonging to the Sabbath
school, containing, 1335 small publications suited to the young.
This school has been taught by the minister, for twenty-two years,
every Sabbath evening, for two hours and upwards, and has proved
of great advantage to the rising generation. It has always been
well attended. The library has been most beneficial in exciting
a taste for reading, and storing the minds of the young with useful
   Friendly, Societies.-There are two Friendly societies in the


