
                           WATTEN.                            55

bourers, men get from 1s. 6d. to. 1s. 8d. per day in summer, and
from 1s. 2d. to 1s. 4d. in winter; women get 6d. in winter, and
8d. in summer. Wright's work may be stated at 2s. to 2s. 6d. per
day; blacksmith's the same. Mason work L.2 per rood of 36 square
yards. Iron, wood, and leather are about the same prices as in
other parts of the kingdom.
   Live-Stock.-The native breed of cattle is an inferior descrip-
tion of the Highland breed, generally sleek-skinned and coarsely
made. In many instances they get to a good size, and the cows
milk better than the pure Highlanders. There is not sufficient
attention paid to them in general, and, of course, a considerable pro-
portion of the cattle stock in the parish is inferior. The ge-
neral price of two year old cattle taken off by drovers to the south
country markets has for the last few years, including the pre-
sent, ranged from L.3 to L.8 each; the ordinary price of cows
from L.5 to L.11.
   The few sheep kept by the smaller tenants are Cheviots; but,
being ill-treated, and many of them dying of rot, they generally
come to very little account.
   These remarks are applicable only to the smaller class of farms,
on which the old system of husbandry still obtains, which is as
follows: viz. on the best land, bear after manuring, followed by
two crops of oats, and this followed in endless succession: on the
outfield arable, two or three crops of oats, and then five or six
rest; a few potatoes and turnips, and a patch of sown grass. The
number farms, however, managed after this mode is every year
decreasing.
   Where a better system obtains, there are, of course, better
stocks of cattle. A cross with the Teeswater has become very
general, and seems likely, as agriculture improves, to supersede
the native breeds. Leicester sheep, and Cheviot crossed with
Leicester, are reared extensively, thrive well, and equal in weight
any in the kingdom. Their wool gives great satisfaction in the
southern markets.
   Improvements.-A great and rapid change to the better has
taken place in agriculture during the last twenty years. There
are several very extensive farms in the highest state of cultivation,
thoroughly drained; some of them to a considerable extent fur-
row-drained, and enclosed with fences consisting of dry stone dike,
hedge, and ditch. On one of these, the farm of Wester Watten,
belonging to William Horne, Esq. of Scouthel, it is believed that


