
582                         FORFARSHIRE.

possibly have belonged to the first edifice, erected by Boniface, a
legate or missionary, who landed at that place rrom Rome, during
the seventh century. On this point reference is made in the for.
mer account to Boeth. Hist., Archbishop Spottiswood, and For-
bes on Tithes. The space enclosed within the walls of the
church has, for generations, been appropriated as the burying-
place of the families of Invergowrie and Mylnefield. The church-
yard is often washed by the Tay.

			III.-POPULATION.
	From the former Statistical Account, it appears that, by Dr
Webster's report, the number of inhabitants at that time was 1311.
	The village of Kirktown of Liff is said to have contained in 1650
one-third at least of the whole inhabitants; the number of the
whole, according to a report made by the minister about that time
to the Presbytery of Dundee, amounting to 400 and upwards. *
	Several of the feus having been, about the beginning of the last
century, purchased by Lord Gray, and taken into his pleasure-
grounds, as was also the glebe of Liff, the village was restricted
to its present limits. It contains at present 26 families.
	By decreet of annexation for Liff and Benvie, dated August
1753, the examinable persons, or those above ten years of age,
were reported to be 650; the examinable persons in Benvie, 150;
total, 800.
	By a survey of the inhabitants in January 1792, the number of
examinable persons amounted to 1451. By the census of 1831,
the whole population is stated to be 4217; the increase chiefly
in the village of Lochee. That village being now politically con-
nected with Dundee, or within the Parliamentary boundary, the
population at last census (June 1841) was taken in connection
with Dundee, and not with this parish. On that account, the
precise amount of the inhabitants of Lochee is not known to me;
but it cannot be under 3000 souls.

<TABLE>

In the parish of Liff and Benvie, exclusive of Lochee, the number of souls by last
    census is                                                                 1508
Number of famifies,                                                            304
       employed in agriculture,                                                100
                   manufactures, including female weavers,                     145
       mechanics,                                                               40
       labourers,                                                               87
       masons,                                                                  30

<FOOTNOTE>"The lands of Liff were part of an endowment to the monastery of Scoon, and
appear to have been feued out by the commendator of that monastery into eight parts
about the time of the Reformation. This laid the foundation of the village of Kirk-
town of Liff," mentioned above.
				       3


