
414                    PERTHSHIRE.

munerated in proportion to what they can accomplish, the vigo-
rous and expert shearer earns his 2s. 6d. or even 3s. a-day.  The
week is as well and more expeditiously done, and the difference in
point of saving is very inconsiderable.
  Husb`ndry.-In the low or Carse district of the parish, consist-
ing as it does of strong stiff clay, and perfectly flat, one rotation is
invariably observed, viz. lst, fallow; 2d, wheat; 3d, pease and
beans; 4th, wheat; 5th, barley; 6th, grass for cutting only; and,
7th, oats.  Grass is found by dxperience to answer much better
after the two white crops of wheat and barley than after fallow
wheat, the great bulk of the straw in the latter case generally hav-
ing the effect of smothering and destroying it.  When the season
admits, pease and beans are always succeeded by wheat; and oc-
casionally too, wheat, instead of oats, follows grass, though this has of
late been, almost entirely discontinued.  Wheat is an object of great
importance here; but the sowing of it in the clay grounds is rather
precarious, depending as it does so much upon the weather, and in
ordinary circumstances must be concluded in the first week of Octo-
ber.  Potatoes and turnips are rarely cultivated in the Carse, the soil
being too stiff and tenacious for them.  The second cutting of grass
is often remarkably good; but, for some time past, it has fallen off,
owing, there is little doubt, to the too frequent repetition of that crop.
In the brae or dry land adjoining the clay, which is in general excel-
lent, some of it even superior to the other, and all of it more easily
managed, and in the upper district of the parish, where the soil is
various and the climate not so favourable, there is no very uniform
system pursued.  Potatoes and turnips, however, are regularly
raised, and the ground pastured for two or even three years in the
course of the rot`tion.  The home farm of Castle Huntly is all
laid down in grass which, from its richness, lets at L. 5 per acre.
Lime was formerly imported in large quantities from England, but
having apparently lost its stimulating and quickening effects, there
is not now nearly the same demand for it.  Dung is brought from
Dundee by those whose farms, are adapted for the green crop hus-
bandry; and bones are used in the higher ground of the parish
for turnips, which are partly eat off with sheep.  Rape dust was
tried, but with no great success; and oil-cake in feeding is begin-
ning to be employed, principally with the view of improving the
manure.
  Live-Stock.-The cattle are in general a cross of the short-
horned breed.  Gowrie, who gained the first premium for that de-


