
                     RETTIE.			          393

house, near the loch. On the farm of Balmachreef there was a
moat-hill, where stone-coffins containing urns were discovered.
On the farm of Culblair, a shilling of Queen Elizabeth's, time,
as also a fragment of something like a battle-axe, delicately flow-
cred, have been found in the moss. On the old Nairn road,
at the boundary line between Petyn and Brtreholy, is clach-
an-tuil, or tioledstone, the use of which is unknown; btit the'
water collected in -it was imagined to cure wens. The Messr
Anderson of Inverness, in their Guide to the Highlands and
Isles, say, " Near the church are two of the' largest tululi,
called moat-hills, in this country. The circumference of each at
the base is 120 feet, and the height 42. On the south side of
the bay, an immense stone, weighing at the least eight tons, which
marked the boundaries between the estates of Lord Moray and
Culloden, and called clach-an-aban, or beach-stone, was, on the
night of Saturday, 20th February 1799, carried forward into the
sea 260 yards. Some suppose that nothing short of an earthquake
could have moved such a mass ; but the more probable opinion
is,that a large sheet of ice, which bad collected to the thickness
of 18 inches round the Stone, had been raised by the tide lifting'
the stone with it, and that their motion forward was aided and in-
creased by a tremendous hurricane, which blew from the land."
In the Edinburgh Wernerian Transactions for 1817-20, Sir T.
Dick Lauder gives a minute account of this " travelled stone."
   There are places which, it is said have derived their names
from Fingalean heroes who were buried there. Among these
Pipan and lan Beag nam Fion may be mentioned.  We must not
omit what seems to be a notice of the latter, a pigmy of 14feet, given
us by Lesly. " Apud Moravos in eccelesia cujusdatn pagi Petyn no-
mine servantur ossa cujusdam Johannis quem antiphrasticos parvm
appellant, qui vix tereentis ab hinc annis vita decessit, quem ossium
vasta m iitudo quatuordecem pedes longum fuisse docet. Ih'hujus
coxenclicem nemo est apud nos, qui non manum simul brachium
facile immittere posset-." The histories or Robin Hood make his
friend Little John to retire like a smitten deer from his gay green
wood and companions, in order to rest his weary bones in the dry
sands of Petyn. To these we must add "Johannes eremites," men-
tioned in the fourth charter of the chartulary; so that there would
seem to be some ground for regarding the name of the parish as
fiait or Pit-Ian.
   In the churchyard lies th chief of the Macgillivrays or Don-
INVERNESS.                                          c c


