
			      NEWTON.                            571

vulgarly called the black-spit, and by the faculty is dignified with
the Greek term melanosis. It is a wasting of the lungs occasion-
ed, as is supposed, by the inhaling of the coal-dust while working,
and the expectoration is as black as the coal itself. Many strong
men are cut off by it before they reach the age of forty, especially
if they have, for any length of time, been engaged in what in op-
position to coal-hewing is called stonework, (sinking of pits, driv-
ing of mines, &c). Almost all the men are affected by it sooner
or later, so as to be rendered unfit for any active exertion for
years before they drop prematurely into the grave, between the
ages of forty and sixty or sixty-five. The vicissitudes of tempera-
ture to which they are daily exposed on issuing from the pits
throughout a great part of the year, coupled with irregular habits
in the case of too many, no doubt contribute to this mortality.
   Though their earnings are such that the collier population might
enjoy the comforts of life in a superior degree to agricultural la-
bourers, yet, from want of management, this is far from being ge-
nerally the case. In too many instances, this happens from
excess in eating and drinking followed by the necessary absti-
nence imposed by exhausted resources, the wages being no sooner
got than, with many they are spent in sensual indulgence, as
they know no other. It is their custom, also, to procure every
thing upon credit, which makes their expenditure much more
and their enjoyment much less than they would be, if they
were in the habit of husbanding their resources. Instead of in-
dependent action, according to what prudence may dictate as for
the best, they are entirely regulated by custom; and hence
there is little hope of their being speedily elevated from the
degraded condition indicated by such a state of things. To
this, however, there are honourable exceptions, and there are
individuals and families that, for character and the manner in
which their households are conducted, may stand a favourable
comparison with those of their own rank in any other sphere
of life. When the parties are free from indolent, and, above
all, intemperate habits, the actual condition, in respect of food,
clothing, and other comforts, is exceedingly good, the work-
ing classes connected with the collieries earning very good wages,
so that it is only intemperance, vice, an mismanagement that
render it otherwise. Indeed those who have tastes and inclina-
tions elevated above the prevailing sensuality and vice have it in


