
   226                  ROSS AND CROMARTY.

   parish, which were formerly the common black-faced breed of the
   country, are now Cheviot of the most approved breed. The cattle
   are generally of the Highland stamp, with the exception of some
   Ayrshire cows, recently introduced. The horses on all the larger
   farms are Clydesdale, of a superior caste. The cottars still use
   the small garrons of the country.
   	The husbandry pursued in the parish is of a very high character.
   The neatness, extent, and regularity of the fields, and the general
   appearance of high culture which the farms present, frequently ex-
   cites the surprize of strangers who visit the Highlands for the first
   time; while the superior quality of the produce secures for it the
   highest prices in the markets. The implements used are of the
   most approved description, comprising most of the modern improve-
   ments. The systems of cropping practised are the following,
   chiefly the first:
	1st. Six-course rotation for best loam or clay lands: 1. fallow
   manured, or turnips with manure or bone-dust; 2. wheat or
   barley; 3. hay; 4. oats ; 5. potatoes, pease, or beans manured;
   6. wheat.-2d. Five-course rotation for light or gravelly land:
   1.turnips; 2. barley or wheat occasionally ; 3. bay; 4. pasture;
   5.oats, or wheat seldom.-3d. Seven-course rotation for inferior
   loam or clay : 1. fallow or turnips ; 2. wheat or barley ; 3. hay
   4. pasture; 5. oats; 6. beans or potatoes; 7. wheat
	Since the date of the former Statistical Account a great pro-
   portion of the arable land of the parish has been brought into a
   state of culture. A considerable part of this was reclaimed from
   the sea. It consisted of carse lands lying to the south and east
   of the town, over which the sea flowed at high water. In the im-
   provement of this, all that was requisite was to exclude the sea by
   means of embankments (which has been effectually done,) and to
   level the surface, as the want of fall, and the nature of the sub-
   soil (a stiff clay) precluded drainage. By the aid of lime and
   manure, these lands have been brought into a state of great pro-
   ductiveness. Another extensive-improvement was the drainage
   and culture of the low part of Strathpeffer, lying within this pa-
   rish, consisting of a swampy morass overgrown by stunted alder
   trees, and commonly called the bog. Through this a channel was
   cut for the Peffery, sufficiently deep to afford a fall for drainage,
   by a judicious use of which, and by trenching and levelling the sur-
   face, this, which was formerly of so little value as to be used, as a
   common grazing, has become one of the finest farms in the parish.


