
40                      SHETLAND.

more tapering, but without any inscription or traditionary story.
Each is supposed to commemorate the site of a battle when some
renowned warrior fell.
     The ruins or some vestige of an ancient chapel, are found at
every turning. No fewer than twenty-four, at some remote pe-
riod, have been standing in this parish. One of them, called the
Cross Kirk, or St Cruz, in the neighbourhood of Haroldswick, is
still accounted a holy place, and occasional pilgrimages are made
to it by some of the older inhabitants, whose minds are not yet
emancipated from the Popish superstitions of their ancestors.
There are six burying-places in the parish, around the ruins of
so many old kirks, viz. at Norwick, Haroldswick, Balliasta, Sand-
wick, Wick, and Uyea. The Rev. William Archibald, who offi-
ciated as clergyman of this parish, from the year 1735 to 1785,
preached, by rotation, in three of these kirks for many years, viz. at
Haroldswick, Balliasta, and Wick. The manse, then at Norwick,
was one mile to the northward cif Haroldswick, four to the north-
ward of Balliasta, and nine miles to the northward of Wick. A
number of stone urns were found in the island of Uyea some years
ago, filled with bones and ashes, and deposited beneath a heap, of
stones and earth. They are supposed to be of Scandinavian origin.
     Modern Buildings.-A very neat new church forms a very con-
spicuous object, as seen from a vessel entering the Voe or har-
bour of Balta Sound, and, with the exception of the school-
house, this is the only public building in the parish. Of private
buildings a considerable number has been reared within these
few years. Mr Edmondston has built a new manor-house at
Buness, and two other dwelling-houses in his vicinity; and at
Uyea Sound, Mr Mouat has built a lodge for his own accom-
modation, when he visits that part of his property which lies
in Unst; and a range of neat houses along the shores of the har-
bour, for dwelling-houses; a shop for merchandise; warehouses;
and workshops for a blacksmith, boat-carpenters, and a cooper.
The water-mills for grinding corn are the same as they have been
for centuries, exceedingly simple, but answering the purpose very
well. Every neighbourhood has its own mill, and every farmer is
his own miller. The mills are minutely described in the old Sta-
tistical Account.
                           III.-POPULATION
     There is reason to believe that this is island had a numerous po-
                                  3



