
                              STOW.                      429

   The collection at the communion season in 1808, was L.1, 12s.
It gradually increased, and, for a number of years, has varied
from about L.4 to L.6 and upwards, the difference being occa-
sioned by the residence or non-residence of some genteel families.
The average ordinary collections through the year (exclusive of
sacramental collections and those for religious purposes) may be
stated at from L.10 to L.12.  The compulsory assessment keeps
it so low, and is the cause of innumerable evils.  '
   Besides the collections and assessments, the session have had
at their disposal about L.90 within these few years.  The interest
of this money, with something from the collections, has, for some
time been employed in procuring coals for the most needy, about
the middle of winter.  The severe spring of 1838 caused an
encroachment on the principal.
   Fairs.--There is one annual fair held in Stow, on the second
Tuesday of March.  Besides the usual business transacted on all
such occasions, Stow fair had three special objects; the selling of
great ewes, and of seed-corn, and hiring servants.  Within these
few years, the selling of great ewes has been transferred chiefly to
Gifford fair, in East Lothian.  A good deal of business is still
done in seed, oats, and grass seeds.  The hiring of servants with-
out certificates of character or of qualification still continues.
   Inns.--Torsonce inn, so called from being built upon a part of
the mill lands of Torsonce, a quarter of a mile north of Stow, is
much admired by travellers, as perhaps unequalled by any country
inn in Scotland.  It was built by the subscriptions of seven heri-
tors in the county of Edinburgh, and of eight in the adjoining
counties of Selkirk and Roxburgh.  It was finished in 1819, at
the expense of L.2884.  Some subsequent additional expenses
being added, the whole in round numbers may be stated at
L.300.
   In the village there are now three public-houses.  Less than
twenty years ago, there was but one, while that corresponding to
Torsonce inn was at Bankhouse,three miles north.  The increase
of public-houses will not be expected to add to our moral improve-
ment.  At not unsuitable distances to the nortb, there are five
more public-houses, and to the south two; in all eleven.
   Fuel.--On two or three farms, where there is a good deal of
peat moss, peat is still used to some extent as fuel.  Every where
else the use of peat and turf is superseded by that of coal, and
driven from about fifteen miles north of the village.


