
			NEWTON-UPON-AYR.                    89

coal below these seams; but although the boring was carried
down in one instance to the depth of fifty fathoms beyond the low-
est of the wrought seams, no bed of coal of sufficient thickness to
admit of its being worked could be found: and the bore terminated
in alternate layers of greenstone and redstone.
	There are at present no workings of minerals in the parish, with
the exception of a sandstone or freestone quarry at its northern ex-
tremity, which, although not long opened, is believed to contain a
freestone bed of great thickness, and promises to afford a large sup-
ply of building materials. On removing the sand and gravel from the
surface of the rock, with which it is covered to the depth of fifteen
feet, there were found numerous bones of animals and decayed
pieces of wood; and in one spot, close upon the freestone, a copper
coin of the reign of Charles the Second, which, as the quarry is
about 200 yards from high-water mark, seems to prove that there
has been a progressive advancement of the coast upon the sea.
There is one exception, however, to this remark, as applied to this
parish, which must not be left unnoticed. While the land towards
the north appears to be gaining on the sea, the sea, on the other
Hand, has of late years been rapidly encroaching on the coast at
the other end of the parish, immediately behind the harbour.
This has been ascribed to the pier's being carried farther out on
the other side of the river than it has yet been on this side; a
supposition which is rendered the more probable by the circum-
stance, that, while the sea is making encroachments on the north
side of the river, it is proportionably receding on the south side.
But whatever be the cause, several acres of land behind the pier
in this parish, on which a row of houses stood within the last ton
or twelve years, have been overflowed by the sea, and are now
within high-water mark: so that it has even been in contempla-
tion to raise a mound along the shore to prevent the sea from
further gaining on the town.
	As the surface of the greater part of the parish was originally
a bed of barren sand, the soil naturally partakes of that character.
It is now, however, in a rapid course of improvement; and it has
been improved, in many cases, by the admixture of a blue shale or
till, of which great quantities were thrown out during the working
of the coal-mines.
	Zoology-Fishes.--Of these, great numbers are caught by the
fishermen of this parish, and not less than thirty different species
have been reckoned up, which are commonly or occasionally, sold
and used for food. The most valuable of these are the turbot,


