

                           DAIRSID.                         771

   Rivers.-The river Eden abounds in salmon and trout, and the
   "Dairsie streams" are well known to the lovers of angling.
   The only other river except the Eden is the Middlefoodie Burn,
in which there are some trout. It intersects the parish towards
the north, and runs eastward till, joining the Mottray, both of these
streams run into the Frith of Eden, near the Inner Bridge, about
two miles from the German Ocean.
                         II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Parochial Registers.-These are of baptisms, commencing Fe-
bruary 27, 1705; marriages, October 1, 1783; burials, October
1, 1783.
   Land-owners.-The names of the land-owners and their proper-
ties are as follows: Chapelwell and Dairsie, Judge Erskine; New
Mill, Mrs Bayne; Todhall and Middle Foodie, the Trustees of
James Cheape, Esq.; Fingask, Heirs of the late Mr Somerville,
now sold to Thomas Whitson, Esq.; Wester Craigfoodie, William
Fortune, Esq.; Pitormie, John Meldrum, Esq.; Craigfoodie,
David Meldrum, Esq.; Foodie, John Small, Esq.
   Mansion-houses.-These are, Craigfoodie, Mr Meldrum; Pitor-
mie, Mr Meldrum; Newmill, Mrs Bayne.
   Castle of Dairsie. *-The old Castle of Dairsie, now in ruins,
although still in wonderful preservation, is situated on that part of
the estate of Dairsie parish known by the name of Dairsie, the
property, at this time, of Judge Erskine, by his marriage with Miss
Traill, the daughter of the former proprietor. It is built upon a
rising ground near the banks of the river Eden, which stream forms
the southern boundary of that beautiful estate for about one mile
and a half. This must have been a place of some consequence in
early times, for we learn, that, in the minority of David Il., 1335,
the then Regents of Scotland, Stewart and Moray, held a Parlia-
ment in the  Castle of Dairsie, probably selected as a place of
strength and retirement in these troublesome times.
   The estate of Dairsie, like most others in the country, has
had many owners. On 28th December 1520, it was conveyed
by feu-charter by Andrew Archbishop of St Andrews and his
chapter, to David Learmonth of Clatta and his son James. Con-
tinuing in the possession of the family of the Learmonths till
1616, it became the property of the Spottiswoods, the unfor-

<FOOTNOTE> Communicated by a gentleman connected with one of the principal estates in
the parish.
           See Note to Sibbald's History of Fife, p. 400.



