
    			 GLAMMISS.                           343

have been unable to come to any conclusion about it, although it
is also common in some parts of England.
	The whole of these organic remains are confined to the oldest
or the grey beds of sandstone. No traces as yet have been found in
the red beds, which are newer. Neither is there any in the clays
or gravels which immediately overly the rocks, and underly the
marl and moss; but in both the latter, very large antlers of the
deer are so metimes found, also tusks of the wild boar, and very
large skulls and horn flints of the ox, and numerous shells of the
fresh water testacea,-among which is the pearl mussel, also
common in the Dean Water. All the sandstones and pebbles of the
clays and gravels are referable to the rocks of the district, or to the
contiguous range of the Grampians. None have been transported
further, since the deposition of the conglomerate beds, But va-
rious of the pebbles of the conglomerate beds, or rocks, are not
to be found in any other locality, and do not belong either to the
district or to the Grampian range.
        Zoology.-The wild animals found in theparish are the roe-deer
hares, and rabbits. The latter, at one period, were plentiful, and,
after having been extirpated out of the district for many year,
are now beginning again to appear. Foxes are also numerous.
The badger occurs occasionally; and otters are common at the
De`n Water. Some pine-martins have also been killed, but
they are rare; polecats and weasels are common; squirrels also
are plentiful, though rareten years ago.
	Among the feathered tribe, the cross-bill may be noticed as hav-
ing appeared, here since the introduction of that larch woods, upon
the seeds of which they live. Black-cock are also becoming com-
mon in Seidlaw of late years. Grouse are not common; partridge
occurs in abundance; and pheasnats occassionally. Jays are still
very numerous; and the drainage of swamps has in a great degree
banished the wild goose, which seventy years ago was very com-
mon along the Dean in winter.
	Pike of very large size and perch are found in the loch of Forfar,
and in the Dean; and the trout of the Dean have been long
famed for their fine quality; but it is remarkable that salmon do not
enter it, although they cross the month of it, in praising up the Isla
river. It may here be mentioned, however, that, fifty or sixty years
ago, a solitary salmon was killed in the Dean.

                       II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
       Antiquities.-The Castle of Glammis, a venerable, and majes-
       FORFAR.                   Z


