
         232                        PERTHSHIRE.

         ous even for horses.  This road is now become a sort of thorough-
         fare between the Carse of Gowrie and Strathmore, and is of public
         advantage, as well as private benefit.

            May 1837.

                          PARISH OF MEIGLE.
            PRESBYTERY OF WEIGLE, SYNOD OF ANGUS AND MEARNS.
                 THE REV.  JAMES MITCHELL, MINISTER.

                   L-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
           Situation, Extent, &c.-THis parish is in the centre of Strath-
        more, bounded on the north-west and north, by the rivers Isla and
        Dean; on the east and south, by the parishes of Essie and Nevy, and
        Newtyle ; on the south-west and west by those of Kettins and Cu-
        par-Angus.  It lies in 56/d1 361 north Lat. and 5 east Long. from
        Edinburgh, being in length 4 1/2 miles from west to north-east, and
        from I to 2 miles broad.  It probably derived its name from its
        local situation,-tbe church and manse being built on a plain be-
        tween two marshes or 11 gills," which might thus have given rise to
        the word Midgile or Meigle.
          Strathmore.-Straffmore, "the great strath or vale," reaches
        from near Perth to Breechin, about 40 miles long, 4-6 broad,
        bounded on the south and south-east by the Sidla Hills, and on
        the north and north-west by the Grampians.  There are no eaves
        in the parish, and no part of it is hilly.  The gentle eminence on
        which Belmont Castle stands (says Dr Playfair) is 204 feet above
        the level of half-flood mark at Panbride, near Arbroath.  The
        vhllage of Meigle lies quite contiguous to the church, and is watered
        by the burn of the same name.
          Geology, &c.-Two quarries of red sandstone have been wrought,
        used for building.  The dip inclines to the west.  Marl was dug
        in great abundance in the Gill, on the south.  It was covered with
        peat-earth.  The remains of the marl are now mixed with the moss
        by cultivation.  But where a bed of marl is found (as under the road
        to Dundee) it is very soft and white, retaining scarcely any remains
        of shells.
          Alongst the side of the marl-moss (called Myres,) and occa-


