
470			DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

parts of the Nith and of the Scar which bound the parish, that it was
no unusual circumstance with a net to fill a common cart twice in a
few hours after a flood. But so destructive have been the effects of
poaching in close time, that a tenant of the fishery where this used to
happen, found himself a loser, while paying a rent of L. 1, 10s.,
and lately gave up his tack.

<TABLE>
	Produce.--The average amount of raw produce yearly raised in
the parish may be as follows:
		Grain with straw,                  L.  5450
		Green crop,                            1827
		Hay,                                   1760
		Pasture,                               2225
		Gardens and orchards, including honey,  150
		Woods and plantations,                  320
		Lime                                   3350
		Pork                                    600
                                                       -------
                                                     L. 15682
			V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Market-Towns, &c.--The nearest is Dumfries, eight miles dis-
tant from the foot and fifteen from the head of the parish. The
villages in the parish are Keir Mill, and Barjarg. There is no
post-office; letters being brought by a runner from Thornhill, two
miles from the head of the parish. There are eight and a-half
miles of turnpike road; seven on the road from Dumfries to Pen-
pont; one on that from Penpont to Glencairn; and a-half on that
from Dumfries to Thornhill, from the foot of the parish to Ald-
girth bridge, on which the Edinburgh and Glasgow coaches travel.
	Five bridges connect the parish with the adjoining ones. They
are all in good repair. A suspension bridge of a new construction
has lately been erected by the Duke of Buccleuch over the Scar,
at the manse, on the parish road to Thornhill. Its span is 110 feet.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The church is situated too near the up-
per end of the parish, being only a mile and a quarter from
Penpont, and six miles from the lower extremity. It was built
in 1814, and is in good repair. It accommodates 440 per-
sons. There are no free sittings; the heritors assigning to their
tenantry the space falling to their share over and above their own
family seats. The manse was built in 1777, but received great ad-
ditions and repairs in 1828. It contains three sitting-rooms and
six bed-rooms, besides a large sunk story;--offering a singular con-
trast to that described by Mr Rae in 1721. "It is a very handsome
house, consisting of four fire-rooms, with cellar and closets, and
offices conform." The glebe consists of ten acres, worth about
L. 18 per annum. The stipend is fifteen chalder, half meal and half
			     3

