
                              LEUCHARS.                            223

opens into the aisle, the walls of which were formerly only about half
their present height, and a similar arch opens into the more modern
part of the nave, forming together what is now used as the parish
church.
   Where the parish school now stands, there once was a chapel
called St Bennet's, of which Sir Thomas Wemyss was chaplain
at the Reformation. No vestige of it remains; but many human
bones are found near the spot inclosed in stone coffins; which,
being by no means entire, point to a remote date.  To the north
of the village, there is a curious circular elevation where stood the
castle of Leuchars. It has all the appearance of having been artifi-
cially formed, with a moat around it, and a deep well in the centre.
It occupies about an acre of ground. 
   There are three ruins of old mansions of a castellated form, kept
in partial repair,--these are Earlshall, Pitcullo, and Airdit. Earls-
hall is an interesting object. Its large, venerable hall, whose roof
and walls are crowded with crests, inscriptions, &c. is well worthy
the attention of the antiquary. 
   The most interesting relic of antiquity that has been found in this
parish is an earthen jar, which was discovered on Craigiehill, in the
year 1808. This jar was found to contain nearly a hundred silver
coins in perfect preservation. Unfortunately the jar itself was shiv-
ered to pieces by the plough, by which it was thrown up. But
most of the coins were secured by the proprietor, the late Hon.
Robert Lindsay of Balcarres, where they remain. The coins are
stamped with the heads of Roman emperors, such as Severus, An.
toninus, Faustina, &c.

	            III.--POPULATION.

   There has been very little variation in the number of inhabit-
ants in this parish from the earliest times till now, as is the case
in most agricultural districts. The only change upon the popu-
lation is that of locality. The Tents moor, which of old used to
be studded with turf built cottages, and gardens and crofts attached
to them, is now, in a great measure, depopulated, from the extensive
farms which have been formed upon it. Many of the former inha-
bitants of the moors shifted their quarters to the village, and other
parts of the parish.

<FOOTNOTE>The castle was anciently a place of strenght, and one of the strongholds of the
Earls of Fife; dismantled, however, by the English in the fourteenth century.
          The dates inscribed in the hall show the building to have founded in
1546, and finished in 1617.


