
656                    ABERDEENSHIRE.

considerable stream, its size being much increased by the waters
of the Ury, about two miles above the town. In this part of its
course, it flows so gently as almost to resemble a lake.  It is scarcely
visible from the low grounds, except at some points very close on
its banks; but when viewed from more elevated situations at a
greater distance, its numerous windings form a pleasing object in
the landscape.  Were the course of the Don straighted, which
is said to be a thing quite practicable, much new ground would
be acquired, and that at present under cultivation would be en-
hanced in value.  But many obstacles stand in the way of this
improvement, and, among others, the law of entail.  The fisher-
ies on the Don at Kintore were of considerable value forty or even
thirty years ago, but, owing to various causes, they are now of little
consequence.  The pearls also which Arthur Johnston says en-
riched our river in days of yore, have wholly disappeared in mo-
dern times.
   Geology and Mineralogy.-No minerals of any particular inte-
rest or value are found within the parish.  Granite abounds here,
as in all the surrounding district, both loose on the surface, and
in the condition of rocks from which it is quarried, but not to any
great extent at present.
   The soils in the parish of Kintore are of various kinds, but
they may all be comprehended, without much inaccuracy, under
the following descriptions: 1. A thin light sandy mould, which
prevails in the higher situations, and has so little depth in many
places, that the solid rock occasionally protrudes above the sur-
face; 2. a considerable extent of peat moss, partly now brought
into cultivation, and partly still used to supply fuel; 3. a species
of soil generally situated between the two former kinds, and ap-
parently partaking of the qualities of both; it is deeper, however,
than the first, and of a firmer consistence than the second, and
before being improved is full of large rude blocks of granite,
which are removed with great labour; 4. the lands on the banks
of the Don, which are manifestly of an alluvial character, and
chiefly composed of a deep rich loam.  The grounds immediately
around the burgh are of this last description, they rest on nearly
horizontal beds of sand or gravel, and are particularly fertile,
   From the town of Kintore, which stands in the vale of the Don,
near that point of the river where its course takes an easterly di-
rection towards Fintray, the lands of the parish rise considerably
to the north-west and south-west, but less to the south, so that


