
628                        FORFARSHIRE.

ritors. Nearly one-half of the parish belongs to the Earl Minto, in
consequence of his Lordship's grandfatber, Sir Gilbert Elliot, having
married Agnes Murray Kynynmound, heiress of Melgund, whose
son, the fatber of the present Earl, after having filled the hign offices,
first of Viceroy of Corsica, and next of Governor-General of Ben-
gal, was, in 1813, created Viscount Melgund and Earl of Minto.
The oldest son, of Lord Minto is accordingly designated by cour-
tesy the Viscount Melgund.
  There is a local tradition, that the Castle of Melgund was built
by the celebrated Cardinal Beaton, and that it was a favourite
country residence of that ambitious prelate, to which he frequently
resorted for other purposes, says the same unwritten chronicle, less
creditable to the cardinal's character, and less consistent with his
vow of celibacy, than a mere love of retirement or of relaxation
from the fatigues of public business.  The remains of this castle
are still extensive, and indicate no inconsiderable degree of strength
and of magnificence.  The banqueting-hall has been a spacious
apartment, and, in its dimensions, exceedingly well-proportioned.
The present noble proprietor, with a taste well befitting his name
and rank, has alike forbidden the dilapidation of the castle, and
the cutting down of the fine old trees with which it is surrounded.
  The Castle of Auldbar, the residence of Patrick Chalmers,
Esq., lately, and until his health obliged him to resign, Member
of Parliament for the Forfarshire burghs, is another of those
ancient strongholds, which, in feudal times, were so frequent, and
unhappily so necessary in these parts. The Castle of Auldbar is
not only habitable, but is also inhabited by its respected owner,
is in part modernized, and thus exhibits, at one view, the remark-
able contrast of ancient strength and stateliness with modern taste,
refinement, and comfort.  This parish has evidently possessed,
in former times, its full complement of these border fortresses, for
such they may be called, as standing in the gap between the
Braemen and the Lowlanders.  The now antiquated but hospi-
table mansion-house of Balgivies is only the comparatively modern
representative of its ancient castle, of which a solitary arch re-
mains to indicates the spot where once its embattled turrets frowned
defiance on the approaching raiders.  The house of Carsegownie
is evidently another specimen of the same kind of defensive
dwelling-place, though on smaller scale than those already
mentioned; and now in a great measure divested of its strong-
hold appearance, by the recent enlargement of its once loop-hole-


