
516                           AYRSHIRE.

improving very flat meadows and laying them dry, and introducing
the system of irrigation.
	Zoology.--There are scarcerly any species of remarkable ani-
mals in the parish. Hawks occasionally build their nests on the
high rocks near the head, of the Afton. Foxes also abound in
that district, which are eagerly destroyed by the inhabitants, on
account of their ravages among the sheep. Black game are to
be found on the hills on the south side of the Nith. Grouse and
partridges, with pheasants, are to be met with; but, not being
carefully preserved, are not in great abundance.
	Salmon are found to reach very near the Nith at the spawning
season, which is in the month of October. Trout are abundant in
the Afton, in the rivulet of the Lane, and in the water of Deuch,
which divides the parish from Galloway. Pike and perch abound
in the lakes formerly mentioned.
	A few years ago, a remarkable swarm of insects, resembling the
caterpillar, traversed a great part of the hills on the south side of
the parish, proceeding southwards and devouring every green thing
in their course. The crops often suffer severely from the ravages
of the grub.
	Botany.--Several beautiful species of fern are found on the
banks of the Afton. Some rare species of plants, in particular,
the Rhodiola rosea, grow on the Stey Amry, a high rock near the
source of that stream.
	The parish is not well wooded, though it seems remarkably
well adapted for the growth of larch and spruce firs. Some
larches, planted on the Afton fifty or sixty years ago, have attain-
ed a noble size. There are some later plantations than these on
the properties of the Marquis of Bute.
			II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	The hhstory of this parish possesses but little public interest. The
writer is not aware that it has been the scene of any very remark-
able events. It would appear that many of the inhabitants suffer-
ed for their attachment to Presbyterian principles in the reign of
Charles II. Three persons were put to death by the dragoons,
who at that time scoured the country, and were buried in a moss
at the south-west corner of the parish. A small mausoleum was
erected on the spot, a few years ago, in place of the decayed grave-
stone that had been laid over their bodies. The grave was open-
ed, and part of their hair and clothes, as well as bones, found in
a state of great preservation.
                            3


