

                            EDDLESTONE.                     147

1780. Since that time, both the births and baptisms have been
regularly recorded, in so far as this was practicable. But there is
reason to fear that several have been deterred from entering their
children's names in the record, by the small registration fee of 6d.
to the clerk. This fee has lately been abolished, and the good effects
of it are already beginning to appear; in one instance a whole fa-
mily having been registered at the same time, who, but for this trif-
ling circumstances in all probability, would never have been recorded.
   Antiquities.-There are no remains of antiquity in the parish
except the ruins of three ancient camps. From their circular form
it is probable they are Danish. One of them is still very entire
upon the farm of Norshield; the late Colin Mackenzie, Esq. of
Portmore, with that good taste for which he was distinguished, hav-
ing preserved it with great care in the centre of his plantations.
The other two, upon the farms of Milkiestone and Wormiston, have
of late years been much defaced, in consequence of the stones hav-
ing been applied to the purpose of building march dikes.
   In the year 1794, a pot containing a great quantity of gold and
silver coins was dug up in the court-yard of the farm of Kingside.
The silver was in a state of great decay and crumbled into powder
on being removed. The gold was more entire. The exact quan-
tity found could never be correctly ascertained, as various fingers
had been in the pot before it was delivered over to the Lord Chief
Baron, the late Sir James Montgomery. After retaining posses-
sion of it for a considerable time, and probably not thinking it worth
while to report it to the Exchequer, he gave part of it to the finder
and to the poor of the parish, and distributed a few pieces as cu-
riosities among his friend. Several of these coins, it is believed,
are now in the possession of Sir James Montgomery, and Mr Mac-
kenzie, the proprietor. The tenant of Kingside has two of them,
one bearing the inscription Jacobus S. Scotorum Rex, but the date
is effaced; the other is apparently a foreign coin, but the inscrip-
tion is altogether illegible.
   Towards the northern extremity of this farm, a barrow or tumu-
lus, inclosed by three circular walls, was opened in the year 1828
by the farmer for the sake of the stones; and in the centre of the
inner circle was discovered a rude stone coffin, containing the ashes
of human bones that had obviously been subjected to the action of
fire. Combustion had not been so complete but that several of the
processes remained entire; in particular those of the temporal bone.
Beside the coffin were found a variety of brazen weapons, somewhat
resembling hatchets. An account of this discovery, with a drawing


