
 		PARISH OF AYTON.
PRESBYTERY OF CHIRNSIDE, SYNOD OF MERSE AND TIVIOTDALE.
	THE REV. GEORGE TOUGH, MINISTER.

	I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
Name, Boundaries, &c.-THE parish of Ayton, like that of Eye-
mouth, obviously derives its name from the water of Eye, on whose
banks the village of the same name is situated. In the ancient re-
cords, it is usually written Eitun or Eiton; and it is said to be com-
pounded of two Saxon words, Ei, a water or stream, and tun, a
villa or town. The parish is nearly four miles in length, and as
many in breadth, and contains probably twelve or thirteen square
miles. It is bounded on the north by Eyemouth and Colding-
ham; on the south by Foulden and Mordington; on the west
by Coldingham and Chirnside; and on the east by the sea. In
figure, it somewhat resembles the flat side of a battle axe without
the handle, having the edge turned towards the south and east.
   Topographical Appearances.-On the south there is a beautifully
sloping range of high land, tastefully adorned with copses of plan-
tation to the summit. At its highest elevation, it is 660 feet above
the level of the sea. The highest point of the sea banks, known
by the name of Blaiky's, is 350 feet, precipitous towards the sea,
sloping gently towards the land, and irregularly down to the water's
edge at Eyemouth. On the northern side of the parish the ground
is lower and flatter than on the southern, but still of considerable
elevation, and finely undulating in all directions. The whole line
of coast for many miles both north and south is splendidly bold and
rocky. Its extent within the parish is two miles, forming almost
a continued precipice, with innumerable indentations. The stra-
tification of the rocks is distinctly visible, and in all possible incli-
nations, curvatures, and fantastic shapes, evidently thrown into the
wildest confusion by some great convulsion of nature. There are
one or two caves which present themselves to the eye of the mari-
ner, accessible only by sea; they were distinguished probably in for-
mer times as sluggling concealments, but are now only a shelter for
rooks, pigeons, and sea-gulls above, and crabs and lobsters beneath.


