
     Statistical Account

illustrious ancestors into the notes.  This great man was born
at INVERUGIE, in this parish, and was baptized 16th June 1696,
by the names of JAMES FRANCIS EDWARD.*  He early en-
tered into the military service abroad, rose to the highest
rank in the army, and was inferior to no general of his time
in military capacity.  He accompanied his brother Earl
Marischal to the battle of Dunblane, and afterwards went
abroad to seek preferment at the Spanish Court; but not
finding a quick promotion there, he entered into the Russian
service, and was by PETER the Great promoted to the rank of
a general officer.  He afterwards entered into the service of
FREDERIC III. King of Prussia, who raised him to the rank of
Field Marishal.  He commanded that king's armies sometimes
alone, and at other times along with his Majesty, until the
fatal battle of Hochkirchen, on the 14th October 1758.  The
Field Marshal, returning from a separate command, found
that the King had encamped in a very improper place, and
instantly told his Majesty that DAUN would surprize them that
night.  His prediction proved too true; and the Field Mar-
shal, making a glorious defence, was unfortunately killed.  He
was buried in the church-yard of Hochkirchen, but the
King of Prussia had his corpse taken up, and sent to Ber-
lin, where he was again interred with the greatest military
honours.++

<FOOTNOTE>

*Baptismal Register of parish of St. Fergus.

++The Field Marishal, with all his great qualities was a very bad econo-
mist; and sometimes absented himself from Court when he could not pay his
debts.  On one of these occasions, the Great FREDERIC called for him, and
found him in his garden, employed in pointing paper cannon at 1500 pins of
wood in different directions, so as to discover how he might pour the
greatest quantity of fire upon them, as their position changed.  The King
paid his General's debts, was delighted with the discovery of his amusement,
and augmented the number of pins to 12,000; after which, he and his
general had many a keen engagement in the garden, which proved of great
service afterwards in the field.


