
90                      CAITHNESS-SHIRE.

taste of his successor, the late James Horne, Esq. of Langwell.
On Sir John Sinclair's merits as a man of varied talent, an able
and extensive author, an accomplished scholar, or skilful states-
man, it is not intended here to enlarge, as the subject more pro-
perly belongs to his native parish of Thurso. He was possessed of
a singularly intelligent, active, and benevolent mind, insomuch
that no parish or district of country could have enjoyed his pre-
sence for any length of time without being benefited thereby.
Indeed, such was the quickness of his perception, and the warmth
of his philanthropy, that even in his passing visits to quarters
where he bad no personal interest, be seldom failed to suggest
some measures for the improvement of the soil, and especially of
its inhabitants, and was always ready, from his own resources, to
assist in carrying them into execution. Of this a very striking
instance occurred in the highlands of Perthshire, and was com-
municated to the writer when visiting the person with whom the
transaction was entered into. On one occasion Sir John hap-
pened to be travelling along Loch Tay side, and observing
the country very densely peopled with small tenantry, and that
the lofty range of mountains, green to the very summits, with
which this beautiful lake is surrounded, were chiefly pastured by
sheep, inquired how the people, in so remote a quarter, disposed
of their wool; and being informed that each family employed one,
two, or three spinning wheels, according to the number of females
it contained, it readily occurred to him that a spinning mill might
prove a great acquisition in the district, and find abundant em-
ployment. He accordingly sought out the ablest person for such
an undertaking, and was directed to a Mr M'Naughton in the
vicinity of Kenmore. To him be immediately repaired, and, after
enumerating the advantages likely to arise to the whole neighbour-
hood from such a concern, together with the great probability of
its success, and the prospect of the emoluments which it held out,
strongly urged, him to undertake it. This Mr M'Naughton at
first declined, assigning as a reason, that neither be nor any other
individual in the place could afford to run the risk of a failure.
" Well," said Sir John, "but will you conduct it, provided I take the
risk upon myself ?" To this Mr M'Naughton, after some hesita-
tion, assented, The mill was soon procured and commenced ope-
rations, and so completely, were Sir John's predictions realized,
that in a few years thereafter, Mr M'Naughton, erected other two
                    3


