
		APPLEGARTH AND SIBBALDBIE.                     193

Mission,and will probably be repeated; the amount of each was about
L.8.  Occasional collections have been made for other public
charities; and a yearly subscription of one guinea is given to the
Dumfries Royal Infirmary.
        Education.-There are three schools in the parish; two of
them parochial, and the third a boarding-school for females. In
the first school, the branches taught, besides the ordinary ones,
are Greek, Latin, French, geometry, geography. In the second
the learned languages are not taught. In the ladies' school, the
branches taught are English, writing, arithmetic, French, geo-
graphy, drawing. and needle-work. The parochial teachers have
salaries,-the one the maximtm of L.34, 5s. the other L.17,
2s. 6d. The fees of the larger school may amount to nearly
L.30, of the smaller to L.15. Both teachers have substantial
dwelling-houses and gardens. The lowest `mount of expense,
of educating a child in these schools, as respects the mere ele-
ments, is 8s. per annum; and the highest, including all the ad-
vanced branches, L.1, 10s. All the children in the parish up-
wards of six years of age can read, or are attending school for that
purpose.
        Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of persons
receiving parochial aid regularly is 10. Among these the sum ex-
pended is L.30, 1Os., making the average annual allowance to each
individual L.3, 1s. It may be proper to notice, that three of these
paupers,are in such circumstances of age, disease, and destitution
as to require among them L.15, 9s. thus reducing the average al-
lowance of the other seven to L.2, 3s. each. There are also se-
veral indigent persons who receive occasional aid, to the amount
of L.7, 6s. 2 1/2d. Total sum expended annually, L.37, 16s. 2 1/2d.
The average annual amount of church collections for the last, se-
ven years, is L.26, 2s. 4 1/2d.; of interest of capital, L.3, 12s. 9 1/2d.;
of donations, L.9, 7s.; and from other sources not permanent,
L.1, 13s. 1O 1/2d. In addition to these funds, there is a sum mor-
tified to the poor on the estate of Applegarth, by Sir John Jardine
in 1745, of L.3, 6s. 8d. per annum. Total funds, L.44, 2s. 8 1/4d.
Generally speaking, there is an unwillingness to seek parochial re-
lief. But it must be acknowledged that this independent feeling
is not so strong as it was thirty or forty years ago; nor is there so
ready a disposition, as ought to prevail among the substantial classes,
to prevent their poorer relatives from coming on the poors' roll.
        Fairs, Inns, &c.-In 1685, Sir Alexander Jardine, then pro-
	DUMFRIES.                      N


