
430                        PERTHSHRE.

sequence.  He was a great scourge to the Church, and in particular
had plundered the lands of Little Dunkeld.  We are informed by the
same author, that Bishop Brown recnvered the estate of Makkersy,
now called Taymount, in the parish of Kinclaven, from Sir James
Crichton of Strathord, in the parish of Auchtergaven, who had
taken possession of it by violence.  On this account, Sir James
laid snares for the Bishop, and did him all the harm in his power.
He v`ylaid and set upon him near the Bridge of Erne with only
twelve men, as the other was on his way to Court with a retinue
of forty people.  The Bishop and the clergy in his train restrain-
ed their servants, otherwise Sir James and his people would have
been cut to pieces.  They parted, however, without exchanging
blows; and, to convince the world that the intentions of Sir James
were bad, the Bishop returned to Dunkeld without proceeding to
Court.  From that time, Sir James was very hard upon the Bi-
shop's tenants of Pittendynie and Kinvaid, in the parish of Money-
die.  These facts show us the insecurity of peace, life, and pro-
perty in these times of violence.
   The Family of Nairne.-When the rebellion of 1715, headed
by the Earl of Mar, became public, all suspected persons were
summoned by Government to surrender themselves, and give se-
curity for their fidelity as the law directed; and in the lists of
these persons we find both Lord Nairne, and his son, the Master
of Nairne, whose property lay chiefly in this parish.  His Lord-
ship, who was brother of the Earl of Atholl, and had married the
heiress of Nairne, commanded the fourth of the six Scottish regi-
ments of foot which were at the battle of Preston.  And he is
thus characterized by a contemporary author:  "This nobleman
was much estemed in his country, where he lade himself popular
by the opposition he made to the Union, as well as by his other
great qualities.  He was reputed a man of courage, having former-
ly served in the navy, where it is said he gave proofs of his va-
lour."*  The representative of this family embarked also in the
rebellion of l745-6, and joined the Prince at Perth.  He surviv-
ed the disasters of that insurrection, and followed the Chevalier to
France, and thence to Rome, and shared in his friendship and for-
tunes till the death of the latter. The title of Nairne, which was
forfeited in 1746, was revived in 1824.  The lineal descendant
of the family returned to this country before the conclusion of the
last century, and resided in a plain and private way in Perth,

<FOOTNOTE> Campbell's Life of John Duke of Argyle, p.209.
                                          3

