
                                KILMAURS.               785

	A few cotton weavers, scattered over the parish, are supplied
with webs from Maybole and Girvan and Glasgow; also a number
of females are supplied with flowering webs from the same quarters.
	Agriculture.--About a fourth less wheat is sown now than was
done a few years ago; although along the coast, the quantity is
still kept up, and of as good quality as any in the west country.
The land is generally very well cultivated. A few beans are
grown on two or three farms, well adapted for them, and may oc-
cupy about fifty or sixty acres yearly. Oats are grown of first
quality all over the parish; little or no bear or barley. There are
a great many dairies of first quality, the produce principally made
into cheese, and generally sold for the Glasgow market. The
produce of the cows is generally estimated from L. 7 to L. 10
each, according to the pasture and management; and in a few
places it goes considerably beyond the latter sum. The chief
markets for the parish are at Ayr and Girvan; and immense quanti-
ties of potatoes are annually shipped at the latter port, some of
the farmers sending off 200 or 300 tons; as also wheat, oatmeal,
&c. &c. Draining is going on with great spirit; it is only five or
six years since the first tile-work was begun; there are about forty
men and boys engaged all summer, five or six horses, and a foreman
to manage each: a number of both cattle and sheep are fed on
turnips for the Ayr and Glasgow markets.
	Coal.--The quantity of coal put out yearly at Dulzellowlie coal-
work is about 60,000 creels or 1000 tons of 20cwts. each, the average
value of which may be about L. 1750. The number of persons em-
ployed is generally about thirty. It is understood that, about one
hundred years ago, the coal there took fire (by accident): but
there has been no appearance of active fire, for the last thirty years;
and the working is now going on in the place where fire was last
supposed to be, which proves it to be quite extinguished. The seams
of coal are five in number, varying from 5 to 18 feet in thickness.
Above 30 fathoms below the surface are working at present. The
dip and rise of the coal-field is about a foot in three and a-half.
	Fishings.--Fishings of salmon, white-fish, and herrings are car-
ried on in the parish to a considerable extent. Value about
L.360 per annum.

  			V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The whole population, with the excep-
tion of five or six Dissenting families, belongs to the Established
Church. The stipend, by a recent augmentation, amounts to 17
	AYR.                      3D


