
                      KINCARDINE IN MONTEITH.                     1269

     of the moss and a drawing of the large wheel, and also in the En-
     cyclopaedia Britannica, Vol xii. and in the appendix to the former
     Statistical Account.
       The man who renders waste land productive increases the re-
     sources and prosperity of his country.  This remark applies to
     some of the enterprising proprietors of this parish, and in particu-
     lar to the proprietor of the Blair Drummond estate.
       In the moss of Kincardine there were above 1800 acres of moss,
     including nearly 1500 on the estate of Blair Drummond.  This moss
     was very deep, resting on a subsoil of rich clay, which consists of
     strata of a gray, reddish, and blue colour, of the same, quality as
     those of the level country along the Forth from Stirling to Falkirk,
     and which are called carses.  The sea at one time must have co-
     vered the country where the moss of Kincardine was, aud must
     have been the cause of this accumulation of clay.  On the reced-
     ing of the sea and the subsiding of the waters of the Forth, the
     Teith and the Goodie, by the formation of deeper channels,
     this rich flat district was soon covered with oak, birch, alder, and
     hazel, and even with a few firs, some of the oaks being of a very
     great size, indicating a great age.  These trees have been found as
     numerous under the moss as they can be supposed to have grown in
     their natural state, and the roots and heath have been found fixed in
     the clay.  The trees and roots thus found correspond in dimensions.
       In " an Account of the Peat Mosses of Kincardine apd Flanders
     in Perthshire," by the Rev.  Christopher Tait, formerly minister of
     this parish, read before the Royal Societyof Edinburgh in 1793,
     and printed in the 3d volume of the Transactions it is stated, that
     " Forty large oak trees were lately found lying by their roots, and
     as close to one another as they can be, supposed to have grown,-
     one of these oaks measures 50 feet in length, and more than 3
     feet in diameter, and 314 circles or years' growths were counted
     in one of the roots.  In another part of the moss, an oak was
     found that measured 4 feet in diameter, and I am assured that
     some years ago, a root was discovered at Ross, on the south side
     of the moss, that was 15 feet in diameter at the surface of the
     clay; and the tree, which was 22 feet in length, was 4 feet 8
     inches in diameter at the lower end, where it had been cut over,
     at the height of a yard from the ground."
        In 1823, an oak of the following dimension was found in Blair
     Drummond moss: Length of bole 41 feet, circumference at the
     surface of the ground 16 feet, and at the top 9 feet.  One branch


