
50                         KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

regular order, and are often observed in different portions of the
same field. We are inclined to attribute the singular irregula-
rity of the surface of Borgue to the circumstance now mentioned:
wherever the greywacke has penetrated the bed of slate band, there
a knoll makes its appearance; but where the stratum or covering
of slate band is deeper, there is a body of arable soil of more uni-
form thickness.
	Soil.--The soil which prevails most is what agriculturists term
a free loam. This soil being derived, for the most part,from the
rock last mentioned, contains the same component element, but
variess in its powers of nutrition according to the basis on which it
rests, or other elements, such as sand and clay, with which it is oc-
casionally mixed. Liable to be parched in dry weather, it pro-
duces in favourable seasons the most nutritious grasses, and is also
well adapted for oats and barley. It wants depth and tenacity for
wheat cropping, which was never successfully practised, and has
long been entirely abandoned by the Borgue farmers. In those
parts of the parish where the harder rocks reach the surface, a
thinner and colder soil may be observed.
	Under this general head, notice may be taken of an alluvial
deposit, which is not, indeed, peculiar to Borgue, but which here
bears an unusually large proportion to the other soils, and is at
the same time most obviously of a perfectly distinct character.
We refer to that remarkable formation of hills which, from their
shape or some other circumstance, are in Galloway called Drums.
Of these there are not fewer than thirty in Borgue, which may
average one-fourth of a mile in length, and from 200 to 300 yards
across. The following are the most remarkable circumstances that
have been noticed, as to their structure and composition. 1. They
have no conformity, either in shape or in the materials of which
they consist, with the lands adjoining. 2. Their form is that of
a segment of a cylinder, having an elevation that varies from 50
to 150 feet, and falling away at each extremity by a gradual slope
to the ground contiguous. 3. Those which have been examined
in this and the adjoining parishes, with one or two partial excep-
tion, extend lengthways from north to south, with a slight incli-
nation to the south-east. 4. In most instances, the ground ad-
joining, at least on one side, is low and marshy. 5. In no instan-
ces that we are aware of, do they contain any solid rocks, nor any
alluvial materials but what have the appearance of having been
transported from a considerable distance; whilst some of the com-


