
                              WICK.                                173

       weekly penny which immemorially they have spontaneously bestow-
       ed on each of the numerous poor who go round on the Saturdays
       to collect it.  Let this be done, and they are threatening to do it,
       and a compulsory poor-rate, with its innumerable train of econo-
       mic and moral evils, will come on the parish in half-a-year.  All
       parties will then find out, but when too late, that it would have
       been their wisdom to have supported, with greater attention and
       liberality, the good old system of the Church of Scotland.  No-
       thing can arrest the progress of a country such as this to pauper-
       ism, but evangelical churches, pastoral superintendence, and scrip,
       tural schools.  But these in sufficient abundance would, under
       the blessing of God, which is sure to be conferred on the preach-
       ing and teaching of the Truth as it isin Jesus, accomplish, this.
       The kirk-session is composed of the minister and six elders, of
       whom one is above eighty years of age, and another is in, bad
       health.  The elders do what they can for the spiritual and eco-
       nomic good of the people; but what are they among so many ?
         Police and Crime, &c.-The Earls of Caithness enjoyed, from an
       early date, the heritable jurisdiction of Caithness and Sutherland
       In 1503, James IV. erected Caithness into a separate sberiffdom,
       and appointed Wick as the place where the courts were to be held
       From this arrangement Caithness Was, anciently, sometimes deno-
               minated the county of Wick, or Wickshire. In 1674, the heri-
       table jurisdictions of Caithness, were sold by the Earl to John
       Campbell of Glenorchy, who sold them in 1718, by auction, to
       John Sinclair of Ulbster for L.2000 Sterling.  When the heritable
       jurisdictions were abolished in 1748, Ulbster claimed L-5000 as
       compensation for the sberiffship, L.3000 as Justiciary, and L. 1000
       as Constable of Scrabster Castle and bailie of the Bishop's lands.
       The demand was considered extravagant and he ultimately got
       only L.3000 for the whole.
         Justice in the hands of these heritable sheriffs, in general, failed
       through their weakness, or was perverted by their wickedness.
       But, during the seventeenth and the former part of the eighteenth
       centuries, the courts of the Church, with firmness and impartiality,
       grappled, with this exceeding evil, and often accomplished what the
       civil magistrates either could not, or, what is, perhaps, nearer the
       trutb, would not attempt.  In 1709, we find the presbytery of
       Caithness informing Queen Anne, that, in consequences of its dis-
       tance   from the seat of government, " this county has for, a long
       time been a stage  on which many atrocious villainies have been


