
462                       PERTHSHIRE

in the list from which the preceding table has been constructed
are flourishing in ground to which the plough could never be ap-
plied;-in some places, for instance, so steep as to be hardly climb-
able; and in others so rocky and full of stones, that no labour
could remove them. To plant such situations, of which there are
thousands in Scotland, seen bleak and naked, is the lesson obvi-
ously urged by these facts.  Nor would the doing so be a mere waste
of labour or ground: on the contrary, there would, in process of
time, be drawn from these solitudes more than a remunerating re.
turn; and besides, let it be considered how much there would
thereby be added to the beauty and picturesque appearance of the
country.

     Horticulture.- Nor do soil and climate appear to be less propitious
here to the growth and maturation of several of the gardener's nurs-
lings. Some interesting exemplifications of this remark might be
given; as, for instance, the case of a gourd, probably the Cucurbitus
pepo which, in the open air, and without the aid of any artificial
heat, in the summer of 1837, grew, in the space of about six weeks,
to such an enormous size, that it measured round its largest cir-
cumference 61 inches. and weighed 59 lbs imperial;-or the case
of a cabbage of the flat Dutch which weighed 241 1/2 lbs;-or the
case of a plant of potatoe of a third year seedling which had nearly
20O tubers, the weight of the whole being 24 lbs.

                           II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
     The session records, in which there are entries so far back as
1636, bring to view facts illustrative of the manners of the people
in former times, by means of which we are able to institute a com-
parison between them and the people of the present day.  The
result is an impression decidedly in favour of the superior know-
ledge and comfort, as well as the superior moral tone of the ex-
isting generation.  From the middle of the seventeentht to that of the
eighteenth century,  scarcely a Sabbath occured, but the session
was occupied with a case discipline, and sometimes with sever-
al cases on the same day. These arose out of acts of drunkeness,
quarrelling, and incontinence. To show still farther the state of
those times, it may be mentioned that process regarding the use
of charms and incantations were not unfrequent. The present
age is certainly not without instances of moral deliquency: but I
will venture to say, upon the evidence of that document, that they
do not amount to sithe of their number in the days of our fore-
futhers. From the testimony of another manuscript, it would appear
                           

