
                           BORROWSTOWNNESS.                   123

   No coal has ever been found in this district under the Caursay
coal; and as these lowest correspond closely with the lowest seams
in the Fife strata, it may be safely inferred, that there are no
workable seams below this one. It is remarkable, however, that
the limestone, which, on the Fife side, makes its appearance about
35 fathoms under the lowest seam, does not appear in Carriden,
where these lowest seams crop out to the surface.
   Above the strata mentioned in the section, to the west of the
Snab takes on one or two inferior seams of coal, which were par-
tially wrought in former times, when the duty was on the salt, for
the salt-pans. And further to the westward (at Craiginbuck,)
takes on a seam of limestone, which at one time was wrought, af-
fording an excellent building mortar. This seam appears to be
the same as that on the opposite side of the Forth, at Blair House,
which was wrought three years ago.
   Some fine specimens of petrifaction have been found in a bed
of sandstone, on the east bank of the Avon, near Inneravon.
   A remarkable bed of shells has long been known to exist in the
bank near Inneravon. By recent excavations in various parts of
the bank, between Inneravon and Kinneil House, the bed of shells
appears to be continuous between these two places. It consists
chiefly of oyster shells. A species of muscle shell is seen in some
places; and in one place, part of the mass is petrified.
   Large trees have been found deeply imbedded in the mud in
the Carse; and horns and bones of deer and other animals have
been found, about twelve feet below the surface, in the excava-
tions for the bridge lately built across the Avon.
   Botany.-Bo'ness parish, although of limited extent, exhibits
rather a numerous Flora, including a large proportion of the whole
plants of Linlithgowshire, some of which appear to be confined
within its limits.
   On taking a general view of the botany of the county, there is
not perhaps much, excluding the Cryptogamia, which has not been
found in the rich neighbouring district of Edinburgh; while many
of the more interesting plants of the coast disappear westward,
and those of the higher range of the Pentlands are not met with
on the less elevated hills of Linlithgowshire. Partaking, however,
of the same advantage of situation upon the Frith of Forth (an
arm of the sea, it may be observed, which, besides being remark-
able for the many rare plants found on its shores, would seem,
by its influence upon the climate and scenery, to enrich the


