
                   DUNKELD AND PARISH OF DOWALLY. *

	PRESBYTERY OF DUNKELD, SYNOD OF PERTH AND STIRLING.

		THE REV. JOHN MACKENZIE, MINISTER.

           	  I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.--THE word Dunkeld+ is derived from three ancient
British words, Dun, "a stronghold," and Kaled and in, "a rough
mountainous country."  ++ By joining these words together we have
Dun-kaled-in, "the stronghold of the rough mountainous country;"
--or the stronghold of Kaledin.
   The letter C in the ancient British language was very frequent-
ly used as K;SS and hence the word Kaledin, came to be written by
historians Caledin, Calidon, and Caledon.
   Prior to the fifth century, the Caldones or Caledonians had a
stronghold situated, it is supposed, upon a knoll called the King's
Seat, at the entrance of the vale of Atholl, near to the city of Dun-
keld. The stronghold, from its position, had the effective com-
mand of the passes leading into Atholl. It appears to have been
at the time an important feature in the country, for Hollingshed,
in speaking of the sanguinary battle of Monteith, between the
Scots and Picts, adds, for geographical direction, that the field of

<FOOTNOTE>Communicated by Thomas Baird, Esq. writer, Dunkeld.
          Though the city of Dunkeld and the parish of Dowally are now commonly con-
sidered as forming one parish, yet the statistical circumstances of each differ so wide-
ly as to justify their being noticed separately.
          Camden in him Britannica says kaled signifies hard, and the plural of it is kale-
dion, from which comes the word Caledonia, that is, a people hardy, rough, uncivi-
lised, as northern nations in general are. Dr Macpherson, in his Critical Disserts-
tions on the Caledonians, p. 26, says, that kaled in both the ancient Britih and Gaelio
languages signifles hard. In both these languages in or yn signifies a country.  From
the monosyllable in comes the diminutive innis, which, in the Welsh and Gaelic, is
of the same import with the English word island. By joining kaled and in together
we have kaledin, signifying a rough mountainous country, which is exactly the signi-
fication of Alba, the only name by which the Highlanders distinguish Scotland to
this day. See also Bullet's Memoires sur la Lang. Celt, under the word kaled.
Chalmers's Caledonia, Vol. i. p. 338.
          S Verstegan, p. 177.  Ed. 1655.
          Caledon in ancient writers is spoken of only as a division of Scotland. The
Roman writers added their Latin termination is to the word Caledon; hence Cale-
donia. Camden says that the word Caledonia was latterly applied by Romans to
the whole of Scotland.


