
                        KIRKINTILLOCH                         187

ings the tower was covered with a leaden roof, and was sorrounded
by a ditch. it is still pretty entire, but in a state of complete dis-
repair.
   But by far the greatest object of curiosity in the district, either
to the antiquary, or general reader or scholar, is the remains of
the ancient Roman wall, with its peels or forts. It appeals that
no less than six wall were built along this narrow neck of land by
the Romans. The first was built by Julius Agricola, the first
of the Romans who penetrated into Caledonia, about A. D. 8l
A second wall was built between the Forth and Clyde by Lollius
Urbicus about A. D. 138, under the Emperor Antoninus. It was
built of turf, and fortified by castles of stone-work. Capitolinus
expressly mentions this wall, and memorials of it are preserved in
the inscriptions both of the Emperor and General. Carausius,
who usurped the empire in Britain towards the end of the third
century, according to Rennius, (cap. 19, Edit. Gale,) built or
repaired the wall between the Clyde and Forth, about A. D. 289.
The marches of the empire were again repaired under the Em-
peror Valentinian, by his general Theodosius, in A. D. 367, when
the province of Valentia was formed. The marches of the em-
pire, or the above wall, was also repaired by Stilicho about A. D.
398. When the Romans finally left this part of the country they
caused the Britons first to repair the wall, which was of turf, and
of little use. Bede says it was situated between the Forth and
Clyde, and begun at a place calles Peneltun in Saxon, and
Penualin Pictish, (Nenricus calls itCenual, perhaps Kennal,) about
two miles distant from Abercorn, and ended towards the west at
Alcluyd or Dumbarton, on the Frith of Clyde. The same au-
thority says it was very broad, and very high, and that the remains
of it were to his time. The wall of A. D. 426 was between the
Tine and Solway.
  It is the remains of the wall described by Bede which are now
to be seen. It enters the parish of Kirkintilloch at Barr, crosses
Barr-hill, and then the canal at Shirva, runs in a westerly direc-
tion near the south bank of the Kelvin, passes the town of Kir-
kintilloch, at the back of the parish church, and leaves the parish:
near Mr Thomson's of Belfield. The whole distance is about
six miles. During that brief space, there have been no less than
three distinct forts or castles, which are on high and naturally
strong positions, well-fitted to see to a great distance around, and
to exercise an extensive surveillance not only over the pieces of wall


