
516		                ARGYLESHIRE.

the west, by the small river Lusragan, which divides it from the
parish of Kilmore; on the south, by the parish of Kilmore ; and
on the east, by the river Nauntan and the lake of that name, which
separate it from the parishes of Innishail and Kilchrenan.
	Topographical Appearances. - The Mallore (Celtice Maol-
odhar) range, stretching from north-east to south-west, is the only
chain of mountains in the parish, and none of the eminences there,
it is believed, attain an elevation greater than 1100 feet. Exclu-
sive of that range, the mountain Deechoid is the highest in the pa-
rish,-a distinction which has been embodied in a Gaelic couplet,
often in requisition when that mountain is referred to, "Dichoine-
head,-Siorchoimhead Mhucairn." From Mallore northward,
the surface, with occasional elevations, slopes gradually, forming
sequestered vales and corries, with finely wooded high grounds,
till  it reaches the sea. The coast, which is generally low, in some
parts rocky, extends, including windings, to a distance of nine
miles.It is indented with creeks and headlands, and there are
two fine bays, the bay of Stonefield, and Aird's-bay with its ample
sweep.In the former of these, snugly sheltered, is situated the
Abbot's Isle, robed in its mantle of green, and exhibiting still a
few aged sycamores, the relicts of the days of the years that are
past. Both the bay of Stonefield and Salen-ru , a little farther
on, furnish secure and commodious anchorages.
	Hydrography.-The principal river is the Naunt, and along,
the source of this stream there are more than one waterfall, which,
with the luxuriant coppice woods adorning its lofty banks on either
side, will for many a mile attract the attention and excite the ad-
miration of the tourist, as he wends his way from port Sonachan
to Taynuilt. Though the river Naunt be so near to the Awe,
fishermen and anglers allege that there is a marked difference
in the temperature of these two streams, the water of the Naunt
being sensibly colder than that of the Awe. The writer of these
notes had no opportunity, or failed to avail himself of it, for test-
ing scientifically the correctness of this observation.
	Next in size to the Naunt is the Lonan. After pursuing the
noisy tenor of its way from cast to west for a few miles, and wa-
tering in'its course the meadowy glen, from which perhaps, it de-
rives its name, * this stream discharges itself into that beautiful
expanse of water in the parish of Kilmore, the lake of Lochnell,
noted as having given, its title to that ancient family. Lochnell

<FOOTNOTE>Glen-lonan, i. e. "the glen of Meadows."


