
56                               FORFARSHIRE.

and salubrious. It has not as yet bedn analyzed with any correct-
ness.
  Geology.-The greater part of the parish abounds with strata
of gray slate; the direction of which is chiefly to the north-west,
and the dip an angle from 20&deg; to 25&deg; with the horizon. Beds of
trap, however, are frequently interspersed, and the different knolls
on the elevated situations are composed of that rock. The soil is
almost entirely black loam, incumbent on rock, gravel, or clay. It
abounds in alluvial deposits; and there are numerous ridges ad-
joining the Dighty which are masses of gravel or pure sand.
	The land is of ordinary fertility, and its situation near the har-
bour and town of Dundee affords the means of high cultivation.
With the exception of some pieces of moor and rocky knolls, which
are generally planted, it is all under the plough; and few oppor-
tunities remain of observing what plants are indigenous to the
soil.

                      II-CIVIL HISTORY.
  Historical Notices.-The union of the parishes of Mains and
Strathmartine took place in the year 1799. The object of uniting
these parishes was to lessen the pressure of the parochial burdens
to the heritors, and to augment the living of the clergyman. A
central church and manse was built soon after the union was effect-
ed; and adjoining them a piece of land was allotted to the minis-
ter in lieu of the fnrler glebes; and though the two schoolmasters
continue, and there be now three burying-grounds, in all other
respects the parishes are regarded as one.
	There are few historical events connected with the parish that
have been preserved, and probably few that, if recorded, would be of
much interest to the general reader. The present proprietors have
acquired their lands in recent times; and any events that might be
memorable in the lives of their forefathers, will fall to be recorded
elsewhere. The chief proprietor for some centuries was Graham of
Fintry. He was originally a cadet of the house of Montrose, and ac-
quired his property in this parish and county by his marriage with
a daughter of the Earl of Angus. His lands in this parish are now
held by Mr Erskine of Linlathen, and the mausoleum in the
church-yard is the only vestige of the ancient possessor. It may
not be improper to mention, that Claverhouse, the residence of
Lord Dundee, is likewise situate in this parish, and that an edi-
fice, in the form of a ruin, has lately been erected on the site of


