
2                           ABERDEENSHIRE.

further northward than its ancient efflux;" and he endeavours in a
note to give further probability to this etymology, by saying, " pro-
bably at some very remote period, Don had continued its former
course still further southward down the hollow of the links, till it
united with Dee in the harbour, and both together would form one
stream into the ocean.  Such conjecture is in some measure con-
firmed by the works of Ptolemy and Richard (of Cirencester),
there being no such river as Don delineated in their maps, or even
mentioned in their tables, while Diva (Dee) and Ituna (Ythan)
in the district of the Taixali, are particularly noticed.  In the ear-
lier records of the burgh, the river Don is distinguished solely by
the name of Aqua Borealis." *
   The conjecture advanced by Mr Thom in his Histor of Aber-
deen, is expressed in these words: " The name Aberdeen is com-
posed of the Gaelic A-bar, and dun, which signifies the hill in
the marsh.  Aber, spelt Abar in Gaelic, is a compound of two
words, au, water, and bar, an obstacle; hence it signifies a marsh." +
   Various considerations seem adverse to these conjectures.  In
the first place, there is no vestige in either record or tradition, of
the Don having ever run south into the Dee, nor does it seem like-
ly that it should hold for two miles a course parallel to the sea-
shore and separated from it only by a line of sand-hills so
low and loose in several places as sometimes to be broken through,
by a high tide when pains are not taken to prevent it.  On the
contrary, if probability may be appealed to in the absence of evi-
dence, it seems much more likely that the course which it has held
since the year 1727, (when advantage was taken by the salmon-
fishers of a breach made in these hills by a high tide or land-
flood, to alter the place of its mouth), was the ancient one, run-
ning straight into the sea, instead of turning suddenly at a right
angle, along the back of the sand-hills.  In the second place, no
argument can be founded on the silence of Ptolemy respecting the
Don, for he does not mention above half of the rivers that run
into the German Ocean, and the Ituna which he notices, is not in
the district of the Taixali, but on the west side of the island, and
has a longitude assigned to it of 181&deg;, 30' while that of Divae ostium
is 26&deg;.  It cannot, therefore, be the Ythan ; and as it is termed
by him an estuary, and placed immediately to the north of More-
combe bay, it seems clear that it is the Solway which he meant
to point out by this designation.  And in the third place, it seems

<FOOTNOTE>Annals, Vol. i. p. 5          History, Vol. i. pp. 28, 29.


