
l76                    DUMBARTONSHIRE.

down, or lying with its mouth undermost, and the bottom in the
air. That this basin was originally of the same form as those at
Holland Hirst and Shirva there can be no doubt. The whin-hill
at Stron must therefore be of a more recent date, and probably
the coal basins of which we are now to speak are of a date pos-
terior to the causes which led to the formation of the great valley
in which they are deposited.
   The Shirva field, a little to the west of the Stron, is a small cop
or swilley, thrown in and out again by two hitches or troubles,
which run along the northern and southern boundaries of the
coal basin, which is of an oval form, probably about a mile in
length, and half a mile in breathe. The coal here is about
six and a-half feet in thickness, is rather soft in its texture,
and comes up to the day, as the miners term it, at a very acute
angle. It is wrought upon the inclined plane system. About
four feet above this coal, there is a two inch coal with a roofing
of shale, upon which a four feet post of limestone rests, which is
again succeeded by a roof of shale, which reaches to the surface.
This limestone resembles that found at Claddens, near Glasgow.
About five fathorns below the thick coal, there is another seam of
coal thirteen inches in thickness, which is succeeded by a bed of
sandstone twenty feet thick. No farther search has been made.
This is, upon the whole, a very singular little patch of carbonife-
rous matter, altogether very unlike any other found in the neigh-
bourhood.
   At Holland Hirst, in the parish of Cumbernauld, but only a
little to the east of the Stron in this parish, there is another sin-
gular small independent basin of coal, which, for the sake of con-
nexion, it may not be improper to describe. This field consists of
two seams, the upper or main coal, 3 feet thick, and a thin seam of
18 inches. Like that of the Shirva, it forms an oval basin upwards
of half a mile in breadth, and from the present workings at the en-
gine at Arneybog eastward to the Red-burn, fully a mile in length.
It is cut nff from the Netherwood lime-fields by a hitch running
east and west, which may be seen, crossing the country a little
above the Redburn Bridge, at Castlecairy. It is cut off from the
Cumbernauld lime-field on the south by a large greenstone ridge,
which runs by Craigmarloch, the back of Cumbernauld Inn, and
the picturesque waterfall a little above the old house of Castle-
cairy. The coal here is thrown in from the north, which would
seem to connect it with the Stirlingshire coal-fields. It was sup-


