
312                   KINCARDINESHIRE.

David; and there is a spring familiarly known as the "Chapel
Well."
	During the civil war, when Scotland was invaded by the Eng-
lish forces under Cromwell, a circumstance occurred of much in-
terest hn the history of the parish. After the battle of Dunbar so
rapidly was the country overrun by the enemy, that the regalia
(by order of Parliament, 6th June 1651,) were conveyed for
greater security to Dunnottar Castle, then a fortress of great
strength, defended by Lieutenant-Governor George Ogilvie, of
Barras, with a garison of about 100 men. Close siege was laid to it
during the years 1651 and 1652, and the English commanders *
in all their movements displayed the utmost anxiety to gain pos-
session of the ensigns of Royalty. This desire was baffled by
Christian Fletcher, wife of James Granger, minister of Kinneff.
According to local tradition, Mrs Granger was returning one day
from Stonehaven, when she requested of the English forces per-
mission to visit the castle. This request must have seemed the
more reasonable, from the circumstance, that the commander of
the place, Ogilvie of Barras, and his lady, who shared with him
the hardships of the siege, were parishioners of Kinneff. Without
hesitation, therefore, she was permitted to enter, and the garrison
being nearly reduced to the necessity of surrendering, the regalia
were entrusted to her care. The sceptre and sword of state were
concealed in a bag or fisti-creel, among hards of lint, and carried
by a female attendant. The crown Mrs Granger herself took in
charge, covdrhng-it in her apron, and in this guise passed without
obstruction the English forces-their general himself, it is said, with
the utmost politeness, assisting the lady to her horse. After be-
ing thus rescued, the regalia were kept, "sometimes in the
church of Kinneff, concealed under the pulpit, and at other times
in a double-bottomed bed in the manse, till the Restoration, in
1660, when they were delivered to Mr George Ogilvie, who re-
stored them." The parties engaged in these transactions were

<FOOTNOTE>The names of these commanders are variously given. Sir W. Scott, without
quoting authority, says that the castle was summoned to surrender, on November 8,
by Lieutenant-General Overtoun; and again, on December 22, by Lieutenant-Co-
lonel Dutton. In Jamieson's edition of Siezer's Theatrum Scotine it is said to have
been besieged by Lambert, one of the Parliamentary Commissioners in Scotland at
the time. Ogilvie is said to have surrendered to Major-General Deane, on 4th June
1652 (Whitelocke, Mem. quoted by Scott); but in the account of the Regalia by
Bannatyne Club, Colonel Thomas Morgan is represented as cornmanding the Eng-
lish. Deane was Commander-in-Chief in Scotland at the time, and afterwards grant-
ed Ogilvie a Prosectionn, on condition of his not going farther than three mile; from
his house at Barras.


