
158                   HADDINGTONSHIRE.

was acquired by marriage, a son of the first Marquis, Lord Charles,
made the following verses:-
	    Aulam alii jaction, falix Domus Yestris nube,
	    Nam quae sors aliis, shot Venus alma tibi.
Various accounts have been given of the origin of this ancient
family.  Buchanan * says that the Hays are descended from the
hero of the battle of Loncarty, whose story is well known.  The
Scots, having been put to flight by the Danes, were met by Hay
and his sons, who were ploughing in an adjoining field.  Armed
with ploughshares, they forced their panic-stricken countrymen to
turn back on their invaders.  The consequence was that the Danes
experienced a signal defeat; and soon afterwards, Hay, for his bravery
and patriotism, was raised to the rank of nobility, and obtained a
large estate in the Carse of Gowry, "quem (Buchanan adds) ad-
huc eorum posteri tenent."  This Hay, it is universally acknowled-
ged, was the ancestor of the families of Errol and Kinnoul; and
many hold also that he was the ancestor of the family of Tweed-
dale.  Others again affirm that the ancestry of this family was of
Norman descent, and settled in Scotland about the year 1200,
having previously come from Normandy with William the Con-
queror.  Let antiquarians decide the question as they best can.
   Eminent Men.-John Knox, the Father of the Scottish Refor-
mation, was born in the village of Gifford, in the year 1505.  The
place of his nativity, indeed, has been questioned; some maintain-
ing that he was born at Gifford-gate, one of the suburbs of Had-
dington.  But it is easy to show that this opinion is not well found-
ed.  +

<FOOTNOTE>Rerum Scoticarum Historia, in vita Kennethi Tertii, anno 980.
          We shall shortly state the evidence in favour of both opinions, that the reader
may decide for himself: That Knox was born at the village of Gifford, in this pa-
rish, is proved not only by the circumstance that this has long been the prevailing
opinion, but also by the testimony of Beza, his contemporary and friend.  He calls him
"Joannes Cnoxus, Scotus, Gifordiensis," (imagines illustrium, virorum, Ee. iij.
an.  1580) evidently meaning that he was a native of Gifford.  If he had been a na-
tive of one of the suburbs of Haddington, would not Beza have called him Haddin-
taniensis?  Spotswood (History,p. 265, edit. 1677,) says, that "he was born in Gifford,
within Lothian," which statement is confirmed by David Buchanan, Crawfurd, and
Wodrow, (Buchanan's Memoir of Knox, prefixed to the edition of his history, pub-
lished 1644; Crawfurd's Life of Knox; Wodrow's MS. Collections respecting the
Scottish Reformers, in Bibl. Coll. Glas.)  On the other hand, Archibald Hamilton
(Do Confusione, Calvinianne Sectae apud Scotos Dialogus, fol. 64, a. Par. 1577.)
says that he was born in Haddington,-and another writer, that he was born "prope
Heddintonam."  (Laingaeus De vita, et moribus, &c. fol. 113, b. Par. 1581,)
Hamilton's testimony possesses little weight.  M'Crie observes of him, that "he has
retailed a number of gross falsehoods in his work," and though it may be said, that
he was under no temptation to tell a lie in a matter of fact, yet it is not likely that
a man of his character would either give himself much trouble to ascertain the truth
in this case, or be very scrupulous in adhering to it.  The other writer, who says that
					   1


