
506                            LANARKSHIRE.

ers of groceries, cloth, &c. 8 keepers of public-houses, and 2 keep-
ers of toll-bars.
	Character of the People.--In their manners the people are plain
and unaffected; frank and sincere in their intercourse with others;
obliging and neighbourly among themselves; kind and charitable
to the poor; singularly attentive and hospitable to strangers. To
every object near them, either animate or inanimate, they are fond-
ly attached; and, with much uneasiness, they contemplate the pos-
sibility of a permanent removal from their native place. To be-
long to the parish confers, in their estimation, upon any one an un-
doubted claim to their sympathy and good offices; and the same
feeling, which, within the recollection of many, prompted them to
espouse the cause of every injured or insulted fellow-parishioner at a
market or fair, and to administer instantaneous castigation, exists, I
believe, as strong as ever, though exhibited in a less boisterous form.
They are sober, frugal, industrious, and active. To the principles of
religion and morality, their attention is directed from their earliest
years; and that they study the Scriptures to good purppose, as well,
as the Westminster Confession of Faith, is proved most satisfacto-
rily, no less by the regularity of their attendance on ordinances,
and the punctuality with which many assemble their families for
religious exercises, than by the manner in which they acquit them-
selves at the parochial examinations. Upon all occasions, they show
a readiness to listen to any suggestions conducive to the advance-
ment of their temporal prosperity, or subservient to the improve-
ment and comfort of others. They consented to the abolition of
tent-preaching,--to the reduction of services at funerals to one in
place of seven or eight,--and to abstinence from public entertain-
ments on the Sabbath, when newly married people were first in
church, or children were baptized; and have expressed thanks
for these innovations upon their long-established practices. When-
ever asked, they both enlarge their contributions to purchase coals
for the poor, and drive them gratis; and it is necessary to make.
this demand upon them almost every alternate year.

      IV.--INDUSTRY.

	Agriculture and Rural Economy.--In Forrest's map, it is said.
there are 21,123 Scots acres in the parish, which,is probably near
the truth; since, upon summing up the items given me by the
tenants, the amount is almost the same; 3200 being represent-
ed as arable, and nearly all the rest as pasture. The planta-
tions at Glespin, Gilkerscleugh, and Abington do not cover, I
think, above 50 acres. They consist of Scotch fir, spruce, larch-


