
                ARDNAMURCHAN.                             135

while it would appear that Ardnamurchan and Sunart were in-
cluded in the province of Engadia or Argyle, an arrangement
which was retained, when with the extension of the royal authori-
ty, the whole kingdom was divided into sheriffdoms.  According
to tradition, Ardnamurchan was the possession of " Muchdragas
Mac Ri Lochlunn," a tyrannical and licentious Norwegian Prince,
who claimed an abominable privilege, against the toleration of
which in Scotland there is conclusive evidence adduced by Lord
Hailes, which the following narrative corroborates: A man named
" Evun Cleireach," " Evun Clerk,"-the, celebraied beauty of whose
wife had attracted the notice of Muchdragan, having received
intimation of an intended visit from the latter, well knowing the
infamous consequences, prepared, by a singularly bold and ingeni-
ous expedient, to maintain the honour of his family and avenge the
insult.  On the day appointed, he alone met the Lord of Ardna-
murchan and his retinue, on the northern side of Benhianda hill,
at the foot of which he resided, armed solely with his " Tuaghairm"
or battle axe, and dressed in a cassock or long shirt, sown so loose-
ly in its different parts as merely to retain its shape.  As they
rested conversing on different sides of the path, Evun suddenly, by
a dexterous cast, sunk his battle-axe in the skull of the unsuspect-
ing Norseman, and fled up a hollow which led to the summit of
Benheand, pursued by Muchdragan's followers.  His loose sown
robe did him noble service.  When near the surnmit the foremost
Pursuer seized it but the piece, as was intended, coming away with
him, he fell back on those immediately behind, and tombled with
them down the hill.  One or more met the same fate, and Evun,
though in a state of nudity, escaped to the southern foot of Ben-
heand where, during the previous night, he had concealed his wife
and family in a six-oared boat, and plied oars and sails, without
once casting anchor, until he arrived in Islay.  The hollow up
Which Evun ran is still called " Glac na Coiridh," the hollow of
the race or pursuit, the hill itself, " Bean na hurchrach," the hill
of the cast or throw.  The cairn erected on the spot where the
Norse leader was slain, is still known under the name of " Carn
Mhuckdragain," Muchdragan's cairn, and the rock at which Evun
embarked, under that of " Sgair chul Eilhin," the rock of the nook
of Evun.  Evun having taken refuge with the Iarl Islach, Lord of
Isla, the latter was induced, by his representations, to send his son
John, with an armament to take possession of Ardnamurchan ; from
which John or Ian are descended the clan Ian, so long the pro-


