
     Of Kirriemuir

2 miles.  The Prosen takes its rise in the N. W. extremity
of it; runs the whole length of the glen to which it gives
name; afterward separates the parishes of Cortchy and King-
oldrum for about 2 miles; then Kirriemuir and Cortachy for
about 2 miles more; and falls into the Esk near Invercarity.
The Carity has its source in the parish of Lintrathen; tra-
verses that and the parish of Kingoldrum; and, after a me-
andering course of about 4 miles in this parish, is lost in the
Esk at Invercarity, to which it gives name.  These rivers
swarm with small trout, which afford excellent sport for the 
angler; and, in the summer months, a great number of sea-
trout resort to the Esk and Prosen.  This trout is red, of an
excellent flavour, and b many people preferred to salmon.
Some years ago, salmon were likewise plenty in the Esk;
but now, owing to the dam-dikes towards the mouth of the
river, their numbers here are inconsiderable.  The Gairie
has it source about 2 miles to the W. of the town in the
meadow, formerly the Lake of Kinnordy.  After passing the
meadow, it glides along a channel cut for it out of solid rock,
till within 300 or 400 yards of the town.  Then, changing its
course to the S. E., it descends into a narrow valley, and,
in its fall, turns a corn and malt mill, a flax, and 2 fulling
mills.  Directing again its course to the E., it meanders a-
long the den, which is of serpentine form, about 200 yards
to the S. of the town, and 60 feet below the level of the
lowest part of it.  At the eastern extremity of the den, which
is about a mile long, it takes a southern direction, and after
beautifying and enriching the parks of Logie, again turns to
the S. E., and, after a course of about 10 miles, which, in a
direct line, would not exceed 5, falls into the Dean a little to
the E. of Glammis Castle.  Before the Lake of Kinnordy
was drained, in 1740, this was a considerable stream; but
now, in a dry summer, it is scarcely sufficient to turn a mill.
  

