
                             STAIR,                       643

sion. The two wings and other considerable additions were built,
as also decoration's and other improvements made in the interior,
about twenty-five years ago, on a plan furnished by Mr Hamilton
of Glasgow. In the east wing is the library, containing about
18,000 volumes; amongst which are the finest editions of the Greek
and Roman Classics, as also the most valuable works in every de-
partment of modern literature and science, collected chiefly by
the present proprietor. The room, upwards of sixty feet in length,
and of proportionate width is divided into three compartments; that
in the centre having a bow window, and its ceiling beautifully deco-
rated. The general effect is highly imposing, and it is universally
considered as doing great credit to the taste and skill of the distin-
guished architect. The house stands close on the banks of the
river Ayr, and the lawn is of very considerable extent, forming, as
the writer of the former Account of the parish justly remarks, a
landscape such as is rarely to be met with in an inland situa-
tion.
	In a holm, about  three miles down the river, stands Stair House.
The original portion is very much decayed, but the comparative-
ly modern part is in rather better order, and inhabited by the ten-
ant who farms the property. The property contains 168 acres.
It is well known that Field-Marshal Stair had the misfortune,
when a boy, to kill his elder brother, by the accidental discharge
of a pistol; and that his parents found it necessary, for their
own comfort, to banish him from  their sight, as his presence awak-
ened the most painful associations. The tradition in, the neigh-
bourhood is, that this melancholy event took place irl a room
on the ground-floor, (which, it is said, was, long after, kept
locked by the succeeding proprietors,) and was the reason for the
property being disposed of. After passing through many hands, it
was repurchased by the present Earl, about fifteen years ago, and
is understood to be now entailed.
	Drongan, House is, at present, in a very dilapidated state. It is
known that the late proprietor contemplated either the rebuilding or
making great repairs and additions--all of which, as well as many
other designs for the improvement of his estate generally, were frus-
trated by his much lamented deaths which took place some years
ago at Calcutta, where he had for many years resided as a mer-
chant and banker, and when he was on the eve of returning home.
	On four of the smaller properties, there are commodious dwel-
ling-houses, with suitable offices.


