
162                   STIRLINGSHIRE.

   Since the year 1768, when the Relief church was built there
have been a considerable number of Dissenters in this paris,
chiefly of the Relief persuasion, and of Original Burghers, * and
the United Associate Synod: the two last-named going for wor-
ship to Cumbernauld. A small body of Methodists have now a
chapel; and a small body of Independents occupy the New Ma-
son Lodge. The proportion of Dissenters to those in connection
with the church, is nearly a fifth; but there are occasional transi-
tions from the Church to the Relief, and vice versa, from various
causes, such as discipline, marriages, seats, &c. The Relief
church holds about 600; and, as usual, the hearers are from pa-
rishes adjacent, as well as from this.
   So early as the year 1586 Mr Alexander Livingston, of the fa-
mily of Callendar, was parson of the original parish of Monae-
brugh. He was succeeded, in 1599, by his son, William Living-
ston,--a considerable heritor in the parish. In 1604, he used all
his influence to oppose the restoration of the bishops, for which
cause, and for his non-submission to the canons and ceremonies,
he was deposed, and, by his Majesty's authority, deprived of his
ministry. After this, there seems to have been a vacancy for some
years. In the year 1615, Mr Archibald Graham was admitted
minister. In the year 1636, he was called before the High
Commission Court, for neglecting to practise the canons and
constitutions; and for this he was deposed. The following year
Mr Gabriel Cunningham was admitted, who conformed to Epis-
copacy after the Restoration. Till about this period, it would
seem that the Lord's Supper had not been administered, for it is
recorded, that, in the year 1665, communion table-cloths, cups,
and tickets were obtained, and a bason for baptism, but no flagons,
nor even a church Bible. The people repeated the creed, said
the Lord's Prayer, and sung the doxology after the psalms. In
the year 1666, Mr James Gartshore was admitted to the charge.
He was translated to Cardross in 1673. Two years after, Mr
Walter McGill, the last Episcopal clergyman here, was admitted
minister, being translated from Wigton. He was a man of un-
common meekness and moderation, and a great favourite of all
ranks and denominations of people in the parish; insomuch, that,
when it was declared vacant by the Presbytery, in the year 1690,
an uproar ensued. The patron and his lady, with a powerful.

<FOOTNOTE>Since the union of the Original Burgher congregation with the Establishment,
the bearers who used to go out of this parish come to the churches of Kilsyth and
of Banton.--1841.


