
50			    ABERDEENSHIRE.

on the United Fund. At first, this plan was attended with success,
the sum obtained being nearly L.1000 ; but after a few years, the
trouble of collection and other circumstances occasioned a gradual
falling off, so that in 1835 scarcely L.400 was obtained; in con-
sequence of which, it became unavoidable to attempt some other
means of raising the requisite sum. Accordingly, in 1836, at a
'head court of the inhabitants, a resolution was entered into to raise
the sum of L.1700 for that year by an equitable self-imposed as-
sessment on heritors and tenants, on a principle similar to that
which had been for some years acted on in Dundee and other
places.  It was, however, found impossible to collect this assess-
ment without resorting to law, and in 1838 the magistrates were
obliged to interpose their authority and enforce payment.  It is un-
necessary to dwell here on the evils consequent on a legal assess-
ment, which at once puts an end to the Scottish system of paro-
chial relief, and gives the pauper, however undeserving, a legal
right, not to "a help," but to a maintenance ; but one effect of it
may be stated as being peculiar to this parish, viz. the alienation
of a fund which was destined by the late Mr John Burnett "for the
support and relief of such persons living within the town and pa-
rish of Aberdeen only, who are unable to sustain themselves, and
who are bedrid, or are afflicted with bodily diseases that are sup-
posed to be incurable," or those afflicted with lingering diseases,
and others, particularly the aged. Mr Burnett, anticipating the
parochial poor, annexed to his bequest the following provision:  " I
hereby therefore, in case of the foresaid assessment taking place
either at my death or at any time thereafter, discharge and debar
the minister and kirk-session of Aberdeen and my other trustees
above-named, from applying the, foresaid for the purposes above-
mentioned, during all the years that such assessment for the poor
shall continue.  And in case such assessment shall continue to
take place within the town of Aberdeen at any time after my death,
for the space of seven years successively, I in that event appoint
the minister and kirk-session of Aberdeen to denude themselves of
the foresaid, haill lands of Kinnadie with all eventual interest com-
potent to them theirin under this deed." * The proceed of this be-
quest amounted to about L.280 annually, which, until 1838, were

<FOOTNOTE>It is right to state, however, that the allenation of this fund is in one respect less
to be regreted than otherwise it might be, because it will not be altogether diverted
from the poor, in as much as it is directed to be transferred to the managers of the In-
firmary, to be by them applied as noticed in the account of that institution.


