
724                         LANARKSHIRE.

At Raploch the main or splint coal is wrought in a seam of from
5 to 6 feet, at the depth of 30 1/2 fathoms.  The rise is to the east,
and the dip towards the bed of the Avon.  The ell coal was for-
merly wrought here to a great extent.  It is what is here called
the Canderside coal, 20 fathoms below the splint, that is now
wrought in the new pit at Swinebill.  At Shawsburn the ell or
main coal is now in course of being wrought.  The fitting, at East
Machan, now in operation, is for the Springwell coal, at 11 or 12
fathoms depth, one of the seams lying below the splint.  The
smithy coal, in the same lands, now taken nut near Hairlees, is
supposed to be the splint coal smithied.  The coal at East Machan
House is of superior quality, and yields more gas than usual.  All
the above collieries have good roads leading to them, and at all of
them the coal is wrought at a very moderate expense, and with
little or no risk to the workmen.  Accidents of any kind are of very
rare occurrence.  Besides the above seams, which are at present
wrought, there is, at Low Millburn, a thin coal, called the Humph
coal, from 2 feet to 30 inches in thickness, and about 12 or 15 fa-
thoms below the splint coal.  It is intermixed with ribs of splint
and soft or yolk coal, burns well, and was formerly wrought to a
considerable extent.  The same coal has also been wrought at
Ryehill or Canderside, where the splint coal has long been ex-
bausted.  At Birkensbaw, near the spot formerly alluded to, where
smithy coal (of the species called Lightburn soft) is occasionally
wrought, a bed of cannel coal, in a vertical position, crosses the bed
of the Avon.  Here a slip or dislocation occurs, which sinks the
metals 40 fathoms.  On the bank above, the metals to the south
are observed to run out near a rock of a sort of rotten freestone,
of a yellowish colour.  About this spot, the strata all rise to the
south: below it those on the Avon rise towards the south-east,
and dip towards the bed of that river.
   The parish of Dalserf may be described as one large field of
coal, very accessible in many places, and easily wrought.  It is
much to be regretted that lime and ironstone are not supplied in
equal abundance, so as to cause a larger consumption of coal.  A
sort of calm limestone has been wrought formerly at Broomhill,
on the west side of the parish.  Like most limestones of the sort
it requires peculiar management, and does not fall down freely,
unless slaked before it cools.  There is abundance of iron on
the Avon, and in other parts of the parish, but none of it has
                             4


