
                             TAIN.                          283

  remember to have seen some in the form of islands, though they
  are now, except occasionally at low water, entirely covered by the
  encroaching sea;) and our only harbour is that afforded by the le-
  vel sands, left dry by the receding tide. At the north-western
  extremity of the parish, the frith suddenly narrows by the jutting
  forward of the two opposite headlands of the Meikle Ferry; though
  immediately on, it again finds entrance into this and the adjoining
  parish, in the form of a bay called the Sands of Edderton.
     We have, no rivers, except an inconsiderable trout-stream, which
  we dignify with the name. The springs are numerous, especially in
  the uplands, and in the western part of the terrace district; which
  latter seems to owe its superiority over the eastern, in this respect,
  to the presence of an overlying stratum of gravel, there awanting.
  The water they afford is in general considered excellent notwith-
  standing that they contain a large proportion of earthy matter in
  solution. Several in the upland district are weakly calybeate,
  and are generally accounted medicinal, though rarely resorted to
  as such. Perhaps the most remarkable spring in the parish, is
  one called St Mary's Well, which is every day covered for seve-
  ral hours by the salt sea; on the retiring of which, its refresh-
  ing waters may be procured. It was, of old, reckoned a specific
  remedy for consumption; though we believe it was essential to its
  efficacy, that it should be drunk early in the morning, and upon the
  spot; and as its very name sufficiently indicates a Roman Catho-
  lic age, we may probably enough trace in that belief, the fraus pia of a
  priesthood, anxious to secure to ecclesiastical benediction the honour
  due to the bracing influence of early rising, pure air, and exercise.
     Geology.-The oldest geological formations of the parish are
  entirely secondary; the hills which constitute the upland district
  being composed wholly of sandstone, mostly white, though oc-
  casionally red: its strata are in some parts nearly horizontal;
  but in others, as especially at the quarries on the hill Tain,
  they dip eastward at an angle varying from 15&deg; to 25&deg;. The
  several hills present nothing remarkable in their external as-
  pect, but slope gradually down, until they blend almost imper-
  ceptibly with the lower or terrace lands; saving only towards the
  western boundary of the parish, where this terrace formation has
  no existence, and the hill reaches to within a few yards of the
  bay already described under the name of the Edderton sands.
  Here, too, as well as farther east, the sea is at present slowly ad-
  vancing; but evidently, this advance is not the first that it has made;



