
                            BOLTON.                       275

of no great depth. Although there be no known remains of Ro-
man roads in East Lothian, this is no evidence that there may not
have been such. In a country so early and so completely cultivated
as East Lothian, such roads must long since have disappeared, ex-
cepting in so far as their direction coincided with the existing roads.
It is hardly conceivable that a people, so shrewd and able as the
Romans were, who so long occupied the best parts of Britain,
and who had such large armies to maintain, should have over-
looked so fertile a district as this is. Besides, the great Ro-
man road by Lauder, Channelkirk and Soutra-hill, considerable
remains of which are still visible in the less cultivated portions
of its tract, passed along close by the district of East Lothian,
and in its progress over Soutra-hill, commanded a most mag-
nificent and extensive prospect of almost the whole of its surface.
No one who knows the history of the Romans can suppose it pos-
sible that this could have escaped their notice, or that they did
not take advantage of the supplies which such a district was capa-
ble of affording them. To secure these supplies, they must have
had stations at proper intervals. Two of these, at least, it is be-
lieved, are still I to he seen. The late intelligent Mr Sangster of
Humbie pronounces the fort on the lands of Whitburgh to have
been a Roman castellum. It is only a short distance east from
the itinerary station of Curry on the Gore Water, the Curia of the
Romans. The camp in Bolton parish is distant from this fort
somewhere about six miles. The very name Chesters seems to
indicate a Roman origin. This name, which occurs so often, both
singly, as in the present instance, and in composition, as in the
names Tadcaster, Worcester, Manchester, &c. is certainly a cor-
rupt on of the Roman Castra, and points out many of the military
stations of that remarkable people.
   There is now no vestige of the remains of a mansion on the
manor of Bolton, mentioned in the former Statistical Account; but
the field on which it stood is still called the Orchard Park.

<TABLE=III.-POPULATION.>
               In 1755, the population amounted to 359
		  1791,                            235
     		  l801,                            252
		  1811,                            265
		  1821,                            315
		  1831,                            332
		  1835, males 158; females,  165;  323
           Average of births,                        6
                   of marriages,                     1
                   of deaths,                        3


