
			MUTHILL.                          315

There are four rivers in the parish.  The principal of these is
the Earn, which flows out of the loch of that name, and, running
through Comrie and Monivaird, forms a line of separation between
Crieff and Muthill on the north-east. Leaving Crieff, it passes be-
tween this parish, and its quoad sacra part, named Innerpeffary;
and, keeping its devious course, for at least thirty-five miles through
the vale to which it gives the name, falls then into the Tay. This
river, although generally beautiful in its slowly flowing waters, yet
at times, is truly terrific, when swollen by the mountain torrents. It
is to be regretted that no bridge is over this river, at Innerpeffary, for
oftentimes, by reason of its flooding, the people of that quarter can-
not attend church. But we do not despair of this evil being re-
medied, as, on each side of the river, the honourable proprietors
of the land are both rich and liberal. Innerpeffary may here be no-
ticed as a place of some interest. It has a large room with a library
for the use of students in the neighbourhood, founded by David Lord
Madderty; and beside it, there is an old church, now the bury-
ing-place of the Perth and Strathallan families, and also close by
the river is the old castle of Lord Madderty,-all of which remind
us of other days.-The Machony is another river which takes its
rise from the confluence of rills as they descend from the heights
of Blair-in-roan, and flowing along, is considerably increased be-
fore discharging itself into the Earn, near the bridge of Kinkell.
Though not remarkable in itself, it is somewhat so, in its name, for
as it signifies in the Gaelic a fight or battle, so we are led by it to
think of Blair-in-roan, which also signifies the spotted battle field,
as the place where the Romans and Caledonians fought. On the
other side of the parish are the Knaik and the Allan, the only other
two rivers in it. The former, rising in Glenlich-horn, and passing
by the steep banks which form the west boundary of Ardoch Camps,
joins the latter, to form the south limit of the parish, and after that
moves slowly on, and meets the Forth near to Stirling by the
way of Dunblane. All these rivers are excellent for small trout,
the Earn especially, for pike, sea-trouts or whitings, and large sal-
mon.
   Geology and Mineralogy.-Like other parts of the country, this
has its variety of stone,-as grayish sandstone at Ardoch, reddish
sandstone at Lucas, grayish sandstone at lower Concraig, and at
upper Conraig black trap, or as some style it, black whin rock.
The three first are used for building, the other is excellent for mak-
ing roads.

