
     Statistical Account

ledge, to prove that industry, probity, and every virtue, 
grow and flourish, not in a state of savage ignorance, but of
civilization, of light, and of religion, that every encourage-
ment ought to be given to this excellent institution.  It can
be shown in the clearest manner, that the landlords in the
Highlands and islands, ought not only to be punctual in fulfil-
ling the easy requisitions of the Society; but that it is their
interest, should the charity schools be withdrawn, to educate
the youth at their own expense*.

   Miscellaneous Observations.-The language universally spo-
ken in the parish is Gaelic.  Very few of the old people un-
derstand English.  But from the laudable endeavours of the
schoolmasters to teach their scholars the vocabulary, and use
of that language, and from a general opinion gaining ground,
that it will be of great service in life, it is hoped that the ris-
ing generation will make considerable progress in acquiring
the English language.  The inhabitants do not feel that
strong desire of bettering their circumstances, that would sti-
mulate them to exertion and enterprize.  Instead of trying
the effects of industry at home, they foster the notion of get-
ting at once into a state of ease and opulence, with their rela-
tions beyond the Atlantic.

   Advantages and Disadvantages.-Among the disadvantages
of this parish, are its remote situation, the breadth and diffi-

<FOOTNOTE>

*Price of labour.-A male servant employed in the business of farming, gets
for the half year 2 L.; a female servant employed in the same business, gets for
the half year 1 L.; a day labourer is paid 6 d. and his victuals; a tailor 6 d.; a
shoemaker 6 d.; a boat-carpenter 1 s. a day and victuals.  The price of labour,
though considerably  higher than it was some years ago, is still apparently low;
but the labour is in proportion.  Industry and the arts, have made such slow
progress, that the expense of labour is full higher than in the low coun-
try.


