
32		KINROSS-SHIRE.

<TABLE>

Carting at do.		     L.  0 10  4
Coal,	        	         5  2  0
Setting kiln,		         0  9  0
Attendance,		         0  5  0
				---------
                             L. 10  8  4

	This is not taking into, account either risk of bad payments, or
loss of time for men and horses in winter. The only way of being
able to sell at a lower rate would be to use machinery for bringing
down the stones from the top to the kiln at the foot of the bill ;
but this would require both capital and enterprise. The thing is
possible, but is a speculation that cannot be expected to be under-
taken soon. Every thing is conducted with the greatest economy.
The tirring is let by the yard, and the quarrying by the ton. The
lime is burnt by persons who live by it, or by small farmers who
take a little land to enable them to keep horses more easily than
otherwise they could do. There is hardly an instance of a person
who lives by farming burning lime for sale; and yet it seldom hap-
pens that in this trade much money is earned. It seems to be
only strong working people who gain by it, through an application
of more time and strength than can be long continued.
	The soils are various in different parts of the parish. To the
westward, it is in general sharp sand, and to the east strong clay or
heavy loam. About the middle of the parish, and near the north
bank of the lake, is a moss of about 80 acres, of great depth, and
covered with heath. Besides this, there is about 150 acres, out
of which peats have been taken; but which are not cultivated.
	Zoology.-There are no very rare species of animal at present
in this parish. A few years ago, the horns of a stag were found
imbedded in water-run sand, of a very extraordinary size. The
author saw lately the fragments of them. They bad fallen to
pieces from exposure to the air, so that the length could not be
ascertained; but at the root, they are thicker thaii those of the
largest Aberdeenshire ox. The cattle reared are chiefly of the
Fife breed, or that crossed by-the Ayrshire, and short-horned spe-
cies. The sheep breed are chiefly Leicester; but some of the far-
iners purchase black-faced ones or Cheviots from the Highlands or
the south to feed on turnips. A great variety of hogs are reared
and kept. There are not many families among the labouring po-
pulation that have not one. Farm horses are generally good at all
prices from L 20 to L. 35. Small feuars and carters have some-

<FOOTNOTE>A great part of this is now cultivated; but part of it not worth the expense.
-(1839.)


