
34                          KINROSS-SHIRE.

towns. When they appear at church or market, they are gene-
rally well dressed. Their ordinary food is the produce of the
country, with the addition of tea and coffee, which are in general
use. There are very few, if any, who have not butcher-meat occa-
sionally, and there are few places where the labouring classes live
so comfortably. Any person may have, for a trifle, as much land
'for potatoes as be can manure, and every tbiDg done to it, except
hoeing and digging the crop. In this way, an industrious family
may, for, I Os. or 12s., have as many potatoes as they can use, and
perhaps feed a pig. If their turbulent Deighbours, would not in-
terfere with them, and lead them to believe that this and the other
change will improve their condition, they would give very little
trouble. Among them are a considerable number of very intelli-
gent men, to whom it would not be easy to find equals in their
station. They are a reading population, and, with a few excep-
tions, temperate, and, circumspect. There is perhaps no smug-
gling; but owing to the want of resident gentlemen to protect
game, poaching is carried to a shameful and demoralizing height.
And if means be not adopted soon to put a stop to it, very injurious
effects will follow, both to the rising generation and to property
                       IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.-Tbe parish contains about 6566 acres of land
that have been cultivated, and 3313 that have never been cultii.
vated, including 1700 covered by that part of the lake which is
in this parish. Of this very little could be ploughed with any ad-
vantage, except what may be made dry by the partial draining of
the lake. There is no general common, and even most of
that which belongs exclusively to separate townships is in the
progress of being divided. About 350 acres are under wood, all
planted.
   Rent.-The rent ofarable land is extremely various, being, ac-
cording to the quality of the soil, from 15s. to L. 3 per acre. The
probable average may be about L. 1, 10s. The rate of grazing,
equally diversified, ftorn L. I to L. 4 for a milk cow. The average
may be about L,2, 10s.
   The common breed of sheep is Leicester and Cheviot, and
much attention is paid to their improvement
   The land, in general, is well cultivated and drained. A great
part of; the parish is in the possession of the proprietors. That
which is let is - agenerally under leases of from seven to nineteen
years. The form-buildivgs are generally good, and the greater


