
     of Dunkeld.

ed the victual, refusing to accede longer to the conversion
into money.  A long litigation ensued betwixt him and the
heritors of Meigle; and the Court of Session decreed that
they should pay as follows, L. 26 : 6 : 8 in money, and 45
bolls 3 firlots and 2 pecks of oat-meal, and 22 bolls 1 firlot
and 3 2/5 pecks of barley.  Besides what was thus payable
from Meigle, the minister is entitled to L. 13 Sterling year-
ly, as one-third of the deanery duties of the cathedral of
Dunkeld, granted, in 1744, to the ministers of Abernyte,
Dunkeld, and Liff; but of this sum he receives no more
than L. 8, 14 s. as some of the lands from which the duties
should be drawn cannot be traced.  Of feu-duties in Dun-
keld he receives 3 s. 4 d. and of use and wont contribution
from Dowally, L. 8 : 6 : 8.  The average amount of the
stipend, as made up of these particulars, does not exceed
L. 95 Sterling per annum; a sum sorely, in a place from lo-
cal circumstances uncommonly expensive, and when there
is neither manse, glebe, nor allowance for communion-ele-
ments, forming but a scanty provision.  Did the state of
the teinds of Dowally admit of an ample augmentation, the
minister would not have long to complain; he would have
no fear of relief, from those liberal ideas which his patron
is known to entertain as to the endowments proper for the

     VOL. XX. 3 G

<FOOTNOTE>

tection and aid of the Court.  The petition was granted, and the Commis-
tion enjoined to give him their assistance in the matter*.  Though some addi-
tional grants by the Crown have been given since that time, there is still
room for a third petition to the General Assembly, were this the competent
channel for obtaining relief.
   Mr Chalmers, with his last petition, gave in a memorial, containing an
account of the state of his parish.  The compiler of this article regretted to
learn, on inquiry, that it has not been preserved in retentis among the
papers of the Church.  It would have afforded him, probably, favourable
materials for a statistical comparison of the circumstances of Dunkeld, at
two very distant periods.

*Uprinted Acts of Assembly, 1709 & 1715.


