
                                     CROMDALE                       441

      her Ladysbip for Scotland, the object and place to be fixed by the
      late Dr Gregory Grant of Edinburgh, a native of this parish, and
      brother of Mr Colquboun Grant, already mentioned.  Considera-
      ble additions have since been made to the original fund by the fa.
      fly of Grant.  There are at present about thirty children in the
      hospital, boys and girls.  None are admitted under seven, or con-
      tinued above fourteen years of age.  According to the deed of
      settlement, the children admitted must be natives of either of the
      parishes of Cromdale, Abernethy, Duthill, Inveraven, or Knock-
      ando.  All the children are supplied with clothing, board, and
      education.  The boys attend during the day in the Grantown
      school, and the girls are taught by a matron, in the house, who
      also superintends the establishment.  The institution is under the
      direction and management of the Earl of Seafield, Captain Gre-
      gory Grant, R. N., Burnside, Captain Grant, factor of Strath-
      spey, and the ministers of the parishes already mentioned.  The
      sum available for the yearly expenditure of the institution, is
      nearly L.200. A remarkably neat and commodious school-house,
      capable of containing 200 scholars, was built by the proprietor two
      or three years ago, on the north side of the town, at a very con-
      siderable expense.  The church is situated a little to the north of
      the town, and affords accommodation for about 900 people.  A
      branch of the National Bank of Scotland was established- in Gran-
      town in 1829, and a branch of the Caledonian Bank in 1839.
      There are several handsome Shops in the town, and consideralAe,
      business transacted.  Its population is close upon 1000.
        Means'of Communication.-There is a post-office in Grantown,
      through which there is a daily communication with Carr bridge,
      Forres, and Ballindalloch.  The roads leading to these places are
      excellent, and kept in thorough repair.  There are also regular
      carriers from Grantown to Forres and Inverness every week.  Aber.
      deen carriers come to Grantown weekly.
       Ecclesiastical State.-Thesituation of the parish church of Crom-
      dale, on the south back of the Spey, which interests the parish, is
      bynomeansconvenienttotbegreatbulkofthepopulation.  Abridge
      ontlie Spey,opposite the church, wouldconferan unspeakable
      boon on the people of Croindale, and it is hoped that this want will
      ere long be supplied.  The church was built in 1809, and is in good
      repair.  It affords accommodation for about 900 sitters, and the
      sittings are free.  Since September 1835, there basbeen,ga ordained
      minister in Grantown, who regularly preaches there, and admini-
        INVERNESS.


