
                     HAMILTON.                         255

places the rocks tower up to the height of 250 or 300 feet, and are
frequently crowned with stately oaks of great antiquity, and of sin-
gular and romantic forms. These noble banks axe everywhere
densely covered with hard-wood of numerous sorts, and of various
tints; and at their summits on the west, Hamilton wood stretches
far beyond. Near the centre of this gloomy chasm, the ruins of
Cadzow Castle appear "like centinel of fairy land," on the summit
of a lofty rock, nearly 200 feet above the bed of the Avon. On
the opposite side of the river, on the east, the modern chateau or
banqueting-house known by the name of Chatelherault, or Wham,
arises with its red walls, its four square towers all in a line, its
gaudy pinnacles, its globular and circular ornaments, and its beautiful
flower garden. It was built after the model of the Citadel at Cha-
telherault in Poitou, about 1732. Near the northern extremity of
this romantic dell, and about three miles from its commencement,
the ancient terraced gardens of Barncluith, (or Baron's Cleugh,)
the property of Lord Ruthven, appear on the west bank of the Avon,
remarkable not only for their site and design, for their formal
walks and topiary work, but also as affording the best specimen ex-
tant of an old garden in the French style, (misnamed Dutch, in
compliment to William of Orange,) as it existed in the sixteenth
century. After this, the Avon, beginning to emancipate itself from
restraint, enters the haughs of Hamilton, and is lost in the Clyde,
at Hamilton bridge. *
	Cadzow burn, which still retains the ancient name of the parish,
rises in Wackenwae well, in Glasford, and runs through the town
of Hamilton; after which it enters the Duke of Hamilton's lower
policy, where it is brehed over nearly to the point where it joins
the Clyde, at the old ford and boat-house below Hamilton Bridge.
Barncluith burn, which enters the Avon about half a mile east of
Hamilton, is remarkable for six falls, (all in Hamilton wood,) each
from 5 to 6 feet high. The banks of this burn, immedialtely below
the falls, seem anciently to have been of more consequence than at
present. Within half a mile of each other, we have Quhitecamp,
now Silvertonhill, Castle-hill, and Covant burn although no traces of
a camp, castle, or convent are now to be found, nor is any history or
tradition of them preserved. The above waters are all clear pur-
ling streams, running on a fine bed of sand and gravel, or on the
bare sandstone or shale. The average breadth of the Clyde is

<FOOTNOTE>This spot has given rise to a beautiful and popular song, (attributed, by mistake,
to Burns,) "Where Avon mingles with the Clyde."


