
                                GIGHA AND CARA.                  403

        tan acres of planted wood in the parish, consisting of oak,
        ash, plane, larch, Scotch fir, pineaster, &c. The pineaster is
        less affected by the sea breeze and the prevailing winds, than any
        of the other kinds mentioned.
          Rent of Land.-Average rent of arable land per acre, 16s.
        Average rate of grazing per cow for twelve months, L.2, 10s.
        Average rate of grazing sheep per year, 5s.
          Wages- Rate of wages for a man, Is. 3d., and for a woman, 1s.
        without victuals. In autumn, victuals are given in addition, and
        at that reason 1s. 6d. are given to particularly good hands.  House-
        carpenters get 2s.; boat-carpenters, 2s. 6d. and their board; ma-
        sons, 2s. 6d.; shoemakers and tailors, Is.  Od. and their victuals-
        The prices of agricultural produce, as well as of all farming im-
        plements, are much the same as at Campbelton. The average
        rate of wages of farm-servants per half-year, men, L.5, 158., wo-
        inen, L.3 in summer, and L.2, I Os. in winter.
          Live-Stock.-There are but few sheep reared in this parish,,
        the limited extent of the farms not admitting of there being many
        in the sumler half-year. The few that are reared here are of
        the Cheviot kind. It is found that the parish is particularly well
        adapted for wintering sheep and hogs, and therefore about 1000
        Of the latter are annually brought in the end of autumn from
        Jura and the neighbouring parishes, to be wintered here at tile
        rate of 2s. 6d. each for five months.
          Of the arable land, the greater part is cropped vithout inter-
        Inission, though the system enjoined on the tenants on the larger
        property is a five years' shift.  The soil is particularly well adapted
        for raising turnips ; yet potatoes are preferred, in consequence of
        the demand for them for seed from Ireland ; and the difficulty
        of sending fat cattle or sheep to market, owing chiefly to the
        vant of a quay.
          The late most intelligent and spirited proprietor of the principal
        part of this parish, as well as his father  before him, did a great
        deal, many years ago, in the way of draining, blasting and removing
        rocks, and building dikes and houses.  By having in extensive
        and valuable arable farm in his own hands, and on which he had
        ov.erseers from the lowlands, he was enabled to set an excellent
        example before his tenants; and under his judichous management,
        tile island got considerably in advance of a great part,of the
        Highlands.  He introduced a good breed of Argyleshire :cattle,
        suppressed smuggling, and made the inhabitants tum their atten-


