
494                     ABERDEENSHIRE.

friable granite, has been analyzed by Dr Thomson, and found to
be the ore of titanium and iron named Iserine.  The only simple
minerals, in addition to those forming the aggregates of the rocks,
are small rock-crystals.
   The deposits covering the rocks in situ, whose quantity and
character could not have been ascertained thirty years ago without
great labour undertaken for the purpose, have since been pene-
trated at a vast number of points by various operations in the
course of the improvements in the parish, and have been thus ful-
ly exposed.  The most remarkable circumstance regarding them
is their shallowness on both the high and low grounds.  On the
north and west faces of the hills they are very thin, not generally
more than a foot or two, and at their bases or in hollows, there,
very rarely having a depth of five or six feet.  At the south and
east slopes and bases of the hills they may be considered, on an
average, a foot or two deeper than this, or varying from one or
two to six or eight feet, with the shallower depths greatly prevail-
ing.  On the relatively flat lands in the east part of the parish the
deposits cannot be considered as exceeding the average depth of
those on the hills.  In a very few places only within the parish,
and they of very limited extent, in lower hollows, and at the south
and east bases of very friable rocks, deposits are seen of a depth
of 15 or 20 feet.
   The deposits consist entirely of the debris of the underlying or
neighbouring rocks, and, according as these are hard or friable, they
vary from stony, through sandy, to a sandy brick clav including,
more or less, fragments of hard stone.
   The outlayers or dispersed fragments of a great many well-
marked rocks are observed invariably at points between the east
and south of the rocks in situ ; sometimes, when the descent of
the surface is in that direction, at a great distance from their ori-
gimal places.
   No organic remains have ever been found either in the rocks or
their covering deposits.
   It is abundantly evinced by many facts, that our present valleys
have not been scooped out by the rivers which now flow in them.
Every stream has formed only a narrow lengthened hollow in the
bottom of the irregularly expanding valley through which it has
its course.  The escarpments that bound the lengthened hol-
lows on both sides are continuous in lines nearly parallel to the
streams, and are more steep than any other rising grounds to be


