
686                               ARGYLESHIRE.

it, and it was the station in which a market called A'margadh
Dhu was held ; but now the ruins stand alone by the side of a
road which few travellers frequent.
   " The foundations * of the old chapel or cell at Kilmory were
visible till within the last few years, and I still possess a stone
which has formed part of a very handsome moulding, probably
that of the door architrave. I have been told, that, according to
tradition, Kilmory and Kildusclan, which is on the opposite side
of Lochgilp, were served by one priest.
   " The precincts of the Kilmory chapel are still used by the
country people as a burying ground; the most rigid Presbyterians
having a most uncalvinistic prejudice in favour of the old papisti-
cally consecrated ground.
   " When the Parliamentary church was built at Locbgilphead,
it was wished that people should be buried in the ground round
it, but it was many years before any one could be induced to pa-
tronise it. A vagrant having been found dead in the neighbour-
hood, it was proposed to break the charm by interring him there;
but even the authors of the proposition relented before it was ac-
tually carried into execution, saying it was too hard to put him
there, because he had no relations.
   " Somehow or other a beginning has since been made, and
many are now buried round their place of worship.
   " A very neat monument, an obelisk of Ardantallin stone, is
there erected to the memory of their first pastor, the late Mr
M'Kicban, a man universally beloved and regretted by his flock."
   Heritors.--The resident heritors in the parish are four, and
all of them living in commodious mansions. The principal of
these is Kilmory.  " It is + said to have been a mansion-house
for 500 years; but, in those days, this distinction was more easy

ditionary tale is, that a tailor who was sceptical on the subject of apparitions, ventur-
ed to bet that be would make a pair of trews, (the dress of the time,) within the
walls of the church during the midnight hours.  He went with his torch bravely to
redeem his pledge; but he had not sewn much when a sepulchral voice directed his
attention to a hand of gigantic size arising from some of the graves in the area of the
church, and he heard the words, " Am faic thu a chr•g mh•r liath so a th...illeir ?"
(Seest thou this huge hoary hand,tailor?) "Chi mi sin 's fuaighidh mi so, thubhairt
an t...illair." (I see that,but will sew this, said the tailor.)  The voice again utter-
ed, " Am faic thu an ceann m•r liath so a th...illeir ?" (Seest thou this large grey
head, tailor?) " Chi mi sin 's fuaighidh mi so thubhairt an t...llair."  (I see that,
but will sew this, said the tailor.) Thus the conversation proceeded until all the
members of the skeleton appeared. Then the tailor fled; and it was time, for the
bony hand that was stretched out to seize him, struck and left its impression on the
Wall.

  <FOOTNOTE>Communication by Sir John Orde, Bart.
            Ibid.


