
144                            ARGYLESHIRE.

have been retained in the possession of Protestantism, than that
the light of the Reformation should not have been extended to
those in Inverness-shire.  In that rugged and scheduled quarter
some influential families of old descent, and the whole of the abo-
riginal inhabitants, are Roman Catholics; of the Protestants, who
amount only to a sixth part of the population, very few heads of
families have been born there.
  There are no maps or plans of the whole parish, but it is believ-
ed, all the landed proprietors have plans of their estates.  In the
possession of Sir James Milles Riddell, there is a curious collec-
tion of the works of Sir Alexander Murray of Stanhope, entitled
" The true interest of Great Britain displayed," in which there
are maps, plans, and statements illustrative of the statistics of his
estate in the parish.  In the possession of the same gentleman
there is also a " plan of Loch Sunart," with a map of Ardna-
murchan and Sunart, published by Alexander Bruce in 1733, de-
dicated to General Wade, Commander-in-Chief in Scotland; also
in possession of Mr Campbell of Lerax, near Oban, " The Ana-
tomy of Ardnamurchan and Sunart," the result of a minute sur-
vey of these districts taken by Sir Alexander Murray.  To these
two last allusion has already been made.  The parochial regis-
ters extend not back beyond fifty years, and are very defective, be-
ing irregularly kept, and referring only to portions of the parish.
   Eminent Persons.-The personages connected with the parish
renowned in Highland chivalry are numerous.  Characters dis-
tinguished by civil eminence are few.  Among the latter, Sir
Alexander Murray, for his activity and eccentric intelligence, is
remarkable.  Alexander M'Donald, or, as be is generally desig-
nated " Alaster MacMhaighistin Alaster," from his father, Epis-
copal minister of Ardnamurchan, was a native of that district, and
in the year 1745 parochial schoolmaster and elder of that parish,
When he embraced the Romish religion, and took arms for the
Prince.  He was a celebrated bard, and left behind him poems of
exquisite beauty. He has been justly reprehended for the inde-
cency of some of his productions, but it is due to his memory to
state that, for these in his latter days, he was deeply point tent.
Dr Donald MacLean, M. D., was also born in Ardnamurchan,
where he long resided.  He inherited from his father, a worthy
Aod much respected individual, and an extraordinary humorist and
wit no smalll share of his peculiarities, and was a man of talent
and information, particularly distinguished by his knowledge of


