
     of Canisbay.

luxuriancy of the grass in this district, seems wholly owing to
the quickening influence of this calcareous manure in its neigh-
bourhood.  Near Barrogil Castle, is found a species of coal
which emits a hot vivid flame in burning, but without much
dissolution of parts, or diminution of size, after it becomes
extinct.  It is got near the surface of the earth; and, in all
probability, coal of a better quality may be found under it; but,
the superabundance of peat fuel, in the mosses of Canisbay,
in a great measure supersedes the necessity of digging for it.

   Boats and Fishing-There are about 60 boats around the
coast, and yet not one man who lives entirely by fishing in
the whole parish.  Each of there boats is the joint property of,
perhaps, 6 or 7 different owners.  The fish are divided accord-
ing to the value of their respective shares in the boat; and, the
object of fishing is not sale, but the support of their families.
The business of agriculture, from the benignity of the soil,
and the number of hands employed, being soon and eafily dis-
patched, they have abundance of leisure every good day to
go a fishing.  Hence, every farmer in the parish, (the inland
estate of Brabster excepted,) is a fisherman, and every fisher-
man a farmer.  There is, perhaps, scarce an instance known, of
one parishioner ever felling a fish to another.  Fish-mongers
have of late engaged some boats, on the coast, to fish cod and ling
at a stipulated value; but as this branch of industry is yet but in
its infancy, it merits no particular description on the present
occasion.  On the north coast, the rapidity of the tides in the
Pentland Frith is altogether unfavourable to fishing.  In very
stormy weather, cod and ling are, by the force of the billows,
frequently thrown in alive upon the shore, and taken up by
the people, who on these occasions go in quest of them.  On,
the east coast, the same difficulties not occurring, fishing might
unquestionably turn to good account, if proper exertions were

     VOL. VIII. U


