
                          LOGIE EASTER.                         53

in length, and about 3 miles in breadth. It is called Logie Easter,
to distinguish it from Logie Wester, which was situate on the
banks of the Conon, but is now united to the parish of Urquhart
or Ferintosh. Loaie Easter lies partly in the county of Ross, and
partly in the county of Cromarty. The manse is within five miles
of the town of Tain, the Presbytery seat, and every third year the
seat of the Synod of Ross.
  Climate.-The climate is in general mild; but during the preva-
lence of easterly winds, the cold is most intense. But westerly
winds prevail most. The inhabitants of the parish are in general
healthy, and some of them live to extreme old age.
  Geology.-The prevailing rocks in this parish belong to the old
red sandstone formation of geologists.
  The particular diseases to which the people appear most subject
are coughs, asthma, and rheumatism. It is probable that the cli-
mate and their mode of living may have some influence in produ-
cing those complaints. Lately, we had a transient visit from the
small-pox, which, in a few instances, proved mortal, even subse-
quent to vaccination, the prejudices against which have now almost
disappeared. Scarlet fever prevails much, generally in spring, and
often proves very fatal.
  The soil in some places is a strong deep clay, in others a rich
black mould, and in others a light earth on an open sandy bottom.
Hence the produce must vary according to the different seasons.
                    II.-CIVIL HIISTORY.
  Antiquities.-In this parish are a number of cairns, indicative,
it is said, of a battle fought betwixt the Scots and Danes, where-
in the former were victorious.-(See former Stat. Account.)
  The only modern building worthy of notice in the parish, is a
very neat, well-finished, and commodious church, erected upon
Chapel-hill, near the manse, at a considerable expense to the
heritors, and fitted to accommodate 700 sitters.
<TABLE=III.POPULATION>

                    III.-POPULATION.

              In 1811 the population was 928
                 1821                    813
                 1831                    934

There is a considerable decrease in the population since the time
of the former Statistical Account. This is to be ascribed chiefly,
as far as I can learn, to the system adopted by the northern proprietors
in general (and this parish in particular,) of letting large farms,
and thus dispossessing the small tenants, some of whom remove


