
                      KINTAIL.

or them; may be termed a miserable existence. Notwithstanding thus
state of things, emigration does not prevail. Very few, not above
six families, have left the parish for any foreign country, for many
years. The love of country prevails most strongly; and they never
think of emigration, until, from poverty, they are unable to pay their
passage, and, under these circumstances, emigration is out of the
question.

Average number of births, according to the baptismal register, not Including Ro.
	man Catholic children,	-	-	-	-	-	     34
Number of famitios,	-	-	-	-	-	-	    244
         chiefly employed in agriculture,    -        -        -                      88
                  trade, mannilactures, or bandicraft,         -        -             28
Number ofhouses,  -        -        -        -        -                              236
Average number of marriages among the Presbyterians of the parish,                     8

  There is no case of confirmed insanity in the parish. There
are 7 idiots; 3 afflicted with blindness; 2 deaf and dumb, one of
whom was educated in the Edinburgh Institution.
  Language of Me People.-Gaelic is the language of the country,
and, with the exception of a few provincial expressions, is spoken
with remarkable purity and correctness. The people are better
educated than formerly, and almost all the young people speak
and read a little English; yet it cannot be said that Gaelic has
lost ground, or that in conversation, business, or in any other re
spect, it has been superseded by English.
  Character of the People.-In every country, however orderly and
well-behaving the natives may be, and however strictly parochial
discipline may be administered, there is always much to reform
and many things to censure; but, in justice to the parishioners of
Kintail, it must be said, that from the earliest history of the country,
they have been distinguished for general good conduct. In a po-
pulation of 1240 souls, there is only one drunkard. There is no
such character as a thief, and seldom, indeed, does a case of petty
larceny occur. There never was, in the memory of man, an in,-
dividual executed or banished the country, for crime.

                          IV.-INDUSTRY.
  This is chiefly a pastoral parish; and, it does not appear of im
portance to aseeMin the quantity of ground in tillage, or to make
any remarks on the waode of cultivation. The larger farms are
in the natural possession of the proprietors, and are managed oil
the most approved, system of husbandry. Little attention com-
paratively is paid to the arable land; reaurd is almost exclusively
directed to the sitee stock, which has of late years been greatly
 ROSS AND CROMARTY.


