
                        LONGFORGAN.                                 405


     but not entirely, by the increased rate of provisions.  At the for-
     mer period, the annual amount of the collections at church, even
     when there were comparatively few Dissenters in the parish, was
     L. 40 ; at present, when they are 900 in number, and when an
     assessment in one form or another, has existed for years, the col-
     lections amount annually to L. 54.

        December 1887.

                           PARISH OF LONGFORGAN.

  	       PRESBYTERY OF DUNDEE, SYNOD OF ANGUS AND MEARNS.

                        THE REV. R. S. WALKER, MINlSTER.


                I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
        Name, Boundaries,&c.-THE ancient name of the parish seems
     to have been somewhat different from the present, as appears from
     a grant of the lands and barony of " Longforgund" or " Lonfor-
     gaund," by King Robert Bruce, in the year 1315, to Sir Andrew
     Gray of Broxmouth.  The epithet long, which is quite appropriate
     to the village, and by no means unsuitable to the parish itself, is
     prefixed probably to distinguish it from. two other parishes,-For-
     gan, in Fife, nearly opposite to Dundee, and Forgandenny, in
     Strathern, another district of Perthshire. Forgan or Forgund, in
     the absence of a better or more certain derivation, has, been alleg-
     ed to signify foreground,-a term, in fact, bx which the parish is
     not unfitly described.  The whole of it, excepting one farm, lies to
     the south of the Sidlaws, and, with a slight interruption, sweeps
     gradually downwards from that range of hills to the river Tay, by
     which it is bounded.
        The greatest length of the parish, from north-west to south-
     east, is about 9 miles.  But it varies so much in breadth from 4
     imperical acres.  It forms the eastern extremity of the Carse of
     Gowrie.  It is surrounded on three sides, the west, north and east,
     by the parishes of Inchture, Abernyte, Kettins, Lundie, and Foulls,
     and Liff and Benvie ; while for its southern limit it has else Tay,
     along which it extends for feur or five miles.
        Topographical Appearance and Soil.- This parish presents great


