
378                      KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

	Antiquities.--There are two old baronial buildings in Anwoth
--the Tower of Rusco, and the Castle of Cardoness,--the former
on the Fleet at the northeast of the parish, the latter on an abrupt
eminence overlooking the bay at the mouth of the river. Both
are of a square form, and very ancient; but the date of their erec-
tion cannot be ascertained. Rusco, though old and, venerable,
has recently been repaired, and is inhabited, having been let as a
shooting residence. Cardoness has been unroofed for nearly a
century and a half, having not been inhabited since the time of Sir
Godfrey M'Cullocb. At the south-west of the parish is a beau-
tiful moat, standing on a steep and rocky peninsula. It has been
completely fortified by a deep trench cut across the narrow piece
of ground that joins it with the mainland. Near the moat, stands
a thin stone 5 feet 3 inches high, almost perpendicular, engraved on
both sides with the rude figure of a cross, accompanied with several
ornamental strokes, supposed by some antiquarians to be Runic in-
scriptiods. On the top of a bill, situated near the Castle of Cardo-
ness, and about 300 feet above the level of the sea, is a vitrified fort,
protected on the most accessible places by a double dosse. The top,
which forms a level area 30 paces long, and 20 broad, is nearly sur-
rounded by an irregular ridge of loose stones, which have been twisted
and partly fused by the action of fire, and are intermixed with vast
quantities of vitrified matter. These loose stones and vitrified
matter are scattered irregularly over the top of the fort, and ex-
hibit no appearance of having ever formed a continuous wall. The
vitrification is only partial and superficial. On the south of the
fort, there is a broad flat stone, inscribed with various waving and
spiral lines, of which the meaning is not known. Near it were

	"Here lyes John Bell of Whyteside, who was barbarously shot to death in the
Paroch of Tongland, at the command of Grier of lag, anno 1685.

		"This monument shall tell posterity
		That blessed Bell of Whitesyde here doth lye,
		Who at command of bloody Lug was shot,
		A  murder strange which should not be forgot.
		Douglas of Morton did him quarters give,
		Yet cruel Lag would not let him survive.
		This martyr sought some time to recommend
		His soul to God before his days should end.
		The tyrant said, What, dev'l yo've pray'd enough
		This long seven years on mountain and in cleuch;
		And instantly caus'd him, with other four,
		Be shot to death upon Kirkconnel Moor:
		So thus did end the lives of there dear saints
		For there adherence to the Covenants,"


