
                        SMALL ISLES.                             151

   other is characteristic of the wildest and most inimitable works of
   nature." The Scuir Eigg Dr MacCulloch maintains to be the old-
   est of the igneous rocks in the island, although even the merest
   tyro in geology could show that it is the newest.
      2. Rum.-This rugged island is composed of an old red sand-
   stone, which is traversed and overlaid by various plutonian or ig-
   nigenous rocks. The red sandstone, which is distinctly stratified,
   dipping generally to the south-west, alternates with beds of a red-
   coloured slate clay. The plutonian rocks are the following: au-
   gite-greenstone, (in some parts forming an augite rock,) amygda-
   loid, basaltic greenstone, and porphyry sometimes assuming the
   syenitic character. In cliffs of amygdaloid opposite the island of
   Canna, there occur beautiful varieties of heliotrope or blood-stone,
   of calcedony, and other minerals usually met with in cavities and
   veins in amygdaloidal rocks.
      3. Canna.-Is composed chiefly of ignigenous rocks of the trap
   series,-very smallportions only of the lias, a secondary rock, occur-
   ring in the island. The ignigenous rocks are common augite-
   greenstone, basaltic greenstone, amygdaloid, and trap tuffa. The
   trap tuffa, which occurs very abundantly in the island, is made up
   of rounded fragments of trap, sandstone, granite, &c. cemented by
   a trap base. In some places, Professor Jameson observed pieces
   of wood, resembling the surturbrand of Iceland, imbedded in it; also
   thin seams of brown coal. Cavities in the amygdaloid are lined
   with zeolites of different species, much prized by collectors of mi-
   nerals, also crystals of calcareous spar.

                          II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
     Land-owners.-Dr Hugh Macpherson, Professor of Greek in
   King's College, Aberdeen, is proprietor of the Island of Eigg. It
   became his property by purchase at Whitsunday 1828. Before
   that period, it, with the Island of Carma, formed a part of the large
   and extensive possessions of the ancient family of Clanranald. The
   Islands of Rum and Muck belong to Maclean of Coll, and the Is-
   land of Canna to Macneil, who likewise got possession of it by pur-
   chase in 1828.
     Parochial Registers.-Parochial registers have never been regu-
   larly kept in this parish.
     Antiquities.-Two fortifications seem to have been in the Islands
   of Muck and Canna (one in each,) though now so much defaced by
   time, that scarce any vestige of them can be traced. Each of them
   had the name of Dun, signifying a castle or fort,-the one in Muck

