
74                      EDINBURGHSHIRE.

   There are collections at the church door for charitable and re-
ligious purposes, annually. They have amounted, during the in-
cumbency of the present minister, from L. 5 to L. 38.
   Education.-There are two principal schools in the parish, the
parochial, and one endowed. In the endowed school are taught
English, arithmetic, writing, book-keeping, and grammar. In the
parochial school are taught the same branches, with the addition of
Latin, Greek, geometry, and the use of the globes. The paro-
chial schoolmaster has the maximum salary, and all the other legal
accommodations. The school fees may amount to from L. 15 to
L. 20 annually. The endowed school has attached to it a school-
house and garden, with a salary of L. 15 per annum, paid solely
by the Marquis of Lothian, who built the school at his own ex-
pense. The school fees amount to about L. 40 yearly. There
are three minor schools unendowed. Children here in general do
not begin writing till they are seven or eight years of age. From
that to fifteen I know of no males that cannot write. Above fifteen
years of age, there are no males, to the best of my belief, and but
few females, who have not been caught writing. I know there are
some, but the exact numbers I cannot precisely state. The people
in general are exceedingly alive to the benefits of education; and
they make every exertion to procure them for their children.
There are no parts of this parish so distant as to prevent attend-
ance on one or other of the schools. Besides, there are schools in
the neighbouring parishes, close upon its boundaries, to which those
in the remote corners have easy access. Since the facilities of
education became so great, the people, upon the whole, have visi-
bly improved in knowledge, and in their moral conduct, although
further improvement in regard to sobriety among the lower ranks
is much to be desired.
   Literature.-There is on a small scale a parochial or circulat-
ing library in the parish, lately established.
   Friendly Societies.-There are one or two Friendly Societies,
one among the carters, and another among the colliers. They
have been in existence, for a considerable time, and their object is
to relieve their members when in distress. But though the object
is good, I am somewhat doubtful as to their advantages; for I do
not perceive that the members of these societies are more indus-
trious, or more desirous of independence, than others. On the
contrary, I am afraid that, with regard to some, instead of promot-
ing industry, they tend to encourage inactivity and a neglect Of
			     4


