
36                           DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

master. This school is also well attended. The people of this
parish are thus amply provided with opportunities of education, and
scarcely any of them arrive at ten years of age without being able
to read and write.
	Savings Banks, &c.--There are no circulating libraries, nor friendly
societies, nor savings banks in this parish; but its contiguity to the
town of Dumfries, where the inhabitants have an opportunity of
joining in any or all of these, renders establishing them in this pa-
rish unnecessary. Several of the inhabitants do avail themselves
of the opportunity of depositing small sums either in the Dumfries
savings bank, or in that of Ruthwell, which is only eight miles dis-
tant, and for which it is natural to have a partiality, as being the
parent institution established by the worthy and patriotic clergyman
of that parish, Dr Henry Duncan.
	Poor.--The average number of poor persons receiving parochial
aid is 21. Of these only four are males, and seventeen females, and al-
most all are old persons. Among these is divided by the kirk-session
about L. 39 annually, arising from collections at the church, and L. 19,
5s., being the interest at 31/2 per cent. of a sum, amounting to L. 550,
formed out of bequests made to the poor at different times. A general
distribution is made four times in the year; but it is also found ne-
cessary to make many partial intermediate disbursements. L. 39
divided ainong twenty-one persons makes an average of L. 1, 17s.
13/4 to each person. But this gives no just idea of the actual state
of the distribution, which varies very widely according to the cir-
cumstances of the paupers; some getting L. 5, 5s. while others not
more than L. 1 yearly. The time is past when the poor were asham-
ed, or thought it degrading, to apply for parochial aid. Though
there is not a single proprietor residing in this parish, the poor have
hitherto been maintained by voluntary charity, without recourse
being had to assessments of any kind. In 1791, the number of per-
sons on the poors' roll was only five ; at present, there are twenty-
one. Thus the poor have quadrupled, while the number of inha-
bitants has doubled. At the former period there was distributed
among the five paupers only L. 5, 9s. yearly. But at that time a
considerable quantity of lint was grown in this district, the spinning
of which gave profitable employment to many persons, particularly
to old women, and enabled them, in a great measure, to maintain
themselves; but the very low price of cotton cloth has now almost
entirely supplanted the manufacture of home-made linen, and thus
deprived old women of a useful and profitable branch of employ-
				    4


