
                            YESTER.                         169

a chapel dedicated to St Nicholas; but no vestiges of it now re-
main. *
   Education.-The means of instruction in this parish are fur-
nished in sufficient abundance. There are five schools; three of
which are parochial and endowed. Of these, one is in the village
of Gifford, another in that of Long Yester, and the third in that
of Long Newton. The two unendowed schools are in the village
of Gifford: one of these is under the care of a female, who teaches
sewing. In the schools at Long Yester and Long Newton, as

<FOOTNOTE>Robert III. gave to the chapel of St Nicholas at Duncanlaw, some lands which
had belonged to John Straton. Roberts. Index, 145.
   I have not been able to discover the names or the ministers who had the spiritual
oversight of this parish from the Reformation till the year 1653. On the subject of
their deeds and virtues, history is silent. A short account of those ministers
whose names are known may not be uninteresting, as it tends to throw some light
on the state of the church at different periods. In October 1653, Laurence Charte-
ris was chosen minister of Bothans by the session. He seems to have been a man
of some eminence in his day. It appears from the Presbytery Records, that he was
Moderator of the Presbytery of Haddington from 1617 till 1676; a circumstance
which shews, not only that he was held in respect by his brethren, but also that the
presbytery were beginning at that time to adopt Episcopalian views and practices.
Accordingly, Mr Charteris was appointed by the Bishop of Edinburgh, in January
1676, to be Professor of Theology in the University, in which situation, however, he
does not seem to have continued many years. After the Revolution, he was remov-
ed to be minister of Dirleton, where he died. In August 1681, George Stephen was
ordained minister of Yester, in consequence of an edict from the Bishop of Edin-
burgh. He appears, however, to have been a staunch Presbyterian. The following
reason, highly honourable to his principles and character, is assigned for his removal,
in the session records:-"January 7, 1682. No sermon, Mr George Stephen, our
minister having left his charge, because he would not take the test imposed by autho-
rity, as he was required on Thursday last past."  In December 1682, Robert Mel-
drum, minister of Garvald, was appointed by the Bishop of Edinburgh to be minister
of Yester. In this situation he remained till December 1699, notwithstanding the
political and ecclesiastical changes which during his incumbency had taken place in
the nation. The change from Prelacy to Presbytery at the Revolution does not
seem to have changed his determination to continue minister of Yester; and though
this circumstance might make some regard him as a second "Vicar of Bray", yet he
appears to have been a faithful ministers. The following entry in reference to him is
made in the session records;-"December 17, 1699. No sermon, our minister
being dead, having faithfully in the office of the minister, served at this church ex-
actly seventeen years, from the serving of his edict here to the next day after his bu-
rial."  On the 9th of January l7OO,the heritors, and householders met at the church
"for the election of new elders;"-and the heritors, elders, and householders were order-
ed by the Presbytery to be present on the 31st, "for signing a call to a minister to
this parish."  The call vas given to a Mr Alexander Anderson: but he does not ap-
pear to have been ordained, having probably accepted a call to another parish. In
January 1701, another call was signed to Mr James Craig, who was ordained in
April, and remained till October 1718; when he was translated to Dunbar. In No-
vember 1719, "the heritors, elders, and others concerned met to elect one to be their
minister, and unanimously made choice of Mr James Witherspoon."  He was or-
dained in March 1720, and fulfilled his office with exemplary fidelity. He died in
August 1759. Mr James Innes was ordained minister of this parish in March 1760,
and died in February 1821. He was succeeded in December the same year by Da-
niel Wilkie, now in the New Grayfriars' Edinburgh. Robert Smith (now at Old
Machar's Aberdeen) was inducted minister of this parish in October 1829. David
Horne (now at Corstorphine) was ordained in May 1831; John Thomson in April
1834.


