
         	                 DUNFERMLINE                      871
     
    at Edinburgh in 1644, 4to, and other works, noticed by M'Crie
    in his Lives of Knox and Melville.      
       Mr John Davidson, another eminent reformer, was a native of
    this parish. He was first minister at, Liberton, and afterwards at
    Prestonpans, in the reign of James VI.
       Mr Robert Henryson was an eminent person in this parish, as
    a teacher and poet, at the end of the fifteenth century. The
    exact period and place of his birth, as well as the time of his
    death, are involved in equal obscurity. He must have been
    born, however, in the reign of James 11. or Ill., and it is certain
    that he died in this burgh. The main fact regarding his personal
    history, well ascertained, is, that he was " Scolmaister of Dun-
    ferinling," or, as he has been styled, " Chief Schoolmaster of
    Dunfermline ;" and it bas been conjectured, that he officiated as
    preceptor of youth in the Abbey.
       Mr Adam Blackwood was born in DunfeTMline in -1539.
    Being a Roman Catholic, he settled in France, and became a
    Senator in the Parliament of Poitiers. Ile died in 1623, aged
    74. He published various works, a corrected edition of which,
    Latin and French, appeared twenty-one years after his death, at
    Paris, 1644, 4to. He bad two brothers, also natives of Dun-
    fermline; Henry, who became eminent as a doctor of medicine
    at Paris, and George, who became a professor of philosophy
    there, and afterwards a clergyman of celebrity.
       Mr James Bayne, schoolmaster of Dunfermline, published, in
    1714, a short introduction to the Latin Grammar. 
       Mr James Moir was a teacher and author in Dunfermline in
    1756, and afterwards in Edinburgh, where he died in 1806, aged
    93.
       Mr Andrew Donaldson, brother-in-law to Mr John Mackie,
    a respectable gentleman in the carpet manufactory trade in Dun-
    fermline, who died in 1793, was a teacher in this town, a man of
    good education and character, but of singular habits.
       Provost Low was long and deservedly eminent for his success
    in the reduction of dislocations, and for the disinterested  manner
    in which he acted in the exercise of his peculiar talent. He died
    in September 1817.
       Rev. Henry Fergus, late minister in the Relief Church, was an
    ardent student of physical science, on some branches of which he
    lectured in the Mechanics' Institution in 1825-6, and was the
    author of several publications.

