
     of Kirkwall and St Ola.

   Cathedral.-The Cathedral of St Magnus, the King's
Castle, and the Bishops and Earl's Palaces, are the only
buildings here that are any ways remarkable.  The first of
these is a large Gothic pile, reared by the superstition of the
dark ages, nearly in the same form and dimensions with many
others in different parts of the kingdom.  Rognwald, Count
of Orkney, we are told, laid the foundation of it in the year
1138.  Bishop Stewart, who lived in the time of King
James IV. made an addition of three pillars or arches to the
east end of it, with a window, which, for grandeur and
beauty, is far superior to any others in the fabric; and Ro-
bert Reid, the last Popish Bishop of this see of Orkney,
added three pillars to the west end of it, which were never
completely finished, which, in point of elegance, are much
inferior to the former.  The length of this stately fabric, on
the outside, is 226 feet; its breadth 56; the height of the
main roof is 71; and, from the level of the floor, to the top
of the steeple, is 133 feet.  The roof is supported by a row
of 14 pillars on each side, besides four, the most magnificent
of the whole church that support the steeple.  In it there is
an excellent chime of bells, which, by the inscription upon
them, appear to have been made by Robert Borthwick, in
the Castle of Edinburgh, 1528; and they were furnished
to the Cathedral by Bishop Robert Maxwell.  The window
in the east is 36 feet high, by 12 broad, including a circular
rose window, at the top 12 feet diameter.  There is a win-
dow in the west end somewhat similar, but much smaller; as
also a rose window on the south gable of the cross, of like
form and dimensions with that on the top of the east window.
The circumference of the pillars that support the roof is 15,
and that of those on which the steeple stands is 24 feet nearly.
This church is built of free stone, cut both on the out and
inside, covered at present with grey state; and is certainly the


