
                             EDINBURGH.                      641

direction of Sir Walter Scott, took place from the Palace to the
Castle.  And on the 24th a splendid banquet was given to this
Majesty in the Hall of the Parliament House.  On the 29th, af-
ter a visit to the Earl of Hopetoun, the King embarked at Port
Edgar.
In 1824 two extensive and destructive fires took place in Edin-
burgh.  By these many large lands or tenements from the Parlia-
ment Square dow towards the Tron Church, forming a consider-
able part of the south side of the High Street, were reduced to
a mass of ruins.
In the autumn 1834, the British Association for the advance-
ment of Science held its annual meeting in Edinburgh, which was
attended by numerous scavans from various parts of Europe.
In 1842, Edinburgh was again honoured by a visit of royalty-
In the month of September, Queen Victoria and Prince Albert
landed at Granton, and immediately proceeded to Dalkeith Palace.
As this visit was intended for the Duke of Buccleuch and
the Marquis of Breadalbane, no public display in the city was at
first contemplated. But the public wish being unanimous for a
sight of the Sovereign, her Majesty graciously agreed to a proces-
sion to the castle and along the principal streets of the city.  A
levee, most numerously attended, was also held at Dalkeith Pa-
lace.  On this occasion the assemblage of strangers from all parts
of the country nearly equalled that of the visit of George IV.
Progressive improvements of the City.--From what has been al-
ready stated, it appears that the houses of th ancient city were
first reared under the immediate protection of the castle, and
that the extent of the town, for a considerable period, was limit-
ed to a single street or two.  The earliest authentic documents
from which anything can be learned about the territorial extent
of Edinburgh is the foundation charter of Holywood Abbey,
granted by King David I. in the year 1128.  At that time it ap-
pears to have consisted of little more than the High Street, from
the Castlehill to the Netherhbow; for King David granted to the
Canons of Holyrood a right to build a borough between the ab-
bey and this burgh of Edinburgh; and accordingly the two
boroughts of Edinburgh and Canongate now meet at the Nether-
bow, Leith Wynd being the boundary on one side of the street,
and St John's Cross, a little farther down, on the other.
The city wall, a few portions of which yet remains, proceeded
in those days from the Castlehill behind the houses of Lawn-


