
12                         FORPARSHIRE.

tire from office annually. The seven new councillors were to be
elected by the burgesses, and the council was then to appoint in-
dividuals of its own number to its several offices.
   Since the passing of the Reform Bill for the Burghs of Scotland,
the election of the members of council is extended to all persons
residing within the burgh and extended royalty having a right to
vote for a Member of Parliament, with the exception of the dean
of guild, who is now chosen by the guild brethren, and who is ex
officio chairman of the incorporation.  The number of councillors
is twenty-one, being the same as under the former constitution.
The different offices are appointed by the councillors themselves;
and a third of them yearly retire from the council, but may all be
re-elected.
   In consequence of the Reform Bill, Dundee, which formerly,
along with St Andrews, Cupar, Perth, and Forfar, sent one mem-
ber to Parliament, has now the privilege of being represented by a
member of its own choosing. Its first representative in the Re-
formed Parliament was George Kinloch of Kinloch, Esq. who died
in London during its first session, and whose place is now supplied
by Sir Henry Parnell, whose character is well known among poli-
tical economists by his treatise on Finance.
   Ancient Documents, &c.--The common burying-ground, or houff,
as it is called, lies on the north side of the town, and contains
about four acres. It is said that Devorgilla, mother of John
Baliol, competitor for the crown of Scotland, in 1260, founded a
convent and other religious houses in this ground, which was then,
and long afterwards, used as a garden and orchard. About 200
years afterwards, Lady Beatrice Douglas, widow of William Earl
of Errol, granted a sum of money in aid of the common funds, and
for keeping the convent in repair. An indenture was entered into
between the Countess and James Lindsay, vice-general of the or-
der in Scotland, and warden of the convent, that the friars should
say mass daily at the high altar for the souls of Lady Beatrice, of
William, her spouse, and of William, their son. The capitular
act, signed by all the brethren of the convent, is dated at Dundee
the 25th November 1483.
   Soon after the marriage of Queen Mary with Lord Darnley, she
conveyed to the town the whole church-lands and revenues in and
adjoining to the town, and, in particular, the site of the demolished
Convent of Franciscan friars, with the garden and orchard, for a
burying-ground. That the whole ground was not at that time, at


