
     of Bothwell.

   But for these, and more essential improvements, we look
to the Board of Agriculture, where, from the distinguished
abilities, zeal, and application of the Honourable President
and his coadjutors, and the countenance of our most gra-
cious Sovereign, there is good reason to expect, that the
greatest benefit will accrue to the country.
   Farmers here, and in the neighbourhood, have been for
some time subject to inconveniencies.  The advantages
arising from their nearness to Glasgow are of late im-
paired, granaries being established there, and supplied width
English and foreign grain, the brewer and baker are fur-
nished in larger quantities, and upon a certain credit.  The
small portion of the farmer meets not with so hearty a re-
ception as formerly.  The price of wheat, it has been ob-
served, is suppressed till after Candlemas, when most of the
small farmers are obliged to dispose of it.  The value of
their crops have not increased in proportion to the ma-
nufactures about them; servants wages high; manure
scarce, and the price advanced; a supply of horses not to
be had, but at a very considerable charge.

     "Pater ipse colendi
     "Haud facilem effe viam voluit." VIRG.

   He, therefore, who disseminates tile principles of found
knowledge among his fellow-citizens, and from thence pro-
duces the most liberal crops of industry and virtue, this is
the true Patriot, who confers the noblest blessings upon his
country, and merits immortal praise.

     VOL. XVI. U u 

<FOOTNOTE>

asked, must the virtuous industry of a poor family be forfeited for mere
amusement, the fruits of the earth destroyed, and a bar put to those im-
provements which are justly become the object of national concerned
There is no gentleman but will reply, that nothing can be more distant
from their sentiments.  What pity then, but some regulations were made
by these gentlemen themselves, to prevent such savages, and to secure
soils of a certain description, which nature meant not to be sported with.
The measure is much wanted, and would be highly conducive to the po-
lice of the country.

