
     Of Kirriemuir.

and fatted; sheep for the butcher, poultry, butter, cheese, ho-
ney, wool, and tallow, to a considerable amount, are annually
exported.  The farmers have lately turned their attention to
the breeding of horses.  By consequence the breed has been
much improved, and a large sum of money saved the parish,
which used to be sent out of it for that useful animal.  The
most intelligent of the breeders of sheep have likewise chan-
ged their system; and, instead of buying the greatest part of
their stock, when a year old, at the Linton market, as was the
practice some years ago, they are begun to rear nearly as many
lambs as serve them.  The sheep reared here are altogether
white.  They are not so heavy as the Linton sheep:  but their
wool is finer, and their mutton of a higher flavour.

   Town, Manufactures, etc.-Kirriemuir, a burgh of barony,
is of considerable antiquity; but the date of its erection is
here unknown*.
   Situated near the foot of the braes of Angus, in a fertile,
extensive, and populous district, Kirriemuir is the mart to
which the inhabitants of the neighbouring parishes chiefly re-
sort.  Hence no town in the county has a better weekly mar-
ket; in none of its size is more trade carried on.  Nine car-
riers go regularly to Dundee twice, and often thrice a-week,

     VOL.  XII.  B b

<FOOTNOTE>

*It is, however, certain, that the jurisdiction of its bailie was very great;
and, it is said, extended even over the bill of Dundee.  It stands in a very healthy
and pleasant situation, partly on a flat, and partly on an inclined plane, on the
S. W. side of a hill of the same name, along the northern brow of a beautiful
den, through which runs the small river Gairie.  In form, it very much resem-
bles an anchor; that part of it which lies along the den, in the level situation,
forming the arms; and that which stands on an inclined plane, the shank of the
anchor.  The prospect of the lower part of the town is bounded by the southern
brow of the den; but from the higher part is seen almost the whole of Strath-
more.
   

