
          532                        PERTHSHIRE.

          softish texture, but harden on exposure to the air. The country
          people were accustomed to split these and sell them at markets, as
          strakes for scythe-sharpening,-a purpose to which they are found
          well adapted.
             Passing over a great number of minor vales, such as Glen-mul-
          lin, Glen-da-ghob-the vale of Lochs, of Glenlyon, Glenmeran,
          Glen-duibh, Glen-comrie, Glen-sasun, Glen-caillich, we shall now
          advert to that of Fortingal.
             Fortinqal.-This interesting vale, from which the parish takes
          its name, is about 6 miles long. The river Lyon meanders through
          it. The base or level ground is, for the most part, fully half a mile
          broad. A stranger, stationed at the village of Fortingal, would at
          once fancy there was no ingress or egress from or to the district.
          There are, however, three egresses,-one, on the one south to the turn-
          pike road on Loch Tay side, Breadalbane; a second, to the north-
          west through Glenlyon, by and through the remarkable pass, narrow
          defiles, and romantic scenery of the wood of Chesthill, to which,
          in the opinion of many, the far-famed pass of Killachrankie is, in
          point of defence and security against the incursions ofa foreign foe,
          ranked inferior. The third is to the eastward meeting the Crieff
          and Inverness turnpike road at Coshiville, Appin of Menzies. It
          is a fact worthy of notice, that, except in the detached district
          of Bolfracks, there is not a foot of toll road in this extensive pa-
          rish: yet the country is well accommodated by statute labour roads,
          kept in very good condition.
             Like Glenlyon, Fortingal is surrounded with mountains. Al-
          though not equally calculated with those of Glenlyon to raise
          wonder and awe by their " cloud-capt" summits, their precipitous
          fronts, and foaming torrents, bursting down their deep furrowed
          sides,-still it is a beautiful and naturally a picturesque vale,
          finely sheltered from the northern blast, and adorned with a
          number of gentlemen's seats, viz. that of Major-General Sir Archi-
          bald Campbell of Garth, Bart., the hero of the Burmese war, and
          later Governor of New Brunswick,-which was formerly the proper-
          ly of Major-General Stewart of Garth, author, of " Sketches of
          the  Highlands," &c. and late Governor of St Lucia, where he
          died,-a name dear to philanthropy, and never to be mentioned
          but with respect; also that of Mr Menzies of Chesthill, and that of
          Mr Garden Campbell of Troup and Glenlyon;-all of which are
          embosomed in wood and environed with verdant fields.
             Fortingal is fronted on the south by Druim-Fkinn, Drum-

                                        3


