
       266                           ROSS AND CROMARTY.

       a very considerable quantity of hard-wood, elm, beech, ash, oak,
       plane and lime trees, &c. besides natural woods of birch and
       alder.  Altogether, there may be in the parish about 3000 acres
       under wood.  On the estate of Ardross, the property of the Duke.
       of Sutherland, there are some very noble trees.  We may mention
       especially two magnificed oaks.  Their dimensions are; of the one,
       girth at base, 10 feet,-at 5 feet from the ground, 8 feet 4: it
       rises beautifully straight, for about 25 feet, before it begins to taper
       much, and may be altogether from 50 to 70 feet in helght.  Of the
       other, girth at base, 11 feet 6; it preserves nearly the same thick-
       ness for 12 or 15 feet, and then branches off into two enormous
       arms.  These trees are supposed to be about 300 years old, and
       are, of course, as yet in the prime of their age. We may mention
       also an uncommonly large fir tree, which measures round the base
       about 11 feet.  At the height of a few feet from the ground, it
       branches off into a number of arms, each about the size of an or-
       dinary tree.  One of these large branches was singularly enough
       broken off a few winters ago, by the weight of a quantity of snow
       which bad accumulated upon it.  There are several other very
       fine firs, averaging 7 feet in girth, with the main stem rising 60 or
       70 feet in height.

                                 II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
            Historical Notices. *-In September of the year 1675, Mr

         <FOOTNOTE>Sheep Insurrection, 1792-In summer 1792, some sheep-farmers in the parish
        of Alness took upon them to poind, for an alleged trespass, the cattle of the Ardross
        tenants in this parish.  The people collected in a body, in order to release the cattle,
        lleging that they were wrongously poinded, as the hills in question, on which their
        cattle were pasturing, had, from time immemorial, belonged to, and were in possession
        of, the tenantry of Ardross and Strathrusdale.  The sheep-farmers rather imprudent-
        ly met the people with fire-arms, supported by their shepherds and servants ; but they
        were instantly disarmed by the people of Ardross.  An old man still living, a man
        then in the prime of life, and of great strength, and stature, was the principal instru-
        ment in closing instantaneously with, and disarming the shepherds, before they could
        use their fire-arms, even if so inclined.  The gentlemen shepherds were thus compelled
        to submit to the people, and to liberate the cattle.  In the month of July of that
        year, and soon after the above affray had taken place, at a wedding in Strathrusdale,
        as the people's minds were'irritated by the recent occurrence, and as the sheep-farin-
        ing system was progressing in every corner of the North Highlands, and the people
        driven year from the fields of their fathers,-their minds were exasperated
        at what they deemed oppression, and thus were ready to adopt any course, however
        violent, which they foolishly thought would rid them of sheep and sheep-farmers.  It
        was therfore resolved at this wedding, that messengers should be dispatched to every
        corner of the country, to raise the war-cry against sheep and sheep-farming.  The
        people were easily excited in such a case, and they collected in great numbers, and
	were driving the sheep out of the out country, when, after reaching the parish of Alness,
	they were met by a party of the 42d Regiment, from Fort George:when they were
	compelled disperse and seek safety in flight.  Several of the persons concerned
	were apprehende afterwards, and tried before the Circuit Court at Inverness, in
        September 1792.  There is one striking feature in this case, characteristic of a High-
        land mob, which strongly exemplifies their high moral principles, even when excited
	and roused by oppression to an illegal act; no sheep was injured, no lamb was hurt,
	by overdriving.


