
                             LINTON.                              165

    years, to which the people of this parish have access; and both
    institutions have been observed to be attended with great benefit
    to those who have had the good sense to avail themselves of the
    privileges whicli they confer.
		MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
	The great body of the people enjoy in a very considerable de-
    gree the conveniences and comforts of life. They are industrious
    and enterprising, as well as exemplary in the stations of life which
    they occupy. In former times the inhabitants who used animal food
    were in the practice of laying up about Martinmas sticli salted pro-
    visions of that article as would serve for the ensuing year. This
    mode is much discontinued, and beef, as well as lamb and mutton,
    being much more generally used than formerly, are obtained of ex-
    cellent quality, at all times, from two butchers, carrying on their trade
    in Linton. Within the same period a considerable change has also
    taken place in regard to dress, as well as the mode of living. The
    reduced number of household or customer weavers in the parish,
    alluded to under a preceding article, is a sufficient proof, if any
    other were wanting, that hodden-gray "of the gudewife's spinning,"
    together with some other manufacture of the same material, forms
    hardly any part of the attire either of our male or female population.
	Although at the publication of the last Statistical Account the
    improved system of husbandry had commenced, it was not till some
    years afterwards that it was generally adopted. Among the most
    important improvements has been the draining, by Mr John Hume,
    of Linton bog, a morass of 100 acres, which has been brought un-
    der the plough. Various important operations were also set agoing
    by Mr Goldie and Mr Kerr in enclosing, planting, and draining on
    Leadlaw, Rutherford, and Broomlee, which have greatly improved,
    as well as ornamented, these properties, formerly in a state very
    unproductive; and whilst a few straggling bogs were all that was
    to be seen, picking up what they could find on these wild moors,
    there have been grazing this summer stocks of excellent cattle and
    sheep; while there are most extensive fields of turnip, on one of
    which, perhaps the largest and best of the parish, sheep was fed
    off, and the other crops of the rotation were going on. Mr Robert-
    son, tenant in Broomlee, gained the highest prize for black-faced
    tups at the Highland Society's show of stock held at Stirling last-
    autumn, and sold them on the same day at five guineas a-head.
    The rental of the parish, which was at the publication of last Sta-
    tistical Account L. 2350, is at present, as taken up by three of the
    most intelligent tenants of this parish, L. 6560.
	May 1834.


