
     Of Birsay and Harray.

   Antiquities.-There are several standing stones or obe-
lisks in this parish; one of which stands by itself, and
gives name to a very good piece of land, which is now 
called Stanesgarth, which is certainly of Norwegian ex-
traction, being the girth or garth which was first erect-
ed round the stone, now in good arable land.  Next is 
Stanerandy, without the walls of the barony, which is 
two stones upon a tumulus, that has been dug into, by
whom I know not:  it seems to be the only name-stone
that ever I heard of, and perhaps may be called Ran-
dolph's Stone, after the warrior that might have been
buried there.  There are three others, but very small,
among a parcel of very large tumuli, none of which
have been touched; which, however, marks the scenes
of other years, of which we have no tradition.  Re-
mains of Popish chapels are many, because every Erys-
land of 18 penny land had one for matins and vespers,
but now all are in ruins+.

     S f 2

<FOOTNOTE>

rage, the expense of a common cottager may be computed, when he earns
his own bread, with a family of 4 children, at 8 L. Sterling a-year.
With regard to husbandry servants, it just depends upon the high or
low farms; some giving 3 L. to their men servants, and about a guinea
to their women servants; which is not paid them all in money, but in
commodities.  As to domestic servants, there are none, except my own,
in the parish.-From the number of horses above mentioned, it will be 
be easy to judge what is the number of ploughs, because the greatest 
farmers have only three, drawn by three horses each.  The ploughs of 
Orkney are peculiar to the county, like nothing except themselves;
however, they something resemble the Egyptian plough, but the Egyp-
tian plough is more simple.  There are 6 carts in the parish.
+There are several names of Pictish castles, which even now give
names to places, such as Castragoc, etc.  As to camps, roads, and forts,
there are none, unless we can call the borough of Birsay a camp of de-
fence in times of distress.  Towards the land side, where it is only ac-
cessible, we can to this moment mark the traces of the ancient wall that 


