
286                          FORFARSHIRE.

rector is L. 50, that of the first Latin teacher L. 40, with all the
fees. The second has L. 50, paid from a mortification; one of the
English teachers has L. 40, and the other, together with the teach-
ers of writing and arithmetic, L. 25 each. The number at pre-
sent attending the academy is about 347. The fder in the rec-
tor's classes are 10s. 6d. a quarter, for each of the branches taught
by him; for Latin, 7s. 6d.; when Greek is taught along with Latin,
it is 5s. additional; writing 6s. and with arithmetic 7s.; English, 5s.
In the country part of the parish, there is a school under the ma-
nagement of the kirk-session, the teacher of which has a school-
room, a dwelling-house and garden, with L. 2 of salary. The
number attending it is about 80. There is a free school from a
mortification by Miss Stratton, in which 42 boys and 35 girls are
taught. The salary of the male and female teachers is the inte-
rest of L. 900. There is another free school founded by Mr David
White, late merchant in Montrose, in which l00 scholars are
taught. The teacher's salary is L. 36, with dwelling-house and gar-
den. In these two schools, the pupils pay no fees Two years ago,
the trades erected a school of two departments, one for English, the
ther for writing and arithmetic. The teachers in these schools have
no salaries. At last examination the number attending the Eng-
lish school was 160, and those at the school for writing and arithme-
tic, 80. In last autumn, an infant school was opened, and is attended by
about 130. In addition to these, there are upwards of twenty pri-
vate schools, male and female, attended by about 700 children.
Although ht cannot be said but that the means of instruction
are within the reach of all, and although there are some who can
neither read nor write, in consequence of the carelessness of pa-
rents in neglecting to avail themselves of these means, yet there
is still a want of public schools for a class who do not altogether
stand in need of gratis teaching, but who cannot afford to pay the
fees charged at any of the public schools. A private teacher is
often constrained to teach in a small inconvenient room, unfavour-
able to both the health and the progress of the children, and when he
obtains a better situation his scholars are dispersed and forced to
seek instruction elsewhere. Besides, in a moral and religious point
of view, it is of great consequence that the teachers of so large a
proportion of our youth should be so appointed and superintended,
as to be ever kept in mind of the responsibility of their situation.
Many of the teachers have evening schools for the benefit of such
as have to work during the day; and in this respect, the late Act
of Parliament, shortening the time at the spinning mills, has been


