
     Statistical Account

with trout, eel and pike, with a great variety of wild ducks,
and at one season of the year with wild geese and swans;
but neither the proprietors, nor their tenants, avail them-
in any degree whatever of these advantages.  The only ri-
ver is Lossie, which, entering the parish at the N. W. cor-
ner, divides it there from the town of Elgin, and shaping
its course in the form of a parabola, leaves it near the sea
at the north, including within the parabola about one third
of what was the parish of St Andrew's; having its church
in the apex, at which there is a substantial timber bridge*.

   Population.-According to Dr Webster's report, the
numbers then were 690.  The number of inhabitants was
considerably greater than now about 30 years ago.  Seve-
ral farms which were each possessed by 10 or 16 families,
are now let to one man; and of late several are occupied
by inhabitants of the town of Elgin, and by farmers of o-
ther parishes, some of whom have no resident servant, and
others only one or two, where numerous families dwelt.  At
present, the number is 777, including the improvement of
Teindland, making 14O families, of which 106 are wedded
pairs; the number of males 345; females 412.  The
yearly average of births is 16, which must be multiplied
by 48 or 50, in order to produce the population; although
a note in the 17th chapter of Gibbon's History of the Roman

<FOOTNOTE>

*A great part of St Andrew's is exposed to land-floods, by the over-
flow of Lossey on both sides.  The highest now remembered was in 1768;
a very destructive one in 1782; and much damage was done by two, du-
ring the harvest of 1789.  This calamity might be prevented at no great
expense, by a little concert among the proprietors, and taking out the dam
of a mill, which has no thirlage, and gives but a trifle of rent.  The ex-
tent of the sea coast is only about one mile; a low sandy shore, pertaining
to one farm; upon which ordinary tides rise from 7 to 8 feet perpendi-
cular; at present it affords nothing but an inconsiderable quantity of sea-
weed for manure.


