
                        WHITSOME AND HILTON.                      173

<TABLE>
   The number of persons at present betwixt 30 and 50,	  -    -   143
                                            50 and 70,	  -    -    52
                                    upwards of	   70,    -    -    18

   During the last three years there have not been more than two
illegitimate births in the parish.
   There are only three families of independent fortune resident in
the parish; of proprietors of land of the yearly value of L.50 and
upwards, the number is 11; and of resident electors, 18.
   Character of the People.-The people enjoy, in a reasonable de-
gree, the comforts and adv`ntages of society; and though they have
an impression that their circumstances might be bettered, they are,
meanwhile, contented with their situation. Many of them evince
an ardent thirst for sound and practical knowledge. Newspaper's
and other periodicals are extensively read, nor is there any want of
literary, and particularly of theological works, in the cottages of the
poorest. Sobriety and industry constitute prominent features in
their character: and all, with a few exceptions, are regular in the
outward observance of religious duty. Intelligence and Christian
sentiment, in short, so generally prevail, that there has been no con-
viction for capital crime within memory. Poaching and smuggling,
those symptoms of a debased and distempered morality, are un-
known.
                      IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture and Rural Economy.-The superficial extent of the
parish has been already stated. It may here be added, however,
that the total amount of acres, inclusive of roads, fences, and all
kinds of land, is 4900. Of these 4520 are either cultivated or oc-
casionally in tillage; 200 are occupied by roads, fences, and water-
courses; and plantations of wood, comprising the different sorts of
forest trees, and kept under excellent management, cover the id-
maining 180.
   Rent of Land.-The average rent of arable land per acre is
L.1, 13s. 3d.; and of grazing an ox or cow for the season, at the,
rate of L.3, 12s.; a ewe or full-grown sheep pastured for the year,
at the rate of 16s.
   Rate of Wages.-The rate of labour may be estimated by the
following description of the various classes of labourers, and of the
manner in which they are paid. First, the farm-servant, usually
hired: for the year, is furnished with a cottage, to which is attached
a small piece of garden ground. In addition, his gains consist of
10 bolls, equal 60 bushels, of oats; 4 bolls, equal 24 bushels, of
pease and barley; the potatoe produce of 1000 lineal or drill yards,


