
                              ANNAN.                           531

fare, by the public road conveying the mail coach from Portpatrick
and Dumfries to the south by Carlisle, as well as ene great trans-
fer of live-stock from the west of Scotland and Ireland, whereby
the public tolls levied there have become of considerable impor-
tance to the burghers,--it was judged expedient to rebuild the
bridge over the river, which was first rebuilt in the year 1720. This
bridge, for a long time past, had been considered dangerous to
pass, and incommodious from the narrowness of its roadway. Ac-
cordingly, in the year 1824, a new bridge was erected on the site
of the old one, a wooden temporary one having been thrown
across the river about a hundred yards above the old one.  This
new bridge is 27 feet 6 inches in breadth betwixt the parapet walls,
and has a neat flagged foot-path of hewn, stone, 3 feet 9 inches
broad on each side, and the middle roadway is 20 feet broad.
It has three arches of 65 feet in span, each forming the segment, of
a large circle, with a rise of 13 Ceet 6 inches, from the level of the
spring of the arches,--the roadway of the middle arch being 27
feet above summer water level, having a fall from the main street,
at the eastern end of the bridge, and across Lord Queensberry's
Holm, on the west side of the river, of one foot in thirty. The ma-
terials for building the bridge, consisting of red sandstone of excel-
lent quality, were dug from Gallowbank quarry, nearly a mile farther
tip the river, and floated down on the stream on a barge or punt, con-
structed for the purpose. The expense of lowering the street at
the west end next the bridge, of erecting the bridge and forming
the embankment across the valley on the west side, &c. amounted
to about L. 8000. It was built from a plan of the work furnish-
ed by Robert Stevenson, Esq. civil-engineer, and executed by
John Laurie, bridge contractor, Dalkeith, to both of which gentle-
men the work does great credit, as there is not a more handsome
and substantial piece of work of the kind in the kingdom. The
temporary wooden bridge was taken down when the new stone one
was finished. The cost of this last structure was L. 500.
	Roads.--The parish is intersected by the public mail-coach road,
from Dumfries to Carlisle, which is kept in excellent repair, be-
sides two public roads to the north and eastward, towards Edin-
burgh by Langholm, one of these passing by Kirtlebridge, which
is very near the outskirt of the parish to the northward, and the
other by Stapleton, by Kilpatrick. church, and Chapelknow, till
it joins with the Edinburgh and Carlisle mail coach road along,
the Esk in Cannobie. Another public road leaves the first men-


