
50                       ROXBURGHSHIRE.


bable amount of school fees paid to both schoolmasters is L. 45
per annum.  The teacher have the legal accommodations.  There
are no parts of the parish so distant from the schools as to prevent
attendance, and the people have been always so much alive to the
benefits of education, that there are none in the parish above six
years of age who cannot read, and very few above that age who
cannot write also.  No doubt can be entertained that great be-
nefits have resulted from the facilities of education in this parish;
but as these have been so long enjoyed, and so duly appreciated
by the people, no recent change flowing from the above circum-
stances can be traced in their morals.
   Literature.- There is a parochial library in the village of Bow-
den; and also a library connected with the Sabbath schools.
   Poor.-Except the ordinary church collections, and L. 900
Scots, mortified by a member of the Roxburghe family for pious
purposes, there is no other provision for the poor but the legal as-
sessment, which is at the rate, on an average of ten years, of 3s.
4d. per L. 100 Scots.  The yearly amount of the assessments is
about L. 123.   The average number of poor on the roll for the
same period is 17, and the weekly allowance of each 2s. 4 1/2d. Ge-
nerally speaking, the poor of this parish are slow in seeking paro-
cbial. relief; yet, when onceupon the roll, it is not observed that
they consider the circumstance degrading.  Instances to the con-
trary, highly honourable to individuals, are now and then met with;
but these, it must be confessed, are of rare occurrence.
   Alehouses.-There are three alehouses in the parish; one of
these is in the. village of Bowden, and the other two in Midlem.
The community would suffer Do loss by their number being lessened.
  FueL-The fuel used in this parish consists of coal brought from
Mid-Lothian, at the rate of from 1s. 1d. to 1s. 3d. per cwt. on deli-
very,-also of peat, and the thinnigs of plantations.  The former
costs at Midlem 2s. 3d., and at Bowden 4s. per single horse cart-load,
including carriage; and the latter from 3s. 6d. to 7s. per cart-load,
including carriage, according to the size of the wood, and its dis-
tance from the villages.

   October  1834,



