
                        BOURTIE.                               621

on the south, by Udny and Keith-hall. Near the centre of the
parish, and distant a mile from each other, rise two hills of consi-
derable elevation, being probably 600 feet above the level of the
sea.  That on the north is named the Hill of Barra, the other
the Hill of Lawhill-side.  These run in an easterly direction, and
converging terminate in the Hill of Kingoody, by the foot of the
eastern acclivity of which the parish is bouiided.
   Meteorolgy.-From the height at which the manse is situated,
the thermometer and barometer stand comparatively low.  The
greatest depressions which I have marked in the latter were, 1st,
on the 20th September 1830, when, in a few hotrs from ten A.M.
with a violent south-east dry wind, it fell fully two inches, and stood
rather below 28 inches; and, 2dly, on 1st April 1836, when, at
ten P. M., in a tempestuous night of snow and rain, the wind very
strong from south by east, it was as low as 27.7 inches. It need
hardly be remarked, that, though the barometer, from its rise or
fall, may lead us to expect a coming change of weather, it does
by no means per se indicate what that change will be, and that for
any purpose of practical value in common life the season of the
year, the direction of the wind, the appearances of the clouds, &c.
must be taken in connection, and the judgment deduced from a
consideration of the whole.  In making this judgment, consider-
able assistance may be occasionally derived from observing the ha-
bits of the common rook, which abounds in this neighbourhood.
The signs which these afford have been pointed out with singular
beauty in the Georgies of Virgil.  Some allowance being made
for the difference of climate, perhaps his interpretation of them
still holds true, so indelibly have the instincts of animals been im-
pressed by the great Fountain of Life.
   The rocks in the parish are chiefly of the trap formation, and
the summit of the Hill of Barra has been held, by some naturalists,
to be the crater of an extinct volcano.

                        II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   The session register of Bourie commence with the transfe-
rence of a minister from a neighbouring parish in 1709.  He was
the first Presbyterian minister settled since Episcopacy was abo-
lished; for the now ascendant church, with a moderation and re-
gard to the peace of the country which do it honour, seems to
have permitted many of the Episcopal clergy to continue for life
is the unmolested discharge of their sacred function.
   Antiquities.-The parish is by no means destitute of ancient


