
     Of Barony of Glasgowe.

try might be benefited by it.  But as the manufactures of this
parish are immediately connected with the city of Glasgow,
they will be more properly and fully treated of there.  It is
therefore unnecessary to say any thing farther of them in this
place.  Only it may be proper to take notice of the improve-
ments introduced by Mr. George Mackintosh, a gentleman
whose spirited and successful exertions have been of the great-
est benefit to the manufactures of this country, and by whom
I have been favoured with the following account: The cud-
bear manufacture carried on here, under the firm of George
Mackintosh and Co was begun in the year 1777, occupying
about 1 1/2 acres of ground, compactly built, and well walled
round with stone and lime.  This is a manufacture for mak-
ing a dye-stuff, now becoming an useful article, and employ-
ed chiefly in the woollen and silk manufactures of Britain,
and is made from an excrescence that grows upon rocks and
stones, a species of the liechen or rock-moss, which, with cer-
tain chemical preparations, makes a dye-stuff called cudbear.
It was known and used as a dye-stuff in the Highlands of Scot-
land by the name of corkes or crottel, some hundred years ago.
But it was Messrs. George and Cuthbert Gordon, (now Dr.
Cuthbert Gordon), who first attempted, and had the merit of
bringing the process to a regular system.  They, in conjunc-
tion with the Messrs. Alexanders of Edinburgh, erected a ma-
nufacture for it in Leith, in which they persevered for seve-
ral years.  But it proved in the end unsuccessful.  Consider-
able improvements have been made in the manufacture since
its establishment in Glasgow.  And the Company finding that
the rock-moss in Scotland would soon be exhausted,early sent
a perform of skill to explore the rocks of Sweden and Norway,
whence they, for some time past, import all they use.  But
there it is also beginning to be scarce.  Russia appears to pro-
duce none of it.  This manufacture consumes a very consi-

     VOL. XII.  P


