
     Statistical Account

never shall it is a game of hazards which obliges the adven-
turer often times to live upon hope; and when that hope is
at any time realised, he builds too much on the faith, that
the same good fortune will continue.  In the elevation oc-
casioned by a prosperous moment, he launches into expences,
and projects, so disproportioned to his capital, that his stock
is soon exhausted, and, if his fortune changes, his credit fol-
lows.  Had the people of Campbelton exerted the perseve-
rances industry, and zeal bestowed on the fishery for 40 years
past, upon agriculture, manufactures, and commerce, in gene-
ral, their gains, though small and slow, would have been sure
and steady; the inhabitants, like others who followed this
course, would have been easy, and the place would have been
flourishing.  It is perhaps a low enough calculation, to set
down the average of last 7 years, as the average of the 40,
and to reckon the stock in trade, or the value of 50 vessels,
with their materials of boats, nets, casks, and salt, at 40,000 l.
Add to this the yearly bounty given by government, which
has not been niggardly, and one will naturally suppose the
people of Campbelton to be rich.  But, instead of that, there
is not, perhaps, in Scotland, such an aggregate of miserable
objects, in so small a place.  The poor on the church roll
and in the streets, (who do non include all the indigent in
their number,) make above 1/25 of the whole inhabitants*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*This uncommon proportion is partly owing to the number
of poor families who come here from other parts of the High-
lands, in hopes of getting some employment and bread, many
of whom are soon a burden on the community.  The prospect
of pursuig the trade of begging to greater advantage, in a
place more populous than the neighbourhood, probably reduces
others to take huts here; from which they are not hindered, if
they pay, or promise, a few shillings of rent.  As for the poor
on the parish roll, they may be said to be supported by the poor.
The congregation of relief, who are among the ablest of the


