
     Statistical Account

sent century, a very magnificent house was built on the site of
the old castle, by Ann Duchess of Buccleugh and Monmouth.
The fosse already mentioned, which guarded the castle on the
east, was filled up, and a large mound of forced earth raised
around the rock.  It is now a pleasant bank, and adorned
with a variety of delightful shrubs.  The beauty of the situa-
tion, which is deservedly admired, is greatly heightened by
the windings of the rivers, and the abundance of thriving
wood with which it is surrounded.  The Duke has lately
built an elegant bridge of beautiful white stone over the North
Esk, which is a great addition to the surrounding scenery,
and forms a fine object, when seen, as it is in great perfection,
from the windows of the house.  It consists of one large arch,
70 feet wide, and 45 in height.  By means of this bridge, a
new approach will be opened to the house, and one of the most
delightful that can be imagined.  The park in which Dal-
keith House is situated, is of great extent, containing about
800 Scotch acres.  It is completely surrounded by a wall built
with some and lime, and about 8 or 9 feet high.  There is a

<FOOTNOTE>

Douglas, Lord of Dalkeith, for espousing the cause of King James II., who had
basely murdered William VIII., Earl of the illustrious House of Douglas at Stir-
ling, laid siege to the castle of Dalkeith, binding himself by a solemn oath, not
to desist till he had made himself matter of it.  It was, however, so gallantly de-
sended by Patrick Cockburn and Clerkington, that the Earl of Douglas, and his
followers, after undergoing much toil, and receiving many wounds, found them-
selves unable to reduce it, and were obliged to raise the siege, On the defeat
of the Scotch army at Pinkie, Anno Dom. 1547, many fled to the castle of Dal-
keith for refuge, among whom was James Earl of Morton, afterward regent of
Scotland, and Sir David Hume of Wedderburn.  It was besieged by the English,
and defended for some time; but as it contained not a sufficient store of provisions
for such a number of men as had fled to it, and as the besieged had no hopes of
succour against the victorious army, it was obliged to surrender; in consequence
of which, the Earl and Sir David were made prisoners.
   In the year 1642, the estate of Dalkeith came into the possession of the Fa-
mily of Buccleugh by purchase from the Earl of Morton.


