
                           KIRLISTON.                              141

tricks of the parish, there are a few fine trees to be found in groupes,
which point out where mansion-houses have anciently stood.  Of
young wood, there is only a small quantity.  There is little per-
manent pasture-none, indeed, if we except the laws around the
mansion-houses, and the margin of the river Almond.  The pre-
vailing sorts of tress are, beech, ash, elm, and fir; there are few
oaks, and, except in young plantations, little larch.
   Ancient state Husbandry.-A hundred years ago, there was
no enclosed ground in the parish, except the gardens of the pro-
prietors, the kail-yards of the tenants, and the church-yard.  The
boundaries of property were marked by pit-stones, or in particular
places by a cairn of stones gathered from the surface of the soil:
the division of a farm, if visible at all, was described by a bank or
gawfur, and except in seeding or reaping, marches were little re-
garded; for after the removal of the crop, the cattle were allowed
to range at will-this was termed lang-halter.  About this period,
a considerable breadth of land around the village of Kirkliston lay
in run-rig, that is, in small divisions or lots, each of which had its
peculiar name, and several of these, lying far apart from each
other, were frequently occupied by the same individual.  The first
approach towards forming fields in the parish was the adjustment
of these small, and irregularly-divided lots, into compact portions.
About this period, the celebrated John Earl of Stair, whose pub-
lic life fills so important a page of the history of his country, re-
dered essential service to the improvement of a agriculture in this
parish.  Having succeeded, on the death of his mother, to the
estate of Newliston, he came to reside there, about the year 1725,
and devoted much of his attention to the improving and beautify-
ing of it.  The pleasure-grounds around the mansion house of New-
liston, comprehending about 70 acres Scots measure, and a large
extent of ground beyond these limits, containing altogether about
250 acres, were laid out and planted by him; and although the
tastes and ideas of a military life seem evidently to have guided
him in the whole design, more than the study of natural beauty,
yet, unquestionably, the effect of the entire plan is both striking
and pleasing.  He cultivated chiefly by spade husbandry, and he
had about 200 workmen almost constantly employed on his grounds.
   At a considerably later period, viz. about the year 1767, a large
district of the parish was arranged in farms, all of which were
small, and the enclosing of fields became general.  About this
time also, regular leases began to be granted, generally for a long



