
		               SLAMANAN.                             275


and nearly 5 in breadth. The heritors of the annexed divisions
are bound to maintain the church and the church-yard wall of
Slamanan for 100 years, and the poor of that district were sup-
ported by one-third of the collections, and occasional assessments.
But the wise men of this generation have disturbed this arrange-
ment, and the heritors in the annexation are now assessed along
with the other heritors, in maintaining the poor in that parish.
   Rivers and Lochs.--The river or rather the stream Avon, which
runs from west to east, through this parish, takes its rise from a
moss in the parish of New Monkland, and a small tributary stream
from Fannyside loch, in the parish of Cumbernauld, and another
from the Annexation in Moss Candle.  These streams, though
small in summer and in dry weather, yet swell to a great extent
after a fall of rain, and the breaking up of a snow storm,--so that the
Avon often overflows its banks, and exhibits the appearance of an
estuary. When these floods happen during summer or harvest,
great damage is done to the growing corn and the meadow hay:
and so offensive is the mud which these mossy waters deposit, that
the cattle will sooner starve, than eat either the meadow hay or
the straw, after being inundated. There are two lochs in this pa-
risb, called the litttle and the great Black Lochs. The latter is the
principal feeder of the reservoir formed on the lands of Auchin-
gray, for supplying the MonklanA Canal. There is another call-
ed the Ellrig Loch, lying to the north-east of the Annexation.
There are perch and eel found in all the lochs, and good sizeable
trout in the Avon, many of which are annually destroyed, when
the pools used for steeping lint are emptied into the Avon.
   Soil.--The soil in the vale of the Avon yields chiefly excellent
crops of meadow hay, and when not flooded proves wholesome and
fattening for cattle; but the crops are often damaged by the rains
which usually fall in time of cutting. As the grounds rise in re-
gular ridges towards the south, they yield good crops of oats, some
barley, and occasionally a little wheat. Some of the lands bring
L.2 per acre, others L.1, 10s., others 15s., some 7s. 6d. per acre.
The lands towards the western district of the parish, being of a
black mossy nature, yield but indifferent crops, when the season
happens, to be wet and cold.  The number of bolls from an acre
in a favourable season, varies considerably.  The best soils produce,
at an average, 6 bolls, others 5 and 4, and even 3 an'acre.  The
surface of the parish being undulating, and the ridges lying east


