
     Of Kilmuir Wester and Suddy.

causes that generally obstruct the improvement of agriculture
here, in my opinion, are the poverty of the people, the small-
ness of the farms, the prejudices of the farmers in behalf of
old established practices, and the short leases granted by he-
ritors; all these co-operate to strengthen each other:  And al-
though the heritors improve their own mains with spirit, and
are well inclined to give long leases, yet not one among the
whole set of tenantry has followed their example, bur Mr.
Munro, whom I have already mentioned, and has his farm
managed with great regularity and judgment.
   The stock of this parish consists of black cattle, horses, a
few sheep and hogs, and, after supplying the parish with
grain, there are large quantities of meal and barley sold to
such as are inclined to purchase.  It is impossible to ascertain
the number of acres under crop, as the estates of the several
heritors have not been regularly surveyed; and, I am sorry
to say, that it is my opinion there are still in this parish two
uncultivated acres for every one that is in culture.  But in
this calculation I include the planted grounds.
   The people follow, in general, the occupation of husbandry.
Although there is sufficient number of tradesmen f vari-
ous kinds, yet they hold some little ground, which they cul-
tivate.  The people, in general, are sober and industrious;
they confine their whole attention to the working of their
lands and their small crofts, and as there is no manufacture of
any kind established in this parish, both men and women are
equally dextrous at handling the spade, the muck-fork and
shovel.  The chief crops are oats, barley, pease, potatoes, a
little wheat, and some rye; there is also a considerable quan-
tity of clover and rye grass sown every year on the heritor's
mains, and answers extremely well; and a few of the tenants
sow small spots of ground with the same.  Potatoes are a
great crop, as they make the principal food of the common


