
                             KIRKCUDBRIGHT.                 19

	Thomas, Earl of Selkirk, was distinguished as a scholar, an
author, and a politician. In the management of his estates, he
followed the judicious plans devised by his brother. He died at
Pau, in France, on the 8th of April 1820, having scarcely com-
pleted the fnrty-ninth year of his age.
	James Wedderburn, Esq., Solicitor Gendral of Scotland, died
in 1822, at St Mary's Isle, and was interred in Galtway church-
yard.
	Ministers of Kirkcudbright since the Revolution, with the years
when their names first appeared in the synod book:--"John
Spalding, 1689. Andrew Cameron, 1695. George Gartshore, *
1723. Thomas Blacklock, 1762. Williatn Crombie, 1765.
Robert Muter, 1770. George Hamilton, 1820. John M'Mil-
lan, 1837.
	Chief Land-owners.--The Earl of Selkirk is the principal land-
holder in the parish.
	Parochial Registers.--A parochial register is regularly kept by
the kirk-session. The oldest record commences in 1692.
	Antiquities, British Forts, &c.--In the parish of Kirkcudbright,
there are many vestiges of British forts; indeed, the whole eastern
banks of the Dee, the line of demarcation between two hostile
tribes, the Selgovae and Novantes, seem to have been studded with
ancient fortifications.- The most important in size and strength was
Caerbantorigum, on the farm of Drummore. The hill on the top
of which it stood commands a most extensive view both of land and
water. The fort was surrounded by two ramparts, composed of earth
and stone, and a double fosse, which remain almost entire, the ram-
parts being still covered with heather. In the middle of the enclosure
is a pit partially filled with stones. To what uses it may have
been devoted, it is now impossible to conjecture. It has the appear-
ance of a well. In a piece of marshy ground at some little dis-
tance below the fort, is a large well, the sides built of stone, which
some think supplied the garrison with water. At short dis-
tances from the eminence are still observable traces of the hostile
Roman camps. About a mile and a half from Drummore hill, there
are the remains of another British fort, likewise of a circular form,
on the farm of Milton. There are two hill fortlets near the old
church of Galtway; and a hill on the farm of Meikle Syp-

<FOOTNOTE>The distinguished physician, Dr Maxwell Gartshore of London, was his son,


