
     of Oxnam.

to Boroughbridge in Yorkshire, and has its direction to the
Lothians by Boswel's Green, where one of the largest fairs in
Scotland is annually held, on the 18th of July.

   Roads.-Formerly, the statute labour, for county roads,
from 20 to 22 feet broad, was levied from the number of men
and horses, of late at 1 s. for a man, and 1 s. 6 d. for a horse.
In consequence of an application from the gentlemen of this
county, a few years ago, an act of parliament was granted to
collect it from the tenants according to their valued rents, but
not to exceed 10 s. Sterling upon the 100 l. Scotch.  The
county is divided into four districts, Fedburgh, Kelso, Hawick,
and Melrose, and each of them has a constable for inspecting
the roads, and for seizing vagrants.  Thongh these do not all
collect to the full amount specified in the act, yet it is found
necessary to do so in this district of Jedburgh, on account of
its being intersected by fewer public roads.  A road is now
making, from Wooden-burn Bridge, in the parish of Crailing,
and Kaimburnfoot in this parish, connecting the great turn-
pike roads from Kelso to Hawick, and from Edinburgh, by
Jedburgh, to Newcastle.  In order to complete it speedily, some
public spirited gentlemen have taken out a cash account, to
be paid off every half year with the statute money.  Atten-
tion has also been paid to other roads in the parish, whereby

     T t 2

<FOOTNOTE>

of the parish, contiguous to the road, a head piece of plate iron, supposed to be
Roman, was turned up by the plough, and is in the possession of the present
tenant.  It weighs 1 1/2 lb. avoirdupoise; and, although a little wasted, could
never weigh 2 lb.  Its brim is an oval of 7.9 inches by 6.9, without any
edges, only bent forward about half an inch, before and on the sides like the
brim of a pot.  It is 5.9 inches deep, and the top is a very flat Gothic arch,
10.2 inches long, jutted out before and behind.  It is evidently hammered,
but has not the smallest appearance of any joining.  In autumn 1791, a shilling
of ROBERT BRUCE was found at a garden in Newbigging, and was sold
GEORGE CURRIE, Esq. advocate.


