
                              INVERAVEN.
                                                            131
Spalding, commissary, clerk of Aberdeen, who, among other parti-
culars, gives an account of the treacherous abduction by this bar-
barian, of the young laird of Ballindalloch, during what he expect-
ed to be a friendly meeting,-whom he confined at Bauds, in the
parish of Speymouth, exposed to the greatest hardships, for the
space of twenty-one days; whence he at length escaped, in the ab-
sence of James an Tuim, by having gained over Leonard Leslie, one
of his guards, with whom he conversed in Latin. *
    Eminent Men.-Several of the lairds of Ballindallocb, in suc-
cession, followed the military profession, and almost all of them
rose to the rank of field officers.  Colonel William Grant of Bal-
lindalloch raised one of the five companies that constituted the
Black Watch, afterwards embodied into the 42d Regiment.  But
the most eminent was General James Grant of Ballindalloch, who
succeeded to the estate on the death of his nephew, Major Wil-
liam Grant, in 1770.  General Grant passed the greater part of
his life, in active service.  He defeated Count D'Estaing, with an
inferior force, conquered St Lucia in 1779, and was for many years
Governor of Florida.  At the time of his death, which happened
at Ballindalloch in 1806, he was Colonel of the 11th Foot, and Go-
vernor of Stirling Castle.  In terms of instructions left by himself,
his remains were interred in the corner of a field on the Mains farm, (a
favourite spot with him in his lifetime, which commands a view, of
the valley of the Spey, and of the barony of Ballindalloch) where
a mausoleum has been erected by his successor, terminating in a
handsome pillar, in which is inserted a marble slab, bearing a La-
tin inscription descriptive of his rank and appointments, as well as
of the time of his birth and death.   The sloping ground to the
north and west of this field is now covered with a thriving planta-
tion, which adds not a little to its natural beauty.

<FOOTNOTE>The effects of James' treacber and cruelty, it would appear, were not confined
to the lower district of the parish and its inhabitants.  Tradition relates, that while
in confinement in Edinburgh Castle, observing Grant of Tomnavoulen pass one day,
he called out, what news from Speyside? None very particular, rejoined his acquaint-
ance, the best is, that the country is rid of you. Perhaps we sball meet again, repli-
ed James.  Tomnavoulen passed on, and James was left for the time to his medita-
tions in jail, but in the end made his word good.  Having escaped by means of ropes,
conveyed to him by his wife, in a cask supposed to contain butter, he called on his re-
turn to Speyside, at the house of Tomnavoulen in an evening, where he was invited
to pass the night.  The invitation being declined, Tomnavoulen and his son were
asked in return to accompany him a little on his way.  All three set out in company,
apparently on the most friendly terms; but they had not gone far, when the barbarian
drew his sword, slew both the father and son, and having cut off their heads; wrapped
them in a corner of his plaid, returned to Tomnavoulen, threw them reeking with
blood into the lap of Mrs Grant, and then bade her good night.


