
                           MORDINGTON.                    343

ly devoted to the occupation of husbandry. There are 40 males
employed in agriculture, 6 in handicrafts, 14 are engaged in
fisheries, and there are at present 4 superannuated labourers.
   Agriculture.-The parish contains 2597 acres of cultivated land,
26 acres in plantations, and 900 acres uncultivated; these last
are part of the lands of Lamberton, which, though generally spoken
of as "muir land," consist to a very great extent of most profitable
pasture ground; and a considerable part of it was forty years ago
under the plough. Since that period, this land has been in per-
manent pasture, consisting of dry uplands. This forms about
three-fourths of the whole of the land on the farm of Lamberton
not at present cultivated. The remainder consists of boggy or
marshy grounds, and about 100 acres of heath land; which, from
its rocky barren nature, seems to be the only soil in the parish
which it would be impossible to cultivate to advantage. At pre-
sent, owing to the extremely low price of grain, and from the
uncultivated ground rearing such good and healthy stock, the price
of which is unusually high, it is deemed unadvisable to plough any
part of it; but, should a period arrive, when, from a change in
the state of markets, it might be considered advantageous to im-
prove this land, the whole might be again made arable at very
little expense.
   It is supposed that 800 acres might, with a profitable applica-
tion of capital, be added to the cultivated land of the parish.
   Rent of Land.-The average rent of arable land in the parish
is L. 1, 5s. per acre. Cows are grazed at L. 5 for the season.
   Wages of Labour.-Labourer's wages are the same as in all the
neighbouring parishes, viz. 1Os. in summer per week, and 9s. in win-
ter; artisans 2s. 6d. per day. The practice prevails here, as in neigh-
bouring parishes, of having farm work performed by what is called
bondage service. Farm-servants, called hinds, are paid, as in other
parishes, partly in grain, and partly in money. Their general allow-
ance is, of oats, 9 bolls, of six imperial bushels; of barley 3 ditto of
ditto; pease 1, ditto of ditto; an allowance of L. 4 Sterling, which
among them is called sheep-money, in lieu of a small number of sheep
they formerly were permitted to keep; and a cow's grass, with ali-
ment for the cow in winter. There is thus secured to themselves
and their families a fixed supply of the necessary articles of sub-
sistence, whatever may be the state of the market. This mode of
paying farm-servants keeps them from ever being in want, while
they are able to work; and deprives them, in a great measure, of


