
                        BANFF.                                    29

of the destruction of "the pleasant planting and fruitful young
trees bravely growing within the laird of Banff's orchard and gar-
dens," and of his "stately house of Banff," as "pitiful to see !"
The gardens were the yards of the monastery, already mentioned.
   The lands on which the sea-town now stands belonged to the
chapel of the Holy Rood. This chapel is supposed to have stood
on the Rose Crag (towards the present northern extremity of the
castle-grounds;) another supposition is, that it was on the site of
the old churth.\f*  The lands of this chaplainry were, in the year
1552, feued in perpetuity, by certain bailies and burgesses acting,
as commissioners of the town, with the consent of Mr James Cur-
rer or Currier, chaplain of the Holy Rood, to Sir Walter Ogilvy,
then provost, for payment of forty shillings yearly to the chaplain.
The moving causes for this conveyance are stated to be " ob aug.
mentationem rentalis- dictae capellanae Sancti Crucis de Banff pro
perpetua sustentatione, capellani ejusdem omni tempore affuture
fien. ob divini cultus venerationem et exhibitionem et ad extir-
pandam heresim tamdiu eminentem ut omnis prorsum earum am-
biguitas et recidat. quod fieri non poterit nisi interve-
niente et propitio, magno dei numine et cum proximorum
procerum ac primatum orthodoxam fidem tenen. et servan.ac pre-
cipue auxilio et defensione nobilis viri Walteri Ogilvie de Dunlu-
gas, militis et prepositi nostri burgi de Banff, de nobis semper bene
meriti, hinc igitur dedisse," &c. Two of thecommissioners could
not sign their names to the deed.  From Sir Walter Ogilvie the
lands were conveyed, along with the Carmelite lands, to the Laird
of Braco; and, by him, in exchange for some lands near Duff
House, to the town of Banff, to which they now afford a feu-duty.
   Another chapel (dedicated to St Thomas the, Apostle) is sup-
posed to have stood somewhere between the sites of the present
parish church and St Andrew's Bhapel. Names still existing, St Ni-
nian's, St Catherine's, &c. evince the once consecrated character
of various localities in the town.
It is known that the Knights- Templars anciently held property
in the burgh, and a house is still remembered (standing in the wa-
ter-path, at the south corner of the lane passing between it and
the Castle Street,) which bore the iron cross, the usual token by

<FOOTNOTE>All existing notices regarding the chaplainry of the Holy Rood, and that on the
site of the old church (whether the same, or different, or bow endowed) are confused
and obscure.


