
                         LATHERON.                          99

use of this expensive but valuable manure. Considerable tracts
of waste ground have been reclaimed by almost all the proprietors
during the last twenty years; chiefly, however, with the view of
extending the farms under their own management.  Among these
improvements, none have been so perfectly executed as those on the
beautiful estate of Langwell, by the late proprietor, James Horne,
Esq.  A considerable portion was trenched at a great expense
where the soil was shallow, and other parts of moor-ground, hav-,
ing from one to two feet of moss on the surface, were first plough-
ed, then burnt, and laid down with a large allowance of lime,
carted a distance of ten miles.  This was done twelve or fourteen
years ago, and has never yet been turned up, yet it continues to
retain a rich and close sward of pasture grass, without discovering
any symptoms of relapsing into its original heath, as so general-
ly happens when the work is done in a less perfect style.  On the
estates of Dunbeath, Latheronwheel, Forse, Lybster, and Clyth,
much has also been done, though in a less expensive manner.
The system pursued by the smaller tenantry has in several respects
been improved of late.  Instead of four small horses and a driver
to every plough, two horses without a driver are now universal-
ly used.  And, instead of the clumsy awkward plough formerly
in use, the neat iron plough is becoming very general.  The land
is also better cleaned, although the rotation of oats and bear al-
ternately is very little changed; only a greater breadth of potatoes
is planted, and good white and dun oats have supplanted the old
black and gray inferior qualities. in a few cases also small patches
of grass are sown out after potatoes.  This practice would speedi-
ly become general, were it not for the want of enclosures to pre-
serve the grass from being injured during winter, and that there
is no winter herding.
   Leases.-Leases of fourteen or nineteen years are granted on
the larger farms, but the small tenantry generally hold their farms
only from year to year-a system alike prejudicial to their com-
forts, and the interests of the proprietor. Short leases are, how-
ever, becoming more common, and will no doubt speedily become
universal.
   The condition of some of tha farm buildings is excellent, others
of them again are exceedingly bad. But, as in all other con-
nected with rural economy, there has been a progressive improve-
ment of late. The same observations are applicable to the eclosures.
These chiefly consist of stone fences, toggrether with whin and thorn


