
     Statistical Account

north as Cullen, in Lord Findlater's estate, a King and
Queen of Scotland should have died, namely, King Indul-

<FOOTNOTE>

perfectly with the then situation of the country: That the King having pre-
vented the Danes from landing at the Frith of Forth, at the Tay, and Aber-
deen, upon being reformed that they had unexpectedly landed at Cullen, hast-
ened forward with his army, attacked and totally routed them, and made them
fly to their ships; but hearing that there still remained a small body of them.
together at the side of a wood, he rashly rushed forward with a handful of men,
and attacked them, where he fell fighting valiantly in defence of the liberty of
his country.  Upon the place where the King fell, there was, as usual, a huge
cairn of stones collected, which, to this day, is called the King's Cairn.  It
lies a mile west from Cullen house, in the annexed part of the parish of Rath-
ven.  The ground which was formerly an open moor fit for a field of battle, is
now covered with fine trees, and around the cairn there are about 3 acres of
ground enclosed, and used as a nursery for raising young trees.  A great many
of the stones of the cairn were used for this enclosure, but the remainder of the
cairn is as yet very distinct.  Whether the body of King Indulfus was buried
under this cairn, or whether, according to the Scott-chronicon, it was carried
to the Island of Calumb Kill or Jona, I shall not pretend to judge; but it would
certainly be worth while to examine the bottom of the cairn, to know whether
there is any urn or stone coffin in it, according to the custom of our ancestors in
those days.  With regard to the death of Queen Elizabeth, the writer asserts
nothing positively; but he thinks it proper to mention the circumstances that
have come to his knowledge, which at least make the matter appear probable.
In the 1st place, The tradition mentioned above, concerning the house in which
Queen Elizabeth is said to have died, is very distinct in the place.  But what
tends to confirm this; 2dly, From the charter of the town of Cullen, a copy
of which is before the writer, it appears, "That Robert of Bruce, King of the
Scotch, granted and gave in gift for ever, 5 L. of the money of the kingdom
(that is, 8 s. and 4 d. Sterling) for the support of a chaplain in the parish church
of the blessed Mary of our burgh of Cullen, always to pray for the salvation of
the soul of the most serene Princess Queen Elizabeth, consort of the same King
Robert."  And, 3dly, There is a tradition that Queen Elizabeth's bowels are
erded, that is, buried in our Lady Kirk of Cullen.  Now, it may be asked, if
the Queen had not died in Cullen, what could have given rise to these distinct
traditions, and particularly, why would her husband have endowed a chaplain
to pray for the salvation of her soul in the church of Cullen?  But the great
question is, what could have brought Queen Elizabeth to Cullen?  The most


