
                        CASTLETOWN.                         443

feet perpendicular in height, another 31 1/2 the breadth of the
rock over which it falls, 36; a third is 37 1/2 in height, and 20
feet wide.
     Woods.--The natural woods consist of oak, ash, birch, and
alder.  Considerable plantations have been made of Scots fir,
spruce, larch, oak, ash, beech and plane.  They are all in a thriv-
ing condition.
                     II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
     Eminent Men.--This parish gave birth to the celebrated Dr
Armstrong, author of the Art of Preserving Health, whose father
and brother were ministers of it.
     Antiquities.--There are several monuments of great antiquity
in the parish, but their origin and their history are involved in much
obscurity.  Even tradition itself says little concerning them.
Though this parish comprehended a great part of the middle march
between the two kingdoms, yet, excepting a few detached facts,
there is nothing of consequence preserved or related by his-
torians.
     Castles.--Hermitage Castle stands upon the bank of the river
of that name.  It has been a very strong building, nearly 100 feet
square, defended by a strong rampart and ditch.  The walls are
entire, and it has lately been put into nearly a complete state of
repair.  Within a few yards of the castle are the remains of the
ancient chapel of Hermitage, now in ruins, in the middle of the
burying-ground still in use.  The font is in the wall of the church-
yard.  The castle of Clintwood, on the farm of Flight, appears to
have been a very strong building.  It has now been entirely razed.
The castle, from which the parish derives its name, in former times,
must have been impregnable on the west and north.  On the north
it was defended by a very deep ravine ; on the west, by the Lid-
dal, and a precipice of more than 100 feet in height; and on the
east and south by two ramparts of great strength, gnd a fosse of
great depth.
     Camps.--The principal camp is on the top of Carby Hill.  This
bill is detached from all others, and commands a view of the whole
country, and of all that part of Cumberland, by Bew Castle, &c.
The camp is entirely circular, and occupies the whole summit of
the hill it is fortified by a very strong wall of stones, and a road
plainly appears to have been made up to it, winding round a part
of the hill, and entering it on the south.  It is about 100 feet dia-


