
82                     CAITHNESS-SHIRE.

heritors give occasionally a donation of L. 1 or L. 2, in aid of the
poor's funds. There has been received in this way since 1828,
about L, 13, 7s. There are two legacies of L. 100 each, the in-
terest of which is given to the poor. The average of the church
collections for the last few years has been L. 20, which, with the
interest of the L. 200 and the donations, generally amount to
L. 30 or L. 32. Out of this sum the session pay their clerk, pre-
centor, officer, &c. This, the only mode of supplying the wants
of the poor, is, (except in very few cases,) found adequate to re-
lieve the poor and the needy, on whose part there is no desire to
become chargeable to the parish when they can avoid it; indeed,
the 7very small sum the funds afford is no inducement to any, ex-
cept the truly destitute,lo, apply for parochial relief. In addition
to'wbat the very poorest receive from the session, they beg among
the farmers, who are sufficiently liberal in giving them meal and
other provisions, fully as acceptable to, and necessary for the poor
as money.
   Inns.-In the village of Halkirk there are three inns, and four
in other parts of the parish. Of the whole, three might be re-
quiied, but it is most surprising bow such public nuisances are
allowed to increase to so alarming an extent, to ' the manifest in-
jury of the morals of the youth of the parish.
   FueL-There is great abundance of moss in every part of the
.parish, from which the inhabitants have an excellent supply of
peats, the only fuel used in the parish. Every farmer is allowed
to out as many peats on his IaDdlord's property as he requires,
and, as farmers either cut and bring home their own peats, or em-
ploy their servants in doing so, the expense is very little, and sel-
dom thought of, as the people have more time than money.

                 GENERAL OBSERVATIONS.
   The most striking contrast betwixt the present state of the pa-
rish and its state forty years ago is, that there is more cultivation
carried on,-more of the waste grounds improved,-a better systern
of husbandry introduced,and th; quantity of grain raised is much
greater than at the former period. The new roads lately made,
-and those intended to be made, as soon as aniincrease in the fiends
at the disposal of the trustees permits, will, in the course of some
years. enable landlords and tenants to carry on improvements,
which must convince almost every one how little has yet been done
of what it is possible to accomplish.

<FOOTNOTE>Drawn up in 1834.
 Revised October   1840.


