
                          DENNY.                            137


the payment of the wages of teachers for instructing poor scho-
lars--the payment of the preshytery and synod clerks, of the
beadles of those courts, and of the precentor and parish beadle;
all these payments were resisted. The cleaning of the church
was considered an expense, that the heritors bad nothing to do
with. The session were prevented advancing money for any of
these purposes, unless at their own risk, and the aliment of the
poor woman that cleaned the church, was stopped. The ses-
sion were even threatened with a prosecution, to cause them re-
fund the outlays which had taken place; but happily, at every
annual settlement of accounts in presence of the beritors, the ac-
counts had been docqueted as approved. The session, however,
were prohibited making any of these payments in future, out of
the poor's funds. In these circumstances, the elders resolved no
more to collect. The funds were wholly handed over to the
heritors, who have them still in their hands, to the great relief of
the minister and elders. The procedure of the heritors was not
approved by others, and the collections continued to decline. For
a while, the heritors, under the excitement of novelty, stood at the
collection plates: but at length they have, almost without excep-
tion, given up collecting: and the grave-digger, the servant of
the heritors, sits commonly at the plate, and receives, it is said,
ls, per day, for the discharge of this duty.  While the session took
charge of the poor's funds, the expense to the heritors was only
L.l, ls. per annum, as an acknowledgement to the session-clerk
for acting as treasurer, beside his regular salary of L. 2, 2s. per
annum, for discharging the duties of session-clerk.  The state of
matters now is instructive. The session did not interfere, after
their surrender of the funds, to discourage the collections, except
that they withheld their own contributions, understanding that
the collections were to be employed in the prosecution against
themselves.  Instead of L. 70 per annum of collections at the
church doors, there is now only L.14, if so much. *  Instead of
L. l, ls. to the treasurer, a writer in Denny is paid L. 10 per an-
num for being treasurer and clerk, and the session-clerk's salary
of L. 2, 2s. is continued, as it must be, by law.  Instead of there
being no regular assessment, there is now a regular assessment
of L. 72 per annum, which threatens to rise, notwithstanding all
possible care; and, moreover, there are hardly Any seat-rents col-

<FOOTNOTE>The collections for eight weeks lately were reported to be 2 . every Sabbath.--
(1841.)



