
          KIRKMICHAEL AND CULLICUDDEN.                     45

in the parish, now very old men, recollect well, and better than
more recent circumstances, the very words of those solemn and
affectionate exhortations which were addressed to them, when
Children, by this eminent man of God.
   Antiquities.-The antiquary, though not perhaps to be much
gratified, would not be altogether disappointed in his researches
into the few relics of ancient times still extant in is this parish. On
the moors, traces almost everywhere may be observed of ancient
encampments, and of monuments of hard-fought fields. A tra.
dition is still current among the people, of a sanguinary conflict
fought on the moor which stretches from the place of Resolis to
Cullicudden on the north side of the public road to Dingwall;
and of another on the north shoulder of the Moile Buidhe at the
southern extremity of the parish, and on the south side of the
public road to Kessock Ferry: and certainly these moors, thickly
covered as tlliey are with tumuli, bear testimony to the truth of the
tradition.
   About twenty years ago a large barrow or cairn was opened. up
by the late Sir Alexander M'Kenzie of Avocb, at the farm of Wood-
hedd in this parish, from which to got materials for building a farm-
house; and in the centre of it, was found a rude sarcophagus made
up of large flags, containing a quantity of human bones of immense
size, which, on being exposed to the air for a very short time
crumbled down to the finest powder.
   An earthen tumulus or mound being broken into, at Jemimaville'
by Major Munro, to procure gravel for,metalling a road, an earth-
en urn of a very antique form was found in it, and which is at Pre-
sent in the possession of that gentleman. The present incumbent,
about two years ago, employqd a man to trench a piece of moor
on the upper part of his glebe: the circular base of an ancient
Pictish house occupied one particular spot, in trenching whieh a
stone vessel was found imbedded in the soil about a foot and a-half
below the surface, resembling a cup about four inches in diameter,
and three quarters of an inch thick, and made of a piece of bard,
whmstone. It appears evidently to have been a spoon, a small
protuberance on one side intimating where the handle was This
curious relic, now in the possession of the present incumbent, is
   Ancient Buildings.-The only remains of ancient buildings tire
the ruins of Castlecraig or Tigh na Craig (the house:ofthe rock,)
at the west ehd of the parish. It is buirt on the edge of a precipice


