
266                           FORFARSHIRE.

                            IV.--INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture and Rural Economy.--There are few acres of waste
land in this parish which could at present be profitably cultivated,
and there are none of undivided common.

<TABLE>

         The number of acres under cultivation is   3795
                              lying waste, about     300
                              under wood,           1100

   The kinds of trees generally planted are, larches, spruce, and
Scotch fir.
   Husbandry.--The most usual mode of cropping in this parish
is the four-shift,--that is, 1st, fallow; 2d, a corn crop sown down
with grass seeds; 3d, grass; 4th, oats. The grain raised is ge-
nerally of excellent quality, and may be said to average as follows:
wheat from 8 to 10 bolls, barley 7 bolls, and oats 8 bolls per acre;
potatoes vary from 25 to 45 bolls, and hay from 150 to 200 stones
per acre. There is little or no meadow-hay in the parish. Flax
is not now raised, except for private use.
   Rent of Land.--The average rent of land in the parish is about
L. 1, 10s. per acre; the value rent is L. 3716, 13s. 4d. Scotch;
and the real rent may be stated at L. 5000 Sterling.
   Wages of Labour.--Women generally get from 8d. to 10d. per
day, and men 1s. 4d. in winter, and 1s. 6d. or 1s. 8d. in summer.
Master wrights from 2s. 6d. to 3s., and their apprentices 1s. 6d.
per day, without victuals. Unmarried ploughmen may be had at
from L. 10 to L. 12 yearly, with 6 1/2 bolls of meal, and a Scotch
pint of sweet milk per day. The married men receive a little more
money, with the addition of some coals and potatoes. The price
of good carts is now from L. 12 to L. 14, and of ploughs from L. 3
to L. 4. There are generally a few sheep kept during the winter
to consume the bone-dust turnip; and the kind of cattle in common
use is the Angus-shire. The usual duration of leases is nineteen
years. The state of the farm houses and offices is in general ex-
cellent. One steading was recently built at a cost of not less than
L. 2000. There are almost no stone enclosures in the parish, and
only a few thorn hedges,--the prevailing fence being composed
bf strong and moveable paling. With regard to improvements
it may be added, that draining has been successfully carried to a
great extent in this parish. Irrigation, however, is little practised;
and, except on the banks of the North Esk, embanking is not re-
quired.
   Quarries.--There are some lime quarries in the west end of the
parish, which were several years ago wrought to a considerable ex-
tent, but are now completely given up. On the estate of Craigo,


