
                                KINGUSSIE.                             71

extant were regularly kept, and are very voluminous.  The later
books have been also regularly preserved, but are neither large not,
numerous, and contain few minutes of session of any great interest.
  Antiquities.-Among the antiquities of the parish, may be no-
ticed the remains of the barracks of Ruthven, which stand upon
conical mound, thought to be partly natural, partly arfifizi4,apon
the southern bank of the Spey,, on the site of the old castle of
Ruthven, the seat of the Lords afBadenocb.  The present build'
ing, which is now. in a dilapidated state, began to be built by
Government about the-year 1718, for the purpose of keeping the
country in subjection after the rebellion of 1715.  It consisted of
two parallel buildings of equal length, running nearly east and
west, connected by two of much less height lying in a trans-
verse direction, and forming a complete square, large enough, it
is said, to accommodate two companies of men.  There was, be-
sides, a pretty large house which served the purpose of a stable for
a number of horses.    The party who were stationed here joined
Cope when on his march to Inverness in 1745, with the exception
of a serjeant and twelve men, who were left to defend the barracks
in case of an attack by the rebels.  In the following month, these
few kingsmen gave a successful resistance to a body of 200 insur-
gents.  In February of the succeeding year, this small band
sustained a severe attack from 300 rebels, headed by Gordon of
Glenbucket, and, after a brave defence of three days, obtained
an honourable capitulation.*   Not long thereafter, the insur-
gents set fire to the building, and all that now remains of it is but
a mouldering pile, fast sinking into decay.  Ruthven of Badenoch
is known as well for its antiquity as its celebrity in history.  It is
one of the few places in the north mentioned by Ptolemy, in his
Geographical Account of Britain, about the year 140.  This an-
cient Greek writer says, it is situated in the province of Moray,
and gives it the name of Bavagia.-There are still to be seen in
the parish the faint traces of a building said to have been a prio '
but little is known respecting it.  There was also a monastery, of
which no satisfactory account can be given. `` The parish con-
tains, likewise, some Druidical circles, and the appearance Of a;
Roman encampment.  This last is situated on a moor between
the Bridge of Spey and Pitmain.  In clearing some ground adja-
cent, an urn was found full of burnt ashes, which'was carefully.

                      Survey of Province of Moray, p. 258.


