
92                     ABERDEENSHIRE.

ground floor of the Poor's Hospital, and one or two equall
wretched among the cellars of the Infirmary.  In the year just men-
tioned, a building was erected by subscription, capable of receiving
about 50 patients, on a site nearly a mile out of town. The ex-
pense of this, including that of the ground, was L.2484, of which
the magistrates, as trustees of a bequest by Bailie Cargill, con-
tributed L.1130, on condition of having right to admit 10 pauper
patients, gratis, to the institution.  In 1819, in consequence of a
great deficiency of accommodation having been experienced, and
especially the impossibility of properly classifying the patients,
either according to the varieties of their disorder or their station
in life, a piece of ground adjoining to the asylum was purchased,
and an additional building erected on it at an expense of L.13,135,
which the managers were enabled to defray by the munificent be-
quest of L.10,000 from the late John Forbes of New.  In this
building about 70 additional patients can be accommodated, and
the general attention which bad in the interval been paid to the
construction and arrangement of lunatic asylums, enabled the ma-
nagers to avail themselves of many improvements, by which the
comfort and restoration of the patients might be promoted.
  In 1836, the number of patients having continually increased,
and a considerable proportion of them being in a situation which
rendered them capable of being employed, with benefit to them-
selves in out-door work of various kinds, for which there had
hitherto been very little facility, a portion of ground adjoining,
of the extent of about 11 acres, was purchased at the price of
L.3000, which, being laid out in various kinds of useful crops, &c.
affords employment to a good number of the patients; and some
additional apartments have been erected on this ground with work-
shops, &c.  Considerable benefit having been found to arise from
the regular performance of divine service in the asylum, wbich for
some years past has been done twice every Sabbath day, and is
generally attended by upwards of half the patients in the house,
it is intended that a chapel shall be erected soon in a suitable
situation.  It used to be remarked, that Sabbath was commonly
a very trouble some day, in consequence of the cessation of the
usual occupations of the patients, no object of interest being pre-
sented to them instead; but since the establishment of the practice
of having worship regularly twice on that day, the patients are
generally as quiet on Sabbath as any other day of the week.
Much pains have been taken by the physician, Dr Macrobin, to


