
292                      ROXBURGHSHIRE.

cottages in the parish where you will not find a handsome eight-
day clock, standing beside a very neatly arranged bink of crockery
ware.  Two cottages belonging to George Bell, Esq. of Menslaws,
deserve particular notice, for their superior accommodation and
comfort.  Either of them would have been considered a very com-
fortable farm house, fifty or a hundred years ago.  The floor of one
of them surpasses, in one respect, any thing of the kind perhaps
in the whole county.  It is made of a compost of lime and gravel;
and for hardness and smoothness and appearance, equals any co-
vered with flags, and will last, if properly taken care of, as this
seems to be, longer than one laid with freestone flags.
   The dress of the peasantry is neat and becoming.  The plaid
or maud of the borders, consisting of black and white, or blue and
white checks, is almost universal among the men, and they arrange
it with a good deal of taste.  The dress of the female peasantry is
very neat and showy--in many cases too gaudy and expensive for
their station.  The straw bonnet, of various shapes and hues, is
very general.
                        IV.--INDUSTRY.
   Rental.--The valued rent is L. 3475, 13s. 4d.  Scots.  The real
rent cannot easily be ascertained, as there is a considerable portion
of the estates farmed by the proprietors.  One tenant pays above
L. 900 Sterling, another L. 610, another L. 405, and one farm,
that was farmed by the present proprietor previously to his pur-
chasing it, was let at about L. 350.
   Farming.--The system of farming is generally what is called
the four or five year shift, according to the following order, adopted
by Mr Brodie of Bedrule, which may be considered as the standard,
not only in this parish, but through a great proportion of the county.
First year, fallow or turnip; second year, wheat after plain fal-
low; third and fourth years, grass; fifth year, oats.  There is a
variation after turnip in the second year, when barley or oats take
the place of wheat, which is only sown in a fine season.  Some-
times, beans are sown instead of the second year's grass ; but they
are not much cultivated   in this parish.  Mr bell of Menslaws
adopts what is rather unusual beside the four year shift, a rotation
of seven years, and may be called the seven year shift, according
to the following order: first year, oats from lea ; second year,
beans; third year, wheat; fourth year, turnips; fifth year, barley;
sixth year, grass; seventh year, grass.  That this rotation is well
                                   4


