
     Statistical Account

dance of rain, and very changeable weather, as much,
perhaps, as in any part of Scotland whatever, more espe-
cially for several years past.  This, we believe, is ow-
ing to the high hills of Arran, those of Sliabh Goil, and
many others, with which we are surrounded, although
at some distance, which break the clouds, and bring
down the rain upon us.  These rains generally come
with a S. wind, a S. E., or a S. W. wind.  With a W.
wind, we have generally heavy and frequent showers,
but no constant rain.  An easterly wind is generally
dry, and so is a northerly; and it is rare to see any rain
at all with a N. E. wind.  The rains often fall very co-
piously in the months of August and September, and do
material injury to our crops, which consist mostly in
oats, barley, hay, and potatoes*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Few epidemical diseases are known among us, excepting the small-
pox, measles, and hooping enough.  Fevers were, some time ago, very
frequent and mortal in this parish, but much less so for several years past.
The happy cause of this seems to be, that the people have, in a great
measure, discontinued the foolish practice of visiting the sick in great
crowds, especially upon Sundays, which, in the last age, was, in this
country, considered as the particular business of the day.  The intention
no doubt, was good, it being their design to administer comfort to the
distressed; but, instead of alleviating, they seldom failed to add to his 
sufferings:  by thronging the house, and corrupting the air, they fed the
disorder, and weakened the patient:  And what was also very natutal to
look for, when they retired, it frequently happened, that some of the
company carried the contagion along with them.  In those days, the
universal belief of the lower ranks of people, appears to have been, that
there was a fatality in all circumstances in life, that the most trivial cir-
cumstances had been forcordained, and that consequently, no person
could either accelerate, or escape his fated death.  In proportion as they
have dropped that idea, and begin to be sensible, that man is left, at least
in many things, to the freedom of his own will, and that, as a free agent,
he may be instrumental in promoting his own temporal happiness, or


