
566                        FIFESHIRE.

bel Lister, was the daughter of Mr James Lister, a most respec-
table older in the parish, and a man of singular sagacity and na
tural talents. The young painter shewed at an early period of
life a strong predilection for that art, in which he has now acquir-
ed so high and so well merited celebrity. Even the taunts of
his brothers and companions did not deter him from embracing
every opportunity, when yet on the very verge of infancy, of exhi-
biting his natural tastes and prepossessions. And all the aversion,
at first shewn by both his father and grandfather, to his following,
what they conceived to be an idle and unprofitable pursuit, only
served to verify the adage of Horace, "Naturam expelles furcƒ,
tamen usque recurret." His father's successor in the ministry
has informed me, that when he first came to Cults, he found the
walls of the nursery completely covered with eyes, noses, hands,
and other parts of the human body, boldly executed, not with crayon,
but with the charred end of a stick,-but that subsequently, on his
return after a temporary absence, while the manse was undergo-
ing repairs, he was shocked to find these interesting memorials
obliterated, by the painter's brush no doubt, but by a very
different one from that, which the young Artist was destined
afterwards to make use of it! Some of Wilkie's earliest perform-
ances still exist, in the shape of portraits, which are admirable
likenesses, and valued of course very highly by their fortunate
possessors. The oldest of his unproductive paintings that I
have heard of, is an exquisite representation of a poor family,
the father sitting in tattered clothes, smoking a pipe by the fire-
side, and his daughter, a buxom girl, bringing water from the well
in an earthen vessel. It is now in the possession of a widow lady
in St Andrews. In one person's possession, there are, among se-
veral others of Wilkie's earlier efforts, two very exquisite likenesses
of his brother's children, painted long before he reached the acm‚
Of his fame,-and a domestic scene, his father and mother at fa-
mily worship, painted in his youth, and not unworthy of being com-
pared with his recent treatment of a kindred subject, "The
Cottar's Saturday Night." A report and belief is very gene-
ral that the "Saracen's head," a sign board in the village of
Pitlessie, was painted by Wilkie. This we have reason to know
is a mistake. There is, however, in the possession of Robert Meth-
van, Esq. procurator fiscal for the County of Fife, a sign-board re-
presenting boy watering a horse, which was really painted by
Wilkie when a mere boy for a small alehouse in the parish of Kettle.


