
                          CULSAMOND.                    733

wooden coffin of uncommon size, and of the rudest conceivable
workmanship.  It had been formed from the trunk of a huge oak,
divided into three parts of unequal length, each of which had been
split through the middle with wedges and stone axes, or perhaps
separated with some red hot instruments of stone, as the in-
side of the different pieces had somewhat the appearances of
having been charred.  The whole consisted of six partsm two sides,
two gavels, a bottom, and a lid.  Only a small part of the lid re-
mained, the greater part of it having been splintered and torn up
by the plough at different times since the removal of the stones
and moss.  all the rest of the pieces were entire, and when put
together in their original position, had somewhat the appearance
of the body and shafts of a cart.  The coffin lay due east and west,
-the head of it being in the east end of the grave.  The sides
were sunk into the ground 13 1/2  inches below the bottom piece.  In
the middle of them, were grooves of rough and incomplete work-
manship, and of the same length as the length of the bottom, and
a very little wider than the thickness of the bottom.  Under the
bottom was a bed of tough blue clay three and a half inches thick,
on which and on these grooves it tested.  The projecting parts of
the sides rested on a hard oval substance, much mixed with ashes
which had undergone the action of a very strong fire, and on
which part of the grave evidently had been erected the funeral pile.
The gavel pieces were sunk into large holes, and the empty spaces
around them filled up with fine blue sand.  In a corner of the in-
side of the coffin was an urn, which was broken in the digging out.
It had been formed of a mixture of clay and saud, narrowest at the
bottom, very wide at the top, and about ten or eleven inches deep.
After the different pieces were placed in the grave in their proper
order, it appears to have been surrounded with a double row of
unhewn stones to keep the parts firm together, and then covered
over with the moss and stones formerly mentioned.  This antiquity
must probably be referred to a period prior to the Christian era.
   British Camp.-On the north-east side of the Hill of Culsamond
are the remains of a British encampment, protected on the north-
west side of the hill by double lines of entrenchment, still very dis-
tinct.  These lines are in the immediate neighbourhood of a farm
town named Cadden; which name signifies warlike entrenchments,
or a place where soldiers had been stationed to a watch the motions of
an invading enemy.  There are als still distinct traces of mili-
tary works on the west bank of the glen water opposite to Cadden.


