
<APPENDIX>

ceived, above one half of the number of parishes in Scotland.  There was
every reason, therefore, to hope, that the whole Work would have been
completed within the space of a year or two more, and every exertion was
made for that purpose, by employing a number of different printers, etc.:
but the press was often stopped for want of manuscript.
   In the second place, It is evident, that on the 28th March 1794, only 140
Accounts were wanting, and that it has taken very near four years to make
up that deficiency.  I am persuaded, that the Clergy, had no conception of
the inconvenience with which this circumstances was attended, to the Author
of the Statistical Account, and how much it retarded the measures he had
in view, for promoting the improvement of the country, otherwise they
would have made almost any exertion, sooner than have kept back, for so
long a space of time, the completion of such a Work.-It is now over.
But, I hope, if ever they should have it in their power to promote a si-
milar undertaking, that they will shew, from the commencement, every pos-
sible degree of alacrity and zeal in such a cause; and will recollect the
words of a respectable Clergyman, who well remarked on the occasion:
" It has often been a matter of astonishment to me, that I have gone so
" much into the spirit of procrastination, in a case like this, when an im-
" portant object was held forth, and the individual exertion necessary was
" so trifling."
   In the last place, It is certainly to be regretted, after the Work had
made such extraordinary progress, that greater exertions were not made by
the deficient Clergy, to complete it more speedily than has been the case.
At the same time, that cannot detract from the great merit of the body at
large; and, on the whole, it is certainly more to be wondered at, that the
Work was completed at all, than that it should have been so long in hand.
For a long time, indeed, many of the Clergy imagined, that the plan would
be dropped, as so many others had been; and consequently, that it was un-
necessary for them to take the trouble of making any inquiry.  Indeed, on
the 8th November 1792, above two years and a half from the commence-
ment of the undertaking, no less a number than 210, had not even acknow-
ledged the receipt, or taken the smallest notice, of my repeated applica-
tions.
   With regard to the progress made in printing the Work, the following
Table will satisfy the curiosity of the Reader.


