
         450                         FIFESHIRE.

	he resolved to visit the strangers in person.  He was fascinated
	with their appearance, and conversation, and doctrine.  He was
	induced by them to abandon his idolatrous notions, and to become
	a convert to the Christian faith; and many of his subjects, impres-
	sed with the same sentiments, followed his example. To manifest
	his gratitude to his new spiritual guides, he put them in possession
	of a proper place of residence, with an extensive territorial domain;
	and he erected for them a chapel and tower, which some writers
	imagine are the same which still subsist in a good state of preser-
	vation in the immediate vicinity of the ruins of the cathedral, and
	which still bear the name of the Grecian saint. To commemorate
	the happy change which their arrival and preaching bad been the
	means of introducing, the King changed the name of their place
	of residence from Mucros to Kilremonth, which means the cell
	or chapel of the King on the mount, according to some of the
	ancient authorities; and afterwards to Kilrule, the cell or chapel
	of Regulus or Rule. This last name was retained so long as the
	government of the Picts was recognized; but when their territo-
	ries were subjugated by the Scots under Kenneth II. that prince,
	who recognized the apostle Andrew as his patron saint, altered the
	name of the place where his relics were deposited to St Andrews,
	the name which it still-retains. The Pictish designation, however,
	is still adhered to by the Highlanders of Scotland, who employ the
	Gaelic language.
	   Extent.-Tbe parish of St Andrews is about 10 miles in length,
	but the medium breadth is not quite 2 miles, the area compre-
	bending a space of between 17 and 18 square miles.
	   Boundaries.-It is bounded on the north by the Eden, which
		separates it from the parish of Leuchars, till it reach the German
	Ocean; and by the ocean, from that point to its eastern extremity;
	on the east, by the stream denominated Kenloway or Kenly, which
	separates it from the parishes of Kingsbarns and St Leonards; and
	by the parishes of Dunino, Cameron, Ceres, and Kemback, on the
	south and west.
	   Topographical Appearances.-No part of the parish rises to a
	great elevation, the hills of East and West Balrymonth, which
	are the highest in the eastern division, being, the former, 360, and
	the latter, 375 feet above the level of the sea, as ascertained by
	accurate barometrical measurements; and the hill of Clatto, in the
	western division, rises to the elevation of 548 feet. The low and
	flat lands in the parish extend to from 600 to 800 acres, more than

