
       1050                     PERTHSHIRE.

       Robert Prior of Scone appointed to that Episcopal throne.  Bal-
       four informs us that David, the immediate successor of Alexander,
       was crowned at Scone; and we learn from several sources, that
       Matilda, or Maud, the wife of David, the daughter of the Earl of
       Northumberland, and widow of Simon de St Liz, Earl of North-
       ampton, was interred here.  At Scone, also, Malcolm IV., as
       yet only in his twelfth year, is said to have been crowned; and
       here, about A. D. 1163, the Bishop of St Andrews delivered an
       address to the King on the subject of the vow of chastity, by
       which it is alleged he had bound himself, at a great national
       council held for the especial purpose of taking this vow into con-
       sideration.
         The coronation of Alexander III took place "at Scone on
       the 13th" of July, the Bishop of St Andrews knighting the King,

       as well as placing the crown on his head. ** After the corona-
       tion oath had been administered to the King, both in Latin, and
       in French, the language of the nobility, he was placed upon the
       sacred Stone of Destiny, which stood before the cross in the eastern
       end of the church; and while he there sat with the crown on his,
       head, and the sceptre in his hand, a gray-beaded Highland bard
       stepping forth from the crowd, addressed to him a long genealo-
       gical recitation in the Gaelic tongue, in which, beginning, "Hail
       Alexander, King of Albion, son of Alexander, son of William,
       son of David, &c. he carried up the royal pedigree through all
       its generations to the legendary Gathelus, who married Scota,
       the daughter of Pharaoh, and was the contemporary of Moses.
       It may be doubted if Alexander understood a word of this savage
       paean, but he is recorded to have expressed his gratification, by
       liberally rewarding the venerable rhapsodist." Pict.  Hist. of Eng-
       land, Book iv. chap. i.
         It was at Scone that the General Convention of the States was
       held after the death of Alexander's daughter, the Queen of Nor-
       way, and of his son, Alexander, the Prince of Scotland, in his
       twentieth year.  Margaret of Norvay had left only an infant
       daughter. "On the 5th of February 1284, the Parliament was,
       assembled at Scone, when the estates of the kingdom solemnly
       bound themselves, failing Alexander and any children he might
       have, to acknowledge for their Sovereign the Norwegian Princess,
       'The Maiden of Norway,' as she is called by the old writers."
       Her marriage-with her cousin, the son of Edward I. of Englands,
       was afterwards agreed to; but having set sail for Britain, she fell
				      4



