
     Of Pettinain.

are oats, barley or beer, and potatoes.  Of oats, the best croft 
land may be reckoned to yield from 8 to 12 bolls (Linlithgow 
measure) the acre; the haugh or holm ground from 3 to 6 
bolls; and the other outfield ground from 2 to 4.  An acre 
of barley (what is here called beer) gives from 8 to 13 bolls, 
of land that has been properly cleared of weeds, and other- 
wise prepared; of the soul land, from 6 to 9 bolls.  From 
40 to 80 bolls of potatoes, planted generally without dung 
upon the croft-land, is reckoned a good return from the acre. 
The produce of an acre of pease varies from 2 to 8 bolls. 
Wheat has been tried with some advantage, in a favourable 
season; but the situation of the ground seems to be too high, 
and the frost too severe, to allow its being cultivated to any 
great extent.  The sowing of grass-seeds has increased of 
late; and the good crops of hay that have been produced, give 
reason to hope that a still greater proportion of land will be 
employed in this manner.  Two crops of hay have generally 
been taken from the small fields that were laid down with 
sown grass, after which they were pastured for 2 or 3 years: 
But a species of rye-grass has lately got into the country, 
which continues only for 1 year, and which often disconcerts 
this plan.  Many of the farms here are remarkable for pro- 
ducing good batter and cheese; and perhaps there is not 2 
greater quantity produced from the same extent of ground in 
any place of this country.  The pasture on the haughs is un-
doubtedly very rich: and much attention is paid both to the 
breed of the cows, and management of their milk. 

   The horses are of a large size, and very sit for draught.  A
few are annually sold, at good prices.  The number of work- 
horses may be reckoned about 90; and of young horses 44. 
That of the black cattle, of all ages, 366; and that of sheep 
about 450.  These numners may vary a little occasionally. 
The valued rent of the parish is 1570 L.  8 d. Scots.  The real

     E 2


