
			EASSIE AND NEVAY		        483

says, "that it is a disgrace to a civilized country, and, from the total
want of comfort and cleanliness, is ruinous to the domestic habits
of the labourer." In this matter, there is a striking contrast be
tween Scotland and Norway. The bothy system prevails there as
well as here, but on how different a footing will appear from the
following extract from Mr Laing's recent work on Norway:
        "There is a bothy here, as in Scotland, called a 'Bortstue,'-a se-
parate house detached from the main one, and better than the
dwelling-houses of many respectable farmers in Aberdeenshire and
Mearns paying considerable rents. It consists of one large well-
lighted room, with four windows, a good stove or fire-place, a
wooden floor, with benches, chairs, and a table. At the end is a
kitchen, in which their victuals are cooked by a servant, whose
business it is to attend to the bortstue and cook for the people.
	"The space above is divided into bed-rooms, each with a win-
dow, and the dnors lead into a covered gallery, open at the side,
such as we still see in some of the old inns in London, and in this-
gallery the bed-clothes are hung out daily, whatever be the wea-
ther."

                        V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
        Means of Communication.-The great northern road from Edin-
burgh to Aberdeen passes through the parish, and is kept in ex-
cellent repair in this neighbourhood. A very important improve-
ment in the means of communication has taken place within a few
years. A railroad now passes through the whole length of the
parish, joining the Dundee and Cupar-Angus line about a mile to
the north of Newtyle, and terminating at present at the market-
moor of Glammis, with the prospect, at some future period, of
being extended to Forfar and Kirriemuir. This greatly facili-
tates the communication with Dundee,-the market-town to which
all the agricultural produce of this part of the country is sent, and
from which coal, lime, and manure are brought.
        Ecclesiastical State.-There were formerly two places of wor-
ship in the united parishes. They were situated at the eastern and
western extremities, and are now in rums. A commodious and
elegant new church was built a few years ago, on a site that is cen-
trical for both parishes. An excellent new manse was also built
last year, close to the new bhtrch. The old manse is situated
near to the old church at Eassie, and is distant about two miles
from the present one. There is no other place of worship, and
no family of Dissenters in the parish. There are two glebes,-



