
        430                    INVERNESS-SHIRE.

	places, and also with Perth, by carriers; and the Highland mail
	passes twice a-day north and south, through a corner of the parish.
	   Roads.-Till within the last twenty years, the roads in this pa-
	rish were very bad indeed. About that time, the Parliamentary
	road from Fort-William, till it meets the Highland road at the
	Bridge of Spey, near Kingussie, was made under the direction of
	the late Mr Thomas Telford. This road has been of very great
	advantage not merely to this parish, but to the Whole of Badenoch.
	There is a handsome wooden bridge over the Spey, at the church
	of Laggan. There is another stone bridge on the line of the mi-
	litary road at Garvamore, one at the burn of Cluny, and two over
	the Mathie. There are few enclosures in the parish. This is
	felt to be a very great want.
	   Ecclesiastical State.-The church is situated in the centre of the
	population. It is seven miles east from the old church, and about
	the same distance from the eastern extremity of the parish. It
	was built in 1785, and is now very much out of repair. Mr Baillie
	is willing to build a new one, and it is probable that the other he-
	ritors will consent to this. The church may bold about 600 sitters.
	All the seats are free. The glebe, at one time, was contiguous to
	the old church. It was exchanged, about forty-six years ago, for a
	piece of ground adjoining the new church. The terms on which
	the presbytery were to consent to the excambion, are recorded in
	the presbytery books. But the actual deed of excambion was not
	recorded, if, indeed, such a deed was ever executed. The pre-
	sent glebe contains about 24 acres of very inferior, bard, miserable
	soil In consequence of a privilege of pasture in the adjoining hills,
	it sets for L.18 a year of rent. The clergyman has no manse, but
	receives L.50 a year in lieu of one, and lives on a small farm in
	the vicinity of the church.
	   The stipend is the minimum, of which L.73, 2s. 7d. are paid by
	Government, with L.11 fnr communion elements.
	   The number of male heads of families in communion with the
	church is 36. The number of communicants is about 120. There
	is a Roman Catholic chapel in the parish, The number belong-
	ing to this class, may be about 200. With the exception of these
	and of a few others who belong to no sect, the whole inhabitants
	attend the parish church, very regularly, except in bad weather.
	   Poor.-The number upon the poor's roll is about 50. Our
	yearly collections fluctuate from L.12 to L.26. The whole col-
	lections, along with fines on ecclesiastical delinquents, and on
	poachers, who are sometimes caught in their misdeeds, ufter pay-


