
                          KINELLAR.                           119

ordinary branches, with Latin and geometry when wanted, are
taught, and the fees are very moderate,-2s. for English, 3s. for
arithmetic, and 3s. 6d. for Latin, all per quarter, and book-keep-
ing, 10s. 6d. per course.  The fees, amount to about L.13 per
annum.  The average number of scholars may be 25 in summer,
and 45 in winter.  The schoolmaster, who is also session-clerk and
a preacher, derives benefit from Dick's liberal bequest to the pa-
rochial schoolmasters of the counties of Aberdeen, Banff, and Mo-
ray, which the heritors reckoned upon when the salary was fixed.
There is also a Sabbath school, with a small library attached to
it, and a general desire for instruction prevails.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number on the poor's
roll is 6, of whom some get 10s. and some 25s. quarterly, as their
circumstances and the times require; but many others occasion-
ally receive relief.  The annual collections and penalties average
from L.12 to L.15; and it is to be remarked that this comes from
the farlers, cottars, and servants,-for the heritors, not residing,
contribute very little; so that the weekly collections demon-
strate the benevolent dispositions of the parishioners.  Most of
the poorer class are rather shy of applying for, and need to be
sought out and offered, assistance.  During the present incumbency
L.100 have been added to a small sum previously at interest for
behoof of the poor, obtained by savings and two small mortifica-
tions; and a small sum is also kept in a bank, to be ready in case
of any sudden emergency.  The parish has twice received its pro-
portion of a legacy left by Mr Burnett, a merchant in Aberdeen,
to every parish within the shire.  The least sum given to any
parish is L.20, and the greatest L.50.  The management is un-
der trustees, and the inspection of the synod, and the sums paid,
are proportioned to the various circumstances (strictly inquired in-
to) of the respective parishes.  The order in which the several
presbyteries receive their allowances, was at first determined by
lot.

   January 1840.


