
                     DALKEITH.            495

wards adopted of coining 66s. in place of 62s. from the pound
Troy of silver,--a measure which has since secured to the country
a plentiful supply of change, and has tended to prevent its expor-
tation.
     David Mushet, Esq. eldest brother of the above, was born at
Dalkeith on the 2d October 1772.  He has resided many years in
England, and greatley distinguished himself by his discoveries and
imoprovements in metallurgy.*\f
     Mr John Kay, whose portraits of remarkable characters of the
last generation have obtained so great popularity, was a native of
Dalkeith Parish.  He was born on the 6th April 1742, at a small
cottage called Gibraltar, on the banks of the South Esk, in the
immediate neigbourhood of Dalkeith.  He died at Edinburgh
on the 21st February 1826, in the eighty-fourth year of his age, +
     Mr Grant Thorburn, seedsman, New York, the original Lawrie
Todm though a native of Newbattle parish, where he was born on
the 18th February 1773, lived in dalkeith from his childhood till
he sailed for New York on the 13th April 1794.  He is a man
of great piety and worth, though of a remarkably lively and eccen-
tric character.  He visited Dalkeith in 1834, when he published
his Autobiography, which he dedicates, with characteristic singu-
larity and elegance, to Her Grace the Duchess of Buccleuch.
     dalkeith has long been well supplied with gentleman of the
medical profession.  In 1784 Robert Calderwood, surgeon, Dal-
keith, published "an Account of the discharge of animals by the
anus much resembling the common caterpillar, and which were
found to be the same kind of insect.:  Dr. Andrew Graham, a
gentleman of eminent professional ability, maintained an extensive
practice in this town and neighbourhood for forty years, and died
in 1824.  At present we have four doctors of medicine in good
employment.  Of these Dr Charles William Graham, son of the
above, is already known to the scientific part of the profession by
his successful application of the sulphate of zinc as a remedy in
diseases where it had not previously been employed; and also for
various contributions to the Edinburgh Medical Journal.

     <FOOTNOTE> Mr. David Mushet is author of the following work:--
papers on Iron and Steel.  Practical and Experimental, a series of original com-
pmunications made to the Philosophical Magazine chiefly on these subjects.  London,\
1840, &vo, 926 pages.
     He was author of the following work:--"A series of Original Portraits and Ca-
ricature Etchings, qith Biographical Sketches and Anecdotes, 2 vols., Edin. 1842.
     Med. Com. ix. p.223, 1784.  Watt's Bibliotheca.
     Edin. Med. journal, July 1826, page 107.




