
     of Stronsay and Eday.

   Miscellaneous Observations.-The center of the Orkney i-
stands lies in latitude 56degree North.  The weather is in general

<FOOTNOTE>

they are haunted, at least noises are heard, which cannot be accounted for on
rational principles, even in our days.  An instance of the latter happened on-
ly three years ago, in the house of John Spence, boat-carpenter, which house
stands within the distance of a quarter of a mile from the manse of Stronsay.
In the month of April 1791, this carpenter had almost compleated a boat,
which he had on the stocks: He, his wife, his servant, and his children, one
night sometime after they were laid in bed, heard a noise resembling what he
had been accustomed to make when driving nails into the boat.  It continued
a long time.  He supposed it to be boys, who having come that way at a
late hour, were amusing themselves.  At last he got up, and went on with an
intention to reprove and dismiss them.  The noise ceased on his going out of
doors to the boat, which stood hard by his house, but he could neither see nor
hear any body.  The noise was heard by all the family, not only that night
but many nights after; not nightly, in constant succession, but at irregular in-
tervals.  Whilst the boat lay on the stocks, it was still apprehended that the
noise proceeded from it, although no marks of strokes could bde secerned, even
after it had been newly covered over with tar, within and without, when the
leaff touch will make an impression.  The mistress of the house and the child-
ren were alarmed; at her earnest request, therefore, in order to remove ef-
fectually the supposed cause of the noise, the boat when finished, was sent
home, which happened to be to a place on the other side of the island, from
which place the noise could not reach the carpenter's house.  Yet lo!  and
behold the same noise continned, even when there was no boat on the stocks
and that for no less than four months; and as the time elapsed, the non-
increased with still louder and quicker strokes, until it came to resemble the
strokes of two men hard at work on a smith, anvil.  It uttered at last, not
only the sounds of much fatigue, when men are employed in such work, but
moans of great distress.

<UNREADABLE>

   All which seemed to this family to proceed sometimes from one quarter
and at other times from another quarter within their house.  Some of the
neighbours were brought to sleep in the house, in order to discover the delu-
sion or imposition, if any such existed.  The same noise, at the usual time of
the night, was heard by these neighbours as well as by the family.  The mai-
ter of the house himself began at last to be somewhat alarmed; but, putting
his trust in God, he resolved to address the supernatural ???

</UNREADABLE>


