
12                     DUMBARTONSHIRE.

ral sand-banks above that. These, for a small sum, and with no
great labour, could be easily removed. There are two shipbuild-
ing yards on the Leven, (one of them in the parish of Cardross),
which employ a number of men, and where some beautiful vessels
have been built,and are still in progress of building. A small trade
in tanning and rope-spinning is carried on; and there is one brick
field in the parish.
   Means of Communication.--The town of Dumbarton is distant
from Glasgow about fifteen miles, and from Greenock about seven.
There are two steamers belonging to a company in Dumbarton,
which sail to and from each of these places twice a day. Letters
are sent also twice a day from Dumbarton to Glasgow, and vice
versa. There is also a daily communication with Helensburgh,
Luss, and Drymen. In summer, a coach starts every lawful morning
at nine o'clock for Balloch, with passengers for the Lochlomond
steam-boat, and returns to town again in the evening, in time for
the steamer which goes to Glasgow. An elegant bridge, 300 feet
in length, consisting of five arches, was built across the Leven about
the year 1765; it was erected at the expense of Government, and
cost L. 2500 Sterling; about L. 150 have been expended on re-
pairing it since that time. About eighty-five years prior to the
erection of the bridge, an attempt was made to erect one, and a
subscription for that purpose was commenced, but to no purpose.
   The greater part of the fences consist of thorn hedges, which
thrive remarkably well, and are generally neatly and trimly kept.
   Ecclesiastical State.--The parish church is very conveniently
situated for the great majority of the inhabitants. It stands in the
east end of the town of Dumbarton. The nearest boundary of
the parish is distant from it about fifty yards, and the farthest from
six to eightmiles. Thereareabouteightinhabited dwelling-houses,
distant from the church more than two miles, and none farther
than three miles. There are sittings in the church for 1265 per-
sons; of these sittings about 90 are free. The average num-
ber of individuals attending the parish church throughout the year,
is 900; with the exception of about 50, who come from some of
the neighbouring parishes, they all belong to the parish of Dum-
barton. The minister of the parish only got a manse about the
end of 1837, but has not yet got a glebe.
   There is a missionary in the town, who is supported by a sum rais-
ed by subscription; the salary is L. 52 a year. There are two Dis-
senting places of worship in the parish, the one a Roman Catholic,


