
 			EDDERACHILLIS.                       129

                       IV. - INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture and Fishing.-The productive employments of the
people consist in tilling the ground and fishing, with the various
operations attendant on both.  In a country where there is not an
immediate market for the sale of fish, and for affording the neces-
saries of life, the combination of these employments is found to
answer well.  The operation of laying down the crop commences
about the middle of March, and finishes in May.  Harvest begins
in August, and ends in October.  The crops raised are, potatoes,
bear or bigg, and oats.  In the absence of the plough, the imple-
ment used in laying down the crop is the common garden spade, and
Cas-chrom.  A description of the latter having been so repeated-
ly given in other accounts of Highland parishes, it need not be
presented here.  Since the construction of the roads, many of the
tenants have carts, which are in all about forty: these were un-
known before the Duke acquired the estate.
   Soon after the sowing is completed, the most enterprising com-
mence the early herring fishing; and such as have large boats, in the
latter end of July, on the Caithness coast, whence they return in the
beginning of September.  Their occupation in winter is promiscuous,
-thrashing corn, attending to their cattle, making, repairing, and
trimming herring nets for the ensuing season-the females spin-
ning and knitting.  The rate charged for spinning hemp is 6d.
per pound, but in the neighbouring district of Assynt, 3d. ; and
it not unusually happens that a reckoning is kept amongst the
members of the family, between sisters and brothers, of the quan-
tity spun for herring nets, and closed by payment.  This exact-
ness cannot be too highly extolled, as it inculcates economy, and
value for money, so very desirable to be observed by all classes in
the Highlands.  Lobster-fishing is also carried on by a London
company, who employ a number of the natives in procuring the
lobsters, which they carry off alive in well-smacks to the Thames.
This fishing commences in April, and ends in October.
   The last to be noticed is the salmon-fishery commencing in
March and closing in August.
   Kelp.-The manufacturing of kelp in former years gave employ-
ment to a number of the people.  Advancement in the science of
chemistry disclosed substitutes for kelp which have entirely thrown
it out of the market,-a result  not to be regretted, as the sea
weed from which it was made is the manure that Nature has set
apart for the land. Although kelp yielded a certain revenue to


