
200                  EDINBURGHSHIRE.

riod. Chalmers, in his Caledonia is more minute in his descrip-
tion. He gives its history so far as known; whereas the former
seems confined to an account at the then present time. It is also
alluded to in the taxatio of Mid-Lothian.
   We learn from Chalmers's Caledonia, that the church of He-
riot was once of "considerable value." In the ancient taxatio it
is rated at 30 merks, or mercas, a sum equal to that of many now
considered much superior.
   The patronage of the church, during the twelfth and part of
the thirteenth century, belonged to Roger de Quincy, then Lord of
the Manor, and Constable of Scotland, who, it is supposed, had de-
rived it, in all probability, from the Lords of Galloway, who them-
selves may have received it from the Morvilles. In the division
of De Quincy's estates among his three daughters, Heriot fell to
Elena, the youngest, who married La Touche, an English Baron.
Elena afterwards granted the Monks of Newbotle--now called
erroneously Newbattle--the Church of Heryeth, as it was then cal-
led. This grant was confirmed by a Bull of Nicholas, and both
were confirmed by Fraser, the Bishop of St Andrews, then dioce-
san. By a chapter in 1309, William Blair, the vicar of Heryeth,
resigned his vicarage to Lamberton, Bishop of St Andrews, on
which the diocesan immediately conferred the whole vicarage re-
venues on the Monks of Newbotle, and issued a mandate to the
Dean of Haddington, commanding him to put them in possession of
them. These monks seem also to have afterwards acquired the lands
of the church, but when or from whom is unknown. "It is, how-
ever, certain," says Chalmers, "that both the church and lands of
Heryeth belonged to the monks of Newbotle at the Reforma-
tion," which is confirmed by Borthwick and Scott's Account of
the parish, drawn out in the time of Charles I., in the year 1627,
wherein it is said, "that the kirk belongs to the Abbotcy of
Newbattle" and that the benefice "consists of a parsonage and
vicarage." It adds, "that it is a several kirk and benefice of it-
self, and consisted of laick patronage before the Reformation;"
and that there "are no prebendaries, chaplanries, frierlands,
but ane rowme called Kirkland Hill, haldin of the house of New-
battle." Kirkland Hill is now the name of a farm-steading, be-
longing to the Crookston estate, prettily situated on the side of the
water, and about three-quarters of a mile distant from the church.
The lands and patronage after the Reformation came into the

                                 3


