
     Statistical Account

course to such plants and herbs as are an antidote against their
bite*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*In confirmation of this supposition, there is a pleasant little story told in
elegant Latinity, by Vanier the Jesuit.  It will not perhaps altogether a di-
gression to cite the verses.

     Mustela didicit quondam monstrante colonus
     Tabisicos, quid ruta valet serpentis ad ictus,
     Illa reluctantem cum forte lacesseret anguem;
     Infectis quoties membris lethale venenum
     Hauserat, ad rutam furgiens, tactuque salubri
     Occulte medicans, non segnior ibat in hostem,
     Rusticus excelso rem demiratus ab agro,
     Avulfis, quae sola fuit, radicibus herbam
     Abstulit; exanimis cadit heu! mustela veneno
     Turgida nam toto rutam dum quaeritat agro,
     Intima corda subit, jam non medicabile virus.

   After this casual manner, many of the medicaments of modern pharmacy,
have been originally discovered.
   There is also a small kind of reptile called bratag, covered with a downy
hair, alternately spotted into black and white; if cattle happen to eat it, they
generally swell, and sometimes die.  It has the same effect upon sheep.  The
birds in this parish are of the same genus and species with those of the neigh-
bouring countries; such as moorfowl, partridges, wild duck, crows, magpies
wood pigeons, hawks, kites, owls, herons, snipes, king's fisher, swallows, spar-
rows, blackbird, and thrush.  In the higher hills, are ptarmogans.  In the steep
and abrupt rocks of Glenavon, the eagle builds its eyry; and during the
latter end of spring, and beginning of summer, is very destructive to kids,
lambs, an fawns.  Some of the more adventurous shepherds, watching them
at this season of depredation, frequently scale the rugged rocks, where they
nestle, and share with their young in the spoil.  Till of late years that his se-
questered haunts have been disturbed by the intrusion of more numerous flocks
of sheep, the black cock, or gallus Scoticanus, was wont to hail the dawn of
the vernal morning amidst the heaths of this country.  If, like the feathered
tribe in AEsop, this fine bird could articulate, he might complain with the Poet,
"Nos patriam fugimus, et dulcia linquimus arva."  Now he has fled to Strath-
spey, where the numerous and extensive woods afford him a secure retreat.  The
black cock is well described by Leslie, in his History of Scotland.  "Alia avis,"
says he, "est etnum in his regionibus numerosa, superiore minor [the caper-
  

