
                        BOURTIE.                            625

plough, contained, until very lately, a number of small elliptical
entrenchments.

              Scilicet et tempus veniet, quum finibus illis
              Agricola, incurvo terram molitus aratro
              Exaesa inveniet scabra rubigine pila.

   The only witness of this kind found in the entrenchments was
an English bill-hook, now in possession of the tenant of North
Mains of Barra. *

                        III.-POPULATION.

<TABLE>
     In Dr Webster's tables, the population is given as being     527
           1811, by Parliamentary census, it was     .    .       442
           1821, .	.	.	.	.	.	.           461
           1831, .	.	.	.	.	.	.           472
           1841, .	.	.	.	.	.	.           469


   The decrease from the middle of last century to the beginning
of this, was owing to the increased size of farms.  The births for
the last seven years stand thus: +

<FOOTNOTE>In the year 1395, the parish was the scene of a feudal conflict, which is thus re-
corded by Wyntoun, (Book ix. cap. xvi. vol. ii. p. 371-373);
		A thousand and thre hundyr yers,
		Nynty and fyve or thare-by nere,
		Robert the Keth, a mychty man
		By Lynage, and apperand than
		For to be-a Lord of mycht
		Of mony Landis of rycht Richt,
		In Fermartine, at Fivy,
		Assegit his Aunt, a gud Lady
		That tyrne the Lud of Craufurdis wyf,
		(That led in all her tyme gud lif.)
		Schir James de Lyndesay, than her Lord,
		Merit agane hym in discord:
		For his Masonary's first gert he
		Fra thare werke removit be,
		And quha, that Wattyr broucht fra the Burn,
		He gairt thaim oft wytht his Ost spurn;
		Thus he demanyt that Lady
		Wythin the Castil of Fivy.
		Than Schir James de Lyndesay,
		Quben be relatioune he hard say
		That then his Wyf, that gud Lady,
		Thare wes assegit sa straitly,
		He gadryt of his Frendis then,
		Thre, or nere foure, hundyr men,
		And owre the Mouth than als fast
		As he til Fivy could haif past.
		This Robert of Keith of purpos set
		In th Ganyauch with James met,
		And, nere the Kirk than of Bourty,
		Of Robertis men were slane fifty
		And wele ma; swa Robert gwyte
		Wes in that Bagane discumfyte;
		Fra thine he past noucht till Fivy,
		For till assege that gud Lady."
          The reporter, as well as some of his brethren in this neighbourhood, enrole in a
pocket register, immediately when he baptises it, the name of every child; and
though he exacts the fee to the session-clerk, the people regard it as a kindness rather
   ABERDEEN.                                   R r


