
     Statistical Account

the rents, as well as the price of land here, are still ad-
vancing.

   Agriculture.-Before the spirit of improving land began to
appear here, there were 3 considerable villages besides the
town of Coldingham, viz. Renton, Auchencraw, and the 2
Prestons; but since that, the heritors have built good farm-
headings upon the most centrical parts of their outfields.
Hence, the villages of Renton and East Preston, have disap-
peared, and Auchencraw and West Preston have dwindled to
less than the half of what they were before that period.  There
are above 60 farms in this parish, besides the acres that lie
around the town of Coldingham.  The rents of the farms
are from 20 L to 500 L. and upwards.  Several of the heri-
tors who possess their own properties, as well as our princi-
pal farmers, are inferior to none in industry and skill for the
improvement and management of land to the best advantage*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Previous to the year 1760, almost the whole farms in this and the neigh-
bouring parishes were laboured and cropt in the following manner, viz. about
one-fourth of the arable land as infield, and the other three-fourths as outfield;
but for the better understanding that mode of cropping and management, sup-
pose a farm consisting of 400 acres of arable land (besides meadow and marshy
ground unfit for tillage) to have been let, the tenant became bound by the
lease to fallow and dung one-fifth part of the infield yearly, and not to take
above 4 crops thereof between fallowings, one of which to be barley, and an-
other a pease crop, and so on through the course of the tack: and with respect
to the outfield, he was allowed to have only one-third part of it in corn, in any
one year, which third he was obliged to fallow, and to give it 3 or more plough-
ings between Whitsunday and the ensuing feed time; and after taking 3 crops of
oats off it successively, he was obliged to allow it to lie in ley for 6 years before
it was again riven out and fallowed, and so on with the other two-thirds of the
outfield, until the expiration of his tack.  By that mode of management, the
land was so much wasted and worn out, that the fourth crop of the infield,
and the third from the outfield, frequently did not produce the double of the
seed; and the only pasture such a farmer had for supporting his stocking of


