
                           ERSKINE.                          525

Sabbath school in the parish taught by the in nester, schoolmas-
ter and elders.
  Library.-A parochial library was instituted about four years
ago by the late incumbent, which already contain between 300
and 400 volumes. The inhabitants of the parish become mem-
bers by paying 2s. 6d. at entrance, and an annual subscription of
1s. thereafter, The interest in it seems unfortunately already. in
great measure to have died away.
  Poor and Parochial Funds.-The number of persons at Presents
on the poor's roll is six, but the average may be taken at eight.
The allowance given to each pauper varies according to circum-
stances: the highest rate now paid is 14s. a month, and the low-
est 4s. The funds requisite for 7 the support of the poor are pro-
vided partly by the collections at the church door, which amount
on an average to L. 35, 14s. 3d. yearly, and partly by a volun-
tary contribution, to which the heritors agree, the minister and
heritors being alike opposed to a legal assessment, the invariable
tendency of which is to increase the number of paupers, and to ba-
nish that spirit of independence for whicb.the Scotch were once
so remarkable.
  Friendly Societies.- A Friendly Society was instituted in the pa-
rish about twelve years ago, for the purpose of assisting those mem-
bers who should be unable from illness to support themselves, with-
out having recourse to parochial aid. The number of members is
limited to sixty, each of whom pays 6s. as entrance money, and 1s.
6d. ever quarter. The amount of charity bestowed is as follows;
5S. a week, provided the invalid member be confined to bed, and if
not, 3s. a week. This society has been of considerable use in im-
parting well-timed pecuniary assistance, and deserves the encourage-
ment and support both of the heritors and people.
  Savings Banks.-One of these useful institution, in connection
with the Paisley National Security Savings Bank, was begun in
May 1838, and the result has proved more successful than could
have been imagined, considering the population of the parish. it
were an act of injustice not to mention, that much of its success is
attributable to the kind attention of Mr Duff, the schoolmaster,
who acts as secretary and treasurer and  willingly receives depo-
sitors at any time they are disposed to come, of fixing there
down to particular days and hours. There are 38 depositors at
present, eight of whom only are strangers connected with the rail-
way. The amount deposited is as follows :


