
398                           AYRSHIRE.

very much the reverse; and, from their great numbers, they have
certainly had a deteriorating influence, especially on the younger
part of the community. One delinquency, almost peculiar to an
Irishman, namely, the desertion of his wife and children, requires
to be particularly noticed, as having frequently occasioned a seri-
ous drain from the poor's funds. In short, though the proprietors
of houses, and the manufacturing agents, encourage the settlement
of the Irish with a view to make gain by them, and may for a
time succeed, they seem not to take into account the vast injury
which, in a moral point of view, they are entailing on the rising
generation, nor the incalculable increase which they are (uninten-
tionally, be it granted,) making to the expenditure absolutely neces-
sary for the support of the poor.
	When smuggling was common in the country, it was alleged of
some of the people of Girvan that they were not backward in
taking a share in it; but the hurtful nature of that traffic was not
then seen by the community in general in its true light; and it is
pleasant to state that, for the last thirty years, few instances of
smuggling have been heard of in the parish; and, at present, it may
be safely affirmed that no such thing exists.
	In the course of the last three years, there were 44 illegitimate
births in the parish.
               			 IV.--INDUSTRY.

	Beyond a few patches of brushwood, there is scarcely any natu-
ral wood in the parish; and forty years ago there was little or
nothing in the shape of plantation. Since that period, however,
two or three proprietors, and particularly the late Sir Hew Dal-
rymple Hamilton of Bargany, have planted on a small scale, and
succeeded as well as, in a maritime district, could have been rea-
sonably expected.
	Rent of Land.--The quality of the land varies exceedingly,
that in the high part of the parish, as before stated, being coarse,
and a large proportion of it incapable of cultivation, except at a
ruinous expense; while that in the low part is of the finest
quality. The rent, therefore, may be supposed to vary accord-
ingly. From 5s. to 12s. an acre may be considered as the rent
of the high, and from L. 1 to L. 4 that of the low district. In
the immediate neighbourhood of the town, where the land is ex-
cellent, several fields have been let as high as L. 6 and L. 7 an
acre; and the farm of Girvan Mains, consisting of 500 acres,
brought an average rent of L 3, 5s. an acre, during the currency


