
            126                     CAITHNESS-SHIRE.

            tose formation, from the lowest to the highest beds. They have
            been found at Wester, near Keiss Bay, and elsewhere. These stone-
            fish occur in beds of dark-gray calcareous schist, highly bitumi-
            nous and micaceous. In general, the animal remains are easily
            distinguishable from the imbedding matrix by their dark  colour.
            Professor Agassiz, the celebrated naturalist, who has devoted so
            much of his time to the study of fossil fishes, has determined, and
            for ther first time, with accuracy, the characters of our Caith-
            ness species.
               Mineralogy.-Minerals are not abundant. The laminated beds
            of the rock-formation are, over all the parish, much intersected by
            symmetrical joints and fissures, which are filled up in numerous in-
            stances with trap. This often has the direct effect of altering
            the stratal inclination, and indeed of twisting and contorting it in
            all imaginable directions. Quartz or felspar likewise often fills up
            these fissures; the smaller of which are sometimes occupied en-
            tirely with calc-spar. The clay-slate contains many varied pyrites.
            At Staxigoe there is a vein of ironstone. Running down into the
            harbour of this village, there is a vein of lead-ore imbedded in fel-
            spar. Between Staxigoe and Broad Haven are several small veins
            of copper-ore. At the latter village there is a pretty good appear-
            ance of alum-rock. Immediately to the south of the Castle of
            Auld Wick, is the best vein of copper in the parish. It was wrought
            about eighty years ago by a company of miners, who carried off
            several ship loads of ore; but, having found a better vein in Shet-
            land, it was abandoned; but not, however, before they secured
            themselves against competition, by taking a lease of it from
            the proprietor. Sulphate of barytes occurs on the coast opposite
            to the House of Ulbster, and is in some places three feet thick.    '
               In the immediate neighbourhood of the Tower of Ackergill,
            there is a considerable vein of a kind of parrot-coal, which, emits
            a bright flame in burning, but is not reduced to ashes.
               Marl of various qualities abounds in this parish. The draining
            or the loch of Brickigoe has made accessible a bed of most excel-
            lent marl of 20 feet in depth.
               The soil varies in different places. The moss at the foot of the
            hills of Yarrows, the one between Sarclet and Ulbster; the Moss
            of Tannach, and the Moss of Kilminster, the last of Which is many
            feet in depth and of great extent,-are the principal deposits of
            peat-earth in the parish of Wick.









                                              4


