
234                    ROSS AND CROMARTY.

dom. Since that period a great part of the parish, formerly waste,
has been brought into culture, and that previously in cultivation
greatly improved. At that time the land was principally occupied
by small farmers and crofters, whose notions of husbandry were ex-
tremely limited; now it is laid out in large farms, where the most
approved theories of farming are practically exemplified. Then
the implements used were of the most primitive description, Scots
ploughs, rung carts, kallachies, &c., now these, which are not to be
seen at all, have been supplanted by metallic ploughs, harrows and
rollers, frame carts, &c. &c. These changes have not left much
to be added to the productive capacity of the parish. Still it
would be too much to say that this bad attained its maximum.
Some land, as has been mentioned, still remains to be reclaimed,
and farther improvements in agriculture may still do much in de-
veloping the latent energies of the soil.
  In these changes also the town has shared in a similar degree.
Since that time it has been greatly extended, and the character
of the buildings, both in respect of size and comfort, very much
improved. Most of tile better sort of houses have been built with-
in the last twenty years, and several excellent houses are at pre-
sent in the course of erection. Shops of all kinds have multiplied
to such a degree as to furnish every kind of goods, and to preclude
the necessity which existed, even within the last twenty years, of
sending to Inverness for all but the most common commodities.
The access to the town has been greatly improved, especially to-
wards the north, in which direction a new street has been opened.
A new road has also been made leading eastward to the shore.
A harbour has been formed,-a bank has been established,-new
apparatus has been constructed for conveying water into the town,
-the pavement of the streets has been renewed, and more atten-
tion than formerly is now paid to keeping them clean. Light is
still a desideratum.
  Another important change, in the benefits of which this parish
has participated in common with the district around, is the facili-
ty of communication with all parts of the country. Roads of the
very best description intersect it in all directions, along which
coaches and carriers are continually passing, affording means of
conveyance to the places around. A constant communication has
been opened by steam both with Edinburgh and London; that
with the latter place has only been recently established, but has
already exerted a marked influence on the arrangements of the


