
112				BUTESHIRE.

close to it the town-hall and county buildings, which are in the
castlellated style, have an elegnt tower, a bell and a clock, with
two transparent dials, the gift of the Marquis of Bute. These
buildings compose a court hall for the sheriff, burgh, and justice
of peace courts, officers for the sheriff and town-clerks, and the
prison for the whole county. The hall has lately been adorned
by a spledid portrait of the present marquis of Bute, executed
by john Graham Gilbert, Esq. of Glasgow.
	Port Bannatyne is the only village in the parish. It stands at
the head of the beautiful bay of Kames, at a distance of two miles and
a half north-west of Rothesay. there are some good house in it, and
it is frequented in summer by strangers for sea-bathing.
	Means of Communication.--There are two arrivals of post
from Greenock and Glasgow daily; one only on Sabbath. This
Sabbath mail, it is the wish of the great majority of the inhabitants
to have entirley done away, being both a profanation of the day,
and quite unnecessary for business. the roads in the parish are
all local, and are kept in repir by the statute labour money, and
the liberality of the Marquis of Bute; consequently there are no
repair; and afford some beautiful driven to various parts of the
island. The harbour is in excelletn repair, and admits vessels of
considerable burthen in all states of the tide, and tbe dues are
very moderate.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The parish church, erected in 1796, and
containing 1000 sitters, stands about hald a mile south of the town
of Rothesay, in a beautiful situation, but inconveniently distant
from the inhabitants at the extremities of the bay. It is a good
repair. The seats are allocated to the heritors according to the
proportion of their assessment for the erection of the church. The
present elegant manse was built in 1829. the glebe contains
about 14 acres. and its yearly value may be about L. 30. The
stipend consists of 10 chalders of bear, Linlithgow measure, 9
chalders of meal, and L. 10. for communion elements.
	The new parish church, erected as a chapel of ease in 1800;
contains about 900 sitters. It had parochial bounda assigned to
it, quoad sacra, in 1834, which comprebend about 2000 souls.
The ministers stipend in L. 180, abd a house belonging to the
managers, valued at L. 20 a-year. The stipend is raised by as-
ssesment on the proprietors of pews, by rents of seats which belong


