
				FALKLAND.                            935

	veral hundred acres, it is only necessary to mention, that, after
	tearing up the natural soil, taking one crop of oats off it, liming
	and draining it the following year, taking another crop of oats off
	it, and then laying it down in gross, the annual value of the land
	rose from something merely nominal to a grass rental, in some in-
	stances, of L.2 per Scotch acre. The money expended upon
	these improvements has been highly beneficial to the labouring
	population. It may further be remarked, that the division of the
	commonty has been also advantageous so far as the moral charac-
	ter of the people is concerned. Formerly, many individuals, nick-
	named "scrapies," kept horses and cattle in the town, and, if
	fame may be believed, supported them by pilfering freely from
	their neighbours, but when questioned how they supported theircat-
	tle, the ready answer was, "O ! by sending them to the hill." With
	the division of the commonty, however, that dishonest generation
	passed away, and no reproach of this nature can fairly be brought
	against the present quiet and industrious community.
	  It has already been mentioned that extensive plantations have
	been formed in this parish during the last twenty-five years. Every
	kind of soft and bard wood has been planted, and the, trees in ge-
	neral are in a very thriving condition. But the larches have
	suffered severely from that unaccountable disease which has at-
	tacked them in all parts of the country.
	  Husbandry.-Husbandry in all its branches is conducted upon
	the most scientific principles. The cultivation of turnips is pur-
	sued to a very great extent, in which guano and the other artifi-
	cial manures are largely employed. The turnips are consumed
	partly by cattle and partly by sheep,-which the farmers buy ex-
	tensively at Melrose and other south country fairs. The breed-
	ing of cattle is also much attended to,-a considerable number
	being reared on each farm. Until very lately, the farmers en-
	deavoured to keep by the Fife breed; but pure specimens of this
	breed being now comparatively rare, a crossing with the short-
	horned breed has of late years become very general.
	Wages.-The rate of wages is for an able-bodied labourer 9s.
	a week in summer, and 8s. in winter.	For women, 4s. a week
	For wrights, smiths, and masons, from 12s. to 15s., and for
	weavers from 7s. to 8s.
	  Rent.-The valued rent of the parish is L.5824 Scots. The
	annual value of real property, for which it was assessed in 1815,
	was L.8144 Sterling. From the agricultural improvements that


