
                     KILNINIAN AND KILMORE                        343
          
ble advantage from the sea. Torloisk, the beautiful -seat of the
late Mrs Clephane MacleaD, is situated amongst thriving planta-
tions, and commands a fine view of the Ulva north loch, and the
Treshinish island&*
The origin of the founder of this distinguished branch of the clan Maclean it
thus given in traditionary story - Maclean of Duart having had an intrigue with a
,tiful young woman of his own clan, she bore to him a son. The child being
borninabarureceivedthenameofALIlan-a-sop,or,41tasofthestraw. Ailanbeing
a natural son had no inheritance to look to, saving whut he might win for himself.
Maclean of Torlaisk afterwards married the boy's mother, an& took her to reside
withhimatbisc`stleoftorloi,sk. Allanpaidhismotherfrequentvisitsathernew
residence, which were by no means acceptabld to her husband.- The lady one morn          I-
ing looking from the window sa%v her son wandering down the hill, and hastened to
put a cake on the fire for his breakfast. Her husband noticing this, snatched the
cake from the girdle, and, thrusting it into his step-ron's hands, forcibly closed them
vn the scaldini'bread,'sayitig, - Here is a cake, Allan, which your mother has pre-
pared for your breakfast" Allan's hands were severely burnt, and, resenting this
mark of his step-fatber's ill will, he came ncit again to TCorloisk.
- At this time the western seas were covered with pirittical vessels sent out by the
I)anes. Allan entered as a mariner on board one ofthese, and, havinl, attained to the
command first of one galley, and then of a flotilla, hit made his nam,;both feared and
famous in the western seas. At length thinking of his mother, he proposed i)avinff
her a visit, and, setting sail for this purpose, anchored one morning in the Ulv; 'ortri
)och,andinfrontofthebouseofTorloisk. ]Hismotherwasbyihistimedead;but
his step-father hastened to the shore to receive his now formidable son-in-law with
great apparent kindness. The crafty old man succeeded so well, as he thought, in
securin Allan's friendship, that he began to thit-ik it possible to employ Allan in eihe-
9
cuting his private revenge on Macquarie of Ulva, one of his nehghbours, with whom
he had some feud. With this purpose he says to Allan, 11 You have now wandered
on the seas long enough , it is time you should have a footing on land, a castle to
protect yourself in winter, a village and cattle for your men, and a harbour to lay up
Ur alleyel Now here is the Island of Ulva lying ready for your reception, and it
YO
will .9.t you no trouble, save that of putting to death the pres'ent laird, 'a uselan old
earl, who has cumbered the world long enough."
Allan, acting on so happy a suggestion, set sail next morning to put it in execu-
ion, and, appearing before Macquarie's house, the old ebiefof fjlva was much
alarmed at the menacing apparition of so many galleys. Having no eitectual means
of resistance, Macquarie, who was a shrewd man, saw no alternative but to receive
the invaders, whatever might be their purpose, with all outward demonstrations gf
joy and satisfaction, He caused a banquet to be prepared as splendid as circumstan-
ces admitted, hastened to the sound to meet the rover, and welcomed him to,Ulvit
with such an appearance of sincerity, that the pirate found no pretence for picking 41
quarrel.
They feasted together the whole day, and, in the evening, Allan. beial, about to
retire to his ships, thanked the chief for his entertainment; but remarked Zvitb a siffh
that it had cost him very dear. 11 How can that be," stid Macquarie, - when;l 1;;-
stowed this entertainment upon yo in free good will ?" , It is true, my friend."
said the pirate, 11 but then it has quite disarranged the purpose for which I came hi-
ther, which was, to to death, seize your cattle and island, and settle myww
in the world. This=Uwould have been most convenient for me ; but your boa
Pitable rec ption renders it impossible for me to execute my purpose. 1, therefore,
inu. be .'wanderer on the seas a short time longer.-1, My Dear AligLn," ropfl-6d
Macquarie, I- I am sure this never arose from yotir own generous nature, but from
Ygur father-in-law, old Torloisk, who made an indifferent husband to your good fai),-
ther, and an unfriendly step-father to you. Consider this matter better, A16ni and
You will see that the estate and harbour of Torloisk lie as conveniently for you an
those of Ulva, and, if you mtut make a settlement by force, it is much better  food &
30 at the expense of the old. churl who never showed you kindoess, "u ofs friend
like - who always loved and honoured you."


