
40                         RENFREWSHIRE.

are furrow drains.  Clauses, as to the mode of management, are
seldom inserted in the leases, and are held to be useless, when a
proper selection of tenants is made.  Indeed, by far the greater
part of the parish is held by the tenants, under verbal bargains,
for the term of years noted, in the proprietor's rental book, or by a
memorandum of the agreement.  The general duration of leases is
ten years, and few of the farms much exceed 100 acres.

<TABLE>
   The average produce of wheat per acre may be taken at 9 bolls.
                          oats,  do,                     8
                          cultivated hay, do.          200 stones
                          potatoes, do.                 30 bolls.

There are few or no cabbages or beet raised in the parish for the
purpose of feeding cattle.  Each farmer cultivates as many tur-
nips as may be sufficient for consumption on his own lands. They
are seldom raised for the market.
   The quantity of land in the parish under grass may be reckoned
at about one-half. This, it must be observed, includes, not only
the lands in pasture connected with the various farms, but several
large districts, of pasture land which Sir John Maxwell retains in
his own hand.
   The gross, amount of coals wrought in the parish may be valued
at L. 3500; and of lime at L. 400.
   Manufactures.-The several branches of manufacture carried on
in the are cotton-spinning, weaving, bleaching, calico-print-
ing, &c.  In the Pollockshaws cotton-work, there are employed
in power-loom weaving, 265 persons; in cotton-spinning, 194;
total, 459.  There are employed in Auldhouse-field in bleaching
and finishing, 190; mechanibs and labourers, 20; total, 210.
In Thornliebank, there are employed in calico-printing, 344;
bleaching and finishing, 186; cotton-spinning, 151; power-loom-
weaving, 121; hand-loom-weaving 45; total, 847.-At Green-
bank.  Pollockshaws, there is a considerable dye-work, but I can-
not specify exactly the number there employed. There are, besides
in Pollockshaws, several hundred hand-loom weavers employed
by the manufacturers of Glasgow and Paisley.  These have
generally been considered as excelling in that department.
  In the manufactories, men, women, and children, work usually
twelve hours each day, with the exception of Saturday, when
they are engaged only nine hours; and the wages are considered as
affording fair remuneration and means of support to the operatives.
With the respect to their effects on health and morals, a master of one
of these public workswrites thus. "From all I can learn, the health
				   3


