
                           ABERDEEN.                          15

abundance along this coast, but it was not until about two years
ago, that, by the exertions of the late Provost Blaikie, a vigorous
attemp was made to establish a herring-fishery at Aberdeen.
There are at present about thirty boats employed in this way, and
the success which they have had has been highly encouraging, so
that it may be hoped that this department of the fishery is likely
to be prosecuted henceforth with advantage.  The salmon-fisher
is carried on to a very considerable extent both in the sea and in
the river Dee, and the rents accruing to the magistrates of Aber-
deen, and to various private individuals from this source, are to a
considerable amount.  A statement of the actual quantity of sal-
mon caught in the Dee and on the beach adjacent cannot be given,
because these fishings, being in the bands of persons possessing si-
milar fishings in other situations, it has not been deemed of im-
portance to distinguish the fish of eabh particular river or station.
   Occasionally considerable quantities of shrimps are caught in
pools left by the tide on the sands; and the fishermen who reside
in Futtie use as bait great quantities of sand-eels, which they
collect by turning over the sand after the tide has receded.
   In consequence of the sandy nature of the beach, it affords no
resting place or shelter for shell-fish and the shells which are
found on the beach are, therefore, brought by the sea from other
situations, and generally the fish have decayed before the shells
are washed ashore.  Sometimes after a storm, a few Echini and
Medusae are found on the beach, but this is by no means frequent.
The same observation applies to several kinds of small Corallines,
and to various kinds of marine plants, none of which are properly
speaking the produce of tbis coast, nor ever found on it in suffi-
cient quantity to be of any importance either as manure, or for
the purpose of preparing kelp.
   Botany.-The botany of such a parish is equally devoid of in-
terest or variety as its zoology.  The plants and trees which thrive
well are necessarily of the more hardy kinds, and there is none of
which it can well be said, that either the climate or the soil are
so peculiarly suited to them, as to render them specially the pro-
duce of this parish.  Forest trees of the various ordinary kinds,
as fir, larch, spruce, ash, elm, beech, birch, plane, mountain-ash,
service, &c. &c., are reared to a considerable extent in the nursery
grounds in and adjacent to the parish.  The oak seems scarcely
to thrive now in this part of the country, although in executing
the improvements which have lately, been carried on in the har-


