
                               GREENOCK                       475

      tients. It cost, furniture and other expenses included, L.1815,
      18s. 6d. Sir John Shaw Stewart, the Lord of the manor, gave
      40 falls of ground, valued at L. 10, 10s. per fall, for the site of
      the building.  The other expenses were defrayed by subscriptions
      obtained, with the exception of L. 120 from Port-Glasgow chiefly
      from person residing in Greenock.  The amount of subscriptions
      was L.2357, 11s. 7d., of which L 500 was set apart for building a
      bridewell.
        The airing-ground being found insufficient,  Sir Michael Shaw
      Stewart gave, in 1815, an additional sum of 46 falls of ground, at
      the same valuation as the former.
        From the report of the managers for the year ending May
      1829, it appears that fever was then so prevalent among the poor,
      that the hospital was incapable of receiving all the applicants for
      admission.  The number of fever cases. in that year was 437.
      The greatest, number in any previous year was 260., To meet
      this emergency a tem rar fever-hospital was fitted up: but the
      insufficiency of the hospital accommodation for fever patients be-
      ing thus pressed upon the attention of the public, a new subscrip-
      tion was immediately commenced for the purpose of making an
      addition to the Infirmary. The sum of L. 1032, 15s. was thus
      obtained; two wings were built, and in the year 1830 were fit for
      the reception of applicants.  The whole building is now capable
      of receiving about 100 patients.
        An abundant supply of water is obtained gratis, through the li-
      berality of the Shaw's Water Company.  The Gas Works with
      equal liberality, afford a sufficient quantity of gas for lighting the
      hospital.
        The average annual number of patients admitted for the last
      five years is 585.  Fever cases are of most frequent occurrence.
      Of these, the average annual number during the last five years is
      402.  The average of deaths from fever is I in &. In 1838, the
      number of fever patients admitted into the infirmary was greater
      than in any year since its institution.   It amounted to  700. The
      injuries of most frequent occurance are fractures of extremi-
      ties. The average annual numbermof  out-door, or what may call-
      ed dispensary patients, during the last five years, is 207.
        The average annual expenditure for the same period is about
      L. 958.  This sum is obtained from annual contributions, collec-
      tions at the churches and chapeles, and contributions from the
      workmen at several of the manufacturies.  It is somewhat surpris-


