
482                      PERTHSHIRE.

desire of parents and guardians to have the young instructed, I am
inclined to think that there are none between six and fifteen, capable
of instruction, who cannot read, though there are undoubtedly
many, and particularly females, who cannot write.   And, in like
manner, while they are but few, and these chiely aged people,
above fifteen, who cannot read, there are certainly a great many,
both male and females, who cannot write; but the females form
bx much the greater number.  It is due to the people to say that
they do appreciate the benefits of education; one for every five
of the populations; attending school, a ratio of school-going
equal to that in any place or in any country.  The instruction im-
parted, more particularly in the unendoweci schools, ig. of the hum-
blest character.  Nor could it well be otherwise.   The private
schools are all taught by young men from among the peasantry,
with no advantage but the moderate stock of knowledge which
they had acquired by their own exertions, and I may say almost
all at their own fire-sides; and with no encouragement but the
scanty allowance stipulated for by the parents, many of whom are
in indigent circumstances.  These inconveniences being consider-
ed, it is a matter of wonder that the proficiency of the scholars
shoud be such as we find it to be.
   The Marquis of Breadalbane has resolved to place at the dis-
posal of the ministers of Kenmore and Killin, a sum of money to
be expended in the purchase of useful books for prizes to be award-
ed at an annual competition of all the schools of Breadalbane.  It
is proposed that, at certain intervals of years, the teachers should
also have their respective merits ascertained, so as to be signalised
by the bestowal of similar honours.
  It would tend greatly to ameliorate the rystem of education in
our Scottish schools, if there were introduced, by authority an uni-
form set of elementary books; as matters are at present, no two
schools have the same books, and, even in the same school, there
is often to be found the most heterogeneous mixture.
    Library.--There is a small library in the village of Kenmore, es-
tablished some few years ago, at the suggestions, and by the aid, of
Lady Elizabeth Campbell, now Pringle.   It is composed chiefly of
religious books.   There are but few persons, however, who have
hithereto made use of it; the people, though advancing, belong hard-
ly yet strived at that state of intellectual improvement that they
can be said to have a taste of appetite for reading.   But the thing
is evidently in progess.   Of late else, a small library of well se-


