
			   GARVOCK.                            25

from this, through the middle of the vale, westward, you see just
the tops of the trees at the village of Drumlithie, belonging to
--Gordon Esq. of Avochie; Monboddo, the seat of Captain
Burnet. Here was born his grandfather, the celebrated Lord Mon-
boddo. Redhall the seat of Carnegie of Pitarrow, where stood
the mansion-house, in which the amiable, learned, and pious
George Wishart was born; who, for his pious exertions in pro-
moting the Reformation, was treacherously seized, and dragged
to the stake, at St Andrews, by the cruel and licentious Cardinal
Beaton in 1546. The old wood of Halkerton, where long stood
the mansion-house of the Barons Falconer, the ancestors of the
present Earl of Kintore. They took the sirname of Falconer,
from their ancestors having had the charge of the hawks and
falcons of King William the Lion, about 1200; hence, too, the
name Hawkerstown, contracted now into Halkerton. Thornton
Castle, the seat of the Rev. Dr Crombie. Upwards of a century
ago, this belonged to the Strachans, and from it Admiral Sir R.
Strachan took his title.
  Raising now your eye towards the east end of Strath Fennella
Hill, you have a partial view of the village of Auchinblae, belong-
ing to the Earl of Kintore; and of Fordoun, the Presbytery seat,
with its handsome and cathedral-looking church. This is the
birth-place of John Fordoun, the father of Scottish history, and
author of the Scotichronicon. It was also the residence of St Pal-
ladius, the opponent of the Pelagian heresy, and his chapel, which
still stands in the churchyard, was, in the days of Popery, the resort
of numerous pilgrims. In a western direction, along the foot of
the Grampians, you see Phesdo, a handsome seat of Dr Crom-
bie--the site of the castle and capital of Kincardineshire, where
not only the Sheriff-court was held, till removed to Stonehaven
by James VI., but the royal court was sometimes held, about
600 years ago. It was here where Baliol surrendered to Edward I.
in 1296; and the farm on which this now " deserted village"
lies, is called Castletown of Kincardine. The princely mansion of
Fasque, long the seat of the Baronets of Balmain, now the seat of
--Gladstone, Esq. A little below this you see the woods which
conceal Fettercairn House, the seat of Sir J. Forbes. And hard
by stand the village and church of Fettercairn. Somewhere here,
it was, according to Buchanan, that Fenella, daughter of the Thane
of Angus, had her delightfully situated castle, in which she mur-
dered Keneth III. as he was passing on a pilgrimage to the shrine


