
138                      FORFARSHIRE.

trose is in this parish. Two coaches run every lawful day betwixt
Edinburgh and Aberdeen, passing through the town. There is
also a noddy to and from Montrose, and a caravan to and from
Arbroath on Tuesday, which is market-day. There is an ancient
bridge at the lower part of the town, or tenements, on the old roads
to Arbroath and Forfar, necessary for the adjoining country to the
south;--and a new one lately erected at Stannachy ford, which is
intended to serve for a line of road just now begun, both for Dun-
dee and Arbroath. The fences of hedges and stone-dikes are in
good condition. They are much increased and improved of late
years. A rail-road to Montrose has often been talked of, but no-
thing is yet done. We have heard also of the project of a canal,
and of deepening and widening the river South Esk.
	Eclesiastical State.--The church is in the centre of the town
and parish, in dxcellent repair, but very deficient in accommoda-
tion for the parishioners,--containing only 1500 sittings. There
is no place above four miles distant.
	The pastoral charge is collegiate. The first minister has neither
manse nor grebe, but possesses a house built from the funds of the
Exchequer upwards of fifty years ago, in place of the bishop's pa-
lace, and some excellent garden ground, of nearly an acre in ex-
tent. The stipend, as lately augmented and modified, consists of
19 chalders of grain, half barley, half oatmeal, including 3 1/2 bolls
of wheat, besides L. 10 for furnishing communion elements.  The
second minister has both manse and grebe. The manse was re-
built about thirty years ago. The grebe is six acres of good ground
to the west of the town, near Brechin Castle; he has 17 chalders
of grain, besides L. 21 from Bishop's rents, and L. 10 for commu-
nion elements. Each minister dispenses the communion once in
the year, in the months of May and October. The stipend of
each minister converted to money varies from L. 230 to L. 300
a-year.
	There are no less than four Presbyterian meeting-houses in
the town; two of the United Secession Church, one of the Ori-
ginal Seceders, formerly called Antiburghers, and a Relief, for-
merly an English Episcopal chapel. There is one Scotch Epis-
copal chapel, attended by most nf the gentlemen's families in the
neighbourhood; and by a good many of all ranks in the town. The
minister has a good dwelling-house, given to him individually by
some of his richest hearers. One of the United Secession mini-
sters has a house as part of his living. None of the above clergy-


