
                         AUCHTERTOOL.                        253

of the houses that have been built recently are covered with blue
slate or tile. The use of thatch is almost universally relinquished
in the parish.
<TABLE=III.--POPULATION.>

		  III.--POPULATION.

           Population in 1801,    -       396
                         1811,    -       501
                         1821,    -       536
                         1831,    -       527

   The only apparent probable cause of the increase of popula-
tion, is the progress of agricultural improvement. By that and the
increased attention to the improvement of roads, a much greater
number of labourers is necessary for the latter, and many more,
both of males and females, are in demand for the form er now, than
in former times, whose labour is remunerated with ample wages;
and though the price of their labour does occasionally rise and fall
somewhat, yet it is much more steady and uniform than that of the
labour of operatives in manufactures. The demand for country
labour too, scarcely ever varies, if it does not increase. But the
same cannot be said of the labour of operatives in manufacturing
towns. Formerly too, females were but little employed in agri-
cultural work; but, with the progress of improvement, the demand
for their labour has increased so much that every farmer pre-
fers for his cottager, the man who has daughters that will work in
his field, for which they are liberally paid. Their labour consists
in hoeing potatoes, in hoeing and hand-weeding turnips, and other
drilled crops. In harvest they are employed in reaping, and of
course receive reaper's wages. Nor are they without employment
in winter. They are frequently employed at thrashing-will, and
in pulling and preparing turnips for cattle. It is obvious that, in
this state of things, there is a tendency to, induce the labouring
classes of both sexes to resort to country villages and cottar-houses
for residence, where employment is always to be had. The rate
of wages, compared with the price of grain, is always high, and less
fluctuating than in trade and manufactures; accordingly the num-
ber of village and cottar-houses has been increasing, and latterly
with great rapidity.
<TABLE>

Number of persons residing in two villages               -     -     404
                           in the country,               -     -     128
The yearly average of marriages for the last 7 years,    -     -       6
                    of births,                           -     -      11
No registers of deaths.
The average number of persons under 15 years of age,     -     -     176
                              between 15 and 30,         -     -     150
                                      30 and.50,         -     -     124
                                      50 and 70,         -     -      69
                              upwards of 70,             -     -      27

                              3


