
110                   DUMBARTONSHIRE.

   The Gareloch affords excellent anchorage for vessels of all sizes;
the holding-ground is good, and the shelter is complete from all
the more prevalent winds. This is especially true of the beautiful
small bay of Campsaile, perhaps the best sheltered anchorage on the
west coast of Scotland. Of late years, it has on this account been se-
lected by many gentlemen of the Royal Yacht Club, and during the
winter-season is studded with their cutters, which ride there in perfect
safety during the most violent gales. It appears that, at a very
early period, it was used by the Kings of Scotland for a similar pur-
pose, having been a frequent station of the royal navies: and with-
in the memory of the present generation a 74 gun-ship lay for a
considerable time at anchor, between the Row Ferry and the Castle-
point: Indeed, the whole navy of Britain might ride securely on
the bosom of the Gareloch, and enjoy all the comforts of an inland
harbour.
   Geology and Mineralogy.-There is scarcely any thing worthy
of notice in the geological structure of the parish. It may be men-
tioned, however, that nearly the whole strata of this peninsula be-
long to the primitive class of rocks, The prevailing formation is
clay-slate, which, at times, passes into chlorite slate, and, more
rarely, into mica slate. One example of the chlorite slate has
been furnished by quarries that have been opened on the face of
the hill rising from the Gareloch, above the Row Ferry. The
clay slate strata are inclined at an angle of about 60&deg;. The di-
rection appears to be pretty uniform, from north-west to south-east.
   On the shore of Loch Long, near the site of the old fort at
Knockderry, a large mass of greenstone has been forced up be-
tween the strata, and appears as a dike of from twenty to thirty
feet thick, lying interposed between the strata, and not cutting them
across. In the immediate vicinity of this dike, the rock approaches
in its mineralogical character to chlorite slate; but at no great
distance, the clay-slate appears. Annther much smaller greenstone
dike, about three feet thick, and nearly half a mile farther south
on the same shore, is found similarly related to the adjoining stra-
ta. The south-eastern extremity of the parish is occupied by a
rock of the secondary class, conglomerate, or coarse sandstone,
which occurs in beds of considerable thickness. This rock is
recognized as a portion of the great sandstone formation which
extends along the opposite shores of Renfrew and Ayrshire, and
embraces the Cumbrae Islands and a large portion of the southern
half of Bute. The sandstone must, no doubt, be regarded as one


