
                          KILSYTH.

party in the parish, espoused his cause; and, when the Presbytery
met at the church, the patron sent down his chamberlain to refuse
them admittance, and lock up the doors.  The populace even of-
fered violence to the Presbyterian clergyman who was to officiate.
A scuffle ensued, in which many were wounded, and one killed.
Mr M'Gill's partizans at last prevailed, and the Presbytery were
at a loss what steps next to take; but, in February 1691, Mr
M'Gill formally gave in his demission.  A vacancy ensued for
some time; during which period, the Presbytery visited, and order-
ed repairs on the church, manse, and offices to the amount of
L.212, 1s. 4d. Scots.
  On the 29th December 1692, Mr James Hay, the first Presby-
terian minister, was translated from Kilmalcolm to this parish.
During his incumbency, the church received considerable repairs.
The roof was renewed, and the north aisle, with the vault or bury-
ing-ground under it, was repaired in the year 1697, the parish be-
ing assessed L.1266, 13s. 4d. Scots. Mr Hay was fifty-two years
of age when he was admitted.  In 1710, Mr James Stewart was
elected, by unanimous consent of the minister, session, and con-
gregation, to be assistant.  In that capacity he officiated till Mr
Hay's death, in July following.  A vacancy again ensued, the
Presbytery for nearly three years supplying the charge once in the
fortnight.
  The famous Mr J. Robe, son of the Rev. Mr Michael Robe, mi-
nister at Cumbernauld, was admitted minister on 24th April 1713. *
He received a presentation from the Viscount of Kilsyth, who was
so tenacious of his right, that neither he nor his lady would allow
a call to be moderated in his favour.  The Presbytery, being as-
sured that the presentee was acceptable to the parish, dispensed
with the form of a call, and ordained and admitted him.  Patro-
nage had been very recently restored by Queen Anne's ministry.
It was under Mr Robe's ministry, as already noticed, that the re.
markable religious revival took place.
  On the 21st March 1754, Mr John Telfer was ordained minis-
ter; and he continued so till his death, in March 1789. It was dur-
ing his ministry, that the Relief secession took place. Mr Telfer
had given offence to his session, and many of his people, by coun-
tenancing, by his presence, the unpopular settlement of a minister.

<FOOTNOTE>It is not at all likely that any formal deed of presentation was either offered or
accepted; but the fact only is certain, that, after a three years vacancy, Mr Robe
was amleably settled.


