
                           INVERESK.                         295

in the harbour than its height outside the pier. In order to re-
medy this, it was suggested that a reservoir should be constructed
to the east of the pier, from the bottom of which a cast-iron pipe
was to be carried into the harbour through an archway in the pier
of 7 feet high and of the same width. This archway being left
open to the run of the tides through the harbour would, it was sup-
posed, aid the effect of the water from the reservoir in clearing out
the drifted sand. Only one-half of this proposal was adopted;
an archway was opened through the pier, but as it was soon dis-
covered that this, in place of clearing the harbour, rather increas-
ed the deposit of sand, it was after a short trial closed up. The
only practicable way of gaining a greater depth of water appears
to be to extend the present pier; and as the trade of the port has
latterly been so much on the increase, this, in all likelihood, will
be done. No possible outlay, however, can ever render it a good
harbour.
   Bridges.--Aboat 300 yards below the old Roman bridge, which
is now used only by foot-passengers, and which, if carefully pre-
served, as at present, may continue to span the river for centuries
to come, an elegant new bridge, consisting of five elliptic arches,
planned by Sir John Rennie, the late celebrated engineer, was
erected in 1806-7. This handsome structure, across which the
London post-road passes, is a great ornament to the town, and af-
fords an excellent communication between Musselburgh and Fisher-
row. By two wooden bridges still lower, the intercourse is ren-
dered as convenient and easy as could be desired.
   Ecclesiastical State.--The old church of St Michael's, having
become both ruinous and inadequate for the proper accommoda-
tion of a rapidly increasing population, was taken down, and the
present church erected on the same site. It was opened for pub-
lic worship in 1806. The size of it is 82 by 56 feet within walls.
It has two galleries, and is seated for 2400, allowing eighteen
inches for each individual. The number which it can actually con-
tain may be about 3000. It is much to be regretted that advan-
tage was not taken of the opportunity which the erection of a new
church afforded, of placing it in a situation more convenient for
the large body of parishioners; and not less must it continue
to be the subject both of wonder and regret that one of the finest
and most commanding situtations which it is possible to con-
ceive, should have been disfigured with a clumsy piece of archi-
tecture, totally destitute of the slightest pretensions to elegance.


