
                            METHVEN.                                  149

        taken to introduce the following illustrative note, which, in. our
        opinion, is highly deserving of a place here.
           "A branch of this fitmily afterwards established itself in Scot-
        land, and became very flourishing.  To Sir Roger Mowbray be,
        longed the baronies of Kelly, Eckford, Dalmeny, and Methven,
        lying in the shires of Forfar, Roxburgh, Linlithgow, and Perth;
        but for adhering to the Baliol and English interest, his lands were
        confiscated by Robert L, who bestowed Eckford, Kelly, and
        Methven on his son-in-law, Walter, the eighth hereditary Lord
        High Steward of Scotland, whose son, Robert, was afterwards
        King, and the second of the name, in right of his mother, Mar-
        jory Bruce, daughter of Robert 1. The lordship of Methven was
        granted by him to Walter Stewart, Earl of Athol, his second son,
        by Euphame Rosts, his second wife, and after his forfeiture remain-
        ed in the crown a considerable time.  It became part of the
        dowery lands usually appropriated for the maintenance of the
        queen dowager of Scotland, together with,the lordship and Castle
        of Stirling, and the lands of Balquhidder, &c. all of which
        were settled on Margaret, Queen Dowager of James IV., who in the
        year 15249 having divorced her second husband, Archibald Earl
        of Angus, married Henry Stewart, second son of Andrew, Lord
        Evandale, afterwards Ochiltree, a descendant of Robert Duke of
        Albany, son of King Robert II.  Margaret was the eldest daugh-
        ter of Henry VII. of Englandq in whose right James VI. of Scot-
        land, her great grandson, succeeded to that crown, on the death
        of Queen Elizabeth.  She procured for her third husband a peer-
        age from her son, James V. under the title, of Lord Methven, an-
        no 1528; and on this occasion the barony of Metbven was dis-
        solved from the crown, and erected into a lordship in favour of
        Henry Stewart and his heirs-male, on the Queen's resigning her
        jointtre of the lordship of Stirling.  By Lord Methven she had.
        a daughter, who died in infancy before herself.  The Queen died
        at the Castle of Methven in 1540; and, was buried at Perth, be-
        side the body of King James L Lord Methven afterwards mar-
        ried Janet Stewart, daughter of the Earl of Athol, by whom be
        had a son, Henry II.  Lord Methven, who married Jean, daughter
        of Patrick Lord Ruthven, and was killed at Broughton, by a cam-
        non ball from the Castle of Edinburgh, in 1572, leaving a son,
        Henry III.Lord Methvenq who died without issue. This third
        Lord Methven is mentioned on  the authority of Stewart's Genea-
        logical Account of tAe House of Stewart.  In the year 1584, the


