
			  KELTON.                        149

that is becoming common in this part of the country,--adopt the
Ayrshire breed of cows.
	The greatest share of the agriculturist's attention, however, is
directed to the rearing of black-cattle, which may still be consi-
dered as the staple commodity of Galloway. In this respect,
there seems to be a stronf inclination to keep up the character
which the county had acquired in the days of Symson, who re-
marks, that it was "more plentifull in bestiall than cornes." Many
more cattle are reared then bred in this parish. Some are brought
from the Highlands of Scotland; others from Ireland, or the
northern counties of England; and, after being grazed a year, are
again sold to the dealers who supply the English markets. They
are generally bought at the age of one or two years, at prices va-
rying from L.5 to L. 10, and are sold at prices ranging from L.9
to L.14. Some of the best lots bring as high as L.15. What-
ever disputes may exist with regard to the comparative merits of
the Galloway and Ayshire cows, there is none with regars to
their respective capabilities of being fed for the butcher,--the
Galloway being readily and universally allowed to take on fat
much faster, and to afford finer beef than its rivel.
	None of the farms in Kelton are held exclusively as sheep-walks.
A considerable number of these useful animals, however, are kept
in the parish. They are almost all of the cross breed between the
Cheviot and Leicester. A few of the small black-faced sheep,
the ancient breed of the country, are still to be seen wandering
among the rocks of the Skreel. These produce finer mutton than
the cross-breeds. All the farmers, and many of the common peo-
ple, keep a few pigs, part of which are used in their own house-
holds, and part brought to market. On several of the farms,
large flocks of geese are seen feeding, which, towards the end of
the year, are sent to the Edinburgh, Glasgow, or Liverpool
market.
	Grouse, blockcocks, partridges, pheasants, and wood pigeons,
hares and rabbits abound. The wnodcock, cuckoo. landrail, swal-
low, and marten are annual visitants. The curlew, quail, and bit-
tern are sometimes met with. The Carlinwark Loch is stocked
with almost all the fresh-water fowls common in the country, as
the swan, heron, wild duck, and various species of the jay-teal.
Chinese geese breed in the island; and the solitary cormorant
may often be seen swimming among the waves, or sitting motion-
less for amny hours together upon a pile of stones in the middle of


