
718                      LANARKSHIRE.

bers, and, in case of death, to assist in defraying funeral charges.
About L.285 of the funds of these societies have found their way
into the savings bank.  The good which has resulted from the
establishment of the bank is in the highest degree gratifying.  In-
stances might have been mentioned, could this have been done
without a violation of confidence, and perhaps hurting the feelings
of the parties.
   Parochial Funds for the Poor.-the poor are provided for
chiefly by an assessment on the parish.  This is levied accord-
ing to the actual rental, which is estimated at L.100,913, 3s. 2d.
For the year 1838-9, the sum realized by the assessment was
L.2333, 7s. 11d.  The amount given for the maintenance of lu-
natics was L.320, 7s. 1d., and for the support of the ordinary en-
rolled poor, L.934, 16s. 5d.  The great number of foundlings and
orphans thrown upon the parish creates a very heavy charge.
Paupers, in ordinary circumstances, receive an allowance which
varies from 2s. a month in the case of individuals, to 10s. in the
case of widows with children.  The Trustees of the late Mrs Thom
distribute, through'the medium of the kirk-session, L.10 annual-
ly in meal and coals, among the poor of the villages of Govan and
Partick.  In inclement seasons, and when provisions are high
priced, the wants of the poor in these villages are farther attend-
ed to by private benevolence, administered in the shape of food,
fuel, and clothing.  The poor of that part of the parish of Govan
which was annexed to Gorbals quoad sacra, in 1771, were, till the
year 1823, with the exception of the lunatics and foundlings, pro-
vided for along with the poor of Gorbals proper, by the kirk-ses-
sion of Gorbals, out of their church-door collections, proclamation
dues, and other funds at their disposal; and down to that period
there was no legal assessment for the poor in either of the pa-
rishes; but since then, the heritors of Gorbals have applied to
the maintenance of their own poor the whole of the cnllections,
and likewise the dues paid for the publication of marriage banns,
by persons residing in the annexation.  An action, therefore, has
been raised, and is now in dependence before the Supreme Court,
for redress, by the heritors and ktrk-session of Govan.
   Inns and Alehouses.-these are so numerous as to form a great,
moral nuisance.  Their pestiferous effects on the health and vir-
tuous habits of the people are only too apparent.

   February 1840.


