
     of Dundee.

water, except one, which is dry in summer, and the declivity
of the ground in all places, speedily carries off the ram.

   Fossils, Springs, etc.-Unless whin-stone and porphyry
may be classed among volcanic productions, nothing of this
kind has been discovered.  These two, particularly the first,
compose the principal part of the hills and rising grounds in
the parish.  The porphyry is chiefly on the lands of Balgay
and Blackness.  There are, however, various quarries of
what we call free-stone.  This is much harder than the free-
stone about Edinburgh, and is evidently stratified.  It is a
sand-stone, and sometimes incloses many pebbles, such as now
lie on all our shores, and are rounded by the dashing of the
waters.  From the quarries of this kind in the neighbourhood,
and especially along the coast, stones for building in the town
are often taken.  But the best quarry, and what builders princi-
pally employ, is that of Kingoodie on the estate of Mill-field,
in the parish of Forgan; and lighters bring the stone imme-
diately from the quarry.  Though composed of coarser par-

     VOL. VIII. C c

<FOOTNOTE>

to act, in some degree, as an electrical conductor.  We have no water spouts,
er whirlwinds, and, excepting the meteor, which, some years ago, passed along
the whole island no remarkable phaenomena are remembered in the air.  The
aurora boreahs dilsers nothing from those in other places of Scotland, and, ex-
cept dining a settled course of frost, it is generally followed by wind and rain
from the south.  From a meteorological register, kept for some years past, by
Mr. Fairweather, a gentleman in the neighbourhood of the town, it appears, that
the annual average of rain, which fell from January I783, to January 1792, is
22, 12 inches, or abstracting from the uncommonly rainy year of 1789, 21, 23,
that the average height of Faranheit's thermometer, for the months of June,
July, and August, at two o'clock afternoon, was for the same years 63, 85, and
for the months of December, January, and February, at 8 in the morning 34,
78.  The house, where this register was kept, is situated in the south exposure
of the bank below Blackness, and about 40 feet above the level of the Tay.

     6


