
                           MONZIE.                           267

tie, and the Barvick, three small streams issuing from the hills,
after a short and somewhat precipitous career, join the turret, and
pour their united waters into the Earn, a little above Crieff.
   Waterfalls.-Like most Highland districts, this parish prerents
us with a due proportion of waterfalls.  Besides the three upon
the Shaggie already mentioned, and many others of smaller
note, there is one upon the Keltie 90 feet in height; while the
Barvick, throughout nearly its whole extent, is one succession
of cascades, the romantic effect of which is heightened by its lofty
and steep banks of naked rock, overshadowed by a thick, though
unequal covering of such wood as can contrive to extract nourish-
ment from a scanty soil, or from the fissures of the craggy preci-
pices.  When the visitor approaches this romantic dell from the
west, and his ear is assailed by the moaning of the winds mingled
with the sound of thd waters, as they leap from rock to rock, the
melodious lines of Spenser are vividly recalled to his mind:

             " The water's fall with difference discreet
               Now soft, now loud, unto the wind did call;
               The gentle, warbling wind low answered to all."

   Geology and Soil. - Slate, sandstone, and limestone, are all
found in this parish; but the latter being of indifferent quality,
and far from coal is not wrought.  The prevailing soil is light,
dry, and good.
   Zoology.-Among the various species of animals may be enu-
merated the hare, the rabbit, the otter, the badger, the fox, the roe-
deer, the squirrel, the weasel, the stoat, thd marteu and the wild
cat: the common gray eagle, the falcon, the salmon-tailed glade,
the common buzzard, the sparrowhawk, the merlin, the wood-
cock, the pheasant, a great variety of the duck tribe, the partridge,
the snipe, black game and grouse in great abundance.
   There is plenty of common trout mail the streams, and in the
Almond are both sea-trout and salmon; the former come up to
spawn in the middle of July, and the latter in the end of October,
and both return to the sea in the end of November and beginning
of December.  At Buchanty there is a fall. upon the Almond,
which effectually prevents the salmon and sea-trout from ascend-
ing farther, up the rhver, and many of those that endeavour to take
this leap are caught by means of a basket or cruive, so placed as
to intercept them in their fruitless attempt.
   Plantations.- There are several hundred acres of thriving plan-


