
312                      FORFARSHIRE.

tions, it would be hazardous to offer a conjecture on the tempera-
ture or humidity of the atmosphere. It may be noticed, however,
that, from the disposition of the high grounds in the adjacent coun-
try, the proportion of rain is rather less than what falls in any of
the neigbbouring districts. This is often specially observable
at times when the atmosphere is charged with electric clouds.
Dtring the winter and the vernal months, the wind blows frequently
cold and stormy from the north. From the configuration of the
mountainous region, and the great deficiency of wood, the parish is
exceedingly exposed to these squalls; but otherwise the climate
is very agreeable. Little or no inconvenience is felt from hoar-
frosts or mildew, and the population is equally exempted from
such complaints as are connected with a stagnant and putrid at-
mospbere.
        Geology and Mineralogy.-It has been already observed, that
the true topography of the parish is strongly marked by two ridges
running parallel to the great chain of the Grampians. To assign
300 feet for the elevation of the first, 700 for the second, and
1400 for the Grampian summits on the north, is thought to be an
estimate sufficiently correct. The southern slope of the first ridge,
under a variable depth of rich and productive soil, is composed of
sandstone dipping to the north at an angle of forty degrees, inter-
spersed with limestone, sometimes in nodules, and sometimes ex-
hibiting a slight appearance of stratification. From the summit
of this ridge, and northward to the middle of the opposite slope
or what is properly called the Brae of Fearn, there intervenes an
immense body of argillaceous rock of a deep ferruginious colour,
exhibiting little appearance of rtratification, and extending many
miles east and west. This species of rock is known in the country
by the name of kalm. It is generally decomposed by an exposure
of a few months, and converted into a free and rich mould. As we
ascend the second ridge, another sandstone appears, coarsely gra-
nulated, dipping reversely to the southern mass, at in angle vary-
ing from fifty to fifteen degrees, and regularly diminishing its dip
until it is obstructed by the puddingstone near the summit of
the ridge. This, with its rugged aspect, forms the southern bank
of the, uppermost valley-ground. On the opposite bank, the grey-
wacke occasionally protrudes itself, planted like a diminutive
breast work before a mountainous range of clay-slate. The qua-
lity; of this slate has been repeatedly tried, but hitherto found to
be unprofitable. It is not known that, throughout all this variety


