
     Statistical Account

quays would be necessary.  In their present state, the uni-
ted exertions of the men and women are employed in
dragging the boats up the beach, to secure them from be-
ing broken by the waves, and similar efforts must be made
in launching.  These daily operations are very hurtful to
the boats, and sometimes fatal to the men.  At Buckie and
Findochtie only can piers, or quays, be constructed.  Their
advantages are many and important, and the want of them
is severely felt by people of all descriptions.  The land-
carriage of heavy goods from Aberdeen, Banff or Portsoy,
adds considerably to their price, and operates as a tax on
the consumer.  Coals, salt and iron are sometimes unload-
ed in the summer season at Buckie, but at the risk of lo-
sing the vessel.  With the laudable view of obviating these
inconveniencies, the proprietor of Buckie, not many years 
ago, caused a survey of the harbour, and plan of a pier to
be made on the east side of the burn; and sanguine hopes
were entertained by the public, of the advantages that
would accrue from the execution of a plan which promised
safety, and 14 feet of water at neap tides.  But this useful
and meritorious undertaking has not hitherto been execu- 
ted.  It is, however, I would fain hope, only suspended, 
not abandoned.  A pier at Buckie would be a standing
monument of the Baron's generosity, and serve to hand
him down to future ages as the father of his people, and
friend of mariners*.  Findochtie, though at present ne-

<FOOTNOTE>

*In the mean time, another plan has been adopted on a smaller
scale, and less eligible situation, at the mouth of the burn, on the west
side, belonging to Mr Dunbar.  Active steps have been taken by the
Buckie merchants and fishers to effectuate it.  To render this underta-
king safer and more extensively useful, it was judged proper to have a
small pier or bulwark on the east side of the burn, which could not be
done without permission from Mr Baron Gordon.  A petition was therefore
made out, and presented in 1792, craving leave to build, at their own


