
320                ROXBURGHSHIRE

  Modern Buildings.--Although the town is remarkable for its ge-
neral neatness, it does not possess more than two buildings of
any architectural merit.  These are, the town-house which occu-
pies the centre of the east side of the square, and the new church,
recently erected on the north side of the town for the better ac-
commodation of the members of the Establishment.  The former
is a building of two stories, with a pediment in front, supported by
four Ionic columns, surmounted by a handsome balustrade, and
with a neat turret or belfry of sufficient height to form a conspicu-
ous object in a town destitute of steeples.  The latter, the chastest
and most elegant ecclesiastical erection on the border, is an oblong
building in the Elizabethan style, with a quadrangular tower 70
feet high.
  Several  of the mansion-houses in the landward parish and of
the villas in the environs of the town, deserve to be noticed.
The stately ducal mansion of Floors, erected in 1718, is not
unworthy of its architect, Sir John Vanbrugh ; nor will its cha-
racter as "a building combining the ideas of ancient grandeur
with those of modern taste," * be diminished, but, on the contrary,
greatly enhanced, by the alterations which are now in progress
under the direction of Mr Playfair of Edinburgh.  Ednam House
is one of the most elegant private mansions that Nisbet ever de-
signed.  A gateway, after a design of Mr Gillespie Graham, form-
ing the entrance to the beautiful park of Springwood, is also gene-
rally admired as a happy application of the style of a Grecian door-
way to the purposes of a detached entrance gate.  Nor would the
mansion-houses of Springwood, Wooden, Pinnacle Hill, Woodside,
&c. deserve to pass unnoticed in a district less richly studded with
elegant country seats.
  But by far the most perfect specimen of modern architecture in
the parish, is the bridge across the Tweed, which unites in a remark-
able manner simplicity with strength.  The plan was furnished bv
the late Mr Rennie ; and its perfection as an architectural structure
may be inferred from the fact, that when called upon at a subsequent
period to furnish a plan for Waterloo Bridge across the Thames at
London, this eminent engineer, unable to suggest a better design,
produced an enlarged duplicate of Kelso Bridge.  It was begun in
1800, to supply the place of one + which had been swept away

<FOOTNOTE>These are the terms in which Sir Walter Scott describes this spacious mansion.
          The bridge here alluded to was situate a little farther up the Tweed, and was
built in 1754.  There was in early times a bridge across the Tweed, at the town of
Roxburgh, which was often destroyed and renewed, duridg contests for that town.


