
			ARTICLE GLASGOW.	 		927

sion to ordinances, she was very earnest in insisting upon men
making a public profession of religion.  Indeed, where this was
withheld, she entertained suspicions of their character and motives.
The Lord's Supper, though not formally used as such, seems often
to have served as a test whether a man were a Papist or a Protestant.
Aware of this, and to cover their Popery, Roman Catholics often
alleged that the reason why they did not communicate was that
they and their neighbours were at variance.  This was a false pretence.
Hence, the session in 1589 called upon such persons, notwithstand-
ing their alleged " uncharity," to be resolved " in their consciences,
as the word of God prescribes, and to communicate," under the
pain, if they gave no reasonable excuse to the session within a
certain time, of being summarily excommunicated as Papists.
This may seem a severe measure; but resistance to Popery was
essential to self-preservation ; and if the church insisted upon men
making a profession of religion, she was eminent for the zeal with
which she laboured to bring them to a suitable standard of know-
ledge and feeling.  It may seem almost incredible, but she made
some of her members responsible under a penalty for the instruc-
tion of their brethren.  In 1592, " Andrew Barrie was made re-
sponsible for Andrew Blackrode and his wife, under the pain of ten
merks ; John Park for Michael Brooke is under the pain of L. 4;
Robert Hutcheson for Janet Park, under the pain of L. 4, or be-
come cautioners and sureties that the said persons shall learn the
commandments betwixt this and the next communion time."
   Having contemplated the component parts of the early Protest-
ant Presbyterian Church in Glasgow, the ministers, elders, dea-
cons, and members, we may now, following the guidance of the
same records, advert to the firm stand made by the church against
false doctrine and the violation of God's holy law; and also her
active benevolence to man, prompted by the purest Christian
principles.
   The early Church of Scotland was eminent for her thorough
hatred to Popery.  She knew its atrocities from experience, and
felt and acted accordingly.  She required her people not only to
come out from the Church of Rome, but to put away from them,
and destroy every Popish relic and memorial which might be inter-
preted as giving countenance to the unholy system, or which might
prove ensnaring.  Thus, in 1588, " the session ordains Sir Bar-
tlolomew Simpson, in whose chamber was yesterday found certain
boards and pictures, being the monuments of idolatry, to pass
immediately thereafter with them to the cross, and set the same


