
90		    DUMBARTONSHIRE.

spects which cannot here be particularized, a great, change has
been progressively effected, and continues in each year to advance,
on every estate where either the high moorlands, or the neglected
shores, present opportunity for extending the operations of the
Plough. In a few places, however, the inconvenience of small
possessions, and occupiers destitute of capital and spirit, continues
to be felt ; and in others, short leases, in which no order of culti-
vation is enjoined, still permit the abuses of the old system. But
most of the new tacks are drawn for nineteen years, and stipulate
for the most approved rotation of crops, and in almost every in-
stance for a fixed money-rent.
   Live,-Stock.--Although a considerable extent of the parish con-
sists of moorland pasture, it is employed in grazing cattle or sheep
purchased from the Western Highlands, rather than in breeding
them. The low country is in many respects well adapted for dairy
husbandry, although in very dry summers the grass on the light
soils occasionally gives way. It has not, however, been much al-
lotted to this object, although most of the tenants, to a certain
extent, combine this branchof rural economy with their method
of agriculture ; and more attention has lately been paid to it, by
introducing aiiimals of the finest breed from Ayrshire and other
dairy districts, and by cultivating the most approved bulbous- roots
and green crops. The indigenous horses were of a small size,
between the cart-horse and the Highland poney, and combining
the faults of both. The race has been  improved by a cross with
the Clydesdale stock; and those now bred in the district are of a
serviceable quality, although, in so hilly a district, the judicious
introduction of " a dash of blood" might probably be of advantage.
Stock of all sorts is improving, under the auspices of an agricul-
tural association recently'formed in the county, in connection with
the Highland Society of Scotland.
   Woods.-The district of Dumbartonshire west of Leven is re-
markably adapted for the growth of wood,  particularly of oak,
copse, and the evidence of various ancient charters attests that
here were situated the principal forests of the Lennox. In Car-
dross, however, the extent of natural wood is now not great, and
until lately it has been too much neglected. The most thriving
Woods are on the estates of Dalquhurn and Camis Eskan, the lat-
ter of which have been considerably extended by plantations chiefly
of larch and fir, but into which oak has now been introduced.
Some land has also been planted of late on the estates of Mildovan,


