
                          STONYKIRK.			163

light-house on the Mull of Galloway. On the north and west,
shores, the land rises rapidly from the sea; but on the east and
south-west, it slopes with a very gentle elevation.
        Climate.-Perhaps it is from the almost peninsular situation of
the parish, that the sky is, generally speaking, rather cloudy, and
the atmosphere moist; and waterspouts are of occasional occur-
rence. The most prevalent winds are from the west and north-
west, which are generally accompanied with showers, and squally
in winter; and it is from the latter point that we experience our
vernal and equinoctial gales. Our continued dry weather, how-
ever, and frosts, are abcompanied with east wind, and the heavest
rains are always preceded by the south wind. The climate, upon
the whole, is rather salubrious, and the inhabitants generally at-
tain longevity.
        Hydrography.-The little fresh water river which separates
the parish on the north from the parish of Inch is not above 20
feet wide when it leaves this parish; and continuing its course in an
easterly direction, it flows into the sea at the Bay of Luce. Its
name is Poltanton, and it is frequented by the par, the pike, and
salmon and sea-trout from the bay of Luce. The sands on the
Bay of Luce abound with a shell-fish vulgarly called muskins, or
razor-fish, from its resemblance to that instrument; it is taken
as an article of domestic food during the months of March and
April. We may remark, that the cod-fishery mentioned in the
old Statistical Account, as prosecuted with various success, sup-
ports its former character, affording nothing for exportation.
        Plantations.-The parish contains about 370 acres of planta-
tion. Some of the planting is considered to be above 160 years
old. There are about five acres of natural wood.

                        II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
        Parochial Registers.-There is a register of baptism and mar-
riages kept, which contains also the accounts of disbursements, and
the minutes of the session. There is no register of deaths; and
the births are by no means regularly entered.
        Land-owners.-The landed proprietors are, John M'Taggart,
Esq. of Ardwell M. P.; Patrick Maitland, Esq. of Freugh; Ma-
jor James M'Dowall, Esq. of Logan; Colonel Thomas Hunter
Blair, C. B. of Dunskey; Vans Agnew, C. B., of Barnbar-
roch; Vans Hathorn, Esq. of Garthland; and the Honourable
John William H. Dalrymple, Earl of Stair, Caldons. The es-
tates of each of these gentlemen yield more than L. 500 Sterling


