
142			DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

There is indeed one of an earlier date, commencing in 1758, but
it relates only to collections and matters of a pecuniary nature.
There appears to have been others, but they were either destroyed
or carried away during the incumbency of one Donaldson, ` per-
son of dissipated habits, who was superseded by an ordained as-
sistant in 1794. Since that time they have been kept as regular-
ly as circumstances will admit, or as can be expected while regu-
lar registrations are not enforced by legal enactments. It may be
added, however, that we have seen five or six small books of ses-
sional records, and we have heard of another, commencing a few
years aftdr the Revolution, and containing some registers of births.
But not having yet inspected them, we cannot say whether they
fill up the whole intermediate space.
 	Antiquities.--There appears to have been a Roman road for
four or five miles through this parish, from north to south, near
to the old road from Glasgow to Carlisle, which is still a turnpike
road, and where in some places pavement stones are occasionally
dug up, especially on the lower grounds, where there are a few
houses forming a small village, called Gilgal or Newton. Along
this line, too, there are several large stones, about five or six feet
in height, fixed firmly and perpendicularly in the ground, and
supposed to have been placed there by the Romans, probably for
measuring distances. Several traces of camps, supposed by some
to be Roman, by others British, are also visible in this parish,
especially an extensive one near to the fore-mentioned road, and
another at some distance behind it. * There was also a Druidical
circle, lately, almost entire, on the rising ground towards the east
from the church; but now the ground is ploughed, and the stones
removed. Not far from it are two others of smaller dimensions.

<TABLE=Population>

		              III.--POPULATION.
	     In 1755 the number of inhabitants in the parish was,  458
                1791,                                              487
                1801,                                              423
                1811,                                              481
                1821,                                              554
                1831,                                              580

	The increase betwixt 1811 and 1821 was from the circumstance,
that the late Dr Rogerson had purchased the estate of Wamphray,
who, making very great improvements in building, fencing, plant-

<FOOTNOTE>For a further description of these antiquities, see MS. of this Account among
      the Archives of the Church.


