
                      KILLEAN AND KILCHENZIE.                           389

     sists of a great variety of soil, such as clay, moss, loam, sand and
     gravel.  But light loam, with a mixture of gravel, seems to he the
     niost prevalent.
       In the near neighbourhood of the sea, such fields as are most
     accessible to sea-ware, have been, time immemorial, without any
     cessation, alternately cultivated with bear and potatoes, and never
     fail, except in seasons of long and continued drought, to yield fair
     returns.  The wraic, as it is termed, or Alga marina, furnishes
     an unlimited fund of excellent manure. But by too frequent ap-
     plication, it acts as a caustic, pulverizes and weakens the soil to
     such a degree as to nourish weeds of diverse sorts, particularly
     wild mustard (provincially scilloc).   Noxious weeds will continue
     to multiply till such time as a greater extent of band is laid down
     with grass seeds, and allowed to rest for several years.
       Bear yields at an average 7 seeds, oats 6, beans 8, potatoes 16,
     and sometimes 20 seeds.
       From the difficulty of obtaining accurate information regarding
     the annual return nf money to the parish from the sale of grain,
     black-eattle, sheep, horses, potatoes, butter, avid cheese, it can
     only be said in general, that the sum of capital floating through
     the parish may at an average annount to L. 20,000 or L. 25,000
     Sterling.
       As there are no mills in the parish for dressing flax, the, te-
     nants who clean and manufacture it in their own houses, do not
     consider yarn or linen an object of traffic,-and only raise as much
     as is sufficient to supply their own families.
       Oats and bear are sold by imperial-weight, eight bushels in the
     holl; beans and peas 6 do. ; meal, old Kintyre measure, 124 stone
     per boll ; and potatoes by the old standard of five straked barrels
     in the boll.
       The great defect in the present system of husbandry is, besides
     the want hf enclosures and subdivisions, and a more judicious ro-
     tation of leguminous and eulnniferous crops, that,a great propor..
     tion of the farmers are in the practice of ploughing more land than
     they can afford manure to keep it in heart, and do not recruit, by
     Pasturing, such fields as have been sown with clover and rye-grass
     seeds. -
       In terms of leases, which are generally for nineteen years, the
     inniority of landlords bind their tenants to follow a regular rota-
     tion of white and green crops, to sow grass seeds, along with bear,


