
466                        AYRSHIRE.

took a grassum, and let the teinds of the whole parish to Hew
Campbell of Hullerhirst, and Jeane Cuninghame, his spouse, for
12 merks yearly, (or 13s. 4d.) and that during their joint lives,
and for nineteen years after the death of the "largest liver of the
twa." Hew Campbell was probably a kinsman, and he is de-
nominated "kyndlie tacksman of the teinds, and teind sheaves of
the lands." This was an iniquitous transaction; for though the
incumbent "halds himself weill payit and satisfeit," what was to
become of his successor in office for nineteen years after the death
of the "longest liver of the twa," with only 13s. 4d. in lieu of the
whole teinds? It appears that tacks of this kind were often grant-
ed in these days; but bring very prejudicial to the church, an act
was passed in 1617, prohibiting prelates from granting tacks be-
yond nineteen years; and inferior beneficed persons from granting
them for longer than their own lives and five years thereafter, un-
less the tacks were registered in a particular register. And still
farther, by Act 1621, cap. 15, all tacks by inferior beneficiaries,
which had not the consent of the patron, were declared null; so
that "the kyndlie tacksman" would be relieved from collecting
"the teind and teind sheaves," sooner than he expected. *
   The next whose name we have been able to discover is Mr John
Bell. It appears from the following extract from Wodrow's
Church History, that he lived till 1671. "June 22d, 1671,
John Bell, minister at Ardrossan, being "(by act of a tyrannical
council,) "confined to his parish, his father living within a mile of
him falls sick, and he must apply to the council to vilsit his dying
father." They allowed him, indeed, but with "a proviso that he
go to no other house without his parish, coming and going." +
   From the death of Mr Bell, there is reason to think, that, owing
to the evils of tyranny and persecution, there was no minister in
Stevenston till 1689, when persecution and trouble arising in Ire-
land, a number of the Presbyterian ministers from Ulster took re-
fuge in this country, and there was a recommendation from the
Synod of Glasgow and Ayr, to employ them in the vacant parish-
es. They seem to have been good and able men. One of them,
Mr W. Legat, had calls from Stevenston, and Fenwick, and Pais-
ley, and by the advice of the presbytery, he accepted of the call

<FOOTNOTE>Though we have not been able to discover when Stevenston was made a separate
parish, it is spoken of in this tack as "ane of the kirks anext to the Abbacie of Kilwin-
ing of auld, whilk now is dissolved in several personages."
   We know that Mr Bell was minister of the parish of Stevenston in 1641, from
J.B. M. 1641 being engraven on the oaken back of the manse seat, in the old
church, and which has been transferred to the new church.


