
76                         FORFARSHIRE.

held in the Abbey in 1320, when a declaration was drawn up and
signed, asserting the independence of the Scottish Church and
kingdom, in language to which the Roman pontiff was not much
accustomed in these days. In 1445, in consequence of a dispute
about the election of a bailie of regality, a battle was fought near
the town between the families of Lindsay and Ogilvie, in which
the leaders of both houses fell, with about 500 of their followers.
The next event of importance known to have taken place was the
destruction of the buildings of the Abbey in the sixteenth century.
The particulars have not been fully ascertained; only, the demo-
lition appears to have taken place before the Reformation. Tra-
dition says, it was accomplished by Ochterlony of Kelly, a pro-
prietor in the neighbourhood, who had quarrelled with the monks,
and had recourse to this method of avenging himself. In more
recent times the town acquired a sort of notoriety in consequence
of a visit from one Captain Fall, commander of a French privateer,
who appeared in sight with his vessel on the 23d May 1781, and
commenced firing on the place. Having thus exhibited a speci-
men of his intention's, he sent several of his men, with a flag of
truce, on shore, demanding L. 30,000 Sterling as the ransom of
the town, and six of the principal inhabitants as hostages till the
sum should be paid. Considerable alarm followed. But at last,
after a variety of proposals, had been made, a few of the townsmen
presented themselves on the beach with such fire-arms as could be
most readily procured, and bade defiance to the threats of the
privateer. After expending some more of his shot during the
night, and finding next morning that he had done little or no
damage, the captain made off in all haste, and found an oppor-
tunity of gratifying his desire of plunder, by making prizes of se-
veral sloops that fell in his way. A battery was afterwards erected
in front of the harbour as a means of defence, but was dismantled
after the last general peace.
	Maps, Plans.--No separate map of the parish is known to exist.
A plan of the town, including the suburbs in the parish of St Vi-
geans, was drawn, and published by Wood in 1822.
        Letters, Papers, &C.--Of these, in the possession of resident in-
dividuals, and tending to illustrate the biography, history, or anti-
quities of the parish, there appear to be none. The ancient re-
cords of the burgh have been lost. Several papers, however, re-
lating to the-Abbey of Arbroath, which are the property of Lord


