
520  			ABERDEENSHIRE.

to adopt the principle of a former practice in dividing parish
churches in Scotland, by which six feet of the area from end to
end was allotted to the kirk-session for the right ordering of public
worship, and celebration of the communion.  This was listened
to; and the whole table-seats, or equivalents for them where some
of them were preferred by the principal tenants for their private
seats, were assigned to the session for the above purposes.  These
seats accommodate 140 persons; and the part of them not imme-
diately necessary for the ordering of the worship, the session leave
open to all such families, promiscuously, as have not sufficient
room of their own.  This arrangement has answered admirably
well; and every soul of the parish, who comes to the church, finds
a seat of which no one is entitled to dispossess him.
   The manse was built in 1718.  It is a small house, not suffi-
cient for the accommodation of a family; but arrangements are in
progress for enlarging it.
   The grebe contains 4 5/8 imperial acres of arable land, besides a
garden of nearly half an imperial acre.
   The stipend, which exhausts the teinds, consists of L.161, 8s.
8d. in money; 53 bolls, 3 firlots, 1 peck 3 2/8 lippies meal; and 4
bolls, 1 firlot, 1 peck, 1 5/10, lippies bear, payable by the fiars prices
of Aberdeenshire.  The Crown is patron of the church.
   The number of families attending the Established Church is
176 ; of individuals, 858.  Episcopalian families, 2; of indivi-
duals, 9.  Seceder families, 5; of individuals, 26.  Romann Ca-
tholic individual, 1.
   Divine service is very well attended at the Established Church;
and the average number of communicants is 455.
   No collections have been made in the church for purposes ex-
tra parochial excepting for the General Assembly's Highland
Schools, and Foreign Missions.  The average of the collections for
these has been L.9, 7s. 6d.
   Education.-The parochial school is the only one in the parish.
The branches of instruction taught at it are, Latin, practical ma-
thematics, book-keeping, arithmetic, writing, and reading, and in-
struction in the truths of religion.
   The school salary is L.28, 18s. 9 3/4d.; allowance for garden,
L.2, 2s. 9d.; legacy to the teacher, yearly, L2.  Total, L.34,
1s. 6 3/4d.  School fees per quarter, Latin, mathematics, or book-
keeping, 5s.; arithmetic, 3s. 6d.; reading and writing, 2s. 6d.;
reading, 2s.  Fees are not taken from poor people.
                                4


