
   132                      ELGINSHIRE.

   him to seek a place of retreat more suitable to his miserable con-
   dition. On the second or third evening after the defeat of his
   party, he arrived, faint, weary, and broken-hearted at the little
   farm-house of Lochanhully, on the banks of the Dulnan, where
   he experienced as much kind hospitality from the humane land-
   lord, as his limited circumstances would admit of. As soon as his
   immediate wants were relieved, John laid his weary limbs on that
   bed, from which he was destined never to rise again. As it soon
   appeared evident to the landlord, that the hand of death was pres-
   sing fast and heavy on his guest's eyelids, he tenderly asked the
   latter, if he had any directions, to give respecting his funeral.
   "Give yourself no unnecessary concern regarding my funeral,"
   was the dying man's caustic reply, "I will be there myself and
   will see about it." In a few hours thereafter, John's muse became
   silent for ever, and his bones found a resting-place in Cnochdan
   nan Gael, a small spot in the west side of the parish church-yard,
   set apart as a burying-place for strangers.
       Land-Owners.-The Right Honourable the Earl of Seafield
   is the sole proprietor of the parish, whose family seat is Castle
   Grant, in the parish of Cromdale; though the family burying-
   place has been in this parish at least since the year 1585. A
   splendid mausoleum was built last season for the family, from a de-
   sign by Mr Playfair of Edinburgh.
      Parochial Registers.-Previous to the induction of the present
   minister in 1820, the registers of baptisms and marriages were
   very irregularly kept. The earliest entry of baptisms (and there
   is but one), is in 1779, and of marriages in 1796.  Since 1820,
   all the records have been very regularly kept.
      Antiquities.-On a plain piece of barren moorland, near the
   Inn of Aviemore, there is a Druidical temple, which was till lately
   in a state of great preservation, when one of the small tenants in
   the neighbourhood, removed some of the stones to build a house
   for himself.
      At Dunmullie, there can be traced the vestiges of a moat fenced by
   a ditch, on Which, according to tradition, there stood the residence
   of one of the ancient Lords of Glenchernich, previous to their re-
   moval to Kinchurdy, their last residence in this parish.
      In the face of the hill above Dunmullie, there is a large stone,
   in form not unlike a chair, and which is still called Bigla's Chair,
   as it is said that from this chair Bigla (once proprietor of Glen-
   chernich), mount‚d her horse on her way to Duthil to hear mass.
                                   3


