
                             FINTRY.                            43

farm-houses in the neighbourbood. The dilapidation, of late years,
has been so great, that it seems probable, in a short time, nothing
will remain, to mark out the place where such  monuments of feu.
dal pomp and pride stood.
  Two heritors, we have said, the Duke of Montrose and, Mr
Speirs of Culcreuch, possess the whole lands in the parish. Mr
Speirs is the only residing heritor. Culreuch House is situate
at the west extremity of the Fintry Hill, and embosomed in wood,
a great part of which is fine old timber; notwithstandilIg its bar-
tizaus and thick walls, it is commodious, and yields to no other
residence in the country, for the venerableness of its appearance,
and the beauty of its situation. The father of the present, pro-
prietor, the late Peter Speirs, Esq., a gentleman whose memory
will long be cherished with much affection, not only by the parish of
Fintry, but by all who had the happiness to live under him or near
him, added much to the value of the property and the beauty of the
place, by extensive plantations, all of which are now in a very thriving
condition. Were His Grace to follow so good an example, by plant-
ing clumps and belts in the upper part of the parish, its appearance
would not only be greatly improved, but the farms would be great-
ly benefited by the shelter for their cattle, which such plantations
would afford. The Duke is the principal heritor.
  Parochial Registers.-Parochial registers belonging to the ses-
sion have been kept from a remote date. The oldest is dated
1632. Some of them have. fallen into careless hands, and been
much injured : some altogether lost. Marriages and baptisms
have been registered for upwards of a century.  A registry of
deaths has been kept, only since 1826.

<TABLE>
      Births registered during the last seven years are 149, average 21 2/7
      Marriages,          .           .        .         65,          9 2/7
      Deaths,         .         .         .             138,         19 3/7
In the obituary of the above years, 39 are recorded to have died
under twenty yearsf of age; 23 above seventy-of the latter, two
were seventy-eight, two eighty, one eighty-two, one eighty-three,
three eighty-four, one ninety-one.

                       III.-POPULATION.
  In 1755, the number of the inhabitants was 891. After this pe-
riod, the farms were enlarged, by the union of several small farms.
The consequence of this was, that many of the small tenants were
ejected, and obliged to seek a subsistence for themselves and fami-
lies, elsewhere. Accordingly, in 1791, there is a decrease of popu-
lation to the amount of 348. About this time, however, a change of


