           
                         ALLOA.                     47

tenants in this parish,--the late Jobn Moubray, Esq. of Cam-
bus.
   Produce.--The agricultural produce may average on carse soils,
wheat, about 32 bushels per acre ; barley, 34 bushels; oats, 38
bushels; beans, 23 bushels; hay, 40 cwt. On dry-field soils,
wheat, 25 bushels; barley, 29 bushels; oats, 34 bushels; pease
and beans, 19 bushels; hay, 24 cwt.; potatoes, 4 to 8 tons, ac-
cording to soil and dressing; turnips, 15 to 32 tons.
   Quarries.--Two quarries, one of white, and the other of a red
stone, are now wrought in this parish, but neither of them to any
great extent.
   Fisheries.--There are two salmon fisheries in the parish, one of
them to the westward of Alloa ferry, belonging to the Earl of Mar
and Kellie, and let at from L.30 to L.40 per annum. The other
at the village of Cambus, belonging to Lord Abercromby, is let
on lease at L.20 a year. The nets now used are coble, yaire, and
long nets. The salmon fisheries here have been on the decline for
some years, and have afforded an insufficient return to the tacks-
men. There are about forty men employed.
   Clachmannanshire Union Agricultural Society.--This county and
district were indebted to the venerable John Francis, late Earl of
Mar, * for many and great improvements in agriculture, and rural
economy. By the spirited exertions of that nobleman, this small
county, at least fifty years ago, held a prominent place among the
most highly cultivated, north of the Tweed ; and it is remembered
by many, that a ploughman from Alloa, about that period, was
sent with the necessary implements, to plough before his Majesty
King George III. The first great ploughing match in Scotland
was held here in 1784; and even then, this parish was distinguish-
ed for the breeding of stock, and other improvements.
   The Highland Society, in 1827, having offered premiums
for, improving the breed of cattle, caused the formation in 1828-
of the present Agrecultural Society, who made choice of Robert
Bruce, Esq. of Kennet, as their president. To this gentleman
the society have all along been much indebted for the counte-
nance given by him to agriculture in general, and for keeping alive
a spirit of competition and enterprise by his assiduous care and

   <FOOTNOTE>This nobleman, many years ago, with reluctance, turned out the tenant of the
farm now called King of Moors hose name was Donaldson, on account of his in.
vincible indol¢nece, and aversion to improvement. He was the lineal descendant of the
person whom King James V. designated "King of the Moors:"--some of the grand-
children of this last representative of Majesty are still in Alloa, and when at school,
bout twenty years ago, were generally known by the name of "King."


