
280			AYRSHIRE.

	Stone Coffin, &c.--A stone coffin and bones were found in Bar-
bieston holm, near the river Doon, and about a furlong to the east
of Dalrymple village. In answer to inquiries on that subject, Mr
Fullarton very kindly made the following communication: "About
1804-5, I had bought the farm of Barbieston, and, wishing to make
a new approach to my house at Skeldon, I set some men to work
to form that road, in the course of which operation they had to
cut though a small hillock of gravel. This proving of immediate
use in making the road, was followed, and a considerable part re-
moved, when suddenly the workers came on a stone coffin, in which
was the skeleton of a large-sized person in a state of decay. On
taking up the right thigh bone, I applied it to my own leg, as
nearly as I possibly could to my hip-joint, and it went nearly to
the middle of my shin, and I stand five feet eleven inches. From
these circumstances, I was led to think that the bones must have
belonged to some tall, powerful man, some chief or captain, par-
ticularly as a battle is reported by Hollingshed, and also by Spot-
tiswood, to have been fought at the ford of Barbieston." *
	Cairns of Stones.--In Barbieston holm, and near the place where
the stone coffin was found, there was a large cairn of stones; and
not far distant there were two others, one at St Valley, and an-
other at Priest-hill. The whole, however, were removed in the
course of the last thirty years, and among the stones were human
and other bones, and some heads of pikes, spears, &c. +

horn found in the trench of one of the fortlets, are all in the custody of the writer of
this account at Dalrymple manse.

<FOOTNOTE>Extract from Hollingshed. He asserts that the region of the Silures, or of Si-
lurie, contains Kyle, Carrick, and Cunningham. He thinks Coil "the same whom
the Bryttans name Gutteline."--"Coil of Bryttaine assembling an armie, he entred
into the Scottish borders, lying towards the Irish seas, wasting with fire and sword
whatsoever be found in his ways, till he came ' even to the river of Dune,' where he
encamped on the banks thereof."--From Spottiswood. This historian relates, that,
in the year 360, Maximus, a Roman prefect, excited the picts to enter into an al-
liance with him against the Scots, and that the Romans and Picts encountered the
Scots at the Water of Dun in Carrick. The Scots were routed, and their King, Eu-
genius, with most of his nobility, slain.--From Boethius, Scotorum, Historia. He
relates that Coil was king of the Britons, Kenneth of the Scots. The latter, in con-
junction with the Picts, attacked Coil, "ad Dunae amnis ripam." The Scots made
the attack in front, while the Picts came upon him from behind by night. "Coilus
ipse, dum incautius a suis servaretur, oppressus, occubuit, loco nomen, Coilum, (nunc
Coill, mutato paulum vocabulo dicunt) perpetuo ad posteros relinquens."---Bucha-
nan, Rer. Scoticar. Hist. Lib. iv, C. iv. v. "Igitur exercitu quantum poterant coacto
duo reges bifariam. Brittonum fines ingressi, agris ferro, flammaque late deformatis,
cum ingenti praeda domum revertuntur. Ad eam injuriam vindicandam, Britto
Scotorum fines ingressus, ad Dunum usque amnem penetravit," &c.
          The following extract, from an historical and genealogical account of the princi-
pal families of the name of Kennedy, from an original M S. (printed at Edinburgh,
1880,) may account for one of the cairns. The House of Donour or Dunure.--
"This house remanit ane lang time, bot in ane sober estait, not heffand na grit rent,


