
380                           DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

any of the lochs, though observed by Sir William Jardine, Bart.
upon the Annan.
	Fishes.--It has been frequently stated that no fewer than fifteen
distinct species of fish, fit for the table, have been found in the
Castle loeh. In enumerating the chief of these, we may men-
tion the pike, the perch, the loch-trout, of which there are two
species,--one weighing from twelve to fourteen pounds, the other
from two to five pounds,--the bream, the roach, the skelly or chub,
the green-back, the vendace, the eel, the loach or beardie, the
minnow, and the banstickle. With the exception of the vendace,
the bream, and green-back, the others are found in great abund-
ance in the different lochs. Pike has been taken weighing from
twenty-four to thirty-five pounds. It is most destructive to the
other species, except the perch, which is protected by its powerful
dorsal fin.
	The Vendace.--The vendace is found nowhere in Scotland, ex-
cept in the Castle loch of Lochmaben, though it is said that Sir
William Jardine caught a few in the Mill loch, but whether it was
the case or not, we have not learned. The oldest fishers in the
town have frequently told us that they never kn6w a single instance
of one being caught, except in the Castle loch.* The vendace, it is
said, derived its name from Vendois in France, and was brought to
this country by one of the James's. This, however, is mere conjec-
ture, and, from what we know of its habits, highly improbable,--be-
cause they die the moment they are either touched, or exposed to the
air. This beautiful fish measures from four to six inches in length,
and tapers gradually to the tail. When taken out of the water, it has
a bright silvery-white appearance, with a slight tendency to a light
blue along the back and part of the sides. In size, it resembles a small
herring or par, but particularly the former, not only in the mouth and
the external appearance, but also in the anatomical structure. Upon
the top of the head, there is a very distinct shape of a heart, covered
with a transparent substance of a brownish colour, resembling a

<FOOTNOTE>According to Mr Stewart, in his Elements of Natural History, the vendace be-
longs to a species which he calls the " Salmo albula," or the " Jurangis." " This spe-
cies," he adds, " is found in Lochmaben, in Scotland, and nowhere else; and is said
to have been carried thither from England in the time of Robert the Bruce. It is
thickly covered with roundish, entire, black spotted imbricated scales of a greenish-
brown colour, and white an the sides." From this description, it is evident that Mr.
Stewart had never seen a vendace, else he would have described it in a different man-
ner. Of all the distinct species which this lake is said to contain, not one of them,
so far as ever fell under our observation, will answer Mr Stewart's description. The
perch has entire black spotted scales, but not imbricated; the perch, however, is as
distinct from the vendace as the cod is from the salmon.


