
770                         AYRSHIRE.

his son, Lord Kilmaurs, at Glasgow, 15th November 1577, it
appears, that the five-pound land of Kilmaurs, consisting of,
240 acres, was disponed to forty different persons in feu-farm
and free burgage, and to be held in equal proportions by
them, their heirs and successors, upon the yearly payment of
eighty merks of the usual money of the kingdom, that is, two
merks for each fortieth part. It is obvious, that the great design
of the Noble family in this erection, was to bring together into one
places as many trades-people as possible, and that the feuing of
these lands was meant as an encouragement and help to such;
but it has all along produced a contrary effect. The town is
pleasantly situated on a gentle ascent, looking towards the south. *
         The Kilmaurs or Glencairn Family.--The barony of Kil-
maurs was bestowed, in the beginning of the twelfth century,
by De Morville, Lord High Constable of Scotland, on Warne-
bald, who is said to have come from England in the reign of
Malcolm IV., and who probably assumed the name Of CUNING-
HAME., from the manor place Of Cunninghame, in the parish
of Kilmaurs, supposed to have been about a mile from the town
in the farm of Jock's Thorn, and probably the original villa
de Cuninghame. The family obtained additional lands from King
Robert the Bruce. About the beginning of the fifteenth century,
Sir William Cuninghame married a coheiress of Dennieston of
that Ilk, and with her acquired great possessions Alexander of
the thirteenth generation was raised to the dignity of Earl in 1448.
Alexander, the fifth Earl, was very favourable to the Reformation,
and was in consequence distinguished by the name of the good Earl.
William, the ninth Earl, lived in the troublous times of Charles l.
and Oliver Cromwell, and died Chancellor of Scotland in 1664. +
About this time, the chief family residences seem to have been
Kerdan Castle, in the parish of Stewarton, and Finlayston, on the
Clyde above Port-GIasgow. John, the twenty-fifth Earl, died in
1796, when the honours of this elder branch of the family became
extinct for want of male issue.

<TABLE=III.--POPULATION>
                         III.--Population.

       Amount of population in    1801,      1288
                                  1811,      1480
                                  1821,      1660
                                  1831,      2130
                                  1841,      2617

<FOOTNOTE>Old Statistical Account.
          The burial aisle of the Glencairn family has in it a monument erected to the me-
 mory of the chancellor, the ninth Earl of Glencairn.


