
                          AIRTH.                            283

magnificent, and, being profusely scattered throughout the park,
impart to it an air of singular grandeur and beauty. There is
likewise a wood of considerable extent, through which the prin-
cipal approach to the mansion-house is made, abounding with all
kinds of forest trees, many of them of stately dimensions; amongst
which, however, the beech and Scotch fir occupy a conspicuous
place. Of the latter kind is one, close to the approach, so remark-
able as to have attracted the attention of an eminent London ar-
tist, who has given it a place in a set of engravings of the most
striking trees to be found in Scotland, lately published. On
measurement, it was found to contain, excluding all limbs not six
inches in the side, 290 cubic feet.

                      II.--CIVIL HISTORY.

As an historical incident of some importance, it may be men-
tioned, that, in 1817, when cutting the present line of road which
leads from Airth to Stirling, the workmen came on the skeleton
of a whole.  The skeleton was found to the north of the mansion-
house of Dunmore Park, and upwards of a quarter of a mile from
the bank of the river. It was traced to the extent of 75 feet.
   Land-owners.--The chief land-owners of the parish are, The
Earl of Dunmore; William Graham Stirling, Esq. of Airth; Sir
A. Maitland Gibson of Kersie; James Bruce, Esq. of Powfoulis;
John Burn Murdoch, Esq. of Newck, &c.
   Parochial Registers.--There is a register of births, deaths, and
marriages from 16th September 1660, to 9th November 1669.
From this date there is none till l5th February 1670; when it
again commences, and is carried on to 4th September 1720, when
there is another blank down to 4th July 1732; from which period,
it is continued, with tolerable accuracy, down to the present.
    Modern Buildings.--The principal modern buildings in the
parish are, an elegant front addition to Airth Castle, the man-
sion-house of Dunmore Park, beautifully finished, and of Gothie
architecture; the houses of Newck and Powfoulis; the church,
a very handsome little structure, containing accommodatinn for
800 sitters; and the manse, seated on a rising ground at a little
distance from the village. All of these tend not a little to adorn
the scenery on the south banks of the Forth, between Kincardine
and Alloa.
                      III.--POPULATION.

   The population of the parish has decreased considerably, with-
in the last thirty years, from two causes, viz. from the, common


