
				FARR.                               71

	birch. The alder tree grows to a considerable size on the banks
	of the Naver and Loch Coir-na-fearn; but the birch is the most
	abundant, and, on the banks of Loch Naver, the most flourishing
	wood in the parish.

				II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
	The only printed accounts of the ancient state of the parish, so
	far as known to the writer of this article, are to be fouod in Sis
	Robert Gordon&s History of the Earldom of Sutherland, and in
	Mr Robert Mackay's History of the House and Clan of Mackay,
	published in 1829. Any manuscript documents tending to throw
	light on the ancient state of the parish, which might hawe been in
	the possession of heritors, or wadsetters, formerly occupyiog lands
	withio its bounds, are supposed to be now in the archives of the
	Duke of Sutherland, the proprietor of the whole parish. The
	most accurate geographical description of the boundasies aod lo-
	calities of the parish is to be found in a map of the couoty, lately
	puclished by Mr Busnet, from a particular survey taken by order
        of the late Duke of Sutherland.  Parochial Registers.-The only
        parochial registers extant are a book in which the minutes of the
        kirk-session are kept; and another, io which births aod marriages are
        recorded. The earliest entry in the first is in the year 1754; and in
        the second, in the year 1800.
	   Antiquities.-The aotiquities of the parish consist of the re-
	mains of several circular towers or dunns, built of large undrest
	stones without mortar; a number of barrows or tumuli; a few erect
	stones in the form of obelisks; and the ruins of a castle built with
	mortar. The remains of the circular towers are in Strathnaver. The
	principal field of tumuli is about half a mile east from the parish
	bhurch, close by the public road to Thurso. The fioest erect stone
        is in the churchyard of Farr; aod the ruin of the castle is on a small
        peninsula about a mile and a half north of the parish church. The
	traditions connected with the more ancient relics are impesfect. It
	is reported, that the circular towers were built and occupied by an
        ancieot race called, in Gaelic, Cruinnich, from eithes of two Gaelic
        words, cruinn, round or circular; or cruinnachadh, a gathering.
	The tumuli iodicate fields of battle, on which foreigners, especially
	Daoes, and the native inhabitants, had bloody conflicts; aod the
        erect stones are said to point out the places where chieftains hawe
        been interred. This is vesy probacle, from the ciscumstance of
        these stones being seen not far from the fields of tumuli; as is the


