
52                    KINROSS-SHIRE.

thinking that method preferable to an assessment. There was
one subscription of L. 10 in 1814, and seven since that time of
L. 20 each, amounting to L. 150. The sum received was L. 153,
15s. 8d. Another subscription of L. 20 was agreed to in January
1834, but has not yet been required. In 1799 and 1800, when
provisions were scarce and dear, the heritors subscribed for the
relief of the poorest people: the sum collected was L. 31, 13s. 6d.

    April 1839.


                       PARISH OF ORWELL.

            PRESBYTERY OF DUNFERMLINE, SYNOD OF FIFE.

                THE REV. JAMES WEMYSS, MINISTER.


         I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name, Boundaries, &c.-THIS parish was originally called Ur-
well, and takes its appellation from a property of the same name on
the banks of Loch Leven, and at the south-east extremity of the pa-
rish. Whence the word itself is derived is not very apparent; as,
however, almost all the names of the farms in the parish are obvi-
ously Gaelic, so it may not be too much to suppose that this also
may be of similar origin. In this point of view we must, have re-
course to the Gaelic word ur, meaning new or green, and baile, a
residence or retreat; the whole probably designates a green or fer-
tile retired situation,-an interpretation peculiarly applicable to the
property of Orwell, and the old situation of the church, especially
previous to the introduction of drainage, and a superior mode of
farming, which of late years has converted many wild into fertile
districts.
   The parish is of a narrow oblong figure, the greatest length be-
ing from east to west. From the mouth of the Pow-burn to the
summit of Coal-craigie, or from Burnside to Warroch, is about 7 1/2
miles, while its greatest breadth, from north to south, does not ex-
ceed, 3 1/2; and its surface may be stated in round numbers at 21
square miles. It is bounded on the north by the parishes of
Arngask, Forteviot, Forgandenny, and Dunning; by Fossaway on
the west; by Kinross, parish and Loch Leven on the south; and by


