
                        ST NINIANS                           331

   There is abundance Of limestone in the parish, but at present
it is wrought only in two places,--Craigend and Murray's Hall.
The stone is found under the huge masses of trap or basaltic rock
already described, and is wrought by miners. The works are se-
parated from each other by a deep and narrow gorge, and the
superincumbent mass appears as if hurled upon a rock of an en-
tirely different description. The entrance to the mines is near
the bottom of the precipice; and the stones, brought out in carts,
are prepared and burned in kilns close at hand. The lime rock
is about 5 feet thick; the roof and bottom are of stone, each from
nine inches to a foot thick. The dip is to the north-east, at the
rate of one foot in six or seven. Sales commence about the 1st
of April, and terminate at Martinmas. Including both places,
there are usually 24 miners and 10 labourers employed. The
wages of the miners are from 15s. to 16s. per week; the labourers
have 10s. 6d. The miners, perhaps from their exposure to damp,
are rather liable to rheumatism; but in general they are healthy,
though it is seldom that either they or colliers attain to a very
great age.
   Our coal mines are by far the most valuable in this parish, add
these have been long and extensively wrought. Aucbenbowie
and Plean are wrought by the proprietors. Bannockburn and
Greenyards are held in lease by the same company. The people
employed at these works are nearly 400. Of these there are
usually 180 colliers, at 16s. per week, and in general they work
only ten days in the fortnight.  There are from 70 to 80 labourers,
at from 10s. to 12s. per week, excepting those whom are placed in
situations of trust and confidence, and to whom higher wages are
allotted. There are upwards of 80 boys and girls, whose wage,
according to their age and capacity, vary from 9d. to 2s. per day.
The women are rather above 60 in number, and their wages from
1s. to 1s. 6d. per day. The average wage stated above is what a
good collier can make, as they are paid at a certain rate, accord-
ing to the quantity of coals they produce. Nothing is charged for
their coals, only they must hew them themselves. Houses and
gardens also are in general provided for them, for which a very
moderate rent is demanded.
  The quantity of coal produced at all the different works is little,
if any thing, short of sixty thousand tons.
   Fisheries.--Trout and perch are found in Loch Coulte Coulter, and
in the different streams of the parish; but the only fisheries de-


