
158                       LANARKSHIRE.

this city. Soon afterwards two of his shopmen, under the firm of
Grey and Laurie, commenced business with an extensive stock of
goods; and the haberdashery business has rapidly increased in
this city since that time.
	Mr John Blair and Mr James Inglis were the first persons who
had front shops for the sale of hats in this city. The, shops were
both opened in 1756, the former in the Salt Market, and the latter
in the Bridgegate.
	The business of silversmith is of considerable standing in Glas-
gow. Mr James Glen, who was a magistrate in 1754, succeeded
Mr Robert Luke. When the latter first opened a shop, the trade
was but little known in the west of Scotland. In 1775, when Mr
Robert Gray, of Blairbeth, commenced business, the following
persons bad silversmiths' shops here: Messrs Milne and Camp-
bell, William Napier, David Warnock, Napier and Bain, James
M'Ewan, and Adam Graham. In 1775, the assortment of plate
was inconsiderable; but in 1835, there are shops in Glasgow, which
would be considered as valuable in Fleet Street, and elegant in
Bond Street. It is not easy to ascertain when the first woollen-
draper's shop was opened in Glasgow. In 1761, when Mr Patrick
Ewing entered into the trade, it was very limited.
	The Iron Trade.--Although the cotton manufacture has been
the staple trade of Glasgow and neighbourhood for a long period,
the iron manufacture in its various branches would appear to be
the one which nature points out as likely to furnish the most ad-
vantageous employment of the labour and capital of the district,
from the inexhaustible stores of the materials for the making of iron
with which it abounds. The local situation of Glasgow, too, is
peculiarly favourable for the cheap conveyance of the bulky and
heavy articles of this manufacture to every quarter of the world.
The city is about equidistant from the Atlantic and German seas,
and not more, than twenty-six miles from either, communicating with
the one by the river Clyde, navigable by vessels drawing thirteen
feet water, and with the other by the Forth and Clyde Canal, navi-
gable by vessels also drawing about thirteen feet water. It stands at
the western extremity of the district known by the designation of the
Basin of the Clyde, and which, stretching eastward for about twen-
ty-six miles, and of considerable breadth, is one uninterrupted field
of coal, interspersed with bands of rich black ironstone. Into this
mineral field the Monkland Canal penetrates twelve miles, having
its westerns extremity at Glasgow, communicating there with the
				4


