
556                     ABERDEENSHIRE.

teacher is L. 28 per annum, with an allowance of L.2 in lieu of a
garden.  The amount of school-fees is about L. 8.  The nominal
amount is fully a third more,-but they are very irregularly paid.
The number of pupils may be stated to be from 65 to 90 in win-
ter, and from 35 to 50 in summer.  The excellent accommoda-
tions that have been recently provided have already been noticed.
The present incumbent was appointed in 1803, but for nearly
twenty years has been afflicted by the hand of God, and confined
in a private asylum.  An assistant and successor has been appoint-
ed.  He receives a very small portion (L. 3) of the salary ; the
school-fees, and possesses the dwelling-house.  He also receives
a share of the funds -under the management of the Trustees of
the Dick Bequest.
   The three teachers supported by the Society for Propagating
Christian Knowledge receive L. 15 per annum of salary, and have
the requisite accommodations of a house, croft, and fuel.  Each
of the schools is most useful in the locality in which it is placed.
In Corgarff the Roman Catholic children freely attend the Pro-
testant school, read the Bible, and commit the Assembly's Cate-
chism, and the Psalms to memory.
   Friendly Society.-The Lonach Highland and Friendly Society
was instituted fifteen years ago.  As its name imports, its object was
twofold, viz. the preservation of the Highland garb, and the Celtic
language; and also the establishment of a Friendly and Insurance
Society for affording weekly allowances to sick members, and widows,
and orphans.  At the outset, owingto the imperfect knowledge of the
equitable principles on which such institutions should be founded,
this society was not free from some of the prevalent errors of the
time.  The want of proper caution and foresight in the enrolling
members, early caused an undue pressure on the funds.  Fortu-
nately its capital was strong, and it surmounted its difficulties.
Aided by the Report of the Highland Society upon Benefit Socia-
ties, it is now conducted on sound principles, its funds are pros-
perous, and it proves a most useful association.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of indivi-
duals permanently on the poor's roll together with their families
dependent upon them, for the three years prior to 1838, was 79.
The average amount of payments to these during the same years,
L. 74, 1s. 4d.  The average number of persons that received oc
casional relief during that period was 33, and the average amount
paid to them, L. 17, 17s. 8d.  The highest ordinary rate to in-
                                      3


