
                          KILMORIE.                            57

	The decrease of population in the last ten years was owing to
the introduction of a new system of agriculture, by which the ham-
let or runrig system of cultivation, which universally prevailed
through the parish prior to 1815, was entirely abolished on the
property of the Duke of Hamilton. Separate lots of land were
then given to each tenant; and many farms which were formerly
leased by eight or fifteen families, with as many cottars, were given
to one individual. In one instance, as many as four hamlets, each
containing a number of families, were depopulated, and converted
into a sheep-walk. Some of the ejected inhabitants emigrated to
North America, but by far the greaterpart of them removed to
the towns of Ayrshire.
	The population is entirely rural. There is not one village in
the parish.
	The annual number of births during the seven years, from 1825
to 1831 inclusive, is 97 ; and the, annual average number, of mar-
riages during the same period, is 19. There is no register of
deaths kept.

<TABLE>
         The number of persons under 15 yews of age,                736
				betwixt 15 and 30,	     462
					30 and 50,	     349
					50 and 70,	     204
				upwards of 70,	              74
         Bachelors and widowers upwards of 50 years of age,         80
         Unmarried women upwards of 45 years                        70
     Insane, 2 ; fatuous, 6 ; blind, 2. deaf and dumb,               1.

	Character of the People.--In their persons, the people are ge-
nerally tall; at least they are above the middle size. Athletic and
very well made. Their features are open and regular, and their
limbs remarkably well-formed. The women are decidely taller,
handsomer, and better-looking, than in most parts of the country.
These remarks apply generally to the whole parish, but they more
particularly hold with, regard to the south end of it. In their awkward
embrassment which the Highland peasantry generally manifest
in addressing strangers and superiors. In mind, they are distin-
guished for their sound sense, intelligence, acuteness, and liveli-
ness. In business, they are active, enterprising, and judicisms.
Like all islanders, they are generally inclined in a seafaring life,
and their proximity to the ports of Greenock and Ardrossan, af-
ford them ample oppotunity to indulge their maratime propene-
ties. Being generally steady, honest, and good common, such of
them are have a nautical education, are soon promoted to the com-



