
510                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

in without more ploughing; and by this management, are generally
a productive crop.  The new land is then included in the ordinary
rotation, but produces better grain than grass for a series of years.
   Trenching is seldom bad recourse to, but for reclaiming small
corners, or other pieces deforming large fields, when they are too
difficult for the plough; and indeed, the expense of it could rarely
be vindicated by the returns.
   Drains have been executed to a great extent, both open and
covered.  For the latter sort there are excellent materials every-
where, in the abundance of small stones.  They are cut three or
four feetdeep, or sometimes much deeper, as the case may re-
quire, then half-filled with the stones tumbled out of a cart into
the drain itself.  A thick coat of heath is put over the stones,
above which the earth is returned.
   An improvement by irrigation, on a small scale, was attempted,
several years ago, by one of the proprietors, who had a piece of
haugh land irrigated by a properly qualified person, a native of
England; but it did not answer expectations and the work has
been abandoned.
   A great extent of heavy stone bulwarks has been executed by
the proprietors, along the Don and Leochal, at places where these,
rivers were liable to wear away the land.
   The parish is divided into forty principal farms, and forty-five
small ones, named crofts, held of the land-owners.  Of the for-
mer, three or four contain somewhat more than 200 acres impe-
rial.  The remainder vary from 50 to 150 acres; the larger num-
ber being somewhere near 100 acres.  Of the crofts, a few con-
tain from 10 to 20 acres; but the larger part only from 3 to 6
acres.  There is also a considerable number of crofts held by
sub-lease, to be afterwards referred to.
   Leases.-There are leases, enduring for nineteen years, of all
the principal farms, and many of the crofts; but some of the latter
are held by a shorter tenure.  At the commencement of the im-
provements, about thirty years ago, the leases were granted for
twenty-four years; and this longer endurance, at that time, form-
ed a desirable security and encouragement to persons engaging
with farms, on which everything was to be done; but now that
the improvements are nearly completed, it does not appear that
the endurance of nineteen years, now adopted, is objectionable.
The same may be said of the other covenants of the leases, some
of the most important of which are,-that the tenant shall con


