
	               KIRKMICHAEL.                         499

ment, he instantly hastened to London, where he learned for the
first time of the marriage of Lady Jane. After many persuasions
and great hesitation on the part of the Lady, she at last consented to
fly with him. They had not, however, well set out, when the Earl
most unexpectedly arrived with a powerful retinue of vassals, who
had assembled to welcome his return, and accompany him home as
a guard of honour. Being informed of what had taken place, he
called his retainers, who had just alighted, to remount and pursue
the fugitives. The whole party, headed by the Earl, now mad-
dened with rage, and burning to repay the ancient grudge he owed
his former rival, speedily overtook, and after a short encounter,
captured the desperate knight and his wretched companion. On
being carried back, Sir John and his followers were halted at a tree
of dismal notoriety, well known by the name of the dule (dolor)
tree; while the Lady was taken to a room, from which she was
compelled to witness her gallant and his associates struggling in
the agonies of death. This room still goes by the name of the
Countess' Room. The lady was afterwards sent to Maybole, where
the family had a winter residence, and confined there for life.
Her picture, which is said to be a correct likeness, hangs at present
in the lobby of Cassillis. A large full tear appears falling from
her eye, too sadly descriptive of her melancholy fate. The dule
tree, a plane of great expanse and beauty, still flourishes on a little
knoll at the entrance to the castle. The ford where Sir John and
his party crossed the Doon is known to this day as "The Gipsies
Steps."
  Family of Kennedy.--The family of Kennedy held the ascend-
ant in feudal times over an immense district,--from Wigton to the
town of Ayr,--and the name of Cassillis, it is well known, appears
conspicuous in many details of Scottish history. As both the old
residence and title are derived from this parish, it may not be impro-
per to subjoin a few particulars in connection with the early origin
of the family, and its subsequent advancement to wealth and honour.
  The first notice we have of this ancient house is in 1220, when
Nicol de Carrick granted the Church of St Cuthbert, at Maybole,
to the nuns of North Berwick. His son, Roland, several years
after, obtained a charter from Neil, Earl of Carrick, which in A. D.
1276 and 1372, was confirmed by Alexander III. and Robert II.
respectively. This deed is intituled "Confirmatio Johannis Ken-
nedy," which makes a change of name from Carrick to Kennedy,
a Gaelic compound signifying the head of the house or family.


