
     of Benholme.

where much depends on the season, it is perhaps better to
leave the practical farmer unfettered.  If he is possessed of
discernment, he will naturally adopt that mode of cultivation,
which, on a soil similar to his own, he observes to succeed
best: if he is bound to follow a certain rotation, he can pro-
fit but little either by his own or his neighbour's experience.
Some restrictions towards the end of the lease, to prevent
the land from being over-cropped, are doubtless necessary,
and generally made by every proprietor, when he lets a farm.
The general practice of the farmers in this parish, when the
soil is light, is to sow wheat after fallow which has been
limed and dunged; then barley, to which succeeds pease; and
then barley again, with clover and grass seeds, which are al-
lowed to continue in the ground from 2 to 5 years.  Oats
are generally sown, when the ley or sward is broken up;
next succeeds barley and then fallow.  Where the soil in-
clines to clay, the common rotation of crops is wheat, beans,
barley and grass seeds, which are seldom allowed to continue
longer in the ground than two years; oats, barley, and then a
fallow.  Besides the crops already mentioned, a considerable
quantity of turnips is annually raised; but very little flax,
except what is necessary for the use of private families.  This
may be owing in some measure to the want of lint-mills in
the neighbourhood, or more probably to the nature of the
soil, which in general is not adapted to the growth of this
useful plant.  Potatoes, yams, and cabbages, are likewise
planted in the fields, and turn to good account.  Some at-
tempts have been made of late to introduce early oats, and
it is to be hoped their utility, in a soil which is naturally
late, will soon recommend them to general use.  Seed time
and harvest greatly depend on the season; when that is fa-
vourable, they begin here to sow in March, and to reap a-
bout the first of September.  Wheat is generally sown in


