
60                           AYRSHIRE.

	 Another circumstance of considerable interest in the records of
this society , is a detail of the expense incurred in building the gal-
lery in the old church, now known by the name of the Sailors'
Loft. There is a circumstantial account of all the items of the
costs incurred,--timber, iron, stone for the pillars, wages, drink to
the, workmen, &c., amounting in all to L. 717, 3s. 2d. Scots, or
L. 59, 15s. 3d. Sterling. This is dated in May 1655--the year
following that when the old church was built; and the measure
appears to have been entered into in consequence of an act of the
town-council authorizing it, and making over to them the right of
property in the loft. From this we would infer, that the three
galleries, claimed and held by the sailors, merchants, and trades,
were appropriated to these public bodies, in consequence of their
being at the expense of fitting them up for their own use. This
will be further corroborated by the notice we are about to give of
the Merchant Company. If, then, Cromwell advanced a sum of
money for building the church, as is generally asserted and be-
lieved, it must have been laid out in the stone-work of the edi-
fice, and fitting up the remaining part of the interior; but the mat-
ter is doubtful. The members of this society consist now of the
most respectable and influential of the inhabitants. Its affairs are
managed at present by twenty-two honorary members, who must
be owners in part of a square-rigged vessel, and the entry money
is L. 5,--except to the eldest sons of members, who are onlv charged
one guinea for admission. They receive no benefit except a title to a
seat in the front of the sailor's gallery, in the Old Church. The
sum of L. 63, 4s. 6d. was divided lastyear among eighty pensioner.
Formerly threepence per pound were charged on the wages of sailors
belonging to the port; but this has been discontinued, in consequence
of another association called The Merchant Seamen's Society, being
established by act of ParliamenL Every attempt by the latter to
unite the two has been resisted by the former, as there exists a
pride in keeping up as a distinct body, so ancient and respectable
a fraternity, connected with the port and trade of Ayr. Its only
revenue now is, the admission money of entrants, the interest of
L.1100 in the hands of the town, L. 45 in Hunter and Company's
bank, and L. 12 annually, or upwards, of seat-rents in the sailors'
loft.
	Merchants' Company.--This Association claims its origin as far
back as 1655, upwards of seventy years after the commencement
of the Sailors' Society. It was originally called the Merchant Booth
Keepers of the Burgh of Ayr,--those who dealt in merchandize


