
                             PARISH OF DALRY.

                 PRESBYTERY OF KIRKCUDBRIGHT, SYNOD OF GALLOWAY.

                      THE REV. GEORGE PATERSON, MINISTER.

                           ---------------------

		I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	THIS parish and those of Kells, Balmaclellan, and Carsphairn,
are supposed to have been anciently united.
	Name.--The name is derived from Gaelic words signifying a
Royal Vale,--the land being hilly on the north and east, and be-
coming beautifully level on the left bank of the Ken, and termi-
nating in ground called the Holm of Dalry.
	Extent, &c.--From north to south, the parish  is about 15 miles
long, and, from east to west, about 7 broad. It is bounded, on
the east by Carspliaim and Kells ; on the south, by Balmaclellitn
and Kelis; on the east, by Glencairn in the county of Duinfries;
on the north, by New Camnock in Ayrshire. It contains 26,172
Scottish, or 32,902 English acres.:
	Plantations, Rivers, &c.--Along the Ken, which is the boun-
dary between this parish and Kells on the west for six miles or
more, there are oak trees of considerable size, besides a variety of
other species of trees in belts and ornamental clumps. The prin-
cipal river is the Ken, which takes its rise near the northern ex-
tremity of the parish, and, running south-west eight or nine miles,
separates Dalry from Carsphairn, till it is joined by the Deugh.
There, taking a new direction, it runs almost south, till it meets
with a rivulet in Kells, called Palharrow. Thence it runs nearly
south-east through rugged rocks, with many beautiful windings,
till it meets with the Garpel, (a rivulet which, for a considerable
way, is the boundary between this parish and Balmaclellan.) From
Bridge of Ken to Bridge of Allan-Gibbon, its bed is rock, and
in some places of great depth from the top of the banks. The
Blackwater, and the rivulets of Earlston, Stronfregggan, and Loch-
invar burn in the parish, are tributaries to the Ken; they all abound
in trout, and salmon is frequently caught in the Ken after speats
        KIRKCUDBRIGHT.                          A a


