

     122                 ROSS AND CROMARTY.

     hole above the hind haunch, and pull out the intestines before it
     fell.  The wild goose, rain-goose, swan, teal-duck, common wild
     duck and drake, wigeon, sheldrake, puffins, guillemots, solan goose,
     plover, wild pigeons, and grouse in abundance are found here.
     A few robins, numerous larks, thrushes and starlings.  The cuckoo
     visits us, but makes a very short stay.  The sand-martin is the
     only one of the swallow tribe that visits the island; the songsters
     of the grove are few.  The common house-sparrow, Fringilla do-
     mestica, has only of late visited the island.  There are two pair just
     now in Stornoway, hatching.  The gardens miss them very much,
     for the caterpillar, which has been unknown in this parish twenty
     years ago, is now a great plague.   If this small bird could thrive
     in Stornoway, it would be a considerable boon, for it has been
     found, by actual observation, that two sparrows carried to their
     nest forty caterpillars, in an hour.  The late Lord Seaforth im-
     ported partridges, but they are now extinct.  Whether they were
     killed, died, or did not like the climate, is uncertain.  The hares
     which were brought along with them, are very numerous.
         The black-cattle, horses, and sheep, are rather of a diminutive
     size.  They are too numerous by one-half; a small tenant that pays
     annually L. 3 Sterling, keeps seven or eight beasts.  One farm
     yields L. 40 of rent.  It is occupied by ten families, who have eighty
     head of cattle, miserable starved beasts.  In winter, they can gather
     very little pasture on the moor; and during snow, they are driven
     to the shore to feed on ware, Alga marina.  It is a mistaken kind-
     ness in the proprietor to permit the small tenants to keep so many
     beasts,-for one would be better than two; it would be better fed,
     and bring more cash at the tryst.  The farmers or tacksmen keep a
     larger breed of horses for riding and for the cart; but, in general,
     the horses are not much higher than the Shetland ponies.  They
     are firm and strong, fit for the mossy soil and rocky shore.  Their
     principal work is in carrying peats and sea-ware in creels, one hung
     on each side from the crook-saddle.  Many of them are of beau-
     tiful symmetry. *  The sheep are principally of the black-faced
     breed, rather small; but the mutton good, and very sweet; and
     Lewis beef, when for a short time on mainland pasture, is prover-
     bial for delicacy and fineness.
         Hogs are not numerous, as the natives have a strong antipathy to
     them and their flesh.  More swine and fewer horned cattle would

     <FOOTNOTE>Mr S. M'Kenzie sent four from Lewis to his late Majesty George IV. as a pre-
     sent, and a specimen of insular strength and symmetry in small compass, " mtltum
     in pareo."


