
550                       FIFESHIRE.

near has various soil. In the lower parts, it is sandy, with some
moss along the banks of Motray. The Higher fields are not
composed of a deep but of a sharp light soil. The best lands
of KInnear are not so strong as to resist extreme drought. It
suffered much much from this cause in 1826. It is naturally adapted
for sheep, and cattle, more than a continued ratation of culmi-
ferous and leguminous crops. It has been most judiciosly and
completely divided into parks, and enclosed with substantial whin-
stone dikes. This improvement has added greatly to the produce
of the farm. By the assistance of these parks, and by grazing,
execellent crops have been lately raised upon inferior land; and
first-rate cattle and sheep have been brought to the market.
     The next farm to the west is Little Kinnear, the property of
Henry Wedderburn, Esq. of Birkhill. It is a small one, but
valuable from its soil, its climate, and situation. It requires only
to be enclosed, to becoeme a first-rate farm for its size. The up-
per land, although thin, lies upon a whinstone bottom. To the
west of Little Kinnear, lies the estate of Kilmany, belonging to
John A. Thomson, Esq. of Charleton. It is divided into three
farms;__East and West Kilmany;__and Muir Craig, on the Tay.
The two first farms have always been considered excellent ones,
and capable of raising all kinds of crops. They are more adapt-
ed for wheat, than either of the Kinnears. Their soil is various.
Upon the Motray it is a deep rich loam. In wet seasons, this
part of it raises great quantitties of straw; but the quantity and
the quality of the grain do not correspond with the bulk of  fod-
der. This was particularly the case in 1817; but in drier seasons
it produces heavy crops of straw and corn. Another part of it is
a fine sharp soil lying on trap, which yields an excellent boll, for
the quantity of foder, which is in some seasons deficient. There
is another part of it, morrish, and of little value to the farmer. This
is the tract of land lying betwixt the manse and glebe, and the
east march of Rathillet. This part of the property, by the subsoil
plough, furrow draining, and above all things, by enclosures, may
be much improved, and, in the course of time, may become, if not
fertile, at least a convenient piece of ground to the tenant. The
Muir Craigs is a hill farm, and, as its name denotes, there is in it
a considerable quantity of indifferent land; but of late years, it
has been much improved, and is in the way being still better


