
8                      BERWICKSHIRE.

dor. The number of acres under wood (little of which is natural)
is 650.
   The trees commonly planted are Scotch and spruce firs, larch,
oak, ash, beech, elm, bireh, poplar, and willow. In the same plan-
tation there is a mixture of trees, which are planted thick, for the
purpose of affording shelter as they grow up. They are in general
regularly and carefully pruned and thinned; and from time to time
numbers of them are cut for forming paling, roofing houses, or
making implements of husbandry.
   Rent of Land.-The rent of arable land varies from L. 3 to 5s.
per acre; the average of the whole may be 16s. The average
rent of grazing a cow or full-grown ox in summer is L. 3, and of
foddering it in winter, L. I ; and that of grazing for the year a
sheep is, for the black-faced, 5s., for the Cheviot, 8s. and for the
Leicester, 18s. Of grazing the three breeds overhead, 8s. may be
stated as a fair average rent.
   Rate of Wages.-Hinds, who form the most numerous class of
farm-servants, and who are engaged for the year, are generally paid
in money, oatmeal, barley, a cow's-keep, potatoes planted, and
several small perquisites, all of which may be fairly computed at
9s. per week, or L. 23, Ss. per year. Each hind is bound to keep
a woman servant called a bondager, to work at day, turnips, &c.
during the summer half year, at 10d. per day, without board.
Single men-servants receive in the half year from L. 4, 4s. to
L. 5, 5s. with board; women from L. 4, 4s. to L. 5, 5s. in summer,
and in winter, from L. 1, 12s. to L. 2, 2s. with board and washing;
common day labourers 9s. in winter, and 10s. in summer, per week,
in hay and corn harvest, about the same wages, with the addition of
board. Masons and carpenters get at the rate of 12s. per week,
with victuals. Blacksmith work is generally done by contract, at
L. 3 per annum for each pair of horses, including, besides shoeing
the horses, all repairs on the ploughs, (excepting the cast metal
used,) harrows, grapes, forks, &c.
   Breeds of Live-Stock.-The sheep most generally kept are of
the Cheviot breed. On two or three of the highest farms the black-
faced are kept, and numbers of the Leicester kind are departure
on the lower improved lands. Sheep of the last kind rising one
year old receive turnips from three to five months, in winter and
spring; the ewes receive turnips three or four weeks before they be-
gin to lamb, after which they are put on the young grasses. In some
instances, the Cheviot and the black-faced ewes are put to Leices-


