
            772                    PERTHSHIRE.

            extent is not known, as neither of them has ever been measured.
            The woods, both natural and planted, are carefully attended to,
            and regularly thinned. The thinnings are either given or sold to
            the tenants for their farm-steadings and implements of husbandry,
            and larch is purchased to a considerable extent, from the forests
            of Breadalbane, for sleepers to the rail-roads carrying on in the
            south.
              Husbandry.-The most approved method of husbandry is car-
            ried on in the district of Appin ; but in most of the other districts
            of the parish, the four rotation system is still adhered to. It must
            be admitted, however, that the patriotic efforts of the Highland
            Society have given a stimulus to agriculture all over the parish,
            perhaps unprecedented at any former period. These are now
            aided by other local Societies, so that, betwixt their united agency,
            and the facility and encouragement given by the heritors to every
            branch of agricultural improvement, not only the beautifying and
            fertilizing of the soil evince their beneficial effects, but also the
            rearing and symmetry of the cattle.
               Live-stock.-The principal stock of cattle reared is of the
            West Highland breed, with the exception of a few Ayrshires, in-
            troduced of late years for dairy use. On the lower grounds, there
            are some Cheviot or white-faced sheep kept, and a few Leicesters
            are there occasionally to be met with also ; but the common breed
            is of the black-faced kind, ;ind to the rearing of these, as well as
            to the purity and improvement of the Highland cattle, the strictest
            attention is paid, particularly by graziers. Accordingly, their
            At sales effected within the last two years, on some of the prin-
            cipal farms in this neighbourhood, queys brought from L.16 to
            L.22 each; and, on one farm, the wedder lambs are annually dis-
            posed of about Lammas, when they generally bring between 9s
            and 10s. a-head.
             The average number and value of livestock, young and old,
            within the quoad civilia parish, may be thus stated, viz.

            <TABLE>

                    Number of horses, say 770, at L.10 each,  L. 7,700
                              black-cattle, 4,600, at L.5,      23,000
                              sheep, 18, 160, at 12s.           10,896
                              swine, 650, at L.1, 10s.             975
                                                                ______L. 42,571

              Rent, &c.-In some districts, the arable land is let so low
            as 17s. per acre, and, in other districts, the same quantity
            brings about L.3; but the average rent per arable acre, of standard
            imperial measure, over the parish mav be stated at L.1, 10s. It


