
196                          FIFESHIRE.


soil overlays it. Freestone quarries have been opened. Red rotten
rock prevails in one or two small localities.
   Zoology.-Deer are found in the parish. Pheasants are plenti-
ful. The woodcock takes up his abode during the winter months.
The fowl familiarly called the cock of the north is generally con-
sidered as the forerunner of stormy weather.

                           II.-CIVIL HiSTORY.

   Land-owners, &c.-In a strictly literal sense, there are 15 pro-
prietors, from whose lands the minister's stipend is  levied. But
as one estate is the joint property of the four family representatives
of the antecedent owner, the number of heritors may be said to be
12. The principal of these, in point of valued and real rental,
are Robert Ferguson of Raith, Esq.; the elder son, a minor, of
the deceased John Aytoun of Inchdairnie, Esq.; Lieutenant-Ge-
neral Balfour of Balbirnie; and the Right Honourable the Earl
of Rothes, patron. There are numerous feudal possessions, the
more ancient of which generally pay to the superior the yearly ac-
knowledgment of 7 1/2d. per fall, or L. 5 per acre; while those of
recent grant are hold at the advanced rate of 1s. per fall, or L. 8
per acre. The feus in the village, amounting to about 40, hold
of General Balfour, who, by ancestral purchase, is proprietor of
various lands, which belonged to William Aytoun Douglas, Esq.
   Eminent Men.-To those who are conversant with the his-
torical circumstances connected with the origin of the Secession
church, the name of the Rev. John Currie cannot be unknown.
That devout man was inducted to the pastoral charge of this
parish, on the 28th September 1705, and died on the 22d Sep-
tember 1765, in the ninety-second year of his age, and within
a few days of the completion of the sixtieth year of his minis-
try. He was the intimate friend and epistolary correspondent
of Ebenezer and Ralph Erskine, who were both grieved and
astonished that they could not. persuade him to act in accord-
ance with those views of ecclesiastical discipline and economy
which had led them and others to renounce subjection to the judi-
catories of the national religious establishment. His opinions con-
cerning the popular prerogative in regard to the election of Chris-
tian pastors are set forth in a treatise designated "Vox Populi Vox
Dei."-Whatever estimate may be formed of that production, or of
other writings which emananted from his pen, it is undeniable that
the venerable author, was eminently characterized by the purity
and simplicity of his manners, and by the pious and affectionate as-
 				4


