
     Statistical Account'

90 to 180 acres, and rent from something above 5 s. to'
10 s. the acre.  They are generally laboured by the te-
nants and their sons and daughters, or by hired servants who
live in the family.  The employing these, and not cot-
tagers, has the effect of making servants scarcer.  Ploughmen
receive from 6 to 8 and 9 guineas a-year, with board and
washing, which is nearly double of what they got 20 years
ago.  Women receive from L. 3 to L. 4, valuing what are
called bountiths.  Labourers wages are from 1 s. to 1 s. 3 d.
without victuals, or 8 d. to 10 d. with them in summer.
Carts with two wheels are universally used, as is the Scotch
plough, thought best adapted to stiff and foul ground.
There are a few sheep-farms, which are rented by the
number of sheep they are supposed to maintained, and differ
according to the quality of the pasture, being from some-
thing above 2 s. to near 3 s. the head.  The sheep kept are-
the black faced and black legged kind, supposed the har-
diest and best adapted to this high situation.  No fair trial
has been made of any other kind.  Smearing, or laying
with tar and butter, is generally practised, and thought to
defend the animal from vermin and being hurt by wetness.
A few kept within the enclosures, where they are more
sheltered, have for some years gone without smearing, and
done very well, only the wool has become a very little
coarser.  When fed as the high grounds upon which they
are reared will admit, the carcase weighs from 30 lb. to
40 lb. Dutch weight.  It takes from 6 to 8 fleeces to make

<FOOTNOTE>

grounds enclosed and sheltered with belts of plantation.  Quickset hedges
are indeed difficult to rear in this high situation, and poor thin soil.  But
by forming a proper bed for them before planting, getting thorns of suffi-
cient strength, and paying attention to them for the few first years, they-
may be raised, and make both a sence and shelter.  In many places of the 
parish, there is both moor and free stone to be bad at a moderate expense.


