
     Statistical Account

of the glebe was continued and still is, which consists wholly
of sheep pasture, and contains at least 200 acres of ground.
The old burial ground also remains, and is still employed as
such.  In it several families, both of this and the adjacent pa-
rishes, inter their dead.  The stipend, including the rent paid
for the above mentioned glebe, may be valued at 120 L. Ster-
ling.  There has been no augmentation since the year 1731.
At that time it was considered as a good living.  The funds
for augmentation are still very great.  The right of patron-
age is vested in the Crown.-The parochial school is at pre-
sent in a very flourishing state.  English, writing, arithmetic,
book-keeping, land-surveying, and mathematics, are taught
after the newest and most improved methods.  The salary is
only 100 merks Scots, which is a sum by no means adequate
to the extent and land rent of the parish, and totally insuffi-
cient either to support the dignity of a schoolmaster, or to
reward him for his useful labours.  The school-house is in
excellent repair, and accommodated for lodging several board-
ers.  Last winter, the schoolmaster had 8 scholars boarded
with him.  Besides the parochial school, there is another si-
tuated upon the Etterick river, where the branches of edu-
cation already mentioned are also taught.  For this school
there is no salary allotted.  The schoolmaster has nothing to
depend upon for his subsistence, but the emoluments arising
from the school fees, and a guinea gratuitously given annually
by that benevolent nobleman the Duke of Buccleugh.  Were
the other heritors to imitate his laudable example, and thus
countenance a seminary of learning highly necessary for the
place, it would surely be highly for their honour.  As they
are noblemen and gentlemen of the most respectable charac-
ters, and generous dispositions, it is to be hoped, this will be
brought about upon a proper application to them.  The
school-house is in good order, being built lately, partly by


