
370                      IIOSS AND CROMART'V.

a matter of great moment to all present, The President was not
the man to act the part of the Theban, to whom a letter, warning
him of imminent danger, bad been brought as be was sitting at a
feast, and which, instead of reading, he put sealed tinder his pil-
low, saying " in crastinum defero res severas." 'The sagacious pa-
triot acted differently, and having instantly read the letter, became
aware of the perilous situation in which be was placed, in time to
escape with his life. For so seasonable and important informa-
tion, he was indebted, as was said, to the gratitude of Coll Bain
Macdonald) of who had some years before then, stood
trial before the Court	of Judiciary, on a capital charge, and
had been, contrary to his own expectations, acquitted through the
able services of the President, at that time practising,as an advo-
cate in the courts. Coll, aware of the danger that now threaten-
ed his benefactor, repaid him his important services; enabling him,
by conveying this timely intelligence, to escape the clutches of his
mortal foes. In this critical situation, the President's usual pru-
dence and promptitude did not forsake him. Orders were given
to treat the men with ample cbeer-the bagpipes were 'blown, and
dancing was commenced on the lawn. Every thing betokened the
absence of alarrn, till arrangements for a speedy flight were com-
pleted. Then the whole party darted away towards the Kessock,
and reached the. boats just in time to escape the rebels, who, bav-
ing observed the movement from the castle, gave chase-with the
of the mountain stag. As the boats were crossing, some
bullets whizzed past the ears of the loyalists, but happily no per-
son received injury. The President and his friends having thus
narrowly escaped, pursued their flight to the mountains between
and Sutherland, where they skulked for several weeks, in a
state of most painful anxiety, enduring the inclemency of the
weather, and reduced to the greatest extremity of hunger. The
inhabitants of those districts, being generally in favour of Charlie,
would afford the fugitives neither shelter nor supply of food; nay,
on one occasion they actually hunted them with dogs. And but
for the seasonable kindness of some friend of the Government, who
with great i secrecy sent them a present of a few Eheep, &c. they
must have perished of famine. Intelligence of the battle of the 26th
April, however, released them from these bardships and was con-
sidered a rich reward for all their privations and sufferings. So re-
duced were the men,.however, on,their return to itheii homes that
their families could scarcely recognize them. A daughter of one of


