
228                      STIRLINGSHIRE.

possession of Lord Abercromby, is so beautifully and tastefully
constructed, and unites so much elegance of shape with strength
and lightness, as to suggest the idea that it must be either Ro-
man or Grecian.
  Some years ago, when a part of the Roman causeway already
alluded to was broken up, a singular old horse-shoe was found;
and in various places along the front of the Ochils sepulchral urns
with bones have been dug up; also stone and bronze battle-axes.
There is a traditional report, that the last coinage of Scotch
bawbees was of the copper from Airthrey mines.
                      III.--POPULATION.
  In 1831, the population was estimated at 1943. This, however,
does not include the village of Abbey and its district, comprehend-
ing a population of 216. The Abbey district is at present con-
sidered part of Stirling parish; but there is reason to believe on
very insufficient grounds; and there is an action pending or pre-
paring with the view of recovering it to the parish of Logie.
Though the writer considers it an integral part of this parish, he
has omitted taking any notice of it in the present account, as it
will probably be,included in the account of the parish of Stir-
ling.
   Exclusive of this district, the number of the population residing
in villages is 1242, and the remaining 700 in the country.
   It would be difficult to fix the average of births, as many pa-
rents make no application to have the names of their children re-
gistered.  The yearly average of those registered for the last seven
years is 12. There is no register of deaths kept in the parish.
The average number of marriages is 18.
  Number offamilies of independent fortune residing in the pa-
rish, 2. Number of proprietors of land, 28, nearly all of whom
draw upwards of L. 50 a year from their property.  Number of in-
sane sent from the parish to the Glasgow Lunatic Asylum, 3;
fatuous, 2.
   Character of the People, &c.--The people are in general cleanly
in their habits, especially in those villages which are frequented by
strangers in summer. On the whole, they are decidedly an in-
dustrious, moral, and church-going population; generally comfort-
able, and, it is hoped it may be added, contented.
   The people are not addicted to poaching. Formerly there
were one or two stills among the Ochil Hills; and the village of
Craigmill was notorious as the haunt of smugglers, but since
                              3


