
                        ABERDEEN.                               79

four hours charge.  The retorts employed are partly iron and part-
ly of fire-brick, the former cylindrical or kidney-shaped, the latter
flat, elliptical, or D shaped.  The number fitted up is at present
about sixty-four, some of which are heated by coal and coke, but
a good many are worked off entirely by the tar of former distilla-
tions; and generally About one-half of the retorts are in operation
at once during the winter, but in summer from four to ten are suf-
ficient.  The gas produced is first subjected to atmospheric cold
in an extensive series of condensing pipes, and afterwards purified
by being passed first through a vessel containing lime diffused in
water, and then through several trays filled with dry lime; after
which it passes into a-meter, to which Mr Massie, the present su-
perintendent of the works, has ingeniously adapted a clock, bearing
a pencil attached to the minute hand, which marks, on a card that
revolves with the meter, the quantity of gas produced in each hour.
The gas then passes into the gasometers, whose contents are at
present about 93,000 feet, but another, capable of holding 61,000,
is just erected, and almost ready for use.
   The works are conveniently situated in the lower part of the
town, and the whole of the arrangements are well contrived.  The
Company have hitherto been always careful to employ the best qua-
lity of coals only, and to this and the intelligence and activity of
their manager is greatly to be ascribed the high degree of success
which has attended the speculation; the gas produced at these
works being, it is believed, fully equal, if not superior in quality to
that made in any other part of the kingdom.
   Mr Massie, not content with simply producing and purifying gas
according to the methods usually received, has applied his ingenuity
to the contrivance of various means for testing the purity and value
of the gas, with a view of detecting and obviating any occasional
failure, among which may be noticed an instrument for detecting the
presence of sulphuretted hydrogen by means of a jet of gas thrown on
revolving disk moistened with a solution of acetate of lead, and
contrivance for testing the illuminating power by the number of
plates of colourless glass of uniform thickness and texture through
which the light from a flame of a given size can be discerned.
The consumpt has been gradually increasing since the use of
oil gas was relinquished, and at present the nightly distribution is,
about 140,000 feet in winter, and about 18,000 feet in summer.
The consumers may be thus classed: manufactories and weaving-
shops, 111; shops and warehouses, 1211 private houses, 1335;


