
774                          LANARKSHIRE.

blaes or shale ever found above it.  In some places, it rests on
a white sandstone rock, and in other places on shale, either blue
or of a bright-red colour.  This rock is superincumbent on all the
coal formations in this part of the country, the upper surface of
the former lying at an average from fifteen to thirty fathoms
above the upper surface of the coal measures: it covers an extent
of country about nine miles in length, and from four to eight in
breadth.  There is a great deposit of sand near its south-east ex-
tremity, at Chatelherault, and another at its north-west extremity,
near Tollcross.
   Coal abounds everywhere in this parish, but in the lower
division, where the red sandstone occurs, it lies at too great a
depth to be wrought with advantage at present ; the attempt con-
sequently has not been made.  Four good workable seams at
least extend throughout the greater part of the parish, contain-
ing in all about twenty feet of coal.  These may be described
under their local names.  The first of these found on boring is
thirty-seven inches thick, and hence is termed the ell coal.  It
generally rests upon a bed of fire-clay two feet thick, abounding
with petrified mussel shells (Mytilus crassus, Flem. Edin. Ph. Journ.
No. xxiv. 246, tab. ix., f. 3).  From seven to ten fathoms below
this first seam, the Pyotshaw coal is found, in thickness from three
to four feet; descending seven fathoms farther, the main coal five
feet thick is reached.  Sometimes these two seams are found
united, and then they constitute what is called the nine feet coal.
At a depth of from fifteen to eighteen fathoms below the main
coal, the, splint coal is come to, which, as the name implies, is of
a hard, splintery quality, and is the best in the country for smelting
iron ; it is found on analysis to be composed of 75.00 carbon ;
6.25 hydrogen; 12.50 oxygen ; and 6.25 nitrogen.  This last
seam varies from three feet nine inches to four feet six inches in
thickness ; it and the main coal abound with iron pyrites.  The
roof of the splint coal is rich both in animal and vegetable re-
mains.
   Carfin, in this parish, is not far from the centre of the great
coal basin of lanarkshire.  This rich mineral field may not in-
aptly be described as forming a triangle of the isosceles. kind, about
twenty-one or twenty-two miles in length, of which Glasgow is the
vertex, and a line drawn from the Clyde south-east to Polkemmet,
the base.  It has been estimated to contain about 55,000 acres,


