
	144                       ROSS AND CROMARTY.

	and mettlesome, well adapted for carrying burdens of peat and ware
	through broken rugged ground, in creels suspended by the crook-
	saddle. The beef and mutton are of a superior quality.
             The rivers contain well-flavoured trout in considerable numbers.
	Good salmon are caught, annually, on the Barvas river. They
	come up in June when access is open to them ; spawn towards the
	latter end of September, and return to the sea in the beginning
	of winter. Ling, cod, and dog-fish are sometimes fished. These,
	together with herring and every other variety of fish caught on
	the south side of the island, frequent this coast in great numbers;
	but the inhabitants are unable to benefit by them, without peril-
	ling their lives in the tempestuous ocean which surrounds them.
	With the exception of a very few days in summer and harvest,
	terrific surges, crested with foam, may" be seen rolling to the shore,
	with unremitting violence.
             The borse-fly and the c'ommon bouse-fly abound in their season;
	but the insect best known, from the torture it often inflicts, is a
	species of gnat commonly called the "midge," which, without some
 	safeguard covering on the face, will interrupt any out-door occupa-
 	tion. In such seasons of scarcity as the present, a great part of
 	the sustenance of many of the natives for some weeks is the com-
	mon whelk, limpet, and crab,-the only sbell-fish to be found on the
	coast.
             Botany.-The botanist has here but little scope for his pursuits.
        Not a vestige of wood, or tree, and scarcely of a shrub except the
	wild heath, is visible on the surface of the earth. This gives the
	country a barren stunted appearance. Yet the deficiency cannot
	be altogether imputed to the poverty of the soil; for roots and
	trunks of fir, oak and hazel, with hazel-nuts, are frequently found
	imbedded in a great depth of moss,-confirming the current opinion,
	that these northern countries, at some remote period, have under-
	gone some sweeping and desolating revolution. Gardens, when
	properly cultivated, produce good culinary vegetables, and are ca.-
	Pable of bringing fruit-bushes to maturity.
                              II-CIVIL HISTORY.
            Parochial'Registers.-The only parochial register extant in this
	parish, dates its earliest entry from the year 1810;-since which
	time, baptisms, marriages, and distribution of poor funds have
	been regularly registered.
            Antiquities.-Almost every populous village in the parish had
        formerly a small Popish Chapel attached to it, and adjoining


