
24                       KINROSS-SHIRE.

lief. Their funds arise from a small subscription from each member
of 5s. on her entrance; and of a penny a-week or 4s. 4d. a year;
from occasional public collections; from the donations of indivi-
duals, &c. No small addition was made, two years ago, by the
proceeds of a musical festival in Kinross mansion-house.
   The two congregations of the United Secession Church con-
tribute to the sending out a missionary to Jamaica, and maintain-
ing him while there.
   There are three prayer-meetings here, one connected with the
parish church congregation, and the other two with those of the
United Secession.
   Temperance and Abstinence Societies.- One Society, the laws of
which bound its members to refrain from all ardent spirits, ex-
cepting when medicinally required, was formed some years ago,
and for a little while was highly popular; but dissension springing
up, a split took place, and it became extinct. Within the present
year, 1839, another Society has been constituted, called a Tee-
total, the object of which is to put an end to the use as well as
abuse, not only of ardent spirits, but of malt liquor, and whatever
contains in it any portion of alcohol. It is, at present, in high re-
pute, already numbering among the subscribers to its obligations,
of men, women, boys, and girls, more than 430 names.
   Education.--Of public schools, exclusive of the labours of in-
structors in one or two families belonging to the country part of
the parish, there are, parochial and endowed, 1; not parochial,
and unendowed, 7; taught by females, 4. The branches of in-
struction in these schools are such as we expect and are accus-
tomed to meet with in similar situations. Latin, the first elements
of Greek, geography, the use of the terrestrial globe, are con-
fined to the parish school. The salary of the master of this school
is L.34, 4s. 4 1/2d. The amount of his fees annually is about L.55.
The payment of the greater proportion of pupils is weekly.
  There are not above 12 from six to fifteen years of age who can
neither write nor read. To the benefits of education the people
at large are not insensible. If there be any exception, it is with
the very ignorant, and still more with the dissipated and depraved.
No part of the parish is so distant as to prevent school attendance
at Kinross, on the part of such, at least, as are above seven or eight
years of age. At the examination of schools this spring, by the
presbytery, more than one-seventh of the whole population were
found to be in attendance.


