
			GLASGOW.                             173

tor or Vice-Rector presides in this meeting. Meetings of the co-
mitia are held for the election and admission of the Rector, for
hearing public disputations in any of the faculties, previously to
the conferring of degrees, for hearing the inaugural discourses of
the Principal and Professors, previously to their admission to their
respective offices, and for promulgating the laws of the University,
and other acts of the University and College courts. The meeting
of faculty, or college, meeting, consists of the Principal, the Pro-
fessors of Divinity, Church History, Oriental Languages, Natural
Philosophy, Moral Philosophy, Mathematics, Logic, Greek, Hu-
manity, Civil Law, Medicine, Anatomy, and Practical Astronomy.
The Principal presides in this meeting, and has a casting but not
a deliberative vote. The members of faculty have the administra-
tion of the whole revenue and property of the College, consisting
of heritage, feus, teinds, and bequests, with the exception of a few
particular bequests, in which the Rector and other officers of the
University are specially named. They have likewise the right of
exercising the patronage of eight professorships, vested in the Col-
lege. They present a minister to the parish of Govan, and have
the gift of various bursaries. In the exercise, however, of one of
their privileges, viz. the election of professors, the Rector and
Dean of Faculty have a vote.
	The officer of highest dignity in the University is the Chancellor,
who is elected by the members of senate. He is the head of the
University, and by himself or deputy has the sole privilege of con-
ferring academical degrees upon persons found qualified by the
Senatus Aeademicus. The office of Chancellor is held during life.
The Rector is annually elected by the Dean, the Principal, the Pro-
fessors, and the matriculated students. The electors are divided,
according to their respective birth-places, into four nations, as be-
fore-mentioned. As the majority of the members of each nation
constitutes one vote, in case of an equality, the Rector going out of
office has the casting vote; and in his absence, the Rector imme-
diately preceding. The election is always held on the 15th of No-
vember, except when it falls upon Sunday, and then the election
is held on the following day, and the same person is generally re-

	The royal visitation of 1727, prescribed a number of regulations which have been
in free ever since. Inter alia, the right of electing a Rector was declared to be in
all the matriculated Members, Moderators or Masters, and students. Some altera-
tions were made on the distribution of the supposts into nations. The Natio Glot-
tiana aine Clydesdalia and the Natio dicta Rothsay, continued as originally settled.
But into the Aratio Laudoniana sive Thevidalia were introduced, all maltriculated
members from England, and the British Colonies; and the Natio Albaniae sive Trans.
forthians, was to include all foreigners.


