
                                 KIRKINNER.                       11

                     August,        561/2     541/2
                     September,     521/2     523/2
                     October,       481/2     514/4
                     November,      431/2     45
                     December,      341/4     37
                                    ______    _____
                                    471/2     471/2

     Rain falls often, and in considerable quantities, but it seldom
rains a whole day without intermission.  The prevailing winds
are the south and south-west.  Our severest storms of rain,
wind, and snow, are from the south-east.  We have sometimes a
heavy gale from the north-west, but it seldom lasts long, and com-
monly falls in the evening,--hence the saying common in the
country, "that an honest man, and a north-west wind, generally go
to sleep together."
     The climate, when compared with that of the north-western
counties of Scotland, may be considered rather dry than moist.
Before the low lands were drained, the people who lived on them
were often affected with ague, but the parish is now very healthy.
Alexander M'Credie died, in 1824, at the very advanced age of
108.
     Hydrography.--The parish is bounded on the east for about three
miles by the bay of Wigton, which separates it from the parish of
Kirkmabreck in the stewartry of Kirkcudbright.  At full-tide the
by is 7 or 8 miles in width.  The tide also flows up the water of
Bladenoch for about two miles.  There is a mineral spring on the
estate of Barnbarroch, which is often used by the inhabitants for
stomach complaints.  It was formerly considered to be of great use in
curing the ague.  Another spring of a similar nature has lately
been discovered on the same estate.  They seem both to be impreg-
nated with iron.  The parish in general, but particularly about the
church, is celebrated for numerous and copious springs of soft and
light water, which must contribute much to the health of the in-
habitants.  On the south-west side of the parish lies the lake or
loch of Dowalton, called also Ravenston and Longcastle.  It is
about two miles long, by one and a half broad.  It contains two
small islands, both on the Kirkinner side.
     The river Bladenoch forms the boundary of the parish for
many miles.  It takes its rise in Loch Mabear‚e, on the borders
of Ayrshire, receives the tributary streams of Malzie and Mild-
riggen in this parish, and, after a winding course of about twenty
miles, falls into the bay of Wigton, near that town.
     Geology and Mineralogy.--The soil is in general gravelly, and


