
     of St Andrew's

   The great opulence of this city, in the times of Popery,
may be conceived from this single circumstance, that there was
an annual fair here, commencing in the beginning of April,
which lasted for some weeks; and to which there resorted,
from 2 to 3 hundred vessels, from all parts of the then commer-
cial world.  After the Reformation, the city gradually fell

<FOOTNOTE>

may be re-elected every year as long as he lives, while none of the other
office-bearers can continue above 3 years in immediate succession.  No coun-
cillor, that has at any time enjoyed a higher office, can afterward be
elected into a lower.  Besides the 7 office-bearers above mentioned, the
council consists of 14 brethren of the guild, the converner of the trades for
the time being, and the deacons for the time being, of the following
crafts, or incorporations, viz smiths, wrights, bakers, tailors, shoemakers,
weavers, and slesher; amounting in all, to 29.  The council annually un-
dergoes a partial change, which is made in the following manner; on
the Wednesday preceding the Michaelmas election, the subsisting coun-
cil, of 29, adopt 3 by a majority of suffrages; these new councillors vote
with the old council in the subsequent election fo office-bearers.  The
council for the year after said election, must consist of these 3 new mem-
bers, the new office-bearers, the office-bearers of the former year, the new
converner, and 7 deacons of crafts, with such other guild brethren, as the
magistrates please to name, for making up the number 29.  The magi-
strates, for time immemorial, have been in use of naming the guild coun-
cillors of the former year; excepting 3. who must leave their places to
the new members.  When any office-bearer dies, his office must continue
vacant until the following Michaelmas; but his seat in the council is
filled up by another guild brother, at the nomination of the magistrates,
who fill up every vacancy in the council occasioned by death; but when
a councillor resigns, his sucessor is elected by the ramaining 28. This
is the set and established practice of the city.  The proper office of the
treasurer is that of factor or chamberlain of the town's revenue; and
when he is appointed to discharge this oofice, he has a samll salary.  But
the council, having found much inconveniency in the frequent change of
this officer; and having also found, that it was sometimes a very delicate
and difficult matter, to call the treasurer to account, when he had a vote
in the elections, have of late years established a factor, who is not eligi-
ble into the council; and they have left the treasurer merely the name
of office, with the political privileges annexed to the name.


