
                          FEARN.                          319

home, at once more to their own comfort and the best interests of the
community. Some miles to the eastward, and upon a waste by no
means inviting, a system of colonization has been adopted by Sir
James Carnegy of Southesk, upon a liberal principle, which, it, is
believed, works well, and already begins amply to remunerate the
proprietor.

              V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

  Means of Communication.-No line of turnpike passes through
the parish, and the same may be said with regard to stage-coaches,
Here it may be observed, that what usage makes familiar is no,
hardship, otherwise our public roads would soon undergo a
thorough reformation. The old tracks, to be sure, have undergone
some alterations and nominal repairs, and these, sometimes for the
better and sometimes for the worse. Did not the fact stand pro-
minently forth, the assertion might bd discredited, that on our
southern line of communication with Brechin, on a distance of six,
miles, the two highest pinnacles in the country round must be re-
gularly ascended and descended, and reversely, before we can go
and return from our nearest post-town. The multitude of heavy
carriages which are daily passing and repassing, the facility with
which an eligible line of road might be found, and the moderate
expense at which it might be executed, and the incalculable be-
nefit which might be derived from the alteration, not merely as
matter of local accommodation, but as beneficial to many neigh-
bouring districts,-may well create surprise that a change so ne-
cessary and advantageous should have been so long overlooked.
	Whins and broom are now in such overflowing abundance, and
appear to be of such spontaneous growth, that we must take it for
granted, that what we now see of these, our forefathers must al-
ways have seen. If the following account can be trusted, the case
must have been different. Some old men in the parish concur in
asserting, that they can remember the time when neither a plant
of the one nor of the other was to be met with, over the whole ex-
panse of our moors, with the exception of one patch on the west-
ern extremity of Drummor. A tradition is current in the neigh-
bourhood, that a large herd of c`ttle, accompanying Graham of
Dundee upon one of his expeditions from the south, rested for a
night upon that spot, and that about three or four years after-
wards, plants of both these kinds, formerly unknown on the Braes
of Angus were observed, springing up.
  Ecclesiastical State and Education.-The parish church and


