
			DURRIS.                                 175

<TABLE>
Butter and cheese,                                         300  0 0
Honey,                                                      87 10 0
Salmon-fishings,                                            13  0 0

	   Total gross produce of the parish,         L. 13412  3 4



		V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Means of Communication.--There is no market-town or village
within the parish; Aberdeen and Stonehaven are the places where
farm produce is sold; each about thirteen miles from the centre
of the parish. There is no post-office nearer than Banchory, five or
six miles distant; but most letters for this parish come through the
post-office of Aberdeen; as the farmers being frequently there,
get their letters with less trouble and delay than when, sent by
Banchory. There is only one turnpike road, which passes through
the parish for about four miles, called the Slug Road, leading from
Stonehaven to Banchory. But a commutation road to Aberdeen
on the south side of the river, is kept in good repair; and several
cross roads leading to other lines of communication are now in the
course of being finished. *
	Ecclesiastical State.--The parish church was built in the year 1822
by the late proprietor, and is in sufficient repair, affording accom-
modation for 550 sitters, and none of the seats are let. The manse
was built about sixty years ago, but, having never been well finished
nor commodious, it is now unfit for the minister, and a new one is
about to be built. The glebe measures about fifteen imperial acres,
besides a patch of pasture which is of little value, being frequently
covered over with sand from the river. By an ice speat in January
1831, a great part of the best of this glebe, together with the crop of
turnips and soil, was entirely carried off, and nothing left but bare
gravel; and in another place, about three acres of the best land
entirely disappeared, and now make part of the bed of the river.
The late proprietor, the Duke of Gordon, in the most handsome
manner, made a compensation to the minister for this extensive
loss, increasing the glebe to the extent above-mentioned. If let
at the same rent as the land of the same quality in the neighbour-
hood, the glebe and garden, with the office-houses, would bring
L. 18 or 20 a-year. The stipend payable by the proprietor for
this valuable parish, including allowance for communion elements,
L. 8, 6s. 8d, is only L. 76, 12s. 6d. The deficiency is made up

<FOOTNOTE>Since this Account was drawn up, a new turnpike road is in the course of being
made Aberdeen to Banchory Ternan, which intersect this, parish for five
miles and a-half, along the south side of the Dee.


