
118 	                     FORPARSHIRE.

			    IV.--INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture and Rural Economy.--Almost the whole of the land
in the parish is cultivated, and in a high state of improvement.

<TABLE>

	The number of acres in cultivation being                            2080
	In pasture,	                                                      32
	Under wood,	                                                      70
	Capable of being cultivated with a profitable application of capital,  0
	In undivided common,	                                               0

   The lands of Old Montrose consist ehther of a strong deep clay,
commonly called in Scotland Carse land, admirably adapted for
wheat, or of a very fine loam. The lands of Dysart lying higher,
are of a lighter quality, but have been much improved of late years,
and bear good crops.
   Husbandry.--The usual mode of cropping the clay land is a
rotation of six parts, 1st, fallow, the land well-dunged, and, if ne-
cessary, Iimed; 2d, wheat; 3d, pease or beans; 4th, barley sown
with grass seeds; 5th, grass; 6th, oats. There are two modes
of cultivating the lighter lands. The first is in four parts, 1st,
turnips or potatoes, the soil well dunged; 2d, barley after the tur-
nip, or wheat after the potatoes, sown with grass seeds; 3d, grass;
and 4th, oats. Another mode is in five parts, viz. fallow or pota-
toes; next wheat or barley, sown with grass seeds; then two years
in grass; and Iastly a crop of oats.
   The average return per acre is as follows,--wheat 10 bolls on
clay land, and on the lighter soil, 7 or 8 bolls of 4 bushels; barley,
8 bolls; oats 8 bolls of 6 bushels; beans from 10 to 14 bolls,
wheat measure, according to the season; and pease from 6 to 10.
The grain hn general is of a fine quality.
   An acre of turnips, if sold upon the field, is reckoned worth
L. 10; but if consumed upon the field, is not reckoned worth more
than L. 5 or L. 6. The price of potatoes varies according to the
season.  The average price of an acre may be stated at L. 12;
but it will often fetch L. 14 or L. 15.
   The ploughing is all carried on by horses.  No oxen are used.
A plough dra-wn by two horses is considered as sufficient for fifty
acres. A considerable number of horses are reared upon the
farms; and it is acknowledged that the breed, both of horses and
cattle, has of late years been much improved by associations form-
ed by the farmers for that purpose in this and the neighbouring
counties. A great many cattle are fed in this parish during the
winter upon turnip and straw, and sold to the butchers. On one
				4


