
84                     INVERNESS-SHIRE.

which there are fine specimens in the Burn of Raitts at Belleville.
Limestone is quarried at Dunachton, a part of Mackintosh's pro-
perty, and veins of lead occur in the gneiss in the Burn of Raitts,
and at Tyncaim, both on the property of Belleville.  The granite
is of two kinds, red and white. The red granite is harder and more
durable, but the white is preferred in building, because it is more
easily dressed. The soil of this parish is in general light, and the
substratum either sand or gravel, with the exception of meadow
ground on the banks of Spey, where the soil is in some places very
deep, lying on a substratum of clay.
   Botany.--The only herb of rare occurrence peculiar to this parish
is the Nymphea alba, or white water-lily, which grows abundantly
in the Lake of Alvie. On the north side of Loch Alvie, a consi-
derable way up the hill, and on the moors of Belleville, is to be
found the Betula nana, or dwarf birch, a rare plant, which has not
been elsewhere discovered in this country. The French willow
also grows on the rock behind the house of Belleville.  The trees
indigenous to the soil of this parish are, birch, alder, mountain-ash,
oak, hazel, pine, and aspen tree.
   Plantations.--On the south-west side of Kinrara, the delightful
and romantic residence of the late Duchess of Gordon, her Grace,
upwards of thirty years ago, planted an extensive piece of barren
moor, chiefly with Scots firs, mingled with some larch trees, that
now combine shelter with ornament.  A few years later, she plant-
ed, on the north-east side of Kinrara, a piece of equally barren
ground, and nearly of the same extent, with the same kind of wood,
which is considerably advanced in growth. The present Duchess
of Gordon, following the example of her illustrious predecessor,
planted another piece of ground a few years ago, between the
Spey and the approach to the cottage of Kinrara, with larch, spruce,
and Scotch firs, which are very thriving. Several years before the
late Duchess of Gordon began her plantations, James Macpherson,
Esq. M. P., the celebrated translator of Ossian's poems, planted
several clumps of larch and Scotch firs at Belleville, by which, be-
sides the shelter they afford, tbe appearance of the place is beau-
tified, and much improved. Mr Macpherson also planted about
200 acres of the same wood, now grown to a large size, on a rock
called Craigbuie.

                     II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
   Historical-events, &c.--The only historical occurrence of any
interest or importance that has taken place in this parish within


