
                            MOFFAT.                           119

ably taught, though not very well attended; and there are various
other schools in the place.
  Charitable Institutions, &c.--The Female Benevolent Society has

done much good; a friendly society did not succeed, nor a parish
bank, chiefly from the low rate of interest. One of these might now
be tried again, with the aid and concurrence of David Jardine,
Esq. agent for the Glasgow Union Bank, as he could transact
without the former expense and risk of money-carriage, and that
bank allows a half per cent. of interest more than some others.
  Poor.--The funds of the poor consist of about L. 50 per, annum
from church collections, from L.50 to L.60, which arise from legal
assessments, and of contributions over and above to the amount of
about L. 20.  The number of claimants is about 50.
  Fuel.--The fuel mostly used is coal, from Douglas; and the
price per hundred weight in Moffat 10d. to 1s.

               MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.

  A comparison of the present state of things with what it was about
forty years ago may be considerdd as one of the most interesting
objects of this new series of statistical reports.
  Since the last Statistical Account was written, not only the po-
pulation, as before shewn, has greatly increased, but the land rents
have risen from L. 3300 to about L. 8000; while in the country
part of the parish most of the farm-houses and offices have been re-
built, and a large extent of stone fences erected.  Many of the cot-
tages have been rebuilt also; and most of these have been, covered
with slate roofs, as the farm-houses and offices have been.  Around
the village, important and attractive improvements have taken
place.  The lands have not only been improved, but villa buildings
have been erected on a plan, combining ornament with comfort; at
the same time, many new houses have been erected; one of which,
now constructing by Mr Macmillan, merchant, is on a very superior
plan.  The church has been rebuilt, and the parish school. The new
baths have been erected on a superior plan, with reading-room and
bowling-green.  The meal-house and market have been opened up;
a square in the centre of the village has also been opened with plenty
of the finest spring water, in a cistern for public use.  The streets
are always kept in comfortable order; there is a regular market for
beef and mutton; mail-coaches pass and repass daily, and post
horses and carriages may be hired at the principal inn; all the
roads and bridges communicating with Moffat are now good, safe,


