
     Statistical Account

   Poor.-In this parish, it may truly be affirmed, that the
poor are maintained chiefly by the poor.  What the pro-
prietors of land contribute for this purpose, owing to their
non-residence, and other causes, is but very inconsiderable.
The poor are maintained in their own houses; and, beside
occasional supplies, the average number of pensioners upon
the roll has, for several years past, been about 22; who, ac-
cording to their several necessities, receive from 1 s. to 3 s.
or 4 s. per month.  The poor's funds are made up of the
weekly collections in the church, small fines imposed on de-
linquents, mortcloth-money, and the interest of L. 110, the
result of some small donations, and of the savings of former
years.  These articles, including one-half of the collections
from the Chapel of Ease in Catrine, (for it has been
thought proper, in the infancy of that establishment, to ap-
ply the other half to different purposes), amount altoge-
ther to about L. 26 per annum.  These funds are under
the administration of the kirk-session, subject to the occa-
sional review of the heritors.  The sum above mentioned,
may appear to be a very slender provision, for the poor of
so extensive and populous a parish; but, in a country where
the mode of living is still, upon the whole, simple and fru-
gal; where fuel is comparatively cheap; where there is so
much health, such abundance of employment, and such high
wages for all descriptions of people, the funds, inconsider-
able as they are, have hitherto been found tolerably to an-
swer the necessary demands.
   During the late seasons of dearth and scarcity, no extra-
ordinary exertions were made in favour of the poor, till win-
ter 1795, when the greatest part of the residing heritors, in
conjunction with the principal farmers and tradesmen, con-
tributed a considerable sum, for the purpose of selling meal
to the poorer families at a reduced price; and Mr Steven-
son of Dalgain gave a present of L. 3, 3 s. to be disposed


