
98                       HADDINGTONSHIRE.

   Produce.-The average gross amount of raw produce yearly
raised in the parish, as nearly as can be ascertained, is as follows:
            Oats, 760 acres, 5 quarters 2 bushels, from 18s. to 27s.
            Wheat, 350 do. 3 1/2 to 4 quarters 36s. to 44s.
            Barley, 450 do. 5 do, 23s. to 33s.
            Turnips, 600 do.  L. 3, to L. 6, per acre.
            Sown grass, 760 ditto.
   Almost all the sown grass in the parish is used as pasture.

                   V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Villages.-There were formerly two villages in these parishes,
Garvald and Bara. The village of Garvald contains 273 inhabit-
ants. All the houses (except two or three) are feus at the rate of
L. 3 per acre, built by masons, wrights, weavers, &c. In the vi-
cinity of the village there is a freestone quarry of excellent quality.
   Inns.-There are three public-houses in the village of Garvald;
besides these, there is an inn at Danskine, on the great road from
Haddington to Dunse.
   Means of Communication.-No public conveyances pass through
the parish. Nor is there any post-office. There is a communica-
tion by carriers from Dunse to Haddington one day in the week.
The length of the turnpike road in the parish is six miles. The
bye-roads, kept in good repair by the statute labour money, are
about sixteen miles in length. The bridges and fences are kept
in good repair.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The church is situated at the eastern ex-
tremity of the parish, and very inconveniently placed for those who
reside at the west end,-the distance being about six miles. It is
old but in good repair. An addition was built to it in 1829. The
church now affords accommodation for 360 persons. The free sittings
in the church are for 50 persons. The manse was built in 1820, and
is in good repair. The glebe consists of 13 1/2 acres. The amount
of stipend is 9 chalders, 4 1/2 bushels, and L .30, 6s. in money. The
number of communicants at present averages 254. Notwithstand-
ing the distance of many of the parishioners from the church, it is
remarkably well attended,
   Education.-There is but one parochial school. The school-
house was repaired about two years ago, and is now in a very com-
fortable state. The schoolmaster's salary is the maximum. The
number of his scholars is from 50 to 60. He is not qualified to teach
Latin. There is also an unendowed school in the village; the num-
ber attending it may be from 40 to 50: and the fees are the same
                             3

