
                              PARISH OF ELLON.

                  PRESBYTERY OF ELLON, SYNOD OF ABERDEEN.

                    THE REV. JAMES ROBERTSON, MINISTER.

                    I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-THE name Ellon is generally supposed to be a cor-
ruption of the Gaelic word Aileann, which signifies an island.  Its
appropriation as the name of this parish may be accounted for by
the circumstance that a small island in the river Ythait, adjacent
to the site of the village of Ellon, marks the position of the ferry
formerly used on the principal line of road leading, from Aberdeen
to the north-eastern districts of Scotland.  In support of the
origin here assigned to the name Ellon, it may be remarked, that
in an inscription on some old communion cups, presented to the
kirk-session by the Forbeses of Watertown, the word is written
Elleann.  Port-Elloti, the name of a village in Perthshire, is un-
derstood to be of similar derivation.
   Extent and Boundaries.-The parish of Ellon is from seven to
eight miles in mean length, and about four miles in mean breadth.
It contains upwards of thirty square miles.  The figure of the pa-
rish is that of an irregular oblong.  It is bounded on the west by
the parishes of Udny, Tarves, and Methlick; on the north, by
the parishes of Deer and New Deer; on the east, by those of
Cruden and Logie-Bucban; and on the south, wholly by Logie-
Bucban.
   Topographical Appearances.-The surface in general presents
to the eye an undulating appearance, but rises in several places
into considerable eminences, from which, though they are not of
such altitude as to deserve the name of hills, the prospect is, ow-
ing to the level character of the surrounding country, very exten-
sive.  The north-eastern range of the Grampians, Benachie, the-
Foudland hills, and the tops of the higher mountains on Speyside,
are, when the state of the atmosphere is favourable, distinctly
within the range of the observer's eye, which also commands an


