
     Statistical Account

   Miscellaneous Observations.-The road from Edinburgh to
Lanark and Air, and that from Peebles to Glasgow, pass
through this village: The former was completely made some
years ago; the other is now nearly so.  As all the northern
parts of the parish, and some of the N. E. abound in coal,
that is therefore the common fuel, but the people both in
the muirland and lower parts of the parish, in general, burn
peat along with the coal, which is far from being a lasting
fire, as the peat burns the coal quickly away.  The inhabi-
tants of this place have been long accustomed to cast peats,
and cannot be brought to give up the custom, although, rec-
koning the labour, which makes a considerable part of their
summer work, they are a more expensive fuel than coal.
The price of the coal at Wistontown (6 English miles from
the village of Carnwath,) is 2 1/2 d. per cwt.  At Clempy
coal-hill, (much the same distance) the price is 8 d. per 34
stone, which in winter is all that can be carried on a single
horse cart.
   The price of butcher meat here is much the same as it is
in the markets of Edinburgh and Lanark.  Oat meal is in ge-
neral a little cheaper in the Carnwath market than in Lanark,
Hamilton, Glasgow.  Before the Clyde and Forth canal was
made, meal was sold here at 2 s. or 2 s. 6 d. per boll, below
what it brought at Glasgow; and it was a considerable part of
the business of the tenants, whose small farms did not afford

<FOOTNOTE>

women who have arrived at the age of 50 years, and many be-
fore that period, are much distressed with rheumatism, which
often renders the decline of life exceedingly hard and heavy un-
to them.  There is one person now living upwards of 91; and
what is remarkable, this man was the father of a child at the age
of 80, and his wife at that time was more than 51.
   Notwithstanding the evident utility of inoculation, it gains
ground but slowly among the country people here; but it is to
be hoped that their prejudices against it will gradually wear off,
and this salutary method for the preservation of life be univer-
sally adopted.


