
                  COUNTY OF HADDINGTON.                            379

pauperism in the county, which is too often to be traced to ignorance
and profligacy united.  Every circumstance, therefore, that has a ten-
dency to degrade the taste and habits of the working classes, neces-
sarily paves the road to immorality, and ought, therefore, to be se-
dulously guarded against, as far as practicable, by every wellwisher
of his country. The state of the cottages of the district is, under
that impression, well deserving of consideration. These cottages
generally consist of only one apartment, where all the members of
the family live and sleep without regard to either age or sex. In
cases where the family are grown up to men and women, such a
condition must be any thing but favourable to that delicacy of
feeling, especially among the females, so essential to sound mo-
rality; and when sickness happens, the want of fresh air, from the
small window being frequently incapable of opening, renders the
narrow crowded apartment alike pernicious to both the moral and
physical welfare of the inmates. A man or woman accustomed
to such misery can have no great apprehensions art pauperism,
and, consequently, such people have generally little hesitation in
throwing themselves on their respective parishes. Were it for no
other cause, the owners of landed property would find it no loss
in the end, to be at the expense of providing better accommoda-
tion for their labourers, than in too many instances that class of
the community are found in possession of. It is painful to see the
industrious labourer confined to the same miserable hut that shel-
tered its ragged inmates of former generations, It is to be hoped,
however, that the cottages of the hinds and labourers of East Lo-
thian will not much longer remain the solitary exception to that
enlightened improvement that has so fortunately marked the proof
gress of events in every corner of the country, during the last half
century. Friendly societies are frequently to be found among
the labourers; and such institutions, that teach them to trust to
their own resources, are highly deserving of every encouragement.
   A complete change, as may be seen from the tenor of the pa-
rochial Reports, has taken place gradually in the public senti-
ment, with regard to being put on the parish poor roll.

ABSTRACT of Table by Alfred John List, Superintendent of Police,
   Haddingtonshire, shewing the number of Males, and Females con-
victed, and by whom tried, for offences committed in the County
and Burghs of East Lothian, from 1st January to 31st December,
1836:-


