
112                        KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

The charter-chest of the Kenmure family is understood to con-
tain many ancient and curious documents.  In the former Statis-
tical Account, there is mention of the remains of a wall or stone
dike running through the parish from south to north, vestiges of
which still remain.  The rocking stone* is no longer an object of
attraction.   About twenty years ago, it was displaced from its pi-
vot; whether from the effects of lightning, or by some mischievous
persons is not known.  In the church-yard there is a stone erected
to the memory of one Adam M'Qwhan, who was shot during the
persecutions in the reign of James II., on Knockdavie, a small
eminence in the vicinity of New Galloway, upon which there is
the following inscription:     "Here lyes Adam M'Qwhan, who, being sick of a fever, was
taken out of his bed and carried to Newtoun of Galloway, and the
next day most cruelly and unjustly shot to death b the command
of Lieutenant-General James Douglas, brother to the Duke of
Queensberry, for his adherence to Scotland's reformation, cove-
nants, national and solemn league, 1685."
     This stone was, in 1832, placed in a handsome granite monu-
ment, the expense of which was defrayed by a collection made by
the present incumbent.
     Modern Buildings.--The church, which is handsome and com-
modious, was built in 1822.  Glenlee Park, the property of Sir
William Miller, was about the same time much enlarged, MrKennedy of Knocknalling, and Mr Grierson Yorstoun of Gar-
roch, have both, within these few years, built handsome and com-
fortable residences.

<TABLE=III.POPULATION>III.--POPULATION.

                  The population in 1755, was 784
                                    1791,     869
                                    1801,     778
                                    1811,     941
                                    1821,    1104
                                    1831,    1128

     By the census of 1841, the population is 1121, of whom 436
are in the burgh of New Galloway.
     Parochial Registers.--The yearly average of baptisms for the
last seven years is 3, and of marriages, in which one or both parties belonged to the parish, 8. No register of deaths has been

<FOOTNOTE>Since the above was written, we have been informed that there is another rock-
ing stone, on the same range of hills with the one adverted to as destroyed, equally
large and interesting.


