
                     BLAIR-ATHOLL.                            571

Poaching, however, is not so general now as it was, and it is get-
ting every year into greater disrepute.

                         IV.---INDUSTRY.
     Agriculture and Rural Economy.---All the land of the parish
is either arable, or hill pasture. There are neither meadows nor
outfield. In such an extensive tract of country, it is impossible
to ascertain with precision, the number of acres in pasture, or in
tillage. From those sources of information to which recourse was
had, the following list of acres may be relied upon as being pretty
nearly accurate.

         Land occasionally or constantly in tillage,        3000 acres.
              uncultivated land, or hill pasture,        105,000
              under natural wood,                             50
              under plantations,                            2000

     The Scots fir was almost the only tree which used in former
times to be planted in the country. Experience has shewn that
its growth upon light soil and moorish grounds is stinted. It ceas-
ed, many years ago, to be a favourite with the late Duke of Atholl,
whose knowledge and experience as a planter have not been
equalled by those of any British proprietor. The larch is now
planted in dry soils, and the spruce where there is moisture. The
birch is the indigenous wood of the country, and it grows here and
there in extensive clumps, affording excellent shelter for sheep and
cattle in winter. The ash and the mountain ash, the aspen and
the alder, also grow naturally.
     Rent, &c.--- The average rent of arable land is about L. 2 per acre.
To every farm, however, a considerable portion of hill is attached,
and which is included in the preceding rent. The expense of hill
grass for a cow is L. 1 a year, and for a sheep 3s. The rental of
the parish, in which is included the rent for shooting grounds, may
be about L. 14,000 a year. The yearly wages of male servants
are from L. 10 to L. 12, and of female servants from L. 5 to L. 7.
Tradesmen receive about 2s. a day; and day-labourers 1s. 6d.
     Breeds of Live-Stock, &c.---The black-cattle of the country are
the Highland breed, and in this immediate district they have been
much improved of late. The black-faced breed of sheep, which
in exposed lands are the surest stock, is the only kind to be seen
upon our hills. By some of the more intelligent storemasters, a
few goats have lately been introduced, as they consume many
plants which the sheep reject; and among rocks they can find their
way to pasture which is inaccessible to sheep.
     Husbandry and Produce.---At a remote period, there was cer-
tainly a greater quantity of cultivated land than at present. Fur-


