
                               BIRNIE.                             91

the parish. L.2 from the Earl of Seafield, a free house and yard, and
the school fees (which must be but trifling) make up the sum of her
emoluments-with the exception of what she wins by needle-work.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-For the last seven years, the average
number of poor who have received parochial relief is 10; and the
average sum yearly given to each in the same period is L.1, 5s. The
parish funds arise from the ordinary collections at the church,
amounting to L.8 per annum, one-tenth of Darkland's mortification,
amounting to L.3, 3s. 4d., rent of session loft in the church amount-
ing to L.2, and L.1 from the Earl of Seafield in lieu of an old
gallery.  The sum of L.100 gradually accumulated by the sur-
plus funds, and by a donation of L.30, has just been placed at
interest, and will materially add to the annual allowances of the
poor.  There has here never been any assessment for the poor,
who in most if not in all cases are driven only by want to seek relief
from the parish funds.  But when they have been once admitted
on the roll, they become generally as reluctant to resign their por-
tion, even when their circumstances have improved, in behalf of
the more necessitous, as they were at first to accept it.

               MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   There is at present the same number of inhabitants in this pa-
rish as at the date of last Statistical Account forty years ago; but
in this interval they seem to have first decreased by one-eighth, and
then regained their former numbers.
   The more marked differences that have taken place in that time
besides those already noticed are, 1st, The extensive and valuable ad-
ditions which have been made to the arable land, which since 1784
has almost been doubled; 2d, The improved management of farms,
cattle, and farm produce; and 3d, The consequent increase of
comfort in the diet, clothing, and dwellings of the people.  With-
in the last twenty years, many fences and several sheltering plan-
tations have been reared; but there is still much room left for such
enclosures.
   In conclusion, it may be safely stated, that there are few, if any,
districts in the north of Scotland, where, in despite of the wretched
state of the roads, greater agricultural improvements have of late
been made than in the parish of Birnie.  These improvements
have been accomplished, by the exertions of an active tenantry, di-
rected by the judicious suggestions and management of the gentle-
man who has the charge of this portion of the noble proprietors ex-
tensive domains.
   September 1835.


