
     Of St. Vigeans.

They have 6 boats, value about 120 L., with 5 or 6 men to
each boat.  The people of that place are become sober and
industrious, and much civilized in their manners within 30
years past.  They find a ready market for their fish in the
neighbouring district, but especially in the town of Arbroath,
which alone would consume ten times the quantity they
catch*.  There is no harbour at Auchmithy, and from the
number of rocks lying near the place where the boats land,
it would be very difficult and expensive to make one.  When
the boats come in from fishing, they are drawn out on the
beach above reach of high water.  The value of what they
call great lines, is about 1 L. 5 s.  Sterling, and of the finall
lines half-a-guinea, and their creels for catching lobsters 2 s.
In 1792, there were about 16,000 lobsters taken there, at 3 d.
a-piece, the whole of which almost were sent to London.  The
property of the village belongs to the Earl of Northesk, who
allows ground to the fishers for houses, at the yearly rent of
from 1 s. 6 d. to 3 s. 6 d. the house.  The fishers build their
houses on their own expenses.  His Lordship draws the tithes
of the fish, which are just now let at 4 L. 10 s.  Sterling a-year,
and 7 years ago at 8 L.  The fishing at that place appears to
have been in a declining state for some years past.  The Earl
of Northesk has lately caused a cart road to be made from the 
village down to the beach, about 12 or 14 feet wide, for the 

     Y 2

<FOOTNOTE>

*The fifth on this part of the coast, are cod, ling, skate, mackerel, hollybut,
here called turbot, sea-dog, some turbot, called banoakstuke, and haddocks, few 
of which have been got here for the last 4 years; whittings and flounders are ta- 
ken, lobsters also, and crabs in great plenty; vast numbers of seals formerly fre-
quented the rocks along this coast, lying in hundreds together, but few of them 
have been observed for some time past.  For some years, the price of fish has 
risen here very much.  In 1754, and several years afterward, haddocks sold 
here for 2 d. 3 d. and 4 d. the dozen, of late, they have cost 10 d, and 1 s. a-piece, 
and sometimes considerably higher.  The price of other kinds of fish is still 
moderate. 
 

