
                   COVINGTON AND THANKERTON.                873.

and thirteenth centuries; the name being obviously derived, he
says, from a person named Colban, who settled there and gave his
name to the place.  In subsequent times, this name appears in
the different forms of Cowanstown, Coventoun, and Covington.
   The parish of Thankerton is said to have derived its name from
a Flemish settler of the name of Tancard, who obtained a grant
of lands therein during the twelfth century.  In the charters of
the twelfth and thirteenth centuries, it is called Tankards-toun,
villa Tankardi, villa Thankardi.  The same Tankard, or another
individual of the same name, obtained from Malcolm IV. a grant
of lands in the lordship and parish of Bothwell, where he settled,
and to which he gave the same appellation-Tankardstoun.
   Extent, Boundaries, &c.-The united parish extends in length
from south to north 4 miles, and its breadth is about 2 3/4 miles.  It
is bounded on the east by the Clyde, which separates it from the
parish of Libberton ; on the west, by Carmichael; on the south,
by Symington and Wiston; and on the north, by Pettinain.
   The mineralogy, zoology, and botany of this parish are so simi-
lar to those of the neighbouring parishes of Carmichael and Petti-
nain, that it is unnecessary to enter into the details.  Trout and
pike of large size are found in the Clyde, which winds along the
eastern boundary.

                          II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Thomas de Colbanstoun witnessed a charter of William the
Lion at Lanark in 1188.  In 1296, Margaret de Colbanstoun,
Isabel de Colbanstoun, and Edmund de Colbanstoun swore fealty
to Edward I.  In the reign of Robert I., the lands of Colbanstoun
were acquired by Sir Robert de Keth, Marischal of Scotland, and
they were held by his descendants for more than a century.  From
that family the lands and barony of Colbanstoun, with the patron-
age of the church, passed to a branch of the family of Lindsay be-
fore 1442; and the Lindsays of Colventoun or Coventoun held
this property for two centuries and a half.  One of this family
built the castle or fort, the massive ruins of which are still to be
seen not far from the church.  A short time before the Revolu-
tion, the barony of Covingtoun, with the patronage of the church,
was purchased from Lindsay of Covington by Sir George Lock-
hart of Carnwath, Lord President of the Court of Session.
   The patronage of the church of Covington has been connected
with the territorial property from the twelfth century.  In 1296,
Hurve de Chastel-Bernard, the parson of the church of Colban-


