
                          SMALL ISLES.                        149

sward; the grass is fine, and exhibits a striking contrast to the
other parts of the island. Some of the hills are here green to the
very summits. The soil, the grass, the land and rocks, bear a
striking resemblance to those of the opposite coast of Sandy Island,
and seem to indicate that, at some former periodd, they had been
separated by some powerful operation of nature. About the
middle of the island, among the mountains, are several fresh water
lakes of considerable dimensions. Small trout are abundant in
some of them. Around this island, the coast is bold and wild;
more especially, the south and west sides are nearly altogether sur-
rounded with one continued rampart of rock. Upon the east side,
there is a good, safe, and commodious harbour, for all manner of
shipping; and lately an excellent quay has been made there by
the present tacksman of the island.
   Name, Extent, &c. of Canna.-The etymology of Canna is to me
unknown. The island is about 5 or 6 miles in length, and 2 or
3 in breadth, containing, exclusive of Sandy Island, 2253 acres,
of which 459 are arable, and 1794 are pasture. This island,
together with Sandy Island Adjoining, are both very fertile,
yielding great crops of potatoes, and barley or bear. From 100
to 200 quarters of barley or bear are annually disposed of, and
about 3200 bushels of potatoes,-being all the produce of the
island, over and above the quantity which the inhabitants re-
quire for their own maintenance. The island is all clothed with
verdure. The grass is fine and short, and well adapted for the
rearing of black-cattle, of which a good many are annually sent
to the markets in the south and sold. Here is an excellent har-
bour; well sheltered, safe and commodious. In former times,
it was much frequented, particularly by the Baltic traders, and
is still frequented by shipping of every description. In its vici-
nity is an eminence called Compass hill, which is said to disar-
range the compass so much, as to cause it to whirl round, so that,
when placed near it, no faith can be placed in its magnetic virtue.
   Geology.-The geology of this parish was first examined by
Professor Jameson; afterwards Dr MacCulloch, in his usual style,
published an account of this interesting groupe of islands, but with-
out acknowledging the source from which he derived the principal
details of its mineralogy. More lately, several continental natu-
ralists have visited and published observations on these islands;
and their natural history has at various times engaged the atten-



