
162                          KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

	There are in the whole parish 636 families, being an average
of about. 4 1/8 to each family.
Of the present population, there reside in the town of Cattle Douglas,          1848
					       village of Rhonehouse,            235
							  Gelston,               147
					       country part of the parish,       645
								Total,           2875
	The population consists generally of bankers, writers, medical
men, shop keepers, cabinet-maker. masons, joiners, blacksmiths,
pahnters, upholsterers, inn-keepers, tailors, shoemakers, weavers,
and labourers. As nearly as can be ascertained, the early ave-
rage of marriages is 20; of births, 65; and of deaths, 35.
	The number of resident proprietors of the yearly value of
L.50 and upwards, is 4. The number of blind persons is 2; of
insane, 1; and of fatuous, 1.
        Languaqe.-Very good English is spoken by the people in ge-
neral. The peculiarities noticed by Symson, of their omitting
the letter h after t, as in pronouncing ting for thing; of their con-
verting v into w, as, servant for servant, &c., no longer exist.
The epithet bath is very generally applied to the dry withering
easterly winds that sometimes prevail in spring. Although a few
provincialisms, and a slight patois may occasionally be recognized,
yet the language is decidedly improving, both in purity and cor-
rectuess of pronunciation.
        Character and Habits of the People.-The people are characte-
rized by caution, shrewdness, and an inquisitive turn of mind.
Though a good many lead an irreligious life, yet the inhabitants
are generally distinguished for their industry, sobriety, and regard
to the outward ordinances of religion. The peasantry are frugal,
and cleanly in their habits; enjoy, in a reasonable degree, the
comforts and advantages of society, and seem cheerful and con-
tented with their condition and circumstances. Their ordinary
food consists of oatmeal made into cakes and porridge with milk
for breakfast and supper, and a dinner of barley broth with beef
or mutton and potatoes. They are simple in their tastes, civil to
their superiors, and proverbial for their hospitality. Their fa-
vourite games are quoits and curling, in both of which they excel,
standing at present in the proud position of conquerors in both
games, of all the neighbouring parishes with which they are in
the habit of playing an annual match. In winter, the Carlinwark
Loch present an ample field for the lovers of the latter national

				1


