
     Statistical Account

   One cause of the decrease of the number of inhabitants is
uniting different farms into one, a practice undoubtedly inimi-
cal to population; another cause is the loss of some fishermen
at sea, the removal of others from the parish, and that some
crews were suffered die out, without having their places sup-
plied.  But what chiefly contributers to the decrease of the in-
habitants, is a yearly emigration to the south of young people
who never return.
   There is now living in the parish a female dwarf, aged be-
twixt 30 and 40, who measures only 34 inches; in height
there is no other deformity about her.

   Disease, Climate, and Fuel.-There are no diseases peculiar
to the parish from climate or any other cause; but there have
been instances of more than ordinary mortality from epidemi-
cal distempers spreading over the country, and making their
way hither.  The fevers now most common are of the ner-
vous and putrid kinds.  A species of the latter is distinguish-
ed by the name of the yellow fever so termed, because as soon
as the patient expires the body becomes of that colour.  The
small-pox is the disease which has proved most fatal to the ri-
sing generation, its effects were particularly calamitous in 1756,
when it carried off 75 children.  In 1768 it cut off 46, and
38 since the month of October last (1791).  Some families at

<FOOTNOTE>

count shall be rejected, it will be difficult, by tradition or any other way, to find
a place wherein to fix the castle Ether Dower.
There were in the parish six of those houses called castles, which towards
the end of the last and the beginning of this century were inhabited by ancient
and respectable families.  One of them belonged to the Sinclairs of Dunbeath.
-The ruins of another stand a monument of the taste and grandeur of former
times.  The old name was Tarbat Castle, and Ballone, from a marsh behind
it.  It stands above the sea, and upon the very limits of the property, as it
intended to prevent incroachments.


