
536                      EDINBURGHSHIRE.

marshy ground of the hilly part of the parish. The greatest im-
provement of the climate might be made by plantation of the
ridges of Soutra Hill, and by drainage of a morass called Fala
flow, which is situated about 1000 feet above the sea.  This is,
indeed, already in progress,--a most necessary road and several
plantations having been laid out near the church at the north-
eastem extremity of Fala-moor.
                        II.-CIVIL HYSTORY.
  Eminent Men.-Mr John Logan, the author of a volume of
very elegant sermons, of 11 Elements of the Philosophy of His-
tory," and of a variety of lyric and elegiac poems, and of some
of the finest paraphrases in our Church collection, was born at
Soutra in the year 1748.
  Antiquities.-History.- On the summit of Soutra Hill formerly
stood the church and village of Soutra, appropriately and graphi-
cally designated by that name, which signifies in the Cambro-Bri-
tish, "the hamlet with a prospect." This village was anciently a
place of consideration and resort, and a scene of the stirring os-
tentatious charity of the middle ages.  Malcolm IV. founded here,
in 1164, a hospital for the relief of pilgrims, and the shelter and
support of the poor and the afflicted, and he endowed the institu-
tion with some lands near St Leonards in the vicinity of Edinburgh,
and conferred upon it the privileges of a sanctuary.  A causeway,
leading from the vale of the Tweed to Soutra, and still traceable
among the sinuosities of the mountains, bore the significant name
of Girtbgate, meaning the asylum or sanctuary road.  A small
eminence, about half a mile south of the hospital, is still called
Cross-chain-hill, and would appear to have bad a chain suspended
for a considerable way along its summit, to mark the limits of the
privileged ground.  The establishment was called the Hospital of
the Holy Trinity, and, by the generosity of its founders and of
others in after times, it became one of the best endowed hospitals
in Scotland.  The masters and brothers of the hospital were own-
ers of the church- of Soutr4 with its pertinents, also of the church
of Wemyss in Fife, with its tithes and torts, the church of Kirkurd,
and the church of St Martins, with their pertinents ; also the
church of Limpetlaw, and the church of St Giles of Comiston.
On the approach of Edward I. in the year 1296, Thomas, the
Master of the Trinity Hospital, Soltre Hill, did homage to him
at Berwick, and obtained in return orders to several sheriffs to
deliver him the estates -and rights of the Hospital.  In 1462,



