
902                    PERTHSHIRE.

penance, some deep and deadly sin which she bad committed.
On the Rattray side of the river is to be seen the mansion-
house of Craighall, occupying a magnificent position on the verge
of a high cliff which overhangs the river, adding greatly to
the picturesque aspect of the scenery. The view from the win-
dows up the river is much admired, and allowed to be unsurpassed
in pictorial beautv by anything of similar character and extent in
Scotland. The whole scenery about Craighall has been recently
invested with a new and powerful interest, by the publication of
the fact, of its being the prototype of the Tully-Veolan of Wa-
verley. *
  Natural History.-The temperature of the atmosphere during
winter is in general rather higher in the district of the parish im-
mediately surrounding the village of Blairgowrie, than in the
neighbouring and less elevated parishes; a circumstance which is
in a great degree owing to the southern exposure of the surface,
ttnd the shelter which the rising grounds to the north afford from
the cold north winds. The temperature, in common with all dis-
tricts bordering on the Highlands, is subject to frequent and sud-
den variations. +

<FOOTNOTE>Sir Walter Scott visited this part of the country in the course of a Highland ex-
cursion. "Another resting-place," says Mr Lockhart, "was Craighall, in Perthshire,
the seat of the Rattrays, a family related to Mr Clerk, who accompanied him. From
the position of this striking place, as Mr Clerk at once perceived, and as the author
afterwards confessed to him, that of Tully Veolan was very faithfully copied, though,
in the description of the house itself and its gardens, many features were adopted from
Bruntsfield and Ravelstone."-Lockhart's Life of Scott, Vol. i.
  While upon this subject, it may not be out of place to give here a brief account of
the various phenomena attending the earthquake which was felt throughout this dis-
trict in the month of October 1839. The most severe shock was felt about twenty mi-
nutes past ten o'clock on the night of the 23d October, and was accompanied by a
noise resembling distant thunder, or the rapid passage of a heavy-loaded vehicle over a
newly.metalled road. The motion, at the commencement of the concussion, was of
a waving or undulating nature, and terminated in a vibration or tremor, becoming
gradually less distinct, until it ceased altogether. The shock appeared to be most
strongly felt in houses situated on elevated ground, in some of which it was so severe
as to excite very great alarm in the inmates; and in one house, situated in the town,
the motion was so great as to force open some of the doors. In the districts of Glen-
shee and Strathardle, about ten or twelve miles to the northward, the shock was
much more violently felt than in this neighbourhood; so much so, that several peo-
pie who were asleep at the time were awakened by the shaking of their beds; and
one person, who was lying in bed awake when the shock commenced, describes the
feeling he experienced to be as if his bed had been heaved up. and pushed, first to
one side and then to the other, from west to east, and afterwards shaken violently;
and he at the same time heard a loud noise, of the nature already described. The
sound, in the opinion of the majority, proceeded from the ground, dvanced from the
north or north-west, and died away in the opposite direction.
  The atmospherical appearances which attended this convulsion were not in any re-
spect remarkable, excepting that, during the whole evening, before the shock occurred,
the eastern horizon was overspread by a dull, lurid light of a yellowish hue; and for
some days previously, a very great quantity of rain had fallen, which had increas-
ad to a torrent on the evening of the occurrence, accompanied by a pretty strong


