	
	468                      FIFESHIRE.

	ly endowed, there were at St Andrews two convents for friars of
	the mendicant orders.  The one of these belonged to the Gray
	Friars, denominated also Franciscans or Minorites, and was situat-
	ed immediately without the west port of the North Street of the city.
	It was founded by Bishop Kennedy about the middle of the fifteenth
	century, and it became the noviciate of the order in Scotland : it was
	demolished at the Reformation; and the ruins and grounds connect-
	ed with them were conveyed by a charter from Queen Mary to the
	provost and magistrates of the city for the benefit of the commu-
	nity, and are still in their possession.  A handsome street or row,
	consisting of houses of considerable magnitude, and erected accord-
	ing to a regular plan, has been projected by the magistrates and
	council, to occupy the grounds of this monastery.  Several of the
	houses have already been erected, and several more are to be erect-
	ed next season.  This street, when finished, will tend materially
	to the embellishment of the city, and it will form a very convenient
	line of communication between the North and Market Streets.  It
	has been proposed that this street should be continued in a south-
	erly direction, so as to meet the south or principal street of the
	city; and although the arrangements for this purpose have not yet
	been effected, it is highly probable that, in a few years, this part
	of the plan will also be put into execution.  It has been named
	Bell Street, in memory of the founder of the Madras College; and
	if it be continued southward, that beautiful erection will form its
	southern termination.  The other convent, which was situated on
	the south side of the South Street, belonged to the Black or Pre-
	dicant Friars, denominated also Dominicans.  It was founded by
	Bishop Wisbart in 1274.  It was demolished at the Reformation,
	with the exception of the chapel, the dimensions of which are very
	limited, but the architecture is in a rich Gothic style.  A part of the
	arched stone roof has given way; but Dr Bell, in his trust-deed re-
	lative to the Madras College, within whose grounds it is now situat-
	ed, has made provision for its being kept in a proper state of repair.
	   The Kirkheuch or Kirkhill, was a collegiate church, having at-
	tached to it a provost and ten prebendaries.  It appears to have
	belonged originally to the Culdees, who at an early period were
	held in so-high estimation, that Constantine III., after resigning
	his crown, became abbot of the order.  Its first site appears to
	have been a rock, a little beyond the entrance of the present har-
	bour; but the encroachments of the sea having rendered it neces-

