
                 	 PAISLEY.			169

   When Walter the first Stewart founded a monastery at Paisley,
in 1163, there does not appear to have been any village at the
place. *  The monastery was planted on the eastern bank of the
White Cart; and opposite to it, on the western bank of that river,
there gradually arose a village,  which, as it stood on the lands of
the monastery, belonged to the monks. it was inhabited almost en-
tirely by the retainers of the monastery, and, till a comparatively
modern period, was limited in extent and population.  Hamilton of
Wishaw gives the following account of it about the beginning'of
last century: " The most considerable place in this jurisdiction,
and where the Sheriff-Court and court of Regality usually sits, is
Pasley, the seat of a very considerable and ancient monasterie, si-
tuat upon the water of Kert, some few miles above, where it falls
into Clyde, in a Pleasant, fertile, and rich soile ; to which boats can
come from the sea to the bridge of Paisley, where the water of
Kert divideth between the Abbacy and the town of Pasley,  which is
a very pleasant and well built little town, Plentifully provided with
all sorts of grain, fruits, coalls, peats, fishes, and what else is pro-
per for the comfortable use of man, or can be expected in any
other place of the kingdom." +
   In the time of Crawfurd, Paisley consisted but of one principal
street with some divergent lanes, containing in all perhaps 2000 in-
habitants.
   History aud Constitution of the Burgh.-The town of Paisley is
in form a burgh of barony.  The lands now constituting the
burgh were, previous to the erection thereof, held by the Abbot
and convent of the monaster of Paisley, of the order of Cluny,
in libera regalitate.
   Four charters, of date 3th January 1451, conferring numerous
privileges, granted by James II, " monasterio de Pasieto," are to
be found on record.
   In the first year of the reign of King James IV., the burgh,
formerly a regality, was erected into a free burgh of barony.  The
privileges contained in the charter were granted to the inhabit-
ants: but the lordship of erection, including the power of appoint-
ing a prevost, baillies, and other office-bearers, was given to the
abbot and his successors.

<FOOTNOTE>seemed by the Celtic tribe of the Damnii, we have a description of the Roman camp at
Paisley, tothe same effect, nearly in the same words with the above account of
the Principal.  We think it therefore quite unnecessary to insert it here.
    See Chartulary of Paisley, printed by the Maitland Club, Nos. ii. vii. &c. appen-
dix.
    Volume of Maitland Club for 1831) p. 73.


