
     Statistical Account

Coire-thorey, (horey), i.e. the hill and the hollow of boars;
two of the many places, that have had their names from the
wild boars.  At some distance from these, is Coir-fhiann,
(-iann) or the hollow of the army, or, of Fingal and his heroes.
In this part of the forest too, is Tom-na-croiche, or the Gal-
lows-hill; and Pol-nam-ban, or the pool into which bad wo-
men were thrown.  On Airgead-bheann, a part of Beinn-glo,
there are stones, that shine, as if they had been vitrified, and
give it the appearance of a volcano; which probably give the
name of Airgead-bheann, or the silver mountain, to this pin-
nacle of Bein-glo.  On the south side of Beinn-glo is a very
remarkable cave.  It is narrow at the mouth, then turns very
wide, afterwards narrow again, and then descends deeper,
than ever any person had the courage to venture.  The found
of water is heard in it at all times; but there is a brook, that
can be turned into it at pleasure; and when that is done, it is
reported, the people of a village, at some distance below, hear
the noise of water.
   There is a fall on the Garry, at the west end of the pass,
where it is said, that a good deal of fish were formerly taken;
but which did not prevent the salmon from going up the river.
Eas-teivil, or the fall of Tummel, is remarkable for a conside-
rable height, a great weight of water, and the quantities of
salmon formerly caught there, in wicker baskets and with
gaffs, by men, who hung in the face of the slippery rock, in
ropes, made of birch withes.  Very few salmon ever passed
this fall; but now few, or none come this length.  Near a
mile north-west of the fall, is a cave in the face of a tremen-
duous rock, to which there is a single passage only.  In this
cave, a party of the M'Gregors are said to have been surpris-
ed, when under persecution; after part of them were killed,
the rest climbed into a tree, that grew out of the face of the
rock; upon which, their pursuers cut their arms, and precipi-


