
                            EDINBURGH.                          653

south and west of the Castle, the places still retaining the name of
Kingsbarns; the gardens were in the hollow ground around the
base of the rock, the middle part of which was a morass, called
the North Loch. This ground has since been thoroughly drained,
and converted into pleasure gardens. The view from the higher
grounds in these gardens, as well as from the Castle wall is very
beautiful, including the windings of the Forth on one side, and
the Pentland Hills and the valley of Mid-Lothian on the other.
   Holyrood Palace.-Early in the twelfth century, the pious mag-
nificence of David I. raised a splendid church and abbey on this
spot. Afterwards it became the frequent resort of the Scot-
tish monarchs; but we have no means no ascertaining at what
period buildings were erected constituting it a palace and distinct
residence of the sovereign. The oldest parts of the present struc-
ture are the remains of the tower at the north-east corner, erected
by James V. in 1528, containing Queen Mary's apartments. In
the minority of Queen Mary, a considerable part of the old pa-
lace was burned by the English; but it was soon after repaired,
and enlarged, and then contained five courts. The west or outer-
most court was larger than the others. It was bounded on the
east by the front of the palace, which occupied the same space
with its present front, and also extended farther south. The three
remaining sides of the outer court were bounded by walls; and at
the north-west corner there was a gate or Gothic porch, arched
inside, with two round towers on each side of the entrance. This
was also the gate of the adjoining abbey, and was taken down in
1755. The next court occupied the same space as the central
court of the present palace, and, was surrounded with buildings.
On the South there were two smaller courts, also surrounded with
buildings; and on the east there was another court, which was
bounded on the north by the chapel royal, on the west by a line of
buildings, occupying the same ground as the east side of the pre-
sent palace, on the south by a row of buildings, which are now
demolished, and on the north by wall, which divided it from St
Ann's Yards.
   The soldiers of Oliver Cromwell made great havoc of the pa-
lace, burning the greater part of it. At the Restoration, Charies
II. ordered it to be rebuilt, after a plan by Sir William Bruce, its
1671. The walls of the eastern side, and other parts, have been
of late years renewed and repaired, and the grounds immediately
contiguous have been cleared and railed in.
   EDINBURGH.


