
72                         SUTHERLANDSHIRE.

case at Dalharrold in Strathnaver, and in the church-yard of Farr.
The stone in the latter place has been evidently brought there
either from a foreign country, or from some other part of this king-
dom. It is very hard, but differs entirely in its appearance and
quality from any of the rocks in this neigbbourhood. It is about
twelve feet long, more than five feet being above ground, and as
many unddr it. There is a regular figure carved on the west
front of it, evidently hieroglyphic.-The ancient castle is sup-
posed to have been the residence of the Mackays of Farr pre-
vious to their being created barons, and obtaining the title of Lord
Reay. It is not known by whoirn it was built.

                          III.-POPULATION
  From the remains of antiquity mentioned under the former head,
it is evident there must have been a considerable population, either
occasionally resorting to this parish, or permanently residing with-
in it, at a very remote period of the history of Scotland. About
400 years ago, the Mackays began to make themselves conspicu-

<FOOTNOTE>Connected with the antiquities of the parish, the writer may mention a few par-
ticulars retarding a loch in Strathnaver, about six mile from the church,-to which
superstition has ascribed wonderful healing virtues. The time at which this loch
came to be in repute with the sick cannot now be ascertained. It must, however,
have been at a period of the history of this country when superstition bad a firm hold
of the minds of all classes of the community. The tradition as to the origio of its
healing virtues is briefly as follows : A womao, either from Ross-shire or Inver-
ness-shire, came to the heights of Strathnawer, pretending to cure diseases by means
of water into which she bad previously thrown some pebbles, which she carried about
with her. In her progress down the strath, towards the coast, a man in whose house
she lodged wished to possess, himself of the pebbles : but discoveriog his desigm, she es-
caped, aod he pursued. Finding, at the loch referred to, that she could not escape her
pursuer any longer, she threw the pebbles into the loch, exclaiming in Gaelic, mo-nar,
that is shame, or my shame. From this exclamation the loch receiwed the name,
which it still retains, " Loch-mo-nar," aod the pebbles are'supposed to have impart-
ed to it its healing efficacy. There are only fous days io the year, on which its
Supposed cures can be eflected. These are the first Monday, old style, of February,
May, August, and November. During February and November, no one visits it;
but in May and August, numbers from Sutherland, Caithness, Ross-shire, and even
from Inverness-shire and Orkney, come to this far-gamed loch. The ceremonies
through which the patients have to go are the following:-They must all be at the loch
side about twelve o'clock. As early on Monday as one or two o'clock in the
morning, the patient  to be pluoged, three times into the loch ; is to
drink of its waters;  to throw a piece of coin into it as a kind of tribute ; aod must be
away from its banks, so as to be faisly out of sight of its wauer before the sun rises,-
no cure is supposed to bd effected. Whatever credit might be given to such ridiculous
ceremonies as tending in aoy respect to the restoration of health, while ignorance
and superstition reigned universally in this country, it certainly must appeas
extraordioary to intelligent pessons, that any class of the community should now have
recourse to and faith in such practices, but so it is, that many come from the shires
already mentioned, and say they are benefited by t1we practices. It is, however, to
be observed, that those who generally frequent this loch, and who have found their
health improved, ou returning home, are persons afflicted with nervous complaints and
disordered imaginations, to whose health a journey of forty or sixty miles, a plunge
into the loch, and the healthful air of our hills and glens may contribute all the im-
provement with which they are generally so much pleased.
                                        3


