
     of Gigha and Cara.

which appears to have been a strong fortification.  On the
N. W., N. and N. E. sides, there is a steep ascent from 40 to
80 feet.  At the top of this ascent, there is a perpendicular
rock from 24 to 37 feet high; the rest is inclosed with a dry
stone wall, 9 feet thick, and from 8 to 10 feet high.  On the
east side there is a steep ascent of 38 feet, (seemingly cut out
of the rock), leading to the gate, which is four feet wide.  In
the middle of this Dun there is an elevation, which commando
a view of the place on all sides, and of the country round.  It
is 120 feet long, and 67 broad.  Tradition lays that Keefie,
the King of Lochlin's son, who occupied this strong hold, was
killed there by Diarmad, one of Fingal's heroes, with whole
wife he had run away.  Within fight of Dun Chifi, about
mile N. E. there is another beautiful little hill, surrounded
with a dry stone wall, and rising in a valley, which happens
to be marshy, whence it has its name, Dunan-an-Tsbeasguin,
(pronounced Dunan an teasguin), i. e. the little hill in the
marsh.  It is a steep rocky ascent, 95 feet long, 55 broad,
and 36 high, but level on the top.  The gate fronts Dun
Chifi, is 4 feet wide, and the wall 9 feet thick*.  At the
northern extremity of the island, on the top of a hill, there is
a circular heap of stones, called Carn-na-faire, or Watch Cairn,
53 feet diameter.  It seems to have been a place of some
strength, and intended, as the name implies, to give the alarm
in care of an invasion, for it commands a very extensive view
of the fen from S. W. by N. to S. E.  About half an English
mile loath of Carn-na-faire, on a plain near the shore, is

<FOOTNOTE>

*North-west from Dun Chifi, about the same distance, and within fight of
it, there is a peninsula, which was strongly fortified, and was probably occupied
by the same peoples to secure their landing or retreat.  It is called Tris by the
inhabitants, which is a corruption of the word Trenob.  At a farm called Druim-
a-Chro, there is a beautiful earthen mount, 43 feet long, and 41 broad on the
top.  The sides are a steep ascent, from 24 to 33 feet.  The name and inten-
tion of it are equally unknown.


