
 68                  LINLITHGOWSHIRE.

tained through the whole extent of the Roman territories in Bri-
tain. Richard of Cirencester makes mention of a Roman way,
that proceeded from the wall in Northumberland, by which I ap-
prehend he means the wall built by the Emperor Adrian, by the
Eildon hills, Borthwick Castle, Muttonhole, Cramond, Queens-
ferry, and Abercorn, to Carriden, at or near the eastern termina-
tion of Antoninus's wall; and, several years ago, some remains of
a causeway were dug up on the ridge that runs from Blackness to
the road that leads from Carriden to Walton, to all appearance a
branch from or an integral part of the above-mentioned way.
   At Carriden various Roman relics have been found at different
times, such as a Vespasian of gold; a stone, described by Gordon
as having an eagle with expanded wings, holding a corona trium-
phalis in her bill and standing in the middle of two Roman vexilla
or standards, on one side, and on the other the letters COH.
IULIA, and others so obliterated as to be illegible, which was
built in a wall added to the house by Alexander Miln, Esq. the
then proprietor; Roman pottery; an old Roman altar, having no
inscription, placed at the time in the garden; and a brass gladius
or sword, which is now in the Advocates' Library. " About fifty
years before" the former Statistical Account of the parish was
written, the author says, that, "in digging up stones to build a
park dike, axes, pots, and several vases, evidently Roman, were
found, and sent to the  Advocates' Library." In levelling the tu
mulus above Grange House, already referred to, in spring 1833,
several rude stone coffins with bones in them were found, but from
the appearance of the bones, there was reason to believe tha they
had been deposited there at a much later date than the time of
the Romans.
   At the eastern extremity of the parish, on a promontory jutting
into the Firth, stands the Castle of Blackness, one of the four
national fortresses of ancient times, whose preservation is guaran-
teed by the Act, of Union. The period of its erection is unknown,
and its history has been very imperfectly recorded. It is a struc-
ture more characteristic of the warfare of a ruder age than adapted
to the modern improvements in the military art.
   Mansion-Houses.-The mansion-houses of Carriden, Bonhard,
and Grange, are fabrics of some antiquity; the first of them, with
the modern additions, being still occupied as the residence of
the proprietor; the second attached to a farm; and the third,
after being lately put under some repairs, occupied by a tenant.


