
622                            ABERDEENSHIRE.

remains.  Three of the circles, which continue to be named Druid-
ical, existed at the date of the last report.  Two of these remain,
-one in a state of considerable preservation, on the lands of
Thornton.  Two barrows, or rather cairns, have been opened
within the last ten years.  In each there was found a stone-coffin,
enclosing two urns of hard-baked carved pottery.  The urns were
full of rich loam, mixed with charcoal.  The largest of these cairus,
raised on an eminence called the Hawklaw, originally covered
nearly half an acre, and was surrounded with a circle of small
stones set on end.
   Cumming's Camp.-The most remarkable, however, of our an-
cient remains is the fortification on the Hill of Barra, * known by
the name of the Cumming's Camp.  This, and the circumstances
connected with it, have afforded a fertile theme of discussion to
antiquarians, and I shall therefore, perhaps, be excused if I dwell
on it at some length.  The fort occupying the flat summit of the
hill contains fully three acres of ground, and is surrounded with
three nearly parallel walls of circumvallation, composed of earth
and stone.  Apart from its name, the camp would be considered
merely one of those hill-forts, which, by no means rare in Scotland,
are pretty numerous in the adjacent country.  Thus we have, with
such differences merely as arise from the nature of the accessible
materials, the forts on Benachie and the Keirhill in Skene, and the
Barmekyn in Echt.  These all lie in the vicinity of the Roman
Iter, from their camp ad Devanham (Norman dikes in Petercul-
ter), to that ad Ituriam (Glenmailen in Forgue), towards the Cas-
tra alata on the Moray Frith.  Is it not probable, then, that, as
these forts flank on either side, the line of the Roman progress
northwards, they were erected by the then inhabitants of the coun-
try (the Faixali), as places of refuge for themselves and their fa-
milies, from which, sallying forth, they might-engage in a Guerilla
warfare with their haughty invaders?  The tradition which gives
the building of this camp to the Cummings is evidently fabulous,
-for to it their age affords nil vel simile aut secundum.  That it
was even occupied by them previous to their battle with Bruce,
the accounts of that battle, whether by Hector Boece or by Bar-

<FOOTNOTE>The small western isle Barra is thus described; " This island, which is low and
flat on the west side, and steep and irregular on the east," &c.  These features cor-
respnd exactly with those possessed by the estate of Barra, so that I should be in-
clined to question the accuracy of Chalmer's derivation of Barra.  It is, according
to him, from two Celtic words Bar and ra, rac or Rath, signifying the fortified
ground.


