
     Statistical Account

ency of crop 1795, that meal was sold in this parish at 21s.
a boll of eight stones Dutch weight, and barley at 258.*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Barley of a good kind generally weighs from 18 to 20 stones per
boll.
Owing to the late injudicious opening of the ports for importation, and
the threatening of a farther depression of the distilleries, there is at present
an extraordinary stagnation in the sale of grain, which must be attended 
with the most serious consequences to the farmer.
In seasons of plenty, the impolicy of opening the ports for importation
must be obvious to the humblest capacity.  When prices are low, in con-
sequence of such plenty, a bounty ought to be given upon exportation; and
that bounty ought to be continued until the price rises to a certain height.
"There must be something very seductive, or very profitable, in the im-
"portation of foreign gram; for all the laws that have hitherto been made
"clearly against the interest of every other person in the kingdom  for it
"is destructive of our own agriculture; and we have seen, from certain evi-
"dence, that it raises the price of grain upon the consumer.
"While the ancient laws land the country open to the importation of fo-
"reign grain, by injudicious duties or restrictions upon our own produce,
"our farmers were disputed, a great part of the foil lay without culture;
"the price of grain was consequently high; and population was restrain-
"ed

<UNREADABLE>

"When the restrictions were not only removed, but counties given upon
"the exportation of our excresent stock, by the acts of 1688 and 1700,
"the happrest effects were immediately experienced.  These laws acted like
"magic; our agriculture immediately rose, as from the dead; population in-
"creased; and instead of eating the lower rate than was ever known before.
"maintained all our own people, at a lower rate that was ever known before.
"but the kingdom received and immediate addition of riches and strengths,
"from the money brought up, from the morale of shipping, and from the
"people employed in raising and exporting the surplus of our produce.
"A state of prosperity which continued without interruption for above
"half a century after the Union No loose was importation again en-
"couraged, than our agriculture languished, our exportation declined, and
"the prices of grain rose"
"Importation of foreign grain acts like a mole under ground; we know
"nothing of its operations but by the heaps which     and when
"these heaps come to cover an 8th, an 1    or even a 475th part of our
"own sort, it is high time to turn them down." 

</UNREADABLE>


