
                            OLD MONKLAND.                           649

rior quality, supposed to lie below the ironstone.  It is used chiefly
by the Sommerlee Company.
   4. Coats Quarry.  A white pavement, which is the roof of the
main coal.
   5. Coats and Pottry Quarry.  The white roof of the main coal.
It lies between the Pyotshaw and main coals, and is about 20 feet
thick.
   6. Coatsdike Quarry.  A white freestone between the ironstone
and Virtuewell coal.  Belongs to the Messrs Baird.  It is from
40 to 70 feet thick.  These are a few small quarries besides.
   The whinstone quarries are :-1. Rawmen, a hard blue whin
or greenstone.  It occurs below the Kiltongue coal.  The metals
dip south from a trouble.
   2. Easterhill.  This greenstone lies above the splint-coal. It
is what the workmen term poky, and does not break clear.  No
lime is found in the parish of Old Monkland.
   The botany and zoology of the parish exhibit no peculiarity of
character.

                          II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   The Monklands were anciently a part of the Abaccy and Lord-
ship of Newbottle, to which they were mortified by Malcolm IV.
The original charter may be seen in Anderson's Diplom. Scot.
These lands formed about a third part of the territorial posses-
sions of the monks of Newbottle, who had also the lands of Car-
myle on the Clyde.  From their chartularies we learn that they
maintained a large grange, or farming establishment, at Drum-
pellier, then named Dunpelder.  For the purpose of keeping up
a communication between their eastern and western possessions,
they obtained grants of free passage; a right confirmed to them
by Alexander II, who allowed them during their passage com-
mon pasture for their cattle, for one night, in every part except
the growing corn or meadows.  It appears from Acta Park iii
513, that the lands of Monkland were granted free to Mark Kerr,
commendator of the Monastery of Newbottle, about 1587.  This
individual was created Baron Newbottle 1591, and Earl of Lothian
1606.  The Boyds of Kilmarnock afterwards obtained the north-
ern parts of the Lonklands, called the Barony of Medrox, con-
tiguous to an ancient seat of the family-the tower of Banheath,
which still bears their arms.  About 1602, the greater part of the
Monklands fell into the hands of Sir Thomas Hamilton of Binning,
afterwards Lord Binning and Byres, Earl of Melrose and finally


