
			TINWALD AND TRAILFLAT.                    41

a mile in length, by a quarter of a mile in breadth,--which has been
converted into meadow of very superior quality. Next to this,
upon the east, and closing round it upon the north, is a range of
fields from a quarter to half a mile in breadth, of a sandy gravel:
The materials of which these fields are composed have evidently
been transported by water. The range now referred to extends (N.
W.) through the parish of Kirkmahoe; and there is every probabi
lity that the old tradition, of such having once been the course of the
Nith, is correct. Above these fields, and farther from the Lochar, is
a range of much greater length as well as breadth, extending to about
two-thirds of the whole length of the parish, and consisting of a
dry clay loam (very much mixed in some places with small stones)
of great fertility, and well adapted to every variety of crop. This
latter description of soil extends to the top, and (except at one
place, where they form a sort of double range, with about a mile
by three-fourths of moor and moss intervening,) quite over the hills,
until it terminates in a moss upon the eastern side. That towards
the east, however, is of a stiffer and more retentive, clay, rather
spongy, and from its less favourable exposure, not so well adapted
for cultivation. The north and north-west portion of the parish,
with a small exception immediately upon the banks of the Ae, con-
sists of a cold moorish clay, covered in some places by a few inches.
of peat, and very unproductive. In the middle of Lochar meadow,
there is a pretty high ridge, still called the Isle, upwards of half a
mile in length, and containing about thirty Scotch acres; which is
entirely composed of sea sand, and evidently shows that at one time.
the tide must have flowed in this direction. In confirmation of this,
it is said to have been found marked upon an old Dutch chart," that
the isles of Tinwald afforded the safest and most commodious harbour
for shipping in Scotland."--Nearly opposite to the manse, too, at
the bottom of what in former times must have been a deep narrow
gut, there is a place called Collyveat, or Cully veat, where there
is the visible formation of a small bay. There was a ferry, it has been
supposed, at this place; and Cully veat is said to be a corruption of
Collin's boat. A much more probable supposition, however, and
one rendered doubly so by the circumstance of the Dutch having
been acquainted with the Tinwald isles and harbours, is that the
name in question signifies the foot of the gully, voet being the low
Dutch for foot. According to others it is of Gaelic extraction, and
should be spelt cully vat, which signifies a harbour for boats.
	Zoology.--The Aphides, a small green insect, sometimes ap-



