
			    BEITH.                          573

and he has also there found good brick clay, and established a
manufactory of draining tiles. To the west of this estate, there
are appearances of coal in the lands of Willowyard, belonging to
Alexander Shedden, Esq.; and in the adjoining lands of Crawfield,
belonging to Lady Montgomerie, a three and a half feet coal has
been discovered by boring, and is now being wrought. The only
other coal known in the parish was, for some years, wrought at
Balgray, but has been relinquished on account of its rapid dip and
rise.
	From Kilbirnie loch southward, the surface rises, in the distance
of about two miles, to an elevation of 330 feet above the tideway
on the Clyde. The surface is somewhat undulatory and irregular,
and so are the strata underneath, so far as they have been exposed;
but the changes in the surface do not correspond to those of the
stratification below, the dip of the strata being in general to the
south-west.
	At a mean elevation of about 330 feet, an extensive field of
limestone occupies, with very few interruptions, several square miles
in extent. This limestone has been wrought extensively for many
years in the lands of Broadstone, belonging to Hugh Brown, Esq.
and in those of Hazlehed, Trearne, and Broadstone, belonging to
John Shedden Patrick, Esq. and it is of such good quality, and
wrought with so great facility, that the sale extends to Paisley,
Greenock, and other places, equally distant, and amounts to about
7000 chalders yearly, each chalder consisting of sixteen bolls of
slacked lime, of four Winchester bushels per boll. The formation
of the Glasgrow and Ayr railroad must extend the sales both to the
east and west.
	The limestone, which has usually been wrought varies from 18 to 2O
feet in thickness, and rests upon a coal of 20 inches, separated from
the limestone by a few inches of shale. In many places, this bed of
limestone approaches the surface, and is wrought with small expense;
to the dip it is overlaid by (or takes on, as the miners express it,) in
succession, the following strata: 1st, Shale, 2 feet; 2d, Coal, 1 foot,
1 inch; 3d, Clay, containing a thin bed of limestone, 6 feet; 4th A
large body of limestone, of various thickness from 12 to upwards of
50 feet, and rising into considerable hills. The price of lime at
the kilos varies from 9s. to 12s. per chalder, and may average
about 10s. 6d. To  burn a chalder of lime will require about 12
hundred weight of coals, which including the cartage will coast
between 5s. and 6s. per chalder. The quarrying and breaking


