
6                          LANARKSHIRE.

The upper is perhaps the least beautiful of the falls, owing to its
smaller height, and to the bareness of the southern bank above it.
Still, when seen from the point at which it first bursts upon the
view, it is very imposing; and the present proprietor, Lady Mary
Ross, by means of a bridge thrown across the north branch of the
stream, immediately above the precipice, and points of observation
happily selected, has secured some charming coups doeil to the ad-
mirers of nature. The Corra Lin, which is about half a mile far-
ther down, is generally allowed to be the finest of the three. Un-
til a few years ago, this splendid cascade could only be seen from
above. But fine although it must ever be from whencesoever con-
templated, all former views of it were greatly inferior to one which
the present proprietor has opened up. A flight of steps has been
formed along the face of the opposite rock. By this, the traveller
descends into a deep and capacious amphitheatre, where he finds
himself exactly in front, and on a level with the bottom of the fall.
The foaming waters, as they are projected in a double leap over
the precipice, the black and weltering pool below, the magnificent
ranue of dark perpendicular rocks 120 feet in height, which sweeps
around him on the left, the romantic banks on the opposite side,
the river calmly pursuing its onward course, and the rich garniture
of wood with which the whole is dressed, combine to form a spec-
tacle with which the most celebrated cataracts in Switzerland and
Sweden will scarcely stand a comparison. The lower or Stonebyres
Fall, so named from the adjacent estate of Stonebyres, belonging
to the ancient family of Vere, it is unnecessary to describe. It has
great similarity in many of its features to the Corra Lin, and it is
sufficient to say, that, in the opinion of many it is even superior in
beauty.
	Geology.--The parish lies upon a mass of old red sandstone,
which probably forms the basis of the country to the south and
east. This mass is composed of strata from a few inches to many
feet in thickness, having a considerable declination towards the east,
but upon the surface they generally follow the declination of the
ground in which they are situated. It is also divided by perpendi-
cular fissures, which become less perceptible as they descent be-
low the influence of the sum and air. In some places it is likewise
travesed by narrow dikes of trap rock, sinking perpendicularly, and
cutting the general stratification . nearly at right angles. The trap
rock of these dikes is often disintegrated, or if solid, appearing
composed of a congeries of elliptical balls, and has evidently been


