
                        DRUMBLADE.                             299

draining, it has disappeared, and hardly any trace of it can now
be observed.
   Geology and Mineralogy.-There is nothing very remarkable
to state under this head.  Besides blocks of common whinstone
(greenstone) that are found in many parts of the parish, there are
likewise rocks both of limestone and granite-the former, however,
of a description so inferior, as not to be used for its mineralogical
property.  The granite, again, of which there is a considerable
quarry on the farm of Corvichen, within a short distance of
Huntly, is of good quality, and not inferior, it is believed, to the
well-known granite so extensively worked in the vicinity of Aber-
deen, and equally beautiful.  When newly dissevered from the
parent rock, it is softer, and much more workable than after it
lies for a time exposed to the action of the air-which renders it
peculiarly adapted for building purposes, where durability is of
first rate consequence.  The granite rock in this place is covered
almost exclusively with small gravel of a granular kind-consist-
ing, in fact, in a great measure, of the same elements with the
granite itself beneath, though of a yellower and somewhat dirtier
colour, showing that it is the same in a state of decomposition.
The subsoil throughout, in this part of the parish, is of a gravelly
kind, consisting of yellow sand and round stories, of a colour that
would indicate the presence and action of iron or other metallic
influence.
   Fossil Organic Remains.-It may be mentioned, that hazel-nuts,
in a State of great preservation as to external appearance, have
been found deeply imbedded in moss, with roots and branches of
the parent trees from whieli they sprung.  In the moss of Tho-
mastown, in particular, now under cultivation, when drains were
cut to the extent of several feet, these were found inconsiderable
quantity and in such preservation without, as to indicate almost
the possibility of some remaining freshness within them.
   On the farm of Cocklarachy, in the year 1833 or 1834, an oak
of large dimensions was discovered about five feet below the Sur-
face, imbedded also in moss-about 100 yards above the  bridge
that crosses the Bogie toward the Huntly and Rhynie turnpikes,
about the same distance from this river, and not much above its
level.  It was nearly black, and the ark for the most part rotted
off.  Being very heavy, the thick part of the trunk was raised in
two pieces-one about 10 feet long and the other 12-the ave-
rage girth was about 7 feet, and the two pieces contained from


