
1010                     ABERDEENSHIRE.

gation every Lord's Day, and conscientiously discharges the other
duties of his sacred office; and the pastor of the Independents
imparts, we believe, with faithfulness, and without any tincture of
Sectarhanism, religious instruction to all who choose to avail them-
selves of his services.
	Library, &c.--A parish library was instituted four years ago,
and is managed by a president and librarian, with a committee of
its own number, chosen annually. To promote and encourage a
taste for reading, the rate of subscription was fixed on low scale;
--1s. per quarter for books of the first class, and 6d. per quarter
for those which had been in circulation for the previous year.
This very moderate payment has been found to answer well. The
books have been carefully selected, and consist of standard works
in divinity, history, voyages, and travels, and general science and
literature. The number of volumes now in the library is 567, and
the subscribers last season amounted to about 100. The news-
papers of the day, of all shades of politics, with a few of the
cheaper, periodicals, are also eagerly read by all classes of the
community; and if some publications of a noxious tendency are
countenanced by any individuals, their number and character are
not such as to affect, in any sensible degree, the sound moral and
religious principles which guide the opinions, and direct the con-
duct of the parishioners at large.
	Poor and Parochial Funds.--There are at present 56 persons
receiving a stated allowance out of the poor's funds, at an average
of L. 2, 3s. 1Od. a-year each, and 18 receiving temporary stipply,
averaging L. 1 each per annum. The ordinary collections in the
parish church have of late risen considerably, and last year
amounted to L. 105, 11s. 6 1/2d. The interest of money belonging
to the session yielded L. 20, 10s. 4d.; from the letting of the
seats in the aisle there was drawn the sum of L. 20; and from a
collection by the Episcopal congregation and other sources, the
session had also at their disposal, L. 10, Is. 6d., thus making the
income for the relief of the ordinary poor, L. 156, 3s. 4 1/2d., while
the expenditure, with the charges of management, clerk's, officer's,
and precentor's salaries, came to L. 148, 14s. 9d. The surplus,
however, L. 7, Ss. 7 1/2d., was more than required during last year
for the support of a lunatic in the asylum at Aberdeen. Collec-
tions are, also annually made in aid of the General Assembly's
schemes, the Aberdeen Infirmary, and other pious purposes, and
last year amounted to L. 26, 4s. 6d.  But, liberal as these contri-


