
454                          ROXBURGHSHIRE.

Were this nuisance done away, as has been frequently proposed,
the striking improvement in comfort and cleanliness would soon re-
concile the villagers to any restrictions to which it might subject
them.  There was a small common near the village, on which the
retallers, by the terms of their leases, had the right of casting
turfs.  About forty years ago, this was divided amongst them, with
the consent of the Marquis of Tweeddale, in shares, proportioned to
the amount of their rentals.  It has since been all inclosed, gra-
dually improved by manuring, trenching, forcing, &c. and now
bears very good crops of potatoes, turnips, grass, and also of corn,
and thus, from being a waste and useless moor, is now a consider-
able benefit to the village.
     Means of Communicationn.--No stage-coach runs through the
parish.  There are carriers to Kelso (the market-town) three days
a-week.  A turnpike road passes through the village, communicati-
ing with the Kelso and Jedburgh road on the west, and leading into
Northumberland on the east.  The parish roads are kept in good
repair.  Some years ago it was proposed to establish a side post in
Morebattle, but the villagers on being consulted refused it is dis-
advatageous.  They stated that their correspondence being chiefly
with Kelso, their letters are either carried free of expense by people
going down, or at least for 1d. by the carriers, whereas by post
they would cost 3d. or 4d.  There are no fairs or markets held in
the parish.
     Ecclesiastical State.--The church is situated at the north-west
extremity of the parish, being within half a mile of the boundary on
that side, and between nine and ten from that on the other  There
is no other part of the parish, however, in which it could be placdd
more commodiously for the bulk of the population.  It stands at
the north side of the village of Morebattle on a height overlook-
ing the Kale.  It affords accommodition for about 460 sitters, and
if well filled, would contain 500.  It was built in 1757, and is at
present undergoing repairs, which, when completed, will render it
comfortable and handsome.  No seats are let.  St Lawrence was
the patron saint.  A well below the churchyard, which supplies the
village with water, still bears his name, corrupted into Lawrie's
Well.  At one period there had been a chapel at Clifton, then a
village, and another at Whitton.  The collections at the church
doors are very trifling.  The number of heads of families commu-
nicants on the veto roll, made up at the last communion, is 50.
The manse was built in 1830.  The accommodation is large, but



