
                              WALSTON.	                        863

Walston village, is even dangerous to those Who travel in car-
riages; but there is a prospect of this being soon remedied to a
great extent.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The situation of the church and parish school
is inconvenient for by far the greater part of the population ; not so
much from theirdistance, forthreare not half adozen houses beyond
a mile and a-half from either, as from being on the north side of
the ridge ; while the greater proportion of the population is on
the south side.  The church was built in 1789, which date appears
on a stone in the north-west corner of the north gable, as also
the letters M. P. M., indicating Mr Patrick Molleson, at that
time minister.  And there is immediately under this another
stone, inscribed with the letters M. T. L. M., and date' 1598 ;
evidently preserved from a former building erected while Mr
Thomas Lindsay was minister; and standing, as it ought to do,
from east to west, while the present fabric is a continuation of a
burying aisle, built in 1567, and stands north and south; the
whole of disproportioned longitude, and presenting its extended
roof to the prevailing winds.  On a stone on the north-east cor-
ner of the north gable are rudely sculptured the armorial bear-
ings of the family of Mar, to which the barony belonged in 1598.
At present, the church is in a state of good repair; and internally
a comfortable, and rather elegant place of worship.  Not many
years ago, it was very much the reverse; but on application to the
heritors by the present incumbent, it was repaired to his perfect
satisfaction; and the addition of a porch to the west has improved
the appearance externally, as much as it has added to the comfort
within.  It is seated for 170 persons.  Of the sittings, 24 are
common; the remainder are apportioned to the heritors, according
to their valued rents.  The burying aisle and gallery above it
were sold in 1762 by George Lockhart of Carnwath to Joseph
Allan for L. 31, 10s.; * Is tobe held pro tantoashis proportion of the
area of the kirk and burial place in the kirk-yard, as an heritor of
Walston," and now belong to Mr Woddrop on the same term.
The present manse, + built in 1828, and completed in the spring
of 1829, is a sufficient and commodious dwelling, suited to
the living.  It is supplied with excellent water, brought from a
considerable distance, about two years ago, at a trifling expense;
partly borne by the heritors, and partly by the minister.  The

<FOOTNOTE>Vide Deed of Disposition.
          On repeated trials with an excellent barometer, the ground-floor of the manse
has been found to be 890 feet above the level of the sea.


