
202                    ROXBURGHSHIRE.

the year is 13000, which produce about 1600 stones of wool, 24 lb.
to the stone. The horses employed and bred here are almost
all farm work-horses of a middle size, either of the English or of
the Lanarkshire breed. The number of horses kept is 38; young
horses bred yearly by the farmers, 13. Swine are reared by al-
most every cottager and farm-servant who is married but do not
constitute a part of the farmer's stock, as an article for the mar-
ket. The small breed is chiefly preferred, and the number bred
and fattened yearly is 25. Poultry and bees yield a small profit.
   Husbandry.-At an early period, the farms in this parish were
much more subdivided, and occupied by a number of small te-
nants, who extended the cultivation on the hill grounds to some
hundreds of acres more than is now even occasionally in tillage.
The appearances of cultivation can still be traced on many of the
hills, where no grain can now be produced; and regular ridges and
furrows are in many places very distinct. Since the middle of the
last century, these farms have been converted into extensive sheep
walks, occupied each by one tenant. The approved course of
husbandry now pursued in the parish has nothing in it of a peculiar
nature. The crops to which most attention is paid are barley,
oats, and turnips. A crop of turnips is the most valuable that is
raised. Barley alone can be considered as an article for the mar-
ket.
   Some of the best grazing farms in the district are to be found
in this parish. They vary in extent from 180 to 2900 acres. Leases
are in some cases of seven, in others nineteen and twenty-one years'
endurance. Generally, the new tenant enters at Whitsunday to the
grass and green crop lands, while the old tenant has the white crop
then upon the ground. By means of draining, burning of moors,
liming, &c. which are carried on to a considerable extent, the land
has of late years been rendered doubly valuable. The Duke of
Roxburghe and Walter Dickson, Esq. have judiciously spared no
expense in erecting neat, commodious, and substantial farm stead-
ings of stone and lime, with slate roofs, in place of the former old
clay cottages; and in other respects have given great encourage-
ment to their tenants to carry on their operations with energy and
spirit. Great improvements are observable in making and keeping
in repair the parish roads.
   Produce.-The average amount and value of raw produce raised
yearly in the parish may be as follows:-


