
742                        LANARKSHIRE.

   This adage has for many years ceased to be applicable, and is
no longer repeated.  For, by judicious farming, the district, once
so reproachfully spoken of, now contains some of the best and most
productive farms in the parish.  The husbandry at present pur-
sued is of a mixed kind, judiciously adapted to the varying soils
and capabilities of different farms, and of the several portions of
each farm.  Hence every farmer depends partly on his grain crops,
of various kinds, and partly on his dairy produce.  In this mode of
farming there is far less risk to the tenant than when the course
pursued is more regular and sxstematic.  If the wheat crop fails,
there are probably fields of good oats, beans and pease, to keep
the farmer from despondency; and even when the whole grain
crops are deficient, as sometimes happens, there is still the produce
of the dairy to meet the demands of the landlord for rent.  If
farmers in this part of the country seldom realize large profits, they
just as seldom, from seasons and circumstances, incur absolute ruin.
None but native agriculturists do any good.  Farmers from more
favoured districts who have taken farms, at different times, in the
parish and neighbourhood, and attempted a regular course of hus-
bandry, have always ruined themselves in a very short time.  With
the exception of the low-lying grounds in the vale of Clyde, and a
few stripes on the banks of the Avon, the land of the parish
is not fit for green crops.  Fallowing has in most cases to be re-
sorted to.  Wheat and oats are the principal crops.  Wheat
succeeds best in strong soils, and yields, according to circumstances,
from 25 to 60 bushels per acre.  Oats are hardy, and succeed
with less manure and culture.  The variety most in repute for
the higher grounds of the parish is late Ayrshire; but whicb,
from long use, has acquired in this part of the country the name
of Machan Moor oats.  It yields a large quantity of straw and
fodder for cattle.  The produce in grain from an abre of oats,
varies from 25 to 60 bushels.  Beans and pease thrive well on
lands which are in good order.  On poorer lands they give a re-
turn of from 12 to 24 bushels per acre.  The produce of an acre
of potatoes, in soils adapted to them, has been found to weigh
from 12 to 13 tons.  They are not only much used as an article
of human food, but likewise for feeding cattle, especially milch
cows.  Till a few years back, very few turnips were raised.  They
are now getting into more general cultivation on light soils, and
are found to pay as well as potatoes.  Carrots and mangel-wurzel
have for some time formed part of the cropping of the farm of


