
                                INCH.                            83

a smaller and more sluggish stream, which discharges itself into the
same bay, divides this parish from Stonykirk.
   Geology.--There is not much interesting in the geology of the
parish. The hills are chiefly composed of stratified transition
rocks, as greywacke, &c. There is an excellent slate-quarry on
the lands of Lochryan. Granite is never found except in detach-
ed blocks. Tradition speaks of lead mines having been wrought.
Probably an attempt was made to find lead ore, but without any suc-
cess. Attempts have been repeatedly made to discover coal, but
they have all hitherto failed. There are extensive tracts of peat
moss, which supply abundant fuel. There is great diversity of
soil, gravelly, sandy, clayey, loamy, and mossy. Throughout the
lower part of the parish, the soil is in general light and sandy.
   Zoology.--The parish abounds in different sorts of game; part-
ridge, grouse, snipe, woodcock, hares, &c. I have heard it al-
ledged that the ptarmigan once existed in the district. The bit-
tern is sometimes, but not very often, found. Curlews and plo-
vers abound. Troops of wild geese may be seen pasturing by the
brooks on the high lands, or, when severe weather is setting in, wing-
ing their way to the sea shore. A great variety of water-fowl
frequent the lakes--ducks, coots, widgeon, teal, cormorant, &c.
In winter, we are frequently visited by swans. Sea-mews visit us
in spring, to bring forth their young by the sedgy shores of our
lochs. There are two rookeries in the parish,--one at Castle-Ken-
nedy, the seat of the Earl of Stair, and one at Lochryan House,
the seat of Sir Alexander Wallace. There is also a heronry at
Casle-Kennedy. Birds of prey, such as hawks, kites, owls, ravens,
&c. are not so numerous as they once were. Of beats of prey, we
have the polecat and weasel. Foxes, wild-cats, badgers, and otters
once abounded, but have now disappeared. Serpents, lizards, &c.
are not uncommon.
   The lochs abound in pike, perch, trout, roach, and eel. Pike
have been caught twenty-four pounds in weight. There are salmon
in the River Luce, and in the estuaries of Lochryan. There are cod,
haddock, whiting, herring, flounder, &c. in Lochryan. Excellent
oysters, too, abound in Lochryan. The fishery belongs to Sir
Alexander Wallace of Lochryan, by a charter from the Crown.
   On a calm summer evening, the banks of the Loch of Soulseat
present an appearance not a little curious. What seem to be
pillars of cloud, appear here and there, rising to height of fifty
feet or more. A stranger viewing them at a distance might sup-


