
				KILMADOCK.			1233

	   Manufactures.-In thhs parish are the celebrated Deanston
	Cotton-works.  The following correct description of them is taken
	from the Inverness Courier.
	   " Deanston Cotton-Works employ above 1100 persons, young
	and old, and contain the most perfect machinery in the kingdom.
	The first erection took place in the year 1785, by the Messrs
	Buchanan of Carston, four brothers, the eldest of whom was an
	intimate acquaintance of Sir Richard Arkwrigbt, and was his first
	agent in Glasgow for the sale of cotton twist.  The English had
	annoyed Sir Richard so much by invading his invention, that he
	rerolved to instruct young Scotsmen in the art, in preference to
	his own countrymen; and among others, Mr Archibald Buchanan
	(now manager of the Catrine works, Ayrshire,) went apprentice to
	Sir Richard, and was the only one who had the privilege of living

<FOOTNOTE>1889). " The thorough or Deanston mode of draining, of so great benefit, not for
	Scotland only, but for the whole kingdom, is as yet in its infancy.  Already, the
	fame and the utility of it are spreading all over the island, and we have riot a doubt,
	in a short time, there will not be found a spot, where improvements are carried on,
	that has not been made anew' by means of this simple, yet powerful and efficient
	system of draining."  "The principle of the system," as explained by Mr Smith him-
	self, " is the providing of frequent opportunities for the water 'rising from below, or
	falling on the surface, to pass freely and completely off." Mr Smith adds, that the
	most appropriate appellation for it, therefore, seems to be " the frequent drain sys-
	tem," or " thorough drainage system." In deference to Mr Smith, but in justice to
	his claims as the inventor, it seems not inappropriately called the Deanston system,
	"In proceeding to appl'y this system of drainage to a farm, the first object," says Mr
	Smith, " is to allow a sufficient fall or  level, as it is commonly termed, for a main
	drain to receive the water flowing from the ordinary or parallel drains." We do not
	here describe the system, referring to Mr Smith's own description.  Suffice it to re-
	mark the necessity of " closely covering the upper surface of th stones with a thin
	thatch or flautcher, divot or turf, as many drains are ruined at once by the running in
	of the loose earth."
	   With regard to deep ploughing, Mr Smith remarks, " All who have ever studied
	or experienced the most common gardening must be aware of the important advan-
	tages of deep working, and, when it can be attained in the broad field of forming, at
	so small a cost as 9s. per acre, they may easily believe that the whole will be more than
	doubts repaid in every succeedinf grain crop, and abundantly even in pasture.  When
	this subject was treated of in the Second Report of Drummond's Agricultural Mu-
	seum, published in March 1833, the system was beginning to be adopted in a few
	places, in a very few districts of Scotland, England, and Ireland, and, in most in-
	stanees, on a very limited scale.  Since then, the intrinsic merhts and evident results
	of the system have raised its character even with many of its former opponents, and
	one cannot now travel almost anywhere in the country without seeing, either on a
	large or a small scale, the operation of thorough draining going on.  The deep plough-
	ing is not yet so general, but it will undoubtedly follow ; and, it is to be regretted,
	that, in the meantime, some zealous and good farmers, not aware of its advantages,
	are filling their drains so near the surface, as to mar the future thorough application
	of the system of deep worlking." "I have been often asked," says Mr Smith in a
	note, " if l would recommended subsoil ploughing of land which his not been drained,
	To this I answer, certainly not.   * * *  So soon as wet lands are throughly
	drained, deep ploughing may follow with the greatest advantage, but not sooner."
	   "Thorough draining," adds Mr Smith, "is the foundation of all good hushandry,
	and when combined with deep ploughing, enrures a general and uniform firtility, as-
	sisted, no doubt, by the essentials, through workingn and cleaning, ample manuring,
	and a proper rotation of cropping."
	   PERTH.                                      4 I


