
                            INVERKEITHING.                 233

bourhood. Quartz crystals, some of them purple, steatite, sul-
phate of barytes, felspar, and some zeolites, are found in the green-
stone; calcareous spar both in the greenstone and limestone; and
pyrites is abundant in the ironstone, slate-clay, greenstone and
limestone. Galena  and flinty slate also exist, and boulders of chlo-
rite and mica slate, sometimes of large size, are not uncommon,-
though within these few years, four of the largest of these have
been blasted to pieces for building materials, or for making drains.
The greenstone rocks frequently assume the columnar form.
  Zoology.--The most noted wild quadrupeds are the hare, badger,
fox, otter, weasel, but all very scarce. Among the birds may be enu-
merated the pheasant, partridge, sparrow-bawk, kite, a blue-look-
ing hawk, the common and a white owl, raven, carrion-crow, rook,
wood-pigeon, thrush and blackbird, both of which are much on the
increase, fieldfare, redwing, stonechat, snow and common bunting,
three species of linnet, whin-sparrow, reed-sparrow, several of the
creepers, jay, magpie, blue and yellow wagtails, chaffinch, wren,
&c.; wood-cock, snipe; green, gray and golden plovers; curlew,
whimbrel, brown dotterel, and several more of the scolopax
tribe; several species of gull, the black-headed tern, pied oys-
ter catcher, several species of duck, the teal, widgeon, auks, the
plane and hooked-beaked marrots, the cormorant, heron, wild
goose, swan, solan-goose, and, though very rarely, a large species of
Anas with a red mark of a horse-shoe form on the breast. Most of
these birds desert the place in summer and return in winter.  Of
amphibia and fishes, there are two species of seals, the porpoise,
the finner, so named from its long dorsal fin, the bottle-nosed
whale, a much larger species of whale, salmon, sea-trout, cod, cod-
ling, podley, seathe, flounder, skate, herring, white-bait, &c.
The common cuttle is frequently thrown upon the beach, and oc-
casionally that deformed fish the Lophius of a large size. A large
Opah was thrown on shore on the 23d July 18M, but it was
cut into several pieces, as the first step in the process of frying,
before it was seen by any one who knew its value. This exceed-
ingly rare and most beautiful fish must be seen in the recent state,
before any conception can be formed of its superb appearance.
The spots, and green, gold, and silver lustre of the skin, contrast-
ed with the bright red of the fins and tail, constitute a wbole which

<FOOTNOTE>Vide for particulars, "Analysis of Galena, from Castleland Hill, near Inver-
keithing, by the Rev. A. Robertson, Junior," in Vol. vii. of Edinburgh New Philo.
sophical Journal.


