
                            STAIR.                            641

cut down and rooted out lately. A solitary tree, known in the
neighbourhood as the General, stands on an adjoining eminence
	Remarkable Trees.--In the lawn at Barskimming, there are a
great many fine trees, particularly some Scotch firs (eighteen in
number immediately to the cast of the house, all of them remark-
able for their height and cleanness of stem. The largest is 10
feet, 8 inches, in circumference about a foot from the ground.
The small holm (a little farther up the river) in which Burns com-
posed the poem "Man is made to Mourn," is surrounded with a
row of beeches, almost all of them of great size and beauty.
	Close by Stair House, is a willow tree which measures 22 feet
10 inches, about six feet from the ground, but is fast decaying. On
the same holm is a Lombardy poplar betwixt 80 and 90 feet in
height. Two beeches (forming part of a row growing on the
banks of the river) measure 13 feet to 13 feet six inches respec-
tively, about two feet above the ground. These, with some others,
are the remnants of the fine wood which abounded here at a com-
paratively recent period.

                        II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Eminent Characters.--The Stair family is so well known to his-
tory, as to render superfluous here any account of their eminence,
-civil, military, and literary,--or of the influence (almost unpa-
ralleled in the history of any other family in Scotland), which
they possessed during a long and most interesting period.
	Another eminent character belonging to the parish was Sir
Thomas Miller, Baronet Lord President of the Court of Ses-
sion. The late Baron Hume, in a memoir read before the Royal
Society of Edinburgh states, "that at his death (which took place
at Barskimming in September 1788 after an illness of two days,)
he left no good man his enemy and that his decease was attend-
ed with that sincere and extensive regret which only those can
hope for, who have occupied the like important stations, and ac-
quitted themselves as well."
	In the general description of Kirkcudbrightshire as given by
Chalmers in his Caledonia it is mentioned that he (Sir Thowas)
was the first Sheriff after the suppression of heritable jurisdictions
and its erection into a Stewartry, and that be trammitted to his
posterity a name of which any family might be proud.
	"To the activity, exertion, and public spirit of the four principal
heritors," (Sir William Miller, Bart. of Barskimming, son and heir
	AYR.			  S s


