
     of Clunie.

   Surface, Soil, Climate, Diseases.-The superficial area of
the parish has not been measured, nor has any particular
map of it been yet attempted.  It contains probably up-
wards of 8000 acres of mountain, moss, heath, wood, wa-
ter, arable and pasture.  The arable parts, which have of
late been considerably extended by industry, comprehend-
ed, in summer 1791, about 2555 acres.  The surface of
the ground is uneven, and not disagreeably diversified.
The lowest parts are perhaps not more than 150 feet, and
the highest are perhaps not less than 1800 feet above the
level of the sea: Accordingly the soil and climate are va-
rious.  The mountainous parts are cold, rocky and heathy,
fit only for sheep and goats; the latter of which are entire-
ly banished, and the former reduced, comparatively, to a
very small number.  Contiguous to the mountains, are
large tracts of black, bleak barren moors, where the heath
is in some places interspersed with bent, affording subsist-
ence to about 200 small Scotch cattle, and about 1000 small
Scotch sheep.  These tracts are in general too rough and
wild to admit of the plough; it appears, however, that
some spots of them have been cultivated by the Caledoni-
ans of old, when the lower parts of the parish were cover-
ed with wood.  Many of these barren heaths may, in fu-
ture times, be crowned with beautiful plantations of the

<FOOTNOTE>

Balvedock, (Gaelic, Baile-seadoig,) means, "the village of the grey
"plover," which bird frequently haunts the adjoining moor Baldor-
nock, (Gaelic, Baile-dornog,) denotes, the "village of small round stones,
"such as one can take up in one's fist;" and vast numbers of such stones
are on the surface of the ground of Baldornock, and its neighbourhood.
Tullanerdy, (Gaelic, Tullach-nerd).  Tullach, signifies a "small hall or
"knock," near which Tullaneidy stands; nerd, signifies a "battle" or
"wound, received in a battle;" and an ingenious antiquary is just now
making out a map of this part of the country, wherein he places Tulla-
nerdy near the scene of the great action between Galgacus and Agricola,
This circumstance will be alluded to under the article of Antiquities.


