
746                        LANARKSHIRE.

to put a stop, ere long, to the cultivation of this kind of fruit al-
together.  Indeed, even before this check occurred, the price of
apples of inferior kinds had fallen so low in years of tolerable
plenty, as scarcely to be worth the expense of pulling and carting
to Glasgow.  An attempt was accordingly made, two or three
years ago, to have them regularly converted into cider.  A cider-
press was established in the parish of Cambusnethan, which has
yielded a very promising beverage.  The experiment was checked
by the total failure of the fruit crop in 1839, and the result in
better years is yet to be seen.  Gooseberries, plums, and pears
being less liable to be affected by competition, still yield an en.
couraging return to the cultivator and dealer, and good table fruit
of all kinds, including the better sorts of apples, whether for
desert or baking, is in general in fair demand.  The fruit of
Clydesdale is taken for the most part to Glasgow or Paisley, some-
times to Edinburgh; and of late years, since the Glasgow market
has got supply from other quarters, a good deal of it has been
disposed of in the towns and villages of the more immediate neigh-
bourhood.  The raising and management of fruit gives employ-
ment at certain seasons to a considerable number of persons of
both sexes, young and old, and any thing materially affecting this
branch of rural industry is deeply felt in the whole district.  Con-
siderable dissatisfaction and alarm have of late been excited, by
the alteration of the duties on foreign fruit.
   Rent of Land.-The average rent of land in the parish is from
10s. to L. 2, 10s. per acre.  There are spots which are let for a
limited period, at from L. 2 to L. 4 per acre.  In general, the
leases are for nineteen years, sometimes, however, for seven and
fourteen, and on the several estates there are a few tenants at
will.  Grazing is paid for at from L. 2, 10s. to L. 3, 10s, per cow
or ox.
   Wages.-Labourers have about 12s. per week in summer, and
9s. in winter.  From the extent of orchard ground under the
spade, this class of persons is in general well employed when the
permits.  Delving among fruit trees and gooseberry
bushes requires some skill and experience, and is not safely en-
trusted to any but individuals belonging to the district, or at least
well acquainted with the kind of work.  Carpenters get 2s. 6d.
per day, and masons about 16s. 6d. per week.  The price of all
articles required for the different purposes of rural and domestic


