
272                      DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

accommodation may be had. But there are twelve or thirteen
other houses licensed to sell ale and spirits, which have a manifest
tendency to demoralize the people.
	Fuel.--Peat from the Solway moss, or the borders of Kirkpatrick-
Fleming, is commonly used as fuel; though coal is also obtained in
considerable abundance from the coast of Cumberland, and from
the neighbourhood of Brampton and Canobie. Peat costs 1s. 6d.
per cart load; coal, when brought from a distance by sea, costs 8s.
per cart load, and when conveyed by land about 2s. less.  A rail-
road between Annan and Brampton, or between the former town
and Carlisle, would be of great service tn the whole neighbour-
hood, and ` more level tract for that purpose cannot perhaps be
found in the kingdom.

		MISCELLANIOUS OBSERVATIONS.
	The most remarkable variations between the present state of this
parish and that which existed at the date of the late Statistical Ac-
count are, an increase of population to the number of 99; an im-
mense enlargement of the farms, whose value has been more than
doubled; a great increase in manufactures; a diminution of houses
in country places, and a rapid extension of villages; a departure from
a pretty general spirit of resistance to the revenue laws, and the
signs of a growing amelioration in religion and morality. Till
within these last four years cock-fights were very common, with all
their vile accompaniments, and more particularly at the village of
Rigg.  Thirty years ago, the contraband trade with the Isle of
Man, with all its terrific results, prevailed. But if smuggling now
exists at all, it is chiefly to be attributed to the wretched system
which establishes an inequality of excise duties betwixt the differ-
ent parts of the same Kingdom.
	Instead of one school with a salary of L.20, there are two hav-
ing each a salary of L.25 a year, besides the usual wages, which
may amount to an equal sum, payable by the scholars. Prices of
labour and raw produce of every description have undergone a pro-
portionable altdration.
	For the improvement of the parish in a commercial and agricul-
tural point of view, the formation of a rail-road to join that between
Carlisle and Newcastle, and the award of prizes to the best ma-
nagers of farms, and to those who pay greatest attention to the
breed of cattle, may be suggested. For the general welfare of its
inhabitants in a moral and religious state, the diminution of licensed
tippling-houses, and the abolition of irregular marriage, may be


