
1172                    ABERDEENSHIRE.

on them; and hoping that the following this natural order will tend
to render the study of the sciences more advantageous in life than
it is generally thought to be, and will remove the prejudices some
have entertained against university education as useless,-they
do, therefore, unanimously agree and resolve, that for the future
(the first year of the Academical course being spent as usual under
the professor of Greek, and the meetings on Sabbath evenings in
all the classes as formerly, in discourses on such subjects of na-
tural and revealed Religion as the professors shall judge most use-
ful, and adapted to the capacities of their students), the following
general order in teaching Philosophy shall be observed in this Uni-
versity, viz. that the Semi-year, or second of the course, shall be
spent in the most useful parts of Natural History, in Geography,
and the elements of Civil History; that the Tertian, or third year
of the course, shall be employed in the scientific parts of Natural
Philosophy, Mechanics, Hydrostatics, Pneumatics, Optics, Astro-
nomy, and such other branches not reducible to any of these, as
either are in some measure invented already, or may be invented
and improved hereafter, as Magnetism, Electricity, &c.; and that
the Magistrand, or last year, shall be taken up in the abstract
sciences, or the Philosophy of Spirits, Pneumatology, Ethics, and
Logic, leaving it to the several professors to follow that order and
method in teaching each of the general branches which they shall
find from experience to be most iiseful and convenient."
   On this change being carried into effect, the students increased
greatly in number, and a considerable impulse appears to have been
given to the courses of science and literature, which are describ-
ed by Dr Reid as having been, in his time, "slight and superfi-
cial," as indeed they must, when one instructor had to teach the
whole curriculum. *  The custom of Latin prelections was also gra-
dually discontinued, and in-stead of declamations in that language,
examinations on the subjects of the lectures were introduced, at first
in Latin, and afterwards in English, till the fnrmer language was
retained only at the public examinations of the classes, where it ex-
pired about 1776.
   The present curriculum for students in the Faculty of Arts con-
sists of,-
   First Year.-First Greek class, 14 meetings a-week; First Hu-
manity or Latin class, 8 do.
   Second Year.- Second Greek class, 3 meetings a-week; Second
Latin class, 3 do.; First Mathematics, 6 do.; Natural History, 12 do.

<FOOTNOTE>Stewart's Life of Reid, p. 10.  Dr Reid attended Marischal College in the years
1722-1726.


