
     174                   INVERNESS-SHIRE.

     Properly speaking, there is no undivided common, as the whole
     parish is the property of one individual.  Such parts of the moor
     as have hitherto been grazed or held in common by the tenants of
     several farms, are now about to be divided, and its own share given
     respectively to each farm.
        Wages.-The rate of labour for farm-servants for the year is
     from L.5 to L.9 Sterling, with victuals; and grieves or overseers
     receive from L.10 to L.15, with victuals.  Country artisans from
     2s. to. 2s. 6d. per day, without victuals.  Masons and carpenters
     about 3s. per day, without victuals.
        Husbandry.-The number of black-cattle kept by the small te-
     nants is by far too great, and a less number well kept would un-
     doubtedy be more profitable.  This remark applies with greater
     force to the number of horses kept.  The evil arises partly from
     the difficulty of breaking off old habits; but principally from the
     small subdivisions into which the allotments are reduced, the cause
     of which will be afterwards specified.  Measures are now being
     taken by the proprietor to remedy the evil, in respect to both.
        On the character of the husbandry pursued much might be said,
     if the limits permitted.  The occupiers of land may be divided into
     two classes, 1. The gentlemen farmers or tacksmen,. each of whom
     possesses one or more farms; and 2. The small tenants, who for-
     merly occupied their farms conjunctly, the arable, land possessed
     in run-rig, or subject to annual division amongst themselves.  In
     the year 1814, a better system was adopted. The arable lands were
     measured and lotted; and each small tenant put in possession of
     his own croft or share, while the grazing was left still in com-
     mon.  This naturally gave a powerful impetus to improvement.
     The industrious was no longer clogged by the carelessness or
     sloth of his neighbour, nor by the consideration that the labour
     of the former would benefit the latter.  On the contrary, the
     slothful was spurred on by the example and never-failing reward
     of the industrious.  Accordingly, larger and better crops have
     been raised since. The manure principally used is the sea-ware
     (Alga marina), cast in considerable quantities on many parts of
     the western shores; and where that is not the case, a certain quan-
     tity of the same weed cut from the rocks.  I formerly took no-
     tice that the small belt subjected to cropping on the west coast
     is rendered productive by the sand that has been deposited
     on it.  In fact, the vaost 'productive part is nothing more than
     moss mixed with and decomposed by the limy particles of the


