                                                           585
                       DUNOON AND KILMUN.

seen clothing considerable patches of the otherwise bare grounds
on the highest summit of Benmore, only attains the height of one
or two inches, yet bears its leaves, its catkins, and its' flowers as
perfect as those of its brethren, in the willow tribe, which, on our
plains and valleys, constitute real trees.
    The nature of the soil, the moist rocks, and shady glens of the
parish are highly favourable to the growth of cryptogamic plants,
particularly of ferns, which, in the form and structure and colour
of the foliage, far exceed the flowering plants. Not fewer than
four species of club-moss have been found: the common club-
moss (Lycopodium clavatuv;), of which the excessively minute
dust, like seeds, being highly inflammable, are used to produce ar-
tificial lightning on the stage ; the fir club-moss (L. Selago), and
lesser alpine club-moss (L.seloqinoides), and upon the higher
mountains the savin-leaved club-moss (L. alpinum). We must
be permitted to point particular attention to the noble fern, the
Osmund royal (Osmunda regales), which abounds among moist
copsewood in several situations in the parish, and especially near
the road, from. Ineland to Toward Chapel, and in the Bull wood,
near Dunooin ; the moon-fern (Botrychium lunaria) : this is found
on dry grassy banks above Mr Malcolm's residence, near Dunoon;
the pale mountain and the tbree-branched polypody (Polypodium
Phegopteris and calcareum), in woods near Dunoon; the close-leav.-
ed, prickly sbield-fern, and heath shield fern (A&pidium lobatum and
Oreopteris) ; the brittle bladder fern (Cistopteris fraqilis) the
green and the wall rue spleen-wort (Asplenium viride and Ruta-mu-
raria) ; the hart's tongue (Scolopendriu vulgare), Which grows
among the woods at Ardentinny; the curled rock-brake (Crypto-
gramma crispa) ; whilst among the smallest, but certainly the most
delicately beautiful of the fern tribe, are the Tonbridge and the
Scottish filmy ferns (HymenophyUum Tunbridgense and Wilsoni).
The latter is a recent discovery in Britain, and was first detected in
Scotland, growing in the same spot with the former species in the
beautiful grounds of Professor Buchanan at Ardfillan, in the Bull.
wood. It has since been found, in great abundance, in this and other
parishes, but nowhere, perba 's, growing more I uxuriantly than in the
singular rents and chasms of Benmore, the picturesque property
of George R. Wilsone Esq. *
We cannot dismiss the subject of the vegetation of the parish, with-

<FOOTNOTE>Obligingly communicated to Dr Mackay by Sir William J. Hooker.


