
     Statistical Account

ministers for the time being, on the other; therefore, the sti-
pend, in stead of being augmented since the said year 1653,
is actually diminished and made worse than it was in 1614,

<FOOTNOTE>

"etc Dated and done in the Castle of St Andrew's, at 11 hours forenoon, or
"thereabout, in the year of the incarnation of the Lord, Jaiv, and forty
"five, upon Tuesday the twentie one day of July, being the third indiction
"of the popedom of our most serene father and Lord in Christ, Paul the
"third, by the providence of God, the eleventh year.  Venerable and cir-
"cumspect men being present there, viz. Sir James Strachertsyne, etc.
"(Signed,) JOANNES MAIR, Propositus Coollegu Sancti Salvatoris, manu proria."
   The preceding experts were taken from a double or copy of said founda-
tion, which appears to have been a long verbose deed; a full copy of which
could not be easily contained in less than fifty pages.
   The following excerpt was taken from the register of assignations for the
ministers stipends through Scotland, for the year 1574, which register was
given in compliment by Bishop Keith to the Advocates library in Edinburgh,
on 18th August 1746.
   "Mary kirk in Stronsay, Peter kirk, St Nicholas Kirk
"Minister, his stipend to be paid as follows, viz.  The
"thred of the feuarie of Orkney, extending to ane chalder nine bolls three
"parts bear, and eleven pounds eleven shillings one penny, and two parts
"silver, to be paid by the parishioners and tacksmen of St Nicholas, parochine
"of Stronsay and North Stronsay."
     Ethay and Fairay.
   "Mr James Maxwell reader of thir kirks, his stipend twenty pounds, to
"be paid furth of the thred of his own benefice, the twa chaplainries St Ca-
"tharine's, prebendary and vicarage of Stronsay, with the vicar's manse and
"gleib."
   By an act of Platt or provision of stipends, for the kirks of Orkney in the
year 1614, which proceeding on, and referring to a contract of Excambion, be-
twixt King James the VI on the one part, and Bishop James Law, and the
chapter of the cathedral kirk of Orkney, on the other part, "The provi-
"sions and assignations for the ministers in the bishoprick, are said to have
"left unexhausted not meikle more than two hundred pounds of the haill
"quantity of the thirds assumed, alloting to those particular kirks, within the
"bishoprick after specified, to wit.


