
     of Aberdeen.

of the cruive-fishing are allowed to regulate their cruives
as they please, on paying annually a stipulated indemnity
to the upper heritors, and this agreement is to last for nine-
teen years.  Formerly the cruives would have let through
some small fishes, but now they will confine a trout of 2 lb.
weight.  Formerly they were left open from six o'clock
on Saturday night till about sun-rising on Monday morn-
ing; but now they are kept constantly shut.-The proprie-
tors of the cruive-fishing employ an overseer, who is allow-
ed a suitable salary, and has under him, constantly three
men, and occasionally several more.  Their property is
divided into eight shares, which may be separately bought
or fold, or let.  One person may hold one or more of these
shares.  Some of them are at present let for L. 40 Sterling
annually.  Estimating each share at this rate, the annual
rent of the whole fishing will amount to L. 320 Sterling.
Most of the fish are caught, not in the cruives, but with nets
below the cruive-dikes.  The proprietors have a house at
the cruives, in which they cure and keep their salmon.
They meet once every month during the fishing-season, to
examine their books, to give directions to their servants,
and to regulate the other business of the fishing.
   Nearly opposite to the house of Seaton, the Nether Don
fishing commences.  It includes both sides of the river, and
extends to the sea, comprehending a small part of the coast
on each side of the river.  The tide flows up the river
nearly as far as this fishing extends.  Some parts of the
river can therefore be fished only in certain states of the
tide.  During several hours about the time of low-water,
while some are fishing in the river, others are fishing in the
sea.  The boats and nets with which they fish upon the
sea-coast are larger, and require more men to work them,
than those which are used on the river.  This fishing is di-
vided into two distinct properties, the one called the King's

     VOL. XIX. E e


