
616                         EDINBURGHSHIRE.

its atmospbere less mild than that of some of the surrounding val-
leys; yet these circumstances, on the other hand, by promoting a
free circulation of air; contribute to its general salubrity.
   Snow seldom lies for any length of time, from the proximity of
the sea; and the winter temperature, like that of most parts of
Scotland, is fully milder than that of England, while its summer
is somewhat less. The mean annual temperature of Edin-
burgh is 3ø less than that of London.
   Geology.-The site of the city of Edinburgh and of its environs
forms part of the group of strata connected with the coal measures
of Mid-Lothian; bounded also by the coal fields of Fifeshire on
the north; and all included under the geological denomination of
carboniferous sandstone. This deposit is of great thickness, its
ascertained depth in the centre of the coal field being 3000 feet.
It varies, however, both in its depth and in the nature of its stra-
tification; the coal seams which are plentifully found to the south
of Gilmerton and Joppa, disappear north of this line, and are not
indicated in any quantity till we reach the opposite shore of the
Frith of Forth, where the Fifeshire coal pits commence.
   The strata around Edinburgh consist of alternate layers of a
reddish and yellowish sandstone and sandstone conglomerate, in-
termixed with shale, and with thin beds of an impure or arenace-
ous limestone. Below the Mid-Lothian coal seams, a bed of
mountain limestone with marine fossil remains, forms the lowest
ascertained stratum; and is in depth about twenty-seven to thirty
feet. This arenaceous deposit, which seems to have been originally
formed in a hollow trough or basin, has subsequently been broken
up by repeated eruptions of igneous or trap rocks, and thus have
been formed the irregular surface, and the bills and crags which
impart such a picturesque appearance to the northern, metropolis.
These trap rocks consist of porphyries, greenstones, basalt, amyg-
daloid, and a mixture of several of these, forming a sort of con-
glomerate, which has been denominated wacke. The city is
built upon three ridges or elevations of these rocks; the Castle
Hill forming the ridge of the High Street, the Calton Hill slop-
ing downwards to the Canongate, and what formerly was Bunker's
Hill, now James' Square, extending along the whole of Princes
Street, George Street, and Queen Street, while Arthur's Seat
rean its proud crest as a bulwark on the south and east.
   The Castle Rock is an isolated mass of fine grained basaltic
greenstone, rising to the height of 443 feet above the sea level.

				4


