
			ARBROATH.                          93

St Abb's Head. When the tides are neap, the rock is scarcely
uncovered at low water. But at spring tides, when the ebb is great-
est, that part of the rock which is exposed to view at low water,
measures about 427 feet in length by 230 feet in breadth; and at
this state of the tide, its average height above the surface of the
sea may be stated at four feet. From the higher part of the rock
a reef extends, in a south-western direction, about 1000 feet. At
high water the rock is wholly covered, to the depth of from ten to
twelve feet. The light-house is of a circular form. The two first
courses of the masonry are sunk into the rock; and the stones of
all the courses are of dove-tailed work. The ground-course is 42
feet in diameter; and the building gradually diminishes, till, as it
rises to the top of the parapet wall of the light-room, it is only 13
feet in diameter. The total height of the masonry is 100 feet;
but, including the light-room, the height is 115 feet. From the
foundation, the edifice is solid to the height of 30 feet. Here is
the entry, to which there is an ascent by means of a rope-ladder
with wooden steps. At the door the walls are seven feet thick;
but gradually diminish, till, at the parapet wall of the light, the
thickness is only one foot. The light-room, which is 15 feet in
height by 12 in breadth, is of an octagonal form. The windows
have cast-iron frames, with plates of polished glass a quarter of an
inch thick. The light, which in clear weather is visible at sea at
the distance of eighteen miles, is from oil, with argand burners
placed in the focus of silver-plated reflectors, of the form of a pa-
rabolic curve, and of the diameter of two feet. The light revolves,
turning on its axis once in six minutes, in the course of which, a
bright and a dark-red light are alternately exhibited. Two large
bells attached to the light-house are tolled in foggy weather, by
means of the machinery which moves the lights. At Arbroath a
suit of buildings has been erected, where each light-keeper has
three apartments for the accommodation of his family. Three of
the light-keepers are always at the light-house, where they remain
six weeks at a time, after which they are a fortnight on shore with
their families. Connected with the apartments for their accom-
modation, a signal-tower has been erected, about fifty feet in height,
to communicate with the keepers at the rock. The total expense
of this magnificent and important erection was about L. 60,000.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The parishes of Arbroath and St Vigeans
were originally one; and both names seem to have been applied
indiscriminately. The disjunction appears to have taken place


