
690                       ARGYLESHIRE.

                          IV.--INDUSTRY.

   Agriculture.--The parish has not been so surveyed that the num-
ber of acres cultivated and uncultivated can be stated. Much,
however, remains waste that might be profitably improved for oc-
casional tillage or permanent pasture. There are several proper-
ties on which great improvements have been made, and conse-
quently the rate of rent per acre varies exceedingly. Generally
speaking, the rent may be considered to range from L.3 to L.5
for a cow, and from 2s. 4d. to 3s. 6d. for a sheep, for a year, ac-
cording to the quality of the soil and local circumstances.
   The close or furrow draining system is that which is ordinarily
pursued in reclaiming or improving the land. Drill husbandry is
usually practised, and leases are generally from year to year,
though there are several exceptions to this. The farm-buildings
are generally of an inferior description, and there is a great want
of enclosures, though much ha's been done in these respects also,
or is now being done by Alexander Campbell, Esq. of Achan-
daroch, N. Malcolm, Esq. of Poltalloch, Sir John Ordo, Bart.
Kilmory, William Campbell, Esq. of, Ederline, and Colonel
MacNiell of Acbnaba, on their respective properties.
  "The breed of cattle generally raised is the Argylshire or West
Highland, and of sheep, the black-faced. There is at Kilmory
a considerable * flock of South Down sheep, which do well on
the low grounds, and make excellent winter mutton. They are
much more hardy than the Leicesters, and make also a good cross
with the black-faced. An Agricultural and an Horticultural So-
ciety have been established here in connection with the parishes
of Kilmartin, Craignish, and North and South Knapdale. They
have been * very successful, and there has been considerable im-
provement in the cattle and sheep. That of horses is more ques-
tionable, and any, great improvement of them is out of the ques-
tion till we have, or will use, improved means of keeping them.
Some years ago I brought a large stallion ass, near 15 hands high,
from Malta, and have several good mules, which, do very well, and
some superior half-bred asses from him."
  While some progress is thus making, and some facilitiesfor im-
provement given, the want of capital is felt by many of the tenan-
try, and must be considered as the principal obstacle to improve-
ment in this probably in every other country. The Highland
farmer is not without enterprise, neither is he always indolent; but

                 <FOOTNOTE>Communication from Sir J. Orde.


