
               	         BANFF.                              57

   The whole value of heritable and moveable property which will
eventually be available for this charity is supposed not to fall
short of L.40,000.
   A Female Clothing Society has been for some years establish-
ed, which expends about L. 13 annually, (raised by subscription
among members and others,) in providing clothes and fuel to poor
persons. There are besides one or two annual distributions of
coals in the winter season, from bequests made by benevolent in-
dividuals.
   Provident Institutions.-The friendly societies which have had
thehr regulations sanctioned under the new act, are, Solomon's
Lodge of Gardeners, instituted in April 1778; Adam's Lodge of
Gardeners, and the Mason's Operative Lodge. These, with St
Andrew's Mason Lodge, are all the friendly societies (unless the
trades' incorporations, whose objects are similar, may be reckoned
such,*) existing in the parish. The Graystone Friendly Society
(established in 1792;) the Ploughman's (1801;) the Sailors'
(1813;) and some more of later birth, have been dissolved within
the last few years. Few of the members of them were inclined
to take the trouble of conforming to the new act,-as few (it is
suspected) averse to a present division of their funds. All these
institutions, however, have gradually been suffering decay. In
this, as in most other things, there is a fashion ; and here the
fashion has declined. Indeed, such societies are seldom entered
so much with prudential objects in view, as for purposes of amuse-
ment and good fellowship. It is remarked, too, that these associa-
tions were never conducted upon sound principles,-the allowances
being graduated, not according to a scientific calculation of the
average proportion between contributions and claims, but in the
ratio of the absolute number of contributors. The allowances
granted at present by any of these societies are inconsiderable.
   To the principle of friendly societies the objection has been
made, that they bear, in some respects, too near an alliance to a
game of chances; and that each person, trusting too much to the
benefit he himself may enjoy at the expense of others, is thereby
led to neglect sounder precautions against future necessity. From
this objection, it is added, savings banks, are free: here each man
gets just his own savings, and hence, as alleged, the superiority of
the savings banks over friendly societies. But though some, on

 <FOOTNOTE>At the present moment (June 1836,) the trades' incorporations are in the course
of being broken up, and the funds divided.


