
312                                 AYRSHIRE.

	About half a-mile below the village, is the morass mentioned in
the former report. It is 150 acres of peat resting on a spongy bot-
tom. Several oaks have been found imbedded in it. Two of a
considerable size are just now exposed, about 6 inches below the
surface, in crossing a ditch. They measure respectively 3 feet and
3 1/2 feet in diameter. Others were found nearer the village thirty
years ago.
	The soil along the river side is chiefly a deep loam. Upon the
hill sides, in the lower half of the parish, it is a wet clayey loam rest-
ing on sandstone, and terminating at the back of the ridge, in
a broad moss extending for miles into Ochiltree parish. The up-
per part of the parish is chiefly a light dry soil, with a few patches
of peat resting on the graywacke rock. The ordinary plants are
common grass and fog. There is some heath upon the high lands
to the south-east, but it is every year lessening in extent.
	The coal-pits have been many,--especially in low situations, where
till lately the coal was worked at less than 3 fathoms from the sur-
face. The pits at present in operation are two;--one, the Cam-
larg pit, about a mile from the village, is nearly 20 fathoms deep.
Two seams of coal are there worked together, the lower seam
3 feet deep, and the higher 22 inches. They are separated by
16 inches of a black soft stuff the colliers very appropriately deno-
minate dirt. Immediately above and below the coal, is freestone
mixed with coal. *
	The other pit is about five miles distant at the foot of the parish,
and is worked by a steam-engine. The following is an official re-
port of the depth, &c. of it: Blue clay, 66 feet; freestone, 70
feet; smithy coal, 3 feet; fire clay, 1 foot; hard fire-coal, 8 feet;
fire-clay, 4 feet; hard fire-coal, 4 feet; total, 156 feet.
	Zoology.--The wild animals are such as are the ordinary inha-
bitants of mountain districts, and which are carefully specified in
the game acts. Black game have been abundant for the last twenty

<FOOTNOTE> The manner of raising the coals frnm this pit deserves notice and imitation also,
where similar facilities are possessed. The pit is dug in the side of a hill,and has the
direction of a small stream turned to its mouth. It is divided into two square com-
partments, to which water-tight boxes, partly open above, are fitted, and upon which
the coal creels are placed. The full creels are raised by running a sufficient quantity
of water into the box at the top, upon which the empty creel is placed. The water
escapes from the box by a valve in the bottom of it. This valve is opened by an iron
peg fitted to it, striking against a stone at the bottom of the pit, and the water runs
off into a level or tunnel to the stream at the foot of the hill. The motion is regulated
by means of a lever pressed upon the wheel over which the rope passes. The appa-
ratus is the simplest and safest possible, is managed with the greatest ease, and has
worked most successfully.


