
                       PRESTONPANS.                        309

weeping. "Before they dismissed, they solemnly entered into a
new league and covenant, holding up their hands with such signs
of sincerity as moved all present."
   In this parish the name of Mr Davidson must ever be honoured
and precious. He was its generous benefactor. His patrimony which,
from the extent of his charities, must have been considerable, was
in a great measure devoted to promote the best interests of his pa-
rishioners. "At his own expense," as we read in the Life of
Andrew Melville, "he built a, church and a manse, a school-house
and a dwelling-house for the master. The school was erected for
teaching the three learned languages, Latin, Greek, and Hebrew."
It is greatly to be regretted that the present generation in Preston-
pans, equally with the last, have failed to discover the existence of
this, in many respects, illustrious seminary; and there is reason to
fear that, unless some fortunate concurrence of events shall dis-
pel the mystery which, for much more than a century, has brooded
over the fate of an institution by which the youth of our own day
would be so greatly blessed, their friends in the parish must
still continue those exertions by which they will most happily
imitate the noble example set before them, in the generous sacri-
fices of Mr Davidson. The funds assuredly which have disap-
peared would have been most serviceable in a parish where there
is a most dismal deficiency of education, and an equally deplora-
ble abundance of pauperism.
   Alexander Hume, the Grammarian.-The name of this eminent
scholar occurs in the first volume of the session records of the pa-
rish. He was principal master of Mr Davidson's school, having
been appointed to that office in 1606. In the valuable appendix
to Dr M'Crie's Life of Andrew Melville, are some interesting no-
tices of his engagements and high reputation. He appears to
have been a linguist of no mean order. He was the author of a
grammar entitled "Grammatica nova in usum juventutis Scotica
ad methodum revocata,"  which was appointed to be used in all
schools by the Privy-Council and Parliament. After being ten
years in Prestonpans, he was removed to Dunbar, where he taught
the grammar school.
   Antiquities-Village of Prestan.-In the traditionary tales of the
district, this ancient homestead of the monks has a prominent
place. Being on the great read of an earlier day, and at any easy
distance from Edinburgh, Preston was frequently honoured by
the presence of Royalt itself, and if it this instance the voice of


