
                                 ISLAND OF LEWIS.

                               PARISH OF STORNOWAY.

                        PRESBYTERY OF LEWIS, SYNOD OF GLENELG.

                           THE REV. JOHN CAMERON, MINISTER.


                          I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
                Name.-THE parish of Stornoway is situated in the island of
           Lewis, and derives its name from the point of land on which the
           town of Stornoway is situated.  Str•n, in the language of the coun-
           try, signifies a nose, Str•n,a bhaiqh, the nose of the bay. It
           appears that the ancient orthography of the word was Stronoway,
           from which, by the transposition of the letter r, comes the modern
           name of the town and parish. In Dean Monroe's account of Lewis,
           the name of the bay is written Steornoway; and in Martin's history
           of the Western Isles, it is called Sternbay and Stornbay.
                In the former Statistical Account, the ancient name of the pa-
           rish is said to have been Uy, which in the Danish language signi-
           fies an isthmus or neck of land.  Certain it is, that the only place
           of worship in the parish was built on an isthmus.  But, from time
           out of memory, the parish consisted of three districts, viz.  Storno-
           way, Gress, and Ui. In each district, there was a place of worship
           erected; and the ruined walls of two chapels are still remaining, one
           at Ui, the other at Gress. It was only within the last forty years,
           that the ancient place of worship in Stornoway was levelled, for the
           purpose of building a safer and more commodious church for the
           increasing population.
                The church of Stornoway was dedicated to St Lennan, that of
           Ui to St Collum, and that of Gress to St Aula.  In the district
           of Ui, the ruins of another chapel are visible; it was dedicated to
           St Cowstan. All these churches were sanctuaries in ancient times,
           within the walls of which all criminals were safe.-(Vide Martin's
           Account.)
                Extent.-The length of this parish from the water of Creid to
           north Tolsta, is fully 16 miles; its breadth from Tuimpan head,


