
50                         SHETLAND.

rochial school near the church, and a school on the General As-
sembly's scheme at Norwick. The branches taught at these schools
are, English, reading, writing, arithmetic, book-keeping, and navi-
gation. The-parocbial schoolmaster's salary is the maximum. The
school fees are about L.6 per annum: but the school being situ-
ated in a very populous district, a more efficient schoolmaster
would double that amount. The Assembly's schoolmaster has
L.25 Sterling of salary; and his school fees may vary from L.10
to L.12.
   There are no persons in the parish from six to fifteen years of
age, who cannot read a little. But there are still a few aged
people who cannot read.
   The north and mid parishes of this ministry are now well sup-
plied with schools, which are, within reach of the whole popula-
tion, and well attended, the Assembly's school especially, which is
full to overflowing, and is accounted by the people a great blessing.
Yet there is still a large part of the population in a most deplo-
rable state for the want of schools. The south-east, south, and
south-west parts of the island, with a population of at least 1200
souls, are at the distance of from four to six miles from the parish
school, separated from the mid-parish, where it is situated, by a
long dreary hill; and the people have no means for the education
of their children, unless when they can occasionally engage some
young man, during the winter quarter, who has been educated at
the parochial or Assembly's school, to undertake the charge.
   Two additional schools, one at the south-east, and another at
the south-west part of the parish, are greatly wanted, and loudly
called for.  The people about Uyea Sound, and Sandwick and
Muness, are, many of them, exceedingly anxious about the edu-
cation of their children. In that district, were a school established,
100 children could easily attend it; and surely in the present en-
lightened times, it is sad to think that so many young creatures
should be deprived of tbe means of instruction.
   Library.-In the year 1823, a parncbial library was established,
under the direction of the present incumbent. It is supported by
a subscription  1s. yearly, paid by each member; and as many

<FOOTNOTE>Since this was written, a school-house has been built in the proposed locality,
chiefly at the expense of the late William Mouat, Esq. of Garth, by whose lamented
death the cause of education in these islands has been deprived of one of its warmest
and most generous friends. A salary has been granted and a teacher appointed by
the Society for Propagating Christian Knowledge. The people on the west side of
the island are still lamentably destitute of the means of education for their children.


