
     Statistical Account

bound with game of all forts, and upon the return of every
shooting season, the keen and active sportsman frequents our
parish, to enjoy upon our hills and moors his favourite a-
musement*.

   Springs and Rivers, etc.-No spring or well in the parish
has acquired same from its medicinal virtue, yet some mi-
neral springs are to be found, and have been resorted to by
several of the inhabitants on account of scrofulous, gra-
vellish or stomachic complaints.  On Mount Ganiach there
is a well called St Corn's well, in honour, probably of the
celebrated saint of lcolumkil; but concerning this well
there is no tradition.  The parish abounds with fine springs

<UNREADABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

*In a country so hilly, rocky, and woody as this parish, there is such a
variety of the feathered tube, as senders it difficult to know the proper
names of them all.  Among the resident buds, may be reckoned eagles
or earns, (now rare), hawks of all kinds, gledes, owls of all kinds, moon-
sowl, blackcock, ptarmagan, partridge, heron, wild duck, teal, shell-
drake, magpie, raven, crow, jackdaw, the wood-pigeon, the fieldfare, sky-
lark, wood-lark, the bountain, goldfinch, the chassinch, the wren and
golden crested , the sparrow, redbreast, woodpeckers of the large
and lesser kinds, thrush, starling, snipe, ouzel, bat, tomtit, common and
green linnet, yellow hammer, blackbird, and the wader, a bud frequent-
ing running water, and many others.  The migratory birds are, the wood-
rock, sea-magpic, swallow, martin, bullfinch, cuckoo, wagtul, stone
chatter, find-lark, red-shank, land-rail, dotterel, king's-fisher, grey and
green plover, etc.  The bullfinch, wood-lark, golden-crested wren, and
some fay the sparrow, have only appeared within there 20 years.  In win-
ter the snow-birds resort in flocks to the cultivated parts of the parish,
and disappear as the year revolves, and the weather turns mild.-The
quadrupeds, besides domestic animals, are the red and roe deer.  These
abound in our plantations, where the hind calves, and brings up hit
young.  These are troublesome to the husbandmen.  Besides the com-
mon hare, we have the mountain-hale in winter, white as snow; also the
fox, badger, otter, pole-cat, martin, weasel and ermine.  The wolf,
when in Scotland, had visited our mountains; for, towards the west end
of the parish, there is a place in the Grampians, still known by the name
of the Wolf-Holm.

</UNREADABLE>


