
 92                       EDINBURGHSHIRE.

if some of these circles were dug up and examined.  The situa-
tion of this encampment, by whomsoever occupied, must have been
a place of considerable strength, and of great utility, commanding,
as it does, an extensive prospect on all sides, and consequently,
not liable to the danger of sudden surprise.
   Old Chapel.-In the memory of some now living, a part of a
Gothic arch, supposed to be the remains of a chapel, was stand-
ing at Long Dalmahoy.  A part of the ground in the immediate
neighbourhood is of so black and deep a mould, that it is consi-
dered as the site of the burying-ground attached to the same
chapel.
   Jougs.-This consists of an iron collar attached to a chain, the
extremity of which was fixed in the wall of a building in the centre
of the village.  This collar was, it is supposed, in feudal times,
put upon the necks of criminals, who were thus kept standing in a
pillory as a punishment for petty delinquencies.  It would not be
necessary in such cases, we presume, to attach to the prisoner any
label descriptive of his crime.  In a small country village the crime
and the cause, of punishment would in a very short time be suffi-
ciently public.  Possibly, however, for the benefit of the casual
passenger, the plan of the Highland laird might be sometimes
adopted, who adjudged an individual for stealing turnips to stand
at the church-door with a large turnip fixed to his button-hole.*
The jougs are now in the possession of James Craig, Esq. Lud-
gate Lodge, Ratho.
   Mansion Houses.-The chief of these are Hatton House, a fine
old baronial building, some of which is of very ancient date; Dal-
mahoy House, which was built about 130 years ago, but has sub-
sequently received additions by different occupants; Ratho House,
a very splendid building in the Grecian style, erected by the late
John Bonar, Esq.; Milburn Tower, built by the late Sir R. Lis-
ton; Bonnington House, built in 1622; Norton, now finished, the
property of Alexander Berwick, Esq.  Besides these, most of the
mansion houses of the different proprietors are tasteful and ele-
gant in their appearance.

                      III.-POPULATION.
   Ther are no means of ascertaining the populations of the parish
at any very remote period.

<FOOTNOTE>Since writing the above, we find that the jougs were originally attached to the
church, and were used in cases of ecclesiastical discipline.


