
			   BATHGATE.				155

after 6 fathoms of earth, freestone appears, succeeded by a seam of
coal 2 feet thick; freestone very bard and white lies between this
and the coal now wrought, which is 3 feet 10 inches thick, and
situated 12 fathoms from the surface.  11 fathoms deeper it has
been ascertained that another seam occurs, 2 feet 4 inches thick.
Four works have been recently given up.
   Zoology.-On the banks of Bathgate water, a small stream, which
draining the lands east and south of the town, flows past it, and runs
towards the north-west, till it joins the Barbauchlaw water, the otter
was a few years ago rather abundant.  Though its numbers have
been very much thinned, it is still occasionally seen and killed
there.  In the Barbauchlaw water, which is an affluent of the
Avon, trout are plentiful.  Salmon come up it to spawn in the end
of autumn, and return in spring.  The following birds are found
in the parish: *  Grasshopper warbler (Salicaria locustella).  Mr
Weir found a nest of this rare bird in a thick furze bush on the top
of Bathgate hills. "This," he states, "is, I believe, the only nest
of this bird which has as yet been discovered in Scotland." Sis-
kin or aberdevine (Carduelis spinus).  In 1834, a nest of the sis-
kin was discovered in this parish.  As the representations of na-
turalists respecting its habits differ, it way be important to state
that the nest was on a spruce fir in the middle of a strong hawthorn
hedge, and about 51/2 feet from the ground.  The birds fed on the
ripe seeds of the dandelion.  In winter small flocks of them are oc-
casionally seen on Bathgate hills, feeding on the seeds of the knap-
weed, Centaurea nigra.  The kingfisher (Alcedo ispida) is a re-
gular winter visitant of Bathgate water.  In severe seasons, it often
seeks its food almost under the wheel of a mill on the stream
although people are constantly passing and repassing.  The night-
jar or fern-owl (Cqprimulgus Europaus),-several of these curious
birds breed here every year.  White's minute and interesting ac-
count of their habits agrees, exactly with the observations made on
them here.  The crossbill (Loxin Europaea, Macgillivray,) has late-
ly been seen in considerable numbers.  Their food has been chieft
the seeds of the Starch, which they obtain by separating the scales
of the cones with their powerful bills.  The European dipper
(Cinclus aquaticus,) and the sandpiper (Tatanus hypoleucos) build

<FOOTNOTE>This account of the birds is abridged from a communication furnished to the wri-
ter by his friend, Mr Durham Weir, who has paid much attention to this department
of natural history, and who has procured within the parish specimens of nearly all the
birds mentioned.
          Montague states that this is extremely early in its singing.  It is so also in its
breeding.  On April 25, 1834, its first brood was found by Mr Weir to be ripe.


