
476                            LANARKSHIRE.

None of the poor are either allowed or known to beg, their month-
ly allowance being very liberal, and most of them get their house
rents paid. The amount arising to the poors' fund from church col-
lections was last year L. 13; and from legal assessments, L. 168.
The interest of L. 50 is applied to the education of children of the
poor.

			MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
	Till within these four or five years, it was a novel sight to see
a four-wheeled carriage of any kind pass through the village of
Stonehouse. But since the turnpike road from Ayr to Edinburgh
has been opened, the Edinburgh and Ayr coach passes every
day through the village; besides a coach from Strathaven to Glas-
gow by Stonehouse twice a-day; and another which starts every
morning from the Buck's-head Inn, Stonehouse, for Glasgow, and
returns the same day; and all of them generally are well employed.
There is also a regular carrier betwixt Stonehouse and Glasgow,
twice a week. A post-office has likewise been lately established
in the village, so that the inhabitants of the parish and village
of Stonehouse now enjoy many advantages which they formerly
were deprived of, by the peculiar situation of the place.
	In a moral and religious point of view, the inhabitants of the
village of Stonehouse (which contains a population of nearly 1600
souls) are, with a few exceptions, an industrious, sober, and reli-
gious people, nowise addicted to the many vices of the inhabitants
of villages of a similar population throughout the kingdom,--such as
excessive drinking, swearing, and fighting. Quarrelling and fight-
ing are seldom or ever heard of; and though there are three well
attended fairs held in the village yearly, yet many of these pass
over without the, slightest appearance of quarrel.
	The due observance of the Sabbath is likewise a characteristic
mark of the inhabitants of Stonehouse. The hallowing of the Sab-
bath day is here most scrupulously attended to, by all ranks of per-
sons, both in town and parish; and except in going to and from
church, you will hardly see a person on the street. All public,
houses are shut on Sabbath, unless to the traveller for refreshment.

	June 1836.


