
                         LIFF AND BENVIE.                 587

in like cases, divided the area of the church among themselves, in
proportion to their respective valued rents, and allotted certain
seats to particular farms and pendicles, from whence it happens,
that, in certain cases, more accommodation is allotted than there
are persons to occupy; while the claims of those who do not rent
land, or who reside on the estate of a proprietor who has a small
valued rent in comparison of his people, are rather overlooked.
The best method of obviating such inconvenience seems to be,
by placing a reasonable portion of the church seats under the
management of the kirk-session, so as to enable them tn provide
for any particular exigency. The sittings may be said to be all
free.
	The greater part of the manse is old. It is said to have been
built for a lady connected with the family of Gray, who died be-
fore it was completed. After remaining in an unfinished state
for several years, it was fitted up as a manse for Mr Playfair,
when, upon the demise of Mr Donaldson, minister of Liff, he was
admitted to the charge of the united parish, and removed his re-
sidence from Benvie to Liff.
	During the last twenty years, the manse has received various
repairs and additions,
	The office-houses were built in 1822, and are very substantial
and commodious,
	The present glebe was given in exchange for the glebes of
Benvie and Liff, and contains, including the garden, about ten
acres of dry, sharp land, producing fair crops of grain and other
farm produce. It might rent for about L.3 per acre.
	The stipend is eighteen chalders of barley and oatmeal, in equal
proportions. The allowance for communion elements is L.10.
The minister of Bonvie is superior of the Lady Well in Dundee.
	In the parish of Liff proper the number of Dissenting families
amounts to six; Episcopalian families, two; Roman Catholics,
none.
        Lockee Church.-About ten years ago, a large and, commodious
church or chapel, in connection with the Establishment, was erebt-
ed, which cost the sum of L.2000. It was opened for Divine ser
vice in February 1830, and, in the mouth of April 1832, the pre-
sent incumbent was ordained and admitted to the charge of the
quoad sacra parish. The church is seated for nearly 12OO. There
are 100 free sittings. The income of the minister arises wholly
from seat-rents, and six collections in the course of the year. At



