
         	    KIRKMABRECK.                           323

such as Orchis maculata, O. latifolia, Gymnadenia conopsea, Ha-
benaria bifolia, H. viridis.
	The alpine plants, which are by far the most numerous, em-
brace several species of the genera Sedum and Saxifraga, parti-
cularly Saxifraga oppositifolia; all the native heaths--Calluna
vulgaris, Erica Tetralix, E. ciliaris, as well as Vaccinium Oxy-
coccos.
	There is a very great variety of the class Cryptogatmia, mosses,
lichens, and particularly ferns, growing in richest luxuriance on the
mountainous districts of this parish, and some even of the rarer
kinds. Behind the manse there are beautiful specilens of Poly-
podium vulgare, P. Phegopteris, Scolopendrium vulgare. And on
the old church, and wall round the old church, there are, Asple-
nium Ruta-muraria, A. Adiantunt-nigrum.
	Forests or Plantations.--There are considerable forests of na-
tural wood in this parish, especially upon the banks of Kirkdale
and Cassencarrie. These forests extend for several miles, and
are principaly composed of oak and ash, and are cut down at the
end of every twenty-five or thirty years. At Cassencarrie there
is a row of fine old sycamores; and, at the south end of the house,
there is a cedar of Lebanon of a large size. There are a few fine
old oak trees at Kirkbride; but these, although of a large size, are
small when compared with some that have been found in the Cree.
Mr M'Culloch of Barholm raised one from the bed of the river,
a few years ago, which measured about 5 feet in diameter, and
about 50 feet in length, and which he sold to Mr Young husband
of Whitehaven, for shipbuilding, at L.25. It is supposed that
there are some even larger than this in the river; but, from the
difficulty of raising them, they have hitherto been left undisturbed.
At what period these immense trees had grown, or when they
were swept into the, river, cannot now be known. It must have
been, however, at some very remote period. And it is difficult to
account for their size, seeing there is now nothing approaching
their dimensions growing in the neighbourhood.

                        II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Land-owners.--There are twelve heritors or proprietors of
land in the parish. The principal are, Miss Hannay of
Mochrum and Kirkdale; John M'Culloch, Esq. of Barholm; Sir
John W. P. Muir M'Kenzie, Bart. of Delvine; Colonel M'Dowal
of Logan; David Anderson, Esq. of St Germains; Thomas,
Hughan, Esq. of Airds; Henry M'Culloch, Esq. of Glenquicken,


