
			KINNETTLES.                        231

ed; many new fences have been erected, and the whole system of
enclosing, so far as it goes, has been very much improved. Within
these twenty years, the cottages and village-houses, many of which
have a but and a ben, have in general been made comfortable to their
inhabitants, and let at rents ranging from L.1, 5s. to L.2, 10s. per
house and garden. Within the same period the farm-houses, with
the offices thereto attached, have been generally put in excellent
order, and are found to afford ample and commodious accommodation.
Forty years ago, personal services were exacted and performed in
the parish. Occupiers of a house and garden, or of a house and
garden with one or two acres of land, performed some days work
occasionally, as the proprietor might happen to require them in the
course of the year. Such tenants as possessed ground sufficient to
enable them to keep a horse, besides the above services, were bound
to perform two horseback carriages in the course of the year, as
far as Dundee, which is distant about twelve miles, or to a similar
distance. Greater tenants were bound to convey a certain number
of bolls of coals from Dundee to the proprietors' houses, which re-
quired two or three days' work of their men, horses, and carts.
They were likewise bound to give a day's work of all their reapers,
commonly called a bonage, for cutting down the proprietor's corns.
Besides, they were bound to give annually so many spindles of yarn,
so many poultry, called kain, and were restricted to particular meal-
mills, where they were obliged to pay heavy multures, and to per-
form mill services. From these rigorous remains of feudal slavery,
the inhabitants of the parish are now happily set at liberty.--About
twenty years ago, females were chiefly employed in working the
spinning-wheel: but this useful and congenial employment has
now been completely stopped. On the introduction, however, of
the spinning-mill, which banished from the parish at least 250
spinning-wheels, females betook themselves, some to the easier
parts of agriculture, some to the yarn-mill, some to the spinning-
mill, some to sewing and knitting, and some, especially the aged,
to the filling of pirns, and not a few to the loom: and now they
are better fed,and better clothed than they were in the days of
the spinning-wheel.
	Improvements recommended.--It would certainly be a great im-
provement to plough every field, as it comes periodically into a
state of fallow or green crop, with a trench-plough, which, by pe-
netrating the subsoil, would bring up a fresh mould that would


