
                        HAWICK.                                387

   From Sir James Douglas of Drumlanrig, a  lineal descendant
of the above-mentioned knight, the town of Hawick received its
present charter.  This was granted in 1537, and confirmed by
Queen Mary in 1545.  It appears from the charter, which is
rather a curious document, though too voluminous to be transcribed,
that the town had existed as a free burgh of barony from an early
date; that the ancient rights had, however, been destroyed amid
the turmoils  of the border wars ; and that, to prevent the evils
likely to ensue from the loss of such documents, the new charter
was granted, confirming to the town the lands which they had
formerly enjoyed, authorizing the burgesses to elect bailies and
officers for the government of the burgb, and investing the ma-
gistrates with the power of receiving resignations of lands, or
granting seisin of the same, according to agreement of  parties.
   After the granting of this charter, the barony of Hawick still
remained for a considerable time in possession of the same family.
For in 1639 the charter of James I. already quoted, was confirm-
ed by the Privy-Council of Scotland, in favour of Sir William
Douglas of Drumlanrig, who, besides inheriting the estates of his
ancestors, was raised to the dignity of the peerage, being created
Earl of Queensberry, Viscount of Drumlanrig, and Lord Douglas
of Hawick and Tibbers.
   At a later period the barony of Hawick descended to the barons
of Buccleuch, who seem to have exercised a seignorial authority
over their feudatories till 1747, when hereditary jurisdictions being
abolished by act of Parliament, the Duke of Buccleuch, as ap-
pears from the manuscript of the original return, received L. 400
in compensation for the regality.
   Though holding a less conspicuous place than other towns in
the district, Hawick has not been altogether undistinguished in
the annals of border warfare.  According to Harding, it was burnt
down in 1418 by Sir Robert Umfranville, Vice-Admiral of England,
and Governor of Berwick.  It is likewise believed to have suffered
severely in 1544, when, along with other districts, the whole Of

<FOOTNOTE>seis sendis grytinge ; Wit ye that we have grauntit, and be this presentis  lettre
grauntis, a speciall confirmatiune, in the most forme, tie oure traiete and well be-
lofit cosyng, Sir William Douglas of Drumlangrig. of all the landis that be is possessit
and chartrit of within the kyngdome of Scotlande, that is for to say, the landis of
Drumlangrig, of Hawyke, and of Selkirke, the whilkis cbartis and posseasiouns be this
lettre we conferme, and will for the mare sekuries this oure confirmatiune be for-
mabilli efter the fourme of oure chaunssellure and the tenor of his chartris selit with
oure grete sele in tyme to come; In witness of the Whilkis this presentis lettre we
wrote with oure propre hande, under the signet usit in selying of oure lettres,as  now
at Croidoune the last daie of November the yer of oure  Lorde 1412."


