
     Statistical Account

   Churches, etc.-The weft church and tower were, it is said,
erected in the time of Alexander III, or at least not later than
the year 1494, when probably James V. caused it to be built,
for the accommodation some Franciscan Friars, whom he
had brought into this country, and settled in a convent, almost
contiguous to this church.  It has no date upon it, and
though of very beautiful architecture, it is now so much
under ground, and so low roofed, that no reparation can ever
render it a comfortable place of worship.  Indeed it has been
very little employed for that purpose since the reformation,
unless during the few years that Mr. Ebenezer Erskine preach-
ed in it, when the people of Sterling chose to have a third
minister.  The east church, the present place of worship, was
erected by Cardinal Beaton, and is a more splendid and mag-
nificent fabric, but is very little accommodated to the purposes
of Presbyterian worship.  It would need to be almost totally
altered and repaired, to render it either elegant or convenient.
The absurd pretence of its area being private property, held
on no better security, than the gift or conveyance of the kirk-
session, (some of the possessors indeed found upon grants from the
town-council, for some trifling consideration) is the great hin-
drance to this most necessary reparation.  The area of the
churches ought never to be the property of any but the com-
munity at large.  Common sense, as well as religion, dic-
tates that the poor should have an opportunity of hearing the
gospel as well as the rich.

   Ecclesiastical History.-The charge of Stirling was made
collegiate in the year 1651.  Previous to that period, we find
a Mr. Robert Montgomery, a Mr. Patrick Simpson, and a Mr.
Henry Guthrie ministers of Stirling.  Montgomery was de-
posed by the assembly, for a simoniacal compact with the Duke
of Lennox, about the bishoprick of Glasgow.  Mr. Henry
Guthrie was afterwards bishop of Dunkeld, and wrote "Me-


