
98                   LINLITHGOWSHIRE.

so high a character for integrity and wisdom as to have exercised
immense influence over the destinies of his country, whose welfare
he had deeply at heart; and having acquired an ample fortune,
with which he purchased the extensive properties of Barnbougle,
Dalmeny, Ochiltree, Carrington, &c., he died on the 27th Sep-
tember 1679, and was interred in a leaden coffin in the cemetery
built by him, to the north front of the church of Dalmeny. The
plate on the mouth of the catacomb in which his remains are de-
posited, bears this inscription: "Hac in capsula in spe resurrec-
tionis consignatur corpus Domini Archibaldi Primrose de Carring-
ton militis baronetti sub augustissimo monarcha Carlo I Se-
crete Concilii clerici, a resturato Carlo 2 Regni ab Archivis,
deinceps Justitiani Generalis facto functi viij kalend Decembris
aetatis 63 anno domini 1679."
   The present Earl, to whose hereditary possessions have been
added the estates of Livingstone and Rosebery, in West and Mid
Lothian, was born at Barnbougle, 14th October 1783, and has two
sons and three daughters, the eldest of whom, Lord Dalmeny, is
M. P. for the Stirling burghs. His Lordship is Lord Lieutenant
of the county of Linlithgow.
   Family of Dundas of Dundas.-The family of Dundas, who
hold the, portion of the remainder of the parish proper, a large
and valuable demesne surrounding the elegant mansion, built by
the present proprietor in conjunction with the old baronial castle,
is by far the most ancient now extant of any in the parish.
Huttred, the first of this remote ancestry, is said, on the authority
of a charter from King David 1. to the Abbey of Melrose, to have
been a son of Gospatrick, grandfather of Gospatrick, first Earl
of Dunbar and March. This supposition is confirmed by the cir-
cumstance of Helias, the son of Huttred, obtaining a charter of the
lands of Dundas from his uncle, Waldevus, son of the first Gos-
patrick. This charter, which is still in possession of the family,
is one of the oldest original, private writs in Scotland, and is in the
fallowing words: "Waldivus filius Gospatricii omnibus probis ho-
minibus tam futuris quam presentibus, salutem. Sciatis me de-
dissie et conicessisse et hac carta  mea confirmasse Helio fillio Hut-
tredi. Dundas pro servitio dimidii militis, illum et haeredes suos
tenendum, de me et haeredibus meis, in feudo et haereditate in mo-
vis, in aquis, in stagnis, in molendinis in pratis, in pasturis, cum
omnibus rectis et divisis et pertinentiis, concedo itaque quia volo et
precipio at iste predictus Helias istam terram habeat et teneat tam


