
			ON THE COUNTY OF DUMFRIES.           569

narkshire, with nearly twice the population, containing only 945
square miles. Ayrshire far exceeds Dumfries-shire, having 1600
square miles, and about twice the population; but this county pos-
sesses nearly seven times as much cultivated land as the county of
Peebles, and eighteen times as much as that of Selkirk. It has
more sheep walks than these two counties put together, and near-
ly four times their united population. Yet some individual pa-
rishes in the Highlands are nearly as large as the whole of Dum-
fries-shire! This most inconvenient arrangement of parishes and
counties, may have been less grossly unsuitable, when the land
rents and population were very different from what they now are;
but such a comparison leads to the conclusion, that a new division
of counties and of parishes would be a most important national
measure, with a view to future improvements.
   5. Manufactures have never been very extensive in this county,
and for some time they have dwindled away very much. Com-
merce has improved by the use of steam-boats, which now convey
live-stock to England, along with goods and passengers. The roads
have been wholly made within the memory of old persons, and in
the lines of the mail-coaches they are now excellent; they are also
much improved in the common parish lines, with a few exceptions.
No canal has yet been made, nor any railway, though a survey has
been commenced in order to connect Glasgow and Edinburgh with
Carlisle. Dumfries-shire, being a border county, could never be
improved before the union with England; but that great object
was promoted very much by the Scottish act 1633, allowing teinds
or tithes to be valued once for all, and thus removing an obstruc-
tion to improvement, which in barren soils would otherwise have been
insuperable. The suppression of the civil wars, and the repeal of
the jurisdiction act made way for improvement; and the church and
school establishment carried the principles of religion and mora-
lity with useful knowledge over the land. The good effects of pa-
triotic Associations had also considerable influence; and since the
former series of statistical reports, between forty and fifty years
ago, down to the late stagnation of demand and prices for
land produce, the course of improvement in Dumfries-shire has
been remarkably great and beneficial. The produce of the soil
has far more than equalled the advances in population; and in
the towns and villages, but still more in the roads and bridges, the
farm-houses and offices, the fences and culture of the lands, the
improvement of the live-stock, the cottages, the churches and
   DUMFRIES.                     O O


