
976                          PERTHSHIRE.

lowed to retain what he had collected of the bishop's rents, and
he got the churches of Alyth and Cargill, on paying a small trifle
yearly to the bishop.  After the bishop had obtained peace with
Stewart and the clans, he set about doing good works.

   The revenue of the bishops of Dunkeld was considerable.
During the reign of James II., Bishop Lauder got the church
lands, south of Forth, erected into the barony of Aberlady; and
on the north, into the barony of Dunkeld. The bishops had
four palaces; one in Edinburgh, Pertb, Cluny, and Dunkeld,
Bishop Brown could ride from the Dunkeld palace to the palace
of Cluny on his own ground, a distance of seven miles, by four
different routes,--by Cairdney, the Litter, Stenton, and Caputh.
The different parishes which were subject to the jurisdiction of
the commissariat court of Dunkeld are given by Keith, p. 186,
in his Catalogue of the Scotch Bishops.

   The cathedral, which had been erected with so much taste and
ability, became a noble ruin in 1560, and stands to this day a
striking picture of the mutability of human opinions.  On the
12th of August that year, an authority, in the handwriting of Lord
James Stewart,--judging from his signature,--and subscribed by
him, Argyle, and Ruthven, directed the lairds of Airntully and Kin-
vaid "to pass incontinent to the kyrk of Dunkeld, and tak doun
the haill images thereof, and bring furth to the kirk-zayrd and
burn tham oppinly. And siclyk cast down the altaris, and purge
the kyrk of all kinds of monuments of idolatyre. And this ye faill
not to do, as ye will do us singular empleseur; and so committis
to the protection of God. Fail not, but ze tak guid heyd, that
neither the dasks, windocks, nor durris be ony ways hurt or broken
--eyther glassin wark or iron wark." It would have been well
bad this order been literally obeyed, but the demolition was un-
fortunately carried on with a disposition of mind and temper more
worthy of reprobation than applause. The cathedral and the choir
were completely sacked. The windows were smashed, and the
doors torn from their hinges. For the credit of the mob, it does
not appear from the walls that fire had ever been applied as one
of their engines of destruction. Tradition affirms that what these
lairds had left undestroyed was demolished by the Laird of Caird-
ney, among-whose family papers the original order for the de-
struction is to be found. This laird unroofed the cathedrals al-
though one of his ancestors had honourably presided in it as bishops.


