
				LINTON.

			V.-PAROCHIAL ECONomy.
	Markets.-From time immemorial sheep markets have been held
    at Linton, and of late one market is held on the last Tuesday of June.
    The sheep produced are principally one year old or hogs, as they are
    called, and come from all the surrounding counties.* They were
    brought in former times to be sent to the Highlands; but of late,
    for the most part, they are sent to Fife, Perth, Angus-shire, Lam-
    mermuir, and the English fairs. Earl Wemyss, as superior, draws
    a custom of 1s. 1d. per score at this market. Of late years the
    store-masters have established a market here on the Friday before
    the first Monday of April and on the Friday before the 25th of
    September, chiefly for the disposal of stock and hiring servants,-
    which promises to be a great convenience to the district. In the
    month of August a show of stock is held here, and the breeds pro-
    duced are allowed to be creditable to the district. In the winter
    months a ploughing match is held, and four prizes are given to the
    best workmen, which is found to be attended with good effects in
    exciting emulation, both in regard to their particular occupation,
    and in keeping their horses in good plight, as well as their various
    utensils and furniture.
	Villages.-Linton is situated nearly in the centre of the parish.
    It consists of 90 houses, and contains 395 inhabitants,-160
    males, and 235 females. It is irregularly built, and, from several
    of the houses having their gables to the street, has some appear-
    ance of antiquity. One of the houses of this description tradition
    states to have been contemporary with Drochil Castle 1578, or as
    it is written, Droich holes ire ancient deeds. This house, now be-
    longing to Sir John Hay, it is understood, was built by the same
    tradesmen who were employed about the castle, and who, being
    allowed Saturday to themselves, occupied their time in building
    this house, which has been inhabited ever since; whilst the massy
    stately fortress of Regent Morton was never either inhabited or
    finished. A medical gentleman of much experience, and re-
    sident here for some years, authorizes me to state, "That
    he has found the village to be peculiarly healthy, not having
    observed for several years any thing almost in the shape of dis-
    ease, excepting influenza and scarlatina. This healthy state

    <FOOTNOTE>For some years, one market has been held on the last Tuesdy of June, where
    the whole business of the season is settled. The Highlands now being fully stocked,
    the sheep are sent as above-stated. To understand the statement in regard to our
    markets, it is necessary to observe, that formerly there were four markets: two in
    the last week of June and first week of July, and two in the second and third weeks
    of July in succession.

    PEEBLES.                            L


