
     of Kinnettles.

own hands, the land-rent of the parish may be about L. 1600
Sterling.  The parish supplies itself with provisions.  Be-
sides what is sufficient for that purpose, a considerable quan-
tity of oat-meal is sent to the neighbouring towns; and
perhaps 9/20 of our barley is conveyed partly to the towns
in the county, and partly to others at a greater distance, to
be manufactured there.  The attention of our farmers has
never been turned to the raising of hemp.  We know not
what it is in this country to turn land into grass, without
sowing it with grass-feeds.  All our hay-grass, and pasture
on land fit for tillage, are artificial grasses.  We have some
pasture (about 120 acres) on mire and moss ground, which
is natural grass; such lands having not, as yet, been
brought under culture.  There are about 20 acres of moor,
and 12 or 16 of plantations.  The grass-seeds sown here
are red and white clover, about 19 or 20 lb. to the acre,
2-3ds red, and 1-3d white.  We add 6 or 8 pecks of rye-
grass seed, which has frequently a mixture of rib-grass or
plantane.  Commonly this artificial grass is cut the two
first years for hay, and house-feeding for cows and horses in
summer.  I attempted once to introduce the tall yellow
clover, and commissioned a quantity of the seed of that
grass, as being of a less dangerous quality than the red clo-
ver.  I was disappointed, having got only a dwarf, grovel-
ling, unprofitable kind, instead of that which I commis-
sioned.  I never attempted to introduce it again, nor has it
as yet found its way into the parish*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Our wheat, in general, is sown from the end of September to the 20th
of October.  We sow oats as soon as the ground is sufficiently dry for re-
ceiving it.  Sometimes land is fit for seed in February, as in 1779; at o-
ther times, not till the middle of April.  The desirable time for our soil,
in general, is to begin about the 10th or 15th of March.  On dry land,
in good condition, with a good season, there will be a luxuriant crop,


