
276                         ARGYLESHIRE.

Lochgilphead in August last, for the benefit of that village and
country adjacent.  Deposits to the amount of several hundred
pounds have already been made, hut it is much to be regretted
that those for whom the bank was intended, should be so tardy in
availing themselves of its provisions and advantages.

                MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   Since 1794, the date of the last Statistical Account, the value
of lands has increased very much in this parish, owing principally
to the high price that is obtained for black-cattle, sheep, and wool.
The rental in 1972, was L. 1003 Sterling; in 1796, it was L.2335
Sterling; in 1840, it was considerably above L.4000 Sterling.
The lands have been much improved during that period by drain-
ing, enclosing and clearing away brushwood ; but a great deal of
land still remains in a state of nature, which is capable of great
improvement, and on which capital might be profitably laid out.
   The non-residence of heritors is a great bar to the improve-
ment of this parish ; of eleven there are at present only three re-
sident heritors.
   It would be a great improvement, and an incalculable advantage
to the people, to have the church at Inverneill removed to Ardris-
saig, and that section of the parish erected into a separate parish,
with a suitable endowment; or, if this cannot be speedily ob-
tained, to have it erected into a mission station, and placed
under the superintendence of an ordained missionary.  The
erection of the district of Knap, and the portion of the parish
of North Knapdale there into contiguous, into a parish, with
the suitable machinery, would also be a most desirable object.  It
is much to be regretted that the lower orders enjoy the comforts
of life in so scanty a measure.  Pauperism is daily increasing.
This may be ascribed in a greatly degree to early and imprudent
marriages.  Such marriages are greatly encouraged by the prac-
tice of giving a house, and the planting of a couple of barrels of
potatoes, free of any pecuniary rent, but exacting services from
the cottar,every day, and at any season of the year when it may
be required.  The system of subsetting land is not yet discon-
tinued.

   Drawn up 1840.


