
			CUMBRAY.                             71

the island are very considerable. The brown, or rotten whin, as
it is called, and which may be said to from the base of most of
the hills, is full of seams, and very hard, when broken down,
makes good stuff for roads. The hard blue whin has fewer
seams, but is more durable, and is frequently used in building.
These are frequently intersected with veins of quartz, and of va-
rious other substances. The freestone, which is in great plenty,
is of various kinds: the common white or sandstone is of the best
quality for building, and a reddish brown sandstones, of fine grain,
hard and durable, makes excellent pavements; of the latter,
there is a softer kind, which, though it becomes harder when ex-
posed to the air, is less durable, and is, therefore, not so much
used. The beds of freestone along the coast are frequently
found thickly studded with small pieces of quartz, like pebbles,
forming fine specimens of what is called plumb-puddingstone.
These beds, or strata of rocks, commonly run from north-west to
south-east; their depth or thickness varies from nine to twelve
feet, and their inclination from three to seven inches, per foot. They
are often intersected with veins of whin, which run in all direc-
tions, and which frequently rise considerably above the set surface,
assuming the appearance of dikes. The most remarkablek of these
are two on the east side, of tbe island, running nearly parallel, and
from five to six hundred yards distant from each other. Their di-
rection is from north-west, where they spring from the hill, to the
south-east, where they disappear in the sea. The one to the north-
east measures upwards of 40 feet in height, nearly 100 in length,
and in mean thickness from 10 to 12 feet. The one to the south-
west is upwards of 200 feet in length, from 12 to 15 in thick-
ness, and from 70 to 80 feet in height where it joins the hill, but
droops considerably towards the sea; and, when viewed in a cer-
tain direction, exhibits the distant resemblance of a lion couching,--
hence it is sometimes called the Lion. These dikes are compos-
ed of blue whin, with joints and seams like basalt, but not in
columns, and must have been originally produced by some dread-
ful concussion in nature. The same dikes appear again in the op-
posite side of the channel, in the parishes of Kilbride and of
Stevenston, and run through the whole of Ayrshire and of Gallo-
way, elevating and generally improving the strata of coal and of
freestone on the west side. There is also plenty of limestone found
in the island, which might be wrought to great advantage, were it


