
           		   BERVIE.                                 19

As far as is known, all boys and girls betwixt six and fifteen years
of age, and all persons upwards of fifteen, are learning to read or can
read, and a great proportion of them can write.
	The people in this parish would, no doubt, be more alive to the
benefits of education afforded at the parish school, were an endow-
ment to be procured for an assistant, so as to divide the labours
between two teachers, the one to take charge of the elementary,
and the other the more advanced classes. In such a place as the
parish of Bervie, the extension of the school in this way would,
unquestionably, be followed by most beneficial results; parents'
prejudices would be removed; the teachers, by a full attendance
of scholars, would be more encouraged to prosecute their arduous
labours, and the interests of education, in every department of use-
ful and religious knowledge, would prosper.
	Charitable Institutions.--A Friendly Society was instituted here
in 1799, for the benefit of widows and sick members. It has been
productive of much good to the parish, by promoting industry, by
supplying the wants of its members under sickness and old age,
and by affording a small yearly aliment to widows. The number
of persons belonging to this society is at present 110. The funds
are under the management of a committee of members who meet
quarterly. There is an annual meeting of the whole members.
The rate of entry-money varies according to age, from 5s., 7s. 6d.
1Os., 15s. to 17s. 6d. The yearly rate is 4s. Id. The pre-
sent yearly allowance to widows is L.1, 4s.; to superannuated
members, L.1, 7s.; sick members receive weekly, 2s. 6d.  The
funds of this institution have been most judiciously managed; and,
although now cnnriderably diminished by the increase of widows,
&c. still amount to L.461, 14s. Id.
	In consequence of the unfortunate loss of a boat's crew belong-
ing to Gourdon in January 1815, five widows and thirteen children
were left in the most destitute state. A sum of L.240 was raised
by subscription in different parishes for their relief. It was placed
under the management of persons belonging to Bervie principally,
who became responsible to the public for its proper appropriation.
A committee was formed, and the money placed in a fund, to be
managed to the greatest advantage; and, by a well-regulated dis-
tribution, the widows on this fund were kept comfortable till their
families grew up. Those of them who survive are at present in
independence, and there is a balance in the hands of the treasurer
of L.50, to be applied in the time of need.


