
      1190                         PERTHSHIRE.

         The enlargement of the farms has caused the decrease of the
      population.  The lands of Coupar-Grange, for instance, were at
      one time in the hands of twelve proprietors.  At a subsequent pe-
      riod, they were farmed by as many or more tenants, and around
      each farm-house were clustered the retainers and servants.   At
      this time there were fifty families in Coupar Grange; and I un-
      derstand it then had its carrier, its brewer, and its seller of small
      wares.  The land now, with a small exception, belongs to one
      proprietor.  It is farmed by four tenants, and two bothies and eight
      cot-houses contain the population.  At Blacklaw and hills of Ben-
      dochy, there was, at one time a considerable population, which
      has disappeared from the same cause.  The slight increase that
      took place after 1811 was probably owing to the division of the
      common at Hill of St Phink, and the consequent building of cot-
      tages that took place in that quarter.
         Character, &c. of the People.-There are no popular customs or
      amusements peculiar to the parish.  There is a small curling club in
      the parish instituted not only " for the purpose (as its laws bear) of
      joining in an innocent and interesting amusement, but also for che-
      rishinLy feelings of kindness and of friendship towards one another."
         There has undoubtedly been a vast addition made to the com-
      forts and advantages of the people since the former Statistical
      Account was written.  Their houses are far more comfortable,
      and their habits more cleanly.  Their food is more varied, and
      their clothing cheaper and more tasteful.  "The common people
      live on oatmeal pottage twice a-day.  It is the most wholesome
      and palatable of all their food, being purely vegetable, notwith-
      standing the reflection in Johnson's Dictionary, that 'Oats are
      eaten by horses in England, and in Scotland by men.' Such food
      makes men strong like horses, and purges the brain of pedantry."
      (Old Statistical Account.) This is better than the remark of
      (I think) Lord Lyttleton, " Yes, and where will you fhnd such men
      and such horses." There are now more potatoes, more wheaten
      bread, and more animal food used by the peasantry.  Each cottar
      feeds one pig, many two, in the year; and the majority of them
      have a cow.
        The illicit distillation of whisky has totally ceased, although, at
      one time, in the district of Galahill, there flourished a daring set
      of contrabandists, who lived in wild freedom, and laughed at the

      restraints of the law.  The morality and comfort of the people in
      that quarter have alike improved since the practice of smuggling


