
                            INNERWICK.                     241

led the Northumbrians as far as Innerwick, the castle, in which
Chalmers conjectures that an English garrison was left on the
occasion, was taken and laid prostrate by the Regent Albany.
Along with Thornton Castle, a house of Lord Home's, which stood
on the opposite bank of a little glen, Innerwick Castle was at-
tacked by Protector Somerset, when he invaded Scotland. *  Of
these two fortresses, the former has almost entirely disappeared;
of the latter there are still some remains. They stand at the
distance of about half a mile from the village of Innerwick, a
little to the north of the road between it and Oldhamstocks.
"Decay's effacing fingers," however, have been at work on the ve-
nerable pile, and, in the course of the last few years, its ruins have
become still more ruinous. A view of Innerwick Castle is given
in Grose's Antiquities. It has also afforded a subject to the pen-
cil of Mr Thomson of Duddingston.
   On Blackcastle-hill, the name of which indicates it to have
been the site of a structure that has now passed away, there are
some remains of an old encampment.

<FOOTNOTE>Of this attack the following account is given by Patten, who accurately describes
the two fortalices as "set both on a craggy foundacion, and devided a stone's cast
asunder by a depe gut, wherein ran a little ryver; "-" Thornton belonged to the
Lord Hume, and was kepte then by one Tom Trotter; whereunto my Lorde's grace
over night for summons, sente Somerset, his heraulde, towards whome 1111. or V.
of this capitaynes prikkers, with their gaddes ready charged, did right hastely direct
their course ; but Trotter both, honesty defended the herqaIde, and sharply rebuked
hys men, and said, for the summons he would come speake with my lorde's grace
himself,-notwithstanding he came not, but straight lockt up sixteen poor soules, like
the souldiers of Dunglas fast within the house, toke the keys with him, and com-
manding them they should defend the house, and tarry within (as they coulde not-
get out) till his returne, whiche should be on the morrow, with much municion and
relief, he with his prikkers prikt quite his ways. Anderwyke pertained to the
Lorde of Hambledon, and was kept by hys sonne and heyre, (whom of custume they
call the master of Hambledon) and an VIII. more with hym, gentlemen for the moste
part as we harde say. My Lorde's grace at his comming nye, sent unto both these
piles, whiche upon summons refusing to surrender, were straight assayled, Thorn-
ton by batrie of IIII. of our great peces of ordinaunce, and certain of Syr Peter Mew-
tus hakbutters to watch the loopholes andwyndows on all Sydes, and Anderwyke by
a sorte of the same hakbutters alone, who soo well basturd them, yt whear these kepers
had ramed up their outer dores cloyd and stopt up their stayres within, and kept
themselves aloft for defence of their house, above the battilmentes, the hakbutters gat
in and fyred them underneth ; whereby beying greatly trobled with smoke and
smoother, and brought in desperation of defence, they called pitifuly over their
walls to my Lorde's grace for mercy, who notwithstandinge their great obstinacie,
and the xsample other of ye enemies mought have had by their punishment, of his
noble generositie. and by these wordes mining half xcuse for them, Men may some
tyme do yt hastely in a gere, whereof afterwards they mai soon repent them, did take
them to grace, and thearfore sent one straight to them. But  ere the messenger came,
the hakbutters had gooten up to them, and killed VIII. of them aloft; one lept over
the walles and running more than a furlong, after was slain without in a water."
Similar were the proceedings at the neighbouring Castle of Thornton. Of that for-
talice a great part was demolished on the occasion. "The rest," adds Patten, "stood
all to be shaken with riftes and chykkes." Of that stronghold acccordingly, the very
ruins have now almost utterly disappeared.


