
                            OXNAM.                          253

cent and delightful prospect, having the mountainous chains of
Cheviot, Moffat, and Lammermuir, together with the German
Ocean, in the distance; and at the same time the vast expanse of
country comprehended within this grand circular outline, overspread
with an endless diversity of highly beautiful and picturesque scenes.
Of the large forests which once greatly decorated the landscape,
a few vestiges only have withstood the desolating influence of time.
Nevertheless, this parish, as to its general appearance, is pecu-
liarly interesting, exhibiting many striking varieties of hill and dale,
well subdivided enclosures, excellent pasturage, and numerous
streams of water. A small section of the Cheviot range partly
constitutes its southern boundary, and stretches towards the Carter
Fell, which rises 2020 feet above the level of the sea.  But to this,
the most elevated summit of that section is somewhat inferior in
height. To the northward of this bounding ridge, are situated va-
rious hills, chiefly of a conical form and smooth green aspect, but
showing a less lofty elevation than the former.  Again, other still
humbler, yet towering eminences, appear in the same direction be-
yond these, --which present acclivities either partially cultivated, or
clothed with delicate verdure, and form, therefore, an imposing and
agreeable contrast with the scattered portions of heath and benty
grass conspicuous on the interjacent flats.  Besides, the fertile val-
ley that divides the parish lengthwise, has its own undulating sur-
face variously intersected by the continuous windings of the Ox-
nam water. And it may be observed, moreover, that the banks of
the Jed bounding the western side, and presenting generally an
abrupt and precipitous appearance, have their aspect pleasingly
diversified by the termination of romantic dells in certain parts,
and by narrow ravines ornamented with copse in others.  Most of
the banks, indeed, are richly adorned with natural wood, no less
remarkable for the happily varied distribution, than for the beauti-
ful form and foliage of its trees.
     Climate and Diseases.--The whole parish, in common with the
surrounding district, is liable to sudden as well as frequent varia-
tions of temperature. At times, the wind blows strongly from the
east; but it is found to proceed most frequently and with greatest
violence from the west and south-west.  Yet, at other times, it
brings along with it, from the very same points, the mildest and
most genial weather.  The high-lying places, from their proximity
to a mountainous region, are more exposed to heavy rains, and at-
mospheric changes,than the lower and more cultivated parts.  This,


