
                    XILBARCIIAN.                              363

bank of the Cart, was the country seat or summer's residence of the
Abbot, and was built by George Shaw, who presided over that
monastery in the reign of King James IV. The mansion-house
was much improved by James, first Earl of Abercorn, on the ereei'..
tion of the lands belonging to the monks of Paisley into a tem'.
porality in favour of that family.
A considerable part of the lands in this parish belonged. to the
Noble family of Dundonald; and in this immediate neighbourhood,
upwards of a hundred years possession by another family of the
highest respectability, has not succeeded in effacing the remem-
bradce or obliterating the name of the distinguirhed House of
Cochrane.-Auchinames is the designation of a barony held by
the very ancient and powerful family of Crawford. At a compara
tively late period, a portion of it, ascertained'by the name of 46 Third
Part," was vested in t separate branch of tbe'family; and in 1523
conveyed to William Lord Sempil, to whose lands it is still attach4
ed. The barony of Ranfurlic, likewise, so long held by the family
from whom our illustrious Reforiner sFrruno,5. came to be alienated in
1665 by the last proprietor of the family of Knox, to William, first
Earl of Dundonald.
The village of Kilbarchan is a place of some antiquity but
there are few historical circumstances connected with it. In the
churchyard, are still seen some remains of an ancient eburc'hi or
chapel, but without any. date or other inscription preserved to in-
dicate the period or immediate object of its erection. John, LQrd
Sempill, appears to have endowed the Old College or collegiate kirk
of Castlesemple; 21st April 1504, for a provost, six cha lains. and
two singing-boys. - The said provost was also vicar of Glakford.
The foundation charter ,;pecifies the share of the teinds and lands
falling to each chaplain. As to what respects this immediate vi-
cinity, 14 the fourth chaplain shall have the lands of Upper Peiiw
and the house where Robert Red formerly dwelt, and also: 40 shall
lings, as a hardly pension from the lands of. Bryntschellis.
fifth chaplain shall have the lands of Nether Pennalwith' its tail
There shall -be an organ in the: collegiate klrk,,- and a schools fot,
singing. Thebqysshallbeinstructedintbe,Gregorian you
points or pricks, and they shall be supported with food
for,, which maintenance the said chaplain' shall, enjoy
of the clergyman of Kilbarchan. That chaplain shall pay the Old College.
or curate serving in the kirk of Kilbireban.  The
chaplains shall have five marks from the lands of


