
     Statistical Account

about L. 2 is paid for a cow's grass, it is necessary to keep as
good cows as possible; and, indeed, more good ones are to be seen
in Leslie, than perhaps in any town of its size.  They commonly
bring from L. 7 to L. 10, and are all of the Fife breed.  Some
Dutch cows were tried, and some of the Irish and Lancashire
breed; but they did not answer, as the first were expensive to
keep up in winter, and the last did not yield much milk.  Almost
all the lands of the parish have been cultivated; and by far the
greatest part of them are either under crops of grain, potatoes,
turnips, and flax, or in sown grass.  The farmers now deal
more in rearing cattle, and in general plough less ground,
but, at the same time, raise more corn than formerly.  While the
farms were uninclosed, and little or no sown grass raised, the
cattle gathered a miserable subsistence on bare leys; which,
after resting several years, were broken up, and cropt, year after
year, till they scarce produced double the seed.  The land is
now plowed by one man commonly with a pair of horses,
instead of four oxen with two horses and a lad to drive them,
as was formerly the case*.

   Manufactures.-In the town of Leslie the weavers are the

<FOOTNOTE>

*Prices of Labour and Provisions.-In I759, a day labourer's wages were
8 d. without victuals.  If he was employed during the winter and summer, he
got only 6 d.  The yearly wages of a man servant were then from L. 2: 10,
to L. 3, ster. and those of a maid servant, from L. 1: 10, to L. 2.  But a
sufficient man servant cannot now be got under L. 5: 10 or L. 6, nor a
maid servant under L. 2: 10 or L 3, a year.  A common labourer now
gets 1 s. a day.  In 1759, beef could have been bought, between Michael-
mas and Martinmas, at 2 s 8 d. per stone; it is now 5 s 4 d.  The price of
fowls and eggs is doubled.  A good fowl is 1 s, and a dozen of eggs, 4 d.-
Butter was 5 d. now it is 8 d. a pound. Milk was 1 d. a pint, now it is 2 d.
Coals were 4 d. a loads now they are 7 d. Salt was 4 d. a peck, now 6 d.


