
958                            ABERDEENSHIRE.

gravelly subsoil.  The climate is good, the air pure, and the
grain crops in Cromar are generally as early as any in this county.
   Geology.-The geology of Coull is of the same character as
the general features of Aberdeenshire ; the hills consisting chiefly
of granite, red and white, the former prevailing.  There is a con-
siderable extent of level ground in the centre of the parish, called
Bogmore.  It consists of alluvial deposit on moss.  At one period
it was generally covered with water, and formed a disagreeable,
unhealthy swamp.  By recent draining, the greater part of it has
been brought into cultivation, the remainder has been converted
into good pasture, and the climate has been greatly improved.
The oak appears to have once flourished here, a specimen of enor-
mous size having been recently dug up on the farm of Wester
Coull, and two large beams of oak, rudely joined together by
blocks of wood, were lately found in a piece of mossy ground near
the manse.
   Botany.-No rare plants have been discovered.  The following
may be mentioned as inhabitants of the parish :

<TABLE>
   Parnassia palustris       Chelidonium magus        Vaccinium oxycoccos
   Reseda luteola            Mercurialis perennis     Drosera rotundifolia
   Littorella lacuatris      Arenaria serpyllifolia   Trientalis Europaea
   Radiola millegrana        Arbutus Uva ursi         Pyrola rotundifolia.

   The Senecio Jacobea is no stranger in our pastures, and of late
years our hay fields are much infested with the Matricaria cha-
momilla.
   Of animals, the roe-deer, hare, grouse, partridge, snipe, wild-
duck, hedgehog, polecat, and weasel may be noticed.

                      II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Parochial Registers.-The earliest parochial register commen-
ces 1752.  Baptisms and marriages are recorded in it ; but it has
not been kept with much regularity.
   Land-owners.-The land-owners are, the Earl of Aberdeen,
whose valuation is L.812 Scots; Sir John Forbes, Bart. L.432,
4s. 6d. Scots; and the Marquis of Huntly, L.288, 6s. 8d. Scots.
Mr Farquharson of Finzean also possesses some land in the pa-
rish, and pays stipend; but has no valuation.
   Antiquities.-One of those circles of stones standing upright, so
common in Britain, and called Druidical circles, may be seen on
a small hill called Tom-na-hivrigh, or the " Hill of worship or jus-
tice:"  About the centre of the lands of Corse, there existed, at
a very remote period, a chapel called Turry Chapel.  The traces
of its existence are still visible.  The tradition regarding it is, that


