
74                      KINCARDINESHIRE.

tion, is exceedingly curious, but could not be explained without
figures. The sandstone below the trap (or nearer the axis of the
chain) soon disappears, and we find another remarkable trap for-
mation, probably connected with the transition rocks which imine-
diately succeed it, and which perhaps finds its counterpart in the
claystone porphyry of Colonel Imrie. It is a dark purple felspar-
rock, and has the remarkable appearance of a conglomerate, with-
out being so, properly speaking; for we find invariably, that the
apparent pebbles are composed of the same material with the
basis or ground in which they are contained. Immediately suc-
ceeding this rock, we find transition clay-slate of various shades,
from purple to green, and containing a bed of limestone, which,
from the rarity of that mineral in this county, has been worked
under great disadvantages on the Fettercairn property at Clatter-
ing Briggs. Of this bed we also find the counterpart in Colonel
Imrie's section, a little above the jasper rocks, which latter are,
however, almost, if not entirely, awanting in this more eastern part
of the chain. It is, in all probability, the same limestone bed which
occurs behind the Mains of Drumtochty. At Clattering-Briggs
the ravine divides info two, and to get a complete view we should
examine both. We first find the clay-slate, which contains the
limestone, intersected by several dikes of highly crystalline red
felspar. The slate afterwards passes into something like chlorite-
slate, or what Colonel Imrie has called, 'primitive aggregate
rock,' and finally into mica-slate. One of the felspar beds in this
part of the section is interesting, as containing red jasper in dots
which may possibly have somewhat of a common origin with that
so beautifully exposed in Glenesk. The left hand ravine carries
us towards the Cairn-o'-Mount; * and in its course, these beds are
well exposed; but to perceive the structure of the higher part of
the chain, we should follow the right band rivulet, which descends
from the summit of the ridge (mica-slate) by a ravine of consi-
derable depth, though little conspicuous at a distance, called the
Slack of Birnie. This gives us a full view of extensive formations
of red felspar connected with the slate, and an explanation of the
origin of the vast quantities of this rock distributed in boulders
over the low country.
	In the eastern part of the parish, the slope of the range is less
considerable, and the sandstone is more extended. Hence there

<FOOTNOTE>The height above the mean level of the sea, determined by methods partly geo-
metrical, and partly barometrical, by the author of this notice, is 1514 feet. The
height of Garvock, 1003 feet, and of the valley of Kincardine, near Fettercairn,270
feet.


