
     of Abernethy and Kinchardine.

crimes, by committing greater ones themselves.  They of-
ten, no doubt, tried by jury; but some of them, at other
times, in a summary, arbitrary, and extraordinary man-
ner*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*A few instances will be enough to mention, in case the reader should
imagine, that these things were lately done in Tippoo Sultan's domi-
nions.  One of them lived in this parish, named Robert Grant, commonly
called Bailie More.  It is said, be used to hang people for disobliging
him.  He seldom called juries:  He hanged two brothers on a tree within
a thousand yards of this town, and buried both in one grave, on the road-
side.  The grave and stones above it are still visible Another, named
James Grant, commonly called Baili Roy, who lived long in this parish,
hanged a man of the name of Steuart, and after hanging him, set a jury
on him, and found him guilty.  The particulars are too long to be insert-
ed here.  The Bailie had many reasons for being in such a hurry.  The
man was, unluckily for him, wealthy, and abounded in cattle, horses,
sheep and goats, all of which were instantly driven to the Bailie's home;
Stuart's children set a-begging, and his wife became deranged in her mind,
and was afterward drowned in a river:  It is not very long since.  This
same Bailie Roy, on another occasion, hanged two notorious thieves, par-
boiled their heads, and set them up on spikes afterward.  At another
time, he drowned two men in sacks, at the bridge of Billimon, within
a few hundred yards of this manse, and endeavoured to compel a man from
Glenmore, in the barony of Kinchardine, to assist him and the executioners
he had with him in the business; which the man refusing to do, the Bailie
said to him, If you was within my regality, I would teach you better
manners than to disobey my commands.  This Bailie bought a good estate.
There was another of them, called Bailie Bain, in this country; who became
so odious, that the country-people drowned him in Spey, near the church
of Inverallan, about a miles from hence.  They took off his boots and gloves,
left them in the bank, and drove his horse through a rugged place, full
of large stones.  The tract in the sand, boots, etc. discoverd what had
become of him; and when search was made for him down the river, a
man met the party near the church of Cromdale, who asked them, what
they were searching for? they answered, for the Bailie's body; upon
which, he said, "Turn back, turn back, perhaps he is gone up against
"the river, for he was always acting against Nature."  As their power
was great, and generally abused, so many of them enriched themselves.
They had many ways of making money for themselves: such as, 1.  The Bai-


