
532                     FORFARSHIRE.

recorded, in a promiscuous manner, down to 1800, when the mo-
ney matters connected with the poor's fund were recorded eslewhere,
and in a more business-like manner.
  Antiquities.-It is thought by some antiquarians that the Ro-
man Castra stativa AEsica, or a camp on the Esk, and distant
from that on the Tay thirteen Roman miles, equal to twenty-
one English, was situated in this parish, near the influx of
the Noran into the Esk, so as to command a ford over this latter
stream; and perhaps the farm of Gateside took its name from the
Roman station AEsica, as forming a gate or port to and from the
river; and there is yet in the vicinity, a house named Ward-end,
which might possibly refer to some lesser fort connected with the
former one.
	As already stated, there is, on the field adjoining the farm-
house of Nether-Careston, a barrow, which is believed to have
been thrown up to perpetuate the slaughter and burial of the
Danish chief Carald, from whom this estate and the parish long
afterwards took its name.
	Under this head, may be mentioned the Castle of Careston,
the main part of which building was erected, about 440 years ago,
by the Earl of Crawford. * The same nobleman, according to
tradition, was also the builder of Finhaven, his chief residence,
when in this part of the country. The west wing, which is evi-
dently the oldest, is said to have been built by one of the Carneg-
gy family, and most likely when they came into the posses-
sion of the property of Careston. The east wing is thought to
have been built by Major Skene, soon after he acquired the estate.
Both wings project to a good distance from the main body of the
house, but are connected together by a long lobby in front.
Above the mantel-piece of what is now termed the old drawing-
room the royal arms of Scotland + are depicted. And below the
royal arms is the following curious ancient inscription, in old
Roman letters:

<FOOTNOTE>If the historian Buchanan could here be relied on, he who built Careston Castle
must have been the first Earl of Crawford, as he states, that this dignity was con-
ferred on the family of Lindsay in 1396; and he who obtained it, Sir David Lindsay
of Glenesk, was killed at Verneil in France, and buried in Dundee in 1425. But
in a manuscript (written by Sir George M'Kenzie, Lord Advocate to Charles II.,)
mention is made of a Dominus Lindsay de Crawford in 1357, and of a David Lind-
say Dominus de Crawford, miles, who is witness to a charter granted by William
Earl of Ross to Hugh Ross his brother.
 The royal arms seem to have been granted only to the first Earl of Crawford,
or Sir David Lindsay of Glenesk, as the Crawford family now have other arms.


