
118                          FIFESHIRE.

tune residing in the parish are those of the Earl of Rothes and
R. Douglas, Esq. of StrathEndry. There are four proprietors of
land of the yearly value of L. 50 and upwards, viz. the Earl of
Rothes; R. Douglas, Esq. of Strathendry; General Balfour of
Balbirnie; and John Fergus, Esq. of Prinlaws.

<TABLE>

Number of unmarried men, bachelors and widowers, upwards of 5O years ofage, 52
                    women, upwards of 45,	-	-	-	-   61
The number of families in the parish         -        -        -        -  595
                       chiefly employed in agriculture.
                                        in trade, manufactures, or handicraft,
Average number of children in each family, as near as can be made out,	     5
Number of inhabited houses in the parish (one or two may be uninhabited,)  356
           houses building,        -        -       -                -       -         6

  There is nothing remarkable in the appearance of the people, ex-
cept in that of the women who work at the bleachfields, and who
are of a remarkably healthy apppearance Strancrers are much
struck on seeing them spread the yarn on the grass on a fine day,
with their ruddy complexion and picturesque dress.
  There are 3 fatuous, 2 blind, and 3 deaf and dumb in the parish.
  Habits and Character of the people.--The habits of the people
upon the whole, may be said to be very cleanly. Dunghills used,
at one time, to lie on the street before every house. These are all
now removed. If we compare the new houses of the present time,
and the various luxuries in which the people indulge, and the clothes
they wear with those which their forefathers enjoyed, it may in-
deed be said that they enjoy the comforts and advantages of so-
ciety. Yet it is by no means those who have the largest income,
even among the operatives, that have the greatest share of those;
for it is often seen that those who have the best income are des-
titute of the habits of economy. The females having been early
taken into the public works, have had no opportunity of learning
sewing and other things necessary to make them good housewives,
when they become mothers of families.
  The people are generally contented with their situation; but it
is observed, that when a poor man becomes a keen politician, he is
very apt to become discontented. So much time is spent in read-
ing and debating, that work is neglected, poverty and wretchedness
ensue.
  The people pride themselves upon being very intellectual; and
there is a very great deal of the profession of religion.
  Poaching in game has been carried on to a very considerable ex-
tent. The facility of sending game to Kirkaldy and even Edin-


