
                       LARBERT.                               345

   Coal-Measures.--The whole of the eastern part of the parish is
well stored with coal. Five seams have been discovered, and
more or less worked. The lowest of these seams crops out in the
western part of the Kinnaird and Carron Hall properties. The
dip is usually to the north-east, and the coal field is intersected by
several dikes; one large one runs through whole fields.
  The following is a list of the seams of coal and stone, as they
occur. Under from 6 to 16 feet of slate clay, called in the country
Blaes, (probably from its colour,) and a post of sandstone rock,
lies the 1st, two feet coal, about 2 feet in thickness. This seam
is not valuable in itself, but has frequently been wrought on ac-
count of fire clay of excellent quality, which lies near it. Passing
through nine fathoms of different stone metals, and a white free sand-
stone above the coal, is, 2d, the crow coal, of three feet in thick-
ness, of the sort named cubical, a valuable, clear burning, house-
hold coal. Again, nine fathoms of mixed metals occur, and under a
strong freestone is, 3d, the main coal, of three feet two inches
thickness. The upper part of this seam is fine splint. The lower part
is strong cubical coal mixed with ribs of splint. Fourteen fathoms
lower, is 4th, the Cox road coal; and 5th, the lower Cox road, at a
farther depth of ten feet. But these two seams are very irregular.
In some places, the two are found distinct, and of a thickness of
from eighteen to thirty inches each. In other places, one of the
seams is lost. Above the higher seam of Cox road, some ball-iron-
stone of excellent quality is found. The 3d, or main coal, is well
adapted for cooking, as is one of the Cox road seams, although it
is of less value, from its being frequently intersected by horizontal
lamina of very hard sandstone. This coal has been worked from
the crop from time immemorial, but it was not till the establish-
ment of Carron Iron-works that it was worked from the dip.
  The first steam-engine on this coal-field was erected by Mr
Dundas of Carron Hall, in the year 1760.* The collieries of
Carron Hall and Kinnaird are now in the hands of the Carron
Company, who employ about 150 mining colliers.
  Sandstone.--A fine freestone, i. e. sandstone, was formerly ob-
tained at Carron Hall, situated considerably above the highest.

<FOOTNOTE>The earliest steam-engine I have heard of in this part of the country, was one
for pumping water from the colliery of Elphinston, in the parish of Airth.  This
steam-engine was erected, probably about 1745 or 1750. The cylinder and other
parts were of brass or bronze. Cast iron had not then come unto use.  About 100
years have elapsed since that time, and east-iron, during that period, has gradually
come to be used for a very great variety of purposes.


