
44                 EDINBURGHSHIRE.

   Rent of Land.-The rent of arable land varies from 5s. to L. 5
per Scotch acre. Milch cows are pastured from Whitsunday to
Martinmas for L. 5 two years do. for L. 2; sheep from 5s.
to 12s. per annum. The breeds of cattle and sheep have
been of late much improved by being crossed. The Ayr-
shire enjoys a preference here, being found much better ad-
apted to the climate than the short-horned or Teeswater breed.
which proved on trial by far too delicate for the situation. For-
merly, the Galloway breed was preferred to any; but the great im-
provements which have, of late, been made on pasturage have ad-
mitted of the, introduction of superior breeds. There is still much
room for improvement in this department of farming, which, on
many accounts, is the most important in this district, the rents
being chiefly paid from the dairy produce. The horses reared
and used are mostly of the Clydesdale breed.
   Value of Raw Produce.-I have been unable to ascertain with ac-
curacy, the gross amount of raw produce raised yearly; but an idea
of its value may be formed, from the gross rental of land, includ-
ing farms, parks, and gardens, kept by the proprietors. This
amounts to L. 6827 per annum. If, to this amount, two rents be
added, we obtain the sum of L. 20,481, which will serve with suffi-
cient accuracy to represent the yearly value of the agricultural
produce. The rental of houses and mills is upwards of L. 1000.
   Manufactures.-Paper-making, with the trifling exception of
weaving, is the only manufacture prosecuted in the parish; but it
is carried on to a considerable extent. The quantity of rags year-
ly converted into paper averages above 1000 tons, and the whole
value of the manufacture may amount to L. 80,000 per annum.
There are five paper machines* constantly employed, for at least
twelve hours per diem, and occasionally through the whole twenty-
four hours. These on an average cast off paper in a continuous
web of 4 1/2 feet wide, at the rate of 10 yards per minute, or a mile
in the three hours. Each machine therefore throws off, on an ave-
rage, 4 miles length of paper per diem, and the five machines ac-
cordingly may produce daily a quantity of paper 20 miles long by
1 1/2 yard wide; or a whole surface of 52,800 yards. Upwards of
L. 24,000 per annum is derived by Government from this beautiful
manufacture, in the shape of duty, which amounts to about 30 per
cent. This is supposed to equal the whole amount paid by Ire-
land to the revenue on this article; so that this is as produc-

<FOOTNOTE>Another machine is being now put up at Eskmills, September 1839.


