
464                            LANARKSHIRE.

from his house during the rest of the year, seemed to revive when
the time of purchasing the fruit came round, and discovered an
enthusiasm and activity which astonished all who saw him.
			 V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Means of Communication.--Hamilton is the nearest market-town
to this parish, where there is a post-office and weekly market.
There are two runners from that place, who pass and repass
through the parish daily, the one to the post-office in Holytown,
and the other to Wishawtown. A coach to Edinburgh from
Hamilton runs through this parish, three times a-week. The road
from Glasgow to Lanark by Carluke is, in this parish, about four
miles in length, and that from Hamilton to Edinburgh is about
one.
	Ecclesiastical State and History.--The church at Dalziel, with
its tithes and other property, was granted to the abbots and monks
of Paisley, in the twelfth century, and was dedicated to St Patrick.
It was confirmed to them by the Bishops of Glasgow, Jocelin and
Florence, by a bull of Pope Innocent in 1209, and by one of his
successors, Pope Honorius. It was afterwards given to the Dean
and Chapter of Glasgow, and continued in their possession till the
Reformation. The revenue consisted of 10 merks, and 60 bolls of
oatmeal yearly. The cure was served by a vicar probationer,
who had settled allowance out of the revenue. The remainder
was shared by ten vicars, serving for the canons in the cboir of
the cathedral of Glasgow. The stipend to the vicar serving the
cure must consequently have been very small.*
	After the Reformation, the patronage and tithes of this parish
were given by Queen Mary to the College of Glasgow. It ap-
pears, however, that the Crown in these days was not scrupulous
air making grants of the same subject to different parties. Sir Ro-
bert Daizell had also obtained from this Queen, a grant of the
patronage and tithes. The consequence was, as I have found from
papers in the library of the college, a long litigation between those

<FOOTNOTE>This accounts for an awkward mistake into which the incumbent fell, upon one
occasion as traditionlly recorded in the parish. Owing to the meagre endowment
allowed him, he was under the necessity of bettering his circumstances by having re-
course to secular employment, and the occupation be followed was the very humble
one of making skulls, i. e. open baskets with a handle on each side, made of unpeeled
wands; of these he made one daily. But is unfortunately happened on one occasion
that he was found making one of his baskets upon the Sabbath. Persons expreesed
their astonishment him so occupied on such a day; but he would not believe
that it was the Sabbath, till he counted his skulls, when he discovered his misdemea-
nour. This circumstance gave rise to a proverb, formerly more prevalent in the pa-
rish and district then now, when a person expressed doubts, or appeared ignorant with
regard to the number of any articles in his possession, " count your skulls,"


