
     Of Peebles.

on each side fall into it.  They were built of stone and lime 
prepared in the best manner, and where larger, or situated 
nigh the castra of former times, they were called castles, or 
when smaller, were called towers.  They consisted common- 
ly of three stories, the lower one on the ground floor vaulted, 
into which the horses and cows were brought in times of dan-
ger; the great hall, in which the family lived; and the highest, 
in which were the bed chambers, designed for public as well 
as for private safety.  They were, by general consent, built al-
ternately on both sides the river, and in a continued view one 
of another.  A fire kindled on the top of these towers was 
the known sign of an incursion of the enemy.  The smoke 
gave the signal by day, and the flame in the night; and over 
a track of country of 70 miles long, from Berwick to the Bield, 
and 50 miles broad, intelligence was, in this manner, convey-
ed in a very few hours.  As these buildings are not only anti-
quities, but evidences of the ancient situation of the country, 
and are now most of them in ruins, it will not be improper to 
mention those along the Tweed for ten miles below Peebles, 
and as many above it.  Thus, Elibank tower looks to one at 
Hollowlee, this to one at Scrogbank, this to one a Caberr-
tone, this to one at Bold, this to one at Purvis hill, this to 
these at Innerleithan, Traquair, and Griestone, this last to 
one at Ormistone, this to one at Cardrona, this to one at 
Nether Horsburgh, this to Horsburgh castle, this to these at 
Haystone, Castlehill of Peebles and Needpath, this last to one 
at Caverhill, this to one at Barns, and to another at Lyne, 
this to these at Easter Happrew, Easter Dawic, Hillhouse and 
Wester Dawic, now New Posso, this last to one at Dreva, 
and this to one at Tinnis, or Thanes castle near Drummelzier. 
Of these the castle of Needpath, not far from the old town 
of Peebles; and in the line of its principal street, is the strong-
est one in the best preservation.  Its walls are 11 feet in 

     B 2


