
82      			KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

a sudden jerk, strikes the hook into him. He immediately flies
off, and after being played awhile, is brought gradually ashore.
   A method, somewhat similar to this, called grappling, is often
successfully practised by poachers. Three or four large hooks are
fastened together, pointing in different directions. The line to
which they are attached being loaded with lead, they are dropt into
the narrowest part of a pool where salmon are supposed to be most
abundant, and, after being allowed to sink nearly to the bottom,
are moved up and down in a see-saw manner. Although this ap-
pears to be random work, I am assured that poachers who know
the river, will take salmon by it in considerable numbers.
   In spring a good many fish are captured with the rod, to which
all the men employed in the fishery devote most of their spare
time. No river can possibly afford better amusement to the an-
gler, and great liberality has always been shown in giving permis-
sion to fish, both by the proprietor and by the different tacksmen.
   Of the artificial flies used there is considerable variety in point
of size and colour, both being determined by the state of the river.
When it is swollen, the fly most commonly adopted is a large one,
with red or spreckled wings, taken from the feathers either of the
common turkey, or of the fish-tailed or Huntington kite. The
latter bird is not a native of Scotland. It is found in the central
and southern counties of England, and used to be so highly es-
teemed by our anglers, that I have known half-a-crown given for
a single feathers. Of late it has fallen rather out of repute, and
given place to the more flexible but less brilliant feathers of the
red turke. When the river is low, small trout flies are used with
the finest tackle. To my taste this is by far the best amusement,
Large yellow trout rise freely, and the sportsman is certain of an
occasional struggle with a salmon. As an illustration of the ex-
cellent diversion sometimes had on the Dee, I may mention, that,
some years ago, I took, with a small trout fly, a finely-grown newly.
run salmon, which weighed 143/4 pounds. My line consisted ot
three horse hairs, and a single gait. The fly was composed of the
red part of the partridge-tail feather, a red hackle, and a black
worsted body, without tinsel of any kind. On the same day, the,
same fly was taken by another salmon, which escaped. This,
I am inclined to think, is the greatest piscatory exploit ever per
formed on the Dee. The enthusiastic angler will applaud the
feat, and the good-natured reader will excuse my vanity.
   On first appearing on the river, salmon are invariably more or-
less infested--sometimes their backs are nearly covered--with in-


