
			PARISH OF LANGHOLM.

		PRESBYTERY OF LANGHOLM, SYNOD OF DUMFRIES.

                    THE REV. WILLIAM B. SHAW MINISTER. *

		I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	Name.--LANGHOLM no doubt derives its name from the holm
or flat land which stretches along the banks of the river Esk upon
which it is situated. It may be observed that, generally, the farms
on both sides of the river take the name of holm,--such as Broom-
holm, Murtholm, Stubholm, Meikleholm, Millholm, and Potholm.
	Extent and Boundaries.--This parish extends 11 miles in length,
and 6 in breadth, and contains 41 1\4 squaremiles. It is bounded on the
north by Westerkirk and Ewes; on the east by Ewes and Canobie;
on the south by Canobie; and on the West by Middlebie and Tun-
dergarth. Exclusive of Half-Morton, the parish contains near-
ly 14,320 acres, 12,800 of which belong to his Grace the Duke of
Buccleuch; 1500 to George Maxwell, of Broomholm, Esq.; and
the remainder to Mr Matthew Little of Arkinholm, proprietor of
half of one of the ten merk lands of Langholm.
	Soil.--The soil varies very much, as the greater part of the pa-
rish is hilly and pastoral. The hills are smooth and verdant to the
very summits,--affording a bountiful supply of food to the nume-
rous flocks of sheep which graze upon them. The ground along
the banks of the rivers Esk and Ewes is flat, and consists of light
loam, and in some places rather inclines to be gravelly. These
grounds are highly cultivated, and well sheltered by woods, belts of
planting and thriving hedge-rows, and are capable of producing ex-
cellent crops of every description. On the south and west side of
the town, there are a few orchards which, in favourable seasons, are
very productive.
	Meteorology.--The annual mean temperature of the atmosphere,
according to Fahrenheit's thermometer, may be stated about 44 1\12.
In the whole range of Eskdale, it has been accurately ascertained,
that more rain falls by a third than either at Hawick or Selkirk.

<FOOTNOTE>Drawn up by a Probationer of the Church of Scotland.


