
                	ARDNAMURCHAN.			131

force of the waves.  Of this there is a bank at Ardtoe, in Ard-
namurchan.  The other, and the most valued, is formed of small
coral like pieces, having often several branches similar to that
substance, and marly matter, and is found in layers about a foot
thick under six or seven inches of common sand at Kilchoan and
Ardtoe, in Ardnamurchan.  At the latter place, it has been found
to answer on being well worked with a trowel, without any admix-
ture, as a tolerable plaster for the dry stone cottages of the in-
habitants.  The chief deposit of this sand is an inexhaustible
bank at the ledge of rocks which run across the mouth of Loch-
nakeaul, in Arasaig, whence it is conveyed to the distance of fifty
and sixty miles.  There is also a bed of marly shell sand, totally
different from either of those just mentioned, found at the west
end of Lochshiel.
   Sands of Kintra.-West of the great moss flat of Kintra, situ-
ated betwixt the sea and Lochshiel, and bounding the flat in that
direction, extends the beach or sands of Kintra.  This is an ex-
panse not less than two miles square, nearly circular in form,
over which the sea flows only at high water, and to no great depth,
consisting of fine light-coloured sand, the debris of primitive rocks,
mixed with large proportions of shell sand, decomposed land and
marine plants, some clay, and doubtlessly a great quantity of ani-
mal matter derived from the mussels, cockles, and other shell-fish
with which it abounds.  The sea being admitted by a narrow in-
let, seems very capable of exclusion by an embankment; the
streams, from inland are equally susceptible of being collected in-
to a canal for conveyance of materials to and from the very mar-
gin of the great moss.  The substance of the moss and the sands
affording the best manure for each other, seem placed by nature
in juxtaposition for mutual improvement, and present an inviting
field for the investiture of great capital.  At the head of Loch
Moidart, there is also an extent of beach exposed, at low water,
about one and a-half mile long and a-half broad.  It is chiefly
composed of deep soft clay, mingled with the substances just
mentioned, as component parts of the sands of Kintra.  There
is also a beach of considerable extent at the head of Loch Ainort;
one of white silicious sand on the coast of Loch Morir; and an-
other of the same description at Sunna, near the point of Ardna-
murchan.
   Meteorology.-No meteorological record has been kept in the


