
     Statistical Account

   Barrry-hill, the supposed place of Vanora's confinement,
merits some description.  It is one of the Grampians, 1 1/2 mile
N. E. of Alyth, it commands an extensive view of Strath-
more, and of several remarkable hills in the Sidla range, viz.
Dunfinnan, Kinpurnie, Sidla, Finhaven, etc. all of which
might have been antiently used as watch towers; or places of
defense.  History informs us that the Piets kept possession
of Dun-barry, and the adjacent country, from a remote pe-
riod to the 9th century, or later; but the precise dates of
their settlement in those parts, and of their expulsion, can-
not be ascertained.  The hill itself is of an oval form.  Its
summit was levelled into an area 180 feet long, and 72 or
74 broad.  Around the area a mound of earth was raised,
from 6 to 8 feet high, and  10 to 12 broad at top.  On this
mound a wall of free-stone was built without any cement
whatever.  The foundation of the wall was composed of
rough granite, and still remains.  It is of the same breadth
with the summit of the mound; but the height of the wall
cannot be known:  Gordon's estimate of it is extremely erro-
neous.  Among the ruins there are several pieces of vitrified
stone; but these vitrifications must have been accidental, as
they are few and inconsiderable.  Along the west and north
borders of the area, barracks, or huts, were built of dry stone,
and sufficiently sheltered by the mound and wall; but no
structures of this sort can be traced in the south part of the
area.  As the north and west sides of the hill are steep, and
of difficult access, there was no need of an outer ditch in
those quarters:  But, towards the south and east, where  the
hill gently slopes, there is a ditch 10 feet broad, and 12 to 16
feet below the foundation of the wall.  At the S. E. extre-
mity of the sort, a narrow bridge was raised over the ditch,
18 feet long, and 2 broad, except towards each end, where
the breadth was increased.  It was composed of stones laid


