
                       KILMARTIN.                         553

posed of rounded stones and gravel, and presenting a nearly uni-
form level, which occupy the upper part of the valley of Kilmar-
tin on both sides, but principally on the western.  The village of
Kilmartin itself is built on one of them.  They may be traced for
about seven or eight miles from the Castle of Carnassary down to-
wards the Bay of Crinan; and, though they have here and there
been partially washed away by lateral streams from the hills, they
exhibit such general proofs of continuity, and uniformity of level,
as force the conviction, that they owe their origin and form to the
action of a large body of water.
   The average height of these singular terraces may be estimated
at from 50 to 60 feet above the present level of the valley, to-
wards which they dip at an angle varying from 30 to 45 degrees,
with as much regularity almost as if dressed by art.  The widest
of them, in front of Lergie House, measures about 300 yards, at
right angles to the valley.  Wherever they have been examined,
they are found to be entirely composed of rounded stones and
gravel, mixed with a little soil.  Many of the boulders are of very
considerable size and great hardness; but all are so completely
rounded, as to prove they must have been subject to the long-con-
tinued action of water.  The greater number of them perhaps are
identical with the rocks of the neighbouring valley; but others
must evidently have been transported from a distance, especially
some large blocks of a red syenitic porphyry, which would appear
to have come most probably from the neighbourhood of Ben-
cruachan.
   An examination of that part of the valley which extends from
the ford at the west end of Lochawe to the village of Kilmartin
affords very strong evidence, that this fine body of water formerly
emptied itself by this passage into the Bay of Crinan.  The bed
and embankments of a large river may yet be traced in all its
windings for several miles; and it is worthy of remark, that, in
three different places, where a mass of rock obstructed the direct
course of the current, a circuitous course has been scooped out for
its passage in the opposite bank; while, on the other hand, the
lateral gorge at the foot of Bencruachan, by which Lochawe now
discharges its waters into Loch Etive, bears as evident marks of its
having been violently disrupted by some subsequent convulsion of
nature.  No other considerable Scottish lake empties itself by a
lateral channel so near its head or principal feeder; whereas, the
alteration of a very few feet of level would even now cause Loch-


