
                                KELSO.                           299

river's edge, in a series of undulating ridges nearly parallel to each
other and to the river; while, in the southern, the general slope of
the ground, which also gradually rises as it recedes from the Tweed,
is modified both by the precipitous character of the river-banks and
by the valley on the west, through which the Teviot pours its tri-
butary waters into the Tweed.  Viewed from the distant heights
of Stitchell and Hume, Kelso appears to occupy a level surface
at the bottom of a wide and richly-wooded strath; but when seen
in bird's-eye view from the vicinity of the river, it presents the ap-
pearance of an amphitheatre, varied as well in its physical outlines
as in its artificial adornments,--intersected by two broad and noble
rivers, and having for its boundary a circle of wooded heights.
  Situation of Town.--The town is situate, on the north bank of
the Tweed, nearly opposite to the point where the Teviot falls
into it; and consequently forms the centre of this amphitheatre.
Nor is it unworthy of its environs.  Like other towns lying on the
banks of rivers, its principal street, following the line of the river,
is tortuous and irregular, but it can boast of a square of no incon-
siderable size, and some architectural pretensions.  And its houses
throughout being generally built of a light-coloured stone and
roofed with blue slate, impart to the place an elegant and city-like
air, which preserves its title to the description given of it by Pat-
ten so long ago as the time of Edward VL, as "a pretty market-
town."
  Scenery.--The picturesque beauty of the scenery about Kelso
is too well known to render any description necessary here.  It be-
longs, indeed, to the class of the beautiful rather than the roman-
tic; and its pleasing effect is due, not so much to the command-
ing character of any single object, as to the blending, combination,
and harmony of the whole.  Yet it may be questioned if Scotland
contains a spot superior to it in its own style of beauty, or richer in
subjects for the portfolio of the artist.

            "Bosom'd in woods where mighty rivers run,
            Kelso's fair vale expands before the sun;
            Its rising downs in vernal beauty swell,
            And, fringed with hazel, winds each flowery dell;
            Green sprangled plains to dimpung lawns succeed,
            And Tempe rises on the bankss of Tweed;
            Blue o'er the river Kelso's shadow lies
            And copse-clad isles amid the water rise." *

It ought to be added, that the charm of a locality, thus beauti-

<FOOTNOTE>Leyden--"Scenes of Infancy."


