
4                     HADDINGTONSHIRE.

records of the burgh, that attempts have been made at different
times for 300 years back, to obtain coal from lands belonging to
the town on the borders of Gladsmuir. In 1823, the attempt was
renewed, and L. 1800 at least expended on the trial, but without
success. The thinness of the coal seam did not repay the work
and remunerate the proprietors.
   The only mineral spring in the parish is a weak chalybeate at
Dobson's well, about half a mile west of the town of Haddington.
   The soil of the parish is various. In some places, towards Glads-
muir, it is thin and of inferior quality: but in general it is good,
and in a high state of cultivation.
                       II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Historical Notices.-Haddington, as appears from the Civia
quatuor Burgorum, is a town of great antiquity; but when it was
erected into a royal burgh is uncertain-its ancient records having
been destroyed by the inroads of the English, who several times
burnt the town and laid it waste. There is a charter * amongst
the public records, from James V., dated 1542; but the most an-
cient charter in the records of the burgh is one from James VI.,
dated 13th January 1624, confirming all their ancient rights and
privileges. Haddington is the tenth in the order of precedency
among the royal burghs, and pays L. 1, 16s. in every L. 100 of their
assessments.
   There are only two villages in the parish, and both, inconsi-
derable. Of the one, St Lawrence House, about a mile to the
westward of the town of Haddington, there is neither record nor
tradition of any importance; the other is the Abbey, somewhat
more than a mile to the eastward. Here in 1178, Countess Ada
of Northumberland, mother of Malcolm IV. and William the Lion,
Kings of Scotland, founded and richly endowed a convent or priory
of Cistertian nuns which was dedicated to the Virgin Mary; and
here on the 7th July 1548, the Parliament of Scotland was con-
vened, and their consent obtained to the marriage of the young
Queen Mary with the Dauphin, and her education at the court
of France.
   Haddington was the first place in Scotland visited by cholera
asphyxia in 1831. This pestilential disease, originating in the
jungles of Hindostan about the year 1817, and progressing west-
ward, after spreading deaths and destruction over a vast extent of
territory, reached the eastern coast of Britain in summer or autumn

<FOOTNOTE>It is noticed as a demense town of the Scottish King in the twelfth century.
                                         4


