
340                            PERTHSHIRE.

ed. The number of acres under wood is nearly 1000. The trees
are,  Scotch firs, spruce, larch, and oak, with a few beeches here
and there.  The management of them is most skilfully conducted.
   Rent.-The average rent of arable land in the parish may be
rated at L. 1, 5s. per acre.  It is impossible to hazard any opinion
upon the rate of pasture; some of it is worth L. 2, 10s. and other
parts again not worth 1s.
   Considerable attention seems to be paid to the breed of cattle,
and with great success. The character of the husbandry pursued
upon the principal farms justly stands decidedly high; draining and
embanking are carried on to a great extent; but irrigation, from
the steep and unequal surface of the country, cannot be adopted.
The leases in general are for fifteen, seventeen, or nineteen years,
the last the most common.  The farmhouses and steadings are in
excellent order.  All our landlords are actuated by a praiseworthy
desire of seeing their tenants as comfortable and prosperous as pos-
sible.  The great obstacles in the way of improving the moorish
lands are such as no capital nor industry could surmount with any
prospect of a reasonable remuneration, arising as they do from the
nature of the soil and climate. There are two quarries, both sup-
plying stones for the building of farmhouses, steadings, dikes, &c.
They are of an inferior quality. The stone for Millearne House
was brought from Dollerie, in the parish of Maderty.
   Produce.-The average gross amount of raw produce, as nearly
as I can calculate, may be,

<TABLE>

         Grain of all kinds,                     L, 7050   0   0
         Potatoes and turnips,                      4700   0   0
         Hay and pasture,                           2900   0   0
         Gardens of the cottagers,                   120   0   0
                                                ------------------
                                                 L.14770   0   0

   The only association in the parish is a rociety for the encourage-
ment of good ploughing.  It assuredly is productive of good, though
sometimes giving rise to feelings of jealousy among the competi-
tors, to say nothing of a little excess among the judges when de-
ciding opon the rival claims.

                        V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   There 14 no market-town nearer than Auchterarder, fully five
miles south from the centre of the parish. There is certainly a
boat by which passengers cross the Earn, and save nearly a mile;
but, except in very dry weather, the roads are go fearfully bad that
the near way is sure to prove the most fatiguing and vexatious.
Crieff is six miles west from the centre of the parish.  Auchterar-


