
110                     CLACKMANNANSHIRE.

walls and roof are in a state of decay; and besides, it afforded only
the half of accommodation in sittings, which the parish were legally
entitled to.
     The principal manufacture in the parish is bleaching of linen.
There are besides two collieries, which have an extensive sale;
one of them properly speaking is in Muckhart parish, but the work-
men all live in Dollar. Two tile-works have recently been set
agoing. The largest of the two is situated a few yards beyond the
eastern boundary of the parish, and may, therefore, be considered
as belonging to Muckhart, but the workmen all reside in Dollar.
There is besides a small woollen manufactory connected with the
mills in Alva. It is used chiefly for carding and spinning of wool,
and the yarn is sent to Alva to be made into blankets, shawls, and
other fabrics of that sort.

                        III.-POPULATION.
  The amount of the population, as appears from a survey taken
(May 1841) is about 1500, which is nearly triple of the number
in 1755. This great increase has been chiefly of late years, and
owing principally to the erection of Macnab's school or Dollar
Institution, which hath brought to Dollar a great number of mas-
ters with their families, besides a number of boarders. Several
families have come to reside in the parish, with a view to the edu-
cation of their children. The increasing prosperity of the bleach-
field, a new coal-work on the south of the Devon now in active
operation, and the two new tile-works, have created a great demand
for labourers, who, with their families, have lately settled in Dol-
lar. Those who reside in the villages, or what are called the old
and new towns of Dollar, with the mains, amount to 1058. The
remaining population reside in country villas, and in detached
houses, scattered over the parish.

<TABLE>

        The yearly average of births for the last seven years is  36 6/7
                              deaths for the same period,         14 1/7
                              marriages,                          04 5/7
        The average number of persons under 15 years of age,      536
                                          between 15 and 30,      333
                                                  30 and 50,      380
                                                  50 and 70,      202
                                          above   70,              45

No nobility reside in the parish.
Of those who follow no profession, but have an independent fortune,
     the number is about                                           10
Proprietors of land, of the yearly value of L. 50 and upwards,      9
The number of unmarried men, bachelors and widowers, upwards
    of 50 years of age, is                                         22
The number of unmarried women, above 45 years of age, is           76
The average number of children in a family is                       4 1/3
    The people in general are shrewd and intelligent, and sufficiently


