
			KIRKMABRECK.                      315

the Cree, and along the shore the whole length of the parish,
is in general very good. Some table-land very superior. The
soil is in some places alluvial, but is in general light; and there
are several fields along the shore covered entirely  with shells to a
considerable depth. The shells, however, are in such a state of
decomposition, that the fields have been long under tillage; and
in the north end of the parish, there is a considerable field of
moss at Carsewalloch and Muirfad.
	Caves, Caverns, and Fissures.--There, are several of these
along this coast. Some of them are very curious, especially op-
posite Ravens Hall. They are frequently visited by strangers,
and are well worthy of inspection. They seem to have been
formed by the ebbing and flowing of the tide, and are of very
considerable extent. In some places the sea has forced a pas-
sage through the rocks, and at other places it has cloven them
like the granitic rocks of Hillswick Ness. There is one very re-
markable cave, but being of difficult access, it is seldom visited.
Its mouth is like a pit of two fathoms deep, at the bottom of
which the cave diverges almost at right angles, and penetrates
the rocks towards the north to a considerable distance. It is
said that no person has yet explored it to the end. Tradition has
claimed this as the cave of Dirk Hatterick; and the supposition
is strengthened by the legends of the parish, and the striking
likeness of our coast scenery to the graphic delineations of Guy
Mannering. An old tower, not far from this cave, is pointed out
as "Ellangowan Castle,"--a curious ravine, as " Meg Merrilees'
Path,"--and a mansion on the Cree, as "Woodburn House."*
	There is a remarkable fissure in the Knock Down of Carsluth.
The hill appears to have been split by violence at some remote
period. The opposite sides of the ravine are very like, and ap-
pear to fit into each other with remarkable precision.
	Coast.--The coast is about six miles in extent, and is in ge-
neral flat, sandy, and shelly. The Kirkdale shore is rocky, bold,
high, and precipitous.
	Meteorology.--Amongst the various prognostics of the weather
spoken of in this parish, may be mentioned the peculiar and dis-
tant noise of the rising tide, and the flocking of sea-fowl to the

<FOOTNOTE>The author is aware that this honour has been claimed for other parts of Gal-
loway, but, it is presumed, with less appearance of probability, especially as the Bay
of Wigton is referred to in Guy Mannering itself.


