
     of Cardress.

land.  Messrs Stirlings, who purchased this field from the
original proprietors, are well known.  At first they had a
field at Dasholm, in the neighbourhood of Glasgow, where
they carried on the business of printing to a considerable ex-
tent.  Upwards of 20 years ago, they removed from that si-
tuation to the river Leven in this parish.  To this they
might have been led by a variety of circumstances, but by
nothing more than by the softness and transparency of the
water, of the Leven, so peculiarly fitted for the purpose of
blenching.  A neck of land, in the form of a peninsula, oc-
casioned, it would appears by the river forsaking its former
channel, was the place marked out as the most proper to an-
swer the end which they proposed.  Accordingly, in 1772*
a purchase was made of this spot, called Cordale, and upon
it houses have been built, and machinery constructed, to an
extent, and upon a plan, which must have cost the company
an amazing sum.-At these fields, the property of this com-
pany, there were employed, in summer 1792, 876 persons.
Of these 300 were girls (pincellers), and about 130 were
boys, from 8 to 15 years of age.  It may be proper to ob-
serve, that the boys are in general healthy, active and lively,
having nothing of that pale and sickly look, which too often
marks those boys who are employed in the cotton spinning.
The wages for one month, July 1792, amounted to within a
trifle of 1000 l. Sterling.  It would be to no purpose to en-
ter here into a minute detail; the Statistical Account of the

<FOOTNOTE>

*kerchiefs, it is true, were then printed; but nothing fine or va-
luable in the printing line was carried on, till about 20 years
ago, when it was purchased by a company in Glasgow; under
the firm of M'Alpine, Fleeming, and Co.  Buildings were rais-
ed, and machinery constructed, by this company, at great ex-
pence; an extensive capital was employed, and every appearance
promised success.  This flattering prospect, however, was soon
clouded.  Disputes arising among the partners produced a sale
of the property, and a dissolution of the company.


