
     Statistical Account

   Lakes, etc.-The most considerable lake is LOCH-CATHERINE,
remarkable at the E. end for the singular picturesque scene
already mentioned.  Strath-Gartney, in which this lake is situ-
ated, seems to have borrowed its name from Gratnach or Gret-
ney, the 2 d Earl of Mar, who possessed this tract of land in
the year 1114.  It was afterwards exchanged by the 11th

<FOOTNOTE>

forms a mighty current from E. to W., and must, in the course of ages, as Buf-
fon observes, wear away and encroach on the land, in certain places, while it
leaves dry ground behind it, where formerly there had been several fathoms of
water.  But there is little probability of this ring having ever belonged to the
sea.  It seems rather more probable, that it has been made for tying the dogs
of chace, when the hunters went to rest during the night; or for the pur-
pose of securing cattle from straying through the mountains, or to the valleys
below, where they would have become the prey of wild beasts, before the
country was cleared of woods and of ravenous animals, which lived on blood.
We need not be surprised at this precaution, because there is little doubt that
the original inhabitants, of this part of the island at least, took up their first re-
sidence on the tops of hills, however unpromising there habitations may appear
now to their posterity.  The vestiges of ridges, where the ground has certainly
been plowed and sown, are still to be seen on places of considerable altitude,
and even on some very high mountains, in the Highlands.  Ridges, where the
ground has once been arable, may be traced distinctly in the immediate neigh-
bourhood of this ring; and the place has its name from that circumstance.  There
is a remarkable hill, which is called the Mountain of Ridges, in the braes of
Glenlochy, on the estate of Breadalbane, where the ridges and surrows are as
visible and regular in the heath, as though it carried, at present, a crop of
grain.  Did our limits admit of it, the inquiry would be curious, to investigate,
how a crop could be raised in such elevated situations, where no man, at this day,
could think of bringing any grain, that we know of, to maturity.  A country
covered with wood, is much warmer than after it is cleared and exposed.  The
degree of cold, to which our naked mountains are now laid open, must be more
intense than when the ash and alder covered every valley, oak and fir the skirts
of every hill, and the hardy birch climbed up near its brow; and it is difficult
to say what hardships a certain kind of oats, whole husk is thick, and whose
grain is small, can endure, with what culture it is satisfied, and with what
nourishment it is matured.


