
               ARDNAMURCHAN.                              137

Somerled, at which period the right of M'Ian, the actual pos-
sessor, was established by royal charter.
   The high rank of this family in the Highlands and Isles was
maintained by no mean share of ability.  When James IV. visited
the Highlands to quell the insurgent nobles of the forfeited lord-
ship of the Isles, M'Ian, whose castle in Ardnamurchan, the King
had selected to receive the homage of the island chiefs displayed
uncommon zeal and intrepidity in support of the authority of the
Crown, and, singularly enough, against the head of his own house,
Sir John of Islay, and Sir Alexander of Lochaish, the heir of the
Lord of the Isles.  The first be apprehended in Islay, with his
three sons, and took to Edinburgh, where they were executed.
He was concerned in the assassination of the latter.  His unscru-
pulous loyalty procured him high favour and rich rewards from
the King, but drew upon him the fierce vengeance of the houses
of Isla and Lochalsh, who, after the death of James IV., united
their forces, whsted his lands with fire and sword, sacked his castle,
and slew himself and his two sons in battle, some time before 1519.
   Moriada, his grand-daughter and heiress, resigned, (it is not
known for what cause,) with consent of her husband, Robertson of
Strowan, the superiority of Ardnamurchan and Suinart to Archi-
bald, Earl of Argyle.  For about sixty years thereafter, the heirs-
male retained possession, in complete independence of the Earl,
either on the pleat of their Crown charters, or, more probably,
on consuetudinal right and Gaelic rules of succession.
   Feuds, however, arose among the leading men of tho clan.
" Angus mor mac vie Eain," uncle of the chief Donald Conallach,
endeavoured to hold possession of Suinart on his own account.
A reconciliation having apparently been effected, the latter passed
through Suinart to visit Allan nan Creach, " Allen the forayer,"
Lord of Lochiel, to whose daughter he was betrethed ; and on his
return, with only an ordinary retinue, was laid wait for and foully,
murdered by his soage uncle at a pass in the north, of Ardnamur-
chan, still named " Faothil Dhonuil Chonallaich."  It is said that
Lochiel, on seeing his daughter weep, exclaimed,  " For every tear
you shed, I will give cause for ten."  It is certain that Angus Mor
was soon after met by this chief in Morven, and there was slain by
an archer in his train, who nailed his hand to his forehead as he
raised his visor to take a better view of the enemy. *  This took

<FOOTNOTE>The death of this ferocious warrior, as related by tradition, was characteristic.
As he lay dying, he requested Lochiel to receive his sword, being unwilling to yield


