
			LANARK.                       21

tered situations, as it is found they seldom come to perfection on
the light heathy lands.
	Rent, Prices, Wages, &c.--The average rent of arable land is
L. 1, 3s. per Scotch statute acre; the average price of a cow's
grazing on good land, L. 4; on inferior, L. 1, 10s.; that of an ox
varies from L. 3 to L. 3, 10s. The common labourer's wages is
9s. per week; women get 1s. per day.
	Breeds of Live Stock.--There are no store-farms in the parish.
The cattle are all of the Ayrshire breed, and, owing to the pre-
miums given by the agricultural societies, they are greatly improved.
	Husbandry.--A great part of the arable land is said to be unfit
for green crop. After four or five years pasture, it is top-dressed
and two crops of oats taken, with the last of which grass seeds are
sown. It is then again pastured for four or five years. About a
fourth part of it, however, is of a very superior description. It is
cultivated with a rotation of four years--1st, oats; 2d, green crop,
consisting of potatoes, turnips, or beans; 3d, wheat or barley; 4th,
hay. It is then pastured one or two years, but in many cases not
at all. The land of the orchards is generally cropped in a simi-
lar manner, but is dug instead of being ploughed; and, instead of
its being pastured, a hay crop is taken.
	A good deal has been done in the way of irrigation, principally
at Cleghorn, and likewise in draining at the joint expense of land-
lord and tenant.
	The leases being for nineteen years are favourable to the occu-
pier, and the rents are in general well paid. The farms are all
small, and the buildings and enclosures indifferent.
	Quarry.--There is only one lime quarry in the parish, which is
wrought partly by open cast, and partly by mining. It produces
7000 bolls annually, and has a seam of coal eighteen inches thick,
capable of burning about one-third part of the lime.
	Produce.--As various courses of cropping are adopted, and the
land is of very unequal quality, the average value of the gross
produce can only be given in a very vague approximation:0

<TABLE>
		Grain,		L. 15,500	0	0
		Green crop,	    2,275	0	0
		Hay,	            1,625	0	0
		Pasture,	    8,2B7	0	0
		Orchards,	      300	0	0
		Plantations,	      600	0	0
		Lime,		      700	0	0

				 L. 24287	0	0

<FOOTNOTE>Fifteen years ago, the orchards would have brought double the sum; but of late,


