
38                 DUMBARTONSHIRE.

The Kelvin is hardly of size enough to be dignified by the name
of a river, but in Scottish dialect comes under the description of
a water. It rises in the parish of Kilsyth; and after a south-
westerly course of about 16 miles, falls into the Clyde at Partick,
two miles below Glasgow. Through the greater part of its course
it is a sluggish, uninteresting stream; but on reaching Garscube
it changes character. The current is now rapid; the banks are
richly wooded; below Garscube House they are bold and preci-
pitous; and there are in the Lowlands few finer rivers than the
Kelvin, as it winds through these beautiful grounds.
  The Allander is a smaller stream, but not less useful. It is
the feeder by which the Kelvin receives the waters of the reser-
voirs on which the, great flour-mills at Partick and Garscube de-
pend during the dry season of the year; and before joining the
Kelvin, it supplies the extensive machinery at Clober Bleachfield,
and various other works.
  Geology.-Of the great coal-basin, near the centre of which
Glasgow is situated, the Kilpatricks occupy a large part of the
north-western quadrant; the arch, or outer border being overlaid
with trap of which the bills consist. At Garscube, in the south-
eastern corner of this parish, where coal is at present wrought,
the same beds are found as at Glasgow, dipping to the southeast
at an angle of 8&deg;. In digging for it, the strata met with are the
usual alternations of blaize, sandstone, clay-iron ore, and grey-
plies. A great way beneath this lies another coal bed; the dip
of which being in the same direction, at an angle of 14&deg;, it ap-
proaches the i surface towards the north and northwest, and is
wrought at Lawmuir and Castlehill, where it is found at a depth
of about 30 fathoms. The strata met with here are successive
alternations of blaize and ironstone, the latter from 3 to 6 inches
in thickness; and immediately over the coal is a valuable bed of
limestone 3 feet thick. Farther to the north, rocks of sandstone
and conglomerate appear; and still farther in the same direction
are the hills, consisting of greenstone, amygdaloid, trap-tuff,
wacke, and basalt, the latter of which occurs near Craigton in a
very perfect prismatic form.
   The Diluvial deposits are chiefly a stiff red and bluish, clay, sand
and gravell broken up into elongated swells. The range of these
swells is generally from north-west to south-east; and it be
observed, that very frequently the north-western acclivity is abrupt,
while in the opposite direction, it is more lengthened and gentle.


