
	                CRAIGNISH.				  55

<TABLE>

The number of unmarried women upwards of 45 years of age,    .	  5
               families,       .     .      .         .         180
The average number of children in each family,  .    .      .     3
The number of inhabited houses,          .     .     .      .   179
There is one person liable to occasional insanity. There are
two blind individuals, one dumb, and one fatuous.

  Language.--The language generally spoken is Gaelic, It has
lost ground during the last forty years. English vocables are of-
ten introduced by the natives into their conversation, and some
Gaelic words have become obsolete. English is commonly un
derstood.


                         <TABLE=IV.--INDUSTRY.>

Number of males employed in agriculture as farmers,	      -	  	  69
           cottars,    -            -      -            -           -     50
	  males employed in handicrafts,			  	  41
	  professional persons,	    -        -        -         - 	   4
	  other males not included In any of the above descriptions, 	   4
           male servants above 20 years of age,       -          -        30
		        under 20,	-	       -            -	  21
	  female servants above 20,       -           -         -  	  22
			 under 20,	-	    -           -	  11

	Agriculture.--No accurate survey having ever been made, it  is
impossible to state the number of acres of cultivated land. With
safety it may be averred, that a fifth part of the parish might, with
a profitable application of capital, be reclaimed and cultivated.
The best land is, in many places, allowed to lie waste. Consisting
of flat tracts at the base of the rising grounds, it is at once enriched
and injured by the streamlets which flow down from the adjacent
eminences, depositing additional soil, and, finding no outlet, con-
verting it into swamps and quagmires. While the draining of
these valuable tracts is almost wholly neglected, the major part of
the farmers, from indolence or want of due encouragement, or
both, till in monotonous rotation the dry sunny slopes which have
been cultivated for centuries.
   There are not above 300 acres under wood in the whole parish,
and that number is the aggregate of scattered clumps of plantation.
These are chiefly to be seen in the vicinity of gentlemen's seats.
  The system of agriculture which prevails among the smaller
farmers, who hold the largest proportion of the parish, is still,
with, in some instances, slight improvements, what was described
about forty years ago in the former Statistical Account, as "the
old systems," and this fact assuredly exhibits no favourable view
of it. In a few farms a better system is pursued. Those  which
are in the possession of the proprietors are subdivided and enclos-
ed; draining has been carried on upon them to a considerable


