
                           OLRICK.                            63

  In their general character, the people may be stated to be so-
ber, industrious, intelligent, and attentive to the outward ordir
nances of religion.

		IV.-INDUSTRY.
  Agriculture, &c.-The extent of the parish being about 10,000
acres, 6000 maybe reported as cultivated, and the remainder,
with the exception of about 500 acres of links and moss, is ca-
pable of cultivation.
  There are 20 acres under wood on the estates of Castlehill and
Olrig. The oldest was planted by the present proprietor, James
Traill, Esq. about fifty years ago, consisting principally of ash,
plane, elm, oak, mountain-ash, and larch. Some of the trees have
grown as higb as 50 feet. The ash seems to thrive the best.
Fir does not succeed.
  Rent.-The rent of arable, land varies much, depending in a
great measure on proximity to the sea-coast. Near the sea it may
be stated at from L.1 to L.1, 5s. per acre; in the interior from
12s. to 15s. is near the average. The rate of grazing a cow is
L.2 in summer, and L.1, 10s. for wintering.  Keep of a Leicester
sheep is worth from 15s. to 20s. during the year.
  Wages.-Farin-servants wages are, for men, from L.6 to L.8
in money per annum, with 6 1/2 bolls meal, 2 bolls potatoes, house-
room, fire, and a chopin of milk daily. Boys less in proportion,
Out-door women get L.3, 4 bolls of meal, with lodgings, fire,
milk, and potatoes. House female servants L.3 to L.3, 10s.
yearly. Harvest labourers are engaged for eight weeks. Men
get L.1, 10s., and one boll meal, with a ebopin of milk daily, and
a few potatoes; women L.1, and half a boll meal for the harvest,
with potatoes and a mutchkin of milk daily. The price of la-
bour has risen considerably within the last two years, from the
great demand for hands at the stone-works, making roads, fur-
row-draining, enclosing, &c. and may be stated for common la-
bourers Is. 6d. per day in winter, and 1s. 10d. in summer. Wo-
men get now pretty generally 8d. a day for turnip-hoeing, and 6d.
in winter for barn-work, pulling turnips, &c. Wrights, masons,
and blacksmiths get about 2s. 6d. per day. Mason-work of ord.1-
nary wall height and girth measure is done for L.2 per rood of 36
square yards. Blacksmiths get L.2, 10s. per aunum for each pair
of horses. They uphold the horses shoes, iron-work of ploughs
and carts. Saddlers get from L.1 to L.1, 5s. for upholding the
harness of each pair of horses during the year.


