
     Statistical Account

   Advantages and Disadvantages.-A judicious observer
has remarked that the light grounds in the Stormont possess
this advantage over richer and stronger soils, that though
the crops are never uncommonly weighty, yet they are
moderatly good, in a greater variety of seasons, than in any
place where his observation has eached.  A new road
now making to Perth by Stanley, will be of considerable
utility to the parish.  And consequences still more bene-
ficial must arise from the accomplishment of a plan now in
agitation, for building a bridge over the Isla, where it
empties itself into the Tay, and for making a turnpike
road from that bridge to Perth*.  The road between Dun-
keld and Cupar in Angus passes through the middle of the
parish; but, though it is a great thoroughfare, it has never
been made in a sufficient manner.  The statute-labour, being
formerly exacted in kind, was ill adapted either to the con-
struction or preservation of good roads.  As it is now com-
muted, it may be reasonably expected to produce an advan-
tageous change in the state of the roads in the country A
marl-pit has been lately drained.  There is also some lime
in the parish, but the want of coal renders it useless.  In-
deed the principal disadvantage under which the inhabitants
labour, is their distance from coal, and from lime, for the
purposes of agriculture.  It is to be regretted, that some
well directed attempts have not been made, to discover
whether there is coal in this district.  A matter of such im-
portance merits a trial.  Much of the parish is still unin-
closed.  The farmers are fully sensible, that inclosures would

<FOOTNOTE>

*It is at once amusing and instructive to reflect, that near the spot
where the intrepid Agricola constructed a wooden bridged for transport
ing the troops who were to subdue the valour and ravage the fields of
the brave Caledonians the enlightened descendents of those uncivilized
but generous barbarians, are about to erect a more solid structure, for
the nobler purpose of advancing the cultivation and improvement of
their country.


