
596                         ABERDEENSHIRE.

number of barrels during the season is 293, which produces a
handsome revenge to all concerned.  Of late years, five boats,
with the requisite complement of men and women, have gone to
Peterhead for the herring-fishery, which has hitherto proved a
profitable speculation, and not so detritmental to morals, as might
have been expected from the accounts given of the demoralizing
effects of this sort of occupation.

                       V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Market-Town.-There is no market or post town nearer than
Ellon, which is distant six miles, and letters and papers are brought
thence.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The site of the parish church is within
300 yards of the sea coast; but it hs conveniently situated for
the population, as the extreme point does not exceed above
three-and-a-half miles distance from it.  It was built about
forty years ago, is seated to contain about 654, and is regu-
larly well attended.  The number of communicants varies from
450 to 470.  The sittings are all free, and no other church
or chapel of any description within the bounds.  The num-
ber of Episcopalians may be rated at 20, and Seceders of all
denominations at 5.  The extent of glebe, including manse,
garden, and offices, is about 5 acres; and the stipend 16 chalders,
half meal half barley.
   Education.-Two years ago, there was erected a very hand-
some school-house, forming two sides of a square, of the very
best materials; but the slating, masonry, and general finishing of
the whole bear little proportion to the excellence of the materials;
the rain already greatly damaging the roof and walls.  The branches
of instruction taught in it are English reading, writing, arithmetic,
Latin, mathematics, and navigation, and the schoolmaster's salary
is L.30 per annum.  He has the legal accommodation.  There is
an adventure in the village bf Collieston, attended by about
25 secholars; but they are chiefly young, and merely taught the
trudiments of education.
   Parochial Funds.-The average number of poor on the roll is
32,and each recieves annually about L.1, 12s.; and once and
again, the allowances was returned to the session, from an unwil-
lingness to receive it; but this honourable feeling of independence
is first disappearing.  The poor are almost entirely supported by
the weekly collections at the church doors, and the interest of a
small fund of L.140 Sterling, deposited in the bank at the common


