
860			ABERDEENSHIRE.

and Peterhead; on the south, by Cruden; on the west and north-
west, by Old Deer; and on the north, by Lonmay, or, rather that
part of it which forms the new parish of Kininmonth.  Like Bu-
chan in general, it is very level, or rising into gentle undulations,
which afford facilities for draining the land.  The Ugie, which
divides the parish from west to east, frequently overflows the ad-
joining ground to a considerable extent, but might easily be con-
fined by embankments.  This the proprietors concerned have, for
some time, been proposing to do.  Were the work well executed,
there is no doubt that the result would be an ample remuneration
for the outlay, as well as the removal of a nuisance uiifavourable
to the health of the neighbourhood.
   Hydroqraphy.-The springs are abundant, and generally free
from Mineral admixture.  About 400 yards south of the village of
Longside, two springs flow within little more than a foot from each
other, the one of very soft water, and the other a strong chalybeate.
The two branches of the Ugie, after a separate course of ten or
twelve miles from the west, unite in this parish; and the river,
flowing eastward, falls into the sea near Peterhead, about four
miles below the confluence.
   Geology.-There are several quarries of excellent granite, the
principal one of which is wrought at the hill of Cairngall, one mile
from the village of Longside.  The stone found here is of a light
grayish hue, and has been, and still is, in considerable demand for
public works in England and elsewhere, being valued for its colour
and durability.  When highly polished it looks remarkably well in
the form of mantel-pieces, tables, and other articles of which the
surfaces are plain. * The other quarries, which are chiefly on the
Rora property, yield stone of a darker appearance, and are not
much wrought, except for local purposes.  Pieces of quartz and
felspar are plentiful throughout the district, and prove useful, with
granite chips, in the erection of cottages and dikes.  On the south-
ern boundary of the parish, there are found great quantities of no-
dules of a yellowish brown flint, many of which, when broken, dis-
close a cavity, and appear as if they had been formed around an
insect or small shell, of which they retain the impression.  It is
conjectured by some geologists that these nodules had been, at a

<FOOTNOTE>Fine specimens of it are to be seen in the Duke of York's monument, London,
Covent Garden market, and the river wall of the new houses of Parliament.  it turns
out large blooks more, frequently than the Aberdeen granite, and is harder to work.


