
324                        BERWICKSHIRE.

tions, in which its inhabitants engaged, were the receiving and pas-
sing to Coldingham those supplies which were required, either for
the support of its numerous inmates, or for the performance of the
rites of their pompous and imposing worship. One of these notices
occurs so early as the fourteenth century, and shows that shipping
even at that early period, had resorted to the harbour to such an
extent as to encourage the demand of anchorage dues on the part
of the lord of the manor. It is in these terms, 11 Magna Placi-
tatio, in curia de Eyton, pro duodecim denariis male receptis, per
J. Kinkborn, nomine sedis, unius navis, apud Eymouth."-Ab.
Chart. Coldingham, 22.
   Land-owners.-From the earliest notices extant, it would seem
that nearly the whole of the lands in this, as well as a large portion
of those in the neighbouring parish, belonged at one time to the
Homes of Fastcastle. The last baronet of that name had two
daughters, one of whom was married to Logan of Restalrig, the
other to Ogilvie of Dunlugas; and charters in both of these names
are found recorded. Sir Lawrence Scott seems to have been the
next proprietor of the lands of Eyemouth, whose only daughter,
Eupbemia, was married. to Mr George Winram, son of a Colonel
Winram. Upon Mr Winram's failure, the estate was purchased
by Mr Trotter of Mortonhall, who shortly afterwards (in 1764)
sold it to the late Patrick Home, Esq. and in that familv it has re-
mained ever since. The late Mr Ninian Home, the father of the
above Patrick Home, purchased the Linthill estate, (which, with
the lands of Eyemouth, forms a very compact and valuable pro-
perty,) from a Mr Alexander Home. *
   The present proprietor of the Eyemouth estate is W. F.
Home, Esq. of Billie, who resides at Paxton House, in the pa-
rish of Hutton. The other proprietors in the parish are, David
Renton, Esq. of Highlaws; John Fowler, Esq. of Hallydown; Co-
lonel Logan; Rev. John Edgar; the Friendly Society: Mr W.
A.Gillie; Captain Brown; Mr J. Purves; Mr A. Robertson;
Mr R. Turnbull; Mr W. Purves; Mrs Wightman and Miss Fore-

<FOOTNOTE>The mansion-house of Linthill, which is pleasantly situated on the banks of the
Ale, near its junction with the Eye, was, after the death of Patrick Home, the scene
of a remarkable tragedy, his widow having been barbarously murdered there by her
servant, Norman Ross, about the year 1752. He had concealed himself under her
bed, whence he sallied forth upon her at dead of night. After a severe struggle,
during which he inflicted several dreadful wounds upon her with a case knife, with
which he was armed, she contrived to reach the bell-rope and alarm the family; upon
which he leaped from the window, and escaped. A few days afterwards, he was
found by some reapers in the adjoining field, having broken his leg in the fall. He
was tried before the High Court of Justiciary at Edinburgh, and condemned to be
executed, and his body to be hung in chains.


