
870                        ABERDEENSHIRE.

   Savings' Bank.-This was established in 1815, being thus one
of the earliest of the kind, if not the first, in the north of Scotland,
and effected by the judicious exertion of the Rev. Mr Greig, then
minister of this parish.  The deposits were made chiefly by ser-
vants and small crofters; and the institution continued to prosper
till 1837, when it received a temporary check by the failure of
the cashier.  The directors, however, aided by some friends, paid
up the sums deposited, with the interest due, and a new cashier
being appointed, the bank is again proceeding favourably, and the
business increasing.  At the stoppage in 1837, the sum in the
bank was L.2178 held by about 100 depositors.  At present, the
amount is L.1170, belonging to 65 depositors.  This change is
owing chiefly to the establishment of savings' banks in the sur-
rounding parishes Poor.-The average number of persons receiving parochial aid,
as paupers on the roll for the last three years, was 77, and of those
occasionally relieved, 39.  The average sum allowed to each of
the former per year was L. 1, 4s. 6d.  The annual amount of con-
tributions for their relief, averaged as above, was, church and cba-
pel collections, L.81, 16s. 3d.; interest of money lent, L.22, 16s.;
other sources, L.16, 10s.  The Episcopal congregation, much to
their credit, relieve their own poor, so that they do not come as
a burden on the general fund; but they receive from the church
session a share of any donation or legacy paid to them, propor-
tioned to their part of the population.  The average numbers and
sums, therefore, which are stated above, include the Episcopal
poor and their relief, in order that the account of pauperism in
the parish may be complete.  Mr Ferguson of Pitfour gives an-
nually L.5, to be. distributed among the poor on his estate; and
the Honourable Mrs Ferguson has frequently sent blankets and
flannels for the same purpose.  The late General Gordon of
Buthlaw also gave an annual donation of meal or money to the
poor on his property.  In particular cases of distress, two men of
good character are usually requested to collect alms from the
neighbourhood, and generally discharge this duty with fidelity and
success.  It is often said, that the spirit of independence among
the poor is decreasing; but it must be taken into account, that
their wants may be more pressing, owing chiefly to there being
scarcely any employment for females who are not able for out-of-
door-work, and even this not being procurable at all seasons.
The stoppage of the manufactory left a good many unfit for other


