
     Statistical Account

them off in the spring, or take into their straw yards cat-
tle from the graziers, who pay so much a-head for them,
according to their size*.

   Advantages.-This parish derives much advantage from
its vicinity to the town of Montrose, where the farmer has
always a ready market for every thing that he can raise,
and where in return he can purchase whatever he wants
for the use of his farm or his family.  Another very
great advantage is the open navigation from Montrose to
Old Montrose where coals are landed for fuel to the inha-
bitants, and likewise great quantities of lime both from
Sunderland and Lord Elgin's lime-works, for manure.
Vessels of 50 or 60 tons burden can, at stream tides, land
with ease at the harbour of Old Montrose.  A canal has
been projected, and perhaps one day will be carried from
thence to Brechin.  This would complete the navigation
between Brechin and Montrose, and would of course not

<FOOTNOTE>

*Price of Labour-The price of labour is very high.  The wages
of a common ploughman are from L. 8 to L. 10 Sterling a-year; a ser-
vant maid from L. 2, 10 s. to L. 3.  A stout man will get from L. 1, 10 s.
to L. 2 for the harvest; a woman from L. 1 to L. 1, 5 s.  The wages of
a common labourer are 1 s. a-day.  Yet notwithstanding the high price of
labour, the common people are not richer than formerly: Although their
revenue be greater, they add nothing to their capital seldom think of
saving any thing to support them in their old age.  All is spent upon the
back and the belly; they eat and drink better, and are better cloathed.  The
ploughman now despises the home-made suit of blue or grey, and all of
the same piece: He comes to church on Sunday dressed in a coat of Eng-
lish cloath, a fancy vest, corduroy breeches, white threa stocktngs, plated
buckles, etce.  All of them wear hats; not a Scotch bonnet is to be seen.
The dress of the women is as much changed as that of the men.  The
country lass makes her appearance at church, or a wedding, dressed in the
manufactures of Mancheiter, Glasgow, and Paisley.  Thus the improve-
ment of the land is the enrichment of the kingdom, and the sail could not
be spread without the assistance of the plough.


