
     Statistical Account

be got, it appears to be of the same age with the cathe-
dral of St. Andrew's, which was built in the 12th cen-

<FOOTNOTE>

fact is, few or no seams in this part of Fife, reach above 2 or 3 miles in length
at most, and many not half that distance; for instance, Dysart coal which has the
same line of bearing with Balgonie, has been wrought from the sea-side about
2 miles, where, near the water of Orr, it is entirely cut off and no more seen.
About half a mile E., and 1 mile N., the S. extremity of Balgonie coal ap-
pears, and keeps the same line of bearing, as well as resembles Dysart coal
somewhat in quality, but not in thickness; Dysart coal being 22 feet, and Bal-
gonie coal only 9 feet thick; the declivity pretty much the same.  At the dis-
tance of 3 miles, this coal, and all the strata accompanying it, is also cut off;
and not the least vestige or appearance of that coal, or any other, has been dis-
covered within some miles of it.  Wemyss coal, Methel, and Durrie coal, are
as regular seams as either Dysart or Balgonie, but none of them can be traced
farther in the line of bearing; they are all cut off in the same manner before 
they are 2 miles from the sea.  The more inland coals distant 8 or 10 miles
from the Frith of Forth, such as Burnturk, Pitlessie, Divan, and Clatty, are 
situated on the sides of hills of small extent; the metals of which have no con-
tinued line either of bearing or declivity; and the coal in these situations con-
sequently subject to all the irregularities ever found in coal works.  Some of 
the seams are even seen to crop out quite round a small eminence.  And even
small as the extent these fields is, the coal is found full of dikes, hitches,
and all imaginable troubles; which render them scarce worth working.  Be-
yond this, in the flat country, along the banks of the Eden, no coal has ever 
been discovered.  And from this to the Tay, there are no strata ever discovered 
that indicate coal being there; nor are there sufficient symptons even to en-
courage trials for coal, with any national hope of success. 
   The Fife coals, even the most regular, being thus contracted in the line of
bearing, are comparatively of very small extent, compared with the idea a 
stranger has of them, on a flight view of the number of pits he sees at work
on the various seams.  Such a person, if unacquainted with the natural history
of coal and its strata, is apt to suppose the whole country full of coal; the very
dikes and interruptions in the bearing of the strata, increases the deception,
showing, as he supposes, a still greater number of seams and extent of coal.
For instance, a person unacquainted with the interruptions met with in coal
fields, sees Dysart coal and Balgonie both at work, he imagines the one may be 
wrought N. on the line of bearing, as far as the Lomonds, 6 miles distant, and 
the other S. to the sea, and N. to the Eden, whenever the proprietors choose to 
do so; and hence he concludes, both coals almost inexhaustible: but investigate


