
86                          SHETLAND.

Such is the depth of post moss in the. interior of Yell, that, if
equally distributed over the surface thereof, it would afford a
covering of not less than three feet in thickness to the whole
island.
  Zoology.-It has sometimes been doubted whether salmon are
to be found on the coats, or in the lochs in Shetland. This
doubt admits of an easy solution, as no fewer than twenty-one
were caught, at one drag of a net on the sands of Vatsetter in this
parish iu 1831.  All that have been caught here are of a small
size, none -having been seen exceeding nine and a half pounds.
This however, is not to be wondered at, when the destructive
habits of the sea in reference to this fish, are taken into account,
half a score of which have been seen guarding the creek, through
which the fish had to pass before getting into fresh water, which
they generally attempt from 20th July to the middle of, August.
The sea-trout, which are most abundant here, are somewhat later
in their habits, and never seek to get into fresh Water before the
middle of August or beginning of September.
   As a shell-fish, important in an'economical point of view, the
common cockle ought not to be overlooked in the statistics Of Yell;
for often, in times of scarcity, has it been the means of saving
the lives of hundreds of its inhabitants. As an example of the ex-
tent to which the cockle was sought after, during the scarcity
which prevailed in 1837, it may be mentioned, that, in the month
of May of that year, 115 barrels of cockle-shells were collected
from 10 families, who had been reduced to the necessity of living
on the fish thereof during the preceding spring: And at that time
there were more, than 50 families in the parish,-from whom a
proportionate quantity could have been obtained.
   Yell, like other districts,, the inhabitants of which live by fish-
ing, has often been, nay,.it may.,be said, yearly is exposed to sad dis-
asters from loss of life at sea. But of all the recorded misfortunes
of this kind none can be compared with that which occurred in
then  month of July 1832. On that occasion four boats were lost,
and of their whole erews almost all which numbered thirty men, only three
were saved. These were almost all  men in the prime of life, and
left behind them 23 widows, and 61 fatherless children under four-
teen years of age, to mourn their untimely fate.

                                  II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
Land-owners.-The principal landlords in the Mid and South
Yell are, John Ogilvy, Esq. of Gossaburgh and Quarff, and Ro-



