
                           DUNIPACE.                           383

                       III.-POPULATION.
   The population of this parish in 1831 was 1278 since that time,
from accommodation having been built for nearly fifty additional
families, the number has increased to 1460, of which above 1000
belong to the Established Church; the remainder, exclusive of
those that attend no church, belong to the Dissenters, who have
two places of worship, in the neighbouring parish of Denny. It
is worthy of notice, that the adherents of the Establishment have
increased greatly here since the agitation of what is called the Vo-
luntary Question, which has been conducted in this quarter with
unexampled virulence.
  It is a curious fact, that there is neither a medical mannor a
clergyman, a smith nor a wright, nor even a resident beggar in
this parish; and it is but of late, that there was either a baker or a
tailor in it. The oldest resident families are the Muirheads of
Tyggetshaugh and the Watsons of Wester Barnego.
                     IV.-INDUSTRY.
  AgricuUure.-Of the 4600 acres which this parish contains,
there may be about 500, acres under wood, partly planted and
partly natural; about 300 acres of moor, moss, and rock; the re-
mainder arable, but of very different qualities. Two-thirds of it
lie on a substratum of sandstone; the remainder on whin rock.
It rises at its western extremity to the height of 600 feet above the
level of the Forth. Its eastern parts terminate in the carse-of Stir-
ling a few feet above the level of that river. The average rental
may be about L.2 per Scots acre of what is reckoned good land.
Some fields, however, on the banks of the Carron let as high as
L.3 and sometimes L.4 per acre. With a very few exceptions,
the land is cultivated in as improved a method as it will admit of.
The nature of the soil will not bear often cropping. A conside-
rable proportion is always laid down in grass, for rearing and feed-
ing cattle. Considerable quantities of turnips are raised, and still
more of potatoes, which are generally of a very. good quality.
Formerly, flax was sown on every farm, but -since foreign flax,was
so plentifully imported, that crop has given way to wheat, which
grows here well. From the proximity of the Campsie hills, Den-

married Miss Spottiswoode, heiress of the late Thomas Spottiswoode, Esq. of Duni-
pace. This makes Mr Brown now the second heritor.

<FOOTNOTE>BY the census of 1841, the population amounts to 1578 where of 1100 belong
to the Established Church.
   From the continually shifting and anomalous nature of a calico. printing popu-
lation, no accurate statistical account of them can be given.
   Since the above was writen, a smith has commenced business here, and is doing
well.


