
   			   AYR.                              65

petitions, prizes were awarded for the best specimens of fruits,
flowers, and vegetables, and for several years the society was con-
ducted with great spirit, and proved highly conducive io the object
for which it was formed. There is a library, which was com-
menced in 1824, consisting of books on horticulture, botany, na-
tural history, &c.; and at this period it contains about a hundred
volumes. In the year 1831, there was a splendid exhibition, on
a large scale, of all the productions of the vegetable kingdom that
useful and ornamental gardening could furnish,--specimens of
these, both rich and rare, having been brought forward from dif-
ferent parts of the county, by practical gardeners and amateurs.
This interesting show was among the first of the kind in Scotland;
and was the means of gaining high repute to the institution, and
of procuring for it many additional members. In 1832, the as-
sociation united with it most of the agriculturists of the district.
and from this period took the name of "The Ayrshire Horticul-
tural and Agricultural Society," and six additional councillors were
added to the former number. In 1833 and 1834, there were ex-
hibitions of all sorts of produce belonging to the two branches of
the institution. It seems to be conducted in a spirited manners
and cannot fail to be useful, by exciting emulation, and a more
intimate communion among two most respectable classes, closely
allied to each other in their professional pursuits.
	Ayr Medical Association.--A Society under the above designa-
tion has existed among medical practitioners since 1830, for
mutual instruction and professional communication. It consists
of almost the whole of the gentlemen belonging to the profession
in the town, and of several in other parts of the county. Each of
the members contributes one sovereign annually to the funds which
are expended in the purchase of books and journals, chiefly of a
professional character. Thus the periodical medical literature of
Britain and of foreign countries, and works of merit which are
from time to time issued from the press on subjects connected
with the profession, are in constant circulation among the mem-
bers. This renders the association the more useful, as such pro-
ductions could not be so conveniently procured otherwise, not being
admissible into libraries intended for general resider. The books
are kept at present at the Dispensary rooms, where all the mem-
bers can easily avail themselves of them. We take, this oppor-
tunity of paying a well-marked, tribute of respect to the Medical
	AYR				E


