
178                   HADDINGTONSHIRE.

is old, and in some places has been so much thinned, that it might
be cleared and made arable at very little expense. Nowhere in
the county are ditches and drains more necessary than on the pro-
perty of Hodges. *

                    II.-CIVIL HISTORY. +

   Ancient families.-Baillie of Hoprig and Penston.-By far the most
ancient family connected with this parish, is that of Baillie of Hop-
rig and Penston. That, indeed, is one of the most ancient families
in Scotland, having been in possession of those lands for the long
period of 540 years. John Baliol, Lord of Barnard Castle, was the
founder of Baliol College, Oxford, and father of John Baliol, King
of Scotland. He had a brother, Alexander Baliol or de Balliolo,
High Chamberlain of Scotland, whose second son, William de Bal-
liolo, swore fealty to, King Edward I. in 1296, as appears from the
Ragman Roll. He was proprietor of Hoprig and Penston, and ac-
quired Lamington, in Lanarkshire, by marriage with a daughter, it is
said, of William Wallace, Governor of Scotland. The family took
the designation of Lamington, altering their name to Baillie.
   Sir William Baillie of Lamington, Hoprig, and Penston, dying
without legitimate male issue about 1580, was succeeded by his
eldest daughter Margaret, who married Edward Maxwell of the
Nithsdale family. He took the name of Baillie, and from them
descended William Baillie of Lamington, Hoprig, and Penston,
whose only son, William, dying unmarried, his estates devolved on
his daughter, Margaret, married to Sir James Carmichael of Bonn-
toun, in Lanarkshire, of the Hyndford family. Their son, Sir James,
died without issue, and was succeeded by his sister, Henrietta Bail-
lie of Lamington, Hoprig, and Penston, also Bonnytoun, and mar-
ried the gallant Admiral Sir John Lockhart Ross of Balnagowan,

<FOOTNOTE>It may be noticed here, that a very large green tree stood at the west end of the
manse, planted by Principal Robertson, when minister of the parish. Towards the
bottom, it was about 3 feet in diameter, of a great height, and spread its branches
over some of the buildings in its neighbourhood. The trunk, when the present in-
cumbent came to the parish in 1833, was quite hollow and rotten in the middle, and
the whole weight was supported by an outer rim of 2 or 3 inches thick, with an
opening on one side. Had it been overturned by the wind, it might have done very
great injury both to the manse and offices. To prevent which, it was cut down last
year, and the fragments of it, laid up beside the house, bear witness of what it once
was.
   +There are no accounts of the parish, as far as I know, either written or printed.
Some nears ago, Mr M'Donald, of the Register. Office, found an account in MSS. of
severaL the parishes of East Lothian drawn up in 1627, which he has lately got
printed, and has generously sent a copy of the book to the library of the General As-
sembly, to be preserved for the use of the church. The parish of Gladsmuir having
been created long after that period, of course cannot he amongst them. But the po-
tion taken from Traneut is to be found under the head of that parish.


