
226                      STIRLINGSHIRE.

sides love sonnets and a variety of smaller pieces, he published tra-
gedies under the title of "Elegiac Dialogues for the Instruction of
the Great." His "Parcenesis or Exhortation to Government,"
addressed to Prince Henry, is a poem of no common merit.  His
largest production, a sacred poem, entitled "Doomsday," was
finished 1614. Speaking of his works, Mr Addison observes, "I
have read them over with the greatest satisfaction."
   Alexander Hume, minister of Logie, appears with some degree
of distinction among the early Scottish poets.  He was the second
son of Patrick Hume of Polwarth, from whom the noble family of
Marchmont derived its lineage. (Wood's Peerage, Vol. ii. p. 178.)
He is supposed to have been born about the year 1560, and to
have been partly educated in the University of St Andrews. He
was originally destined for the Bar, and he followed, the usual me-
thod of preparation by completing his studies in France; but, be-
ing disgusted with the profession of a lawyer, he afterwards endea-
voured to obtain preferment at Court, where his elder brother, Pa-
trick, who was likewise a poet, possessed considerable influence.
In an epistle written when he was thirty years of age, and addres-
sed to Dr Moncrieff, Physician to the king, "his tender friend,
Moncrieff, mediciner," he communicates several particulars of
his early history.  His experience of the Court was not more satis-
factory; and, having finally directed his views to the church, he was
appointed minister of Logie in the year 1598.  Here he remained
till the period of his death, 4th December 1609. Hume is the au-
thor of a volume, printed by Robert Waldegrave, under the title of
"Hymnes, or Sacred Songs, wherein the right use of Poesie may be
espied. Whereunto are added the experience of the author's youth,
and certaine precepts serving to the practise of sanctification." Edin-
burgh, 1599, 4to. This volume has been reprinted as a contri-
bution to the Bannatyne Club. Edinburgh, 1832, 4to. These
poems, which are dedicated to Lady Culross, are creditable to
the moral and religious feelings of the author, nor are they alto-
gether destitute of energy. The cannot, indeed, be commended
as containing much that deserves the name of poetry, but they
are at least superior to most of the pious effusions of that age.
His sacred songs are eight in number, including a poem chiefly
descriptive of "the Day Estival;" and another on the defeat
of the Spanish Armada. His description is rather equable and
pleasing than vivid and striking. The Day Estival was inserted
by Dr Leyden in his collection entitled Scottish Descriptive Poems,


