
172                            LANARKSHIRE.

a tenement with its ertinents, in the High Street of Glasgow, to
the north of the Blackfriars, together with four acres of land in
the Dow-hill. In the deed, the noble donor required the Princi-
pal and Regents, on their first admission, to declare on oath, that
they would commemorate James Lord Hamilton, and Lady Eu-
phemia, his spouse, the Countess of Douglas, as the founders of
the college. Amongst other benefactors of the college, distin-
guished by their donations, chiefly for the support of poor students,
were Ann Duchess of Hamilton, Robina Countess of Forfar,
William Earl of DundOlIDell, the Duke of Chandos, the Duke
of Montrose, Leighton, Archbishop of Glasgow, Boulter, Bishop
of Armagh, Mr Snell, Dr Williams, Dr Walton, Mr Zachary
Boyd, and Dr William Hunter.
	The Reformation produced great disorder in the University, its
members being clergymen of the Catholic persuasion, and its chief
support being derived from the church. In 1577, James VI. pre-
scribed particular rules with regard to the college, and the forma-
tion of its government, and made a considerable addition to its
funds. The charter by which the King made these regulations,
and gave that property, still continues to be the magna charta of
the college, and is known by the name of Nova Erectio.
	The business of the University is transacted in three distinct
meetings, viz. those of the Senate, the Comitia, and the Faculty.
The meeting of senate consists of the Rector, the Dean, the
members of Faculty, and the other Professors. The Rector pre-
sides in this meeting, except when affairs are managed, for which
the Dean is competent. Meetings of the senate are held for the
election and admission of the Chancellor and Dean of Faculty,
for the admission of the Vice-Chancellor and Vice-Rector, for
electing a representative to the General Assembly, for conferring
degrees, and for the management of the libraries, and other mat-
ters belonging to the University. The constituent members of the
comitia are, the Rector, the Dean, the Principal, the Profes-
sors, and the matriculated students of the University. * The Rec-

<FOOTNOTE>The royal visitation of the University, in 1717 and 1718, deprived the Students
of the right of voting in the election of the Rector, and appointed the election to be
made by the plurality of votes in a University meeting, composed of the Chancellor,
Dean, and Principal, (the office of Rector being vacant,) and all the Professors and
Regents; the said members being restricted to a man of probity and judgment,
of known affection to the government in Church and State, who is not a minister of
the gospel, nor bears any other office in the University. It is believed that the re-
gulation of this visitation originated in some feelings and jealousies connected with
the political circumstances of the country, and had reference to the wish of persons
attached to the interests of the Stuart family, being raised to situations of importance
and influence.


