
                            GALASHIELS.                      15

would have been glad to get, for the whole lot, the average price
of one shilling a head;-a prodigious waste of a valuable article
of of food. The river is not open now till the 15th of February,
when the condition of the salmon is generally improved. It is
not easy to say at what time the varieties of this tribe come into
the rivers, or when they return to the sea. In no month of the
year is the river Tweed without some of them. They do not leave
the sea only for the purpose of spawning, but to get rid of an in-
sect with which they become infested in salt water. This insect
quits its hold in the course of two days' exposure to the fresh stream;
and hence, as salmon are sometimes taken in this place with the
insect adhering to them, their rate of travelling cannot be less than
twenty miles per day,-a rapidity that is surprising, considering
the force of the current with which they have all the way to con-
tend; for this journey can only be performed when there is a con-
siderable flood in the river.
   Squirrels have appeared, but do not seem to have gained a
residence; which, for the sake of game and singing birds, is little
desirable. The otter preys upon salmon and large trout in the rivers.
The swan, the eagel, the raven, the starling, the butcher-bird, the
ring dottrel, and Bohemian chatterer, are the more rare of the fea-
thered tribe which occasionally make their appearance. It is worthy
of remark that wood-pigeons, which have increased in number in pro-
portion to the increase of plantation, prove destructive to the turnip
crop; and that crows have lately learned to relieve the famine of win-
ter by feeding on that root. The moor blackbird, too, has of late
years become a most troublesome spoiler of the garden. It is
nearly of the same size as the singing blackbird, but dingy and
tuneless,-a daring thief that comes before the windows and
carries off a plum nearly as large as itself, shewing by its chatter
more of anger than fear when it is disturbed in the work of depre-
dation. Currants, gooseberries, cherries, plums, and the finest
wall-fruits, are its prey.
   Finger-and-toe, a disease of the turnip root, and now spreading
to an alarming degree, is in all probability to be ascribed to an in-
sect; but the subject, so far as I have learned, is not yet investi-
gated. There is also a fly which preys upon the leaf of that crop
to its great damage, but whose natural history has not yet been
ascertained. * The carrot worm is so prevalent in this place that

<FOOTNOTE>The insect alluded to is a species of the genus Haltica, Stephens,-perhaps the H.
nemorum. A writer in the Entomological Magazine for July, has related some experi-


