
352			FORFARSHIRE.

"in spiring and summer, there is often an alternation of land and sea
breezes; and raw cold winds occasionally set in towards the even-
ing, frequently accompanied with thick haze called the eastern haar,
which spreads over the low grounds." As might be expected in
these circumtances, rheumatic, catarrhal, and inflammatory com-
plaints are those of most frequent occurrence; yet the parishion-
ers, on the whole, are healthy and vigorous.
        Hydrography.-Considering the extent of the parish, its springs
are not numerous, nor, with the exception of the pretty strong cha-
lybeate in the den of Guynd, are they remarkable for any pecu-
liar quality. Carmylie well, issuing from the south side of the hill
of that name, and reckoned one of the best in the parish, has a
mean annual temperature of 46&deg;.6. That of Monk Mudie's well,
at the foot of the hill, is nearly the same.
	A few small rivulets constitute the only streams in the parish, the
most considerable of which is the Elot. Its banks towards Guynd,
residence of the second heritor, exhibit a good deal of beauti-
ful and romantic scenery; of which, advantage, has been taken by
the proprietor, in the disposal of his pleasure grounds. It has its
source in the parish, and joins the sea at Aber-elot, now Arbirlot,
about eight miles distant from its source, which flows from the east
end of a peat bog called Dilty moss.
	A small rivulet flows from the west end of the moss in a con-
trary direction, and reaches the German Ocean by a very circui-
tous course, descending through the adjoining parishes by the
Dean and the Isla to the Tay.
        Geology and Mineralogy.-The elevated parts of the parish
seem to be composed of masses of sandstone, chiefly of a reddish
grey colour; thier summits are in several instances coped with a
dark-coloured whinstone, called scurdy. Sandstone rocks of great
thickness are also found a little below the level of the parish, at its
eastern extremity.
	The general bearing of the strata is the same as that of the strata
which compose the Seidlaw hills, of which the parish forms a part,
viz, from south-west to north-east. They abound in fissures, partly
transverse, but chiefly in the direction of thier dip, which is to-
wards the south-east, at the rate of 1 foot in 6 feet nearly of hori-
zontal distance.
	"Mr Headrick states (Survey, page 36,) that, on sinking a pit
in quest of limestone at Conansy, in this parish, only a few de-
tached masses of sparry limestone were found, but a great body



