
     Of Forglen.

   In ploughing, the farmers sometimes use horse ploughs,
and sometimes oxen, according to the nature of the
ground; and the cattle are now yoked with collars and
traces, and trained to carts and wains.  The breed of cattle
and horses is much improved of late; and also the sheep,
of which there are several stocks of a larger size, with finer
wool, and giving double or triple price of the ordinary
country breed.  Wool is sold from several farms at 20 s.
and 21 s. 4 d. the stone.
   The farmers now raise flax for their own use*.-Pease,
oats, and barley, are sown from the beginning of March
to the end of May; and harvest begins in August, and
terminates, in ordinary years, in September or beginning
of October.  Harvest 1732, and several since, have been
much out of course; and the last (1793) as bad as any+.

   Heritors.-The heritors of the parish are, the Right
Honourable William Lord Banff, Colonel Duff of Car-

<FOOTNOTE>

*They are but learners, however:  they have not yet acquired the
necessary skill, and not reckoning the crop essential, they often lose it,
for want of a little attention to weeding and watering; and so come to
be discouraged by their own neglect.  A night or two extraordinary, in
hot weather, will rot it in the steep.  Care then should be taken of this,
if it should lie a little longer on grass.
+The seed was late laid down, owing to a cold spring.  Rains in
summer kept it in the growing state, and extended it to an extraordinary
length; so that it was, perhaps, the fullest in appearance we ever saw;
but the rain continuing after the ordinary season of harvest was come, pre-
vented its ripening, and also lodged it.  In the beginning of harvest this
year, about the end of September and beginning of October, a considerable
part was got in in safety, but rendered very light by lodging.  The weather
was good till the middle of October, but then the rains came back again,
and spoiled a great part of what remained in the field.  Though ordi-
narily earlier than our neighbours, the victual was not fully secured in
this parish when December was come.  The same was the case over all
this quarter of the country.


