
326     			AYRSHIRE.

on it. A more conspicuous memorial of his life and death was
reared some years ago from the proceeds of a collection made at
a sermon delivered near the spot. The names of the individuals
who were slain along with Richard Cameron are, Michael Came-
ron, John Gammel, John Hamilton, James Gray, Robert Dick,
Captain John Fowler, Thomas Watson, and Robert Paterson.
	Not far from the confines of this parish and Muirkirk, on the
banks of the Ayr, are the remains of an old iron-work, said in the
former Statistical Account to have been erected by Lord Cathcart.
Little is known of its history; but it is said that the workmen em-
ployed in it were English; that they used the iron ore from the
farm of Whitock, on the opposite side of the Ayr,--the property at
present of the Honourable Mrs Macadam Cathcart,--the propor-
tion of iron in which is as high as 8o per cent.; and that, as there
is no coal in the immediate neighbourhood, they made use of
charred peat as a substitute.
	On the lands of Wallacetown, Dear the confluence of the Bellow
and Glenmore waters, is to be seen what was thirty years ago a
"rocking-stone;" it is of some tons weight, and rests on two other
stones placed upright; but it is no longer moveable, its equili-
brium having been destroyed. Its situation is such, that it may na-
turally be supposed to have been at one time connected with a
Druidical grove.

              		III.--POPULATION.
	There has been a considerable increase in the population for a
number of years: In 1791 it was 775, in 1831, 1662. If we class
the population employed at the two collieries of Birnieknowe and
Common, and that part of Auchinleck adjoining Cumnock along
with the village, it will amount to fully one-half of the whole, the
rest of the inhabitants being scattered throughout the parish ge-
nerally.
	As all do not get the births of their children registered, and as
they are baptized by ministers of different denominations, no ac-
curate statement can be given of the yearly average amount of
these. It will probably be about 36. The yearly average num-
ber of burial is 29; and of marriages 13.

<TABLE>

Number of families in the parish,         	                           329
                   chiefly employed in agriculture,      	                98
	                           in trade, manufactures, or handicraft,    122
	During the last three years there have been 12 illegitimate
births.


