
     Statistical Account

principally concerned in it, which began in 1717, and con-
tinued till 1931; when they recovered what they could, and
got the money settled to bear interest.  On the death of Mr.
Ray, in 1735, the fund fell chiefly under the management of
Mr. JOHN WOOD, late minister of Rosemarkie, who bestowed
on it the utmost attention; and notwithstanding some misfor-
tunes, to which all human affairs are liable, by the power of
accumulation, and the care of the administrators, in laying it
out to the best advantage, it is now brought up to a capital of
ahout 200 L. Sterling.  And, Since the year 1746, a small sa-
lary of 30 s. yearly has been also paid from it, to a cateehist
in the town of Fortrose.
   The present administrators, Mr. Alexander Wood, minister
of Rosemarkie, and Mr. James Smith, minister of Avoch, find-
ing the fund in so thriving a state, from their own attention
to it, as well as the fidelity and diligence of their predecessors,
began to think in what manner they might apply it to the
most useful purpose.  With n view to this, it occurred to them,
that it could not be employed better than in the establishment
of an academy at Fortrose.  To this they were invited much
by the healthy situation of the place, free from temptations
to vice, and abounding with many fine walks and places of
exercise for the students.  They saw likewise, that this could
be effected, so as fully to answer the intention of the pious
donor, and to be productive of the best effects to the community.
This institution has been accordingly formed.  With the aid
of a liberal subscription from the gentlemen of this county, and
many others, (to the amount of above 600 L. Sterling), the
administrators purchased a new house and garden, in a very
agreeable part of the town, commanding a most pleasant pro-
spect; and have built another house in the same square, with
excellent rooms for teaching, and other accommodations.  One
these houses is destined for the rector, and the other for the


