
     Of Kemnay.

Mr. Burnett's improvements in agriculture were going on.  It
contains 24 acres of the most thriving wood, shrubs, etc. and
is one of the most delightful pieces of pleasure-ground in the
N. of Scotand, though all in a peat-moss.  But Mr. Burnett's
example, in respect of improvement, has produced very little
effect on his tenants, among whom, in general, the same mode
of agriculture prevails that was followed a century ago.  There
is, indeed, an inclination among them to alter it.  A taste
for cleaning their grounds by green crop, and sowing artifi-
cial grass, begins to appear.  But they have several obstacles
to improvement to surmount.  They have not sufficient stock.
Indeed, there is not a substantial tenant in the parish.  They
have scarcely any enclosures.  Their leases are short, none of
them exceeding 19 years.  The carriage of lime from the
port of Aberdeen, where alone it can be got, is a very heavy
expense, as we have neither a canal nor a navigable river.
The tenants pay a high multure* at the mill.  They have no
fuel but peats, the digging and carrying home of which afford
full employment to their servants and horses, from the end of
May till harvest begin.  Coals are too high-priced for them,
in consequence of the unreasonable tax on that article, which
has been so often complained of, and is at last to be taken off,
I hope for ever+.
     C c 2

<FOOTNOTE>

*The multures on Lord Kintore's part of the parish were lately commuted
for money; and I have the pleasure to learn, that the proprietor of the estate
of Kemnay has it in contemplation to commute his multures also.      
+Remarkable Storm.-Two years ago, a calamity befel the greater part of
this parish, and of the parishes of Cluny and Kintore, which produced great dis-
tress, and is still, in some measure, felt.  On the 30th of July 1790, about 10
o'clock before noon, there came on a storm of thunder and lightning, attended
with a heavy fall of hail, or rather of pieces of ice.  The storm continued with
fearcely any intermission, till 3 o'clock in the afternoon, when the ground was
quite covered with ice, and, where there was no standing corn, exhibited as


