
                             PENICUIK.                           43

fuel, or burning it for manure.  Already, the waste, presents a much
more cheerful aspect, and a sort of oasis is formed amidst its
weary and desolate expanse.  It is pleasant, moreover, to know
that the enterprising proprietor is no loser by his improvements;
at least, he is quite satisfied with the returns from his moorland.
It may also be stated that his ingenuity enterprise are not
confined to agricultural pursuits; for, having in such a climate
rather a superfluity of water, he makes the surplus from his
canal serviceable in turning a mill for the manufactory of combs.
There are very considerable facilities for the reclaiming of waste
land throughout the whole parish, froni the abundance of lime at
its eastern and western extremities; while coal is not distant.  The
tenants on the Penicuik property have availed themselves of the
judicious liberality of their landlord in allowing them to drive lime
on the very lowest terms.  They are, consequently, diminishing
yearly the extent of waste land.  The climate appears to be sensibly
ameliorated by their exertions.  It is to be regretted that the faci-
lities enjoyed in many places for irrigation, particularly with moss
water, do not seem to be appreciated.
   The duration of leases is, with scarce any exception, nineteen
years.  The former proprietor of Penicuik gave one for a term
of thirty-eight years, but the result is understood to have been un-,
favourable both to landlord and tenant. If, at the, end of his
lease, the farmer has been improving, it is renewed to him, at a
rent determined by the award of a competent and impartial judge.
Thus, few changes take place amongst the tenantry on the Peni-
cuik property especially, who are to a man enterprizing and im-
proving farmers, and warmly attached to the landlord undar
whose judicious management they thrive.*  Enclosures are ge-
nerally formed of dry stone dikes, though hedges and ditches
prevail in the better cultivated districts; a mixture of beech or
thorn is preferred to any other.  On the Penicuik property
drainage has been carried on extensively, and, of course with,
the happiest results.  The proprietor opens the drais, and the
tenant fills them.  Furrow draining is being introduced but slowly,
while that by tiles, which has proved so singularly successful in
the west of Scotland, particularly in Ayrshire, has not yet been
attempted.

<FOOTNOTE>This state of matters has suffered a little modification from the unfavourable har-
vests of last three years, 1836 37-38.  One or two changes have taken palce within
this period; but, had it not been for good management on the part of both landlords
and tenants, these changes must have been much more numerous.


