
		       EDROM.                          273

The farm buildings are in general good, the enclosures well
kept, and the woods and plantations carefully managed.
Sheep and cattle of various breeds are fed in the parish, besides
those bred in it, viz. a cross between the Leicester ram and Che-
viot ewe, and the north country kyloes. The practice of feeding
cattle is more prevalent in this parish than that of breeding them.
   Rate Of Wages.-The wages of men-servants for farm purposes,
are, from L. 3 to L. 5 per half-year, with board. Women's wages,
with board, from L. 4 to L. 5 in the summer, and L 2 in the
winter. Boy's wages per half year, from L. 2 to L. 3. A labour-
er's wages, winter and summer, are 9s. per week; at some sea-
sons, and for particular work, 10s. per week. Mason's wages 3s.
per day; carpenter's 2s. 6d. without victuals. Smiths are in gene-
ral paid from L. 1, 15s. to L. 3 per annum, for a pair of horses kept
in shoes, and plough and harrows kept in repair.
   It may be proper to contrast these rates with those that prevail-
ed at the time of the last Statistical Account. A labourear's
wages were then from 10d. to 1s. per day; mason's and carpen-
ter's 1s. 6d.; tailor's 6d. and victuals. Male servants employed
in husbandry, 50s. or L. 3 per half year, with their board; female
servants from 30s. to L. 2.
   Prices of Provisions.-The price of butcher meat is now, and for
a considerable time past has been, from 5d. to 7d. per lb. Butter
from 7d. to 8d. Cheese according to its quality, from 4d. to 6d. and
7d. In this part of the country very little butter and cheese are made.
No more much cows are kept than what are necessary for the use
of the families themselves. It is more profitable, from the mode
of agriculture pursued here, to buy stock than to rear it.
   There are 206 work-horses in the parish; 35 riding horses and
coach horses,; 25 brood mares. For-these statute-labour money is
paid, at the rate of 7s. 6d. for each horse, and 3s. 9d. for each
brood mare. Farm-servants for whom road-money is paid, are 128
in number, the payment for each being 3s.; householders who pay
road-money, are 42 in number, each paying 3s. The amount
raised from this source, and applied to the keeping of the parish
roads in repair, is L. 120 per annum.
   It may be noticed, that the best kind of plough made in Scot-
land was invented by James Small, who resided in this parish.
   Produce.-The total value of the raw produce raised in the pa-
rish is, as near as I have been able to estimate it, about L. 32,500
Sterling per annum.
   BERWICK.
				      8


