
                          KILMADOCK.                    1241

      Ecclesiastical State.-Formerly the parish church stood at Kil-
   madock, the site of the "ancient monastery of St Madocus;"  but
   it was taken down in 1744.  The last church was built at Doune,
   in 1746.  The former Account says that it was built about the
   year 1756, the first incumbent of the new church being Mr James
   Smith.  The fact is, Mr Smith's predecessor preached ten years
   in Doune.  Mr Smith succeeded Mr Archibald Napier in 1755,
   his other predecessors being, Messrs, George Campbell (1705-
   1711), John Logan, David Drummond, John Edmonstone, Wil-
   liam Edmonstone, (who is mentioned in the kirk-session records
   from 1623), and Alexander Fergy (1576), with Robert Fogo and
   Thomas Redoch (reidars) readers (in 1576 and 1569 respectively.)
      The church is situated towards the east end of the parish, and
   is convenient for the greater part of the population.  It is a very
   handsome if not elegant church: and on the whole, very commo-
   dious.  The style is chiefly Gothic.
      The only interesting benefactions on record are a set of eight
   Bibles and Psalm Books, besides pulpit ones, presented to the
   kirk-session by the Earl of Moray on the opening of the new
   church; and the only important ones four silver communion cups,
   with the other necessary utensils, presented by William Mitchell,
   Esq. of Busby Park, Jamaica, a native of Doune.
      The church is seated for 1121, but is, capable of accommodating
   1400 persons.  The age ofthe manse is unknown.  It was repair-
   ed thirt years ago.
      The glebe is stated in last Account at six acres in extent.  It
   contains upwards of seven acres, including the garden.  The sti-
   pend is 18 chalders, half meal and half barley, with L. 10, for
   communion elements.  According to the Report of the Commis-
   sion for Religious Instruction, the grebe is L.7 in value, with a
   right to cut peats; and the stipend, L.288, 7s. 1d., the unappro-
   priated teind being L.625, 2s. 9d.
      There is a chapel at Bridge of Teith in communion with the
   United Associate Synod.  The minister is supported by seat-
   rents and collections, his stipend being stated at L.100.
      A congregation, has lately been formed in connection with the
   Congregational Union of Scotland.
      A small Wesleyan Methodist chapel is in progress.
      There is a general Bible and Missionary Association in Doune,

<FOOTNOTE>To this it falls now to be added, that there are in Doune (which contains five
   churches or congregations in all) two churches in connection with "Free Pro-
   testing Church of Scotland."
   testing Church


