
            166                       SUTHERLANDSHIRE.

            force, from its position as well as from its romantic outlines, it is
            the most prominent and striking object in the whole scenery. At
            the southern extremity of a low extensive valley, it starts up ma-
            jestically to the height of 2508 feet, presenting towards its base an
            expanded breast of two miles in breadth, and cleft at its top into
            four massy towering and splintered peaks, standing boldly aloof from
            each other.  These gradually diminish in height, one after the
            other.   The highest stands proudly forward to occupy the fore-
            ground; the rest recede a little, as if each were unwilling to protrude
            itself, from a conscious inferiority to its predecessor.  As a graceful
            finish to its outlines, it stretches forth an arm on either side, as if to
            embrace condescendingly the other mountain ranges, which may
            well acknowledge it as chief, and which may readily be fancied as
            doing it homage.  On a summer morning, or after a sweet summer
            shower, when the transparent mist is reposing on its bosom, or
            coiling among its peaks, the appearance of this hill is very beauti-
            ful, and often singularly fantastic.  Within this great chain, there
            are various objects which constitute marked features in the sce-
            nery of the district.  Amongst these, the Kyle occupies a promi-
            nent place, so studded with islands at its mouth, that, from some
            points of view, its connection with the ocean seems wholly inter-
            cepted.  Towards its centre, the point of Tongue and a small is-
            land adjacent thereto, tend farther to charm and relieve the eye,
            by breaking in upon the continuous sheet of water.  Another in-
            teresting and conspicuous object is the promontory of Castle Var-
            rich.  It consists of a small hill range, running south and north,
            rising gradually from the low ground at the foot of Ben Laogbal,
            and terminating at its northern extremity in a bold rock of consi-
            derable altitude, which is washed at its base by the water of the
            Kyle, and has its conical summit surmounted by a fine old ruin,
            which imparts a pleasing effect.  Altogether, the scenery of this
            part of the parish is much and universally admired.  The hand of
            man has undoubtedly done somewhat to embellish it; but little,
            very little, to what migbt be effected.  Even Macculloch, with all
            his antipathy to the north, has admitted, that, were the Moin, on
            west side of the Bay, to some extent planted, this place would not
            be exceeded in beauty by many parts of the Highlands.
            The second or eastern division of the parish is rather tame and
            monotonous. In the interior, this is partially relieved by lochs of
            various sizes, which are scattered with profusion in every direction,
            and the ground, moreover, is of a softly undolating character; the
                                            4


