
			   BERVIE.                           21

before the 13th February, in each year, for the sale of fat and
other cattle. To encourage their success, the magistrates agreed
to dispense with custom for the first three years. If these markets
succeed, they will be of great advantage to many persons, both in
town and country.
	Inns.--There are two inns in the burgh where good entertain-
ments are furnished on the shortest notice. At the King's Arms,
which is the head inn, a post-chaise and gig are kept for hiring.
There are other smaller inns and ale-houses licensed for retailing
spirits, ales, &c. both in the town and the village of Gourdon; and,
however respectable the keepers of them may be, it is allowed by
all who see the evils of intemperance, that there are too many in
this parish, and that the licensing of more than what are necessary,
is prejudicial in general to human character in every place.
	Fuel.--The fuel used by the inhabitants is English coals brought
from Sunderland, and Scotch coals from ports on the Forth to the
harbour of Gourdon, and sold at 1s. per barrel when taken from the
ship; a little more is demanded, when taken from the sheds. The
expense of carriage to the inhabitants charged by the carters is 1 1/2d
per barrel.

		     MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
	The present state of this parish, as compared with that which
existed at the time of the last Statistical Account, exhibhts a va-
riety of improvements, such as the building of the bridge which
was then only contemplated, excellent roads, reclaimed land by
draining, neat and comfortable new houses, a weekly grain mar-
ket, and an abundant supply of excellent water, in the town as
well as in the village of Gourdon. The system of husbandry is
now of the most improved kind. The farmers are all experienced
agriculturists; and in a very few years all the improvable land in
the parish will be under cropping.
	There are three extensive farms in the parish of Bervie, Silly-
flatt, Hallgreen, and Peattie, on each of which there are four ploughs.
There are four (Threewells, Hill-head, Muslepool, and the Inn-
farm,) on which there is one each. There are two (Newbigging
and Dendoldrum) on which there are two. The small farms and
crofts are laboured by hiring. There are thrashing-mills driven
by water on the largest farms; and the grain on thd lesser ones
is thrashed by flails.
	Rent.--The rent of land varies from L. 6 to L. 1 per acre.
	The boundary line between the burgh and the county, fixed by


