
  106                                ELGINSHIRE.

   Lord Bishop and Presbytery in the year 1676, and was ejected in
   1690.  He did not, however, leave the neighbourbood; but occu-
   pied a house and a small piece of ground on the border of the pa-
   rish, where he remained during the rest of his days.* In his room
   was appointed a Presbyterian minister, Mr John Gilchrist from
   Leith, of whom it is stated in the minutes of kirk-.session, June 22,
   1697, " that be was, according to the sentence of the late Gene-
   ral Assembly, transported from the parish of South Leith to this
   parish of Alves." So that there appears to have been an interval of
   some years at that time (from 1690 to 1697,) before any one was
   appointed to the stated pastoral charge of the parish.
     Until the year 1659 or 1660, Alves included a large portion of
   what now forms the adjoining parish of Kinloss; and it is evident
   that, previous to this date, when Kinloss was erected into a pa-
   risb, the pastoral duties of Alves must have- been heavy on one
   minister and one session. It appears, however, from the old pa-
   rish records, that in these days the elders were both numerous
   and assiduous in the performance of their duties.  The minute
   of kirk-session, dated January 9, 1659, contains a resolution of
   the session to make a new election of elders for the several dis-
   tricts of the parish. These districts amounted to eleven, and
   elders are appointed to each of them.  The whole list contains
   no less than twenty-seven names.  As all the districts named are
   within the present bounds of the parish, it is likely that the new
   election of elders was made on account of the change which was then
   taking place as to Kinloss. It seems, also, to have been the usual
   practice of the session to nominate one of its members as ruling
   elder, to attend the meetings of synod.  The exercise of church
   censure was extended much farther than in modern days.  Besides
   other immoralities,-drunkenness, slander, brawling, theft, absence
   from church ordinances, profaning of the Lord's day by strolling in
   the fields, or playing at foot-ball, undutiful conduct to parents, &c.
   appear from time to time to have been the occasion of administer-
   ing warning, and even rebuke before -the congregation.  When,
   from any cause, there was no sermon on the Lord's day, the con-
   gregation was nevertheless convened in the church to hear the
   scriptures read.  On such occasions, the minute bears," no sermon

   <FOOTNOTE>Part of the wall of the choir of the old church is still standing, in which is fixed
   a slab of Scotch marple bearing a well written Latin inscription, to the memory of
   Beroald Innes, from which it appears that, for personal character, he had been highly
   esteemed; though ejected on account of his adherence to Episcopacy. Some of the
   descendants of his family are still in the parish. One of them has in his possession
   a Bible which had belonged to his ancestor: -it was printed in 1610 in the old En-
   glish character; it has now been partly destroyed by damp.


