
                         LIFF AND BENVIE.    		      573

stone generally. But as the recent discovery of fosiil organic re-
mains of a new species in them has created considerable interest,
it may perhaps be desirable to state shortly the results of a parti-
cular examination of them. The opinion expressed by Dr Thom-
son in his Chemistry and Mineralogy, and by Mr Witham in his
paper on the Red Sandstone of Berwickshire, published in the
Transactions of the Natural History Society of Newcastle, Vol. i.
p. 173, as to the existence of a new red sandstone in Forfarshire,
now distinctly appears to be altogether erroneous; the localities to
which Mr Witham refers are not pointed out with such distinctness
as to enable the observer to examine into the fact; but undoubted-
ly more recent examinations of this county clearly tend to prove
that new red sandstone does not occur in any part of it. And, on
the other hand, it has since been clearly shown that the sandstones
alluded to by Dr Thomson underlie the coal formation of Fife,
thus entirely excluding the supposition that they can belong to the
new red sandstone series. It may therefore be held, that the red
sandstones of this district belong to the old red sandstone forma-
tion, and the point now to be observed is their precise position
with regard to the strata of the surrounding district. The gray
sandstone has been stated by Dr Fleming (as was previously men-
tioned) to overlie the red, whilst Mr Lyell states that they occur
in the reverse order, and the result of an examination of them, as
will have been observed, coincides with the latter view. In a re-
cent treatise on the old red sandstone, Mr Millar makes a very
ingenious subdivision of the old red sandstone of the north of Scot-
land, based on views drawn from a consideration of the fossil or-
ganic remains which occur in the various strata, and by compari-
son of them with the better known old red sandstones of England,
and undoubtedly fossil organic remains of a somewhat similar cha-
racter, have been found to be common to each of them;, but them
scarcely seems sufficient information as yet to have been obtained
regarding the old red sandstones of Scotland, to lead to any con-
clusive arrangement of them, based on an examination of their fos-
sil organic remains alone. It is indeed but very recently that they
were known to contain the organic remains of any animals what-
ever, and but a very indistinct conclusion, indeed, can be drawn
from the fact of particular species having been found occur in
certain strata, while thex have not been found to do so in others
which may be more or less similar to them in minerals character or
appearance, for indeed very much depends on the nature of the



