
     Statistical Account

no doubt, but it hath a just claim to a very great anti-
quity.  Nor do I know if the same mode of preparation
hath been always in use:  at present, there is some vari-
ation observed.  I believe, the most approved process is
very simple, and is as follows:  They put the milk, when
fresh drawn, into a barrel or wooden vessel, which is sub-
mitted to a certain degree of heat, generally by immersion
in warm water:  this accelerates the stage of fermentation;
the serous is separated from the other parts of the milk,
the oleaginous and coagulable; the serum is drawn off by
a hole in the lower part of the vessel; what remains is
put into the plunge churn, and, after being agitated for
some time, is sent to market as Corstorphine cream*.

   Implements of Husbandry.-These, in no respect, differ
from such as are in common use.  There are 2 threshing
mills in this parish; and the farmers are so convinced of
their utility, that more will soon be erected:  In the neigh-
bourhood of Edinburgh, they are of singular advantage;
they enable the farmer, when he sees it profitable, to bring
a great part of his crop immediately to market; he is not
encumbered with the straw, as he would be in distant
parts of the country, as Edinburgh offers him a ready
market for it at all times.  In a farm of any considerable

<UNREADABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

*Oxen are used on one farm in this parish, with great advantage.  The
prejudices which have excluded their employment from the labours of agri-
culture, are likely to be removed:  perhaps, they arose from the dislike of the
servants, more than the opinion of the master; the former being better pleased
with the sight of a pair of sleek we I-fed horses.  When properly trained,
they will walk as fast as horses in the yoke; and, when as well per-
form the same labour.  On the above farm, two pair have often ploughed an
acre of summer fallow in a day.  They are successfully employed on this farm,
in drawing in a threshing machine.  Their equal steady draught is admirably
suited to this purpose.

</UNREADABLE>


