
                          MORTON.                         101


   Library.--Though we have not yet reached the establishment
of a public reading-room, there are several clubs or societies for
the purchase of newspapers and other periodical publications, to be
read and perused in their own dwellings.  The desire for reading
and information of every description has of late years much in-
creasdd, and seems still increasing.  A subscription library was
established in Thornhill in 1814, which is doing well; and the sub-
scribers are numerous.
   Charitable Institutions, &c.--There are three men's and one
women's Society; two of the men's are stock societies, and one
what is called a penny society.  One of the stock societies has ex-
isted for upwards of 30 years;  one 22 years; the penny society
about 10 years; and the women's society 25 years.  It is impos-
sible to speak too highly of their benevolent object; and the good
they have accomplished here is inexpressible.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.--The average number of poor receiv-
ing parish aid has of late been about 30, and is rapidly increasing,
the aversion to make application, and be put on the poors' roll,
though still in some degree felt, gradually wearing away.  Our
only regular source of supply for their relief is from the weekly
collections  in the church, which amount to L.40 yearly, with the in-
terest of L.60; and from occasional collections and contributions
from the heritors and others, which may amount to as much.  There
are two general distributions in the year, at Whitsunday and Mar-
tinmas, besides almost weekly private disbursements to those whose
necessities require it.  The yearly sum to those on the roll is va-
rious, from L. I, 4s. to L. 6; but besides the above, I believe
more is given by individuals in private alms, in clothing, in articles
of food, and also in money.  No regular assessment of poors' rate
has yet been had recourse to in this parish.
   Inns, &c.-There are two very respectable inns in the village,
which are sufficient for the parish; though there are eight or
ten inferior lodging and dram-houses in the same place, besides
three in Carronbridge.
   Fuel.--The fuel used here is peat and coal; of the former,
there is still a moderate supply within the bounds of the parish,
though now wearing fast away: and the nearest eoal is at Sanquhar,
about twelve miles distant.

   January 1834.


