
     102                      INVERNESS-SHIRE.

     the barrier of bills which restrained it.  Whether this was a dilu-
     vian or a post-diluvian action, it is impossible to say; but the quan-
     tity and the power of the water must have been prodigious.  This
     circumstance is noticed with great clearness in Sir Thomas Dick
     Lauder's Account.  His estimate of the height of the lake of Moy
     above the river, however, is erroneous; instead of being eighteen,
     it is about thirty feet ; and the ascent from that till the river could
     fall into the Nairn, is at least thirty more,-so, that the lake must
     have extended all the way up to this extreme height, which is at
     least eight miles, or the river must have excavated its channel to
     the present level below that height;-the latter is the more likely
     supposition, and if it could be ascertained what time the river takes
     to excavate a certain depth, the time at which the change of course
     took place might be discovered.
        Zoology.- The animals in this district are the same as those com-
     mon to the other parishes around.  They are red-deer, roe, hares,
     foxes, polecats, wild cats, weasels, &c.  There have been two of a
     species not common in the Highlands shot lately in the parish.
     It is, we believe, called the martin cat, brown over the back, and
     white along the belly and neck, and about two feet and a half in
     length from the point of the nose to the tip of the tail, and nine inches
     in height.  It generally lodges in old birds' nests.  Except these two,
     no others of the kind have been here seen.  There are no other
     animals any way remarkable now existing ; but there are numerous
     indications of the wolf, chiefly in the traps formed for taking them.\f*
        The fish in the waters of this parish are chiefly salmon, river
     trout, char, and eel. The former come up the Findhorn,-though
     of late years the strictness maintained in the cruives at Forrds has
     rendered them very scarce.  This has led people to kill them with
     torches in close-time,-by which means they destroy more fish than
     they could kill in twenty years by the rod.  The Findhorn is an
     excellent trouting stream ; there is not perhaps a better in the north.
     The fish, though not particularly large, are excellent, and they take
     a fly with great readiness.  Loch Moy is more noted for its char
     than for its trout.  The former are caught in great abundance

     <FOOTNOTE>The method of taking this animal practised in the Highlands was as follows:
     a large deep hole was dug in some place frequented by the wolf; half way across
     the mouth of the pit a broad plank was projected, about half of which lay upon the
     ground, and had upon the end farthest from the pit a weight sufficient to balance a
     wolf, til pretty far advanced above the pit ; on the other end was placed a
     bait, the remainder of the pit -was covered over with brush-wood, so as to de-
     ceive the animal.  The wolf advanced to the bait along the plank which, when he
     overbalanced the weight on the other end, immediately fell in, and he was precipi-
     tated into the pit.  Numerous remains of these pits are still in existence.
                                         4


