                             UNST.                              37

is one mile long; the next to it is the Loch of Cliff, three miles
long.  An arm of the latter runs towards the east, on the north
side of the hill of Crucifield, for nearly a mile, and is called the
Loch of Quoyhouse.  Saxa  Vord, a hill of 938 feet in height,
on the east side of the bay of Burrafirth, rises abruptly from the
sea, and its bluff round-head, showing itself considerably above
every other point of land in its neighbourhood, makes a very con-
spicuous mark for fishermen, along the whole eastern coast.  Cru-
cifield runs from west to east, at right angles with Valleyfield,
and separated from it by the loch of Cliff, and terminates in its
eastern extremity in two conical points called Heogs, one of them,
much higher than the other, and supposed to have been anciently
a place where courts of law were held, and where criminals were
executed.   This hill lies nearly across the middle of the island,
and separates the Mid from the North parish.   A little to the
south-east of Crucifield is a high headland, called the Keen of
Hammer, (query? the Celtic Cean), which forms one side of the
north entrance to Balta Sound.  The Vord Hill, on the south side
of the voe or harbour, stretches along the east coast.  Valleyfield
and Saxa.  Vord, and the hills connected with them, are covered
with peat-moss, an article most useful in this northern climate,
where no coal has yet been discovered.  To the eastward of the
valley which runs along the base of Valleyfield, and following the
course of the Loch of Cliff, and turning off by the Loch of Quoy-
house, all that section of the island to the south and east (except-
ing some small spots in the south-east extremity), is completely
denuded of moss, and has a bare stony appearance.  Notwithstand-
ing, it yields excellent pasture for the native horses and sheep,
which thrive remarkably well upon it.  This section is composed
principally of serpentine, hornblende, and diallage rocks.  The hills
to the north and west are chiefly composed of gneiss.
   Caves.-There are a variety of caves round the coast, but not
worthy of notice.  Under a very high and precipitous rock, which
forms the north-eastern base of Saxa Vord, a noted haunt of kit-
tiwakes and other aquatic birds, there is a grand, natural arch,
having sufficient breadth and depth of water to admit a boat to be
rowed through it; it is 300 feet in length, and of considerable height.
   Sea Coast.-Captain Thomas of the Investigator, who has been
employed for some years in surveying the coasts of Zetland, has
been very particular in his survey of this island, both along its
coast and in the interior.  When his chart appears, it will furnish


