
         			CAERLAVEROCK.                  351

exerted successfully both for himself and the royal princess. His
fortune was now secured, but he did not forget the scene of his
boyish days, and first humble avocation. At his own expense, he
built a manse for the minister, bequeathed for charitable purposes
L. 1000 Sterling to this parish, and also left a valuable library to
the presbytery of Dumfries. This library originally contained the
identical prayer-book which was used by the unfortunate King
Charles when on the scaffold. It is much to be regretted that
this interesting volume is now amissing.
	Land-owners.--There are only four landed proprietors, viz. the
Rev. Alexander Houston Douglas, Esq. of Bawds ; Robert Thor-
burn, Esq. of Kelton; James Connel, Esq. of Conheath; and
William Constable Maxwell, Esq. of Nithsdale, to whom the whole
parish, with the exception of about 600 acres, belongs. Unfor-
tunately for us, this gentleman has a much finer property in Eng-
land, where he resides. He enjoys at present the honour of being
High Sheriff of Yorkshire. Our only resident heritor is Mr Con-
nel of Conheath. This gentleman does not disdain the ordinary
duties of the eldership. Happy would it be for Scotland, as well
as for themselves, did her gentry more generally show such at-
tachment to the venerable institutions of our church.
	Parochial Registers.--These seem to have been kept, sometimes
with more, sometimes with less accuracy.
	Antiquities.--The castle of Caerlaverock forms to the antiquary
the most prominent object of interest. This venerable pile, one
of the most magnificent of its kind, was formerly, before the inven-
tion of gunpowder, a place of immense strength, though destitute
of natural bulwarks. It lies near the shores of the Solway. Its
foundation is not many feet above high water-mark, and it has
neither rapid river nor lofty rock to aid the resources of art. Its
form is uncommon, being triangular. It is surrounded by a double
moat, and when this difficulty had been vanquished by the prowess
of the assailants, portcullis after portcullis, to the number at least
of three, presented a barrier to their farther progress. Connected
with this, we may notice the still visible remains of a plan for dis-
charging a torrent of molten lead on the heads of the besiegers.
From this, we may form some idea of the mode of warfare, and the
consequent methods of defence adopted and practised among our
fathers. Their object was to render their abodes inaccessible, ex-
cept under peril of life, to all but the formally invited guest. In
this respect, there is now a most important and salutary change.


