
			UNITED PARISHES OF
			 LYNE AND MEGGET.

	PRESBYTERY OF PEEBLES, SYNOD OF LOTHIAN AND TWEEDDALE.

		THE REV. ALEXANDER AFFLECK, MINISTER.


		I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	Extent, Boundaries, Name.-THE parish of Lyne is between three
   and four miles in length, and about three in breadth. It is bound-
   ed on the west by Newlands; on the north by Eddleston; on the
   east by Peebles, and on the south by Stobo. The name is of un-
   certain origin. By some it has been supposed to arise from lina, a
   Gaelic word signifying water, as the largest stream which enters the
   Tweed within the county skirts the parish through its whole extent,
   from the western to the eastern extremity of it.
	Topographical Appearances.-Lyne, in the greater portion of it,
   has a southern exposure sloping from the summits of the hills to-
   wards the rivulet by which it is separated from the parish of Stobo.
   The arable ground in some places is nearly level, but in general it
   has a declivity; and, by declining southward, it obtains the full benefit
   of the solar rays, while it is sheltered from the piercing winds of the
   north. Most of the soil is of a gravelly description, and in ordi-
   nary years, when rain is not deficient, the crops are good. The
   hills are covered with wholesome pasture for sheep, affording that
   variety of heath and grass which is by many accounted so desirable.
   They are of inconsiderable height, stretching in a range parallel
   to the water of Lyne; but about a mile from the eastern limit of
   the parish, they suddenly recede to a greater distance from it, leav-
   ing an ample intervening space well adapted for cultivation. The
   rocks, which seldom appear above the surface, are what is termed
   in the district whinstone, commonly, however, inclining to slate.
	The rivulet is of considerable magnitude; it rises near the con-
   fines of Tweeddale and West Lothian; and, taking an easterly
   direction, it runs through the parishes of Linton and Newlands,
   and a little below the parish of Lyne is united with the Tweed, af-
   ter a course of about twelve or thirteen miles.
   					4


