
     Statistical Account

adversity of friends and neighbours, but as a provision againts
the day of affliction, which too surely awaits the contributor
himself, must certainly give the most pleasing reflections, and
tend greatly to cherish that honest pride and manly indepen-
dence of mind, which enables people to be useful in the low-
est stations, and to struggle successfully with all the various
difficulties of human life.  This too, would be a proper field
for the rich and the benevolent to exercise their charity.
Their bounty, thus bestowed, would alleviate the distress, and
would promote the comfort of the most useful members of so-
ciety, without debating them into the object condition of beg-
gars.  It is a melancholy confideration, therefore, that those
associations are to much disregarded.  Of all the weavers in
this parish, there are only 60 contributors to the first of the
above mentioned boxes, and 120 to the second, some of whom
are contributors to both, and some not really of the profession.
The greatest part of the rest, either waste away their time in
idleness; or spend their earnings in drinking, thoughtless of
the evil day, and regardless of futurity.
   Hence, notwithstanding all the provisions for the poor, to
which, if the  alms privately bestowed, were added, the sum
would exceed L. 500 a year, the condition of many of them is
very wretched; and the demands, upon the public charity,
are always greater than it can satisfy.  When the people once
come to admit, that the fruits of their industry are unequal to
their wants, they are disposed to lay it aside entirely; and eve-
ry one, aggravating his own distresses, thinks himself en-
titled to a larger share of the public funds than another, and is
proportionally importunate for assistance.  The great misfor-
tune is, that their economy too often relaxes along with their
industry; and the poor pittance bestowed for providing neces-
saries, is laid out in the only luxury within their reach.  The
plenty and the cheapness of whilky, and the great number of 


