
                        ARDNAMURCHAN.                    143

ment.  After the discomfiture of the Highland army at Culloden,
these districts were laid waste with fire and sword, and subjected
to the fullest measure of the vengeance which, although per-
petrated by the army of civilized Britain, rivalled the savage
cruelty of the most barbarous age.  The only remission was ex-
perienced by the families of some unfortunate gentlemen, through
the generous exertions and influence of Campbell of Airds, the
inheritor of the estates, but neither of the unrelenting disposition
nor crooked policy, nor of any of the darker features of character
of Sir Donald of Ardnamurchan.
   In all probability, the Reformed religion was introduced into
the parish, under the protection of the noble family of Argyle,
whose services to the Protestant faith, and enlightened patriotism,
far more than counterbalance, though they do not, in any shape,
palliate their share in the unscrupulous and cruel policy of times of
confusion and turbulence.  In 1639, the record of the synod of
Argyle begins.  In that year we find a minister of the Church of
Scotland, already established in Ardnamurchan.  The Reforma-
tion, so far as regards the eradication of Popery, was successful in
Ardnamurchan and Sunart, the districts under Argyle influence.
One clergyman, however, was all with which the Church of Scot-
land could supply a parish, where there are twelve places of wor-
ship.  After the final settlement of the Church in 1688, there
were, in consequence of the extreme paucity of Gaelic preachers,
long vacancies in the parish, supplied only by occasional deputa-
tions from the ministers of Lorn and Argyle.  Protestant Episco-
pacy seems io have prevailed for some time before and after the
Revolution, a minister of that persuasion being stationed in Ard-
namurchan ; but the members of that sect seem, with few excep-
tions, soon to have merged in the establishment.  By the appoint-
ment of missionaries on the Royal Bounty, the means of religious
instruction received a powerful addition, but still the districts in
Inverness-shire were left under the care of one assistant minister;
and even on the erection of the churches lately built and endowed
by Government only a small part comparatively of that wide por-
tion of the parish could, without undue extension of the bounds of
the adjoining Government minister, be attached to his church.
It is, therefore, more matter for wonder, that the parishioners in
Argyleshire should, from the period of their first conversion, (not-
withstanding the strenuous and elsewhere successful efforts of the
Romish priests, continued until the latter part of the Iast century,


