
             418                      ARGYLESHIRE.

             and the high angle of inclination, from 401 to 501, all the varieties
             of form usually met with are found here, from the coarsest con-
             glomerate to the finest flag, with a slaty structure. The hardest
             Maidstone appears to be finely granular in a,elay or wacke basis or
             ground.
               In Kintyre, the beds of mica slate, on its eastern shore, have
             an eastern dip, while those on the opposite side dip to the
             westward. The angles of the strata rise to about 25% and
             are in some places considerably less. A tract of micaceous
             slate succeeds the chlorite series towards the north, and is con-
             tinued in that direction as far as the Mull of Kintyre. At that
             place, it is immediately followed along the shore by the west of
             the Mull up to Ballachantuy and Killean by the red sandstone,
             without any interposed substance,-a fact easily explained by con-
             sidering the unconformable relation of this rock to the priinary
             strata and the irregularity of its margin, consequent upon the pe-
             culiar situation which it occupies with respect to these.
               The secondary formation is principally found in the Pennyland
             abovedescribed.  This forms about one-slventh of the parish.  Tile
             summit of the range is composed of rocks of the trap series, and the
             shoulder at different places is formed of the new red or variegated
             marly lime and sandstone. At the eastern side, the trap rocks
             rise into the sea, forming dangerous submarine reefs at the Arran
             Man's Barrels and Rhua Mac Sheanaig, and in this bold head-
             land there is a very extensive cave. But, as far as has been exa-
             mined, there are neither stalactitic nor organic remains.  Near the
             entrance, there is a pretty highly raised mound of rolled stones,
             such as are found on the beach.
               The structure of the island of Sanda corresponds very much
             with that of the opposite shore of Kintyre, and, as in many other
             similarsituations, the geological continuity of the strata between
             the two serves to indicate the alterations which have taken place
             in the sea line, and the encroachments of the ocean on the bor-
             ders of the great estua' of the Clyde.  The island of Sanda is
             composed chiefly of sandstone, acid the sandstone of which it is
             composed is elevated to the north, the dip being to the southward,
             and varying from 15 to 20 degrees.  It thus forms bills of about
             300 feet in height, which, on some of the shores, are broken into
             cliff  of moderate elevation. One of these forms a very picturesque
             object, presenting a natural arch of considerable dimensions.
             The rock is reddish and grey, and is interstratified with slaty clay
                                              4


