
     of Dron.

in one bed, and to the pernicious custom of exposing them-
selves in a state of violent perspiration, to the sudden im-
pressions of cold.  A large draught of cold water, in this
state, has often proved the beginning of consumptions and
dropsies*.

   Rivers, Springs, Minerals.-Though there are no rivers
which run through this parish, yet it is plentifully supplied
with water, by springs and little currents which descend
from the hills.  The only river which borders on the pa-
rish, and divides it from Abernethy, is Farg.  It rises in

<FOOTNOTE>

*Scorbutic habits are not uncommon; being every where, in a less or
greater degree, to be met with  But nature has provided a remedy for
this disorder in the mineral waters of Pitkeathly in this neighbourhood,
which have proved very effectual in some of the worst and most inveterate
appearance of this malady, as also a successful palliative in scrofulous
disorders.  The small-pox, through improper management, by keeping
the patients too hot, and too long in their foul linen and clothes, and
through the still prevailing aversion of the lower classes of the people to
the salutary practice of inoculation, continue to carry off great numbers of
children.  It is difficult to convince that part of mankind whose minds
have not been opened by education and reflection, that any innovation on
the customs of their fathers can with propriety or safety be introduced.
A superstitious dread of acting contrary to the will of heaven, by intro-
ducing disease into the human frame, not inflicted by the immediate hand
of Providence is the sentiment which deters the weak but well meaning
peasant, from adopting the practice of inoculation.  But daily instances of
its happy effects begin to wear off this prejudice, and experience and ob-
servation have enabled many persons to get the better of those ill-ground-
ed scruples, which they once thought it a part of religion to entertain.
Another very fatal disease among children, and very prevailing, is that of
worms; which cuts off many, debilitates the constitution of more, and is
frequently attended with very violent and shocking symptoms.  No effec-
tual remedy seems to be known for extirpating these pernicious vermin
from the human constitution, when once, by neglecting to apply an early
check, they have been suffered to obtain a seat in the bowels.  Bad water,
in its raw state, and unripe fruit, contribute greatly to introduce and
strengthen this habit, so common and troublesome to children.


