
120                       ELGINSHIRE.

church, and exactly within the southern verge of the castle grounds.
It consists of two storeys, of which the place of worship constitutes
the highest, that upon the ground being occupied as an infant
school, comprehending the necessary apartments for the accom-
modation of the teacher.
   On the glebe, an excellent manse, with offices, was lately built
on a liberal scale. It is pleasingly situated on a rising-ground
near the eastern bank of the Spey, commanding an extensive view
of the valley of the river and surrounding country.

<TABLE=POPULATION>

                      III.-POPULATION.

   The number of residenters in the village of Fochabers, accord-
ing to the last return, was 1086. In the landward districts, there
were 1346.

             Amount of population in 1821,      2235
                                     1831,      2432
                                     1841,      2433

   The whole parish, with the exception of the domains surround-
ing the castle, was in former times partitioned out into small estates
or landships, which were held in feu of the Gordon family.  Dal-
lachy was divided into several parts.  The two Auchinreaths were
separate estates; Aucbinhalrig was a wadsett, and Tynet, Tul-
loch, and Braes had each their respective lairds.

<TABLE=INDUSTRY>

                       IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.--The agricultural state of the parish will be ascer-
tained by the following statement, which, it is believed, is pretty
accurate

                                      Imperial acres.
                   Arable,               3658
                   Pasture,               643
                   Wood,                 2852
                   Moor,                 4832
                   Water,                  13
                   Turnpike roads,         50
                                        ______

                              Total,    12048

   Husbandry, &c.-Since the powerful impulse imparted by the
high prices of grain during the late war, agriculture has been car-
ried on with increasing spirit.  A large portion of the lower part
of the parish is parcelled out into small farms, consisting often of
detached acres, of which the rents are paid by wages earned at
the Spey fishing. In the upper districts, the farms are larger, but
there are few of any considerable extent. The lease are in ge-
neral for nineteen years, and the average rent of arable land is
18s. per imperials acre.  The most prevailing mode of cultivation
is the rotation of six, and in some instances of five courses. Bar-
                                3


