
312                      HADDINGTONSHIRE.
<TABLE>
Number of families in the parish in 1831,                        514
                   chiefly employed in agriculture,               50
                   in trade, manufactures, or handicrafts,       257
   Illegitimate births in the course of the last three, years,   10.
   Character of the People.-There are many excellent people in
this parish at present, and it is earnestly to be hoped that the num-
ber of such may yearly increase. If the means of juvenile educa-
tion were more abundant, and the passion for ardent spirits less
powerful than it is, there would be more appropriate themes for
the exercise of a despondent mind than the future amelioration
of our population. Violations of the Lord's day are not so cus-
tomary here as they once were. A more enlightened regard to
the sacred be best of scriptural principles is on the increase; and
we live in the hope of our posterity being at least no worse than
their progenitors.

                        IV.-INDUSTRY.

   Agriculture.-As the arable lands in the parish are ver limited
in their extent, and the writer of this Account is far from being
intelligent regarding either the practices or profits of agriculture,
he deems it no great departure from a modest prudence, to refer
to the former Statistical Report, in which there is no lack of learn-
ing on that head. It is believed that the present agriculturists in
the parish have kept up with the recent improvements in their art.
   Fisheries.-At the proper season of the year, the fishery of oys-
ters, forms the principal occupation of a large number of our sea-
faring men. Long before dawn, in the bleakest season of the year,
their dredging song may be heard afar off, and, except when the
wind is very turbulent, their music, which is not disagreeable, ap-
pears to be an accompaniment of labours that are by no means un-
successful. A constant trade is maintained by means of large boats,
capable of containing 25,000 or 30,000 oysters, with Newcastle,
Shields, and Hartlepool. Of the individuals engaged in this fishery,
it may be safely averred, that if their expenditure were regulated
by a due regard to their incomes, many would be far from being
poor, and not a few would have the comfort of being passing rich
on L. 40 a-year.
   Trads.-The trade of Prestonpans was formerly of very con-
siderable extent; and among the privileges of the barony was a
free harbour, with right of levying dues and customs to the same
extent as those eligible at Leith, or any other port of the kingdom.
   Manufactures.-During a long period, a large number of per-
sons in the parish were regularly employed in the manufacture of
stoneware, tiles, bricks &c. Of late, however, all the operations


