
                           TILLICOULTRY.                          69

was partially wrought, about forty years ago, by the Carron Company,
and more extensively since by the Devon Company. On the west
side of the parish, it runs in stratal from two to five inches in
thickness, and on the east aside, it lies in hands, or promiscuously
among the blaes. The latter is of a kidney shape, and fine quality
said to yield from 20 to 30 per cent.
   There is abundance of coal in the parish, of various and excel.,
lent quality; some seams of which were found tinder the'hill,
when the ironstone was wrought, and also at Harviestoun, when
the sandstone quarry was wrought ; but, there being four excellent
seams on the south side of the river, which have been partially
wrought, the proprietors do not wish to have coal wrought on the,
north side. The only coal tbat has been wrought,to any extent
in the parish is Colsnaughton. It is at present wrougth on Wood-
lands, and at Devonside, by Robert Bald, Esq. It dips to the
northwest and crops out to the south-east. The Craw seam is
about 3 feet thick, a rough cherry coal, about 17 fathoms from the
surface. The 5 feet seam at present wrought is of very fine'quality
being all cherry coal, except about 5 or 6 inches in the roof, and is
9 fathoms below the Craw-seam. The splint coal, which is nearly
3 feet thick, is 6 fathoms below the 5 feet seam, and the main coal,
which is a strong coal, a mixture of rough and splint, 6 feet thick,
is 14 fathoms below the splint seam. There are no coals sent to
Alloa to he exported, although there is now a good turnpike-road,
as there is a great demand from the country round, 7 and from  the
north side of the hills, to which large quantities are driven, by the
Yetts of Muckart.
   The soil is various, in some places a rich loam, in others it is
sandy or gravelly, and there is a considerable extent of moss on
the hills, about 7 feet deep, which the heavy rains are, from time
to time, removing to the Devon, or the holms below. There are
also some pieces of moss on both sides of the river, in which oak
is found, black as ebony, and in a high state of preservation, as
also hazel-nuts.
   Zoology.-Under this head there is nothing peculiar to the pa.
rish. But it may be noticed that there are three species of the
feathered race, ence well known here, but now seldom,. or never
seen in Tillicoultry. The snipe and the goldfinch  which thirty
years ago, were inrpates of the manse garden, are never seen in the
parish now, so far as the writer knows; the former, evidently  ba-
nished by the draining of the bogs and marshes, and the, latter


