
                           CHIRNSIDE.                        127

loads of coals driven home, a pig kept by themselves and a piece
of land for a garden.
   The comparative rate of wages here during the late war and
at present are as follows:
   During the war, a common labourer per day, 2s. 6d.; wrights
and masons, 3s.; shearers in harvest, 2s. 6d. or 3s. with victuals.
At present,-a common labourer per day, 1s. 8d.; wrights and
masons, 1s. 8d. without victuals; shearers in harvest, 2s. 2d. and
their victuals.
   Breeds of Live-Stock.-The sheep are chiefly of the large Lei-
cester kind, which, when well fed, weigh at two years old from
23 to 25 or 28 lbs. per quarter. The total number of sheep
in the parish is generally about 120 scores;-but even these are
not sufficient to consume the turnips that are grown in the parish,
and sometimes considerable numbers are brought from different
parts of the county, and even from Northumberland, for that pur-
pose. The cattle are generally of the short-horned breed.
   Implements of Husbandry.-The ploughs generally used are
Small's, mostly made of iron, with cast-metal heads and mould-
boards. They cost generally L. 3; and their number in the pa-
rish is 50,-all drawn by two horses.
   Husbandry.-One-half of the land is generally kept in tillage,
-the other half in grass. The common rotation is, 1. oats after
grass; 2. Turnips or fallow; 3. Wheat, barley, or oats, with grass
seeds; 4. Hay or pasture; 5. Pasture. The common manure is
farm-yard dung; but of late bone-dust has been used for turnips,
-about two quarters of which are commonly applied to an Eng-
lish acre, and sown in drills with a machine. It costs about L. 1
per quarter, and is found highly beneficial on light soils.
   Draining has been practised to a great extent; but there has
been little or no opportunity for practising irrigation. Consider-
able sums of money have lately been expended in embankments on
the river Whitadder. The duration of leases is generally for nine-
teen years.
   It may be remarked, that while at the time of the last Statisti-
cal Account there were only two or three tenants who had changed
their possessions for twenty years,-the case is now quite altered,-
as there have been twelve or thirteen tenants who have left their
possessions before the expiry of their leases.
   At the time of the last Statistical Account there were no thrash-
ing-machines in the parish; there are now fourteen, and the barns


