
826                           PERTHSHIRE.

fringe of reeds towards the land.  Then, at the height of about
twentv feet, forming a section of the Carse of Gowrie, stretches
onward a plain of rich alluvial soil for from two to three miles
northerly, and the whole breadth of the parish, at the extremity
of vhich rises, first of all, the eminence on which Inchture stands,
and then, after one or two undulatory elevations, the hills of
Rossie, Batedgarno, and Ballindean, a portion of what in the dis-
trict is termed '' the braes of the Carse," and of the verge of the
Sidlaws, whose acclivithes are not very great, and the heights of
which may be about 500 feet.
   The parish is in one of the most fertile districts of the king-
dom, in the midst of an exceedingly rich and beautiful, as well
as extensive, amphitheatre, and forms one of the most im-
posing portions of it. In the low ground, while the surrounding
landscape is very rich in fields, and tree, and plantations, and
parks, and edifices, and churches, and villages, not the least at-
tractive, if not the most, are those of Inchture ; whereas from any
one of the hills, which lie on its northern boundary, is to be de-
scried a prospect which, few places, can be equalled, and in
scarce any surpassed,-tbe Carse of Gowrie, not inappropriately
designated '' Scotland's Garden," in all its richness, and the noble
estuary of the Tay, dotted here and there with glistening sails,
forming the foreground, while the back-ground comprises the hills
east and west, north and South, in the direction of Dundee Law,
the Fifesbire Lomonds, the Hill of Kinnoull, and the far-famed
one of Dunsinnain, thll their peaks are lost in the '' blue dis-
tance," and their bases in the ocean.
   Climate.-The climate is, on the whole, mild and balmy, parti-
cularly in the vicinity of the '' braes," as exhibited in the early
foliage and richier fruits.
   Hydrogaphy.-The Frith of Tay, the southern boundary of
the parish, is here about three miles broad.  At low water, how-
ever, it is confined to a much narrower channel on the southern
or Fifeshire side.  Owing to the extensive banks over which the
tide flows, and the rapidity of the current, there is always a quan-
tity of sand suspended in the water, and its volume being so im,
mensely greater than the contents of the river which are mingled
with it, it is strongly impregnated with salt.  The rapidity of the
flow. at neap-tides way be from two to four miles in hour, and, at
stream-tides, from four to six during the same period.  At the
harbour at Polgavie, the water rises from six to eight feet during


