
                     CORSTORPHINE.                          237

The next visitation took place in February 1601, and the report
shews that the admonitions bad been useful for "they fand Mr
William Arthur, theminister, eldaris, and deaconis, weel thocht of;"
and again in August 1602, "they heard nathing of the minister,
elders, and deacons, but a good report, and all uther things wer
weill."
   Discipline.-During the ministry of Mr David Bassillie and
his successor, Mr R. Hunter, there was a weekly sermon in the
church every Tuesday, except for a few weeks in seed-time and
in harvest, and it was after this sermon that the meetings of ses-
sion were usually held. This weekly service was discontinued after
Mr Hunter's expulsion, and was not resumed until June 1674,
when Mr Henry, at the request of the elders, promised to preach
every Thursday in time coming, except seed-time and harvest,
and from this period it was kept up during the incumbency of Mr
Archibald Hamilton and his successor, Mr Fordyce, at whose
death it was finally given up.  Church discipline was much more
strictly enforced, and the parish under a more efficient guardian-
ship, while this service was continued, than during the incumbency
of the three Episcopalian clergymen of the intervening period, from
1662 to 1672.  During this disturbed period, there are many indica-
tions in the register, of comparative laxity of principle in the clergy-
men, and of the disaffection of the people to Episcopacy.  As a speci-
men of the former, we may quote the following entry : "2d May
1668. Anent scandal, &c.  The session thinks, fit that the Justices
of His Majesty's Peace who are heritor of this paroch, may be ad-
vertised to sit in session the next Lord's day, in regard that much
of the matter contained in the two claims belongs to their part."
This may be contrasted with the following entry on 15th May
1692, soon after the re-establishment of Presbytery; " Mr Wil-
son's petition for remunerationfor his trouble in providing preachers
during the vacancy, not being a work fit for the Sabbath, is con-
tinued, and afterwards referred to a meeting of heritors."  The
unpopularity of Episcopacy is well illustrated by the following en-
tries:" 1st Sept., 1670. This day, Lord Forrester desired the
minister to cause every elder in their respective bounds, to give up
a list of all such persons as absent ye church,i in contempt of ye
present government your;" and "11th February 1677. The minis-
ter gave in a grievance against Alexander Lowrie, for baptising
his child with ane unconformed minister, contrary to the establish-
ed government of the church."



