
                           MARKINCH                            669

or versed in judicial procedure, and in his defence made a cutting
and sarcastic speech, which drew down upon him the displeasure
of the king and of his judges. But Patrick Lindsay, his brother-
german, who was bred a lawyer, on hearing his brother's speech,
and witnessing its effects, craved permission to plead his cause,
which he did with so much address, that Lord Lindsay was acquit-
ted. The old Baron, touched with a piece of service so seasonable
and important, immediately exclaimed, " Well spoke, Pat; for your
pyot tongue tak' ye the mains of Kirkforthar."
     Besides the above, several families of note once made part of
the parish aristocracy, but are now extinct, and scarce a vestige of
their dwellings remains.

                           III.--POPULATION.

     The population of the parish has increased at a rapid rate during
the last century. Within the last seventy years it has considerably
more than doubled. As population and means of subsistence are
intimately connected, this great local increase may be attributed,
in a great measure, to the introduction of new branches of pro-
ductive industry, which, by supplying regular employment, both
retained the native population, and attracted influx from less fa-
voured districts--emigration even of individuals being very rare.

<TABLE>

          Years,         1755,    1790,    1801,    1821,    1838,
          Population,    2188.    2790.    3130.    4661.    5396.

                             IV.--INDUSTRY.

     Agriculture.--The number of acres under cultivation amounts
to about 8500, 350 of which are let in small lots varying from 1
to 10 acres, and on leases varying from one to seven years. The
remainder is let in about forty-three farms of various sizes. There
are about 400 acres in feus or small holdings in perpetuity, for an an-
nual payment, varying from a merely nominal acknowledgment to
L. 16 per imperial acre. These feus are chiefly in the villages,
and extend from a few poles to several acres each. There are
about 800 acres under plantations, and a moss, the only one in the
parish from which peats are dug for fuel, amy contain 100 more.
The quantity of land held by proprietors of bleachfields and of

<FOOTNOTE>Lindsay or Lindessay was originally an Angle-Saxon earldom in the county of
Lincolu; and one of the great divisions of that county bears the name of Lindsay to
this day. The son of the Earl of Lindsay, after the fatal field of Hastings, accom-
panied Edward Atheling into Scotland to the court of Malcolm Comodore. The two
principal branches or stems pf this once potent family were represented---the one by
the Earls of Crawford, the other by Lord Lindsay of the Byres, until the reign of
Charles I. when the whole honours of the family were vested in the person of John
tenth Lord Lindsay of the Byres, fourteenth Earl of Crawford, and first Earl of Lind-
say. The family of Kirkforthar, bear the arms of Lord Lindsay of the Byres, Earl
of Lindsay, and of Mure, Lord of Abercora.


