
			LETHNOT AND NAVAR.		      689

luvial deposits are found in the lower parts of the valley, consist-
ing of gravel, sand, clay, marl, and peat, in some of which vege-
table remains have been discovered.
   As in similar localities the soil in the lower parts of the valley
is composed of the debris of the neighbouring hills brought down
by streams, rains, and the action of the atmosphere. It is pretty
deep in some places, and is partly of a clayey and partly of a sandy
nature, but the clay seems to prevail. The soil on the higher
grounds is much thinner, and of a gravelly nature.

			II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
   Land-owners.--Lord Panmure and General Duff, brother of the
Earl of Fife.
   Parochial Registers.--Date of earliest entry 1728.
   Antiquities.--There are the remains of two or three small Druidi-
cal temples--one at Newbigging, near the remains of an ancient
castle or tower called Dennyfern, one at Blairno, and one said
to have been at Craigendowie, but now demolished.
   Several small tumuli of stones or cairns, s`id by tradition to
cover those who fell in skirmishes that took place between part of
Sir Robert Bruce's army and the English, when in this part of
the country,

<TABLE=III.-POPULATION>
                     Amount in 1831,          404
                               1841,          400

    None of the population reside in towns or villages.

      Yearly average of births for the last seven years,      5 nearly,
                     of deaths,                               6
                     of marriages,                            2

				IV.--INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.--The number of acres standard imperial measure
in the parish, which are either cultivated or occasionally in til-
lage, as nearly, as can be ascertained, is 2324. The rest of the
parish, as formerly mentioned, consists of hills and moorland in a
state of undivided common, and used as sheep walks.
   There are only about 20 acres of wood in detached plots, chief-
ly Scotch fir and larch, and some natural birch.
   The average rent of arable land per acre in the parish about
12s. The average rent of grazing per ox or cow, L.2, 10s; per
ewe, or sheep, 3s.
   The modern system of husbandry is generally pursued. The
rotation of cropping is three years of grass, and four of oats, bar-
ley, and green crop. No wheat is sown.


