
                             CASTLETOWN.                            441

is bleak and wild to a high degree.  But its appearance along the banks
of the river is altogether different.  These are generally covered with
natural woods, or young plantations in a verythriving state. The bar-
ren wilds are entirely hid from the view; the windings of the river,
and the fine holm-land on every side, present the most picturesque
scenes, or exhibit rich prospects to the eye. The inhabited part
of the parish consists of two valleys.  That along the Hermitage
is about ten miles in length, from the source of the river to the
point where it loses its name in the Liddal. At the head of this
river the country is entirely mountainous.  The mountains are very
high and steep, but are generally dry, and afford excellent sheep
pasture.  The greatest part of this stream is fringed with natural
wood ; it possesses much rural beauty, and exhibits the pastoral
scenes of life in great perfection.   The other valley, or strath, is
that along the sides of the Liddal. Near the head of the parish
on the east, the rivers Liddal and Tyne, which run by Newcastle,
take their rise, in the midst of an immense bog, surrounded by
mountains.  The Tyne winds slowly to the east, between the bleak
mountains and the dreary wastes of Northumberland, by Keelder
Castle.  The Liddal runs due West for a few miles, and then runs
due south.  This part of the country is mountainous, high, and
cold, until it commences to run south, after which it:presents ex-
cellent pasture.  On the east and west sides, the thriving planta-
tions of the Duke of Buccleuch, and below these, those of Mr
Scott Elliot of Lariston, and Mr W. 0. Rutherford of Dinla-
byre, and on the east, the plantations and woods of Mr Elliot of
Whitehaugh, a little below the confluence of the rivers, form a
landscape highly beautiful.  Here the valley widens considerably,
and improvements are everywhere seen.
      Mountains.,-The principal mountains are, Tudhope, Millen-
wood-fell, Windhead, Greatmoor, Dun, Dod, Hermitage, Peel-
fell, Roan-fell, Lariston-fell, Carby-Hill, and Tinnis hills. The
last-mentioned is seen as a land-mark at a great distance out at
sea.  Tudhope is said to be 1830 feet above the level of the sea,
and Millenwood-fell and Windhead are nearly 2000 feet.
      Rivers and Fish.--The rivers are the Liddal, the Hermitage,
the Tweeden, the Kershope, (which divides, the two kingdoms),
the Tinnis and the Blackburn; with several other streams. of in-
ferior note. All of them are plentifully stored with trouts, and
afford excellent sport to the angler.
      Climate and Longevity.--The climate is very damp, from the
ROXBURGH.


