
     Statistical Account

University to remedy disorders, when these became general,
and infected the whole body.  The chancellor had, by his
oath already mentioned, diverted himself of the power which
the Pope's Bull gave him; and neither royal nor parliamenta-
ry visitations, so frequent afterwards, were then introduced*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Whatever were the causes of declension in this University before the Re-
formation, the annals of literature mention very few of its members, who
made any considerable figure in the learned world.  One, however, deserves
to be mentioned.  WILLIAM ELPHINSTON, who had been a canon of Glas-
gow, and had borne the offices both of rector of the University, and clean of
the faculty of arts, was eminent in the knowledge both of the canon and
civil law.  He was made Bishop of Aberdeen, and Chancellor of Scotland;
and was employed in several embassies to foreign courts-He founded the
UNIVERSITY of OLD ABERDEEN, in the year 1496.  And, either from the
experience of what he had seen in the University of Glasgow, or from a deep-
er knowledge of human nature, he supplied, in his university, both the de-
fects we have observed in that of Glasgow: for he gave salaries (not illiberal
for the times) to those who were to teach theology, canon and civil law, me-
dicine, languages, and philosophy, and pensions to a certain number of poor
students; and likewise appointed a visitorial power, referring to himself, as
chancellor, and to his successors in that office, a dictatorial power, to be exer-
cised occasionally according to the report of the visitors.
   JAMES BEATON, the last popish archbishop of Glasgow, deserves also to be
mentioned with honour.  His fidelity in depositing every thing he carried a-
way, that belonged to the archbishopric or to the University, in the convent
of the Carthusians, or in the Scotch College at Paris, was never questioned.
His political ability appears by his having been appointed one of the Scottish
ambassadors, at the court of France, for settling the articles of the Queen's
marriage with the Dauphin; his having been again appointed her ambassador
at that court, and continuing in that office from the time of the Reformation
till her death; and, after that tragical event, his being appointed King
James's ambassador at the same court, and holding that office till the time of
his own death in 1603, when King JAMES came to be king of England.-
This archbishop lest several monuments of his learning in manuscript, which
are preserved in the Scotch College at Paris, to which he bequeathed the
greatest part of his effects at his death.


