
                            DALKEITH.                     481

pald, eight Earl of angus, who consequently now became fifth
Earl of Morton.  This Earl was not, however, long spared to en-
joy his increased hnours and patrimony,-- for he died at Soneston,
near Dalkeith, in 1588, leaving no issue.  His death was ascribed
to sorcery.
     After the attainder of Morton, and during the regins of James
VL and Charles L., the Palace of Dalkeith was occasionally used
for the residence of these monarchs, and for other state purposes,
as appears from the date of various proclamations, despatches, and
public deeds of that period.
     On the return of King James VI. to Scotland in 1617, after an
absence of fourteen years, his Majesty, among other places which
he honoured with a visit, proceeded to the Palace of Dalkeith on
the 11th day of June the same year. Several congratulatory poems
was presented to him on the occasion; and among the rest the
following verses by Mr Archibald Simpson, minister of the parish,
seems to intimate that he had been no stranger here in his earlier
days:

           Et tibi quum dicant Regi tua magna salutem
           Oppida,--non magnum tua parvula villa salutet?
           Villula, que Regum quondam secessus amaenus,
           Pectora quum gravibus voluera remittere curis.
           Huc laxa invitant palatia, culta Napoeis
           Prata meis, gemina gaudentes Naiades Esca;
           Invitantque meae laeta and pomaeria sylvae
           Te Dryades; Licet his capiti cicumdare myrtum,
           Sacraque Phoebaea tua tempora cingere lauro:
           Hic legere et cerasos, omnes et carpere fructus,
           Quos suavi Pomona sinu produxerit esquam.
           Hic quoties pavidas canibus committere Damas?
           Ramosi quoties vivacia pectora cervi
           Figere gaudebas? quoties haurire sonoras
           Te hic vidi dulces cunctarum, Magne, Voluerum
           Quae picturatis volitant per inania pennis? &c.&c.

But the strains of the poet faled to propitiate to persecuting
zeal of the royal despot.  For Archibald Simpson, minister of
Dalkeith, having been employed by his Presbyterian brethren to
sign and despatch to his Majesty a prostestation against some pre-
latical innovations which his Majesty intended to submit to Parlia-
ment, was summoned with the rest of the clergy to attend a meeting
at St Andrews, at which his Masjesty was to be present.  Falling
sick by the way, he wrote a letter to his brethren exhorting them
to oppose these innovations, which he characterised as "Tricas
Anglicanas," using also, as Spottiswood says, "some other dis-

<FOOTNOTE>* Philomela Dalkethensis in "the Muses' Welcome," p. 109.  King James's first
visit to Dalkeith was from 12th to 16th October 1579.-- Moyse's Mermoir; &c.
    EDINBURGH                                           H h
           



