
76                  ROSS AND CROMARTY.

veins of granite, beds of quartz rock, &c. A bed of limestone
appears in the Little Strath, passes under the Big Loch to Ul-
lapool, from which it runs into the beautiful and magnificent
marble quarries of Assint. But, from the difficulty of the ground,
and the scarcity of fuel, little use is made of it here. On the
farm of Scorraig, the property of Dundonnell, there is a prodi-
gious quantity of bog-iron ore, which seems to be of the sub-spe-
cies of meadow-ore. It communicates a strong and harsh chaly-
beate taste, to all the springs of water in the neighbourhood. The
soil in this parish, as may be supposed from its great extent and
different degrees of elevation and distance from the sea, is exceed-
ingly various; but the prevailing character is that of a light, sharp,
gravelly loam, well adapted to produce the ordinary crops of oats,
barley, and potatoes. Wheat also has been tried in it, and an-
swered remarkably well.
   Zoology.--On this head there is little to be said. The animals
which were generally found in wild mountain districts, abounded
long ago on the hills of Lochbroom: Deer, roe, hare, rabbit,
ptarmigan, grouse, black game, wild pigeons, sheep, goats, horses
of a small size, but hardy, and cows. The race of wolves has been
extirpated; but reynard contrives to keep his ground in spite of
every effort to expel him, and often commits sad ravages among
the sheep. The hens he scorns, as also the ducks of the poultry-
yard, and leaves them to the meaner tricks, but not less rapacious
fangs, of fumarts, martins, and wild-cats. Badgers are found among
the lower grounds, partridges in the fields, and abundance of ot-
ters along the shores of the sea, and the banks of the rivers and
lakes.
   Of fisbes, besides salmon, grilse, and trout, there are perch,
pike, eel, and minnows, to be found in some of the rivers and lakes
of the parish. The salmon come up to spawn in autumn. But, alas!
it is much to be feared, that but very few of them are allowed to
return to their briny element; being intercepted by lawless and mer-
ciless poachers. The fisbes which frequent the sea coasts of the
parish are too numerous to be particularly noticed. But the her-
rings cannot be passed over in silence, being the great staple of
the country.
   Of herrings, prodigious shoals appear off the coast of Lochbroom,
often as early as the month of May; but they pass on towards the
south, and do not strike into the lochs and arms of the sea, so as
to be productive of much benefit to the country, sooner than the
                              3

