
      		            FORGLEN.                               91

	French.  The salary of the schoolmaster is L.34, 4s. 4 1/2d.  His
	fees average L. 30 yearly.
	   Mortified money in favour of the schoolmaster.-Mr George
	Bruce, minister of Dunbar, left, in 1793, L. 100 Sterling, the inte-
	rest of which goes to the schoolmaster,-of whom it is required, as
	a condition of receiving this money, that he shall read a portion of
	Scripture every Sabbath, between the second and third bells.  A
	copy of the deed of mortification is inserted in the records of the
	presbytery of Turriff.  The interest of L. 20 has been left for edu-
	cating poor children, by Mr George Gerrard.  The schoolmaster
	has also the benefit of the Dick bequest, which may probably yield
	L.30 per annum.
           Most of the inhabitants of the parish can write as well as read,
	and, as far as is known, there are only three persons (belonging to
	the same family) who cannot read.  The people seem to set a high
	value on education.  The school-house is centrical, in excellent
	order, having been recently erected; and no part of the parish is so
	distant as to prevent the attendance even of young children.  When
	the school is fullest, the numbers are somewhat above 100.  The
	average may be stated between 80 and 90.  Some attend from
	other parishes.  There are between 30 and 40 attending the other
	schools.  In the return made to Government in 1834, it is stated
	that the greatest number which attended the parish school from
	Ladyday to Michaelmas 1833 was 108; the other schools 40; total
	148.  Perhaps 8 of these may be from the neighbouring parishes.
	Suppose then 140 at school, as the population amounts to 820,
	there is thus about one-sixth receiving instruction.  It is only jus-
	tice to state, that the parish school is most effectively taught, and
	that the most recent improvements in education have been introdu-
	ced with great success by the present schoolmaster, Mr Webster.
	   Sabbath Schools.- On the morning of the Sabbath, before public
	worship, there is a Bible class for young persons of both sexes, above
	the age of fourteen, who have attended with much regularity for the
	last four years, which is the length of time it has existed.  Between
	30 and 40 take advantage of this means of instruction.  The suc-
	cess which has attended this class has been very considerable.  After
	the dismissal of the congregation, the children meet in the Sabbath
	school.  The greatest number which has attended this school is 78,
	of whom girls form the larger proportion.  It is taught by well instruct-
	ed persons belonging to the parish, superintended by the minister.
	This school is one of the most important instruments of usefulness


