
                     ON THE COUNTY OF DUMBARTON.             249

innan, brough a prisoner to Glasgow, and from thence to Edin-
burgh, where they made his Lordship come out of his coach at the
Water-gate, and, with a halter round his neck, he was led by the
common hangmen, up the Canongate and High Street, and into
the Castle; and on the 1st of June, suffered by being beheaded at
the Cross of Edinburgh.
   The inhabitants of this county made no particular display at
the time of the Union; and its history since may rather be said to
be agricultural and commercial than political.
   General Remarks.-In a commercial point of view, Dumbarton-
shire is of considerable importance, on account of various branches of
industry, particularly for its bleachfields, cotton-spinning, glass-
works, and also for its ship-building. In its agriculture great improve-
ments have of late taken place; the high demand from the Glasgow
market having unquestionably operated as an inducement to under-
take the improvement of the county lands. For this purpose, both
proprietor and tenant have been obliged to enclose and lead manure,
lime especially, which has greatly augmented the demand for day
labourers, the consequence of which has been a rise in the price of
daily labour, as compared with former times, and also in the wages
of country servants. The necessary result of all is a very conside-
rable rise in the rent of land. And as the high price of grain, on
the one hand, has animated the inhabitants of the country,
so, on the other, is has excited the jealousy of those in the city,
who conclude that, since high prices are very advantageous to the
landed interests, they must be hurtful to trade. This idea, though
perhaps an erroneous one, has, however, been attended with some
advantages. It was for the purpose of cheapening the price of
county produce that county roads were first thought upon; and to
accomplish the same object, the Clyde was deepened, and the Forth
and Clyde Canal projected and carried through. It was in con-
sequence of such speculations that agriculture itself, and a spirit
for improvement of all sorts, began to be spread over this county.
Spots, indeed, had been improved by individuals; whereas now we
often see an acre not worth half-a-crown formerly, let for L.3 or L.4
or even L.6 per annum, for three crops. A few proprietors then
improved for their pleasure; the body of our farmers are now be-
ginning to follow their example, and seem to wish they were able
to improve for gain.
   It may here be observed, that debauchery and drunkenness pre-




