
266			AYRSHIRE.

for the last five years has been 211; in the parish school, day
classes 96, night classes 39; the other schools have, one 40, the
other 36. In the parish school are taught English reading and
grammar, writing, arithmetic, book-keeping, geography, and na-
vigation, also the rudiments of Latin, Greek, and French. The
other two are confined to English, writing, and arithmetic. The
school salary is L. 27, 17s. 8d., exclusive of the emoluments
of session-clerk, which office has always been enjoyed by the
parochial teacher. The average fees of teaching are, at the
parish school, 3s. per quarter; at one of the private schools,
3s., at the other only 1s. 6d. The age at which children enter
school is usually from five to six years. Scarcely any individual
brought up here has not been taught to read and write, and the far
greater number, in addition, the first rules of arithmetic. The pa-
rish school-room, like the church, is quite unsuitable to the pur-
pose for which it is required. It is contained in the ground-floor
of an old house formerly the manse, and, what from the nature of
the situation, extreme lowness of the ceiling, and rude inhospitable
interior, its ventilation is inconceivably bad, and cannot be but
most pernicious to the health and constitutions of its young and ten-
der inmates, as well as most uncomfortable to the teachers.
	The people, it cannot be doubted, are every way sensible of the
inestimable blessings of education; but, for a good many years past,
it is to be feared, many of them have been but little able to afford
the necessary expense of obtaining it to their luckless offspring.
At the age they should enter school, great numbers of children
here, as elsewhere, especially in the manufacturing districts, are put
to labour in a variety of ways, that they may contribute to their
own physical support; and thus, but for the means of Sunday
schools, and other expedients, would inevitably be left to grow
up without any knowledge of letters whatever! This parish,
however, is exceedingly well provided with teachers, and the abili-
ties, diligence, and assiduity of Mr Smith of the parochial school,
are above all praise. Nor are the donduct and efficiency of the pri-
vate teachers in their sphere at all less deserving of commendation.
	A parochial subscription library has been established in Kilbride
for about seven years, and now consists of upwards of 400 volumes
of pretty judiciously selected works in general literature. By this
means, a taste for reading is being diffused among the young, which
cannot fail of being productive of the most beneficial effects.
	Friendly Societies.--There are three different friendly societies


