
                           BEDRULE.                           285

Randolph married Bethoc, the heiress of some lands in Teviotdale.
The descendants from this marriage assumed, in the thirteenth
century, the surname of Randolph.  Sir Thomas Randolph, after-
wards Earl of Murray, was the great grandson. *  We find a
charter granting the lands of Bedrule, called Bethocrule, to James
Douglas, who is styled Militi dilecto et fideli nostro--by Robert I.
But the charter being mutilated, the date and witnesses' names
do not appear. +
   The family of the Turnbulls, famous for their predatory habits
in ancient times, produced a man no less illustrious as a scholar
than as a benefactor to his country.  This was William Turnbull,
son of Turnbull of Bedrule.  He was first a prebendary of Glas-
gow, afterwards Doctor of Laws, and Archdeacon of St Andrew's,
in the bounds of Lothian a Privy-Counsellor, and keeper of the
privy-seal.  He is styled William de Turnbull Dno Prebendae pri-
vati sigilli custodi anno 1441.+ When Bishop Bruce was trans-
lated from Dunkeld to Glasgow 1447, Turnbull was elected Bishop
of Dunkeld; but Bruce dying in the same year, Turnbull was then
elected Bishop of Glasgow, and consecrated in the month of April
1448.
   This bishop (says Keith) was a person of an excellent charac-
ter.  In 1452 or 1453, he procured a bull from Pope Nicholas V.
for erecting a College for literature within the city of Glasgow ;
after the complete settlement of which noble monument of his
care for the cultivation of learning, he took a journey to Rome,
where he died 3d September 1454. ($)F
   Rewcastle, or as it is written in old records, Roughechester,
Rewlcastle, or Rouchcastle, is said to be a place of great antiqui-
ty. The castle has vanished, and even the site can hardly be dis-
tinguished--etiam periere ruince.  There is a tradition that the
courts of Justice were originally held there, and afterwards remov-
ed to Jedburgh.  The farm-house is substantial, being lately
erected ; but the rest of the houses are in a very ruinous condi-
tion.  Under the tasteful and active management, however, of the

<FOOTNOTE>Chalm.  Caled.  Vol. iii.  P. 71.
<FOOTNOTE>Rot. i. No.  12 Registr. Mag. Sig. Robert 1. Bethoc inherited the lands of
Bethocrule and Roughechester, which is now called Rewcastle, in Teviotdale.  Ran-
dolph, the son of Dunegal, and his wife Bethoc, granted to the monks of Jedburgh,
a carrucate of land with common of pasture, in, the vill of Rughechester, and tlxi&
grant was confirmed by William the Lion.  The original charter was engraved by
the munificence of the Duke of Buccleuch.--Chalmers, Caled.  Vol. iii. p. 71-72.
<FOOTNOTE>Reg.  Chart.
<FOOTNOTE>Catalogue of the Scottish Bishops down to 1688.  By the Right Rev. Robert
Keith.--Chalmers's Caled.  Vol. iii. p. 622.


