
                                DULL.                      779

 cy, so far as that could have been ascertained: Duncan Maclag-
 gan, 1561-79; John Cunison, 1634; John M'Kerchar, 1699 ;
 Thomas Menzies 1713 ; Duncan M'Lea (presented de jure deva-
 luto), 1717 ; James Campbell, 1750; James Stewart, 1761 ;
 Alexander Campbell, 1769; Patrick M'Vean, 1771 ; Archibald
 Menzies, 1789; Duncan Dewar, 1839.
   The district of Foss was disjoined from the original parish in
 1830, and annexed, quoad sacra, to the Government church there
 erected; and in 1836, the district of Fincastle was similarly at-
 tached to the new erection at Tenandry, within the parish of
 Blair-Athole.
   There are two chapels in connection with the Established
 Church, and under the patronage of the General Aseembly's
 Committee for managing the Royal Bounty within the parish; the
 one is at Amulree and the other at Grandtully. The minister of
 the former has an annual salary of L.65, including L.5 for com-
 munion elements, and is paid entirely out of the royal bounty ;
 the salary of the latter again is L.90, including a similar sum for
 communion elements, of which L.40 are paid either by Sir Wil-
 liam D. Stewart of Grandtully or his tenants, and the remaining
 L-50 are paid by the Royal Bounty Committee. Besides, the
 ministers of these respective missions are accommodated with a
 house, garden, and four or five acres of arable land, rent-free, by
 the proprietors, and provided gratuitously with fuel by the tenants
 connected with their missions.
    There is a chapel at Tummel-bridge in connection with the
 Scottish Episcopal Church, where the minister of Strathtay offi-
 ciates once in the fortnight during summer, and who is paid, partly
 by the Episcopal Church Society and partly  by members of the
 congregation. The average attendance does not exceed 15; and
 for four months in winter there is, no service.
   An Independent congregation was established upwards of forty
 year afo in Aberfeldy; and in 1817 a chapel and house to the
 minister were built, at an expense of about L.650. The chapel con-
 tains about 500 sittings, and, if not lately liquidated, it was burdened
 with considerable debt. Excepting in winter, perhaps, the attend-
 ance is generally but small and the congregation is composed, not
 only of the parishioners of Dull, but also, in a great measure, of
 the people of the adjoining parishes. The ministers stipend is
 raised from the seat-rens and Sunday collections, and with L.10
 paid by the Congregational Union of Scotland for itinerating,
 may average about L.50 annually.


