
			KILMORIE.                                67

The fees in all the schools are, for reading, 2s. per quarter; read-
ing and writing, 2s. 6.; these with arithmetic, 2s.; navigation
and book-keeping, L. 1 per course.
	There are none between the age of six and fifteen but who either
can, or are learning to read; and the greater number of those of fifteen
can also write. From fifteen to fifty there are none but can read,
and the most of them can also write. There are a considerable num-
ber of individuals above fifty who cannot write, but few, if any,
who cannot read. There as a universal desire among the people
to have their children taught, at least the elementary branches of
education. The number of private schools in the parish is clear
evidence of this fact. The endowed schools are more numerously
attended; the teachers better qualified, and the children better
taught. Of these at least three additional are required; one at
Machry water foot; (the one at Imachar more fully endowed); one
at Auchemore, and one at Benan.
	The establishment of the General Assembly's schools in 1828,
formed a new and interesting era in the history of education in
this parish. The introduction by them of a more rational, effi-
cient, and expeditious system of education, speedily supplanted in
the others that formerly pursued; while the energy displayed by
their teachers, and the spirit infused by them into the children;
the interest and pleasure they made them take in what they be-
fore felt to be an irksome task, and the rapid progress they con-
sequently made, gave a stimulus, while it set a pattern to those
others, which has completely changed their character and appear-
ance. This, together with the religious instruction commumicated,
in a manner that makes what they repeat intelligible to the pupils,
will, it is hoped, exercise a salutary influence on the rising generation.
The teachers of the Assembly's schools merit the highest com-
mendation, for the assiduity, ability, and zeal exhibited by them
in their profession, and sustained unabated for upwards of eight years,
during which they have been established. The school taught by
Mr M'Kelvie at Little Mill, deserves special notice, and is de-
cidedly the best in the parish; indeed, it is seldom that its equal
will be found any where.
	Poor and Parochial Funds.--The average number of persons
receiving parochial, aid for the last ten years, is 75; and the ave-
rage sum allowed each, is 16s. Some get as low as 6s. and 8s.;
and some as high as L. 2. The average annual amount of church
collections during the same period, is L. 46. This sum, with the
proclamation dues, which annually average L. 6; and the interest


