

306                    RENFREWSHIRE.

gane; and hes alredie begtne and spoilled and reft diverse horsis
and guidis furth of the grund of my awin propir landis of Dernlie
and Cancklystoun.  (Cruikystoun.)" In the reply on the Queen's
part to this complaint of Lennox, it is maintained that Sempill had
consented to the surrender of Paisley, " quhilk being ane place of
sic strenth culd not easselie be takin gif himself had not consentit
to the same." P.362.  A pretty fair explanation is also given in the
sequel of the other matters of complaint on the part of the Regent.
On 20th October 1572, the General Assembly complain that " messe
is said in certane places of this countie," and Paisley is particu-
larized, and the civil pnwer is importuned to use means " For ap-
prehending of the messe sayaris, and also the hearesis, to underlye
the law." P.278.  Thirty years after, Lady Abercorn being a Pa-
pist, gave no small trouble to the session and presbytery of the
bounds, and proved a great enemy to the progress of the Protestant
faith.  It appears that in Popish times, Paisley was one of the four
places in Scotland to which pilgrimages were made.*
  N.B.-Since this Account was written a dark cloud has come
over our manufacturing prospects; but we trust that the stagna-
tion will be only temporary.

  In addition to the acknowledgments made in the course of the preceding account,
the compilers beg to offer their sincere thanks for the valuable assistance received
from the following gentlemen in the several departments noticed:
  In Geology,-Dr A. K. Young; Mr William Kerr: Mr George Miller, of the
Blantyre Cotton Works, formerly of Paisley; Mr Wilson, Junior, Hurlet; Mr
Oatt of the Hurlet Alum Company; and Mr Montgomery of Cloak, who has been
lately honoured with a piece of plate (value 25 sovereigns) by the Highland Society,
for his valuable Essay on the Mineralogy of Renfrewshire.
  In the departments of Topography and Ecclesiastical Antiquities,-The Rev. W.
M. Wade, A. M. Minister of Trinity (Episcopal) Chapel ; Mr Glassford, Johnston;
MrJohn Dunn, Writer, Paisley; and Mr M-Lellan, Glasgow.
  In the department of Agriculture,-Mr Carlile of Houston; and Mr William Glen
of Hawkhead Mains.
  In the departments of Trade and Manufactures,-Mr Alexander Carlile ; Mr
Archibald Yuile, manufacturer, Paisley; Mr George Miller, Blantyre; and Mr
Rober Lang.
  For the article on " Friendly Societies," we are indebted to Mr Alexander Bor-
land, of the Western Bank.
  In the article on " Civil History" we have availed ourselves of some valuable pa-
pers which had been drawn up by two intelligent citizens now gone,-Provost Wil-
liam Carlile, and Mr Gibson, Town-clerk of the burgh.
  To Mr Campbell, Sheriff-substitute; Mr Smith,-Secret`ry ofthe Maitland Club;
Mr Gavin Lang, Town-clerk, and his partner, Mr Wilson; Mr Alexander Gibson,
Depute-clerk to the Justices of Renfrewshire; and to other gentlemen whose names
are not mentioned, we owe many obligations for the use of their libraries, and for im-
portant information on various branches connected with the Statistics of Paisley.
The gentlemen of the Maitland Club obligingly acceded to our request for the use
of their plates of the seal of the Monastery.-R. B.  R. M.

    <FOOTNOTE>Note to Renfrewshire Characters and Scenery, p. 36.

PAISLEY, Feb. 13th 1837.


