
132                       EDINBURGHSHIRE.

ral of the member, and L.3 for that of his wife; but should be die
unmarried, his heirs are allowed the whole L.8 for his funeral
charges. This society has 300 members, and its stock amounts
to L.1000. The Old Society requires from 5s. to 10s. 6d. entry
money according to the age, and 2s. a-quarter, with 1s. additional
in the year in support of widows' annuities, from its members; the
new takes 3s. 6d. of entry money, and 2s. a-quarter, reserving the
power of raising the latter if needful. These Societies are aa very
great advantage to all who are wise enough to avail themselves of
their aid.
   Poor.-The average number of poor for the five years end-
ing February 1837, was 41. Some of these, however, had wives,
others children, dependent on them. The average allowance
given to these was L.4, 8s. 9 3/4d. per annum. Besides, there
were two lunatic panpers, not always in confinement, but whose
aliment during the period referred to amounted to L.137, 16s. 8d.
The funds affording those supplies were assessments averaging per
annum, L.132; collections, L.35, 12s. 8d.; mortcloth-dues,
L.11, 8s.; marriage fees, L.1, 10s. 10 1/2d.; funds from other
sources, L.5, 17s. 3 1/2d.; total, L.236, 8s. 10d. These funds,
however, covered also the expensed of the church affairs, and va-
rious other items which the kirk-session undertake for the heri-
tors. The poor have also a cart of coals at the new year, defray-
ed by a collection made for the purpose; and a portion of the
meal mentioned as Mr Anderson's benefraction. The people are
not unwilling to receive parochial aid, and many would rather
leave their own comforts. But to this there are honourable ex-
ceptions.
   Alehouses.-There are at present 14 public-houses in the pa-
rish,-a number much greater than is required for the real wants
of the people, and therefore truly hurtful to them.
   Fuel.-Coal is the only fuel used in the parish. It comes
to us along the Union Canal, or from the fields of coal which lie
to the south-east. The price for the ton of 20 cwt. brought to
Colinton village may be stated from 14s. to 18s., according to the
kind required.

                  MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   The cultivation of the parish, since the last Statistical Ac-
count was written, has been greatly improved, and is generally
carried on with activity and intelligence. Considerable changes


