
                           LOGIERAIT.                           689

missary at Logierait had sentenced to be hanged. "But you
know," said the President, " that mercy belongs to the King, and
cannot be extended by a judge after sentence." To which the
Duke's answer is said to have been a peremptory express (ordered
within hearing of the Lord President) to his commissary, to set
the criminal immediately at liberty.  But bx this time we suppose
the Regality of Athole had sunk into a plain Court of Barony,
where law was statedly administered by a baille and commissary
within memory.  I find in the session records some strange in-
stances of application, on the part of the session, to the commis-
sary, to grant warrant against and imprison parties under scandal
for refusing to delate or compear, e. g., 24th February 17J7.
   "The minister reported he frequently conversed with Elspet
Kennedie to no purpose; that she continued stubborn and unruly,
until that he procured a warrant from his Grace the Duke of
Athole to incareerate her in the common jail of Logierait; and
after she was brought by a party to the place, finding no relief,
she proocured James Stewart, miller in Pitnacre, to bail for her
submission to the session," &c.
   There was here a court-house of such ample proportions, that
the principal hall is said to have been the noblest apartment in
Pertshire in its time.  The building, in a ruinous state, is still well
remembered; and the justiciary hall ir said to have been upwards
of seventy feet in length, with galleries at the ends. The powers
possessed by Courts of Regality, which, as the name denotes, was
royal, and almost unbounded, must have been sufficiently terrible,
in such hands, for example, as those of the famous Wolf of Bade-
nnch, whose legal reign embraced the lordship of Athole and
Badenoch, and extended from Strathspey to Loch Katrine.
   Anitiquities.-In the neighbourhood of the village, there are the
ruins of ancient building, said to have been a castle or hunting-
seat of King Robert III. The royal residence may be traced in
the names of Bal-na-gard, " the guard's town ;" King's Stables ;
Glaic-an-righ, or "King's hollow,' which are names of places in
the neighbourhood. King's Stables is the name of a spot about
890 yards to the west of the ruin.  In digging into hollow for
soil and decayed vegetable matter near the place, the tenant, some
years ago, found a causewayed floor, at the depth of several feet
below the surface, from which he picked up the iron of a small
pitchfork of antique appearance. The place is again filled up
and the stones were most likely in part displaced. Two copper
   PERTH                                           xx


