
648                         AYRSHIRE.

to the Associate Synod, two are Roman Catholics, the rest belong to
the Established Church. The Dissenters (Presbyterians) attend
public worship in the chapel at Tarbolton and Mauchline, the
Roman Catholicis at Ayr. The average number of communicants
at the Established Church is about 300. An Association for re-
ligious and educational purposes was-formed about a year ago.
	Education.--There are two schools in the parish, the parochial,
and one unendowed; the teacher has a school-house and dwelling,
house, both provided at the private expense of Lord Glenlee, and
he is entirely dependent on the fees, which are necessarily small.
The salary of the parochial teacher is L. 30, and the fees may
amount to between L. 20 and L. 30.
	The people are very much alive to the benefits of education, and
there are few, if any, who are not ready to make great sacrifices in
order tohave their children instructed in whatever branches are
desirable in their station, and suited to their prospects in life.
	Poor and Parochial Funds.--The average number of persons
receiving parochial aid is about seven; and average allowance to
each per week is 1s. The annual collections at the church door
amount to about L. 20; about L. 40 more is required for the relief
of the poor, and is raised by assessment of the heritors according
to their respective valuations. The reluctance to apply for paro-
chial aid is certainly not so great as it was at no distant period.
	Ale-houses.--There are two houses in which ale and spirituous
liquors are sold.
	Coal is the fuel in universal use; and any cottager in the pa-
rish may have a cartful laid down at his door for 5s.

			MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
	This district has not lagged behind in the march of improve-
ment. Since the date of the last Account, almost every farm stead-
ing has been rebuilt and roofed with slate. The roads have been
almost entirely relaid according to the modern principles of the
art,--tbough there is still room for improvement in the means of
communication. It is most gratifying to add, that the labour-
ing clams have largely participated in the benefits, resulting from
the improvements in agriculture, and the arts generally.

	December 1841.


