
648                           LANARKSHIRE.

   5. Garturk or Wilderness two pits, 24 fathoms deep, contain
the black-band.  The upper coal is here wrought out.
   6. Faskin, four ironstone pits, from 10 to 14 fathoms.
   7. Monkland, one ironstone pit.
   8. Calder Ironworks.  Two ironstone pits are now wrought for
these works on Garturk estate, 36 fathoms deep.  There is a
coal-pit here 100 fathoms; the deepest in the parish.
   9. Whiteflat or Whifflet, three ironstone pits, and two coal-
pits, containing the splint and black-band.  Pits 40 fathoms deep.
   10. Drumpellier.  Ironstone pit here 40 fathoms.  Nos. 1 and
2 are wrought out.  The ironstone fines off at pit No.2, averag-
ing only two or three inches in thickness.  "It is seen," (as the
workmen express it,) "and that is all."
   The coal and ironstone pits in the parish of New Monkland
are still more numerous; and it is from them that the iron-works
in Old Monkland receive their chief supplies.  The great iron
establishments at Gartsherrie, Sommerlee, Calder, Dundyvan, and
Chapelhall, receive a great quantity of ironstone from Rochsilloch,
the property of Sir William Alexander.  On this property at the
time this account was taken up, there were eleven pits, two mines,
and two open casts, besides three pits shanking.  The black-band
here yields from 30 to 40 per cent. of iron.  One acre at 8s. 6d.
per calcined ton of lordship will yield L.1000 to the landlord.
The output on Rochailloch alone is 4500 tons per month, and the
annual income to the proprietor is about L.12,600 per annum,
on a property, which, if let for tillage, would yield only few hun-
dreds per annum.
   Quarries.-The freestone quarries in the parish of Old Monk-
land are chiefly as follows:-
   1. Langlone Quarry.  This is a red freestone, which lies above
all the coals, and runs in a compact body through Drumpellier
and Britishholm by Mainhill.  It is thrown off by a hitch at
Kirkwood, but soon comes on again.  It then goes on by Mount
Vernon and on to Westmir.  It is thrown in by two dikes, which
are downthrows.  This rock is about 50 feet thick.  The same
rock is wrought at Mainhill and Haggmill.
   2. Southerhouse and Garturk.  A fine white freestone, supposed
to be a plie of rock beneath the red sandstone, cropping out to the
north.  It is from 39 to 40 feet thick.  The whole of this free-
stone is consumed at Calder works.
   3.  Sommerlee Quarry.  A white freestone of a somewhat infe-


