
     Of Kemback.

   In this parish, till very lately, the capital improve-
ments which farming has received during the course of
the present century, have not been generally adopted.
Within the recent period of 12 years, neither turnips
nor artificial grasses of any kind were sown in the largest
farm in the parish.  The fields, after being exhausted
by cropping, were resigned in succession to pasture, and
remained in that condition several years, producing scan-
ty crops of natural grasses, till it became necessary to
break them up again for corn; and the instruments of
husbandry corresponded in clumsiness with the rudeness of
the mode of cultiation.  Of late, however, things have
assumed a very different appearance.  Turnips are rais-
ed in every farm.  The rotation of crops is sometimes
such as the best writers on husbandry recommend; the
fields are laid down with a plentiful allowance of clover
and rye grass, and the plough, and harrows, and carts,
etc. are generally of the best construction.  Still, how-
ever, to an accurate and judicious observer, there may
perhaps appear room for much future improvement,
both in the formation and in the execution of the plans
adopted by farmers here for the management of their

<FOOTNOTE>

improvement, before a person can be qualified for reading such books
with advantage, it would be necessary for him to go through a more
complete course of education, than can be commonly obtained at a
contry parish school.  A considerable acquaintance with the English
language, arithmetick, book-keeping, and mensuration, are qualifica-
tions without which a farmer can neither make himself master of the
improvements made in the art, nor prosecute these improvements in a
manner either beneficial to himself or his country.  Thus, by the way,
shown the necessity of giving greater encouragement to public teachers,
than is at present done; as there is not, perhaps, any single circumstance
that would conduce so much to the advancement of agriculture in Scot-
land, as making provision for the proper education of that class of men
by whom the art is to be carried on.


