
                           BUNKLE AND PRESTON.               121

ing the present leases, induced by the high state of improvement,
to which they had brought their farms.
   Husbandry.-The general mode of cultivation is by a rotation of
crops, consisting of two or three years of pasture, followed by three
years of tillage. There are upwards of fifty ploughs in the pa-
rish, but the farmers give their chief attention to the rearing of
sheep, of which there are on some of the greater farms no less than
1500 or 1600. These are mostly of the Leicester breed, to the
improvement of which great attention is paid. Nearly all the
waste land that was capable of cultivation has been brought un-
der tillage, and so great had been the quantity of this, that one-
half of the land now under the plough has been reclaimed from
marshy bogs and barren hills, by draining, liming, and enclosing
mostly at the expense of the tenant. The extent of the farms is
various, being from 50 to 1300 acres, and the rents from L. 80 to
L. 1600. For sometime back no leases have been given for a longer
period than nineteen or twenty-one years. The houses on the
farms are upheld by the tenants, but at the commencement of a
lease, a small sum is usually allowed by the landlord to put them
in a state of repair. The fences are good or indifferent, accord-
ing to the quality and situation of the land; great part of the soil
lying on a moorland, is unfavourable to the growth of thorn-hedges,
and the dikes, being built of round smooth stones without lime,
stand in need of frequent repairs.
   The roads are entirely supported by the statute-labour con-
version money, and are kept in good repair, the materials for this
purpose being easily obtained.
   Produce.-The average gross amount and value of raw produce
yearly raised in the parish, as far as can be ascertained, is as
follows:

<TABLE>

Grain of all kinds, cultivated for food of man or domestic animals, L. 10,114 0 0
Potatoes, turnips, hay, also pasture,                                    6051 0 0
                                                                      -----------
                                                                    L. 16 165 0 0

   N. B.-The land in white crop, before noticed, is supposed to
yield about four quarters of barley or oats per acre, at a medium
price, per quarter, of L. 1, 1s. 8d. Beef and mutton are calcu-
lated at 5d. per pound, wool at L. 1, 4s. per stone. There is but
little wheat raised in the parish, and no more hay than supplies
the farmers.

                         V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

   Means of Communication.-There is no market-town in this pa-



