
996                            PERTHSHIRE

the river Tay. In its progrdsr thither it drives two saw-mills, and
the rolls on by the village of Dowally.
	Loch Oishnie, or the lake of many angles, also flows into the
Tay, passing the Kilmorich distillery, and the village of Kitidal-
lachan. Loch Broom flows through the barony of Dulcapon, and
discharges itself into the river Tummel, near to Moulinearn.
	Fishing.--Loch Broom flow and 0rdie are famed for trout; the
latter is preserved. The rest of the Dowally lochs contain perch
&c. There is a salmon-fishing stattion at Dowall; and the banks
of the river Tay, all along the parish, afford good sport to an-
glers.

			II.-Civil. History.
	In Dowally, the Culdees had a place worship at the Mains
of kilmorick, which was subsequently possessed by the Romish
Church. About 1340, one of the bishops of Dunkeld erected a
house at Guay, for the entertainment of strangers, which was sup-
ported by the rents of certain church lands. Some of this succes-
sors however, shut it up, and misapplied the the rents, but Bishop
Brown, somewhere about 1490, restored it. It ceased at the
Reformation. At the present day, the Guay Inn is the only
licensed house in the parish. Dowally, it is believed was
the last parish erected in Perthshire. It took place in 1500.
At that time, the bishop built and endowed a church in
honour of the blessed mother St Anne, among the woods
of the church-land of Dowally. It was a long narrow in-
ellegant structure, and uncomfortably seated. * It became ruinous
in 1755, when it was repaired. There are two villages in the pa-
rish, one at the church of Dowally, and the other at Kindallachan,
about one mile distant. There is no post-office, although there
might be one most conveniently for the parish, at Guay, and ano-
ther at Moulinearn. At present, ther is a post runner from Dun-
keld, although the mail passes daily through the patish.
	Land-owner.--The land-owners are Lord Glenlyon and the
Duke of Atholl's Trustees. The latter are the patrons. Neither
have a residence in the parish.

<FOOTNOTE>A singular custom existed throughout the Highlands. A bankrupt wearing the
Agrency, Aress was grilled to wait at the church-door till all the parishioner were
seated before he could enter to join in the worship. The humiliating dream was
one-half yellow and one half brown, with hood for the head which the supreme
Court had the power to dispense with. It was finally abolished during the late
King's reign.
                                      3


