
176                     PERTHSHIRE.

he reached the confines of the parish of Errol, where he alighted
on a large stone, which still bears the name ofthe "Hawk's stane."
All the intervening ground was given in property to the family of
"Hay of Errol," though it has since that period been either ap-
portioned to different members of the family, or alienated to other
parties. In memory of these events, the family of Hay still wear
as their arms, argent, three scutcheons, Gules: with the yoke in-
scribed, i. e. three golden shields in a silver shield; an indication,
as Buchanan thinks, that the public safety was defended by the
singular valour of three men, in an important battle. *

<FOOTNOTE>Of the existence of this battle there can be no doubt. And although some critics
have pretended to find improbabilities or impossibilities in its principal circumstances,
there is such unquestionable evidence of their truth, besides the direct testimony of
all our historians, as no criticism can overcome.  Lord Kames, in his "Sketches of
the History of Man," has said, "This story has every mark of- fiction. A man
ploughing in sight of a battle, on which depended his wife and children, his goods,
and perhaps his own life; three men, without rank or figure, with only a stick in the
hand of each,stemming the tide of victory, and turning the fate of battle.  I mention not
that a plough was unknown in Scotland for a century or two after that battle; for
that circumstance could not create a doubt in the historian, if he was ignorant of it."
A little attention, however, to the circumstances narrated above, will, I think, remove
this objection.  If it be remembered, that the Scottish army did not arrhve at the
scene of action till the preceding day, and that the field in which Hay was at work
was on the opposite side of the river from the field of battle, it will not, appear so ut-
terly incredible that he was at work as is pretended.  Besides, the fair inference from
this part of the criticism, only dxtends to the circumstance of his being actually en-
gaged in agricultural labour.  It does not follow that he could not be in the fields
observing the action, nor imply the impossibility of his seizing the yoke; and his me-
rit would be as great on the one supposition as the other.  Again, the criticism of
this able and respectable author is as full of self-contradictious as the story itself.In
order to give point to his criticism, he is obliged to suppose (what is not stated by
any historian) that Hay was "unconcernedly" following his ordinary occupation, and
this at the very moment that his own narration represents him as roused into rage at
the flight of his countrymen.
  If the interest he should naturally have taken in the fate of the battle from "his
wife and children, his goods, and perhaps his life" being dependent upon it, ren-
dered it impossible for him to be an unconcerned spectator, as the criticism implies,
would not these be excitements to strong and even desperate efforts in behalf of his
countrymen? Add to this that the learned author, in order to make his case the
stronger, has founded on Hay and his sons wanting "rank and figure," which yet, if
they had possessed, would not have been of the slightest avail to them in the given
circumstances.  Not only in that age, but especially in the circumstances supposed,
pdrsonal prowess was every thing, and "rank and figure" nothing in stemming the
tide of victory.  Lastly, the learned author concludes his remarks on this battle by
saying, "that a plough was unknown in Scotland for a century or two after that bat-
tle." It is a pity that the author had not quoted the authority on which so confident
an assertion is founded.  It is certainly contrary to all that we have read of the an-
cient state of our country.  A plough not known in Scotland till about the year 1100
or 12DO!! One might have thought that the Romans would have introduced the
knowledge of the plough into our country eight hundred or a thousand years before
this, if it had not been previously known.  But what do their historians say on the
subject? Caesar De bello Gallico, lib. v. says that those "qui ex Belgis transierunt"
inhibited the coasts "atque agros colere caeperunt." Ticitus, De Julii Agricolac
Vita, "speaking of Caledonia, says, "Solum-patiens frugum, fiecundum, tarde mites-
cunt, cito proveniunt." Our own historian, Buchanan, says, "Picti agris fertiliori-
bus secundum mare Germanicum colendis assuescerent." How, we may ask, could
they cultivate the soil without some kind of plough?  Surely, in making the above
                                     4


