
     of Crimond.

after liming.  Some fields have not yet recovered the bad ef-
fects of this over-cropping.  When the tenants, about 30 or
40 years ago, began to use lime, the landlords, in order to
prevent over cropping, caused insert a clause in the leases they
granted, prohibiting tenants from taking more than 4 crops
after folding with sheep or cattle, and???  after liming, without
the intervention of a green crop; but if the 5th crop after
liming was pease, they could, by their lease, make the 6th
bear, and then a 7th and 8th oats.  It is easy to see, that such
a mode of using ground, must have greatly retarded improve-
ment.  Liming is not much used at present here, as most of
the ground, for which it is proper, has already been limed,
and got such a large dose, that a second liming is rather hurt-
ful than beneficial.  What lime is now used, is commonly her-
rowed in with bear, and clover and rye-grass seeds, after tur-
nips and potatoes, in old infield ground.  Shell marl is begin-
ning to be used as a manure, and seems to answer well.
   It is not much above 20 years since potatoes, turnips, or
artificial grasses, were to be seen in the fields in any quantity.
But people now begin to perceive the advantages of those im-
provements.  Potatoes are planted in quantities sufficient to
supply the consumption of the parish, which is considerable.
A few were sold last year for exportation; but the expence
of land carriage will probably prevent any attempts to raise
them for exportation.  Many have large fields of turnips.
Summer fallow is sometimes used; and the potatoe, turnip,
and fallow fields are generally sown down with rye, grass, and
red and white clover seeds; and sometimes grass seeds are
sown in ground not so well prepared.  But a great deal re-
mains to be done; and it will be a long time before the dis-
trict can arrive at the degree of cultivation it is capable of-
There is no regular rotation of crops carried on here, unless
by one or two tenants.  A very good rotation, which has been


