
70			AYRSHIRE.

No. III.--Abstract of the number of Communicants belonging to
	the Establishment, in the parish of Ayr, and the parish churches
	in which they do communicate.
<TABLE>

Parish Churches of Ayr,             1794         Maybole,                  2
Newton,                              251         St Evox,                  5
Dalrymple,                            15
Kirkmichael,                           2                     Total,     2069

   The stipend of the first charge consist of eight chalders and
a-half, half meal, and half bear, and one-half chalder for com-
munion elements. The incumbent has, besides, the half of the
yearly interest of L. 1000, bequeathed to the two ministers of Ayr,
by John Fergusson, Esq. of Doonbolm, and the half of the sti-
pend of Alloway, amounting to L. 16 odds yearly. He has a com-
fortable manse, which was built a few years ago, after a long and
tedious litigation with the magistrates and heritors to obtain it,
which cost a very large amount of expenses, and which was de-
cided ultimately in his favour by the House of Lords. The sti-
pend of the second minister is made up partly of the old stipend
of the second charge, partly of a sum from the Government
Bounty, and partly of an allowance from the magistrates for extra
service, and the half of the above-mentioned bequest, together
with L. 46, 13s. 4d. in lieu of a manse and glebe. The ordinary
collections at the church doors amount to upwards of L. 100 an-
nually; and the extraordinary, to nearly as much, including contri-
butions made every winter for coals to the poor, and money re-
ceived for them at the two sacraments. The ordinary collections
are diminishing gradually every year, in consequence of the high
rate of assessment. There are a Bible, Missionary, Tract, Tem-
perance, Sabbath School, and Female Benevolent Society in the
town; but the amount of their funds, individually or collectively,
cannot easily be ascertained. We have occasional collections in
the parish churches for objects of Christian benevolence, such as
the General Assembly's Schools in tbe Highlands, the Church
of Scotland Mission in India, and additional Church accommo-
dation, which may increase our extraordinary collections to a
larger sum annually than we have stated it above; but the for-
mer is regular, the latter only contingent. Our churches are both
situated in the town, and are convenient enough for the great body
of the people, though some miles distant from the furthest boun-
dary of the parish.
	Education--Academy.--There are few places better provided
with the means of education than Ayr. In 1798, the parochial


