
868                       PERTHSHIRE.

a mile at high water, and only one quarter when the tide is out.
Two steam-boat are attached to the ferry, which pass in about
five minutes at all times of the tide and in all states of the wea-
ther. The piers at the ferry were built in 1826 and 1827 by Lord
Keith's Trustees, at the cost of L.6468, 5s. 9d.
   Minerals.-This parish abounds with excellent freestone, coal,
and ironstone.  The quarry of Longannat, in the east part of the
parish, and near the river, is well known for its excellent durable
white freestone.  It was once wrought by the Dutch, and it is said
that the Stadt House of Holland was built of the stone of this
quarry.  The Royal Exchange, Infirmary, and Register Office in
Edinburgh are partly built out of it.  There is abundance of coal
under the recently reclaimed land.

                      II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Antiquities.-The old Castle of Tulliallan, which formerly be-
longed to the Blackadders, is the most remarkable old building, in
the parish. It stands upon a small rising, ground to the west of
the town.  A moat, communicating with the Forth, formerly sur-
rounded the building, which at that time was within 150 yards of
the river.  It must have been a place of great strength. A
portion of the moat is still visible.  Nothing remains of the
building but the walls and the arch over the ground flat, which
consists of three rooms.  It has given the name to Tulliallan
Castle,-the chief mansion-house in the parish.  The old church
at Overtown forms the tomb for Lord Keith's family.  Some of
the tomb-stones are very old.  Gold, silver, and copper coins of
the English Edwards' reign are found in the earth of this old
church, and in the tomb of the Blackadder family.  Some Roman
arms, partially filled with ashes, were dug up on the farm of Dam-
end, in the north of the parish, so recently as 1830.
   Land-owners.-These are, Trustees of Tulliallan estate; James
Johnstone, Esq. of Sands; Lord Abercrombie.

<TABLE=III.-POPULATION.>

                 Population in 1801,      2800
                               1811,      3194
                               1821,      3558
                               1831,      3550
                               1841,      3119-families, 819.

   Of this number, nine-tenths are contained in the town of Kin-
 cardine, and the remaining part is scattered over the landward
 district of the parish.


