
96                         ABERDEENSHIRE.

Society was re-chartered in 1801, by the title of " the President
and Society of Shipmasters of Aberdeen."  Their funds, which
formerly arose from the tax which they were entitled to levy, and
which now are derived from the contributions of the members, are
applicable to the purpose of pensioning indigent members, and
the widows and orphans of deceased members, and the sum distri-
buted by them is above L. 600 annually, in allowances varying from
L. 16 to L. 20.
   Post Office.-For a good many years, the south mail used to
arrive in Aberdeen at 6 A. M., and the various north and inland
mails from half-past 12 to 2 P.M., and the hours for despatching the
south mail was 50 minutes past 2 P. M.; the others being made
up partly at 7 and partly at 8 A. M.
   In consequence, however, of the acceleration of the mails
through England by means of the railroads, &c. various alterations
have been introduced since November 1837.  There are now two
mails daily from Edinburgh, the one arriving at a quarter-past 6
A.M. and the other at 6 P.m., and the hours of despatch for the south
are at present quarter-past 7 A. M. and half-past 3 p. m.  The va-
rious country mails arrive about an hour previous to the afternoon
despatch of the south mail, and they are despatched at 7 A. M., and
to one or two places also at 10 P. M.
   The increase in the size and trade of the city has of course
been attended with a corresponding increase in the revenue and
business of the Post Office.  By the statement of the postmaster,
the Post Office revenue of Aberdeen has been for a considerable
number of years steadily on the increase, and is at present from
L. 9500 to L.10,000.
   Stamps.-The amount of bill stamps annually made use of in
the Aberdeen district, which comprehends Aberdeen and Kincar-
dineshires, on an average of the last three years, is L. 4955.  The
amount of stamp duties collected in the district in the same ave-
rage of three years is L.18,802; while the unstamped duties levied
annually, have on the same average amounted to L.11,581.
   Stage-Coaches.-As may be supposed, the number of these is
liable to great fluctuation, some being started as a speculation on
roads where the intercourse is soon found insufficient to bear the ex-
pense, or by individuals without the necessary capital.  According-
ly, the number of coaches running from Aberdeen varies almost
every season.  At present there are about 20, viz. 8 on the south
road ; 4 on the north road; 4 can the north coast road; 2 on the
Dee side road; 2 on the Skene road; and the amount of mileage


