
                        ALLOA.                             37

Macleans. He, moreover, sent an insolent message to the Earl
of Mar, notifying to him, that, on the return of the army from the
pursuit of Montrose, he, the Earl, might calculate on having his
castle also burnt, for the hospitality he had shown Montrose.
  Burning of Alloa House.--On the 28th August 1800, Alloa
House, that extensive range of buildings attached to the ancient
Castle or Tower of Alloa, which was the residence of the family
of Mar, suffered a terrible disaster. Between the hours of 11 and
12 P.M., a most dreadful fire. broke out. No engine could be
procured for some hours, and the rivulet near tbe house happened
unfortunately to be dried up. No assistance being thus within
reach, the flames continued to rage with incredible violence, till,
by, two o'clock in the morning, the roofs had fallen in, and before
day light, the whole house was burned to the ground. Fortu-
nately no lives were lost. All the books and papers were saved,
with part of the furniture, and most of the pictures. Among
many valuable curiosities, there was then consumed a picture of
Queen Mary, on copper, (perhaps the only genuine original then
existing in Scotland,) gifted by her to one of her ladies before her
execution.
   Maps, Plans, &c.--A plan of the town of Alloa, from an actual
survey, was published in 1825 by Mr John Wood. The archives
of the family of Mar contain some curious papers, relative to the
transactions of ancient times, and. the intimacy which existed be-
tween that Noble family and their sovereigns. (See former Sta-
tistical Account.)
  Family of Mar.--The Erskines are of a verv ancient family,,
and distinguished themselves in the service of their sovereigns
so early as the beginning of the thirteenth century. Sir William
Erskine was an eminent adherent of King Robert Bruce. One
of his descendants, Robert Lord Erskine, claimed the Earldom
of Mar, to which he was served heir in 1438
  Robert, the fourth Earl of this family, fell at the battle of Flod-
den Field. He was succeeded by John, the fifth Earl, who was
Regent of Scotland, and who had the custody of his infant sove-

<FOOTNOTE>Alexander Lord Erskine, third Earl of Mar, founded a chaplainry at St Mun-,
go's Alt in the Kirk of Alloa, for the welfare of the souls of King James III.
and Christian Chrichto deceased spouse (daughter of Sir Robert Chrichton of
Sanquhar), and for the health and prosperity of King James IV., himself and He-
len Home, his then wife (eldest daughter of Alexander, first Lord Home), relict of
Sir Adam Hepburn of Hailes,--out of a number of small rents of property in the
town of Alloa, extending together to L. 8, 13e. 4d. This is confirmed by charter
under the Great Sea), Oct. 21, 1497.


