
                          ISLAND OF LEWIS.

                          PARISH OF LOCHS.

                PRESBYTERY OF LEWIS, SYNOD OF. GLENELG.

                THE REV. ROBERT FINLAYSON, MINISTER.
                           --------

                  I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HTSTORY.
     Name.-The parish of Lochs derives its name from the nume-
  rous arms of the sea, by which it is intersected, and the many fresh
  water lakes that intersperse its surface.*
    It was the most recently inhabited parish in the Island of Lewis,
  according to the rapidly expiring traditions of the country; the
  only source of information on this head to which we can resort.
  Different parts of it were used by the inhabitants'of the parish of
  Uig, in times long gone by, as shealings, or summer pasturage for
  their cattle. There is a certain part of it that still retains the name
  of "Ari Dhhoil Ghaim" or Donald Caum's shealing.  This Do-
  nald Caum was a noted character, who resided in the parish of Uig,
  in this island, seven generations ago.
    Extent.-The extreme length of the parish of Lochs, in a straight
  line, is 18 computed miles; not including the arms of the sea by
  which it is intersected.  The breadth averages about nine miles.
  Its length is from north to south; and its breadth of course from
  east to west.
    Boundaries.-The parish of Lochs is bounded on the south by
  an arm of the sea called Loch Seaforth, which separates it from
  Harris; on the south-west and west, by the bills of Harris and
  the parish of Uig, in a line which runs along the interior of the
  island, a distance of ten miles, over a very moorish tract of ground;
  on the north, by the parish of Stornoway and the river Creed, which
  falls into loch Stornoway; and on the east, by the channel which
  separates the island of Lewis from the mainland of Ross-shire.
    Figure.-The parish of Lochs being intersected by many arms
  of the sea, is of a very irregular figure.  A great part of it is a
  peninsula called Park or the Forest of Lewis.  This peninsula

  <FOOTNOTE>Arms of the sea and fresh water lakes are indiscriminately termed Lochs in the
  Hebrides.

