
                  KILMORE ADD KILBRIDE.                     531

the Rev. Mr King is minister; the congregation in Oban being re-
quired to hand over to it the seat rents and collections they receive.
2d, One Independent or Congregational Chapel, erected about
the year 1820. The minister receives no fixed stipend from his
congregation; but the members contribute to his support as they
may be able and disposed, and the collections are chiefly applied
to his use. The Congregational Union give him a sum of L.20
or L.25 per annum.
   There are a few Baptists, who have no chapel, but meet for
worship in each others houses.  Their minister is chiefly employ-
ed in itinerating throughout the surrounding district.  He receives
a salary of L.4o per annum from a Baptist Society in Edinburgh.
   The Episcopalians number from 9 to 12, and consist principally
of officers of Excise and their families from England.
   There are about 15 Roman Catholics in the parish.
   The average number of communicants in the parish is 287.
   Education.--There are five schools in the parish, three of them
for males and females indiscriminately, and two for females alone.
Of the former class, the best attended is the school connected
with the United Secession Chapel. It was opened four or five
years ago, and has been taught almost exclusively by young men
preparing for the ministry in connection with that denomination.
Besides the ordinary branches of an English education, Latin and
geography are taught in it.
   Another of this class is taught in a school-house built by sub-
scription many years ago, on a lease granted by the late Duke of
Argyle, and which has been occupied for several years by the
present teacher, without payment of rent.
   The third school of this class is taugbt in a room rented by the
teacher.
   One of the female schools is a lady's boarding and day school.
The ordinary English branches, geograpby, French, music, and
drawing are taught in it.  The attendance is 30.
    The other female school is for the children of the labouring
classes.  It was established towards the end of 1831, chiefly by
the exertions of a benevolent lady, for the purposed of training the
female children of the labouring classes in habits of industry, be-
sides imparting to them the elementary branches of a useful Eng-
lish education.  The average attendance is from 35 to 40.  The
teacher has a salary of L.20 per annum, besides a free house and
coals.  The fees are applied to the payment of the teacher's sa-
lary, and of the rent of the dwelling-house and school-room, and


