
468                        FORFARSHIRE.

tion is so low as 2s. a-year. The present number of subscribers
is 50.
        Poor.-There is no assessment for the poor, the collections in
the church and morcloth dues, with a voluntary contribution from
the heritors, sufficing. The church collections average about
L. 36, pretty equally divided between the two districts of the
parish; and the number of poor receiving constant aliment fluc-
tuates between three and four in each. Besides these, how-
ever, several receive occasional relief. The pittance that is
given is thankfully received; and, happily, the good old Scottish
feeling of independence still lingers here, as in most agricultural
districts at a distance from towns or manufacturing villages.
        Fairs.-There are two fairs in Lundie for the sale of stock, one
in June, the other in August. They are not numerously attend-
ed, and do not seem to be on the increase. There is one ale-
house in the parish at Lundie; and the toll-keeper at Lundie toll
generally has a license. The toll-house is sometimes a nuisance.
Fortunately, the other is not much frequented.
        Fuel.-Coal is the sole fuel, generally brought from Dundee.
About a fourth part of the quantity consumed is Scotch coal, im-
ported from the south coast of Fife, the rest from Newcastle or
Sunderland. The expense is of course considerable. The far-
mers drive their own and their cottars, and thus to the poor the
expense of carriage is saved.

			MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
	It is  stated in the former statistical notice, as well as in the
present, that Fowlis was one of the earliest places to adopt argi-
cultural improvements, and therefore the change is not so great
there as in Lundie, where they were late in being introduced.
The produce of the latter, however, has at least been tripled with-
in the last forty years. The tenantry are active, intelligent,
industrious, and thriving; sober, church-going, and warmly at-
tached to the National Church. The comforts enjoyed by the
lower classes are steadily increasing; and of the parish generally,
it may be said that it is in a highly prosperous condition.

	Written in 1838,
     Revised September 1842.


