	               
				ST ANDREWS.                              465

	tower, which remain, are in good preservation, and, with a little at-
	tention, may be kept in that state for many centuries to come.
	The tower was covered, about fifty years ago, with a flat leaden
	roof, and a small staircase of stone was then also constructed with-
	in it, so that there is now access to the summit, from which there
	is an extensive and beautiful prospect when the weather is favour-
	able.
	   The Cathedral, which was by far the most extensive of the reli-
	gious erections at St Andrews, is situated in the vicinity of St Re-
	gulus' tower.  It was constructed in the form of a Latin cross.-
	the extreme length of the nave or principal part of the building
	being about 370 feet, and the breadth 72 feet, the thickness of
	the walls included, and the transept being in length 180 feet.  The
	foundation of the building was laid in the year 1159, during the
	reign of Malcolm IV. who was present at the ceremony, but it was
	not finished until the reign of Robert Bruce, who was present at
	its consecration in 1318.  About 160 years, consequently, elapsed
	between the dates of the two events.  Fifty years after its conse-
	cration, a considerable part of the edifice was accidentally burnt,
	and after its reparation, the succeeding priors kept it in a proper
	state of repair, and some of them contributed materially both to its
	internal and its external decoration.  At the period of the Refor-
	mation, the animosity subsisting between the Roman Catholics and
	the Protestants in Scotland was strong, and had led to an open
	warfare.  The celebrated John Knox, the zealous supporter and
	champion of Protestantism, had for some time been resident at St
	Andrews, and his public ministrations in this city and in the neigh-
	bouring towns had been attended by vast multitudes, who adhered
	to his views; and having expressed in his discourses the notion, that
	the destruction of the religious edifices might be one of the most
	effectual means of eradicating Popery, the heated multitude eager-
	ly imbibed the idea, and proceeded without delay to put it into
	execution.  The religious edifices in St Andrews were accordingly
	assailed, and in a very few hours, what had been the labour of ages,
	was involved in ruin.  When the cathedral was entire, it had six
	spires or turrets,-two at each of the extremities of the nave, one
	at the southern extremity of the transept, and one in the centre at
	the intersection of the nave and transept.  The two turrets at the
	eastern extremity and one of the two at the western extremity still
	subsist, and rise to an elevation of about 100 feet; the other three
	have long been destroyed,-a small part of the pillars, on which the
           FIFE.                          G g

