
    18			SELKIRKSHIRE.

    in two new bridges, -one crossing the Tweed, and the other the
    Ettrick, on the road from Galashiels to Selkirk. The distance.
    from Galashiels to Selkirk is thus reduced from eight and a-half
    miles to six; and this saving of the distance will be attended with
    the saving of men's lives, as many travellers from time to time
    perished in fording the waters; and the dreadful loss of life, a
    century ago by the sinking of the ferry-boat overladen with pas-                          
    sengers, on occasion of a Selkirk fair, is yet so well remembered
    as to enhance the value of the bridges. Amongst the modern
    improvements in this parish, outh to be noticed a chain or sus-
    pension bridge, which was the first bridge of that kind erected in
    Britain; and also a wooden bridge, so far as I know, of original
    construction, having the suspension principle, by which width of
    span is made compatible with lightness and firmness. This last
    erection appears to be an ingenious and successful piece of work-
    manship, the timbers being all so arranged as to act by their ab-
    solute, and not relative strength. Both of these bridges are de-
    signed for foot-passengers only, and are of great convenience, being
    within the precints of the town, and serving to unite those parts
    which are disjoined by the Gala.

<TABLE=III.-POPULATION>

                           III. -POPULATION.

                Amount of population in 1622,          400
                                     in 1791,          914
                                     in 1811,         1162
                                     in 1821,         1546
                                     in 1831,         1534

	The number of persons residing in the town of Galashiels is
    1130; in the country, 404. The number of families in the parish,
    301.
	The number of persons employed in agriculture as occupiers or
    labourers is 86; in manufacturers, retail trade, or handicraft, 223;
    of professional and other educated men, 14; of labourers not agri-
    cultural, 28. There are only five proprietors of land amounting
    to more than L. 50 of yearly value.
	Some explanation is requisite upon the fact, that while there
    has been a large increase of the manufacturers of this place, the
    number of individuals in the parish has a late years continued
    nearly the same as above. The town of Galashiels contains in
    whole 2209 inhabitants; but of these 1079 belong to the parish
    of Melrose: And it is in the Melrose part of the town that the
    increase of population has kept pace with the progress of manu-


