
356                 ROSS AND CROMARTY.

spectable farmers in the district, was formed about two years ago at
Fortrose, where they regularly hold two meetings in the year, the
one for a competition of the best qualities of grain, and the other
for an exhibition of live-stock. The members of the society con-
tribute annually for the formation of a fund, out of which premiums
are awarded at the said meetings, by competent judges, for the best
samples of grain, and for superiority in the breed of cattle. The
object farther is, to excite a spirit of emulation among the practi-
cal farmers, who have thus an opportunity of communicating to
each other their observations and experiments, which may be the
means of introducing valuable improvements.
   Though large tracts of the parish were of old covered with
wood, it has long since become exhausted. But, in later times, con-
siderable plantations of Scotch firs have been raised, which are
very thriving; and as the parish is but poorly supplied with moss,
these might be a useful fund for fuel. Coals, however, are now so
readily obtained, and at such a moderate rate, that they are found
to be the cheapest, as well as the most agreeable fire, so as to su-
persede, in a great degree, the use of any other article of firing.
The fir plantations, when cut down, are generally exported to
England as coal props. In getting these to the shipping-place
there is every facility, with a commodious harbour at Fortrose for
trading vessels of moderate size, and where, during any state of the
weather, they are completely protected.

                V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

Markets.-At Fortrose, which is also the post-town, there are
three fairs annually held, in the months of April, June, and No-
vember.
   Means of Communication.-The public roads to the west, lead-
ing to Inverness and Dingwall, being Parliamentary, are kept in
excellent repair,-those towards Cromarty and Invergordon are old
district roads, badly planned at first, and generally in such a state
as to render travelling in these directions extremely difficult and
uncomfortable. No mail or stage-coach passes through the pa-
rish.  The steam-vessels plying in the Frith, and passing weekly,
take in and deliver at Chanonry Point goods of every description.
These vessels are well fitted up for passengers, and they trade with
Aberdeen, Leith, and London. By them the salmon taken here,
and brought and collected from various stations around, are, when
packed in ice, shipped for the London market,-as also in the sea-
son, considerable quantities of pork and live pigs.


