
     Statistical Acount

sides, that from the whole quantity of victual, as mentioned
above, foreign beggars subtract, at a moderate calculation,
60 bolls.  No manufactures of any kind have as yet been
established in this country; and the presumption is, that a con-
siderable time must elapse before such an event can happen*.

   Learned Professions.-All retainers to the law, except one
sheriff-officer and three constables, if they can be classed a-
mong that species of men, feel this country rather cold for
their residence.  Never was the solemn brow of a justice of
Peace seen in the parish of Kirkmichael, before last autumn.
At that time, two gentlemen, natives, were installed in the
office.  Nor is there any danger like the poor shoemaker and
tailor, that they will not find sufficient employment.  A spi-
rit of litigation, during many years ago, has prevailed among
the people.  Unfortunately for them, this spirit was original-
ly imported by strangers, persons whom the courtesy of the
contry dignified with the name of gentlemen, but as much

<FOOTNOTE>

*Precluded from an easy communication with the countries around, living
in the midst of hills and scattered defiles, at the distance of 40 measured miles
from the nearest sea-port, the situation of the people is very unfavourable for
such an attempt; besides that, they have few materials to work upon.  Their
cattle and sheep, the staple commodities, are driven to the S., and sold there,
and their wool raw and unwrought, to the low countries of Banff and Moray-
shires.  Even should that spirit of enterprise rouse them, it could not be of
long duration.  The difficulty of getting fuel where the centre of the country
lies far from mosses, the dearness of provisions where the land seldom produces
a sufficiency to support its inhabitants, would dampen their efforts, as they
would soon experience the manifest advantage of others over them, in the com-
petition of the distant market.  Before the year 1745, that area of innovation
in the Highlands, every one almost in this country, like the famous Crusoe, was
his own artisan.  No later than last summer, a shoemaker from Edinburgh, and
a tailor from Dundee, were obliged to desert the country for want of employ-
ment.  Where there are almost no handicraftsmen, there can be no apprentices.
In a country so remote from that element, there can be no seamen.
   

