

                        FALKIRK.                             21

cipal one. Among these, the Kirk-Wynd strikes off from the
main or High Street, and connecting with a range of elegant new
houses in the same line, unites the town to the villages of Graham-
ston and Bainsford, forming a continuous double line of houses of
upwards of a mile in length. Situated on an elevation, wlith a
gentle declivity on each side, and having a small stream or burn
at each end, the town is easily kept dry, and has a free circulation
of air. Within the last half century, many of the houses have been
rebuilt, generally in a handsome style. An elegant spire, 140
feet in height, containing a clock and a couple of bells, one of
them large and full-toned, is both ornamental and useful. It was
built in 1813 on the foundation of an old steeple, which had been
taken down in 1803, and originally erected in 1697. The shops
and the town are lighted with gas, and a good stupply.of water is
obtained from the high grounds to the south. The bustle of bu-
siness is observable to a degree rather beyond that of ordinary
country towns. This is the case particularly on market and fair-
days, and on occasion of the great cattle trysts which are held
on Stenbouse-muir, in the parish of Larbert, three miles to the
northward. From its vicinity to these markets, a large proportion
of the dealers make Falkirk their head-quarters, and they thus
draw to it, periodically, a considerable influx of strangers. With
the exception of leather, no goods are to any great extent manufic-
tured in the town, it being chiefly supported by an extensive inland
trade, and by the iron-works, canals, and collieries in the vicinity.
Thereis a market for butcher-meat to which,forits wellknown excel-
lence, resort is had from all parts of the surrounding country. The
grain market is also well attended, and it has now ample accom-
modation. The trade of the place is assisted by a branch of the
Bank of Scotland (which a few years ago came in place of the
Falkirk Bank), also by branches of the Commercial Bank of Scot-
land, the National Bank, and the Clydesdale Banking Company.
   Police, &c.--Falkirk was erected a burgh of barony by King
James VI. in A.D. 1660, by a charter in favour of Alexander
Lord Livingstou. In 1646, it was erected into a burgh of Re-
gality by Charles I., and the different trades acquired certain pri-
vileges, which were united by commissions or seals of cause from
the baron. The rights which these conveyed are now entirely
obsolete. The office of stent-master, still retained by delegates
chosen annually by each of the trades, is supposed to have ori-
ginated in the powers formerly enjoyed by the burgesses.  When


