
                      LOCHWINNOCH.                               77

but nore especially of the whole policy of Castle-Semple. This,
which is surrounded on the north by a high wall, three or four miles
long, is laid out with the greatest skill. It Contains about 900
acres, subdivided into a great number of enclosures, and pervaded
by above twelve miles of roads and walks; and, above all, it is orna-
mented with many large plantations and scattered trees. The
eminences are crowned with woods, which in some places descend
into the valleys, and exhibit a delightful variety of elevation, as well
as of shade. In some places there are rows of trees and solitary
trees are here and there scatterdd over the lawns. Even the back
ground and distant scenery add to the beauty of the policy. The
heights are covered with plantations, which are disposed with
the greatest skill and the best effect. The scene is as varied as it
is at every point beautiful. In moving along the face of the elevat-
ed ground, on the south side of the loch, the prospect is con-
stantly varying under the eye, and is everywhere delightful. The
House of Castle-Semple, the residence of Colonel Harvey, the
present proprietor, being built in 1735, is not equal to the situa-
tion which it occupies, though a neat small mansion. But the
gardens on the rising ground a little to the north of the house are
one of the best features of the landscape. These gardens were
lately formed at very great expense. They contain two large en-
Closures, surrounded and subdivided by high walls, covered with
fruit trees. Along the cross walls in the centre there is a great
extent of glass-house; containing not merely vines, peach trees, &c.
but a variety of flowers and shrubs. On the north side of the gar-
den there is a large pinery, and behind it a stove house for propa-
gating tropical plants and shrubs. On the south side there is a large
green-house; and in the fore-ground an extensive flower-garden.
surrounded with shrubbery, and subdivided into plots of different
forms, and planted with shrubs and flowers of every name and hue,
encircled by grassy borders, and pervaded by gravel walks, "shaven
with the scythe and levelled with the roller." In the north-east
side of this fine garden there is an extensive rockery covered with
rock-plants, and encircling pond, in whose waters a multitude
of gold and, silver fish play, and from whose centre is beautiful
jetteau rise.I understand that, though ther are  sone gardens
more extensive and oters more remarkable in one or another de-
partment, yet there are few formed on the better pkan, and in all re-
spects more colmplete and excellent.
   Meteorology.- At the gardens of Castle- Semple, there has been


