
     of Symington.

   The price of draught horses is generally from L. 20 to L. 25.
All the ploughs, except one or two, are of the Scotch kind, 
and drawn by 3 horses, because the foil, in general, is deep, 
clayey, and stiff.-There are about 290 cows, of a middle 
size, and generally of a good milk kind, giving from 10 to 14
Scotch pints per day*.  The young ones reared annually may 
be between 50 and 60.  Few cattle are fattened, for they do 
not yearly exceed 150.  The profits in this way, no doubt, 
are fluctuating, and depend on the rise and fall of the mar-
kets for lean and fat cattle; yet, as feeding is attended 
with less trouble and expence, then the management of the 
dairy, it may be frequently more advantegeous.  The 
sheep are mostly of the domisticated and improved kind, 
but the inclosures are too small for their walk, and they 
are destructive to the hedges. 

   Villages and Population.-The village of Symington, is
most delightfully situated, in the centre of the parish.  It 

<FOOTNOTE>

*2320 stones of excellent sweet milk cheese are made yearly, which, at 
75. per stone, is L.812. 1160 stones of skimmed milk cheese, at 4 s. per stone, 
are L. 232. 385 stones of butter, at 12s per stone, are L. 232.  The value 
of cheese and butter made in the parish, is L. 1276, which, at an average, is 
L, 4, 8s per cow.  Little mild is sold in the parish, as most of the villa-
gers keep one or two cows.  Three fourths of the butter and cheese are 
sold in Ayr, Kilmarnock, Glasgow, and other places.  It may be thought, 
that his is a very profitable produce to the farmer of cowkeeper; but let 
it be considered, that has rent is high, and the price of his cows general-
ly from L. 7 to L. 9 per head, that, to manage a dairy well, requires ex-
pence, labour, and attention, adn the hire of maid servants, who under-
stand it, is, from L. 3 10 s. to L 4 per annum.  The wages of men servants, 
who can plow, are, from L. 8 to L. 9  Those who keep coes, and rent 
no land, pay L. 2 for the grafs of each, and it will cost from L. 1, 5 s. to
L. 1, 10 s to maintain them throught the winter.  The balance on their 
produce is but a trisling reward for the time, cost, care, and attention be-
stowed on them. 


