
     Statistical Account

   The heritors of the landward part of the parish meet half
yearly, and assess themselves for the maintainance of their
poor.  The number of their poor at present amounts to 11;
and the assessment, including clerk's salary, for last year, to
about 27 L.  This mode of providing for the poor, in the land-
ward parish, has been adopted since the year 1750.  Dr
Anderson, the editor of the Bee, inveighs warmly against this
mode of providing for the poor, alledging that it is contrary
to law, and invariably followed by a gradual increase of the
number of poor.  Whatever it may be in other places, from
the record of this charity, it does not appear that it has
been the case in this parish.  The lands belonging to St Leo-
nard's hospital, formerly noticed, are under the administra-
tion of the magistrates, and yield, communibus annis, about
35 L. yearly, divided among 40 poor persons monthly.  The
different incorporations likewise divide some money quarter-
ly among the families of their deceased brethren: 30 L. Scotch
are divided by the minister and magistrates, on the morning
of the first day of the year, among the poor burgesses.  This
is a mortification by James Lord Carmichael in the year
1662.  His lordship, in those days, had his town residence
in this burgh, and observing the better sort of tradesmen
and inhabitants, celebrating the new year's day with feasting
and merry making, he, from the benevolence of his disposi-
tion, as tradition says, mortified (sunk) a sum of money, the
interest of which is to be given to the poor, that they may
likeways have it in their power to buy a hot pint, and partake
in the general festivity.
   Miscellaneous observations*.  The inhabitants of the parish
are somewhat above the middle size, strong built, and of a

<FOOTNOTE>

*A native of Lanark, one Robert Alexander, a wigmaker, and formerly
a councillor and town treasurer, has kept a regular register of the weather,
seasons, and public occurrence within the burgh, from 1755 downwards.


