
24                      EDINBURGHSHIRE.

the Established Church, and is supported  very inadequately by
subscription.  There is also a preaching station at Niddry, con-
ducted by this missionary and the parish minister, attended by
nearly 100 persons.
   Dissenters. -There is no dissenting place of worship in the pa-
rish, and the great mass of the people profess to belong to the
Established Church.  In 1836, 2873 persons professed to belong to
the Established Church, and 689 to be Dissenters of all denomi-
nations.  But the number of Dissenters has diminished since then,
and, although some of them are most excellent persons, a few who
call themselves Dissenters are in fact heathens, as is also the case
with some who say they belong to the Established Church; nor
will it be otherwise until the parish is considerably subdivided.
There are no Papists in the parish.
  Attendance at the Parish Church.-Divine service at the pa-
rish church is well attended, especially in summer and when the
weather is good, and the number of worshippers is increasing.
A good many of the people, however, have long been destitute of
regular habits of church-going.  Mr Whyte states, that at his
time" a great many were lukewarm and indifferent, or rather
seemed to have no religion."  Still it is a melancholy fact that, in
this respect, we are not worse than others, for if the population be
considered and the number of seats (about 1800 between Liberton
and Gilmerton), it will be found that the average of attendance on
public worship here is above that of a good many of the parishes
of Scotland.  It is only meant, that it is still very far short of what
it should be.  The average number of communicants is about 600,
of whom about 100 were admitted in 1835, and 80 in 1836.  There
are besides 130 at Gilmerton.
   Contributions for Religious Purposes. -The average amount of
extraordinary collections in 1835 was L. 70, 9s. 6d.  Since then,
however, it has been greater. nearly L. 100 a-year being raised for
the support of Gilmerton church;  L. 17 for our Sabbath  schools;
upwards of L, 20, for our new day schools; a small sum for a Bible
Society; and, in 1838, L. 34 for a catechist, and about L.10 for
the missionary at Easter Duddingston.
   Education. -There are ten schools of all kinds in the parish.
Only one of these is a parochial school.  The maximum salary is
attached to this school, and the teacher has the legal accommo-
dations.  It is attended by nearly 8O children.   The usual branches
of instruction are well taught.   Four of the schools are en-

			 	   3


