
                        INVERAVEN.                                127

being gneiss. A vein of red granite running towards the Spey,
and very suitable for building purposes, appears on the north side
of Benrinnes. Small portions of asbestos have also been found on
that mountain, and rock crystals occasionally in the boulder
stones of the Aven. But the most interesting feature in the geo-
logy of this parish is the limestone of Glenlivet, which is consider-
ed by geologists as imbedded in the gneiss, and not as constitut-
ing or representing a separate formation, such as mountain lime-
stone or the like. It is of much superior quality to the secon-
dary rock, which is quarried as limestone and used for agricultural
purposes in the neighbourhood of Elgin and Forres, being of the
same description as that of Mortlach and Duthil. None has been
discovered in the parish north of Cairnocay, but throughout Glen-
livet it may be found almost in every burn, and under every field.
No regular manufacture of lime, however, as at the great works
of Ardonald in Cairnie, and at Dufftown in the neighbour-
ing parish of Mortlach, has yet been commenced in that quar-
ter. Some of the tenants dig for themselves, but the principal
quarries are given in charge to persons who pay no rent, but who
are taken bound to sell the stones at prices proportioned to the
depth of tir, or superincumbent soil, ranging from 1/2d. to 1 1/2. the
ten stone weight, which is computed to yield one full of the old
corn firlot, or thirty-two pints of lime shells. Though there is a
trifling demand from the low end of Cromdale and the upper end of
Knockando, as well as from Inveraven proper, the chief market for
the quarried rock is found at home. Hence, lime kilns are to be seen
on almost every farm in Glenlivet, for which and for family purposes,
no small portion of time is taken up in providing peat fuel. Lime
is got in this way at less nominal expense, but both manual and
animal labour on the farms is in consequence much increased, and
the attention of the farmer too much divested from the cultivation
of his farm and the care of his stock, to the production of a stimu-
lant, which it would be much to his advantage to procure in a ma-
nufactured state. Some years ago, a kiln was put in operation on
the Ballindalloch estate, in the immediate neighbourhood of an
inexhaustible supply of peat near the top of Cairnocay, to which
the limestone was driven up the hill from Morange in Glenlivet,
but it was soon given up.-it having been found that peat fuel is un-
adapted for the manufacture of lime on a large, scale, and that a
supply could more conveniently be procured from the works at Duff-
town in Mortlach, where it is always to be had for about nine
months of the year.


