
			   KINNOULL.			      939

ber 1771, at an expense of about L. 27,000. To that patriotic
nobleman's exertions it may well be said to owe its existence; for
not only was it commenced under his auspices, but a fund for its
completion actually secured, by his Lordship's generous pledge of
no inconsiderable part of his private fortune. From the substan-
tial character of the building, and the scientific principles upon
which it is constructed, it promises to afford a lasting monument
of the skill and taste of its able architect, while the memory of its
chief promoter will continue to be associated with the manifold ad-
vantages, not to Perth and its neighbourhood only, but to the
country at large, which it has been the medium of conferring. It
consists of ten arches, the clear water-way being 590 feet, and its
extreme length 906 feet. It has often, of late years, been severely
tested at the breaking-up of the ice in the river, when several of the
arches have occasionally become nearly gorged by the gigantic
masses which continued to accumulate on its upper side. Not-
withstanding the tremendous pressure, it stood, as "still unshaken
and unscathed it stands." Repeated proposals have been of late
years made to widen the carriage-way--an improvement called fnr
by the great increase of traffic; and it is now understood there is
an immediate prospect of such a plan being adopted as, without
disfiguring the structure, will not only effect this object, but afford
a wider space for foot-passengers.
   Bridgend.--This village, or rather suburb, which, before the
new bride was built, consisted chiefly of a few cottages occu-
pied by the boatmen employed on the ferry, has so increased,
as now to contain about four-sevenths of the population of the
parish. It extends almost continuously from the church to the
southern boundary of the parish of Scone, a distance of nearly
three-fourths of a mile, the bridge being nearly equidistant from
these two points. This district of the parish,like that stretching
from the church towards Baronhill on its southern extremity, is
richly studded with villas, which, from the striking position, many
of them occupy, whether on the river side, or on the rising grounds
towards the north and east, contribute in no small degree to the
picturesque beauty of the landscape which bursts upon the eye,
when Perth and its environs are first seen on approaching them
from the south. The Earl of Kinnoull is superior of the village
and in his Lordship's charter, it is styled the burgh of Kinnoull,
with certain rights of markets, fairs, &c. but which have long since
gone into desuetude. The houses, streets, and roads in and about


