
   222                           ELGINSHIRE.

     Upon the upper part of the stone are engraved the arms of the
   family, with the initials of the "Laird and Ladie," and underneath
   is the following inscription:
			Valter Kinnaird: Elizabeth Innes
			The buildars of this bed of stane,
       			Are Laird and Ladie of Coubine.
         		Qhilk twa and thairs, when
        		Braith is gane, pleise God,
         		Vil sleip this bed within-
                    		     1613.
      About fifteen years ago, there was dug out of a steep bank
   above the Findhorn, a coffin of large dimensions, composed of
   flag-stones, containing the remains of a human skeleton.
      Ancient Coins.--Several of the coins noticed in the old Account
   as having been found in the parish are in the hands of private col-
   lectors.
      Modern Buildings.--Darnaway Castle is a large oblong pile.
   When seen from a distance, it has a very imposing appearance,
   rising in proud pre-eminence above the surrounding forest. It
   stands upon a gentle eminence, commanding a magnificent view
   of rich and varied scenery. The pqrk below the castle presents a
   fine field for the, landscape gardener. It contains great variety of
   ground, and natural capabilities, which, from the non-residence of
   the noble proprietor, have not been improved to the full extent of
   which they are susceptible. During the last two years, the fami-
   ly have resided at the castle, and several improvements have al-
   ready been made. Walks have been formed of immense extent,
   by the Honourable John Stewart, leading to and opening Up
   scenery of surpassing beauty upon the banks of the Findhorn.
      Brodie House is an irregular, castellated buillding. A large
   addition to the old mansion-house was built by the present pro-
   prietor in the old English style. The ground around is naturally
   an uninteresting flat; but the fineness of the wood, for the growth
   of which the soil is admirably adapted, the taste with which the
   ground has been laid out, its numerous avenues of noble trees,
   and an artificial pond, have supplied the place of natural beauty,
   and make it a delightful residence. The ceiling of the drawing-
   room is divided into compartments, and is curiously ornamented
   with grotesque figures, formed of stucco, in alto relievo. An ex-
   cellent collection of paintings adorns the walls of the public rooms,
   several of whieb are of great value.
      Nearly occupying the site of the old Castle of Dalvey stands a
   handsome modern building, pleasantly situated upon a fine knoll
   overlooking the Muckle Burin, which passes it in front. The gar-


