
                         LEWIS-UIG.                          155
	
        	       V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY
	  Market-Town.-Stornoway is the market-town of the Lewis,
	and is thirty miles from the manse of Uig.  It is also the only
	place of a post-office in the whole island.
 	  Villages.-All the people dwell in little farm villages, in several
	of which are from 40 to 50 families.
	  Harbours.-Loch Roag is the principal harbour in the parish:
	it is covered with islands.  One of them, Large Bernera, is about
	eight miles long, and inhabited.  The whole of this curious and
	interesting arm of the sea abounds with safe places of anchorage,
	sufficient to hold the whole Brithsh N`vy.
	  Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is situated in the most
	convenient and centrical part of the parish; notwithstanding of
	which, those inhabiting the north and north-east coasts of Loch
	Roag, are thirteen miles from church.  The church was built in
	the year 1829, and affords accommodation for 1000 sitters.
	The manse was repaired with additions (as I have already stated)
	in 1824.  The present incumbent has an arable grebe of no great
	value, and the amount of stipend is L. 150 Sterling per annum.
	There is one catechist in the parish, appointed and principally
	supported by the Society for Propagating Christian Knowledge.
	The number of communicants is 60.  The parishioners, as cir-
	cumstances permit, and exigencies demand, make collections for re-
	ligious and charitable purposes; but the amount of these is small,
	from the extreme poverty of the inhabitants.  There is not a mis-
	sion or a Government church in the parish; but there is an exten-
	sive field for one of these on the north and north-east coasts of
	Loch Roag.  There are no dissenters of any description within
	the bounds of the parish.  The people's appreciation of religious
	instruction is increasing much; and the attendance on the public
	ordinances of religion here is probably as punctual and full, as in
	any parish in Scotland.
	  Education.-There are at present five schonls in the parish, all
	of which, excepting the parochial school, are supported by Socie-
	ties.  Three of said schools are supported by the Edinburgh Gae-
	lic School Society, and the fourth by the Inverness Education So-
	ciety.  There are other two English schools soon to be opened at
	the districts of Valtos and Callernish.  The ordinary branches of
	education are taught in the English schools, and the parochial
	teacher has the legal accommodations.  His salary is L. 28, and
	his fees amount to about L. 5 a-year.

