
24                      FIFESHIRE.

the Eriophorum polystachion is common there and in the other
marshes of the district; the Alopecurus geniculatus, var. 7. is found
at Lawfield; the Agrostis alba, var. B. (the Fiorin grass) on the
banks of the Eden; the Glyceria fluitans is not uncommon, and
is noticed here as forming the chief grass in a meadow at the north
end of the Black Loch; the Poa nemoralis grows in patches on
Edensmuir; the Triodia decumbens is to be found on the farm of
Birns; the Lolium temulentum is occasionally met with. It is
supposed the intoxicating and noxious effects of its weeds is exagge-
rated. The smooth variety of the Scabiosa arvensis, a plant which,
Sir James Smith says, has never been seen in England, grows on
Ballomill. The Potamogeton lanceolatum, var. B. (without any
floating leaves) grows on the Black Loch; and P. pusillum in the
old bed of the Eden near Pitlessie Bridge, and it is not uncommon
in the district. The minute Radiola millegrana is found on Edens-
muir, on those places overflowed in winter. The Cynoglossum of-
ficinale is found near Trafalgar. The Echium vulgare is only men-
tioned, because dangerous to bees, as it tears their wings, and should
be eradicated by each bee-master. The Solanum dulcamara, sup-
posed by Hooker to be rare in Scotland, grows in many places of
the district; it grows on the banks of the Eden, on the farm of
Lawfield. The Gentiana Paris grows at Daftmill and near
Ramornie. The poisonous Conium maculatum is to be found near
Trafalgar. The Sambucus Ebulus grows near Kinloch, where it
was found by the late Dr Malcolm. The beautiful Drosera ro-
tundifolia is found plentifully in the marshes of Edensmuir, and a
dead fly is not unfrequent in its leaves. Luciola congesta (Luzula
congesta, Hooker,) is found near Ramornie. The Rumex sangui-
neus grows near Melville. The R. acutus grows in many places; it
is used by the country people as a vulnerary. The Calluna vul-
garis and Erica tetralix and cinerea are all occasionally found with
white flowers; and the variety of E. cinerea, named by Loddiges
E. cinerea, also purpurea, grows in considerable quantity near Ra-
mornie. The Polygonum aviculare is noticed, because horses are
particularly fond of it, and it will grow on the poorest soils. The
Pyrold minor is the only Pyrola as yet found in the parish; it
grows on many places of Edensmuir. Arenaria rubra grows on
Hetherinch. The Sedum Telephium on Ballomill, and near the
Eden. A white flowering variety of Lychnis Flog-Cuculi is not un-
common. The Cerastium aquaticum is rare in this part of the
country. A single plant of it was found near Pitlessie dam-dike.


