
                             INNERLEITHEN.                         25

water-worn gravel, with the addition of the soil, which in process of
time has fallen from the acclivities above.  A great portion of these
slopes has been cultivated, and probably was the first land cultivat-
ed by the aboriginal inhabitants,--what was formerly called croft
land, being of this description.
     Meteorology.--The clouds, surcharged with vapour, take the same
course as the great valley of the Tweed, which here runs from south-
west to north-east; and during summer, many showers that would
be highly favourable to our gravelly soils, and steep hill sides, fall
on the mountains and the heads of the glens, while there is little
or no rain in the intermediate valley.  It is partly from this cause,
and partly from the open nature of the subsoil, that our arable ground
suffers so often from drought, that it is commonly said Innerleithen
and Caberstone would require a shower every day.  The south-
west winds often blow with great force, and, from a certain point be-
tween west and south-west, the wind has sometimes the violence of
a tornado.  There is a hill above the farm of William's Lea, com-
posed of schistus, where the wind has been known to lift the slaty
fragments, making them clatter fearfully in the air, as they came in
contact with one another; and once, it is said, during a snow storm, a
quantity of stones, some nearly half a ton in weight, were found
scattered and dispersed over a space of a quarter of a mile.  If
this report be true, the phenomenon was probably the result of elec-
trical agency.
     Experience has shewn that rain may be expected, of longer or
shorter continuance, about the 20th of June, the second week of
August, and the middle of October.  There is generally about ten
days of dry fine weather in February, and ten days of cold dry east
wind in the month of May.  On the last two days of May, or the first
two of June, it has been observed that there is either a gale of wind
or frost.  Three years out of four there is a severe frost, so late as
greatly to hurt the apple blossom, and the more tender sorts of
stone-fruit.  In some seasons, however, and in favourable situations,
peaches come to a good flavour on open walls.
     From the nature of the climate, it may be inferred, that in some
seasons there are violent snow-storms.  It has been well ascertain-
ed, that the power a flock of sheep possesses of suffering hunger
when the ground is covered with snow depends greatly upon their
pasture in the preceding autumn, or more immediately upon the fat
and tallow they may happen to carry at the time, the tallow and
superabundant fat being absorbed by hunger, and appearing to serve


