
1058                        ABERDEENSHIRE.

closures, all close to and connected with each other. The west-
most one, 140 yards by 88, the next larger and the eastmost about
double the size of the other two.  All the three have been ap-
parently open on the south side, except in so far as naturally se-
cured by a small rill of water and marshy ground. There are two
smaller enclosures, of from 12 to 18 yards diameter, a little out
from the north-west corner of the smallest of the three, on steep
rising ground, and overlooking the whole. The road or diked
avenue from Kinord leads to the westmost of the three, and is lost
in it. It again appears skirting the other two, except in one place
where it is blocked up by the wall of the inclosure, to form which
the stones of the two dikes appear in that place to have been re-
moved. Hence if these be the remains of a Roman encampment
for the troops of Domitian or Severus, as some have inferred, the
encampment and the iter must have been formed at different times,
and if by the Romans, it is not likely they would, in an enemy's
country, have blocked up their iter without the formation of a new
line. It may be noticed, that the enclosures had been mere fences
of loose stone and turf, without any outside ditch, and present no-
thing of the formidable appearance of a Roman rampart. Three
sides of the hill slope as regularly as if they had by art been
formed into a glacis ; and contain several deep trenches, of no
great length, like so many redoubts to check an advancing army;
and the whole ground is covered with cairns, many of them within
the enclosures; and the tradition of the country is strong, that more
than one severe battle had been fought on this ground, but when,
or by whom, an opinion cannot well be formed. One tradition is,
and some authors have stated it as a fact, on what evidence is un-
known to the writer, that the Romans did pass to Moray by Brae-
mar, and were signally routed at Knockice. Severus indeed, with
his son Caracalla, did attempt, in the year 208, the entire conquest
of Scotland; but, after losing 50,000 men in one campaign, was
glad to retire south of the Tyne, and the Romans never again
evinced any desire to face the six Scottish knights,


		Sir Moss, Sir Moor, and Sir Mountain,
		Sir Rock, Sir River, and Sir Duntan.

	Among other antiquities in the parish there is, close to the
turnpike road near the bridge of Dess, a large round stone with a

spot on which some Danish King or general fell. It is not, however, raised conical-
ly, but flattened like cairns on other hills (and several of them can be seen from it,)
on which beacon fires are said to have been lighted.


