
                     CRATHIE AND BRAEMAR.                        649

tible of a beautiful polish, and in appearance, when highly dressed,
it much resembles marble.  There are also immense rocks of ex-
cellent limestone, of which there are often veins or strata running
in different directions from the base of these rocks, occasionally
becoming visible above the surface of the ground; so that the
farmer in some situations might, if he chose, work a limestone
quarry in some of his corn-fields.  And besides these, there are
likewise rocks of a hard flinty stone, which, in many instances,
seems impregnated with iron ore.  The top of all these rocks is,
for the most part, covered with a thin layer of a blackish soil,
rather of a mossy nature.  The soil of this district is loamy, and
bedded sometimes on dry yellow clay, but more frequently upon
bard gravel, and is generally rather dry.
   Plantations and Forests.-The indigenous woods are birch, al-
der, poplar, and mountain-ash.  There is no oak coppice in the
parish.  The planted woods consist of all the different species of
firs, but the larch prevails most in all the plantations.  It grows
quicker than any other, and is found to supply, in many instances,
the place of hardwood, which is said not to thrive in this country.
Although at Invercauld there are some large ash and chestnut
trees, yet the common Scotch Br may truly be said to constitute
the glory of this district, there being some trees of this kind of
immense size, which are supposed to be from 300 to 400 years
old.  The far-famed forest of Mar is too well-known to require
any particular description here.  Its fir timber, both as to size
and quality, far exceeds anything of the kind to be found in
any other part of the British Isles; and its pasturage, as to rich-
ness and extent, is of a very superior description.  It belongs whol-
ly to the Earl of Fife and Mrs Farquharson of Invercauld, and is
plentifully stocked with red and roe deer, and all sorts of game.
   To show the great value of this forest as a walk or pasturage
for deer, suffice it to state, that Lord Fife"s part of it connect-
ed with Mar Lodge is at present let on a lease of seven years
for the annual rent of L.1800.  Invercauld's share is also of great
value, but is never let.

                     II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Eminent Men.-Major General Farquharson, late Governor of
St Lucia, and who died there, was a native of this parish.
   Proprietors.-The sole proprietors of the parish are, Lord Fife;
Mrs Farquharson of Invercauld; and Michael Gordon, Esq. of


