
	         COLONSAY AND ORANSAY.                    545

                   II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
   Land-owners.--John M'Neill, Esq. of Colonsay, is proprietor
of both islands.  The M'Neills have now been in possession of
these islands for nearly 150 years,--Doual M'Neill, the first pro-
prietor of that name, having received them from the Duke of Ar-
gyle in exchange for property in South Knapdale.  The old pos-
sessors were the M'Duffies or M'Phies of Colonsay, who possess-
ed it under the Lords of the Isles.  The last of them, viz. Mal-
colm M'Duffy of Colonsay, was put to death by Gillespie M'Do-
nald, commonly called Colkitto, whose family possessed the island
for two generations.
   Mansion-houses.--here are two mansion-houses.  That of
Killoran, in Colonsay, was built in 1722, on the site of the old
Culdee establishment there : the present laird of Colonsay has
added two wings, making a most comfortable house for the ac-
commodation of a large family.  The mansion-house at Oransay
was built in 1772, and is a commodious dwelling-house.
   Antiquities.--There is in these islands One of the most exten-
sive and interesting remains of the monastic establishments in the
Western Isles, viz. the ruins of the priory of Oransay.  There
was a Culdee establishment in the island, and, as we have reason
to think, the first founded by St Columba.  The priory of Oran-
say was founded by the Lord of the Isles, and filled with regular
canons brought from the Abbey of Holyrood, upon which abbey
it was dependent.  With the exception of those at Iona, these are
by far the finest of the ecclesiastical remains in the West High-
lands.  There is a church in which the tombstones of the ancient
possessors of the islands are to be seen, considerable remains of
the cloisters and of the monastic buildings usually attached to it,
and near the church an ancient cross, part of the inscription oil
which is still- legible, and contains the words, " Haec est Crux
Colini Prior. Orisoi obiit M.DX.:::" The ruins are close to the
mansion-house, and form a venerable and interesting feature in a
scene of wild and solitary beauty.
  In a loch in Colonsay, there are the ruins of an old castle or fort
upon an island in the middle of it, and to this stronghold the lairds
of Colonsay used to retire, when threatened with danger.
                      III.--POPULATION.
        By the census taken in 1835 the population amounted to 839.
                        IV.--IN-DUSTRY.
   Improvements.--There are, perhaps, few estates in Scotland on
   ARGYLE.                                         M m


