
				LOCHMABEN.                   393

was manufactured into cloth and sold unbleached in England to the
amount of 60,000 yards annually. A great proportion of the inha-
bitants farm small crofts, from the produce of which they bring up
and educate their families,--the males generally seeking their for-
tune in other lands.
	Ecclesiastical State.--Robert de Brus, who married the bastard
daughter of William the Lion, in the year 1183, granted to the
monks of Gisburn the church of Lochmaben. A discussion, soon
after, arose between the monks and the diocesan, on the proper con-
struction of this grant. The dispute was settled in 1223,--to the ef-
fect that the monks were to retain the tithes of the corn, and to receive
three merks yearly from the rector of Lochmaben. The Bishop of
Glasgow was to exercise the power of ordination and collation. But
there was reserved to William de Glencairn, the church of Loch-
maben, with the chapel of Rokle for life, paying yearly to the monks
three-and-thirty marks. In Bagimont's Roll, during the reign of
James V., the rectory of Lochmaben was taxed L. 5, 6s. Sd., being
a tenth of the estimated value. In 1612, the barony of Lochmaben,
with the tithes and the advowson of the church, was granted by
James VI. to John Murray, groom of his Majesty's bed-chamber,
and ratified in Parliament. In 1625, he was created Earl of Annan-
dale, and Lord Murray of Lochmaben. On the death of his son
James, the second Earl of Annandale, without issue, in 1658, the
lands of Lochmaben, with the patronage of the church, were inherit-
ed by his heir-male, David Viscount Stormont; and the patronage
now belongs to the Earl of Mansfield. Besides the chapel of
Rokle, there are vestiges of several others in the parish. In the
fifteenth century, the bailies of Lochmaben endowed a chaplaincy
at the altar of the Virgin Mary, in the church of Lochmaben ; and
they granted an acre of land, with the marsh, which is commonly
called the Struther, with the second turn of the multures of the mill.
This endowment was confirmed by James III., 28th April 1486.
	The old church, which was taken down in 1818, was a Gothic
building with a large choir attached, dedicated to Mary Magdalene.
In one of the bloody feuds between the Maxwells of Nithsdale and
the Johnstones of Annandale, which took place on Dryffe sands in
the year 1592, the Maxwells were defeated with great slaughter,
and in their flight took refuge in the kirk of Lochmaben, which the
Johnstones burned to the ground. It may be mentioned, that the
original key was found by some of the workmen while taking down
the church. It was given to the clergyman, the Rev. Mr Gib-
	DUMFRIES.
				    C C

