
804                     	LANARKSHIRE.

ance in whole or in part, is continued to the last.  No servant of
the family, male or female, and none that could consider them-
selves as permanently engaged in any department of house or field
labour, have ever been known under the character of parish paupers.
The fact deserves to be recorded, and it is easy to conceive the
advantages which would result to society were the example uni-
versally imitated.
   The collections at the church-door lie in the hands of the kirk-
session to meet casualties that may occur between the half-yearly
meetings, and the remainder is paid over to the clerk at these
meetings for the maintenance of the regular poor.  Owing to the
assessment, the collections are not large. They were in 1833-1834,
L. 42, 16s. 4d.; 1834-1835, L. 45, Os. 4d. 1835-1836, L. 42,
15s.
   Inns, &c.-There are 37 persons in the parish licensed to sell
tea and tobacco; 50 to sell ale and spirits; of whom 8 sell wine.
The ale-houses have the most unhappy effects on the condition
and the morals of the people, and are occasionally the scenes of
riot and Sabbath desecration in the neigbbourhood of the collieries
and public works.
   Fuel.-Coal abounds in the parish, and is procured at a mode-
rate price.

               MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   Great changes have taken place in this parish since the last
Statistical Account was published.  The population is more than
doubled. The rental of the surface has increased in an equal pro-
portion, and of the minerals in a much higher ratio.  At the for-
mer period, the land " was not let by the acre, but at the slump
of the farm, and the accumulated value estimated." It is now well
enclosed, accurately measured, and the farms are let according to
their estimated value per acre.  At the fonner period, there were
only 50 colliers in the parish; there are now 263, and the number
is daily increasing.  The income from mines and iron-works was
then a mere trifle, it is now supposed to exceed L. 160,000 per
annum.  The railroads and the Monkland  Canal have opened up
the treasures of this district;  and it would not be easy to prognosticate
the advantages which may yet be derived from these improvements.
A great improvement has also taken place in the style of building,
and the accomodation of the cottages and farm-houses which
have lately been erected.
   Drawn up 1836.
   Revised April 1840.


