
                              ABERDEEN.                         41

tees, for the support of a school in Aberdeen, as did also Mr Do-
naldson of Orchardtown.
   There are besides these partly endowed schools, a considerable
number of private schools of different kinds, and fo ur or five board-
ing-schools, where young ladies are received and instructed in this
various branches of useful and ornamental education.
   About nine or ten years ago, the Rev. A.L. Gordon published
an address to the inhabitants, on the necessity of establishing
schools, especially for the poorer classes, on the sessional sys-
tem, in the various parishes into which Aberdeen had then recent-
ly been divided, and on the funds applicable to their support.  The
subject was brought under the consideration of the Presbytery, who,
" impressed with a sense of the importance of the suggestion, re-
commended to the ministers of Aberdeen, to consider and devise
such means as may seem best for accomplishing the object, and to
report."  A memorial was soon after presented by the Presytery
to the Magistrates and Council, engaging to erect the necessary
buildings, if, in order that the fees might be made sufficiently low
to meet the circumstances of the poor, the city authorities would
grant a small salary to the parochial teachers out of the common
good.  A similar memorial was soon after presented to them by
the synod, but both were unsuccessful. *  Notwithstanding this,
the church courts encouraged the ministers to persevere, and the
consequence has been, that, by private subscriptions, aided by
grants of assistance from Government, (besides two parochial
schools in the adjoining parishes of Woodside and Bon Accord,)
two schools bave'been erected in John Knox's Parish, two under
one roof in Trinity Parish, one is now building in the North Pa-
rish, and funds have been raised for the erection of one in the East
Parish (where, as well as in Grayfriars and Union Parishes, tempo-
rary schools have been for some time in operation,) and in the
South Parish, and, measures are in contemplation for obtaining pa-
rochial schools in the remaining Parishes of Aberdeen.  That
schools, connected as these are with the parish church, will be
placed in circumstances most likely to promote their usefulness in
the parishes, will be readily admitted by all who are not blinded
to the advantages of maintaining an intimate connections between
the religious instruction of the people, and the education of their

<FOOTNOTE> The late Provost Blaikie expressed himself in terms highly favourable to this ob-
ject a short time before his lamented death put an end to this and his other schemes
of benevolence and usefulness.


