
386                   INVERNESS-SHIRE.

tion might have ensued, says Sir R. Gordon, but for the prudence
of the Queen Regent, who recalled the act of forfeiture.
   The Mackintoshes seem never to have forgiven the Earl of Hunt-
ly the murder of their chief. For, besides obeying with reluctance
his commands, even when he was clothed with a royal commis-
sion, they took every opportunity of wasting his estates.
   In 1561, Queen Mary conferred the Earldom of Moray on her
brother, the Regent.
   Upon the murder of the bonny Earl of Moray at Donnybristle in
1591, by the Earl of Huntly, the Mackintoshes of Pettie, under the
conduct of Angus of the Brazen Face, the intrepid head of the house
of Kylachy, who lived at Culerney, (Pettie,) and whose impudence
and prowess still form the subject of a winter's evening tale,-ra-
vaged Strathdee and Glenmuic, and slew, with others of local note,
the old Baron of Bregley; Huntly retaliated by wasting and spoil-
ing the district of Pettie, and killing many of the Mackintoshes.
Huntly had scarcely returned home and disbanded his army, when
be was informed that the Mackintosh, 800 strong, had invaded Ach-
indown and Cabrach.
   This outrage led to his making a second expedition into Pettie,
in which he left traces of his vengeance, of a more terrible charac-
ter than be did in the former. The Kilravock manuscript confirms
these accounts of Huntly's raids given us by Sir R. Gordon.
   " The Earl of Huntly, Allan M'Dhomhuil Duibh, (Lochiel)'
Macronald of Glengarry, designing an expedition against Pettie
and the clan Chattan, give assurance under their hands to Hugh
Rose, that himself, kin, and tenants, should be free from their ar-
mies, March 18, 1592-3."
   Spalding and Sir R. Gordon contain an account of a com-
motion of rather an alarming character, which had arisen in
1624, when the Earl of Moray brought north an army of his de-
pendents from Donne, Menteith, and Balquidor, and began to dis-
possess the Mackintoshes of lands which he had given them in
Pettie. *

<FOOTNOTE>In the Inverness Courier, there appeared, some months ago, a statement of an-
cient rentals. The proprietor of that journal informs me, that it was found by John
Macqueen, Esq. among some old, law papers. It is entitled " The Book of thie Va-
lued Rents of the Sheriffdom of Inverness and Ross, as the same was appointed and
rectified by the Commissioners appointed by the Act of Convention of Estates."

<TABLE=Parochin of Pettie and Breachlie.>

	     James Erle of Moray,	  .      .        L.6478  5  0
           John Ros of Spellasnaldick,         .         300  0  0
           John Mocintosh of Lony,             .         212  6  8
           Angus Macqueene of Corribrock,      .          30  0  0



