
54                       ROXBURGHSHIRE.

tinued sheet of water.  A substratum of water sand, dense or pene-
trable by the spade, pure or gravelly, is always met with in digging
a few feet below the surface.     At a comparatively recent period,
less than two centuries ago, the course of the Tweed seems to
have been on the south side of the valley.  A fine rich flat, now on
the south side of the river, is called Gattonside-haugh, and its feu-
dal tenures shew that it once actually formed a part of the Gat-
tonside lands, which are on the north side of the river. In these
tenures a right is retained to an ancient church-way, severed by the
Tweed, along which the inhabitants used to pass of old to the
Catholic service in the abbey.  Near the village of Newstead, the
old channel of the river is beautifully marked; and what was for-
merly a deep pool and perilous eddy, across which Claverhouse is
said to have been ferried, is now a fine meadow. but still continues
to be called the  "wheel."      The change in the course of the
Tweed seems to have been aided by hulan industry, as a strong
embankment is necessary to prevent it from resuming its old do-
main.
      Meteorology.-The most remarkable feature in the meteorology of
this part of the country is its fogs, which frequently occur in beau-
tifully picturesque forms.  Sometimes they are seen lying in inde-
pendent fleeces upon the sides of the uplands,-sometimes creep-
ing tip the channel of the Tweed, and slowly dividing into the di-
verging valleys.  Viewed from the south side of the Eildons, the
whole surface of Tiviotdale appears one continued sheet of fog,
above which is seen the top of Ruberslaw, and the long stalk of the
Waterloo pillar,-while a clear sky is overhead, and a bright sun il-
luminating the surface of the sea.
      In the valley of Melrose, sheltered as it is by the surrounding
high grounds, the climate is singularly mild.  The upland parts
of the parish are in winter swept by tremendous northern gales,
against which they have no natural shelter.  But in every place,
both in the high and low ground, the parish is healthy, and free
from every kind of unwholesome miasma. The ague, which was
formerly very prevalent, owing to the damp exhalations of undrain-
ed marsh, has entirely disappeared,-not a single instance of this
malady is met with by any medical practitioner. Epidemic fe-
vers of the typhus kind sometimes occur in the villages, but they
are rare and not very destructive. The most common distempers
of this district seem to be rheumatism and consumption.


