
700                       FORFARSHIRE.

	The foregoing extract is from the last annual statement issued
by the company. This abstract comprehends the stock account
down to the date of the balance, and the traffic account for the
year, from the 15th of April 1840 to the 15th of April 1841. The
Outlay of every description on the railway and works, and machi-
nery, amounts to L. 131, 644, 16s. 6d. The revenue, from the
traffic, for the past year, amounts to L.9,190, 9s. exclusive of
L.191, 5s. 11d. received for rents, &c. The gross expenditure,
connected with the traffic and management, is L. 4,272, 12s. 8d.,
and the feu-duties and interest on debts amount to L. 2,405, 12s.
4d., leaving a net surplus revenue or profit of L.2,703, 9s. 3d.
The whole expenses incurred in repairs of engines, waggons, and
machinery, having been charged amongst the current expenditure,
the reserved fund at last balance, which was L.1, 44, 18s. 5d., is
carried to surplus revenue, and the surplus revenue, now undivided,
is, therefore, L. 3,848, 7s. 8d. The guaranteed dividend of 5 per
cent. on the new stock paid up, must first be provided for. It
amounts to L.628, 6s. 7d. ; and, this sum being deducted, there
will remain L.3,220, 1s. 1d. to be divided among the holders of
the original stock,--equal to a dividend of fully 5 per cent. The
directors mean to propose, that a dividend shall be declared at
the rate of 3 1/2 per cent., and that the balance he carried to reve-
nue account, as a reserved fund.
	Whatever may be the result of this undertaking in a pecuniary
point of view to the shareholders, it is a work which has been al-
ready beneficial to the community of Forfar, especially in the ar-
ticle of fuel. It has opened a means of conveying the pavement
from the quarries in Forfar and along the line of the railway, of wood
from the surrounding country, and of bringing from the coast coals
and lime. The advantages to the public generally cannot as yet
well be estimated, but they do owe a debt of gratitude to the share-
holders and to the enlightened, active, and zealous gentlemen who
have superintended and conducted the affairs of the Company,
among whom W. F. Lindsay Carnegie, Esq. of Spynie and Boy-
sack, deserves to be particularly noticed. Connected, with this great
improvement has been one of less magnitude, yet not altogether
unimportant, viz. the formation of a turnpike road from Forfar to
Kirriemuir. The state of this road was long a subject of complaint,
but this ground of complaint has been removed. A good turnpike
road has length been formed; and the communication between


