
		PORTPATRICK.                 145

not been married, and 62 are widows. Of 317 men who have
been married, 30 have been twice married, and 287 only once
married; of 363 women, 21 have been twice married, and 342
only once married. Of married persons, male and female, who
have had no children, there are 23 in the town, 8 in the country,
31 in the whole parish. Number of families in the town, 238; in
the country, 182; in the whole parish 420. The average num-
ber of individuals for each family is very nearly 4 1/4 in the town,
5 5/16 in the country, and 4 3/4 in the whole parish. For the families
in which all or some of the children reside with their parents, the
average number of children of all ages thus residing is rather less
than 2 1/10 in the town, rather more than 31 5/8 in the country, and ra-
ther less than 2 9/10 in the whole parish.
	There are 120 inhabited houses in the town, 177 in the coun-
try, and 297 in the whole parish; 4 uninhabited houses in the
town, 2 in the country, and 6 in the whole parish. There are no
houses being built at present. None have been built in the coun-
try for a year past, and none in the town for ten years past. The
people are generally hardy and naturally robust. But, upon the
whole, they do not seem to perform so much labour as the inhabi-
tants of many other districts. This difference may be chiefly owing
to irregular employment and poor living.
	There are in the whole parish 4 persons insane, 9 fatuous, 4
blind, 4 deaf and dumb; and besides these, there are 2 persons, a
man and his sister, he aged sixty-six, and she aged seventy-three,
both of whom are at once blind, deaf and dumb. Both could once
see, but have been blind for between 20 and 30 years. They can be
made to understand by means of touch, what their friends find ht
necessary to communicate to them for their bodily comfort and
personal safety. He can attend to the fire to supply it with fuel
when it is required. She is remarkably particular as to her dress.
Both can be made to understand when any one is present with
whom they have formerly been acquainted; and when they are in-
formed that the minister is present, they compose themselves, and
assume a grave and serious aspect. This is especially the case
with the woman.
	Language.--English is spoken in this parish, with less of pro-
vincial accent and less mixture of Scotch than in the more central
and populous districts of Scotland.
	There are few games or regulated amusements followed, and
none peculiar to the parish. Curling in the hard frosts of winter
  WIGTON.                           K


