
	1078                        PERTHSHIRE.

	miles; Strathfillan, which may be considered a continuation of
	the same valley, extending about eight miles further till it meets
	the parish of Glenorchay, at the boundary between the counties
	of Perth and Argyle: Glenfalloch, branching off from Strathfillan
	in a southerly direction, and extending to the boundary between
	Perthshire and Dumbartonshire, near the head of Lochlomond;
	and Glenlochay, stretching from Killin to a distance of about
	fourteen miles in a line nearly parallel to Glendochart, from which
	it is separated by a fine range of hills, called the Mid-Hill.  These
	valleys are rich and fertile, yielding gnod crops of corn, pototoes,
	and turnips; and in the more marshy districts, on the banks of
	the river, bearing meadow hay of excellent quality in great abun-
	dance.  Their scenery is in many places highly picturesque, being
	enriched with thriving plantations, and a considerable quantity of
	natural wood.  With the exception of these valleys, which in few
	places hardly exceed a mile in breadth, there is very little flat
	land in the parish.  The fine plains of Finlarig, Kirmell, and
	Dall may, however, be mentioned.
	  Meteorology.-The temperature of the atmosphere in this pa-
	rish varies to an extraordinary degree, according to the changes
	of season.  During the winter and spring months, it is generally
	very low; towards the middle of April, a change often very mild
	takes place; and generally during the summer months, the heat
	is great, sometimes excessive, causing the most rapid vegetation.
	There is in general much cloudy weather, especially in the latter
	end of autumn, and in the winter and spring months, when there
	are frequent and heavy falls of rain.  As might be expected in so
	elevated a region, far removed as it is from the sea, the snow,
	which falls in great quantities, remains long, especially on the
	high grounds.  In the beginning of the year 1838, there was a
 	storm of uncommon severity; the whole surface of the ground
	being covered (in some places to a depth of several feet) for eight
	weeks, while the ice on the river Lochay Was ascertained to be
	about fourteen inches in thickness.  It is no uncommon thing to
	observe considerable quantities of snow on the high grounds till
	far on in the summer, and traces of the old snow have sometimes
	been noticed even in August.
	  The prevailing winds are the west and south-west; but in the
	spring months, there is a good deal of northerly wind, which is
	peculiarly keen and piercing.  In summer, there is often a long


