
                     EASTWOOD.                                   45

year L. 2, 16s. 0 1/2d.- exclusive of articles of clothing, which are
allowed when necessary.  Small sums are sometimes also given for
the relief of occasional distress.
   The funds for the poor are derived from an assessment imposeed
anully, (one-half on the heritors, and the other on  the rest of
the inhabitants, according to their means and circumstances,) and
amounting for the current year L. 335; rent of a small house
left to the parish, and church collections, L. 24 ; total, L. 359.
   A disposition to refrain from seeking parochial relief does exist
to a considerable degree.  Of this, the existence of so many Friendly
Societies seems an evident proof.   There are, however, many per-
sons who think themselves not at all degraded by application for
relief to the parish funds.
   Prison.- The jail of Pollockshaws, although authorized legally
as such, is not fit for the accommodation of prisoners, and is used
only as a temporary lock-up-place, where offenders are confined
for a few hours, or until the can be transmitted to the county prison.                               y                                     y pri-
   Fair.-We have no fairs,-unless the last Friday or May may
be so called, which is observed as a holiday, and when there is a
trifling horse-race, which has no other tendency than to assemble                                  to assem c
a number of idle people, and promote sale of whisky.
   Inns, Alehouses, &c.-There are 56 licensed alehouses or
whisky shops in the parish. Their number as been greatly in-
creased within these twenty years.  They have a very injurious
effect upon the morals of the people, and are known from actual
observathon to be productive of great misery and much crime.
Their number, I am informed, is much greater in proportion to
the population than in any other part of the county; and the num-
ber of cases of assault and other minor offences, arising generally
from intoxication, seems nearly in the same proportion.
   Fuel.-Coal may be said to be the only fuel. Of this there is
abundance in the parish and neighbourhood; and the price varies
from 4s. 6d. to 5s. 6d. per cart, 12 cwt.
			MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   There is a striking difference betwixt the present state of the
parish and that which existed at the time of the former Statistical
Account, in respect of population,-the number of inhabitants since
the time being greatly more than doubled.  At the time, also, a
considerable part of the land was, in a manner, waste,-being covered
with heath and bent; whereas now there is hardly an acre of


