     
     300                          PERTHSHIRE.

     ple, especially in agriculture, have rapidly improved.  Much waste
     land has been cultivated, and what was formerly under cultivation
     is now managed in a more skilful manner.  Manufactures have
     improved correspondingly in the same period,-especially a ma-
     nufactory of coarse woollen cloths, which contains a good deal of
     machinery, and gives employment to seventy or eighty individuals.
                         V.-PAROCIAIAL EcoNomy.
        There are two markets held here yearly, but those held at the
     neigbbouring town of Auebterarder render them of little import-
     ance.  The roads, both public and private, are good, and inter-
     course between different places is easily maintained.  The dif-
     ferent turnpike roads extend about twenty miles.
       Ecclesiastical State.-Tbe parish is within the bounds of the
     presbytery of Aucbterarder.  The church is so situated as to ac 
     commodate the more populous part of the parish, but inconve-
     niently for the more distant quarters.  It was built in the year
     1738, and was lately repaired.      It contains seating for 500 per-
     sons, who- pay no seat rent whatever.  There is no other place of
     worship of any description in the parish.
        The manse was built about eighty years ago, and was repaired
     within the last fifteen.   The glebe consists of 24 acres of very
     light gravelly soil; and the stipend, as lately modified, consists of
     12 chalders of meal, 2 chalders of barley, and L. 30 in money.
       School.-The schoolmaster has the highest legal salary, and good
     accommodation both in dwelling-bouse and school-house.  The
     usual branches -of education are taught, and taught so cheap as
     to render education attainable by all.  The school fees vary from
     2s. to 4s. a quarter, according to the branches taught,.  There are
     three'otber schools in different parts of the parish, supported by
     those who attend.
       Poor and Poor's Funds.-The number of poor on the public
     funds seldom exceeds 10 or 12.  To support these and other in-
     digent and industrious persons, who require occasional assistance,
     a sum, varying from L. 80 to L. 100 is annually distributed.  This
     money. is collected at the church doors, and by contributions from
     the non-resident heritors.  There is certainly less reluctance to be-
     come pensioners on this charitable fund, than there was shewn in
     former times, and there is an increasing indisposition on the part
     of natural relations to assist one another.
                      MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
       There have been many and great improvements in the parish,

