
                                     CAPUTH.                       673

     nothing can be more lovely or picturesque than the scenery upon
     either side.  On the north there is a chain of lochs, formed and
     connected by the burn of Lunan, which rises in thd Grampians-
     and first passing through Loch Ordie, (a most romantic and much
     visited sheet of water at the base of Duchray, a lofty conical moun-
     tain in the parish of Dowally), soon after enters the parish of Ca-
     puth, and rapidly descending a deep wooden glen of two or three
     miles in length, in wbich are situated Birken Burn, Hatton, and
     Calley, (at the latter of which, are an ornamental loch and garden
     belonging to the Duke of Atholl), it reaches the loch of Craig-
     lush, immediately adjoining which is the beautiful loch of Lows,
     about two miles north-east of Dunkeld ; a little to the eastward is
     Butterstone Loch, all of which are in this parish.  Leaving the last
     mentioned, the Lunan runs eastward to the loch of Clunie, in that
     parish, famed for its ancient castle, situated upon an island, once
     occupied b the Admirable Crichton, now possessed by the Earl
     of Airly.  Emerging thence it pursues its course to the loch of
     Drumellie, both stream and loch forming for a conshderable dis-
     tance the northern limit of this parish.  From Drumellie it con-
     tinues its former direction, separating the parishes of Lethendy and
     Blairgowrie, till it reaches Littleour, where it forms the boundary
     between Caputh and Blairgowrie, till it falls into the Irla, about
     three miles west from Coupar Angus, and seven miles east from
     Caputh church.
        Soil-The surface being so extensive and diversified, the soil
     must also greatly vary according to the locality.  In the higher
     parts it is cold and wet, though yielding excellent crops.  In the
     lower grounds it is light and dry, and along the bank of the Tay
     and Isla it is a rich loam.  Much of the soil is alluvial; these ri-
     vers often overflowing tbeir banks, though now more carefully con-
     fined within their proper channels by strong embankments.
        Mineralogy.-There is a great abundance of clay-slate and lime-
     stone.  At Newtyle, a little to the east of Dunkeld, the clay-
     slate is  extensively quarried, the slates are in great request-
     200,000 being often disposed of in a month.
                                II.-CVIL HISTORY.
        There is no historical record of this parish, but in Milne's His-
     tory of the Bishops of Dunkeld, (already noticed), Caputh is fre-
     quently  mdntioned as being one of the mensale parishes belonging
     to the cathedral.
        Proprietors.-There are 30 heritors and portioners.  Thir-
                                        U u


