
272                    HADDINGTONSHIRE.

ably diversified by undulating elevations; and everywbere has
abundant declivity for thoroughly draining the soil.
   Hydrography.-The parish is abundantly supplied with spring
water, with the exception, perhaps, of two farms. The principal
stream is the one already mentioned, as constituting the greater part
of the boundary between this parish and that of Haddington. It
is a small rapid river, which has its principal sources in the Lam-
mermuir hills, but is fed by various tributary streamlets in its
course downwards. After running through the grounds of Yester,
Eaglescarnie, Dalgourie, Bolton, Coalston, and Lennoxlove, it
joins the Tyne in the grounds of the latter place, about a mile
west from Haddingtom
   This beautiful stream is well stocked with trout, and through-
out the greater part of its course its banks are adorned with plan-
tations of wood. Some of the trees are very fine.
   The only other rivulet worthy of notice is the Birns Water, which
also rises in the Lammermuir hills, and forms the boundary between
this parish and that of Humbie. It holds on its course down-
wards between the parishes of Humbie and Pencaitland on the
one hand, and that of Salton on the other, till it unites with the
Tyne in the grounds of Mr Fletcher of Salton. At the point
of junction with the Tyne, it is rather the larger of the two.
   Meteorology.-On this head nothing need be added to what has
been already stated in the other accounts of the district. Like
that of the surrounding parishes, the climate is very salubrious.
A good many instances of longevity occur in the register of deaths.
There are several such instances at present, and about five years
ago, one woman died in the hundred and fifth year of her age.
   Geology and Mineralogy.-On this head almost nothing can at
present be said; as there is not an open quarry in the whole pa-
rish. The strata are to a small extent exposed by the action of
the river first mentioned. In part of its course may be seen a
sort of coarse sandstone nearly horizontal. Limestone might pro-
bably be found, as it occurs very near the boundaries, in the pa-
rishes of Salton and Yester. Boulders are met with, when the
soil is opened up by drains or otherwise; and it is probable, have
been of frequent occurrence, but have been broken up for econo-
mical purposes. Any that the writer has examined are of very
compact greenstone, no body of which is known to exist within a
very considerable distance.
   The soil is all arable, and is all under the plough, excepting


