
8                        SHETLAND.

plored, although a boat may penetrate into it for a considerable
way. On this quarter of the island, there are various perfora-
tions in the rocks forming natural arches, by means of a column
from each projecting, into the sea, below which boats pass in fa-
vottrable weather. One of these is known by the name of the
Giant's Leg.
   Both in Bressay and Noss, the coast is rocky, sometimes very
bigh; while at some intervals, a small extent of sloping beach oc-
curs, of a sandy but oftener a calcareous description.
   The principal headlands on the south, are the Ord, the Bard, and
Hammer. The Ord is a reclining rock above 500 feet high, and
inhabited by Eagles. The Bard and Hammer are bold promon-
tories, which, with the whole coast to the south-east, and Hova,
the south headland of Noss opposite, are about 200 feet high.
   Noss is distinguished principally by its eastern headland, called
the Noop, or by mariners, Hangcliff, the height of which is said
to be about 600 feet.
   Around the coast both islands, there are some holms or unin-
habited islets, the most remarkable of which is the Holm of Noss,
a perpendicular rock, 200 feet in height, separated from Noss by
a very narrow channel, having a space on the top sufficient for the
pasture of a dozen of sheep, for two or three months. The me-
thod of communication between the island and this holm, by means
of a cradle suspended on ropes, is detailed in the former Statis-
tical Account.
   Quarff, a part of the mainland, forms the middle parish, lying
six miles south-west from Bressa, and situated between the pa-
rishes of Lerwick and Tingwall on the north, and that of Dun-
rossness on the south. The inhabited part is mostly a valley
between high hills; extending about two miles between the east
and west sea, and about half a mile broad, but having uncultivated
or pasture ground belonging to it, extending a mile on the north
and south. The winding valley, cottages at convenient distances
near the foot of the hill on both sides, having a meadow between
them, and a pleasant bay on the east and west,-exhibit a pictu-
resque and simple scenery.
   The Cliff and Coningsburgh hills terminate in a ridge on the
south part of the valley, as do the hills of Tingwall and Lerwick
on the north. The height of Scraefield, the highest point on the
north, may be above 500 feet.
   West from Quarff is the parish of Burra, which comprehends


