
	28                  ROSS AND CROMARTY.

	niary advantage can counterbalance. Many families were driven
	from their homes, a few strangers were introduced in their room,
	and poverty succeeded in the train of almost all the actors and
	sufferers in the scene. The writer is passionately fond of improv-
	ing and beautifying the face of the earth. But he conceives that
	the earth, though beautiful as the garden of Eden, would be but
	a waste without moral beauty, and that those proprietors, who ex-
	pel the inhabitants from their properties are depriving themselves
	of some of the highest enjoyments in life-the luxury of doing
	good, and the pleasure of being surrounded by a moral, a grateful,
	and a happy population.
	   Land-owners.-The land-owners are, Charles Cockburn Ross
	of Shandwick; Sir Charles Ross, Bart. of Balnagown; Robert
	Mitchell of Bayfield; Hugh Ross of Cromarty; William Murray
	of Westfield; Mrs Taylor of Nigg and James Taylor, Esq. her
	husband; and George Ross of Pitcalnie.
	   Antiquities.-The only antiquities in the parish are the two
	monumental stones already mentioned, the one at Shandwick, the
	other at Nigg. The stone at Hilton is in the parish of Fearn.
	   The one at Shandwick is called "Clach a Charridh," the stone
	of the burying-ground. "Carridh" is the Gaelic word for a
	burial-place; and it was a mistake, in the former Statistical Ac-
	count, to call this stone " Clach a Charraig," the stone of the
	rock. It is about 8 feet high, 4 broad, and I thick. It has been
	often described and admired by the lovers of antique curiosities.
	Mr Hugh Miller says, " that it bears on the side which corre-
	sponds to the obliterated surface of the other, the figure of a large
	cross, wrought into an involved and intricate species of fret work,
	which seems formed by the twisting of myriads of snakes. In the
	spaces of the sides of the shaft, there are huge, clumsy-looking
	animals, the one resembling an elephant, the other a lion; over
	each of these a St Andrew seems leaning forward from his cross,
	and on the reverse of the obelisk, the sculpture represents proces-
	sions, hunting scenes, and combats." The ground around was,
	for ages, employed as a burying-place. But it has not been used
	for that purpose, within the last fifty years.
	   The stone in the churchyard of Nigg is very similar to that at
	Shandwick, though not so large. It now stands fixed to the east-
	ern gable of the church; but it stood near the gate till about the
	year 1725, when it was thrown down by a remarkable blast of
	wind, which, at the same time, threw down the belfry of the church,
	and broke the bell. The top, like the pediment of a portico, is


