
              PARISH OF FINTRY.

   PRESBYTERY OF DUMBARTON, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR,

   THE REV. WILLIAM GRIERSON SMITH, MINISTER.*

          I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Boundaries, &c-The parish of Fintry is bounded on the north
by Balfron and Gargunnock; on the east, by St Ninians and Kil-
syth ; on the south, by Campsie ; and on the west, by Killearn and
Strathblane. It is 17 miles due north from Glasgow; 16 miles West
by south from Stirling; and 22 miles east by north from Dumbar-
ton. In the county and other maps of this parish, it is made to touch
the parish of Strathblane on the southwest, at the Earl's Seat, the
highest point of the Killearn range of hills. These maps, how-
ever, are in that respect incorrect. The lands of neither of the pro-
prietors of the parish, (for there are only two in it,) extend to the
top of the Earl's Seat. The lands of Fintry, in that direction, are
bounded bya small stream, the source of the Finglenburn, at the foot
of that eminence, upwards of half a mile from the point in question.
The name "Fintry," is said to be derived from Gaelic words, sig-
nifying" Fair land."
    The parish extends from east to west about 6 miles, and its
breadth from north to south is 5. It contains about 20 square
miles. Its figure is irregular. The whole parish may be said
to consist of three ranges of hills and two valleys. The
southern range may be denominated the continuation of the Camp-
sie hills, and the Meikle Binn. The middle range is the conti-
nuation of the Killearn hills, passing through Fintry and joining
the Dundaff hills, in the parish of St Ninians. The northern
range forms what is properly called the Fintry hills. These con-
stitute part of a chain of mountains originating near Stirling, in
the east, running in a direct line west by south, and gradually in-
creising in height and magnitude, till it abruptly terminates in
a bluff shoulder in Fintry, behind the house of Culcreuch.

<FOOTNOTE>Drawn up by the late incumbent, the Rev. James Coltart.


