
			ARDROSSAN.                               205

coast of Scotland, and would be rendered by a railway the nearest
and most accessible."
	Means of Communication.--1. Saltcoats is a post-town, to
which Ardrossan is a penny-post. The mail, conveyed on horse-
back from Kilmarnock, arrives every morning at half-past eight
o'clock, and departs at four o'clock afternoon. There is a daily
runner to and from Kilbride. Packets twice a week during winter,
and every lawful day in summer, carry the letter-bag to and from
Arran. * 2. There are coaches every lawful day to and from Glas-
gow, by Paisley and Beith, and to and from Kilmarnock by Irvine.
In summer there are two more daily coaches, one from Glasgow
and another from Kilmarnock. 3. Steam-boats every lawful day
to and from Glasgow and Ayr, and the intermediate ports, and once
a week to and from Stranraer. In summer there is a steamer
which plies regularly betwixt Ardrossan and Arran, leaving Ar-
drossan on the arrival of the morning coaches from Glasgow and
Kilmarnock at about half-past ten o'clock, and returning in time
for the starting of the same coaches at about half-past six o'clock
in the evening. Thus a person may leave Glasgow or Kilmarnock
in the morning, visit Arran, spend some hours amidst its wildest
scenery, enjoy a view from the frith of the whole western coast,
and sleep in his own house at night. The passengers last year
to and from Arran during the summer months were nearly 7000
monthly.+ 4. Carriers twice a week to Glasgow, to Kilmarnock
and Beith weekly, and to Irvine two daily. 5. The railway convey-
ances have been noticed above. As soon as a railway has been opened
up either to Glasgow or Kilmarnock, and locomotive power employ-
ed thereon, it is in contemplation to start a steamer from Ardros-
san to Belfast, for which there is a large sum already subscribed-
	Roads.--The turnpike road from Irvine to Greenock passes
through the whole breadth of the parish, along the shore. There
are also two tolerably well-kept roads, one from Ardrossan, and
the other from Saltcoats to Dalry.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The parish church is situated in the town
of Saltcoats, and is convenient for the majority of the parishioners,
though too distant for many. It was built in the year 1774, and
is seated for about 840. There is something curious in the pe-
regrinations and mischances of the churches of this parish. The

<FOOTNOTE>
	* By some alterations taking place in the post-office department, we have at pre-
sent two arrivals and two departures daily.
	+ Owing, it is supposed, to the depressed state of commerce this summer, these
coaches have not been running.


