
262                       RENFREWSHIRE.

and more fanciful kind, consisting not only of plain lawns, but
likewise of such as were striped or chequered with cotton, and
others that were ornamented with a great variety of figures.  To-
wards the end of the above-mentioned period, the making of linen
gauze was a considerable branch of trade in Paisley; and before
the middle of it, a new species of manufacture of great importance
was begun by the inhabitants of the place, and which they con-
tinued long to prosecute with peculiar advantage: we mean, the
making of white sewing-thread, known to the merchants by the
name of ounce or nun's thread, as distinguished from the different
kinds of coloured and white cotton thread, which have been
manufactured chiefly at Aberdeen and Dundee.  This valuable
branch of trade may be said to have been imported into this coun-
try by a lady in the neigbbourhood of Paisley, who, about the year
1725, found means to procure from Holland the machinery which
is necessary for carrying it on, and set the first example of it in her
own family. *  Such a spirit of enterprise, of ingenuity, and of so-
ber industry, was not lost on the manufacturing genius of the peo,
ple of Paisley.  The business was soon taken up by them.  It
was carried on to a very considerable extent prior to the middle
of last century ; and so long as this kind of thread was cultivated
in Scotland at all to any extent, it had its principal seat in that
place.
   About the ear 1760, the making of silk gauze was first attempt-
ed at Paisley in imitation of that at Spital-fields, London.  The
success was beyond the most anxious expectations of those who
engaged in it.  The inventive spirit, and the patient application of
the workmen ; the cheapness of labour at that time, and the skill
and taste of the masters, gave it every advantage for being natura-
lized here.  The consequence was, that nice and curious fabrics
were devised; and such a vast variety of elegant and richly orna-

<FOOTNOTE>weekly sale in its markets of those sorts of cloth ; many of the inhabitants being
chiefly employed in that sort of manufactory."
         This lady was Christian Shaw, daughter of John Shaw of Bargarran, afterwards
married to the Rev. Mr Millar, minister of Kilmaurs, Ayrshire.  Her name is as.
sociated with the history of witcheraft in the county of Renfrew.  When eleven years
of age, she pretended to have been betwitched ; a solemn trial of the'agents in the
infernal process was held, and three men and four women were condemned to death,
and executed in the gallow-green of Paisley.  See Arnot's Criminal Trials, and the
   " History of the Witches of Renfrewshire," for a full detail of all those melancholy
proceedings.  Bargarran, where Mrs Millar resided after the death of her husband,
and where the machine employed bv her and her daughters in the manufactory of
linen thread is still preserved, is in the parish of Erskine ; and we shall leave it to
the writer of the Statistical Account of that parish to detail, as Dr Young in the Old
Statistical Account has done, the history of an experiment so interesting and so suc-
cessful.
                                            3


