
     Statistical Account

the S., and forming a division of the forest of Glenavon, lies
Glenbuilg, also the property of the Duke of Gordon.  Glen-
builg will be about 5 miles in length, and between 2 and 3
in breadth.  If no part of it were laid under sheep, it might
afford pasturage for 500 or 600 head of cattle.
   The long and narrow defile that bounds the southern extre-
mity of the parish, and contiguous to the Avon, exhibits a
beautiful and picturesque appearance.  It is very where co-
vered with grass, the ever-green juniper, and the fragrant
birch.  From the beginning of April, till the middle of No-
vember, sheep and goats, in numerous flocks, are constantly
seen feeding on its pendent sides.  In many of the Grampian
mountains are found, precious stones of a variety of colours.
But whatever may be their specific difference, they are all
denominated by the well known name of Cairn-gorm stones,
that being the mountain in which they have been found in
the greatest abundance.  Some of them are beautifully po-
lished by the hand of nature, while others are rude and shape-
less.  They are ranked by naturalists in the class of to-
pazes*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Limestone is so plenty, that there is scarcely a farm in the whole parish
above a mile and a half's distance from a quarry of it.  Freestone is also found,
but of a soft and friable quality.  A slate quarry has been opened many years
ago, and occasionally wrought; the stone is of a greyish colour.  It is hard and
durable, and supplies the neighbouring countries in that article, particularly
Strathspey.  So little tenacious in his Grace the Duke of Gordon of his right of
property, that he allows every person to use these quarries at pleasure, free from
all restraint.  Two marl pits have been discovered, but lying on the distant
skirts of the parish.  Farmers have not availed themselves of the marl as a ma-
nure; there are few, however, who use not lime for this purpose.  In the year
1736, an iron mine was opened in the hill Leach-mhic-ghothin, which separates
this parish from Strathdon, by a branch of the York-Building Company, then
residing in Strathspey.  It was continued to be wrought till 1739, when, by a
derangement in their affairs, they left that country.  Since that period, it has
been totally abandoned.  This mine also, is the property of the Duke of Gordon.
 

