
			GLADSMUIR.			201

from idea, which very generally prevails among the labouring
classes, that there is no occasion for them to give any thing to the
poor, because what they give is just so much saved to the proprie-
tors, who are bound by law to support them. In this way the di-
vine law of charity, in these times of innovation, is too generally
evaded.
   Alehouses.-There are, at present, in the parish, ten public houses,
or houses licensed for retailing spirits. It cannot be doubted that
so man of them, when they are not needed, have a very pernicious
influence upon the morals of the people. When there are so many
persons anxious to get customers to their houses they cannot be
expected to be very careful to prevent that excess in drinking
which prevails among us to such an extent. The act permit-
ting publicans to keep their houses open on Sundays ought im-
mediately to be abolished, as one of the most ill-advised that
was ever sanctioned by a British Parliament.

		MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.

   Since the former Statistical Account was drawn up, a striking im-
provement has taken place in the roads, in the cultivation, drain-
ing and fencing of the fields. Different kinds of manure have also
been employed with success. The farm houses and offices have
undergone a proportional improvement. In consequence of the de-
pressed state of the markets, some of the tenants are beginning to
throw- more of their fields into pasture, which promises not only to
make them a suitable return, but which will prevent them from be-
ing exhausted by over cropping. It also appears from the former
Statistical Account, that 134 black-cattle were kept; now they
amount to 500. Then the number of sheep was 100; now they
amount to betwixt 2000 and 3000. Then rape-cake and bone
dust were never thought of as a manure; now they are very much
employed. All this shews the great attention that is paid to the
enriching and improving of the soil. The wages of labourers and
tradesmen also have risen almost an half, while the price of provi-
sions and clothes has been as low as at that period.
   Gladsmuir kirk has often been remarked as liable to be struck,
by lightning. A remarkable instance of this happened 21st July
1789. It is thus described in the former Statistical Account:-
" A thunder-storm began in the north, and came gradually
nearer, having circled round by the west. The school, where
above seventy children were then assembled, unfortunate stood in
its way. The thunder burst upon the house, and seemed at first to


