
                        PARISH OF SYMINGTON.

          PRESBYTERY OF AYR, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.

        THE REV. THOMAS SMITH WHARRIE, A. M. MINISTER. *

            I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
         Name.-THE name of this parish is derived from a person who
formerly resided here, called Simon Lockhart; Simon's town or
Symington.
         Situation.-The village is situated on a gentle eminence near
the centre of the parish. It commands a fine view of the Frith of
Clyde, where vessels are seen sailing to and fro. Ailsa Rock is
seen in the distance, also the fertile plains of Cunningham, with
numerous enclosures, belts, clumps of planting, and gentlemen's
seats. These rich and delightful views are bounded on tbe north,
by the cloud-capped Benlomond, and adjacent mountains; on the
west, by the romantic Island of Arran; and on the south, by the
high hills near Galloway.
         Boundaries.-This parish is bounded on the north, by Dundo-
nald parish; on the east, by Riccarton parish; on the south, by
Craigie parish; and on the west, by the parish of Monkton, and
is nearly of a parallelogram figure, being about 4 miles in length,
and 1 1/4 broad. It contains nearly 5 square miles.
         Geology and Mineralogy.- Greyish and blue whinstone abound
in this parish, running in beds across the country, at no great dis-
tance from the Surface; and it is, in some places, above the surface
to the height of 12 feet. Around the village, plenty of rotten
rock is to be had; but as it is soft, it is not used except for drains.
         Soil.-The soil throughout the parish is, in general, clayey, on
a hard subsoil. Around the village, it is of a light dry nature,
lying on a rotten rock. Part of the parish is of a soft loam or
mossy nature, generally lying on a fine clay bottom.
         Mines.-Formerly, there was a coal-pit in the parish, but now
it is given up. There are numerous whinstone quarries in the pa-
rish, used generally for road metal. Limestone is to had, but
it does not repay the expense of mining it. Freestone is abundant,

<FOOTNOTE>Drawn up by Mr John Dunlop.


