
296                          AYRSHIRE.

	This minute division of property is not of recent date. From
an old manuscript valuation of Cunninghame, in the possession of
John Dunlop, Esq. of Dunlop, it appears that in 1640, the time
when it was drawn up, there were thirty-three heritors in the pa-
rish. The property of eight of these is still possessed by their de-
seendants; that of the rest has passed into other hands. Of the
present heritors, several are the representatives of families that
have possessed the properties they now hold from a remote period.
	Family of Dunlop.--The family of Dunlop of that Ilk can be
traced back to the year 1260, in which year Dom. William de
Dunlop is incidentally mentioned, in connection with an inquest
resppeting certain lands in litigation between Dom. Godfrey de
Ross and the burgh of Irvine. The deed is in the charter-chest
of Irvine. In the Ragman Roll, Neill Fitz Robert de Dunlop,
who is supposed by Nisbet to be an ancestor of this family, is men-
tioned as one of the barons who swore fealt to Edward I. of Eng-
land in 1296. Since that early period, this family has held the
estate of Dunlop up to the present time, with the exception of a
short period about the end of the fourteenth and beginning of the
fifteenth centuries, when it was forfeited on account, as has been
conjectured, of the part its representative took in the contest be-
tween Bruce and Baliol for the Scottish crown.--(Nisbet's Heral-
dry, Vol. ii. and Robertson's Description of Cunninghame.)
	Family of Gemmil of Templehouse.--The family of Gemmil of
Templehouse is also of old standing in this parish. From Pitcairn's
Criminal Trials, it appears that on the 4th of November 1570,
Patrik Gemmil of Tempilhouse was one of a jury on the trial of
"William Cunninghame of Aiket, William Fergushill, Florence
Crawfurd, and John Raeburn of that Ilk, delatit of the slauchter
of umql. Johnne Mure of Cauldwell." The property of this family
has always been small.
	Other Families.--The families of Anderson of Broadlee, Brown
of Hill, as representative of the Andersons of Craighead, and the
Dunlops of Hill and Boreland, as well as some others, are of more
than two centuries standing.
	Character of the People.--It is believed that the people gene-
rally enjoy in a reasonable degree the comforts as well as the
necessaries of life. Where labourers have made early and im-
provident marriages, their circumstances may not in some in-
stances be so prosperous as could be wished; but as they have
good,wages and abundant employment, any thing like destitu-


