
322                    HADDINGTONSHIRE.

keeper, who descends with a rope fastened around his waist, and
held above by his assistant; another rope is fastened to the rock
above, which he holds around his band, to facilitate his movements.
He lays hold of the bird with a hook, draws it toward him, and kills
it with a stroke on the head; then with great force throws it from him
over the projections of the rock to the sea below, where the men in
the boat are prepared to pick it up. The act of throwing the keeper
tells us, is the most difficult and perilous effort in the process. The
feathers are valuable, and skillfully prepared for use: the grease is
carefully secured, and sold for a variety of purposes. The flesh
is of a fishy peculiar flavour, an epicurean bonne-bouche; not, how-
ever, adapted to universal taste or enjoyment.-It is also a tradi-
tional error, that the solar goose remains at one ancient invariable
prince. It has long ceased to be 2s. 6d. The keeper tells us,
twenty years ago it was only 1s. The usual price now is 9d. The
eggs of the sea-fowls that are sold, are those only of the black
aud blue gull, at 1s. 6d. a dozen.
   The pariah is not remarkable for breeding any peculiar species
of cattle. The fish commonly taken in the Frith are cod, had-
dock, whiting, skate, turbot, and flounders; of course herrings and
mackerel in their seasons. The shell-fish are abundant and excel-
lent: chiefly lobsters and crabs. These are conveyed in carts to
Edinburgh and Glasgow, and to London by fish smacks, express-
ly built for this purpose. The usual retail price of a lobster is
1s. and of a crab 1d.
   Botany.-The dominion of the plough is not favourable to the
objects of the botanist, and, excepting the Law and the Links, the
parish is wholly arable. These exceptions, of course, present
the usual varieties suited to such soils. There are very fine
aged trees at Balgone and Leuchie-ash, beech, elm, oak, plane-
which species seem best fitted to the atmosphere and soil, and
grow magnificently. For the botany of the Bass, see Dr Walker's
"Essays on Natural History."

                     II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   North Berwick, though its origin is unknown, is a town of very
ancient date,-being as old, at least, as the thirteenth century.
It stands low, on the verge of the Frith of Forth, and consists
of one long street from west to east, and of another near its
eastern termination, from the north down direct to the har-
bour; this latter street, ornamented with a row of trees on each
side, is the principal residence of the gentry. It was indebted


