
	216                            PERTHSHIRE.

remarkably well, and without any apparent injury to health.  This
increasing branch of business has attracted a new set of agents, who
weekly resort to the mill-spinners of Dundee, purchase their yarn
to the annual amount of some thousand pounds, and bring it home
in carts, when they distribute it amongst their customers, who
work it into cloth, according to pattern laid before them.  The
webs when finished are returned to Dundee, where they find a
ready market,-but with this drawback, the prices are more fluc-
tuating in this than in any other trade, there being a continual de-
pendence on the precarious state of distant and foreign markets,
over which the home merchant can have no control.  Upon the
whole, however, there is such a profit to the agents as is consider-
ed remunerating, and which enables them to give sufficient en-
couragement to those whom they employ.  There are upwards of
100 looms in the parish in full operation, by young and old of
both sexes.  This new channel for labour, as was to be expected,
has occasioned in the meantime a slight rise in the wages of ser-
vants, and handicrafts of every description.

                              V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
 In former times, there were two considerable annu`l markets in
Kinrossie.  The ancient Cross now only remains.  The business
in cattle and small wares has been transferred to Burreltown, and
other places in the neighbourhood.  Perth is the chief market-
town, to which there is access by an excellent turnpike road, which
traverses the parish for two miles, leading eastward to Cupar-An-
gus, to which there is a daily post-boy from Perth, leaving and
taking up letters at a receiving-house as he passes.  There is
also a splendid daily coach called the Defiance, with four very su-
perior horses, whicb follows the same route, in its way from Edin-
burgh to Aberdeen.
 Ecclesiastical State.-The church, which was built, as has been
observed, in 1812 and 1813, is kept in good repair, and is so centri-
cally and conveniently situated, that the bulk of the people are
within a mile of it, and none further distant than two and a-half
miles.  There is accommodation for upwards of 400 sitters.  The
church is generally well filled, and the number of communicants
has often exceeded 400.  This includes nearly 100 strangers from
the neighbourhood, whose parish churches are at such a distance
as readers it next to impossible for their being regularly attend-
ed.  The unequal, and, as it may be called, reckless division, of
many of the parishes in Scotland, is an evil which has been long


