
270                        RENFREWSHIRE.

same articles when placed on the counter of the merchant, in all
the beauty and in all the tastefulness of finished productions.
   It is scarcely necessary to add, that the prodigious extent to
which machinery has of late years been carried into all the depart-
ments of industry, must prove unfavourable to the display of manu-
facturing genius, while we may notice it as a striking illustration
of what has been called the process of compensation, in the ar-
rangements of Providence, that the genius which is thus restrained
in one department, is not lost to the world, but is simply transfer-
red to another region of human activity, and developes its powers
on a larger scale in the field nf mechanical enterprise.

   In the following historical and local notices, we have attempted
a sort of register of inventions and improvements in the history of
Paisley manufactures.  The list is confessedly very incomplete;
and it is matter of deep regret, that many names, well worthy of
mention in the history of a manufacturing community, are " un-
known to fame."
   Mr Humphrey Fulton of Maxwelton, Paisley, was the first who
introduced the silk manufacture into Scotland.  In an epitaph
upon him in the Scots Magazine in 1782, we are informed, that,
" in company with his two sons he often employed from 400 to 600
looms, and in the various branches of the manufacture gave daily
bread to 1000, frequently to 1500 people.  Many with him, have
merited of their family : few have better deserved of their country."
   Messrs Walkers, father, son, and grandson, harness tyers in the
warehouse of Messrs W. Fulton and Co. Maxwelton, have distin-
guished themselves by their ingenuity in inventing plans, and most
successfully, for facilitating the figured work on muslins and silk-
gauzes.
   An ingenious wright of the name of Lamb, in the employ of the
game respectable house, has distinguished himself by his improve-
ments in the mode of making brocade frames and shuttles for fa-
cilitating the production of figured and ornatnental silk gauzes.
   The plan of the Ay-shuttle and lay-was brought from England
above forty years ago, by Mr Herbert Buchanan of Arden, silk ma-
nufacturer in Paisley.  He sent up John Robertson, one of his opera-
tivest  to Manchester to see the model, which Robertson brought
down with him to Paisley, where it was immediately adopted, and
is now universally used.  It has since that time, received many im-
provements from the ingenuity of Paisley weavers, the most import-


