
   174                              ORKNEY.

   were found in a state of perfect preservation, at the distance of
   three feet below the surface of the ground, although no trees of
   that kind at present exist in the island.
      The soil seems generally to be untransported, except in a few
   sandy spots near the sea shore, where its situation and appearance
   prove that it has been accumulated by the force of the wind; and
   in valleys, where a more than ordinary depth betrays its dependent
   character.  But the circumstance of greater depth in particular
   situations, though perhaps originating in transportation, may not
   be altogether owing to that cause.  For if the accumulation were
   once begun, the increase of soil itself would give greater vigour to
   vegetation, and the decay of its productions, then, independently
   of the former cause, maintain the accumulating process.  And
   this proceeding in a natural course, if only commenced by the ope-
   ration of some extrinsic circumstance, might account for the phe-
   nomenon.  Perhaps few places, for their extent, can boast of a
   greater variety of soil.  One kind does not extend far, till it is in-
   terrupted by another.  It is sometimes, though rarely, sandy, and,
   at other times, loamy, but generally clayey or mossy.  Sand,
   loam, moss, and clay, are, however, found combined in infinite
   variety of proportion.  But the soil that has been long under cul-
   tivation, has assumed the black colour of productiveness, from hav-
   ing been manured chiefly with decomposed organic matter.  Large
   portions of the uncultivated ground are covered with a thin stra-
   tum of mossy matter, resting on gravelly clay.  And this kind of
   soil, called yarpha, yields few productions except mosses, some of
   the coarser grasses, and stunted heaths.  The soil in general, in-
   dependently of the sterile clay on which it rests, is seldom more
   than three or four inches deep, unless in spots where cultivation
   has been carried on for many years, or where some extrinsic ac-
   cumulating process has been in operation; in which cases, the
   depth is often from eight inches to a foot, and in marsbes some-
   times much more.  Its general character is extreme wetness, while
   rainy weather continues,--and a tendency to become hard and to
   crack in drought
      Grubs are most common in places that have been recently
   brought under cultivation, particularly if mossy, and seldom do
   much injury to fields that are regularly ploughed.
      It is stated in the former Statistical Account, that " small bits of
   lead are sometimes found her," probably referring to the rocks on
   the east coast; and such was once the general belief.  But it is now

                                  3


