
                            JEDBURGH.                          19

arable glebe consists of seven acres, worth L. 5 per acre, and the
grass glebe lets for L. 13, 13s. per annum. The stipend is 19 chalders,
meal and barley. The average number of communicants at the Esta-
blished church is 677. Of late they have been rapidly increasing.
   The Dissenters, though a numerous class, do not here, as in
some places, consist of a variety of separate sects, but present only
two denominations, the Relief and the United Secession. They pos-
sess three places of worship, and their ecclesiastical state is as follows:

<TABLE>
                             Relief.         1st cong. of Seceders.     2d cong. of do.
Number of seats let,    -     1000                     1133                  330
          communicants,        950                     1550                  300
Amount of stipend,     -    L. 180                   L. 200                L. 80  *

   Besides the amount of stipend stated, the ministers of the Se-
cession have each an excellent dwelling-house and garden. The
taxes of the minister of the first congregation are paid, and the mi-
nister of the second congregation is allowed L. 22, 10s. per annum,
for sacramental and travelling expenses. The stipends are derived
from the seat rents.
   Divine service, both at the Established church and at the meet-
ing-houses, is much better attended than it was some years ago;
but still it is to be regretted, that a great number, especially among
the higher and the lower ranks, either forsake the assembling of
themselves altogether, or attend to that duty with great irregularity,
   Religious Societies.- There are two religious societies, one for
educational purposes, and another for the diffusion of religious
knowledge in general. The probable average amount of their
yearly collection is L. 40.
   Education.-The total number of schools in the parish is 14,
of which three are parochial, and one is endowed by the Marquis
of Lothian. The total number of scholars is 950, being about once
fifih of the population; but of these 87 attend night schools, and 63
female schools. The grammar-school of Jedburgh had attained con-
siderable eminence, even so early as the commencement of the
seventeenth century. The heritors, and especially the magistrates,
as appears from the records of the borough, have always been at-
tentive to its interests, and scrupulous in the choice of its rectors,
and their care has been amply rewarded by the character which it
has long  possessed and still maintains. In the year 1804, the
grammar-school and the English school of the borough were unit-
ed, and their union has been found advantageous. the total num-
ber attending the school at present is 170;-of these 45 are taught

<FOOTNOTE>The Dissenters come not merely from this parish, but from nine or ten surround-
ing parishes. The difference between the sitters and communicants in the first con-
gregation of Seceders is remarkable; the numbers were given by the seat-letter and
minister.


