               422                         ARGYLESHIRE.

               found here is of great use in cleaning oil out of cloth, and tar out
               of wool. The writer has learned, that, on the Duke of Bedford's
               property, it has been of great value as an article of commerce, and
               considerable quantities have been exported to foreign countries.
                 Along the sea shore, there is abundance of cod, ling, and. whiting;
               but although such is the case, their value is far from being appre-
               ciated.
                 Botany.-The almost total absence of wood gives the country
               that air of bleakness and sterility which, to the painter's eye, is
               never compensated by flowery meadows or fertile fields. The
               farm of Keil has asstmed a very improved appearance, since it be-
               came the possession of the late Dr M'Larty. When he entered
               into possession of this property about twenty-four years ago, it was
               absolutely in a state of nature. He improved it in every possible
               way by draining and inclosures, planted some thousand of larch,
               poplars, and forest trees about his farm-house avid gardens; de-
               corated the place with a variety of beautiful shrubbery, which has
               rendered it an ornament to this part of the country; and his risinty
               plantations will ultimately prove a most valuable acquisition to his
               property. Mr M'Millan of Levenstrath has also improved his
               property in a similar was Mr M'Donald of Ballyshear deserves
               great praise for his exertions in improving and beautifying his pro-
               perty, encouraging his tenantry ; and his exertions have been un-
               remitting ever since he settled in the parish.  He has interspersed
               his lands with belts and clumps of planting, inclosed them with
               hedges, built a rancre of the most splendid office-houses to be seen
               in the country, improved, drained, and limed waste land, and
               opened  up a handsome approach to his elegant mansion-house.

                                      II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
                  The  Mull of Kintyre is the place where the Dalriads land-
               ed and  settled in 503, under the direction of Lorn, Fergus and
               Angus,  sons of Ere. Lorn acquired possession of the northern
               division of the county of Argyle, which still retains his name.
               Fergus remained in Kintyre, and Angus is supposed to have colo-
               nized Islay.  In 718, one of the descendants of Ferguss, named
               Duncan, war, styled king of Kintyre. According to Pinkerton,
               the whole ancient territories of this tribe did not exceed the limits
               of the present Argyleshire; but there is no portion of history so
               obscure as that of the Irish Scoto Kings, from the period of their
               landing inthis parish, till their accession to the Pictish throne in
               843, In 1158, Sornerled, Lord of Kintyre, married a daughter of


