
                           PARISH OF CHIRNSIDE.

           PRESBYTERY OF CHIRNSIDE, SYNOD OF MERSE AND TIVIOTDALE.

                   THE REV. THOMAS LOGAN, M.D. MINISTER. *

                    I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.

   Boundaries, Extent, &c.-The boundaries of this parish are
now well defined. At the time of the last Statistical Account,
written by Dr Anderson, the river Whitadder, which runs on
the south and south-west sides of the parish, was but an uncer-
tain boundary, as its course was often changed by floods; but now
its course, by means of embankments, is kept uniform and regular.
The boundaries are now also distinctly marked by means of a deep
ditch that runs between the conterminous lands of this parish and
those of Bunkle and Coldingham.
   That river forms the boundary of the parish for an extent of
about five miles. It is observed to be now subject to floods higher
but of shorter duration than formerly,-in consequence, probably,
of the draining of the lands in its course, especially of the nume-
rous sheep-drains which have lately been cut on the Lammermoor-
hills.
   The temperature of the atmosphere is generally mild, the soil
dry, and the climate healthy.

                         II.-CIVIL HISTORY.

   Eminent Men.-Under this head we have to mention the cele-
brated historian and philosopher David Hume, who was brought
up in this parish from his infancy; and the Rev. Henry Erskine,
who was ordained minister soon after the Revolution, succeeding
Lawtie, the Episcopal clergyman, and who was the father of Ebe-
nezer and Ralph Erskines, the leaders of the Secession. To the
memory of that Henry Erskine, a monument has lately been erect-
ed in the churchyard at a considerable expense.
   Land-owners.-The chief land-owners are Sir John Hall, Bart.
of Dunglass, the patron; William Hay, Esq. of Dunse Castle; David
Hume, Esq. of Ninewells, one of the Barons of the Court of Ex-

<FOOTNOTE>This account has been drawn up by Mr Charles Heriot.


