
326                    KINCARDINESHIRE.

pleasant slope, having a finely situated and neat mansion-house
in the middle, thickly sprinkled with small farms, and embraced
by extensive woodlands. A little beyond, succeed the new
village of Banchory, the properties of Arbeadie and Banchory
Lodge, and the manse, church, and glebe lands; while still far-
ther east, are the ridges of Crathes, Dowalty, and Coie, which,
with most of the hollow already described as lying beyond these
fore-mentioned heights, and all towards the north-east, to the top
of the hill of Fare, constitute the estate of Leys within the pa-
rish; a surface of great variety, and of very considerable capabi-
lity; one-third of which is cultivated, and one-fourth under wood.
The estate of Raemoir occupies about three miles of the side of
the hill of Fare, and a strip of the low land immediately under.
It presents high upland pastures, with woods clothing the slope of
the hill beneath them, and surrounding the mansion-house, while
the remainder consists of well-cultivated and moderately sized
farms, remarkable for their neatness and thriving condition.  At
the western end of Raemoir, towards the south, lies Glassel, a
small btt interesting property, containing, besides a dwelling-house
and garden ground, several small farms, encircled by woods which
cover two-thirds of the whole.
	A surface possessed of such a variety of outline, and such an
extent of wood and water, abounds, as might be expected, in pic-
turesque beauty. Upwards of twelve mansion-houses and villas,
and a neatly built and prettily situated village, together with nu-
merous farm cottages, tend greatly to embellish its scenery, while
a large proportion of its trees being evergreen, enables it to retain
much of its interest even at the dullest season of the year. The
waters of the Feugh and Dee, with their bridges and back-grounds,
as seen especially from Banchory Lodge, opposite to the point of
their junction; the banks of the Dee and the distant Grampians
from Hillhead of Tilwhilly; and Crathes Castle, Blackball, and
Inchmarlo from the high road, particularly attract the notice
of strangers; but the lover of scenery-will here find much beside
to gratify him, both in single detached views, and in more com-
bined extensive prospects. Some of them will interest him by
their strikingly picturesque features, several by their soft and fault-
less loveleness, and a few by a rich, harmonious, and elevated beau-
ty, approaching the sublime. But such scenery is confined chieflx
to a mile or two on each side the river. Beyond this, many bare
and uncultivated spots, and a broad margin of moorlands, contrast
               			4



