
524                       RENFREWSHIRE.

colm. The number of sittings in the church is 500, and the sit-
tings at the communion table are appropriated to the poor. No
seat-rents are exacted either by the heritors or kirk-session.
   There are twelve elders at present in the kirk-session, to each
of whom a separate district has been allotted, which be statedly
visits twice a year, and reports diligence to the session. The
number of communicants is about 320; and the roll of male heads
of families, made up in terms of the regulations of the veto act,
contains 93, The average amount of collections for the poor an-
nually is L.35, 14s. 3d., in addition to which the collections for
the Assembly's schemes amount annually to the average sum of
L.20. The relative number of persons belonging to the Esta-
blishment and to the different bodies of Dissenters is as follows:
Establishment, 957; Cameronians, 3; United Secession, 3; Re-
lief 4; Episcopalians, 2 ; Papists, 4.
  The manse was built about sixty years ago; but a large addi-
tion was made to it by the heritors on the appointment of the last
incumbent in 1815, and some small additions were also made to
it lately, which render it a commodious dwelling. The glebe is
small, containing only five acres of arable land.
  Education.--There are two schools in this parish, the parochi-
al school, a handsome building, which has only been a few months
completed, and a subscription school, which was built about thirty
years ago, in the western district of the Parish, but which, being
now ruinous, is about to be replaced immediately by a larger and
more comfortable edifice. The parochial schoolmaster has a
good house, containing six apartments, and the legal amount of
ground for a garden, but he only receives the medium rate of sa-
lary, amounting to, L.30 a year, which is too small a remuneration
for an efficient teacher such as this parish at present happily en-
joys. In addition to the ordinary branches, be is qualified to
teach Latin, Greek, and practical mathematics, and the fees vary
from 3s.to 7s. per puarter, according to the branches taught. As
the people generaly seem alive to the great importance of educa-
tion, there are no children above-nine or ten years old, unable to
read, and, generally speaking, all can write. The children of the
poor are educated gratis. The two last parochial schoolmasters
here are now clergymen in the Church of Scotland, viz. the Rev.
Archibald Macosechy of Bunkle, in East Lothian, and the Rev.
James Allan of Paramatta, New South Wales. There is also a


