
              8                        PERTHSHIRE.

              pretty much alike, with respect to the basins of the three rivers.  It
              seems probable, therefore, that the Tay discharges about twice as
              much water as the Spey, and four times as much as the Forth.
                Quantity of Water discharged by the Tay.--Opposite to the
              town of Perth, the quantity of water, flowing througl a section of
              the stream, measured with great accuracy for a judicial purpose,
              was determined by Dr Anderson to be at the rate of 3640 cubic
              feet per second, at a time when the river was in its mean state.  As
              the area of the basin  supplying the various tributaries of the Tay
              (excluding the basin of the Earn) is equal to 2398 square miles,
              if we assume the annual fall of rain for the hilly districts to be 30
              inches, and suppose that one-third of it is lost by evaporation, and
              the various processes of vegetation, the mean discharge would be
              at the rate of 3496 cubic feet per second, which is probably not
              far from the truth, and differs but little from the above result.  In
              the course of the summer of 1819, the discharge, after a long
              drought, was reduced to 457 cubic feet per second; and at the close
              of the summer of 1835, it was still less.  From the gradual exten-
              sion of the system of draining now generally prosecuted in the
              agricultural districts, a very sensible change has taken place, of late
              years, in the magnitude of the stream, during great floods, as well
              as long-continued droughts; and though, owing to the same cause,
              the Tay now conveys more water to the sea, than it did at a for-
              mer period, it is an undoubted fact that the size of the stream, in
              its ordinary state, is considerably reduced.
                Tides.-The tide from the ocean flows up the river to a point
              about a mile above the town, in spring tides; and rises, at the har-
              bour, about ten feet above the alveus, or the bed of the stream.  At
              high water, according to the survey of Mr Jardine, the surface of
              the river attains the same level with the German Ocean; but it
              appears by the observations of that accurate and distinguished en-
              gineer, that the level of the high water at Perth is actually 18
              inches higher than it ever attains in the frith of the Tay, three
              or four miles above Dundee.  This singular result is to, be ascrib-
              ed, partly, to the frith of the Tay being so large, that the tide at
              the mouth of the river begins to subside before it has had suffi-
              cient time to fill that capacious basin, throuah the contracted inlet,
              by which it is admitted at Broughty Ferry; and partly, to the sub-
              sequent elevation of the water above its natural level, in conse-
              quence of the gradual contraction the channel of the river, from
              the town of Newburgh to the city of Perth.


