
332                        KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

cult to trace their outline, or to tell what purpose they had once
served.
   At Claens Mid-Spittal there are several traces of some ancient
building, most probably an hospital,-Spittal being an abridge-
ment of this name. Mr Burnie, a few years ago, in his farming
operations near Claens, got the remains of some old windows, with
leaden frames, with scarcely two panes of the same size, and a
quantity of human bones. It appears also, from the ruins of an
old dike, as if a few acres of land had at one time been enclosed
here. These things strengthen the supposition, that, at some early
period, an hospital had been erected here, and that the dead had
been buried within this enclosure.
  In Cambret Moor, in the days of Symson, there was a stone of
four or five feet in diameter, called "the Penny Stone," under
which money was supposed to have been concealed. This stone
had upon it the resemblance of that draught which is commonly
called the walls of Troy. It is to be feared some avaricious per-
son has destroyed this stone, in the hope of finding the hidden
treasure, because it is not now to be found.
   In the south-east district of the parish, there was anciently a
chapel, dedicated to Saint Briget, and named Kilbride. It stood
near the shore of Wigtown Bay, not far from the farm of Cars-
luth, where a hamlet still bears the name of Kirkbride. Of this
chapel, like the statue formerly referred to, there is now no trace,
and no tradition.
   About the year 1809 Mr M'Lean of Mark, while improving a
field in the moor of Glenquicken in Kirkmabreck parish, found it
necessary to remove a large cairn, which is said by tradition to have
been the tomb of a king of Scotland, who is not in the genuine
series, Aldus M'Galdus, M'Gillus, or M'Gill. When the cairn
had been renoved the workmen came to a stone coffin, of very
rude workmanship; and, on removing the lid, they found the ske-
leton of a man of uncommon size. The bones were, in such a
state of decomposition, that the ribs and vertebrae crumbled into
dust on attempting to lift them. The remaining bones being more
compact, were taken out, when it was discovered that one of the
arms had been almost separated from the shoulder by the stroke
of a stone axe, and that a fragment of the axe still remained in
the bone. The axe had been of green stone, a species of stone
never found in this part of Scotland. There was also found with
this skeleton a ball of flint about three inches in diameter, which
was perfectly round, and highly-polished, and the head of an ar-



