
     of Inveresk.

in the drefs, too, of mechanics and labourers, is as remark-
able here as any where in Scotland, as, indeed, might well
be expected from their vicinity to the capital.

ments, with persons of the same rank in any other profession, as far as is
consistent with the dignity and gravity of the clerical character.

   It is well known, that the manners of a people are stronger that those
laws which pretend to regulate them, when such regulations are founded
of false principles.  Of this there is recent example, which, being hard-
ly of importance enough to enter into general history, may not impro-
perly be recorded here.

   Many persons now alive must remember with what a sit of zeal and
bypocrizy, (for they were mingled), the minds of great numbers were
seized, when the tragedy of Douglas was first acted in Edinburgh, in
December 1756.  That play is now of the most established reputaion,
and is justly and universally admired as one of the most excellent compo-
sitions in the English language.  On occasion of its first appearance on
the theatre, a few clergymen, about seven or eight who were particular
friends of the author, in order to give him courtenance, once or twice
attended the representation of it, a practice at that time not prevalent,
though not altogether unusual.  Such a storm was instantly raised against
those clergymen, that one would have thought that religion and morals
had then received a mortal blow, although plays had been frequented
for a long period in Edinburgh, by many people of the most unexception-
able characters, without animadverison of any kind; and though several
of the most eminent clergymen were well known to have attended the
theatre, when occasionally in London.

   The presbytery of Ediburgh and the presbytery of Glasgow met again
and again on the subject; wrote warm letter, to the several presbyteries,
to whom any of the offending clergymen belonged, insisting on their pro-
ceeding against them, and bringing them to condign punishment; emit-
ted admonitions and exhortations against the offensive practice, and or-
dered them to be read in all the churches within their bounds.  In every
instance, however, except two, one of which was carried as far as the
Supreme Court, and of which the issue is to be seen in the magazine of 


