
                                 ARDCLACH.                        39

     and making new ones; but much that requires to be done is still
     unaccomplished.
        There are three stone bridges over the Findhorn, viz. one at
     Dulcie, one at Glenfairness, an d a third at Daltulich.
        Ecclesiastical State.-The parish of Ardelach is not made men-
     tion of before the Reformation, previous to which era the places
     of worship resorted to by the inhabitants were two chapels, one
     at Fairness, and the other at Lethen. After the Reformation,
     Ardclach is mentioned as a vicarage, of which the parson of Raf-
     ford, as sub-chanter of Moray, was patron. Thereafter it becamd a
     distinct parish, which, however, it did not long continue, having been
     united in 1618 to the kirk of Edenkillie, and those two kirks
     being appointed to be served per vices by one minister. This
     junction of the parishes continued for somewhat upwards of thirty
     years; but, during the latter part of that period, it was strongly
     represented against, though the united parishes were by that time
     supplied with two ministers. Representations against the junction
     were made to the two General Assemblies holden at Edinburgh
     in August 1639, and August 1641, and the last of these assem-
     blies gave in a representation to Parliament, wbicb, however, lay
     over unattended to till 1650, in which year the parish of Ardclach,
     as it now exists, was, by Decree of Platt, dated 13th February
     1650, for the first time erected, by the disjunction of the Old
     Parish from Edenkillie, and the annexation to it of the following
     lands, formerly in the parish of Auldearn, viz. "11 the lands of Le-
     thinbar, Fornighty,Fleenesnagall, Achamore, and Achavelgin, be-
     longing to Alexander Brodie of Lethin; and Middle Fleenes,
     and Achnatone, belonging to William Rose of Clava, and Hugh
     Rose, fiar thereof."
        Ardclach, before the Restoration, belonged to the presbytery
     of Forres. After the Revolutinn, and the re-establishment of
     Presbyterianism, it became part of what was called the presbytery
     of Moray, Which existed from 1690 to 1702, and comprehended
     the whole diocese, of Moray. In 1702, it became part of the
     united presbyteries of Inverness and Forres; and, when those
     presbyteries were separated in 1708, it became part, of the, pres-
     bytery of Forres, and so continued till 1773, in which, year it,
     along with Auldearn, was disjoined from Forres, and contributed
     to form the presbytery of Nairn, which then became a presbytery
     for the first time.
        The parish church of Ardlach is placed in the centre of the


