
                             FORGUE.                          603

cally to be, that no single farm, much less any large estate in this
part of the country, will suit, as a whole, any of the courses re-
commended.  The skill and experience of the farmer must regu-
late the management of the farm, according to the nature of its
various soils.  With regard to some fields, a four-course shift may
be advantageously adopted; with regard to some, a five or six, or
a seven may be suitable; and, with regard to some, no particular
course can profitably be followed, from the extreme poverty and
backwardness of the soil.  He believes, farther, that, to fetter
the judicious and experienced farmer in the discretionary ma-
nagement of his farm, by binding him down to the observance of,
-as to many of his fields,-ill adapted and arbitrary rules, is
as unwise as it is illiberal.  It is right that the proprietor should
guard against the wasting of the farm by overcropping; it is right
that he should secure that, at the end of the lease, it should be
found in a particular state.  But it is not right that he should in-
terfere with the judicious management of the farmer, and insist
that every field that he possesses shall bear a specified crop at a
specified time.  It is right that he should take care that that fields,
oncelaid down in grass, should continue in grass, at least for a
specified period, say two or three years; but it is not right that
the tenant should be obliged, if he shall see good cause for the
contrary, to break up his grass-fields at the end of that period.
The fact is, that, on most farms, the writer believes, there is too
much arable ground.  More has been brought under the plough,
from the mania of what is called improving farms, than can
be cultivated profitably.  The good land, on many farms, has
been deprived of its just share of manure to put the worthless
in heart.  The attempt has, after every effort, proved a failure,-
the good land has been impoverished,-the bad has not been im-
proved,-a good crop or so has been obtained from worthless
forced lands, but obtained at immense labour and expense, and, in
producing this crop or so, the land has been almost entirely worn
out, so that it requires to be prepared and laid down with turnips,
and then to be sown out with grass-seeds, and to remain afterwards
in pasture grass for four, five, six, or seven years, aye and until it
gather a surface.  To force such land within any specified rotation
appears to the writer to be altogether Utopian.  The farmers here
are on the whole, steady, spirited, and pains-taking, manage their
farms well, and are not slow in introducing any real improvement.


