
                 WHITSOME AND HILTON.                          171

   Parochial Registers.-The earliest date of the parochial regis-
ters is 1724. Till a recent periodic births, marriages, and deaths,
had never been enrolled in a regular shape. Even now, owing
to the absence of an express law on the subject, a complete regis-
tration is impracticable. An important desideratum would be
supplied by a uniform set of books.
   Antiquities.-In a field still known by the name of the Battle
knowes, on the farm of Leetside, there, are discernible the out-
lines of a camp. The form is square, and each side measures
yards. Its position in the middle of a marsh proves, that in hts
entire state it has been surrounded with water, and very difficult
of access. The entrance or gateway was on the south-east, to
which a raised pavement of rough stones led. These were lately
dug up and removed. It is s posed to be of Roman origin.-
In 1827, on draining some well-springs in an adjoining field, not
more than 300 yards distant from the site of the camp, the work-
men found a copper kettle, which, (judging from its shape,) in all
likelihood belonged to the Roman belligerents. It was conveyed
to Blackadder House, where it remains.-In the same vicinity, on
the farms of Leethead and Frenchlaw, several stone chests, 41/2
feet in length internally, and rudely put together, have been dis-
covered within the last three years. Each chest was composed of
six flags, which have since been identified with a natural quarry
at Todheugh, five miles distant on the banks of the Whitadder,
and on the lid being removed, there were seen the various por-
tions of a human skeleton. The body, when first placed in the
coffin, had evidently been doubled, as the skull, with the fore part
downwards, lay beside the bones of the feet, and the position of
the rest corresponded. From this circumstance it appears, either
that the funeral rites had been performed as expeditiously as pos-
sible, or that tools for cutting, and means for conveying larger
flags, had been wanting; although in one case, at least, the upper
and under flags projected over those at the ends and sides. The
size of the bones, which were examined by Mr Purvis, surgeon in
Whitsome, indicated a stature upwards of six feet. Each chest
had also its urn, of unglazed earthenware, and of a triangular
shape, the original contents of which had been converted into a
quantity of black dust. This vessel stood on the left of the body
for an intelligible reason; but it is somewhat strange, that the
rude coffin, or rather the corpse within it, lay in a direction of
south and north, the urn standing on the west.




