
                                 TONGUE.                            169

      meteors are frequent.  The circle round the moon and the aurora
      borealis are sometimes brilliant in winter. When the latter is fiery
      and lurid, it is an invariable sign of stormy weather.  The former
      generally prognosticates the same, so also does the fragment of a
      rainbow when seen in the north, called `` Boar's head."
         Hydrography.-The parish abounds with springs, which are ge-
      nerally perennial, but sometimes intermittent.  Chalybeate springs
      are quite common.  Sulphureous ones are found in several places,
      chiefly around Ben Laoghal, and there are some which seem to
      be a compound of both.    None of these have been properly apa-
      lyzed, but some of the sulphureous seem of such strength, that,
      were they more accessible, they might be found medicinally of
      considerable service.  Lochs axe so numerous, that from a single
      eminence, which does not command a view of the whole parish, I
      have counted more than 100.  The most deserving of notice are
      the following:-Loch Maedie, in the southern extremity of the
      parish, which may be about six miles in circumference.  Its ap-
      pearance is striking, from its margin being singularly indented
      by numerous liffle, bays and projecting, points of land, and from
      its bosom being studded with islands, on which grow trees of con-
      siderable size.  Loch Diru lies at the foot of the Diru rock,
      which is a part of the west arm of Ben Laoghal.  The loch is two
      miles long, and the rock, which is nearly the same length, towers
      majestically above it to the height of 200 feet,-its brow adorned
      at pleasing intervals with solitary trees of birch and mountain-ash.
      This loch is one of the unobserved beauties of the parish, lying in
      a secluded spot, and inaccessible to any but the pedestrian.  On
      the east and south-east sides of Ben Laoghal, tbere is a chain of
      lochs of considerable extent, called Lochs Cullisaid, Laoghal,
      Craggy, and Slam, which communicate with each other by nar-
      row fords or small rivulets.  Loch Laoghal is the largest of the
      four, and, indeed, the largest in the parish,-being five miles long
      and upwards of a mile, broad.  There are two islands upon it,
      where wild-fowl nestle in great numbers.  The verdure in its neigh-
      bourhood is rich.  A few trees fringe its margin on the west side,
      and on the opposite there rises a hill of considerable height, green
      to the top, with a thriving birch-wood at its base.  Loch Crag.
      gy is interesting, by commanding a fine profile view of Ben
      Laoghal.  Were this chain connected by a road with Lochs
      Maedie and Diru, sweeping round the whole of Ben Laoghal, it
      would form a ride which, as regards loch and mountain scenery,
         SUTHERLAND.                               M


