
44                      DUMBARTONSHIRE.

of Lanark and Argyle.  This John was the law agent Of Archi-
bald, ninth Earl of Argyle, whom he attended on the scaffold at
his execution, and received from him a silver kylevine pen-case,
which is preserved as an heir-loom in the family. * His great-
grandson, the late Sir Islay Campbell, Bart. Lord President
of the Court of Session, has left a high name among the law au-
thorities of Scotland, and the virtues of his private life will not
soon be forgotten.  He is thus noticed by Mr Brunton in his
Account of the Senators of the College of Justice: "Sir Islay
Campbell of Succoth, Baronet, Lord President, eldest son of
Archibald Campbell of Succoth, one of the Principal Clerks of
Session, by Helen Wallace, heiress of Ellerslie, was admitted ad-
vocate 11th January 1757.  He obtained very extensive practice
at the Bar, there being scarcely any cause of importance in which
he was not engaged or consulted; and many of his written plead-
ings are still held as perfect models of brevity, force, and elegance.
He was nominated Solicitor- General in 1783, and was the follow-
ing year constituted Lord Advocate, and soon after chosen repre-
sentative for the Glasgow district of burghs to Parliament, where
he took an active share in ll the important transactions of the
times.  The University of Glasgow conferred upon him the de-
gree of Doctor of Laws, and he held also for some time the office
of Lord Rector.  He was promoted to be President of the Court
of Session, 14th November 1789, in the room of Sir Thomas
Miller.  He was placed at the head of the commission of Oyer
and Terminer, issued in the year 1794, for the trial of those ac-
cused of high treason in Scotland, at that disturbed period, and
was highly commended by the English lawyers for the manner
in which he acquitted himself in that capacity.  He held the
office of Lord President for upwards of nineteen years, and re-
signed in 1808, after having discharged its arduous duties with the
atmost ability, integrity, and zeal; and on the 17th of Septem-
ber, the same year, was created a Baronet. Being then in the
full enjoyment of all his mental faculties he was afterwards chosen
to preside over two different commissions, appointed to inquire
into the state of the Courts of Law in Scotland, which he con-
ducted with his accustomed industry and talent. After his re-
tirement from the Bench, he resided principally at his estate of
Garscube, where be kept his active mind continually engaged in

<FOOTNOTE>This could not, therefore, be the kylevine pen-case which the Earl's descendant
made use of at his interview with Jennie Deans.-Heart of Mid-Lotbian.


