
                              TYRIE.                          725

miserably cultivated fields, scattered here and there on the moor
and moss, and, from its connection with the history of that unfor-
tunate nobleman, it presents a scene of historical interest and as-
sociations.  It was only about the year 1790 that its ancient name
of Cavoch was transformed into its modern one of New Pitsligo,
and that the former external aspect of the scene around it be-
gan to change, for that year the village was founded; and
it has, through the persevering industry of its inhabitants, been
increasing year after year, till it has reached its present popu-
lation of 1262.  One great cause of its increase has been the
cheapness of fuel furnished from the inexhastible mass of moss
around it, and the attachment to every feu of a few acres of
arable ground, with abundance of reclaimable land given by the
proprietor on a lease of two nineteen years, thus affording from
the produce of their land the means of subsistence to their fami-
lies, and tempting many an industrious labourer and mechanic
to settle there, from the prospect of steady employment, and
an adequate remuneration for his toil.  In fact, its present inha-
bitants, with the exception of ninety employed in the manufacture
of cotton and of linen cloth, derive their livelihood from the pro-
duce of their small allotments of land, or from undertaking agri-
cultural jobs to their neighbours, or the farmers in the adjoining
districts.  Of late years, the proprietor has ceased to give off new
feus, and therefore the village may be said, independent of other
causes,  to have reached its greatest size.  Its police is under the
superintedence of the proprietor's factor.
   Means of Communication.-The only post-office in the parish
is in the village of New Pitsligo; and there is a daily mail-bag
dispatched from it.  There are about eight miles of turnpike road
in the parish.
   Eccleseastical State.-Situated about three miles from the east-
ern end of the parish, about seven from its western, two and a-half
or three miles from its southern, and about 200 yards from its
northern, the parish church could not have well accomodated all
within the bounds of the united parish; but now that the people
in the upper district have been detached from it, it is well enough
situated for the comfort and convenience of all in the lower dis-
trict.  It was built in 1800; is a neat and substantial edifice, kept
in admirable repair; made to contain with ease 400 persons, al
lowing eighteen inches to each individual, and the sittings are all
rent free.  The public benefactions were bequehed by Major


