
                             LEWIS.-BARVAS.                       145

     thereto, burying-grounds, which still serve their original purpose.
     They are all now crumbling into ruins, and one of them has al-
     ready disappeared in the sand. The names applied to them were,
     St Bridget in Borve, St Peter's in Lower Shadir, St Mary's in
     Barvas, and St John's in Bragar; but these appellations are now
     obsolete. Southwardof Bragar, on the border of a loch, are the,
     ruins of a circular tower (dun) or Danish fort, well adapted for
     defence, built solely of large stones, three stories high, tapering
     towards the summit, with a double wall, bound by large flags,-
     which at the same time form a winding staircase in the interior of
     the wall, by which one may go round the building. Three more
     similar ruins are to be seen between Shadir and Borve, two of
     them situated on small islands, in the centre of lochs, and cause-
     ways leading to each, or rather stepping-stones, so artfully ar-
     ranged, that an enemy who ventured to attack them or advance
     to their fortress, must, from the zigzag direction, and the deep pits
     made purposely to intervene, have proceeded with the greatest cau-
     tion, or been precipitated into one of those gulfs, and should aband
     have been observed attempting to cross over,'hardly any so exposed,
     during the delay thus occasioned, would escape the deadly arrows
     of the besieged. The third ruin stands at some little distance
     from the shore, with which it was supposed to have a subterra-
     neous communication,-anopinionresting onno other authority than
     tradition. In a plain of moss between Barvas and Shadir, there
     is an immense stone 18 feet high, and nearly the same in cir-
     cumference, standing almost perpendicular, and no other stone
     nearer than the shore, which is half a-mile distant. Unless it
     was placed there by some mechanical power,' there can be no bet-
     ter proof that there were "giants in those days." In either case, it
     was an effort infinitely surpassing the present stage of mechanical
     skill in this island. Some suppose it was erected in memory of a na-
     tive chief who fell there. The tradition of a bloody battle between
     the native tribes having been fought in its immediate vicinity might
     seem to countenance this opinion. In those lawless times, when
     "might was right," it is said that the inhabitants of the south end
     of the island, taking advantage of the absence of the chief warriors
     among their enemies, had made a ravaging incursion into their ter-
     ritories, are by night carried off considerable numbers of their
     cattle; but the absent champions retuming the same night, hasti-
     ly collected their forces, pursued the plunderers, and overtook
     them with their booty in the above-mentioned plain, where they
       ROSS AND CROMARTY.		      K


