
98			    PERTHSHIRE.

on the south; two to Glasgow, on the west; and one to Dunkeld,
Inverness, &c. on the north; one to Aberdeen on the north-east.
They are not now as they were formerly, ill made and ill kept.
They are made and kept in repair entirely upon Mr M'Adam's
judicious system, to the incalculable benefit and comfort of the tra-
veller. On all these roads, four-horse coaches run daily.
   The Bridge of Perth is the only one in the parish that merits
particular notice. It was founded in the year 1766, and finished
in 1771. It is simple and elegant. It has nine arches. Its
length is 880 feet, and its breadth 18 feet of c`rriage way, and 4
feet of foot pavement, in all 22 feet between the parapets. It has
been repeatedly proposed to make it wider; and some advances have
been made with that view. But the parties immediately inte-
rested have not as yet agreed as to the way of carrying the pro-
posal into effect. To the spirited and patriotic exertions of the
late Right Honourable Thomas Earl of Kinnoul, the county are
indebted for this important building.
   In the traditional account of the origin of Perth, given by Mr
Henry Adamson in his Muses Threnodie, it is said that Agricola
having fortified the town with walls and a strong castle, did also,
with much labour to his soldiers, and probably to the poor natives,
also construct a large wooden bridge over the river at Perth. This
may be true; but he produces no fact to give probability to the tra-
dition. Among the records belonging to the Abbacy of Scone,
there is, as I have already stated, an order from King Robert Bruce,
1329, to the abbot and monks, to allow the magistrates of Perth
liberty to take stones out of the quarries of Kincarrathie or Bal-
cormac, for building the Bridge of Tay, the Bridge of Earn, and
the church. A citizen of Perth, of the name of Dundee, has re-
corded several events, with their dates, in a miscellaneous manu-
script, of which Mr Adamson was in possession when he wrote the
Muses Threnodie. The manuscript was commenced in 1570, and was
continued by his son till 1636. In contains, inter alia, a notice of
"the falling down of the three bowis of the Brig of Tay be the
greet watter, and of Lowis Vaiter, on the 20 day of Dec. in anno
1573."--"The downe falling of five bowis of the Brig of Tay on
the 14 day of Janewir in anno 1582 yeiris."--"The downe falling
of the bra trein pillaris of the Brig of Tay on the 29 day of De-
cember in anno 1589 zeiris." This must have been the bridge
that was built in 1329; and the substantial correctness of Mr Dun-
dee's notice is established by the contents of a decreet of the Lords

				  3


