
414                   EDINBURGHSHIRE.

tism could long remain, without being himself involved by the mea-
sures of excessive severity that were adopted.
   The first case now known, in which Mr Pringle took a direct
part in the cause of his suffering country, was that of providing
for the safety of the Earl of Argyle, when that nobleman had
escaped from prison after the sentence of death pronounced
against him by the notorious Duke of Lauderdale in Decem-
ber 1681. "When the Earl got out," says Crookshank (Hist.
Vol. ii. p. 123,) "he rode without stopping to a country alehouse,
near the house of Mr George Pringle of Torwoodlee, who, by
concert, was to meet him there, and conduct him to Mr William
Veitch's house in Northumberland." From this period especially
Mr Pringle was most cruelly treated, "notwithstanding," says the
same historian, "all his services to the King against Cromwell."
In the summer of 1684, he was fined in L.2000 Sterling. "When
the pretended plot" (the Rye Plot) "was trumped up," he was
sought after, as concerned in it.  Eight days after his escape, his
son, a youth of about sixteen years of age, was carried to Edin-
burgh, where be was imprisoned three months, although no charge
had been laid against him.  On account of the crowded state of
the prison, be was then admitted to bail for L.5000 Sterling.  To
the farther imprisonment of this youth in Blackness Castle for three
months, the forfeiture of his father's property (in a few years re-
stored to himself,) and the withholding from his mother the life-
rent due to her by contract of marriage, we must here be satisfied
with a mere allusion.  After the failure of Argyle's attempt, Mr
Pringle escaped to Holland; and, in the convention of estates
called by the Prince of Orange, he, with Sir William Scott,
younger of Harden, voted the crown to our William and Mary,
whose names are so auspiciously associated with whatever is glo-
rious in our national history, both civil and ecclesiastical.
   Mr Pringle lived to see the triumph of the cause of religion
and liberty, for which he had so nobly suffered, and closed his
bright earthly career in July 1689, in the fifty-ninth year of his
age.  His lady's courage and piety,--her serenity, and equanimity
under all her sufferings,--showed her to be worthy of such a
husband.
   William Russel, LL.D., the celebrated historian of "Ancient
and Modern Europe," and of other able and popular works, was the
eldest son of Alexander Russel and Christian Bruntain.  He was
born at Windydoors, in that part of the parish which lies in Et-


