
390                    ARGYLESHIRE.

and not to take more than two crops of grain from the same field
in succession. But, except by such as are in easy circumstances,
the above system is seldom adopted.  A great proportion endea-
vour to study what they concieve to be their own interest and con-
vieniency, and are very reluctant to lose two successive crops.
The natural consequence is, that the succeeding tenant finds his
farm so much exhausted and improverished, that, in spite of all his
efforts to improve his lands, his lease has nearly expired before he
begins to reap the benefit of his expenditures.  At the termina-
tion of the lease, another tenant steps forward and outbids his
valent rent, the great increased discourages him, and holds out no
temptation to expend more money upon improvements.
  The residing tenant is also bound, in his lease, to pay all pub-
lic burdens imposed, or to be imposed, over  and above the minis-
ter's teinds in kind, the latter of which is universally reckoned a
very grievous burden, similar to the oppressive tithe system in a
neighbouring island.  They believe, and with justice, that the he-
ritors themselves should pay the teinds agreeably to the decree of
modification and locality, and not burden the poor tenants, who
can, with difficulty, scrape together their rents.  It would, there-
fore, tend to promote the interest of all concerned, if the he-
ritors would be liberal enough to pay the stipend of the parish
in money, conformably to the county fiar prices.  This sim-
ple arrangement, which has been often proposed, but in vain,
would not only gratify such as are burdened with the ipsa corpora,
but save the incumbent the disagreeable necessity of becoming a
grain merchant, to the great loss of his interest, and interference
with other more solemn and important avocations.
   As no market is held in the parish for the sale of raw produce,
the farmers are subjeted to great trouble and expense, by carting
the produce of their lands to Campbelton, which is twenty-two
miles from the north end of the parish.
   At one period, when intimation was given by agents or factors,
for a collection of rent on a specified day, it frequently happened
that the poor tenants had not converted a particle of the produce
of their farms into cash.  In this event, their only remedy was, to
draw upon their customer, as he was usually termed, that is to say,
a Campbelton maltster, who advanced a sum of money upon promise
of getting all the bear which the borrower could sell during the


