
   2                            BANFFSHIRE.

   half a mile from the sea, is the parish of Gainrie; above the rivu-
   let is the parish of King Edward. From the point where it ceases
   to join the river, the parish of Banff is bounded, to its most souther-
   ly extension, by the parish of Alva; then, for a very small distance,
   by Marnoch;-and, from that to the sea, by the parish of Boyn-
   die, from which it is, in part at least, divided by the burn of that
   name.
      Topographical appearances.-In the lower end of the parish, the
   ground rises in the centre to an elevation of from 200 to 300 feet
   above the level of the sea, forming an emindnce called the Gal-
   lowhill,\f* a prolongation of which stretches southerly, (but gradual-
   ly descending, with a sweep,) concave towards the east. In the up-
   per part of the parish, there are one or two eminences exceeding
   the Gallowhill in height, but, being less raised above the surface, of
   the adjoining lower grounds, (there considerably higher than the le-
   vel of the coast,) they present merely the appearance ofslight swel-
   lings, and the surface there is altogether of the most uninteresting
   character. On the east side, the Gallowhill slopes down into a
   fine plain or meadow, of about a mile and a-half long, enclosed within
   a circular bend,of the river. On the north side, the slope being
   more gradual, necessarily makes a more abrupt termination as it
   approaches the sea, and the shore consists, in the parts more adja-
   cent to the river mouth, of precipitous rocky banks overhanging
   the beach; more towards the west, there is left between the abrupt
   descent and the sea, a fine plain or links. On its western side,
   again, the Gallowhill decline's gradually, but with occasional knolls
   and undulations, towards the burn of Boyndie.
      Near the town and harbour, low rocks stretch out into the sea
   from the beach; more to the west, and adjoining the mouth of the
   burn of Boyndie, is a sandy bay called Boyndie Bay. About mid-
   way between the extremes of the coast boundary, a rocky promon-
   tory, is cleft in the middle into a sort of recess, (called the Elf
   Kirk,) about six or seven yards deep, and two yards broad, having
   perpendicular sides ofrock to a considerable height.  The recess
   has, however, rather the appearance of being scooped out by the
   action of the sea, than formed by the tearing as under of its sides.
      River and Scenery.-The river Doveran takes its rise in the pa-
   Cabrach just the confines between the, counties of Aber-
   rish of Cabrach, just on the confines between the counties of Aber-
   deen and Banff. Its source is 27 miles due south of the mouth

<FOOTNOTE>Anciently the place of execution.
          These distances (all reckoned by the straight line) are taken, somewhat loosely,
   from the scale on Irvine Ross's map.


