
                            ABERDEEN.                        85

sional information-and the other consisting of students of medi-
cine, who bold weekly meetings for mutual examination and the
discussion of medical questions.
   The number on the roll of the ordinary members is at present
44, and the number of junior members is 10. *  There are, besides,
a few honorary members-distitiguished men, foreigners and others,
principally, though not exclusively, of the medical profession.
   The number of volumes in the society's library, to which the
members have every facility of access, is about 3000, and there
was formed, a few years ago, a collection of valuable works of refe-
rence, &c. which the members may consult at the society's hall, but
which are not permitted to be lent out.  A regulation has lately
been introduced by which the library has been rendered accessible,
under certain restrictions, to students not attending the meetings
of the society.
   The society's museum is not as yet of any great extent, but
it contains some valuable anatomical and morbid preparations, as
well as a good many specimens in various departments of natural
history.
   Medical Classes.-Besides the medical lectures instituted within
the last twenty years in connection with the universities, (the ac-
count of which is omitted here as being more properly to be taken
in along with the account of these bodies,) there have been others
lately set on foot by various individuals desirous of advancing the
cause of medical education in Aberdeen. These have been at-
tended with a degree of success probably as great as their pro-
jectors anticipated, though, of course, the limited number of stu-
dents at Aberdeen has been a bar to any splendid success on the
part of either them or the university lecturers.
   The following are the branches in which courses unconnected
with the universities were delivered last season:-

<TABLE>
          Anatomy by                    Mr Moir. +
          Surgery,                        Do.

<FOOTNOTE>At the time when the society was instituted, and for many years after, there were
no medical classes in Aberdeen, and the Medical Society furnished, almost the only
means by which the students could with advantage prosecute their studies, by adopting
a system of mutual instruction. Of late years, in consequence of the establishment of
a regular medical school in Aberdeen, the opportunities of the students have been
very much increased, and their mode of study materially altered, so that in fact the
meeting of the society which constituted at one time its principal advantage have
now come to be felt rather as a burden and an encroachment on their other occupa-
tions, find this will account for the very small number of students at present on the
roll of the junior class.
    Mr Moir has been recently appointed Lecturer on Anatomy and Surgery to
King's College.


