
                       ARTICLE GLASGOW.                     907

religious destitution of Glasgow.  We extract the following im-
pressive summary, from the Annual Report of 1836, simply pre-
mising, that it is founded upon unexceptionable returns laid before
the Royal Commissioners of Religious Instruction by the paro-
chial ministers.  It is also to be remembered, that the whole po-
pulation is estimated, agreeably to the Mortality Bill, at 244,000,
and that the proportion of persons who are in  circumstances to be
attending on Divine worship at the same time, is rated at 60 in the
100.  Law professes to provide only for 44 in the l00.  Facts
would warrant a higher number than either.  But to avoid evry-
thing like straining in so melancholy a case, 60 per cent is as-
sumed.  The statement is from the pen of an indefatigable and
enlightened friend of Church Extension, William Collins, Esq.
   " First. In Glasgow and suburbs there are no fewer than 85, 105
persons capable of attending church, who have not a sitting in any
place of worship, Established or Dissenting, of any denomination
whatever.  As only three-fifths of the population are assumed to
be capable of attending church, the above 85,105 who are desti-
tute of sittings represent a population of 141,841, which is greatly
more than one-half of the whole population.
   " Second. Independently of the vast mass of families that are
inadequately supplied--having only one or perhaps two sittings,
when they ought to possess four or five--tbere no fewer than
18,004 families, no member of which has a sitting in any place
of worship, Establistied or Dissenting, of any denomination what-
ever.  These families alone, according to the average number of
persons in a family, represent a destitute population of 85,519
persons, entirely dissociated from the ordinances of Christianity.
   " Third. Since the census of 1821, the population of Glasgow
and suburbs has increased 88,000 souls, for whom there ought to
have been provided 52,800 sittings, but for whom there only have
been provided 19,547 sittings in all Established and Dissenting
churches whatever, leaving unprovided of the mere increase bf the
population, during the period alone, no fewer than 33,253 souls,
so rapidly is the increase of the population outrunning the provi-
sion that is made for their church accommodation.
   " We shall now advert to three corresponding facts which will
present the destitution to your notice in a still more palpable and
affecting form.
   " First. The number of the population at present destitute of
church accommodation in Glasgow and suburbs as great


