
        118                      INVERNESS-SHIRE.

        along which there are several spots of sandy arable land; but not
        of any great extent.  Wherever the mountains are high, the val-
        leys are narrow and the acclivity very steep.  Where the mountains
        are not very high, the acclivity is more gentle, and the arable land
        extends fartber from the shore; one-third at least of the very high
        bills are quite barren, and appear white at a distance.  This is par-
        ticularly the case with respect to Benevis and the range of moun-
        tains to the east and west of it.   Benevis differs from them all, not
        only by its height, but also by its round massy top.  The deep clefts
        on the northeast side of Benevis are never without snow.  For two
        seasons when ice failed, the snow gathered and condensed into ice
        in these clefts, was of great service to the salmon-curers.  The
        country peasants with their small hardy horses carried it down in
        panniers on horseback.
            Meteorology.-The atmosphere in general is moist, but not cold.
        The high mountains attract the clouds, which pour down torrents
        of rain in our valleys at all seasons ; hCDee the difficulty of rais.
        ing a corn crop in this climate.  It requires the utmost skill and
        activity to secure crops in this country, particularly in late harvests.
        The wind blows in general from south and southwest.  When it
        comes round to the west and north, it is an indication of the approach
        of fair weather; with the south wind we have rain in general.  In
        some seasons, there is a continuation of cold easterly wind for six or
        seven weeks, the effects of which are severely felt.  The climate,
        upon the whole, is healthy.  Rheumatism is a prevailing disease.
        There are persons at present in this parish bordering on a hundred
        years old.
            Hydrography.-There are three arms of the sea in this parish.
        The first and farthest south is Lochleven, which branches out from
        Linne Loch ten miles below Fort William, and penetrates between
        the 10 y mountains of Glenco and Locliaber for ten or twelve miles
        towards Rannoch.  It has two currents, one at Balachulish Ferry,
        the other about three miles fartber up at Caolus-na-con.  Linne
        Loch terminates at Fort William; and then Locheil commences,
        being a continuation of Linne Loch, bonding to the northwest at
        Fort William, and extending ten miles towards Arisaig and Skye.
        It has a current at Annat.  Linne Loch has a strong current at.
        Corran Ardgour Ferry.  There is an excellent bay at Corran
        Ardgour, and another at Camus-na-gaul, near the south entrance
        of the Caledonian Canal, directly opposite to Fort William.
            Lakes and Rivers.-Locharkaig, which is sixteen miles long, and


