
                        PARISH OF DALSERF.

      PRESBYTERY OF HAMILTON, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.

      REV. JAMES CRAIG, (Retired.)
      REV. JOHN RUSSELL, LL.D., Assistant and Successor. *

            I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-THE ancient name of this parish was Machanshire, pro-
bably from the Gaelic Mayhan, a little plain, and the Saxon Scir,
Scire, or Shire, which originally signified a division.  In the Old
Statistical Account of the parish of Ecclesmachan, in the county of
Linlithgow, the late Earl of Buchan, a learned and respectable
antiquary, seems to think that Machan is the name of a saint.
Towards the north end of the parish of Dalserf, there is a pro-
perty which still retains the name Machan, or Auld Machan; and
the whole of the higher and bleaker lands to the south, between
Auld Machan and Draffan, in the parish of Lesmahagow, are still
called Machansbire or Machanmuir.  From this ancient designa.
tion of the parish and district, the Duke of Hamilton derives one
of his many titles, as Baron of Machanshire.  The name of the
parish appears to have been changed from Machanshire to Dal-
serf, when the parish church (or chapel as it had formerly been,)
was transferred from the district of Machan to its present site on
the banks of the Clyde.  According to Chalmers in his Caledonia,
Dalserf is derived from the Gaelic Dal, a holm or flat field, and
Sarf, a serpent or service tree, and thus will signify either the vale
of the service tree, or the vale of the serpent, according to the
fancy of the etymologist.  When all is conjecture, one supposi-
tion is perhaps nearly as good as another.  May the parish not
derive its name from St Serf?  There is, I believe, such a saint,
though his history is entirely unknown to me.  The term Dal
forms part of the names of several places in the parish.
   Extent and Boundaries.-The parish is delightfully situated on
the west bank of the river Clyde, in the middle ward of the county
of Lanark.  It is bounded on the north and north-west, by the
p`rish of Hamilton; on the west and south-west, by the Avon and

<FOOTNOTE>Drawn up by the Rev. Dr Russell.


