
     of Portmoak.

then, without sowing grass seeds, trusts to the spontaneous
production of nature, for pasture the ensuing season.  The
farmers, however, are beginning to lay aside old prejudi-
ces, and to adopt improvements, which in other places,
have long been the source of opulence and plenty.  The
usual crops are wheat, barley, oats, peas and flax.  Till
very lately, little or no wheat was raised in the parish;
but, at present, it does more than supply itself with that
article.  Peas are reckoned and uncertain and unprofitable
crop.  This is not owing either to the soil or climate, but
to mismanagement.  Flax is raised for private use only.
But oats, oat-meal and barley are exported in considerable
quantities*.

   Cattle.-There are about 240 horses in the parish.  Some
of them are very good draught horses, but many of them
     VOL. V. X

<FOOTNOTE>

*Wheat is sown from the beginning of October to the middle of No-
vember; oats, pease and flax from the beginning of March to the middle
of April; and barley from that to the 20th of May.   Harvest begins a-
bout the middle of August, and is generally finished by the end of Sep-
tember.  Before the subject of agriculture is dismissed, it is proper to take
being thirled to the mill of another.  At the time this custom took place,
the consequences of it could not be foreseen, and therefore the rigorous
interpretation of it seems to be improper.  When the farmer raised little
grain, except what he made into meal, to serve his own family, or to dif-
pose of among his neighbours, it was no great hardship to be obliged to
manufacture it at one mill in preferences to another.  This was the state
of the country when thirlage bonds were give.  But in the present state
of things, when the farmer sells great quantities of grain to the corn-mer-
chant, for exportation, or to the brewer, to be made into malt, to make
him pay molture for this part of the produce of his land, to a mill from
which he receives no advantage, is surely a grievance which ought to be
redressed; and as no multure for the grain sold to the brewer or corn-
merchant was demanded for many years after thirlage bonds were in
use, it is evident, (notwithstanding the present interpretation of them).
that it was not in the view of the contracting parties, when first granted
       

