
                           CRIFF.                             513

writer's ideas have hitherto, at least, been realized. The inland
situation of the place; its  distance from every sea-port, and the
great expense of hand carriage, have, doubtless, had a very con-
siderable effect in checking the progress of manufacture, and in
preveting speculators from making Crieff the field of their commer-
cial enterprises; and yet, netwithstanding all this, it is on its manu-
factures that it may be said principally to depend. The most nume-
rous class, beyond all question, is the hand-loom weavers; * and the
trade which they are the means of carrying on with Glasgow is
the most extensive in the town. There are about half-a-dozen in-
dividuals, commissioned by different houses in Glasgow, who gives
out cotton yarns to the weavers, to be converted into cloth, and to
be paid for at so much per web of 100 yards. + There are above
360 looms regularly employed at this work, and producing checks
and handkerchiefs. The average value of the yarn that has been
annually brought to Crieff from Glasgow for a number of years
back, is computed, by a very intelligent and experienced manu-
facturer, at between L. 15,000 and L. 16,000; the average
value of the same when converted into cloth, at between L. 18,000
and L. 20,000; and the average number of webs produced in the
year, at about 5200. There are others who are employed in
weaving linen cloths and worsted stuffs; but, with the exception
of those who are engaged in one manufactory, they are almost en-
tirely confined to articles of home consumption,-so that cotton
yarns may be said to be the staple commodity by which the weav-
ing trade of Crieff is supported. The manufactory alluded to has
been lately erected on the banks of the Turret, and is condfined
entirely to woollen goods. The business is extensively carried on
in all its branches, embracing the manufacture of blankets, plaid-
ing, shawls, and different kinds of coloured work, from the raw
material. It has the advantage of a plentiful supply of water;
and all the processes, except dyeing, weaving, bleaching, &c. are
performed by machinery. It requires about forty work-people to
keep the mill in full play. They work eleven hours a-day, and
six days a-week; and their wages are as follows:-weavers, from
10s. to 15s. per week; spinners, from 12s. to 15s. per week; and
children from 2s. 6d. to 3s. per week. It is considered a very
wholesome occupation; and children, in particular, who anter in a

<FOOTNOTE>There are upwards of 480 weavers in the parish of Crieff.
          The average sums paid for different kinds of work, in good times, are, L. 1, 2s.
ed. I. 1, 10s., and L. 11s. 6d. per web.
   PERTH                           kk


