
			KINNETTLES.                      213

take their departure about the end of September. The heron,
however, is frequently to be seen in winter on the banks of the
Kerbit.
	In regard to their live-stock in general, the farmers in this pa-
rish, though generally more disposed to graze and feed than to
breed and rear, are equalled by few, and surpassed by none in the
county. Whether they breed and rear, which they do to a con-
siderable extent, or whether they purchase to supply the deficiency,
which they often do, but always with the greatest care, they gene-
rally make a point of keeping a live-stock of superinr quality,
large size, and great value; and thus, since the introduction of en-
closures, turnips, potatoes, and sown grasses, there has been a re-
markable improvement of every species of live-stock. The cattle,
formerly of small, are now of large size; and when well fed on
turnips, potatoes, or grass,--a practice extenshvely followed in the
parish,--they are much esteemed in the Edinburgh and Glasgow
markets, where they bring high prices. Nor are the farmers less
conspicuous for the superior stock of horses which they keep.
Whether they breed and rear their own horses, which they gene-
rally do in a great measure, or whether they make purchases from
the south and west country dealers to make up the deficiency of
rearing, which they occasionally do, but with the utmost caution
and nicest selection, they never fail to keep up a choice stock.
The case was different in former times. When roads were had,
and when most carriages were performed on horseback, and when
the plough and wain were drawn chiefly by oxen, the breed of
horses was comparatively small. But the native breed has been
improved, both in size and shape, in proportion as they have been
regularly worked, well fed, and amply provided with winter pro-
vender. To such perfection have they been brought, that a pair
are now sufficient for the cart or plough; and, in drawhnf these
implements, they perform more work, and to better purpose, in a
given time, than six oxen, preceded by two horses, did in the days
of our fathers; and in such estimation are the horses that have
been reared in the parish held, that a pair, when sold, often bring
from L.60 to L.80. The number of swine reared and fed in the
parish has been greatly on the increase for several years past.
Two breeds of swine, with various mixtures and crosses of these,
are to be found in the parish. The first kind has large slouched
ears, long bristles on the dorsal ridge, long shaggy hair, and a long


