
     Stastical Account

lieved that the troops of that warlike people, had never pe-
netrated, by land, beyond the Grampian mountains.  But
Captain Shand of this parish, justly admiring the wife policy
of the Romans, in their military arrangements, was anxious,
some years ago, to trace the remains of the numerous field
works, executed by their armies, during their operations in
North Britain, and from an accurate inspection of them, was
convinced, that the fortifications on the Barra-hill, and the
extensive camp opposite to Glenmealin, were as much Ro-
man, as topographical vestiges he had observed in Strath-
more, and other South Grampian countries*.

   Roads.-The roads are not in very good repair, owing, in
a great measure, to the nature of the soil, and the statute-la-
bour being commuted.  It would be better to levy the mo-

<FOOTNOTE>

*It is not a little remarkable, that the larger works in this parish, are at-
tended the same as in the south country, with smaller ones, some round, and
others of a rectangular figure.  The circular redoubt on the S. E. acchity of
the feed-hill of Auchaber, about a short mile from the camp, is well preserved,
and appears to have been an entrenched guard for a small number of men, be-
ing only 20 common paces in diameter, including both the vallum and the
body of the place.  Proceeding from this remarkable spot, in a nearly N. W.
direction, for 5 or 6 miles, by Woodside in the lands of Frendraught, the Riach-
hill, the Riach-burn, and Auchingoul, one very frequently meets with remains
that are not farmers works; and though tradition, and the prevailing opinion
of the country people, place them among military, yet they can scarcely be
called so, on account of being so much mutilated.  But it seems worthy of ob-
servation, that if the Statio ad Ithunam, is situated (as there is great reason to
think) at the confluence of the burn of Auld Davis in this parish, with the
Ythan, the track just pointed out, cannot be widely distant from the great
consular road, in Ptolemy's Itinerary; and a learned antiquary, a friend of
mine, now deceased, thought he had discovered the actual antique causeway,
leading on through Forgue, Deskford, and towards Spey, upon the same point
of the compass.  There are also vestiges of several Druidical temples in the
parish.


