
                          ELLON.                               929

ford a reasonable ground of hope, that no individual of the rising
generation is suffered to grow up altogether destitute of the
merely elementary attainments of reading and writing.  Still, the
irregular attendance at school of the children of the poorer classes
of society is much to be deplored, as it breaks their habits of at-
tention, and interrupts that salutary course of moral and religious
training in which, much more than in the superficial attainments
above-mentioned, the value of a good education consists.
   But while the imperfect education of the poorer classes, arising
from irregular attendance at school, &c. cannot but prove prejudi-
cial to their interests in after life, nor fail to exert, where its na-
tural consequences are not averted, a pernicious influence on their
religious and moral condition, it seems questionable, in taking a
comprehensive view of the present state of society, whether the
more complete education enjoyed by persons in less depressed cir-
cumstances be attended with all the beneficial consequences that
ought to result from it.  That the cultivation of the intellectual
powers of the human mind has attained, in respect of the great
body of society, a higher degree of eminence than what it occu-
pied at any former period of history, cannot be denied; but it cer-
tainly is not to be inferred, from any data afforded by the existing
state of things, that society has undergone a corresponding im-
provement in the higher departments of religion and morals.  On
the contrary, the opinion is daily gaining ground, and seems to have
a foundation in truth, that in these all-important respects, at least
a very large section of the social body has become deteriorated.
Indeed, no intelligent observer of men and manners can fail to re-
mark the growing prevalence of a sensuous philosophy, inconsist-
ent alike with that stern self-respect, and that high resolve of un-
conquerable faith which formed the characteristic features of the
olden time.  How far the prevalence of this philosophy is attri-
butable to the changes which have been effected in the system of
education, or to other cognate causes, we shall most readily dis-
cover by instituting a comparison between the character of the
education formerly in use and that of the course of instruction
which, in more recent times, has supplied its place.  Education,
in its just and most comprehensive sense, respects the whole course
of human existence.  The process of evolution implied by it, which
is merely begun at school, is carried, forward in the case of each
individual with more or less happy consequences, according to, cir-
cumstances, down to the period of his dissolution.  It is only by
  ABERDEEN.                               3 N


