
                             DUN.                           127

church. There are 8 persons attending the nearest chapels of
Dissenters and Seceders; 6 attending the Episcopalian chapel
in Montrose. Divine service at the Established church is generally
well attended. The average number of communicants at the Esta-
blished church is 225.
	Education.--The total number of schools in the parish ir three,
--one parochial and two unendowed. The salary of the parochial
schoolmaster is the maximum, and the school-fees amount to about
L. 12 yearly. The parochial schoolmaster has the legal accom-
modation. The general expense of education is 3s. per quarter
for reading; 4s. for reading and writing; and 5s. for reading, writ-
ing, and arithmetic. There are no persons above six years of
age who cannot either read or write. The people in general
are very much alive to the benefits of education, and are very
anxious to have their children well instructed in all the useful
branches.
	Library.--There is a small parochial library, mostly of religious
books, of which the people are very fond.
	Savings Bank.--There is a savings bank in the parish, which
was instituted on the 8th June 1818. The average amount depo-
sited yearly, from 1818 to 1830, is L. 50, 14s. 4 5/4 d., and withdrawn,
L. 38, is. 5 1/4 d. The investments are generally made by the la-
bouring class of people.
	Poor and Parochial Funds.--The average number of persons
receiving parochial aid is eleven, and the average sum allotted to
each, yearly, is nearly L. 3. There are also various sums given
to persons who are occasionally in difficulty, before they are placed
regularly upon the poors' roll. The heritors, according to their
valued rent, pay for the keeping of a ltn`tic, belonging to the parish,
in the Montrose asylum, at the rate of L. 12; and for another per-
son at the rate of L. 10 yearly. The average amount from collec-
tions at the church is L. 26 ; interest of money, L. 11; seat-rents,
mortcloth, &c. L. 2. There is little disposition among the poor to
refrain from seeking parochial relief, and they do not consider it de-
grading.
	Fairs.--Two fairs used to be held in the parish on Dun's Muir,
--the first in May, on the Tuesday before the first Wednesday,
old style; the second in June, third Wednesday. But last season
they were removed to a piece of waste ground about a mile to the
north, on the side of the Strickathrow road on the estate of Dun,
and in the parish of Logie Pert.


