
     Statistical Account

   Extent, Surface, Soil, Climate, etc.-The parish of St
Andrew's froms a parallelogram nearly, the ends of which
pointing towards E. By S. and W. by N. broadest at the
west end.  The length from E. to W. about 10 miles; city
of St Andrew's nearly in the middle of the north side;
greatest breadth nearly 4 miles.  Through the whole length
of the parish there is an ecclivity from N. to S. forming,
with little interruption, one large corn-field, in which are
found all the varieties of soil, clay, loam, sand, etc.  The
sandy soil is chiefly in the neighbourhood of the city, and
adjoining to the mouths of Eden and Kenlowie.  These
sandy fields seem, at some remote period, to have been col-
lected by the small rivers, and, by gradual accumulation, to
have diverted or narrowed the course of the waters.  All
these field, however, are ploughed, and, by proper attention,
produce good crops of corn, excepting a small spot of
downs of bents, which is opposed to the sea on the east side
of the harbour, and a larger tract of the same running from
the N. W. corner of the city, which produces some pasture
for sheep, and forms the links, well known to golfers.  A-
long the east side of these links, in a direction nearly S.
and N. is a flat firm sandy beach, about 11/2 mile long, ter-
minated on the N. by the mouth of Eden.  This beach is
known by the name of the West Sands, and is almost en-
tirely covered by the sea at spring tides.  From the south-
ern extremity of this beach, to the east end of the parish,
with the interruption only of the harbour, and another
short sandy beach, called the East Sands, running along the
first mentioned spot of downs or bents, the shore outward
from high water mark is lined with rough and ragged
shelving rocks, mostly covered with sea-weed, and the
coast in wards is very rocky and bold, the face of it in some
places perpendicular rock to the height of 30 or 40 feet,
yet the plough comes to the very brink, having a sufficien-


