
                           KINFAUNS.                               1217

    which the oak and larch predominate.  A considerable  extent of
    ground, too, which was formerly allowed to lie waste, or which
    afforded very poor pasture, has, within the same period, been
    planted with those same sorts of trees.  Some of the young pla-
    tations, however, consist chiefly of Scotch fir.  The whole of
    these plantations, whether old or young, with very slight excep-
    tions, are all in a thriving condition and are, generally speaking,
    under the very best management.
      Extent of Farms, Rent, &c.-Eleven farms, which lie wholly
    in the parish, contain respectively as follows, viz. 126, 126, 127,
    134, 145, 164, 170, 214, 216, 252, 287 imperial acres. Be-
    sides these, there are a number of pendicles and small farms, va-
    rying from two to thirty-eight imperial acres.  And, lastly, there
    are six farms, some of them rather large, which lie partly in this
    and partly in other parishes.  The best land in the parish lets at
    about L.2, 16s. per imperial. acre, while there is some not above
    L.1. The average rent per acre of arable land, for the whole
    parish, is about L.2, 2s. 9d. ; that is to say, this was the rent for
    the last year (1842); but, as some of the land is let at a money
    rent, and some partly at a money and partly at a grain rent, the
    rate above-mentioned is liable to some degree of fluctuation.
    There is no pasture land let by itself, except a few grass parks.
    These are commonly let, by public roup, to the highest bidder;
    not at so much per acre, but at so much for the whole park, and
    for one season nnly at a time. The rent varies considerably from
    year to year; bidders being determined in their offers, partly by,'
    the appearance of the grass, and partly by the prospective state
    of the cattle markets. *
      The average wages and allowances of farm-servants, for the pre-
    sent year (1843) are as follows: Unmarried men, who usually
    lodge in a bothy, have about L.12 wages, with 61/2 Scotch bolls of
    oatmeal per year, and threepence worth of milk per day. Mar-
    ried men have about L.9 wages, with milk and meal as above, to
    gether with 5 bolls of potatoes, and  a  house and small garden,
    worth about L.2, 5s. Foremen have generally about L.2, 10s. or
    L.8 more than common ploughmen; but their wages vary accord-
    ing to the extent of their charge. Female servants have about L.5

<FOOTNOTE>The real rental of the parish, for the year 1842, was about L. 8940, including
   L.5574 for land, cottages, &c and L. 3366 for fishings. As the prives of grain for
   that year, however, were all but unpreced entedly low, the reaal rental for land muse
   on former years, have been considerably more.
        PERTH.                                 4 H


