
         718                            PERTHSHIRE.

         burned with so pure a flame on many a hard contested field, shall
	continue to glow in the breasts of Scotsmen.  This banner once
         waved over the heads of the Covenanters, and it beheld their dis-
	comfiture at the battle of Bothwell Bridge.  There, standard and
         standard bearer were both captured by the Honourable Major Ar-
         chibald Rollo, second son of Lord Rollo.  It has been perforated
         in seven different places by musket-balls, and has the following
	worsd inscribed upon it in gold letters, " Covenant.  For Religion,
	Crown, and Kingdoms." It measures 2 feet in length, by I foot
	10 inelies in breadth.
           The Earl of Marr, after the battle of Sheriffmuir, 12th No-
	vember 1715, withdrew his army into Angus, burning down as far
         as Perth, all the villages on his line of March, in order to retard
         the advance of the Royalist forces.  Dunning, situated at the dis-
         tance of twelve miles from the scene of action, was, accordingly,
	burnt to the ground, with the exception of one house, said to have
	been occupied by a miller.  This man, by setting fire to wet straw
         witliin, induced the Highlanders to believe that the work of demo-
         lition was already begun.  They accordingly abandoned it, as they
	conceived, to inevitable destruction.   This botise, or rather one
	erected upon its site, is still pointed out to strangers as an object
         of interest.  The inhabitants, actuated by the same feelings that
         prompted the citizens of London to erect " the monument" after
	the great fire in 1666, planted a thorn tree to commemorate the
	destruction of their village.     This venerable thorn, although it
         has now braved the storms of a hundred and twenty-three win-
	ters, and has stood the silent witness of more than one change in
	the entire population of the village, still promises fair to protract a
         green old age, and hand down the tale of its origin to other gene-
	rations that have not yet appeared on the stage of time.
         The the following entries occur in the session records of Du-
	ning: the first dated nearly two months before the battle of She-
	riffmuir,  the latter about a year subsequent to it.
            "September 18, 1715, There was no sermon this day and
	several Sabbaths following, on accounts of the commotions that
	were in the country, by reason of Marr's unnatural Rebellion.
 	  "October  2, 1716.  Transmitted to the session of Dunning,
 	from Mr William Mitchell, minister at Edinburgh, and Mr Wil-
	liam Hamilton,  Professor of  Divinity there,  L. I8 Sterling, as part
	of tbe donation Charitable person for the  relief of such (A


