
                                 ABERCORN.                 25

ters, produced a very marked amelioration. In the discharge of the
functions devolving upon him as a magistrate, a landlord, and a
parent, his intellectual endowments and high personal qualities of
integrity, love of order, and benevolence, together with the dignity
and unaffected kindliness of his deportment, invested him with a
beneficial moral influence, of great power and wide extent. His
sudden and comparatively premature death was felt as a public ca-
lamity, and his memory is still deeply venerated. He died at
Paris, August 27th 1832. His remains have been latterly inter-
red in a cemetery of Sazon architecture near the church. Besides
the statue in bronze erected in St Andrew's Square, Edinburgh,
two portraits of this Earl, painted by Raeburn, have been several-
ly placed in the county halls at Linlithgow and Cupar. In 1822,
his Majesty George IV. visited Hopetoun House on the day of
his embarkation for England. This tribute of his sovereign's
esteem was as singular as it was justly earned; the Earl of Hope-
toun being the only private individual so honoured during the
King's sojourn in Scotland.
   Land-owners.-The old valuation of the parish amounts to
L. 6945, 7s. Scots, now divided between two proprietors, the Earl
of Hopetoun, who possesses L. 6212, 3s. Scots of valued rent, and
the trustees of the late Sir James Dalyell, Bart. of Binns, whose
property within the parish is valued at L. 733, 4s. Scots. The
Hopetoun estate is an aggregation of smaller properties acquired
at various periods, such as Philpstoun, Stoneyhill, and Morton,
formerly possessed by branches of the house of Dundas; Duntar-
vie, the property of a family of Durhams; Midhope, a former seat
of the Earls of Linlithgow; Craigton, possessed by the Ewings;
and Duddingstoun, lately the property of Gabriel Hamilton Dun-
das, Esq.
   Parochial Registers.-The parochial records are voluminous.
The minutes of kirk-session reach from 1691 to the present time,
with the exception of the years from 1737 tot 1750 inclusive, dur-
ing which a protracted vacancy occurred. The register of baptisms
commences with the year 1585; some of the earlier portions are
however, imperfect. The record of marriage proclamations and
that of deaths are complete from 1700. The ministers since the
Revolution have been, Alexander Dalgleish, inducted in 1690:
John Brown in 1700; Henry Lundie in 1740, transported to
Edinburgh in 1758; John Richie in 1759; Hugh Meiklejohn,
D.D., Professor of Church History in the University of Edin-
burgh, inducted in 1791; and the present incumbent in 1831.



