
			LUCHRUTTON.		           287

This seems to have been, in part at least, artificial. Over its,
whole surface there is a collection of large stones which have
been gathered from the neighbouring fields raging on a frame of
oak planks. The scenery of the lake is bleak from want of wood
in the surrounding lands and the more distant heights. From the
lake there issues a small stream, which, after being joined by
others, and having pursued its course for a mile or two, receives
the name of Cargen waterway, and falls into the Nith below Drum-
fries.
	There is a small chalybeate spring in the parish, called the
Markland well. It is effectual in removing agues, stomach com-
plaints and nervous disorders. It is exceedingly light, very diu-
retic, and an excellent restorer of appetite. During summer and
in the beginning of autumn, it is resorted to by persons in the
ordinary and humble walks of life.
	Geology and Mineralogy.--The rock is mostly schist and whin-
stone. It is used for building houses and dikes. The soil on it
in general is shallow loam. It may be considered neither very
barren nor very fertile.
	Zoology.--The fishes in the lake are eels, pike, and perches.
Trouts have been caught in it, but rarely. The eels are caught in
quantities, particularly in autumn, by a large wooded chest placed
in the sluice at the foot of the lake, with openings at the bottom.
	The migratory birds in the parish are the woodcock, cuckoo,
swallow, and sea-gull or mew. The sea-gulls frequent the island
in the lake, in spring and summer, and cover it all over with their
nests. They make their appearance in spring, and disappear in
the beginning of autumn.
			II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Land-owners.--The heritors are thirteen in number; the chief
of whom are Marmaduke Constable Maxwell of Terregles, and
James Murray M'Culloch of Ardwall, neither of Whom reside in
the parish.
	Parochial Registers.--The parochial registers date one hundred
and thirty-six years back. They are not voluminous but have
been pretty regularly kept.
	Antiquities.--The vestige of a Druidical temple is to be seen
upon a hill at the eastern extremity of the parish. This spot is
called the Seven gray stones; though, in fact there are nine


