
720                          LANARKSHIRE.

the water of Cander, which separate it from the parish of Stone-
house; on the south and south-east, by Lesmahagow; and on the
east and north-east, by the river Clyde, by which it is divided frorn
the parishes of Carluke and Cambusnethan.  Its greatest length
from south to north, namely, from the point where Cander Water
first comes into contact with the parish on the farm of Whitehill,
to the extremity of the farm of Highlees, on the bank of the Clyde,
is about 6 1/2 miles.  From the confluence of the Cander with the
Avon on the west, to Sandyholm on the Clyde in the east, the
breadth is 4 1/2 miles.  In other placds it varies from 2 to 3 miles
in breadth, and at the northern and southern extremities runs into
a mere point.  The form of the parish is an irregular rhomboid,
containing upwards of 11 square miles.  The whole country slopes
gently towards the north, and on the east and west sides, partially
and somewhat abruptly towards the Clyde and Avon-the centre
of the parish forming a sort of table-land between the two rivers.
   This parish forms part of that narrow isthmus, not more than
60 or 70 miles broad, between the Friths of Forth and Clyde,
which, opening gradually to the sea on each side of the island, par-
ticipates more or less in the temperate breath of the sea-breeze.
the height of the land between this and the west coast is incon-
siderable, and the climate is of course much modified and influ-
enced by the Atlantic.  The high lands towards the east, in the
parishes of Shotts, Cambusnethan, and Carluke, cut off our con-
nexion in some degree with the eastern shore, though when the
wind is from that direction we sometimes experience what is called
the eastern haar.  The view from the high lands of the parish to
the south is bounded by Tinto, and on the north and north-west
by the Campsie Hills, and the mountains of Dumbarton and Ar-
gyleshires, which, when covered with snow, very materially affect
the temperature ofthis district.
   The following table, drawn up from the observations of a medi-
cal gentleman, some time resident in the parish, will give an idea of
the mean monthly height of the thermometer and barometer, morn-
ing and evening, throughout the year, and of the average quantity
of rain falling.

<TABLE>
                     Thermometer.            Barometer.
                Morning.    Evening.    Morning.    Evening.	Rain.

February,	     40.6	     39.9	     29.8	     29.6	      1.30
March,	     48.	     44.	    29.60	     29.	      3.16
April,	     51.2	     47.47	    29.67	     29.66   	1.87
                ------     --------    -------      -------      ------
Average,	     46.6	     43.52	    29.45	     29.24	      6.33 per quarter.


