
                             PAISLEY.                           171

Claud was third son of James, Duke of Chatelherault, Govenor
of Scotland.
   "He adhered to Queen Mary's interest, and was at the field of
Langside, in the year 1568, for which he was forfeited, and Pais-
ley, then in the crown's hands, was bestowed by the Regent upon
Robert, son to William, Lord Sempill, heritable baillie of Pais-
ley and justiciary of that regality; but Lord Claud being after-
wards restored to his fortune, was, in the year 1591, by the favour
of King James VI, created Lord Paisley."
   The charter here alluded to, uniting the abbacy and its appen-
dages into a temporal lordship and barony, in the person of Lord
Clauct Hamilton, with the title of Lord Paisley, is to be found on
record, dated 22d March 1591.
   In 1653, James, second Earl of Abercorn, who succeeded his
father, created first Earl in 1606, disponed the abbacay, and with
it the lordship of erection of the burgh of Paisley, in favour, first
of the Earl of Angus, and immediately after, in favour of William
Lord Cochran, of Paisley and Dundonald, who appears by the
records to have obtained a crown charter thereof, on 14th July
1662.*
   Previous to obtaining said charter, William, Lord Cochran, and
William, Master of Cochran, his eldest son, entered into a con-
tract with the magistrates and council of the burgh 3d May 1658,
wherein his Lordship and son profess their desire "to preserve and
keep entire the whole forms, freedoms, privileges, liberties, and
immunities of the burgh, and to corroborate, strengthen, and aug-
ment the same, for the better thriving and flourishing of the burgh."
Moved by these considerations, "and, for certain sums of money,
paid and delivered to them," they sold, renounced, and overgave,

<FOOTNOTE>The first Earl of Abercorn, "a man of extraordinary accomplishments, "accord-
ing to Hamilton of Wishaw, died at Moncktoun, in Ayrshire, on the 23d of March
1618.  The following extract from his last will and testament affords a pleasing in-
stance of faith and pious resignation:-
   "I committ my saul in holie handis of my guid God and merciful Father, fra
quhome, throw ye richteous meritis of Christ Jesus, I luik to remove it again at ye
glorious resurectionne, joynit wt yis same body,-qlk heir I leif to sleip and be
bureit, gif so it pleis God, in ye sepulcher, qr my brethir, my sisteris, and bairnes
lyis, in ye iyil callit St Mirreinis Iyll, at ye eroce churchie of Pas-
lay; trusting assuredly to rys at yt blissit resurrectione to lyf eternell.  I desyre
that yr be no vaine nor glorios seremonie vsit at my buriell, raying (crying) ho-
nouris, hot yr my corpse br karayit to ye grave, be some of my most honorabill and
neriest friendis with my bairnis, &c."  The whole of this testament is recorded in
the Commissary Register of Glasgow, and the above is taken from the edition of
Hamilton's work, printed from the original MS. by the Maitland Club. p. 75 "St
Mirrin's Iyll" is the far famed sounding aisle of Paisley; the burying-place of the
Abercorn family; and where several of the royal line of Stewart lie in deep repose.


