
974				PERTHSHIRE.

1407, Bishop Cardney had to fly from his palace, from a hand
of marauders who sought to murder him. In 1441, Robert Reoch
Macdonachie, the progenitor of the Robertsons of Strowan, who
are to this day still called the clan Donachie, fought Bishop Bruce
and his vassals more than once, with loss on both sides. Robert
was a powerful man, and a great scourge to the church. He
plundered the church lands of Little Dunkeld, within sight of the
bishop's castle, and fought the church tenants at Auchtergaven.
After his engagement he appeared at Perth, before the King,
from whom he received the lands of Strowan for apprehending
the Master of Atholl. Singular enough about 400 years after,
these lands came into the hands of the family, on whose account
they had been gifted. In 1452, Bishop Lauder, on assuming the
mitre, found his diocese plundered in every quarter, and was
obliged to solicit the King's commission as bailie. In virtue of
his office he imprisoned and hanged the most outrageous. By
the terror of his authority, he got rid "of an arch robber, Mac-
bre, his sons, and his whole gang. This man was reckoned the
most bold and infamous person of his time. The name he took
was that of the Bishop's Sorner, that is, one who went about to
extort money and victuals from the bishop's tenants." The bailie's
authority, however, seems not to  have been much respected by
the clan Donachie men. On one occasion he imprisoned one of
them. The chief, on being told of the detention, collected his
followers, marched to Dunkeld, in order to punish the bishop and
release the prisoner. They found, on arrival, that the bishop was
celebrating mass in the cathedral. Regardless of all decorum,
they entered the church, and threw a shower of arrows at him
as he stood by the altar, which "obliged hirii to give over the ser-
vice, and to take shelter behind some of the timber of the quire."
It is not recorded how the people in the cathedral or in the town
acted on that occasion. It appears, however, that the poor bishop
had to give up his prisoner, and hostilities ceased. A complaint
was made to the Jing; but the chieftain being son-in-law of Lord
Glammis, a court favourite, the matter was hushed. For fear of
the catherans, the bishop was obliged to remove the synod from
Tulilum, near Perth, to the church of Dunkeld. Bishop Brown,
one of the most conscientious of the bishops, had also his share
of trials. In 1494,  he recovered the church lands of Muckersy,
which had been violently possessed  by Sir James Crichton of
Strathord. On that account, "Sir James, with twelve men, lay


