
                   GAMRIE.                                 281

3d, Common in this parish, but regarded (with what justice let
future observers say), as very rare in Scotland, Rumex aquaticus,
Rumex hydralopathunL 4th, The following list will be considered
interesting, partly for the plantce rariores it contains, and partly
for the contrast it presents to the other pub!islied Scottish lists.
The marks prefixed are those used by the Edinburgh Botanical

    Societv.

  + Hippuris vulgaris       + Rumez sanguineus, vare.    S Carex hirta
  + Veronuica montana       S Epilobium tetragonum       * Aspidlum lobatum
  S ..... ..scutellata      + Chrysoplenium altlernifo   S Cistopteris fragilis
  S Lithosperrnum maritimum   lium                       * Asplenium murinum
  + Myosotis coffina        S Agrimonia eupatoria        +____Adiantum nigrum
  * .......caespitosa       * Vicia sylvatica            S Filix famina
  + Primula veris           S SEupatorium cannabinum     S Scolopendrium vulgare
  + Sanicula Europwa        S Orchis inascula
  * Parnassia Palms         + Carex extensa

  The heaths, fruits, and forest-trees, are those which are com-
mon in the north of Scotland.
  Woods, Plantations, &c.-There are some very pretty and luxu"
riant belts of wood in the western extremity of'the parish, parti-
cularly that on the river side, connected with the extensive plan-
tations of Duff House, in the adjoining parishes of Alvah, Bkxnff,
and King Edward.
   The Earl of Fife has done much to beautify and improve that
part of the country ; and, among the late improvements, has ex-
tended a fence with hedges on either side of the turnpike, with
occasional clumps of trees, as also neat cottages and lodges, with
tasteful gardens, all the way from Banff and Macduff to the
Church of King-Edward, a distance of five miles. The chief
plantation in the par ' ish, however, is the Tore of Troup, which,
together with the woods of Troup House, measures, upwards of
700 imperial acres. The principal wood is beech and Rcots fir;
the former, much admired for the largeness of the trees and wide.
spreading foliage. Larch-fir is now coming more into general
use, as it is of more rapid growth, and is considered more durable
and suitable for husbandry use than the other kinds of fir in this
part of the country. The deepness of the numerous ravines, and
the towering height and steepness of the banks, diverging from
the bottom or principal glen in all shapes, and at all angles, givt
the Tore a striking resemblance to a Highlan& mountain-pass,
and render the scenery altogether exceedingly romantic and
beautifiil; while, the proprietors, who have been proverbial for
ages for good taste, have made art assist nature in rendering this.
one of,the loveliest spots in the far north.


