
                        STRATHDON.                          551

L. 12; a long cart, generally made of Braemar fir, or larch, and
to fit on the axle of the close cart, L. 1; a wheelbarrow, 16s.;
a set of horse-shoes, 3s. 4d.; a riding-horse's, with steeled toes,
3s. 6d.; mason work per rood, materials afforded by the employer,
L. 2 to L. 2, 8s.; do. providing the materials, L. 6 to L. 8; 4 car-
penter, 12s. per week; dry stone dikes, 3 feet 9 inches high, 4 1/2d.
per yard.
   Live-Stock.-The common breed of cattle is the Aberdeenshire.
The polled are, perhaps, at present more in fashion than the
horned.  In the upper district and glens, a smaller horned race
prevails, in which there is an intermixture of the Ross-shire and
West Highland breed.  Much attention is paid to the breeding and
rearing of black-cattle in this parish.  The dairy is altogether a
secondary consideration to the rearing of good calves; hence a
cow good at the pail is of less importance than a good breeder,
and strong prejudice exists against the admixture of any south
country blood.  The late Dr Forbes of Blelack and Inverernan,
with great care and expense, succeeded in raising a justly cele-
brated stock, which became widely diffused over the parish.
The enterprize and skill of the Messrs Grassick are successfully
employed in the improvement of this as well as other descriptions
of farm stock.  They do not spare expense to procure the best
bulls, and keep valuable cows.  The farmers, in general, are su-
perior judges of cattle, and, as the better classes especially keep
well, they find a ready uiarket for their beasts.  Since the Lon-
don market for fat cattle has been opened up by steam ships from
Aberdeen, a considerable number of beasts are stall-fed in the
parish.  One of the gentlemen above-mentioned sold four this
wWinter for L. 105.  One of the four was a four year old ox reared
on the farm.  The purchaser, after gaining two prizes for them
at a fat cattle show, sold them to advantage in the London mar-
ket.
   The sheep are of the black-faced breed.  Some of the farmers
purchase wedder lambs at lanark lamb fair, which they keep till
three years old.  Yearling rams are generally bought there, and
brought north to improve the stock.  Few horses are reared in
the parish, except to supply the place of such as are worn out.
The number in the parish in 1835 was 314.
   Husbandry.-Within the last twenty years, very great and ra-
pid progress has been made in agricultural improvement.  By
trenching, drainage, &c. many of the tenants have made consider-


