
                         CARMUNNOCK.                         605

the manure used in the parish is brought annually from Glasgow,
at a very great expense. The average size of the farms is 115
acres Scotch.
	Leases.--The general length of leases is nineteen years.
	Farm-Houses.--Some of the farm-houses are very superior, and,
with few exceptions, they are all in good condition, having been
lately either wholly rebuilt, or put into complete repair.

                   V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Means of Communication, &c.--The nearest market-town is
Rutherglen, which is about three miles and a half distant. There
are seven fairs in this town annually, and several of these are fre-
quented by our farmers for the sale and purchase of horses and
cows. The chief market resort, however, for the above purposes,
and the place also where the farm produce of all kinds is mostly
disposed of, is Glasgow. The village of Carmunnock containing
a population of 400 souls, is the only village in the parish quoad
civilia. The village of Busby, formerly alluded to as in part an-
nexed, quoad saera, is distant from Carmunnock about one mile
and a quarter, and has recently been privileged with a penny-post
from Glasgow, which has proved a great convenience to the sur-
rounding district. In the village of Carmunnock, there are 3
grocers, two of whom are also publicans. Besides these, there are
2 other public-houses, 2 wrights, 1 tailor, I smith and farrier, 2
carriers, and about 15 day-labourers. The remaining population
of the village is chiefly composed of hand-loom weavers. In the
country part of the parish, (which is otherwise wholly agricultural,)
there are 1 wright, 1 smith and farrier, and 1 miller.
	There is only one turnpike road within the whole parochial dis-
trict, extending to about three miles and a-half, and without any
public coach. The Glasgow and Muirkirk road, however, passes
along the eastern boundary of the parish, and is travelled by a
coach from Strathaven three times a week. The parish roads are,
generally speaking, in good order.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The church is in the middle of the village,
and very conveniently situated for the parishioners. It was built
in 1767, and underwent considerable repairs last year. It is upon
the whole neat and comfortable, when compared with most country
parish churches of the date of its erection, and my accommodate
from 450 to 500. There is no Dissenting meeting-house in the
parish, and there are very few Dissenters, except in the village of
Carmunnock. These, too, are for the most part persons who, at a


