
300                                 AYRSHIRE.

soon after it has been laid down in grass, and again to lime it a
year or two before it is to be ploughed up. The reason why this
system of cropping, which has long since been given up in the
more improved districts of the country, is persevered in here, is, that
the cultivation of green crops is thought to hurt the pasture, on
which the farmer places his chief dependence. It is customary
here to plough with three horses. In defence of this practice, it is
alleged that as much additional work is done by using three instead
of two, as fully to cover the extra expense. This is very doubtful.
	The dairy has long been the chief object of attention in Dun-
lop. Dunlop cheese has justly obtained a very high character.
The cheese made here, as well as in other parts of the country,
was made of skimmed milk, till about the end of the seventeenth
century, when one Barbara Gilmour,* introduced the practice of
using the whole milk. This practice for a time was confined to
this parish and its immediate neighbourhood, but it has gradually
extended to almost every part of the west and south of Scotland.
All the cheese made in these districts, with unskimmed milk, still
goes under the general name of Dunlop, that being the name by
which cheese of this quality was originally known. It is not now
pretended that what is made here is superior to that of other places,
but it is nowhere excelled. The average quantity made during
the season from each cow's milk is about 27 stones of 14 lbs.
avoirdupois, or 24,570 stones from the whole parish. In some
small dairies, each cow has been known to produce on an average
42 stones. A good many calves are reared every year, a part of
which are kept to uphold the original stock, and the rest sold when
two or three years old. Pigs are now also a source of some profit
to the farmer, being kept in considerable numbers to consume the
refuse of the dairy.
	For a long time, draining, though much needed, was very little
attended to, but of late it has been carried on with much spirit.
The importance of this improvement is now fully understood, and
where adequate encouragement is given by the landlord, lea is sel-

 <FOOTNOTE>It is mentioned in the last Statistical Account, that she had learned this mode of
making cheese in Ireland, where she had gone during the troubles of Charles II.'s
reign. There seems to be no reason to deny her claim to the honour of having in-
trouced this improved manufacture, but it is at least very doubtful whether she im-
ported the improvement from Ireland. Ireland has never been noted as a cheese pro-
ducing country, and the little that is now made there, is barely eatable. Mr Brisbane
mentioned to the writer of this Account, that his only reason for supposing that
thin mode of making cheese had been learned in Ireland, was, that Barbara Gilmour
had introduced it soon after her return from that country.
				1


