
     Statistical Account

dinary concern about religion.  Towards the end of January 1742, two
persons, Ingram More, a shoemaker, and Robert Bowman, a weaver,
went through the parish, and got about 90 heads of families to subscribe
a petition, which was presented to the minister, desiring that he would
give them a weekly lecture.  This petition the minister readily
granted, and Thursday was fixed upon as the most convenient day of the
week for that purpose.  On the two first Thursdays after the lecture was
over, some persons came to the minister's house, much concerned about
their spiritual interest; but the number was not great.  On Monday
15th February, and the two following days, all the fellowship meetings
in the parish convened in one body in the minister's house, and were em-
ployed for many hours in servent prayer for the success of the gospel, and
for an outpouning of the Holy Spirit in their bounds, as in other places
abroad:  The next day, being Thursday, 18th February, nothing remark-
able happened during the lecture, except that the heaters were apparently
all attention: but when the minister in his last prayer expressed himself
thus: "Lord who hath believed our report; and to whom is the arm of
"the Lord revealed? where are the fruits of my poor labours among this
"people?" several persons in the congregation cried out publicly, and
about 50 men and women came to the minister's house, expressing
strong convictions of sin, and alarming fears of punishment.  After this
period, so many people from the neighbourhood resorted to Cambuslang,
that the minister thought himself obliged to provide them with daily
sermons or exhortations, and actually did so for 7 or 8 months.  The
way in which the converts were affected, for it seems they were all at-
fected much in the same way, though in very different degrees, is thus
described.  They were seized all at once, commonly by something
said in the sermons or prayers, with the most dreadful apprehensions con-
cerning the state of their souls, insomuch that many of them could not
abstain from crying out, in the most public and frightful manner, "be
"wailing their lost and undone condition by nature; calling themselves
"enemies to God, and despisers of precious Christ; declaring that they
"were unworthy to live on the face of the earth; that they saw the
"mouth of hell open to recieve them, and that they heard the shieks of
"the damned;" but the universal cry was, "what shall we do to be
"saved?"  The agony under which they laboured, was expressed not
only by words, but also by violent agitations of body; by clapping their
hands and beating their breasts; by shaking and trembling; by paintings
and convulsions; and sometimes by excessive bleeding at the nose.
While they were in this distress, the minister often called out to them,
not to stisle or smother their convictions, but to encourage them; and,
       

