
4                      EDINBURGHSHIRE.

Transactions of the Society of Antiquaries of Scotland. It will
be found to contain an elaborate account of all the places and im-
portant families in the parish.
   Land-Owners.-The principal land-owners of the parish are,
Walter Little Gilmour, Esq. of Liberton and Craig millar; Richard
Trotter, Esq. of Mortonhall and Charterhall; Andrew Wauchope,
Esq. of Niddry-Marshal; Sir David Baird of Newbyth; David
Anderson, Esq. of Moredun; the Marquis of Abercorn; Sir Wil-
liam Rae of St Catherine's; Miss Innes of Drum; Miss Sivright
of Meggetland; James Johnston, Esq. of Straiton; Sir Robert
Dick of Prestonfield: Lord Melville; Wardlaw Ramsay, Esq. of
Whitehill; Mrs Gilchrist of Sunnyside; John Wauchope, Esq.
of Edmonstone; John Tod, Esq. of Todhills; Robert Bruce, Esq.
of Kennet; and William Tullis, Esq. of Mount Vernon.
   Parochial Registers.-The parochial registers, which have been
preserved, begin in 1639, and have been pretty regularly kept since.
Those connected with the business of the kirk-session alone
amount to twelve volumes. They were lately rescued from the
dust in which they lay, thoroughly inspected, the torn and decayed
leaves repaired, and the whole handsomely bound, and deposited,
with other valuable parochial documents, in a fire-proof charter-
chest.
   Celebrated Characters.-Amongst the celebrated characters con-
nected with this parish may be mentioned Mr Clement Little of
Upper Liberton, who founded the College Library of Edinburgh,
(Arnot's History, p. 414.) John Trotter, Esq. of Mortonhall,
Merchant in Edinburgh, founder of the present branch of that fa-
mily, born in 1558, seems to have been a distinguished man in his
day. He left in charity, to the town of Edinburgh 4000 merks;
to St Paul's Hospital 2000 merks; and a considerable sum to Tri-
nity Hospital. He also built two chambers in the College of Edin-
burgh, for two bursars of philosophy, and left 700 merks to the
town of Lanark. Sir Symson De Preston of Craigmillar was Pro-
vost of Edinburgh, in 1565, immediately after the Reformation,
and, in his house in town, Queen Mary lodged on the fatal night
she left the army at Caerberry hill, (Keith, p.402, 409-410.)-
Two of the Gilmours of Craigmillar were also distinguished for
their ability as lawyers about the time of the Restoration of Charles,
and one of them, Sir John Gilmour, was made Lord President of
the Court of Session, (Nicolson's Historical Library, p. 369-70.)
Gilbert Wauchope, of Niddry,(a family of at least nearly 500 years



