
                 HOUSTON AND KILLALLAN.                   53

six acres in extent; the stipend 8 chalders of oatmeal and 8
chalders of barley. *
  Education.--There is one parochial school,--the branches
taught are, Latin, English, English grammar, writing, arithmetic,
book-keeping, and geography; schoolmaster's salary L.34,4s.4 1/2d.
Sterling; amount of school fees about L.28; he has the le-
gal accommodation.  He has some additional income as clerk to the
kirk-session. The general, expense of education is very moderate,
--only about 14s. Sterling per annum.  There are four private
schools, in which, excepting Latin and geography, the branches
already stated are taught.  The teachers are paid by those who
employ them. Perhaps the most visible change in the people since
the facilities of education were increased is, that they appear now
to be all politicians.
  Literature.--There is a library in the village of Houston; news-
papers are common.
  Poor and Parochial Funds.--The average number of poor re-
ceiving parochial aid, 28; average sum allotted to each per week
1s. 8 1/2d.  One insane pauper lodged in the asylum at Glasgow,
costs the poors' funds about L.20 Sterling yearly.  There is only
one small asylum in this very populous county of Renfrew,--about
two miles below Greenock. The want of it a much larger one, and
in a more central place of the county, is felt very severely, and
ought to be provided for.
  Annual contributions for the poor, at an average,--at the doors
of Houston church, L.58; from annual proclamation of banns, and
mortcloth money, L.7, 4s.; interest of L.190 of stock in the
bank, at 2 1/2 per cent. L.4, 15s.; annual donations from the he-
ritors and proprietors of public Works for twenty years past, only
L.20; total, L.89, 19s.  But the parochial minister has re-
peatedly represented to the heritors and proprietors of the public

  <FOOTNOTE>The following statement may perhaps be of some interest to patrons and presby.
teries.  The present incumbent, after having been minister in a Chapel of Ease, was
unanimously admitted assistant minister and successor to his father in these united pa-
rishes, in June 1781; he was afterward  admitted minister of Neilston in March 1785;
and after the decease of his  father, he was again admitted minister in the united parishes
here in September 1797.  The Rev. Mr Forrest late minister of Port. Glasgow, presid-
ed at both of these admissions at the Houston. As it is a vice-patronage here, the Mr
Fleming of Barochan challenged Mr Spiers of Elderslle's right respecting the said
second admission at Houston alleging that Mr Spiers had exhausted his right by
the first admission of the present incumbent; but the Court of Session decided unani-
mously in favour of Mr Spiers's right to present, and Mr Fleming acquicased.  Was
this decision founded on the principle, that where there is no actual vacancy there can
be no legal presentation ?


