
     Statistical Account

   Castles and Monastery.-At the east end of Lochow, on a
rocky point, projecting into the lake, are to be seen the fine
ruins of Castle Kilchurn.  The square tower, still of a castellat-
ed form, was built in 1440, by Sir Colin Campbell* Knight
of Rhodes, and ancestor of the Breadalbane family.  Successive
additions were made to Castle Kilchurn, and part of it was
garrisoned by the king's forces, in the year 1745, to secure the
peace and tranquillity of the country.  But now, this great
mass of building is tumbling to the ground; presenting a
monument of the mutability of earthly grandeur, and of the
unavoidable decay of the most durable works of human art.
   On a small island, not far from Castle Kilchurn, called
Fraoch-Elan ^, there are the ruins of a castle.  In the year

<FOOTNOTE>

with detached masses of rock, bounding with velocity, and flew towards his
slender and ill constructed habitation.  His wife had just gone out, and he
heard her cries.  A child stood at his knee, and another was asleep in a bed
beside him.  He sprung instantaneously to the door, with a child, as he thought,
in each hand.  Scarce had he crossed the threshold, when an enormous stone
patted through his house, in the very place where he and his children were a
moment before.  He missed a child, and no longer heard the voice of his wife.
He looked to the ruins of his hut; found his child alive and unhurt, in a corner
where it had been thrust by the fragments of the bed and furniture, displaced
by the rock in its course.  In a little, the mother came to the scene.  Their joy
and gratitude were complete.
   *Sir Colin was the second son of Argyll.  His father gave him Glenorchay,
with other valuable appendages for his patrimony.  He was a man of high re-
nown for his military prowess, and for the virtues of social and domestic life.
He was "a stream of many tides against the foes of his people; but, like the
"gale that moves the heath, to those who fought his aid." His first lady was a
daughter of the Earl of Angus.  Her marriage dower was 600 merks, little more
than 30 L. Sterling.  As her father was dead, two noblemen, relations of the
Angus family, granted a conjunct bond for the payment of the tocher.  Sir Colin
afterwards married one of the co-heiresses of Stewart, Lord Lorn, by which he
acquired a great accession to his fortune.
^Fraoch-Elan was the Hesperides of this country.  "The fair Mego longed for
"the delicious fruit of the isle, guarded by a dreadful serpent; Fraoch, who had


