
     Of Cromarty.

families who conduct themselves, through life, in an honest
and industrious manner, and possess a degree of civility and
discretion, not always to be met with among people of their
station.  A regard to religion, and the duties of public wor-
ship, form a leading part of the character of all ranks in this
parish, and among many, the duties of morality are happily
conjoined to give consistency and beauty to their religious pro-
fession*.

   Rent, Proprietors, etc.-The valued rent of the parish is
2579 L. 17 s. 2 d. Scots.  The gross rent in victual and money
will be little short of 1600 L.  It is here worthy of notice,
that there has been no rise of rent, in this parish, except about
the town, for a long course of years; and the tenants have
an advantage, not now very general, by having a third part
of their rent converted at 10 s. the boll; the consequence of
which is, that those of them who are sober, keep decent fa-
milies, and live comfortably.  The lands about the town are
let at 2 L. the acre, and are all enclosed.  Scarcely any of the
country farms are enclosed; they are let, at an average, from
12 s. to 15 s. the acre.  In the year 1763, the property of

<FOOTNOTE>

*The principal exception to this latter observation, is a habit of drunken-
ness which has long been prevalent among the lower classes in this place.  The
late proprietor, saw the sad consequences, with which the intemperate use of
spiruous liquors was daily attended in the above class of people, and to check
the evil, as far as in him lay, did erect a very extensive brewery in the place
to furnish the inhabitants, at an easy rate, with a wholesomer and less noxious
liquor; but the cheapness of spirits has totally abolished the use of beer a-
mong the lower ranks; scarce a gallon of the latter is drunk among them in
the week, while too many have run into the excessive and pernicious use of the
former.  It is to be hoped, however, that the late wife commutation, which
transfers the tax from coals to spiritous liquors, will supersede the necessity in
the people, of having recourse so much to what heated them internally, by af-
fording them more easy access to comfortable heat of an external nature.


