
                  KILDONAN.                                    135

peaks of the Morven Hills, not far distant from the boundary in
that direction.  The north boundary of the parish of Loth, run-
ning from the top of theridge terminating in the Ord of Caithness,
to'the westward, and alon Ig the elevated  Isummits of Beh-vallich,
and the high range of hills to Craigaboddich, intervenes between
Kildonan as its southern line of march., and the'German Ocean, to
which the nearest point of the parish is distant about two miles. On
the west, the -line of. mountain tops from Craigaboddich, along thw
centre of the high table-land at the head of Skinsdale, to the great
mountain Ben-Ormin, and thence to Cromolt, near the head of
Strathnaver, separate Xildonan from the parishes of Clyne and
Farr; and on the north, an irregular march crossing the great,
Ballach between the valleys    of Strathnaver and Kildonan, and
thence going over the top of Ben Griam-beg, and the highest part
of Knoekfin, to the county of Caithness, divides the -parish,from
part of Farr, and the southern part of the parish of Reay.  The
extreme length of the parish, either from Cromolt or the,Halloch
near Ben Griam,;to the top of the Ord of Caithness, ig'fully 24
miles, in a direct line.  The breadth varies considerably, bein
.91
towards the south end of the parish from 5 to IO miles, and to-
wards the north end from 12 to 17 miles, in straight lines. . Th6
northern. division of the parish is all elevated ground, and exposed
to the unbroken sweep of every blast and storm that rage amidst
the highest mountains of Sutherland and Caithness.  The general
asp ect of this part of the parish is characterized by several high,
and massy mountains, some elevated table-land, of considerable ex-
tent, thickly covered with heather and alpine plants      and sevemi
lakes, of which four are of a large size; but their shoregAnd tho
country immediately surrounding. them being in. general tame,
the expanse of their waters cannot be said to afford those enchant.
ing and remarkable views for which other lakes in the Highlandq
encircled by a wild variety of precipitous crAg's. towering pinnacles,
and verdant glades, are so justly celebrated.  The southern pat
of the parish may be said to consist of two parallel' ranges of
mountains, between which lies the very beautiful valley oflielms
dale or Kildonan.  This valley, which extends duvaghout the
whole length of the;parish, varies in breadth from one and-a-hatf
to three miles, between the bases of the steep: sides of :the strath.
The river Helmsdale, a large and very handsome stream, Which
tnay be classed amonk the second rate, rivers of Scodwid, occupiett
the centre of the valley, and rolls;, down, -with  imany: gradiw


