
                           MERTON.                               29

parish. But the price of this, 1s. 2d. per single cart, and the ex-
pense of driving the quantity requisite, preclude the farmers in a
great measure from using it. Would the proprietor, Hugh Scott,
Esq. of Harden, charge no more than the mere expense of taking
it out of the pit, both he and his tenants would find their advan-
tage in it, especially if the latter were obliged to lay it upon the
grass sward, and submit it to the action of frost; for, being of an
adhesive quality till it is pulverized by frost, it can have little or
no effect upon the soil. Besides, this could be done at less ex-
pense than spreading it in its natural state upon fallow, and the
beneficial effects either as to grass or corn would be sooner felt.
This marl was carefully analyzed by the late Dr Kennedy of Edin-
burgh, and found to contain about 73 per cent. of carbonate of lime.
   Though spouts or springs are not frequent, yet surface water is
not drained off so completely as it ought to be. Except at the com-
mencement of a lease, the ditches are seldom scoured or kept clean,
and, of course, the surface-water cannot be drained off. Were a
person accustomed to the use of the spade mutually employed by
landlord and tenant, this evil might be easily remedied; and, what
would be no inconsiderable advantage, if this person could cut and
clean hedges, the fences would be kept in better order.
   It would be uncandid not to acknowledge that the landlords have
been extremely liberal in giving their tenants good houses, and every
accommodation necessary in point of offices and curtains or courts
for their different kinds of stock. Much also has been done in the
improvement of roads, so that, with few exceptions, there is now
easy access from every part of the parish to the neighbouring turn-
pikes; and last, though not least, a mill upon a large scale has
been erected. The machinery is of the most approved kind, and
fitted to manufacture every kind of grain, and has at all times
an abundant supply of water. A tenant of skill and enterprise
might carry on an extensive and lucrative business.
   A great improvement has taken place since the introduction of
bone dust, as by this excellent turnips are raised, and the farmer is
enabled to give a greater quantity of dung for the production of wheat.
   Breeds of Live-Stock.-The greatest attention is paid to the
rearing of stock. The cattle, with few exceptions, are of the
short-horned breed, and these are kept up or improved by buy-
ing annually at high prices from the best breeders in the south,
bulls and cows of that kind. The sheep are of the best Lei-
cester kind. Some years ago, Hugh Scott, Esq. of Harden, pur-


