
     Statistical Account

of the farmers, who have made the trial, find, that when
given in small quantities to their young cattle, in Febru-
ary and March, they have a fine effec in sharpening 
their appetite for the dry straw, and preparing them for
being put out to grass in the spring.  The valued rent of 
the parish is L. 10, 202 Scots*.

   Population, etc.-According to Dr Webster's report,
the population then was 1293.  At present, the number
of souls is 1041.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Price of Labour etc.-Men servants hired for the purpose of hus-
bands; generally have from L 5 to L. 8 of wages, and their victuals,
besides what they call bounties, which commonly consist of as much
ground as will sow two or three lippies of flax seed, or as as many pecks of
potatoes; articles these which usually turn out greatly to their account; as
after work hours, they are very industrious in weeding and keeping the
ground clean.  The farmers are in use of paying to their women-servants,
hired by the year, only L. 2, 10 s. but with their perquisites, or boun-
ties, they make about L. 3, which are the common wages given them in
the families of gentlemen residing in the parish.  The demand for yarn
from Elie, Kirkcaldy, Dundee, and other manufacturing places, is so
great, that the women here who earn their bread by spinning upon the
two-handed wheel, can, it is said, with great ease, make from 5 d. to
7 d. a day.  The price of labour of all kinds is increased about 1/3 with-
in these few years.  A shilling is now the common wage of a day-labour-
er, during the spring, and summer-months.  In the time of harvest, they
pay to the man-reaper the same wages as above, and give him his victuals
besides.  A woman-reaper gets 9 d. or 10 d. and her victuals.  A few
years ago, Sir Robert Anstruther, who had a large farm in the parish in
his own possession, cut down almost all his oats and barley with the scythe;
but his example has not as yet been much followed by the farms in ge-
neral, though many of them employ the common scythe with great suc-
cess in cutting down those fields of barley or oats, which have been in-
tentionally sown thin, to let the clover and rye-grass come up thick.
 

