
26                     CLACKMANNANSHIRE.

There are yet traces of a day level running in a north and south
direction near the Carsebridge distillery.
   The application of the steam-engine for the drainage of mines-
being comparatively of a recent date, viz. about the year 1715,
previous to this date, wben day-levels could not be obtained, horse
machinery, with chains and buckets, were applied to a depth not
exceeding 15 fathoms. This machine was known in Scotland by
the name of the Cogg and Run Machine, that is, a wheel with
teeth working into a trundle or lanthorn pinion, such as was used
in the old corn-mills. Such machines being very soon overpowered
with water, the next resource was hydraulic machinery, for which
large collections of water were made in the coal districts of Scot-
land. Pumps with valves were then unknown in Scotland, and
the hydraulic machine, as then applied in this parish, was a water-
wheel, with the axle across the pit-mouth; over this were several
tires of endless pudding-link iron chains, and when the water was
scarce, then comparatively few buckets were attached to the chains.
In this manner, water was raised at a pit in the Carsebridge col-
liery, which was 40 fathoms deep to the 9- feet coal, and the
drainage was carried on effectually for about fifty years.
   For ensuring a supply of water for this water-engine, Gartmorn
dam was formed. It is situated upon the east side of the parish,
and its surface, when full, measures above 160 acres.
   It is particularly to be noticed, in a statistical point of view, that,
about the year 1700, John, Earl of Mar, who was so remarkable
for the improvement of the arts and sciences in Scotland, and who
wished to have the best advice as to the forming of Gartmorn dam,
the sinking of the before-mentioned engine pit of 40 fathoms
deep, and the application of the machinery, could then find no
person of sufficient skill in Scotland to make a survey and report
thereon. His Lordship, therefore, that he might have the most
eminent person of that day, brought Mr Sorocold, a mining en-
gineer, from Wales, at a great expense.  He tried the levels for
bringing in a supply of water from the river Black Devon, in the
Parish of Clackmannan, to Gartmorn dam, and the acqueduct was
executed according to his directions. The levels were not taken
by a spirit level, as is the present practice, but by a large wooden
quadrant, set upon a tripod with brass lights, along the upper
radius, the index being a plummet suspended by a fine thread.
This instrument was of no use in a strong wind, but when the wind
was moderate, the undue oscillation of the plummet was brought


