
                	BEITH.                               575

pure iron. The average of the whole specimens collected, amount-
ing to upwards of twenty in number, as a analysed by Dr Fyfe of
Edinburgh, was found to yield nearly 29 per cent. of iron, being
somewhat more than is, afforded by the analysis of the South
Wales ironstone, as reported in the Transactions of the Natural
History Society of Newcastle-upon-Tyne.
	Freestone is also found in the parish, and a freestone pavement
quarry is wrought in the lands of Willowyard, near the line of the
Glasgow and Ayr Railway.
	The trap rocks, comprehending whinstone and basaltic dikes,
which in some places rise above the surface, afford excellent ma-
terials for keeping the public roads in repair. There are several
dikes of basalt which run across the whole strata, in the line of
dip, being from south-east to north-west. *
	Climate, &c.--The prevailing winds are from the south-west
and north-east, which bring heavy rains. The people are on the
whole as healthy as in any other parish in the district. In the
mortality bills between 1825 and 1833, there were several persons
in each year, except in 1830, who died between 85 and 90. In
the same period, there were 7 between 90 dnd 95, and 7 above 95.
	This place was twice visited by the cholera. In 1831, when the
disease made its appearance at Sunderland and was making pro-
gress to the north, a board of health was instituted here, and all
sanatory means adopted which skill and prudence, could suggest.
In the sum mer of 1832, four fatal eases occurred, and it was, with
difficulty, people could be persuaded to attend the funerals. This
visitation passed over thus slightly, but in 1834 iti was most, severe.
The first death occurred on 5th September, and until 20th Oc-
tober the disease raged with fearful sway. Ther were 208 cases,
and 105 deaths, some of which were awfully sudden. The minds
of the people became more composed than on the previos occa-
sion, and 1he funerals were conducted with the usual decorum.
Liberal subscriptions in aid of the sufferers were, made, and much
sympathy evinced towards those who were so unexpectedly bereav-
ed of their parents and relatives.
	Botany.--This parish is rich in its vegetable productions as well
as in its mineral, and cannot fail to be interesting to the botanist.
A great variety of plants are to be found within a small compass.

<FOOTNOTE>This department has been furneished by James Adam, Esq. W. S., and that on
Botany, by Alexander Spiers, Esq. Surgeon in Beith.


