
846                             PERTHSHIRE.

  Alexander de Abernethy, the great-grandson of him who co-
operated with William the Lion, in granting the church of Aber-
vethy to the Abbey of Arbroath, swore fealty to Edward I. in
1292 :a nd, adhering to the English interest, was appointed war-
den of the counties between tile Forth and Grampians in 1310,
by Edward II.  His lands seem to have been forfeited, after the
battle of Bannockburn, by King Robert Bruce, and they were
probably saved by the marriage of his three daughters, who car-
ried them to hurbands better affected towards the Scottish Crown.
With Margaret, the eldest daughter, John Stewart, Earl of Angus,
inherited the lordship of Abernethy.   Margaret Stewart, their
grandaughter, married William, Earl of Douglas.  Their son,
George Douglas, on the resignation of his mother in 1389, be-
came Earl of Angus; and Lord Douglas, as the representative
of the Earl of Angus and Duke of Douglas, is still superior of
the town of Abernethy and many neighbouring estates. + In the
early history of Scotland the Douglases were a most powerful
family.  Their historiographer has observed that, " so many and
so good as the Douglases have been, of one sirname, were ne'er
in Scotland seen." Pennant states, that " they went about with
2000 men with them, and had their councillors and established
ranks, and constituted a Parliament, and might have provided a
House of Peers out of their own family."
   The family, during their early and more intimate connection
with the parish, seem to have had a castle or place of residence,
which, tradition says, was near to the House of Carpow.  In this
parish also, it appears, was a place of sepulture, in which the ashes
of some of the family repose, and which is supposed to have been
within an aisle of the old church, taken down in 1802.  At Aber-
nethy, says Monipenny, in his Scottish Chronicle in 0612, the
Earls of Angus have their sepulture.  Earl George, the second
of the name, a loyal and good man, the head of the aristocracy,
And chief of his family, after the forfeiture of the older branch,
and who was probably the founder of the provostry, was buried
here in 1462; as was also Alexander, his great-grandson in 1556,
who led the van of the Scottish army in the unfortunate battle of
Pinky.  George's son, the Great Earl, as he is called, or Archi-


<FOOTNOTE>Hale's Annals, Vol. i p. 389, edition, Edinburgb, 1819.  M'Pherson's Geo-
graphical Illustrations.
   Doug. Peerage, Vol. II p. 466.  Robertson's Index, page 15.  Statistical
Account, Vol. xi. page 445-448.


