
562                        FIFESHIRE.

greenstone. This rock has obviously burst through the stratified
deposits, and towards it, as a central nucleus, they all incline.
  Botany.-I have been favoured by a proprietor in the neigh-
bourhood* with a very complete view of the botany of the parish
of Cults. A brief account of the more notable plants, which
have been observed by him, is all that can be here given.
  The Chara vulgaris grows in one of the rills on the farm of
Priestfield; the Agrostis alba, var.stolonifera, abounds on the lime-
hills,-as also the Briza media and Avena flavescens; and the Aira
aquatica in Pitrachnie den. The Scabiosa arvensis, the smooth va-
riety, a plant which, Sir James Smith says, has not yet been found in
England, grows in Cults. The Galium cinereum grows close to
the mill-dam opposite the Priory garden. The Potamogeton pu-
sillum, which does not seem to be found near Edinburgh, grows
abundantly in the old bed of the Eden near Pitlessie Bridge.
The white-flowered Campanula rotundifolia has been found in
several places. The Viola lutea is common on the hills. The
Solanum dulcamara, supposed by Hooker to be rare in Scotland,
grows in many places on the banks of the Eden; while Cicuta
virosa, the most virulent of our poisons, has been found near Cult
mill. The Triglochin palustre grows on the lime-hills, and the
white-flowering Epilobium montanum in the woods near Crawfurd
Priory. The Sedum Telephium grows freely on the banks of the
Eden, and the S. villosum is not uncommon in marshy places on
the hills. The Cerastium aguaticum grows near Pitlessie mill.
The Agrimonia Eupatoria, a plant much used in making British
teas, is found in Pitrachnie den; and the Prunus spinosa grows
in considerable quantities among the rocks. As might be expect-
ed, there is a great variety of the genus Rosa: R, spinosissima and
tomentosa are very common; R. scabriuscula abounds on the whole
range of hills on the south of Stratheden; the R. rubiginosa is
not uncommon; the R. arvensis is frequently to be met with, as
also the R. canina, now so much recommended for rose stocks.
The Geum rivale and the Comarum palustre are to be found in
the rills marshes. The Papaver Rheas, so common on the
coast, but rare in the interior of Fife, grows near Cult mill; and
the Nuphar lutea near Pitlessie Bridge. Ranunculuse scelaratus,
and R. hirsutus, var. B, are found on the banks of the river Eden,
while a beautiful variety of the R. acris with a single flower abounds

               James Heriot, Esq. of Ramornie.


