
                 WANDELL AND LAMMINGTOUNE.                     817

out, and is yet in tolerable preservation.  Part of the register of
baptisms, however, is confused and, ill-written, particularly between
1813 and 1821.  In all these registers, the birth is seldom. en-
tered, merely the baptism ; and few marriages or deaths are
recorded.  A new register and session book was purchased soon
after my induction, in which all births, marriages, deaths, and
burials, in the united parish, are carefully entered.
   Antiquities.-In this respect the parish of Wandell and Lam-
mingtoune is by no means uninteresting.  In camps especially, it
is most abundant.  Three of these, quite adjoining one another,
are very distinctly marked out on Whitehill, in the north-east ex-
tremity of lammingtoune, all of very considerable dimensions, the
largest being 70 yards in length, by 40 in breadth, with a ditch
5 yards in width.  These are supposed to have been of Roman
construction.  On the top of Starthope bill in Wandell, and near-
ly opposite to the mansion-house of Hardington or Bagbie in Ro-
bertoun, there is a ring of earth and stones about 20 yards in dia-
meter, supposed from its form to be the remains of a British camp.
Another of these military stations is to be met with at Hartside, in
the form of an oblong 30 yards by 20, having a rampart on all sides.
On the south, and west, and north, it is protected by a rather steep
brink, and on the east by a deep ditch.  This, from its square-like
form, has been supposed to have been of Roman construction.  A
circular camp is next to be found on Devonshaw or Woodend hill,
about the centre of Wandell, and opposite the village of Robertoun.
This is said to contain more than three-fourths of a Scots acre of
land, and has a rampart and ditch.  It is stipposed, like other circular
ones, to have been of British origin.  These camps are too nume-
rous, however, to admit of being minutely described in a brief no-
tice like this.  There is one on Braebead, another pretty entire
near the farm-house of Cauldchapel, said to be 60 yards in diame-
ter, and a second on the south of the same dwelling-house,  All
these three are circular.   Close to Cauldchapel, also, there is
a moat or tumulus about 20 yards in diameter, and about 5 feet in
height; and there was formerly a smaller one near to it; which,
however, was demolished, when several-human bones were cast out.
But the most interesting and remarkable curiosity of the kind, per-
haps, in the whole parish, is that, on Arbory hill, which rises about
500 feet in a sort of conical form, above the level of the Clyde,
the upper and most southerly point of Wandell.  This hill has
been fortified on the top; and on ascending to it, the traveller first


