
     Statistical Account

for the last time in 1607, the inhabitants seem to have never
been perfectly free from alarms concerning it*.

   Population.-As to the state of the population of the town
and parish, in remote times, it is impossible to give any accounts;
nor can those which we may attempt to give, even for the last
century, be deemed fully satisfactory.  The greatest part of the
ancient records and documents, is said to have been carried off or
destroyed, at the various sieges of the town, and especially when
it was stormed by Monk; and though some council minutes
remain, as far back at 1587; and a record of persons inrolled
as burghers, beginning in 1513, they afford very little assis-
tance in this investigation.  The register of baptisms and
marriages, reaches no farther back than 1645, and contains
no more than five complete years before the fatal assault in
1651.  As, however, we have of late years, three actual enu-
merations of the inhabitants, one in 1766, when their num-
ber was found to be 12,426; one in 1781, when it turned
out 15,700; and one in 1788, when it was 19,329, we are
enabled, from a comparison of the marriages near there pe-
riods, with the marriages about 1651, to form some probable
conjectures about its former population.  The annual ave-
rage of the marriages for the 5 years, previous to 1651, is 85.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Under the head of antiquities may also he stated the various attacks and
sieges of the town.  It was twice taken by the English in the days of King Ed-
ward I. and as often retaken by the heroes Wallace and Bruce, and the castle
was demolished by the latter.  It was again taken and reduced to ashes by
Richard II. and a fourth time by the English, who, in the reign of Edward VI.
held Broughty Castle.  The Marquis of Montrose took it by assault, and gave
it up to pillage, which seems to have been prevented by the approach of an ar-
my of the Covenanters; and to cover his retreat from them, the north and east
parts of it were set on fire.  The last and most destructive siege, when it was
again taken by assault, and completely pillaged, was in Cromwell's time by Ge-
neral Monk.


