
               DURNESS.                                          85

for, in some places, it is about 100 feet wide, and as many in
height. Here, also, the noise of the waterfall steals on the ear;
and when the voice is raised, an echo is distinctly beard. Near
the entrance, its stratified rocks have several tufts of ivy mantling
over them, which add to the interest of the scene. The dark
perforation on the right hand of the arch has of late years been
explored; it was believed by several of the natives, upon tradi-
tionary information, to be the abode of fairies, and the spirits of
the dark!
   There are also several extensive caves at Fresgill, at the eastside of
the entrance of Loch Eriboll. Sir Walter Scott visited these in
1814, and they excited his admiration equally with that of Smo.
They are approached only by sea. The grandest of these has a wa-
terfall over its mouth. The deep and unknow nextent of the fissure of
Polaghloup, half a mile west of the church, has been frequently ad-
mired. The immense stocks or detached Gothic-like pillars at Ker-
wic bay near Cape Wrath, and at the Whiten Head, have been
also mticli admired. Several other caves, fissures, and cascades,
in the interior of the country, if found it parishes of less extent,
would be deemed deserving of more detailed description.
   Coast.-That part of the coast which is bounded by the Atlan -
tic and the Northern Ocean is bold and lofty. On both sides of
Cape Wrath, of the Farout Head, and Whilten Head, the rocks. are
magnificent, towerina in most places from 200 to 700 feet of per-
pendicular height. At Kervaic bay, the shore is low and sandn-.
At the bay of Balnakiel, there are several hills of sand, which fre-
quently shift their places and forms, though generally covered with
bent. Along the friths of Keoldale and Eriboll, the shores are
generally precipitous and rtigged, with intervening bays of sand or
shingle.
   Islands.- These are, 1. Garvallan, within 4 miles of Cape Wrath
to the east, and I mile from the shore; it is about 60 feet high,
100 yards long, and about the same breadth; here thousands of

<FOOTNOTE>The following is a short account of this cavern, as eiven bv a voune 2-entlemai),
one of a party who entered it in August 1833. " After providing ourselves with a
Small boat and lights, and raising them over the arch, we found ourselves in a lake
about thirty yards long, and nearly as broad; we now lighted our candies, and ap-
Proached an arch in the rock, under which we could just pass by lying flat on the
boat. This opened to another lake of equal length, but gradually dimishing in
breadth. Having at the upper end left the boat, we walked over the rock about
thirty paces in the same direction. I'he height of the roof is various, from twenty
to sixty feet, and its sides and bases are almost covered with stalactites and stalag-
miles, formed from the dropping roof of the cave, which is entirely composed of lime-
stone. The temperature of a well at the upper end we found to be 48&deg; Fahr."


