
    12                  DUMFRIES-SHIRE

    his accession to the throne, or may be a corruption from Comyn's
    holm, a name which it once bore.
       Toward the south-east end of the parish, is an eminence called
    Trohaughton, which Pennant notices as a Roman station.  A relic
    of antiquity, supposed to be a Roman sandal, was found many years
    ago towards the east end of the parish; and in the river, nearly
    opposite to the town mills, was found a gold coin of about the cir-
    cumference of a sixpence, and the thickness of a half crown, bear-
    ing the inscription " Augustus" round the impression of a Roman
    head.  Several Roman and Scottish coins also have at different
    times been discovered in digging the foundations of houses in the
    town.  It may be mentioned, that there is still to be seen a small
    part of a deep track of road which led through the castle garden
    to the river, where a causeway was formed, by means of which the
    family at the castle could cross over to their seat at Terregles with-
    out passing through the town.  The buildings in Castle Street,
    however. have now almost entirely obliterated it.  a curious relic
    of antiquity was some time ago discovered by Mr Affleck, iron-
    founder, while employed in selecting some pieces of old metal to
    throw into the crucible. It is circular, fully two inches in dia-
    meter, and about the thickness of a penny.  Upon being struck
    with a hammer a crush of verdigris came off, and on one side of it
    was discovered engraved a lion rampant in the midst of a shield
    bordered with fleur des lis, and surrounded, in reversed characters,
    by the legend
                 " JACOBUS DEI GRA. REX SCOTORUM;"
    after which is a figure nearly similar to the letter S, which we
    conclude must have been intended to represent the buckle of the
    belt on which the inscription is engraved.  The seal, for such it
    appe`rs to be, is formed of a compound of copper with some other
    metals, and is, with some plausibility, supposed to have been the
    privy seal of one of the kings of Scotland.  It is evidently of con-
    siderable antiquity, and closely resembles, on the engraved side, a
    silver groat of the date of James the Fifth.  The other side is per-
    fectly smooth, and no traces are discernable of a handle ever hav-
    ing been attached to it.  The seal remains in possession of Mr
    Affleck.
       Modern Buildings, &c.- The county town of Dumfries is beau-
    tifully situated on the left bank of the river Nith, in 55 2 45" north
    latitude, and 3 36' west longitude from Greenwich.  It is nearly


