
184                    HADDINGTONSHIRE.

mation, is now known only by a circular mound, rising a few feet
above the ground, containing the subterraneous vaults which were
connected with the building. The wall running along the public
road is still called the Laird's Dyhe; and a part of, the field, a lit-
tle to the north, the Laird's Garden.
   The two mansion-houses of east and west Adniston, which an-
ciently belonged to different proprietors, have been so completely
demolished, that not a vestige of them is now to be seen. The
old house of west Adniston was situate close by the present farm-
house, and was last occupied by two ladies, one of whom was mar-
ried to the Earl of Winton, the father of the last Earl. It was
taken down about twenty years ago, and the materials used in
building the present farm-offices. The mansion-house upon the
farm of cast Adniston was about a quarter of a mile distant from
the other, and formerly occupied by the proprietor, Mr Adniston.
It was taken down in 1832, to assist in building the present
magnificent set of offices at the farm of Greendykes.
   At Penston, there was an old mansion-house occupied by the
proprietor when he resided in this part of the country, but no re-
mains of ic are now to be seen. It was strongly built, with a very
thick wall, and the apartments had arched roofs, as was common in
ancient times. It stood on the south of the road running through
the village, opposite to the barn which has just been built. The
garden attached to it still remains. Contiguous to the old mansion-,
house, was a pretty large storehouse or granary, which was built
in 1670, as appears from a date on one of the linters of the door,
for the purpose of receiving the rents of the tenantry, which at
that time were paid in kind. Arnold man above eighty remem-
bers, when Dundas of Arniston had the charge of the property,
that the farmers used to carry the corn in sacks, upon horses'
backs from Penston to Arniston, there be in at that time no car-
riage roads across the country.
   Betwixt Penston and Henmuir, are to be seen the ruins of an
old windmill, which was employed to draw up the water from the
coal. When there was wind, it answered the purpose extremely
well; but in Calm weather it could not act,-the water got the bet-
ter of the workmen, and they were thrown idle. This inconveni-
ence is now completely remedied by the use of steam-engines, of
which there are two upon the coal-work.
   At Seatonhill, about two years ago, when the servants were
ploughing in the field contiguous to the farm-house upon the south,


