
126                      ROXBURGHSHIRE.

direction by excellent roads. So sudden, so complete, and so be-
neficial a change in the aspect of a whole parish, has seldom hap-
pened. Landlord and tenant most liberally combined their efforts
to bring it about. But it is painful to think that their exertions
have been so poorly rewarded. Owing to the sad depression of
agricultural produce on the return of peace, the farmers never re-
covered the capital which they had so liberally laid out on their
improvements. Most of them were ruined and turned out of their
farms; some were put on the poor's roll; and others sent to clear
the wastes in Canada. The proprietors, instead of receiving the
advances of rent from the new cultivators which they had reason
to expect, were obliged to be content with a diminished rental, and
are still, from time to time, constrained to submit with the best
grace they can, to reductions in one shape or another, which are
not less mortifying to the receiver than to the giver.
   The chief bar to farther improvement in this district is the great
distance of sea-ports and markets. The farmer has not only
to bring his own and his servants' coals from a distant pit, but his
lime also has to be carried thirty miles or more: his groceries, fish,
timber, iron, slates, bone-dust, and almost everything that he may
want, have to be brought from Berwick or Leith, or places equally
remote. Nor is the sale of his produce attended with much less
trouble and expense. His fat stock, beef, mutton, and pork, have
to be driven to Morpeth or Edinburgh: his young cattle are sent
south to the English market: his corn carried to Dalkeith or Ber-
wick: his poultry, eggs, butter, and cheese, conveyed to Berwick
or Edinburgh. It is true, he may often effect his sales in the
county market-towns, or at his own house: but in that case, he
must submit to a reduction of price, sufficient, at least, to carry his
produce to its ultimate destination. The only remedy for this evil
seems to be an improved communication with the sea-port of Ber-
wick, and the coal and lime districts in Northumberland by means
of a railway. This, accordingly has long been talked of.

   Revised November 1834.


