
56                       KINCARDINESHIRE.

the mansion-house of Benholme, however, which is in a sheltered
situation, and more than a mile from the sea-coast, the woods are
more vigorous and thriving. There is a tradition, that the upper
part of the parish was once a forest of oak,-and large trunks of
that wood are occasionally dug up in the mossy parts of the soil.
There is also a tradition, that the roof of the old parish church,
which was entirely of oak, was the product of this forest.
	It may be mentioned as a curious fact, that the garden of Bro-
tberton, which is within a very few hundred yards of the sea, is
remarkable for its productiveness, and for the fine quality and fla-
vour both of the large and small fruits. This must be accotnted
for, in a great measure, from the height of the garden walls, which
protect the various productions from the direct influence of the
sea breeze.
	The Aspidium aculeatum may be mentioned as a fern, plentiful
in moist dens,-and the Saxifraga granulata, as one of the most
abundant plants in the parish. Geranium sanguineum, Vicia syl-
vatica, and Lithospermum maritimum, are also plentiful.

                      II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
  Land-owners.-The sole land-owners are, James Scott, Esq. of
Brotherton; Mrs R. Scott of Benholme; and James Fitzmaurice
Scott, Esq. of Knox.
  Parochial Registers.-The date of the earliest entry in the parish
cash-book is 30th April 1684; and from that time the parochial
registers have been regularly kept.
  Antiquities.-The only ancient building now remaining in the
parish is the Tower of Benholme. This, at one time, had been a
place of considerable strength. The date of its foundation is un-
known. It is a high and massive square building of sandstone, still
in a state of complete preservation. It seems at one time to have
stood on a peninsula, formed by one of the streams above-mention-
ed on the east and south sides, and by a deep trench or moat on
the west. A passage was formed over this moat by the late pro-
prietor, G. R. Scott, Esq., in opening a new approach to the man-
sion-house.
	Thd church, which was taken down in 1832, was of conside-
rable antiquity. There is no record, nor even tradition, as to
the time when it was founded. It had obviously been, at one
period, used as a place of worship by the Papists, as it was furnish-
ed with a font for holy water, with an incense altar, and with a
niche or small press in the wall, which is conjectured to have been
the receptacle of sacred relics. This conjecture is the more pro-


