
            452                         ARGYLESHIR9.

            and commodious.  The glebe is twenty acres in extent, and may
            .be valued at from L. 12 to L.15 a-year.
               The teinds are exhausted, and amount to 49 bolls of bear,
            15 bolls of meal, and L. 17 Sterling in money.  The Exchequer
            pays L.57, 13s. 5d. to make up a minimum stipend.
               Education-There arb two parochial schools, with a salary of
            L.25, 13s. 4d. each, and two Assembly's schools with a       salary of
            L.25 each.  The Assembly's schools are quite a model of edu-
            cational economy, and have given a tone to all the surrounding
            seminaries.
               Poor and Parochial Funds-The poor are supported partly by
            the collections at the church door, and partly by the voluntary
            contributions of the heritors.  The average allowance for each
            pauper is L. 1, 5s. annually.  The voluntary sums raised last year
            amounted to L.40 Sterling, and the collections at the church door
            to L.46, 6s.  Oid., making in all L.86, 6s.  Oid.  There is no le-
            gal assessment.
               The number of paupers on the permanent roll is 58 ; those re-
            ceiving temporary aid amount to 1 1.
                             MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
               It is a fact worthy of notice, that neither public nor parochial
            school existed in this parish before the year 1821.        The offly
            instruction given was by very young men, who were but imper-
            fectly acquainted with the elementary branches of education.
            This, coupled with the want of the stated ordinances of religion
            on every alternate Sabbath, or during one-half of the year, left
            young and old in a state of great destitution, both religious and
            educational.  The parochial economy, with regard to the young,
            is now in a very promising and satisfactory state ; but, in regard
            to the adults, no permanent advantage can be given them, until
            the parish is disunited.  Much good has been done by means of
            talented and laborious missionaries ; but this can only be regarded
            as a mere temporary arrangement.
               Nothing can be more plain thau that, where there are two Pa-
            fishes, two churches, two congregations, a duplicate of sessionp
            beadles, and precentors, there should also be two ministers. 11
            each of the inferior and- less difficult departments require the ser-
            vices of two men, so Must, afortiori, the more difficult and im-
            portant; and hence the obvious inference, that, where this neces-
            Bary supply is wanted, the work can be overtaken but in part.
               Should the contemplated act now in the hands of Her Majesty 0
                                               3


