
138                        KINCARDINESHIRE.

tentive to religious services, although the want of church accom-
modation is unfortunately producing a visible change on the indi-
vidual attendance on divine worship. On the whole, if the trade
of hand-loom weaving were a little better, the church somewhat
larger, and the public-houses two thirds less in number, and
less frequented, Laurencekirk might present a favourable speci-
men of a thriving Scottish village. The general healthiness of the
situation has already been noticed.
	It may be added, that while there are three or four individuals,
who can scarcely be said to possess soundness of mind, there is
only one insane person connected with the parish; but three others
reside, as boarders in a family who have long had the care of
persons in this unfortunate condition. There are two aged women
quite blind, and two young boys affected with nearly total loss of
sight. There is no deaf and dumb person in the parish.

                         IV.--INDUSTRY.
	In regard to the particulars connected with agriculture, the
following valuable information was supplied by Mr Robertson in
1832.
	"The contents of the parish amount to 5381 imperial acres,
classed as under.

<TABLE>

          1. Arable,                  5000
          2. Waste, or in pasture,     120 (of which 90 are improvable.)
          3. Roads,                     41
          4. Plantations,              220
                                      -----
				     35381

	" The whole of the woods in the parish have been planted.
The plantations consist chiefly of larch, spruce, and Scotch firs,
with a few deciduous trees intermixed. The hedge-rows and de-
tached trees are chiefly ash, elms and beech, with a few oaks,
birch and sycamore. None of the fir plantations are supposed
to exceed sixty ye`rr of age, the greater part not much more than
thirty. Some of the old trees about Johnston Lodge, and the
site of the mansion-house of Haulkerton, those near the manse,
and a few in the hedge-rows and gardens of the different farms,
may perhaps be from eighty to a hundred years old. The fir
plantations are carefully pruned and thinned, and the hedge-rows
and hardwood trees have for some years past, been pruned and
attended to.
	Rent--"The average rent of the arable land is about L. 1, 3s.
per imperial, or I. 1, 8s 6d. per Scots acre. In the vicinity of the
				3


