
     Statistical Account

   The prevailing crop in this parish is oats, which are of an
exceeding good quality, though not of the early kind.  Some
oats have been known to weigh 42 libs.  English, per Winches-
ter bushel, and to yield 21 pecks of meal per boll.  As the
soil of the parish is generally light, the next prevailing crop is
bear, which is of a very fine quality for malt.  Some of the
bear in this parish weighs 50 libs.  English per bushel.  Bar-
ley crops are not so frequent, because, though good in quali-
ty, yet the crop fails a fourth part in quantity when compared
to bear.  Some pease and beans are also sown, but they are
often with difficulty brought safe into the barn-yard.  The
farmers plant considerable quantities of potatoes, which they
manage with the plough in rows, at 3 feet distance.  Few
or no farmers think of less than an acre, producing 40 bolls,
chiefly for their family use; the boll nearly 10 Winchester
bushels.  The turnip husbandry has been very little practised
in this parish, except on Lord Cassill's farm at Cullean Cas-
tle, where it has been very succesful.  Most people think
the soil of the parish, in general, favourable for turnip, and
several farmers have thoughts of trying it.
   The great change that has taken place in the corn milns,
both in respect of the tenure of the milns, and the manner
of performing the work, has much contributed to the encou-
ragement of agriculture in this parish.  Forty years ago, the
landlord obliged the tenant in his tack, to go to his own miln,
with all his grindable corn above his seed, and to pay to the
miller a very heavy multure.  But now many of the gentle-
men of property, leave the tenant free to go to any miln
upon their land, where he can be best served, paying to the
miller nothing more than the mere working of his grain,
which is from 4d. to 5d. per boll of oats grinding into meal
the victual boll exactly eight Winchester bushels.  There
were no barley miles in this country forty years ago.  There


