
308                        STIRLINGSHIRE.

has been reclaimed from the wide domain of waters. Immedi-
ately beneath the surface, there is a bed of clay, from six to eight
feet in thickness, which gradually shades into a soft alluvial de-
posit, of a bluish colour, resembling exactly in smell and appear-
ance the larger quantities of mud which lay along the banks of
the river Forth. Underneath these clay and alluvial beds, at a
depth of twenty feet, there occurs a layer of moss, about two feet
in thickness, in which are found the bark and flora of the birch
and hazel tree, in a high state of preservation. Next in order
are boulders, imbedded in clay or sand, and consisting chiefly of
greenstone, hornblende, porphyries, schist, and quartz, in small
pieces. These are occasionally intermixed with conglomerate and
sandstone. And what renders these boulder beds strikingly re-
markable, is the fact, that they run in straight lines from north-
west to south-east. Wherever the current of the river has crossed
them, and laid them bare, they can be traced for several miles,
running in the above direction. If these stones have been abraded
from their native rocks, in the high country on the north and
west, by a current of water, their linear position will indicate the
direction in which it has flowed. The boulders are succeeded,
after a thin division of sand, by regular strata of sandstone and
shale, which alternate, until, at the depth of twenty fathoms, they
are interrupted by a seam of coal 2 feet 10 inches in thickness.
The quality of this coal is not distinctly ascertained, as it never
has been wrought.

<TABLE=Analysis of the Carse Soil>

                    Analysis of the Carse Soil.
	           Water,     	           10 parts.
               	   Silica,   	           44
	           Alumina,                28
	           Carbonate of lime,	   2 1/2
	           Organic matter,         6
	           Oxide of iron,          1 1/2
        	   Soluble salts,          1
               	   Soluble matter,     	   2
                   Loss,                   5
                                         -----
                                          100
   Passing to the upland district of the parish, the geological fea-
tures are entirely changed. The surface is rough and unequal,
and broken by deep gorges, which beautifully contrast with the
bold and precipitous rocks by which they are overhung. The
rock here, of most frequent occurrence, is trap. It is of great
thickness, and, in the western faces of the craigs, stands in po-
lygonal columnar forms, perfectly perpendicular to the horizon.
These craggy rocks, which are uniformly steep in the western side,


