
          DUNOON AND KILMUN.                           569

The name of the united parish of course dates its application
from the union of both ecclesiastically.
   Boundaries.-Its sea-coast -boundary is the Fritb of Clyde, as
stated ; or, more particularly described, that frith -from Strone
point to Toward point; Loch Long from Strone point to the ex-
tremity of Kilmun parish, near the entrance of Lochgoil; and the
channel dividing Btite from Argyles-hire, from l'oward point to
the extremity of Dunoon parish in its sea-coast line, close to the
stream of A;dyne, to the westward of Castle Toward, Its inland
boundaries touch more or less all the parishes of the district of
Cowal, except Kilfinan,-baving 'Inverchaolain on the west and
northwest, taking the meridian line at Dunoon; touching Kilmodan
to the north-west; and having Stralaclilan and Strachur to the
north-west and north; and the parish of Locbooilhead on the north..
   Figure.-This is very irregular, and not easily defined in ma-
thematical Ianguage, unless it be termed an irregular polygon.
Its sea-coast line runs direct scarcely to the extent of one mile in
any one portion, and its inland boundary is equally irregular.
    Extent.-From the extremity of Kilmun parish, near the en-
trance of Loctigoll, to that of Dunoon parish, near the stream of
Ardyne, the sea-coast line, following its several bendings, and in-
eluding the Holy Loeb, extends, between these two points, to up-
wards of 30 miles. This has not been submitted to regular mea-,
surement. Its inland boundary presents an equal extent fully.
Any estimate of its contents in square miles, considering the ex-
treme irregularity of its figure, and its very unequal surface
throughout, must be a mere approximation to fact. But, having
recourse to the usual methods in such cases, it has been estimated
about 180 square miles,-the breadth varving from 9 miles to 2,
and downwards, toward the two extremities.
    Topographical Appearances.-The general aspect of the ter-
ritory embraced within the boundaries of the united parish, when
viewed from the Fritli of Clyde, or from its opposite coast, pro-
sents a bold and even grand collocation of hill and valley with a
smoother sloping aspect toward the sea coast, along thd greater
part of its e extent. Its wild grouping of bills, scarcely in general
aspiring to belong to the mountain class, as at least compared
with many other portions of 14ighland scenery, may be said more
to possess dignity than grandeur. I Taken in detail, its fea-
tures become more interesting and perhaps singular. These are
found to be formed, taking the. general lineaments, by five separate
or distinct hilly or mountainous ranges. There is, first, that
the north of Glenfinart, running nearly from east to west; next,


