
	                  PAISLEY.				155

ticularly the Pedunculata mytilloides and Nucula attenuata, as at
the mines of Blackhall.
   Greenstone, or, as it is provincially called, whinstone, occurs in
beds forming part of the coal measures at High Craig, Craigen-
feoch, Elderslie, and near Seedhill mills, Paisley.  This occur-
rence, by no means common, is also to be found in Kilbarchan
and Lochwinnoch.  In some instances, as at Hallhill, the green-
stone is conformable to the stratified rocks of the coal measures,
but in other instances it overlies these rocks in an unconfor-
mable position, as at High Craig and Craigenfeoch.  This rock is
most frequently of a bluish-grey colour, fine grained, and breaks
with a fracture more or, less splinty and conchoidal.  At Ladykirk,
near Seedhills, the rock lies only a few feet below the surface,
and has been wrought for many years to the depth of perhaps 30
or 40 feet.  In this locality, the rock is traversed by numerous
veins of calcareous matter, in which small cavities are frequently
found, lined with crystals of silex, carbonate of lime, and mam-
millary concretions of that mineral.  Not unfrequently, there are to
be found druses lined with crystals of carbonate of lime, and
containing a bituminous substance of a colour and consistency
closely resembling that of soft soap.  In the recent state it is so
transparent as to admit of subjacent objects being distinctly seen
through it; but after exposure to the air, it by and bye assumes
a firmer and more wax-like consistence, but retains its transparency,
Its lustre is resinous; its feel soft and greasy; its smell strongly
bituminous, and somewhat resembling oil of amber.  Its specific
gravity is about 0.910.  When heated, it melts, boils, and diffuses
a whitish fragrant vapour.  It is not remarkably inflammable, but
when kindled burns with a light  resembling that of a common
candle.  It readily dissolves in spirit of turpentine.  In naphtha
from coal tar it becomes fluid, and remains like a drop of olive oil
at the bottom of the vessel io which the experiment is made.  In
sulphuric ether, alcohol, ammonia, caustic, potash, the fixed oils,
and the sulphuric, nitric, and muriatic acids, it remains unaltered.
It differs in colour, consistence and inflammability, from the mi-
neral oil of Professor Jameson, though it is certainly a variety of
that substance.  It is held in high estimation by the quarriers, as
a healing salve; and when procured is carefully stored up, and
applied as specific for cuts and bruises.
   At the farm of Arkleston, a basaltic rock of a rather curious
tufaceous character occurs, rising from 20 to 30 feet above the


