
508                    EDINBURGHSHIRE.

struction, and exhibit a favourable specimen of the comfort and
elegance of modern architecture.
   Dalkeith has been a market-town from time immemorial.
Previously to 1581 the market was held on the Sundays, but it
was then, by Act of Parliament,* changed, and ordained to be held
on the Thursdays in all time coming. It is a stock market, and
the greatest market for oats in the kingdom. Carts laden with
grain from the counties of Mid-Lothian, East-Lothian, Berwick,
Roxburgh, Selkirk, and Peebles, arrive here on the morning of
the market day, or in the course of the forenoon, and are densely
ranged along the sides of the High Street, frequently throughout
its whole extent, to the amount of many hundreds.+ The general
grain market is announced at twelve o'clock, and the wheat mar-
ket at half-past twelve, by the ringing of the church bell. Busi-
ness to a vast amount is transacted in an incredibly short space of
time, and all for ready money. So admirably, indeed, is the whole
conducted, that the delivery of grain and the return of money
are over in not more than two hours, with scarcely one instance
of failure or non-payment on record. During the whole day the
town presents the most animated appearance; the shops are full;
every person is eager and busy; and the carts return home fur-
nished with supplies for a large extent of country. Grain that
remains unsold is not carried back, but lodged in ample granaries
till next market day. A market is also held on Mondays for
meal, flour, and pot-barley, in which business is done to a great
extent; and there is also a cattle market on the Tuesdays at cer-
tain seasons of the year. The amount of stock brought to Dal-
keith market for the year ending July 31, 1844 is as follows:

<TABLE>

		Quarters.                                            Bags.
Wheat,       .    18,155           Oatmeal,     .        .           6,828
Oats,   .      .  43,094           Barley meal,     .                1,014
Barley,    .  .   17,895 1/2       Pease meal,  .        .              65
Pease and beans, . 2,404 1/2       Flour,     .        .                75
                  _________        Pot barley,                         281
      Total,      81,549                                             _____
                                                         Total,      8,263
                                   Bags of 280 lbs. Imperial.

   The progressive increase of bank agencies in Dalkeith may be
regarded as a correct exponent of the increase of its business. A
branch of the Leith Bank was established here in 1808, before
which time there was no stationary bank agency in Dalkeith. It

<FOOTNOTE>Acts of Scott. Parl. Vol. iii. p 288. This act was repeated and ratified in 1587.
     The number of carts on full market days at this season (November) may be es-
timated as ranging from 800 to 1000.


