
                                 BANFF.                           33


   as portraits of celebrated characters, and examples of the costume
   of various ages and countries.  Among the more excellent of the
   former class may be enumerated a portrait, in perfect preserva-
   tion, of the Constable de Bourbon, by Titian.  This has been al-
   lowed by the best judges, both in this country and on the conti-
   nent, to be one of the very finest specimens of the great Venetian
   colourist.  A head of Charles 1. by Vandyke, esteemed a most
   characteristic specimen of that master; a portrait, three-quarters
   length, of Lord Strafford, and a full-length of Lady Herbert, both
   by Vandyke, and regarded as very fine; a full-length portrait of
   the present Earl of Fife by Raeburn ; an original portrait of Mo-
   liere; various portraits, chiefly of females, by Sir Peter Lely ; por-
   trait of Sir Godfrey Kneller by himself; portrait of Henderson,
   the Scottish preacher, by Jameson ; portrait of Mrs Abingdon
   by Sir Joshua Reynolds, esteemed a beautiful specimen of that
   master; landscape by Ruysdael; a flower-piece, beautifully Co-
   loured, and esteemed a first rate specimen of art; a candle-light
   scene, by Schalcken; cattle-piece, by Cuyp; dog and monkey,
   with still life, by Snyders ; a large landscape by Wynants ; a land-
   scape by Wouvermans: an infant Christ by Murillo; Virgin and
   child by Corregio; philosopher and skull by Quintin Matsys, the
   blacksmith of Antwerp; sea-piece by Backhuysen ; shepherd with
   his flock by Rosa da Tivoli; landscape by Domenichino; head
   of Charles I. by Velasquez; two specimens of the rare Spanish
   painter Cano; a painting by Luca Giordani ; Ostade's mother by
   himself, and several other excellent specimens of the Flemish and
   Dutch school, &c.  Among those of the second class may be no-
   ticed; portraits of most of the English kings, from Henry V. to
   George II., including a full-length of Henry VIII. by Hol-
   bein, formerly in the possession of Sir Joshua Reynolds; portraits
   of Cromwell, Marlborough, Marshal Villars, Prince Eugene,
   Charles XIL., Peter the Great, John Duke of Argyle, small head
   of Ludovico Caracci, &C.  Respectable strangers are readily admit-
   ted, at all times, to view this collection.
     Two years ago, a very handsome though small chapel was erect-
   ed for the Episcopal congregation.  It is in the Gothic style.
   The west front, of dressed freestone, is flanked by two carved
   minarets, and otherwise chastely but tastefully ornamented.  The
   inside is finished in an appropriate manner, and has a very pleas-
   ing effect. The chapel possesses a good organ.
     The parish church stands at the south side of the town, on a
     BANFF.                          C


