
578                       AttOYLESHIRE.

teresting and extensive, ranging from Helensburgh in Dumbarton-
shire, and ,extending seaward to Ailsa Craig, that object being,
from this spot clearly discernible by the naked eye in a clear state:
of the atmosphere, the same view embracing the islands of Cum-
brae, and portions of Bute and Arran. At any point of considerable
elevation above the coast, near Dunoon, the sanie view of the frith
is prolonged inland to Dumbarton Castle. The Holy Loch is
the only arm of the sea that intersects the united parish. From
where it branches off from the frith at the poiiit of Strorie, it runs
inland a distance of about two.miles direct, and is about a mile
broad at its entrance, narrowing `t the village of Kilmun, oppo-
site which, the currents both of the frith and of the streams
emptying themselves into the loch have thrown up an extended
shingly bank on both sides;-beyond this, inland, it again widens,
and maintains its breadth to its inland termination. It divides in its
length the parishes proper of Dunoon and Kilmun. The Holy
Loch affords convenient and accessible. shelter to the coasting
trade of the Clyde, and Dot Ullfreqtiently to its foreign shipping. It
has good anchorage in from fifteen to seventeen fathoms water,
with good holding ground, the most secure being beyond the Dar-
rowest part inland, where again the loch expands.
    The only fresh water lake of any extent is Loch Eck, and of
it this united parish claims not the whole extent, nearly one-half
of it lying within the parish of Strachur. Loch Eck is about
seven miles in length, its general breadth being pretty uniform,
and about half a mile. It extends southward and northward
nearly. Its depth varies; toward the banks on each side it is
shallow, but increases suddenly in depth toward the middle;
and toward the place of Bernice, l'ing on its western bank,
its depth is about sixty fathoms. Its scenery is interesting, pre-
senting precipitous and well-wooded banks on the western side,
from its northern extreinity nearly to its southern, and embrace,
ing on that side the picturerque and beautiful spot of Bernice, the
property of Mr Fletcher, Vbere the landscape is softened by thri-
ing plantations of larch, and well cultivated fields,-a picture of
cultivated Highland retirement and seclusion. Its eastern bank
is more taine. and level, but varied in appearance and interest by
copse, planting, and sections of arable land, with their humble re-
sidences.
    The only stream in the united parish which can aspire to the
name of river, is the Eachaig, which issuing from Loch Eck at its


