
110                        LANARKSHIRE.

ny Church, a part of the south wall of which is still preserved. As
the King was taken ill, the Queen came from Stirling to see him
in this house, where she resided till he was so far recovered as to
be removed to Edinburgh, in the neighbourhood of which he was
soon after murdered. On 30th September 1578, Robert Stew-
art Earl of Lennox, the immediate successor of Matthew, the fa-
ther of Henry Darnley, was entered a burgess, and in the same
year elected Provost of Glasgow.
	In 1581, the King appointed Mr Robert Montgomery, minis-
ter of Stirling, to be Archbishop of Glasgow, with the understand-
ing that he was to confer the title of hereditary lords of the Bi-
shop's Castle on the Lennox family, with all the emoluments per-
taining thereto, for the paltry consideration of L. 1000 Scots, some
horse corn, and poultry. The people, considering the archbirhop
erroneous in doctrine and loose in morals, opposed his entry, by
getting Mr Howie to preach at the time he was to be inducted.
Sir Matthew Stewart of Minto, Provost of Glasgow, being desir-
ous of obeying the King's commands, went to the church and de-
sired Mr Howie to break off his sermon, which refusing, the pro-
vost pulled him out of the pulpit. In the struggle some hair was
drawn out of Mr Howie's beard, several of his teeth knocked out,
and his blood shed. On this Mr Howie denounced the judgment
of God on Sir Matthew, and his family. M'Ure, in his History of
Glasgow, says, that in less than seventy years, this opulent family
was so reduced that they subsisted by charity. The church con-
sidering the transaction with the Lennox family illegal and dis-
graceful, the archbishop was forced to resign the benefice. He
afterwards became minister of Symington, and latterly of Stewar-
ton, in Ayrshire, where he died. At this period the church disci-
pline was severe. On 16th August 1587, the kirk-session ap-
pointed harlots to be carted through the town, ducked in Clyde,
and put in the jugs at the cross, on a market day. The punish-
ment for adultery was to appear six Sabbaths on the cockstool at
the pillar, bare-footed and, bare-legged, in sackcloth, then to be
carted through the town, and ducked in Clyde from a pulley fixed
on the bridge." The release frnm excommunication was as fol-
lows: "A man excommunicated for relapse in adultery, was to pass
from his dwelling-house to the Hie Kirk, six Sundays, at six in the
morning at the first bell, conveyed by two of the elders or deacons,
or any other two honest men, and to stand at the kirk door bare-
footed, and bare-logged, in sackcloth, with a white wand in his
hand, bare-headed till after the reading of the text; in the same



