
150                           ROXBURGHSHIRE.

   Family of Somerville.-Soon after this period, it appears that a
considerable portion of the lands of Linton were obtained by Wil-
liam de Somerville, ancestor of Lord Somerville, as a reward for
having killed a monstrous serpent, wolf, or boar, which infested the
neighbourhood, and seems to have committed great devastation. *
This gift is stated to have been made by William the Lion, King
of Scotland, in the year 1174: + and the property thus acquired
seems to have remained, during a considerable period, in the pos-
session of the Somerville family,-some of whose representatives
are recorded, at different periods, to have granted lands in the pa-
rish to the monks of Glasgow and Melrose. ++
   The name of the above William de Somerville appears in the
list of witnesses appended to a charter of confirmation granted to
the monks of Kelso by King Malcolm IV. He was the son of
Roger de Somerville, Baron of Whichnour, in England, and after
performing the exploit for which he was rewarded with the barony
of Linton, he was invested with the office of principal Falconer to
the King of Scotland, and also with that of the sheriffdom of Rox-
burghshire. He built the tower of Linton, which continued to be
the residence of his family till near the end of the fourteenth cen-
tury, when they removed to the castle of Cowthally in Carnwath.
A portion of Linton church then called the choir, too, was their or-
dinary burial-place, till about the year 1424. In this place the
remains of the above William, the founder of his family in Scotland,
were interred. & When the barons of England, who extorted the
Magna Charta from their reluctant king, were afterwards subdued,
and when many of their castles and possessions were reduced to
ruin, Roger, his father, who was one of them, sought refuge with his

<FOOTNOTE>See Douglas' Baronage of Scotland, and History of the Family of Somerville.
     The den of this animal is still pointed out under the name of "the worm's hole;"
     the field in which it is situated receives the name of Wormington.
   In the southern wall of the parish church, an ancient stone, which exhibits the effigy
   of a man on horseback, with a long lance or spear in his hand, and thrust into the mouth
   of an animal resembling a dragon, is thought to illustrate the tradition; an
                   "The wode Laird of Lariestone,
                    Slew the wode worm of Wormieston,
                    And won all Linton paroshine. "
The memorial of this event is still preserved on the crest of Lord Somerville's arms, which retains,
among other allusions to it, the following inscription, "The wode laird. "
     See Chartularies of the above monasteries.
   To these religious donations probably, are to be ascribed the names still in use of certain fields
   and houses-suck as the "Prior Row," and the "Priory Meadow." & At the period of his death, he must
   have been upwards of eighty years of age.
                                   4


