
698                           ABERDEENSHIRE.

It  extends about seven miles from east to west, and about three
from south to north.
   The river Ythan is about a quarter of a mile east of the village.
It is bare of a serpentine form, and is navigable nearly a mile and
a half.  The ships are loaded and unloaded at low water; but it
is hoped that a pier will soon be built, which would prove
a great accommodation to the farmers, particularly those at a dis-
tance.  The river abounds with salmon, sea-trout, flounders, and
a great many other swell fish; but it is chiefly famed for its abun-
dant produce of mussels.  The quantity taken out of the river
annually amounts to some hundred tons, and is sold at L.1, 10s.
per ton.
   It is much to be regretted that the entrane to the river is bad,
and occasionally dangerous, owing to the shifting at its
mouth, and there seems to be no remedy for it.  The sandy
beach extends from the mouth of the Ythan, about one mile and
a half north and eight or ten miles south.  On the south beach,
there were lately map stake-nets for catching salmon, but bag-
nets have now been substituted in their room, as they are worked
with less trouble and expense.
   The fine little burn, of Foveran runs through the parish, and
falls into the Ythan near the village of Newburgh.  There are
three meal-mills upon it, all of the best construction, and abund-
antly employed.
   It is well known that there is little wood on this part of the
east coast of Scotland; but the plantations around Foveran House
and Ythan Lodge, mentioned in the last Statistical Account have
thriven tolerably well.  In the western part of the parish, where
Mr Hunter of Tillery built, a few years ago, a most handsome and
commodious house, and laid out the grounds with great taste,
wood grows very rapidly.  The Huntingdon willow seems pecu-
liarly suited to the climate and soil of the coast side.

                          II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Antiquities.-Thefollowing is an extract from a manuscript in the
Advocates' Library of Aberdeen, written about the beginning of the
last century, by Sir Samuel Forbes of Foveran: "Foveran has its name
from the castle here,  whichc is very old, and is thought to be so
called from a sweet and very impetous spring (at the foot of the
wall, having an arch built over it,) for the Irish 'Foveran' signi-
fies a spring.  There was once an hospital founded by Sir Alexander
Cumming, second Earl of Buchan, and son to the founder of Deer


