
330                         FIFESHIRE.

occupy separate lodgin s, so that families, properly so styled, must
9
be considerably larger.
The language sp-oken here, especially by the young, is better than
in most parts of Scotland. This is owing chiefly to our having
good schools, and the youth being in general better educated.
There is nothing particular in the appearance, the manners, or
customs of the people. They enjoy in a reasonable degree the
comforts and advantages of society, and are generally contented
with their condition and circumstances. It may be mentioned as
a proof of the regularity of their conduct, that during the last
twenty-three years, which is the period that the present incumbent
has resided amongst them, there has not been an instance of a
person belonging to this parish having been brought to a justiciary
trial.
The comfort in which the inhabitants live may appear from the
circumstance of our bakers rising annually about 1000 quarters of
wheat in bread; and our butchers killing and selling weekly upon
an average 12 animals, including bullocks, sheep, lambs, veal, &c.
Besides which, about 600 pigs are yearly fed and used by cot-
tagers and others.Several families, too, in the higher ranks, use
their own mutton,lambs, &c.
IV.-INDUSTRY.
,Agriculture, according to the most improved system, is prac-
tised here; and in few parts of Scotland does the same extent of
land produce so much corn, and other varieties of food. The
whole parish except a few rocky spats, and what is jovered with
wood and roads, and about 200 acres of links, is either under til-
lage, or laid down for pasture in an improved state, tLfter being
enclosed and drained.
The system of cropping generally followed in the lower part of
the parish is a rotation of four years, consisting of two green and
two white crops, viz. first year grass; second, oats; third, potatoes
beans, or turnips; fourth, wheat or barley with grass seeds; wheat
being commonly sown after potatoes, and barley after turnips.
Where the green crop has been potatoes in the one rotation, it is
generally turnips in the other, so that potatoes and turnips, wheat
and barley, seldom occur more than twice or thrice on the same
fields during the currency of a nineteen years lease.
In the u per part I of the parish, much of the land is laid down
p
in grassfor pasture, an&when ploughed, a less regular rotation is
followed. Uttlewheat is sown. Two crops of oats are*oquently
taken after grass; 'and barley is g6herally sown after potatoes and
turnips.


