
                      ARDERSIER.                               481

Earl Cawdor, is L. 117, 15s. 7d., the remainder, raising the amount
to L. 150, is paid by the Exchequer. At present there is no cate-
chist. There is no Dissenting or Seceding chapel in the parish.
Divine service at the Established Church is generally well attend.
ed. The number of male communicants is about 30. A Bible
society was instituted at Campbelton fifteen years ago; besides dis-
tributing copies of the Scriptures in both languages, at reduced
prices, and gratuitously, it grants donations of about L. 10 annually
to other societies. The average annual amount of church collec-
tions is about L. 20; for missionary and other purposes, L. 16.
   Education.-Besides the parochial school, there are three other
schools in the village of Campbelton; one a private unendowed
school; a boarding-scbool for females; and an infant school lately
built under the auspices of Lady Anderson. The salary of the
parochial schoolmaster is L. 36, 7s. 1 3/4d.
   The late Rev. James Denoon of Rothsay, and Mr James Camp-
bell of Baltimore, were among the early teachers in the parish
school. The late Mr John Smith, for a period of forty-two years,
efficiently discharged the duties of parochial schoolmaster. His
school, so long as his physical powers were adequate to the arduous
duties of teaching, was crowded by scholars from the surrounding
district. Of his extensive classical knowledge, and happy manner
of communicating the same, many of his pupils, who have distin-
guished themselves in the different learned professions, bear living
testimony. Mr Smith was a teacher in Abernethy and Kirkmi-
chael, for sixteen years before be came to this parish; and the Cel-
tic Society, two years before his death, presented him with a gold
medal, in acknowledgement of his long and meritorious public
services
   There is a Sabbath school in the village, which is well attended.
   Library.-A Subscription Library, on a small scale, was formed
in Campbelton about two years ago, which, it is hoped, may tend
to increase the intelligence, and promote the moral improvement
of the people.
   Charitable and other Institutions.-There are two Friendly So-
cieties, which have existed for nearly forty years. Members pro-
cure coals and meal at an easier rate,-the societies purchasing
these articles with ready money at wholesale prices, and distributing
them to the members at prime cost; and the funeral expenses
of members or their wives are defrayed by the society. The real
advantage of this latter arrangement is questionable, as it encou-
rages drinking at lyke-wakes and funerals, and certainly does not


