
     Statistical Account

   School.-The schoolmaster's salary, paid wholly by the
town, is 100 merks Scotch; the number of scholars is about
60; the fees for teaching to read English, 1 s. 6 d. a-quarter,
reading and writing, 2 s., Latin, 2 s. 6 d., arithmatic, 2 s. 6 d.
The schoolmaster has also an official house, with a small gar-
den, provided for him by the town.  And here, we cannot
helpobserving with regret, that a body of men, so highly useful
to the community as country schoolmasters, that a body of men,
from whose successful labours Scotland has derived that repu-
tation for literature which she so deservedly enjoys; and upon
whose future labours, the preservation of this reputation, and
the prosperity of her sons, in every quarter of the globe, must
in a great measure depend, should be, in general, so poorly
provided for by the country.-"Sic vos, non vobis."

   Character of the People.-The general character of a peo-
ple commonly takes its complexion from their local situation,
their engagements and their pursuits.  The public ferry may
justly be considered as having been hitherto the ruin of King-
horn, both in respect of industry and morals.  It opens, it is true,
an easy road to an immediate subsistence, but it introduces, at the
same time, all those vices and miseries to which people are ex-
posed, whose time is not half occupied, whose thoughts are never

<FOOTNOTE>

scription of innocent and useful people was once so numerous, there is only 1 farmer,
who, patriarch-like, has continued this practice of employing and cherishing the
cottager, in its full extent; and in this, he is now become the envy of all his
neighbours around him; especialy in bad harvests, such as we have lately had,
when reapers could not be tempted to come from the towns even for high wa-
ges.  There are other effects, which might likewise be stated, as arising from
the substitution of hired servants in the place of Cottagers, viz. the diminution
of the quantity, and consequently the rise of the price of several useful article
of life, such as butter, eggs, and poultry.


