
				LINTON.                       157

    pupil is 3s. per quarter. The teacher is authorized by the heri-
    tors to exercise his own discretion with regard to the fees to be
    exacted from those who are taught algebra and mathematics. The
    accommodation of the schoolmaster is good, and somewhat ex-
    ceeds the legal allowance. He possesses the maximum salary.
    The remotest part of the parish is at least five miles distant from the
    school; but, as this part is thinly inhabited, the inconvenience of
    the distance is not much felt, and is not so great as to render the
    erection of another school necessary; 40 is the average attend-
    ance. The school fees may amount to L. 20 a-year. It is pleas-
    ing to witness the solicitude of the poorest persons respecting
    the education of their children in the ordinary branches of in-
    struction. Rather than forego this advantage, which they deem
    inestimable, they will submit to no small privations; and they
    cheerfully devote to its attainment a portion of their scanty and
    hard-earned gains. The history of the poor in this, as well as
    in other districts, unfolds many cases of endurance borne with
    alacrity, in order that they may procure not only the quarter's
    fees, but shoes and clothing, to enable their children to make as
    decent an appearance at school as those of their neighbours.
    Such has been the influence of the system of moral and religious
    instruction peculiar to our ecclesiastical establishment and paro-
    chial schools, that all vestiges of predatory habits have long disap-
    peared from the borders,-whose inhabitants are now as remark-
    able as those of any part of Scotland for intelligence, persever-
    ing industry, and ardent piety. The total number of scholars at
    schools in the parish is 55.
	Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of persons
    who annually obtain parochial aid is 12; each of whom receives
    nearly 2s. per week, or an yearly allowance of L. 5. The funds
    required for this purpose are supplied by legal assessment, of
    which the average annual amount is L. 60. That of the church
    collection is L. 6, and affords the means of relieving occasional in-
    digence. The receiving of parochial aid is here reckoned no de-
    gradation. Most seem to demand it as that to which they have
    a legal claim; and instances are not uncommon of active and
    vigorous young men who do Dot think it incumbent on them to
    minister to the necessities of their aged parents, but who, without
    scruple or any sense of impropriety, consign them to the support
    of the parish. Such sentiments, common to the inhabitants of
    all the border parishes, have, not without reason, been ascribed to
    their contiguity to England.


