
434                    INVERNESS-SHIRE.

Castle Grant, have been taken to GarmoUtah for ship masts.  They
are of great value; no less than L.7 were offered the other day
for a larch tree just as it stood in the forest., There is also a very
considerable extent of natural wood, oak, birch, alder, &c. It
may here be mentioned, that in the churchyard of Cromdale,
there is a venerable beeeb tree of great antiquity ; its branches are
of such enormous extent, that it is capable of overshadowing upwards
of 1000 people.
                    II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Historical Events.-This parish was the scene of many sanguinary
feudal conflicts ; but the battle which took place on the
" Haughs of Cromdale," on the 1st of May 1690, was the most
memorable. The cause of James II. having become desperate
by the death of John Graham, of Claverhouse, Viscount Dundee,
at Killiecrankie, in 1689, he made a bold effort to renew the war
in the Highlands.  General Buchan was dispatched with 1600
men, of different clans, to lay waste the low country.  On their
march through Strathspey, they plundered as they went along, and
committed many serious depredations in the lower parts of the
country.  By this time, Sir Thomas Livingstone, who bad been
stationed at Inverness with a large force of cavalry and infantry,
resolved to check them.  Buchan and his force, hearing of his
determination and approach, returned to the Highlands.  On the
Ist of May 1690, by break of day, Livingstone arrived with his
troops at Derraid, near Castle Grant; and, in order that their
movements might not be known, they were directed down the valey
of Auchinarrow, a very sequestered spot, and to cross the Spey
below Dellachapple.  General Buchan and his army bad come to
Cromdale on to the 30th of April, and, considering it prudent to
keep near the hills, encamped that night at Lethendy, a farm
at the foot of the hill of Cromdale.  They had some advanced
guards or sentries placed near the church of Cromdale, close
by the river; and these, observing Livingstone's troops fording
the Spey, immediately alarmed the camp; but the King's troops
attacked them, before they were even qWe to dress themselves,
much less to form, or prepare for action.  They fought gallantly
notwitbstanding; but were at length compelled to take to flight.
According to some accounts, there were above one hundred killed,
and sixty made prisoners.  Others have it that the Highlanders
had four hundred killed and taken prisoners; and state Living stones
loss at about one hundred killed, and several prisoners.


