
     of Sanquhar.

   Miscellaneous Observations.-The people of Sanquhar enjoy
a competent in nature of the advantages of life.  There is plen-
of coal, of fine springs of water, and of lime, a species of coarse
marble, and sea stone quarries, excellent for the purposes of
building; a sum twice in the year, for buying and selling black
cattle; and a market for butcher meat, throughout the year.
There is a post office in Sanquhar, the annual revenue of which
is about L. 12.  There are a fulling, a corn, and two bar-
ley mills in the parish.-The chief disadvantage, perhaps, is
the own residence of the principal honour.  The whole parish,
except the estate of lithoch, is naked and uninclosed.  On
hillrock is a fine natural wood, which fringes and adorns the
banks of the Nith for two miles in length.  The present
respectable proprietor of that estate, has also planted a good
deal of various kinds of wood, Scotch larix, and silver fir,
New England pine, banks of Gilead fir, oak, elm, birch,
beech, ash, mountain ash, etc. all well inclosed, and in a thriv-
ing condition.  Inclosing of the arable land, would be of ge-
neral advantage to the parish, draining the wet grounds, and
planting on the skirts of the hills would both adorn and shel-
ter the country.-The language generally spoken is a mixture
of Scotch and English, with less provincial peculiarity than in
most other counties in Scotland.  The names of places seem
almost universally derived from the Gaelic; Easlock signifies a
little rock, Auchentaggart, Priest-field, etc. etc.
   No part of the country can afford better entertainment to the
sportsman.  There are abundance of grouse, partidges, and
some black game.  The last are more rarely to be met with
than formerly, owing in part, perhaps, to the woods being
cut, but chiefly to the devastation of poachers, who favoured
by a wide range of uninhabited country, load themselves with
booty, and frequently escape with impunity.  A covey, or ra-
ther part of a covey of ptarmigans, among common grouse, a

     3 M 2


