
				PETTINAIN.                 537

reaching the parish of Pettinain, when its motion becomes much
slower, its depth increased, and its aspect changed. From be-
ing rapid in its motion, and lively in its aspect, it becomes slow
and still, and continues so for several miles, making in its course
many beautiful windings through the haugh or holm land, and
moving so slowly and smoothly, that a stranger is at a loss to know
in what direction it is flowing. Such is its general aspect until near-
ly half a mile from where it leaves the parish, where some rocks
impede its course, and over which it rushes with considerable ra-
pidity and noise. It was proposed at one time to remove, two or
three feet from the surface of these rocks, and thus diminish the
depth of stagnant water above, and likewise prevent the floods from
overspreading so much of the adjoining land, by conveying the
water more rapidly away; but the proprietors interested on both
banks of the river, not being satisfied as to the probable result, the
scheme was abandoned, after an experienced engineer had been
consulted, and had given it as his opinion that the plan was prac-
ticable. The river proceeds at its entrance into the parish from
south to north, and afterwards from east to west, compassing more
than one-half of the parish.
	Geology and Mineralogy.--It is unnecessary to occupy much
space in adverting to this head. The ridge of hills, to which al-
lusion has already been made, consists chiefly of compact felspar
or felspar porphyr and sandstone; the western part of the ridge
being composed of the former, and the south-easterly part of the
latter. The felspar furnishes an excellent material for road mak-
ing, and is accounted so very valuable for this purpose, that it is
carted to the distance of several miles, into some of the neighbour-
ing parishes. There is a great want of freestone for dressing.
The hewn stone used in the building of the present manse, was
brought from the neighbourhood of Nethanfoot, a small village
upon the Clyde, in the parish of Lesmahagow, at a distance of more
than ten miles. Various attempts have been made to find lime-
stone, but hitherto without much success. Wherever it has been
found, it was either situated at such a depth below the surface, or
the stratum was so thin, that it was not deemed advantageous to
work it.
	Soil.--There is a considerable variety of soil in the parish. In
the haugh, or holm land adjoining the river, it appears to be a com-
pound of clay and mud, and extends to the depth of several feet,
under which is generally found a stratum of gravel. Around the


