
                          SCONE.                              1045

      state of fusion.  The portions of the sandstone thus mixed with
      the vein, consist of thin laminae, varying from a few inches to half
      an inch in thickness, and afford the student of geology an excel-
      lent opportunity of observing the manner in which the igneous
      mass has been injected into the stratified deposit.
        The lower portions of the quarry at Lethendy, consisting of
      the common sandstone of the district, seem of indefinitr thickness,
      and are very compact.  The rock is chiefly composed of clay,
      sparingly mixed with silicious particles and mica. Above the
      hardest rock in the quarry, there is a bed of about three feet in
      thickness, remarkably well defined, chiefly composed of mica.
      It may be split up into a thousand of the thinnest laminae, between
      which the shining scales may be observed, varying from the eighth
      of an inch to nearly a quarter of an inch in diameter. The bed
      is extremely friable, and feels very unctuous when compressed in
      the hand.
        Minerals.-Further to the east, nodules of compact earthy car-
      bonate of lime, such as are burned as limestone, appear in the
      softer beds of the sandstone,  especially in the line of the turnpike
      Strathmore road. Small pieces of j`sper, and several of tbe
      more common minerals that prevail in similar situations, are also
      found.
        Botany.-The following account of the botany of this parish
      has been supplied by a reverend friend, partly from personal
      inspection, and partly from a list drawn up by another bota-
      nist.  He states, that "the botany cannot fail to be interest-
      ing from the number of rare plants to be found in the parish," and
      notices particularly  "Pyrola uniflora which is so singularly rare
      mind so much sought after by our   Scottish botanists." He has
      not himself seen the plants to which an asterisk is prefixed in the,
      following list:

      Veronica scutellata           Avena fatua               Solanum dulcamara
      Scirpus sylvaticus            'Radiola millegrana       'Myrrhis odorata
      Phalaris arundinacea          Echium vulgaret           Statice armeria
      Aira aquatica                 'Primula elatior          'Convallaria majalis
      Briza media                   Lonicera perielymenum      ---------multiflora
      Triodia decumbens             'Polemonium caeruleum     'Hyacinthus non-scriptus
      Festuca ovina                 Symphytum suberosum       Juncus triglumis

  <FOOTNOTE> This plant is often found in the corn-fields, having been sown along with the
  grain in the same manner as Agrostemma githago, corn-cockle; Cichorium Intybus
  ild succery; and Centourea cyanus, corn blue-bottle; which are exotics introduced
  with foreign grain; but it here exists large beds as to show that it is indige-
  nous.




