
468                      INVERNESS-SHIRE.

dor still pays L. 67 Scots to the crown, as bishop's rent. "The
Knights-Templar had some lands in Ardersier, and a jurisdiction
of regality." "This order came to Scotland in the reign of
David I., who endowed it with many lands, uncommon privileges,
and valuable exemptions; and these were all con firmed by successive
kings, and allowed by several pope.  Sir James Sandilands, who
was the last preceptor of this order, obtained, by a grant from Queen
Mary in 1563, the remaining estates of his order, as a temporal
barony, on paying 10,000 crowns. Sir James died as Lord Torphichen
in 1618. This explains how Lord Torphichen became
possessed of lands in this parish. These lands were sold by Lord
Torpbichen to Mr Thomas Rollock, advocate; and by the lattergentleman
disponed to John Campbell, younger of Calder, by deed dated
13th August 1626, as "the temple lands of Ardersier, the temple-lands
of Overcruick and Overbank of Ardersier, lying in the diocese
of Ross and seriffdom of Inverness." "In 1623, John Dow
Campbell of Calder, had all his lands in the north, by a charter under
the Great Seal, erected into a barony, called the Burgh of Campbelton,
with power to create bailies, constables, sergeants, and other
officers ; liberty to have a town-house, and a market cross, a weekly
market on Wednesday,-and a fair to begin on July 15th, and to
bold eight days, and that all infeftments may be taken at the Castle
of Calder."
  We find in Pitcairn's Criminal Trials of Scotland, that this
parish was honoured in 1508 by the transit of King James IV. in
one of his pilgrimages to the shrine of St Duthoc at Tain, which
was then held in particular sanctity. Among the items of expense
on this journey are the following: "October 20, Item, to the
freiris of Ardoseir 13s." "Item, to Robert Mertoune, for passing
ower the water with the goshawk, 10s."
  Upwards of two hundred. years ago, the Thane of Calder, in
proceeding from Ardersier homewards with his servant, fell from
his horse at Druimadeobhan, and instantly expired. The agency
of apoplexy, or affections of the heart, was then unknown, and the
Worthy Thane's death was ascribed to witchcraft. A commission
was given to search for the perpetrator of the foul deed, and suspicion
fell on a withered old woman in the carse, " who looked not
like an inhabitant of the earth!" The Necessary marks were dis

<FOOTNOTE>Shaw's Province of Moray, P. 304.
          Chalmers's Caledonia, Vol. ii, p. 876.


