
     of Dron.

   By the last account which was taken of the number of
souls in this parish about 18 years ago, when there was a
proposal for embodying the Scotch militia, they amounted
to 500, at present they do not exceed 450, which is a de-
crease of one-tenth part in so short a period.  This no
doubt is principally owing to the modern practice of uni-
ting several farms into one, and the suppressing of cottagers.
Whatever advantages may arise either to the land older or
tenant from this practice, it is evidently attended with se-
veral inconveniences to themselves, and to the country in
general.  Small farms and little villages, consisting of cot-
tagers and tradesmen, were the nurseries of young persons
of both sexes, and afforded a constant supply of servants,
and plenty of hands for labour on every occasion.  From
the same source, the market was plentifully furnished with
poultry, butter, cheese, etc. at a reasonable rate.  Perhaps
the present difficulty of procuring servants, the great ad-
vance of their wages, the scarcity of hands for reaping the
corns in harvest, and the exorbitant demands now made
for their work in that season, with several other hardships,
all sensibly felt by the farmers themselves, and the subject
of general complaint, may, in time, induce them to recur

<UNREADABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

no certain conclusion can be drawn from it.  For many of the inhabitants
are buried in other parishes, and consequently our mortcloths are not used.
And for several poor people it is not demanded, or it is given.  In
these cases, the death of such persons is not inserted in the parish-register.
The record of marriages is likewise very inaccurate.  Indeed there is
reason to suspect, that until these public registers are put on a better foot-
ing, the conclusions deduced from them will not be very exact.  An ac-
curate register of births and deaths, specifying the age of each person at
their death, and the distempers of which they die, etc. would afford very
satisfactory evidence with respect to the objects in view by such enquiries
as the present.  But to answer this purpose, some small salary might be
necessary to the session-clerk or schoolmaster, and would be a very accep-
table, indeed necessary addition to their poor livings.

</UNREADABLE>


