
     of Borgue.

prevalent disorder in this parish.  It may in a good measure
be ascribed to scarcity of fuel, and cold and damp houses.
From greater attention to cleanliness, and a more plentiful
use of vegetables and fresh animal food, scorbutic and cuta-
neous diseases are less prevalent than formerly.  Inoculation
for the small pox is generally and successfully employed.-
The climate, it appears, is favourable to longevity.  On the
1st of January last, 13 persons were alive upwards of 80.
One of 89, a tinker by trade, bids fair for rivalling his brother
MARSHALL, celebrated in the annals of Crossmichael.  He can
drink a glass from the sole of his foot; and in feats of strength
and agility, would surpass most men of 60.  His teeth were
all double, and most of them yet remain fast in their sockets.

   Population.-The number of inhabitants has increased above
one tenth within there 40 years, as appears from the follow-
ing

<TABLE=STATISTICAL TABLE:>

                                            Males.   vs. Females.   Total.
Number of souls in 1793,                     364         407         771
Ditto in 1755, as returned to Dr. Webster,                           697
                                                                     ----    
                                 Increase,                            74

</TABLE>

     E 2

<FOOTNOTE>

agues, and other febrile diseases; and be of great use, in producing that state of
the air which is favourable for promoting general health.  Greater length of
time, and a greater number of instances, are doubtless necessary to prove, with
full conviction, that such diseases become less prevalent as the lands are better
cultivated.  It is no uncommon thing for particular diseases to appear at certain
periods, to rage for a while with great violence, and again to disappear for
some time entirely, until some peculiar state of the air takes place, when they
again appear, and run their course as formerly.  These remarks, however, it is
hoped may be useful, to excite farther inquiry into a matter, which is so pecu-
liarly interesting.


