
                          UNITED PARISHES OF

                           FALA AND SOUTRA.

         PRESBYTERY OF DALKEITH, SYNOD OF LOTHIAN AND TWEEDDALS.

                  THE REV. JAMES INGRAM, MINISTER.


                  I.-TOPOGRAP14Y AND NATURAL HISTORY.
  Situation, Extent, Surface, Prospect.-THE former of these
parishes is situated in Mid-Lothian, and the latter in East Lothian.
United, they' form a parallelogram, 5 miles long, from east to
west, and 3 1/2 miles broad, from north to south.  The adjoining.
parishes are, Humbie on the east; Humbie and Crichton on the
north ; Stow on the west; and Channelkirk on the south.  The
eastern division of the united parishes, comprising somewhat less
than half their extent, presents an undulating surface, well Culti-
vated and fertile, composed of clayey soil, and producing all the
variety of crops common in the Lothians.  The western division,
being a ridge of the Lammermoor mountains, is, excepting a few
cultivated spots, all laid out in sheep pasturage.  The great road *
between Edinburgh and Lauder is the line of demarcation, and is
at present greatly frequented.  There are twelve stage coaches pass-
ing daily.  The distance from Edinburgh is about 14 miles, and
about 8 miles from Dalkeith, the. nearest market-town.  The high-
est top of Soutra has been ascertained to be 1280 feet above the
level of the sea.  The ancient site of Soutra church and hospital,
1184 feet; the site of Fala church, 800 feet. " To a traveller
coming from the south, the view from Soutra is most enchanting.
Passing for a considerable way through the dreary moor, where
nothing meets the eye but barren heath, here, all at once, the fine
cultivated counties of Mid and East Lothians, with the Frith of
Forth and coast of Fife, burst upon his view.  The suddenness
of the change, and the mingled group of hills, and dales, and woods,

<FOOTNOTE>This road is carried by a large tunnel over the Dean burn, the arch of which
measures 150 feet in length, 20 feet of span, and 8 feet rise.  The embankment over
this tunnel is 30 feet in breadth on the top.  The slope an each side is 1 1/2 horizontal
to 1 perpendicular.  The height of the embankment above the arch is 35 feet.
                                     3



