
                        DUMBARTON.                            5

bishop of St Andrews, the governor's wife, and several other per-
sons were made prisoners. The Archbishop was taken to Stirling
shortly after, and was cruelly put to death. He was hanged on a
tree; and the following couplet is said to have been written on the
occasion:-
                  Vive diu, felix arbor, semperque vireto
                  Frondibus, ut nobis talia poma feras.

The castle was in the possession of Charles I. at the commence-
ment of the war; but in the early part of the year 1639, the rebels
became masters of the place. The King recovered it in the same
year. In 1640, it again fell into the hands of the rebels. Shortly
after, the Scottish Parliament ordered that the works on the rock
should be destroyed. It appears, however, that the command was
never obeyed. Oliver Cromwell obtained possession in 1652. At
the time of the union, the castle of Dumbarton was one of the forts
that was agreed to be kept in repair. The establishment consists
of a governor, lieutenant-governor, barrack-master, store-keeper,
and surgeon. Lord Lyndoch is the governor at present. The troops
usually stationed there, consist of about thirty men, who are ge-
nerally sent from the depot at Glasgow or Paisley; and about
twelve men from the Royal Artillery.
   The town of Dumbarton was made a royal burgh by Alexander
II. in 1222; at the same time, he granted certain lands in the
neighbourhood, and the right of fishing in the river Leven, for a
considerable distance above the town.
   Several other charters were granted in favour of the burgh by
succeeding sovereigns, which were all confirmed by a charter of
James VI. dated 13th December 1609, and which was ratified in
1612 by Parliament. * About this period, the town was much
damaged by floods, so much so, that application was made to the
Parliament to obtain a sum of money to enable the magistrates to
do something to prevent the town being entirely destroyed. A
commission was appointed to enquire what sum would be neces-
sary ; they reported that " na les nor the sowme of - threttie
thowsand pundis Scottis money was abill to beir out and furneis
the necessar charges and expenses in pforming these warkies, that
are liable to saif the said burgh from vtter destructioune." + The
Parliament accordingly granted the sum of twenty-five thousand
merks Scots for that purpose. It appears that that sum was not

<FOOTNOTE>Acts Parl. Vol. iv. page 483.   <FOOTNOTE>Ibid. Vol. iv. page 376.


