
582 	                LANARKSHIRE.

the one above the other, the uppermost of these being likewise
closed with an arched roof. The beams for supporting the floors,
which constitute the ceilings of the two intermediate apartments,
instead of being inserted into the wall, rest upon projecting brackets
of stone. In a deed of retour, dated in 1685, it is called the " Tower
and Fortalice of Braidwood." From this, it seems to have been
the residence attached to that ancient barony. The remains of a
tower of considerable antiquity is embraced in the buildings attach-
ed to the house of Waygateshaw. At Wallans, a small portion of
Milton-Lockhart estate, on the south side of the Clyde, but in
Carluke parish, and, at one time, evidently an islet, part of an old
wall still stands, said to be the ruin of a fortalice, where, on some
perilous occasion, Sir William Wallace found a refuge. It is some-
times called Castle Wallans and Temple-hall. At the south of
the parish there had been a chapel of St Oswald, where some se-
pulchral remains have been lately dug up. The other chapel,
which Chalmers places in the north-east of our parish, belongs to
Cambusnethan.
	Ha'hill (Haugh-bill), a mound near Mauldslic castle, supposed
to be the accumulated earth and ashes of the ancient burial-place,
is an object of some curiosity. It is now covered with large trees,
a flat spot on the top remaining clear, where the two last Earls of
Hyndford were buried. It may be about 60 or 70 feet in heigh,
and covers several acres of ground.
	Modern Buildings.--The only edifices in the parish which have
any pretence to architectural beauty are three in number.
	Mauldslie Castle, built in 1793 by Thomas, Earl of Hyndford,
from a design of Adam, is a turreted structure of great elegance
situated in an extensive and ricbly-wooded park, through which
the Clyde flows for upwards of a mile.
	Milton-Lockhart, a new house, in the manorial style, has re-
cently been built by Mr Lockhart from a design furnished by Mr
Burn. The details are taken from ancient Scottish buildings, and
it is generally considered one of the best works of that distinguish-
ed architect, Its situation, on a peninsula which projects into the
valley of the Clyde, with deep glens and wooded hills in the back-
ground, is singularly beautiful. Mr Lockhart has also built a
bridge, of three arches over the Clyde, on the model of the old
bridge of Bothwell.
	Braidwood House, the seat of Nathaniel Stevenson, Esq. oc-
				  4


