
248                        FORFARSHIRE.

last builds in Rossie moor, and the ring-dotterel on Usan beach.
The woodcock also is found in Mountboy wood.
	A vast variety of aquatic birds frequent the basin in the South-
esk, which forms the boundary of the parish on the north-west;
namely, the oyster-catcher, and sea-pyot; water-rail, water-ouzel;
a stork was lately seen in the basin, and afterwards shot at Ethie
House; the common heron and bittern, the curlew and whimbrel;
the common snipe and jack-snipe; the common godwit, Cambridge
greenshank, and redshank: the shore sandpiper, common sand-
piper, brown sandpiper, black sandpiper, spotted sandpiper, dun-
lin, purre, little stint, and turn-stone; the common gallinule; the
commot coot; the tippit, dusky, little, and black-chin grebes; the
razor-bill, penguin, puffin, and little auk; the common, black, and
spotted guillemot; the great northern diver, imber, lesser, first-
speckled, second-speckled, red-throat, and black-throat divers;
the common, lesser, Sandwich, and brown terns, or sea swallows;
the black-backed, herring, wagel, common, winter, black-beaded,
kittiwake, and Arctic gulls; the stormy petrel; the goosander,
dun-diver, red-breasted merganser, and smew merganser; the wild
swan (seen in flocks in the basin in 1822); the gray lag-goose,
white-fronted, bean, bernacle, brent, eider-duck, velvet, scoter,
mallard, book-bill, scaup, gadwale, wigeon, and shieldrake, pochard,
pintail, long-tailed, golden-eye, and tufted ducks; the teal-duck
also has been found on its eggs in Mountboy wood; the cormorant,
crested, shag or skart, crested-shag, gannet or solan goose. *
	Botany.--Though the parish of Craig does not include any
mountainous district within its boundaries, still the plants which
it produces are numerous, and in many cases rare. They are as-
sociated, in general, with the secondary strata, and chiefly with the
old red sandstone formation. The greenstone porphyry and other
trap-rocks, which occur occasionally among the strata, exhibit their
usual luxuriant vegetation,--a luxuriance arising probably from the
alkali contained in the felspar, which enters into their composi-
tion. The situations in which the vegetable productions occur
are considerably varied. Besides the plants commonly found in
fields and by road-sides, we meet with those which are peculiar to

<FOOTNOTE>I have given the above list of birds entire, as it was drawn up by Mr Thomas
Molison of Montrose, whose practical acquaintance with the ornithology of this dis-
trict may be compared to that of the celebrated Don, in botany; and whose unas-
suming merits as a collector and preserver of specimens are too little known and ap-
preciated. His researches, however, in his favourite pursuit, are sadly cramped by
the restrictions of the game laws.
				3


