
  112                       BANFFSHIRE.

  the mouth of the valley, and becoming a little elevated to form its
  northern acclivity, continues at nearly the same level, till within a
  few hundred yards of the Spey.
     To the north-west of the daugh of Ruthrie, and at nearly the
  same level, lies the Daugh of Kionermony, a small part of which
  consists of baugh or hohn land on the banks of the Spey, commu-
  nicating with the more elevated parts, by a gentle slope.
     The Daugh of Carron lies to the west of that of Kinnermony,
  from which it is separated by a mountain rivulet, which runs in a
  very deep ravine. A considerable part of this division lies lower
  than the former, descending gradually from the borders of Inver-
  aven on the west, and forming a continuation of the valley between
  Benrinnes and the hill of Carron, already mentioned. Here, to-
  wards the Spey, there is a considerable extent of fine holm land.
     To the east of the Daugh of Ruthrie, and separated from it by
  the burn of Aberlour, lies the elevated land formerly mentioned,
  called the Daugh of Allachie, and to the east of this last, that of
  Aberlour,-both descending, by an almost uniform slope of an ele-
  vation of nine or ten degrees, till within a short distance of the
  Spey. Close upon the Spey, Allachie contains a little holm land;
  and still farther back from the river, a terrace about ten feet above
  the former, presents a considerable surface of level land extending
  to the foot of the acclivity.
     The Daugh Aberlour also contains a little holm land, and is
  watered by two rivulets which descend from the Blue-hill, and
  utility from burn called Allachoy; which burn divides Aber-
  lour, on the east, from the daugh of Drumfurrich.
    This last Daugh embraces all the eastern part of the parish si-
  tuated between the burn of Allacboy and the river Fiddieh, and
  is mostly of a level description, with the exception of a little slop-
  ing land at the foot of the Blue-bill, and the rising ground of Ta-
  manurie, near the river, which descends gradually to the south-
  east, and is entirely cultivated on that side, but-falls precipitately
  to the north-west, where its rocky foot is washed by the Spey.
  This Daugh also contains two beautiful fields of holm land.
    The remaining part of the cultivated land belonging to the pa-
  rish lies in the narrow vale of Glenrinnes; between which and the
  main body of the parish, the pass called Glack-harnis, formerly
  mentioned as separating Benrinnes from the western Conval, opens
  an almost level communication.
    The district to the north of the brook Dulnan, which winds in the


