

KILFINICKEN AND KILVICEUEN.                         337
There are some other monuments on the floor, but they are so
defaced as to be almost undistinguishable.
This nunnery is said to have been liberally endowed; besides
the islands of Iiini.skenneth and Eorsa formerly mentioned as be-.
longing to the prioress, there were lands in Mull which it enjoyed,
and some of which go by the name of the Nuns' lands to the pre-
sent day.
The precincts of the tombs in Iona were held sacred, for, ac-
cordidg to Fordun, they enjoyed the privilege of girth or sanctu-
ary. But these privileges did not, by the ancient Scotch law, in-
discriminately shelter every offender.. All atrocious criminals were
excluded, and only the unfnrtunate delinquent, or the penitent
sinner could here deprecate the rigour of justice. They were re-
quired to make restoration of any property they had stolen, and to:
make oath that they would steal no more. The manslayer was
enjoined, on pain of banishment, to surrender himself to the, law,
in order that it might be decided whether the slaughter commit-
ted amounted to murder. Penalties were enacted, to defend those
refugees entitled to sanctuary, from all molestation during. their
retreat.
The Bay of Martyrs takes its name, according to tradition, as
being the place where the bodies of those who were to be inter-
red in the hol ground, were received during the period of Ro-
mish superstition.
 Hill of Angels, or Cnoc-nan-Aingeal, is a little hill with a small
circle of stones, and a little cairn in the middle, considered by Pen-
inant as Druidical, Here, it is said Columba, after his arrival,
had a conference with angels, from which tradition it derived
the name.
Clach-na-brath.--This D ruidical talisman is said to have con-
sisted originally of three globes of white marble, placed in three
basins, but these, like the crosses, were destroyed at the Reforma-
tion. There is still a single stone poiraed out, and which the
boys of the village take care to preserve, so as to make. it serve
the same purpose.
Iona has been called the Rome of Scotland And Ireland; but
the comparison does not render justice to Iona, she being, while
under the discipline of Columba's laws, in the hand of tbe Cul-
dees, the seat of a far, purer Christianity; for Iona preserved the
Opinions and practices of the oriental church in, comparative sim-
plicity, and preached the gospel with purity long after the cor-
ARGYLE.                     Y


