
     Of Crathy and Braemar.

flow for 12 s. or 14 s., could have been bought then for
5 s. or 6 s., and other butcher meat in proportion.  Poul-
try, etc. now sell as under, viz. a live goose from 2 s.
to 2 s. 6 d.; ducks from 8 d. to 10 d., hens 6 d., chickens
3 d. each, eggs 1 1/2 the dozen, milk 2 d. the Scotch pint,
butter 9 d. the lb of 28 ounces, and cheese from 4 s. to
6 s. the stone of 28 English lbs*.  Barley sells from 15 s.
to 20 s., oats from 12 s. to 16 s. 8 d. the boll; potatoes
from 4 d. to 8 d. the peck, and wool from 9 s. to 20 s. the
stone, of 30 lbs. English.  The fuel commonly made use
of is peat, turf, heath, and sometimes fir and birch.

   Manufactures.-The only branch of manufacture in
this country, is the spinning of linen yarn.  Lint is im-
ported from Aberdeen at the expense of the manufactur-
ing company, and left with the shopkeepers in the unit-
ed parishes; and they are allowed a certain profit for
the trouble of giving out the lint, and taking in the
yarn.  The common price paid for the spinning, is from
10 d. to 1 s. 3 d. the spindle.  This brings a considerable
sum of money into the country; by which the greater 
part of the poorer families are supported, and enabled to

<FOOTNOTE>

*Though there are many black cattle in the two parishes, yet it cannot be
said that much attent of has been paid to the breed in the rearing of them; not
is there any thing that deserves the name of a regular dairy, excepting that at
Invercauld.  Lady Sinclair, in the year 1755, established a dairy under proper
regulations, which was attended with the greatest success.  The butter and
cheese made in this dairy, were of the best quality, and now so well known,
that they need no particular description.  This was owing, in a great measure,
to good old pasture; but principally to the attention paid to the breed, in keep-
ing those cows only that had very rich milk, and disposing of such had their
milk white and thin, of a poor quality, which happened often then, though rarely
now, but which has made this breed of cattle, though but of a middling size,
very valuable to those who wish to have a good dairy.


