
764                          AYRSHIRE.

spirituous liquors in the village, and eight in the country part of the
parish.
	The great number of public-bouses, and the low price of whis-
ky, are prejudicial alike to the temporal comfort and moral condi-
tion of the population.
	Fuel.--The only fuel used is coal. The Weston or Crawford-
ston colliery is three and a-half miles from Torbolton. The coal,
which is of excellent quality, costs at the pit 6s. per ton of 20 cwt.
	At Adamhill, two miles from the village, light or cannel coal
can be obtained at 6s. 8d. per ton of 20 cwt.

	January 1842.

                           PARISH OF CRAIGIE. *

		PRESBYTERY OF AYR, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.

		THE REV. JOHN STIRLING, D. D. MINISTER.

		I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
         Boundaries, &c.--This parish  + is bounded on the north by Ric-
carton and Galston; on the east, by Mauchline; on the south, by
Tarbolton, &c.; on the west by Monkton and Symington.
	Topographical Appearances.--The hills near the church, with
the exception of a craggy rock jutting out here and there, are co-
vered with verdure to the very summit, and although comparatively
low, being only about 500 feet above the level of the sea, the view
from them is both extensive and beautiful. The parish contains
a part of the suppressed parish of B`rnweill, the greater part of the
stipend of Barnweill being transferred to the support of the minister
of Stair. The parish is, in a direct line, about seven miles long,
And one and a-half miles broad on an average.

			II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Parochial Registers.--These are, 1st, A register of births and
baptisms. The first baptism recorded is in 1679, and for many
years this register appears to have been irregularly kept. The
births commence to be recorded along with the baptisms in 1807,
and from that time the record is kept pretty regularly 2d, A re-

<FOOTNOTE>Drawn up by Mr James Watson, schoolmaster.
           Craigie parish and that of Riccarton were formerly united, but were disjoined
In 1647.
					4


