
				CLYNE				      157

	the interior and occupied a greater extent of land, they enjoy in
	general an abundant and varied supply at all seasons of the year.
	There is no family without some land, and few but keep one or
	more cows and a pig.  Their lots of land supply potatoes, some
	meal, and other necessaries.  The more industrious secure a store
	of herrings and other fish ; purchase some sheep or a cow, and kill
	a pig for winter food.  Therefore, it may confidently be said, that,
	on the whole, they enjoy, in a reasonable degree, the comforts and
	advantages of society; and their cheerful industrious habits are the
	best criterion of their being contented with their situation and cir-
	cumstances.
	   They have acquired, in common with the people of the country,
	a taste for evangelical preaching, and cherish a warm attachment
	towards the Established Church.  No Dissenting preacher has
	attempted to gain a footing in the parish; and it would be in vain,
	so long as the present able and zealous minister continues to pos-
	sess the confidence and affections of his people.  There is neither
	a professed Dissenter nor Roman Catholic in the parish; and,
	what may seem extraordinary, there is not one of the latter per-
	suasion among the natives of the county, in a population of 26,000
	souls.  Though the country people are but little educated, they
	will soon discover an error in doctrine, and can quote scripture in
	support of their arguments with surprising readiness and accuracy.
	They are not fanatical nor given to prejudice, if directed by a
	clergyman whom they respect; and a mutual esteem and attach-
	ment is soon established betwixt the pastor and his flock, such as
	is described in the early and purer days of our church.
	   The poor here are more numerous in proportion to the popula-
	tion than in the adjoining parishes of Loth and Golspie, and
	the inhabitants generally are not in such good circumstances as in
	these parishes, which is thus accounted for:--when the tenants were
	removed from the interior of the country to the coast-side, the poor
	belonging to this and other parts of the estate, and those who were
	unable or unwilling to occupy and improve lots of land, settled in
	the vicinity of the coal-pits, where they were insured abundance of
	fuel, without pay or trouble; and living among men in the regular
	receipt of high wages, they were sure to obtain a share of these earn -
	ings; but when the works ceased, they enjoyed no such advan-
	tages, and, being thrown on their own resources, they soon became
	a burden on the community.  On the other hand, the people of
	Loth are enriched by the herring-fishing, and the high price paid


