
42                     BERWICKSHIRE.

and as the Kaimes are composed of similar materials reduced to
a very moderate size, its formation is to be ascribed to the same
cause. It is generally allowed that mosses are produced from de-
cayed vegetable matter, such as wood, furze, fern, &c. Now, if it
be admitted that Dugden Moss was at one time an extensive wood,
the waters subsiding at the universal deluge, or some more partial
inundation, and rushing with great impetuosity from the Dirring-
ton Laws, which are about two miles north-west from the Kaimes,
would carry with them all the wood and Underwood to a conside-
rable distance, till the collected materials would form a kind of
dam or weir, through which the waters could not penetrate, and
would force up against this dam or weir the gravel and sand which
form the ridge, in the same manner as is frequently done by rivers
in certain parts of their courses during great floods. The mate-
rials of which the ridge is composed, and its shape, which is some-
what like a horse-shoe with the hollow towards the hills, favour
this explanation.
   Dugden moss, which consists of about 500 acres, is in some
places ten feet deep. The peats, when dug from the bottom and
properly dried, are little inferior to coals. The moss rests upon
a fine sand.
                      II.-CIVIL HISTORY. *
   Land-owners.-Sir William Purves Hume Campbell, Bart. of
Marchmont, is the chief land-owner, and possesses about two-
thirds of the lands of the parish. The other heritors are David
Anderson, Esq. of Rochester; Robert Nisbet, Esq. of Lambden;
and the Managers of the Orphan Hospital, to whom the farm of
Old Greenlaw belongs.
   Parochial Register.-The date of the earliest entry in the pa-
rochial registers is 1669. The registers are not voluminous, nor
are they quite entire. They are now kept as they ought to be, and
according to a prescribed plan.
   Antiquities.-There were to be seen a few years ago in this

<FOOTNOTE>There is a tradition that, upon one occasion, when Sir Patrick Home of Polwarth
(afterwards created Earl of Marchmont) was obliged to flee Redbraes house, now
called Marchmont, he crossed the country a little above Greenlaw, where he met with
a man of the name of Broomfield, the miller of Greenlaw mill, who was repairing a
slap in the mill caul. Sir Patrick addressing him by the occupation in which he was
engaged, said, Slap, have you any money? upon which Broomfield supplied him with
what was considered necessary for his present exigency. Sir Patrick was obliged
about this time to go over to Holland, and when he came back with King William,
did not forget his former benefactor. It is not known what return he made him, but
the family were settled in a free house so long as they lived, and always retained the
name of Slap. The last of the family died about fourteen years ago, and frequent
mention is made in the kirk-session records of Broomfield of Slap.



