
                         ABERNETHY.                           93


                    II.-CIVIL HISTORY.

     Land-owners.-The Earl of Seafield is proprietor of the great
  estate of Grant.  The chief persons of the Grant family have
  been baronets for several centuries; and have maintained very re-
  spectable characters. His Lordship's heir-apparent is Colonel the
  Honourable Francis William Grant of Grant, who has several sons.
     Eminent Men.-Connected with this parish was Francis Grant,
  Lord Cullen, an eminent lawyer and Judge in Scotland, and born
  about the year 1660.  He distinguished himself at the Revolution
  by a treatise which he wrotd to prove that James had abdicated the
  crown, at the time of agitating the question of the Union of Eng-
  land and Scotland.  He was created a baronet by Queen Anne,
  and about a year after was appointed a Judge.  He died in the
  sixty-sixth year of his age.
     Patrick Grant was born in Edinburgh, in 1696, and in 1754 was
  made one of the Lords of Session, With the title of Lord Preston-
  grange.  He also was connected with this parish.  He wrote seve-
  ral tracts against the Rebellion of 1745, and was a distinguished
  lawyer.  He died at Edinburgh in the sixty-fourth year of his age.

                      <TABLE=III.-POPULATION.>
              Amount of population in 1811,	  1709
                                      1821,   1968
                                      1831,   2092
  The number of families is                                 445
                 chiefly employed in agriculture,           204
                        trade, manufactures, and handicraft, 79

                    	IV.-INDUSTRY.
     I am informed that there are 7000 acres of the Grant estate,
  in Abernethy, under fir of natural growth.  The arable ground
  in the parish bears but a small proportion to the uncultivated,-
  a great part of the surface being covered with wood.  There are
  some farms in the parish in a high degree of improvement,-having
  substantial and commodious buildings, and fields properly ctltivated
  by strong horses and implements of the best form.
     An uninterrupted manufacture of timber has been carried on in
  the Abernethy district for more than sixty years.  The  York
  Building Company, in 1728, purchased the timber of the woods of
  Abernethy-to a great amount.  Extensive, indeed, was their be-
  ginning; every kind of implement was of the best form: saw-
  mills, smelting furnaces for iron ore, manufacturing bricks, &C.
  &c.-all surprising novelties in the place,-were commenced, and
  carried on for seven years.  They, imparted much useful know-


