
	GRAITNEY.                             271

berality of the heritors. There is much need of the extension of
a similar favour to the western district of the parish. There are
also three private seminaries, the teachers of which are solely de-
pendent upon the number of their scholars; altogether, 250 child-
ren may be taught in these schools. There is also a Sabbath
school, attended by about 140 scholars, which is maintained chief-
ly by donations from the heritors. The Earl of Mansfield, the pa-
tron of the parish, contributes L.5 a-year, and the other heritors
an equal sum to this institution, which is generally allowed to
have been productive of the happiest effects, in the moral and re-
ligious improvement of the riring generation.
	Charitable Institutions, &c.--There is a friendly society in this
parish, the object of which is to provide for the support of those
who, by sickness or old age, are rendered incapable of earning a
livelihood. It was instituted nearly fifty years ago, and is chiefly
composed of labourers and mechanics, though others encourage
it by their contributions. Each member contributes a small sum
quarterly, which has gradually accumulated to a very large
amount.
	Poor.--The poor are maintained by church collections and the
voluntary contributions of the heritors, who meet with the minister
every half year to inspect the roll. The average number of those
who receive parochial relief is 30. They are of two classes, which
contain nearly equal numbers; the occasional poor, who are sup-
plied from the church funds quarterly; and the regular paupers, main-
tained chiefly by the contributions of the heritors, which are strictly
regulated according to the respective valuations of their estates.
The average sum of L.80 per annum is thus conferred, but it varies
according to the number and necessities of the applicants for re-
lief. The generality of the people regard such means of support
as no degradation, and feel much inclined to force the heritors to
a legal assessment, which can only be prevented by the firmness
of the kirk-session, the unity of the heritnrs, and by their regula-
rity in meeting and contributing according to the real wants of the
poor. These feelings on the part of the people are mainly to be at-
tributed to the practice of our English neighbours, whose stand-
ard of independence has been sadly lowered by the operation, or
rather by the abuse, of poor rates.
	Inns.--Four of the inns in this parish may justly be regarded
as useful for the refreshment of travellers passing through the pa-
rish; in particular, that of Gretna-hall, which is the largest and
most commodious, and where post horses, chaises, and every other


