
224             GENERAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE

The Mull of Galloway they called Promontorium Novantium; the
Luce Bay Abravannus Sinus; the Wigton Bay Jena fluvius.
Galloway was invaded by the Romans; but no Roman colony
seems to have been established there; nor were the original in-
habitants driven away. On the abdication of the Romans in 448,
this province was over-run by the Anglo-Saxons of Northumbria;
to whom it remained partially subject till the beginning of the
ninth century. The inhabitants, owing to the extinction of the
Northumbrian dynasty in 820, having gained their independence,
fell a prey to the Picts; a race of men, who, whatever was their
origin, flourished and became eminent in Galloway, after thehr
name had been forgotten in other districts. But notwithstanding
of their successively falling under the dominion of these various
tribes, the original Celtic inhabitants of Galloway were never en-
threly displaced. On the contrary, they contrived to retain their
customs and manners, and, in many respects, to preserve, if we
may so speak, their nationality. They were distinguished for dar-
ing heroism and intrepidity, insomuch that they obtained the ap-
pellation of " the wild Scots of Galloway," and were granted, by
the Scottish Kings, the privilege of forming the van in every bat-
tle at which they might be present. Of their leaders or rulers we
have, for a long, time, but little account. Jacobus, " the ruler
of Galloway," is mentioned as one of the eight reguli who met at
Chester in 973. Ulrig and Dovenald (M'Dowall, still represented
by the M'Dowalls of Logan, in the parish of Kirkmaiden, in Wig-
tonshire,) the leaders of the Gallovidians, acted a conspicuous part,
with their followers, at the battle of the Standard in 1138, in which
they were both slain. But the first " Lord of Galloway" was
Fergus, of whose parentage nothing is known, though there is no
doubt that he represented a family who had long been powerful
in the province. The Gallovidians were, for about a century, ruled
over by their own independent princes or "Lords," the descen-
dants of Fergus. They frequently revolted against the Scottish
King, and carried on war against their sovereign with various suc-
cess. On the death of Allan, the last Lord of Galloway, his power
and domains were, in 1234, subdivided among his three daugh-
ters,--which introduced new families and new customs. He had
been twice married: his second wife was Margaret, daughter
of David, Earl of Huntingdon. His daughter, Elena, was mar-
ried to the Earl of Winchester; Christian, to the Earl of Albe-
marle; and Devorgille, to John Baliol of Bernard Castle. The


