
                                     PERTH.                           3

      and other mouldering rocks, which at one period crowned the more
      elevated ridges. The low grounds along the bank of the Tay
      are composed chiefly of aluminous earth or clay, resting on beds of
      graveland other alluvial, or rather lacustrine deposits, and are well
      adapted for bearing every species of grain. Their height above
      the mean level of the sea, varies from 20 to 30 feet, and as the
      plain on which the town is erected is still lower, it is occasionally
      exposed, during a flooded state of the Tay, to the inconvenience
      of partial inundation.
         Cultivation has been carried in the parish almost to the sum-
      mit of the hills, insomuch that crops of every description are rais-
      ed within 200 feet of the most elevated point.
         The following heights have been carefully ascertained by the ba-
      rometer.

<TABLE>
                Highest point of Edinburgh road (Mordun hill,) 182 feet;.
                Hill above Friartown Turnpike,                 345
                St Magdalene's hill,                           462
                Highest point on west side of the parish,      618
                Monerieff hill,                                756

         No caverns or fissures that can claim particular notice are to be
      found in the parish, excepting perhaps on the south side of Moncrieff
      hill, the precipitous face of which exhibits some basaltic rocks of a
      columnar structure, occasionally standing out in detached masses
      of the most fantastic forms, and separated from the main body of the
      trap rocks, with which they are connected by intervening fissures
      of considerable width.
         Geology.-The greater part of the parish rests upon the red
      sandstone formation, which stretches through the valleys of Strath-
      more and Strathearn. The character of this rock, wherever it pre-
      sents itself in the neighbourhood, whether in artificial excavations,
      or deep ravines formed by the action of water, exhibits little varia-
      tion, either in composition or external appearance. In some few
      instances, the mica predominates, and being feebly united with the
      siliceous particles by means ofan argillaceous cement, the stone,
      when exposed to the weather, crumbles down, and is thus unfit for
      the purpose of building. Occasionally nodules of granite, primitive
      limestone, porphyrifie trap, Lydian stone, and hard masses of  in-
      durated clay are imbedded the sandstone; but no organic remains,
      either of an animal or vegetable nature, have at any time been dis-
      covered in it within the parish.
         Dip and direction of the Stratifitation.-The dip of the strati-
      fied rocks, which is towards the north-west, has been carefully ex-

