
     of Buittle.

in different parts of the country, would lead one to think
that iron had been wrought in this part of the world, at a
very early period.  There is still marl in almost every moss;
but, as lime can be had by water carriage, marl is now but
little valued.

   Farms, Rents, and Proprietors:-The generality of farms
in Buittle are of moderate extent.  Some there are of 300
acres or more; but these, (with an exception or two), con-
sist of broken or hilly ground.-There may be about half a
dozen farmers in the parish, who pay 200 l. a year of rent,

bones++.  Nevertheless, as the chains, collars, etc. seem as fit
for holding living bodies as dead ones, there is room to believe
those oblong squares were places of sacrifice, or of punishment,
which are mostly found synonimous terms, when human sacri-
fice is in the question.  The Scotch are assuredly either of Ger-
man or Gaelic extraction, perhaps a mixture of both.  As to
the funerals of these nations, Tacitus expressly says, the Ger-
mans used the rogus in the common manner; and Caesar says,
the Gauls burnt their dead, but states no peculiarities; on the
contrary, he rather transcribes Homer on the subject.  Regard-
ing the religion of these nations, however, Tacitus says, the
Germans did offer human sacrifices to Mercury; and Caesar,
(lib. vi. cap. 16.) says, The Gauls offered human sacrifices, some
of a private, some of a public nature.  He adds, that they sa-
crificed in this last manner criminals, as most acceptable to the
Gods; but innocent people, if criminal could not be found.-
One of the oblong courts or squares is not far from the cavern
already mentioned.  This leads one to compare what Mr Bruce
says about the inhabitants at the source of the Nile, their car-
rying part of their sacrifices into caves, with the assertion of Ta-
citus, that the Germans had the Egyptian religion, or at least
worshipped Isis.  Perhaps this is the only faint argument, that
could connect the caves already mentioned, with the religion of
the Gauls or Germans.

<FOOTNOTE>

++See M. COPLAND of Kings-Grange's very ingenious treatise on
this subject, presented to the Manchester Society of Antiquities.

     VOL. XVII.


