
202                      RENFREWSHIRE.

which, till lately, gave to the place the popular name of "Brig o'
Johnston," merely a few cottages were to be seen, where now is a
town consisting of two large squares, many considerable streets,
and.numerous public works. This town is about four miles west
from Paisley, and about eleven from Glasgow. Its situation is very
pleasant, being contiguous to the Black Car.  It is probable that,
at this day, it would either not have existed, or if it bad, have been
confined to the few cottages near the bridge, had not the late pub-
lic-spirited proprietor, by his influence and example, excited a spi-
rit of industry among its inhabitants, and cherished it by his pa-
ternal care.  The spirit he infused has continued to manifest itself,
in the increasing wealth and prosperity of its enlightened and
enterprising merchants and tradesmen.
   The rapid increase of this place is not exceeded, if equalled, in
the annals of Scottish history. It began to be feued in the year
1781, when it contained only ten persons.   Towards the end of
October 1782, nine houses of the New Town of Johnston were
built, two others were being erected, and ground on which forty-
two more were to be built was feued. In 1792, the inhabitants
amounted to 1434 in number; in 1811, to 3647; in 1818, to about
5000; and in 1831, to 5617.
   As the introduction of the manufacture of cotton yarn by mill
machinery led to the founding of Johnston, so has the extension
of the same manufacture contributed to its rapid increase and pre-
sent prosperity.  Within the boundary of this place are situated not
less than eleven cotton mills.
   The town of Johnston is built on a very regular plan.  Besides
Houston Square, in the centre of the town, which is now built up
on every side, there is to the southward a large area, intended to
be a second square, as well as market place, which is already
beginning to be enclosed with neat houses.  High Street, which
extends from the bridge of Johnston to Dick's Bridge on the east,
is closely built, as are several other streets, branching at right an-
gles from both its sides.  The houses in Johnston are, for the
most part, two and three stories in height, handsomely composed
of good mason work.  To each house is attached an adequate ex-
tent of garden ground.  The shops are numerous, some of them
elegant, and in general, well stocked with varieties of excellent com-
modities.
   The civil Polity of the town is managed by a committee elected


