
			 CARDROSS.                           89

spent upon these the time they could spare from the pursuits of
trade, brought along with them a share of its profits to aid in
" subduing the soil." But, generally speaking, land was owned
by laird, whose scanty rentals gave them little opportunity for
speculative amellorations, and was occupied, in minute subdivisions,
by a race of wretched cottars, whose utmost hope was to scourge
out of their crofts  \a3 bare pittance for the support of their nume-
rous families, after paving in kind the stipulated mail In the
absence of all demand for labour, nothing flourished but indolence
and idleness; and as tbe few necessaries of life were obtained
chiefly by barter, the circulation of money was scarcely known.
A slight change for the better succeeded the rebellion of 1745 ;
but until the end of last century, the outlay of proprietors scarcely
extended beyond the mains or home-farm; and the system of small
possessions was rarely disturbed. During the last forty years, how-
ever, improvement has advanced with rapid strides. Several of
the ancient landholders have increased their wealth from incidental
sources, while others have sold their estates to persons possessing
the means of turning them to better account. The money which
they have thus been enabled to spend on roads, enclosures, build-
ings, and agriculture, has not only augmented the actual value of
the soil, but has, by circulating through the district, laid the foun-
dation of capital, which, rapidly accumulating from the annual re-
turns of produce, has given to the tenantry the means of co-ope-
rating with their landlords. Large tracts of waste land have thus
been brought into tillage, while that which was formerly cultivated
has been rendered infinitely more productive by draining, level-
ling, and manuring.* The cottaries have been converted into
farms; the crofts into convenient fields : the use of drift sea-weed
has either been superseded.by lirne and dung, produced in the
farm-yards or imported from Greenock, or, where it is continued,
it is purified by being rotted into composts. The ancient occu-
piers, in order to make way for substantial tenants, have, from
starving on their pendicles, been converted into day-labourers or
artisans, and so enabled to earn a comfortable subsistence. Sub-
stantial steadings have replaced the dry-stone hovels of this class,
and begin to engraft upon the proverbial filth of Scotland habits
of neatness and comfort In these, as well as in many other re-
 
<FOOTNOTE>Draining, on the improved system, has been lately carried on to a large extent
by Mr Campbell of Camis Eskan and other proprietors, and is now in very general
use in the parish.


