
<APPENDIX>

xxxviii

-These are considerations, which must, have sufficient weight with every
Clergyman, who has either any regard for his own order, or any attachment
for the country at large, to make every exertion in transmitting, with all
convement speed, the information that is required.  As yet, indeed, there
has been no cause for complaint.  Returns have already been sent from
about one half of the Parishes in Scotland; and, if the remainder were re-
ceived, previous to the Meeting of the ensuing General Assembly, the pu-
blication of the STATISTICAL SURVEY OF SCOTLAND might be com-
pleted in the course of the year 1792, or, at farthest, within three years
from its commencement, in May 1790; and consequently, with a degree
of rapidity and success, which none but the most sanguine could have
looked for.

<FOOTNOTE>

reached L. 2000; which, it was supposed, the sale of the STATISTICAL
ACCOUNT OF SCOTLAND would complete.
   Regretting that any time should be lost, in commencing so useful a distribu-
tion, I took the liberty of suggesting a petition to the Crown for some pecu-
niary aid.  It was with some difficulty, that I prevailed upon the Society to
make the application.  At first they were resolved to decline it, as appears from
a letter I received from Dr Hardy, dated the 9th May 1792, in which that re-
spectable Clergyman states:  "I have delayed answering your letter, inclosing
" a draught of a petition for aid to the Sons of the Clergy, till I should have
" conversed with several of the members of the Society, who have taken
" an active part in its affairs.  We all consider the Society as very much in-
" debted to you, both upon the ground of the statistical inquiries, and on
" your readiness on this occasion, to exert yourself for some immediate pe-
" cuniary giant, to bring its capital into a situation which may authorise
" a commencement of distribution.  All of the gentlemen with whom I
" have conversed on this point, express, however, a reluctance to take so
" pointed a step, as a petition for pecuniary aid in this case, as there is
" no specific fund in view on which a probable claim might be laid, but
" only the privy purse to which our petition could refer.  We are afraid
" that a repulse might expose the Society to some blame in the view of
" the public, and our existence depends on our being able to preserve
" the full and unmixed approbation of the country."
But upon my pressing it again, it was at last agreed to, and fortunately
succeeded, and now the Society is placed in such a situation, that it cannot
fail to prove materially serviceable to the sons of a most valuable body of
men, and I trust that ere long its funds will enable it to extend its atten-
tion to the Daughters of the Clergy also.


