
150                             AYRSHIRE.

direction, according as the substance is hard or soft, through which
they pass, and vary in wideness from a quarter of an inch to four
or five feet. When these slips are wide, the coal on each side of
them is generally bad, the strata bent in the direction of the slip,
and the coal beds much thinner. There are three stages or dikes
found in this coal-field, varying in thickness from 2 inches to 122
feet, composed of greenstone, porphyritic claystone, and calcareous
spar. The coal is always bad near these stages. Its natural fissures
are filled with sulphate of lime, or iron pyrites, which increase as they
approach the stage, until the coal becomes a mass of black sooty
matter, called by the miners dander coal, resembling charcoal in
its colour and specific gravity. The thickness of the stage de-
terminies in general the extent of this coal, as it is to be found
lying on each side of it in the proportion of one-half of its thick-
ness, and is always arranged in columns resting upon the stage.
The coal in this parish is the independent formation of Werner,
and the rocks to be found are generally those which are connected,
and have a strong affinity with it, viz. conglomerate, sandstone,
limestone, slate-clay, porphyritic claystone, bituminous shale, clay,
ironstone, greenstone, &c. Vegetable remains are to be found
in only two of the seams of coal, in the roof of one and mixed
through the other. Shells perfectly white are to be found in the
ironstone clay, and numerous vegetable impressions in the iron-
stone. The most perfect, however, are to be found in the
stone and indurated clay connected with it. The smaller impres-
sions appear to be of such plants as flourish in marshes and woods,
and the leaves and stems of the larger resemble those of palms
and ferns.
	Ores.--Iron ore, lead, and manganese have been found, and the
two former wrought, but the experiment was given up, the veins
being found poor and unproductive.
	Soils.--Sand, clay, gravel, loam, and moss are the principal allu-
vial deposits. They are to be found of various thicknesses. The
moss in particular varies from one to twenty feet. Entire hazel-
nuts have been found in the latter, and large trees of oak, fir, and
birth are abundant. Moss is the principal soil, covering at least
two-third parts of the surface of th parish, add to be found in
three different species, as flow-moss, bent-moss, and hill-moss.
The principal plants, according to Mr Aiton, which go to the for-
mation, and which are to be found on these different mosses, are.--
				3

