
            1182    	                 PERTHSHIRE.

            are of a tenacious whitish clay, generally incumbent on sand, and
            retain marks of old tracts of the Ericht.
              Zoology.-There is nothing very peculiar or interesting in the
            Zoology of this parish.  Among the rarer species of birds may be
            mentioned the Muscicapa grisola, the fly-catcher.  A pair of these
            built, for many successive seasons, in the cleft of a weeping birch,
            immediately before the manse.  A felonious squirrel plundered
            their nest three years ago, when they shifted their quarters to a
            jargonelle pear tree on the end of the manse.  This bird has in-
            creased very much within these last fifteen years, and perhaps
            twenty pairs of them now may be found scattered throughout the
            warmer localities in Strathmore.  It is the latest of all our stim-
            mer migrants, and is singularly punctual to its time, having arriv-
            ed for many xears on the 31st of May.   On the morning Of that
            day, I now infallibly expect to be greeted by the appearance of this
            gentle mannered bird.  The Haematopus ostralegus, the oyster-
            catcher, builds regularly on the gravelly banks of the Ericht, and
            yet ornithologists* say, that " this bird is never found inland."  I
            observe that Dr Fleming, in his British Animals, notices the
            error.  We have flocks of Sturnus vulgaris, the starling, in au-
            tumn and winter, but a pair or two of these birds have for two or
            three seasons built in the cavities of some elm trees at Coupar-
            Grange.  The Parus caudatus, the long-tailed titmouse, builds
            near the Strone of Cally, and the parents, with their brood, gene-
            rally a numerous one, keeping together until next spring, may be
            seen during autumn and winter flitting from tree to tree,-a happy
            family party.  The Fringilla spinus, the siskin, is a frequent winter
            visitant, and I have noticed a distinctly marked variety of this
            bird.  The Loxia eurvirostra, the cross-bill, has of late years been
            frequent in our pine woods, and I have reason to suppose that they
            breed sometimes with us.  The Regulus crist`tus, the golden-
            crested wren, abounds in our woods,  although at one time appa-
            rently rare.  The Alcedo ispida the kingfisher, is seen occa-
            sionally on the banks of our rivers,-dazzling the patient angler with
            the brilliancy of itis plumage.  The Fringilla montifringilla, com-
            mon.  Emberiza nivalis, rare.  Mergue merganser, frequents, and
            as stragglers may be mentioned, the Podiceps cristatus, and, rubricol-
            lis,  Anser ferus, Cygnus ferus, and Alca Torda.  Partridge and phea-
            nant are found, the former abundantly, and in the  Highland part

            <FOOTNOTE> See Bewick, and Wilson's American Ornithology, edited by Professor Jameson.


