
                            DUNSYRE.                           65

   Meteorology.-In summer, Fahrenheit's thermometer averages
from 60&deg; to 70&deg;, and in winter from 40&deg; to 44&deg; but in frost the
range is from 22&deg; to 34&deg;.  It has sometimes been as low as 16&deg;,
but very seldom.  The general range of the barometer is betwixt
29 and 30, so that the average may be stated at 29.5.  It has been
as high as 30.6, and as low as 28.5; but these are extremes which
it rarely approaches.
   The valley of Dunsyre lies almost due east and west, having on
each side a range of hills.  The rainbow often exhibits a most
beautiful and imposing appearance in this valley. This generally
happens where the sun is in the west.  Three irises are usually
seen: I have beheld three entire, and the fourth imperfectly
formed.  The most prevailing winds in the parish are those from
the west.  They often sweep the valley with great violence, being
confined by the ranges of the mountains.  The soft freestone with
which the houses are generally built becomes damp several hours
and even days previous to a storm of wind and rain; a certain in-
dication of a change of weather.  As a symptom of the dampness
of the climate, the doors in the interior of the houses frequently
stand covered with drops of damp, which run in streams to the
floor.  This must arise in a great measure from the extent of flat
marshy ground on the banks of the river, where the water is al-
most in a stagnant state, and renders the river in many places im-
passable.  Rheumatism consequently prevails, and there are very
few who escape its excruciating ravages.  Nervous disorders, pro-
bably originating in the same cause, are also common.
   Hydrography.-There is abundance of fine springs in this pa-
rish. O ne which is in great esteem issues from a rock of whin-
stone, on the face of Dunsyre-hill, and seems to be affected neither
by summer drought nor winter rains.  There is another very
abundant spring on the glebe, called the Curate's well.  It con-
sists of two circular holes filled with soft sand, from which the
water issues; and all around, the ground is composed of the
hardest clay and gravel.  At intervals of five or ten minutes, it
bubbles up at three apertures, as if it emitted air.  There is ano-
ther remarkable stream at Easton.  It flows in great abundance,
and if wood be left for any length of time in its wators, it becomes
encrusted over with a white substance.  It appears to issue from a
red freestone rock,-as, this seems to lie, in a thick bed all around,
three or four feet from the surface; or perhaps from limestone
which may be below the freestone.  There is another fine spring


