
758                        LANARKSHIRE.

ficial emoluments way amount altogether to about L. 90 per an-
num.  The teacher at Larkhall has a good house, school-room,
and garden, with an annual salary of L. 5.  His income from
school-fees cannot be accurately stated.  The school can accommo-
date about seventy scholars, and is generally well attended. His
emoluments altogether do not exceed L. 40 or L. 45 a year.  The
fees in the parish school (and the rate does not differ materially in
the other schools of the parish) are, English reading and grammar,
per quarter, 2s.; do. with writing, 3s. ; arithmetic and mathema-
tics, 4s.; book-keeping per set, 10s. 6d.; Latin, &c. per quar-
ter, 5s.
   In the parish schools the Bible is the standard book, and the
Assembly's Catechism is regularly taught and explained.  The
other school books are of proper kinds, and the mode of teaching,
without being exactly adapted to the present fashion, has been im-
proved in many instances, and is in course of improvement.  The
number of private schools varies considerably in a very short pe-
riod.  In reply to the Lord Advocate's queries in 1835, five were
reported, attended by about 230 children.   At present, there are
only two worth mentioning, namely, one in Larkhall, and another
in Millheugh, both of them efficiently taught and well attended.
The branches taught in the private schools are in general only
English, writing, 'and arithmetic.  No high standard of qualifica-
tions can be required where the emoluments are so small.  The
interference of Government is essentially requisite, in order to pro-
cure a better class of teachers, and a more efficient and extended
system of education, for the largely increased population of this
manufacturing district.  The provision made by law at present is
quite inadequate.  It will be a pity if any new schools that may be
erected by the aid of Parliament, are not placed as heretofore,
under the superintendence and control of the Established Church,
which has, by long experience, so amply vindibated its claim to
praise in regard to promoting and watching over the interests of
education.  From the preceding statement of fees it will be seen
that the expense of education is the reverse of being oppressive.
School wages, however, are in general ill paid.  The people are
by no means indifferent to the benefit of having their children
taught to read and write; but poor parents are often tempted to
take their boys and girls alike from school far too early, and to
employ them at the weaving-loom and tambouring-frame before
they have been even taught to read perfectly.  Any deficiency of
                             4


