
			NEWTON-UPON-AYR.                        91

nella, which is scarcely to be met with in another parish in the
county, is here found growing in a small patch of ground among
pure sand, within a little distance of the store.
			II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Constitution of the Burgh.--The constitution of this burgh,
particularly with regard to the property belonging to it, is very
singular, and can only be paralleled by that of the neighbouring
burgh of Prestwick. The date of its erection cannot be ascer-
tained, as the original charter of its creation has been lost. But
it is traditionally ascribed to a grant by Robert the Bruce, in fa-
vour of forty-eight of the inhabitants who had distinguished them-
selves at the battle of Bannockburn in 1314. It is matter of his-
tory that Robert was present at the Parliament held at Ayr on
the 26th April 1315, when the crown was settled on him and his
descendants; and it is certain, from documentary evidence, that
the erection of the burgh and the territorial grant to the freemen,
must have occured between 1208-14, and 1446. All its previ-
ously-existing privileges were, however, renewed and confirmed by
a charter granted by James VI. dated in 1595; and by a second
charter, granted by him in 1600; which proceed on the narrative
of certain ancient writings and title-deeds having been exhibited
to his Majesty respecting the original erection of the burgh, and
of its former charters having been lost by reason of the wars and
dissensions of the times.
	In these charters the lands of the parish, with the whole privi-
leges thereto attached, as the same had been enjoyed by their
ancestors, are granted anew to the burgesses; with power to grant
feus, and divide among themselves the territorial possessions thus
conveyed to them. They are also empowered to elect bailies, a
treasurer, councillors, and other officers necessary for the govern-
ment of the burgh.
	The number of freemen among whom the partition of the com-
mon property could be made, was, from the earliest times, limited
to forty-eight, who were regarded as exclusively composing the
community. Sons of burgesses, and failing sons, their sons-in-law,
succeeded to the burgess-ship of their father, and to his portion of
the lands, and other possessions of the burgh. But latterly,
daughters have been admitted as well as sons, and other relations
besides direct descendants, to inherit the rights of freedom; and
in certain cases the widows of freemen have been admitted to en-
joy the life-rent of the lot or portion of lands, which belonged to


