
                        EASTWOOD.                         39

Esq. writer, Paisley; Dr Macathur, Glasgow. They are all non-
resident, with the exception of Sir J. Maxwell and Messrs Crum.
  There are in the parish 1 fatuous, 4 blind, and 4 deaf and dumb
persons.

                           IV.--INDUSTRY.
  Agriculture.--The whole parish, excepting what is built upon,
or occupied with wood, consists of arable land.  There are nei-
ther waste lands nor common; and the total number of acres, stan-
dard imperial measure, is about 5000.  The number of acres
under natural or copse-wood is 250, and there are about 100
acres under planted timber. The trees generally planted are, oak,
ash, elm, sycamore, beech, larch, Scotch fir, silver fir, and spruce.
  Rent of Land.--The average rent of land is about L.2 per im-
rial acre. The `verage rent of grazing is L.4 per ox or cow.
There are no sheep farms in the parish.
  Rate of Wages.--The wages of day-labourers are from 10s. to
12s. per week.  Those of farm-servants are from L.8 to L.10
for the half year, with bed, board, and washing.  Their food con-
sists principally of preparations of oatmeal and milk, morning and
evening, and of broth and beef to dinner; and the custom still
generally prevails of the servants sitting at the same table eith
their masters.
  Live-Stock.-The cattle in the parish are chiefly of the Cun-
ningham or Ayrshire breed.  Considrable attention has been paid
of late to its improvement.  Still, however, the breding of cattle
is considered but a matter of secondary importance; and, owing
both to this circumstance, and to the inferiority of the pasture
lands, the cattle are note equal to those reared in some of the
neighbouring parishes, particularly those in the west.
  Husbandry.-The general mode of farming pursued in the pa-
rish is by a rotation of crops.  Each farm may be pretty accu-
rately diescribed as divided into five parts.  One part, after lying
in pasture for the period of one season only, is ploughed up and
sown with oats.  The succeeding year, it is planted with potatoes
The year following, it is sown with wheat, and laid down with grass
seeds for a crop of hay.
   Thd farm building are of one story in height, and all, with
one or two exceptions, slated,-affording every accommodation
which the tenants require. The eclosures contain from five to
twenty acres.
    The principal improvements that have recently been introduced


