
352                                   AYRSHIRE.

resembling the trap of the Heads in their proximity, and again at a
distance becoming quite hard and basaltic. The whole coast onward
to the Rancoch Glen, the southern boundary of the parish, may
be described as similarly constituted,--the sandstone and conglo-
merate having throughout the same dip, and the trap appearing
at intervals, either in veins or rising in more largely developed
masses, forming lofty cliffs. It is, however, obvious that the strata
now referred to are quite of a different character from those ob-
served on the northern side of the Heads. The beds of sandstone
are of a redder colour and gre`ter thickness, and often pass into
conglomerate; and, as their inclination shows that they dip under
the former, which belong to the carboniferous series, we can have
no hesitation in assigning them to the old red sandstone, and as
occupying the same relative position with the sandstone on the
north side of the anticlinal axis in Glen Sannox.
	The prosecution of the survey along the coast of the parish of
Kirkoswald, it may be added, presents a strong proof of the ac-
curacy of this conclusion. The sandstone between the Rancoch
Glen and the trap of Culzean Castle rock, at the Maidens, and for
a considerable stretch of the coast beyond Turnbury, still main-
tains the same character and dip till within about half a mile of the
farm of Dowhill, when the inclination changes to the south-west,
and the strata then dip under the carboniferous series of the Gir-
van water, in correspondence with what is observed on the south-
ern side of the Glen Sannox axis.
	In tracing the strata stretching throughout the inland part of
the parish, we find the same appearances as have been noticed on
the line of coast. The whole of the red sandstone north and east
of the town of Maybole dips towards the north-east under the coal
measures of the Ayr field, and again, on approaching the Girvan
water by the Kilkerran road, we observe it changing to the
south-west, and dipping under thd coal in the trough of that
river.
	Crystals of quartz of an amethyst colour are found in the trap
at How-muir. The agates of the trap upon the coast have been
much sought after, and are frequently of great size and beauty.
The sandstone at the quarry of St Murrays often affords beautiful
specimens of arborescence, from the presence of the black oxide of
manganese, and it is traversed by veins of lead-ore, which have been
noticed at Knockdon and the manse.


