
                               CLATT.                        847

   Climate.-As the parish lies at an elevation of upwards of 600
feet, and in the northern vicinity of a mountain of at least 1300
feet above the level of the sea, the climate is colder than in the
lower parishes of the county. In consequence, however, of an
extensive and efficient draining of moss and marshy ground, the
climate has, within the last twenty years, undergone a decidedly
favourable change.  There are no diseases peculiar to the parish.
Many of the inhabitants wear a green old age, and, during the in-
cumbency of the writer, several have died upwards of ninety years
of aoe, and two, with unimpaired faculties, completed a century.
   Springs.-The parish is copiously supplied with the purest wa-
ter from perennial springs, which issue from the sides of the hills
and every smaller eminence.  Though no river of any note flows
through the parish, the union of several streamlets forms the Gady,
famed in song, * which, in its meandering course, turns twelve
threshing-mills and a meal-mill in this parish, within the short
distance of two miles, and, after passing through a highly culti-
vated district, joins the Urie on its way to discharge itself into
the Don at Inverury.
   Mineral Springs.-In several places, there are sulphureous and
chalybeate springs, to which some virtue is attached as diuretics;
but they have never been generally frequented for medicinal pur-
poses.  The strongest chalybeate spring rises near the summit of
Coreen, out-of an irregular mass of broken rock, richly imbedded
with ironstone.  The water has been analyzed, and found to con-
tain nearly the same ingredients as the celebrated mineral waters
of Peterbead.
   Minerals.-This parish, though limited in extent, is not devoid
of interest to the mineralogical inquirer.  In many parts, rocks of
granite and whinstone, with irregular inclinations, are found almost
immediately below the surface of the ground.  From the abun-
dant supply of outlying stones, there exists little necessity of
opening quarries for erecting buildings and enclosures; and only
one quarry of composite rock, of hornblende, quartz, and felspar,
is occasionally worked.  Near the mansion-house of Knockespoch,
veins of a species of variegated marble have been discovered.  It
is, however, of too splintry a nature to admit of its application to

<FOOTNOTE>" I wish I were whare Gadie rins,
'Mang fi-ag-rant heath and yellow whins;
Or crawlin down the boskie linns
At the back o' Bennachie."-&c. &C.


