
108                      PEEBLES-SHIRE

the bustle of the sheep fair.  Why it was removed cannot now be
accurately ascertained, but it may possibly be accounted for, in
the tendency of the seller in dull times to draw towards the buyer;
and about eighty or ninety years ago, the demand being small
might induce store farmers to make a nearer approach to those
arable districts of the country, where they could secure an outlet
for the extra produce of their stock.
    Inns.-There are two inns, clean and comfortable, for the accom-
modation of the people attending the markets.
    Fuel.-There is scarcely such a thing as peat, the principal if not
sole fuel being coal. It is brought from Douglas and Wilsontown,
both places being nearly fourteen miles distant. In consequence
of the long drive, it costs when laid down here at the rate of 2s. 4d.
per load, or about 8d. per cwt. By the wealthier this evil is not
so sensibly felt, but it presses hard upon the poorer class, and were
it not for the attention of Sir T. Carmichael in clearing all the
direct outlay, and of the tenantry in driving coals for them, they
would necessarily and frequently find themselves sufferers from
the inclemency of winter.

		MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
    In the Statistical Account given by the late Rev. Mr Howe, it
is stated that every farmer sowed five or six lipples of flax seed, and
those having small possessions and even cottages two or three lip-
pies, but now this article has scarcely a name among the produc-
tions of the parish.  Cottagers and smaller tenants grow no lint,
and it is rarely to be met with on any of the larger farms, as it is
considered more profitable to purchase it dressed or manufactured
into the fabric than to incur the necessary expenses of raising it at
home. The great advance of rent not only intimates that changes
favourable to the prosperity of the nation have been passing during
the last fortyyears, but likewise that agricultural industry and im-
provement have been progressing. The ten smaller possessions
around the village which formerly were rented at L. 1 and L. 1, 5s.
an acre, now rate as high as L. 3 and L. 4; and the average rental
over the whole parish, instead of 4s. is now 15s. ; while, from any
thing we can learn, the tenant has far less difficulty in answering
the money demands made upon him by the proprietor, and has
received a mighty addition to his personal, family, and domestic
comforts.
    But though much has already been done, there are still improve-
ments of great-benefit which remain to be accomplished. Within


