
                           DURNESS.                       99

judicial system is now employed.  The runrig system is wearing out,
and every township is in the course of being lotted out in regu-
lar divisions, and cottages are building on each lot. Though the
expense and labour of building these be great to the small tenants,
especially in a country where masons and carpenters must be
brough from other places, yet they submit to the charge, though
be leases are given, and have every confidence, that, under the li-
and enlightened management of the family of Sutherland,
they will be furnished with new sources of industry.
   The sheep-farmers have leases of nineteen years; and all of
them have lately made considerable improvements in diking and
surface draining.
   Fisheries.-Herring.-The principal fisheries are the herring,
salmon, and lobster.  The early herring fishing commences in June.
At this season, the fish are so rich that it is difficult to cure them, and
they are sent off weekly to market. The late fishning commences
about the middle of July and continues till September. It was
of late that the out sea fishing commenced on this coast.
And even yet, it hardly remunerates those engaged in it. A
smaller but superior species of herring is found occasionally in
Loch Eriboll; but it is chiefly used for home consumption.  Ten
boats are employed at Rispond: they are each manned by four men
and a boy, and cost each L. 36.
   Lobster Fishing- The lobster fishing commences in May
and is carried on with little intermission till August. Six boats
of fourteen feet keel were employed last season, each boat having
men, and being furnished with twenty or more nets inclosed
a circular iron cylindrical hoops or rings of two and a-half feet
diameter; a piece of herring or gray fish being tied in the centre
of the mesh for bait. The nets are cast into the sea within a few
yards of the shore by one of the men, while the other rows for-
ward; and they are raised in about an hour after. This is conti-
nued from sunset to sunrise.  When a lobster is caught, the large
claws are fastened together by a strong packing thread,-otherwise,
by the muscular strength of their claws, they would soon destroy
each other.  When thus secured, they are conveyed in the morn-
ing to the perforated floating chest, until they are called for week-
ly the welled smacks.
   Cod and Ling Fishing.- Cod and ling, though abundant on the
west, have not been much fished by the natives.
   Salmon Fishing.-The only rivers in which salmon are caught


