
	238                       INVERNESS-SHIRE.

	   Topographical Appearances.-Kilmuir is in a manner bisected by
	the extremity of a range of hills, which passes through it and the ad-
	jacent parishes of Snizort and Portree. The higbest may be com-
	puted to be about 1200 feet above the level of the sea. There is a
	variety of small hills, which are principally green, forming in some
        parts little glens through which  small rivulets run to the sea; in other
	parts, they cause the formation of little lakes, of which there are many
	in the parish. These little hills are, also, in some places totally di-
	vided from the rest of the mountains, and, from their isolated and
	conical appearance, there are to be found here and there truly pictu-
	resque scenes. There is one hill in particular, to the top of which
	the access is easy by a gentle acclivity, while it is found abruptly
	to terminate in a huge perpendicular precipice about 600 feet high,
	overhanging a dark circular lake of great depth. This rock affords
	a secure nestling-place to eagles and other birds of prey.
	   One scene in this parish-that of Quiraing-must be particu-
	larly noticed. This remarkable formation of nature consists of a
	secluded piece of level and fertile ground, which is concealed in
	the face of an almost inaccessible precipice. The hill in which it
	is situated, is about 1000 feet in height, and slopes by a steep de-
	clivity towards the west ; but towards the north-east, it presents a
	face of rugged precipices, much variegated by being here and
	there composed of huge basaltic columns, or massy fragments of
	fluted rocks. In other parts, large spaces, formed into concave
	sections, present themselves to the view, and have a majestic ap-
	pearance, from being ribbed transversely either by small fissures,
	or protuberant seams, over which a little rivulet drizzles in moist
	seasons of the year. In the face of this huge precipice, then,
	Quiraing is enshrined, and entirely hidden from the view of the
	visitor. This interesting spot consists of a green plot of ground,
	formed into an oblong platform of sufficient extent to contain six
	or seven regiments of soldiers. It is studded all round with mas-
	sive columns of rock, rising up in lofty peaks, by the intervention
	of deep chasms, which are for the most part inaccessible. On ap-
	proaching the great inlet to the eagerly looked-for platform, the
	passage is much obtruded by heaps, of stone and rubbish, which
	have been washed down from the crevices by the gradual waste of
	successive ages. When these obstacles are overcome, the visitor
	finds himself at the entrance of a steep passage, which would seem
	to lead to the top of the hill, To the right of this entrance



