
                         CAMBUSNETHAN.                       617

title in 1799, by a decree of the House of Lords. He died at
his seat 20th October 1814.
	By Penelope, daughter of Ranald Macdonald, Esq. of Clanro-
nald, he left Robert Montgomery Hamilton, eighth Lord Bel-
haven, born in 1793. He married in 1816 Hamilton, daughter
of Walter Campbell, Esq. of Shawfield, maternally descended
from the family of Belhaven.
	Garrion, a most romantic spot, at the south-east corner of the
parish opposite the House of Dalserf, and immediately adjoining
the parish of Carluke, is also the property of Lord Belhaven.
Here the river Clyde takes a most beautiful bend; completely en-
circling the house and lands of Garrion on two sides. From this
is seen to great advantage the picturesque scenery about Maulds-
lie Castle, the rich and highly cultivated haughs of Cambusnethan,
studded with magnificent trees; also the church and village Of
Dalserf with Milburne, surrounded by orchards, and presenting a
most enchanting view, particularly at the season when the fruit
trees are in blossom.
	There was an ancestor of Lord Belhaven, a Mrs Anne Hamil-
ton, daughter of Robert Hamilton, younger of Wishaw, who, pre-
viously to the year 1730, gave and bequeathed the sum of L.600
Scots money, for the use and behoof of the indigent widows and
children of such Presbyterian ministers within the presbytery of
Hamilton, as should join and contribute money for the same ends
and uses; and committed the administration thereof to the mi-
nisters of said presbytery, who should thereafter contribute for the
said purposes. This sum, having received several additions, par-
ticularly one from the celebrated Dr Matthow Baillie, one of this
physicians of George III., whose father had been minister of Shotts,
and afterwards of Hamilton, now amounts to about L. 2000 Ster-
ling, from which each of the widows of the ministers of Hamilton
Presbytery receives an annuity of L.20 Sterling.
	Family of Stewart of Coltness.--The Coltness estate belonged
to Sir James Stewart Denham of Coltness and Westshields, now
in his ninety-fifth year. Sir James, many years ago, added a new
front to the house of Coltness; and it is now a very elegant and
commodious building. The dining-room and drawing-room are
large and well- proportioned; and between them runs a gallery,
hung round with ancient portraits of the family; and the extreme
distance of the dining-room and drawing-room along this gallery
is nearly 200 feet. The second son of James Stewart of Allan-


