
394                     ROXBURGHSHIRE.

structure from any other erection of a like nature in the district,
it is supposed to have been built at a very remote period, though
by whom, or at what time, is matter of more conjecture.  Though
formed of hewn stone, and of considerable strength, it does not seem
to have been intended for carriages constructed like those of the
present day, and is, indeed, so narrow as to be used only by foot-
passengers.  But the peculiarity by which it is chiefly distinguished
is in the formation of the main arch, which, when viewed from the
channel of the river, appears ornamented underneath with a series
of narrow abutments, rising from either side of the water-course,
and meeting in a semicircular form above, thus presenting, though
in a rude form, an approximation to the species of architecture
which adorns the porticoes of many of the ancient cathedrals.
   A hand-bell, belonging to the magistrates of the town, may next
be referred to as interesting, alike from its antiquity, and from the
singular purpose for which it was used.  On the occasion of every
death, it was customary at no very remote period, for one of the
burgh officers to proceed through the different districts of the town,
when lifting his hat, and ringing the bell at regular intervals, he made
the following announcement to the inhabitants,  with an air of great
solemnity :--"I hereby take ye to wit, that --- our brother (or
sister) departed this life at --- of the clock, according to the
pleasure of our Lord." This intimation being made, accompanied
with a general invitation to the funeral, the bell was then taken to
the house of mourning, and placed, in a spirit of the grnssest su-
perstition, on the bed where the dead body was lying, and in a po-
sition from which it was reckoned altogether sacrilegious to remove
it till the time appointed for the interment. On the upper part of
the bell there is legibly inscribed in relief HAWICK, with the let-
ters R. S. I.  D. which are understood to be the initials of the then
existing magistrates, and on the under part, and in what is said to
be a corrupt dialect of the Dutch language, IAN. BVRGVB.  HVIS
HEFT. MY.  GEGOTE. ANNO 1601, signifying John Burgub did make
(literally beget) me in the year 1601.  Both the inscriptions are
terminated with the likeness of an antique head.
   An antique jug, of bronze material, having three feet, a handle
and spout, and probably used as a sacrificial vessel by the Romans,
was dug up a few years ago  at Reasknow, and is at present in pos-
session of James Grieve, Esq., Branxholm Braes.  The same
gentleman has two ancient coins, which, with many others, were
discovered in a piece of moss ground at Hislop.  One of these is


