
150                    ROSS AND CROMARTY.

next of kin to himself in the parish, and the principal to remain
untouched.
   Education.-The schools in the parish are 3 in number; one
parochial, and two supported by the Edinburgh Gaelic School
Society,-one in Shadir, and the other in Arnal. The parish
schoolmaster is qualified to teach Latin, Greek, arithmetic, and
the elements of English reading, and receives L. 28 of salary.
School fees scarcely exceed L. 1. The Gaelic teachers are re-
stricted exclusively to the Gaelic language or the Gaelic Scrip-
tures. Their salary is L. 25.
   It is much to be lamented, how little literary knowledge is ap-
preciated by the people in general. The parochial school is thus
rendered of less efficiency than it might be,-the abilities of an ex-
cellent teacher being as little valued as the branches in which he
is fitted to give instructions. This apathy may arise from their in-
ability to pay fees, and perhaps in some measure from being ap-
prehensive that their children may become stimulated by the
knowledge they acquire, to leave their native country,-a disposi-
tion highly disapproved of. In a country almost devoid of the
slightest prospect of advancement, it certainly is, and might na-
turally be expected to be, the tendency engendered in an educat-
ed and cultivated mind, to go abroad where some field might be
found for exertion. This deep-rooted prejudice, formerly a strong
barrier to literary attainments, is fast losing ground. Itinerating
schools have been occasionally stationed in various parts of the
parish, under the patronage of the Gaelic School Society, Edin-
burgh, and the Inverness Education Society; and so great is the
benefit derived from these  valuable institutions, that the greatest
number of the population have been taught to read the Gaelic
Scriptures.
   Fuel, &c.-There are no charitable institutions, prisons, inns or
alehouses in the parish: and the fuel, which consists of peats, is
perfectly accessible to all the inhabitants, and very abundant.

   September 1836.





