
			GLASGOW.                               167

Campsie, the manufacture of Prussian blue, triple-prussiate of po-
tass, and iron or ferro-prussiate of potash. Soon afterwards he ap-
plied, for the first time, for the purpose of dyeing woollen, silk, and
cotton, the salt termed triple-prussiate of potash, or hydro-ferro-
cyanic acid. This salt bad only previously been known as a che-
mical reagent, prepared from Prussian blue, and selling at from
5s. to 6s. per ounce. Its use as a dye stuff, in substitution for in-
digo, is now universal over Europe; the price being reduced to
about 2d. per ounce, or 2s. 6d. per pound. This substance is pro-
cured from the horns and hoofs of animals, as also the waste parings
and clippings of horns and whalebone; and for these substances,
and pot and pearl ashes, also employed in the process, a great an-
nual outlay takes place.
	The process for rendering fabrics of silk, woollen, cotton, or
linen, waterproof, by means of a layer of caoutchouc, or Indian
rubber, previously rendered liquid by solution in naphtha, being in-
troduced between two separate pieces of cloth, which are subse-
quently thus made to adhere perfectly and permanently together
by pressure, is also the invention of Mr Charles Macintosh. He
for some time carried on the manufactory of these articles at Glas-
gow; but some time ago the business was transferred to Manchester.
Mr Macintosh obtained a patent for this process. Previous to the intro-
duction of this manufacture, the importation of caoutcliouc into Bri-
tain was merely trifling,--its use being limited almost entirely to
stationary purposes; now it is imported in large quantities; and, in
order to supply the demand for it, it is understood, that the pro-
prietors of several West India estates are planting for cultivation,
the different species of Irtropha elastica and Urceola elastica, from
which it is procured in the state of a milky juice, which coagulates
on exposure to the atmosphere.
	The process for converting iron into steel, by submitting it, in-
closed in close vessels, to the action of carburetted hydrogen gas,
is also the invention of Mr Charles Macintosh. This is also a
patent process.
	In 1823, the Royal Society of London marked their sense of
Mr Charles Macintosh's services in the cause of science, by elect-
ing him a Fellow.
	The calico-printidg works of Messrs James and John Kibble and
Company of Glasgow, on the banks of the Leven, are allowed to
be the most complete of any in the kingdom.
	Cashmere Yarn.--In 1830 the weaving of Cashmere shawls in
this country had become so important a branch of trade, as to in-


