
570                        PERTHSHIRE.

the Grampian mountains. The parish is entirely-landward, and
it cannot be said that there is a town or village in it.
     Land-owners.---There are 15 proprietors of land, and of
whom II are heritors with a valued rent. Three of the heri-
tors reside constantly, and four occasionally, in the parish. Each
of them has more than L. 50 of annual rent.
     The people of the country are of the middle stature, active, and
capable of enduring, much fatigue. Their food is plain and whole-
some; and the poor cottar has his cow, which supplies his family
with milk. The Gaelic is the language of the country. There
are few, however, under thirty years of age who cannot read and
write, and speak the English language. The manners of the
people, as well as their dress, resemble those of their low country
neighbours, and no power can resist the assimilation of their lan-
guage. The elementary books now in Gaelic, and the numerous
publications of the present day in that language, whether well or
ill executed, and the more general reading of Gaelic in the schools,
are but indirect methods of enabling the children to acquire a know-
ledge of English with greater facility. Exertions are also made here
and there to restore the tartan costume, and the practice of High-
land games. Interest and industrious habits render the people in-
different to the latter; and their dress is now regulated by views of
comfort and convenience, rather than by vanity or conceit. The
people are quiet and peaceable, and anxious to maintain a
good character for honesty, and sobriety, and industry, Even petty
thefts are unknown among them; and every species of immorality
is discountenanced. They are sincerely attached to the Establish-
ed Church. They are well acquainted with the plain and funda-
mental truths of Christianity, and regular in their attendance upon
its solemnities.
     The illicit distillation of whisky, which some years ago prevail-
ed in the country, might tben have been said to have been a ne-
cessary evil. A wiser and more favourable system of excise laws
has enabled the Highlander now to convert his barley into money,
and to abandon a practice which had well nigh ruined the country
and its people. Though there be not a legal distillery in the pa-
rish, there are many in the lower district of Atholl.
     If a young man be occasionally found in our distant and exten-
sive moors with a gun in his hand, it need not be wondered, at.
Sportsmerf from the south train them either as servants, or guides,
or sacketmen to a fascinating amusement, and which, when their
masters leave off their sport, it is not easy for them to relinquish.


