
	     ON THE COUNTY OF BERWICK.			   375

   The poor are supported in this county atmost university by
compulsory assessments, the one-half of which is paid by the pro-
prietor, and the other by the tenant, according to the valued rent.
   The collections made at church on the Lord's day are a fund.
quite inadequate for this purpose, and poor rates having been long
established, these collections have in most cases dwindled into an
insignificant sum; and in the smaller parishes are insufficient for
defraying those expenses which from time immemorial have been,
paid from this source.  It cannot be denied that a heavy burden
is thus imposed on landed property, and that the usual bad effects.
are produced on the character and habits of the poor themselves,
which flow from this mode of maintaining them.  The report of
almost every parish testifies that they have no hesitation of ap-
plying to be placed on the poor's roll,-that they claim it as a
right to which they are legally entitled, and of which they do
not consider it disgraceful to take advantage,-and that the lof-
ty feeling of independence, and the praiseworthy delicacy which
used formerly to be the characteristics of the Scottish peasantry,
and which shrunk from the idea of receiving parochial aid, have
now in a great measure disappeared. One thing which has
made this change more visible here than in other parts of the
country is the proximity of this county to England, where it is
well known that the poor are supported at a profuse and extra-
vagant expense. Accordingly, the border counties are assessed
at a higher rate than any other district. At the same time, it
would be difficult to devise any more equitable or efficient method
for the support of the poor, and which would fall so equally on
proprietors, whether resident or not.  And, as long as none but the
aged and infirm are admitted on the roll, and the assessments are
imposed by the proprietors themselves, or their factors, who have
an interest in keeping them as low as possible, there appears to be
no great danger of the poor rates ever arriving at such a formi-
dable height as in England.  Notwithstanding the disadvantages un-
der which Berwickshire labours from its vicinity to England, and
from the poor being infected with the extravagant notions of their
southern neighbours on this subject, the average assessment for
their support does not, it is thought, much exceed sixpence in the
pound Sterling of rent, which is paid jointly in equal proportions
by the proprietor and occupier,-a sum of a moderate amount
when compared to what is paid in some of the adjoining parishes
of Northumberland and North Durham, where it is not uncom-


