
62                      PEEBLES-SHIRE.

thriving plantations around the onsteads at Crook and Harestone,
belonging to the former proprietor, and at Nether Menzion, be-
longing to the latter, cannot fail to add greatly to the beauty and
comfort of the dwelling places.

                      II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
Accounts of the Parish.-Besides the former Statistical Account
of the parish furnished to Sir John Sinclair by the Rev. J. Mushet,
there is a more extended one in the Edinburgh Literary and Sta-
tirtical Magazine.  It is understood to have been written by the
Rev. James Gardner, last minister of the parish.
  Antiquities.-At the sourece of the Tweed, and where this pa-
rish borders on Annandale, there is a spot called Twees-cross,
where stood one of those erections so frequently to be met with on
public roads in this kingdom before the Reformation,-probably
placed as devotional land-marks to guide travellers from one mo-
nastery to another.  Tweed's cross is generally thought to have
been a place of Druidical worship to the sun, and it is more than
probable that it afterwards became a mark of direction on so pre-
carious a pass, as well as a terminate point of division between the
shires."  From its elevated site, 1632 feet above the level of the
sea, it justly claims a pre-eminence over other human erec-
tion of the kind in the south of Scotland. *
  Near Earlshaugh, in this vicinity, is a hill called the Crown of
Scotland, for reasons now unknown.
  On the right side of the road leading towards the Bield Inn, is
the shepherd's house of Badlieu, the property of Lord Forbes, and
well known as the residense of Bertha, as celebrated for her beauty
and her tagical fate.  Grimus, King of Scotland, who had a
Hunting-seat at Polmood, was captivated by her charms, and the
birth of a son was the consequence of an illicit aconnection between
them.  During the absence of the king, occasioned by an attempt
on the part of the Danes to invade the northern frontiers of his
kingdom, Bertha, her father,and her child were murderd by as-
sassins employed by the queen.  The queen did not long survive
this act of barbarity.  The king on his return caused the grave
to be opened, and contemplated with mingled xfeelings of greif
and honor the three mangled bodies  from that period he lost

<FOOTNOTE>In the immediate neighbourhood of this cross, during a severe snow storm in
February 1831, the guard and driver ofthe mail coach ti Edinburgh were compelled
to leave the coach, and attempted to carry the letter-bags on their shoulders; but un-
fortunately having gone off the high road, they became exhausted, and sunk lifeless
among the snows.  They hung the bags upon a pole at the side of the road, which is
still marked out to the passing traveller.


