
244                       FORFARSHIRE.

communicants are 670, besides about 45 who are admitted at Kin-
nell. The average yearly amount of the collections at church for
the poor for the last seven years is L. 50, 4s. 9d.
   Education.--There is one parochial school, the teacher of which
has the maximum salary, and about L. 23 a-year of fees; and an-
other school, towards the west end of the parish, with a salary of
from L. 5 to L. 7 from a deed of mortification, the teacher having
a free school, and dwelling-house and garden. All the usual
branches of instruction are taught at both. The people are so
alive to the benefits of education, that hardly a child is to be met
with that has not been at school. The total number of scholars
at school in the parish is 142.
   Library.--There is a library, chiefly of a religious description,
formed by voluntary subscriptions.
   Savings Bank.--There is a Savings bank, which was instituted
in 1820, for this parish and Lunan. On the 31st May last, to
which day the annual accounts were brought up and settled, the
managers found the sum deposited to be upwards of L. 500, but
particular circumstances have occasioned a greater amount than
usual to be withdrawn since. The investments have hitherto in
general exceeded the sums withdrawn. The deposits are made
by cottagers and tradesmen.
   Poors Funds.--Tbe average number of regular poor receiving
parochial aid is 28; and the average sum to each per month is
5s. besides some coals in winter,--and several of them have
their house rents paid. The occasional poor receive about L. 17
in the year.  The chief source of relief arises from the collections
at church, also from seat rents in the aisle, lately built, amounting
yearly to L. 23; from legacies there are about L. 10 yearly; and
from the mortcloths and proclamations about L. 7, 14s. But, in
addition to these, it is sometimes necessary to recruit the fund by a
voluntary subscription from the heritors and tenants. There are
no assessments as yet. Some of the poor retain the old reluctance
to receive parochial charity; but of late it is too frequently claim-
ed as a right.

   January 1835.


