
722                       LANARKSHIRE.

Water, comprising some excellent farms.  The above rivers follow
the general slope of the country, and flow in a northerly direction.
There are nine rivulets or burns, all of which, except one, arise in
the parish, and pursue an easterly direction towards the trough of
the Clyde.  These streamlets, though in general insignificant and
sometimes quite dry, are liable, at certain seasons of the year, to be
suddenly flooded, and are torrents in winter.  Forcing their way
through the lofty bank which skirts the western side of the river,
they precipitate themselves in many places over the sandstone rocks
in cascades of from 6 to 20 feet in height.  The ravines formed
by these water-runs, or gills, as they are here called, are in general
well wooded, and add much to the beauty of the vale of Clyde.  It
is scarcely possible to conceive a more beautiful country than Clvdes-
dale here is, on both sides of the river, at once highly cultivated
and extremely picturesque.  The course of the Avon, on the west-
ern side of the parish, displays also much striking and beautiful
scenery.  The banks of this river are bold and precipitous, con-
sisting alternately of beautiful knolls, of abrupt ascent, and cloth-
ed with verdure from the summit to the water's edge, and of lofty
sandstone rocks, the bases of which are washed by the dark waters
of the stream.  Even though the Clyde were awanting, the Avon
itself would be sufficient to impart a character of romantic beauty
to the district.  The two rivers combined give more beautiful
scenery to the parish than falls to the lot of most places in Scot-
land.  The breadth of the Clyde at Milton Bridge, about eighteen
miles above Glasgow, is 56 yards.  At Garion Bridge, two miles
farther down, it is 74 yards across.  In many places it is much
wider.  The velocity of the river varies from three to eight miles per
hour.  The Avon, at Millheugh Bridge, is 80 feet across; the
Cander, where it falls into the Avon, is about 50.  The springs
vary considerablxin different parts of the parish.  About the vil-
lage of Larkhall, at the north end, water is always found in a loose
sand or running mod, at from 12 to 18 feet from the surface.  A
little to the south-east, where this stratum runs out, no water is to
be found among the clay.  The central parts of the parish are ra-
ther deficient in water, and during summer droughts the farmers
are often put to much inconvenience to procure a supply for their
eattle.  Towards the Clyde and Avon, springs are more abundant.
There are many chalybeate springs in the parish; and on the glebe
there are two springs, the one of a chalybeate, and the other of a
sulphurous nature, within less than 100 yards of each other.  The


