
                           LAURENCEKIRK.                     145

is now held only on the Thursday. A weekly market was at-
tempted some years ago, and has again been proposed, and there
seems  reason to think that it should succeed, if all parties con-
cerned cordially joined in the attempt, as there is no market-town
nearer than Montrose, which is upwards of nine miles from the
nearest part of the parish, and thirteen from the most remote.
	Fairs.--There ard reven annual fairs in the parish; five of
these are held within the burgh,--one in January, for engaging
married farm-servants,--one at each of the terms of Whitsunday
and Martinmas, for hiring unmarried servants,--and two cattle
trysts, in April and November; the other two fairs are on Lau-
rence muir, (about a mile and a half from Laurencekirk), viz. the
old established market of Laurence Fair, for the sale of cattle,
horses, and sheep in August, and a cattle tryst in September.
	Means of Communications.--The parish enjoys abundant means
of Communication.  Tbere is a daily post; and two different stage-
coaches, the one by Dundee, and the other by Perth, pass every
lawful day between Edinburgh and Aberdeen, from which latter
place Laurencekirk is distant twenty-nine miles. There are like-
wise several carriers passing weekly to Aberdeen, Perth, and
Dundee, besides others to neighbouring towns and villages.
There are four carriers to Montrose, each of whom goes two or
three times a week. The length of the turnpike-road in the pa-
rish is four miles.
	The situation of the parish church is, on the whole, very conve-
nient, closely adjoining the village, and also the turnpike road.
Three-fourths of the inhabitants are within a mile of the church,
and there are only three families who have to travel so far as three
miles to it. It was built in 1804; and was enlarged in 1819, at
the joint expense of the poor funds, and Mr Farquhar the rents
of the seats in the additional part being drawn by these parties.
It is in tolerable repair, but is much too small for the congregation,
--a misfortune under which it seems the lot of this parish to labour.
In 1792, Mr Forbes, the writer of the former Statistical  Ac-
count, says, "The church is by much too small for the congrega-
tion;" yet no addition was made to it, till it was rebuilt in 1804;
and fifteen years afterwards an enlargement became necessary.
The present church is calculated to hold about 760; but on this
calculation less than eighteen inches are allowed for each sitting,
of which the inconvenience is peculiarly felt, when the sitters
are chiefly grown persons, as must be the case when a church
        KINCARDINE.             X



