
                        COLDSTREAM.                           203

blue clay; and at Milne Graden, where coal was bored for some
years since by Sir D. Milne, seams or thin veins of white gypsum
were discovered in a similar situation.
   A considerable variety of fossil organic remains has been found
buried and preserved among the strata of this district. These fos-
sils consist both of vegetable impressions and entire stenis. The
former are found both in the sandstone, (chiefly the yellowish or
reddish kind,) and sometimes in the thin beds of limestone or 'in-
durated marl. The species to which these vegetable impressions
belong are generally the same as those found in the coal-field
and mountain limestone groups, such as equiseta, calamites, and
lycopodites; but the impressions hitherto observed appear to be
smaller and less frequent than in the other formations alluded to.
The discovery of the other and more interesting fossil remains,
is in a great measure due to Henry Witham, Esq. of Lartington,
whose zealous exertions in the cause of geology cannot be too
highly commended, or too generally followed as an example.
Though known to a few of the natives of the parish, who were
accustomed to frequent the banks of the river seeking pebbles,
these trees were never properly examined, till Mr Witham under-
took the task.-But before stating the result of his investigations,
we may mention the locality and position in which they are found.
About half a-mile above Tweed-mill, on the north bank of the river,
and near the water's edge, is a stratum of blue clay, which rises
with an angle of about 5° towards the N. W. This stratum, near
the river's edge, is surmounted by a bank probably 80 or 100 feet
high, composed of alluvial soil, and various seams of sandstone,
marl, and coarse limestone. Below the stratum is a thin seam of
limestone. The stratum of clay in which the fossils are imbedded
may be five or six feet in depth. Some of the stems are about
the thickness of a man's body, but generally they are one-half of
this size. No fragment has been found exceeding four or five feet
in length. They are all lying disjointed and parallel with the bedo
showing that they must have originally been deposited in a hori-
zontal position. No small twigs or branches (far less leaves)
are preserved.
   These trees are encrusted almost always with a black carbona-
ceous matter resembling coal, which is of no greater thickness
than what may have been that of the original bark. In short,
this black envelope of coal seems to be the bark mineralized.
When thrown into the fire, it burns clearly and rapidly. So


