
			AYR.				25

had built at Ayr. It is generally understood that he furnished the
money by which the present edifice was erected, or at least ad-
vanced a sum for that purpose; and this is quite consistent with
his rigid profession of religion, and still more with his views of po-
licy in conciliating the Presbyterians. Nothing of this kind, how-
ever, appears in the town's records. The sum said to have been
received, betwixt L.600 and L.700, was of considerable magni-
tude in these times, though perhaps not sufficient to cover the ex-
pense of building the old church. Though it has nothing about
it, to vie with the grand Gothic religious edifices of preceding
ages, yet it is a fine old venerable structure, placed in a fine
open retired situation behind the main street, surrounded with
the town's burying-ground. The walls are as substantial at this
day, as when it was first built, and are likely to survive many
later and more pretending edifices. It is constructed in the form
of a cross, not unlike the old church of St John, the aisle to the
north-west being a projection from the main body, in the middle
of the east wall of which the pulpit stands, fronting the projecting
wing. Through the walls and roof are perfectly sound and strong,
yet, through the waste of time, the public have become alive to a
variety of emendations, which it requires, and have lately employ-
ed a competent architect in Edinburgh to survey it with this view.
He, after a very favourable report as to the building, has furnish-
ed a plan, we understand, which, if executed, will not only add to its
internal accomodation and comfort, but also to its embellishment,
both within and without. This plan, to be carried fully into effect,
would cost a sum not much short of L.1000. The funds of the
burgh are not in a state to admit of much being given from that
source; and as a great part of the seats are private property, either
belonging to public bodies or to wealtby individuals, it is probable
that a sum may be raised by subscription adequate to effect, if not
the whole of the projected improvements, at all events the most
needful of them. For one thing, it is very inadequate lighted;
and, from the accumalation of extraneous matter in the churchyard,
its floor is now considerably below the level of the surface without,
which is apt to render it damp and disagreeable in wet weather.
The seats, also, are getting old and rotten, and the passages re-
quire to be relaid with flag stones. All this will be imperiously
called for ere long,--not merely for improving its appearance, but
from necessity, and in the view of real substantial utility. The


