
                       ALLOA.                             45

   There is only one noble family residing in the parish.
   The habits of the working classes have certainly improved, dur-
ing the last forty years ; although, in many instance the abuse of
spirituous liquors has had an opposite tendency.
   Poaching has prevailed of late years, so far as nearly to exter-
minate certain kinds of game,; such as bares and pheasants.
Pawnbroking in one establishment has been carried on, to a greater
or less extent, for several years.
   The number of illegitimate births in the whole parish, during
the last few years, cannot be ascertained ; but the illicit intercourse
of the sexes, has of late become lamentably frequent.
               		IV.--INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.- *

<TABLE>
        The number of imperial acres under cultivation,	4375
	  Of which about 1250 acres are carse soil, the remainder what
	   is termed dryfield.
	The number not cultivated, but which might be embanked from
	  the river Forth, and profitably added to the cultivated land,	12
	The number under wood,				               514

   The young plantations consist mostly of oak and other hard
wood, mixed with fir, the latter being periodically thinned out.
The thinning, pruning, &c. appear to be und'er judicious manage-
ment. At present, the average rent of land is about L. 2, 1Os. per
acre. The average grazing of a cow, or ox, weight about 35 stones
imperial, costs about L.3, 5s.; and a sheep 13s.
   Waqes.--Ploughmen's wages rate at 9s. 6d. per week, winter
and summer; labourers, 10s. to 11s.; women's. 8d. to 5d. a-day.
A variation of wages takes place during harvest, when women get
2d. an hour, and men 2s. per day without victuals. Smith-work
is sometimes perform by astimate at about L.3, 3s. for each
pair of horses kept on the farm, which includes all kinds of smith
work required on it. This is about the average expense of farm
smith work; and the wright work upon the same principles at the
rate of L.2, 10s. Saddler work, per pair of horses, is upheld at
L.1, 15s. a-year.
   Only a few of various kinds of sheep are grazed for the
butcher. The breed of cattle, in, general, does not belong to any
particular class. The Ayrshire seems to be, the stock aimed at
The short-horned breed was introduced in by the late John Mou-
bray Esq. of Cambus, from the best stocks in the south, and was
followed up by Thomas Ritchie Esq. Bowhouse; the crossing of
which with these has tended to improve the stock, in particular

<FOOTNOTE>Kindly furnished by David Boosie and Thomas Ritchie, Esqrs.


