
           114                   ROSS AND CROMARTY.

                             MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.

               Since the last Account was drawn up, considerable improve-
           ments have taken place in agriculture, persons of skill and capital
           have introduced an approved system of husbandry, and their example
           has been speedily followed by the tenantry.  To promote the com-
           fort of the people, it would be necessary to give longer leases, so
           as to encourage a spirit of improvement, and to let the lands at a
           cheaper rate, that the produce might pay the rents without any
           other resource, (which is now far from being the case,) and to af-
           ford employment to the labouring classes, by introducing judicious
           improvements at the expense of the proprietors. In diffusing
           among them the blessings of knowledge, much might be done by
           the introduction of a more efficient system of education, by the
           establishment of parochial libraries, and the circulation of cheap
           periodicals.
               P. S. Since the above Account was written, the church has been
           condemned by the presbytery; and it is confidently expected, that
           the heritors of Lochcarron will erect the house of worship, to be
           built in its stead, in a style worthy of the object and the situation.
               The rental may be stated at not less than L.2500.
               At the death of the late incumbent (the author of the last
           Statistical Account,) the glebe of Lochcarron scarcely contained
           5 acres of arable land, properly so called; 5 acres more are now
           in good heart; and 10 acres are in progress of cultivation.  The
           whole extent of the glebe, from the loch to the top of the hill,
           may, at a rough guess, be said to be two miles in length, by half
           a mile in breadth; a goodly pasturage, without doubt, were its
           nature equal to its extent.

               September 1836.


