
                                       BLAIRGOWRIE.                  915                                  915

       island for safety, whence the loch derived its name of the Stor-
       mont or " Store Mount Loch."  There are likewise some re-
       mains of a building on a wooded knoll near Ardblair, about a
       mile west from the town of Blairgowrie.  This knoll, accord-
       ing to tradition, was at one time surrounded with water,-a cir-
       cumstance which is partly corroborated by the nature and aspect
       of the surrounding ground, which is low, flat, and mossy, and even
       at this day partially covered with surface water in winter.  The
       Newton Castle, situated close to the town, is a good specimen of
       the castellated style of mansion-houses which prevailed about the
       latter end of the seventeenth century.  It possesses the finest pro-
       spect imaginable, commanding the wbole valley of Strathmore
       with all its picturesque and varied scenery; and, occupying an
       elevated site, forms itself a very picturesque object, and is visi-
       ble from a great distance.  Like most other ancient buildings,
       this old mansion is provided with a ghost, in the shape of a lady
       dressed in a green silk gown, thence called the "green lady," which
       is said (and believed by some even in this modern age of scepticism
       on these points,) still to haunt some of the apartments of the cas-
       tle.  About a gunshot to the west of Drumlochy Castle, already
       mentioned, on the opposite side of the deep ravine which forms
       the boundary between the parishes of Blairgowrie and Kinloch,
       are to be seen the still imposing ruins of the ancient castle of
       Glasclune, once a place of considerable strength, both natural
       and artificial, possessed of old by a powerful family of the name
       of Blair.  An inveterate feud subsisted between the Blairs of
       Glasclune and the Herons of Drumlochy, which the proximity
       of their strongholds afforded them abundant opportunities of
       gratifying, by a constant and harassing system of petty war-
       fare, attended with considerable bloodshed on both sides, till at
       length the struggle was ended in the total discomfiture nf the un-
       fortunate laird of Drumlocliy, and the demolition of his fortress.
       Notwithstanding the tempting nature of the subject, however,
       which is full of interest, both antiquarian and historical, we must
       refrain from describing the ruins of this castle, that we may not
       encroach on the province of the statist of Kinloch parish, within
       the boundaries of which it is situated. *

       <FOOTNOTE>It may be here noticed that Mr Knox, in his " Topography of the Basin of
       the Tay," confidently argues that the high ground extending westwards from the
       town of Blairgowrie, is the true locality of the battle-field where the decisive encoun-
       ter betwixt the Caledonians under Galgacus and the  Roman legions of Agricola,
       described by Tacitus as the battle of the Grampians, and which has been so long a
       " bone of contention" amongst antiquarians, took place.  He supposes the Cale-


