
     Of West Kilbride.

   The crops chiefly raised in this parish, are oats and bear:
the quantity produced from an acre, is from 5 to 7 bolls.  In
strong clean land, flax succeeds well, and, for a reason which
will hereafter be mentioned, the attention of the people hath
been much turned to the cultivation of this plant, and great-
er quantities of flax are raised in Kilbride, than in any neigh-
bouring district; it is most commonly sown after potatoes.
The soil being peculiarly adapted to potatoes, they produce
luxuriantly.  Wheat is seldom sown here, and no attempts
hitherto made to introduce it into general practice, have suc-
ceeded to expectation.  Beans and pease are not much culti-
vated; for, besides that, the soil in most places is reckoned
too light for them:  in a climate where the weather and sea-
sons are so variable, they are, not without reasons, considered 
as a hazardous crop.  One circumstance, which ought not to
be omitted, in describing the state of agriculture in this pa-
rish, is, the improved taste some proprietors have discovered,
of late, in the constructing of steadings, or farm-honses, up-
on their estates:  in place of the old dirty, cold inconvenient
buts, the tenants are now accommondates with clean, substan-
tial, well aired habitations, where equal attention bath been
paid to rural elegance and conveniency.

   Manufactures and Fisberies.-It hath been already ob-
served, that the people here, are particular attentive to the

     VOL. XII. 3 F

<FOOTNOTE>

policy of this law, must appear evident to every person; it hath been the death
of agriculture, wherever its baleful influence bath extended.  It must give
pleasure to every lover of his country, to observer that it is now become an ob-
ject of attention to a virtous Legisture, who listening at length, to the voice
of justice and humanity, have judged it expedient to take it off.  In this event,
gentlemen, whose estates are situated upon the shore, will be induced to erect
draw-kilns.  The farmer will have line afforded him at a moderate rate.  A 
vigorous cultivatioi will take place.  The quantity of grain will be increased,
and the country assume a new face.


