
248			BANFFSHIRE.

at different points along the coast, and in the interior as far to the
westward as Buckie. There the clay and mica-slate alternate
with thin veins of coarse limestone, till a short way to the west-
ward of the town, where the greywacke and greywacke-slate alter-
nate with seams of mica-slate, and veins of limestone of a reddish
colour, arising from the oxide of iron. Within the village of
Buckie, there is a part of the old red sandstone formation seen re-
posing on clay-slate and mica-slate, which is again reposing on
greywacke. This micaceous clay-slate is of a greyish colour, and
covers a great part of the interior of the parish.  Towards the
south, it crops out at different points, and is quarried for roofing
slates by the Duke of Richmond at Tarriemount and Upper Al-
dyleth, and by Sir James Gordon, Bart. on his estate of Letter-
fourie. Limestone is found an& wrought at Nether Buckie. At
Tarwathie the red sandstone already mentioned is quarried, and
used in building. Indeed this is the only quarry of the kind found
in the whole county. A very pure quartzy rock is found in the
Benhill, the same as at the hill of Durn, near Portsoy.  None,
however, of the beautifully variegated serpentine, alternating with
beds of marble, talcaceous schist, and hornblende rock, as found
at Portsoy, occurs here. Boulders or detached masses of granite
and gneiss, intermixed with mica, having their surfaces and sharp
edges smoothed down and rounded, evidently by the long-conti-
nued friction of water, or action of the air, are of frequent occur-
rence along the sea-shore, and the Bauds moor. These boulders
are sometimes found at the distance of many hundred miles from
the rocks from which they have been originally detached, as is the
case here, no granite appearing within the parish. These trans-
portations point out the agency of currents and immense irrup-
tions of the ocean passing over the land in particular directions,
and with such impetus as to carry along these large and ponde-
rous bodies, From the position of these masses, the direction of
such, currents can often be ascertained with great certainty. An-
other most remarkable feature of this part of the country is, that
the upper or vegetable soil is so deusely mixed with water-worn
stones, that, in many places, under a rotation of excellent crop-
ping, these stones appear to form nearly a third part of the sur-
face. They are chiefly of quartz, although intermixed with no-
dules of lime, felspar, and mica. The felspar, as being in com-
bination with potass, is easily affected by the action of the atmo-
sphere and a considerable portion of it annually dissolved, which
                    

