
                          MOREBATTLE AND MOW.                      451

     Antiquities.--Amongst the hills are to be seen some of these
circular rows of stones, called Trysting Stones, the origin and de-
sign of which are uncertain.  On some of the heights there are
traces of ancient encampments, most probably British, the most
distinct of which are on the two adjacent summits of Morebattle
Hill. Following apparently the figure of the heights, the larger is
of an oval, and the smaller of a circular form.  Of various towers
or forts, often mentioned in the ancient border records, only two
now remain, those of Whitton Corbet House.  The former is
on the estate of Sir George, Werrender, and is nearly in ruins.
It was battered down by the Earl of Surrey in an inroad into Scot-
land in reign of Henry VIII.  Corbet House tower belongs
to Mr Ker of Gateshaw.  Between twenty and thirty years ago,
it was repaired and renewed by the late Sir Charles Ker.  In 1522,
it was burnt by the English, who then ravaged the banks of the
Kale and Beaumont in retaliation of a plundering expedition of
the Rcots into Northumberland, of which Launcelot Ker of Gate-
shaw had been one of the leaders.
     Eminent Men.--No names of peculiar eminence occur.  But
under this head we may mention that Grubit, formerly the estate
of Sir William Bennet, and from which he took his title, is si-
tuated in this parish, and adjoining to it is Wideopen, the occa-
sional residence of his friend, the author of the Seasons, and it
that time the property of the poet's maternal uncle.  Of Thom-
son's residence here, several traditionary anecdotes are still pre-
served in the neighborhood.  (See the Statistical Account of
the adjoining parish of Eckford.)
     Parochial Registers.--The session records commence in 1726.
There is a gap from 1738 to 1771, and again from 1777 to 1803,
from which date they have been regularly kept.  The register of
births and baptisms commences also in 1726.  In it, too, a blank
occurs, from 1739 to 1760.  After  this, it continues, without far-
ther interruption, to the present time.  No registers are kept of
marriages, and deaths, or funerals.  A small sum is paid to the
session funds by parties giving in their names for the publication
of bans.  The entries of these sums in the session accounts is a
sort of register of proclamations, the entries of the mortcloth does
form a similar register of funerals.
                                III.-POPULATION.
     In 1755, the population was 789.  In the last Statistical Ac-
count, it is stated as nearly the same.  By the last census of


