
                       FORTINGAL.                             531

miles. Many places of the glen have no sunshine for a long period
of the winter season : several farm villages are deprived of it from
the middle of October to the middle of February.
   The dells which branch out from the sides of Glenlyon are
very numerous : some of them extensive being upwards of 4 miles
long; each augmenting the Lyon with its limpid stream,-which
in time of thaw or rain comes down with irresistible impetousity.
One of these streams, allt-da-ghob, proceeding from a small glen
of that name, is a fine natural curiosity. When viewed from Chest-
hill, the opposite side of the river, in a swollen state, it rushes
from a height of between 400 and 500 feet down a precipice, in-
to a chasm so deep as to be entirely hid from the eye: it appears
a second and a third time, bursting over perpendicular rocks, in a
solid body, and is immediately lost in the bottom of the same, or
in a similar invisible chasm: and on every successive appearance,
it bursts again upon the view, as if sprung from the solid rock, or
bowels of the mountain. Leaving its confinement, it at last gushes
down a precipice of 200 feet in a sheet as white as snow, till it,
reaches the level ground and joins the Lyon.
   The cascades that dash down everywhere, on the sides of the
mountains, in a rainy day, are almost innumerable. In a single
mile, many of these may be seen,-in places where there is no run-
ning stream at other times, rushing from a height of no less than
1000 feet high, parallel to each other, till they arrive at the flat
ground. A stranger, wondering from whence they had their rise,
would at once conclude that they sprung from the rock, or bowels
of the mountains, and that he even observed the spot from whence
each issued forth.
   The upper part of Glenlyon is very elevated:-The lower part
may be about 100 feet above the level of Lochtay.
   Glenmore.-Situated between Rannoch and Fortingal, and im-
mediately to the south of Sith-chaillinn, is a considerable valley of
this name. At one period, it formed no small portion of the old
forest of Sith-chaillinn, no trace of which is now remaining, save
such innumerable roots of trees as the natives were and are yet
occasionally in the habit of digging from under ground, for fuel
and light,-the roots of the fir affording a flame which far sur-
passes the brilliancy of gas.* Numerous trunks of oak are also
found on such occasions. They are of a blackish colour, and of a

<FOOTNOTE>See Gen. Stewart's Sketches.


