
                   KILMUIR WESTER AND SUDDY.                            61

Rate of Wages.-Farm-servants are hired at the following rate,
viz. ploughman from L. 7 to L.8 of wages annually, 6 bolls of meal,
with as much potato land as he can cover with manure, 6 barrels
of coal, with a free house and free lodging ; female servants
for L. 3 a-year; boys and girls in proportion.
   Live-stock.-The farmer's stock consists of cows and horses.
No sheep are kept but such as gentlemen use for their own tables.
For several years back, the heritors have been the habit of liming
their fields. Some of them use bone-dust for turnip; and so convinced
are the people of the benefit of lime, that even the smallest
farmer has begun the use of it When I wrote the former Statistical
Account, there was only one tenant in this parish who paid
a rent above L. 60; but now there are several who pay from L. 200
to L. 300 a-year. The leases in general are of nineteen years
duration,-some even of thirty, upon improving leases.
  Heritors.-The heritors in this parish, as before noticed, are 5
in number : Mackenzie of Allangrange, who is principal heritor;
Mackenzie of Kilcoy, who has purchased, since last Report, part
of the estate of Belmaduthy where he has built a princely domicile,
with a fine square of every other suitable accommodation ; Graham
of Drynie, who lives in France; Sir James Mackenzie, proprietor
of the two Suddles, the one acquired by marriage with the
daughter of Mackenzie of Suddy, the other by purchase from
Matheson of Benuatsfield; and the Trustees of the late Sir William
Fettes, Bart. The heritors are very active in improving their
lands, by draining, irrigation, and embanking especially Mackenzie
of Allangrange. Sir William Fettes was at great expense in
building piers at the Ferry of Kessock, one on each side, with
suitable houses for the accommodation of the public; the ferry is
now supposed to draw in the way of rent L. 800 a-year, being a
rise of L. 650, since the time when the former Statistical Account
was drawn up.
                  V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
A steam-boat was attempted on the ferry ; but as it did not
succeed, it was necessary to return to the use of the former boats
slightly improved. There is no ferry in Scotland better attended to
  Market-Towns.- There are no market-towns in this parish; but
no inconvenience arises from this, as Inverness, is so near. Several
other markets are held in the neigbbourhood.,
  Villages.- There are two viliages,-one at Munlochyl, the other


