
474			DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

joins the Scar near the village of Penpont. There is a consider-
able waterfall in the Shinnel, known by the name of Aird-linn, a
short distance below the manse,--which is very picturesque in con-
sequence of the banks of the river being richly wooded.
	Mineralogy.--The direction of the strata is generally from east
to vest, the dip inclining more or less to the south-east. The
greywacke, which is the prevailing rock in this parish, contains
a bed of clay-slate at Corfardine, which was at one time wrought
by the Wanlockhead Mining Company, but has been abandon-
ed from the inferior quality of the slate. There is also a bed of
flinty slate or Lydian stone at Shinnelhead. An attempt was
made at one time upon the farm of Stenhouse, near the march
of Dalmakerran, to find lead; but it was soon abandoned, al-
though some gentlemen from Warlockhead thought it not un-
likely that lead might yet be found there. Granite or any of the
primitive rocks have never been found in this parish, with the ex-
ception of a small bed of disintegrated granite, which appears both
on the estate of Landhall and on the Queensberry estate on the
farm of Ford. The mica being of a very yellow colour, has been
mistaken by inexperienced persons for gold.
	Botany.--No rare plants worthy of notice. The natural woods
are, oak, ash, birch, plane, mountain-ash, alder, and willow.
Those planted are generally Scotch fir, spruce, silver, larch, balm
of Gilead; and of late years, principally oak, and other hard woods
mixed with the above varieties of fir.
			II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Land-owners.--The principal proprietor in the parish is His
Grace the Duke of Buccleuch and Queensberry, who possesses
nearly two-thirds nf the whole parish.
	Parochial Registers.--The first entry in the parish register is
dated 17th January 1742; but the register was not regularly kept
until 1828.
	Historical Notices.--There was formerly a place of religious
worship on the lands of Chapel, which are now united to the farm
of Craigturrah; and another at Kirkconnel, which, like other places
of the name, was dedicated to St Connel. The Doon of Tynron
was formerly a place of strength, as the ditches on the side most
difficult of access indicate. The foundations of an extensive build-
me might lately have been traced on the top of this hill; and it
is stated in Black's manuscript history of the Presbytery of Pen-
pont, deposited in the Advocates' Library, that King Robert
the Bruce, after the death of Cummin, was conducted to this as a


