
         1250                        PERTHSIRE.

            Geology and Mineralogy.-The north division of this parish is
         composed of various soils, resting on sandstone of the transition
         series.  The south side consists of clay, resting on the same rock
         and stretching along the north bank of the Forth.  The greater
         part of this division was, till lately, covered by moss.  The clay is
         rich and deep, and good for agricultural purposes.
            In the banks of the Forth and Goodie numerous beds of
         oyster, muscle, cockle, and other marine shells appear at va-
         fious depths between the surface of the clay and the channels of
         the rivers.
            The discovery of these marine remains and others which have
         been found in the neighbouring parishes, furnishes an increasing
         proof, that the rea extended over the level part of this parish at
         the period of the deposition of the clay.
            The transition from the Carse to the dryfield is abrupt, and
         frequently as well defined as are the banks of a river.  The dry-
         field has an increasing elevation northward.  In the vicinity of
         Blair-Drummond, the soil in the first part of the rising ground is
         a light loam, having in general a gentle slope, but in some places
         an abrupt face to the south, and extending about a mile in breadth.
         It is well adapted to the growth of trees and shrubs, and is beau-
         tifully wooded and tastefully adorned by walks and shrubberies,-
         formitig part of the pleasure-grounds of Blair-Druinmond.
           The sandstone which has been formerly mentioned, and vul-
         garly called gray freestone, has been considered as the old red
         sandstone of the transition series.  It has been used for various
         purposes, the best kind. being a good stone for building.  In the
         moor of Ballochneck, and for several miles to the west of it, the
         colour is of a light gray or smoke colour, and of a hard bon-
         sistency, and valuable for flags and buildings.  There is a re-
         markable instance of the first at kind Ochtertyre, where it rises
         above, the clay in a detached circular eminence, wich is covered
         with trees and brushwood.  The prevailing dip of the strata, as
         appears from the various quarries which have been wrought, is to-
         wards the north-west, and in general at a slight inclination.  Veins
         of calcareous spar are often met witb in quarrying, and occasion-
         ally barytes.
           No organic remains of any kind occur in the sandstone, except
         a few vegetable impressions.
           In the soil of many of the higher parts of parish, boulders
                                      3

