
     Statistical Account

   Soil and Produce.-The soil here is various, as might be
expected in so large a district of land.  In the highland dis-
trict, the soil is either mossy, or a cold clay, mixed with sand
or gravel, very unfriendly to vegetation.  On the banks of 
the rivers the meadows are covered with a tough, strong turf,
producing a coarse sort of grass, sitter for pasturing young
cattle than for fattening them, or producing milk.  And it
would probably be for the interest, both of landlord and te-
nant, that a plough were never used in this district; for, tho'
corn may grow, yet, through the cold and moisture of the
climate, it seldom ripens so as to make good bread.  In the
low district of the parish, again, the difference of soil is very
observable.  Towards the east, it is light and gravelly.  In
the middle, for about two miles square, there is a rich loam,
sit to produce any vegetable, with proper culture. As we
proceed further on, the soil is black and spongy; but, by
means of drains, it has of late years been greatly improved.
The western division of the parish consists chiefly of a strong
clay soil, some of it of a reddish hue, which, when well
wrought, produces excellent crops.  The seasons for sowing
and reaping, in this parish, are as different as the degrees of
activity, and the unaccountable prejudices of various farmers.
Some lay it down as a maxim, never to begin sowing till a
certain day of the month, when their fathers and grandfa-
thers were accustomed to sow.  Others, again, embrace the
first opportunity, when the soil is sufficiently dry to receive
the seed; and the effect is such as might naturally be expect-
ed.  The spirited active farmer, who sows early, reaps an
early harvest, and the best corn; while the others suffer all
the inconveniences of a late harvest.  But, we must here re-
mark, what is very observable, that the farmers on the oppo-
site side of the bay, in what is called the Black Isle, never fail
to reap their corn a fortnight or twenty days earlier than the


