
                               ABERNETHY.                      859

                          V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

  There are in the parish, besides Abernethy, which is a burgh
of barony holding of Lord Douglas, two villages, Aberargie, and
Glenfoot.  Two markets are held at Abernethy in the course of
the year, but for a considerable period few have resorted to them,
and little business has been done.  A penny-post office was esta-
blished at Abernethy about two years ago, but our nearest regu-
lar post-offices are at Newburgh and Bridge of Earn.  The great
turnpike road from Perth to Edinburgh, passing through the ro-
mantic scenery of Glenfarg, is for a considerable way in this pa-
rish.  The other roads in the district are upheld by statute labour,
and one of these is the line of road leading from Perth to Cupar,
Fife.  In this line there has been erected since the last Statistical
Account was published, a new bridge over the Farg, where it was
much needed.
  Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church, which was built in
1802, is conveniently sittuated, and although externally it be a
plain and unadorned edifice, is very substantial and commodious.
It contains about 600 sittings, and would not be nearly sufficient for
the population if a considerable proportion of the people who have
no right to seats in the parish church, did not find accommodation
in the Dissenting meeting-house.
  According to the census of the parish, given in the Statistical
Account of 1792, when the whole population amounted to 1415           '
628 were connected with the Establishment, and 787 with the
Secession congregation.  Since that period the population has
greatly increased, and a very considerable majority of the people
are now connected with the Establishment. Amidst all the influ-
ences which have been at work to agitate the public mind, and to
widen the unbappy breach which exists between the Church of
Scotland and Dissenters, it is gratifying to be enabled to state,
that the ministers of the different congregations in this parish have
continued to live in harmony and friendship.
  The manse was built in 1774, and, though very inferior in ac-
commodation to many built at a rubsequent period, is sufficiently
comfortable.
  The present stipend is 17 chalders of victual, half meal half
barley, and L.8, 6s. 8d. is the allowance for communion element
money. The glebe does not exceed the legal minimum extent of
four acres, and might bring a rent of about L.3 per acre.
  Education.-Some years ago, the heritors erected a large and


