
910                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

horses chiefly sought after far agricultural purposes, are not those
of the largest size, but such as are of good mettle, and easily kept
in good condition.
   Until of late years almost the only breeds of black-cattle known
in this district of country were the Aberdeenshire horned and
Angus polled breeds.  But what is called the short-horned or Tees-
water breed is now prevailing to a considerable extent, and seems,
in spite of the opposition which its introduction has encountered
from various quarters, to be daily gaining ground.  Opinion, how-
ever, is still divided between this recent importation and the ancient
breeds of the country, and it is not for the writer to presume to
determine which party has the right side of the question.  One
thing is matter of fact, and forces itself upon the attention of even
the most ordinary observer, that our farmers now bring their cattle
to a much greater weight than in former times, and receive for
them & price proportionally more remunerating.  Various causes
have contributed to bring about this result, one of which, and un-
doubtedly not the least important is, that much more attention and
skill are now applied not only to the feeding off of full-grown
stock, but also to the equally important departments of breeding
and of keeping the rising cattle in a thriving condition.  Had the
same attention been formerly given to these important parts of the
farmer's occupation, there can be no doubt that cattle even of the
ordinary breeds of the country might have been brought to much
greater weight than what, under the less perfect mode of manage-
ment heretofore adopted, they ever attained.  Still, as it seems to
be admitted on all hands that the sbort-horns both attain to a
greater size, and are capable, from their less active habits, and
probably other concurring causes, of being fed off at a much ear-
lier age, it is questionable whether, at least on a good farm, the
same amount of profit could be realized by the breeding of cat-
tle of the Angus or Aberdeenshire breeds.  The beef of the
short-horns is said to be inferior, which is probably the fact.  Never-
theless, as no preference seems to be given to the pure Aberdeen-
shire breed in the London market, an inferiority in the article
exposed by him, so long as that inferiority does not affect its ex-
changeable value, cannot be supposed to have much influence with
the Scottish farmer.  An apprehension now generally entertained
is, that second and third crosses between the Teeswater and Aber-
deemshire, breeds may, be attended with a deterioriation of both,
lndeed, the most intelligent farmers seem to be of opinions that
                                3


