
	456                   ROSS AND CROMARTY.

	about fourteen years. He died in 1679, and a tombstone in this
	churchyard marks the place of his interment.
	   Mr Arthur Sutherland,-who was the last Episcopal incumbent
	or curate here, succeeded, and at the Revolution was allowed to
        remain in possession of his church, manse, and stipend, upon taking
        the oath of allegiance to the existing powers. Accordingly,
        he continued to preach, &c. undisturbed, though he never conformed
        to the Presbyterian form of church-government, until the
        period of his death, which took place 8th April 1708. Mr Sutherland
        having, at his own private-expense, laid out considerable
	sums on repairing the manse, "which was in no good case when
	be entered to the place," and which was valued altogether at
        L.481 Scots; and the Presbytery, "finding by a subscribed compriseing
        of the said manse, at the said Mr Arthur Sutherland, his
        entrie thereto, the old manse was comprised to the soume of ninety-seven
        pounds, Scots money," ordered the beritors of the parish
	to meet at Eddertoun, on the 6th April 1709, and "stent and
	tax themselves, according to their several valuations in the forsd <Footnote>
	paroch, for paying to the heirs and executors of the said Mr Arthur
        Sutherland the soume of L.384 Scots money;" * <Footnote> which was accordingly
        paid; and shows that the heritors at that period considered
        themselves liable to the heirs of a clergyman for expenses necessarily
        incurred by him, though not laid out under the sanction of
	the presbytery. Besides his relict Mr Sutherland left a son, John,
	who was minister of Golspie 1731-52, and of Tain 1752-69,
        and of whom there is a sketch amongst thE "Eminent Individuals"
        of this parish.
	   Mr Hector Fraser,-who seems to have been a probationer of
        the Presbytery of Edinburgh, and was sent north by the Assembly
        1699, to supply vacancies in the bounds of Ross-that year
	he was ordained to Kincardine; and oil the 12th September
	1706, an "act of transportability" (as the privilege of accepting a
        call to another charge, if such a call should be given, was termed,)
        having been passed by the united presbyteries of Ross and
	Sutherland in his favour, Mr Fraser accepted "a call from the
	paroch of Eddertown," which was presented to the presbytersy
        30th November 1708. He died, after an eminently useful Ministry
        of twenty years, on the 17th of May 1729.
	   Mr Robert Robertson succeeded: he was previously minister of

<FOOTNOTE>Presbytery Records of Tain, Vol. I. pp. 69-70.


