
     of Kiltarlity.

<UNREADABLE>

   Hills, Rocks, Rivers, Lochs.-By far the greatest part of
this parish consists of mountains and rugged rocks.  But
our mountains are not so high as in the neighbouring pa-
rish of Kilmorack.  The greatest part of them afford pretty
good pasture for sheep and goats.  The principal rocks are
those of Mayne, about 5 measured miles westward of the
church, by the S. side of the river Beauly.  Here are three
farmer villages, consisting of a few houses, called East,
West, and Mid Mayne*.  The principal river is that of
Beauly, abounding with salmon, and different kinds of
trout.  The fishing of this river is set to a Company in
Perth at L. 631 Sterling a-year.  The salmon fetch on the
spot 3 d. the 1 b.; some years ago they sold for 1 d.  They
are in season from February till the end of August.  The
Beauly is reckoned one of the best angling rivers in the
north, or perhaps in Scotland.  Some gentlemen in this neigh-
bourhood have been known to fish with the rod on this
river from 12 to 18 salmon in the course of 5 or 6 hours.
About 2 measured miles N. W. of the church, there is a
considerable fall on the Beauly, called the Red Linn.  In
the pool below this ???? some seasons of the year, many
hundred salmon are seen constantly attempting to get up
the fall; and when the fish are in full vigour, they leap an

</UNREADABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

several instances of people who died of bilious complaints, jaundice,
and dropsy, for some years past.  I judge this to be owing in a great mea-
sure to the quantity of spirits drunk by the common people of this pa-
rish, in their distilleries and dram-houses.

   *Mayne, in Gaelic, signifies a mine, or some metallic ore formerly dis-
covered in the rocks of Mayne.  If so, this discovery has been lost, as no
mine of any kind has been found or wrought here in the memory of man;
however, by a proper search, this mine might still be discovered, and per-
haps prove a valuable acquisition to the proprietor.
      

