
                        PARISH OF FINTRAY.

               PRESBYTERY OF ABERDEEN, SYNOD OF ABERDEEN.

              THE REV. JOHN LESLIE,             }
              THE REV. WILLIAM LESLIE, A. & S.  }  Ministers.

                  I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-THE name of this parish is supposed to be Gaelic, and
to signify the fair bank or boundary of the river.
   Extent, &c.-The parish is situated in that district of the county
of Aberdeen which is called Formartin, and extends from five to
six miles in length along the north bank of the river Don and from
three to four in breadth-containing about fifteen square miles.
   Boundaries, &c.-It is bounded on the south by the river Don,
which separates it from the parishes of Dyce, Kinellar, and Kin-
tore; by the parish of Keith-hall, on the north and west; and by
New Machar, on the east.  Its shape has some resemblance to that
of an Irish harp, with the broad end turned to the east.
   The ground rises gradually from the river towards the north to
the height of perhaps 300 feet; but there is nothing in this pa-
rish that deserves the name of a hill.  It sinks again towards the
north boundary of the parish.
   Climate.-The climate, in general, is dry, early, and healthy;
and from the extent of ditches, drains, and other improvements
which are carried on,-partly by the heritors and partly by the ten-
ants,-the climate will be much improved.
   Hydrography.-The only river connected with this parish is the
Don, already mentioned, which runs from west to east, and falls into
the sea near Old Aberdeen.  There are three burns also, which
supply as many meal and barley mills, with a kiln attached to each
of them.
   Geology.-The parish abounds with granite of excellent qua-
lity; and there is also some limestone; but, owing to the scar-
city of fuel, it is not converted into lime.  The soil is va-
rious.  Along. the bank of the river it consists of deep, rich,
haugh land.  Further removed from the river the land consists


