
138   			EDINBURGHSHIRE.

to the westward of Newbridge, several large stone coffins have been,
from time to time, discovered. Farther down the course of the
Almond, nearly two miles, on the property of Mr Ramsay of Barn-
ton, a solitary monumental stone has been erected, in memory of
the same battle, named Catstane, supposed to be a corruption of
Constantine, and to have been erected to the honour of constan-
tine, one of the commanders in the same engagement, who was
there slain and interred. When the turnpike road by Loanhead
was cut through, spurs and heads of spears were found under the
surface of the ground.
   It is a well ascertained fact, that Edward I. of England, when
marching to Falkirk, where he completely vanguished the Scot-
tish troops, on the 22d of July 1298, lay for some time with his
army close to the village of Kirkliston. The field in which, ac-
cording to common tradition, the King's tent was pitched, is im-
mediately to the south-west of the village, on the property of New-
liston.
   On the estate of Clifton Hall has been found an urn of burnt
clay, containing ashes ; and the shape and size of two flat stones
within it, seemed to indicated that a heart had been therein depo-
sited.
   In the village of Clifton, under the foundation stone of an old
cot-house, was found a Pig or Pipkin of burnt clay, with a small
opening, just sufficient to admit one coin at a time. It contained
between 300 and 400 silver coins, partly Scotch, partly Eng-
lish. In a separated field, on the line of the Canal, and on the pro-
perty of Clifton Hall, was found a gold coin, in excellent preser-
vation, aboit fifteen feet under the surface, hearing the inscrip-
tion Robertus II. Rex Scotorum.
   Beneath a large whinstone, immediately under the surface, a
Druidical are was discovered, in good preservation, quite sharp,
apparently hidden under the stone.
   In the south-west cotner of the parish, on the estate of the Earl
of Hopetoun, there is a baronial residence, evidently of great an-
of High Liston, which is said to have been, in ancient times, a
hunting castle of the King of Scotland. James II. and James IV.
are both said to have used it as such.
   About two miles  to the westward of the village of Kirkliston, a
little to the south of the Edinburgh and Linlithgow turnpike road,
stands Niddry Castle, a fine old ruin, at one time posssessed by the


