
442                        ROXBURGHSHIRE.

high land attracting the vapours of the Atlantic, aid from the re-
tentive nature of the soil.  But the district is very healthy.  Within
these few years, instances have occurred of persons reaching very
nearly the patriarchial age of one hundred.
   Minerals.--There is great abundance of limestone in the pa-
rish, of different qualities.  It is wrought to a great extent in the
estates of Lariston and Thorlieshope.  Coal is wrought to a dimh-
nished extent on the estate of Liddlebank.  Freestone quarries of
excellent stone are everywhere found, excepting at the bead of the
Hermitage, where there is nothing but blue whinstone.
   Medicinal Springs.  There are several springs in this parish,
strongly impregnated with sulphur. There is one at tbe head of
it, at Thorliesbope, in that part called the Dead Water, unfortu-
nately situated in the middle of that vast morass where the Lid-
dal and the Tyne take their rise.  In wet seasons it is weaken-
ed by the surrounding water.  It is much frequented by persons
afflicted with cutaneous and scrofulous complaints, who receive great
benefit from it.  They drink the water, and use it as a warm bath.
A very strong mineral spring is found at Lawstown; and there is
one at Flat, inferior in strength to that at Thorliesliope, but of the
same quality.  There are several springs of this kind. One is
found on the Tweeden, exceedingly powerful, and containing a
great quantity of water, where large masses of petrified matter ap-
pear on every side converted into solid stone.  The progress of the
petrifaction is distinct and beautiful.  The fog or moss, which grows
on the edge of tbe spring, and is sprinkled with the water, is about
eight inches high; the lower part is converted into solid stone;           .
the middle appears as if half frozen, and the top is green and
flourishing.  The petrified matter, when burnt, is resolved into
very fine lime.  The spring itself, when led over the fields in little
rills, fertilizes them exceedingly.
     There are several beautiful waterfalls on the river Tweeden
the little streams of Dinlabyre, Harden, and Sundbope.  But on
the river Blackburn, such scenes are in all their beauty and va-
riety. Sometimes the river shoots over a perpendicular rock, in
one unbroken sheet of water, forming a beautiful cascade; at other
times it is darted over tremendous precipices, and rages furiously
amonf the huge masses of the rock below.  In this wild and ro-
mantic vale, nature appears in various forms, now beautiful, then
awful, sometimes sublime, and frequently terrible.  The au-
thor of this account measured the principal falls.  One is 27


