
33O                EDINBURGHSHIRE.

tive country. He came from Duneira to Edinburgh to attend the
funeral of President Blair on the 28th of May. On the evening
of the preceding day, he employed. himself in making arrange-
ments relative to the President's family, and had begun a letter
to Mr Perceval recommending them to his attention, but which
he left unfinished. His Lordship was in the habit of rising at
seven o'clock, and his servant, being surprised when he did not
appear at the usual hour, entered his room at eight in the morn-
ing: receiving no answer to his call, he opened the curtains, and
discovered Lord Melville lying lifeless, his bead resting on one
arm, and the other extended on the bed-clothes.  His Lordship
had died of disease of the heart, of some years duration, as ap-
peared on a post mortem examination.
   Thus terminated, in the seventieth year of his age, the life of
this extraordinary man. He possessed, in a distinguished degree,
the qualities of a statesman. In the general affairs of govern-
ment, his information was accurate and extensive, his advice con-
siderate, and his sagacity profound; no dilemma could perplex
him, no conjuncture alarm him, no opposition could abate his ar-
dour, and no disaster could shake his firmness. Even the mas-
ter-wind of Pitt, with delight, acknowledged the superiority of his
unrivalled powers.
   There have been erected a statue by Chantrey in the Parlia-
ment House, and a pillar, similar to Trajan's at Rome, in St An.
dre's Square, Edinburgh, to commemorate his Lordship's talents
and service. The subscription for the latter was raised, after his
death, chiefly among naval officers, whose profession he bad so
eminently benefited.
   Chief Land-owners.--Mrs Gibsone of Pentland; Lord Mel-
Ville; Sir Francis Walker Drummond, Bart. of Hawthornden;
Sir George Clerk, Bart. of Pennicuik; G. C. Arbuthnot, Esq.
of Mavisbonk; Admiral Sir P. C. H. Durham of Polton; Alex-
ander Hay, Esq. of Hardengreen.
   Parochial Registers.--The parochial registers are, in general,
well kept, and commence soon after the Reformation.
   Antiquities.--At Hawthornden there remains a fragment of an
old fortalice or castle of unknown antiquity. There is still an
arch over the only one of the room now in existence, and on it
there is a sycamore or plane tree of considerable dimensions.--
being probably a seedling of the tree which we are now to mention.
To the east of this ruin is the famous sycamore tree which is called


