
                       KILDONAN.                          145

   ler, the second son of William, Earl of Orkney, by his second
   wife: which William, Earl of Catteynes, wes slain at Flowden."*
   The Earldom of Caithness, at the period here referred to, may be
   said to have been, in one respect, in the King's hands; for although,
   after the termination of the Norwegian line of Earls of Orkney
   and Caithness in 1331, the Earl of Strathern was also Earl of
   Caithness for a short time ; the succeeding Earls of the Sinclair
   family claimed the Caithness title, while they also held the Earl-
   dom of Orkney under the kings of Denmark, and their allegiance
   to a foreign power divested them of their privileges as Earls of
   Caithness under the Crown of Scotland. This state of matters, no
   doubt, occasioned the establishment of a croWnership in Caithness,
   which office was vested in the person of the chief of the Guns, who
   was afterwards killed by the Keitbs.
      Five of the crowner's sons survived him. The eldest, James,
   from whom the patronymic of MacKeamish, the son of James,
   is derived, which distinguished his son and all the subsequent
   chiefs of the clan, succeeded his father, and resided in Sutherland,
   as all his successors have done, their principal dwelling-bouse hav-
   ing been at Killernan, in the parish of Kildonan, until it was de-
   stroyed accidentally, by fire, about, the year 1690. From one of
   the sons of the crowner, named William, are descended the Wil-
   sons of Caithness, and from Henry, the Hendersons.    Another
   son, Robert, who was killed with his father, left issue, and from
   them were the Gun Robsons, who afterwards appear in the annals
   of Caithness, and from the issue of another son, John, also killed
   by the Keiths, were the Guns M'Eans of Caithness.
      It was in the time of this crowner Gun that Hugh Macdonald
   of Sleat, third son of Alexander Earl of Ross, married a lady of
   the clan Gun, who is supposed to have been the crowner's daugh-
   ter.   By this lady, Macdonald of Sleat+ " had a son, Donald,
   called Gallach, from being fostered + by his mother's relations in

   <FOOTNOTE>Sir Robert Gordon's History, page 92.
             Gregory's Western Hichlands and Isles, page 60.
             The fostering of the children of great families in remote but comparatively se.
   cure parts of the interior of the Highlands, was a, very common practice in the north
   of Scotand, down to the beginning of the last century; and the alliance or affection.
   ate tie thus formed often proved to be stronger than that flowing from blood-relation-
   ship.  Sir R. Gordon refers to this result in another case of fostering among the clan
   Gunn.   He says, " In the moneth of December, 1622 yeirs, Sir John Sinclair of
   Greenland and Ratter, (the Earle of Catteynes, his brother,) died in Catteynes.  He
   was a great favourer of the Clan- Gun, with whom he had been fostered and, bred in
   his infincie, which is accompted the strictest poynt of amitie and friendship among
   all the Hielanders 6f the kingdoms of Scotland; preferring oftentymes their fosters
   and foster-brethren Unto their parents, and neirest kinred; they will follow and de-


