
96                                ORKNEY.

                               IV.-INDUSTRY.

     Agriculture.-Strangers still find much to condemn in the ma-
nagement of the land in these parishes; but to those who recollect
what it was forty years ago, a very great improvement, indeed, is
perceptible; and now that the slavery of the kelp manufacture has
been removed, and the free and unfettered energies of the farmers
begin to be applied to their proper business, it may be hoped that
twenty years hence, they will in this respect stand exposed to
less objection on the part of their more fortunate southern neigh-
bours.
     Great part of the lands have been placed in a state of severalty,
and the marches betwixt different farms, as well as betwixt estates
ascertained; and, in many cases, good division-fences erected.
The purchase or redemption by some of the proprietors, of the

the custom that the women who had attended an accouchement brought a present of
meat next day to the lady in the straw; -it generally consisted of a stoup full of
"Eggalourie," and a "cubbie" of bannocks, and was conveyed by stealth into the
bed of the invalid-Calzee, (n.) a large straw basket-Cubble. (n.) a small caisie.
     Dair, (v.) to make an impremion-Dello, (n.) a small patch of cultivated ground
-Domalus, (adj.) impotent-Doring, (part.) confusion, noise-Dovend, (adj.) be-
numbed.
     Eri-oy, a great grandson-Esk, (v,) to rain a little-Ere, (n.) a small quantity
-Eggalourie, (n.) a dish of eggs and milk boiled together.
     Fulifu, (Adj.) affectionate-Fole, (n.) a small bannock-Foundal, (adj.)procrasti-
nating-Forsal, (v.) to harness-Frootery,(n.) superstitious observances-Furkin,
(adj.)melting-Fur-scam, (n.) of the four horses formerly used abreast in the old
Orkney plough, the first or right hand one was called the fur horse, the second the
fur-scam, and the third the volar-scam, and the outend horse.
     Goe or Gio, (n.) a cave or creek into which the sea flows-Geyar-carl, (n.)a su-
pernatural being like the kelpie-Glet, (n.) an intermission of rain-Gloggo, (n.)
it mixture of burstin and milk-Grummal, crumbs, fragments-Gul, Sir, by the
way of address-Gully, (adj.) good, agreeable.
     Harskit, (n.) heartburn-Hellio, (n.) a stone with a rim of clay about it, used in
parching corn for burstin.
     Ilty, (n.) anger-Iltifu, (adj.) angry.
     Ket, (adj.) dwarfish -Kleipie, (n.) a blow.
     Lubbo, (n.) a meal measure, very neatly made of bent.
     Main, patience-Maisk, bashful-Mullio,-a bundle of gleanings.
     Noust, a dock for a boat-Nouster, a landing place.
     Oddle, a sewer-Orafu, glutton, greedy.
     Peerie, litle-Pooty, a small cod-Pousted, bewitched, infatuated.
     Quoy, a small enclosure.
     Rowley, ugly-Renzie, to writhe with pain-Ruist, Rug, or Mur, synonymes for
small rain-Ruggle, an old cod-Rugfus, rude
     Scatfu, inclined to steal-Scramet, a morsel-Scrime, to see an object dimly-.Skio,
a drying.house-Smooin sly-Sawain, a sea-weed-Suck, loose straw rubbish-
Sucky, untidy.
     Tirran, ill-natured-Tirr, angry-Toy, a woman's cap-Tray, stiff, stubborn-
Tray-sitten, lazy, stupefied-Trow a boggle-Tugmall, piece of arable land next the
streading.
     Uim, mad,furious-Unfardy, unwieldy, overgrown
     Vair, having no appetite.-Vidiment, insignificant-Vista, a short journey-Vohr,
the spring season.
     Warf, a signal-Wain, hope-Wallowa, the devil.
     Yammel,born in the same year.
                                   4


