
22                           ORKNEY.

ricks consist of twenty-four sheaves, which when put together re-
ceive the name of tbreave. The two last sheaves of the rick are
put across each other, and so tied together by portions of them-
selves, that they are not apt to fall even when the wind is high.
The ricks, after standing for a week, in favourable weather, are fit
for the stack. It is obvious, that, in rainy harvests, which are
frequent in this climate, this method of placing the sheaves and
ricks is most favourable for preserving the grain from being in-
jured by the heavy falls of rain. The consequence is, that the
crop is rarely injured, in harvest, to any great degree, in the most
unfavourable weather.
   Fisheries.-The principal fishing, of late years, has been of herring.
About thirty years ago, herrings were got in Scalpa Bay for a few
days in a season; but more lately, they have not been sought for
there, nor are they ever found on this coast. There are, however,
eight boats, with four men each thus employed. They repair to the
island of Stronsay toward the end of July, and about two weeks
after go to South Ronaldsay, where they remain about a month,
or till the, herrings leave the coast of that island. Vessels from
Rothesay and from Ireland attend to receive the herrings, as soon
they are barreled.  The price for some years past has varied from
9s. to 12s. per cran or barrel.  The average, for each boat this
season, has been fifty-five crans.  About eighteen years ago, when
the spirit of enterprise in this employment became prevalent, a
boat completely rigged, with a set of nets, cost L.90. The price
has now fallen to L.70.  This fishing has been found to be a pre-
carious concern, and less lucrative than was expected.
   Lobster Fishing.-This fishing has been continued for many
years on a small scale, on this coast and the shore of Cava. For
a few vears past, there has been but one boat with two men thus
employed.  During the fishing season, they carry the lobsters,
weekly, to Stromness for the London smacks.  Each night's catch-
ing is kept in a chest, which floats in the Bay of Houton.  The
number taken annually is by no means considerable.  A few small
cod are occasionally got at no great distance from the shore, so
are some haddocks and skate.  Sillocks and kewths, being the
coal-fish of one and two years old, abound along our shores, and
in winter most of the men, near the shore, are employed in catch-
ing them. They are delicate and wholesome food at this age.
   Produce.-It would be difficult to ascertain, with any degree of

<FOOTNOTE>There are row, (1841,) nine such boats.


