
200                     DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

Much attention has also, been paid to the breeding of black-cattle,
by selecting the best Galloway bulls that can he got in the district.
	Rate of Labour.--The rate of labour is for men during sunmmer,
1s. 8d. per day, and for women, 1s.,--sometimes less; and during
winter for men, 1s, and for women, 6d. Artisans are paid from
1s. 8d. to 2s. 6d. per day.
			V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Market-Town, &c.---Lockerby, in the adjoining parish of Dry-
fesdale, is the nearest market-town, and is distant about a mile and
a-half from the nearest part of the parish.
	Means of Communication.--The locality of the parish does not
require many roads. The principal one runs about two-thirds of
its whole length. It is generally kept in very good repair, but the
line of it is the worst that could have been chosen. Our fore-
fathers seem always to have preferred carrying their roads over the
tops of hills. Such is the road here. But a new one following
the line of the Milk is projected, which, if made, will be the most
picturesque and beautiful in the country.
	Eccleriastical State.--Considering the length of the parish, the
situation of the church is perhaps as good and convenient as any
that could be chosen. The church was built upwards of sixty years
ago, and is at present in a very good state of repair. It was late-
ly stoothed and seated of new, and is at present one of the neatest
and most comfortable in the district. It is to be regretted that,
when the heritors repaired the church, they did not at the same
time repair the wall round the burying ground, which is at present
in a very ruinous state. The church affords accommodation for
the legal number of sitters and no more.
	The manse was btilt, it is said, about a hundred years ago,
Several additions were made to it during the life of the late incum-
bent; but every thing seems to have been done in a very injudi-
cious and insufficient manner. It is at present in great need of
repahrs.
	There are about eight acres of glebe land, including the garden
and thd ground on which the manse and officds stand. Of these nearly
six acres are very good arable land; the remainder consists of pas-
ture ground and the precipices on the side of the Milk, which are
covered with naturalwood. The average value of the arable and
pasture land may be about L.2 per acre.
	The stipend, according to the decreet of the court, is only
six chalders of victual, half meal and half barley, and L.70 in


