
     of Dunfermline.

ber of seams, thickness, depth, and quality, it resembles
Rosebank.
   Having mentioned the collieries in the northern direc-
tion, it may be proper to return to those in the middle of
the parish.  Of these middle, Baldridge colliery, the pro-
perty of Robert Wellwood, Esq; of Garvoch, Deserves at-
tention.  It is in many respects similar to that of Pitten-
crieff, and the other mines in the same direction.  The
lowest seam is a fine splint coal.  This colliery has been
worked for many years, and been extremely advantageous
to the proprietor.  Eastward, in the same line, are the
collieries of Venterfair, Dumferline town coal, and White-
field.  They are worked level free, and contain an im-
mense quantity of excellent coal, which is mostly sold in
the country.  The town supplies its inhabitants with this
important article at a reduced price, which make the fuel
cheaper than in any other town in Scotland.
   To the east of these is the colliery of Halbeath.  It
contains 8 or 9 seams of good workable coal, amounting
in all to upwards of 30 feet.  The lowest or splint seam
in the same as in the other collieries, and is in high repute.
Some of the other seams on the north of the large dike*.

     Vol.XIII. 3 0

<FOOTNOTE>

*Dikes are confused masses of metals, that in some places seem to
interfect the earth from the surface to the centre.  They are of different
thickness.  They generally alter the situation of the strata, by cutting
them off entirely, and substituting other strata in the place of them, or
by elevating or depressing them beyond their natural situation.  Some-
times they raise the coal to the very surface, and at other times, sink it to
an unapproachable depth.  Besides throwing up the coal, they are often
of great use in keeping off the water from the neighbouring mines.  The
dikes with which the coal of this parish is troubled run in different di-
rections, but most generally towards the S. E. and W. +.  Their
course is however very uncertain.  Their elevation is generally from 40
to 80 degrees and they are composed of every kind of substance, from
hard green whin and white spar, to blue clay.

+(See the annexed sketch).


