
102                       LOCHWINNOCH.

   Thread-making was introduced about 1722, and at one time
there were about 20 thread mills in this parish; but now the busi-
ness has been nearly discontinued.
   A bleachfield belonging to the Factory Company was begun about
1740, which consumed all the butter-milk of the parish, till Dr Home
of Edinburgh rescued it out of the hands of the bleachers and restor-
ed it to the use of the inhabitants, by teaching them about 1756 to
use sulphuric acid in its place. The second bleachfield was begun
at Loanhead; the third at Burnfoot by Mr Hamilton Adam. The
Fultons and Co. began bleaching near their large mill about 1793.
All these bleached chiefly their own goods, but there are other
bleachfields which depend upon the manufacturers of Glasgow and
Paisley. Thebleachfield of the late Henry Wilson of Bowfield, Esq.
is particularly mentioned in the former Statistical Account, and it
has been continued with little interruption, though by different per-
sons, to the present day. The business was never carried on with
more skill spirit, and success than by Mr John Campbell, who at
present occupies the house and field of Bowfield. Mr Peter Ca-
meron has a field at Midtown, where a great deal has been done.
He is a person of an active and enterprising spirit, and has con-
nected with the field a beetling-mill on the banks of the Calder,
in which he finishes the goods and prepares them for the market. *
   There are 15 weavers in the parish occupied in coarse work for
the use of the farmers and other inhabitants, and about 203 em-
ployed by the manufacturers of Glasgow and Paisley. From 1780
and downwards, they were engaged with various kinds of muslins:
but a remarkable change took place in the trade about 1820. The
present weavers are employed in Canton crapes, Angola shawls,
silkcypresses silk harnishes, cotton harnishes, and a mixture of both.
This is a complex manufacture,-requires the assistance of a draw-
boy,-andsometimes expensive harnishes, but they make great wages
when the trade is flourishing. When this business was introduced,
some weavers made a great deal of money; and others would have
found it equally profitable if they had been equally careful. About a
fourth part of our weavers are still employed in working muslins, but
very little can now be made by this kind of work. There is one mill in the
parish, which contains six looms employed in power-loom weaving.
Tanning was introduced into the parish about the beginning of
last century, but it did not succeed.

<FOOTNOTE>Cameron bas failed sad left the parish since the above account was written.
But the business of the bleachfield is carried on by John M'Nab and Co.


