
             36                       ROXBURGUSHIRE.

                Botany.-The plants not frequently found'elsewhere, and com-
             mon in the vicinity of Bowden, are the following:-Osmunda crispa,
             small flowering stone-fern, on the eastern side of the north-east
             peak;.Lycopodium clavatum, common wolf's-claw; and Lycopodium
             alpinum, cypress wolf's-claw, on the south-west hill among the
             dwarfish hoath; Sanquisorba officinalis, Burnet; and Peucedanum
             Silaus,' yellow sulphur-wort, all around the base of the hills; Pri-
             mula veris, cowslip, is not found growing naturally in the course of
             the Tweed, or its western tributaries, until the junction of Bowden
             Burn; but after this it is plentiful, and likewise on every dry bank
             and rocky knoll to, the southward of the village of Bowden, and
             for several miles towards the Tiviot; Plantago media is likewise a
             rare plant to the westward and northward.  It is not found in Sel-
             kirkshire, but plentifully on the southern base of the Eildon Hills,
             and on every bank around the village.
              Plants rare in the vicinity.  Hypericum quadranqulum, St Peter's
             wort, in the rill from a spring on the north side of Bowden moor;
             Geranium lucidum, lately grew on the walls of the old castle of
             Holydean; Salix repens, on a hedge-bank to the north of the farm-
             house of Prieston.
              The highest peak of the Eildons is covered so closely for about
             two acres with Vaccinium myrtillus (by no means plentiful else-
             where in the neighbourhood) as almost to exclude any other plant,
             and also Digitalis purpurea and alba, and henbane.
                 Trees of different kinds, particularly oak, ash, and fir, have been
             found in the mosses while digging for peat and marl.  These are
             sometimes of large dimensions, and are found at a considerable
             depth in the moss; but, in so far as is known, none of them have
             been in a petrified. state.
               Soil,&c.-The soil of the parish is of avaried character. The north,
             and part of the west side, are chiefly a stiff clay, from seven to twelve
             inches deep, upon a damp, hard, tiny subsoil.  The southern part
             of the parish is generally lighterl particularly on the ridges, which
             run from west to east, where the cultivated soil, though thin, is dry
             and friable, producinlr good turnips and other crops.  Betwixt these
             ridges there is a good loamy. soil.
               There are considerable quantities of moss and shell marl in the
             parish; the m-arl is under the moss.  Below the marl is a layer of
             fine blue clay-, and under the clay there is generally whinstone rock.

                                  II,-CIVIL HISTORY.
             Antiquities.-Holydean, a farm in this parish, was, in ancient



