
206                      EDINBURGHSHIRE.

berts; on the south, by Colinton, Currie, and Ratho; and on the
west, by Ratbo and Kirkliston.
   Topographical Appearances.-Tbe greater part of the parish
consists of a tract of low-lying meadow land, which extends from
near Coltbridge to Redheughs. The village is situated in the
centre of this tract, and is slightly elevated above the level of the
meadows on both sides.  Towards the north-east, lies Corstor-
phine hill, an eminence covered with wood, which rises 474 feet
above the level of the sea, and commands most delightful prospects
in every direction.  To the west of Corstorphine hill, is a ridge of
rocky ground called East and West Craigs, which overlooks the
western meadow.  The ground in the western division of the pa-
rish is more diversified and undulated, rising on both sides of the
Gogar-burn, and gently sloping towards the water.
   Hydrography.-The only streams in the parish are the rivulets
of Leith and Gogar; the former running through the south-
eastern division of the parish, and the latter through the lands of
Gogar, and falling into the river Almond, in the adjoining parish
of Kirkliston.  In former times, there were two lochs in the mea-
dows, which are represented in Blaew's Atlas, in the Map of Lo-
thian, which was prepared about 1640, as situated, one on each
side of Corstorphine Castle, and as supplying with water a ditch
which surrounded the grounds belonging to the Castle.
   There is a mineral spring near the village of Corstorpbine, which
is very similar in taste to the water of St Bernard's Well, Edin-
burgh.  Dr Monro, in his book on Mineral Waters, Vol. i. page
209, says, that "it is a weak, sulphureous water, from which Dr
Short got by evaporation eleven grains of sediment from a gallon,
four grains of which were clay, and seven grains, a saline matter
composed of sea salt and a calcareous glauber.  This water has
been used for the cure of scrofulous complaints."  For many years
previous to the end of the last century, and at the commencement
of the present, this well was in great repute, and for the sake of it
Corstorphine was much resorted to as a watering-place,* so much
so, that in the month of May 1749,+ a stage-chaise was set up,
which travelled between Corstorphine and Edinburgh eight or nine
times every week-day, and four times on Sunday.  It is said that
one of the ladies of the family of Dick of Prestonfield and Corstor-

<FOOTNOTE>Webster's Topographical Dictionary, word Corstorphine.
          Scots Magazine, Vol. xi. p.253.
                               4


