
     Statistical Account

which derivations are evidently confirmed by the local si-
tuations, and natural appearances of the several places.

   Church and Poor*.-The church is a capacious, though
not very commodious building.  At present it is in good
repair, being lately put into that condition, at the expence
of several hundred pounds.  The manse and offices are in
a state of rapid decay, though repaired since the present
minister's incumbency.  The living is L. 88:17:6 in mo-
ney, 32 bools of meal, and about L. 12 of feu-duty and
rents from the old village.  The poor within the parish,
receiving alms, are extremely numerous, occasioned prin-
cipally by the great influx of highlanders above mention-
ed, most of whom are very indiggent; and during the sum-
mer months, they range this and the neighbouring parishes,
and are a great encroachment on what is truly the proper-
ty of the native poor.  For the support of these, there are no
mortified or public funds, besides the interest of the very
small sum of L. 30 Sterling, and the weekly or occasional col-
lections, which may amount to about L. 32 annualy; which
sums are almost entirely devoted to the use of such poor,
as are unable to leave their beds or houses, or make any
exertion for their support at all, which, at present, and ge-
nerally, may be about 30 in number.  This statement evi-

<FOOTNOTE>

*The oldest session-records in Keith, bear date only 1686; at which
time Sir James Strachan of Thornton, was minister of Keith.  In the
year 1690, he was deprived of his living for non-comformity to the new
Government.  After his deprivation, for some time the people of Keith
were very seldom accommodated with preaching.  On that account the
parishioners and heritors agreed with a Mr Lachlan Rose, to officiate as
minister at Keith.  In 1694, some complaints against this Rose were lod-
ged before the Committee of Assembly for the north, then sitting at El-
gin; which Committee declared Rose an intruder, and proclaimed the
kirk vacant.  This vacancy, however, was not supplied till Mr John
Christic's admission in 1700.


