
282                   INVERNESS-SHIRE.

guage. The reason for this is, because, 1st, The imitative powers
of children, with respect to sounds and articulation, are more acute
in early life than in maturer years; and were the Gaelic taught
first, it would be almost impossible to adapt the tone of the voice
afterwards to English pronunciation; 2dly, Although the English
may take a longer period than the Gaelic to acquire it properly,
yet, when it is acquired, the pupils can master the Gaelic without
any assistance; and 3dly, Such as cannot speak the English,
naturally are more reluctant to leave the country in quest of that
employment which they cannot procure at home.
   The fees in all the schools are merely nominal, on account of
the poverty of the people. There are many in the parish who
have no education whatever. These, for the most part, are old
people, who bad no opportunities of acquiring instruction in their
younger days, and women of all ages. Many of the people foolish-
ly imagine, that their girls have but little need of education in
comparison with their boys, and consequently the proportion of the
former who attend school is comparatively small.
   Poor Funds.-The number of persons who receive parochial aid is
about 60, who are divided into classes according to their respective
degrees of poverty. Owing to the smallness of the sum realized by
church collections, the funds are divided only once in two years.
There is no other fund for the benefit of the poor; it may, there-
fore, be said, that they are almost entirely supported by going
about from place to place in quest of public charity.
   Inns.-The number of small inns in the parish is 3, one in each
district. Owing to the depression of the times, the people, should
they be inclined, cannot afford to drink to any excess.
   Fuel.-The only fuel of the parish is peat, with which the na-
tives supply themselves generally from the bills.

               MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   The most striking variation which has taken place since the
publishing of the last Statistical Account, is the immense increase
of population, from the causes already explained. Since then,
too, the natural resources of lucrative employment for the natives
have undergone a complete revolution. By means of legislative
enactments, and certain alterations in the commercial policy of the
nation, which led to the reduction of duty on salt and barilla, the
kelp trade has been annihilated. This has proved an incalculable
loss to both proprietor and tenant. The quantity of sea-ware
which was necessary for producing a ton of kelp, which was dis-



