
                  WANDELL AND LAMMINGTOUNE.               831

round the enclosures, of " merry,England." Really it is not only
lamentable, but astonishing in no small degree, that the great
landed proprietors of Scotland should not think how easily they
might soon wipe away the too much merited stigma so constantly
cast in our teeth by our southern neighbours, as to the bleak and
sterile aspect of our dear native country.  There is not quick-hedge
in the whole barony of Wandell, unless it may be round a kailyard,
and on the south march of the Wandell glebe.  Lammingtoune,
though not so bad, has yet but few good hedges upon it.  Such as
are,are chiefly about the village crofts and close vicinity. It is true,
however, that within these two years, since the young proprietor came
ofage, a good beginning has taken place, by putting in thorn hedges
on the farm of Mains, both along the side of the parish road, and
also in subdivisions throughout the farm.  Hedges have likewise
been set along the new access to Beatlaws farm-house; and
wherever they have been planted they promise to do well.
   Farm Buildings, &c.-In respect to farm-houses in this parish,
there is also, in the greater part of them, much room for amend-
ment. Generally speaking they are very limited in point of accom-
modation; ill finished, not being lathed upon the walls, and con-
sequently damp, cold, and uncomfortable.  The older,ones are all
built upon the same plan, of one storey, with three apartments, con-.
sisting of a kitchen in one end, a small family room in the middle,
off a long passage, leading to a larger apartment called " the far
room," in the other end of the house.  The garret is but rarely
either floored or plastered.  In all these three apartments there are
beds.  The kitchen is usually the largest apartment in the house,-
the fire is placed about 6 feet from the gable towards the middle of
the floor, and has commonly a bench or form, or sometimes a long
wooden seat with arms, called a "lang settle," placed between the
grateand the gable wall,occupied by the young farm lads as a "rest-
ing chair" in the winter evenings after the labours, of the day.  The
smoke is collected by what is called a brace, that is, a square-
mouthed box, resembling the inverted hopper of a mill about 5
or 6 feet wide, placed directly over the fire, at the height of 6 feet
or so from the floor, and gradually contracting itself to about 2
feet square as it ascends, and is carried either into a stone chimney
in the gable, or straight up through the roof, close to the gable,
by what is yet well known through all Scotland, as a "lumm,"
namely,a vent or conductor, projecting about 3 feet above the
ridge of the roof, the frame work of which is of wood, generally


