

20                         STIRLINGSHIRE.

by water. The other two go by steam-engines of twenty and thirty-
six horse power.
  Distilleries.- Of these there are two. One of them at Bonny-
muir pays L.150 per week to Government, and employs twelve men.
The other at Camelon employs five men.
  Breweries.-There are four in the parish. Three of them are
comparatively upon a small scale. The other makes ales and
porter of various degrees of strength. It has a great home con-
sumpt, besides sending large quantities to London and elsewhere.
It is situated in the town of Falkirk, and employs twenty men.
  Tan-works.-There are four tan-works, which are all situated
in the vicinity of the town. Currying, as well as tanning, is per-
formed in three of them ; and in one of these the. process of taw-
ing sheep and lamb skins is carried on. They employ, in whole,
forty-two men.
  Weaving.-Muslin and coarse linen weaving are carried on here'
to a very small extent. In the town there are only forty persons
employed in this trade. The muslin-weavers get all their work
from Glasgow. The coarse linen-weavers work only at home-
made cloth, that is, cloth made by families in the neighbourhood.
Ten years ago, five times the present number were employed.
They are decreasing every year, from the miserable wages made
at the trade.
  Nurseries.-There are four in the neighbourhood of the town,
which occupy a considerable extent of ground, and supply a large
district with forest-trees of all kinds, as also fruit-trees, ornamental
shrubs, bushes, &c. They are all kept in excellent order.
  Ship-Building.-This is carried on to a small extent, near to
Lock No. 16. The vessels built are for the canal trade. Twelve
men are employed.

                 V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
Market-Town.-Falkirk is the only market-town in the parish,
and is estimated as containing nearly 5000 inhabitants; but within
the bounds of the Parliamentary burgh, the population was ascer-
tained in 1835 to be 7445. The town consists of a principal
street, extending to three-quarters of a mile, from east to west,
forming part of the turnpike road betwixt Edinburgh, Glasgow,
and Stirling. The street is rather narrow at the extremities, but
it gradually widens in approaching the centre, where it attains a
respectable breadth. There are besides, other streets and lanes,
some of which branch from, and others run parallel with, the prin-

                              3


