
828                             PERTHSHIRE.

of Rossie is covered with gravelly sandy soil.  That of Baled-
garno is similarly ovdrlaid, though toward the top it is sprinkled
with huge blocks of trap; while that of Ballindean presents both
limestone and sandstone towards its base, in addition to the other
characteristics.
   The trap, when exposed to view in the quarries opened for
supplying metal to the roads in the neighbourhood, and for
building, exhibits a columnar appearance, indicative of the great-
ness of the agency employed in forcing it, and of the greatness
and the power of Him "who toucheth the bills and they smoke."
   The red sandstone, again, is mottled with circular and oval
spots of a whitish colour.  They do not in general present any
thing peculiarly striking, beyond their greater hardness than the
darker coloured material in which they are imbedded.  In a few
of these, however, are to be traced some very interesting forma-
tions.  In one of them in Rossie flower-garden, the section, which
is circular, of about six inches diameter, presents a number of
very distinct figures, resembling specimens of gypsum, or moss
or the veins or arteries in the animal frame.  In another in the
same place, and of a like size, around the centre rise several
beautiful concentric bands of different shades, not unlike the hu-
man eye.*
   The limestone, I am given to understand, is of good quality.
   In digging the foundation for Rossie Priory, several vdins of
copper were discovered.
   On the hill of Ballindean have been found a considerable num-
ber of valuable pebbles, as well as a variety of other minerals.
   Zoology.-Among the rarer species of birds may be noted the
water-rail and water-ouzel.  A multitude of cross-bills made their
appearance in the winter and spring of 1839.  Their visit, how-
ever, was only temporary.
   Very fine Ayrshire and short-horned cattle are bred in the pa-
rish, as well as Leicester sheep; and particular and highly suc-
cessful attention has been paid to the breeding and rearing of these
different kinds of stock on the home-farm of Lord Kinuaird.  His
Lordship has also lately enlivened the beautiful den of Baled-
garno with a number of healthy and thriving fallow-deer.
   On the banks in the frith, on the southern boundary, salmon

<FOOTNOTE>Similar appearances are to be found in quarries in the neighbourhood, and to be
seen in the stones of which the walls of the church are composed.


