
			MIDDLEBIE.                          367

   We cannot boast of resident nobility, but may confidently do so
of the number of our proprietors, of whom there are about 30 pos-
sessing land of the yearly value of L. 50 and upwards.
   There are 5 insane and fatuous persons; 2 blind; and 1 deaf and
dumb amongst us.
During the three years from 1828 to 1831, there were in the
parish 27 cases of illegitimate birth.
   By means of an enlightened education and other circumstances,
our people are rapidly improving in their general habits, and,
though not void of a, laudable ambition, are contented with their
situation and circumstances, and enjoy the comforts and advan-
tages of society. The desire of obtaining a good education pre-
v`ils almost universally, and in many cases, the greatest, priva-
tions are undergone by parents, in order to qualify one or two of
their children for the learned professions. We may every day meet
with persons occupying the lowest stations in society, who are ac-
quainted with the events which are taking place in the political
world, and can express their opinions upon them with correctness
and propriety. Though vices of various descriptions prevail amongst
us, I scarcely think that they are upon the increase, and while a
decent outward profession of religion is everywhere displayed, an
attentive observer may perceive religious sentiments secretly and
gradually regulating their dispositions and conduct.

<TABLE=Industry>

			IV.--INDUSTRY.

  Agriculture and Rural Economy.-
The total number of acres in this parish may be stated to be    24,900
  Of which there are cultivated or occasionally in tillage,      5,367
                     uncultivated, waste, or in pasture,        17,356
                     capable of cultivation,                     1,895
                     covered with wood. natural or planted,        282
Our plantations consist chiefly of fir of various kinds, and the
management may be considered upon the whole as good.
   Rent of Land.--The average annual rent of arable land is about
17s. per acre; of grazing L. 6. per ox or cow; and 6s. 6d. per sheep.
The real rent of the parish is nearly L. 10,000.
   Rate of Waqes.--The rate of farm-labourers wages is from 1s.
to 1s. 6d. and of those of artisans from 2s. to 2s. 6d. per day.
   Husbandry.--The character of our husbandry may be term-
ed good, and is still improving; and of late much waste land
has been reclaimed by draining and average, about fifteen years; and the
duration of leases is, at an average, about fifteen years; and the
state of our farm-buildings and enclosures, though in in many cases
bad, has of late been much improved, and upon the farms of His



