
     Statistical Account

   Often struck with a more solemn scene, he beholds the vi-
sionary hunters engaged in the chase, and pursuing the deer
of the clouds, while the hollow rocks in long-sounding echoes
reverberate their cries.

     Chorus aequalis Dryadum*, clamore supremos,
     Implerunt montes+.

<FOOTNOTE>

*If one were allowed to indulge in conjecture, and reason from analogy, it
might be asserted with an appearance of probability, that the dryads and ha-
madryads of the Romans, were the same with the druids and druidesses of the
Celtae.  It is universally acknowledged, that the dryads of the Greeks and Ro-
mans derive their name from the Greek word opus, signifying an oak, and druid,
in the Celtic, from darach, or deni, to which the same meaning is affixed.  Ha-
madryad, is evidently derived, from oi', or oigh, a virgin, always asperated af-
ter the prefix article of the oblique case in the Celtic.  Notwithstanding the
progressive increase of knowledge and proportional decay of superstition in the 
Highlands, these genii are still supposed by many of the people to exist in the
woods and sequestered valleys of the mountains, where they frequently appear
to the lonely traveller, clothed in green, with dishevelled hair floating over their
shoulders, and with faces more blooming than the vermil blush of a summer
morning.  At night in particular, when fancy assimilates to its own precon-
ceived ideas, every appearance, and every sound, the wandering enthusiast is
frequently entertained by their musick, more melodious than he ever before
heard.  It is curious to observe, how much this agreeable delusion corresponds
with the superstitious opinion of the Romans, concerning the same class of genii,
represented under different names.  The Epicurean Lucretius describes the cre-
dulity in the following beautiful verses:

     Haec loca capripedes satyros, nymphasque tenere
     Finitimi pingunt, et faunos esse loquuntur;
     Quorum noctivago strepitu, ludoque jocanti
     Adfirmant volgo taciturna silentia rumpi
     Chordarumque sonos fieri, dulceisque querelas
     Tibia quas fundit digitis pulsata canentum:

   The fauni are derived from the cubates, of faidhin of the Celtae.  Faidh is a
prophet; hence is derived the Roman word fari, to prophecy.
   +There are several now living, who assert that they have seen and heard
this aerial hunting; and that they have been suddenly surrounded by visionary
forms, more numerous than leaves strewed on the streams of Vallumbrosa in


