
     of Bendothy.

measure; the oat and barley sirlot being to the wheat and
pease sirlot as 3 to 2 nearly; the standard wheat sirlot is
very nearly equal to the English bushel, being 110th part
larger.  Good oats yield a boll of meal of 8 stone for a boll
of oats.  Good barley yields a boll and a half of meal, or
12 stone, for a boll of barley.  By the above weights, I
mean meal-weight, or Scotch avoirdupois, a stone, or 16 lb.
of which are equal to 17 lb. 6 ounces English avoirdupois.
The sirlot of the parish is the Dundee barley sirlot, which is
3 lippies in the boll, or a 20th part larger than the Perth
sirlot.  The Perth sirlot is a 25th part larger than the true
standard.  Some farmers of late keep two barley sirlots,
one for Dundee and another for Perth, The Perth wheat
sirlot, which is used here, is also said to be a 30th part lar-
ger than the true standard*.  The prices of victual have
been so variable of late, that nothing particular can be said
of them.  The average of wheat some years bygone was
L. 1 Sterling the boll; of oatmeal, 13 s. 4 d.; of bear, 14 s.
or 15 s.  In this year of scarcity, we have seen the wheat
at 50s. the boll; the bear at 27 s. and the oatmeal at 24 s.
the boll, from the failure of crop 1795.

   Cattle.-There are 1229 horned cattle of all ages and
sexes in the parish.  I have no other general name to them;
But many of them are dodded, that is, wanting horns: We
call them Cattle, to distinguish them from horses, of which
these are 232 in the parish, young and old.  Cattle weigh
from 20 to 40 stone, meal-weight.  A fat ox of 40 stone,

     VOL. XIX. Y y

<FOOTNOTE>

   *If a rod of 63 inches 77 decimal parts, vibrating 47 times in a minute,
were adopted as an universal standard of measure; the length of the rod
would be equal to a chord of the equator, subtending the angle of accelera-
tion of the fixed stars in the time of one vibration.  So that the length of
the rod, multiplied by the number of its vibrations in a year, would be equal
to a great circle of the earth measured along the equator.


