
                                TAIN.                        281

  hills, forming part of a chain which constitutes the proper com-
  mencement of the Highlands, (so called in relation to the greater
  part of Easter Ross) The Hill of Tain, the highest summit in
  the parish, has been calculated from barometrical observations to
  be about 780 feet above the level of the sea.
     Of the three districts above described, the first has, for a period
  far beyond the the memory of man, been gradually lessening in
  consequence of a very perceptible yearly encroachment of the
  tide, more or less rapid in various parts, according to the nature
  and position of the soils it has had to remove or overflow. The ad-
  vance has been slowest over a portion of the plain situated at from
  two to four miles distance below the town, and known by the name
  of the Morrich m•r; which, accordingly, presents the appearance
  of a low promontory stretching far into the sea, as if to meet a
  somewhat similar headland,-the termination of a gently, sloping
  hill, on the opposite Sutherland coast. On that coast, too, a
  precisely similar process of encroachment has been going on; so
  that, although the Frith now measures several miles across, the
  remarkable fact has been preserved by tradition, that it was, at
  one time possible to effect a passage over it at low water upon
  foot, by means of a plank thrown across the channel, where
  narrowed to a few feet by the above-mentioned promontories,
  which stretch towards one another in the form of a long sand-
  bank, broken in a single place, to afford a waterway for the rivers
  of the frith. This bank still remains visible at ebb-tide, extend-
  ing its yellow line amid the blue element around it; and even
  when covered by the sea, it may yet be traced by the difference Of
  hue: but when the waters are agitated by the gentlest breeze, or
  when a ground swell, precursive of a storm rolls in, from the Ger-
  man Ocean, then is the ear arrested at the distance of many miles
  by the hoarse dashing of the breakers, as they boil and foam over
  the Gizzen Briggs * in a long white band, amid the comparative
  calm of a shallow inland sea.
     Names.-The Gaelic names of the burgh and parish are Baile-
  Dhuich, or Duthus' town, and Sgire Duich,or Duthuis' parish;
  -so called from the patron saint. The origin, however, of the
  more ancient and now more; general name of Tain; (or, according

  <FOOTNOTE>The G is pronounced hard as in gizzard. The first part of the name explain-
  ed as a corruption of gizzing, the participle of a supposed verb to gizz,-a sound imi-
  tating word resembling the modern whizz. The etymology is a probable, and at all
  events an appropriate one, that thus translates the name into Whizzing Bridges.
  The Gaelic appellation, Drochaid an'aogh, means probably the Water-wraith's Bridge.


