
718                        ABERDEENSHIRE.

of iron.  There are two streamlets,-the one running south-
east, in the upper part of the parish, is one of the tributaries
of the river ugie, which flows into the sea near to the town
of Peterhead; but, so long as it continues with us, it is but a
puny stream, flowing genrally with a sloggish pace.  The other
streamlet has one or two of its fountains on the eastern side of the
elevated grounds which bisect the parish.  In a natural amphi-
theatre, scooped out, in may be, by some convulsion of the ele-
ments, and protected from every blast that blows, there bubbles
forth from a grassy knoll a most copious stream, denominated the
Mourning of Murnan Well, the waters of which, in conjunction
with other streams, finally merge in those waters which constitute
the rivulet of Philorth, as it falls into the sea about two miles south
of Fraserburgh.
   Geology and Mineralopgy.-It may be said that the course of the
discoverable strata lies in a north-easterly direction, and that its
dip is at an angle of about 45&deg;.  The ascertained strata are either
composed of gravel or sand, or clay, sometimes pure, sometimes
mixed, and it is, for the most part, imbedded on a basis of gra-
nite rock.  There is a species of rotten rock of the clayish mica
kind, held together by a cement of crusted ferruginous sand, aris-
ing in the adjoining parish of Pitsligo, entering this one on its
northern frontier, opposite to the church, traversing it in a south-
erly direction for about a mile, dipping occasionally, and finally
losing itself at the base of one of the eminences which protrudes
from the mountainous range formerly mentioned.  This species of
reck, unfit for any kind of building, is adapted solely for road-
making; but the difficulty and consequent expense of quarrying
render it ineglible even for this purpose.  On this strata of rock,
however, is deposited the richest land in the parish.
   On the eastern extremity of the parish, there is a limestone
quarry, formerly wrought, but now disused, owing to the difficulty
and expense of extracting the under-ground accumulating water.
This vein of limestone is only a small branch of that great strata
which, originating in the rocks on the shores of the Moray Frith,
close by Kinnaird's Head, traverses, in a south-westerly direc-
tion, parts of the parishes of Fraserburgh, Rathen, and Tyrie,
dipping occasionally, underlying the foundations of Mormoid,
exhibiting itself afterwards at the line quarries of Strichen, and
pursuing still its way in the same direction far into the interior of
the country.  The breadth of the strata of limestone, from the
                              4


