
        		       LOCHBROOM.                                85

for some years abroad and in the army, and succeeded his father,
George M'Kenzie, in the year 1816. Being left a free estate
worth L. 1600 a-year, and some thousand pounds in money, he soon
came home, settled on his property, completely changed the whole
system of management which had been previously followed, intro-
duced a superior breed of cattle, for which he had a fine taste; bought
valuable horses, with corresponding implements of husbandry, and
harness; greatly enlarged and improved his mansion-house, built a
fine square of offices, enclosed a large piece of ground for a garden,
with a wall of stone and lime, ten or twelve feet high, which
he laid out in the most tasfeful manner, and stocked with a rich
variety of fruit trees and bushes, as well as flowering shrubs and
flowers; recovered many acres of waste land; opened up the country
by new roads; built hundreds of yards of stone dikes; planted
millions of firs and hard-wood trees; and in every way beautified and
adorned his own romantic little strath. He died at the age of 36,
and left no children behind him.  *
   There are few leases given in this parish, except to the principal
sheep-farmers, and these are from fifteen to nineteen years.
The farm-buildings and enclosures in the parish, except those at
Dundonnell already mentioned, are mean and worthless. The proprietors
will lay out nothing on their lands, nor will they allow meliorations
to their tenants, even for substantial improvements. The
state of the parish, therefore, in regard to improvement, may easily
be imagined.
   Fisheries-The herring fishery has been already noticed. There
are salmon killed on the rivers of Ullapool, Meikle and Little
Broom, and Greenyard.
   Manufactures.-There is no manufacture, of any consequence

<FOOTNOTE>These improvements bad contributed to involve Dundonnell deeply in debt.  His
younger brother, and heir-at-law, was in such circumstances as rendered it impossible
for him to clear the estate,or to retain it. It was settled past him, but burdened with
a legacy to the eldest son of the heir, and still larger provisions to the numerous children
of a favourite sister, of more than sufficient amount to exhaust the surplus value
of the whole property. But this apparent disinheritance of the heir roused the indignation
of the friends of the family, which operated powerfully on the characteristic
attachment of the poor Highlanders; and outrages were committed of an atrocious
character,-fire-raising, destruction of property, brutal mutilation of cattle,and even
deliberate attempts on life. Part of the settlements of the deceased were then made
the subject of reduction by jury trial, and were reduced; and the heir was reinstated
amidst much rejoicings. The heir, however, became immediately bankrupt. The
estate was brought to the hammer for payment of the previous debts, and of an annuity
of L. 500 a-year to the widow;-when it appeared that there was not surplus
enough to pay the legacy bequeathed to the sister or her children, at least during the
widow's lifetime;-and the lands, with all their improvements and embellishments,
have passed by purchase to an intelligent stranger.


