
            534                              PERTHSHIRE

            ly direction upwards of 30 mile, about 18 miles of which are in-
            terspersed with gentlemen's seats, viz. that of General Robertson
            of Strowan, chief of the clan Robertson, or "Clann Donnachidh,"
            as they are called at Mount Alexander; a seat of Sir Neil
            Menzies, Bart. of that Ilk, at Rannoch-Lodge, holding a valuable
            property contiguous, consisting of upwards of 70,000 acres Scotch
            measure; a seat of Lord Grantley's, eldest son of the late Baron
            Norton of the Exchequer, whose name is yet mentioned with every
            mark of respect by the natives;-that of Stewart of Bunrannoch;
            that of Messrs Stewart of Crossmount and Lassintullich; and that of
            Colonel John, M'Donald of Dalchosnie, 92d Highland Regiment.
              The breadth of Rannoch from north to south, is in several
            places nearly 20 miles; the distance from the lake to the top of the
            surrounding mountains, on the north, is from 12 to 13 miles.  On
            the south, from 5 to 6 miles---the hilly part -is generally a wild
            tract of moors and deep bogs, mostly covered with heath, with here
            and there, in a sequestered glen, by the side of a lake or at the
            foot of a mountain, a green spot, where a number of huts or
            "bothies," called (in Scotch) shealings, are to be met with, to
            which the natives,were, and I believe still are, in some places, in
            the habit of retiring during the summer months, with their cattle.
            for pasture,-althoueh the sheep-system has, of late years, a good
            deal superseded this exhilarating and healthy practice.
              At the head of Rannoch, on the estate of Robertson of Strowan,
            there is a tract of flat land upwards of 4,iniles square, consisting
            of mose, swamps, and bogs, a wild of little value, affording but an
            indifferent pasturage; even during the summer half-year.  The Com-
            missioners upon the forfeited Estates, after 1745-6, observing several
            parts of this tract level or with a gentle slope, thought to convert
            them into arable land, and thus in their estimation, benefit a country
            where the land capable of cultivation bears a very minute propor-
            tion to the waste; they accordingly divided a flat of several hun-
            dred acres into four or five portions of deep ditches, digged and
            burnt the moss; but, after carrying on their labours for several
            seasons, they at last discovered that where nature does little or no-
            thing, art seldom succeeds; and therefore they were obliged to re-
            linguish the design. The parallel ditches still point out the place,
            and the labours of the Commissioners.
              Caves.-There are several caves in the parish, which do not ap-
            pear to have ever been properly explored; consequently, little
            is known of their extent and internal structure. Old people point out


