
498                          LANARKSHIRE.

on the south Glengonner, for about two miles, divides it from Craw-
ford; and then the boundary is the ridge of the hills north of that
stream, and as far as the county of Lanark reaches in that direc-
tion; on the west, it has the parishes of Sanquhar and Kirkconnel
in Dumfries-shire, and Auchinleck and Muirkirk in Ayrshire, con-
tiguous to it, from all of which it is separated by no natural boun-
daries, except, in some places, by the ridge of the hills; and, on the
north, lies the parish of Douglas, separated from it by Duneaton
for some miles from Cairntable downwards. This is the parish
in Lanarkshire which unites with it the counties of Dumfries and
Ayr, and, at one spot, this junction is indicated by the appellation,
bestowed on a certain stone, of the "three shire stone."
	Topographical Appearances.--This parish may be said to con-
sist of one large glen, along with the adjoining hills, ascending
from Clyde at Abington to Cairntable on the borders of Ayrshire,
which lies entirely between Duneaton and Glengonner, where they
fall into Clyde, but which gradually expands, so as soon to com-
prehend both sides of Duneaton for eight or nine miles of its winding
course, and also the glen through which Snar runs before falling
into Duneaton, and several other glens with their tributary streams,
and which is at last limited, and for several miles, to the lands on
the south side of Duneaton. All the hills which ascend from the
banks of the principal river, as well as of its, tributaries, are flat on
the top, of gentle acclivity, much diversified in their form and size,
and generally clothed with excellent pasture. Several of them
are apparently some hundred feet above the level grounds near
the river, though I am not aware of any accurate measurement
ever having been made of them; and, perhaps, as exact a notion
of their altitude, as is required, will be attained, when, instead of
specifying indefinite particulars, it is mentioned that the village of
Crawfordjohn may be about 200 feet lower than Leadhills, which
is understood to be 1280 feet above the level of the sea, and that
the top of Cairntable is 1650. There is no one so much elevated
above the rest as to be remarkably conspicuous, Cairntable ex-
cepted.
	Soil.--Soil of almost every description is to be. met with in the
parish. By the side of Duneaton, some of the holms consist of a
deep and rich loam, while others, being more exposed to inunda-
tion, are gravelly and sandy. Upon the sides of some of the hills,
there is a strong red clay, susceptible of high cultivation from ma-
nure and draining; and, upon the side of others, the soil is not
sufficiently deep, and rather gravelly, requiring to be often ma-



