
1206                         PERTHSHIRE.

   It is bounded on the west, and north-west, by the parish of Kin-
noull; on the north, by a detached portion of that parish, called
Balthayock, and by the parish of Kilspindie; on the north-east,
by Kilspindie,on the east, south-east, by the parisb of Errol;
and on the south, by the parish of St Madoes, by another detached
portion of Kinnoull, and by the river Tay.  Its figure is very ir-
regular, and it is difficult to convey an idea of it in words.  For
the first three quarters of a mile from the western extremity, its
breadth is scarcely more than half a mile fartber east than this,
it extends to upwards of a mile and a half then about the middle,
it is reduced again to half a mile ; farther east still than this, it ex-
tends to about two miles and a quarter, but becomes gradually
narrower towards the east end.  Its general outline may be said,
in short, to bear some faint resemblance to that of a violin.
   Topographical Appearances, &c.--The surface is considerably
diversified by level and rising, grounds, by wood and water.  The
lands, on the banks of the Tay are flat.   From this they arise by
a gradual and easy ascent to the base of the hills which traverse
the parish lengthwise from east to west. Of these hills, Kinnoull,
the most westerly, is also the most remarkable. It lies partly in
the parish of that name, and partly in the parish of Kinfauns; and
Presents to the south a large abrupt front of rock, of a striking ap-
pearance especially from the old post road, which went close to
its base.  On this side, the ascent is exceedingly steep, and cloth-
ed with a profusion of young and thriving trees, whose matted roots
prevent the soil, in some degree, from falling down, which it some-
times, not with standing, does, bringing numbers of the trees along
with it.  This ascent extends upwards to fully three-fourths of the
whole height of the hill, which, is 632 feet above the level of the
Tay.  The remaining one-fourth  or nearly so, next the summit,
consists of almost  perpendicular rock.   The summit projects,
however, here and there, in rugged cliffs of a seamy texture,
which, being gradually loosened by the frost and rain, have
sometimes fallen in large maasses, with. prodiginus force, into the
plain below.  On the east of this hill, the ground slopes gradually
downwards; and here, in a hollow, stands Kinfauns Castle, yet at
a conqiderable, height above the Tay.  A little to the east of the
castle, the ground begins to rise again, by a rather steep but
smooth ascent, forming the west side of another beautiful hill,
clothed all around with wood.  This hill is sometimes called Binn,
hill, from its somewhat conical shape, and sometimes the Tower
hill, from its having on its top a tower, upwards of 80 feet high,


