
                      SANQUHAR.                                305

both sides, partakes much of clay and moss, and is in a great pro-
portion wet and boggy. It is generally of a deep soil, and well
adapted for grazing.
	Wood.--A great part of the parish is destitute of plantations
and uninclosed. Of the lands belonging to the Duke of Buccleuch
and Queensberry, 282 acres are covered with natural wood, which
are chiefly the banks of the streams. The trees are but small;
they are merely shoots from the roots of large trees, cut down
about forty years ago, and are chiefly oak, birch and hazel. Of
the estate of Eliock, belonging to Henry Veitch, Esq. about 450
acres are planted. A large proportion of the trees are full-grown,
and many of them very old oak. This proprietor, by careful
and judicious management, has greatly improved his plantations,
and made many additions to them. They lie on the west side of
the Nith below the town of Sanquhar, and extend to a distance
of several miles. The trees of which they consist are very various,
as Scotch larch, silver, spruce, and balm of Gilead fir, oak, elm,
ash, mountain-ash, birch, beech, Swedish mapple, hazel, &c.
			II.--CIVIL HISTORY.*
	Burgh of Sanquhar.--Sanquhar was a burgh of Barony, accord-
ing to one account, from time immemorial, and according to others
from 1484. In 1596, at the request of Robert Crichton, Lord of
Sanquhar, it was erected into a royal burgh, and is governed by a
provost, three bailies, a dean of guild, a treasurer and eleven coun-
cillors. In its political capacity it is joined to Dumfries, Annan,
Lochmaben, and Kirkcudbright.
	Castle.--The old castle of Sanquhar claims particular notice. It
is situated on a steep bank, in the immediate vicinity of the town of
Sanquhar; toward the south it is a very picturesque ruid, and ap-
pears to have been a strong square building with towers at the corners.
Close to it, was a large deer park; on the north, was a deep fosse
and drawbridge; on the west, were the gardens, in which is still
visible the fish pond with an island in the middle. At a short dis-
tance south from the castle, is the moat or ancient court-hall where
the barons met to distribute justice. Tradition bears, that the
castle was for some time in the possession of the English in the
reign of Edward I., and was recaptured by Sir William Douglas
of Douglasdale by stratagem, who put the garrison to the sword.

<FOOTNOTE>An account of all the parishes in the Presbytery of Penpont was written about
the beginning of the last century, by the Rev. Mr Rae, author of the History of the
Rebellion in Scotland in 1715. His account of this parish, however, is now unfor-
tunately lost.


