
58                     ROXBURGHSHIRE.

tuary,) the Girthgate, may be traced over the moorlands, in which
stand the ruined towers of Colmslie and Hillslop.
  It appears from tradition, that, during the long interval between
the decline of the Old Melrose and the rise of the New, there was
another sacred edifice erected midway between them in a field
which still retains the name of the Red Abbey Stead.  It was pro-
bably called the Red Abbey from the colour of the stone with
which it was built, which, specemens that have been dug up seem
to identify with the narrow upper strata of the Dryburgh sandstone,
which are of a coarse red colour, every way inferior to the fine
board sannstone strata which they overlay, and out of which was
built the famous Abbey of Melrose, now in ruins.  The buildings
of the one abbey seems to have led to the discovery of finer ma-
terials for the building of the other; and the geology of the country
thus enables us to ascertain the relative antiquity of the two edi-
fices,-- of the former of which no records whatever remain.  Could
we suppose that it was a rebuilding on a new site of the chapel of
St Cuthbert, it would account for the name of the neighbouring
village of Newstead.
  Melrose Abbey.-- In 1136, 500 years after the foundation, and
300 years after the destruction of the Old Melrose, the famous
abbey and monastery, which is still admired in ruins hard by the
present village of Melrose, is said to have been founded by David I.
Becoming the residence of a community of Cistertian monks who
were brought from Rievalle, and whose Order was then first intro-
duced into Scotland, it was, according to the general practice
of Cistertians, dedicated to their patron saint the Virgin Mary.
The site of this more recent establishment, to which the name of
Melrose, venerable from its sacred antiquity, was transferred, is
three miles further west than the river peninsula on which the old
and original Melrose stood, near the foot of the Eildons, and about
a quater of a mile south of the Tweed,-- occupying the finest part
of the lovely valley which is inclosed between the Eildon and Gat-
tonside heights.  It is stated by Milne, that the adjoining village
existed before the building of of the abbey, and that it had the name
of Fordle; and it is worthy of remark, that the whole of the old
tenements above what is still called the Bow, the south entrance
gate to the monastery ground, are described in their title-deeds as
belonging to the village of Little Fordle.  The original name of
the previously existing village, therefore, more have been Little
Fordle, which seems to be a Saxon dimlnutive, derived, in all like
                                3


