
     of Closeburn.

near the northern extremity of the parish.  Not far from
its source, it forms a very beautiful cascade, by falling over
a precipice of about 80 or 90 feet in heigth, and almost
perpendicular.  About half a mile below this, the water
has, in the course of ages, hollowed out to itself a strait passage
through a hill of red free stone, forming what in Scotland is
called a linn, peculiarly romantic.  This linn, from top to bot-
tom, is upwards of 100 feet; and though 20 deep, it is yet so
strait at the top, that one might easily leap across it, were
it not for the tremendous prospect below, and the noise
of the water running its dark course, and by its deep mur-
muring, affrighting the imagination*.

   Antiquities.-There are hardly any antiquities in this
parish worth being mentioned, except an old castle, be-
longing to the family of Closeburn, which bears no inscrip-

<FOOTNOTE>

*Inaccessible in a great measure to real beings, this linn was consi-
dered as the habitation of imaginary ones; and at the entrance into it,
there was a curious cell or cave, called the Elf's Kirk, where, according
to the superstition of the times, the imaginary inhabitants of the linn
were supposed to hold their meetings.  This cave proving a good free-
stone-quarry, has lately been domolished, for the purpose of building
houses, and from being the abode of elves, has been converted into habi-
tations for men.  In the times of persecution, the religious flying from
their persecutors, found an excellent hiding place in Crishup Linn; and 
there is a seat, in form of a chair, cut out by nature in the rock, which
having been the retreat of a shoemaker in those times, has ever since
born the name of the Sutor's Seat.  Nothing can be more striking than
the appearance of this linn from its bottom.  The darness of the place,
upon which the sun never shines; the ragged rocks, rising over one's
head, and seeming to meet at the top, with here and there a blasted tree,
bursting from the crevices; the rumbling of the water falling from rock
to rock, and forming deep pools; together with some degree of danger
to the spectator, whilst he surveys the striking objects that present them-
selves to his view; all naturally tend to work upon the imagination.
Hence many fabulous stories are told, and perhaps were once believed,
concerning this curious linn.


