
            PARISH OF ST NINIANS.

    PRESBYTERY OF STIRLING, SYNOD OF PERTH AND STIRLING.

          THE REV. C. GREIG, A. M., MINISTER.

       I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
  Name.-St Ninians is the name by which the parish has long
been known, though it is difficult to say when, or for What reason,
it was first given. The labours of Ninian in the close of the fourth
and beginning of the fifth century, were chiefly confined to Gallo-
way, of which Keith styles him the first Bishop. There is no evi-
dence that be ever was in this part of the country-far less that
be introduced Christianity into it;-nay, if we may believe Tertul-
lian, before the close of the second century, the preachers of the
Gospel had not only gone beyond the wall of Antonine, but be-
yond the utmost extent to which the Roman arms had ever reach-
ed. The original name of the parish was Egglis, Eggluis, or Ec-
cles, the Church,-nor was it till the simple forms of Culdee wor-
ship were overwhelmed by the superstitions of Rome, that either
churches or parishes we're sainted. So late as the twelfth centu-
ry, it retained its original name. In 1147, David I. founded the
Abbey of Cambuskenneth, and gave to it certain lands in this pa-
rish; and during his reign, Robert, Bishop of St Andrews, grant-
ed to the same Abbey, "the Church of Egglis, St Ninians, with
its Chapels of Dunipace and Lithbert, and all its other Chapels
and oratories, and all other pertinents." During the occupation of
the Romans, Stirling was considered merely as a watch-tower or sta-
tion; and if St Ninians was, perhaps, for a time the only, church
in the district between the Forth and Carron, it might, even after
others bad sprung up around it, still retain the name of the
Church. In 1459, another Ninian became Bishop of Galloway,
and in this century the deanery of the Chapel Royal at Stirling
Was annexed to that bishoprick; the Dean was invested with Epis-
copal jurisdiction, and the bishop was designated, "Candidae Case
et Capellae Regiae Strivelingensis Episcopus." But though thing
brings one of the name near to us, it cannot be ascertained after


