
     Of Peebles.

   Soil, Culture, and Rent of Lands.-The soil on the level of
the Tweed, and Eddlestone water, is clay mixed with sand,
and fit for corn or grass.  The lands rising a little higher are 
generally loam on a gravelly bottom, and produce excellent
barley, oats, and all green crops.  The soil on the skirts and 
sides of the hills, is an easy and rich earth, and these grounds,
where not inclosed, are kept alternately in natural grass and in
corn.  Improvements in agriculture have of late years made 
a rapid progress in the parish of Peebles; 1500 acres are al-
ready enclosed.  There are 700 acres more of infield ground,
a great part of which will be enclosed in a short time.  Of 
outfield ground, which is sometimes in tillage, but more com-
monly in natural grass, for pasturing cows, and horses, there 
are 800 acres.  The other lands, being hilly, afford excellent
pasture for sheep, and are employed for this purpose.  The 
lands nigh the town are let at from 40 s. to 50 s. the acre.
Within these 20 years, the rental of the parish is become dou-
ble; and in 510 years, septuple; for the valuation in 1681
was 5036 L. Scots.  The present rental is now above 3000 L.
Sterling, paid to 16 heritors, of which two only, and the bur-
gesses, who are many of them proprietors of lands, reside in
the parish.  The Peebles grey pea has long been in high esti-
mation all over the country for seed; as also are the oats,
which, raised from a warm soil, make excellent seed for lands
that are higher and colder.  With regard to potatoes, first
imported into Britain by Sir Walter Raleigh, and the most 
useful root that ever was imported into this, or any other 
country, they are nowhere cultivated with more care, and
raised in greater excellence and increase than at Peebles.
Ground is parceled out for planting from 1 to 6 pecks, at
1 s. 6 d. the peck; 110 or 120 square yards are usually al-
llowed to the peck.  The proprietor or prossessor of the ground
ploughs it till it is clean, drives out the dung, and plants the 

     A 2


