
        2                          SUTHERLANDSHIRE.

        runs up to the Earthen Mound, rising with a gradual inclination
        from the sea to a range of hills behind.
          Topographical Appearances.-There are no high grounds in this
        parish which deserve the name of mountain, although the name has
        been given to some of them, as Beintarvie, &c. There is a ridge'
        of hills behind Skibo, another behind Rearchar, and a third in
        the vicinity of Torboll. The ground on the side -of the parish
        next the sea is generally flat; in some places almost a dead level,
        with the exception of some sandy hillocks, interspersed here and
        there, some of which are naked, -and some half-clad with bent and
        whins, affording a place of refuge for rabbits.
           There are two valleys, or, more properly speaking, straths, in
        this parish : the one, Strath Cairnaig, formed by the river Cair-
        naig. This valley stretches south from Torboll for the space of
        some miles. The other, Strath Aclivaich, is near the source of
        the river EvIix  and is of no great extent.
           There is a'considerable stretch of sea-coast in the parish from the
        extreme point of the Meickle Ferry on the west, down the Dornoch
        Frith, to the mouth of the.'Little Ferry on the east,-and thence up
        that estuary for some miles. The shore is flat and sandy, with the
        exception of a few small rocks to the east of the town, and on the
        shore of Embo. At the Little Ferry, there is an excellent harbour,
        where vessels may lie in great security, after having got over the
        bar which runs across the entrance. Coal ships also drop anchor
        below the town to-disebarge their cargoes.            .
           Meteorology, &c.- The climate may be called mild and healthy,
        considering the northern latitude. Snow seldom remains long on
        the sea-coast ; and for several year, there have not been the same
        heavy and long-continued falls of snow and the same intense frosts
        as in former times.
           Among the prognostics of unfavourable weather may be noticed
        the tremendous noise that proceeds from the sand banks called
        Gizzingv-Briggs, so called from the peculiar sound they make.
        These banks lie almost in the middle of the channel betwixt the
        nort ern side of the Frith of Dornoch and the coast of the parish
        of Tarbet, and render the navigation up the Frith extremely dan-
        serous, especially to strangers, without the assistance of a pilot.
        It is observed, also, that the appearances of the Aurora borealis,

        <FOOTNOTE>As a proof of the mildness of our climate, pheasants have been recently intro-
        duced at Skibo: they are doin well, and are likely to increase. Walnuts also fre-                    9                                         ut
        quently ripen in the garden at Skibo; and a very fine Ilex tree growing there is a
        proof of the faiourable climate.


