
196                       FORFARSHIRE.

			V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Marhet-Town and Means of Communication.--The nearest mar-
ket-town is Brechin, 22 miles from the manse, and 15 from the
lowest end of the parish; and there are two weekly carriers to
Brechin, who also bring up letters and newspapers. A new line
of road, 7 1/2 miles in length, has been formed since 1829 from
the east end of the parish to the manse; which road is now in
good repair, the greatest acclivity being about one foot in twenty-
four. There are three stone bridges in the parish,--one over
the Tarf, built in 1830, of superior workmanship; and two others
in tolerably good repair, Besides these, there are many wooden
bridges, two of which are over the North Esk, and others are for
the private accommodation of the farmers in their neighbourhood.
	Ecclesiastical State--The church is situate near the west end
of the inhabited part of the parish, and the greater part of the po-
pulation resides to the westward of it. It was built in 1803, re-
paired and enlarged in 1824, and is seated for 270 persons. The
seats are divided among the tenants, and are all rent free. The
manse was built in 1803, repaired and enlarged in 1828. The
glebe is of very large extent, but contains only twenty-four acres
arable, and is worth about L.24 per annum. The stipend is made
up by Government from L.89, Is. to L.150.
	There is an Episcopalian chapel in the parish attended by 25
families, or about 113 individuals, exclusive of those who come from
the neighbouring parishes. The Established Church is attended
by 96 families, consisting of 440 individuals of all ages. The ave-
rage number of communicants is 250; and the average amount of
church collections is L.22 yearly.
	 Education.--There are two schools in the parish, one parochial,
and the other endowed. Latin, Greek, and geography are some-
times taught at the parish school. The parochial schoolmaster
has the maximum salary, L.34, 4s. 4d. besides what was mortified
to a catechist, both offices being conjoined about 100 years ago.
The emoluments of the latter office are from 100 merks, 6 bolls of
meal, and 10 imperial acres of land, of which 8 are arable. The
nominal fees are, for reading, 2s.; for reading and writing, 2s. 6d.;
for arithmetic and Latin, 5s. per quarter; but no fees have been
exacted for a considerable time past.
	The schoolmaster of the endowed rchool has a salary of L.10
from the Society for Propagating Christian Knowledge in Scot-
land; a house, garden, and six acres of land from Lord Panmure;


