
644                      ABERDEENSHIRE.

   Produce.-The gross produce of grain (oats and bear) cannot
be reckoned in ordinary seasons, much above or below 5920 quar-
ters, of which there may be required as seed for two-fifths of the
ground in tillage, 1020 quarters ; for victual to the inhabitants at
30 stone, or 1 1/2 sack of meal per head, 1900 quarters ; leaving for
rent, horse corn, malt, and all other purposes, 3000 quarters.
   The raw grain is sold chiefly for milling or exportation, and car.
ried to Port Elphinstone at the canal, Inverury.  When milled,
the meal is sold to Aberdeen, Huntly, or other towns.  The next
resource of income to the farmer is black-cattle, of which about
200 of the native breed, or cross breeds now reared, are annually
sold, at three year's old, bringing each, about L.9, L. 1800; the
revenue from young, horses, sheep, and pigs is comparatively small,
L300; but that arising from butter, cheese, and eggs, as in all
the inland parishes of Aberdeenshire, is equal to at least half the
return from cattle sold, L.900.

		    V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Market-Town.-There is no market-town here,-the nearest
being Inverury, already mentioned, about seven miles to the south-
east, and accessible by a good turnpike road, of which two branches
pass through the parish, one by Pitmachie towards Huntly, and
the other by Insch to the same.  On these there are two daily
coaches passing to Inverness and backward, the mail and the De-
fiance; and one coach to Huntly and backward, each alternate
day; and the post-office is at Oldrain, two miles north of the
church.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The church, built thirty-two years ago, is
situated on a small hill in the east end of the parish, and is suffi-
ciently convenient for seven-eighths of the inhabitants who dwell
on the north side of Benochee; but those on the south side of the
mountain, nearly 100 in number (of all ages), are secluded from
their parish church during the winter storms, and are not much
nearer to any other parish, church.  But a new church has now
been erected, by subscription, at Blairdaff, in Chapel of Garioch,
which, from its local position, may be more convenient for this de-
tached quarter,-if happily an endowment can be got for it, so as
to secure public worship regularly in winter and summer.
   The manse is pleasantly situated, and, though not so large as
some manses more recently built, way, by the necessary repairs,
be made a commodious and comfortable house.  The glebe con-
tains eight acres of rich early soil, easily wrought, and productive.


