
                           KILCHOMAN.                           649

swallow, the landrail, and the cuckoo, form the chief birds of pas-
sage.
   The native birds are, the heron, grouse, black-game, snipe,
plover, various species of the bunting and finches, the thrush,
blackbird, and the starling. The Cornish chuff, and myriads of
wild pigeons occupy the rocks and the caverns along the shore.
The birds of prey are, the raven, the hooded crow, and the hawk;
eagles are seen at times, but they have ceased to breed here. Of
sea birds, there are various species of the gull, Scotch duck, and
cormorants. Hares are numerous, and the sandy downs abound
with rabbits.
   Botany.--The variety of plants is not numerous. A great pro-
portion of the highest land is covered with short heath and coarse
herbage. Red and white clover, with the common grasses, cover
the finer pastures. The marshes contain the water lily, buckbean,
and hemlock, and the lakes are generally fringed with bulrushes.
Sea-kale grows on the islands of Ardnave. The buckbean and
hemlock are used medicinally. From the appearance of the
marshes, it is obvious that, at some remote period, trees grew
abundantly, notwithstanding their being exposed to the unbroken
force of the Atlantic gales. Man does not seem to have done
much to promote the growth of timber, though soil and climate
concur to favour it, in every spot sheltered from the prevailing
winds. The interior of the island contains a few plantations of
recent formation, to which the present proprietor is adding exten-
sively. About Sunderland House, the plantations are promising
in situations naturally unfavourable. The growth is always vigo-
rous; and were a sufficient breadth planted, and well inclosed,
wood might be made to grow both for ornament, and for use.
                   II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
   The writer is not aware that any written record of the civil
transactions of this parish is extant. But, from a fort, or place
of defence being found almost on every promontory, or rock diffi-
cult of access, and on the islands of the several lakes, one may
safely conjecture that, at some period of its history, it formed the
theatre of many a sharp conflict. It was long in the hands of the
Danes and Norwegians, and many places still retain their Scan-
dinavian names. In more recent times, it formed part of the pos-
sessions of the Macdonalds, Lords of the Isles, the site of whose
palace is now occupied by the manse and garden. Their right
was challenged in the year 1588. A hostile party of the Macleans


