
				TWYNHOLM.                         39

	We have also several sheets of water of considerable extent.
The largest of these, Loch Whinyeon, lies at the head of Twyn-
holm, on the borders of Girthon. The waters of this loch for-
merly found a vent by Gleagap burn, which carried them into the
Tarff; but a tunnel has lately been driven for a considerable way
through a bill, which has diverted them into another course, for
the purpose of driving the cotton-mills at Gatehouse.
	ln the former Statistical Account it is said, that, with the ex-
ception of some old trees about Compston, there were very few in
the parish. It is mentioned, at the same place, that plantations
of considerable extent had been made by Lord Daer on the lands
belonging to the Earl of Selkirk. These plantations have thriven
well, and add greatly to the beauty of that part of the parish in
which they are found. Mr M'Millan has also done much to
beautify the lands of Barwbinnock, by small plantations tastefully
laid down, so as to give both ornament and shelter to a portion of
the parish which was formerly bare and exposed.
				II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Eminent Men.--The only man of eminence in literature known
to have been connected with Twynholm is Alexander Montgome-
ry, the Homerus Scoticus of Dempster, who lived at Compston
Castle; and Symson mentions the tradition, that the poem of the
" Cherry and the Slae" was written by him at this place, dur-
ing the reign of James VI.
	Historical Events.--The only well authenticated historical
event connected with the parish which is worthy of note, is the re-
sidence of Edward I. of England for some time within its bounds.
On the 17th July 1300, Edward entered Galloway. On the 19th
he came to Kirkcudbright, and remained there for about ten days.
He then crossed the Dee, and continued for about ten days more
at Twynholm, waiting for provisions, which were brought to him
by sea. On the 9th of August, he advanced to the Flete. Dur-
ing the time he remained at Twynholm, he made three several
offerings at the altar of the chapel there, of 7s. each.*
	Antiquities.--There are a number of British forts in the parish
of Twynholm. A tumulus was opened near one of these, and
there was found a stone-coffin, containing-human bones. There
was also discovered in it an instrument resembling a hammer, with
some coins.

<FOOTNOTE>In preparing a field in the glebe for green crop in the summer of 1842, the la-
bourers found a number of small silver coins of the reign of Edward I., of about the
size of a sixpence. Three of these are in the possession of the writer of this account.


