
			DUNDEE.                              47

stitution for instructing young tradesmen and others in art and
science,-that, like him whose name it bears, they might be stimu-
lated to pursue the honourable course of improvement. A liberal
subscription having been obtained, two lecturers procured, appara-
tus provided, and a library formed, the institution was opened in Ja-
nuary 1826. The session extended to six months, and 460 persons,
paying a small fee, enrolled their names. In subsequent years the
number attending has much decreased. A conversation class, how-
ever, among the students, has begun; and though the funds do not
allow of a regular lecturer, a number of learned and benevolent
individuals are accustomed to give instruction through the winter.
The average number of students during last session was 30; that
of annual members, 110. The library is now large, and seems well
used; and the tickets sold defray the expenses of the institution,
exclusive of the purchase of books.
	An Artisans' Reading-Room was established in 1831 by seve-
ral members of the Watt Institution. It is provided with news-
papers and other periodicals, and has at present 200 members.
        Temperance Society.-An association of this name commenced
here in 1829, and was regularly organized in 1830. Its great cham-
pion and most indefatigable advocate was William Cruickshank, a
coal carter in the place, who devoted himself with uncommon ener-
gy to the cause. He delivered several lectures to crowded audien-
ces, consisting of all classes in the town. Possessed of considerable
reading, a strong and ready memory, great command of language,
variety and force of illustration, he produced at the time a very
powerful impression. The society now contains upwards of l000
members. That drunkenness is an evil of wide and increasing
prevalence, admits of no manner of doubt. Whether temperance
societies, restricting the number of licenses to venders of whisky,
a tax upon ardent spirits, or whether a moral remedy is to be
looked for to effect a cure, we cannot tell; but that some measure
is necessary, few who have reflected on the subject will be dis-
posed to deny. The able advocate of the society herd, whom we
have mentioned, has himself exhibited the practical benefits of
temperance. After receiving and accepting invitations to plead
the cause in many parts of Scotland and England, he has long
since left his original employment, and has lately been appointed
a preacher to a meeting of Wesleyan Methodists at Leeds.
        Reading-rooms.-A splendid reading-room has lately been open-
ed near the harbour, called the Exchange Coffee-room. It is at-


