
           MARISCHAL COLLEGE AND UNIVERSITY.                1179

these were taken away, when an extensive wing was erected on the
south side in 1740-41, also by voluntary subscription chiefly, the
attempts made to obtain aid from Government proving abortive.
After this addition, the whole fabric was appropriated for the pub-
lic purposes of a hall, library, public school, divinhtx hall, obser-
vatory, natural philosophy apparatus room, and classrooms, toge-
ther with lodgings for three of the professors, for which they paid
rents.  The largest apartments, the public school, hall, and li-
brary were respectively of the lengths of 82, 75, and 97 feet, with a
width of 22, and a height of about 13.
   In the court adjoining, there still remains the ancient church
of the Franciscan convent, commonly called the College church.
This edifice was erected about the commencement of the sixteenth
century, by Bishop Gavin Dunbar, and was dedicated to the
Virgin.  For a long period, no lofty houses, as at present, inter-
vened between it and the Broadgate, excepting booths or small
shops, which were placed against its wall by permission of ma-
gistrates.  In the various changes to which the property of the
monasteries was subjected at the Reformation, the church of the
Greyfriars seems never to have been lost sight of by the munici-
pality; it was then by far the newest church in the city, and was
formally ceded to the magistrates in 1556, when the Franciscans
made a resignation of all their property to them.  When, in 1574,
the town disposed of the other buildings by feu, the church was
reserved; but the population not being so large as to require it for
the reformed worship, it fell into neglect, and sometimes rdcdived
repairs.  The General Assembly of the church, which began
July 28, 1640, was held in it. *  The College long retained a
claim for the use of it at the public graduation, and other privi-
leges, which, after several attempts, were arranged in 1768 by
an agreement with the magistrates; and soon afterwards, the popu-
lation of the town increasing, the structure, a very long and plain
Gothic hall, with pointed-arch windows, was shortened 20 feet, an
aisle added at the east side, and a regular clergyman settled in it

<FOOTNOTE>The church was provided with seats, "after the form of a theatre, for ac-
commodation of the Assembly, which was done upon the towne's charges, in so pro-
digall a forme, as there was accommodation eneuch (the churche being large of
itselfe) for five or six times as many as wer appoynted to sitte.  And, that Aberdeen
might not be behynde with others in honouring the Assembly, ther was a select
number of the yowthes of Aberdeen ordered, with partisans (made for that purpose,
and dyed blacke,) for to guarde the Assembly constantly at every sessione without
the doores of the churches through which guarde everybody must passe as through a
line."-Gordon's History of Scots Affairs, from 1637 to 1641, VoL iii. p. 215.


