
666                        FIFESHIRE

de. Lion during his return from the Holy Land, and was made
prisoner along with him by the Duke of Austria. Duchesne in
his, "Histoire de la Maison de Bethune," derives the Scotch
branch from a certain Jacobin de Bethune, who, he says, came to
Scotland about 1448; but there are authentic documents to prove
that the family were settled in this country as far back as 1165
Those of them whose names are most distinguished in history are
James Beaton, Archbishop, first of Glasgow, and afterwards of
St Andrews, and Chancellor of the kingdom. St Mary's or New
College,,founded in 1537, remains a monument of this prelate's
murtificence and zeal for learning. He died in 1538, and was suc-
ceeded by his nephew, David Beaton, Cardinal, Legatus ... latere,
and Chancellor, assassinated by Norman Lesley and, his associates,
May 3d 1546. A nephew of the Cardinal, James Beaton, was
elevated to the see of Glasgow. Our limits do not permit us to
enter at greater length into the annals of this ancient and honour-
able house. It may not, however, be deemed superfluous to re-
mark, that the estate of Balfour has been transmitted, in the di-
rect line of hereditary succession, for the space of 480 years, and
in the direct male line for upwards of four centuries.
     Westward from Balfour, and on a steepbank overhanging the
Leven, stands the ancient baronial Castle of Balgonie. The most
ancient part of this venerable structure consists of a donjon or keep,
80 feet in height, and 45 feet by 36 over walls. The basement
story, dimly lighted by a single narrow slit in the massive thickness
of the walls, seems to have served as a prison. It is vaulted, as
well as the storey above. The summit is surrounded by slightly
projecting battlements, with circular tourelles at the angles. The
roof is flat, and paved with square slabs of freestone. On the ter-
race thus formed, and several feet within the external battlements,
on three of the sides is erected a lodge of an oblong form, with
chimnies and sloping roof, serving probably in former times as a
corps de garde for the garrison. Along the bank, looking nort-
ward, the first Earl of Leven erected a house of three stories,
communicating with the tower, and a wing fronting east was ad-
ded by one of his successors, but, from the unusual solidity of the
substructions, and from the range of cellars which they compre-
hend, in structure evidently far from modern, it is to be conjectur-
ed, that building equal in extent originally occupied the site of
the present edifice, constituting, as now, two sides of a qua-
drangle; the other two sides being formed by a strong wall of ma-


