
310                    BERWICKSHIRE.

the end of September 1833, no herrings have been seen in this
neighbourhood.
<TABLE>
   Produce-The average gross amount of raw produce raised in
the parish, calculated as carefully as possible, may be stated as
follows:
Produce of grain of all kinds, whether cultivated for food of man or the domestic
   animals,                                                        L. 12880 0 0
Of potatoes, turnips cabbages, and other plants cultivated in the
   fields for food                                                     3500 0 0
Ot hay, whether meadow or cultivated,                                   700 0 0
Of land in pasture, rating it at L. 3 per cow or full-grown ox grazed
   for the season, and at 8s. per ewe or full-grown sheep pastured
   for the year,                                                       2000 0 0
Annual thinning, &c. of woods,                                          500 0 0

            Total yearly value of produce raised,                 L. 19,580 0 0

                   V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

   Villages, and Means of Communication.-Though hardly en-
titled to the dignified appellation of a market-town, the village of
Cockburnspath may nevertheless be said to possess all the advan-
tages of one. On its shops and tradesmen a considerable surround-
ing district is dependent, there being no place of equal size or con-
sequence nearer than Dunbar on one side, or Dunse or Ayton on
the other; the first town being eight miles distant, the two last
fourteen. It is a neat clean village, containing a population of
about 230, and affording to a great portion of several neighbouring
parishes all the necessaries, and not a few of the luxuries, of life.
Between thirty and-forty years ago, this village presented a most
decayed and miserable appearances but, under the judicious ma-
nagement of Lady Helen Hall, lady of the late distinguished Sir
James Hall, Bart., it has been amazingly improved both in com-
fort and in appearance. *  Tile village contains a surgeon, a
baker, a butcher, 2 grocers, or rather general merchants, one
of whom has long carried on an extensive trade both wholesale
and retail, 2 carpenters, who generally employ from 3 to 5 jour-
neymen each, 3 tailors, one of whom usually employs 3 or 4 men,
2 smiths, 3 shoemakers, two of whom keep from 3 to 6 men each,
1 cooper, 1 constable, several masons, various dress-makers, straw-
hat manufacturers, &c. The village belongs to Sir John Hall,
Bart., and the householders are all tenants at will, there being no
such thing as a few in this parish. A considerable village exist-

<FOOTNOTE>It would be unpardonable did we here omit to bear our testimony to the active
beneificence, generosity, and charity of this excellent lady during the many years she
resided at Dunglass, and whose absence would be deeply felt, were it not that fortu-
nately the same spirit of kindness and charity has descended to her successor, the,
present Lady Hall of Dunglass, whose kindness and attention to the poor of this pa-
rish and neighbourhood are deserving of all praise and imitation.


