
         196                    INVERNESS-SHIRE.

         of the Royal Bounty for the Reformation of the Highlands and
         Islands, at the rate of L.60 a year; and L.20 a year is given by the
         heritor in lieu of accommodations.  There are no catechists.  The
         Catholics, who form more than two-thirds of the population, have
         three chapels.  The bishop resides at Glasgow.   The number of
         families attending the Established Church is about 354, of indi-
         viduals, 980.  Divine service is generally well attended in sum-
         mer; in, winter, such as are at a considerable distance cannot re-
         gularly attend, some of them having to travel nine miles to the
         church.  The people are quiet and peaceable, and sectarianism
         has not obtained any footing among them.  Those of the Esta-
         blished Church live on the best terms with their Catholic neigh-
         bours.
            There are no church collections, the people being so poor that
         nothing can be collected in that way for religious and charitable ob-
         jects.  Attempts were made, several years ago, in better times,
         to have regular church collections for the poor, but they proved
         abortive.
           Education.-There are 1O schools in the parish, viz. 1 parochial
         school; 2 of the Assembly's schools; 2 from the Society for Pro-
         pagating Christian Knowledge; 1 from the Gaelic Scbool Society;
         I from the Glasgow Auxiliary'Society; 1 in the Island of Eriscay
         supported by individual subscription; and 2 female schools for knit-
         ting, sewing, and reading Gaelic.  Latin and Greek are only taught
         in the parish school and one of the Assembly's: in all, (the female
         schools excepted,) reading English and Gaelic, writing, arithme-
         tic, and book-keeping are taught.  The school-fees are from 6s. to
         12s. a year, and, owing to the poverty of the people, are very ill paid.
         The number of those between six and fifteen years who cannot
         read or write, is about 600; and of those above fifteen years, 4148.
         An additional school is required in a place called Stonybridge
         which is a populous district, and distant from any of the other
         schools.  The people are not, in general, alive to the benefits of
         education. This is partly owing to their poverty and consequent
         inability to pay the school-fees, and partly to the necessity of their
         employing the chiHren at work, and herding cattle.  Indeed, the
         poor children in general are so ragged and destitute of clothes and
         shoes, that in some districts most of them cannot attend school in
         winter, which, is the season of the year when they could most conve.-
         inently attend.  This destitution is very general, but is particularly
         observable at lchdar, where there is one of the schools from the


