
	814                         FIFESHIRE.

	was wont to be an inn; every house that could well accommodate
	strangers was in requisition; and the demand for saddle-horses was
	so great, that, in the recollection of some old men, not less than
	sixty belonged to Kinghorn.  All this passed naturally away by
	the introduction of steamers on the ferry, and the establishment
	of stage-coaches, with all their expedition of conveyance and accu-
	racy of hours.  This deficiency of bustle and traffic in the town
	has been more than compensated by the erection of the spinning-
	mills, upon which the inhabitants now principally depend for em-
	ployment and subsistence.
	   From the period when the privileges of a royal burgh were con-
	ferred upon Kinghorn by David L, it had been managed by a
	town-council and magistrates, up to Michaelmas 1841, when, upon
	the day on which, by the set of the burgh, or terms of its charter,
	the magistrates ought to have been chosen, a quorum could not
	be mustered, and in consequence of this it was disfranchised.
	Certain parties applied to the Court of Session for managers, and
	the court appointed three respectable gentlemen, resident in King-
	horn, to preside over its affairs, without being invested, however,
	with judicial authority.  The absence of this authority has been
	felt to be no great evil.  The residence of one of the county po-
	lice has been found quite sufficient to check any disorderly con-
	duct, and to maintain a surveillance over the public-houses and
	spirit-shops within the burgh.  And the change in the manage-
	ment has had this material advantage, that the feelings of partisan-
	ship and partiality which naturally gathered around a system of
	some hundred years' growth, and which became every day less
	agreeable to the wants and wishes of the community, have now,
	and we trust for ever, passed away.\f
	   Means of Communication.-The long establishment of a post-
	office in the burgh, the constant and regular communication to
	Edinburgh by means of the Ferry, and the daily coaches which
	pass througb the town on their route to and from the metropolis,
	present the greatest facilities for intercourse with all parts of the
	kingdom.
	   In whatever article of supply Kinghorn may be deficient for
	its inhabitants, there is an abundance to be found in Kirkcaldy,

<FOOTNOTE> The burgh of Kinghorn, with a few others in Scotland, was excluded from the
	operation of the Municipal Reform Bill, which gave a new and more popular law
	for the choice of magistrates and councillors.  Up to the time of its disfranchise-
	ment, it remained in the old close burgh system.

