
			DUNDONALD.                        667

out he must be mistaken, as we find in the Session records as
early as 1604, several distinct references to the kirk-session of
Riccarton. *
	The parish, according to its present limits, is very nearly of the
form of an equilateral triangle, the length of the side of which is
about seven miles. On the south-west side, it is bounded by the
shore of the Frith of Clyde, which, passing over the point at
Troon (extending nearly a mile into the sea), runs almost in a
straight line from the point at Irvine harbour to where the Rum-
bling and Pow burns meet, and separate it from the parish of
Monkton. On the north, it is bounded by the water of Irvine,
separating it from the parishes of Irvine, Dreghorn, and Kilmaurs,
and from the district of Cunninghame. On the south-east it
has no natural boundary, but runs in a straight line from a point
on the Irvine a little below Caprington, to the above-mentioned
point on the coast westward, on which side it is bounded by the
parishes of Riccarton, Symington, and Monkton.
	Appearance.--Within these limits, the surface is marked by a
very pleasing variety of appearance. All along the sea coast and
the banks of the Irvine for a considerable way inland, the soil is
almost a dead level, or very gently undulated. But with a view,
as it were, to make amends for this tiresome monotony, it rapidly
swells up, towards one concentrating point, into eminences be-
twixt three and four hundred feet above the level of the sea.
These form the Clavin hills, so called probably from the Celtic
"Clai bheinn," signifying broad-swords, which, when laid in a
particular form, give a good idea of their appearance. From the
tops of these eminences, there is a most delightful prospect, said
to comprise parts of fourteen different counties; and it is ques-
tionable if, from an equal elevation, so fine a natural panorama,
both for richness and extent, is any where to be met with in the
lowlands of Scotland.
	At the foot of one of these hills, forming a rocky precipice, and
well skirted with wood, lies the village of Dondonald. This,
with the adjoining grey ruins of the castle crowning an eminence
in front of the village, give it a very picturesque appearance.
There is only one thing wanting to complete the picture, and

<FOOTNOTE>It was supposed at one time, that the town of Fullarton belonged to the parish
of Irvine, having been joined to it in 1690. But, on a question being raised regard-
ing the support of the poor, it was decided by the Court of Session in 1823, that the
proper forms of law had not been complied with, and so it still remains a part of
this parish.


