
STROMNESS.                                35

The distance betwixt Strowness. and Kirkwall, the only towns
in the county, is about 15 miles; and of late the road has been.
considerably improved.  There is a post-office in town, and a
south mail via Kirkwall arrive Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday,
when not detained at the Pentland Fritb, which is often the case,
especially in winter.
Enclosures are comparatively rare; which, to a great extent, re-
tards agricultural improvement. Cattle, horses, and swine, which
are numerous, being allowed to go at large after the crop is ga,
thered in, greatly injure the fields in a. climate subject to rains
during so many months in tbe,year. It also prevent-, the regular
rotation of crops, which is so indispensable to proper farming.
The estate of Cairston is, however, an exception.  There is a
considerable part of it well inclosed : it is also farmed on the.
most improved system by the proprietor, Mr Pollexfen.  It pos-
sesses many beautiful fields, which Yield hay, potatoes, bear, and
oats, of a superior quality.  In the vicinity of the town, a few pro-
prietors have made some enclosures, which have increased the value
of their property.
Harbour-'he harbour is one of the most commodious in the
north of Scotland, and forms a safe      retreat to all sorts of vessels.
It is frequented during the winter and spring months by many ves-
sels in the coasting-trade, as well as foreign vessels, which find in it
a safe anchorage, and are well sheltered from the west wind, (whicla
generally is most boisterous,) by a hill above the town.  It lies on
the east side of the parish., and is approached by   'the south, is about
a mile in length, and somewhat less than half a mile in breadth.
There are two beautiful little holrns or small islands which
bound the harbour on the east, and render the anchorage still more
safe and secure.
Upon the south side of the harbour, on the property of Ness, a
patent slip, with,the necessary apparatus, has been lately erected,
capable of receiving a vessel of 400 or 500 tons.  This was greatly
needed, from the number of vessels which pass through the Pent-
land Fritb, and are often compelled to take refuge in the harbour,
and to obtain, tbe,repairs.which their disabled state requires.  This
slip was erected in April 1836 : and in the course of the three
succeeding years,,thirty vessels were received upon it and repaired,
tb eir ton n age, 3368 tons.
Eclesi-stical-State.-The parish church is situatein thetown,

There is no* a daily Mail.


