
354                      ARGYLESHIRE

 There are, three schools in the parish, one on the mainland of
Mullo and two in the island of Ulva. One of these is supported
by the Society for Propagating Christian Knowledge; the other
two are branches of the parish school. There is a post-office in
Ulva, at which the letters received and dispatched for the last year
stmounted to upwards of 2600, and 340 newspapers.
           PARISH OF TODERMORY.,
Name, 6c.-Tobermory, or ,the Well of Mary," takes its
name from a well hard by the village, called after the Virgin.
This parish extends to about six miles in length and nearly two
in breadth, and may contain fully twelve square miles. It stretches
along the Sound of Mull, by which it is separated from Morvern
on the east, and from Ardnamurchan on the north. Kilmore pa.
rish bounds it upon the west, and Salen on the south.
The town of Tobermory, which is a thriving sea-port, encircles
the extremity of a fine sheltered bay, and is one of the safest bar-
bours among the western isles, being protected from the Souild of
Mull by the small isle of Calve, which stretches nearly across the
entrance, but leaves ample room at its northern point for the
largest vessels to enter the harbour, though none but small craft
can effect this at the south-east point, even at high water. 'I'be
British Society for extending the Fisheries and improving the Sea
Coast of the Kingdom, commenced the town in 1788; and so well
has the village prospered, that at that time there were only two
houses where, at present, there is a population of nearly 1500.
The British Society and Frederick William Caldwell, Esq. of
Mishnisb, are the proprietors of the village. The town is well
built, and possesses two-.good quays. The new quay was began
in 1835 by the late Colonel Campbell, and now nearly com-
plated, which gives four feet of depth at low water, being two feet
deeper than the old quay. The former is a little to the north of
the latter, and nearer to the entrance of the bay. The town has
increased cobsidembly on. Mr Caldwell's side, of late yeari;
and the harbour is much freqtented, both by streamers and sailing
vessels. The church, which was erected in 1827-28, stands in a
fine prominent situation bebin& the principal part of the town a
     thef bay. There are at present two schools in operation Villant
or Parliamentary school, and at Iage, one ernma
teraedi-in the wintell season, by about 100 scholars; and the other
a school of industrv forvounir feinates, attended by about " sob-
upported chiefly the bounty of Her Majesty Queen Ado-


