
208                       KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHHRE.

10s. per acre. A cow may be grazed during summer for L.3, and
a sheep pastured at the rate of 6s. The average charge for feed-
in a full-grown sheep, on clover after harvest, and turnips during
winter, is 3d. per week; young sheep, 2d. per week.
	The gross amount of raw produce raised in the parish cannot
be ascertained with any degree of accuracy.
	Mosses.--The greatest part of the tract of flat land lying along
the river Urr, from Craignair-hill to the march of Kirkennan, ex-
tending to nearly 400 acres, was, about seventy years ago, an un-
improved moss, of little or no value. The late Mr George Max-
well of Munshes commenced its improvement, by cutting large
open drains, and putting in a number of covered drains filled with
heath. For many years, he kept a boat constantly employed in
bringing up sea-shells, from extensive shell banks at the mouth of
the river. The boat carried nine cart-loads, for which he paid 6s.
These shells were discharged along the sides of the river; and he
took his tenants bound to cart and apply to their respective farms
a certain quantity annually. Their effects upon the moss were
most astonishing. They destroyed the heath, and when ploughed,
the ground from the outset brought good crops. The use of
shells has been completely given up for that of lime. But many
are of opinion, that, on wet land in particular, shells are a better,
a more gradual, and a more lasting stimulant than lime.
	The moss in question lay to the depth of many feet, on a blue
clay. In some parts, the moss was removed by burning; but with-
out this, the drainage and tillage have had the effect of consoli-
dating and exhausting it; so that moss, formerly three or four feet
deep, has nearly disappeared, and now the plough generally reaches
the clay. Thus the moss and clay are incorporated into a fertile

completely, that I, on walking over the surface, sunk as if I had trodden on new fallen
snow.
	The estate of Arbigland was bought by his grandf`ther, in 1722, from the Earl of
Southesk, for 22,000 merks.
	In 1735, there were only two carts for hire in time town of Dumfries, and one be-
longing to private gentleman.
	About the years 1737 and 1738, there was almost no lime used for building in
Dulfries, except a little shell-lime, made of cockle-shells, burned at Colvend, and
brought to Dumfries in bags, a distance of twenty miles; and, in 1740, when Pro-
vost Bell built his house, the under storey was built with clay, and the upper storeys
with lime, brought from Whitehaven in dry-ware casks. There was then no lime
used for improving the land. In 1749, I had day-labourers at 6d. per day, and the
best masons at 1s. This was at the building of Mollance House,--the walls of which
cost L. 49 Sterling.
	If you think that any thing mentioned here can be of any use or entertainment to
Mr Curwen, I give you full leave to make the same known, with my best respects;
and I am, Dear Sir, Yours sincerely,               (Signed)     JOHN MAXWELL.
	To W. M. Herries, Esq. of Spottes.


