
                            POLWARTH.                    235

                      V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Means of Communication, &c.-Polwarth has no market; for this
it is dependent on Dunse, which is four miles distant, and on Green-
law, which is three. The parish is intersected by the road from
Dunse to Edinburgh, and a stage-coach between these places pas-
ses the village daily. There are parish and private roads, which
are all kept in good repair.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The church is centrally situated, and is
regularly attended by all the people, except two or three, who are
Dissenters. There is no dissenting place of worship. The ave-
rage number of communicants is about 120.
   The stipend, which received an augmentation in 1814, consists
of 64 bolls oats, 80 barley, 80 oatmeal, with L. 5, 11s. 1 1/4d. Ster-
ling in money. The manse is an old house with additions, part
of which were made at the expense of the present incumbent. The
glebe is about fourteen English acres.
   Education.-There is a sufficient school-house, with a residence
for the teacher. The salary is L. 28, with about an acre of land.
The school is attended, on an average, by forty-five scholars. The
probable yearly amount of fees actually paid to the teacher is L. 19.
   Poor.-The poor on the roll of the parish amount to 9; and
the present annual assessment for their support is L. 50. The
reason of the largeness of this sum is, that the parish has to sup-
port a lunatic in an asylum, at an expense of L. 23, 10s. per an-
num. All the poor on the roll that reside in the parish have a free
house and garden from the late Sir W. P. H. Campbell of March-
mont. His benevolence extended also to others, particularly to
the widows of those connected with the estate. At his demise in
the beginning of 1833, he farther, by an heritable bond of annuity
executed by him, bequeathed L. 25 Sterling per annum for the
use and behoof of the poor of Polwarth.
   Besides the enrolled poor, there are others who receive occa-
sional relief. This is afforded partly from a fund of mortified
money (L. III), the interest of which is distributed by the kirk-
session, and partly from the collections at the church-doors, which
may amount to L. 5 annually.

   July 1834.


