
     Statistical Account

   Poor.-There are no begging poor in this parish.  For
some years past, 10 has been the average number upon the
poor's roll.  The monthly allowance given publickly in the
churh, to each of these, is from 2 s. to 4 s.  Besides these,
some have their house rents paid, some receive money,
once a-year, to buy lint or lintseed, and others are assisted
in educating their children.  By these annual donations,
many poor people are encouraged to support themselves,
without coming upon the monthly roll.  It has never been
found that these annual gifts were ill bestowed.  They are
recieved with thankfulness, and prove a motive to industry,
by keeping alive the hope of independence.  These month-
ly and occasional distributions, amount annually, for 9 years
past, to the sum of L. 24: 13: 2 1/2.  This arises from the in-
terest of upwards of L. 300, and the weekly collections at
the church doors*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Perhaps there never was a fund managed with stricter economy, or
one that answered better the purposes for which it was destined, than
that under the care of the Kirk-session in Scotland.  No class of men
could be sitter for distributing the public charity, than the elders in coun-
try parishes.  Their acquaintance with the circumstances of the people,
prevents all imposition; the laudable vanity, they usually have in better-
ing their funds, leads to economy; and their time and labour are bestowed
cheerfully, and without reward.  This is the reason, why few or none of
the parishes in this country have had recourse to the legal method of sup-
porting the poor, by assessing the heritors.  Of all the methods of supply-
ing the poor hitherto devised, I believe that is the worst.  Whilst it is a
heavy and increasing burden upon the landed interest, it ruins the charity
of the middling class of people, and encourages idleness and dissipation
among the poor.  As soon as the middling ranks of the people (who, to
their honour, bear almost all the burden of supporting the poor,) find,
that there is a legal provision for them, they withhold their contributions
as unnecesary, and the poor themselves, having a legal claim to support,
are tempted to lay aside their industry, and economy:  Add to these the hard-
ships they must submit to, and the restraints imposed upon them, in remo-
ving with their families from one place to another.  That those who possels the


