
                   CULROSS.                                    603

355 acres uncultivated, part of which is capable of improvement for cropping,
     but cbiefly fit for planting.
   60 acres in gardens and orchards.
1693 do. in won4, yearly value L. 1563.
   70 do. preparing for planting.

<TABLE>

5792 acres surface of the parish.
	Real rental of land,                        L. 4726 0 0
	Yearly value of wood,                          1563 0 0
                                             --------------

  Real rdntal of the whole parish,            L. 6289  0 0
  Valued rent Scotch,                            3623 18 3

   Since the time of the former Account, the real rental has been
more than doubled: nearly double the quantity of wheat is now
raised; more than double the quantity of potatoes; and nine times
the quantity of turnips.
   All sorts of trees are planted, but of hardwood, the oak and
beech agree best with the soil of the parish.  The management
with respect to thinning and felling is very good.  Since the date
of the former Account, 306 acres have been added to the arable-
land of the parish, and 492 acres to the plantations.
   Leases.-The ordinary duration of farm leases is nineteen years,
and the wages of a good ploughman L. 14 or L. 16, with perqui-
sites.
   Rent of Land.-The rent of best land near the town is from
L.3 to L. 4. Land let in large farms through the parish varies
from L. 1 to L. 2, 10s., and some in the worst situations, and of
inferior quality, lets as low as 10s. and 15s. per acre.

                    V.-PAROBHIAL ECONOMY.

   Market-Town.- Although Culross is a royal burgh, it is not a
market-town.  Dunfermline, distant seven miles, is the chief mart
for the produce of the parish.
   Villages.-There are two small villages in the parish besides
the town.
   Means of Communication.- Since the d`te of the former Ac-
count, the means of communication in the parish have been great-
ly improved, owing to a turnpike road having been made through
the parish ftom east to west, in place of the former incommodious
post road along the sea shore. There are about four miles of the
turnpike road in this parish. From the state of the shore being
very shallow and rocky, there is, and can be, no good harbour,
and as there is no trade the want of one is not fell. A small piers,
which will be a great accommodation for the passage and fishing
boats has been lately constructed.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The church stands at the upper part, of the


