
        		  TIRE AND COLL.                       201

or polar lights, frequent in winter.  These are often very vivid,
Sometimes of a reddish or purplish colour, and spread over a great
part of the firmament.  Thunder and lightning are not uncommon
both in harvest and winter; but here they are seldom or never at-
tended with fatal or disastrous consequences.
   Lakes, &c.-There are eight or ten fresh water lakes in this
island, none of which are of much extent, the largest being per-
haps somewhat upwards of a mile in length.  The whole probably
cover from 600 to 700 imperial acres.  No kind of fish, is found
in them, except small eels, which are never used as food.  In Coll
there is a greater number of small lakes, supposed to cover about
297 acres.  Several of these contain small trout, which are some-
times caughtwith the rod, inore for amusement, I believe, than
their utility.  There are no rivers worthy of notice in either
island; and it is rather unnecessary to add, that there are no cas-
cades.  The springs are all perennial, and the water used for
driking in general pretty good.  There are three mineral springs
on the north-west side of this island, which appear to be impreg-
nated with iron.  One of them is called in Gaelic from this cir-
cumstance "Tobar an iaruiun," or the iron well ; and the rocks
in their neighbourhood are believed, from their colour and weight,
to contain more or less of that metal.
   During the more rainy seasons of the year, a great deal of stag-
nant water lodges on the surface of the ground, in consequence of
its level nature, the exhalations from which might readily be sup-
posed to be prejudicial to health.  It does not appear, however,
that this consequence follows in any remarkable degree; at least,
if there be such effects, they are in a great measure rneutralized or
counteracted by the pure and bracing sea air.  Nor are the inha-
bitants, in general, more remarked for brevity of life than their
neighbours around them.  Coughs, colds, asthma, rheumatism,
and scrofulous complaints are not uncommon, and may perhaps be
in somd measure ascribed to the dampness of the climate.
   Rocks, Soil, &c.-Not being versed in the study of geology or
botany, and having no immediate access to any person skilled in
these sciences, I cannot pretend, nor shall I attempted to give any
scientific account of whatever may occur under these heads.  The
kinds of rock generally met with are granite and whitestone.  Lime
stone has also been found in one place.  I understand it was used
as mortar for building the chamberlain's house, about the year


