
                           KINNOULL.                        937.

bellished with escutcheons, stands a statue of the Chancellor in
his robes, his left hand resting on a small table, and on which are
placed, side by side, the Great Seal of Scotland, &c. (insignis of
hhs office), and a human skull. There is no inscription.  The
simple but striking device explains itself.
   This curious relic is carefully, roofed in and preserved; and
there is reason to believe that the present Noble representative of
the family is disposed to give even greater external character to a
building under which the ashes of his ancestors have long reposed.
The site of this mausoleum is peculiarly striking, occupying the
centre of the old parish burying-ground, which immediately over-
hangs the river.
   The character of the Chancellor is given by Crawford in his
"Lives of the Officers of State," as "by a person of honour
and great probity, who had very good access to know. That he
had the reputation of a very wise man; behaved himself very well
in his function, and appeared equal to it, and carried himself so
moderately, both in Parliament and council, that he did his master
much service, and preserved himself in the good opinion of the na-
tion,-a favour very few other men in any high trust at that time
were indulged with."*
   Although no inscription is to be found on the monument, an
epitaph, by Dr Arthur Johnston, is given by Crawford.
   About a quarter of a mile south from this spot, some small
vestiges of the old Castle of Kinnoull remained at the date of the
last Statistical Account, but which have now dirapppeared, the site
being occupied as an orchard attached to one of the many villas

<FOOTNOTE>A curious anecdote, strikingly characteristic of the resoluteness of the chan-
cellor in maintaining the high privileges attached to his office, is recorded by Sir James
Balfour in his Annals of Scotland. It appears that the King, in a letter to his Privy-
council, had commanded that the Archbishop of St Andrews, as primate and metro-
politan of Scotland, might have the precedence of the Lord Chancellor, "and so, con-
sequently, before all others; wich nothwithstansding, the Lord Chancellor Hay, a gal-
lant stout man, wold never condescent too, nor even suffer him to have place of him,
doe quhat he could, all the dayes of his lifetime. I remember (continues Sir James)
that King Charles sent me, the day of his coronatione, in the morning. in Ao. 1633,
to show the chanceler that it was his will and pleasure, but only for that day, that he
wold ceed and give place to the archbishope; but he returnid by me to his Majestie
a werey bruske anssuer, wich wes, that since his Majesty had beine pleaxed to conti-
new him in that office of chanceler, which, by his meines, his vorthey father, of happey
memorie, had bestowed upone him, he was redey, in all humility, to lay it doune at
his Majestie's feete; bot, since it wes his royall will, he should enjoy it with the
knowen previlidges of the same, no preist in Scotland should sett a foot befor him so
long as his blood was botte." The King finding his chancellor immoveable, and his
own somewhat disingenuous proposal thus thwarted, seems to have been in no good hu-
mour when, on hearing the result of the conference, he replied, "Weel, Lyone, lette
go to bussiness. I will not meddle furder with that olde cankered gootishe man, as
quhose hands there is nothing to be gained bot soure wordes."


