
     Statistical Account

<UNREADABLE>

hoar frosts, and are very pernicious to every kid of grain, be-
fore it comes to a proper consistence.  Were the climate, how-
ever, answerable to the soil, there is no doubt, that excellent
crops right be raised in many places, which the husbandman
has never yet attempted to cultivate.  The S. W. end of the
parish of a light gravelish, soil, which in dry seasons pro-
ducts only a moderate crop, but with gentle flowers in April
and May yields abundantly; and has this advantage above eve-
ry other part of the parish, that the crop is earlier ripe, and
earlier in the barn-yard.  About the center of the parish parish the
soil is deeper, particularly the holm land on the banks of the Nith,
which though it cannot be called a rich loam, produces excel-
lent crops, which the assistance of lime, or dang.  It is but of late years
that the farmers generally begin to use the forms for the; im-
provement of their land, to which they seem to have been in-
duced by observing its good effects on the farms of some indivi-
duals, who had made the experiment before them.  Reasoning
may drive men to finance, but it is only the experience of a new
and bitter system of farming, that lead them from the old.
The time used in this parish is brought from Corson Con, a hill
which is the boundary betwixt this country and Ayrshire, at
the distance of 10 and 12 miles, and the price at the quarry is 3d,
per Winchester bushel.  A single horse and cart generally brings
12 or 14 bushels, which is a sufficient load, as the road is
in some places steep, and not in the best repair.  The land, in
general, is much better adapted to the breeding and feeding
of sheep and black cattle, that to raising of grain.  The grain
commonly sown is oats, barley, rather bear, some few pease
and turnips.  Rye-grass feeds and closer are not sown, but on-
ly upon some spots of the land around the burgh, and near
the banks of Nith.  Potatoes are generally planted, and
form a very considerable part of the subsistence of the poor,
there being but a very inconsiderable part of the land under

</UNREADABLE>


