
232                       EDINBURGHSHIRE.

tember 1633, St Cuthbert's and Corstorphine churches were unit-
ed to it, but this connexion was annulled in 1638, and after being
restored in 1662, was finally dissolved on the re-establishment of
Presbytery in 1689.
   Church and Monuments.-In Popish times, the fabric of the
parish church was maintained, as well as that of the collegiate
church, a separate set of priests and chaplains officiating in each;
and it seems probable that the parish church was used at the be-
ginning of the Reformation by the reader, and first Protestant
clergyman; for in the tack of the teinds of the kirk of Corstorphine
in 1597, there is an express stipulation on the lessee, Henry For-
rester, to sustain and uphold the quire of the parish kirk.   In the
beginning of the next century, however, the collegiate church was
occupied by the parish minister; and we find among the first en-
tries in the parish register, under date 3d May 1646, an order
given by the kirk-session, for taking down the old parish kirk.*
Since that period, the collegiate church has always been used as
the parish church, and has, from time to time, been repaired and
altered as the occasion required.
   Previous to the last repair, the church was of the form of a
Calvary cross, with a projection to the north at the bottom or east
end, and a spire and low-roofed house, now used as a session-house
or vestry, at the west end.  The north arm of this cross had been
added during the last century by the proprietor of Saughtonhall;
the rest of the building was ancient, and bad the original roof of
compact stone.
   When the church was repaired, the Saugbtonball aisle was
taken down, and another erected in a style which corresponds bet-
ter with the southern aisle, and, at the same time, the roof of about
two-thirds of the building was removed, and a slated double roof
erected in its place, of the same height as the roof of the southern
aisle, which was considerably lower than the original roof of the prin-
cipal building.  This altered portion and the southern aisle consti-
tute the present church, while the eastern end and north-eastern
projection form the chancel and burying-ground of the Forresters.
   According to tradition, the southern aisle is the most ancient
part of the building, and was probably a part of the chapel of St
John the Baptist.  On the outer wall of it are carved, in seve-
ral places, the arms of the Forresters, and within, below the win-

<FOOTNOTE>Parish Register, Vol. i.



