
                         CARRIDEN.                            55

   Topographical Appearances.-The surface is very unequal, ris-
ing from the shore by a quick ascent, with a varied undulating
form for about a mile, and then in general declining to the south.
The most elevated ground lies towards the south-western part
of the parish, near its junction with Linlithgow and Bo'ness, form-
ing part of the Irongath* hills, or what, is vulgarly named Glowr
owre-em, and subsiding in an eastern direction by a gradual de-
clivity. The highest point is 519 feet above the level of the sea,
or high water of spring tides. There are no natural cavities; but
the ground has been excavated to a considerable extent in the
north-west of the parish for coals and ironstone, in consequence
of which, by the settling of the superincumbent strata in the old
wastes, the surface was at one place broken into a number of small
concave cisterns, which in the course of agricultural improvement
have been filled up and levelled; and within the last twenty or
thirty years, several instances have occurred in different places of
the ground suddenly giving way and leaving large holes in the open
field. The coast along the Forth, including its windings, extends
to about three miles and a-half, having, through a considerable
portion of the line, at high water mark, a margin of sand and cal-
careous mixture several feet broad, thence stretching out to low
water-mark, for several hundred yards, in a sleechy flat, composed
of alluvial soil, with more or less of sand, and showing here and
there a small bank formed of drifted oyster shells. Of late, ow-
ing to the encroachments of the sea, the sandy margin has been
undergoing a change, and becoming more of a rough stony descrip-
tion. Occasionally there is an appearance of rock. At two
places the land points into the Frith,-the one, called Bridgeness,
near the western extremity,-the other forming the eastern extre-
mity of the parish, named Blackness, a rather remarkable rocky
promontory on which Blackness Castle is situated. Within a few
yards of the shore the ground rises into a steep bank, ranging
from the junction with Bo'ness parish, till it falls into a gentle
acclivity near the church, to the east of which it again becomes
more abrupt, and so continues along the whole coast eastward,
till it loses itself in the point of Blackness.
   There is no good bathing-ground along the coast except at
Blackness, though not a few families from different quarters island

<FOOTNOTE>Otherwise called Airncoth. Sibbald says there is a tradition, that a battle was
fought there between the Romans and the natives under Argadus, and thence the hill
sool the name of Argad.


