
224                         EDINBURGHSHIRE.

John the Baptist, and he founded three chaplainries in it, and paid
to the chaplains during his life L. 24 Scots yearly.  After his
death, this foundation was confirmed by a charter of King James
T., dated 25th February 1425, which gives to Sir John Forrester
and his heirs, the right to present fit persons as chaplains to the
Bishop of St Andrews, who was to be bound to admit them to the
benefice.  And in order to provide for their personal residence,
which by the charter is declared imperative, Sir John assigned
to the chaplains three acres of ground in the village of Corstor-
phine, for manses, with pasturage for three horses, and three cows
with their followers of one year old.
  Other two chaplainries were founded by Dame Margaret For-
rester, relict of Sir Adam Forrester, in the same chapel, and an-
nual rents, amounting to L.28, 13s. 4d.  Scots, payable from pro-
perty in Edinburgh, Leith, and Corstorphine, were mortified for
the support of the chaplains.
   Collegiate Church.-In the course of the same year, 1429,
Sir John Forrester founded a Provostry or collegiate church in
the kirk-yard of the then existing parish church of Corstorphing.
The second chapel was probably built into this collegiate church,
for there is no mention of its separate existence after the year 1429,
and they were both dedicated to the same patron saint, St John
the Baptist.  The original foundation of the collegiate church
was for five prebendaries, of whom one was to be called the Pro-
vost, and two boys; and for their maintenance, Sir John consign-
ed the annual rents of 120 ducats of gold, on condition that he
and his successors should have the patronage of these appoint-
ments, and on the understanding, that, if the kirk of Ratho were
united to the provostry, other four or five prebendaries should be
added to that establishment, and maintained out of the fruits of
the benefice of Ratho.  Pope Eugenius IV. sanctioned this foun-
dation by a Bull, in which he directed the Abbot of Holyroodhouse,
as his apostolic vicar, to ascertain whether the foundation and con-
signation had been made in terms of the original grant; and on
being satisfied on these points, to unite and incorporate the church
of Ratho, with all its rights,'emoluments, and pertinents, to the col-
lege for ever.*
  In 1444, Sir John Forrester made a second application to the
Pope, in which be stated that the emoluments of the Collegiate

<FOOTNOTE>See Foundation Charter in Sir Lewis Stewart's Collections, p. 108, in Advo-
cates' Library.


