
630			    AYRSHIRE.

Court of High Commission; But was afterwards restored through
the influence of Alexander the Sixth Earl of Eglinton. Mr Dick-
son was translated, and became Professor of Divinity, first at
Glasgow, and subsequently at Edinburgh, where he died in 1662.
His place as minister of Iryine was filled by Mr Alexander Nis
bet, whose character is well stated in is epitaph, as written by
one of hiS brethren in these words:--"Grande aliquid vultu
nituit, gressuque docoro; grandius in magni dotibus
After Mr Nisbet, Mr George Hutchison became minister of Ir-
vine. Not giving obedience to his bishop, he was first silenced by
the Parliament in 1662, and subsequently, in the same year, he
was banished from Edinburgh; but, upon their passing the act of
indulgence, he was authorized by the Privy-Council, in 1669, to
exercise the ministry at Irvine, where he died. Contemporaneously
with Messrs Dickson, Nisbet, and Hutchison, Mr James Fergu-
son was minister of the adjoining parish of Kilwinning, and in
conjunction with these eminent individuals, he formed the design
of publishing brief expositions of the Scriptures. In part, this
plan was carried in to effect. Mr Dickson, inter alia, published his
"Exposition Analytica ornnium Apostolicarum Epistolarurn." Mr
Nisbet published an exposition of the two epistles of Peter, and
also an Exposition of Ecclesiastes. From the pen of Mr Rutchi-
son, the public received an exposition of the Book of Job, of the
Minor Prophets, and of the Gospel according to the Evangelist
John. "By all this, it appears," says Mr Patrick Warner, "that
the people of Irvine had, a long and clear day of the Gospel
among them,"--"and," adds he, "I beg prayer in their behalf,
lest, because of their barrenness the kingdom of God should be
taken from them."
	At the time when he wrote the sentences now quoted, Mr Pa-
trick Warner was minister of lrvine, having succeeded Mr Hut-
chison in 1688. The tone of these sentences seems to indicate
the existence of an unfavourable impression on his mind, as to the
misimprovement of their privileges on the part of his people. At
all events, we know that Mr Warner met with great discourage-
ments from them in the prosecution of his ministry. Greatly op-
press by these discouragements, he submitted the reasons of de-
mission to the presbytery of Irvine in 1702. *

<FOOTNOTE>The reasons of demission were the following:
          It is not unknown to many in this presbyterie how heavie the charge of this con-
      gregation hath bein to me for a long tyme, and the reasons I have to give in a de-


