
			ABBOTSHALL.                            153

mentioned as one of the Peers of Scotland, under the title of Lord
Melville, Lord Raith, Monymeal and Balwearie, Viscount Kirk-
aldy, and Earl of Melville. The family and titles are now merged
in that of Leven, and the estate of Raith soon after passed into the
hands of the present family.
   This parish had the honour of giving birth to William Adam, who
arrived at the greatest eminence as an architect, which the limited
opportunities at that time afforded by his native country would per-
mit. Hopetoun House and the Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh, the
one a splendid, the other a plain structure, are specimens of his
abilities. William Adam, it need hardly be mentioned, was the
father of Robert and James Adam, still more distinguished for their
genius in architecture, and who reared that splendid monument of
their taste and names, " The Adelphi." The family is now repre-
sented by the Honourable William Adam, late Chief- Commissioner
of the Jury Court.
   It would be improper to omit, that that distinguished soldier and
patriot, Sir Ronald C. Ferguson, is a native of this place. He was
born at Raith, the seat of his family, in the year 1771.
   Land-owners.-These are five in number, and two of them have
their principal residences here. Raith, anciently the seat and posses-
sion of the Earls of Melville, now the property of Robert Ferguson,
Esq. M. P. is by far the most considerable estate in the parish,
being more than equal in value and extent to all the rest of the
parish together. The mansion-house was originally built in the
year 1694, by Lord Raith, Treasurer Depute, and must have been
at that time a substantial good house. Its length is 72 feet, and
its breadth 40. To the original house were added two wings, dur-
ing the time of the late Mr Ferguson, which made the accommo-
dation very complete, and such as became the mansion-house of so
fine an estate as Raith. A few years ago, the present proprietor
attached to the front of the house a fine Ionic portico, which gives
to the whole a light and elegant appearance. In the interior of
the house, what principally claims attention is the library, which
contains a well chosen assortment of books, both ancient and mo-
dern,-and a cabinet of minerals, which, for richness and ex-
tent, is surpassed by few private collections of the sort in the king-
dom. The situation of the house is noble and commanding, and
the extent of plantations and pleasure grounds which surround
it is very considerable. Near the summit of the hill on which the
mansion-house is seated, and perhaps 400 feet above the level, of
the sea, stands the tower, which is a square building, with an inside


