
6			BUTESHIRE.

their banks in approaching the lower grounds; and sometimes
sweep before them the best built bridges in the parish. When
these violent storms of wind and rain occur, as sometimes hap-
pens in summer or harvest, the crops of corn and potatoes suffer
great injury. The prevalence of strong west winds in winter has,
in the more exposed places give all the trees an inclination east-
ward, and thinned their branches and foliage on the exposed side.
The amount of rain that fouls during the year varies very consi-
derably in different parts of the parish, the places shut in among
the high mountains, having of course the amplest share. At the
Whitehouse, in the neighbourhood of Lamlash, the quantity that
fell in 1833 was 66 inches, and 6-10ths; in 1834, 57.6; and in
1835, 737. Notwithstanding this superabundance of moisture,
the climate upon the whole is far from being unpleasant. Those
dull hazes and fogs, which often linger for days and weeks over
many other places in this country, are in a great measure unknown
in the parish of Kilbride; and days of constant rain do not often
occur, mornings of drenching floods being not unfrequently suc-
ceeded by bright and beautiful afternoons of clear and smiling sun-
shine. Few places in Scotland are, it is believed, more favoura-
ble to health. The diseases which most generally prevail are
those arising from poor fare, and exposure to damp and wet wea-
ther. None can be mentioned that is peculiar to the place. The
eight-day sickness, spoken of in the former Statistical Account,
which a few generations ago was so fatal to infants and children,
is now never heard of, having disappeared along with ith cause,--
unskilful treatment on the part of self-taught midwives. The epide-
mics of large towns are occasionally imported by young men and
women at service in the low country. But they do not remain long, or
spread to any extent. Instances of longevity are numerous. Of five
members of the kirk-session of Kilbride who died within the last
twelve years, one was ninety-two, three eighty-eight, and one
seventy-nine years of age. The writer has in the course of the present
week, (April .1840), attended the funerals of two of his parish-
ioners, One of whom (a female who lived at Brodick) reached the
very advanced age of ninety.-nine; the other was entering upon his
eighty-nine year of age. There are at present living within a mile of
Lamlash, and enjoying the unimpaired use of their mental facul-
ties, three men, two of them several years above ninety, and the
third, eighty-eight. Mr Paterson, in his "Account Of the Island
of Arran," in the Quarterly Journal of Agriculture, mention a si-


