
48			AYRSHIRE.

Though it has not been so highly favoured as some of them, in
point of richness of soil, yet it will yield to none for the intelligence
of its peasantry, and the emulative spirit which they discover in
the line of their pursuits. During the last few years, they have
in general devoted much of their attention to the study of agri-
culture as a practical science; and erroneous processes in the culti-
vation of the soil, which antiquated prejudice, or inveterate custom
had long retained, are gradually becoMing obsolete,-while useful
improvements and discoveries are eagerly substituted in their place.
Farmer's societies have done much to introduce a more enlighten-
ed mode of husbandry, than formerly prevailed. This has been
greatly aided also, by the example of many of the landed proprietors,
who themselves farm on a large scale; and having the means
amply in their power, are not backward in trying experiments which
their tenantry are ready to adopt, when found to be beneficial.
But what has of late given a stimulus to improvement, and excited
an emulation to excel in agricultural pursuits, more than any other
circumstance, is the institution of the Ayrshire Agricultural Associ-
ation, which was formed in 1835, after the model of the Highland
Society of Scotland. It embraces among its members the most
distinguished in the county for rank, intelligence, and respectability;
and it has the effect of bringing the landed proprietors and their
tenantry in closer alliance with one another, and of keeping up
among them a more systematic regard for their reciprocal interests.
It appoints agricultural shows to take place periodically in the
principal towns of the county, where premiums are awarded for farm
stock and produce of all kinds, and also for useful inventions; and
the keenest competition is thus excited on a large scale, not so
much for the value of the prizes offered, as for the honour which
success confers. We look on this Association as calculated to prove
of the utmost benefit to the interests of agriculture, and as reflect-
ing great honour on those from whom it originated, and we have
deemed it proper to notice it here as more particularly belonging
to the county town. We shall now proceed to give a brief outline
of the state of agriculture as confined to Ayr parish, which in this
respect is probably not behind any other in the county.
   As the surface is composed of different kinds of soil husbandry
is of course prosecutes after different modes; but its general cha-
racter is judicious, and distinguished for skill in the management
as well as success in the result. Even in the least fertile and kind-
ly districts, where the land consists of a cold stiff clay of from four


