
			MOULIN.				    653

decently attired, but really the privations which, in after life, many
of them will have to endure, force one to deplore this extrava-
gance of dress, as one of the follies of our age. Though there
are bakers and butcherr among us, the style of living, is not
materially altered from that of our forefathers. Meal, milk, and
potatoes are the staple articles of diet. Poor, indeed, is that fa-
mily which does not rear a pig, and the more comfortably circum-
stanced, in addition to bacon,  provide themselves also with other
dried meat. The consumption of butcher-meat, which is now very
considerable, is chiefly by families of the higher rank, and by our
respectable villagers. As "to tea, snuff, and tobacco they appear
to have become necessary luxuries with all classes, be they ever so
poor.  On the whole, the people may be said to enjoy in a reason-
able degree, the comforts and advantages of society, and are in ge-
neral contented with their situation and circumstances in life.
They are a humane, social, moral, religious, and intelligent people.
They are fond of reading, and inconveniently situated as they
are in regard to  any valuable circulating library, it is matter of
astonishment and heartfelt gratification to find them in possession
not only of the ephemeral and evanescent productions of the day, but
of many of our standard works, historical, moral, and religious.
Among the religious works, there is to be met a variety of com-
mentaries-Henry's, Scott's, Brown's, Haweis, and others,-some
of Henry's works, Scott's, Brown's, Baxter's, Booth's, Boston's
Bunyan's, Dolittle's, Doddridge's, Dwight's, Erskine's, Flavell's
Harvey's, Newton's, Owen's, Willison's, Watts, &c. &c.,  The
intercourse between them is of that friendly and kindly nature, that,
in as far as books are concerned, "mine and thine" are synonymous.
If it be true, then, that the character of a district often takes its tone
from the authors read in it, it will be superfluous, after the preced-
ing enumeration, to remark, that the inhabitants of this parish are
distinguished for the high respect which they pay to,religion and its
ordinances.  Many of them are not only well acquainted with the
peculiar doctrines of Christianity, but deeply imbued with the spi-
rit of genupe piety, and are living under the power of Divine truth.
Spurious, liberalism and soul-withering infidelity, have as yet
made ,little progress among us. But it is much to be dreaded
that the never-ceasing intercourse with this district, and the large
manufacturing towns in the south, may eventually lead to the
troduction, and diffusion of sentiments and npinions which tend


