
     of Morven.

ly from the ancient Gaelic name 'Mor-Earran,' i. e. 'great
'division, or lot*.'

   Surface, Soil, etc.-The general appearance of this parish
is hilly, but without mountains of any remarkable height.
Its hills are partly covered with heath, but for the most part
yield good pasture.  The inhabitation is along the sea side
all around, the inland parts being mostly hilly, and the ar-
able ground lying at the bottom of these hills.  Along the
Sound of Mull, the arable ground (such we call it) is upon a
declivity, in many places very steep, and much elevated above
the level of the sea.  The soil, in general, is a poor, light,
open earth, interspersed in some places with a mixture of
gravel and small stones; some spots that lie lower, and are
flatter, answer well for such kinds of crops as are generally
raised in this country; these are, barley, potatoes, and oats of
a very poor quality, called small oats.  The incumbent, and
some of the tacksmen, have, within these few years, tried to
raise great, or white, oats; in which, upon the whole, they
have succeeded so well, that they still adhere to the practice;
yet it must be owned, that it is by much a more precarious
crop, and less suited to this climate, than our small oats, as it
runs a greater risk of suffering more from the Judy and Au-

<FOOTNOTE>

*To those who are acquainted with the Gaelic language, it
will appear evident, that the meaning of this name must be dif-
ferent from the word Mor Ven, as used in the Poems of Ossian,
where it is derived from the Gaelic words 'Mor. Bheann,' i. e.
'of the great mountains,' and seems to have been a general
term for the Highlands, or hilly country.  The common notion is,
that the whole Highlands were the country of Fingal and his
heroes, for in every part thereof, as well as in this parish, there
are names derived from them and their achievements.  The
whole Highlands might justly be called 'Duthaich nam mor-
'Bheann,' or 'country of high hills.'  But a Highlander never
gives that name to this parish, but calls it 'A mhor-earran.


