
                 412                       ARGYLESHIRE.

                ternate Sabbath.  The number of members belonging to thi,
                body may be somewhere about twenty.  The stipend of this united
                parish, for the last three years, has been about LI 70.
                   The clamant ecclesiastical destitution in the lowlands is the
                want of churches.  We have a sufficiency of the material buildin
               but we lack pastors to preach in our churches. In other words,
               we stand in much need of a State provision for additional ministers
               in this parish as in others in the Highlands.
                  Education.-In this 'united parish there are two parochial
               schools, five or six supported by private subscription, and two So-
               ciety schools.  The two parisb schoolmasters have each about
               L25 per annum, without the house acbommodation.  We would
               require, at least, three additional endowed schools to meet the de-
               mands of our people.
                 Poor.-The number of paupers on the parish roll may vary
               between 40 and 55, many of them receiving 12s. per annum, whilst
               a few get from L. I to L.2, I Os. We do not observe any growing
              disinclination on the part of the people to have recourse to paro-
              Phial aid : but the contrary.
                 Ale-hnuses.-There may be about twelve public-bouses in the
              united parish ; not an unreasonably large number, considering the
              magnitude of its population.
                When the foregoing statement was written a few years ago, agri-
              culture, with the exception mentioned, was, as a science, almost
              unknown in the parish.  Since that period, however, a consider-
              able change has taken place, I may say, in all the departments of
              this most useful branch of industry.  The old system of cropping
              the same field successively by father, son, and grandson, without
              a pause, has been partially uprooted.  Mr Campbell of Kilberry
              is experimenting on the opposite principle, on rather an extensive
              scale.  Some of the chemical manures have been introduced.
              The cottage system of ancient tifties has received a check.  And
              Alexanddr Morison, Esq. the new laird of BaInakill, is about to
              beautify the glen of his habitation there.  On the estate of Loup
              also, the same improvement is taking place.  Within the last few
              years Mr Campbell of Stonefield has planted an immense extent
              of land betyveen Tarbert and Whitehouse.
               October 1843.


