
               NEILSTON.                            319

Thomsonite, or Orthotomous zeolite, occurs in great abundance
at the same fertile spot. It presents the usual radiated structure,
with occasionally beautiful terminations.
Laumonite, or Diatomous zeolite, one of the least common of
the zeolite family, is found at the same place.
Ores imbedded in the trap rocks which abound here, are
scarcely ever found. Assuredly no veins of manganese, lead, or
copper, are known to us. When examining some stone dikes
built of olden time, with the late lamented and talentedi,Walter
Moody, Esq. of Glasgow, we found stones in which were imbed-
ded rich specimens of copper ore. In none of the rocks we have
examined have animals, shells, nr plants been found imbedded or
buried. The only thing found, deeply imbedded in some of ou
coal mines and mosses, are trunks of large trees, in the transition
state to coal.
Soils.-These are as diversified as the climate. There are
three marked and distinct soils in the parish. That on the eastern
division (which is flat land,) is of a dry loamy nature, mixed occa-
sionally with gravel, and resting here and there upon freestotie, but
generally upon a substratum of stiff till or clay. It is fit for all
kinds of crops. The middle district, which is billy, has for its sub-
soil chiefly rotten rock, or porphyry. Hence its surface is com-
monly dry, and free of wet standing on it. It is fitter, however,
for pasture than cropping; and hence the dairy is , the first and
greatest care of the farmers there, as by its produce they chief-
ly pay their rents. The soil is of the same nature as that of
the Mearns, and produces the finest butter. Its pasturage is ex"-,
cellent. The third district is composed of bedt moor and de
black moss; much of which is capable of great improvement, undeir
a proper system of draining and planting. The sides of the bills
afford good grazing, and produce as fii)e cattle for the shambles as
any in the country, whilst the table-lands on the hill tops with the
moors are excellent for rearing young cattle. A very few sheep
are kept in the parhsh. Many swine are reared, but goats are un-
known.
The improvements made on the Hartfield estate show what
can be done on our mosses, moors, and hill-sides. From a few
hundred pounds of rent, when Robert Fulton, Esq. of Maxwel.
ton, the late highly respected proprietor of Hartfield purchased it
from the Milliken family, its rent is now raised, by his improvement,%
and other means, to about L. 2000 yearly.*
<FOOTNOTE>Five hundred acres of the moss and moor of Hartfield, foemerly rented at l 30,


