
40                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

with little addition.  In 1672, a school for English grammar was
established on a similar footing, and both of these schools have al-
ways maintained a high character.
   Besides these, a school pretty much on the parochial plan has
been for a considerable time supported by the magistrates and
kirk-session jointly at Futtie.  The school-house there having be-
gun to decay, was rebuilt and enlarged a few years ago, and the
plan of education, which is purely elementary, was a good deal ex-
tended.
   The incorporated trades have a school for the ordinary branches
of education, and there are free schools founded and endowed by
various benevolent individuals viz. Bishop Gerrard's, Mr James
Thain's, and Mr George Davidson's.
   In 1815, a society was formed in Aberdeen for the erection and
maintenance of schools on the system of Joseph Lancaster, and
they supported for a good many years a school for boys, at which
the average attendance was about 450.  About eight or ten years
ago they were enabled, by the bequest of L.1000 from the late
Mr Hogg of Shannaburn, to erect a school for a similar number
of girls; but other schools having been about the same time erect-
ed in various parts of the town, the attendance of girls scarcely
exceeded 200; and Mr Robertson, the highly talented teacher of
the boys' school, having been induced to accept the office of teacher
of Dr Bell's school, the attendance of boys in the Education So-
ciety's school fell off, in consequence of which the society has
deemed it advisable to give up one of their schools, and to divide
the other into two apartments, capable of receiving about 200 each.
   A school for girls, capable of receiving about 100, and which is
generally well attended, is supported by the Seamen's Friend So-
ciety.  They formerly had a school for boys also, but within these
few years it has been converted into a parochial school for Union
Parish, the society retaining the right of recommending boys, the
children of seamen, for instruction in it.
   Dr Bell of Madras left L.10,000, 3 per cent. consols, to the
Magistrates and Council of Aberdeen, two-thirds of which were to
be appropriated for schools in Aberdeen, and the other third for a
similar purpose in Old Aberdeen.  Accordingly, two schools were
erected in Aberdeen, the one for about 400 boys, and the other
for about 300 girls.
   Dr. Anderson of Jamaica also bequeathed certain funds, to trus-

