
     Statistical Account

rish of Killearn, in Kintyre; but when they were disjoined
from either is uncertain.  The stipend is paid partly in vic-
tual and partly in money, viz. 20 bolls of barley, 40 bolls of
meal, and 35 h Sterling in money, besides a glebe, and allow-
ance for a manse.  There is a good church, but no manse, the
late incumbent having been translated to another parish at the
time it was to have been built.  The parish is vacant at pre-
sent, by the translation of Mr. Dugald M'Dougal to the pa-
rish of Loehgoilhead*.  The Duke of Argyll and Mr
M'Neill of Gigha are patrons.

   School and Poor.-The number of children at school is 55
boys and 10 girls, in all 65.  Moll of them are taught gratis; 8
of them are learning arithmetic, 32 reading English, and the rest
beginners.  The schoolmaster has a free house, garden, and
cows grass, with 100 merks salary from the parish, and he
gets 71.  Sterling from the Society for propagating Christian
Knowledge.  Of the inhabitants there are 3 lame, 3 blind, 4
sickly, and 1 an idiot.  There, with a few old infirm persons,
are on the poors list, and get as much help from the session as
the funds admit of; but they are chiefly supported by the re-
siding heritor and the inhabitants.  The collection at the

<FOOTNOTE>

*Mr. M'Dougal was admitted in October 1784; and on giving in his dismis-
sion in November 1789, Mr. Samuel Peat, a native of the Low Country, was
presented to the parish.  This gentleman, not submitting to be examined by
the presbytery of Kintyre on the Gache language, a piece of trial which they
thought necessary before his admission to a Highland charge; and appealing from
them to the synod of Argyll, and afterwards from the synod to the General
Assembly; it was found requisite, that an ordained clergyman should be appoint-
ed m the meantime, to supply the parish, as their insular situation rendered it
peculiarly hard to be so long without a minister to dispense the ordinances of re-
ligion among them.  Accordingly, in October last (1791), the writer of this
report came to this island, where he continues to officiate as interim minister,
with a salary of 401. a year from the synod of Argyll.


