
100                  ROSS AND CROMARTY.

   Name.-The modern name Applecross was given to the parish
by the gentleman who was proprietor of the Comaraich estate, at
the time of the erection : in commemoration of which event, five
apple trees had been planted crossways in the proprietor's garden.
   Extent, &c.-The parish is of great extent, and if reduced to
a regular form, might be calculated at 20 miles long, and as many
broad, if not considerably more.  The far greater part of the
parish consists of mountainous rocks and hills, covered with
heather, and wild grasses.  There is nothing remarkable, however,
in their height or in other respebts.
   There are several lakes and rivers which produce trout and sal-
mon, as Loch Damf, &c., the rivers of Applecross, Torridon,
Balgie, &c.
   Geology. -The predominating rocks in this parish are red sand-
stone, quartz rock, and gneiss.
   Soil.-The soil, for the most part, is not rich, deep, loamy, or
clayey, but rather light, gravelly, and sandy:-it produces, how-
ever, good crops of oats, barley, and potatoes, &c.  There are
some peat mosses; but they are not very deep, at least where ac-
cessible for fuel.  In some parts, they are at such a distance from
the inhabitants, that the making of peats is very expensive, and
in many cases more expensive than coals.  There is plenty of
limestone at Applecross and Kishorn; but it is found cheaper to
buy lime from the kilns at Broadford, in the Isle of Skye, than
to be at the expense of burning the stones here. There is a cop-
per mine at Kishorn, which was worked sometime ago, and is said
to have produced very rich ore.  It is to be wished that Mr Mac-
kenzie of Applecross, the proprietor, would order it to be opened
again,-as that might considerably benefit his own family, and
afford employment and support to persons who now lose their time
in sloth and wretchedness.
   There are several caves and grottoes, said to have been occu-
pied in old times by banditti and outlaws, or used by the inhabi-
tants as pl`ces in which they preserved their effects from marau-
ders and plunderers.
   Cimate.-The climate is rather moist and foggy, and torrents of
rain frequently fall in all seasons of the year.  For several years
back, there has been very little snow compared with tbe storms of
former times.  During the last winter, there was no snow which
remained so long as a single day on the low grounds.  The snow,
however, covered the hills, and continued in some places till the


