
			HOLYWOOD.                          563

acres are thus improved; and there are yet 143 acres, which Mr
Maxwell, with his wonted determination, intends to complete.
From 8000 to 10,000 roods of drains have been cut, from three
to nine feet deep, according to the levels; in width, at the top,
three feet; and at the bottom, two feet; all of which have been
built and penned. The subsoil is clay-till, which, where the drains
have been formed, has been removed by barrows, and then spread
over the land at from two to six inches deep.
	On an average, forty men, mostly from the Emerald Isle, have
been employed, with little interruption, during eight years past.
Some hundred thousand carts of stones have been cleared off, be-
sides those used for filling up drains.
	The average expense of trenching, clearing off stones, and drain-
ing, has been fully L. 20 per acre; and the whole expense incur-
red since 1828 amounts to nearly L. 5000.
	The improved lands have been cropped thus: lst, Two white
crops, worth from L. 6 to L. 10 per acre. 2d. Turnips, bone ma-
nure, L. 4; eat off by sheep, from L. 3 to L. 4. 3d, Oats and bar-
ley, and sown out, yield from L. 8 to L. 10 per acre. 4th, Rye-
grass, worth from L. 3 to L. 5 per acre.
	These lands, previous to their present state of improvement,
were not worth on an average in grass more than 16s. an acre.
	Mr Maxwell has hihgly enriched the general aspect of his estate,
by a style of improvement and expense of which the south of Scot-
land affords few examples. It is to be hoped that the advanced
value of the property will reimburse him for his unequalled per-
severance as a land improver.
	Live-Stock.--The Galloway and the Ayrshire breed of cattle
are kept by the farmers in this parish. Few of the Galloway breed
are fed off. They are all sold at one or two years old. The Ayr-
shire are esteemed as preferable for the purposes of the dairy. There
is neither a drover nor a cattle-jobber in the parish.
			V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Market-Town.--There is no market-town in the parish. Dum-
fries is the chief market place, three miles distant from the lower,
and ten miles from the highest, part of the parish. It is the post-
town.
	Villages.--There are two small villages, viz. Holywood and
Cluden village. The former contains thirty-five families. There
are two grocers in it, who are licensed to retail ale and spirits.
These and the toll-house at Cluden Bridge, are the only licensed


