
396                      STIRLINGSHIRE.

is also very low in this town; 21 of cases occurring in the dis-
pensary proved fatal, and the deaths from all diseases amounted to
252.  This gives a ratio of 1 in 12 deaths. According to Sir
James Clarke, the most esteemed writer on the subject, the ave-
rage relative mortality is as high as 1 in 3. By others, however,
it is calculated as low as 1 in 5. If we take the medium between
these, viz. 1 in 4, we should have had, instead of 21 fatal cases of
consumption, no fewer than 63.  This induction of facts surely jus-
tifies the conclusion, that too much has not been ascribed to the
highly favoured situation of Stirling, the purity of its atmosphere,
and other advantages possessed by it, in reference to its general sa-
lubrity.  I may be permitted to add, that, within these very few
years, several individuals have died at the advanced ages of 88,
89, and even 90; and that there are some still alive, who have at-
tained to a great age, one of whom, a female, during the last
month, entered upon her 94th year.
   The River Forth.-This is the only stream of water, deserving
of notice, connected with the parish; which, in some places, as
has been already mentioned, it bounds; and, in other places, in-
tersects, by separating from the other portions of it the village
and Barony of Cambuskenneth.  This river, called by the Romans
Bodotria, probably Latinizing, as best they could, its ancient Celtic
name, respecting which nothing certain is now known, has its
source from a spring in the northern side of Ben Lomond, near
the summit; traverses Stirlingshire for ten miles under the name
of Duchray, augmented as it proceed by numberless mountain
streams; then enters Perthshire, and receiving near Aberfoyle, in
the river that issues from Lochard, an accession equal to the vo-
lume of its own waters, takes the name of Avondow, or Black river;
after running about five miles in Perthshire, it again joins Stirling-
shire below Gartmore House, and obtains the name of Forth,
which it retains throughout the remainder of its course.  It is
only when it approaches the immediate vicinity of Stirling, that
it becomes distinguished for size and beauty. Having then receiv-
ed the Teith and Allan, and beginning to be swollen by the tides
which affect it more than a mile above Stirling bridge, it has be-
come both wide and deep; and, not only by its magnitude and
serpentine meanderings, forms a feature of great interest in the
landscape; but is, navigable for vessels of various burden as high
as the shore of Stirling. Downwards towards Alloa, it continues
to be enlarged by receiving the Bannock-burn on the south, and
the Devon on the north, and by the increasing influence of the


