
     of Gigha and Cars

the centre.  It is 2 feet diameter without, and 1 1/2 within, 8
inches deep, and the bottom is 4 inches thick.  Near this
chapel is Achadh-a-Charra, (pronounced Axa-xazza) i. e. the
field of the pillar, so called from a beautiful plain stone,
which stands in the middle of the field, within 140 yards
of the chapel.  It inclines to the S. W. is 14 1/2 feet high, 3
feet broad, and 8 inches think at the edges.  To support its
weight, it must be 3 feet, at least, under ground.*

     CARA.

   Sea Coast and Birds.-The shore of this island is high and
rocky, except at the N. E. end, where the landing place is.
The south end, called the Maoil of Cara*, which is the highest
part of the island, is a perpendicular rock, measuring 117 feet
in height.  From the shore to the foundation of this rock-
there is a steep ascent equal to 50 feet perpendicular, which
makes the whole height 167 feet.  Here all the different spe-
cies of sea-fowl nestle in May, which, added to the ground ap-
pearance of the rock, forms a delightful view of the sea; and
on approaching it, the car is no less gratified than the eye.
The number and variety of notes, which the appearance of a-
ny visitor occasions among the birds, together with the mur-

     VOL. VIII.   H

<FOOTNOTE>

*North-cast of this, at an equal distance from the chapel, is Choc-a-Charra,
or the hill of the pillar.  On the top of this hill there is another stone, 9 feet
long, and 3 feet 10 inches m circumference; of the 9 feet, 2 are in the ground.
Cull farther to the N. E. on a higher hill, there was a cross which fed some
years since, and was broken; the 3 stones were in a straight line, but whether
they directed to any particular object, or were intended as monuments of the
dead, cannot he ascertained.
+Maol adj. signifies bare or bald, as Ceann maol, bald bead.  Hence it is ap-
plied to exposed points of land or promontories, and then becomes substantive
noun, and is written maoil e. g. maoil of Kint) re, maoil of Galloway, maoil of
Cara, etc.


