
                 KILLEAN AND KILCHENZIE.                      393

tuated for the majority of the population, and fit to accommodate
all the hearers.  As there are neither Government churches, nor
chapels of ease, nor Episcopalians, nor Roman Catholics, nor
any Dissenting chapels in the parish, public worship is regularly
and well attended in good weather.
   The number of communicants have annuallx averaged 500 for
the last seven years.
   The minister's manse was built in the year 1803.  It is situated
upon a low projecting headland, in the immediate vicinity of the
Atlantic Ocean, exposed to every blast that blows.  The incum-
bent is annually involved in very considerable expense for repairing
the damages it sustains from winter storms; and as the heritors
do not consult their own interest by repairing the tear and wear of
time and weather, it is becoming very ruinous and uncomfort-
able.*
   The glebe attached to the manse measures 7 acres 3 roods of
dry sandy soil, which, except in a moist summer, hardly defrays
the expense of seed and labour.  The tides of 1830 swept away
nearly 1 1/2 acre of the glebe.
   The stipend, including communion element money, amounts
to 7 chalders, 2 firlots, 2 lippies bear ; 14 bolls, 1 firlot, 3 pecks,
2 lippies meal, Kintyre measure; and L.25, 12s. 7d. money.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.- Over and above such as receive
temporary supplies, the number of paupers at present upon the
parish list, and receiving parochial aid, is 67.  The yearly collec-
tion in church for the last three years has averaged L.29 Sterling,
chiefly contributed by farmers and cottagers.
   The session have also at their disposal the interest of L.1000
Sterling, being a legacy bequeathed to the poor of the parhsh by
one of the heritors of the parish.+
   Thirty years ago, it was considered degrading to seek parochial
aid ; but now these laudable feelings of pride are suppressed.
Paupers conceive themselves entitled to an aliment by the laws
of the land ; and, since the Reform Bill pawed in Parliament,

<FOOTNOTE>Since writing the above, the heritors have thoroughly repaired the manse.
   + In the year 1810, Colonel Norman Macalister of Clachaig, Governor and Com-
mander-in-Chief of Prince of Wales Island, East Indies, and who was drowned on
his return home, bequeathed, inter alia, L.1000 Sterling to the poor of the parish,
to be invested on heritable security, and the principal never to be touched.  To com-
memorate his generosity and their gratitude, the heritors and kirk-session erected a
handsome marble monument in the parish church, with a suitable inscription.


