
     The Statistical Account.

   The produce in bolls cannot be exactly ascertained; but,
considering the goodness of the soil, may be fairly stated at
8 bolls per acre, inde 2400 bolls.
   As oats are the staple commodity, the calculation shall be
confined to that grain.  According to the fiars of Stirling-
shire, crop 1799, (the last crop for which they have been
struck,) carse oats are valued at 14 s. per boll.  Inde 2400
bolls at 14 s. is 1680 L.
   A track of ground so considerable, formerly a muisance to
the country, thus converted into a fertile field, filled with in-
habitants, comfortable and happy, cannot surely be surveyed
with an eye of indifference by any person whose mind is at
all susceptible of feeling or of public spirit.
   An excellent gravelled road, 20 feet wide, and a mile and
a half long, is now carried quite across the moss.  By this
means, in the first place, a short and easy intercourse is esta-
blished between two considerable parts of the estate, formerly
as little connected as if separated by a lake or an arm of the
sea.  Secondly, the inhabitants of the moss, to whom, hi-
therto, all passage with carts and horses was impracticable for
at least one half of the year, have now obtained the most es-
sential advantage of being able, with ease, to transport all
their different commodities at every season of the year.  This
road was entirely formed by the hands of the moss-tenants,
and gravelled by their own carts and horses: a work which,
it will not be doubted, they performed with much alacrity;
when it is considered that, to the prospect of procuring a
lasting and material benefit to themselves, there was joined
     Vol. XXI. Z

<FOOTNOTE>

<TABLE>
               Men, women, and children                  764
               Horses and carts                           54
               Cows                                       201
               Brick houses                               102
               Number of Scotch acres cleared from moss   400    
</TABLE>


