
142               LINLITHGOWSHIRE.

On Ist December 1810, Grangemouth, previously a creek of this
port, was erected into a separate port.
   The establishment of the port consists, at present, of one col-
lector, one comptroller, and one tide-waiter at Bo'ness, and eight
other individuals at the creeks, &c. connected with the establish-
nient. In 1795, the establishment consisted of forty-four indivi-
duals. *
   Ecclesiastical State.-According to the "Taxationes Ecclesia-
rum," quoted by Sibbald, Kinneil was in the diocese of St An-
drews, and deanery of Linlithgow, all out the year 1176, and was
rated at twenty-five merks. It had been given to the canons of
Holyrood in the twelfth or thirteenth century, and was confirmed
to them by the Bishop of St Andrews in 1240. The canons en-
joyed [be revenues, and the cure was served by a vicar. In 1633,
the parish of Kinneil was in the diocese of Edinburgh. +
   The ruins of the old parish church, and the burying-ground of
Kinneil, are still to be seen a little west from Kinneil House. +
No records remain; but the inhabitants of the barony still observe
some old customs connected with the ancient parish; and there
are a few relics which they hold in veneration, and preserve with
great care. The communion table linen, and part of the com-
munion table, and some other articles, are in the possession of
Mr William Thomson, farmer, Upper Kinneii.
   About the year 1634, the inhabitants of Bo'ness, induced by
the increasing prosperity and importance of the place, and consid-
ering the parish church at Kinneil at an inconvenient distance
from the town, built a place of worship for themselves. The
minister of the parish, to accommodate the inhabitants of the town,
preached in this place of worship, as well as in the parish church
of Kinneil, till the year 1649, when a petition was presented to
the Parliament of Scotland for a disjunction from Kinneil, and a
separate minister. Parliament granted the prayer of the petition,
and, after several visitations, the presbytery of Linlithgow found

<FOOTNOTE>Much information, especially regarding the port, has been communicated by
John Mackinlay, Esq. Collector of Customs, Bo'ness.
    Sir David de Hamilton, Lord of Cadzow, mortified to the see of Glasgow,
"pro salute anima sue," an annuity of ten merits Sterling yearly out of his barony
of Kynnele, anno 1361. In 1512, John Stirling granted L.10 Sterling yearly from
his lands of Easter Crackey, to a chaplain for performing divine service at one of the
altars of Kinneil Church.
    The inhabitants of the barony have ceased to inter at Kinnell, as burying-ground
has, been provided near the Bo'ness churchyard. In the latter are several expen-
sively scufptured monuments, some of which were erected by families now extinct,
whose names have been abliterated to give place to others.
                                       4


