
     of Langbolm.

Gall. Lib. 5. 17*.  Burians are to be seen in different
places; but whether they were British towns, or asylums 
for cattle, or Castra exploratoria, or for what other purposes
they were formed and appropriated , shall be left for anti-
quaries to determine.

   Roads, Bridges.- Except the great road between Edin-
burgh and Carlisle, and the road that leads W. from it to 
Annan, etc. upon which are there three toll-bars, (one
at each end of the town, and one at Solway-bank), there
are only two country roads, one of them crossing the Esk
at Langholm, and leading uo into Eskdale N. W. and the 
other leading S. E. by a bridge over the Tarrass into Ca-
nonbie, &c.  Both of them were repaired, and are kept in
repair from the assessment appointed by act of Parliament
to be levied in lieu of the statute-labour. Another is to be 

<FOOTNOTE>

*The castle of Barntalloch, near Staplegordon, and the towers of Ir-
vine, Nease, Hill, and Cawfield as, also the vestiges of other three in
Halfmorton, are now only known, as having once been.  In less happy
times, "in the days of other years, " when every man's hand was lifted up 
against his brother, such strong holds were often the lurking places of the
tyrant, the oppressor, and the assassin, from whence they could fully forth
upon the weak and the innocent, and to which, after having perpetrated
their borrid cruelties, they could retreat with impunity.  To these, hap-
pier days have now succeeded, when instead of having our lives and pro-
perties at the mercy of such barbarons russians as then insested the sou-
thern borders, we can now, under the protection of a mild and equitable
Government, live in the secure enjoyment of both.  To a contemplative
mind, it cannot fail to excite the most pleafing and grateful sensations,
that the reign of such lawless and formidable freebooters, whose rapine 
and cruelties in the days of anrchy, of injustice, and oppression, infused
terror into this and all the boarder districts, is now over; and that (in
the beautiful language of inspiration) each of us can now "sit under our 
vine and under our sig-tree, and none can make us afraid;" that we are
now enjoying many valuable blessings; blessings to which our forefathers,
who lived in less happy times, were utter strangers.  


