
244                       STIRLINGSHIRE.


sented by the late Miss Lennox of Woodhead, and a very sonorous
bell. A very magnificent set of communion vessels was presented,
at the opening of the new church, by James Denistoun, Esq.,
merchant, Glasgow, a native of this parish, and a man truly il-
lustrious, if generosity entitles any one to be so esteemed. His
liberalities were almost innumerable, and were not more distin-
guished for their magnificence, than for the judgment and delicacy
with which they were conferred.
   By far the noblest building in this parish, or indeed in this part
of the country, is Lennox Castle, the seat of John L. Kincaid
Lennox, Esq., who is proprietor of nearly half the land in the pa-
rish. This magnificent mansion, which is situated on the brow
of the South Brae, near the position of the old house of Wood-
head, was commenced in 1837, and is now (May 1841), just
finished. The character of this building, which is in the boldest
style of the old Norman architecture, from a design by Mr David
Hamilton of Glasgow, harmonizes well witb its lofty and pictu-
resque situation, nearly 500 feet above the level of the adjoining
valley, and with the bold and striking scenery around. Nearly
opposite Lennox Castle, on the other side of the valley, stands
in a snug sheltered situation, the House of Craigbarnet, more ce-
lebrated for its hospitality than for its architectural pretensions;
and a mile further eastwards, in a very beautiful situation, at the
embouchure of the Kirkton Glen, is the House of Bancleroche,
or Kirkton, as it was till lately called. The other principal man-
sion-houses in the parish are, Kincaid and Antermony, both the
property of Mr Lennox; Glorat House, the situation of which    S
is striking, though not very accessible; and Anchinreoch, at pre-
sent occupied by the tenant on the farm.
   Historical Events.--If those times and places which are the
best to read of are the worst to live in, the inhabitants of this pa-
rish must be held to have been fortunate beyond the ordinary lot
of mankind, there being almost no events connected with it which
can be called historical; and the names of its past or present in-
habitants, that are most known, or are likely to be long remem-
bered without its bounds, are those of Mr Bell of Antermony, the
traveller. Mr Charles Mackintosh of Campsie, the inventor of
the celebrated waterproof cloth, which bears his name; and Mr
James Bell, the author of several important geographical works,
who spent his last years in this parish, and a short account of
whom will be found below, kindly furnished me by a member of
			       4


