
176                          AYRSHIRE.

at the distance of 7 1/2 miles from Monkton, and 8 1/2 from Prest-
wick.
	Villaqes.--The villages in the parish are three, Monkton, Prest-
wick and Prestwick Toll, with populations respectively of 376, 758,
and 327.
        Means of Communication.--The post-town is Ayr. The parish
is intersected, 1st, by the great road from Port-Patrick and Ayr
to Kilmarnock and Glasgow--length of this road within the pa-
rish 3 1/2 miles: 2d, from Ayr to Irvine and Saltcoats, &c.--length
of which within the parish is 3 1/2 miles: 3d, from Mauchline and
Tarbolton to Irvine, &c.--length of which within the parish is 3 1/2
miles: 4th, from Cumnock, and Coylton, and St Quivox, to Irvine,
&c.--length of which within the parish is 2 1/4 miles. The turn-
pike roads all intersect each other at the same point, in the village
of Monkton.
	Besides the mail-coach, six public coaches pass through Monk-
ton and Prestwick every day, three early in the morning from Ayr,
two of them to Glasgow, and the other to Edinburgh; and three
in the afternoon to Ayr, one of them from Edinburgh, and the
other two from Glasgow. Besides these, a regular diligence leaves
Kilmarnock for Ayr in the morning, and returns in the afternoon,
and another, three times a-week, leaves Irvine for Ayr in the morn-
ing, and returns in the afternoon.
	Ecclesiastical State.-The union of the two parishes has been
completed by the competent legal process before the Court of
Teinds, and presbytery of Ayr. These courts, by decreet dated
4th June 1834, granting authority for the suppression of the two
old churches, and for the erection, on an intermediate situation, of
one new church, sufficient to accommodate the united parish. A
very handsome new church, accordingly, has been built on a com-
manding situation, adjacent to the Pow-bridge, and calculated to
contain 825 sitters, that number being exactly two-thirds of the
examinable person in the parish. It reflects the highest credit
on the architect, David Bryce, Esq. Edinburgh, and forms one of
the most striking objects in the surrounding landscape, and one
of the handsomest churches in the west of Scotland. Including
the purchase of ground, gates and surrounding walls, &c. &c., it
cost about L. 2500, and was opened for public worship on the
14th of the May 1837.
	The manse was built in 1822. The glebe, including the gar,
den and the ground occupied by the manse and offices, is about 8
				3


