
                            CABRACH.                         197

   mer building. The place is a small haugh, about three acres in.
   extent, bounded on the north by a steep and rocky bank, upwards
   of 100 feet in perpendicular height. At the upper part, the
   Blackwater enters by a narrow passage through a rock, and runs
   through a deep and rapid channel, having on the south a pre-
   cipitous bank of more than thirty feet, r'isidg into a high and steep
   hill at the lower end.  Altogether, if inaccessibility and conceal-
   ment bad been the objects of choice, a securer den could scarce-
   ly have been selected.  There is on the west side of the eminence
   into which the north bank rises, a deep excavation into the rock of
   from twenty to thirty paces in length. There are, also, some re-
   mains of a ebapel and burial-ground on the north bank of the Do-
   veran, near Lesmurdie.
      Parochial Registers.-The oldest register extant begins in 1711,
   and contains registrations of baptisms and marriages, accounts of
   collections for the poor, and distributions, intermixed with the mi-
   nutes of the kirk-session at intervals, till 1747; from which time,
   separate registers of baptisms, marriages, and matters relating to
   the poor's funds have been kept.  The first is rather defective,
   owing to the negligence of parents; the other two are full and com-
   plete.
      Land-owners. -There are three heritors, viz. the Duke of
   Richmond, the valuation of whose lands is L.843, 5s. 2d.; Cap-
   tain James Stewart of Lesinurdie, L.283; William James
   Grant of Baldorney, L.150.  They are non-resident; but the
   Duke of Richmond has a shooting-lodge at Blackwater, in his
   deer forest of that name, about four or five miles northwest
   from the church, and Captain Stewart another at Lesmurdie
   Cottage, about an equal distance north from it.
                           III.-POPULATION.
      As there is neither town nor village in the parish, the whole po-
   pulation is rural: and in 1831, there were in Aberdeenshire, 412;
   in Banffsbire, 566; total, 978; in 1841, 827.
      Number of illegitimate births in the parish within the last three
   years, 8.
                           IV.-INDUSTRY.
      Several years have elapsed since any survey of the two principal
   properties has been made; and during that time, considerable alte-
   rations have taken place in the extent of lands under tillage. The ge-
   neral character of the parish is wild and mountainous; and there is a
   great extent of peat mosses, the remains of the extensive woods with


