
                          PARISH OF CLUNIE.

           PRESBYTERY OF DUNKELD, SYNOD OF PERTH AND STIRLING.

                 THE REV.  GEORGE MILLAR, MINISTER.

             I.-TOPOGRAPY-AND NATVRAL HISTORY.
     Extent,&c.-THE parish lies in the district of Stormont, and
extends about 9 miles in length and 4 in breadth.  It is bounded
by a section of the parish of Blairgowrie on the north; the united
parishes of Lethendy and Kinloch, on the east; and the parish of
Caputh, on the south and west.
     Topographical Appearances.-The parish is supposed to con-
tain upwards of 8000 acres, and exhibits great variety of climate,
surface, scenery, and soil.  The arable parts comprehend, pro-
bably, about from 2000 to 3000 acres.  The soil, though light
and gravelly in many parts, affords good crops of oats, barley, and
wheat, equal to any in the neighbourhood. Upon the estates of
several proprietors in the parish much has been done in planting.
Hundreds of acres, not many years ago covered with heath, furze,
broom, and brushwood, are now crowned with beautiful thriving
plantations of fir and larch.
     Benachally, the highest mountain in the parish, commands a
most extensive and varied prospect At the foot of Benacbally
is a loch of the same name, about one mile in length and a-half-
mile in breadth.

                     II.-CIVIL HHIORY.
     Four miles to the south is the Loch of Clunie, having a beautiful
little island, on which stands an old castle belonging to the Earl of
Airly.  On the island is the siteof an old chapel.  There are the re-
mains of three others yet visible in different parts of the parish.  The
loch of Clunie is from two to three miles in circumference, and
abounds with trout, perbh, and pike.  Its greatest depth is about
seventy,four feet.  The castle on the island is said to have been
the birthplace of the Admirable Crichton.  On the west side of the
loch stands the old Castle Hill, a large green mound, on the top of
which are the ruins of an old building, said to have been the sum-


