
                                  MUTHILL.                        331

     much more comfortable and healthy.  As to the success of the pa-
     rish school, we have only to remark, that frequently young men have
     gone from it to college, where they have been highly approved of
     both as to their scholarship and good behaviour.  Three of the
     other schools are partly endowed by Lady Willoughby.  The
     other four have no endowment, which is a matter of regret, as no
     teacher of abilities will accept of them, or if he do, his stay will
     be but short.  The number of scholars instructed in all these, an-
     nually, as found at their examinations, has been about 400.  We
     have also about 200 attending the Sabbath schools, a part of edu-
     cation truly important and useful.
      Libraries.-There is one supported by subscription in the vil-
     lage; also in the reading-room furnished by the Right Honour-
     able Lord Willoughby de Eresby, besides a sufficient supply of
     Scotch and English newspapers, there is a collection of books
     on agricultural pursuits for the farmers; but the most valuable
     library in this quarter is that of Innerpeffary for the use of minis-
     ters and rtudents.  It was left by Lord Madderty, with a small
     salary for the librarian, which, with the fees of a school that he
     teaches in one of the wings of the building, afford him a small
     living. In the library, there are many rare and excellent books,
     especially on divinity.

        ARDOCH.-Statistics of Ardoch quoad sacra.-The perambu-
     lated hounds of the Chapel district (now a parish quoad sacra)
     extend into the parishes of Dunblane and Blackford, and are as fol-
     lows: To Glenlichhorn and Green Scores on the west; Muir.
     houses, Cameron hills, and Redford on the north; Rahallach,
     Read and Butter Gask, on the east; and Middle Cambuscheny
     and Toddleburn, on the soutb.
        The church was built in 1780, and styled by the constitution
     "the Chapel of Ease at Ardoch." A very thriving village is now
     rising up beside it, named Braco village, from the circumstance
     that it consists of feus on the estate of Braco. But we confess
     that we should have preferred the name Ardoch.
        Under the fostering and faithful care of the Reverend Messrs
     Simpson, Logan, Millar, Young, M'Farlane, and Laird, the
     members of the congregation have so increased, that there are
     as many communicants who attend the dispensation of the sa-
     crament, as there are seats, in the church.  About a mile and a
     half south from the church of Ardoch, there is a handful of the
     United Secession, who have a meeting-house or church. A Mr


