
     of Kirkaldy.

drawn from this parish for one year will amount to
L. 4814: 18: 3; which is nearly in the proportion of
L. 1: 16, for every person, man, woman, and child in the
parish*.

   Ecclesiastical State.-The ecclesiastical establishment of
this parish has, through the low state of the burgh funds,
suffered a temporary reduction.  In 1614, the date of the
oldest ecclesiastical record, the church appears to have been
collegiate; the duty of it having been conducted by two mi-
nisters, exercising equal powers, and having nearly an equal
provision+.  At that time the stipend of the second minister
was 800 merks, paid the one half by the heritors, the other
by the town council++; while that of the first minister in 1630,
was no more than 480 merks, a chalder of bear, a chalder of
oats, and 4 bolls of wheat^.  Both charges continued to be
regularly supplied, and both ministers to sit as constituent
members of all the ecclesiastical judicatures^^, till 1759; when
a vacancy happening in the second charge, the minister of the
first undertook to do the duty of the whole parish, on condi-
tion of receiving, together with his own stipend, the half of

<FOOTNOTE>

*Of the articles which pay duty in this parish, a great proportion is con-
sumed out of it.  This, however, may be considered as balanced by other
articles consumed in the parish, which pay duty, but of which the duty is
either not paid in the parish, or not included in the above statement.  Articles
of the first kind, are tea, coffee, sugar, rum, potter, vinegar, home-made
spirits. tobacco, glass, paper, silk, printed cloth, fail-cloth and cordage,
soap, starch, pins, newspapers and almanacks, cards, and dice, etc.  Articles
of the last kind, are, salt, hats, drugs, perfumery, etc.
+Session records, passim.
++ The amount of the stipend and the mode of payment, is written on
leas at the beginning of the oldest volume of the Session records.
^This is recorded in a volume of the Presbytery records of the above date.
|| Records of Presbytery, Synod, and General Assembly,


