
92                  STIRLINGSHIRE.

are numerous in Buchanan grounds, where they are strictly pre-
served. It may be observed, that the' ground under crop bears a
very small proportion to that in pasture, and that the depredations
of wild animals are severely felt by corn-farmers.
   Wood.--Though the woods in the parish, both natural. and plant.
ed, are of great extent, there is no tree of remarkable size. There
are many oaks from 10 to 13 feet in circumference. One near Bu-
chanan House, at the height of five feet from the ground, is 14 feet
in circumference, and contains 200 feet of timber. Another oak
is 18 feet in girth near the surface, but immediately branches out
into five stems, called the Five Sister of Buchanan. These trees
are supposed to be 300 years old.

		    II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Family of Buchanan.--" The History of the Family and Sur-
name of Buchanan," by Buchanan of Auchmar, contains the only
ancient- account of the parish. The founder of the family was
Anselan, a native of Ireland, who is said to have arrived in the
eleventh century. His descendants originally bore the name of
M,Aslan, a corruption of Anselan, and were chamberlains to the
Earls of Lennox. At an early period, they obtained a grant of
part of the lands of Buchanan, which afterwards became the fami-
ly name. In 1225, they received from Malduin, Earl of Lennox,
a charter for Clarinch, an islet in Lochlomond, which was adopt-
ed as the war-cry of the clan. In 1296, " Malcolm de Bough-
canian" appears in the list of proprietors of Stirlingshire * who
swore fealty to Edward I. of England. In 1482, a younger son
founded the hocise of Druinnabill, from which sprung, in 1506,
the celebrated George Buchanan. In 1519, " Walterus Buc-
quhanan de eodem" conveyed to his son, Walter, the lands of
Spittal. + In 1682, the direct line of male succession became ex-
tinct; and, in the absence of other, competitors, the late  Dr H.
Buchanan of Spittal and Lenny, claimed, in 1826, to be chief of
the family. The Buchanans are  a numerous clan in the Lennox
and adjacent counties. Besides the M,Aslans already mention-
ed, they recognize as clansmen some other branches whose names
are common in this district, particularly the Zuils and the Risks,
--originally soubriquets of individuals, but afterwards surnames of
their descendants. The one was so called from the day of his
birth, Yule, (Christmas) the other from the place of his resi-

<FOOTNOTE>Nimmo's History of Stirlingshire, Appendix, No.3.
          Claim by Francis H. Buchanan, M. D. 1826.


