			TANNADICE.                       201

1300. At the former of these periods, there were many small
holdings in Glenquiech, and more particularly in Glen Ogle, the
dwellings on which have been demolished, their patches of plough-
ed land and gardens converted into pasture, and the whole let as
sheep-farms. From these circumstances the decrease of popula-
tion may be easily and satisfactorily accounted for. By the cen-
sus of 1831, the population was 1560. This increase may be ac-
counted for from several feus having been granted, and good houses
erected on them, and from a number of new houses having been
built by one proprietor, in the village. The spinning and plash-
mills have also tended to increase the population.
The number of families in the parish is                             294
	   of families chiefly employed in agriculture,             120
			in trade, manufactures, or handicraft,       72
	Nine licensed ale and whisky-houses, spinning and plash-mills,
bothies, and a heckling-house, contribute nothing to improve the
morals of the population. Nevertheless, the people are generally
moral in their bonduct, and regular in attending public worship.
			IV.--INDUSTRY.
	Agriculture.--There are 106 holdings of land in the parish di-
rect from the proprietors; but of these more than a half are under
forty acres; some of them not exceeding four or five. The re-
mainder are divided into farms, extending from 100 to 400 acres
of arable land, the greater part of which are enclosed with dikes of
reddish sandstone. The soil is so various that the produce may
be calculated at from three to four times as many bolls per Scot-
tish acre.
	Rent of Land.--The maximum of rent is about L.3, 10s. per
Scottish acre.
	Husbandry.--Alternate husbandry is universal. The rotation
varies from four to seven years; and small slight two-horse ploughs,
some of them of iron, and more of them of wood, are exclusively
used. On almost every farm, and indeed on several pendicles, the
grain is separated from the straw by mills driven by water or horse.
The offices and farm-houses are constructed of stone and lime, and
covered with slate, and all of them are comfortable and commo-
dious.
	The hills or lower part of the Grampians, comprehending up-
wards of two-thirds of the surface of the parish, are pastured by
about 2400 sheep, which, when lambs, were brought from Lin-
ton at nearly double the price which they would have cost four
years ago. During the twn nr three years they are kept, they yield


