
                              LONMAY.                         215

dustry.  At the time the last Statistical Account was written, the
number of the poor on the roll was 30, and the fund at interest
for their behoof was only L.120; the number is now on an ave-
rage 56, but the funds bearing interest amount to L.800.  At
that period there was only one thrashing-machine in the parish,
now there is scarcely a farm, or at least very few, without one.
In short, the extension of cultivation, and an improved mode of
husbandry-the formation of the turnpike road-the planting of
trees-the erection of a new and commodious school-house-the
practice lately introduced of exporting cattle-and the institution
of Sabbath schools, of a library, and savings' bank-may be referred
to as indicative of very important alterations.

   Drawn up February 1837,-Revised January 1840.

                         PARISH OF LONMAY.

               PRESBYTERY OF DEER, SYNOD OF ABERDEEN.

                 THE REV. CHARLES GIBBON, MINISTER.

             I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
     Name.-THE name of the parish, from the oldest records, ap-
pears to have been Lonmey, *-an appellation, it is presumed, of
Celtic etymology, and, perhaps, descriptive of the flat super-
ficial character of the parish, and more especially of its northern
half, where the church has always been situated.
   Extent, &c.-It extends about 9 1/2 miles from north north-east
to south by west;  its breadth varies from 3 1/2 miles to half a mile;
its superficial contents amount at least, to 23 square miles.  It is
botinded on the east and north-east, by the German Ocean (which
begins here to trend westward, forming the great estuary of the
Moray Frith) ; a streamlet divides the parish on the east north-
east from Rathen, with which it is also conterminous on the
north and north-west and west ; on the west also, and west-
south-west, lies the parish of Strichen (misprinted Brechin in
the last Statistical Account).  On the south-west and south are

<FOOTNOTE>See Inventory, dated 7th July 1559, Keith's Catalogue of Bishops, p. 74, 4to
edition.  It is also found written Longmey in the kirk-session record, beginning
anno 1709.  Lonmay was a parsonage.


