
   140                        BANFFSHIRE.

   in Inverness-shire dependent on it. The church, which was built
   in 1806, is in good repair, but very inconveniently situated on the
   Spey boundaries of the parish. Intended for the accommodation
   of the Protestants in Glenlivet, as well as the ordinary congrega-
   tion at the communion, it is seated for 550, and may contain about
   600, being only about 150 less than the whole population of the
   parish church district. A good many seats being in consequence
   empty, on ordinary occasions, strangers may be led to suppose that
   the people frequent other places of worship; but this is by no
   means the case, there being scarcely ten in the lower district who
   are not in the habit of attending the parish church. There is
   no chapel of ease in the parish, but a mission on the Royal boun-
   ty has been in operation in Glenlivet for upwards of 100 years.
   At Achbreck, a distance of about nine miles, there is a substantial
   but rather confined chapel, rebuilt in 1825, at the joint expense
   of the heritors and the people, where the missionary usually
   preaches; but once in six weeks, he goes to Achnara, in the Braes,
   to officiate on Sundays. In the parish church, the seats which are
   undivided, are all free. In the chapel at Achbreck, a very few seats
   are let, by such as have more room than their families require; but
   the great proportion there are free also. In accordance with the
   practice in the presbytery, the people in the church district and
   the Protestants in Glenlivet, are cathechised twice a year--once in
   summer, preparatory to the communion, and again in autumn or
   spring. At the parish church, the  are 237 communicants, at
   Achbreck also 237. Since the grant was obtained,for dispensing
   the sacrament of the Lord's supper at Achbreck, the Protestants in
   Glenlivet have given up attending that ordinance in the parish
   church. 
      In Glenlivet, where about three-fifths of the people are of the
   Roman Catholic persuasion, there are two Roman Catholic cha-
   pels,--the one at Tombia, pretty far up the glen,--the other at
   Chapelton, in the Braes of Glenlivet. The former is a large
   building capable of containing from 800 to 1000 persons,--but on-
   ly partly finished: the latter contains about 300.
      The manse, which was built in 1775, received a handsome and
   commodious addition in 1834, and is now one of the best in the
   country. It is situated within a few yards of the church. The
   glebe consists of only about 4 acres of arable land, and pasture
   grass scarcely sufficient for the summer keep of one eow. The sti-


