
			GLASSERTON.   		    	     49

now the population is small, and must have been much smaller in
those times, when it was frequented as a place of worship. It is
still used as burial ground by some of the told residenters in this
parish; and Sir William Maxwell's family, though not residing in
the parish, have their burial-place within the walls of the old
church of Kirkmaiden.
	The attendance on public worship in this parish is regular,
notwithstandig of many disadvantages, such as the length of the
parish, the church not being in the centre. Besides, there is
no village near it, and the population in the neighbourhood is
small, as the greater part of Glasserton estate is in pasture ground.
A very handsome house and stable has been built by Mr Stewart
of Physgill, at the church gate, entirely for the accommodation
of the parish,--which certainly has removed many of the inconve-
niences to which allude. More accommodation at times would,
no doubt, be desirable.
	The manse was built in 1818, is commodious, substanial, and
in good repair. The glebe contains about 15 Scotch acres, and
might, perhaps, be valued at L. 20 a-year. The minister's stipend
averages about L. 190. The original valuation being mostly in
money, it is subject to no great variation. The tends are ex-
hausted by the present stipend.
	Dissenters have changed their tactics very much lately. In
my younger days, they were proud to be considered, or rather to
consider themselves, the chosen few. Now, there is no possibility
of satisfying them with numbers. They are determined to be con-
sidered as the many, and that distinction, which they were for-
merly so proud of, they are now extremely desirous should be
conferred upon the Established Church. And as I should be
sorry to disturb them, even in their dreams, I shall refrain from
saying how few they are, though truth will not permit me to say
that they are many  But, what is far more to the purpose, the
Dissenting families which are old residenters in the parish are
both prudent and respectable; they maintain their own opinions,
and worship God according to the dictates of their own conscience,
without giving the least offence to any of their neighbours. We
have no voluntaries, at least as far a I know; but it is really dif-
ficult to speak with precision, from the fact of the farm-servants,
bound-workers, and day-labourers being in a state of continual
fluctuation; they change from parish to parish so frequently, that
	WIGTON.			    D







