
			KILMARNOCK.                           553

the inhabitants of Kilmarnock, to Thomas Morton of Morton
Place, a mechanic, whose inventive genius, has eminently contri-
buted to the prosperity of their manufactures, 1826"

                           V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
         Market-Town.-Kilmarnock is the only market-town in the pa-
rish. There are two or three small villages between the town and the
eastern boundary of the parish; and several occupied by the colliers
to the west. The market-days in Kilmarnock are Tuesday and
Friday, when much business is transacted between the agricultural
and manufacturing population, to their mutual advantage.
         Police.-The police establishment, though not extensive, is kept
by the commissioners of police in vigorous operation, and is very
efficient. There is perhaps no town of the same size in Britain,
where the persons and property of the inhabitants are more secure
than they are in Kilmarnock.
         Means of Communication.-These are ample and sufficient for
all the purposes of commerce, and external communication. There
is one post-office, which yields a considerable revenue. This has
increased of course with the trade of the town. The chief of the
turnpike roads is the great thorough fare between Glasgow and Port-
patrick, which passes through the parish, where its breadth from north
to south may be about three and a-half or four miles,-and through
the town, where its length may be about one mile and a quarter.
Four coaches ply daily between Kilmarnock and Glasgow, one
between Kilmarnock, Irvine, and Ardrossan, and one between
Kilmarnock and Edinburgh, by Loudon and Strathaven. There
are two or three turnpike roads which intersect the landward parish
in different directions, of no great extent, but which are all kept in
good repair.
         Bridges.-There are five bridges over the water of Kilmarnock
within the town, all in excellent repair. And two over the Irvine,
between Kilmarnock and Riccarton, in the same condition.
	The roads in the parish are commodious, and kept in excellent
repair, and there have been many improvements, especially of
late, effected upon them, which render them equal probably to any
in Great Britain. The old streets of the town are narrow and
inconvenient, but all the modern thoroughfares are spacious and
handsome. No town possesses more ample means of communica-
tion with the surrounding country. The intercourse with Glasgow, in
Particular, is very frequent, and the rapidly increasing number of
carriers is a sure indication that trading is on increase. It is


