
			       DALZIEL.                    449

willow herb; Trollius Europaus, globe flower; Serapias latifolia,
broad-leaved helleborine, &c.
			II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Family of Dalzell.--The Dalzells, the ancestors of the Earl of
Carnwath, are the most remote proprietors of whom any thing is
known. The precise time when they acquired the barony of Dal-
ziel, which was sometimes possessed by one member of the fami-
ly, and at other times shared by two or more of them, has not
been ascertained. If the origin and meaning of their name, as
given in heraldry, be correct, it is not improbable, that a grant of
the lands of Dalziel may have formed a part of the reward, be-
stowed by King Kenneth, for the rescue of the body of his kins-
man,--wbich will fix the date of their possession to have been
in the ninth century. The earliest certain information we have
respecting the family is in the thirteenth century. From this
date, the Dalzells seem to have been knighted, either by royal au-
thority or by courtesy. In 1365, Sir Robert Dalzell, who faithfully
adhered to King David Bruce during his captivity in England,
obtained a grant of the barony of Selkirk. But it appears he,
afterwards incurred the displeasure of his sovereign. William
Hamilton, Esq. of Wishaw, who wrote an account of the sheriff.
dom of Lanark in 1702, and whose authority as an antiquarian is
unquestionable, states that the parish and barony did anciently be-
long to the Dalzells of that ilk, until the forfeiture of Sir Ro-
bert Dalzell, in the time of King David Bruce, for abiding in
England without the King's consent. The estate was then given to
Sir--Sandilands, (others say the name was Fleming.)* By the
marriage of his grandchild to the heir-male of Sir Robert Dal-
zell, the estate returned to the family, and continued in their sole,
possesion, until the death of a proprietor leaving two daughters.
The eldest narried the nearest heir of the family; and the young-
est, a son of the Laird of West Nisbet. To distinguish the lat-
ter, from the former, he was commonly called Baron Nisbet of Dal-
zell, and his share of the property, Dalzell Nisbet. The spot
where his house stood is still pointed out, and the adjoining orchard
retains the name of the Baron's Yaird. In 1628, Sir, Robert Dal-
zell having been made Lord Dalzell by Charles I. he purchased
from Baron Nisbet his share of the estate. The burying-place
of the family seems to have been in the east end of the area of
the old church. Upon a grave-stone found there, which the late

<FOOTNOTE>There is a place in the parish still called Flemington.


