
			     MORTON.                       95

loway, as a dowry. In 1390, William Douglas of Nithsdale, his
country being at peace, and he not willing to languish in indolence at
home, set out to Prussia to the Holy war, and was assassinated at
Dantzic, on the Vistula, by assassins hired by Clifford, an English-
man, formerly his rival, and now envious of his honour and pro-
motion. Ever since this period, the castle and lands of Morton
have been in the possession of one or other of the family of Douglas.*
	Antiquities.--Of these the old castle, with its appendages of for-
tification and means of defence, is most worthy of notice. Though
not more than one-half of the original structure now exists, it is, not-
withstanding, the most perfect ruin of the kind in this part of the
country. Situated on the brink of a deep glen, extending to a
considerable distance south-east and north-west, and in which the
water being stopt by large dams, and strong embankments at each
extremity, must have collected to the depth of several fathoms,--
the place must have been proof against assault or surprise on this
side. The present remains extend to upwards of 100 feet in length,
by nearly 30 in width; but, to judge from the vestiges of the foun-
dation, the Castle must have occupied, when entire, a much larger
space. The wall of the south front is yet entire; from the foun-
dation, it is about 40 feet high; and on the top, at each corner, it
has a large round tower about 12 feet in diameter. The walls at
the foundation are about 8, in some places 10, feet thick.
	At a short distance north-west of the castle, and on the other side
of the glen, are the remains of a strong fortification, with entrench-
ments, which seem to have been a Roman fort or castellum, still
called by the name of Deer Camp; it is about two miles north of
Tibbers, Tiberii Castra,--the great Roman station in the parish
of Penpont, a station well chosen to watch and guard against in-

<FOOTNOTE>This parish gives the title of Earl to Douglas Earl of Morton. Morton Castle,
it is said, was at one time his place of residence. He was proprietor of the whole
parish, with the exception of the Mains of Morton, lying north-west of the castle,
which belonged to James Douglas, laird of Morton, whose son, Malcolm Douglas
of Mains, was distinguished for bravery in the border history. The last of this fa-
mily was Captain James Douglas, who died at Bratford, in the parish of Penpont,
about the beginning of last century. The Earl of Morton, who possessed large
estates and castles in different part of the country, sold his whole property and
interest in this parish to Sir William Douglas Cashoggle, who erected a house a
little south of Thornhill, called the Red-House, where he sometimes resided; but
the Earl of Queensberry having obtained from Cashoggle all his lands, as well as
the lands of Morton Mains from the other family, and being lord of the regality of
Hawick, he obtained authority to translate that regality to Thornhill in 1610, and
called it New Dalgarnoch.


