
     of Keith-Hall and Kinkell.

are from one third to one half dearer, and articles of luxury
more than double, within these 40 years*.
                                                   
<FOOTNOTE>

*If we inquire into the proportion, between the present and
ancient prices of both the necessaries and luxuries of life, the in-
quiry is involved in many intricacies, which, perhaps, no one writ-
ter has sufficiently attended to.  We ought not only to distinguish 
between the quantity of silver in a nominal pound, from the time
that a pound of silver was a real pound weight, down to the time
when it was reduced, in Scotland, to less than the value of one
third-part of an ounce of silver, or 1/4B part of its original weight,
but we must also consider, how much of pure silver, and how much
alloy, were in a pound of coined silver, at different periods.  Then
we have to consider, how far this money went, in purchasing
articles of luxury, and how far in purchasing the accessories of life.
It farther deserves to be considered, that, since the disciovery of
America, the value of gold and silver, as articles of commerce, has
fallen, it is supposed, one third part; and that this fall is indepen-
dent of every other cause, except the increased quantity of these
metals.
   After these remarks, made with a view of preventing mistakes,
both in giving and receiving the accounts of the price of provisions
in Scotland, the following selection of articles is submitted.  In
1438, oat meal fold in Aberdeen at 4 s Scots per boll.  The
pound Scots at that time, was equal to L. 1: 13 Sterving if the
silver had the quantity of alloy, which coined silver has at
present.  The boll of meal, therefore, was above 6 s and 9 d Sterling.
But on account of the great quantity of alloy, it would not much
exceed 5 s.  Yet at that period, this certainly was a high price for oat
meal.  Wheat cost 7 s Scots or 11 s 6 d Sterling per boll.  In 1576,
the conversion for the Bishop of Aberdeen's rents when not paid
in kind, was L. 1 Scots for wheat, worth at that time only 3 s
Sterling, from Scottish money being so much changed in its value.
     VOL. II. 3 Y


