
                            ERSKINE.                         521

  The public road from Glasgow to Greenock passes through the
whole length of the parish, and there are other parish roads kept
in good repair by the statute labour trust, which lead to Inchin-
nan, Houston, and Kilmalcolm. The communication with Glas-
gow and Greenock is now carried on chiefly by the steam-boats,
which put out and take in passengers at Erskine Ferry, every half
hour, in their passage up and down the river, and no week passes
without some of the farmers taking advantage of this mode
of conveyance on their way to market. The steam-boats have
long since put an end to posting and running of coaches between
Glargow and Greenock, and in all probability they will in a, great
measure be superseded in their turn by the Glasgow, Greenock, and
Paisley Railway. The determination lately come to by the directors
of that Railway to prevent all travelling along it on Sabbath, is such
as warmly to recommend it to the patronage of all connected with
this parish, which, from its beauty, and its vicinity to Glasgow
and Paisley, would, but for that determination, have been overrun
every Sabbath with visitors little likely to improve either the tem-
poral or spiritual interests of the people. *
  There are two ferries in the parish, both belonging to Lord
Blantyre; the one called Erskine Ferry forms the mean of com-
munication with the parish and village of Old Kilpatrick; the one
called the West Ferry, affords a communication with the castle
and town of Dumbarton. The former is tinder the management
of an excellent and careful tenant, and the inn connected with it
has, from its neatness and comfort, become a favourite resort for
dinner parties from Glasgow. At present, this is the lowest ferry
on the river at which carriages and horses can cross from Ren-
frewshire to Dumbartonshire and the Western Highlands, and, on
that account, there is always a considerable traffic going on.
The following is a table of the freights charged :--A four wheeled
chaise, with two horses, 2s. 6d.; a gig, with one horse, 1s. 6d.;
a cart going and returning with one load, 1s. 2d.; a horse 4d.;
a cow, 2d.; shoes per score, 1s.; passengers crossing, 1d.; pas-
sengers going on board steamers, 2d. The West Ferry has hitherto
been ill kept and little used; but the Glasgow and Greenock Railway
Company have recently been empowered to purchase it from Lord,
Blantyre, and have got an act, of Parliament for erecting quays and
other works, in order to make a coumunication with Dumbarton, the,

<FOOTNOTE>The rates for luggage on the Railway are so Moderate, that the farmers now ge-
nerally prefer it to any other mode of conveyance for heavy goods. 1842.


