
			ARBUTHNOTT.                             157

Having taken the degree of licentiate, he returned to Scotland in
1566, with the intention of following his profession in his native
country; but, finding the principles of the Reformation prevalent,
he became a zealous supporter of them; and having given up the
study of law for that of theology, be was appointed minister of
Arbuthnott in 1567 *  His abilities soon brought him into notice;
and in 1568, being a member of the General Assembly, he was
appointed by his brethren to examine a work, entitled, "The Fall
of the Roman Church," which had been objected tn, because in
it the King was skyled "The Head of the Church." The result
of his examination was, an order to Bassandyne, the printer, to call
in all the copies that had been issued, and to sell no more until he
had not only expunged the objectionable passage from that work,
but also removed a profane song which he had printed at the end
of an edition of the book of Psalms; and that for the future be
should not print any book whatever without the license of the su-
preme magistrate, nor any book connected with religion, until it had
been revised by the Assembly's commission. In 1569 he was ap-
pointed Principal of the University of Aberdeen, in place of Mr
Alexander Anderson, who, with the sub-principal and three regents,
had been ejected by John Erskine (of Dun) superintendent of
Angus (and Mearns) for their adherence to Popery, and refusal to
subscribe the Confession of Faith. In 1572 he was a member of
the General Assembly held at St Andrews, in which the scheme
of the Regent Morton and his party to restore the old titles of the
church, and retain the temporalities among themselves by means
of titular incumbents, was strenuously opposed. In the Assem-
blies held at Edinburgh in 1573, 1577, 1578, Principal Arbuth-
nott was moderator; and be appears to have been constantly em-
ployed on the part of the church, in the commisshon for conferring
with the regency respecting the form of church government to he
adopted in Scotland. The leading part which he took in this
matter gave umbrage to James VL, and the offence was increase-
ed in 1582 by his superintending the publication of Buebanan's
History of Scotland. In the course of that same year, Principal
Arbuthnott was ordered, by an act of Assembly, to be removed
from Aberdeen to St Andrews; but the King, suspecting the ob-

<FOOTNOTE>It is not known in what year he was appointed minister of Logie-Buchan. But
he certainly held the livings of Arbuthnott and Logie-Buchan at the same time.
Hence it would appear that even in these times, which are often referred so me the
pure and palmy days of the church, pluralities were not unknown.


