
112                      EDINBURGHSHIRE.

to decay, while the hard-wood, especially ash and elm, continues
to thrive. There are two pretty large yew trees in the parish,-
the one in Woodhall garden, and the other at the manse. In
Redhall grounds, there are two or three white acacias, as large
as forest trees. At Colinton House are several cedars; the seed
from which they were raised is said to have been sent here from
the East, when Mr Drummond was Consul at Aleppo. There
are also very lofty holly hedges around the gardens connected with
the old House of Colinton. There were similar hedges running
across the centre of Hailes garden, which have been lately cut
down to the height of ten or twelve feet, for the sake of the garden.
			II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Historical Notices.-On the barony of Redhall, and not far
from the site of the present house, there once stood a castle which
was used as a place of strength, and which proved to have been
so in former times. Of this house it is stated, that, in 1572, it
was, with other places about Edinburgh, garrisoned "by the Re-
gent Marr, and the King's favourers."-(Pollock's MSS. Life of
Napier of Merchiston.)  In 1650, this castle endured a regular
siege from Cromwell's army, of which the following interesting
account is given by Nicol in his Diary, (Ban. Club.)- "Cromwell
pushed from Berwick to Collingtoune, without opposition, until
be came to the house of Reidhall, within three miles be west Edin-
burgh.  In the whilk house of Reidhall the Laird of Reidhall
with threescore sodgeris, lay with provisions and keepit and, de-
fendit the house aganes the Englishes, and gallit his sodgeris, and
put them back several times, with loss of sindry sodgeris. (Civil
wars of Great Britain and Ireland, say that in Reidhall Lord
Hamilton and Major Hamilton were taken.) The English Gene-
ral taking this very greivously that such a waik house sould hald
out aganes him and be an impediment in his way, he and his airmy
lying so neir unto it, thairfor he causit draw his cannon to the
house, and thair, from four hours in the morning till ten in the foir-
noun that day, he causit the cannon to play on this house, encampit
a great number of his sodgeris about it with a pike and musket, but
all to lytel purpose; for the Laird and the pepil in the house de-
fendit it valiantly ever till their powder failed: and efter it failed,
they did not give over, ever lucking for help from our awin army,
who was then lying at Crosstorfyn, within three-quarters of one
myle of the house: of whas help thai war disappointed.  Ge-
neral Cromwell percaiving their powderto be gone, and that no
				3


