
     Statistical Account

ruins of the Roman fort.  The stone it is built of appears
to be the same with those discovered in the ruins of the
pretorium.  There are evidently many old stones, and many
Roman bricks in the building.  There seems besides to
have been no good reason, for chufing a Situation so distant
from the towns, which have always been the most populous
parts of the parish, had it not been for the conveniency of
using the old materials.  The body of the church is 102
feet long, and only 23 feet wide within the walls; but
there are four aisles, two on each side of the church, that
have been built at different periods, and double rows of
galleries in the ends of the church.  The whole is now in
a ruinous condition, and is truly a disgrace to the parish.
Several attempts have lately been made to have it rebuilt, 
either in its present situation, or on one more commodious,
which have failed.  This state of the church is not only of
no small disadvantage to the poors funds, but to the reli-
gion and morals of the people, as it leaves such a number
of them to be infected with sectarian principles, which,
without laving any thing to the charge of the present in-
cumbents, are at best uncertain.  The situation of the
church is remarkably fine, not only on account of the ex-
tensive view of the country which it commands, though
the hill is not more than 50 feet above the level of the sea,
but likewise as a military station, as was formerly obser-
ved*.  There are two mounts or ramparts, one on the
north side, and another on the east end of the church-yard +,

<FOOTNOTE>

*Oliver Cromwell's cavalry lay there for 6 or 8 weeks, in 1650, while
his foot were encamped on the links of Musselburgh.  The church served
Oliver as a stable for his cavalry.  The place, where his own tent was
erected, is still shewn on Musselburgh links.

+The eastern rampart having been levelled 5 or 6 years ago to extend
the burrying-ground, and a foundation for a monument having been lately


