
504                                 PERTHSHIRE.

mination carried on against all those hapless women who were
suspected of being witches; and the last who fell a victim in this
quarter, is reported to have been one of the name of Catherine
M'Niven, who was burnt at the north-east shntlder of the Cnoc
of Crieff, at a spot which is called "Kate M'Niven's Craig," to
this day. All accounts agree in giving credit to the Laird of
Inchbrakie, for having exerted himself to the utmost to save poor
Kate's life, though his exertions proved in vain. When the flames
were lighted, and her sufferings commenced, she is said to have
uttered various predictions against her enemies,- and, turning
round to Inchbrakie, to have spit a bluish stone out of her mouth,
which she requested him to take and keep, declaring that, so long
as it was preserved in the family, his race would never cease to
thrive. The stone resembles, and is said to be, an uncut sapphire.
It is now set in a gold ring, and is most carefully preserved.
The story of "Inchbrakie's Ring" may not be an unfit companion
to the celebrated Lockart Lee-Penny of the West.
     Modern Buildings, &c.-The parish church is comparatively a
modern building; but there is an additional church in progress,
which is intended to become the parish church of half the present
parish of Crieff, qtoad sacra, and which is likely to be finished in
the course of the present year. It is building by subscription; is cal-
calculted to accommodate about 1000 sitters; and is likely to cost
L.1500 before it is completed. It occupies a commanding situation,
and will be by far the finest object hn Crieff. The ground was
gifted by the Right Hon. Lord and Lady Willioughby de Eresby, in
addition to a very handsome subscription which they made; and the
foundation stone was laid by this nobleman's only son on the 22d
August 1837.
     There is another new church, nearly finished, in connexion
with the United Secession. It is also building by subscription,
and stands on the site of their former place of worship. It is fitted
to accommodate about 500 sitters, and may cost between L.500
and L. 600.
     The Masons' Hall, or St. Michael's Lodge, was erected in the
year 1816 at the expense of the corporation, and at a cost of about
L. 2000. The weavers built their hall in the year 1786, at an
expense of L. 200; and the only other hall in the place is that in
the principal inn. which is sometimes terned the Assembly Room,
though the other two are perhaps more frequently occupied by the
public in this capacity. There are only three mansion-houses in
			      3


