
                          TONGLAND.                              79

its tributaries would have a direct and obvious interest in the pro-
tection of the fry and preservation of the breeding fish;and be-
ing constantly on the spot, could effect these most desirable ob-
jects with much more certainty than can ever be done either by
proprietors or by tacksmen under the existing monopoly. One or
two more hands would be required to work the nets in the lower
part of the river; but the expense thus incurred would be greatly
overbalanced by the profits arising from the increase in the num-
bers of the fish which would almost certainly ensue. At present
the highes proprietors have no interest whatever in the multi-
plication of salmon; they, therefore, see the fry and the breeders
destroyed with indifference, and many of them connive at their de-
struction. *

<FOOTNOTE> The following observations on this subject lately appeared in a Worcester news-
paper. They deserve to be quoted, both for the confirmittion they afford of the fore-
going statements, and the suggestion respecting the best mode of stopping the illegal
practice which they so justly reprobate: "A Gloucester correspondent again calls
our attention to the subject of the preservation of this delicious fish (the salmon.)
We cannot withhold the expression of our regret, after the many reasonable appeals
which have been made by the press respecting this question, that contrabandists and
purchasers of unreasonable fish are yet to be found, in open violation of the Act of
58th Geo. III. Our regret is further increased bv the fact, with which our corre,
spondent has furnished us, that a gentleman, who is a magistrate (I) of this county
and of Gloucestershire, and whose duty in that capacity should have been to enforce
the law, rather than ta encourage its violation, openly purchased antinseasonable fish,
at about 10d. per lb., in order to effect a paltry saving of some 2d. per lb.; this bar-
gain was made on the 18th of October last. We are asked, "who is to be the prose-
cutor in such instances 9 Our answer, is, the conservator, who he or should &c, the
recognized informer, to be author and supported by the county atlarge ; and
where such public officer is not appointed, no time should he lost in selecting one.' In
Scotland, no such functionary as the one mentioned by this writer is known; and I
am doubtful whether, in the case of a large river like the Dee, having many tribu-
taries, and taking a winding course through a rugged mountainous country, the ap-
pointment of one such functionary, or even of many. would produce a sensible effect
in preventing the destruction of unseasonable salmon. How little the independent
exertions of detached counties avail, is obvious from the result of the attempts
lately made in this district to put down vagrants. Considerable success attended them
at first ; but of late the nuisance has become as rank as ever. And if a number of
constables, with broad day-light and public roads to guide them, are unable to exter-
minate a crew of miserable beggars, we may judge what a "conservator" would ef-
fect against gangs of nimble and powerful young poachers, conducting their opera-
tions under the cloud of night, amidst remote and unfrequented glens, on streams often
flowing underneath high rocks and through extensive copsewood. The practice must
be stopped, if it is to be stopt at all, not by the exertions of local bodies, but by the
interposition of the Government ; and I would suggest, though with much diffidence,
the following plan for the purpose:
	1.  The first thing to be done is to have a minute and accurate survey taken of
the salmon rivers, in which survey the following points are to be attended to: first,
the various proparties through which the riverand its tributaries floware to be noted,
and the length of heir courses through each of them ; second, the principal haunts
of the salmon, during the period, when they ascend the river; and third and princi-
pally, the places where they deposit their spawn. To ascertain these points, but es-
peciall the last, let indiviatials be selected, having not only practical experience and'
local knowledge, but a general acquaintance with the natural history of the Salmon, and
considerable powers of reflection on the facts that may fall tinder their observation.- In -
the reports accompanying the charts constructed From these survey the writers,
should not be limited to mere statistical details, but should be invited to state their



