
   142			   ELGINSHIRE.

   Duches, who chose this as their favourite summer residence.  Its
   inequalities of surface, so unusual in modern gardens, its natural
   and artiFIcial beauties, and the picturesque character of the vicini-
   ty, have attracted many delighted visitors.
		
                     	III.--POPULATION.
      The population has been gradually decreasing for the last ten
   years. In 1831, it amounted to upwards of 600 souls, while the
   last census, in 1841, gives the number of 521. To account for
   this decrease, the fact presents itself, that a surplus population
   was introduced, into the parish by the influx of strangers, for the
   purpose of assisting in the manufacture of wood, which being now
   at a close, compels many to seek for other localities where labour
   is more in demand.
      Language and Customs.--The foregoing circumstance, the in-
   flux of strangers, also explains the more general prevalence of the
   English language in this district, than in the neighbouring parishes.
   The Gaelic still retains its hold among the aged, but the young
   manifest great anxiety to acquire the knowledge of the more useful
   English.
     Not only has smuggling ceased, but penny-bridals and extrava-
   gant festivity at funerals have, it is to be hoped, been for ever abo-
   lished. The games wont to be practised here and throughout
   the Highlands Rre forgotten; and instead, the young men betake
   themselves  on holidays to the practice of shooting at a target.
		
         	   IV.--INDUSTRY.
     Those who devote themselves to husbandry are not behind their
   neighbours in the march of progressive improvement, and they
   enjoy great advantages from the lime-quarries in the parish, and
   the facility with which, through the landlord's kindness, they can
   procure fuel to burn the limestone.  A sufficient quantity of pro-
   duce, such as oats, bear, potatoes and turnips, is raised for home
   consumption. This was not the case at a late period. It is a
   fact, that a farmer not long since deceased, grew turnips upon        
   trial, but felt greatly disappointed at the result, alleging that they
   enabled his cattle to consume too much fodder--so that the prac-
   tice was at that time abandoned. Experience has taught the pre-
   sent generation a different lesson.
      The labouring portion of the population have acquired much, of
   the improvident peculiar to manufacturing districts, live
   generally is extreames, eithe in extravagant abundance or desti-
   tation. Necessity, the nothor of  invention, gradually, accom-



