
   250			INVERNESS-SHIRE.

   describe the various unstratified rocks, or to give a minute account
   of their several, changes and intricate combinations. There is
   little or no granite in the parish, and mica-slate is but seldom met
   with. In some parts, the rocks are beautifully studded with the crys-
   tals of quartz. Several varieties of greenstones are found. Spe-
   cimens of asbestus and rock-crystal exist, but are rare. Porphyry,
   syenite, breccia, &e. are seen in more or less abundance.
      Several minerals, which principally belong to the zeolite family,
   are found. Chabasite and analcime exist, although comparatively
   rare. Stilbite and steatite, on the other hand, are very abundant.
   The former is found in great quantities among the remains of the
   decomposed trap-stone.
      Petrifactions of shells, fishes, and sea-plants, have been frequent-
   ly met with, but the specimens found of animal remains were not
   sufficiently perfect to enable the mineralogist to determine to what
   class they belonged.
      Zoology.- A catalogue of most of, if not all, the feathered tribes,
   which frequent the parish and the channels by which it is encom-
   passed, is sent along with the MS., and, if required, will be found
   in retentis along with it. It embraces the six orders of the Aves
   mentioned by Linnaeus, under his second class of natural history,
   and these will be found in the above-mentioned catalogue, viz. 1.
   Accipitres; 2. Picae; 3. Anseres ; 4. Grallae; 5. Gallinae; and 6.
   Passeres. The cuckoo and other migratory birds pay their annual
   visits at their periodical seasons. The cuckoo's egg has been fre-
   quently found in the titlark's nest. Until St Columba's lake was
   drained, it was yearly frequented by large flocks of swans, which
   seldom rested on any other lake in the parish. They appeared
   on the 25th of October annually, passed the winter on the lake,
   and remained in all about five months. In autumn after the lake
   was drained, they made their appearance at the usual time, but,
   on observing the destruction of their favourite haunt, they hover-
   ed with a cry of sadness for a brief period over it, then disappear-
   ed, and have seldom been seen since near the place.
      Perhaps the most remarkable species, of birds which frequent
   the coast of the parish, is the puffin (Fratercula arctica,) which
   appears annually in immense numbers at the island of Fladda-
   chuain, but seldom approaches nearer the sbores of the parish.
   The bill of this bird is beautifully streaked with red and white
   stripes, and its form is singular, resembling two short broad blades
   of a knife, placed with their edges in opposition, and forming an


