
     Statistical Account

   The number on our poor's roll is generally about 40.
The poor's funds are the collections at the church, which
will amount to about 20 L. Sterling in the year, dues for
the mortcloth, and 4 L. 3 s. 4 d. Sterling a year, mortified
for the poor of this parish by the above mentioned Wil-
liam Duff, Esq. of Dipple, ancestor of the Earl of
Fife, and paid by his Lordship.  That gentleman, much
to his honour, made similar charitable donations to seve-
ral parishes in this neighbourhood*.

<UNREADABLE>

   Prices and Wages.-Beef and mutton are sold at from
2 d. to 4 d. the pound Dutch.  The average price will be
about 2 3/4 d.; a hen 7 1/2; a duck 8 d.; eggs 2 d. the dozen;
butter 6 d. the pound Dutch, of 17 1/2 oz.  The boll of
bear or barley, nearly the Linlithgow measure, has for
these 10 years past, been generally from 15 s. to 18 s.;
oatmeal at 8 stone, 13 s. 4 d.; wool 18 s. the stone of 21
lb. Dutch.  The wages of men servants have been tripled

</UNREADABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

may be about 30, at an average; and there are sometimes as many more
at an evening school, kept in the winter by this schoolmaster.  There is
another mortification of 25 merks, for the schoolmaster of the other old
parish, left by the same ancestor of the Earl of Fife, and now enjoyed
by a supperannuated teacher.  Besides these, there are 2 or 3 poor wo-
men in the parish, who teach children to read.  Even the poorest of the
people take care to have all their children taught to read, and most of
the boys learn a little writing and arithmetick.

*The session-clerk has 2 L., and the kirk-officer 1 L. a-year of salary out
of the poor's funds.  There are commonly two general distributions in the
year, and occasional supplies are given to the most necessitous.  Poor's rates are
not known in this part of the country, and perhaps the poor are on aa proper a
footing.  The supplies granted from the session-funds, and by the private cha-
rities of the people at large, are sufficient to preserve the poor from suffering
much from want, and there is less danger of abuse, and of encouraging idle-
ness.  In populous cities, where the conditions of the poor cannot generally be
so well known, and in countries in a very different situation, poor's rates are,
no doubt, very proper and even necessary.


