
         			BARRAY.                       213

   Barray, the people enjoyed every comfort consistent with their
   rank and situation in life.  He was remarkable for his kind treat-
   ment of them.  Another great obstacle to the improvement of
   their lands, is the manufacture of kelp, at which the people are
   bound by their holdings to labour during the summer season and
   even sometimes to the end of August, the fittest time for the im-
   provement of their lands, and attending to the management of the
   crop in the ground.  Although this article of manufacture was a
   source from whence the Highland proprietors derived great bene-
   fit while it sold at high prices, and employed the people at remu-
   nerative wales, yet it has turned out in the end ruinous to both
   proprietors and tenants,--whose dependence had been placed much
   upon it.  The tenantry have thus been reduced to the utmost po-
   verty ; and are unable to pay their high rents, and still less able to
   betake themselves to any other country by emigration.
      Colonel Macneil, the late proprietor, while he resided in the
   parish, (which he did for some years,) made some useful improve-
   ments in the farm of Eoligary, which he kept in his own posses-
   sion, by draining and enclosing.
      Fisheries.-Barray is perhaps one of the best. fishing stations
   on the west coast, and might prove, were proper means taken,
   a considerable source of wealth.  The people at present are too
   poor to carry on fishing on an extensive scale, from their in-
   ability to purchase or build boats capable of encountering the
   boisterous seas they have to contend with, or to provide sufficient
   materials for their fishing; yet, under every disadvantage to which
   they are subjects they generally employ from 20 to 30 boats, of
   about three tons eachi in the fishing, with five men to each boat;
   but, from the smallness of their size, they are often unable to put
   to sea, or to carry on the employment systematically.  They are,
   in some seasons, however, pretty successful when the weather is fa-
   vourable: and then they go with their own boats to Glasgow or
   Greenock, with what ling or cod they take.  The people of Bar-
   ray were in former years very successful in harpooning cearbens orr
   sail-fish, from which they extracted a good deal of oil, and receiv-
   ed a premium from the Board of Trustees for Fisheries : but this
   productive source of wealth has been discontinued, from their in-
   ability to provide the necessary tackling; and although hundreds
   of these fishes appeared last season on the coast, no one was is a
   condition to take advantage of the circumstance.  Barray was in


