
342                   INVERNESS-SHIRE.

resource fails them, they live on their wealthier neighbours, some
by begging, and some by stealing.
     As to the first question, the answering it will occupy some time,
and in considering it, we should remember, both that population
has, in all circumstances, a strong natural tendency to multiply it-
self, and, that among an uneducated people this tendency always
increases in the direct ratio of their poverty. We see, then, that
in this island strong checks were necessary to prevent an over-
growth of population; and we shall endeavour to state some of the
causes which prevented and still prevent the application of these
checks.
     In the olden time, the number of a chief's followers constituted
his wealth, his power, and his safeguard. He then, for the most
obvious reasons, gave the produce of his lands to the support of
his retainers, and thus the country was capable of supporting a
larger number than it is now, when so much of its produce is given
as rent; and if scarcity were felt in these lawless days, a few forays
or creaghs from some other district soon supplied it.
     After the abolition of the clan system, and when rents, which
were at first very light, came to be exacted, the wars in which
Britain was constantly edoaged for such a series of years, afforded,
an outlet, to a considerable extent, to the superabundant popula-
tion; and many of those who did not avail themselves of this out-
let emigrated to the North American colonies; thus showing
much more enterprise than is manifested by their descendants.
     Later still, the manufacture of sea-ware into kelrp afforded
abundant employment to all the islanders who were not engaged
in the tillage of the soil, and amply rewarded their labour, so as
to enable them to purchase such necessaries and comfort's of life
is they needed,
     During these times, then, the pressure of the population on
the means of subsistence was but slightly and seldom felt, and
consequently there was little cause to check its growth. Now,
however, matters are completely changed. There is Do recruit-,
ing for war. The kelp trade is completely at an end. The people
do not emigrate. There are no public works where they may
find employment. They raise but a very inadequate quantity of
food, and they are, as the natural result, in great want and dis-
tress.  Yet there are reasons which still indiiee some persons ra-
ther to  encourage than to stop the increase of the inhabitants.
We may first mention, as what in some instances, though unin-


