
     of Kirkconnel.

wards Crawick; and limestone in Fingland, and one conti-
nued mass of lime rock in the Glenmucleugh Hills, and in

confirmed by experience, especially in northern climates, that
wool, an animal production, is much more congenial and suit-
able to the human frame, than any vegetable material whatever,
for the purpose of cloathing.  For, in fact, it is much warmer
and more substantial, than any of the usual exotic articles of appa-
rel; and therefore much better adapted to promote perspiration,
and prevent those sudden obstructions of it, from which proceed
most of the maladies with which mankind are so much afflicted.
In short, woollen cloth is the only proper wear for this cold cli-
mate; especially, to those who are employed in the labours
of the field, or are any way exposed to the vicissitudes of the
weather; at the same time that it is always at hand, more easily
purchased, and in many respects far less expensive, than those
manifold variegated shreds of foppish finery that are just now,
every where, so much in vogue.
   Hence it would seem not unnatural to suppose, that to the
modern passion for this light flimsy, airy dress, so prevalent
among all ranks, so unsuitable to the constitutions of all, and
to the occupations and the funds of most, particularly of the
poorer sort, may he ascribed no small share of the equally com-
mon prevalence of colds, fevers, rheumatisms, asthmas, consump-
tions, and perhaps too much of what is the worst disease of all,
the amor sceleratus habendi.  This, too, is not a little stimulated by
the usual attendant of gaudy attire, a violent predilection for
expensive amusements, and the various haunts of levity, dissipa-
tion, and prodigality.  To the rich themselves, habits of this
sort are sufficiently pernicious; but to the inferior ranks of life
they are big with mischief and ruin.  For these habits enfeeble
their powers, engross their attention, unfit them for the duties
of ther station, impair or extinguish the influence of those princi-
ples and qualities, that are necessary to conciliate favour, esteem,
and confidence, in any department of business, and destroy the
means of supplying, not merely the fantastical wants of their own
creating, but even those that are much more natural, unavoid-
able, and interesting.
   To apply these remarks to the subject, from which we have st
little digressed, in proportion as a taste for finery and profusion
predominates, among those employed in service or rural labour,
it must operate more than they may be aware, both to their
own detriment, and that of society; particularly, as it tends to

     VOL. X. 3 K


