
                              MARYTOWN.                         121

six acres of good land. The stipend is L. 85, 6s. 11d. Sterling,
including communion element money; 124 bolls meal and barley,
one-half each, and 1 boll 2 firlots oats, being the whole teinds
of the parish, amounting at an average to L.200. The Crown is
patron.
	Education.--At the parochial school, the usual branches of edu-
cation, besides Latin, are taught. The schoolmaster's salary is
L. 20, and the other emoluments of his office may amount to
L. 15. He is provided with a dwelling-house, which was lately re-
paired at a considerable expense, and with a garden of nearly the
extent required by law. All persons in the parish upwards of 6
years of age can read.
	Sunday schools were established in this parish many years ago.
At present there are two, which are attended by sixty scholars.
The best scholars at the week-day-school are always to be found
among those who have attended a Sunday school.
	Libraries.--Parish libraries have become general, and have been
productive of beneficial effects. There was one established here
several years ago, which consists of more than 200 volumes, be-
sides nearly 100 pamphlets. There are not a few of the people
who shew a laudable desire for these books, and avail themselves
of them.
	Poor.--The number on the poors' roll receiving parochial aid
monthly, is 12; and the average sum allowed to each is 3s.
9d.; but besides the monthly allowance, there are occasional dis-
tributions to the most indigent. The poors' funds arise from
the interest at five per cent. of a stock of L. 400, lodged with
the principal heritor, and the collections at the church, amounting
to L. 18 or L. 20 a-year.--together with a small perquisite for the
use of the mortcloth. The demand upon the funds is in snme re-
spects greater than it was some years ago. In consequence of the
introduction of machinery to a great extent in manufactories, fe-
males in the country can find little or no employment, except
when hired to the field for a short time in summer and harvest.
Spinning, which formerly afforded them employment throughout the
year, now brings no return, and the, wheel has therefore been un-
willingly laid aside. Nevertheless, the poor are not discontented;
they thankfully receive from the kirk-session the sum allotted to
them, and they strictly apply it to their subsistence. There are
no beggars belonging to this parish; but the parish is much infest-


