
			KIRKMICHAEL.                 	     69

		    II.--CIVIL HISTORY.

	Land-owners.--The land-owners are his Grace the Duke of
Buccleuch; John S. Lyon, Esq. of Kirkmichael; James S. Wight-
man, Esq. of Courance; Robert Kennedy, Esq. of Craigshield;
John Swan, Esq. of Glenkiln; William Robson, Esq. of Hazlie-
brae; Patrick Campbell, Esq. of Lawers; and Henry Constable
Maxwell, Esq. of Milnhead. The Duke of Buccleuch draws L. 150
per annum above the half of the present rental. Mr Lyon's estate
is next in extent and value. The others are stated above in the
order which corresponds to the valued rent of their properties.
	Parochial Regigters.--No parochial registers appear to have been
kept prior to the year 1727; and those from 1727 to 1759 are very
imperfect. Since the latter period they have been better attended
to, but are confined entirely to births.
	Antiquities--On a bank, which is washed by the rivulet of Gar-
rel, may be seen the ruins of the church bearing that name, with
its accompanying cemetery. Garvald was rebuilt in 1617; but,
from the time of its annexation to Kirkmichael, has been allow-
ed to fall into decay. The church-yard, however, is surrounded
by a stone and lime wall, with a plantation of weeping-birches,
and other trees suited to the place.
	The only Roman work in the parish is a branch of the great
road, that led from Netherby, in Cumberland, to the chain of forts;
built by Lollius Urbicus, between the Forth and the Clyde. This
an still be traced through a moss and seems to have terminated
at a castellum, of which two sides still remain very distinct and
hich now forms the minister's garden.
	On the farm of Wood is the ruin of the old tower of Glenae,
which, in 1666, gave the title of Baronet to a branch of the family
of Dalzell, before its succession to the earldom of Carnwath.
	There are several indistinct remains of ancient fortifications; but
no traditions about any of them, except a small	commonly
called Wallace's Tower, adjoining Tor-linn, a glen fille with na-
tural oak, and stretching westward from Knockwood. This fore
commands an extensive view to the south, occupying the summit
of an angle formed by the junction of two branches of that sleep
ravine; and being protected on its third side by a large fosse, it
must have been in former times, before the general use of fire-arms,
a strong place of defence. Sir William Wallace, while meditasing
the capture of the castle of Lochmaben in 1297, is said to have kept
sixteen men there, with whom he sallied forth to annoy the English


