
     Of Ruthven.

In the E. moor above mentioned, are two large granites, a
species of stone rather uncommon in this neighbourhood,
standing erect, between 5 and 6 feet above ground, at the dis-
tance of 12 feet from each other, and having each a flat side
fronting due S.  There are 2 Smaller stones to the S. of the
large ones, and 48 feet distant from them, and at right angles,
but 12 feet distant from each other.  The largest granite is
on the W. side, and 20 feet in circumference.  These stones
might be considered as some Druidical monument; the more
so, as the farm adjoining is called Draffan, which, according
to some, is a corruption of Druidum Fanum, that is a temple,
or place of worship of the Druids*.
   Several stone coffins have been dug up in the parish, con-
taining fragments of human bones, apparently of great size.
Besides the cairns above mentioned, there is a number of
smaller ones in this parish, one of which, known by the name
of Crian's Gref, said to have beeb erected upon the grave of
a noted robber, seems to indicate, that the sepulchural tumulus
was not always raised in honour of the dead.

   Minerals, Moss and Marl.-The parish abounds in mineral

<FOOTNOTE>

lium litteris committere, Brussui exemplo monitus, ad eum calcaria inaurata,
nummosque aliquot aureos mifit, tanquam superiore die mutuo ab acce-
pusset.  Robertus, ut in pariculis homines sunt sagaciores, non ignarus quid 
manere significaretur, fabrum de nocte accersit, trium equorum soleas inversas 
preposteras equis jubet, vestigia, velut abeuntium, per nevem sugam
proderet.-Buch.
*Unfortunately for this conjecture, the following doubts occur:-I.  It is
doubtful if the Droids had any temples that were rectangular, or even circular,
or any places of worship whatever, except groves.  2.  It is doubtful if any
Droids inhabited this part of the island.  3.  Granting they did, it is doubtful
if they or our forefathers, at that time, knew any thing of the Latin language.
If the learned antiquarry could sufficiently remove the two first of these, the
latter might easily be got over, by supposing the name to have been of a latter
date.


