
554			DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

tent, and neither abrupt nor of great height. The parish contains
14 square miles.
   Hydrography.--The river Nith glides along the eastern boundary
of the parish, which it intersects at two places; and the intersections
are obviously occasioned by a change in the line of the river during
high floods, which happen frequently every season. To guard
against the effect of these, several proprietors have secured their
lands by embankments. The Nith, during summer, is fordable at
three places.
   The Cluden, a very considerable stream, runs along the south
side of the parish for more than eight miles. It intersects it at
three places; and in one of these, the lands of Speddoch and Milli-
ganton, 1200 acres, are separated from the continuity of the pa-
rish. There is a ford often impassable during winter. There
is now in building, two miles lower, a wooden bridge for carriages.
The expense, L. 120, has been raised by subscription; a matter
creditable to those who have taken an interest in it, and of certain
public utility.
   Fishing.--The Cluden is an excellent trouting stream, superior
in this respect to the Nith. Salmon, sea-trout, herlings, and oc-
casionally pike are found in it. It is much poached. The best
fishing range, both for numbers and size of trout, is near and be-
yond the upper extremity of this parish. In the former account
of the parish, it is stated, "that though the two rivers, the Nith
and the Cluden, unite at the south-east corner of the parish, each
has its own distinct species of salmon. The Cluden salmon are
considerably thicker and shorter in the "body, and greatly short-
er in the head than those of the Nith." These peculiarities still
exist, and if the fish has been more than two days run, its colour
is much darker in the shade than one similarly situated in the
Nith. This colour is obviously occasioned by some peculiarity in
the water of the Cluden; and very probably this, that it contains
a greater proportion of moss in solution.
   The number of salmon taken in the Cluden is not great. From
a verdict by jury lately obtained, stake-nets will be removed from
the boundaries of the Nith upon the Solway, and therefore it is
anticipated that more salmon will find their way to our linus
and pools. It is, besides, the opinion of the most experienced
fishermen, that the fishing season closes too early; and that, too,
at the time, when the best fish are advancing, few of which, how-
ever, though not permitted to be legally taken, escape the torch


