
124                     ROSS AND CROMARTY.

go out with their boat, having as many cod heads as they can col-
lect.  A cord is drawn through the lip, and fastened so that the
head may, not slip off.  Another head is similarly fastened at the
distance ofone yard or fathom, according to the number of heads
used, and the length of the line; the whole line is then run out,
sunk, and allowed to remain for an hour or two.  Afterwards, they
begin to raise the heads, and scrape off the buckies which stick to
the cod's head,-which is then, again let down, as near to the same
spot as may be, for many more whelks were on their way to the
feast, that could not be accommodated at the first course,-but in
succession these are taken by the process now described.  The
boatmen are kept busy while they remain.
   Botany.- Nature has not been bountiful to this region, in re-
gard to plants.  The scarcity of money prevents the natives from
purchasing various articles which might lessen their labour in do-
mestic purposes, especially in the dyeing of wearing apparel and
blankets.  Till of late, and even now, the dyes in use are made
from Erica or heather, or from Senecio jacobcaea, common ragwort.
These boiled with woollen yarn make a yellow dye, or ground for
blue.  Both these bind the colour, so that the blue colour improves
when washed.  The Tormentilla reptans, trailing tormentil or
Bar-braonan-nan-con chact-bhlar, is used for barking herring-nets
and bides for leather.  The Tussilago hybrida, butter-bur, or gal-
lan-mor, and Rumex acetosella, sorrel or sealbhag, are used for a
black dye.
   Dr M'Iver, before-mentioned, gives me the following notice:
" The medicinal plants discovered in this island have been so
very few, and the quantity in which they were found so trifling,
that they are wholly undeserving of notice.  Indeed heather, of
which there are many kinds, seems to be the only indigenous pro-
duction of its soil."
   All the culinary plants in common use, in other parts of Scot-
land, can be raised, if the soil be previously enriched, and due
attention paid to the cultivation.  Mugwort and wild spinage,
betony, colts-foot, Plantago major (baash phadice,) Plantago lan-
ceolata, ribwort, plantain or slan-lus, are occasionally used for
hearing external and internal bruises.
   There is scarcely any wood in the island, except a few bark-
bound birches in the parish of Lochs.  A few trees, for trial, were
planted oq a burn-side, Alt-na-brog; near Seaforth Lodge.  These
seem in a thriving state; but they are sheltered.  Out of Storno-


