
     Of Clackmannan.

   Price of Labour.  -The best men servants get 8 l.  Ster-
ling yearly, 6 1/2 bolls of oat meal, and 1 1.6 s.  Sterling, for
what is called kitchen-money, besides a house and yard, if
they are married:  women servants get 3 l. yearly:  day
labourers get 1 s. a-day, and 1 s. 2 d. in harvest:  women
reapers get 1 s. in harvest, and a glass of whisky in the
morning; a very bad practice, and which frequently leads
them on to habits of drinking whisky during all their lives.
Masons get 1 s. 8 d. a-day, and wrights 1 s. 6 d.

   Collieries.-There are 3 collieries in the parish, Clack-
mannan, Sauchy, and Kennet.  Clackmannan coal con-
sists of 4 seams, known by the names of a main coal, 9 feet
thick; cherry coal, 2 feet 10 inches; splint coal, 2 feet
8 inches; and coal Mozey, 2 feet 3 inches.  The main 
coal was wrought in the last century, and terminated a-

<FOOTNOTE>

his landlord must also suffer.  This is a real grievance, and ought to be
redressed.  There is a mill in this parish, which goes by the name of
the Thieves Mill.

   The invention of threshing mills will, in all probability, soon prove
usefull to agriculture.  The first of these was erected at Kilbagie, in this
parish, by Mr. George Meikle engineer.  It is driven by water, and
threshes eight or ten bolls in an hour.  It is undoubtedly one of the
greatest improvements in husbandry, and promises to be general uti-
lity.  Threshing mills are now used in many parts, both of Scotland and 
England; and commissions for them, it is said, have arrived from some
of the northern kingdoms of Europe.  They are now made of various
sizes; so that farmers in this place, who possess no more than thirty acres
of land, find it their interest to use them.  There are already nine of 
them in this parish; two of which are driven by water; and some of
them by two, and some by four horses, according to their size.  Their
price is from 25 l. 60 l. Sterling.

   The great advantage to be derived from threshing mills is, that, be-
sides threshing much cleaner than by the usual mode, they give the
farmer a command of the market, to which he can bring, upon any
emergency, a great part of his crop, at the shortest notice.


