
                        NEWTON.                            579

Royal Society, Edinburgh. His character is still venerated by
the few survivors who had an opportunity of knowing him; and a
marble slab, with a suitable inscription, has been inserted in the
wall of the church, by the side of the pulpit, as a tribute on the
part of the parishioners to his memory. The late Dr Moodie of
Inveresk was appointed in 1796, and, on his removal to Kelso,
was succeeded by Mr Thomas Scott, who was translated in 1801
from Ballingry in Fife. On his demise the present incumbent
was presented, 1826.
   According to a return made to the Parliamentary Commissioners
appointed to inquire as to the deficiency of church accommoda-
tion, &c., in December 1835, and which was prepared with the
greatest care, there were, out of a gross population of 1836, 1414
belonging to the Establishment, and 422 Dissenters of various
denominations. In 1837, when the population had decreased
to 1728, the respective numbers were 1365 Established Church,
and 363 Dissenters, distributed as follows:-Relief, Dalkeith, 222;
Do., Musselburgh, 9; Do., Edinburgh, 10. Associate Synod,
Dalkeith, Mr Brown's, 78; Do., Mr Buchanan's, 2; Do., Mus-
selburgh, 2; Do., Leith, 3; Do., Edinburgh, 15. Independents,
Dalkeith, 5; Do., Portobello, 6. Methodists, 7. Cameronians, 1.
Associate Synod Original Seceders, 3. In a note to the aforesaid
document it is stated, in explanation, that where the head of a
family is a Dissenter, all the children have been reckoned as such,
though many of them, above twelve years of age, are in the habit of
attending the Established Church. This rule has been followed
even in Cases where the mother is in communion with the latter,
the father being a Dissenter, although the only religious instruc-
tion and pastoral superintendence the families receive are from the
Establishment; and were these deducted, as perhaps in fairness
they might and ought to be, the numbers above given would be
considerably reduced. It will be seen, (it goes on to state,) that
129 sittings, at the utmost, are taken in dissenting places of worship,
which corroborates this to the extent of showing that the families
are not provided with accommodation, especially since of these
129 sittings, at least 41 are taken by individuals, leaving 88 for
381.
   The attendance on divine service in the Established church is
generally good; but as whole pews are allocated to tenants who
have not families to occupy them, and from which the population
generally feel themselves to be excluded, the habit of church-go-


