
                             BELLIE.                             119

belonged to the conquerors of the world. Some years ago, the
fosse was cleared by order of the proprietor, but no relics of anti-
quity were found, with the exception of a few amulets or beads of
party-coloured stone. It is now, in some places, overrun with
whins and broom, and in other parts has been recently planted
with clumps of trees and shrubs, to serve as a peaceful covert for
the brood of pheasants and other game. A little to the north of
this encampment, there was lately to be seen a tumulus or mound
known by the name of the "Green Cairn;" supposed to be the
tomb of some chieftain of ancient renown. It consisted of a belt
of earth of the richest mould, interposed between a casement of
pebbles, and was encompassed at the base with two ranges of
stones in a vertical position.
   A little to the east of this spot, on one of the banks of what is
termed the "dry burn," there are the remains of a Druidical temple.
   Another antiquity deserving notice, is a small mound of earth,
a little to the north of the fore-mentioned temple, apparently
artificial, called the "Court Hillock," which in former times was
probably a seat of justice. The ancient Cross of Fochabers may
also be mentioned, now standing within the Duke of Richmond's
park.
   New Buildings.-By far the most magnificent of these is Gor-
don Castle, the princely seat of the distinguished family of Rich-
mond. This superb and elegant structure, extending from east to
west the enormous length of nearly 570 feet, is situated towards
the south-western angle of the lowest of the three extensive semi-
circular "flats" into which the parish is divided. It is universally
allowed to be one of the noblest specimens of architectural mag-
nificence to be found in Britain, and is the grand object of attrac-
tion to all travellers who visit this quarter of the island. On the
11th of July 1827, the roof and interior of the eastern wing were
totally destroyed by an accidental fire, but the destroyed parts
have since been restored in a suitable magnificence. The neces-
sary brevity of this article prohibits a detailed account of many
objects of interest connected with this magnifitent mansion.
   A square of offices was completed, some years ago, at the castle
farm-yard, presenting a range of buildings which, for amplitude,
utility, and elegance, are certainly unrivalled by any in the north.
   A neat Episcopal chapel has just been erected by the Duchess
of Gordon, with Gothic windows and two ornamental spires,
on the north side of the village of Fochabers, opposite the parish


