
     Statistical Account

south, separated from Morvern by the serpentine course of
Loch Sunart, and from Mull, by the north end of the sound
of that island.  It is bounded, on the west, by the Atlantic,
which, penetrating deeply, forms on this side a large bay,
and five branches, resembling the hand and fingers; on the
north, by Loch Mor'ir, and the river issuing from it, separat-
ing this parish from the district of north Mor'ir in Glenelg pa-
rish; and, on the east, by a range of ten mountains, over whole-
numerous summits the boundary line passes, by so many al-
ternate ascents and descents, conterminous with the districts
of Ardgower, Lochiel, and Locharkaig, parish of Kilmalie,
and district of Kingerloch, in that of Lismore and Appin.
It is also contiguous to Morvern parish for about two miles,
near the head of Loch Sunart, on the south.  Within these
limits are comprehended five several districts, or countries,
as they are here called.  1st, Ardnamurchan Proper, or pa-
rish of Kilchoan, 16 miles in length, and 4 1/2 in mean
breadth:  2d, Sunart, 12 miles by 6:  3d, Moidart, 18 miles
by 7:  4th, Arasaig, 16 miles by 6:  And, 5th, South
Mor'ir, 14 miles by 4.  The two first are in Argyleshire,
and, joining at Tarbert a narrow pass of two miles from

<FOOTNOTE>

the latitude of Mingary Castle, which lies six miles east from the point, 56 degree
56'.  Vide Sir Alexander Murray of Stanhope's book, in the Advocates Lib-
rary, Edinburgh, "The Interests of Great Britain Considered," &c in which
are many interesting particulars regarding this country, and the Highlands at
large, anno 1740.  The manuscript map is in all respects inferior, except in
lengthening the country by three miles.  A late survey, not published, varies
greatly from both.  Mackenzie's charts, though in need of amendments, are
extremely useful in pointing out the tract of coasting navigation; but it be-
longs not to such draughts to delineate the internal parts; and even the out-
line is often, as in this parish, represented with the distortion appearing to the
eye at sea, and according to the dangers to be avoided; it being a rule to shor-
ten the distance from one headland to another, left vessels, in the dark, over-
shoot their reckoning.  Hence, with respect to the land, some put are over-
extended, and others no less abridged.


