
                       KILLEARN.                              63

  Attempts have often of late, as well as formerly, been made to
find coal in this parish and neigbbourbood. That they have always
been unsuccessful, is what should be expected from the mineralogy
of the district. The Grampians, a primary range, stretching frotn
Dumbarton to the east coast, are accompanied on the south by a
secondary ridge, at a distance varying from five to fifteen miles.
Strath Enrick is the western portion of the intervening track be-
tween those mountainous ranges. The base is the old red sand-
stone, in which coal is never found. In ascending the southern
range, we lose the red sandstone, and find strata of lime, clay, and
freestone, with occasionally a coal seam of three or four inches
in thickness,-a plain indication that we are risinq to the coal
measures. The trap rock, forming the apex of the range, covers
the previously existing strata. Passing that interruption, we enter
on Campsie and Kilpatrick, the great coal-field of Scotland, cros-
sing the breadth of the island, but lying all to the south of the
secondary range. The searches for coal have been made, both by
boring and shanking; but, with one exception, always in the lower
parts of Strath Enrick; whereas common observation, as well as
geological science, indicates that the higher regions should have
been diligently examined, as, if a workable stratum of coal exists
anywhere, it must be found near the verge of the trap formation.
  Trees.-The arable part of the parish is generally well-wooded,
as regards both shelter and ornament. Besides the plantations
which surround the houses of proprietors, every glen and ravine is
covered with copse-wood. The following table contains the di-
mensions of some remarkable trees, as measured at present, and
as reported in the former Statistical Account. The yew trees are
near the House of Ballikinrain; the others are on the estate of
Killearn, near the old mansion-house.

<TABLE>
      Trees.	       Girth 1794.	Do. 1834.     	Cubic contents-
  Yew, berry-bearing,   8 feet    0 inches.  8 feet 5 inches.     89 feet.
  Yew, barren,          10        8         10      3            103
  Oak,   .        .     12        0         13      3            300
  Silver fir,     .    Not reported.        12      0 1/2        302
  These trees are all in vigorous growth, yet the increase during
forty years is inconsiderable. There is a possible error in the
comparison. The former reporter does not state the height where
be measured the circumference. I made all the measurements at
three feet above the ground. From many observations on yew

<FOOTNOTE>The former reporter must have measured this tree, and perhaps the others, where
thickest, as his measurement is greater than the present at three feet above the sur.
face. At six feet, near the branches, the girth is eleven feet.


