
8                         CAITHNESS-SHIRE.

old church, which was only quitted as a place of worship in 1832,
and which contained 900 sitters, was said to be upwards of 500
years old.
   The town is made up of an old and a new town united together.
The Dew town is built according to a regular plan; and though
this cannot be said of the old town, yet it contains a few regullar
streets and some good and substantial houses. The new town is
yearly increasing in size.
   The present population of the town is, as has been stated al-
ready, upwards of 2400. - It has three magistrates, nominated by
the superior of the burgh, Sir Georg'e Sinclair.
Means o Communication.-The ordinary means of communica-
tion are enjoyed by the parish. There are food roads and a daily
mail coach to and from the south.  Three times a week there is
a coach between Thurso and Tongue There are two sailing
vessels from Thurso to Leith, and, except during the winter
months, there is weekly a steamboat from Wick to Lelth. To
Wick, which is twenty-one miles from Thurso, the mail-coach
travels daily, performing the journey in two hours and a half.
   Thurso is a post-town, and has a daily dispatch and arrival to
and from the south. It is itself the most northern post-town in
Great Britain. There is a post three times a week to and from
Tongue and the places intervening, on the west, and a daily post
to and from Castleton and Dunnet on the east.
   The turnpike road along the coast of the parish from east to west is
eight miles and a half long, of which three miles are to the east of
the town, and five miles and a half to the west. Besides this road,
there is the mail.-road to the south, which traverses about six miles
of this parish. There is also another road to the west of the mail-
road, and almost parallel to it, on the west side of the river, lead-
ing from Thurso to the village of Halkirk. There are only four
miles of this road in this parish. From this road, another road
branches off to the west, about two miles from Thurso, and joins
the coast-road at Reay. Of this branch, there are about two
miles andd a half in this parish, besides the two miles from Thurso
to the point at which it branches off.
   The only public carriage which travels through the parish is the
mail to and from the south, and to and from the west, as already
stated.
   There are several bridges is the parish, and all in good condi-


