
                             DRUMBLADE.                         301

phical historian of our country that has yet appeared, has been
pleased to transfer this honour from Sliach in Drumblade, to
Slains, a bleak and rocky district on the Buchan coast, but with-
out stating any authority for the change.
   It is certain that tradition, universally prevalent here, as well as
what can be gathered from the metrical historian Barbour, are both
against him.  For although the name given by the latter (Slanach)
is not the same as either, yet there are circumtances detailed in
his narrative that render it not only extremely improbable, but
quite inconsistent, that Slains should be the place referred to.
King Robert, that historian relates, had come over the "Mounth"
to Inverury:-at Inverury he was taken sick.  It was not judged
expedient by his adherents to meet the enemy while he lay in
this condition, and, instead of continuing, therefore, exposed in the
plain, they resolve to betake themselves to some place of strength,
and for this reason the Slenach is preferred.  Experiencing there,
however, some want of provision, and having daily to encounter the
archers of Earl Buchan in their endeavours to supply it, they de-
termine to carry the king in a litter to Strathbogie, (now Huntly),
which, in spite of all opposition, they accomplished accordingly.
   Now, taking Mr Tytler's account, there is not only the improba-
bility to contend against of the king's being carried so far in a lit-
ter as from Slains to Strathbogie in his present infirm condition,
but Earl Buchan, as appears, seeing the intrepidity of the king's
party at their very outset, lost courage, and "went back to Buchan,"
which leads to this farther inconsistency, that, bad Slains been the
place, he and his men were in Buchan already. *
   Antiquities.-On the same height above-mentioned, there were
some years ago entrenchments to be seen, said to have been
the remains of a Roman camp.  The probability is, however, that
these remains were connected with Bruce's encampment above re-
ferred to, or with the strength or fortress which probably then
existed upon it.  Immense masses of large stones lie at the foot of
this hill, and some have been found, it is said, with inscriptions
upon them, none of which, however, are now to be seen.

<FOOTNOTE>Vide Barbour's Bruce by Jamieson, VoL. i. pp. 169-70-71, where the above view
seems to be confirmed.
   The traditions current here are completely accordant with this account by Bar-
bour, who, it is to be remembered, wrote his history of "The Bruce," at no distant pe-
riod after the event took place, and whose work Fordun dencribes as perspicuous and
elegant. The hill on Sliach, as stated above, is still called Robin or Robin's Height.
The king's sickness was flux, as local tradition has it, and a well in the vicinity is
still pointed out, the water of which is represented, as having been instrumental to.
wards his recovery.


