
                               WEMYSS.                391

 Topographical Appearances.--The ground immediately above
the sea-shore is, in some places, considerably elevated, and rises
with a gentle slope to the north, and also to the west.  Along the
sea-shore, there is a line of rocks which extends a good way into
the sea, even at low water-mark.  The whole beach is very rocky,
and may well be designated iron bound.
 Climate.--The climate, upon the whole, may be said to the good.
The air, as might be expected, is, during the winter months espe-
cially, keen and bracing, and at all times the temperature of the
atmosphere is sensibly felt to be colder than that of districts five or
six miles up the country.
 Mineralopgy.--This parish rests upon rocks which belong
wholly to the coal formation.  From the river  Leven, even as
far west as Wemyss Castle, the strata are composed of dark red
sandstone of various degrees of hardness, colous, and durability.
From Wemyss Castle, along the shore and western boundary, there
are twelve workable seams of coal, of the aggregate thickness of
89 feet 5 inches.  The rocks between these seams of coal are,
shale, sandstone, slate clay, and argillaceous iron-stone, in bands
and balls.  These rocks alternate in beds of very various thick-
ness.  There is also a seam of yellow ochre, but not a particle of
limestone; neither is there any greenstone (or whin) belonging
to the strata.  The shore, however, is thickly strewed with bould-
ers of it, and the soil when pierced to any depth abounds with
them.
 The quantity of fossil organic remains belonging to the vege-
table kingdom, is immense.  Whole forests of fossil trees have
been discovered in the beds of shale immediately above some of
the coals, many of them of the most perfect form.  The bodies of
the trees are always composed of sandstone, (although found in
shale,) while the bark, and sometimes the cellular tissue, round
the pitch, is composed of clear cherry coals; and they are found in
every variety of size, form, and position.  And with regard to the
soils, they are as various as the rocks on which they rest, being
in some places only a few feet thick,and consisting of decom-
posed sandstone, while in others they extend to a depth of from
30 to 40 feet, consisting of a strong matrix of dark-coloured clay,
which is quite impervious to water.
 Wood.--The appearance of the parish whithin thelast forty years
has been greatly improved, in consequence of the great number of
trees that have been planted in various quarters of it, and which



