
     Additions and Corrections.

   Infirmary.-The medical school in this University was long
retarded by the want of an Infirmary at Glasgow.  But that
obstacle is now completely removed.  In the year 1790, a vo-
luntary subscription was opened, for the purpose of erecting,
and supporting an Infirmary, in this place, for the western di-
stricts of Scotland.  This scheme met with the most liberal
encouragement, from the charitable and well-disposed, in the
city of Glasgow, and in the adjoining countries, and was in
particular much promoted by the activity and influence of
the members of the University.  In the year 1791, upon the
petition of the subscriber, a royal charter was obtained from
the Crown, together with a grant the scite of the Archbi-
shop's Castle and Garden, for the purpose of erecting the
buildings.  During the years 1792 and 1793, the buildings
were erected, according to a most beautiful design given by
the late Robert Adam, Esq. architect, at an expence of about
8000 l.: And it is beilieved, that, in point of situation, good
air,abudance of water, and convenient accommodation for
the patients, this Infirmary is not excelled by any other esta-
blishment of the same kind in Britain.  The Infirmary was
opened for the reception of patients on the 8th December
1794; and since that time, the beneficial and salutary effects
of it have been so much felt, that it is now considered as a
public benefit and blessing to this part of the country.  Among
other advantages, the number of medical students is greatly
increased since it was opened; and there is very reason to
believe, that this institution will contribute, in a great degree,
to the further extension and improvement of the medical
school in this University.

   Page 29. line 11.  For Robina read Robina.-P. do. l. 15.
For Smell read Snell.-P. 30. l. 3 l.  The Rev. Dr. Walton's
first donation was anno 1767, and his second anno 1788.-
P. 40. l. 21.  After Scotland, add, `to which is now added
course of lectures on English law,'

