
		SANDSTING AND AITHSTING.                119

The method of cleaning the potato crop is rather imperfect.  A
little before or about the time the shoots begin to break the clod,
the top weeds are turned up with the band-hoe or spade, which is
called " shovelling the potatoes;" and having lain for a few days
to allow the weeds to wither, a double draught of the wooden har-
row is given to turn up such weeds as may not have been suffi-
ciently exposed.  When the stems are advanced about six inches
above ground, the hand-hoe is again employed, for choking or
laying the earth to in drills. This is the last operation till they
are taken up.  The return, in ordinary seasons, of the potato
crop may be stated at from ten to fifteen, and their price at 1s. 6d.
per barrel.
  Oats.-The oats in general use are the grey-bearded or old
Scotch flaver.  The grain itself is sweet, but, from the very im-
perfect way of manufacturing it, the meal is never entirely freed
from the black beard and dust.  Within these few years, a num-
ber of families in the parish have made trial of small quantities
of Angus-shire early oats, obtained from the grebe, and they ac-
knowledge that this is superior to the other, both in grain and
straw.  Notwithstanding, these advantages, they refuse to use it as
their general crop, from the idea that it is more liable to be shaken
by the wind.  This I have not found to be the case, though no
other kind of oats have been sown on the grebe for many years.
   The way in which corn is prepared for meal is this:-every fa-
mily has a small oblong kiln built in their barn, called a "cinny,"
which will dry about an half barrel of oats at one time.  This
kiln is furnished with ribs of wood.  These are covered with oat-
straw, called "gloy," and the grain laid on the top.  In an open-
ing about one foot square, in the end of the kiln, a gentle fire is
kept up, till the grain is sufficiently dried. It is then taken off the
kiln, put into a straw basket, made for the purpose, called a
" skeb," and, while it is warm, well rubbed under the feet.  This
operation is intended to separate the beard and dust from the
grain.  It is next winnowed between two doors, or in the open
air; put into another straw basket called a " budy," and carried to
the mill and ground.  When brought home from the mill, two
sieves, a coarse and a finer, are made use of, to separate the seeds
from the meal; and it is twice sifted over, before it is fit for use.
The coarse seeds taken out with the coarse sieve, the first time
the meal is sifted, are given to the cows; and the finer seeds taken
out with the finer sieve, the second time it is sifted, are reserved




