
     Of Kilfinichen and Kilviceuen.

Three from the Low Country, are the only persons in
the parish that understand the English only*.

   Church, Stipend, Schools, Poor, etc.-There are 4
places of worship in the parish, one in each district al-
ready mentioned; but there has been no church in any
of them since the Reformation, except in Ross.  In eve-
ry other district, divine worship is at the side of a hill.
The Church of Ross is also ruinous, and has been con-
demned by the presbytery of Mull, who passed a decree
for re-building it, and another church in Kilfinichen in
Airdmeanach; but none is as yet built.  There is no
manse.  The incumbent lives in a house built by him-
self, upon a small farm he rents from the Duke of Ar-
gyll.  The stipend is 80 L. besides the glebe.  The glebe
measures near 70 acres, including moss, etc. and many
be worth about 10 L. a-year.  All the parishioners are
of the Established church.  The Duke of Argyll is pa-
tron.-Such an extensive parish requires many schools;
there are, however, but 2, the parochial school, and a
charity school.  The charity school is stationed in I.
The schoomaster is now superannuated, being consider-

<FOOTNOTE>

*All the names of places are Gaelic, except 2 or 3 that are Danish.
The name I has been explained already.  Ross, signifies a point of
land jutting out into sea, or a peninsula.  Brolass, a grey ridge, or a
ragged ridge.  Airdmeanach, the middle point, or middle quarter; it
got this name from its lying in the middle between the points of Ross
and Freisnish.  Gribun, clayey bottom.  Lochlahick, the muddy or
clayey loch.  Lochscridain takes its name from a farm called Scridain:
It is also called Lochleven, from the elms that grew on its sides.  Inhis-
Kenneth, the island of Kenneth:  Innis is corruptly called Inch in va-
rious parts of Scotland.  Loch-caol, the narrow loch.  Poll-tairve, the
Bull Pond; but commonly called the Bull Hole.  Bellach-na-co-sheilg,
is a pass near the marches of Ross and Brolass, where the people of the
a districts met at their hunting expeditions; from which circumstance
it took its name.


