
                                    BLAIRGOWRIE.                     903

            Hydrography.-There are one or two chalybeate springs in the
         parish; but they have never been chemically analyzed, so far as
         the writer of this account is aware.  There is one very fine spring,
         called the " heugh well," which deserves particular notice.  It
         springs from the face of the " heughs of Mause,"-(a mortar cliff
         of singular appearance, which descends abruptly into the bed of
         the river with an almost perpendicular declivity of about 200 feet)
         -and judging from its colour, contains a considerable quantity of
         ferruginous matter.  The use of its water has been found to be
         very beneficial in cutaneous eruptions, and affections of the sto-
         mach.
           There are no less than six lakes in the parish, viz. the Stor-
         mont Loch, (or Loch Bog,) Black Loch, White Loch, Fingask
         Loch, the Monkmyre Loch, and Ardblair or the Rae Loch, all
         of which abound with pike, perch, and eels.  The first mentioned
         loch is very shallow, the depth being in general not more than
         from 2 to 3 feet, and the bottom is composed of soft mud or moss
         of considerable depth.  Black, White, and Fingask Lochs are situ-
         ated close together, in a line from east to west, and communicat-
         ing with each other by small burns running from one to the other.
         Black Loch is more properly a morass or mossy pool than a loch,
         exhibiting merely a collection of reeds and other aquatic plants,
         with a small space of clear water; but it contains some very powerful
         springs, as is evident from the circumstance, that although it re-
         ceives no supply of water from the surface, a large stream runs out
         of it into the adjoining lake of White Loch, sufficient to turn a
         mill, and this stream is never diminished in quantity even in the
         driest weather.  White and Fingask Lochs are sheets of water of
         about one mile each in circumference.  The bottom of the for-
         mer is gravelly, while the latter rests upon a bed of clay or marl,
         of which great quantities were formerly excavated, and used for
         agricultural purposes by the farmers for many miles around.  Of
         late years, however, the use of this substance as a manure has
         been almost entirely discontinued.  Ardblair or Rae Loch is a small
         sheet of water, lying close to the road between Blairgowrie and
         Dunkeld.  Its depth is believed to be greater than that of any of

         breeze from the east.  The barometer also had previously, notwithstanding the con-
         tinued rains, risen rapidly, and stood at "set fair" on the index.  It was also ob-
         served, that the river Ericht fell several inches below the level it had attained during
         the day, although the rain had, in the interval, continued with unabated violence.
         Two other shocks were felt on the same evening, but they were much less violence.
         than that already described.


