
	               KIRKMICHAEL.                    493

Ayrshire for its far-famed pasture. The atmosphere, though
humid, is mild and salubrious. There are no prevailing diseases
in the parish. Fever sometimes exists among the destitute poor,
but seldom to any fatal extent. Pulmonary complaints, which are
said to be so much on the increase in some places, do not seem
to be so here. It is a fact now admitted by all, that the great
improvement of land by furrow-draining, which has been so ex-
tensively introduced into the district, has contributed materially
to promote the general health of the community. The soil on
the haughs, is a rich sharp mould, which, when properly cultivated,
sends forth most luxuriant crops. In other parts, it is of a clayey
nature, inclining to loam. On sloping arable lands, and on the
sides of some of the lower hills, it is light and gravellish; while
on mountain elevations, it is a covering of thin turf, on a shingly
bottom.
   The following are the number and probable size of the lochs in
the parish. Drumore contains about 9 imperial acres; Kirkmichael,
5; Barnshean, 28; Shankston, 12; Croot, 10; and Spalander,
45; in all, 109 acres.*/f Of these Spalander is justly celebrated
for its trout, plentiful and good. Char also is found in this lake.
   Geology.--The prevailing rock throughout the parish is sand-
stone; and an examination of the dip and direction of the strata,
in the courses of the Dyrock Burn and the Girvan Water, dis-
tinctly indicates its character and geological relations. The Dy-
rock flows through the northern part of the parish, in a south-
westerly direction, and joins the Girvan, a mile below the village;
and in tracing its banks from the junction upwards, the sandstone
strata are found to dip at an angle of about fifteen degrees to-
wards the north-east, which inclination can be traced throughout
the parish of Dalrymple, till they pass under the Coylton coal-
field. Towards the east, the sandstone becomes much redder in
colour, and harder in texture; and the ridge at Guiltree-hill
exhibits clinkstone or wacke. In crossing the country from the
Dyrock to the Girvan Water, the sandstone near Glenside is
found to change its inclination, and to dip away to the south-west,
where it soon also passes into the wacke, and is, towards Patna,
and more to the east, surmounted by the coal measures. The
axis on which the sandstone turns, in opposite directions, is very

<FOOTNOTE> A small deduction ought to be made from this amount, on account of five acres of
Spalander that belong to the neighbouring parish of Straiton-which, however, become
entirely dry land in a burning summer like 1826.


