
			AYR.                                9

field House and the fields of Blackburn,--and that it joined the
sea at, or not far from, the present mouth of the Water of Ayr.
It is not easy to determine when or how the change, into its pre-
sent channel took place; whether it was by the unaided workings
of nature, or by artificial means, for the sake of the ground that
would be recovered by a less circuitous course. The latter con-
sideration was likely to present a motive sufficiently adequate for
the undertaking, since, by means of the change, a valuable extent
of ground has been gained from the sea, which, quoad civilia,
still is attached to Maybole parish, affording an indubitable evi-
dence that it once belonged to it, without the river intervening as
at present to separate them. The receding of the sea, no doubt,
may also have aided in effecting the change. There are indica-
tions which can easily be traced of the former bed of the river, all
the way from the new bridge near Belle-isle gate house to the
head of the Low Green, a line of low marshy ground running along
the whole way, except where it has lately been filled up and cul-
tivated on the Blackburn property. The only difficulty that oc-
curs is to account for the raised up bank at and below the Low
Bridge of Doon, which is several feet above the level of the stream.
If the course was changed, however, by artificial means, the same
means would be used to keep it from getting into its former chan-
nel, by the fence of an elevated forced embankment, which the
rising ground here above the river evidently is, from the declivity
that takes place on the Ayr road immediately after passing the
bridge. But we can produce something more than mere conjec-
ture on this subject. A few years ago a very handsome bell of
considerable dimensions, with the words Gloria Soli Doe (for Deo)
marked upon it in large letters, was found in the marshy grounds
behind Blackburn House, which we have supposed to have been
the bed of the river, together with some spars of a vessel that
seems to have been stranded or sunk near its mouth. From this
it would appear to have been navigable like the Ayr for some short
distance above its confluence with the sea. Blackburn itself is sy-
nonymous with the Doon river.
	The Bay of Ayr is by far the finest feature of the scenery con-
nected, with the town and parish, and in that view merits a parti-
cular description. It is formed by the junction of the Frith of
Clyde, with the waters of the Atlantic. On all sides it appears
bounded by prominent outlines of land scenery, except towards
the west, whence in a clear day the distant coast of Ireland is dim-


