
676                      FIFESHIRE.

the short staple principle. An addition was made to the work in 1835,
and the mill now contains upwards of 2000 spindles, capable of
turning off about 600 spindles of yarns per day. The machinery
is propelled by two water-wheels of about 40 horse-power. The
mill consumes from 25 to 30 tons of flax per month, consisting
chiefly of the finer qualities imported from Holland, Belgium, and
France, and also from Archangel, Riga, and St Petersburg.
The yarns are for the most part wove in the county of Fife, into
almost all descriptions of family linens.
  Haugh Bleachfield.-In 1836, there was added to the mills a
bleachfield, capable of bleaching about two tons of linen yarn daily,
The work-people employed at the mill and bleachfield are in num-
ber 180, of whom two-thirds are females from fourteen years of age
and upwards, earning from 4s. 6d. to 7s. 6d. per week. The men
earn from 9s. to L. 1 weekly. Most of the hands are accommo-
dated with dwelling-houses on the premises. Upwards of twenty
families are thus accommodated, besides a good many board-
ers; the whole may be estimated at an average of 280 to 320
souls. Their moral and religious character is generally good,
and their attendance at church very respectable, both in point of
numbers and of outward deportment.
  Lochty Bleachfield, on the water of Lochty, in the vicinity of
the new and thriving village of Thornton, is the property of David
Landale, Esq. Kirkaldy. About two tons and a-half of linen yarn
are bleached at this field per day, the greater part of which is ma-
nufactured into cloth in the county ; but part is exported to
France, and some sent to Ireland. At this field the residuum of
the chlorine stills is converted by the usual process into carbonate
of soda, and mixed with potash, as a detergent for the yarns.
From 80 to 100 hands, mostly women, are employed at this
bleachfield. The women are paid 5s. 6d., and the men 10s. to
12s. per week.
  Balgonie-Bleach,field,    the property of Messrs William Russell and
Co. was established in l824, for bleaching linen yarns. About 480
tons of flax and tow yarns are bleaching here annually. The num-
ber of hands employed is 70, who are paid at the same rate as at
the other bleachfields. The machicenery is worked by water-power
supplied by the Leven, on the banks of which the works are, si-
tualed.
  Rothes Bleachfield, the property of Mr D. Donaldson, was
arected in 1800. The quantity of yarn bleached on an average


