
384			LANARKSHIRE.

and they seldom begin their work till after sunset, and a night or
two before the fair. A large space of the house chosen for the
purpose is marked out by a line drawn upon it. The area within
is considered as consecrated ground, and is not by any of the by-
standers to be touched with impunity. A transgression incurs a
small fine, which is always laid out on drink for the use of the
company. This hallowed spot is occupied by six or eight women,
all of whom, except the toaster, seat themselves on the ground in
a circular form, having their feet turned towards the fire. Each
of them is provided with a bake-board, about two feet square,
which they hold on their knees. The woman who toasts the cakes,
which is done on a girdle suspended over the fire, is called the
Queen or Bride, and the rest her maidens. These are distinguish-
ed from one another, by names given them for the occasion. She
who sits next the fire towards the east is called the Todler; her
companion on the left hand is called the Hodler, and the rest
have arbitrary names given them by the Bride, as Mrs Baker, best
and worst maids, &c. The operation is begun by the Todler,
who takes a ball of the dough, forms it into a small cake, and then
casts it on the bake-board of the Hodler, who beats it out a little
thinner. This being done, she in her turn throws it on the board
of her neighbour, and thus it goes round from east to west, in the
direction of the course of the sun, until it comes to the toaster, by
which time it is as thin and smooth as a sheet of paper. The
first cake that is cast on the girdle is usually named as a gift to
some well-known cuckold, from a superstitious opinion that there-
by the rest will be preserved from mischance. Sometimes the
cake is so thin as to be carried by the current of the air up into the
chimney. As the baking is wholly performed by the hand a great
deal of noise is the consequence. The beats, however, are not ir-
regular, nor destitute of an agreeable harmony, especially when
they are accompanied with vocal music, which is frequently the
case. Great dexterity is necessary not only to beat out the cakes
with no other instrument than the hand, so that no part of them
shall be thicker than another, but especially to cast them from one
board to another, without ruffling or breaking them. The toast-
ing requires considerable skill, for which reason the most experi-
enced per in the company is chosen for that part of the work.
One cake is sent round in quick succession to another, so that


