
                                 REDGORTON.                           189

      ried across them.  The waters of the Shochie and Ordie are, how-
      -ever, previously brought into the works, by a separate dam-dike,
      which gives a fall of twelve feet, on these waters by. themselves.
      They are then conducted into the same channel with the water
      from the Tay, along with the superfluous water which had escaped
      over the upper.dam-dike; and the whole form a very powerful
      stream, on which three several falls are obtained.
         The power thus obtained, gives motion to twenty-four sets of
      beetles, which are in full operation, along with the corresponding
      number of calendars, and alro to the necessary bleaching machi-
      nery, such as washing-stocks, rubbing-boards, &e. &c.; besides a
      fall reserved for giving motion to four other sets of bdetles, in a
      separate building, which can be set agoing, should a press of busi-
      ness or other emergent, at any time require their operation.
         The first part of the operation of drying in some descriptions of
      goods, and the whole operation in others, which is often a very
      tedious process, is here accomplished in a very beautiful and ex-
      peditious manner, by the cloth being carried over fourteen cylinders,
      which are heated by being filled with steam.  The cylinders are
      placed in two rows, every one being placed opposite the interstice
      of two in the other row.   The cloth being wove round the cylinders
      in the two rows alternately, is thus drawn over three-fourths of
      every one of them, and is taken out in the state of dryness re-
      quired.
         It is stated in last Statistical Account, that there were then
      500,000 yards of cloth annually bleached here.  There is now
      at least four times that amount of business done.
         There are therefore annually bleached here, of linen cloth, of
      which a considerable proportion is damask, 2,000,000 yards.  In
      these different operations there are regularlx employed from 120
      to 130 bands, all of whom are resident on the company's grounds,
      and the greater part of whom have been born and brought up on
      the place.
         Cromwell Park is situated on the Almond, the water of which
      is collected and raised by a very beautiful dam-dikes, in the form
      of an arch, having its convex side of course up the stream, and
      abutting on each side, upon one of those dikes, or veins of trap,
      which cross the river.  Before this mode of arching the dim-dike
      was adopted, it was repeatedly carried away by the violence of
      the river when in flood, and from its waters being bere con-
      fined by the trap dike already rxiontioned.  But from the form


