
172                         RENFREWSHIRE.

   Holding, Valuation, and Revenues of the Burgh.-Paisley was
she seat of the regality court, but had no corporate rights, or se-
parate municipal jurisdiction till 1488, when it was erected into a
burgh of barony.  The burgh lands hold directly of the crown;
and their old valuation is upwards of L. 1000 Scots.  The gross
revenues of the burgh amounted in 1833 to L. 3843, 12s. 7d.,
arising from rents of houses and lands, dues of flesh-market and
river, casualties of burgage entries, church seats, and other items.
The estimated value of the whole of the town's property is about
L. 50,000; but after deducting debts and other drawbacks, the
real worth of the corporation property will be reduced to about
L. 20,000.
   Privileges of the Magistracy.-The magistrates are ex officio
justices of peace for the county; and the provost holds in addition
the honourable office of deputy-lieutenant.  The number of resi-
dent justices of peace in or near the town, is at present 42,-an
increase of 40 within the last twenty years.
   Representation.-Paisley returns one member to Parliament.
The number of qualified voters of L.10 and upwards is. 1510. All
of these reside within the town and Abbey parishes; and the Ab-
bey in addition contains about 300 qualified voters for a county
member.  Since the passing of the Reform Bill in 1830, Paisley
has had not fewer than four representatives, including the present
member.  These are, Sir John Maxwell, Bart. of Pollock; Sir
Daniel Sandford, Professor of Greek in the University of Glas-
gow; Captain A. G. Speirs of Culcreuch; and the present mem-
ber, Archibald Hastie, Esq. a native of the town, and a highly re-
spectable merchant in London.
   Ancient made of holding property in Burgh.-Lands, &c. within
burgh are held in feu of the magistrates, council, and commu-
nity, and by an ancient and peculiar practice (the validity of which
has been sanctioned by the Supreme Court,) investiture was given
in burgh lands by a very simple process.  The heir or other per-

<FOOTNOTE>assemble and meet upon the thertie day of September instant, and freely by the poll
and plurality of votes to nominat and elect persons of credit and integrities, and who
by the ancient and laudable acts of the said burgh are capable to be bailzies, coun-
sellors and thresaurer thereof, and appoynt Sir John Maxwell of Pollock, William
Gunningham of Craigene, William Muir of Glanderston, George Houstone of John-
stones, and the Earle of Dundonnald, to be overseers of the said election, and appoints
any two of them to be a quorum.  Extracted by me (Signed) Gilb. Eliot, Clk."
   In pursuance of the above, a meeting was duly held on the 30th September
1689, and a regular poll election of magistrates and councillors  was made at the sight.
of William Cupningham of Craigens and George Houston of Johnston, two of the
assessors named by the court.  A minute to this effect is preserved in the charter-chest
of Paisley, of the date October 7, 1689.
                                          4


