
538                           ABERDEENSHIRE.

Scot.)  *  he hills in this district are amongst the most celebrated
for grouse-shooting, but, it is said, the number of birds is mate-
rially diminished within the last ten or fifteen years.  The black-
cock (Tetrao tetrix) is, on the other hand, supposed to be on the
increase.  The ptarmigan, (T. Lagopus) breeds in Congarff, on
a hill called the Brown Cow.  The partridge (Perdix cinerea)
was abundant,  but has suffered much by the storm of last winter.
The gray plover (Charadrius pluvialis) is abundant; and the
dotterel's (C. Morinellus) nest is found in the more sequestered
bills.  The lapwing (Vanellus cristatus) appears early in spring.
It is here called the teuchat, and the short storm that often occurs
after field labour has commenced is hence called the teuchat's
storm.  Numbers of the nests of the lapwing are found every sea-
son.  The curlew (Numenius arquata) comes in numbers to breed
in the marshes in the hills.  The common snipe (Scolopax gal-
linago, and the jack-snipe) (S. gallinula) are abundant.  The
woodcock (S. rusticola) is an annual visitant, and in some sea-
sons plentiful.  Their nests have several times been found in the
parish.  The water-rail Rallus aquaticus) has been killed, but
is very rare.  The land-rail (R. crex) breeds every season.  The
wild duck (Anas boschas) breeds in numbers in the Bunzeach.
The teal-duck (A. crecca) is shot occasionally.  The heron (Ar-
dea cinerea) breeds at Edinglassie, where there has been for many
years a small beronry. +
   The indigenous reptiles are few, the adder (Coluber Berus) has
been seen in the hills, but is very rare.  The Lacerta agilis is
also rarely seen.  The Rana temporaria and Bufo vulgaris are
common.
   Botany.-This parish is not deficient in variety of vegetable
productions.  The following will be found a pretty correct list of the
less common plants.  The locality of a few of the Alpine plants
mentioned is, however, immediately beyond the western bound-
ary of the parish, but the close connection with the botany of
the head of Aberdeenshire will lie be apology for noticing them
here.

<FOOTNOTE>A specimen of the Lagopus Scolicus was shot this season with fully halt of the
plumage pure white.
          A remarkable proof of the distance the heron goes in search of food was observed
here some time ago.  Monymusk (by the map published by the Society for the Dif-
fusion of Useful Knowledge) is twenty-five miles distant from Edinglassie.  A heron
lost one of its legs in one of the Edinglassie keeper's traps.  A few days afterwards,
the heron without a leg was seen at Monymusk.


