
212                    BERWICKSHIRE.

cession meeting-house; and 55 the Relief. Many from other pa-
rishes, and also from England, attend the dissenting places of wor-
ship.  Divine service is attended with great regularity both at the
Established church and at the two chapels. During the last three
years, the average number of communicants at the Established
church has been 560.
   Education.-There are seven schools in the parish. Most
of them are well attended, and the ordinary branches are taught,
except at the grammar-school and a private academy, where the
pupils are prepared for the University. Of late, the number of
children at the parish school has greatly increased'; they now ave-
rage upwards of 120 during the year. The salary is the maxi-
mum; and the fees for reading, writing and arithmetic, are 3s. a
quarter, with a proportional increase for other branches,-being
considerably less than the fees of most of the other schools. The
school-house has been recently enlarged, whereby the comfort of
the teacher and pupils has been greatly promoted. The school-
fees average between L. 70 and L. 80 a-year.
  A sum of L. 500 was left nearly thirty years ago by the late
Mr John Bell of Berwick, the interest of which is applied for the
education of poor children in the town of Coldstream; and the in-
terest of L. 300, also left by the same charitable individual, is ex-
pended in furnishing the children of the poor-with clothes when
they leave school. There is a Sabbath school connected with every
Place of worship; and the effects of this increased facility of acquir-
ing religious instruction are visible in the orderly conduct of the
young, and their respect for the ordinances of religion. There is
no doubt that the Sabbath is much better observed than it was
formerly.
   Literature.-There are three libraries,-which are supported by
private subscription. Two of them belong to mechanics and the
working-class of society. The recent establishment of a small
library connected with the church Sabbath school has created a
fondness in the young for reading works on religion, history, and
travels, from which very beneficial results may be anticipated.
   Charitable and other Institutions.-There are four Friendly So-
ceieties in the town; some of Which have existed many years, and are
very flourishing. Their object is to relieve the members when they
are unable to work from sickness or age. They certainly have
the effect of encouraging a spirit of industry among the members.
There is no saving bank in the parish, and I have never heard that


