
		   MONEYDIE.                           199

  Rivers.-The Almond is the only river of any consequence in
the parish, and abounds with salmon and trout.  There are be-
sides two smaller streams, the Shochie and the Ordie, both of
which take their rise in the Grampian range, and flow into the
Tay, affording excellent trout-fishing.
  Geology, Soil, &c.-With respect to geological structure, the pa-
rish is distinguished by nothing remarkable.  The Logiealmond
Hills consist for the most part of blue slate rock, blended with
smaller portions of other primitive formations.  In the lower
grounds, every diversity of soil almost is to be met with.  In the
vicinity of the streams, a light alluvial soil chiefly prevails, varied
occasionally by a rich black loam, on a hard gravel bottom.  A
littld farther from the bed of the river, a kind of strong red earth
is found, and a considerable proportion also of black loam.  On
the more elevated grounds, the soil consists for the most part of
cold wet till.  Clay is of rare occurrence; and, except in the re-
mote parts, near the hills, therd is little or no peat moss.
  Quarries.-In Glenshee, there is a slate quarry, which is now
but little worked, owing to the greatly superior quality of the slates
found in the neigbbouring quarry of Craiglia, situated a few miles
to the westward in the same range of hills, but in the parish of
Fowlis.  About the middle of Logiealmond, there is a quarry of
grey freestone, of a remarkably fine quality, and easily wrought.

		 II.-CIVIL HISTORY.

  In Roman Catholic times, the parish of Moneydie seems to have
been a parsonage connected with the diocese of Dunkeld.  Little
information tending to throw light upon this period of its history
can now be obtained.  About the year 1480, the living was held
by Alexander Myln, Canon of Dunkeld, who also styles himself
" Prebendary of Moneydie." Myln was the author of a work en-
titled " Lives of the Bishops of Dunkeld," a rare and curious work,
containing much interesting information both of a general and lo-
cal nature. * In the Cathedral Church of Dunkeld, the following
inscription is found :-Hic j`cet eximius vir Magister Alexander
Douglas, Rector de Monidie, qui obiit 17 Dec. anno Dni Millesi-
mo quigentesimo XLVIII.
  Ancient Proprietors of Land.-According, to Myln's account a
large proportion of the property of the parish seems to have ben
in the possession of his diocesan.  About the middle of the fifteenth

<FOOTNOTE>This work has been recently reprinted in the first volume of the Transactions
of the Literary and Antiquarian Society of Perth.

