
96                     CAITHNESS-SHIRE.

was the means of checking it in a great degree. But this system
was soon relaxed on account of the expenses attending the im-
prisonment of delinquents. Then followed a more vigilant and
active surveillance on the part of the excise, particularly the inde-
fatigable exertions of one active officer, a Mr M'Mahon, whose
very name spread terror all over the county, from the Ord of
Caithness to John O'Groats, by the havoc be made upon this ne-
farious and demoralizing trade. He was neither to be bribed nor
deceived, and scarce a single case escaped his detection in the
whole range of the county. This has given the finishing blow to
smuggling in this quarter, and for several years not a single case
has occurred here. The good effects of this change are already
apparent in the districts where the practice most prevailed; but
it is only when the present generation shall have passed away, that
the full advantage will be appreciated. Another practice attend-
ed with very pernicious effects is that frequently adopted by fish-
curers, of giving from five to seven gallons of whisky to each boat's
crew during the herring-fishing season, which, on an average, will
be at the rate of one bottle to each crew of four men every fishing
night; and although some have the prudence to reserve a consi-
derable part of it, yet others consume their whole allowance. By
this means young men are led into drinking habits very early. It
is a great evil, and loudly calls for a remedy.
   Poaching in the moors and rivers can hardly be said to exist,
owing to the strict regulations adopted by the proprietors. In-
deed such is their authority over the tenantry, that it is complete-
ly in their power to suppress smuggling, thieving, and even habits
of excessive drinking at any time, were they to put that authority
in vigorous execution, and to act in concert. But so far is this
from being always the case, as it certainly ought to be, that it is
no uncommon occurrence to see individuals notorious for one or
other of the above practices, when removed from one property,
received on that immediately adjoining it; by which means they
sometimes become more injurious to that from which they have
been removed, (by theft for instance,) then if they had been per-
mitted to remain unmolested.  Besides, how cruel is it towards
those among whom such characters are placed ! Were certifi-
cates of moral character strictly insisted upon from every new te-
nant, many irregularities would be greatly checked-a precaution
urgently called for.
                                4


