
            402                      RENFREWSHIRE.

            contains 620 spindles, and employs 64 bands, 24 of whom are
            males.  The Water-wheel is twenty-four horse power.  The work
            belongs to Ludovick Gavin, Esq., and is employed chiefly in spin-
            ning sbuttle,cord for power-looms, and candle-wicks.  A consider-
            able quantity of wad for the use of the hnfirmary is also manufac-
            tured, of the most approved sort. Persons ought to be aware of
            that purchased in the shops with a glazed surface, strengthened by
            glue, as it is manufactured with-arsenic to preserve it from insects,
            and often proves hurtful when applied to open wounds.  These
            works are all under the new factory arrangements. There is also
            a corn-mill in the village with three pair of stones.  It grinds 3000
            bolls per annum, at the following prices, 10s. for oatmeal; Is. 6d.
            for barley; and Is. 6d. for peare.   No sucken, but tenants bound
            to grind there at the above prices.

                               V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
              The only town in the parish is Eaglesham.  In 1672, in the
            reign of Charles 11. it had a weekly fair and market established
            by act of Parliament, as formerly mentioned.  In 1796, Alexan-
            der, tenth Earl of Eglinton begun a new town upon a very ex-
            terisive and elegant plan.  It consists of two rows of elegantly
            built houses, all of freestone, with a large space between, laid out
            in fine green fields, interspersed with trees, with a fine gurgling
            streamlet running down the middle.  The rows of hnuses at the
            top or west end are 100 yards apart, and those at the bottom or
            east end, 250 yards. The village is in all two furl  ongs and thirty
            falls in length.  Towards the bigher end, and on the rivulet, the
            cotton mill- stands which was in the course of being built when last
            Account of the parish was written.   The feus or tacks are for 999
            years, at the moderate rate of 3d. per fall, or L. 2 Sterling per
            Scots acre.  Each house has a rood ofground for a'gardeu.  The
            villagers have, besides, 70 acres and 22 falls ofground free of rent,
            of which 3 acres, 2 roods, and 26 falls, are covered with wood, and
            I rood, and 18 falls are in waste or meadows.  This is let out at
            an annual rentaJ of about L. 16, with which sum and some other
            small perquisites, a committee or body of directors are annually
            chosen for the management of the affairs of the 6wnship.  A
            baron-bailie also resides on the demesne.  Besides cotton spinning,
            there are about 400 weavers in the village.' About 1790, there
            were 63 'Silk-looms' at work in EaCglesbam;, in a few years after
            they sunk down to 88; and at present that branch of trade is ex-


