
130                          PEEBLES-SHIRE.

2. The average number of births yearly, for the last 7 years,-   8
                      of deaths, betwixt      -      -        3 and 4
                      of proclamations, betwixt      -        6 and 7
   Owing to the prodigious increase of machinery of late years,
which greatly lessens the price of various articles, very little wool
or lint is spun at home, and the general practice is to purchase
every thing from the merchant. And, indeed, still fewer articles
will hereafter be manufactured at home, because, in reality, no
profit is derived from the system. The people in a reasonable de-
gree may be said to enjoy the comforts and advantages of society;
and, accordingly, it may be mentioned that no emigrants to foreign
countries have gone from this parish.
   During the last three years there have been four or five illegi-
timate births in the parish.
                         IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture and Rural Economy.-By actual measurement the
parish was found to contain 6620 English acres. It has been plau-
sibly supposed that these may be divided into three nearly equal
parts, 1st, land that is at present under cultivation; 2d, land that
may be cultivated or improved: 3d, land that is solely adapted for
sheep-pasture. Under the second of these divisions, however, are
included nearly 600 acres which have been planted; and the re-
maining 1620 acres must merely be considered as what it is pos-
sible to make arable, not what may be advantageously cultivated.
This last point cannot properly be determined; only we may safely
assert, that the number of acres that might with profitable appli-
cation of capital be added to the cultivated land is very small. In
fact, in some instances too great a desire has been manifested to
bring high ground into cultivation, and it may be questioned whe-
ther the farmer has received a proper indemnification for the ex-
pense incurred.
   This parish has derived great benefit from the attention that
has been paid to the growth of timber. The plantations belong-
ing to Sir Thomas G. Carmichael and Mr Lawson are extensive,
and are in a flourishing state. Sir Thomas, indeed, has done in-
calculable service to the parish by his numerous plantations.
These have wonderfully improved the climate, and beautified the
country. In this county much may yet be done in the way of
planting trees; and proprietors would receive a proper remunera-
tion, for it cannot be disputed that the plantations on the hills
tend to improve the lower grounds.
  Rate of Wages.-The wages of men-servants for the year are
                             4


