
34                              ORKNEY.

have been    engaged; for the last seven years, on an average, 1292
men annually.  The number at one time was much greater.
V.-PAROCHIAL EcoN'OMY.
The only town in the parish is Stroinness.  At the beginning
of last century, it is observed in the former Statistical Account,
it was an inconsiderable village, consisting only of half a-dozen
houses with slated roofs, and a few scattered huts, the first inba-
bited by two gentlemen of landed property, and two or tbree'small
traders, the last by a few fishermen and mechanics." In 1719, it
was assessed by the burgh of Kirkwall, and continued-tributary
thereto till May 1743, when it sought to effect its freedom, and
happily succeeded; for, by a decision of the Court of Session
confirmed by the House of Lords, it was fully emancipated, and
thus became instrumental in obtaining freedom forthe other villages
in Scotland which had formerly been tributary to royal burghs.
It has since rapidly increased in population and in trade, which
is to be traced in a -reat measure to the safety and commodious-
ness of the harbour.1-on the west of which the town is situated.
There are few places which afford a better or more beautiful site
for the erection of a town.  It is composed chiefly of one street,
which extends tbree-quarters of a mile on the side of the harbour;
but the houses have been erected without any regular plan.  The
only object which the first proprietors appear to have bad in view,
in the erection of thei r houses, was to secure access to the harbour.
Till very lately, the street was not sufficiently wide to admit of a
passage for carts and other vehicles.      Some improvements, how-
ever, have lately been made upon the town, and especially upon
the street.   It still admits of many, and never can possess that
regular appearance which its fine situation so well deserves.
In the year 1815, Stromness was constituted a Burgh of barony;
and two magistrates, with nine councillors, have since held autho-
rity in it; but having no funds, and there being no jail nearer than
Kirkwall, their power is greatly curtailed.
- Afeans of Communication.-There is regular. communication
Wween this parish and Kirkwall three times a-week, by a gig
which conveys the mail. 1,ast.  June, a mail-coach commenced
running, daily, in place of the gig. . It was an interesting as well
as a hovel scene, to see, a regular--mail-coach in ultima TlAule.  It
is, however, a matter of regret, that such encouragement was not
given as'to,'enable the 'roprietorslo, continue'running the coach
P
during winter.



