
     of Stronsay and Eday.

and South West promontory above mentioned, produces
great quantities of tang, or sea-weed, fit for the kelp manu-
facture.

   On the East side of the island, little kelp can be made, as
few skerries ly there to produce tang.  The water is deep
nigh the shore, and the rocks abrupt, owing perhaps to their
having no shelter from the German Ocean.
   The ridge or rising ground, which runs almost the length
of the island from North to South, hath its surface covered
with short heath, where it has not been cut up lately for turf
or feuel; the soil is a dry, friable, blackish earth; the bottom
clay, mixed with small stones, and in many places gravelly
and shallow.  The expence of cultivating such a subject,
might perhaps nearly equal its value when improved.  It is
the common pasture or out-freedom of all the farms and
houses adjacent to it.  The Mill-dam divides this from the
common pasture of the farms on the East side of the island,
which common is covered with grass of a mean quality; but
as it has greater deepness of soil than the other common, and
a bottom of tough clay, it might probably recompence more
liberally the labour and expence of the improver++.

<FOOTNOTE>

++Of old, the corn fields, and such grass as was esteemed valuable, on this
island, were separated from the commons, now described, by hill-dykes, (as they
are usually termed,) built of seal or turf, which are kept up through Ork-
ney in general to this day.  A considerable proportion of the hill-dykes of this
island were suffered to fall into disrepair, about thirty years ago, by the ad-
vice of Thomas Balfour, of Huip an heritor in this island, who died about
seven years ago.  He was of opinion, that the expence of keeping up these
dykes, was greater than the advantage derived from them; but this opinion
is not universally acquiesced in by the inhabitants.
   All the nesses above mentioned, except Linkness, (of which under the ar-
ticle state of agriculture, etc.) are appropriated for sheep pasture, on the res-
pective isthmusses of which nesses, hill-dykes are still kept in repair, to prevent


