
 	        	   ST CYRUS.                           273

source in the mountains of Angus to the sea, is about forty miles
Of the Mearns, it drains a surface equal in area to abouth ninety
miles, and receives the waters of about 140 miles of the county of
Angus. Its basin may thus be estimated at 236 square miles. Tak-
ing the mean depth of rain over the district which the basin com-
prehends at 28 inches, and its area as just noted, the volume of rain
falling on it would be nearly 15,000 millions of cubic feet annually.
In a mean state of the river (in 1837), its breadth at the conflu-
ence was 141 feet, mean depth 1 1/2 foot, and velocity per minute,
110 feet. The annual discharge was therefore 12,228 millions cubic
feet, leaving a difference of about 2733 millions cubic feet, as the
value of the evaporation and absorption. In 1826 the whole water
of the river was carried away front many parts of its channel into
the mill courses on its margin. In July 1835, and in April 1839,
the discharge was reduced to about one-sixth or one-eighth of its
average amount. From the nature of the materials composing
the channel at and near the mouth of the river, its direction is
subject to considerable changes. By one of these, two farms are
at present disjoined from the parishes, of which they had ori-
ginally formed, and still, quoad civilia, form a part; and in the me-
mory of not very old persons, the river poured its waters into the
sea, at a point about two miles eastward of its present, mouth-
Embankments are in one or two places necessary to preserve the
contiguous lowlands from heavy floods, which come down with

greater suddenness and impetuosity, since the universal drainage of
tho cultivated land; and a small portion of the haugh land next to
the mouth of the river is guarded in like manner from the access
of the higher spring tides, which are felt nearly two miles up the
stream.
	Rocks.--These are old red sandstone and trap. Of the former,
the upper division consists of beds of spotted silicious and cal,
careous sandstones, beds of red clay, with and without nodules of
concretionary limestone, called by the lime-workers the seed-bed;
layers of a calcareous conglomerate or gritstone; and two layers
of compact veined limestoue of from 8 to 14 feet thick. These
have generally a slight dip eastward. The second division con-
sists of a reddish micaceous sandstone, composed of grains of
quartz and felspar, and a large portion of the matter of trap, to
gether with a conglomerate of rolled boulders of granite, jasper,
&c. The third division comprehends a series of fine grained mi-


