
			    NEWTON.                         561

the north-west quarter, strong care land, which at one time form-
ed an extensive meadow.
   Zoology and Botany.-Under these heads there is nothing to
note in particular, there being no species of animals or plants but
what is common to this part of the country generally. Game is
not abundant, there being a want of cover; and as to farm stock,
there is little or no breeding of any kind, with the exception of a
few horses. As there is no waste land, there is no scope for the
botanist; neither are there any plantations, with the exception of
about sixty acres of thriving young wood added to the Duke of
Buccleuch's park from his property in this parish, and a quantity
of fine old trees surrounding the mansion-house and diffused over
the policy at Edmonstone, the seat of John Wauhope, Esq.
                   II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   "The church of Newton (says Chalmers) and its pertinents
were granted during the twelfth century to the monks of Dun-
fermline, to whom it was confirmed by Bishop Richard and Pope
Gregory. Till the Reformation exploded such establishments, the
monks enjoyed the parsonage, and the cure was performed by a
Vicar." As to Woolmet or Wymet, we are informed by the same
authority that "it was granted by David I., with all its lights, to
the same monks, which was confirmed by the diocesan and the
popes. They enjoyed the parsonage, while the cure was perform-
ed by a vicar. These two parishes were united at the Reforma-
tion, and the lands and Churches were included in James VI.'s
grant to Lord Thirlstane, from whose descendants the patronage
went to purchase into the family of Wauchope of Edmonstone,
with whom it remains." After the Reformation, it was long in be-
ing planted, in consequences it is believed, of, the benefice being
appropriated by the crown; and the parish for many years halt
only the benefit of a reader, to whom the vicarage was assigned
for his maintenance. Probably this circumstance may have given
rise to the following somewhat singular entry in the presbytery re-
cord, (it commences with 1582,) 31st October 1583, "Quhilk
day it was appointit to reasone in thay matters, and that with di-
ligence, quhidder gif Newtone was ane paroche kirk or nocht, and
also the Moorfet, quhilk things wes referrit to the eldership of
Dalkeith be ye synodal assemblie." Accordingly, of date 26th
March 1584, the record bears that "it is found be tryall of ho-
nest men quha hes knowledge, that Newtone kirk is ane paroche
kirk."


