
46                        KINROSS-SHIRE.

hands and feet of the labourers, so that some of them were oblig-
et to give up work for two or three days.  The gravel was after-
wards examined, and was found to contain iron, but nothing that
could explain the effect which it produced upon the workmen
This part of the cut is 1841 yards in length, 18 feet broad at the
top, 6 feet at the bottom, and 6 feet deep ;  it cost 12s. per 6
yards.
   The ground between Gairney and the Pow of Aldie still remained
to be drained.  This tract is the highest part of the valley.  The water
here runs partly to the east and partly to the west.  The ground was
very wet, a ditch that was formerly the march between the estates
of Cleish and Aldie having been allowed to grow up, though some
parts of it still remained deep enough to drown several cattle.
When the ground was enclosed, a new march was made, consist-
ing of a stone dike, carried in a straight line without regard to the
bend of the valley, so that the land upon the one side of the march
could not be drained except through the land on the other side.
Mr Young and Mr James Loch, who acted for Miss Mercer, (now
Lady Keith,) agreed to make the drain in the old line of march,
which was in the lowest part of the ground :  and also to make a
belt of planting, 24 yards in breadth, on each side of the cut.
This, when the trees grow up, will make a grest addition to the
shelter and beauty of this part of the valley.  The length of this part
of the main drain is 1387 yards ;  the breadth at top, 18 feet ;  at
bottom, 3 feet ;  the depth, 6 feet ;  the expense, 10s. per 6 yards.
It was executed in 1821.  The effect produced here was fully
equal to what was expected ;  the ground, which was before very
soft, being soon able to bear loaded carts.  This completed the
drain from the west end of Cleish parish as far east as the church.
   Soon after, the proprietors of the ground on the sides of the wa-
ter Gairney to the east agreed to deepen that part of the river
which had formerly been straightened and frequently cleaned ;  but
was not deep enough to lay the whole of the contiguous ground
dry, although some of it had been cultivated.  The length of this
part of the drain is 4022 yards ;  the breadth, 24 feet to the west
of the Barns estate, 26 feet to the east ;  and 6 feet deep.  The
east part is rather too narrow, as a good deal of water from the hills
falls into Gairney here.
   That part of the Pow of Aldie which extends from the west
end of the parish of Cleish to near the Powmill Bridge, about
3157 yards in length, was straightened and deepened in 1829 and













































































