
     Statistical Account

tivated by means of the plough.  The people pay much atten-
tion to the culture of this root, but still they plant too thick.
A boll of heaped Linlithgow barley measure is generally plant-
ed in 3/8 of an acre, or less; the return in some places is
from 25 to 30 bolls, but the average is found to be 16 bolls.
The quantity planted in the whole parish is 304 bolls, and the
produce 4860 bolls.-This vegetable may be reckoned a
full third of the food of the common people; yet they are as
healthy and vigorous, at least, as before; and instead of involv-
ing themselves in inextricable debt and difficulties, by purchasing
meal as formerly, they can afford to sell a part of their barley to
the distillers.  They eat potatoes for the most part with milk, but
sometimes with a little animal food from their flocks and herds.
By means of this root the produce of the parish is fully ade-
quate to the maintenance of the inhabitants.
   Lint is another article of great importance to the inhabitants
of this country.  Potatoes and lint may be called the two feet
that support them.  Lint-seed is more generally sown after
barley, but very often after potatoes.  In the latter case where
the land is somewhat moist, the ground does not get a feed
furrow for lint: because this was found to be detrimental to
the crop.  It is sown in the state in which it was left at the
digging of the potatoes; and to secure the more abundant crop
of lint, some of the farmers incorporate a little lime with the
soil, by means of the hoeings for the potatoes.  It is by this ma-
nagement that the richest crops of lint are obtained.  The poor-
er crops are from lands where sand is predominant in the com-
position of the soil, but rather finer lint.  In whole districts
of the parish, 4 stone of 22 lb. avoirdupcis, mill dressed flax,
from a peck of seed; Linlithgow barley measure, is no uncom-
mon produce; the average produce, however, is 3 stone per
peck.
   There are 1375 pecks of lint-seed sown in the ordinary eco-


