
212                   HADDINGTONSHIRE.

   I am not aware of the existence of any old ballads referring
to this parish.  There is a single couplet preserved, date un-
known, which has handed down the memory of a man, proba-
bly the then possessor of a property, now belonging to the Elibank
family.  He is not, however, much indebted to fame. It runs
thus:
              "For a'that fell at Flodden Field,
	      Rouny Hood o'the Hul cam hame."
   Eminent Persons.-Sir John Nisbet of Dirleton, styled by Bi-
shop Burnet, "one of the worthiest and learnedest men ofthe age,
a person of great integrity, and who always stood firm to the law,"
was second son of Sir Patrick Nisbet of East Bank, Lord of Ses-
sion. He was born 1610, admitted Advocate 1633, and rose to the
bead of his profession, in which he was eminently successful, real-
izing a most ample fortune. He was Lord of Session and King's
Advocate from 1664 to 1677, being the last person who held these
two offices together. He died in 1688. His "Doubts and Ques-
tions in the Law, especially of Scotland," were published in 1698.
They are esteemed so highly, that Chancellor Hardwicke says of
them, "Dirleton's doubts are better than most people's certainties."
  In the old pulpit Bible, (printed at Amsterdam 1642,) there is
the following inscription: "This book was given to Sir John Nis-
bet of Dirletoune, Knight, his Majesty's Advocat, for the church
of Dirletotme, 12th May 1670."
   Land-owners.-Mrs Hamilton Nisbet Ferguson is the princi-
pal proprietor of the parish, and patron of the church. About
two-thirds of the lands belong to her, and she is the superior of
nearly the whole. Her kindness and liberality to her tenantry
are too well known to require any notice, and the estimation in
which she is held by them all, is the best proof of the interest
which she ever takes in their welfare. She is the constant friend
of the poor; and to her taste, no less than to her liberality, is
the village of Dirleton indebted for the many marked improve-
ments which, of late years, it has undergone.
   Mansion-Houses.-The mansion-house of Archerfield, belong-
ing to Mrs H. N. Ferguson, is the only one in the paris deserving
notice. It is a plain commodious building, situated in a level park,
skirted with plantations, and commanding to the east a fine open
extensive view of the Frith. The other proprietors of any extent
are Lady Ruthven, Countess of Dalhousie; Miss Grant; Mrs,
J. Bruce; and James Cochrane, Esq. of Muirfield. The latter
alone is resident.


