
                                    ALVAH.

   volumes, and appear to have been regularly kept, in so far, per-
   haps, as the keepers were concerned. But, from the numerous
   applications for extracts of births and marriages, which are not to
   be found in the registers, it is evident, that, until within a recent
   period, both births and marriages have been very irregularly entered.
   Each successive keeper of these registers appears also to have
   made his entries after a form of his own, and in some cases, these
   entries are very defective in point of information. For instance
   the date of baptism is often recorded without the date of birth,
   and without mentioning the place of residence. The father's
   name is also often recorded without that of the mother; and the
   residence or designation of witnesses, until of late years, appears
   never to have been noticed. These and other irregularities, it is
   believed, prevail to a great extent in our parochial registers, and
   should any change take place in the mode of keeping them, this
   is a point to which the devisers of a better scheme, ought to be
   particularly directed. It might tend, perhaps, to secure uniformity
   and regularity, if the pages of our registers were uniformly printed,
   and draughted in the form of schedules, with spaces left to be filled
   up with dates, names, places of residence, and other essential de-
   tails. Each page should also be subscribed by the name of the
   keeper of the register, and every exertion made to enforce regis-
   tration.
     Our earliest recorded baptism is dated May 17, 1718, and the
   earliest minute of session, May 13, 1718. The earlier records
   are said to have been destroyed by accidental fire:--Others main-
   tain that they were carried off by Mr George Campbell, minis-
   ter of the parish, who, in 1718, was ejected from his charge on
   account of his adherence to Episcopacy.
     Antiquities.-Scarcely any remains of antiquity are now to be
   found in the parish. Some years ago, a tumulus was opened on
   the farm of Sandlaw, containing several rudely sculptured vases of
   baked earth. In a tumulus, on the farm of Boghead, were found
   several vases of a similar kind, containing ashes. Contiguou
   to this tumulus is a large stone called carlin kist, supposed to be
   part of a "cromlech," or kist-vaen. In digging into a small gra-
   vel hillock, near Montblairy, a rude stone case or coffin, about four
   feet square, was discovered, and, on removing the stone which
   formed the lid, were found some ashes and a few fragments of cal-
   cined bones. In digging graves in the churchyard, several vases
   containing ashes have been found but differing from others dis-


