
                               GOVAN                      717

   Thom's Library.-The widow of the Rev. William Thom, for-
merly minister of Govan, founded this library.  It contains all the
books which were in her possession at the time of her death, and
such other works as were purchased by her trustees, with the sum
of L. 100, which by her will she destined to this purpose.  There
are now above 600 volumes in this library.  These are lent out to
the parishioners, on the payment of 6d. quarterly.  The trustees
are the minister of the parish, the ministers of St David's and St
Andrew's Glasgow, and, after the death of certain other gentle-
men named in the will of Mrs Thom, the Trustees of Miller's
Charity, Glasgow.
   Barony of Gorbals Savings Bank.-This bank was establish-
ed on the 3rd of June 1815.  Its affairs are conducted by a presi-
dent, treasurer, secretary, and eighteen ordinary directors, who are
chosen annually from among the depositors above eighteen years
of age, and whose acceptance of office, and the discharge of the
duties connected with it, are enforced by penalties.  The bank is
open evry Saturday evening from 7 till 9, for receiving and pay-
ing money in sums of one shilling and upwards.  The balance of
each evening's transaction's is lodged on the following Monday in
one of the Glasgow's banks, from which the depositors have hither-
to received one per cent. more than the ordinary rate of interest.
The last report shows the deposits for the year to have been
L.6271, 9s. 4d.; the repayments, L.5508, 17s. 4d.; the interest
added to accounts, L.235, 7s. 6d.; the surplus interest for odd
money and time, L.42, 16s. 1d; sums deposited by new mem-
bers, L.20, 16s. 6d; and the balance of the credit of depo-
sitors, L8042, 7s. 4d.  The expenses of the management are de-
frayed by the fines, the entry money of a shilling paid by each de-
positor, abd the surplus interest received for odd money and time
no interest being allowed to the depositors for any period less than
a month, or for any sum which dnes not yield for a month, one-
halfpenny of interest.
   Govan Agency of the National Security Savings Bank of Glas-
gow.-It has only been one year in existence, but during that
time, the number of deposits has been 1356, amounting to
L.1191, 6s. 9d., and the interest added to the amounts, or paid
to depositors, amounts to L.22, 5s.8d.  Of the deposits, 586 were
only 1s. each, and 457, 3s. on an average.  Several friendly so-
cieties have been established in the village of Govan for a consi-
derable time, with a view to afford relief to sick and infirm mem-


