
                  	LEUCHARS.				221

antiquary is the church, a view of the elevation of the ancient part
of which, together with a description of its architecture, we are en-
abled to embody in these pages, through the kindness of John
M'Kinlay, Esq. Bo-ness, who is well versed in the antiquities of this
country. This church appears to have been built at three several
periods. The eastern division forming the chancel consisted of a
square building, having a semicircular apsis towards the east, in which
the altar was placed, and is built in the style usually called Saxon,
of which it is one of the most entire and interesting specimens to
be found in Scotland. The second division was the original have
of the church, having an aisle projecting to the north. This portion
of the building also is in the Saxon style, but later than the for-
mer; and the third division is comparatively modern, being pro-
bably not more ancient than the time of the Reformation. The
two last divisions have been greatly altered and modernized, and are
fitted up as the parish church, and, although neat and comfortable
enough, do not merit any particular description.
  The eastern portion consists of two parts. The apsis or semicir-
cular recess to the east, for the reception of the altar, is narrower,
and not quite so high as the body of the chancel. Externally, it is
of two stages or storeys, the lower one consists of a range of ten
semicircular arches, with zig-zag or chevron mouldings, resting on
plain double pillars. Above those arches, there is a band or fillet, and
resting upon this, is a range of nine smaller arches, supported by
short pillars, each pair of which are separated by a small interven-
ing pier. Each of the arches connecting the tops of those pillars
consists of two rows of stones, the lower one ornamented with the
zig-zag moulding, and the upper one with the billet moulding.
The pillars of this upper arcade are placed over the centre of each
of the lower arches. There are three windows in the upper tier,
placed in the intervals between the pillars; they are narrow and
round topped, and widen internally. At some distance above the
upper tier of arches, there is a range of corbels carved into gro-
tesque heads, supporting the upper part of the wall, which projects
a little. The roof appears, from marks on the gable of the other
portion of the chancel, to have been a semicone of a pretty high
pitch,-but thias has been removed, together with two courses of
stone off the walls, to make room for a belfry erected about half a
century ago, in the degenerate style then in vogue; and in order to
support this mass of incongruity, a rude arch has been thrown across
within, which partially blocks up two of the windows, and spoils the


