
282                       FORFARSHIRE.

There are tvo fairs in the year, at the terms of Whitsunday and
Martinmas, at which the chief business is the hiring of servants.
	Burgh.--Montrose is a royal burgh. The town-council consists
of 19 members. Along with Forfar, Brechin, Arbroath, and Ber-
vie, it sends a member to Parliament. The number of voters in
the Parliamentary burgh is 476. The population of the burgh is
11,500. The revenue of the town from land in the parish, feu-
duties, and shore dues, is nearly L.3000. The town is lighted
with gas, and well supplied with water conducted by pipes a distance
of about three miles from the parish of Dun. The inhabitants
have availed themselves of the general Police Act for burghs, pas-
sed a few years ago. Since then, very great improvements have
been made in the paving and cleaning of the streets.
	Public Buildings.--The church, situated in the middle of the
town, and about three miles from the extremity of the parish, was
built in 1791. It is a large plain building, being 98 feet by 65 over
walls, has two tier of galleries, is seated for 2500, and can contain
nearly 3000. There are no free sittings, and the greater part of it
is private property. When the church was renewed, the old steeple
was allowed to stand, till about three years ago, when, having been
condemned as dangerous, it was taken down. A new steeple is just
completed from a design by Mr Gillespie Graham, architect. It
consists of an elegant and massy Gothic tower, upwards of 100 feet
high, surmounted by a spire nearly of the same height.
	In 1829, a chapel of ease (now St John's Church) was open-
ed for public worship. It is seated for about 1500, and is neatly
fitted up in the inside.
	St Peter's Episcopal chapel in the links was founded in 1722,
and is a neat and commodious place of worship. The town-house,
which stands in the High Street, and disfigures the street by en-
croaching too far upon it, contains the council-room, guild-hall,
court-room, coffee-room and public library. The academy, the lu-
natic asylum, the jail lately built, are all neat and substantial build-
ings, and well adapted for the purposes they are severally intend-
ed to answer.
	Bridges.--In the former report of the parish it was stated, that
it, was in contemplation to erect a bridge over the river to the island
of Inchbrayock, and another over the smaller current that forms
the southern boundary of that island. Accordingly, soon thereafter,
a wooden bridge was erected over the former of these channels, and
one of stone over the other. By the faulty construction of, the
                             3

