
			OLD LUCE.                           	 69

is called, still remains entire,--a small apartment onw the eastern
side of the square, the roof of which is supported by a strong pil-
lar, diverging at the top into eight arches, and terminating in
the surrounding walls. The centres of the arches are ornamen-
ed with various figures, curiously cut out in white freestone. Tho-
mas Hay, the lineal ancestor of Sir James D. Hay, Bart (princi-
pal resident heritor,) was appointed Commendator of this monas-
tery by the Pope of Rome, in the year 1560. A field adjoining
the old building, and now forming a part of the present incum-
bents glebe, had anciently been a burying-ground, and there the
Commendator's family (the Hays of Park) have still their burial-
place.
	Castles.--This parish contains also three ancient castles, (one of
which only is entire,) viz. the Castle of Park, formerly the resi-
dence of the family just referred to; Castle Synniness and Carse-
creuch, once the family residence of the Earl of Stair.
	Eminent Characters--Several eminent persons have been offi-
cially connected with the Abbey of Glenluce, of whom the most
important were the two sons of Alexander Gordon, Bishop of Gal-
loway titular Archbishop of Athens, who died in 1576. Lawrence
Gordon, second son of the bishops, was Abbot of this place for
several years previously to 1606, the date of his death. In 1602,
James VI. had erected, in his favour, Glenluce into a tempo-
ral barony, which at his death was conferred, by royal charter, on
his elder brother John Gordon, Dean of Salisbury. This latter in-
dividual was a person of great condition, and an author of no mean
reputation. For a minute list of his numerous literary publications,
which are generally of an ecclesiastical or theological nature, see
Murray's Lit. History of Galloway, 2d edition p. 42. He died in
1619, and was succeeded in the barony of Glenluce by his son-
in-law, Sir Robert Gordon of Gordonston, the celebrated histo-
rian of the family of Gordon. Glenluce was afterwards annexed
to the see of Galloway, the revenue of which had, from various
causes, been much reduced; and toward the end of the seventeenth
century, it was again erected into a barony, and became the
party of the Noble family of Stair. It may not be uninteresting
to state the origin of the connection of that celebrated family
with this parish and with Wigtonshire. James Dalrymple of Stair,
the Professor of Philosophy in the University of Glasgow married
in 1643, Margaret Ross of Balniel, by whom he became pos-
sessed of Carsecreuch, Balniel, and other lands in this parish


