
                                    DULL.                         755

      ripe and secure as early as in any part of Midlothian, in Foss,
      Glenfincastle, and especially in Glenquaich again, they are gene-
      rally a fortnight, and, in backward seasons, sometimes a month
      later in being secured.  In these districts, the comparative absence
      of plantations, the great masses of peat marshy soil which shed
      an unhappy influence over the arable land, and the greater ele-
      vation of the ground, in connection with the increased rarity and
      coldness of the atmosphere, combine to render the general aspect
      of the country bleaker and more barren, the winter frosts more in-
      tense, and the falls of snow heavier, and of longer continuance.
      As instances of longevity, it may be mentioned that there are at
      present living within four miles of the parish church, four indivi-
      duals, whose united ages amount to 364.  A woman of the name
      of Lilias Clark died some years ago, at the advanced age of 107 ;
      and what is still more deserving of being recorded, a person well
      known in this part of the country by the appellation of the "Aber-
      berfeldy tinker," or the more gallant title of "the colonel," made
      his exit at the extraordinary age of 112, after having lived in three
      centuries, a term of life which few have been permitted to enjoy           since the patriarchal age.
         Hydrography.--Perennial springs everywhere abound through-
      out it numerous hills and dales.  St Ninian's Well, situated at
      the back of the village of Dull, is said to have been much fre-
      quented at one time, by invalids both from far and near, on ac-
      count of the healing virtues supposed to be communicated to its
      otherwise salubrious waters, by the abbey's tutelary saint, whose
      name it bears: but this well's imaginary virtues have long since
      ceased, and with them its deluded votaries.
         Lochs.--There are no less than twenty-one lochs either situat-
      ed within this parish, or connected with it.  Our, limits, however,
      will only permit us to notice two or three of the most remarkable.
      Loch Fraochy lies in Glenquaich, the most southern district of
      this parish; and is partly also in the parirh of Kenmore.  It is about
      two and a half miles in length, and half a mile in breadth, and
      abounds in trouts, which, though small, are highly esteemed both
      for their colour and flavour, and afford excellent sport to the an-
      gler.  The south bank is graced by a shooting-lodge, belonging
      to the noble proprietor, the Marquis of Breadalbane, skirted to the
      eastward with a few indigenous trees of birch and alder; and ad-
      jacent to it, in the south-west corner of the lake, stands a small
      island, with a tuft of growing larches, famed in ancient Celtic song


