

	914                         FIFESHIRE.

	ward of the point where this road crosses the Anstruther and St
	Andrews turnpike, at Drumrack.  There is also a road which,
	stretches from Balcarres Den, (the western boundary of the pa-
	rish,) eastward through the middle of it, to the before-named
	turnpike at Burnside.  These, with the cross roads which run
	from south to north intersecting them, extend to about 21 miles;
	making about 9 miles of turnpike, 6 miles of statute labour, and
	6 miles of roads not upon the turnpike or statute laboour lists.
	   Topographical Appearances.-There is a very marked difference
	between the south and north sides of the parish, which is inter-
	sected for almost its whole length, from east to west, by a ridge
	of high land, dividing it into two nearly equal parts.  This ridge
	at several places, such as Carnbee Law, Kellie Law, Baldutho
	Craig, and Cunner Law, rises into hills, varying from 500 to 800
	feet above the level of the sea, and commands a most extensive
	and beautiful view of the whole Firth of Forth, the Lothians, and
	greater part of the coast of Fife.  Kellie Law is the highest point
	of this ridge, being about 810 feet above the level of the sea, and
	three miles distant from it.  From its summit the view extends
	northward, comprehending St Andrews Bay, the Firth of Tay,
	and the greater part of the county of Angus, with the Grampians
	in the distance.  It was one of the stations chosen by Captain
	Colby, when making the Trigonometrical Survey of Scotland; and
	he and his party of Engineers were encamped upon it for the six
	or eight weeks spent in taking their observations.
	   Soil and Climate.-The southern division of the parish, stretch-
	ing from east to west, through its whole length, consists chiefly of
	a stiff clay soil upon a closely retentive subsoil, with an excellent
	exposure, and in a very high state of cultivation.  The northern
	division is inferior as to soil, and still more so as to climate,-the
	elevation of a considerable part of it being nearly the same with
	the ridge already spoken of.  At certain places, indeed, such as
	parts of Cassingray, Lingo, and Craigloon, the soil is excellent;
	but the elevation being considerable, the whole range is better
	adapted for pasturage than corn, and is in general so laid out.
	   Hydrography.-The parish is well supplied with springs of ex-
	cellent water, and it is intersected by several small streams; those
	on the south side of the ridge finding their way by different courses
	into the Dreil, which runs into the sea at West Anstruther, while
	those on the north side join the Kenly, which runs eastward by
	Denino, and falls into St Andrews Bay.


