
168                   ROXBURGHSHIRE.

trict they have been wont to travel. Their character for truth
and honesty is certainly not high. Their pilfering and plundering
habits, practised chiefly when from home, are pretty generally
known. Their money debts, however, they discharge, I believe,
as punctually as others; and there is a species of honour among
them, that, if trusted, they will not deceive, and a principle of
gratitude, that, if treated kindly, they will not injure. Numerous
instances can be referred to of the grateful sense they entertain of
favours bestowed on them, and of the length of time they will re-
member a kindness done either to themselves or their relatives.
A deep spirit of revenge is the darkest trait in their character.
Yet may most of the savage features of the gipsy character be
referred to their loose, wandering, and disorderly life; to their
lamentable ignorance of the duties which they owe both to God
and man, and their total want of restraint by any consideration,
moral or religious. I am not aware that they are much addicted
to ardent spirits, or that there is an habitual drunkard belonging
to their tribe.
   Most of the tribe are able to read, though very indifferently.
They seem alive to the advantages of education, and speak of it as
the only legacy which a poor man can leave to his children; but
the migratory habits of the people prevent their children from re-
maining long enough at school ever to make much progress. The
children are generally remarked as clever. One large family
of children have been taught to read by their mother at home;
and I have known a father (when he was able) who gave a lesson
every day to his two children, in the course of their migrations. I
may mention, as a proof of the anxiety of parents on this subject,
that most of them have again and again professed their willingness
to leave their children at home throughout the year for instruction,
could they only afford it, and entrust them to the charge of some
prudent person. This is a great step to their improvement, con-
sidering bow extremely attached the gipsy parent generally is to
his children;-that attachment to their offspring being one of those
traits or features of character which distinguishes the tribe where-
ever they are found. Most of the younger children have attended
the Sabbath school, when at home; and not only do the parents
willingly send them, but even the children themselves seem de-
lighted to attend. I have remarked in most of these children,
what may account in some degree for this desire on their parts, a
spirit of emulation, and strong desire to please those who will take
the trouble to notice them. Even a few of the adults have attend-


