
                     NAIRN.				  5

            V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
  Burgh.-The burgh of Nairn has not much increased in size or
population, during the last twenty years. The only increase is in
the fishing town, occasioned by the prosperity attending the herring-
fishing; when the whole of the male fishing population, numbering
perhaps 150, besides boys, go with their boats in the herring sea-
son, to the Caithness coast, where they remain for six weeks, and
on an average bring home from L. 50 to L. 100 each man, which
constitutes a great source of wealth to the town. An academy was
erected by public subscription some years ago in the burgh, and
forms a very neat building at the west end of the town, the ground
being the gift of the late Captain James Rose, R. N., who, be-
sides sever l large donations during his life, has bequeathed his
dwelling-house and a considerable sum of money to the Institution.
  Two other schools, one called the sessional school, (to which
the General Assembly's Committee have appointed a teacher),
and the other the monitory school, have been been built by pub-
lic subscription. A dwelling-house is attached to the former.
  There are branches of three different banks in the burgh, viz.
the National, British Linen Company, and Caledonian. The first
named have erected a handsome building for their institution.
  Gas has been of late introduced into the burgh, and promises
to become a great benefit to the inhabitants, both in their private
dwellings, and shops, and in lighting the streets. The public
street, from having been a rough causeway, is now Macadamized,
and much levelled; but some inconvenience is felt, in very dry
weather, from the increased quantity of dust.
  There is an excellent well kept hotel in the burgh, at which
three public coaches stop every day.
  There is a Temperance Society in the burgh,÷which p÷omises
÷to be p÷oductiv÷ of goo÷.
  Ec÷lesiast÷cal State.-Number of families in the parish belong-
ing to the Established Church, 730. Number of Dissenting or
Seceding families about 100; 1 Episcopalian family; and 1 Ro-
man Catholic. Stipend 122 cwt. 6 stone, 121/2 lb. meal, 55 quar
ters, 6 bushels, 1 gallon, 1 quart barley, paid by the fiar prices,
L.129, 9s. 3 7/10d. money. The glebe is nearly seven acres in
extent, and rents at L.18 per annum. It is not known when the
manse was built; but in 1817, it was completely repaired, and is
now in good condition.
x

