
                            PARISH OF NAIRN

                   PRESBYTERY OF NAIRN, SYNOD OF MORAY,

                     THE REV. JAMES GRANT, MINISTER.


        	I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	Name, Extent,&c.-THE parish derives its name from the river
	which runs thought it, called in Gaelic Uisge Nearne, or Water
	of Alders, from the great quantity of trees and shrubs of that spe-
	cies od wood which grows upon its banks.  From east west, it
	measures 6 miles, and from north to south, upward of 8.  The
	figure somewhat resembles the letter X.  In the environs of the
	town, and long the coast by Delinies, as also about Kildrumie,
	the soil is light and sandy.  On the river side, it consists of sand
	mixed with a kind of mortar or clay.  The south side of the parish
	is rather of a rich and heavy mould.  On the north side of the river,
	the ground is flat and level; and on the south, it rises with a gradual
	ascent, terminating, at one corner of the parish, in the hill of Ur-
	chany, the only eminence in the parish deserving the name of a
	hill.
			   II.-CIVIL HISTORY
	   Antiquities,&c.-On the north side of the hill of Geddes, are
	to be seen the vestiges of an old edifice, about twenty-six yards
	long, and nearly half as broad.  It is called Caisteil Fionlach, i.e
	Finlay's Castle.  At the bottom of this little hill, on the south-
	east, there appears to have been a sunkm or draw-well for the used
 	of the castle.  A little to the east, on the side of the same hill of
	Geddes, are the remains of the Castle of Rait, built probably by
	Rait of that ilk, but a what period is uncertain.  It was for some
	time the residence of one of the Cummines; and, considering the
	time at which it seems to have been built, it appears to have been
	a house of great strength.  A little below this castle is a place
	called Knock-na-gikkan, i.e. the hill where the young men or lads
	were killed.  Here, it is said that eitheen of the Mackintoshes
	were destroyed by the Cummines, who then lived at Rait, on ac-
	  NAIRN.                                 A


