
344                      BERWICKSHIRE.

the power of spending money imprudently. The very favourable
effect of it, therefore, on the morals of the people is too important
not to deserve special notice.
   Husbandry.-The situation of this parish is peculiarly favour-
able to the purposes of agriculture, the lands in general consisting
of a dry and manageable soil, which the skilful farmer can turn to
great advantage; and the climate being so favourable, that grain,
even in the latest seasons, is commonly brought to maturity. There
is a ready market for every kind of farm produce at the town of
Berwick-on-Tweed, which is only four miles distant. There corn
is sold by sample, and the utmost punctuality observed by the corn-
merchants, as to payment. To the recently established market
at Eyemouth corn is also sent. Some part of this is disposed of to
the millers in the neighbourhood, whose mills on the banks of the
Whitadder (one of which lies in this parish) manufacture a consider-
able quantity of meal, flour, barley, &c. The wool-staplers from
Yorkshire come here at particular seasons to purchase the wool;
while fat stock is sold to dealers from Morpeth,-to fleshers in
Berwick,-and at a monthly market at Ayton.
   Berwick supplies the agriculturist with manure, which is much
used in turnip husbandry, though within these five or six years
bone-dust has been greatly in request. Bones in considerable
quantity are imported at Berwick from Prussia and other conti-
nental countries,-are ground at mills in the neighbourhood,-and
sold at from 18s. to 20s. per imperial quarter. This kind of ma-
nure has greatly superseded the former, being suitable for the light
soil of the parish; and it is more easily, and at less expense, convey-
ed to the higher grounds. Very considerable improvements in the
cultivation of the soil have taken place during the last ten or
twenty years. Draining has been and is carried on to a very
considerable extent, so that the land has become greatly more pro-
ductive. Every species of white and green crops is raised, parti-
cularly barley, oats, turnips, and artificial grasses. Wheat and
beans are raised in smaller quantities than the other kinds of grain,
because not so suitable to the light soil of the parish. The usual
rotation of crops is, first oats, then turnips; after these, barley with
grass-seeds, which makes hay the succeeding crop; and the ground
upon which it is raised is commonly allowed to remain for some
years in grass for pasture,-after which it is again taken up and ma-
naged according to the above rotation. There is always, however,
a great proportion of the land in grass, and to this the tenants


