
908                     ABERDEENSHIRE.

amount of capital on their respective farms, and consequently to
add to the number of their labourers.
   If the united operation of the causes above-mentioned is deemed
insufficient to account for the remarkable rise upon the population
of this parish since 1831, the writer may be permitted to observe,
that he is convinced, by experience, that an accurate census can-
not be obtained, and that the returns made will always fall below
the truth, unless heads of families are required to specify the
names of their children and dependents.  He has found, in innu-
merable instances, that, in the gross return at first made to him,
an omission had to be supplied, when the party questioned was
required to specify the names of his family.  From the circum-
stance, then, that the names of the inhabitants were not required
in the census ordered by Government, he is disposed to think,
without imputing the slightest negligence to the highly qualified
and most respectable gentleman who was employed to take the cen-
sus of the parish of Ellon in 1831, that that census might have
probably come short of the actual amount of population.
   According to the census of 1887, the number of persons in the
parish, under fifteen years of age, is 935; the number of families
amounts, according to the same census, to 564, by which, if we
divide 2805, the gross population, we shall have within a very
trifling fraction of 5 to a family.
   The people are, in general, exemplary in their morals, respect-
ful and courteous in their behaviour, and assiduous in their at-
tendance on religious ordinances.  They are intelligent in no ordi-
nary degree; and, although, in regard to the religious, or rather
ecclesiastical controversies now unhappily so prevalent, they may
not be all established in the same mind, yet their good sensed
or, as it is hoped, a much higher principle, leads them to express
their differences without animosity, and in a spirit of meekness.
   There is one deaf and dumb child in the parish, and three or
four people, far advanced in life, have become affected with blind-
ness.  A man, who has been insane for many years, and who is
the only individual among us deprived of the use of reason, is main-
tained in the Aberdeen Lunatic Asylum, partly at the expense of
the Presbytery Lunatic Fund, and partly at the charges of the
kirk-session.

                          IV.-INDUSTRY.
   The estimated extent of this parish in Scotch acres has been
already given, of which it has been also stated, that upwards of


