
34			DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

ditching, and turnip-hoeing. This last costs from 4s. to 5s. the
acre.
	Produce.--The average gross amount and value of raw produce
raised in the parish, as nearly as can be ascertained, is as follows:
Prodtce of grain of all kinds, whether cultivated for food of man, or the domestic

<TABLE>

animals, (deducting seed,)        				    L. 7201 0 0
		potatoes, turnips, cabbages, beet, and other plants culti-
vated in the fields for food,        				       2898 0 0
		hay, 						       2100 0 0
		land in Pasture, rating it at L. 2 per cow, or full-grown
		ox, grazed, or that may be grazed for the season; at 6s. per ewe,
		or full-grown sheep, pastured, or that may be pastured, for the
		year,       					       1288 0 0

			Total value of raw produce raised,        L. 13,487 0 0

	Of the crop of oats, the greater part is used for feeding horses
and swine, and employed as meal for the farmers' families. The po-
tatoe crop is almost all used for the same purposes. More than one-
half of the artificial hay is used in feeding the farmers' horses; and
almost the whole of the natural hay is used in feeding the farm
stock.
	Manufactures.--In this parish there are no manufactures; but
a considerable number of weavers who work in their own houses,
some of them country work; but more of them are employed in
weaving cotton for the manufacturers of Carlisle and other places,
the prices allowed for which vary exceedingly, and, when very
low, are attended with great want and misery to the poor weavers.

			V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Means of Communication.--Dumfries is the post town of the
district; and both a mail-coach, and another coach between it
and England, pass twice daily through the parish; and a foot
post also passes twice every day between Dumfries and Lochma-
ben, by another turnpike road through this parish. The length
of turnpike roads in the parish is about seven miles and a-half; and
they are kept in excellent order, as are also the parish roads,
which are about twelve miles long, and are kept up by an assess-
ment of L. 1 upon the 100 merks of valued rent, amounting to
about L. 36 a-year. At present the assessment is reduced to 15s.
per 100 merks, producing only about L. 27 a-year. The roads
are now in so good a state that it is thought the annual expendi-
ture of this small sum will keep them in proper repair. The sys-


