
64                      BANFFSHIRE.

north, by Cullen, or that part of Rathven annexed quoad sacra to
Cullen; and on the east, by Fordyce.
  Topographical Appearances. - The form of the parish is nearly
that of a parallelogram. It is intersected by a small stream called
the burn of Deskford, which rises in the adjoining parish of Grange,
and is increased in its course through Deskford by many streamlets
from the rising grounds on each side of it, running down small
glens or ravines, beautifully fringed with natural wood on each side
of them, as is the burn or main stream into which they run. So
that Deskford forms one of the most beautiful little straths in the
whole country.
  The impetuosity of the little streams in thaws or floods, rolling
and bounding down their steep and rocky channels, and of the
burn, which is then swelled into a large size, sweepiDg majestically
along, is grand and striking. There is, as may be supposed, a
variety of small waterfalls; and there is one called the Linn, which
is singularly beautiful. The water is hemmed within a very narrow
channel, in the deep cleft of a great rock, the entrance of
which it has beautifully scooped and polished; and it throws itself at
several successive bounds to a depth of nearly thirty feet. The
scenery around is exceedingly romantic and beautiful.
  The high ground on the east side of the strath, at its south or
upper end, is partly planted with larch and common fir. It is called
the Green-hill. That on the west or opposite side is of a mossy
nature, and is generally covered with heath, except small patches
here and there, which have been cultivated, the number and extent
of which are gradually increasing. *  At the north or lower
end of the strath, the ground is cultivated on the east side to the
very top of the hill; and on the west or opposite side it is covered
with fir and other thriving wood. The low ground, throughout the
whole length of the strath, is almost wholly cultivated, except
where the precipitous banks of the burns or ravines prevent it. But
there being covered with natural wood, add much to the variety
beauty of the scenery.
  Climate.- The climate is rather cold and wet. But, if we may
judge from the general health and longevity of the inhabitants,
it cannot be considered as peculiarly unwholesome. And even its

<FOOTNOTE>These patches are cultivated by small tenants, to whom the proprietor lets the
ground in lots of from eight to twelve or twenty acres, for seven years, rent free; and
after that, for ls. or ls Is. 4d. per acre a period of nineteen years,-after which, the
land is let for such moderate rent as it is judged worth.


