
	 382                       PERTHSHIRE.

         pretty full account is given of the geography of Scotland, and,
         among other districts, of the Carse of Gowrie.  These volumes
         are enriched by a series of provincial maps, which are very minute
         and very curious, and show with what tenacity even the most ob-
         scure hamlets retain the same names from generation to genera-
         tion.  It unfortunately happens, that the map for this district has
         been abstracted, but several of the localities in the outskirts can
         be traced in the maps of the adjoining districts.  The volumes in
         question are in the possession of Vice-Admiral Drummond of
         Megginch. *
            The lowest parts of the parish, and that which, as being often
         flooded and the last in being drained, was called the Myres, were,
         in 1742, by order of the Court of Session, divided among the
         principal proprietors.  They amounted in `ll to some htndreds
         of acres.
            Remarkable Occurrences.-The most memorable and important
         occurrence within the memory of man, was the formation, about
         forty-six years ago of the great turnpike road through the carse,
         between Perth and Dundee, with the branches connecting it with
         the principal harbours on this side of the Tay, such as the Pow
         of Errol, now Port-Allen, and Polgavie.
            Another occurrence worthy of notice is connected with the state
         of the river, during the intense frost which prevailed in the month
         of January 1814.  So completely was the Tay, at that time,
         blocked up, with an accumulation of ice, that, although the dis-
         tance between Port-Allen and Newburgh is fully two miles, the
         passage was made by several persons on foot, and so near the time
         when the storm broke up, that some who crossed the river in this
         manner returned, next tide, or at least next day, by the passage-
         boat !
            Eminent men.-Of distinguished individuals connected with this
         parish, we may mention the Right Honourable the Earl of North-
         esk, who resided in it as proprietor of the estate of Errol, at least
         from the year 1697 till 1714.  We may also  mention the Rev.

         John Strang, D. D., who was minister from 1614 to 1626, when
         he was translated to be Principal of the University of  Glasgow;
         and in particular the Rev.  Lauchlan Macintosh, of Dalmunzie,
         who was minister of this parish from 1724 till 1744.  After the

         <FOOTNOTE>The title of the volume on Scotland is, " Geographice Blavaine, Volumen vi.
	quo libri 12; 13, Europe continentur.  An stelaedami, 1682"  It contains the an-
	cient tradition about the battle of Luncarty.


