
                               MINNIGAFF.                          123


        In the garden at Bargaly there is a most beautiful specimen of
the evergreen oak, Quercus sessiliflora,  which is believed to be
unrivalled in Scotland. Its circumference, two feet from the
ground, is 9 feet 6 inches ; it is 13 feet 9 inches to the first branch
below which it is 7 feet 10 inches in girth ; the height of the tree
is about 60 feet. There is also a very fine variegated sycamore,
which measures 9 feet 5 inches in circumference, at 5 feet 6 inches
from the ground.
        Woods and Plantations.--The most extensive, as well as the
most ancient forest in the parishm, is the wood of Cree, on the es-
tate of Garlies, the property of the Earl of Galloway. It extends
along the Cree for nearly three miles, and contains several hun-
dred acres. The wood is chiefly oak, intermixed with ash, hazel,
and birch. It has existed for several hundreds years, but contains
no trees of any size, having been converted into copse, and is now
cut periodically, the last cutting being sold for L.6000. Around
the old Castle of Garlies, there are about 500 acres of wood, a
considerable portion of which was planted within the present cen-
tury. On the estate of Kirouchtree, a considerable extent of
land has been planted. Larch and the various species of fir are
the principal kinds planted ; on the more recent plantations,
oak and other valuable kinds are not neglected. Around
Kirouchtree House, there are many large and fine old trees. A
beautiful beech grows near Bargaly House, which measures 15
feet in circumference three feet from the surface, and attains
nearly 30 feet before it branches off. Within the church-yard
there is growing an old yew, which exceeds 8 feet in girth within
two feet of the ground. The greater part of the woods are on
dry steep banks, and rocky grounds unfit for cultivation, and in
general thrive well. On the bank of the Penkill, near the church-
yard, there is growing a number of remarkably straight Scots firs;
they are from 5 to 6 feet in girth, and attain from 50 to 60 feet
in height without a branch.
        
                               IL.--CIVIL HISTORY.

        Accounts of the Parish.--In the Description of Galloway by
Andrew Symson, written in 1664, and published in 1823, there
is an account of this parish; and, in the appendix to that work,
there is another account, published from the Macfarlan ma-
nuscripts, which appears to have been written in the earlier part
of last century, by Andrew Heron of Bargaly, an heritor of the
parish.


