
                             STIRLING.	                       445

manifesting great sagacity and benevolence.  A house was built
in Spittal Street, in which the children are taught and boarded
with the master.  This arrangement not being found to answer*
expectation, it was discontinued.  The lower part is now occupied
in school-rooms; and the upper part let out in dwelling-houses.
The sum mortified was L.1666, 13s. Sterling.  Lands were pur-
chased; the free revenue arising from which, after deducting the
expenses of management, amounts to about L.300, and is applied
in terms of the will of the donor; and occasionally also in giving
donations and education to daughters of tradesmen.  The number
of boys enjoying the benefit of the foundation is 23.--Besides
these hospitals, there is a mortification made by Alexander Cun-
ninghame, merchant in Stirling, in 1809; the interest of which is
applied, agreeably to his will, to the maintenance and education,
and putting out to trades, of male children of guild-brethen, and
mechanics.  The sum available to the purposes of his will, being
the residue of his estate, amounts to L.5724, 11s. 2d.  The num-
ber of boys enjoying the benefit of the charity, is 20.  In the ma-
nagement of the affairs of Cowan's Hospital, the minister of the
first charge is conjoined with the Town Council; and in the af-
fairs of Allan's Hospital, the minister of the second charge.  Of
Spittal's Hospital, and Cunninghame's Mortification, the magis-
trates and Council are sole patrons.
   Dispensary.--The Stirling Dispensary was instituted in 1830.
It is under the management of a Committee of directors, annually
elected by the subscribers.  There is an ordinary medical attend-
ant, with whom are associated three consulting physicians.  At-
tendance is given, at a fixed hour on three days of the week, at the
dispensary.  Such patients as are unable to come are visited in
their own dwellings, whether in town or country.  Subscribers of
5s., and kirk-sessions of all denominations, contributing L. 2 an-
nually, are entitled to recommend patients.  The medical attend-
ant has a salary of L. 10; and small allowances for visits in the
country.  The subscriptions for last year (1840) amounted to
L. 54, 13s.  The institution is in good circumstances, having
L. 286 in the bank; while the most generous system seems to be
acted upon in relation to the objects of the charity.  During the
last year, there were 264 cases treated in tbe dispensary; of which
228 were from the parish of Stirling.  Of these Stirling cases,
the most frequently occurring disease were, continued fever, 46;
small-pox, 17; constipation, 13; ulcer, 12; heart diseases, 8;


