
60                   PEEBLES-SHIRE.

land. It is called Gameshope Loch, and abounds in excellent
trout, though, on account of the dirk and mossy line of the water,
they are of a black colour.  From what has now been stated, it
may be iiferred that this parish affords opportunities for fishing
such as are seldom to be met with.  It is accordinglv much re-
sorted to in favourable seasons by the lovers of that sport from
Edinburgh and other quarters.
   Every water, and almost every burn, has its range of hills and
its valley, with scenery more or less beautiful, romantic, and inte-
resting.   There is high ground  a both sides of the in the main river,
and towards the lower  extremity of the parish, the spots of culti-
vation, and fringes of planting which adorn its banks and the adja-
cent hills, give the whole all inland appearance, and cannot fail
to please the eye of the tasteful observer.  Near the top of Broad-
law hill, there ist remarkably fine perennial spring  called Geddes's
Well, and from the Hartfell spa at the south skirt of that moun-
tain, chalybeate waters are transported for the cure of nearly ulcer-
ous disorders.
    Geoloy and Mineraloqy.-In this parish, nothing has yet been
discovered to gratify the professed geologist or mineralogist.
Greywacke and greywacke-slate (whinstone of the peasantry,) and
some other lapideous strata belonging to the order of transition
rocks, are to be found in abundance; but no secondary strata
have been ascertained to exist, though, from the soft outline of
these mountains,it might be supposed that sandstone could be
found beneath the soil.  It does not, however, appear that any at-
tempt has bden made by mining or otherwise to make geological
discoveries or observations.  In many places the soil is strong, be-
ing a thick mould formed of earth and moss.  The arable parts of
the parish present a soil in general of a light loam, with gravel and
sandstone at the bottom.
   Zoology.-The only rare animal trial has been known to frequent
this parish belongs to the feathered tribe, and is called Ernee, or
White-tailed Eagle, (the young bird, the Sea Eigle, or Falco os-
sifragus; the old bird, the White-tailed Eagle, the Falco albi-
cilla,) which at one time used to hatch in an island in Loch
Skeen, and to nestle ,amoung the clefts around Tala Linnfoots.
So great were its ravages among the sheep, that every effort was
made to extirpate it, and for many years past there has been rea-
soil to think that these efforts were successful. But in the course
of the season just closed, it reappeared in the same as well as in


