
              	       PORT-GLASGOW. 			       71

nued to be well attended; but for many years the number of stated
hearers has not, it would seem, at an average exceeded 200 per-
sons of all ages. The minister of the chapel has secured to him
by bond a salary of L.100 a-year.
   This parish contains only one dissenting place of worship, which
is in connection with the Associate Synod. It accommodates about
800, and is attended by a congregation amounting to about one-
half of that number. Not less than 1600 persons professedly be-
long to the Established Church. Of these there are in full com-
munion with the church, 1325; communicants with the Dissenters
are 351 ; Roman Catholics, 232.
   It cannot be alleged that there is any want of church accommo-
dation in this parish, for there are in it places of worship capable
of containing one-half of the inhabitants; yet the fact has been
recently ascertained, that 833, or about one-seventh part of the
whole population, have not seats in any place of worship, are mem-
bers of no Christian congregation, and do not observe even the,
forms of a religious profession.
   Societies for religious purposes exist here in great variety, and
are in general respectably supported; including a Bible Society,
Auxiliary Missionary and Gaelic School Societies, with many others,
--the joint revenue of which may be estimated at about L.150 per
annum. A Seaman's Friend Society was lately instituted, which
promises to be productive of much good. The formation of a Sail-
ors' library has commenced under most favourable auspices. Every
ship that leaves the harbour carries a small tin box, furnished by
the society, containing several copies of the Scriptures, and a few
other approved religious publications for the use of the men while
at sea. The people of this place are honourably distinguished for
liberality in promoting every object of Christian benevolence. In
addition to the sums privately contributed, the collections at the
door of the parish church for religious and charitable purposes,
exclusive of what was collected for the parochial poor, must basic
amounted to upwards of L.100 during the last year.
  Education.--There a altogether eight schools at present faught
in this parish. Formerly three: masters were provided by the Cor-,
poration, with a salary of L. 20 per annum to each, who superin-
tended the classical, the commercial, and the English departments
respectively. Lately however two of these situations having be-
come vacant, the magistrates considered it necessary to discontibue
both salaries, and to resolve, that in future there shall be only one


