
322                           AYRSHIRE.

scarce even thought of. No attempt was made to rear artifi-
cial grasses; it was conceived they would not grow. Only within
these thirty years or so, has lime been applied to the soil, and
grasses sown. A complete contrast in the facilities of communi-
cation is also spoken of. The roads were rough and rudely formed,
literally "over the mountain and over the moor." The streams
were vithout bridges; and a winter torrent could, in half an hour,
fix the inhabitants of a district within their proper boundaries. The
industry of the parish has had its rise and fall since the publication
of the former Report. The woollen manufactory then projected was
established, and gave a new impetus to, and enlarged the extent of,
the staple business,--plaiding and tartan manufacturing. But the
English blanketing and cotton cloths have lessened the demand
for plaidings, and the Bannockburn manufacturers have got nearer
the market for tartans. The chief improvements in agriculture
of which the land seems capable would be the extension of furrow-
draining,--much of the soil being wet, and upon a retentive sub-
soil;--and the following out of the system so successfully pursued,
of liming the land capable of cultivation, cropping it for two years,
and sowing it down for permanent pasture. The extension of plan-
tations in clumps and stripes for shelter would farther contribute
much to benefit both stock and crop, and to ornament the appear-
ance of the country.

	September 1837.


			     PARISH OF AUCHINLECK.

		   PRESBYTERY OF AYR, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.

		      THE REV. JAMES CHRYSTAL, MINISTER.

           I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.

     Name.--AUCHINLECK is said to be derived from two Celtic words
signifying "the field of the flag-stonds."  Whatever may be
the origin of the name, there is certainly a great abundance of
freestone in the parish, though not altogether of that description
implied in the name.
	Extent and Boundaries.--The form of the parish is exceedingly
inconvenient, being About 16 miles from east to west, and not more


