
   162                   GENERAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE

   ing the population from their native country; and while it may be
   a question with many, whose opinions are entitled to respect, whe-
   ther this would be the more profitable plan, it ought only to be
   had recourse to as a last resource, so long as equity and good feel-
   ing are valued as paramount to iron-handed legal right.  The
   proprietors have never been absentees; and if the nature of their
   possessions be sucYas to demand on their part industrious and de-
   tailed superintendency, they may console themselves with the re-
   flection, that' in few parts of the kingdom is there a better field
   than in this, for substantial improvement and active benevolence,
   or where the lords of the soil have more ample power for the
   good of the tenants entrusted by Providence to their care.
      Agriculture.-Tbe natural soil of Shetland may generally be
   termed mossy, with those exceptions which the nature and outline
   of the subjacent rock, and the conditions of exposure produce.
   Much alluvial soil exists along the shores of the bays, and among
   the numerous small vales, and a considerable quantity of good land
   has been made by long culture.  The mode of farming which has
   been from time immemorial in use, was probably introduced by
   tbe Norwegian colonists, and is not ill adapted to the circum-
   stances of the country, however much at first sight it may appear
   to be at variance with the theoretical principles of refined hus-
   bandry.  The spade, of a light and peculiar construction, is the
   common instrument for turning over the soil, and it is surprising
   to observe the rapidity and efficiency with which it performs its
   work.  Many individuals employ the common Scotch plough, to
   which the ground in general is well suited, and were the farms
   larger, or co-operation among the occupiers more attended to,
   its, employment might with great advantage be universal.  Some
   new land is annually broken up for cultivation; but an ignorance
   sound agricultural principles is here too often apparent, and
   leads to disappointment and loss.
      Carts are little used,-the absence of regular roads, the facility
   water carriage, and the inconsiderable quantity of produce re-
   transport, render theirvant the less felt.  Ponies with
   pack saddles are the chief substitute.
      The subject of road-making has deservedly attracted attention.
   In a country  so indented by the sea, the employment of small
   steam-boats, using peats for fuel, might, for some time to come,
   be suggested as a substitute.
      The manures are, farm-yard dung, sea-weed, peat ashes,


