
     Statistical Account

proportion accurately measured; and its worth is now so
well understood, that sometimes it is no easy matter to settle
a dispute about a few acres; which perhaps, in other times,
would have gone for nothing.  That part of the muir, which
is connected with the estate of Gargunnock, was let, last
year, at almost double the former rent; but the proprietor
hath this year taken it into his own hands; and having pe-
rused Sir John Sinclair's pamphlet on the subject, hath been
induced to stock it with the Cheviot breed of sheep.  The
shepherd, who has been brought from that country, is hopeful
the experiment will succeed to a wish, although all the sheep
farmers here are strongly prejudised against the scheme; and
predict its total failure, during the winter months.  The supe-
rior quality, and price of the wool, is a sufficient justification
of the attempt; and if the plan is successful, it will certain-
ly turn out one of the most beneficial of all our improvements.
Men of property alone are qualified to engage in designs of
this nature.  If they are successful, they will soon be follow-
ed by others; and society at large will reap the good fruits of
their labours.  Or, supposing the undertaking should prove
abortive, they are sufficiently able to sustain the loss.  That
man is deserving of praise, who employs his substance in
such laudable pursuits, as according ro his best judgement
may be useful to the community, as well as to himself.
   It would be of great advantage, both to the landlord and te-
nant, if care was always taken to annex to the muirland farm
some low lying fields, of better pasture; as, where this is not
the case, the farmer is often obliged to send his stock du-
ring the winter to a great distance, which must be attended
with inconvenience.  Col. Eidingtoun of Gargunnock is
well provided in this respect; a circumstance favourable to
his purpose of rearing the Cheviot breed.  The tenants of
the muir of Boquhan, in this parish, are also well accommo-


