
218                  HADDINGTONSHIRE.

wick (afterwards Earl of Dirleton, who, it will be remembered
purchased this property shortly before this period) narrating that
" the situation and name of the parish kirk of Gulane are both
changed and that the kirk thereof is now situat besyde the toune
of Diriltoun, and called the kirk of Dirleton, that the minister's
manse of the said kirk of Gulane is ruinous and the gleib over-
blown with sand, and that the said James Maxwell of his own free
good will, and for the zeal be has to God's glory, is content to
provide another manse and grebe to the minister of the said kirk
and his successors, therefore ratifying the said alteration of the
place and name of said kirk of Gulane, and ordaining the same to
remain in all time coming where the same is presently situated, and
to be called the kirk of Dirltoun." This account is fully corrobo-
rated by Mr M'Ghie himself, who gives the following doleful
statement of his own condition. "The glebe is so overblown
with sand as the largest aiker thereof has not been manured these
fyve yeires bygone; the rest doth scarslie yeild the own seed, as
is notourlie knowen. And this his stipend is not sufficient, pairtlie
in respect of the great defect of his gleib, pairtlie in respect of his
onerous charge of the congregation, and pairtlie in respect of
his numerous familie, having a wife and seven children to sus-
tane."  The present church, situated immediately to the north of
the village of Dirleton, is in the most eligible situation that could
have been chosen. It has been repaired lately, and is now capa-
ble of containing 600 people. The attendance at church is re-
gularly good: the number of communicants is about 480. There
are eighty-seven individuals, including children, dissenters in the
parish. The nearest dissenting chapel is in North Berwick, distant
two miles and a-half. The manse, situated close by the church,
was built in 1825; by the liberality of the heritors, it is one of the
best in the country. The glebe is very nearly II acres in ex-
tent, of excellent land, and is at present let for 2 1/2 bolls of wheat
per acre. The stipend is 17 chalders, two of these being wheat,
7 1/2 barley, and 7 1/2 meal, besides L. 8, 6s. 8d. in money.
  Benefactions.-The accumulated stock, arising from mortifica-
tions and other sources, amounts to L. 880, which is lent on bond
to Mrs H. N. Ferguson, who liberally gives 5 per cent., paid half-
yearly. The following bequests are included in the above sum.
George Livington of SaItcoats, left to the poor 400 merks. He
died October 23d 1704,aged 41 years. William Nisbet, of Dir-
leton, left to the poor of Dirleton L. 1000 Scots. He died Oc-
				  4


