
    296                  INVERNESS-SHURE.

      The extent of coast is probably about 60 miles: it is flat in
   some places, but, for the most part, high and rocky. In the bays
   the shore is either sandy or clayey; but in the more exposed parts
   of the coast very rough and stony.
      The principal bays are Lochs Bracadale and Eynort, both af-
   fording safe and commodious anchorage to vessels of any burden.
   The head-lands are Rhuandunan, the southernmost point of the
   parish, and Tallisker-head to the west, at the southern entrance
   of Loch Bracadale.  The islands are Soay, Wiay, and Taarner;
   the first lying about south-east by east of the point of Rhuandu-
   nan, opposite to Loch Skavaig, at the head of which is the cele-
   brated Coiruisg, (for a description of which and the surrounding
   scenery, the reader is referred to the notes appended to Sir Wal-
   ter Scott's poem of the Lord of the Isles); the two last lying at the
   mouth of Loch Bracadale, opposite Tallisker-head to the north.

                     II-CIVIL HISTORY.
     Land-owner.-Macleod of Macleod is sole proprietor.
     Parochial Register.-The parochial register is but of a recent date,
   and is as regularly kept as the present state of the law will admit;
   for, without a legislative enactment rendering it imperative on par-
   ties to register births and deaths, no regularity can ever be expect-
   ed in the matter.
     Antiquities.-There are no antiquities worthy of notice, unless
   it be the ruins of two circular towers, the most entire of which is
   close by, and seen from, the Parliamentary road, about a mile and
   a-half from, the manse northwards.
     Modlern Buildings.-The only modern buildings are the church,
   a distillery, two slated houses on feued ground lately built, and
   some farm-houses, all of the ordinary materials.

   			 III.-POPULATION.
     At the time of the last Statistical Account, the population was
   2250 souls. By the last census it was 1769, and since that pe-
   riod there has been a farther decrease. This decrease is solely to
   be ascribed to the system of farming which has for some time been
   adopted, viz. throwing a number of farms into one large tack for
   sheep-grazing, and dispossessing and setiing adrift the small tenants.

   <TABLE>

           The average number of persons under 15 years of age is 589
                                         betwixt 15 and 30,   -   565
                                                 30 and 50,   -   295
                                                 50 and 70,   -   221
                                         upwards of 70, -          57


