
               404                         RERTHSHIRE.

               early period of the Secession, :and still morp to the Burghers. *
               In some respects, this event may have been of advantage to
               the religious, interested . of the people in as much as it would have
               been, impossible for a single minister, however faithful and active,
               to have exercised any thing, like an efficient pastoral superintend-
               ence over nearly, 3000. persons, when almost two-thirds of them
               were dispersed over a large territorial  extent.  It is to be lament-
               ed, however, ashaving  perpetuated and increased divisions in the
               Christian communit . While those, who have now, we regret to
               say, taken to themselves the name of Dissenters, have incurred
               the expense of suppprting three ministers to labour among not
               Many more than 900 individuals, each of these three, instead of
               having a geographical district assigned to him, and being placed
               in the midst of the undivided, population committed to his charge,
               has to encounter the disadvantage of visiting the scattered sections
               of his little flock over the whole bounds of the parisb,-nay, has
               oven to penetrate into other parishes in the discharge of his duty
               towards thw individuals, however few; in number, who, in these
               distant localities, are connected with, his congregation, and over
               who it can rarely happen that an elder ean be placed.  To
               partial men, the have appvared, and will a appear, to be se-
               rioms disadvatage.  Had not the unhappy separation taken place
               to which reference; has now been, made, thoughts must by this time
               have been entertained of creating a, second charge, by an eccle-
               siaatical subdivision of the parish; and ht is no reflection on any
               of the existing labourers, to ray, be they ever sozealous and able,.
               that two stick labourers, with a manageable population of 1200 or
               1500 each,. within well.defined and moderate limits, would have
               done thd work more effectually, conveniently to themselves,
               and  more economically  to the people, than it can  be  done under
               present circumstances by all the four, and that, too, while far
               greater harmony and humanity would have prevailed.
                   The only otber important diference which appears between the
               present and the former state of the parish, is one which relates to
               the number and support of the poor.  In 1791, the number of the
               regular poor was 36; at present, it is 52, and for the average of
               the last eight years has been 51.  The sum annually paid to the
               regular poor alone, at the former period, was L 70; at present,
               (not including the board of patients in lunatic asyslums,) it is L. 212,
               showing a greatly increased rate of allowance occasioned partly,

               <FOOTNOTE>The last two are now part of the United Session Church.


