
                                BLAIRGOWRIE.                        899

     of Lornty, which flows nearly due east to join the Ericht.  Beyond
     the Lornty, the ground rises very abruptly into another ridge,
     much higher than those already mentioned, and of very wide ex-
     tent.  On the south and east, this ridge or hill, though steep and
     difficult to farm, is in general well cultivated, and produces good
     crops of grain.   This district of the parish (at least that part of
     it lying next to the Ericht), is known by the general name of the
     Maws; The Braes of Maws, the Cloves (or cliffs) of Maws, and
     the Heughs of Maws, are all local terms descriptive of the more
     marked features of its general aspect.  To the westward of the
     Maws, along the north side of the course of the Lornty Burn, lies
     the ground of Drumlochy, which was anciently a barony or laird-
     ship, possessed by a family of the name of Heron, the ruins of
     whose fortress are still to be distinctly traced, by the enormous
     thickness of the loop-holed walls, amid the meanness of the pre-
     sent modern farm-offices.  Above Drumlochy there is another
     farm, which extends to the summit of the ridge, and is called Ard
     or Aird, a Gaelic name meaning literally the " head" or " top."
     The top of this great ridge presents a wide undulating tract of
     moor and moss, which stretches away to the west, many miles be-
     yond the boundary of the parish in that direction.  The great
     peat-moss of Cochridge, + on this ridge, supplied fuel to the in-
     habitants of the surrounding district to a considerable distance;
     but coal is now fast superseding the peat even in the higher part
     of the parish.  On the north, this ridge slopes down to the bed
     of the Ardle, and on the east to the vale of Glen Ericht.  At
     this point, the western boundary line of the parish, after crossing
     the ridge, runs in a slanting direction, with a partial interrup-
     tion from an intervening portion of the parish of Kinloch,
     down to the river Ardle, and then follows the course nf the
     river to its junction with the Shee or Blackwater, about a
     mile below the Bridge of Cally.  Crossing these united streams,
     (now the Ericht), it follows the eastern bank of the Black-
     water for a space of nearly three miles, to a place called
     Kingseat, which is the northern extremity of the parish.  Where
     it crosses the Ericht, the parish- is narrowed to little more
     than a mile in breadth ; but beyond the stream it rapidly widens,
     so as to embrace the whole district of Clayqubat on the south,

     <FOOTNOTE>This moss (description of which belongs more properly to the statistics of
      the neighbouring parish) was accidentally set on fire in the beginning of the great
      drought of 1826 continued to burn underneath the surface, till extinguished by
      the snows of the following winter and spring.


