
128			   LANARKSHIRE.

resident in and belonging to a foreign country, while the mortality
in Glasgow in the preceding year was only one in 39 4/100 as as-
certained from a population of upwards of 200,000, whose avo-
cations are narrated in the Government census; and as to the
principle by which the amount of mortality is ascertained, Joshua
Milne, Esq., the celebrated political inquirer, author of a Trea-
tise an Annuities, the Law of Mortality, &c. and Actuary to the
Sun Life Assurance Corporation, London, stated as his opinion,
in reference to the Glasgow bill, published by Dr Cleland in 1831,
having reference to former bills, that " the law of mortality in a
large manufactuing town may now be determined, though it could
not heretofore for want of the necessary data." It is therefore no
small honour to Glasgow that it may fairly claim precedence in
whatever relates to the formation of accurate tables for ascertain-
ing the probability of human life in large commercial and manu-
facturing towns.
	Although every one at all conversant with  political science would
place the utmost confidence in the testimony of Mr Milne,--that
testimony has been fully corroborated by the most distinguished
political economists in this country, and on the continent: among
others, by Mon. Jean Baptiste Say, the Adam Smith of France,
Dr Speiker of Berlin, the German Professor Friedlaender, Sir
John Sinclair, author of the original Statistical Account of Scot-
land; the Rev. Dr Chalmers, Professor of Divinity in the Uni-
versity of Edinburgh, &c. *

<FOOTNOTE>As an appendix to the bill of mortality, we have thought it right to give an ab-
stract of a statement which was drawn up for the Board of Health respecting cholera.
	That dreadful epidemic, cholera morbus, showed itself in this city on the 12th Fe-
bruary l832, and continued to llth November. During that period there were 6208
cases, 3203 recoveries, and 3005 deaths, viz. males, 1289; females 1716; of whom,
under 20 years of age, 368; 20 years and under 70,2365; 70 years and under 90, 272.
	It was found that there bad been three eruptions of cholera marked by the reduced
number of cases happening about the 3d of June, the 16th September, and the 11th
November. Each eruption had a period of increase. In the first eruption, persons
poorly fed, of irregular habits, and dwelling in the crowded ill-aired parts of the city,
were chiefly affected. The second eruption was more severe, the attacks were more
scattered over the town, and many healthy persons, and in easy circumstances, fell vic-
tims to the disease. The last eruption was milder than the second, but still surpas-
sing the first, both in the number of cases and in the healthy and good condition of
many of the sufferers.
	The total number of cases, 6208, is one for about every 32 1/4 of the population.
	The total number of deaths, 3005, is one for about every 67 1/5 of the population.
	The progress of the disease was such as to have seized one victim for about every
six, and to have occasioned one death for about every thirteen families.
	It became desirable, in a medical and statistical point of view,to ascertain the num-
ber of burials durinw the existence of the cholera, namely, from 12th February to 11th
November 1832, as compared with the corresponding period in the preceding year,
The following was the result:
                                     3


