
     of Callanaer.

In the latter, the ground is feued in small lots*; and the proprie-
tor neither wants the means, nor the inclination, to employ
the people.  The village of Callander is laid down after a re-
gular plan, built substantially with stone and lime, and cover-
ed with blue slates.  A beautiful river runs between the old
and the new part of the village, over which there is a large and
convenient bridge, with roads branching out in all directions.
A stupendous rock rises on the N. stuck full of firs, and a variety
of natural wood, wherever there is any soil between the shelves,
which affords protection to the village from the cold.  Over
this rock occasionally falls down a white stream of water,
several hundred feet high; all which gives the place both a
picturesque and an elegant appearance.-Including the soldiers
settlement, (which consists of houses built by government, for
pensioners, after the Peace of Paris, in the year 1763), the
number of families in Callander is 190.  The mode of giving
feus is a rood of ground, or one 4th of an acre, in property,
upon paying 7 L. 10 s. of a premium, and 5 s. of feu duty yearly,
together with an acre of arable ground, a rood of meadow or
bog hay, and two cows grass, in the common pasture, for rent
and the liberty of moss, common thatch and stones, free.
Some time ago, no premium was paid; but the feu duty was
6 s. 8 d., and the property redeemable.  This village has in-
creased greatly within these 30 years.
   In the village of KILMAHOG, there are about 48 families.
The inhabitants have long leases, which encourages them, with
the assistance of the proprietor, to erect better houses than
formerly.  This village is beautifully situated on a plain be-
low the proprietor's mansion.  At its W. end, the wood of
Leney forms an amphitheatre, which covers the front of the
hills; and the tumultuous noise of the cataract at the Pass of
     4 F 2

<FOOTNOTE>

*A single ridge of land has not been sold in this parish, for these several years
except the feus in the village of Callander, which may be considered rather as
a melioration of an estate than a sae.


