
618                           EDINBURGHSHIRE.

imbedded innumerable rounded pebbles and irregular fragments
of rocks, from the size of a pea to that of an egg. The fragments
are quartz and felspar, of a yellowish, reddish, and dark-red co-
lour; the larger pieces consisting of compact felspar and jasper.
Few or no traces of trap-rock are perceptible in this conglome-
rate, which seems rather to have been form from the debris of
granite and the older porphyries. The larger masses are water-
worn pebbles, apparently of quartz rock, and minute sand particles
are copiously intermixed, but without micaceous particles. On
the whole, the mass has an exact resemblance to a consolidated
sea beach. Farther onwards to the southeast, the upper beds
of this conglomerate change to a reddish arenaceous mass, in
which the debris of the surrounding trap rocks is sufficiently per-
ceptible.
   On the south side of the hill, various alternations of the trap
and sandstone rocks are visible, as seen in a perpendicular line
from Nelson's Monument downwards. Thus the rock on which
Nelson's Monument rests is claystorie porphyry. Below this, the
section formed by the circular walk exhibits a conglomerated
sandstone: again, opposite bridewell, a layer of shale and sand-
stone is seen interposed between two masses of trap, while green-
stone, of a harder and more compact nature, prevails downwards.
   From these interpositions of the trap among the shale and sand-
stone strata, it appears as if this intrusion of the igneous rocks had
taken place, in the first instance, while the strata were nearly ho-
rizontal, and that afterwards a second eruption of igneous matter
had elevated the whole mass of the hill into its present position.
   This hill affords a good example of the sloping position which
all those in the vicinity assume,-the eastern sides being covered
with sandstone, while the western are abrupt and naked. The
accumulation of rocky fragments and diluvial clay and sand on
the eastern declivities, afford evident proofs of a current of water
having flowed with violence for a considerable period. But some
other causes must have influenced the uniform slope of the strata
to the eastward, for the simple effects of denudation, however vio-
lent, will not explain this phenomenon.
   It is highly probably that, previous to the eruption of the trap
rocks, the sandstone had obtained an easterly inclination from an-
terior eruptions; and that thus it more readily gave way in that
direction at a subsequent period, while this effect was perhaps
aided by the impetus of the current of the igneous mass itself pass-
				3


