
                          ABERNETHY.                     861

not on the list of regular paupers.  The sources of revenue are
the collections at the church doors, and the rents of lands morti-
fied for behoof of the poor, and under the administration of the
kirk-session.  The averafe annual revenue does not exceed L.85
Sterling.  Hitherto there has been no assessment in the parish ;
but as the regular income has not for some years been found suf-
ficient for meeting the increasing wants and numbers of the poor,
it has been necessary to make up the deficiency by obtaining vo-
luntAry donations from the principal heritors, who, much tn their
credit, have not resisted the appeals made to their benevolence.
  There was a period when the Dissenting congregation contri-
buted largely by their collections to the relief of the poor in the
parish.  It is stated in the last Statistical Account to the amount
of L.20 Sterling; but it is to be regretted, that, for some years
this source of charity has been almost entirely closed by the diffi-
culties felt in raising the stipend payable to the ministers.
  Alehouses.-There are within the limits of the parish five houses
licensed to retail spirits.  This number may not be considered
large when compared with that of other parishes; but it is more
than sufficient for all purposes of trade and good morals.
  Much of the poverty and misery existing in our parishes is to be
traced to the increasing, use of ardent spirits.  Any measure cal-
culated to check an evil so inconsistent with the temporal and spi-
ritual interests of the people, is deserving of the countenance and
rupport of all who would desire to see an amelioration in their
condition.
  Ferries.-There are two stations on the river Earn where pas-
sage-boats are provided, the one at Cary, little used, and the other
at Ferryfield, on the estate of Carpow, near the junction of the
Earne with the Tay.  There are passage-boats daily plying be-
twixt Ferryfield and the Carse of Gowrie, where there is now a
good pier and landing-place, on the property of Sir John Rich-
ardson of Pitfour.  If low-water piers were erected at Ferryfield
and the opposite side of the Tay, it would be a great addition to
the means of intercourse, and would be most beneficial. to the
public.

                      MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
At the time when the last Statistical report of the parish; was
drawn lip by the father of the writer of thir article, there were few
districts in Scotland which furnished a more i favourable specimen
of the state of agriculture. Since that period', the parish has kept


