
				CULROSS.                            599

	nastery of Culross, founded by Malcolm, Thane of Fife, in 1217.
	It occupies a commanding situation at the top of the town; and
	some rather be`utiful remains of it exist.  The only part in good
  preservation is what now,forms the parish church, and which was
	formerly the chapel of the monastery.  It is in the form of a cross
	with a massive square tower on the west.
     The period at which the town seems to have attained its grd`t-
	est importance, was about 200 years ago.  Then, a very active
	trade in coal was carried on, the coal was conveyed to Holland,
	and from that supplies of various kinds of merchandise were brought
	back, and sent from this to other parts of the country.  This trade
	has now, for a long period, entirely ceased; and there does not even
  exist a supply for the parish,-the coals which are used being all
	brought from some distance.
	  Another branch of trade and manufacture was established here,
	but which has now ceased.  This consisted in the fabrication of
	girdles, a kitchen utensil, formerly much employed for toasting un-
  leavened cakes of oatmeal.  The right of making girdles was se-
	cuied to the girdlesmiths of Culross by patent, both from James
	VI. and Charles II.  But the exclusive right was set aside by a
	decision of the Court of Session in 1727.  But the decline in the
	manufacture which soon after took place, and which, at the date
  of the former Account, had proceeded so far, that the manufac-
  ture is said to have then almost entirely disappeared, is attri-
	buted not so much to the loss of the patent, as to the fact of the
  same article being made by the Carron Company at a much lower
	rate, and to the more general use of wheaten bread, which began
	then to prevail.
    Eminent Men.--In the history of the place, it is proper to men-
	tion the names of two distinguished individuals, who were both for
  some time ministers of Culross, viz. Drs Webster and Erskine, the
  former noted as the projector of the Ministers' Widows'  Fund,
	and likewise as one of the most popular preachers of hir time; and
  the other no less distinguished for his, great personal piety and
  worth, and for his theological attainments and writings. It is pro-
	per also to mention the late Earl of Dundonald, who appears to
  have been a person of very considerable talent, and of no mean
	acquirements in natural science, as his discovery of the method of
	extracting tar from coal sufficiently proves. And his son, the
  present Earl of Dundonald, whose abilities and enterprise have
	illustrated the naval history of this and other countries, is a native
	of this parish.


