
                           PARISH OF NEWBURGH.

		PRESBYTERY OF CUPAR, SYNOD OF FIFE.

		THE REV. JOHN ANDERSON, MINISTER.

		1.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
  Name, &c.-The parish of Newburgh was created in the year
1632, by an act of separation and disjunction from Abdie, and ob-
viously derived its name from that of the town, which contains nearly
its whole inhabitants, and which has existed from a very early period.
Borough towns and corporations are not older in Scotland than
the eleventh century; and very early in the thirteenth, mention
is made of the "Novus burgus juxta Monasterium de Lindoris."
It appears from a register of the abbey, that the inhabitants were
bound to pay to the abbot there "a ferm of a merk" annually, for
every brew-house with an acre of land in the said new burgh.
Among other reasons for the erection of the parish, it is set forth
in the deed of disjunction, that "whereas the kirks of Ebdie and
Newburgh have been separate these many years by-past, by act of
Synodial Assemblie, &c. humbly desire therefore the said commis-
sioners to ratify the said separation." The separation alluded to
and craved to be affirmed was effected in the year 1622, under the
sanction and authority of the Archbishop of St Andrews. By a
subsequent application to the commissioners, a portion of the pa-
rish of Abernethy was disjoined and annexed to that of Newburgh.
  Extent and Boundaries.-The parish, which forms the eastern
boundary of Strathearn, extends about 2 miles at its greatest length
from east to west, and about 3 miles in breadth from north to south.
It is bounded by the river Tay on the north; on the east, south,
and west by the parishes of Abdie and Abernethy; its southern ex-
tremity also touches Auchtermuchty and Collessie.
  Topographical Appearances.-Its figure is very irregular, being
nearly divided into two separate sections, by the encroachments
of Abdie on the east, and Abernethy on the west, giving to the
southern portion the form of a triangle, while the northern as-
sumes very much the appearance of the rhomboid. The extent


