
518			    ABERDEENSHIRE.

not deriving that emolument from their capital to which they might
be well entitled.
   There are at present, however, obvious symptoms in a gradual
but continued fall of the wages of labour, and the difficulty with
which workmen can obtain employment, and the earnestness with
which they solicit it, that matters are, from period to period,
getting worse, and that the distress is probably approaching this
parish, which we have hitherto so fortunately escaped; and it thus
becomes a question of deeper interest than the former, "To what
is the present depressed state of the agriculturist owing ?"
   We shall look in vain for the cause of the depression in any
thing peculiar to his particular pursuit for the same depression is
unhappily extended to every branch of productive industry.  We
shall find a sufficient cause for the whole in one disastrous act of
the Legislature, and that is the act of 1819, restoring a metallic
currency.
   Gardens and Orchards.-There are good gardens at Haughton
and Breda ; and a considerable orchard at the former; but we
cannot state the amount of the produce.
   Woods.-The annual fellings and thinnings of wood have pro-
duced on an average yearly, for some time past, about L.250;
but this bears no relation to the actual value of wood now growing
in the parish, which is great, but cannot be estimated without an
extensive survey by professional men.
   Before concluding the subject of agriculture, it deserves notice
that through some cause which we cannot explain, the contents of
this parish are considerably overrated in the Statistical Account of
it published by Sir John Sinclair.  The arable land is made equal
to 4500 imperial acres, whereas some old plans with which we are
favoured, along with more recent surveys, prove it was then only
about 4000 imperial acres.  The wood also is stated as being then
equal to 875 imperial acres, whereas it cannot have exceeded 500
imperial acres.  The whole parish is made nearly, 10,000 imperial
acres, and we have found it only 8715.
   Manufactures.-These are very trifling.  The six weavers weave
various fabrics for home use, of home-spun yarns, from materials
chiefly imported; and there is a small manufactory, by some wo-
men, of stockings also for home use.  It is probable the whole
value does not amount to L.200.

			V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Market-Town.-The nearest market-town with which the parish
                             3


