
     Statistical Account

the butcher; but so small a quantity has hitherto been raised 
here, that little attention has been paid to the last of these 
objects, though, in other places, it has justly been reckoned 
a very important one.  The potatoes are either consumed at 
home, or sent to Lanark, where they bring from 5 s. to 6 s. 
the boll.  They are found to be an excellent food both for 
horses and black cattle.  Formerley they were almost univer-
sally planted with the foot-dibble; but this work is now ge- 
nerally done with the plough, in the drill-way.  The haugh- 
ground is generally ploughed 3, and sometimes 4 years, for 
oats, and then allowed to lie as long in natural grass.  Usual-
ly it gets no other manure but what it receives from the cat-
tle in pasturing, or from the mud or slime, which is left upon 
it by the inundations of the river.  Some very successful ex- 
periments were lately made by manuring a part of it with 
dung and lime.  The crops were greatly improved by this 
new treatment.  Excellent wheat and barley have been raised 
upon it.  Pease are reckoned a precarious crop, in this part 
of the country; yet they are sometimes sown, with advan- 
tage, upon sharp and clayey grounds.  Beans are seldom plant- 
ed, and only in particular spots of rich clayey land.  Flax 
thrives well in many places of the parish.  It is common to 
have 4, and even 5 stones of scutched lint from a peck.  It 
is not, however, of such a fine quality as in the lower parts 
of the county; and it is justly reckoned a severe crop.  Se-
veral ploughs, made after the model of Mr. Small's, and 
drawn by 2 horses, are now use here.  They are found to 
be well adapted to the soil the haughs, and to all ground 
that is free of stones.  On coarse and stony land, the common 
plough is found to answer better.  The number of farms may 
be reckoned 16, besides small possessions: but one of these is 
rented by a farmer who lives in a neighbouring parish; and 
another was lately throw into grass.  The principal crops 


