
   			INVERAVEN.                        137

   their food, and the quantity of work for which they are intend-
   ed.
   The black-cattle of the more wealthv have a considerable dash
   of West Highland blood, and are in general handsome and well
   kept.  At Ballindalloch, those bred are a cross betwixt Buchan
   cows and a Highland bull, which produces large fine animals;  the
   three year old stots, when in good driving condition, having of late
   sold, in the month of July, for three years running, at L. 13 each.
	But the black-cattle in general throughout the parish, bred with-
   out much attention to the selection either of bulls or cows, and kept
   in numbers quite disproportioned to the food, which is often un-
   palatable as well as scanty, are equally destitute of symmetry, of
   size, and of flesh.  With the view of improving this species of stock
   in this and some neighbouring parishes, the Highland and Agri-
   cultural Society now offers premiums; but until the number of
   cattle is better proportioned to the quantity of the food, and the
   smaller farmers begin in consequence to feel an improvement in
   their growth and prices, neither premiums nor any thing else will
   be found to remedy the evil.
   	This parish, notwithstanding the range of mountain and ex-
   tent of waste ground, is not much adapted for sheep-farming.
   With the exception of a few of English extraction, kept on infield, the
   sheep are mostly of the black-faced breed, and in general stunted in
   their growth.  Deriving their food chiefly from the hills which are
   attached to the farms, in general in undivided common, they soon
   deteriorate, when imported from other quarters; and hence the
   more judicious and wealthy farmers have, almost without excep-
   tion, given over keeping this description of stock.
	Farm Buildings.-Though there is abundance of room for im-
   provement, both in respect to arrangement and construction in the
   farm-steadings, yet this parish does not seem to be, in this respect,
   behind any in the neighbourhood.  Many excellent slated dwel-
   ling-houses, two stories high, are to be seen in Glenlivet with good
   out-houses.  Those at Wester Deskie, which are very extensive,
   are the admiration of strangers, who in general go to the district,
   expecting to see little else than bothies,-and would attract atten-
   tion in any part of the country.
   	Manufactures.-Instead of the smuggling houses, formerly to
   be found on almost every streamdet, besides one in progress of
   erection, there  two legal distilleries in Glenlivet, where whisky
   is produced of the very best quality, and  always  commanding  a




