
                            MONIFIETH.                          547

this, a great part of the present church is built of the materials of
the old abbey of Balmerino. That edifice was dismantled, and
the stones shipped down the Tay, by the second Lord Balmerino,
for the purpose of repairing the old church of Monifieth; his ob-
ject being to save expense, as he was the chief heritor in the pa-
rish.
	Brought Castle, situated on a point of rock projebthng into
tha Tay, near the western boundary fo the parish, * is an ancient
place of strength, well adapted for commanding the river, which
is here only a mile broad, but stretches out to a much greater
width both above and below it. The ruins spread over a consi-
derable extent; but the only part of the building now remaining
is a large square keep, at present used as a signal tower by the
coast-guard. Boece mentions the existence of this stronghold
in 1492; but the date of its erection is not known. After the
victory at Musselburgh, 10th September 1547, the English gar-
risoned this castle, as the key of the Tay. In a short time, the
Regent Arran besieged it; but, after much loss, during three
months' ineffectual effort, abandoned the attempt, leaving James
Haliburton, the youthful and brave provost of Dundee, to keep
watch, and prevent provisions being carried to the garrison. Next
year the Earl of Argyle made a desperate but fruitless assault on
the place. Thereafter, Monsieur D'Essy, who commanded the
Scottish army, made a third attempt at its reduction, with similar
ill success; and it was not till the beginning of 1550, that it was
stormed and carried by De Thermes, commander of the allied
army of Scotch, French, and Germans. The fortification was
immediately dismantled; but we find that, towards the end of the

<FOOTNOTE>A vulgar prejudice still prevails, that this castle in the parish of Caputh, near
Dunkled. The sessional record shows this to be without foundation. The case
stands thus:-A man, in 1678, who had been fishing for salmon at the castle on a
Sunday, refuse to submit to parochial discipline, on the plea that the offence was
committed in the "parioch of Kebbot." The proprietor was applied to, who stated that
he had some idea of its belonging to Kirriemuir, but that with Caputh it had nothing
to do. Thereupon the matter was reffered to the presbytery, who led evidence upon
it. After much patient inquiry, no ground could be discovered for supposing the
castle to belong to any other parish: but every ground for its belonging to Monifieth
was produced. These are mentioned at large. The sessional record of 12th De-
cember 1658, moreover, bears witness, that the castle paid its quota to the reparation
of the church. The presbytery found accordingly, and the synod confirmed the
finding in March 1681, after the matter had been before the courts for nearly three
years. All parties were satisfied; and there after the proprietor is mentioned as ap-
pearing for his interest at a meeting of heritors in 1701. The popular error seems
to have arisen from the circumstance of Caputh not being an original parish, and
when erected into one, receiving sthpdnd from a multitude of parishes around; and
Broughty may have been assessed for a trifle. In the same way, Drumkillo, in the
parish of Meigle, was once thought to be in Caputh.


