
			      UNITED PARISHES OF

    			    MONKTON AND PRESTWICK.

            	PRESBYTERY OF AYR, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.

			THE REV. THOMAS BURNS, MINISTER.

		 I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	Name, History, &c.--THE parish of Monkton received that
name from its connection with the abbey of Paisley, that monastery
having extensive and valuable possessions within the parish, which
required the residence probably, and superintendence of a certain
number of the monks, who, in these early times, were the only class
of persons acquainted with agriculture, the construction and
management of mills, &c. &c. It appears from the chartulary of
the abbey of Paisley, that the original name was Prestwick; and
that in 1163, when that abbey was founded, both the churches
of the united parishes were then in existence, and both called by
the same name of Prestwick, Prestwick church being called St
Nicholas's church of Prestwick, and Monkton church, St Cuth-
bert's church of Prestwick. At a later date in the chartulary they
are distinguished as Prestwic de burgo, and Prestwic Monachorum;
and at the date of 1225 there occurs this casual notice of the lat-
ter,--Prestwic--quae nunc dicitur villa Monachorum.
	Both churches were bestowed upon the monastery of Paisley by
its founder, Walter, the son of Alan the great steward of Scotland,
in 1163, together with the whole of that rich flat of land which
now forms the parish of Monkton,* with the exception of what
lies on the east side of the Powburn, which probably was attach-
ed to the religious house of Ladykirk. The mill of Prestwick, now
called Monkton mill, was added to this grant in 1368, when the

<FOOTNOTE>Ecclesiam de Prestwic, cum totƒ terr\a2 ill\a2 quam Dovenaidus filius Yweni eis
Perambalivit inter terram Simonnia Lobardi ( Symingtonparish), et terrasi de Pres-
wic usque Pulprestwic (the Pow burn), et secundam Pulprestwic usque in mare, et
a mari secundum torrentem (the Rumbler burn), inter terram Arnaldi (Dundonald
parish), et terram de Prestwic asque adm divisas Simosis Loecardi; cealesiam
de burgo meo de Prestwic. cum omnibus pertinentiis suis.--Carta Walteri filii Alani
fundatoris de diversis terris et ecoles. lis coflattis,--as contained in the chartulary of
Paisley.


