
                                  TAIN.                        287

   the year 1209, and to have been "a very godly man,") had al-
   ready existed by any special pastoral tie during his own lifetime,
   or whether it was only after his death and canonization that he
   became "patron of St Duthus his chapel, beside the town of
   Tayn." We can only conjecture, therefore, that it may have been
   a chief seat of the Bishoprick of Ross, after its foundation by David
   I., the son of Malcolm, in the twelfth century. At all events, we
   learn from the same document already referred to, that the burgh
   was "under the special protection of the Apostolic See."
      Memorials of St Duthus.-In addition to the Gaelic appella-
   tions of the burgh and parish, several other names with us are
   compounded from that of the Saint. We have St Duthus' Cairn,
   St Duthus' Scalp, (namely, the mussel-scalp,) St Duthus' Cairn,
   St Duthus' Chapel, and St Duthus' Church; besides that the
   burgh arms bear upon them the figure, and are inscribed with the
   title of Sanctus Duthacus. St Dutbus' Chapel exists, now only as
   a ruin, presenting a remarkable example of combined strength
   and simplicity of architecture. The materials of which it was
   built are of the granite blocks, with which the parish abounds,
   (and of which our fences are still generally composed,) cemented
   unsparingly with lime, which, having acquired a hardness scarcely
   inferior to that of the stone itself, has preserved much, of the walls
   in a state of remarkable entireness, not with standing that they have
   stood roofless and exposed for full four centuries. How long pre-
   vious to this it had been built, and whether before or after the
   death of its patron saint, we know not The ruins are situated
   on an eminence in the sandy plain, in which it has been mentioned
   that the town once stood. This edifice was of old a celebrated
   sanctuary, to which it is said that crowds used to resort; but, as
   it has been remarked, that while "the evil that men do lives
   only three instances in which itsuse as such has been, recorded,
   in two its sacred character was violated, and in the third was
   made the instrument for the accomplishing of an evil design.
      The first these events was in the year 1306, when King
   Robert Bruce, whose fortunes were at this period reduced to their
   lowest ebb, had sent his queen and daughter for safety to the
   stronghold of Kildrummie in Marr; whence, dreading a siege,
   they betook themselves by flight to, St Duthus' sanctuary: but
   the then all-powerful Earl of Ross, deterred by no feelings of
   honour or of religion, seized their persons, and delivered them to


