
        			PAISLEY.			   191

operate here, as in other places, to a melancholy extent, there is one
which has not been adverted to so frequently in this connexion as it
ought ; the system of pawnbroking.  About two years ago the at-
tention of an official gentleman in the place was seriously called to
this subject in making up some statistical returns; and the result
was really heart-rending.  He took the three leading establish-
ments in town, and the weekly average showed the following issue
of pawn-tickets; in the first of these establishments, 4000; in the
second, little short of 3000 ; and in the third about 2200.  Now,
appalling as at first sight this arithmetical summation appears, the
misery does not rest here.  By the pawnbroking act, when a broker
advances any'sum beyond 10s. he is bound, under a penalty, to
enter the transaction in a particular form; and when the article
pledged is sold, be is bound, should it realize more than the advance,
to count and reckon with his customer, retaining only the original
sum advanced, and the profit or ten per centage which the act al-
lows him.  So far there is no objection.  But the case is widely dif-
ferent when the advance is under l0s.  Here there is no obligation on
the broker to make any entry at all.  He simply retains the article
on which he has made the advance, and, should it not be redeemed
within the statutory period, he is then entitled, without advertise-
ment or any form of notice, either to sell the article or retain it
for his own use; no matter what disproportion may exist betwixt
its real value and the sum advanced.  This, it is plain, is a positive
premium on restricted advances; and an establishment in Paisley did
at one time, at least, make a point never to advance beyond the
lesser sum; and what with loss of tickets, mistake of dates, &c.,
their profit, we may presume, would not be thereby diminished.  Very
many cases have occurred where poor creatures, unable at the time
to relieve some piece of furniture, or dress, pawned, it may be, by
some foolish husband or wife, have lost all chance of reclaiming
their property.  A case illustrative of this may be noticed.  A poor
woman pawned a- cloak or mantle; the sum advanced was 6s.; she
lost the ticket, which was carried, (it is supposed, by the person who
had stolen it,) to the office, and the mantle relieved, and afterwards
sold to a clothesman in town for 23s.  Now suppose that the wo-
man had kept hold of her ticket, but had not been able to redeem
this mantle in time, this deficiency between the 6s. and the 23s.,
would have found its way into the pocket of the pawnbroker.  But
there is an evil still more monstrous, and a most fearful encourager
of dissipation.  Suppose an advance of 6s. has been made,-and it


