
574                   GENERAL OBSERVATIONS

abroad as common beggars. The system of assessments is neither
very general nor very burdensome; and in some parishes one-half
per cent. or 10s. for every L. 100 of land-rent, put in voluntarily in
aid of the collections, &c. have been found sufficient as a help to
support the poor in their own houses,-the most needful getting
about L. 1 per quarter, and others less. On this plan they may
be supported with this aid and their own efforts, and so as not to
be idle, discontented, or profligate. Dissenters do not generally
apply their collections for the support of the poor.
	15. Many vagrants from all quarters, and especially from the
large towns, but most of all frol Ireland, and latterly a few even
from England, wander over and infest this county, almost always
under false pretences, and raising contributions from the farmers
and others, many times above all that these contribute to the poor
of the parish; and it is vain to send them back to their own coun-
tries or towns, or to inflict on them any statutory punishments.
The only simple and effective plan is, to appoint a few houses in
which to give them bread for their subsistence merely in passing
through, and to refuse them supplies at every other. One class of
vagrants, carried about in barrows or carts, it is cruel and disgraceful
in their own parishes to send out, and illegal and unjust to burden
the public so heavily with their conveyance alone, exclusive of their
support; and the rule of a late respectable Sheriff ought to be
adopted, in sending every such person back to the place from which
he found entrance into this county.
	16. The parish schools, though placed by the act, 1803, on a bet-
ter foundation, and gradually improving, are not sufficient to edu-
cate the augmented population. A greater number of schools are
wanted, and the act above quoted should be amended, so far, at
least, as to give sufficient accommodation in houses. It would be
very useful also, if landholders would act along with the ministers
of parishes at examinations. The improved modes of teaching are
introducing slowly; but assistants for this purpose would be neces-
sary in aid of the principal teachers. Model schools would prepare
these assistants, and render them more useful. The schools in
Dumfries have been duly patronized, and also those at Annan,
Moffat, and other places. The school of Closeburn was eminent
at one time, and that of Caerlaverock is still well attended. A
great error occurred in fixing the qualification of electors of parish
teachers at L. 100 Scots valued rent; for in the Highlands, there
are estates below that valuation, yet returning in land rents far


