
      154              GENERAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE

      ter to the proof.  On a question such as this, a priori opinions,
      thrown out at a venture, are entirely to be disregarded.  It is a
      curious fact, for which there is high botanical authority, that cones
      of the silver fir (Albies picea) have been found in some moors in
      Orkney.  This tree is not indigenous to Scotland, but is common
      in Norway.  It may, however, have been planted or its cones sown
      by some of the energetic and sagacious Norwegian Yarls, who. so long
      ruled the Orkney and Shetland Islands, and who were as remarkable
      for their attention to husbandry and fishing as to politics and war.
         Antiquities.-These consist of Pictish burghs (so called) and
      standing-stones.  The former seem to have been fortified posts erect-
      ed by the Norse or Saxon rovers,-and the most perfect example of
      this structure anywhere inexistence, is in the small island of Moossa,
      a few miles south of Lerwick.  The remains of these burghs are
      very numerous throughout Shetland.  The standing-stones are
      from twelve to twenty feet high, somewhat conical, and sunk a few
      feet in the ground.  They were probably erected in commemora-
      tion of celebrated warriors, as were the "Bautasteine" of the
      Northmen.  On some of these stones, old people state that they
      have observed indistinct and strange-looking inscriptions, probably
      Runic; but these are no longer visible, nor do I know of any
      Runic remains in the islands.  If the fashion of erecting
      monuments in honour of modern heroes shall penetrate to
      Shetland, this simple kind of pillar may be revived, as at once
      appropriatetothescenery,-economical and enduring.  Not races
      of ancient domestic architecture occur; perhaps the habitations
      were mostly of wood.  Rude concentric circles, formed of turf
      and stone, are in some situations still to be seen; the circles,
      three in number, are near each other; the diameter of the outer-
      most 30 feeL These were most probably, situations where legal
      justice was administered, sub pleno Jove, as was for centuries the fa.
      shion of the Norwegians.  Tumuli are rather numerous; but no-
      thing novel that I am aware of has been found in any that have
      been opened.  No rocking-stones are to be met with.
         The ancient language was a dialect of the Norse, being similar
      to what is now spoken in the Faroe Islands; but, for more than a
      century, it has beeh disused, and is now quite forgotten.  From this
      letter cause, and from the destruction of every ancient record and
      document that the Earls Stewart and their Scottish retainers
      could collect, any old ballads or histories which Shetland might
      have possessed, have been lost.  That such did exist ean Hardly


