
                  CHAPEL OF GARIOCH.                        565

smothered in that hole, I will take my chance at Edinburgh."
The room in which he was confined is called Montrose's room to
this day.
   The circumstances now detailed must have taken place in the
month of April 1650, as Montrose landed in Orkney in the be-
ginning of March, and was executed at Edinburgh upon the 21st
of May that year.
   In the month of July, the same year, King Charles II. having
sailed from Holland, landed at Garmouth upon the Spey, from
whence he proceeded to rest at the Bog of Gight, now Gordon
Castle.  When on his journey southward, the King sent notice
to Leslie of Pitcaple that he was to dine with him.  Pitcaple re-
ceived the communicathon in the market called St Sair's Fair, and
hearing, that his Majesty was attended by a considerable number
of followers, he was apprehensive of his stock of wine not being
sufficient, and be purchased all the claret in the market, to aid in
entertaining the Royal party.
   When Charles crossed the Ury, near the Castle of Pitcaple, he
is said, to have been struck with the luxuriancy of the crop, observ-
ing that it reminded him of dear England.  The farm, to which
this remark was applied, has ever since been called England, and
is still known by this name.
   On the occasion of the Royal visit, a ball took place here, and
the party danced under the thorn tree which still stands on the
lawn, and which is said to be one of the largest thorn trees in
Great Britain. *
   When Charles took his departure from Pitcaple, the Duke of
Buckingham was on his right hand, and the Marquis of Argyle
on his left.  It will readily be believed that so interesting a spec-
tacle would attract a great number of the people in the neighbour-
hood.  Among the multitude, and perched on the top of a dike,
was the "good wife" of Glack, who, nothing daunted by the pre-
sence of Argyle, exclaimed with a shrill voice, "God bless your
Majesty, and send you to your ain ; but they are on, your left band
that helped to tak aff your father's head, and if ye tak na care,
they will hae aff your's next."
   There is also another tradition, that, upon a certain occasion,
when there was a garrison of Covenanters in the Castle of Pitcaple,
they expected a party of their friends to celebrate a marriage on
the lawn.  The opposite party having become aware of this cir-

<FOOTNOTE>Dr Keith's Agricultural Survey of Aberdeenshire, p. 117.


