
     of Stevenston.

which deserves attention and imitation.  They break up the
oldest, the richest, and dryest of their leys with a single
tilth, and immediately sow wheat upon it.  They endeavour
to plough deep, and to lay the ridges turned up by the
plough as close as possible, to prevent the growth of the un-
der grass during the Winter, which, however, seldom di-
sturbs the crop.  The ground is generally dressed with lime
or dung, about a month or so before; but if the ley be old
and rich, they reserve the manure for the subsequent crops.
A crop of oats, in a wet season, would lodge on such ground:
The wheat runs little hazard.  This ley-wheat is sown in
the beginning of September; that on the potatoe fallow in
the end of October, sometimes in the middle and towards
the end of November.  There is never any severity of Win-
ter here to hurt it*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*The following steep is generally used before sowing, and
it effectually prevents the smutt in wheat.  Dissolve, in a quan-
tity of water sufficient to cover the seed, as much common salt
as will bring the pickle to such a strength that an egg will
swim on it.  Pour in the wheat very slowly and gradually,
stirring it in the mean time strongly and incessantly, and care-
fully skimming off all the light grain that rises to the surface,
Let the wheat, thus purified, lie under the pickle about thirty-
six hours; then take it out of the hogshead in small quantities,
spreading it in very thin layers on the floor (before a fire, is
convenient), and lifting on every layer as much quicklime as
will dry or crust the drenched wheat, in such a manner that
every grain can be easily separated and sown with the hand.
Sow it immediately, if the weather will permit; if not, it will
suffer nothing by lying for a few days in that state.
   A respectable English agricultural writer has lately denied
the efficacy of salt, or any other steep, to prevent smutt in
wheat.  Without conjecturing on different soils, and seed, and
modes of preparation, I shall only say, that after more than 20
years trial of this steep, I never law any smutt in the very small
quantity of wheat I raise annually.  On the other hand, I ne-
ver examined a field where it was neglected without finding
some; a rare ear or too, perhaps, the first year, but abundance


