
                       INVERESK.                                 249

  Thermometer, at 10 A.M. was highest on the 6th JulY4 67&deg;.   Wind, N.  Was
lowest on the 20th January, 12&deg;. Wind S.S.W.
  Thermometer, at 8 pP.M. was highest on the 11th July, 64&deg;. Wind, S.W.  Was
lowest on the 20th January, 9&deg;.  Wind, S.S.W.
  Thermometer, in night, was highest on the 11th July, 59&deg;.  Was lowest on the
15th February, 5&deg;.
  Thermometer, in day, was highest on the 8th May, 78&deg;.  Wind, N.W. Was
lowest on the 20th January,20&deg;.  Wind, S.S.W.
  February was the coldest and dryest month ; June thewettest; July the hottest.
  January 20th was the coldest day, therm. 14&deg;.  Wind, S.S.W.
  July 11th was the hottest day, therm. 63&deg;.  Wind, S.W.
  Mean temperature of year.  Thermometer, 44.204&deg;.
  Wind was betwixt north and west, 101 days; betwixt west and south, 132 days;
betwixt south and east, 49 days ; betwixt east and north, 83 days.
  Diseases.-It must be confessed, that, although upon the whole
the district is healthy, epidemics and contagious diseases occasion-
ally prevail with considerable severity, especially typhus and scarlet
fever.  We must, however, look for the cause of this not so much
in any peculiar insalubrity of climate, as in the crowded, ill venti-
lated dwellings, and the filthy habits and insufficient diet of a great
part of the lower orders.  Of late years influenza has occasionally
been common.  When Asiatic cholera visited this country in 1832,
Musselburgh and Fisberrow suffered from that mysterious scourge
as severely in proportion to their size as any towns in the kingdom.
The greatest number of deaths in one day was 18; and from the
19th January, the date of the first case, to the 19th March, the
number of deaths was 282, whilst the average yearly mortality of
the whole parish is only 176; so that in that short space the num-
ber of deaths exceeded the average annual mortality by 106. *
Abundant proof, however, is furnished of the favourable nature
of the climate by the fact, that a large proportion of the inhabi-
tants attain to an advanced age.  There are not a few who have
numbered upwards of fourscore years; and there is one individual
still in the enjoyment of comparatively good health, who is in her
ninety-eighth year.  Pulmonary consumption is uncommonly rare.
   Hydroyraphy. -Springs of water abound throughout the parish,
but none of them are of a medicinal nature.  The average depth
of wells is 15 feet.  The water is abundant, and of excellent qua-
lity.  The only river is the Esk, containing the united waters of
the North and South Esks, the former rising from the Pentland,
the latter from the Morfit hills.  The two streams meet in
Dalkeith Park, near the south-west boundary of this parish, and
the river thence forth flowing in a north-easterly, direction with a
beautifully winding course, falls into the sea a short distance, with a
low Musselburgh.  The quantity of water in this stream has been

<FOOTNOTE>The total member of deaths in 1832 was 553.


