
               WANDELL AND LAMMINGTOUNE.                    839

er part of the latter were constituent members of Lanark presby-
tery, and therefore bore their share of "the charges in the tedious
business bad concerning the scandalous riot in the kirk of Wandell
and Lammingtoune."  While the Biggar brethren, for the reason
assigned, refused to co-operate any farther in this business, with
the parent judicatory, they, nevertheless, fully vindicated the
church's authority, in due time, within their own bounds; for on
Christmas day, only twenty days after the demand had been made
upon them from Lanark, "the Ladie Lammingtoune compeared
before them at Biggar, and, being accused of ane scandel com-
mitted be her in the kirk of Lammingtoune, by her resisting and
stopping of Mr Andro M'Ghie, (expectant sent yr be the presby-,
tery of Lanark,) who came there upon the Lord's day to, preach;
she did confess the samen resistance, but withall did solemnlie
protest that she bad no ill intention, neither any thought either to
prophane God's Sabbath or house, or to hinder preaching, bot
only she satt and stayed Mr Andro to enter ye pulpitt, and went
into the same, only for fear of losing her husband's right, (he being
absent for the tyme in England in the publick service.")
   The Kirk of Wandell and Lammingtoune is situated on the boun-
daries of these two ancient parishes, the area of the Kirk being
held as the exact line of march betwixt them. It was dedicated to
St Ninian, as was also that copious and salubrious spring a short
way above the village on the west side of Lammingtoune burn.
The building, originally, must have been of great antiquity, as may
yet be seen by a fine massive circular arched doorway on the north
side near the west end of the church, which was used as the most
patent door up to 1828, when the whole fabric underwent a
thorough repair.  The walls being found, very substantial were
raised five feet on the sides, which had the effect of taking away
from the former exceeding steepness of the roof; which was re-
moved and a new one put on.  The whole interior was cleared out
and seated anew in a handsome and substantial manner,-the floor
laid with freestone flags,-a handsome gallery erected in each end,
supported in the centre, on each side the area, by round cast-iron
pillars.  The pulpit, with a canopy over it, was also made anew,
and removed from the north to the south side of the building. Its
old position was on the Lammingtoune side, where it had been
placed, it is said, by the express orders of the fore-mentioned Lady
Lammingtoune, in order to prevent it being called Wandell Kirk.
Large and pointed arched windows were broken out at regular dis-


