
                                   FORRES.                           167

       and eulogised by Lieutenant-Colonel Napier, in his History of the
       Peninsular War.  Two brothers are still living of this family, and
       enjoying their well-earned honours, viz.  Sir James R. Grant of the
       Hill near Carlisle, who held the office of Principal Inspector of
       Hospitals, and superintended the medical department of the army
       in France in 1815, and Lieutenant-General Sir Lewis Grant,
       K.C.H., late Governor of the Island of Trinidad, and Colonel of
       the 96th foot.   The sister of these gentlemen also connects with
       this parish her husband, the much respected and esteemed Sit
       James M'Grigor, Bart., Director-General of the Army Medical
       Department.
          The late John Hoyes, Esq. Speaker of the House of Assembly
       in the Island of Granada, should not be omitted in this list of
       names,-a gentleman whose warm and generous feelings were al-
       ways evinced whenever opportunities occurred of rendering services
       to his native parish.
          Land-owners.-The state of property has undergone many
       changes within the last fifty years.  At present the chief land-owners
       are, William F. Tytler, Esq. of Burdyards; Major Grant Peterkin
       of Invererne and Grievshop; Sir William G. Cumming, Bart.;
       Archibald Leslie, Esq. of Balnagieth; the town of Forres; the
       Earl of Moray; the Earl of Seafield; Miss Smith of Waterford;
       ------ Gordon, Esq. of Thornhill; ----- Greig, Esq. of Lin-
       gieston; Lieutenant-Colonel Frazer of Drumduan ; John For-
       syth, Esq. of Springfield; and Alexander Smith, Esq. of Bog-
       ton; all of these have land worth L. 50 of yearly rent; the two
       first mentioned possess more than half of the parish.
         Mansion-Houses.-Sanquar- House, the seat of Mr Fraser Tyt-
       ler, is particularly deserving of notice.  It is situated about a mile
       to the south of the town, amidst well-wooded and beautififfly varied
       grounds, through which the burn winds for upwards of a mile, and
       expands into a small lake in front of the house.  Being situated
       on an elevated bank, it commands a fine view of the town and rich
       plain below.  About a mile to the north of the town is Invererne,
       (formerly Tannachy), a handsome building erected in 1818; it is
       surrounded by some thriving plantations, and attached is an ex-
       cellent and productive garden, and spacious stables and farm-offices.
       Forres House, immediately at the east end of the town, is a large
       and commodious mansion; it is the property of Sir William Gor-
       don Cumming, Bart. and was formerly the residence of the Dow-
       ager Lady Cumming Gordon, but since her death hits been jet


