
                 WANDELL AND LAMMINGTOUNE.                    825

cannot be less than fifty years older; few as they are, they still
show how well both soil and climate are suited for the rearing of
valuable timber.  At Woodend there is a fine ash, measuring 10
feet 1 inch round the stem ; and another of still greater height
and beauty, that measures 12 feet in circumference. Close by these,
there is a noble plane tree 8 feet round; and another of at least
equal girth near Hillhouse.
   Naked as Wandell thus is at present, it is said by tradition,
that in ancient times a forest or wood extended all along the
western face of the hills from nearly opposite the Kirk to the south
end of Devonshaw bill at Woodend burn, a dist`nce of two miles
end a-half; and hence the appropriate name Woodend was given to
that farm.  The woods of Hartside are said to have been for-
merly the favourite haunt of the deer.
   In Lammingtoune, likewise, there are no plantations. Such,
however, might with great advantage be scattered up and down
in belts and clumps, to the extent of 300 or 400 acres.  And
were the species of plants only judiciously selected, such as ash,
plane, elm, and others that have proved themselves suited to
the soil and climate, there can be no doubt, upon a fair calcula-
tion of human life, that a young man of twenty-one, on coming
to his estate, might find planting a remuneratidg speculation in it-
self, even laying beauty and shelter altogether out of the question.
With this passing remark, however, I am yet happy to say, that
the old parish and barony of Lammingtoune contains many noble
trees, of, I should suppose, from 120 to 150 years old.  These
are chiefly to be found in hedgerows round square fields, or in
small clusters near the present farm-bouses, or close by where
such buildings formerly stood.  The greater proportion of these
trees, however, is on the farm of Mains, near the old castle; also
on the fields to the west of the manse; and in clumps, and drop-
ping trees upon the crofts and round the gardens, of the vil-
lagers ; and along the banks of Lammingtoune burn.  The
number of these trees (for they may be numbered) upon the
whole of Lammingtoune is 711.  They consist chiefly of ash
and plane in nearly equal proportional, also a good many elms,
a few beeches, and one fine horse-chestnut.  A large number
of these are of very considerable thickness; many planes from. 6
feet 9 inches to 8 feet 7, and one as much as 9 feet and a half in cir-
cumference.  The largest ash is 7 feet 7 inches; largest beech 8
feet 10 inches, and the horse-chestnut is 7 feet 1 inch round the


