
462                    ROSS AND CROMARTY.

                         IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Plantations.-The plantations in this parish consist of the common
Scots fir, elm, ash, beech, oak, hornbeam, sycamore, and hawthorn.
The low grounds are boggy, and, though capable of being rendered
congenial by draining, to the growth of alder, poplar, and
willow, nothing has as yet been done in that way of improving
them, excepting on the estates of Geanies and Rockfield; in consequence
of which, the eastern part of the parish has but a very
bare and bleak appearance.
   The various sorts of timber of which the plantations consist
are all planted, and of fifty or sixty years standing. So diminutive
are the trees in point of size, in consequence of not having
been properly attended to, that the average produce of thinning
and felling for the last four years amounted only to L. 127 per
annum. The average produce of gardens and orchards may be
estimated at L. 20 per annum.
   The only kind of insect known here which is not common to
any other part of the country, is a small insect, particularly
hurtful to fruit trees. It is covered with a white downy kind
of moss, and fastens in hordes round the stems, particularly of pear
and apple trees, causing the leaves attached to the fruit stems,
which they sometimes ascend to and fasten on, to fall off, and so
discolouring the bark as to give it a very unhealthy appearance.
   Fisheries.-The herring-fishing commences about the middle
of July, and continues till September. The fishing ground lies
off Tarbat Ness, at the distance of about five miles, and is taken
by certain landmarks. Curers engage their boats during the
months of November and December, and give a bounty of from
L. 5, 5s. to L. 8, 8s., varying according to the skill of the fishermen,
to each of the different crews at the time of engagement;
and each boat receives in May an advance of about L. 10, to assist
in making the necessary preparations for sea. The number
of boats engaged in fishing for the curers at the different stations
in this parish, last season, was about 100; and the average take
of each boat was 105 cranes, exclusive of many hundreds of
barrels carried off, in carts, to various parts of the country. The
total number of boats employed in fishing on the coast last season,
is said to have been about 300. The haddock and cod-fishing
continues from the close to the commencement of the herring-fishing
season. The number of salmon taken annually is very in-
considerable. Lobsters and several other kinds of shell-fish are


