
			DALRYMPLE.                     273

place is situated on the brink of a high precipice, overlooking the
ocean near the south-west corner of the island; a spot to which
it is said the young lady during her illness had become peculiarly
attached, and where before her death, as stated on her tombstone,
she requested she might be laid.

	September 1837.

			PARISH OF DALRYMPLE.

            PRESBYTERY OF AYR, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.

		THE REV. ROBERT WALLACE, MINISTER.


               I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	Name.--IN charters of the fourteenth century, the name of
this parish was written Dalrimpill, which is evidently an abbre-
viation of the Celtic, Dail-a'-chruimpuill, Anglice, Dale of the
crooked pool. This etymology literally applies to the situation of
the village where the church of Dalrymple stands, at a bend or
turn of the river Doon; and "this (says an eminent Gaelic scho-
lar, who visited this place in 1832,) is exactly what a Highlander,
who knew no English, would denominate the valley of Dalrymple."
	Extent and Boundaries.--The extent of this parish, from west
to east, is 7 miles; its greatest breadth is 3 miles; and it contains
a surface of about 12 square miles. It is bounded on the north
and east, by the parishes of Ayr, Coylton, and Dalmellington;
and on the south and west, by the river Doon, which separates it
from the parishes of Straiton, Kirkmichael, and Maybole.
	Topographical Appearances.--With the exception of the valley,
where the village and church are situated, none of the rest of the
parish can be termed level, for the surface abounds with numerous
rising grounds, or little round hills, from most of which are seen
the Islands of Bute and Arran, the peninsula of Cantyre, Ailsa-
Craig, and the "lofty Benlomond," which is 44' north from, and
on the same meridian line with the British fortlet on Woodland,
the most southern eminence of this parish. From Kirkmien, the
highest part of the parish, the north of Ireland is distinctly seen
in clear weather.
	Climate and Diseases.--The climate of the parish, and especi-
	AYR.                                S


