
                            BANFF.                           61

but there is no court-yard to which the prisoners have access.
There are, besides the civil prisons, two cells for criminals. In
these there are no fire-places; and, even in the depth of winter,
the wretched inmate has nothing furnished him but a bed-stead.
Light and air are admitted through a narrow slit in the wall, which,
till lately, was unglazed. So unfit, however, have these dungeons
been conceived to be, for the reception of any human being, that
criminals have, in fact, necessarily been allowed to encroach on the
accommodation of the debtors. These prisons are on the second
story. On the ground floor is a pretty large vault, with windows
opening into a narrow court, in which female prisoners are gene-
rally lodged together, without respect to the cause of their deten-
tion. There is also, on the ground floor, a dungeon, (lately con-
structed) which, assuming that the office of a dungeon is to make
human existence wretched, seems to want nothing that can con-
tribute to such a purpose, except the being fairly under ground.
It is entirely in the interior of the building, and cut off from all
direct communication with external light or air,-the small grat-
ing in the door opening only into a half-dark passage. This is
said to be intended only for the temporary reception of persons
disturbing the public peace by brutal drunkenness or other outra-
geous behaviour. It does not appear, that until within these few
months, any regular means were employed for preserving cleanli-
ness, either as regards the apartments and furniture, or the per-
sons and dress of the prisoners, (except that water was carried in-
to them by the jailors.)
   The jail is entirely under the government or superintendence of
the magistrates. Criminals are allowed 3d. a-day, paid by the
county, before conviction; by the burgh, after it. Debtors without
other means of subsistence receive an aliment from the imprison-
ing creditor, the amount of which is fixed by the magistrates. It
varies generally from 8d. to 2s. 6d. per day.
   Fairs.-The town is allowed by charters to hold seven or eight
fairs or markets yearly, but only four are held; and of these but
one (Brandon fair, at Whitsunday,) is of any magnitude. This, as
well as the Martinmas and Lammas, are feeing markets. There
are no cattle-markets.
   Inns and Alehouses.-There are 38 inns or shops licensed for
the sale of ale and spirits,-all within the liberties of the burgs.
The general opinion seems to be, that the number of such houses
adds to the prevalence of tippling, and undoubtedly this vice pre-


