
                                     TONGUE.                        167

         rocks being clothed with an almost unbroken surface of verdure
         and of heath.  Towards the sea-coast, the country becomes crag-
         gy and fretted-like, uninteresting in its general aspect, and appa-
         rently barren.  Yet in the midst of this district, when more closely
         examined, there will be found numerous little glens, bearing a rich
         soil and a large population.
            The coast is in general high and rocky, and round the promon-
         tory of the Whiten-head exceedingly bold and picturesque.  The
         rocks are frequently intersected by creeks, and formed into
         caves and arches.  The caves of Freasgail, which are described
         in the former Account of this parish, have been noticed in the
         Account of the parish of Durness, in consequence of the mo.
         dern ideas regarding the boundaries of the two parishes.  The
         islands are Eilean na naoimh, (saint's island)-Eilean na roan
         (seal island,) and the rabbit islands.  Eilean na naoimb, situated,
         close by the eastern coast of the parish, `` had formerly a chapel
         and burial-place on it, the traces of which are still to be seen.
         On the south side of the island, the sea, after passing for several
         yards through a'narrow channel, spouts up into the air, some-
         times to the height of thirty feet, through a hole in the rock, which,
         in shape and size, is like the moon at full, and a few seconds af-
         terwards, there is a discharge of water from the east side of the
         island, with a noise resembling the explosion -of cannon.'' Eilean
         na roan is of considerable size, and has the appearance of two
         islands, particularly at high water.  Part of it is scooped out into
         the form of a basin, in which the soil is very fertile, and cultivat-
         ed by a few small tenants.  Its rocks are high and precipitous,
         and to the north side abound with deep narrow fissures, through
         which the wind rushes with great violence.  As this wind, besides
         being sharp and piercing, is impregnated with saline matter, from
         its blowing across the ocean, or perhaps from carrying along with
         it the spray which dashes from off the rocks beneath, the natives
         take advantage thereof for economical purposes.  In these fissures,
         they season their fish without using salt.  On this north side also
         there is a spacious and elegant-looking arch, about 150 feet span,
         and 70 feet broad.  About the middle of the island, there is a large
         circular hole, which has fallen in many years ago, and is supposed to
         communicate with the sea by a subterranean cavern. The Rabbit.
         Islands, three in number are fairther within the mouth of the, Bay

<FOOTNOTE> This island is well worthy of being visited by travellers who are desirous to see
         the natural curiosities of the country.



