
                              DYSART.                              145

L. 150 to L. 200 yearly. Out of this fund, two lunatics are sup-
ported in an asylum.
  It must be admitted, that now and then application is made to
the kirk-session for parochial aid, which they. cannot sustain; yet
there is no. particular disposition in this parish to seek such relief;
and it is but justice to mention, that there are many instances in
which widows, with large families, and in which other individuals,
have come forward and thanked the kirk-session for what had been
done for them in their day of need, and have respectfully declined
farther assistance.
  Prison.-Dysart cannot certainly boast of having a well-secured
prison; but there is seldom a prisoner in it.
  Fairs.-Formerly there were six annual fairs in the parish, for the
sale of wool, white cloth, lintseed, and black cattle. These were at-
tended by merchants from Glasgow, Edinburgh, and Stirling.
Now, however, little remains of them but the name. They are
almost completely deserted.
  Inns.-There are by far too many public-houses in the parish,-
not fewer than 150,-and it is almost needless to say, that their
effects upon the morals of the people are most pernicious.
  Fuel.-Coal is in great abundance, and very cheap. Twelve hun-
dred weight, including carriage, may be had for-5s. in almost any
part of the parish; and in some parts of it for less.

                 MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
  The most striking variations betwixt the present state of the pa-
rish and that which existed at the time when the last Statistical
Account was made out are these: great improvements in agricul-
ture; much waste land reclaimed, drained, and embanked; farm-
buildings greatly improved; almost'total giving up of the nail trade;
and prodigious increase of the manufacture of checks and ticks;
comparatively little ship-building; great diminution of shipping;
fairs or public markets given up; a new church and schoolhouse
in Dysart, and a new church and endowed school in Pathhead; a
greatly improved harbour; the erection of a mill for spinning flax;
a patent slip for repairing vessels of large tonnage; a complete and
safe harbour; friendly societies diminished in number; and a pros-
perous savings' bank. Formerly almost every female was taught to
spin lint, but for many years past, this practice has entirely ceased.

Revised April 1836.
FIFE.


