
			BALMERINO.                        579

ly beneath, from the bottom of which the rock springs perpendi-
cularly to the height of ninety or one hundred feet, and which is
overhung by the walls of the building; presenting no mean idea
of the strength of a place that must have frequently been put to
proof by the rude assailants of a former age. The parish is well
wooded, every spot almost, which is less adapted for tillage, being
covered with thriving plantations, and without which, many of the
grounds, from their elevated situation, would suffer much by their
exposure to the easterly gales.
  Climate.-Few places in Fife can boast of a healthier climate.
The soil is generally dry, resting immediately, over the greater
part, on whinstond rock; and there is neither bog nor marsh to
interfere with its general salubrity. Ancient history, as well as
modern experience, attests its superiority in this respect. Martin
takes notice of the fact in his history of the See of St Andrews.
" Magdalene, Queen of James V. being," he says, " a tender Lady,
the physicians choosed this place (St Andrews), and the Abacie
of Balmerinoch, as having the best aers of any places in the king-
dome for her residence and abode." In subsequent generations,
dames of meaner degree have been no less indebted to the excel-
lence of its " aers," as the following well authenticated facts
clearly prove. The writer of the former Statistical account says,
" The wholesomeness of the climate appears also from the fruit-
fulness of the females. The present incumbent has often, in the
course of ten years, had an opportunity of haptizing twins; and
there are two families in the parish at present, one of whom has
had thrice twins, and the other had five sons at two births." I
may be permitted to add, that that individual, during his incum-
bency, baptized, in the parish, three. times trines.
  Few parishes of equal extent contain a greater number of very
old people. There are at present 35 individuals hordering
on or upwards of eighty years. One woman is in her ninety-fifth
year, and another died last year in her hundredth. From March
1836 to Match 1837 six individuals died, whose united ages amount-
ed to five hundred and twelve, giving an average of eighty five-years
to each. The last incumbent died in March 1836, in his ninety-
first year.
  Hydrography.-The Tay, as already noticed, washes the north-
ern boundary of the parish, and, possessing a considerable pro-
portion of saline matter, affords, everywhere along the coast, excel-
lent opportunities of bathing to the inhabitants. The estuary is


