
620                                AYRSHIRE.

phized," this harbour is called "the chief porte of ye country of
Cunningham. The porte and harbry being now much decayed
from qwhat it was anciently, being stopt with shelves of Sand which
hinder the neir approach of shipping."
	As appears from the map which accompanies Pont's work, the con-
fluence of the rivers Irvine and Garnock had not taken place at
the time to which it refers, for he describes the Garnock as emp-
tying itself into the sea, about two miles from the mouth of the
river Irvine. Indeed, long subsequent to Pont's time, the sea came
up close to the town, and vessels were loaded and discharged at
what was then and is now termed the Seagate. Within the me-
mory of persons now alive, the sea has receded considerably on this
coast; and very considerably since 1620, for the lower part of the
Seagate is now nearly half a mile from the sea. Some time sub-
sequent to the period at which pont wrote, Thomas Tucker pub-
lished a report in 1656 upon the settlement of the revenues and
customs in Scotland. He had been sent by the government of
England, for the purpose of introducing order into the collection
of the commissioners of the Scottish board. The district concern-
ing which he was to report, consisted of "Glasgow, Newarke, Green-
ocke, Fairly, Culburgh, Salcoates, Bute, and lastly, Irwyn." "Ir-
wyn," says he, "a small burgh towne lying at the mouth of a river
of the same name, which hath some time been a pretty small port,
but at present clogged and almost choaked up with sand, which
the western sea beats into it, soe as it wrestles for life to main-
taine a small trade to France, Norway, and Ireland, with herring
and other goods, brought on horseback from Glasgow, for the
purchasing timber, wine, and other commodities to supply theyr
occasions with. The vessels belonging to this district are, viz. To
Glasgowe, 12, viz. 3 of 150 tons; 1 of 140; 2 of 100; 1 of 50;
3 of 30; 1 of 15: 1 of 12.--Renfrew, 3 or 4 boates of five or six
tonnes a piece. Irving, 3 or 4, the biggest not exceeding sixteen
tonnes."
	This report by Tucker exhibits the state of trade as very small
and confined, in 1656; but about the beginning of the last cen-
tury, it appears to have increased very considerably--as there were
1618 barrels of herrings exported in the year 1715, the bounty al-
lowed on which amounted to  L.843, and in the year 1720 there
were 107,133 pounds of tobacco exported, the drawback of duty
on which amounted to L.2550. About this period, and for a good


