
                          TARVES.                                  673

Aberdeenshire breed.  These were succeeded by the polled
breed of the district of Buchan, which were latterly crossed by
importations from Galloway.  About fourteen years ago, the late,
Mr Hay, Shethin, bought a short-horned bull from Mr Rennie of
Phantassie, with which he crossed his native cows.  This experi-
ment turned out extremely well, and his example was soon fol-
lowed by others; so that the great proportion of the cattle at pre-
sent bred in the parish are crossed by the Teeswaters.  If property
kept, they are ready for the market when three years old, and
bring at that age from L.20 to L.25 a head, and upwards, much
more than the former breed fetched when a year older.  They
are either sold to the fleshers in Aberdeen, or conveyed to the
Smithfield market by the steamers and sailig-vessels from that port.
Cattle three years and three-quarters old, from this parish, brought
L.42 in Smithfield last Christmas; and an ox, being a cross be-
tween a Hereford and a Teeswater breed, and fed here, obtained
a premium from the Smithfield Club at their annual show in
1840.  In rearing the calves, it is the practice of several farmers
to have them suckled by their mothers.  After weaning they are
fed on turnips, grass, and oat-straw, seldom any thing else being
given.  The land is principally worked by horses, of which there
are many excellent teams in the parish.  In plough and harrow
they are yoked in pairs, but in carts for the most part singly.
Very few sheep are kept, except on the Earl of Aberdeen's home-
farm, part of which is situated in Tarves.  Some swine are reared,
but the number is insignificant.  They are regarded as advanta-
geous by our farmers merely for eating up garbage which would
otherwise be lost,  The usual sorts of domestic poultry are to be
found in our barnyards; but they are reared for the supply of the
home-larder, and Dever for sale.
   Dairy Produce.-A great cattle-breeding district. cannot ap-
pear to advantage in this department, calves being a kind of mo-
nopolists in milk.  As much butter and cheese is, however, made
as abundantly serves for home consumption.  The butter is ex-
cellent, and the cheese, for Aberdeenshire, not bad.
   Buildings, Fences, &c.-Most of the farm-houses and steadings
on the Earl of Aberdeen's estates have lately been substantially
rebuilt with stone and lime, and covered with slate.  The slates,
and some assistance in wood, are afforded by the proprietor; the
rest is done at the expense of the tenants,-stones, however, be-
ing everywhere so plentiful, that they are to be had for the quar-
   ABERDEEN.                                   U u


