
     of Kilconquhar.

ed, if at all, till within these 25 years; the practice is now
become very general, to the great benefit of the country.
-When the turnip appears above ground, it is often much
hurt from a cause that seems not to be well understood, some
imputing it to a fly that eats the tender leaves; an ingeni-
ous gentleman in this neighbourhood, who has bestowed
much attention on this subject, imputes it to frost, and is con-
fident the turnip suffers nothing from the fly The Ruta baga
or Swedish turnip, was introduced into this parish about 4
years ago.  Its leaves resemble the rib kail plants, the root
resembles field turnip, not so large in general but heavier
in proportion to its size, and of much firmer texture.  It is
believed, that as great weight of this root may be raised on
an acre, as of field turnip; this plant seems to be gaining
ground here; it is proof against the most intense frost; the
season for sowing it is from the 1st to the 20th May; it
may either be transplanted as cabbage, or managed as field
turnip.  Potatoes were scarcely known in this country 40
years ago; they now afford the poor half their sustenance,
and generally appear at the tables of the rich; they are
well known to be very proper food for horses and other a-
nimals, and are sometimes distilled into whisky.  Pease and
beans are much used, and generally sown in drills; they
are hoed with the plough, and afterwards with hand hoes,
which renders them meliorating crops.  The number of
horses in the parish is about 239; of cattle, 624; of asses,
22; of wheel-carriages, 3.  The plough generally used is
that of Small's construction, with a broad sock and mold
board of Carron metal.  Twenty or 30 years ago, the al-
most universal practice of the farmers of this parish was, to
yoke 2 horses and 4 oxen in a plough; now, ploughs are
generally drawn by 2 horses, one ploughman managing
them; scarcely are any oxen seen in a plough.-There are
between 70 and 80 ploughs, and about the same number of

     VOL. IX. O o


