
			MOUSWALD.                               445

one at Raffles is the most entire. The largest and strongest built
of these remains of ancient times is that at Mouswald Mains, or,
as it is there generally called, Place. This stronghold was the
mansion of Sir Simon Carruthers, the laird of Mouswald. His only
daughter was married to one of the Queensberry family, by which
connection they came into the possession of the estate. In the
aisle of the old church, there were formerly two statues as large as
life; the one a representation of Sir Simon, and the other of his
lady. That of the lady was cut out of beautiful white freestone,
which has now been completely carried away piece,meal. The
one of Sir Simon, which is still preserved, represents him with his
head lying on a pillow, his feet on a lion, and his hands raised in a
praying posture. Unfortunately there is neither date nor inscrip-
tion.--There are also several camps in the parish, in all probability
British. The one at Burronhill has a strong double fosse or ditch.
In digging the foundation for a new school-house some time ago
near to this place, a considerable quantity of human bones were
found. There is another near the summit of a small hill called
Panteth hill, which, from its extensive and commanding view, must
evidently have been a watch tower.
	There are also several burrows or cairns, in whhch human bones
have been found, and urns containing small pieces of homes. One
of these cairns, distant about a mile and a quarter, in an eastern di-
rection, from the church, is called Stryal, or as some say, the Tryal-
cairn. Its circumference is 288 feet; and it is very near to another
cairn which still retains the name nf Deadymangill. Tradition has
handed down, that at the one place malefactors were tried, and of
course executed at the other. Urns have been found in different
parts of the parish, where there were no visible remains of tu-
muli.
	Resident Heritor.--The only resident heritor is Sir Robert
Grierson of Lag, Bart.
	Modern Buildings.--The only mansion-house in the parish is
Rockhall, the seat of Sir Robert Grierson.

<TABLE=Population>
			III.--POPULATION.
The population of this parish in 1755 amounted to 553
				 1791             628
				 1801             705
				 1811             769
				 1821             794
				 1831             786; 372 are males, 414 females.
                  Number of families,                          153
			  inhabited house,        		152
                             uninhabited,                        5


