
     of Callander.

received, something might surely be done, in this way; either
by allowing a trifle to the surgeon of the bounds, where there
is one, for every poor scholar on their establishment, that was
inoculated; or by employing a few surgeons, in their own pay,
each to inoculate the poor in a certain district; or by causing the
most intelligent of their schoolmasters to be instructed for this
purpose.  If the women inoculate in the east, (as we are told
they do), schoolmasters certainly might, with very few lessons,
be taught to do it here; and if the salaries are to be increased,
this would be a most laudable duty, in return for the increase
of salary.  The funds of this society are said to be one of the
best managed public stocks, of the same capital, in the British
dominions; and from the known character of the members,
who are so high already in the esteem of the public, that no
account of their qualities is necessary here, it might not per-
haps be foreign to the object of their institution, for a few
years, until inoculation became general, to bestow some at-
tention in promoting the health and preserving the lives of
their poorer scholars, while there is so much done to enlighten
their minds, and to reform their morals.  The number of
dogs might he diminished by a judicious tax.  There are more
useless dogs, than what consume three times the quantity of
food, which would maintain the whole poor.  The number
of dram houses is out of all bounds too great.  These haunts of
the idle, of the prodigal and profane, contaminate the mo-
rals of the lower classes of the people beyond description.  A
poor widow must pay a tax, before she can obtain a candle to
give her light, in spinning for the support of her fatherless child-
ren; and yet a dram-feller, it seems, can get a license, under
the fanction of law, for little more than one shilling, to cor-
rupt the morals of the lieges for a whole year.  The depopu-
lation of the country is a most serious object; and it is to be
feared that a sufficient remedy may not easily be found; and

     VOL. XI. 4 K


