
     of St. Mungo.

and singular mode of fishing, called grappling.  Three or four
large hooks are tied together, in different directions, on a
strong line, having a weight of lead sufficient to make it sink
immediately as low as the person inclines, and then by giving
the rode a sudden jerk upward, the hooks are fixed into the
salmon, which are thus dragged to land by force.  Salmon
and hirlings are most plentiful in these rivers in the month of
August.  This parish likewise abounds with springs of excel-
lent water; and there is one mineral well, which, as far as
the writer knows, has never been applied to any valuable
purpose.  There are also several natural woods and planta-
tions, the banks of the Milk being clothed with natural wood,
beautifully sloping towards the river; and the hills orna-
mented with planted wood on the most conspicuous parts.

   Climate and Diseases, etc.-The air is generally moist for
a considerable part of the year.  As the Solway Frith is only
6 miles distant, and the country around is very hilly, greater
quantities of rain are supposed to fall on this and the neigh-
bouring parishes, than in any other part of the county.  Not-
withstanding of these circumstances, no epidemical diseases
are prevalent here, and the inhabitants are uncommonly
healthy, except that they are sometimes afflicted with the co-
lic in rainy weather.

<UNREADABLE>

   Population.-The population of St. Mungo has varied con-
siderably at different periods:

<TABLE>

In the year 1755, the number of souls was only            481    Increse.
In          1763, by an accurate survey, it amounted to   600
                           Increase in 8 years,                        119
In          1784, it was reduced to                       560
                   Decrese in 21 years*,                   40
In 1792, by an exact enumeration, it had rose to          640   Surplus 40
                   Increase in the last 8 years,           80
                   Total increase in 37 years,                         259

</TABLE>

     VOL. XI 3C

<FOOTNOTE>

*For note see next page.

</UNREADABLE>


