			    NIGG.                               207

shaped and dressed than formerly. There are two separate de-
partments in the business,--that of the quarrier, who blocks out
the materials, and that of the causeway-man, who dresses them.
The latter, if a good hand, will make nearly double the wages of the
former. When the quarries were first opened about seventy years
ago, there were 600 or 700 men employed in them; of late, the
demand from London has in a great measure ceased, and most of
the hands have left the parish, and gone to other places in quest
of employment.
	Fisheries.--There are two kinds of fisheries carried on in the
parish, viz. salmon and white-fishing. Salmon-fishing is carried
on in the river Dee, at the mouth of the river, in the Bay of Nigg,
and along the coast. On the river, the salmon-fishing is still
carried on, as in former times, by coble-nets; but at the mouth
of the river, on the sea, and in the Bay of Nigg, and along the
coast, by bag-nets. This is a modern invention, and is univer-
sally used now in fishing for salmon on the sea-coast. Stake-
nets and fly-nets are used on the sea-beach, and bag-nets in the
inlets on the sea-coast. This mode of fishing has been carried
on, only for a few years, in the Bay of Nigg. About fourteen
years ago, a few partners got a lease of the salmon-fishing in the
Bay of Nigg from the magistrates of Aberdeen, for twelve years,
at the rent of L.10 a-year for the first seven, and L.20 a-year
for the remaining five years of the lease. When the lease expir-
ed, the liberty of fishing in the Bay of Nigg was again advertised
to be let by public roup, and carried by the same partners at the
astonishing yearly rent of L.660; fourteen years before, this fish-
ing was not worth a farthing. These partners have carried it on
for tvo or three years on tbe new lease; not as formerly, by draw-
ing their nets to land, as in coble-fishing, but by bag-nets, a mode
which requires fewer hands, but more expensive materials. The
same mode of fishing is now carried on at the Cove, at Altens,
and other places in the parish, and considerable quantities of sal-
non are caught in these places, as well as in the Bay of Nigg.
	The salmon-fishings are very much encouraged by the quick
conveyance of the fish in ice to the London market, by steam-
boats.
	Some years ago, these fishings were much annoyed by seals in
the Bay of Nigg. At last, one of the partners contrived a net for
the purpose of catching seals, which has been found to answer.
The plan of the seal-net is very simple. It nearly resembles the


