
				SOUTH UIST.                          183

	Eynort on the south, extending a length of about 8 miles.  It is
	formed of three distinct heights, that in the middle being the
	lowest;--the whole, when arrangements may be made for such
	purpose, together with the lands on the west side, adjoining there-
	to, being well adapted for an extensive sheep-walk.  The whole
	mountain-range is still a common for pasturing the sheep of the
	small tenants in the neighbouring farms, who, but for this indul-
	gence on the part of the proprietor, would, in their present state
	of poverty and destitution, be wretchedly ill provided with cloth-
	ing.  The range of bills north of Loch Skipport and south of
	Loch Eynort, varying in height between 1200 and 1300 feet, con-
	tain good pasture for black-cattle, horses, and sheep, and are at-
	tached to the different firms on the west side. The moss, ex-
	tending from the bottom of these mountains and hills to the arable
	part of the parish, is generally deep, and furnishes excellent peats.
	for fuel.  Once the surface is dry, and that the peats are stacked,
	they resist the rain ; and though the stacks are as broad above as
	below, and not thatched or covered with divot, as in Skye and the
	mainland, the peats keep dry, and make excellent fuel.
  	   The only cave in this parish worth mentioning, is that at
	Cordale, on the east side, between Loch Skipport and Loch
	Eynort, close by the sea, at the foot of a lofty mountain
	range.  It is called the Prince's Cave, from the circumstance of
	Prince Charles Edward having, for some days, found shelter in it
	in summer 1746, from the pursuit of his enemies.  Marshal Mac-
	donald, whose father followed the Pretender to France in that
	year from this parish, visited it in 1826, and carried away some
	of the stones.
  	   The shore on the west side, as already mentioned, is sandy,
	with the exception of certain small rocky promontories, viz.  Oron-
	say, near the sound of Barra; Ardmile, about eight miles north of
	Oronsay; Ardmichael, (where there is a burying place,) four miles
	north of Ardmile; and Ardivachar, eight miles north of the last men-
	tioned headland.  The only headland on the east side is the Point
	of Ushinish, which projects about 1 1/2 mile into the Minch.  The
	east shore is all rocky; and in most places where, the rocks are
	not high or perpendicular, grow large quantities of sea-weed, used
	for kelp and manure ; but especially on the shores of the three
	lochs,viz. Loch Boisdale, Loch Eynort, and Loch Skipport which
	are excellent harbours.
  	   Climate.--In this parish the air is generally mild and pure.  In



