
42                      SUTHERLANDSHIRE.

but this is only what is general in Highland parishes. The chief
cause of it is, that the views generally entertained by the lower classes
of the nature of the Lord's supper are inveterately superstitious.
Very many of those, who are not only decent in their lives, but even
religious, are laid gray-headed in their graves without having once
engaged in the Christian duty of the Lord's supper. Where the
population of many parishes, consisting of several thousands, are
assembled in one parish, it is evident, indeed, that, with other evils,
there cannot be the due proportion of communicants. On some
occasions, too, the strange anomaly exists in these parts of many
of the illiterate laity being permitted to address those large assem-
blages of people, who but too generally regard their doctrines as the
dictates of inspiration.
     Education.-The schools in the parish are the parochial one
and a female school. During the winter months, however, in the
more distant parts, parents occasionally unite in employing a youth
to teach very young children. The branches taught in the pa-
rochial school are Latin, Greek, the elements of geometry, book-
keeping, arithmetic, writing, English reading, and the catechisms
of the Established church. The schoolmaster's annual salary is
L.34, 4s. 4d., and the annual average amount of school fees is
about L.26. The salary of the teacher of the female school is
L.8 and is granted by the Society for Propagating Christian
Knowledge in the Highlands. The school is patronized by her
Grace the Duchess of Sutherland, who gives the teacher a house
and garden, with other donations, equivalent to L.6. It is found
to be very useful. The branches taught in it are sewing and
English reading. From its immediate vicinity to the parochial
school, other branches are not here required. There are few chil-
dren in the parish who cannot read; and those few are the chil-
dren of the fishermen, some of whom, from the erroneous idea
that to persons of their calling education would be no advantage,
are indifferent about the instruction of their children. Those
children, who are taught to read, are also taught to write; and most
of the youth can, in some degree, both write and read. Of the
elderly people, indeed, there are a number, probably 80, who
can do neither. The desire on the partof parents to educate their
children is greatly increasing. The situation of the parish school,
which is in the immediate neighbourhood of the village, is well
calculated to induce the general attendance of the children. The
                                  4



