
                          LUNAN.                         323

cause." He died at the advanced age of eighty-two years; and
he was the last person who suffered martyrdom in Scotland for
the cause of the Reformation.
	At the sight of this venerable martyr for the faith expiring in
the flames, the popular feeling vented itself in bitter lamentations.
The people were exceedingly moved by his unshaken fortitude and
pious addresses. His martyrdom was the very death of Popery in
the nation; for the minds of men were so greatly inflamed, that,
resolving openly to profess the truth, they solemnly bound them-
selves by promises, subscriptions, and oaths, that if, henceforth,
any one should be called in question for his religion, they should
rise, as one, man, and take arms in defense of their brethren
against the tyrannous persecuting bishops. A monument has been
erected to his memory in the church of Lunan.
	Another of the ministers of this parish, Mr Alexander Peddie,
who died in 1713, bequeathed some plate for the communion ser-
vice in the church of Lunan, on this very singular condition, that
any Episcopal congregation, within seven miles of the parish, should
have the use of the plate when they required it. It is said, that
he was among the last surviving clergymen of the Episcopalian per-
suasion in this part of the country, who refused to take the oaths
of allegiance to the new Government; nevertheless, along with others
in similar circumstances, he was allowed to remain in his charge
without molestation. He was much respected by the Jacobite fa-
milies in the neighbourhood, who came from various quarters to at-
tend upon his ministry; and it is banded down by tradition, that on
the Sabbath day, a long line of carriages would have been seen ap-
proaching the humble church of Lunan. It is, at least, certain, that,
for several years, as appears from the presbytery records, the
people, countenanced by the heritors, unanimously resisted the in-
troduction of a Presbyterian clergyman, till strong measures were
taken to effect the settlement of a Mr Irvine, afterwards minister
of Maryton. There is a marble monument erected in the church
to the memory of Mr Peddie; for upholding which, his widow left
an annuity of L. 4 Scots, payable to the kirk-session by the town of
Arbroatb.
	The maternal ancestors of the Marquis of Breadalbane, from
whom that nobleman inherits the valuable estate of Langton in Ber-
wickshire, were originally natives of this parish. The place is still-
pointed out, where the grandfather of the prerent Marquis was-


