
      338                          PERTHSHIRE.

      ruin, called the "Borestone." It has borne an inscription, but age
      has so completely obliterated the characters, that it is impossible to de-
      cypher a single word. The figures of animals, among which the boar,
      stag, and elephant predominate, may still be traced.  Some maint`in
      that it was a trysting-place for the hunting of the wild boar, others
      that it was an instrument of punishment, with which idea the stone
      corresponds.  It is about 5 1/2 feet high, with two holes at the top,
      through which the arms of the delinquent might be thrust, and
      be jept there in a sort of pillory.  There are many traditions
      and legends connected with this relic also, but they are too ab-
      surd to be committed to writing.  There was a chapel in former
      times upon the present farm of Cow or Coul Gask.  The place
      still bears the name of Chapel-hill ; but it was trenched over
      some time ago, and not a trace of it is now to be found.  Dr Ross,
      the present tenant, who was born upon the farm has no recollec-
      tion of ever having seen crosses or any other curious relics. We
      have about four miles of the Roman road from the Stormont to the
      camp at Ardoch in this parish.  Two of these are in a dreadful
      state of disrepair,-in winter indeed totally impassable. The other
      two, through the active liberality of Lord Strathallan, and other pro-
      prietors and tenants, have lately been very much improved, and in
      a short time will form part of an excellent road to Perth. Some
      coins have been found in the parish, but none, I believe, nf any great
      antiquity.  About six years ago, a tumulus, about 3 feet by 2, con-
      sisting of four large stones, and covered with a fifth, was discovered
      upon the property of Lord Kinnoull, containing a considerable quan-
      tity of decayed human bones.  It was supposed to be a relic of the
      Romans, but there was nothing from which this could be positive-
      ly determined.  The remains of the skulls lying at the eastern end
      would indicate an origin prior to the introduction of Christianity.
      Around the Sarcophagus, and mingled with the stones of the cairn
      which covered it, were ashes and burnt bones, as if animals or cap-
      tives had been sacrificed on the tomb of the chief.
         Modern Buildings.-The only modern building deserving par-
      ticular notice is the mansion of J. G. Home Drummond, Esq.,
      built in the style of an embattled manor-house. It is in the late
      or Tudor Gothic style of Henry VII. and VIII. The carving
      in stone and wood is beautifully executed, and almost entirely by
      workmen in this and the neighbouring parishes.  The grounds are
      also laid out with the greatest taste, and, aided by its commanding
      situation, Millearne House constitutes one of the chief attractions


