
420                      EDINBURGHSHIRE.

fattened annually, and the same number reared.*  Dairy produce
of a cow after rearing her calf, which merely keeps up the stock,
is not to be reckoned as profit.  The proportion of milk, &c. af-
forded to the household, which also is not profit, may average
nearly L.4.  Cattle put up to feed, worth L.7 to L.8, and selling
at L,11 to L.12, yield also about L.4 profit; but putting both to-
gether, say L.7, and then 589 x 7 = L.3773.
   Real rent, ascertained by addition of particulars, is L.12,882 Ster-
ling, giving for 39,814 acres an average rent of 6s. 51/2d. per acre,
while the produce of plantation which, in round numbers, may be
1000 acres, or the fortieth part of the whole, is not taken into
the account.
   The land now under the plough (11,345 acres,) is probably as
much as should he kept in regular cropping.  A great deal more,
however, has been occasionally ploughed, and, for the improve-
ment of pasture, much might in this way still be done.
   There is arable land in cultivation not worth 10s. an acre; but
what deserves to be regularly cultivated, may range between 15s.
and L.I. 15s.; but of the last there is so little, that L.1 may be
given as the average value.
   Grazing an ox or a cow during summer may be rated at L.2,
5s. to L.3, though in favourable circumstances, L.4 is sometimes
given.
   Sheep.--In this quarter, we do not speak of so much for "graz-
ing a full grown sheep," &c.  In taking a farm, the tenant con-
siders how many sheep the ground will support.  He sells so
many lambs, so many great ewes, and so many sheep fat; and accord-
ing to data thus formed he considers, from the nature of the pas-
ture, the breed to which it is adapted, and other circumstances,
what he can afford as the rent generally for each, and makes his
offer accordingly.  On two or three high and wild sheep farms
adapted to the black-faced kind, 4s. 3d. to 4s. 6d. a sheep may
be enough.  Where situation and climate are more favourable, the
rent of the Cheviot may vary from 5s. to 7s., and where the half-
bred or mixture of the Cheviot and Leicester may be reared, 10s.
a sheep may be afforded.
   Breeds of Sheep.--The prevailing breed of sheep is the Cheviot
or white-faced.  On the best pasture where young grass (sown
the preceding year) can be given till near the end of May, the

<FOOTNOTE>Several years back (1839) some farmers have preferred buying in young cat-
tie to rearing them.


