
 		              BONHILL.                            223


forty or forty-five years ago, I have been told that an invistigation
of these having been made by my uncle, Mr James Smollett,
bones and stone arrow-heads were discovered in them; but I have
never seen any of these."
   The castle of Belach (or Balloch) was the early seat of the
Lennox family, and their charters are often dated from thence in-
the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries, before they resided at
Inchmurrain. The site is still marked by the fosse, but no re-
mains of building have been seen in our time. See as to this a
note to the novel of the Spaewife by Galt. The only other fa-
mily of note who anciently resided in this parish were, the Lind-
says of Bonhill. Their ancestors were knights in the reign of
David II., and acquired their estate by grant from their relation,
the Earl of Lennox, by whom they were also appointed foresters
and tosheagers of the earldom. The male line failed soon after
the Restoration, and the estate passed to Sir James Smollett,
Provost, and representative of Dumbarton in Parliament, and af-
terwards a commissioner of the Union.

                     III.--POPULATION.
   The population of Bonhill has rapidly increased since the esta-
blishment of the bleachfields and printfields, which now form its,
chief trade and industry. In 1755, from the returns made to Dr
Webster, the population was 901 ; and in 1791, from a list of the
inhabitants made tip to 1st January in that year, the population
amounted to 2310, of whom 562 were under ten years of age.

<TABLE>

        By the Government census of 1801, the population was 2480
                                    1811,                    2791
                                    1821,                    3003
                                    1831,                    3874
      Number of families in the parish in 1831.	         -       780
                          chiefly employed in agriculture,             172
                                                  handicraft,     -    558

                           IV.--INDUSTRY.
   The valued rent of the parish is L. 2180, 9s. 2d.
   Agriculture.--The lands in this parish, as may readily be con-
ceived from the large manufacturing population, are all cultivated
according to the most improved methods. Furrow-draining has
been adopted to some extent, and with the usual good effect. The
subsoil plough has been but partially used, but in instances where
it has been tried it has doubled the value of the land.
   Horses, &c.--The horses generally used for agricultural purposes
are the Clydesdale breed. The cows are chiefly of the Ayrshire



