
362                           ABERDEENSHIRE.

Merchant Maiden Hospital, and is now very generally followed on
other estates.  It is shortly as follows: First, To remove the
stones from the surface, and from the soil in so far as they can be
seen; and this is done more easily, and at less expense, while
the surface has not been broken.  Second, To drain the land ef-
fectually; and it has been found that one very deep drain, proper-
ly placed, supersedes the necessity of many others.  Third, If the
upper soil is worthless, to plough it slightly, and burn the heath and
dead moss, which may be done at a very trifling expense in dry
weather,  Fourth, To plough the land with a very strong trench
plough, drawn by four steady horses or oxen, taking care to keep
the plough below the moorband, where such exists.  The first
ploughing with the trench plough should be done when the land
is wet; during the dry season, in most cases, it would be impracticable.
Fifth, After the land has been trench ploughed, the stones that
have been ploughed up are also removed, inequalities in the soil
are made up by a levelling box, and the land is regularly fallowed,
dunged, limed, and cropped according to the nature of the soil.
   By the means which have now been mentioned, 407 acres on
the Blackhill of Peterhead, belonging to the Merchant Maiden
Hospital, have been brought into cultivation, which had been re-
ported upon by the late Mr Alexander Low of Berwickshire as
follows: "The hill is very worthless, and bids defiance to the ope-
ration of the plough for improvement."  This hill is now nearly
all under a regular system of cultivation, and yields crops nearly
equal to the formerly cultivated lands in the neighbourhood.  In
improving this hill, roads have been made to the extent of 3780
ells; earth fences, 3621 ells; open and covered drains, 5312 ells;
and stone dikes, about 4000 ells.
   Rental.-At the time of the last Statistical Account, the ren-
tal of the parish amounted to L.3000 in 1803, it was L.4094; in
1837, it amounted to L.10, 136.
   The following account is given to show the number of acres
brought into cultivation in this parish since 1795, the estates on
which these are situated, and the extent remaining uncultivated
and waste at the present time:

<TABLE>
                                                               A.   R.  P.
The total number of imperial acres in the parish is     -     9085  3   2
                                                   A.   R.  P.
Whereof planted, Maidem Hospital,        -     -  60    3  39
                 Invernettie,       -     -    -   7    2  19
Under moss servitude, capable of cultivation,  -  86    1  25
Uncultivated, but capable of being so,    -    - 482    3  20


