
                           ISLAND OF SKYE--PORTREE.                       219

   quite so high as those above-Mentioned. On the south side of Loch
   Sligichan stands the bill of Glamaig, of nearly equal height with
   the hills Of Cullins in its immediate neigbbourbood. At the top
   of Glamaig, there is a green plot'of considerable extent, in tbe
   centre of which there is a spring which discharges an immense
   quantity of the purest and most salubrious water. With the ex-
   ception of Glamaig, a part of the top and sides of which is
   stripped of the soil by the heavy rains and high winds to which it
   is exposed, these hills are covered with the finest verdure from
   their bases to their summits. They abound with small rivulets
   and the best springs imaginable. They afford good pasture to both
   sheep and cattle, and, from the circumstance of these bills being
   almost surrounded by sea water, the pasture is not only abundant
   but salubrious to all the animals which frequent them. On the
   sea side in different places, both on the mainland part of the pa-
   rish and in the island of Rasay, there are small caves of various
   dimensions. With regard to these, there appears nothing worthy
   of particular attention, excepting that they furnish places of re-
   sort to the wild pigeons and water-fowls, which frequent the sea
   shore.
      The coast of this parish is of great extent. Along the shore, it
   frequently rises into grand, lofty, and almost perpendicular rocks,
   towering towards the skies. In some places, and more especially
   at the heads of lochs, the coast sinks almost into a level with the
   sea at high water.
      When the sea admits of examining the coast, it appears to be
   in some places sandy, in some muddy, in some clayey, and not un-
   frequently rocky.
      The principal bays in this parish are Loch Inord, Loch Sligi-
   chan, the bay of Belmeanacb, the bay, of Camistinavaig, Luch
   Portree, together with the Big Harbour, and Dry Harbour, and
   several small bays in the island of Rasay.
      In no quarter of the world is the temperature of the atmosphere
   more variable than in this parish. All the changes of frost, snow,
   rain, storm, and dead calm, are frequently experienced in the short
   period of twenty-four hours. Asmmight naturally be expected,  the
   variable and humid state of the atmosphere in all seasons of th
   year is found highly injurious to the human constitution, and pro-
   duces among the inhabitants many diseases,--rheumatism, astma,
   fever, and consumption.
      Hydrography.--A branch of the Atlantic Ocean divides Rasay,


