
	   	                  CLEISH.                         47
	
	1830, which completes this important drain. It is in length 7
	miles, 4 furlongs, 153 yards, and has drained or rendered capable
	of being drained, in Cleish, 453 acres; in Fossaway, 484; in
	Kinross, 122; in Dunfermline, 48; in Saline, 13; in all, 1120
	statute acres of excellent land, almost all of which has been already
	cultivated. Mr Robert Drysdale, land-surveyor in Dunfermline,
	who is well acquainted with the ground, considers the value of each
	acre drained to be L. 1, 10s. yearly more than before, which would
	add to the annual value of that part of Cleish L. 6719. Some oats
	raised upon this ground have been sold before harvest at L. 14, 8s.
	and L. 15, 1s. 9d. per statute acre, the buyers being at the ex-
	pense of cutting down and carrying off the crop.
	   The evaporation along this valley must have been formerly very
	great, and as evaporation produces cold, the air and soil in the low
	ground must now be warmer, as well as drier than before. It is
	probably owing to the diminution of the evaporation that we have
	not for some time seen those frost mists, which during the night in
	harvest frequently covered the low grounds and injured the crops.
	Though all the land on the sides of this drain is good, some of it
	had rather an unpromising appearance; in particular, the peat-bog
	on the south side of Aldie. The improvement of this bog, which was
	begun by Count Flahault, has now been completed, and the moss
	has yielded excellent crops of oats, potatoes, turnips, and grass.
	The valley of Gairney and the Pow is now completely changed, and,
	when viewed from the higher grounds, forms a beautifil prospect,
	especially to those who were acquainted with it in its former state,
	The east part of the water of Gairney, from the parish of Cleish to
	Loebleven, in length 1 mile 310 yards, has not yet been straight-
	ened; but this will probably be done soon. There is now plenty
	of level, the surface of the loch having been lowered from four to
	five feet. The improvement of this valley has been carried through
	by the proprietors themselves, without any dispute, and with little
	difference of opinion. When any one of them obtained more ad-
	vantage than his neighbour on the opposite side of the rivers he
	paid a greater proportion of the expense of the cost. This was
	settled privately by the parties themselves.
	   The estate of Blair-Adam presents a most instructive exam-
	ple of what may be effected by skilful and judicious manage-
	ment, in at once improving the appearance of the country, and in-
	creasing the productiveness of the soil in high and exposed situations.
	It originally consisted of no more than 640 Scotch acres; but, in con-

