
                 ANSTRUTHER WESTER.                           623

herrings were taken on this coast than at any other fishing station
in Scotland.
   Anstruther Wester has no direct share in this profitable traffic;
the barbour not admitting ships of any burden, and being incon-
venient even for boats. So that none now belong to it except two
or three of small dimensions, kept for the summer amusement of
their owners.  There are no fisherman in this parish, and although
one of the fish-curers, who carries on a pretty extensive trade, re-
sides and is a burgess in the burgh, yet his curing and drying houses
are situated in Anstruther Easter.
   While on this subject, a fish-pond here may be mentioned as a
curiosity. It is of considerable length and breath, and 14 feet
in depth, and was dug out of the solid rock a few years ago, at
no little trouble and expense, by the late Captain Jame's Black,
R.N. in the garden of his marine villa.  The pond communicates
with the sea by means of a small passage bored through the rock,
so that its water rises and falls with the tide. It is stocked with
cod, turbot, and flounders; a few lobsters and crabs were also in-
troduced, but these carried on such a cruel in the pond, that the
against their more defenceless neighbours in the pond, that the
captain was obliged to exterminate them. The Fish are very tame.
and flock toward the person are too great favourites to be caught for
gracing the table; but they may be useful in giving us more in-
sight into the nature and habits of the finny tribe.
  Produce.-It is difficult to get any accurate knowledge of the
amount of raw produce raised in the parish, but as nearly as that
can be ascentained, it may be as follows;
Produce of grain of all kinds, whether cultivated for food of man or of the domestic
  animals, about                                                                L.2000
Of potatoes, turnips, cabbages, carrots, and other plants cultivated in the fields
  for foods,      -          -        -        -        -        -        -       1680
of hay,  -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -          900
  Which, with some other miscellaneous produce, may amount in all to about        4000

                       V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
  Burgh.-Anstruther Wester is a royal burgh, and before the
time of the Reform Bill, used to join with Pittenweem, Anstruther
Origianally it was erected into a burgh of barony in 1554, but holds
its charter of incorporation, as a royal burgh, from James VL in
1687. It is governed by a chief magistrate, two builies, town-clerk,
Measurer, and eleven councilors, and has a revenue, of about L. 70
per annum, which arises chiefly from lands. There are also five or




