

          172             GENERAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE

          use of small drove sails would also be highly advisable. From
          the increased number of boats, and the practice of going earlier
          in the season to the fishing, when the ling are spawning, the fish-
          ing grounds near the shore had become considerably exhausted.
          Proprietors, therefore, very prudently have discouraged this prac-
          tice during the last eight years, and the good effects of this are de-
          cidedly showing themselves.  In fishing with decked vessels,
          the sea ground between Shetland and Norway should be carefully
          explored, and there can be no doubt it would amply remunerate
          the expense.*
             Herrings have been industriously fished by boats for the last
          twenty years, from the middle of August till the middle of Octo-
          ber; and to the patriotic Sheriff-Substitute, Mr Duncan, is due
          the credit of first establishing this branch of industry. The em-
          ployment is, however, attended in these islands with more danger
          than on the Scottish coasts, from the more stormy and irregular
          nature of the climate, the numerous boisterous tide-currents, and the
          smaller extent of land on which, in the event of off shore wind,
          the boats have to lie; neither do the fish appear to be so abun-
          dant or so regular in their movements.  Though herrings, as well
          as other fish, are found in shoals at certain seasons, it does not fol-
          low that they so congregate at other periods of the year; the
          spawning grounds may be viewed as centres; the feeding ones,
          as circumferences.  If they could be fished earlier in the
          season, the hazard would be less, and the returns might be
          greater.  Sufficient experiments to ascertain this have not yet
          been made, but, no doubt, soon will be, for capital, enter-
          prize, and intelligence, are not wanting in Shetland, for a judi-
          cious development of its marine resources.  But enlightened
          views with regard to fisheries have been far from keeping pace
          in any country, with other objects of economical research.
          The experience of the fisherman, the science of the naturalist,
          the aid of the statesman and the merchant, should all be put in
          requisition, to explore and enlarge this fertile source of national
          wealth.  Periodcals in which the fisheries occupied a prominent
          place) would be of great use, and it is singular that the subject has
          been so much overlooked in this age of magazines and reviews.
          A great many erroneous hypotheses, leading to ignorant and per-
          nicious practice, have too long been dominant in our knowledge of
          he babits and history of fish, of which the theory of the annual

<FOOTNOTE> Query,-Why has steam never been applied to fishing ?
                                        3


