
844				AYRSHIRE.

lineate its many rare excellencies. No man was ever more enthusi-
astically beloved by his immediate friends than Lord Hastings was.
He possessed a warmth and generosity of heart, a force of sympa-
thy, a playful cheerfulness, combined with a singularly refined and
dignified manner, which charmed and captivated all with whom he
came in contact. It has been said of him as of another great man,
that his ample fortune absolutely sunk under the benevolence of
his nature. "He died in perfect resignation to the Divine will,
in charity with all mankind, in those sentiments of elevated piety
which had been habitual to his life."
	The Lady Flora Elizabeth Hastings was born in Edinburgh upon:
the 11th of February 1806, while her father, then Lord Moira,
was Commander-in-Chief in Scotland. There are few events in
her early history which are interesting to any beyond her more
immediate friends. She went to India in 1813 with her parents,
when Lord Moira was appointed to the government of that coun-
try,--returned to England in 1816, where she was educated and
resided during her parents' absence,--and accompanied them to
Malta in 1824, where she remained until her father's death. She
visited Scotland and lived,at different times there, in England, and
abroad, from 1823 till 1834, when she was appointed one of the
Ladies of the Bed-chamber to H. R. H. the Duchess of Kent, with
1whom she remained the faithful and deeply-attached friend and
servant, until the period of her death in 1839. The circumstan-
ces attending that death are yet fresh in the nation's memory, and
therefore need not be recited here. The sympathy of the whole
nation in her sufferings and her wrongs was deeply felt and loudly
expressed. She died at Buckingham Palace upon the 5th of July
1839. From her beautiful Christian conduct during her severe
trials, it may, with strict propriety, be said of her, that her "bonds
in Christ were manifest in the palace as well as in all other places."
Her body was conveyed to Loudoun at her own request, and was
buried in the family crypt at Loudoun kirk. It was followed
to the grave by her aged mother, sisters, and brother, and a few
relations of the family. But many parishioners, sad and sorrow-
ful, went to see her in the tomb, whose gentle and kind man-
ners they had all experienced, and whose death they all sincerely
mourned. Her venerable mother, loved and respected by all who
had the privilege of knowing her, survived her daughter only six
months. Her heart, too, was broken; for no mother and daugh-
ter could be more deeply attached to one another than they were.


