
	                  LATHERON.                             103

wheel, 35; Forse, 32; Swiney, 10; Lybster, 101 Clyth, 53;
and East Clyth, 18: in all 325 boats. Connected with these
there are 1321 fishermen, 106 coopers, 937 women as packers,
and 178 labourers, in all 2540 persons,-besides about 50 fish cur-
ers, many of whom take an active part in the business. The
number of barrels cured at all these stations in I838, was 39,093,
execlusive of the fish cured by the fishermen and others at their
own houses, which may be estimated at about 2800 barrels,-be-
sides quantities of green fish purchased at all the stations by
strangers from all parts of the county in exchange for cash, milk,
butter, cheese, &c. &c.-say 907. The average price per cran
of green fish was 9s., and that per barrel when cured, L.I. The
barrels are made at the different stations, the hemp spun and the
nets wrought in the fishermen's families during the winter and
spring months. From all this, it may be conceived what an en-
grossing and important concern the herring-fishing has become in
this parish.
    But, notwithstanding these advantages, which are confessedly
great in a temporal point of view, yet it is very doubtful whether
they are not more than counterbalanced by the pernicious effects
upon the morals of the people, which never fail to result from this
employment, especially the young of both sexes. No doubt the
sound religious education now becoming so general, has a ten-
dency to counteract such habits. Indeed, this is already appa-
rent, and it is to be hoped, if persevered in, will become still more
so. At all events, as matters now stand, it is evident that the
failure of the fishing would be attended with the most ruinous con-
sequences, so that it becomes no less the duty than the interest of
the landed proprietors, whilst encouraging the fishing, by which
the value of land has been so greatly enhanced, to afford every
practicable facility to the diffusion of knowledge, by means of edu-
cation and religious instruction both to young and old. These
have ever been found the best safeguards of morality in a country,
and are the surest means of rearing and pepetuating an enlighten-
ed, intelligent, and industrious peasantry.
    The cod-fishing is not carried on to any great extent, although
there are immense quantities to be found on the coast, particu-
larly at the commencement of the herring fishing. At this pe-
riod there are a good many caught; but as soon as the berring ap-
pear in such numbers as to induce the fishermem to shoot their
nets, then the cod-fishing is deserted, that of the herring being.


