
                         AYR.                                 83

	Ayr Gaol.--The prison was built at the same time with the
county buildings already described; and in its construction  every
attention has been paid to the security of the prisoners, while its
situation is remarkably favourable to their health, as it stands on
a large open space by the sea-beach. Within the last twelve-
months, an entire change has been effected with respect to the
treatment and discipline of the criminals confined. We may class
them all under the designation of criminals, there being none at
present confined for debt. The debtor's wing is now appropriated
to female culprits. Formerly, the prisoners were allowed to spend
the day together--the males in one common apartment or day-
room, and the females in another, in total idleness; wherein, by in-
tercommunion of evil speech and depraved passions, they were ren-
dered more wicked and profligate than ever, and incarceration made
them worse, instead of reforming them. The younger culprits, too,
were thus initiated into all the mystery and artifice of crime, by
those who had been accustomed to follow it as a trade. Now,
however, all this is happily at an end. Each prisoner is confined
to a separate cell, and all are kept at hard labour for twelve or
fourteen hours a day, without having any opportunity of seeing one
another, even at their meals, which they receive alone at the pe-
riods prescribed. The prison is visited by the keeper, and the
prisoners are set to work at six o'clock in the morning; and it is
regularly shut at eight every night for rest, and against the admis-
sion of visitors. The prisoners are compelled to wash once every
day; and their apartments are kept regularly clean and well-aired.
Such of them as have not learned any trade are generally taught weav-
ing, which they soon learn if young, and if old, they are employed
in teasing old ship ropes into shreds, called oakum which is used by
ship-builders as wadding for closing the interstices of vessels. None
are allowed to remain idle. A regular account is kept of their earn-
ings, and the expense of their diet; and on leaving gaol, if they
have behaved well, the balance in their favour is given to them
as a reward, but at the discretion of the prison committees on the
report of the keeper. A chaplain attends the middle prisoners, in
their separate cells, three times a-week, where he passes a portion
of time in communicating religious instruction, and joining in a
short prayer; and each is furnished with a Bible. Such, of them
as cannot read, he puts in the way of learning to do so, and aids, them
in their attempts. In short, the whole system is, under most, excel-


