
			SMALHOLM.		143

rier to Edinburgh regularly attends at Smalholm on Monday af-
ternoon, for the purpose of procuring eggs, butter, poultry, &c.
for the Edinburgh market; which is of great advantage to the vil-
lage and neighbourhood.
     Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is very conveniently
situated for the whole popularion; none of the inhabitants being
more than two miles distant from the church; the greater part of
them are within five minutes walk of it. From an inscription (SOLE
DEO GLORIA 1632) found on a triangular stone, which was taken down
from the top of one of the doors when the church was under re-
pair, it appears to have been built in 1632. The church has been
frequently repaired partially; in 1820 and 2821 it was completely
new seated, and otherwise much improved; and is now one of the
neatest and most comfortable places of worship in the district. It
can easily accommodate 282 persons, but may hold 300. All the
sittings in the church are free, the area being divided among
the heritors according to their valued rents, for the accommoda-
tion of their tenantry, who are in general amply provided for,-
while too little space is left for the inhabitants of the village; an in-
convenience which is felt very generally in country churches, and
which requires to be remedied. There is also a private gallery in
the west end of the church, for the accommodation of the family
of George Baillie, Esq. who is patron of the church and parish,
but whose residence of Mellerstain is in Earlstoun parish. The
manse, which is upon a small scale, but neat and comfortable, was
built in 1803 and 1804. The glebe, including the stance of the
manse, offices, garden, and hedge enclosures, consists of 12 Eng-
lish acres, which may be valued at L. 1, 10s. per acre. The sti-
pend, as modified 1823, amounts to fourteen chalders of victual,
half barley and half oat-meal. There are about 100 families be-
longing to the Established church, and the average number of per-
sons of all ages attentind it is about 220,-the remaining families,
who do not belong to the Establishment, attend public worship in
the Seceding meeting-houses chapels at Kelso, Earlstown, and
Stitchel. The average number of communicants is 240. In se-
veral families, while the parents still adhere to the Secession, the
children almost all belong to the Establishment.
     Education.-In the parochial school, the branches of instruc-
tion taught are, English, grammar, writing, arithmetic, geography,
practical mathematics, and Latin. The parochial teacher has the
legal accommodation and the maximum salary; and his school fees



