
686			AYRSHIRE.

denominations, but consisting chiefly of Burghers, Relief, Baptists,
and Roman Catholics. Of these, 1400 belong to Fullarton, and
attend worship in the town of Irvine, 250 to Troon, and 136 to
Dundonald. In the year 1840, about 100 members belonging to
the United Associate Synod procured a place of worship in Troon,
which was used as a mission station before the building of the pre-
sent church, and have now an ordained pastor, who is the only
Dissenting clergyman in the parish. For the accommodation of
the Roman Catholic population, who are almost all Irish labourers,
the priest, who resides at Ayr, and is under the superintendence
of the bishop at Glasgow, pays regular mothly visits to Kilmar-
nork and Irvine, and sometimes more frequently.
	Schools.--Besides the parish school, which has the legal accom-
modation of a good house and garden, and L.128, 18s. 9 7/8d. of sa-
lary for the teacher, there are seven others in the parish, the most
of which have small temporary endowments, and are under the
same clerical superintendence. One of these was lately organized
at Fullarton, in connection with the church, and has a salary of
L.15 from the General Assembly's Education Committee. A
school-house to contain 300 children, is in the course of erection,
at an expense of L.500. This sum was procured from the legacy
of the late Rev. Dr Bell of Madras, by the kindness of the Lord
Justice General (one of the trustees nominated by that benevolent
individual for the distribution of his ample fortune for educational
purposes), and who has always taken the deepest interest both
in the spiritual and temporal welfare of the district. Another
school-house is also in process of building at Troon, for the ac-
commodation of 230 children. The estimated expense is L.335,
one-half of which is paid by Government, and the other by sub-
scription. The average number of scholars at the parish school
is 60, and at all the other schools together, 640. The rate of
wages for the elementary branches of education varies from 2s. to
4s, 6d. per quarter. In addition to these means of instruction,
there are several Sabbath schools, which are very numerously at-
tended; and all that is now wanting, in this respect, is only the
placing of those schools already in operation on a more independ-
ent and permanent footing.--A parochial library was established
in the village of Dundonald in 1836, and contains about 150 vo-
lumes. It is in two divisions, adult and juvenile, and the annual
payments are 4s. and 2s. respectively.
	Poor and Poor's Funds.--The numbers of poor at present on the






