
			PARISH OF

               ST CYRUS OR ECCLESGREIG.*

    PRESBYTERY OF FORDOUN, SYNOD OF ANGUS AND MEARNS,

      THE REV.  ALEXANDER KEITH, D. D., MINISTER.

   THE REV.  ALEXANDER KEITH, A.M. Assist. and Successor.


           I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Names.--In the former Statistical Account of this parish, it was
stated, for no better reason, so far as is now known, than that Ec-
clesgreig is nearly idem sonans with "Ecclesia Gregorii,"--that the
ancient name is evidently of Latin origin, and probably derived from
the dedication of the church to St Gregory the Great, or to some
other Romish bishop or missionary of that name. Perhaps it may
be more probably referred to the Gaelic, in which language, the
words, Eaglaiscreag, or gen. Euglais-craige, signify "the church of
the rock," and well describe the singularly picturesque situa-
tion of the ancient church of the parish.--" the rock," forming
the most prominent object in the picture, being a lofty sea-cliff,
of nearly two miles in extent, under the shelter and close to
the base of which, the "church" stood. No remains of the
church now exist, but its site is marked by a church-yard, still
used as the principal burying-ground in the parish. Towards
the close of the last century, the parish came to be generally
known by the name of St Cyrus, the original designation, as it ap-
pears, of that district of the parish in which the modern church is

<FOOTNOTE>Drawn up by Mr James Murray, parochial schoolmaster of St Cyrus.
          This clergyman, whose name was David Campbell, appears, according to Wod-
row's "roll of ministers who were banished, turned out of their parishes, or con-
fined in 1663," to have been the only clergyman in the "Presbytery of the Mearns,"
who did not conform to Prelacy at that period.
          The name Ecclesgreig, it may be mentioned, was at one time applied exclusively
to that section of the parish, called, in an old charter Of the lands Kirksyde," the
ecclesiastical lands of Ecclesgreig, also Kirksyde."


