
     Statistical Account

down to the date of the incumbent's admission, in 1779, this
whole benefice, including stipend and glebes, was let for a
period of ten or twelve years preceding, from year to year, at
no greater sum than 54 L. Sterling; out of this small benefice,
the minister is obliged to pay one shilling Sterling of freight
every time he passes over the ferry to preach in the island of
Eday.  There is no fund for communion elements, as the
stipend was never modified by the court of Teinds.  Lord
Dundas is patron.
   The kirks were in a ruinous state in 1779.  The kirk of
Stronsay, which was built in 1726, got new states put on its
roof in 1685, but it still needs great repairs.  The kirk of
Eday, which was built about the year 1730, is in a ruinous
state; it had not a pane of glass in any of its windows in the
memory of any man living.  As it is situated at seven miles
distance from the manse, and in another island, and in so

<FOOTNOTE>

   "7th, Burness and the isle of Sanday, and North Ronaldstray, twa pa-
"rish kirks united, the ministers stipend 300 merks, with manse, glebes, and
"viccarage of North Ronaldstray.
   "8th, Stronsay, Eday, and Fairay, four parish kirks united, the minister's
"stipend to be helped with 200 merks.
   "9th Firth, and Stenhouse, twa parish kirks in the mainland, to be pro-
"vided with three hundred merks, of the surplus of bishops thirds, with the
"viccarage, glebes, and manse, of the said kirks.
   "It being alwise therewith declared, that his gratitude for the help and
"supply, and provision of these kirks, extending in the year to the sum of
"two thousand four hundred merks, payable furth of his Majesty's rents;
"and duty if the tack thereof, set by his Majesty to, Lord Ochiltrie for certain
"years.  The which sum divided among the said united kirks in manner above
"specified, by the said James Law, now Arch-Bishop of Glasgow, shall re-
"main as a solid and constant assignation, enduring the time of continuance
"of the present tack, etc."


