
			PARISH OF BURNTISLAND.

		PRESBYTERY OF KIRKCALDY, SYNOD OF FIFE.

	 	   THE REV. DAVID COUPER, MINISTER.

		  I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
  Name.-The name of this parish was anciently Wester King-
horn. Tradition accounts for its name by saying, that the
small island, which forms part of the west side of the harbour, was
originally peopled by a colony of fisherman, whose dwelling was
destroyed by fire. But the ancient name of the town was Bart-
land or Bertiland, which has passed through various forms into
Burntisland. The etymology is uncertain, but is probably to be
found in the Gaelic. There is no doubt that the parish has de-
rived its present name from the town.
  Extent, Boundaries.-The parish extends about 2 1/4 miles from
east to west, and about 2 1/2 miles from north to south. Its whole
extent may be about 5 square miles. It is bounded on the east
by Kinghorn; on the west, by Aberdour; on the north, by both
these parishes; and on the south, by the Firth of Forth.
 Topographical Appearances.-The surface is very varied and
uneven. The southern part of it presents a series of ridges of
different elevations, running from east to west, and parallel to one
another. The first is that which rises from the sea; the next,
that which is called the schoolhill, and sometimes Mount Plea-
sant. Between these two, is situated the greaterr part of the town
The next is that on which the village of Kirktoun is situated.
These three ridges are of very inconsiderable height; but the suc-
ceeding one rises abruptly, about the middle, to an elevation of 625
feet above the level of the sea.  The hill thus formed is called
the Bin, and is about half a mile from the shore. It has two tops,
which being on the south side very bare and rugged, present a
fine contrast to the cultivated fields below. To the northward of
this ridge, the parish presents an interesting variety of hill and
dale. The eminences are somewhat irregularly scattered, and
                             4


