
	     		     PARISH OF DAILLY.

		PRESBYTERY OF AYR, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.

     	           THE REV. ALEXANDER HILL, D. D. MINISTER.

     		      I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	Name.--THE name given to this parish, Daly or Dailly, has
probably arisen from its consisting principally of a dale or valley
stretching along the banks of the river Girvan.
	Extent, &c.--From north-east to south-west, the parish extends
in the line of the river about 7 miles. It varies in breadth from 4
to 6 miles.
	Topographical Appearances.--The figure of the parish is an ir-
regular oblong. It is bounded on the west and south-west by the
parish of Girvan; on the south by the parish of Barr, a great part
of which, prior to 1650, belonged to the parish of Dailly; on the
east by the parishes of Straiton and Kirkmichael; and on the north-
east and north by the parish of Kirkoswald. It lies nearly in the
centre of Carrick, one of the three districts of Ayrshire.
	The hills on both sides of the valley are of very moderate height.
There is much natural beauty in every part of it, from the wind-
ing of the river, and the variety of the ground; and its natural
beauty has been greatly heightened by the improvements of mo-
dern time.
	Although the extremity of this parish is nearly two miles distant
from the sea coast, yet the Island of Ailsa, about fifteen miles west
from the town of Girvan, is considered as belonging to Dailly, be-
ing included in the barony of Knockgerran, a part of the Marquis
of Ailsa's property, which lies in this parish. It is a huge rock,
perhaps two miles in circumference at the base, and about 1100
feet above the level of the sea. Seen from the south or north its
shape is very much that1 of a cone. Its appearance from the east
is more flattened. It is precipitous on all sides, and is accessible
only on the north-east, where there is a small beach. The cliffs
in several places are columnar. A considerable way up the rock
are remains of buildings, supposed to have been a tower or castle,


