
48                       BERWICKSHIRE.

the purpose of making provision for the poor.  At each of these
meetings an assessment is made sufficient for maintaining those
that are admitted upon the roll for the ensuing half-year. One-
half of the assessment is paid by the heritors, and the other half
by the tenants.  The heritors are very liberal in providing for the
poor; and yet the poor-rates are not very high,-not amounting
to more than sixpence in the pound Sterling of real rent.  They
are kept thus moderate by a minute attention to the wants of the
industrious poor, who are often prevented from becoming enrolled
paupers, by a little judicious and timely aid in sickness. The ave-
rage number of persons receiving parochial aid for the last five years
is 28; and the average usual sum allotted to each individual is L.5
Sterling. The average amount, for the last five years, of contri-
butions for the poor, is L.298 Sterling a-year; whereof L.16 arise
from church collections; L.222 from legal assessments; and L.60
from alms or legacies.
   Fairs.-There are two fairs held annually in Greenlaw,-one
on the 22d day of May, and the other on the last Thursday of
October.  They afford a good market for milch cows and lean
cattle.  A great deal of business is generally done at the summer
fair.
   Inns.-There are in Greenlaw 1 principal inn, 1 inferior one,
and 7 alehouses.
   Jail.-A new jail was erected in the year 1824. It is a very
neat building, consisting of two day rooms for felons and one for
debtors, with eighteen sleeping cells.  There are three courts to
which the prisoners have access during a part of the day. The
building is surrounded by a very high wall, upon the top of which
is a cbevaux de frieze, which renders it quite secure.  There is
a plentiful supply of water within the jail, and the whole establish-
ment is kept in a state of perfect order and cleanliness.  The ave-
rage number of prisoners may be stated at 8, they are chiefly
felons.
   Fuel.-The chief article of fuel is coals, which are brought from
Northumberland, a distance of eighteen or twenty miles. They
are sold by weight, at from 6d. to 8d. per hundred weight.  A few
turf and peats are also used, but the expense and trouble of winning
them is so great in proportion to their value, that the use of them
is nearly given up. *

<FOOTNOTE>Sir William P.H. Campbell, Bart. built a depot for coal, and gave L.50 to fill
it. The poor, who formerly paid very dear for their coals, by buying them in small
                                        4

