
     Statistical Account

may as probably have been the princely residence, as the
Castle of Buittle-there is reason for our leaving those who
think themselves competent, and interested in this matter,
to decide.  Country clergymen may well be excused, for ig-
norance in concerns very little allied to the succets of their
labours.  Certain it is, however, that the ruins of Buittle
Castle denote it to have been a place of strength, and even
magnificence.  It now belongs, with its precincts as con-
tained in the charter, to Mr Murray of Broughton, the re-
presentative of the Caillie family.  The vaults and ditches
of Buittle Castle, are all that remain of this proud structure.
They have bassled the ravages of time for several centuries,
and may for several more.  The vaults are covered with
large ash trees; and into these subterraneous parts of the
Castle, no person has ever penetrated, though it might be
done with ease and safety, probably with much gratification
to curiosity.-Besides the Castle of Buittle, the only other
remembrance of ages equally rude and remote, which shall
be mentioned here, is one of those ruins, commonly called

<FOOTNOTE>

++Probably it was built by Allan, Lord of Galloway, hus-
band to Margaret, the eldest daughter of David Earl of Hun-
tindon, and father of Dervigilda the mother of John Baliol.
About 7 years ago, there was found in a lump of lime, taken
from the ruins of the Castle, an old coin of yellow metal, a
shade lighter than common brass.  On one side were inscribed
the names of Nuremberg, and several other towns in Germany
of Flanders, with the word Psenning, and on the other side a
coat of arms sopposed to be imperial.  The date of the coin
was 1220.  From this, indeed, nothing conclusive can be affirm-
ed; only about the year 1220, Earl Allan must have been 36
years of age, and must have attained to the meridian of his
good fortune and power.  After belonging to the Baliols, the
Cummings; the Douglases, this Castle seems to have become
the property of thelennoxes of Caillie.'


