
18				WIGTONSHIRE.

are obliged to deny themselves some comforts they might otherwise
have enjoyed. On the whole, however, they are contented with
their situation and circumstances.
	The people are in general a shrewd, thinking race; they are
fond of reading, and there are very few of them that are not pos-
sessed of a small collection of books, of which at their leisure hours
they seem to make a good use. Some of them are really well-
informed. With very few exceptions, they are sober and honest,
and attentive to their religious duties.
	There is neither poaching nor smuggling amongst us.

			     IV.--INDUSTRY.
	Agriculture.--The parish contains about 15,000 imperial acres,
of which about 13,500 are or have been occasionally in tillage.
The ramaining 1500 acres consist partly of moss, (a considerable por-
tion of which is now, by paring and burning, made to produce good
crops,) partly of broken rocky pasture land, and the rest of upwards
of 300 acres in wood. There is no land in the parish which can
be termed waste; neither is there any undivided common. There is
no natural wood, and the proprietors seem to me to take sufficient care
of their plantations.
	Rent.--The rent of the land varies from L. 2, 10s. to 8s.; the
average may be nearly L. 1 per imperial acre. The average rate
of grazing may be about L. 3 per ox or cow, and from 12s. to 15s.
for a sheep.
	Wages.--Labourers in summer have about 1s. 6d., in winter
1s. 4d.; masons and carpenters have about 2s. 6d. per day.
The wages of men-servants living in the farm-houses vary
from L. 4. to L. 6, per half-year; women-servants receive from
L. 2 to L. 3, 10s. Cottagers are paid partly in money and part-
ly in what is termed a benefit. This consists of a house, garden,
and feel, as much meal and potatoes as are thought necessary for
the maintenance of their families, and sometimes pasture for a
cow and a sheep, amounting in whole to form L. 26 to L. 30 per
annum. The price of the different articles of raw produce is re-
gulated chiefly by the Liverpool markets, to which is ready
access by means of steam navigation. The breeding of sheep is
not carried on to any great extent, the attention of the farmers
being directed to the improvement of the far-famed breed of black-
cattle, known by the name of Galloways.
	The general system of agriculture pursued on the dry land is
white and green crops alternately. If the farmer finds that he



