
     Statistical Account

rowing performed by means of horses, wherever the nature
of the ground permits them to be used.
   The farmer, who toils so hard for bread, would surely re-
quire ample returns to compensate his labour.  There are
some instances of a rich increase from this mode of cultiva-
tion, but the vast expence of time and labour bestowed on
the ungrateful soil in which it is used, cannot by any means
be said to be generally repaid.  The returns from barley seed
are in a good year from 16 to 20 sold.  An instance has oc-
curred, under the immediate experience of the writer here-
of, in which a piece of old ground, richly manured with sea
weed, and tilled in the common lazy-bed way, being sown
with somewhat less than 10 pecks of barley-seed, bear mea-
sure, produced 24 bolls of grain; and this grain was so round
as to yield in meal, for every boll, very near five firlots.  But
such an instance may not occur in 50 years.  The ground
was prepared with extraordinary attention, and the season was
remarkably favourable.  The returns of potatoes are from 8
to 10 fold only.  These are the only kinds of crop sown in
the lazy-bed, the year in which the manure has been said on.
After this, it yields two successive crops of small black oats,
first producing a fourfold increase, but degenerating as the
strength of the manure declines.  For oats, the lazy-bed is
broken down to one side, and delved with an instrument cal-
led the caschrom or crooked spade.  When the third years's
crop is taken, the ground is let out of culture, and yields
good natural grass, excellent summer pasture for 3 or 4 years;
after which it gradually reverts to its original sterility, till it
is brought again into culture as above.  The grass is the main
object for which the farmer labours.  It is not for the best re-
turns yielded by his crops of corn that he is at all the toil and
trouble above described, but chiefly to lay in a store of win-
ter provender for his cattle, and to improve their summer


