
364                    STIRLINGSHIRE.

a ground-floor and two upper floors. The ground-floor, vaulted
and without windows, perhaps a loop hole or two. There are
the remains of a building adjacent to the tower, which, was
a mansion-house, built at a period somewhat more recent, and was
no doubt the residence of the owner of the estate of Plaine. Such
a tower would scarcely 'be large enough for a garrison of twenty
men.
  These small quadrangular towers or fortalices, (fortalitium, in
Latin of the middle-age, a small fort), several of which exist in
different parts of Scotland, were built, perhaps, after the model of
the great square towers erected by William the Conqueror, about
1070, such as the castle at Newcastle-upQn-Tyne, Richmond, in
Yorkshire, Rochester Castle, the Tower of London, Hedingham
Castle in Essex. The ornamental parts of these great towers are
in the round arched Byzantine style, as are also the two great ab-
bey churches built by William at Caen, in Normandy. Of a less
ancient period is Borthwick Castle in Midlothian, a quadrangular
tower of considerable size, built in 1430. It contains a large hall,
the ceiling of which is a pointed-arched vault. A charter is pre-
served, in which the King grants permission (ad castrum edifi-
candum) to build the castle. By means of this charter, the period
in which Borthwick Castle was built is ascertained.

                       III.-POPULATION.
   At the union of the parishes of Larbert and Dunipace, the po-
pulation of each parish was small, and that of Larbert considera-
bly the least. The establishment of the iron-works at Carron
has changed matters entirely. By the census taken about the
year 1790, the Rev. G. Harvey, minister, makes the population
about 400 souls. It appears, however, to have been but loosely
done, as he takes the census of adults, and allows a per centage
For children under age. By the census of 1831, which was care-
fully managed, the population was found to be 4262 souls. There
is no reason to believe, that there was any great increase during
the period between the two census ; but since 1831, there haa
been more appearance of augmentation.
   The heritors are the only persons of independent fortune re-
siding in the parish, of whom there are seven who are resident
usually or occasionally.

<FOOTNOTE>Engraved with its details of architecture in the Vetusta Monumenta, published
by the society of Antiquaries of London.


