
358			FORFARSHIRE.

	Urns have been dug up in different parts of the parish, where
there were no cairns, and almost in every instance fragments of
bones were found in them.
	Near the summit of Carmylie hill is a barrow or tumulus, which,
in olden times, was believed to be a favourite baunt of the fairies,
where they held their nightly revels, and which is still called "the
Fairy or Fair-folk hillock." Their dwelling of late years has
been very unceremoniously entered, and yet no evil has befallen
the intruders. Part of the tumulus has been thrown down, and
some fragments of bones and of charcoal were discovered, not far be-
low the surface; and among these, a small brass ring was found about
two inches in diameter, and about two-eighths of an inch in thickness.
	At the den of Guynd, there are some vestiges of what appears
to have been an encampment or stronghold called Dunhead, situ-
ated upon an eminence formed by the junction of two ravines cal-
led the Black den and the Den of Guynd. It is of a triangular
form, and is precipitous on two sides, and has been defended on
the other by a dhtch and rough wall or dike. From its name, it is
probable that it was originally a Caledonian fort, though it may
afterwards, have been occupied, by the Danes or Norwegians, dur-
ing some of their incursions upon the coast.
        Modern Buildings.-The only modern buildings of note in the
parish are the elegant mansion-houses of Guynd and Conansythe,
built of the sandstone found in the neighbourhood. The former
is pleasantly situated on the west bank of the Elot or Elliot, and
surrounded with plantations very tastefully disposed; the latter,
through placed on high ground, is well sheltered and considerably
ornamented with some thriving wood, and commands a very exten-
sive prospect, particularly of the beautiful vales of the Lunan and
the Brothock.

                        III.-POPULATION
	It would appear from the earliest of our parochial records, that
the population of the parish at the time to which it refers, was con-
siderable,- the annual average of baptisms from 1667 to 1680, in-
clusive, being 23. The succeeding register shows a gradual in-
crease from 1686 to 1699, the annual average for that time being
25. After this period, the population seems to have undergone a
gradual decrease, the annual average of baptisms from 1720 to
1689, being only 21.
	My predecessor notices a further decrease, as stated in Dr Web-
rtdr's enumeration in 1755; and the population seems to have



