
                               AUCHTERGAVEN.                   427

     Shochie at Luncarty, in the parish of Redgorton.  The Shochie
     rises in Glen Shee, and forms the western boundary of this parish
     for more th`n five miles, when afterwards it enters that of Money-
     die at Argith, and being joined by the Ordie, as already stat-
     ed, carries all the waters which flow through this parish into the-
     Tay.  This also is cliinwd as one bf the streams of this parish,
     as it bounds it for nearly two miles at Stanley.  The beds of all
     these streams are rough with rolled stones, many of them of con-
     siderable size-fragments both of the primary and secondary rocks.
        Geology and Mineralogy.-The hills are composed chiefly of
     clay slate and graywacke.  The direction of the strata is south-
     west, and they dip to the north at an acute angle.  Masses of
     quartz are found in these rocks.  In the lower part of the parish,
     the alluvial deposits rest on the old red sandstone.  A very re-
     markable whin-dike traverses the parish from east to west.  It
     crosses the Tay near Stanley, forming the famous Lin of Camp-
     sie.  At a short distance from the church it is quarried, and used
     as metal for the highwax-a purpose for which it is well adapted.
     Here it is forty-five feet across, with regular sides, and associated
     with the old red sandstone, which is indurated at the place of its
     junction with the trap rock.  This dike is said to traverse the
     whole extent, of the island frnm east to west.  The alluvial de-
     posits which lie over these rocks are, gravel, loam, clay, sand,
     marl, and peat moss.  This gravel forms the subsoil of the greater
     part of the parish; it is often of great depth, as is ascertained by the
     digging of wells, the levelling of roads, and the clearing away of
     the superineumbent matter of stone quarries. When exposed by
     these operations, large rolled stones are found imbedded in it.  It
     as well as the other alluvial matters have a reddish hue, occasioned
     doubtless by the presence of iron.  Slight traces of bog-iron ore are
     observable in different parts of the parish.  I have never heard of
     any organic remains either of animals or plants having been found
     in this alluvial gravel; but fossil wood of different kinds occurs in
     the peat mosses.
       Soil.- The soils of the parish are various; but they may be ge-
     nerally characterized as consisting of a sandy loam, mixed with
     small stones.  The decomposed debris of the clay-slate robks forms
     a strong deep soil, along the foot of the hills.  Large boulders
     were not uncommon in the cultivated fields, but as they interrupt-
     ed the course of the plough, many of them have been removed of
     late years.  They are, however, still met with in many fields.  The



