
		           COLDSTREAM.				205

other cases, this point can be determined b the presence, of small
twigs and leaves, which could not have been transported by water-
or otherwise without being destroyed. So far, therefore, as the
non-appearance of these more delicate remains is any warrantable
ground of inference, it is probable that the fossil trees at Tweed-
mill may have been, transported to their present site by water,
being much in the same state as those immense accumulations
of trees deposited at the mouths of the great American rivers.
   The extent of this fossil deposit has not been yet fully as-
certained. It is only at the bank of the river where it is worn
down by the action of the floods that they have been observed;
but it may be observed, that similar fossils have been noticed in
other parts of the Tweed, both below Coldstream Bridge, and
about Fire burn-mill, as well as in more distant parts of the
county.
   The simple minerals are few in number   Quartz crystals, cal-
careous crystals, prehnite, in rolled pebbles in the channels of the
Tweed, selenite, or sulphate of lime, (the latter daily forming in
the marl beds,) are all that need here be noticed.
   There seem to be in this parish two kinds of alluvial deposit,
covering the strata wherever a proper section can be seen. The
lower and thicker deposit, which is composed of clay, is farther
characterized by large boulders imbedded in it, which are gene-
rally greenstone, basalt, or old red sandstone. This deposit is
probably of diluvian origin. The upper alluvion, which is gene-
rally not more than two or three feet deep, consists principally
of small-grained gravel intermixed with sand. That both of
these deposits have been formed by water there can be no doubt;
and as little doubt, that the violence of the currents which tran-
sported the boulders, and formed the lower deposit, must have
been much greater than that by which the upper subsoil was,
formed.
   It may be observed as a curious fact, that wherever the soil is
turned up beyond a depth of three or four feet, immense quan-
tities of thistles immediately spring Up, and flourish in wild
luxuriance. It is natural to suppose, (though the fact has not
been positively ascertained,) that these plants can spring only,
from seed long since buried in the soil. But the question comes.
to be, how they could have been buried at such a depth?  The
seed, as they fall from their capsules, could not have sunk to that
depth in the soil. How then can the fact be explained?  The


