
     of Meldrum.

winter, and a lesser one of the same kind in spring and sum-
mer, drawn by two horses or oxen, but some still use the
Scotch plough, with 8 or 10 oxen.  They have not yet en-
closed much of their ground in this parish, there being few
stones to be got for that purpose, but such as are quarried
and fences of these stones, or hedges and ditches, are too ex-
pensive for farmers, unless their leases were longer than are
generally given in this country.  However, as winter herd-
ing is regularly observed, the sown grass and turnips are
pretty safe in winter in the open fields.  The greatest loss
to the farmer, from the want of enclosures, arises, perhaps,
from his cattle not fattening so soon in summer, when
followed by a herdsman, as when pasturing as large in a
field properly fenced and watered; and therefore, as they
begin to know the value of enclosures, they are making
some attempts in that way.  Land is rented about Old
Meldrum, by the inhabitants of the town, from L. 1 to L. 2
the acre in general, and by tenants in the country part of the
rish, from 2 s. 6 d. to L. 1 the acre.  Property has not been
shifted in this parish within the reach of the oldest records
in the country.  The farms are of different sizes, from L. 10
to L.20, and from L. 20 to L. 70 of yearly rent.  The
produce of the parish is oats, barley, pease, potatoes, tur-
nip, cabbage, hay, and some flax for private use.  A con-
siderable quantity of grain is sent yearly from this parish 
to the Aberdeen market*.  The black bearded small oats

<FOOTNOTE>

*Crop 1782 proved very defective in this country in general, but the
calamity was not severely felt in this parish as it would otherwise have
been, if the proprietor had not supplied the inhabitants of the village with
flour, oat-meal, and pease-meal, and procured good wholesome grain for
feed to his tenants, which he sold out to them in time.  He also took
but a low price for his farm-meal from such of his tenants as could
not pay it in kind .  He further gave a deduction of rent for a few years
to some of them, upon condition of their bringing  home and laying on


