
                              KILMANY                      539

are about the village and church of Kilmany. The, wood prin-
cipally planted is the larch, the Scotch fir, the plane the beech,
and the ash, with a few oaks interspersed. They all, from
their rapid growth, appear to be congenial to the soil and eliminate.
Theoldest tree is supposed to b a plane, which, is still vigorous,
at Hill- Cairnie.

                     II-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Eminent Men-Halkerstones of Rathillet-The individual con-
nected with the parish who hold the greatest place in the history of
his country, is the famous but unfortunate David Hackston, or Hal-
kerstone of Rathillet. It is not known whether he was born at his fa-
mily seat; the records of the kirk-session do not go back so far. He
appears to have been a man of talent, energy, and courage, and a
friend of civil and religious liberty. He had great influence over the
party with whom he acted. He was conected with the men who
killed Archbishop Sharp on Magus Muir, although he was not actually
concerned in the murder; for which crime he was condemned,
and executed at Edinburgh in the cruellest and most barbarous
manner. His descendants possessed a considerable share of his
talents and courage. One of them was engaged wi the Waig side
in the Rebellion of 1715; and long after this affair was ended,
rode a fine horse, which he himself took from the enemy. An-
other of them, was sheriff of the county. The last male branch
of the family was Mr Helenus Halkerston, a man well known in
his day, for his talents and eccentricity, He sold the estate of
Rathillet to a Mr Sweet, upon particular conditions about the
year 1772 or 1773. Since the death of Miss Halkerston of Car-
phin, which took place thirty years ago, this respectable family is
extinct, at least in this part of the country.
   Clergymen.-Since the Revolution, this parish has been blessed
with several erminent clergymen. Mr Alexander Pitcairn, Mr
Brown, and Mr Smilbert, who held the benefice in, auccession, from
February 23d 1697, to April 4th 1759, appear from the minutes
which were kept by them to have been able and intelligent men,
and they died ministers of Kilmany,  Mr Joseph M'Cormick
succeeded Mr, Smibert in April 17th 1760, and continued
in the parish only for a few months; he left it in the follow-
ing November. He afterwards published the Life of Principal
Carstairs of Edinburgh, and died Principal of the United College
of St Andrews. Mr William Gibb was then ordained minister in
September 24th 1761. This gentleman, for some cause not stated


