
		ON THE COUNTY OF BERWICK.                 363

gullies and deep ravines, apparently produced by some violent
natural convulsion,-through which meander gentle rivulets, whose
tiny waters bear no proportion to the magnitude of their banks.
The sea coast is generally high, rocky, and precipitous, present-
ing a bold front to the Ocean, frequently rising perpendicular and
abruptly from the sea, and indented and variegated with promon-
tories and bays. The elevation of the coast is very considerable,
especially in the neighbourhood of St Abb's Head, an object well
known to mariners, and which forms the most prominent point on
this line of coast,-at which the range of the Lammermoor hills,
which extend so far across the island, may be considered as com-
mencing. Of the several bays on the coast, the most remark-
able is that of Coldingham, which, being protected by the
high lands of St Abb's Head from the north-west, affords excel-
lent shelter and secure anchorage-ground to vessels when prevent-
ed, by the prevalence of westerly winds, from proceeding up the
Frith of Forth.
   Climate- During the spring, cold easterly winds generally pre-
vail for several weeks. These retard vegetation, and produce their
usual pernicious effects on gardens, and corn and grass fields. Sum-
mer weather seldom commences before the end of May, and in-
deed a too forward spring is not generally desired by farmers. The
prevailing wind in summer is the south-west. Great and long-con-
tinued falls of rain do not frequently occur. Excessive droughts
are more common, and by experienced agriculturists a series of dry
weather, though of considerable duration, is considered more suit-
ed to the soil, and better calculated to secure a productive crop,
than the other extreme. The winters may be pronounced, on an
average, to be mild. Heavy falls of snow are of rare occurrence,
and when they do happen, the snow seldom lies on the ground for
any length of time, though on the Lammermoor hills it frequently
retains its place weeks after it has disappeared in the lower
parts of the county. In regard to climate, the Merse is rather
favourably situated. Sheltered by the Lammermoor hills an the
north, and by the Cheviot mountains on the south, the clouds
which are generated by evaporation from the German Ocean are
attracted by these hilly ranges, so that, while the operations of
spring and harvest are proceeding in the lower part of the county
with spirit and activity, under the cheering influence of genial and
dry weather, in the higher they are not unfrequently interrupted
and retarded, or, performed imperfectly, from the prevalence of
				4


