

			MUIRAVONSIDE.                           209

richest mineral district, being found to extend only about 30 yards
round the upper pit at Stanrig, when it suddenly fails; it has been
found, by boring, in another part of the parish, but not to any great
extent. The next seam was the only coal anciently wrought in the
lands of Parkball and Craigend, with pits about 30 feet apart, to
which it was conveyed from hand to hand beneath. Some of the
under seams of coal have been wrought in the lands ot Muiravonside,
and these workings have lately been renewed to a considerable ex-
tent. But the troubles or whinstone-dikes in this coal-field deserve
attention. The northern or universal dike passes out of the parish at
Rumford, from the south-east towards Shielhill on the north-west,
cutting off the whole upper seams of coal from the lower country,
between Avon and Carron Rivers,--the toils of the borers 'being
spent in vain on a mass of unfathomable sandstone. The second
is parallel, nearly a mile to the soutb, affording good whinstone
quarries at Craigend and Craigmad. The third occurs about a
mile still further soutb, being very apparent at the Greencraig of
Drumbroider; and still further South, there are appearances of a
fourth, whose bearings are not yet known. All these dikes send
off lateral spurs, throwing the perplexed strata sometimes up,
sometimes down, to the extent of 15 or 20 fathoms, and throwing
out the upper seams of coal in many places.
   The iron wrought by the Carron Company near Maudiston is
of the finest, but dispersed over a considerable bulk of ore. Con-
siderable quantities of iron have been wrought in the lands adjoin-
ing to Maudiston; and there can be no doubt that a very great
breadth of valuable ironstone remains to be wrought in the parish,
but unfortunately the coal under the ironstone is so very inferior
in quality, that it is quite unsaleable at present.
   The only foul air known in the coal-pits is choke-damp or car-
bonic acid gas. It rises most when the barometer falls. On the
night of the 27th November 1838, when the Tiviot and other
streams disappeared from their channels, the rush of this air into
the coal-pits was greater than the oldest miners ever knew of in
this district.*
   Zoology.--In no quarter are the blackbird and the thrush more
numerous, or the chorus of birds of song more full than, in the
woods of Almond; neither are the daw, the magpie, and the jay
awanting. Foxes, also, are supposed to live in numbers near us.

   <FOOTNOTE>I beg to express my obligation to William Johnstone, Enq. of Meadowbank,
for his obliging communications regarding the coal strata of the parish.
    STIRLING.


