

                                PARISH OF KEIR.


               PRESBYTERY OF PENPONT, SYNOD OF DUMFRIES AND GALLOWAY.

                     THE REV. WILLIAM MENZIES, MINISTER.


                           ------------------------


I.---TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
Name, Boundaries, &c.---THIS parish forms the south-west side
of the central basin of the Nith, which comprehends great part of
the parishes of Closeburn, Morton, Durisdeer, Penpont, and Tyn-
ron. It derives its name either from some fortress, of the exist-
ence and history of which all traces have now disappeared, Caer,
an old British word, signifying a fort; * or, according to the somewhat
fanciful conjecture of Mr Rae in his History of the parish, from
the colour of its grounds,-the world Keir signifying black or brown.
This colour, however, which seems formerly to have been in a cer-
tain degree distinctive of the parish, is gradually yielding to planta-
tion and extended culture. The extreme length of the parish, from
north-west to south-est, is about 7 1/2 miles, and its extreme breadth
2 1/2; but in much of its length it is so narrow that the surface does
not exceed 11 square miles.

The ridge of Keir hill separates the parish from Glencairn on
the south-west; and everywhere else streams form its boundaries.
Indeed, it may be said to consist of the slopes from that hill down
to some stream. From Tynron, on the west, it is separated by the
waters of a small burn and the Shinnel; from Penpont on the north,
by the Scar after its junction with the Shinnel; from Closeburn
on the north-east by the Scar and Nith; and from Dunscore on
the south by the Allanton burn.

The high land of the parish consists of the long ridge called the
Keir hill, and some small branches at both ends of it. This ridge
is about four miles long. Its highest point bears the name of the
Waugh hill. Connected with it at its northern extremity is Ca-
penoch hill; and to the east of its southern extremity lie the short
parallel ridge of Kilbride and Blackwood. From all these
heights there are most beautiful and extensive views,-- so many as

     *Close bu a farm house, now called Nether Keir, a tower once stood.
                               4


