
92      			DVMFRIES-SHIRE.

dary of Morton with Durrisdeer. A little farther to the northward
from Thornhill, other two ridges run across the parish, rising
gently the one above the other. Here the soil is damp and wettish,
lying on a clayey bottom. Of these, extensive tracts are still in a
state of nature, though capable of cultivation; and will, we trust,
soon be improved, from the great encouragement given by the
present Noble and spirited proprietor. Beyond this, again, the sur-
face inclines with a gentle depression; and, on the other side of
this valley, the remainder of the parish rises into hills and moun-
tains, some of which are of considerable height, especially one,
which is about 2500 feet above the level of the sea. At the bottom
of these hills and mountains, there is a considerable extent of arable
and meadow land, of a rich alluvial soil and very productive. The
ranges of the ridges and rising grounds of the hills and mountains
run across the parish from south-east to north-west. The greater
part of the arable land lies on a free red sandstone bottom, under
the clay or gravel; and the mountains rest on the primitive and
whinstone rocks.
	Meteorology.--The soil in this parish and district being in ge-
neral dry, without fens, bogs, or morasses, and the air pure, mild,
and temperate, the climate is good, and the people healthy. The
prevailing winds here are from the westward, perhaps nearly two-
thirds of the year. Our heaviest rains are from the south-west,
and settled dry weather chiefly from the north-west. In the spring
months of March and April, indeed, we have often very high, cold,
and stormy winds from the east. Sometimes also, at this season,
there are very drenching and heavy rains from the south-east.
	Hydrography.--This parish is well supplied with water by the
rivers Carron and Cample, as above stated, on its western and
eastern boundaries; on the south, by the Nith, which, running
south-east, flows into the Solway Firth about four miles south-west
from Dumfries; and the interior part is abundantly supplied by
burns, rivulets, and perennial springs. There is also a strong
chalybeate spring or spa, from which many are said to have de-
rived great benefit in bilious and bowel complaints.
	Zoology.--The zoology of this parish is not at present distin-
guished by any of the rarer species of animals. Under this head,
however, the writer may take occasion to notice, that the Nith
and all its tributary streams close on the 25th September, and
open on the 1Oth March; and that to these terms there are very
strong and not unfounded objections. The general opinion and


