
                           MONYMUSK.                          463

Christchurch, and Regius Professor of Hebrew in the University
of Oxford, whose reputation as it general scholar, and a linguist of
the very highest order, is well known among the learned through-
out Europe.  He was born in the village of Monymusk, 3d April
1793, and received the first rudiments of classical literature at the
parish school, under Mr Duff, the late schoolmaster.  His in-
tense application to study is supposed to have been a mean of
shortening his days, which terminated 24th September.  His in-
the thirty-sixth year of his age.
   Parochial Register.-There are six volumes of register belong-
ing to the parish, of discipline and baptisms, &c. including those
now running, the oldest of which commences with the admission
of Mr John Burnett, late minister of Culross, to be ministor of
Monymusk, 18th August 1678.  The oldest register of the baptisms
commences 27th May of the same year, and extends to 3d May
1685, from which time till 19th October 1706, there is no record
of baptisms.  It is also interrupted at some other periods, owing,
as is recorded, to the loss of notes by some of the clerks.  The
register of baptisms is not very regularly kept at present, owing to
the neglect of parents in not having their children's names record-
ed at the proper time, and many of them not at all.
   Antiquities.-There is an old castle in the parish, called Pit-
fichie Castle, which, with the small property formerly belonging
to it, is said to have been long in possession of the family of Ge-
neral Hurry, or Urrie, of some notoriety in the times of the Co-
venanters.  More lately it belonged to the Forbeses, as part of
the estate of Monymusk to which it has been long united.  The
Castle has been unroofed for many years.
   About half a mile east from Monymusk House, and close on
the bank of the Don, there is a field called the Campfield, on
which, it is said, King Robert Bruce's army lay immediately pre-
vious to the battle of Inverury, which was the beginning of his
good fortune, when contending for the crown of Scotland.
   Besides two Druidical circles, one near the village, and the
other om the side of a hill about two miles south-west of is, and
the remains of a small chapel, sorrounded with what appears to
have been burial-ground now, covered with full-grown beeches and
enclosed in the midst of a corn-field north of the Don, the only
other monument of antiquity found in the parish is one figured
stone, discovered upwards of forty years ago in a field near the
river, about a mile east of the House of Monymusk, where it had


