
214                         LANARKSHIRE.

	Gaol and Court-Houses.--For a number of years previous to
1807, the gaol at the cross had become deficient in almost every
requisite. Situated in the centre of the city, without court-yards,
chapel, or infirmary, it contained no more than thirty-two apart-
ments for the accommodation of prisoners of every description, col-
lected occasionally from the populous counties of Lanark, Renfrew,
and Dumbarton, and invariably at the justiciary circuits,--having
very slender accommodation for the local courts of justice, whilst
that for the circuit court of justiciary was quite inadequate. Im-
pressed with the necessity of affording more suitable accommoda-
tion for the courts of justice, and more convenient and healthful
apartments for prisoners, the magistrates and council, on the 13th
of February 1807, resolved to erect a new gaol and public offices
in a healthy situation adjoining the river, at the bottom of the pub-
lic green. This building, which cost L. 34,800, contains, exclu-
sively of the public offices, 122 apartments for prisoners. As
there is a water-closet in each gallery, every individual prisoner,
debtor and delinquent, has access to one of them, and to an unli-
mited supply of pure filtered water from the Water Company's
pipes; and pipes are introduced into each court, from which they
are daily washed, and the air in them frequently cooled in hot
weather. There are two rooms, with anti-rooms, insulated from
the gaol, for persons under sentence of death, and so constructed,
that irons are never used. It is believed that this is the only pri-
son in the kingdom where persons under sentence of death are
not put in irons. Every room is provided with the necessary uten-
sils at the expense of the corporation. There is a well-aired In-
firmary room, though it is seldom used, from the healthiness of the
prisoners; and the chapel is seated to contain about 200 persons.
The governors house is so constructed, that, from his sitting par-
lour, he can overlook both court-yards. The justiciary hall is so
spacious as to contain about 500 persons. It is, however, much
to be regretted that there are some radical defects in this gaol.
	The number of incarcerations in the gaol for debt has of late
years happily decreased, whilst the incarcerations for delinquency
have been rather on the increase.
	In 1831, it was ascertained for Government that there were 630
persons incarcerated for debt, viz. on Justice of Peace decrees,
110; Sheriff's decrees, 287; acts of warden, 61; letters of cap-
tion, 150; warrants medit. fugoe, 22.
	For delinquency, 758; viz. on criminal warrants, 679; deserted


