
			 RUTHWELL.                              219

generally flat and uninteresting, the elevations that occur not ris-
ing in any instance more than 80 or 90 feet above the level of the
sea. The sea-beach is low, and consists of a clayey sand, known
in this quarter by the provincial name of sleetch. This substance
extends for several miles into the Frith, with so slight a declina-
tion, that the tide at low water recedes entirely out of sight, and
leaves to the eye a barren and cheerldss waste.
The climate, on account of its vicinity to the sea and to the
Lochar Moss, may be considered as somewhat moist; but certain-
ly it is not unhealthy. There are no prevailing distempers pecu-
liar to the parish. Many of the inhabitants live to an advanced
age: and not long ago an old soldier died at the age of 103, if
calculated from the statemdnt contained in the certificate of his
discharge, or of 110, if we rely on his own constant averment as
to the date of his birth. Of the winds, the south-west is the most
violent and the most pernicious to vegetation, as is distinctly indi-
cated by the inclination of the trees.
	Springs.--There is a mineral spring at Brow, near the shore,
where the Lochar falls into the Solway Frith. It is chalybeate,
and of no great strength; but was formerly a well of some celebri-
ty, and, notwithstanding the miserable accommodation for lodfers,
of some resort. Here, is a stone table, at which it is said that
Lord Stormont, the father of the celebrated Earl of Mansfield, sat
with his son and drank to his health when he took leave of that
future ornament of his country, on quitting his native land to push
his fortune at the English Bar. On that occasion, the old noble-
man is reported to have jocularly told his son, that he did not wish
to see his face in Scotland again till it should be surrounded with
the chief justice's wig,--a jest to which the event has given almost
a prophetical character. Here also is the humble cottage in which
the ill-fated poet Burns spent some of the latest days of his life,
in the vain hope of restoring a broken constitution, by imbibing
the salutary water, and breathing the pure sea air.
	Geology.--The geological and mineral condition of the parish is
marked by no peculiarity worthy of extended notice. The prin-
cipal rock is a coarse limestone, which about forty or fifty years
ago was worked to a considerable extent, but which has of late
been entirely disused, having been justly superseded by the far
purer lime of Kelhead, lying within four miles.
	About the period above-mentioned, some attempt was made to
discover a workable vein of coal on the farm of Belridding, in the


