
612                             FIFESHIRE.

it is also claimed by Crail. It is about a mile long, and three-
quarters of a mile broad. On it there is a well of fine water and
a snia I lake. It affords excellent pasturage for sheep: and the
May mutton is famous in all quarters. " A very intelligent farmer,
who has dealt in sheep above thirty years, and has had them from
all the different corners of Scotland, says, that be knows no place
so well adapted for moliorating the wool as the Island of May.
He adds, that the fleeces of the coarsest woolled sheep that ever
came from the worst pasture in Scotland, wben put on the Island
of May, in the course of one season, become as fine as satin."
It is frequented by a great -variety of sea fowl, such as kittiewakes,
searts, dunters, gulls, sea-pyets, marrots, &e. One side of the
rock, is composed of stately basalti'c columns. There is a light-
boils; on the island, which was originally built in the time Of
Charles 1. by Alexander Cunningham, laird of Barns. It is said.,
that as the unfortunate architect of the town was returning from
the isle, he was drowned in a storm supposed to have been raised
by some still more unhappy old women, who were in consequence
burnt as witches. At first the light was only a fire of coals; but
the property having, in the course of time passed into the bands
of the: Duchess of Portland, as heiress'of the late Allajor-General
John Scott of Balcomie, it was purchased from her by the Com-
imissionors of Northern Ligbts, who in 1816 rebuilt the tower, and
fitted it up ;with reflectors and oil lights. On the island are the
ruins of a priory, which formerly belonged to the Abbey of Pit-
tenweem and of a, chapel dedicated to St Adrian. Population
of the island, 2 males and 10 females.
Climate.-The climate, on the whole, cannot be considered as
unhealthy. In the spring the, east winds prevail, and occasionally
what is called an easterly hear sets in; during the continuance Of
which, the atmosphere is by no means very comfortable. Some
of the heaviest gales that visit the coast, come from the south-west
in winter. There is no epidemical disease which can be said
to be peculiar to the parish; and the cases of longevity are ra-
ther numerous in proportion to the population. Within these few-
years, several have died betwixt eighty and ninety years of age;
two at the age of ninety-four ; one aged ninety-five. In 1832
while cholera was very a prevalent and fatal in the immediate neight-
  Hydragraphy.-The Frith of Forth bounds the parish for about
half a mile on the south; and a small buru called the Dreel, of



