
     Statistical Account

wished to become rather too familiar with them.  This roused
the resentment of their lovers, who, assembling all the
males of the district, drove these intruders to the shore;
where, an engagement taking place, many of them attoned
for their gallantry with their blood*.

   Climate and Diseases.-Being surrounded with hills, whose
tops intercept the clouds, we have great and frequent falls
of rain.  This, and not sowing our oats, before the middle
of April, make the harvest late, and our crops are, conse-
quently, much hurt by the equinoctial rains and winds.
Though the air is rather moist, there are many instances of
longevity; there are two men now living, in the parish, a-
bove 90 years of age.  A man died lately that was said to
be 100, and there are several between 70 and 80.  The
people are, in general, healthy, living mostly near the sea;
those farthest from it, not being above three miles distant.

<FOOTNOTE>

*At the mouth of Lochridden, there is a small island called Eallang-
heirrig the property of Mr Campbell of South Hall, (who is the principal
landholder in this parish), memorable in the annals of last century.  In
the year 1685, the unfortunate Archibald Earl of Argyll, having, in con-
cert with the Duke of Monmouth attempted an invasion of the kingdom,
brought with him three frigates, and a considerable quantity of arms and
ammunition.  He landed at Dunstaffnage, on the N.W. coast of Argyll-
shire; and having collected an army of about 3000 men, he ordered his
ships from Dunstaffnage to Eallangheirrig, which he caused fortify in the
best manner he could; there he deposited his spare arms and ammunition,
under protection of his ships, and a garrison of 180 men.  But soon after,
three ships of war and some frigates arrived in the frith of Clyde, and pro-
ceeded towards Eallangheirrig, to whom the Earl's frigates and garrison
immediately surrendered.  In the castle of Eallangheirrig were found 5000
stand of arms, 500 barrels of gunpowder, several cannon and other im-
plements of war.  The captains of the frigates, after removing these
stores, blew up the castle, which put an end to any farther hostile opera-
tions, on the part of that unfortunate nobleman, who, with his party,
found means to escape; but he was soon afterwards taken, and met with
a fate he little merited from his country.


