
     of Newton upon Ayr.

holding directly of the king.  By whon it was erected, is un-
certain, as the original charters are lost; but tradition says,
that Robert I. who, in his old age, was seized with a scro-
phulous, or leprous disorder, granted Newton and Prestick
the privileges they now enjoy, in consideration of the kindness
shown him upon the occasion of his illness.  The same king,
it is also said, endowed an hospital for old infirm people, cal-
led King's Case, which still exists, and is situated near the boun-
dary of this parish.-The oldest paper in the custo-
dy of the community of Newton, is dated in 1574, and
contains a short precept, directed to the two baillies of
the burgh, empowering them to exercise authority in the
town; but there is no signature affixed to it.  All the privile-
ges, formerly given to the borough, were renewed by James
VI. of Scotland, and I. of England, by a charter, dated the
24th of September 1595; and another charter, to the same ef-
fect, was granted, about 5 years after.
   In these charters, no mention is made of the internal regula-
tions of the burgh; but from antient and constant usage, its
constitution has acquired certain peculiarities.  The number of
freemen or burgesses, is limited to 48, which compose the
community.  Each of these freemen possesses, what is called, a
lot or freedom, containing about 4 acres of arable land; besides
the common, on which the burgesses have an exclusive right
to pasture their cattle.  No houses are annexed to these free-
doms; but every burgess must reside in the burgh, or possess a
house as his property, which he may rent to any of the inha-
bitants.  The community meet every two years to elect their
magistrates; and, at this election every freeman has a vote.
They choose two baillies, one treasurer, and six counsellors,
who have the management of every thing belonging to the
burgh; but on urgent occasions, they call meetings of the
community.  Of late, little or nothing has been done without


