
                                  LOCHCARRON.                            113

            Ecclesiastical State.-The church was built in 1751.  It is si-
         tuated in the centre of the parish, and as the roads are good, it is
         pretty convenient for the greater part of the population.  It affords
         accommodation for upwards of 300, but is a miserable edifice, al-
         most unfit for the exercise of public worship.
            The glebe contains 10 arable acres and pasture for 6 cows and
         150 sheep.  The stipend is the minimum. There is no Episco-
         palian in the parish, and only one Roman Catholic, a woman.  The
         inhabitants are partial to the Establishment; but are far from
         being punctual in their attendance on public worship.  A cate-
         chist labours among them, paid by the session.  There are no
         Dissenting or Seceding families in the parish.
            Education.-In the parochial school, are taught, Greek, Latin,
         and all the ordinary branches of education.  The salary is the
         maximum, and the amount of school fees may be about L. 15.  The
         expense of education is from, 8s. to 18s. per annum, according to
         the branches studied.  At present, there is no Society school
         in the parish; children come therefore to the parish school, from
         a distance of six miles.  Three additional schools are required, and
         they would secure an attendance of from 30 to 70 scholars.  There
         are at present from six to fifteen years of age, 291, and upwards
         of fifteen, 693 persons who cannot read.  The people are in general
         alive to the benefits of education.  They are particularly anxious
         that a knowledge of English should be imparted to their children,
         from an impression that their temporal interests will be more cer-
         tainly promoted by a familiarity with that language.
            Poor.-The number of poor receiving aid from the parochial
         funds is from 25 to 30.  The sum allotted to each is small.  Our
         church collections do not amount to L. 8 per annum, and there is
         no other mode of procuring funds besides the fines imposed on de-
         linquents.
            Fairs.-The only fair held in the parish is the new Kelso mar-
         ket, on the first Monday of June.  At one time, it was a consi-
         derable fair for cattle, but now it has dwindled into an annual term
         for settling accounts and drinking whisky.
            Inns.-There are 2 inns in the parish, and 2 dram-houses.  The
         resort of the younger part of the people to these places tends
         much to corrupt their morals.
            Fuel.-The fuel used is dried moss, procured at no other ex-
         pense than the labour of lifting it.

           ROSS AND CROMARTY.                       H


