
188                    HADDINGTONSHIRE.

   During the last three years, there were 9 illegitimate births in
the parish.
                        IV.-INDUSTRY.
   The two great divisions of labour carried on in the parish are
agriculture and mining, or the working of coals. Agriculture is
the principal employment of the people. There are 22 farmers
in the parish, occupying land from above 50 to 500 acres each;
9 smaller farmers, occupying from 10 to 40 acres each; and 5 sub-
tenants, occupying under 40 acres each. Some of those farmers
retain upon their farms, including binds and their families, and la-
bourers, from 50 to 76 individuals. On the farm of Coates, there
is a resident population of 76; on that of Hairlaw, 67, besides
others who do not reside upon the farm. The inhabitants of Pen-
ston, Henmuir, North mains of Penston, and M'Merry contain-
ing a population of betwixt 400 and 500, are chiefly employed in
the working of coal. The great London road running through
the parish about two miles and a-half, the public road running
through Longniddry about two miles, and the No A Berwick road

<FOOTNOTE>of Hadingtoun upon my aim charges the ten weeks by-gane; and other two are ap-
prehended for robbery committed be thame within my bounder, and landed of Byres
thes twentie weikes by gane, within the tolbuith of Edinburgh, upon my own chairges."
   The Lord Commissioner and Lords of the Articles, after bearing the petition,
granted a commission for putting to death such of the above persons as were found
guilty of witchcraft by confession, and for trying the others, which, if we may credit
tradition, was put into execution. The field in Samuelston where they were burnt
was called the Birlie Knowe, and was situated on the south side of the village, be-
tween the Tyne and the mill-dam, where, within these few years, (it being now
ploughed up) kimmers bleached their linens clean, and found it a very useful spot,
unhallowed as it was.
   About this time, a warlock drove a lucrative trade, called Sandie Hunter,
(allas Hamilton,) whom it is said the devil nick-named Hattaraick  He was origi-
nally a nolt-herd in East Lothian, and was famous for curing diseases both in man
and in beast, by words and charms. Wherever Hattaraick went, none durst refuse
him an alms. One day be went to the gate of Samuelston, when some friends after
dinner were taking to horse, a young gentleman, brother to the lady, switched him
about the ears, saying, "You warlock carle what have you to do here?"-where upon
the fellow went away grumbling, and was heard to say, "You dear buy this ere it be
long." After supper the gentleman took horse and departed, and crossing Tyne wa-
ter to go home, he passed through a shady piece of a half called the Allers. What
he saw there, he would never reveal, but next day he was in a high state of delirium,
and had to be bound. The Lady Samuelston hearing of this said, "Surely the knave
Hattaraick is the cause of this trouble; call for him in all hoste." When the warlock
came, "Sandie," says she, "what is this you have done to my brother William?"-
"I told him," replied he, "I should make him repent his striking of me at the yait
lately." She giving the rogue fair words, and promising him his sack full of meal,
with beef and cheese, persuaded the fellow to cure him, which was speedily effected.
When Hattaraick came to receive his wages, he told the lady her brother would
shortly leave the country, never to return; upon which, she caused him to make a de-
position of his property to the defrauding of his brother George. After the warlock
had purpsued his lucrative calling for some time, he was apprehended at Dunbar, taken
to Edinburgh and burnt on the Castle hill-Satan's Invisible World.
   Sinclair, from whom the substance of the above is copied, says, that he had the in-
formation from the gentleman's brother.-St Baldred of the Bass, p. 276-8.


