
                         LOGIE.                                           227

with some illustrations of Scottish literary antiquities. Edinburgh,
1803, 8vo. It may likewise be found in Mr Campbell's Speci-
mens of the British Poets, Vol. ii. p. 238. Hume appears to
have maintained an exemplary character as a clergyman. In Row's
MS. History of the Church of Scotland, he is enumerated among
" those godlie and faithfull servants," whom the author had him-
self known, and who had " witnessed against the hierarchy of
preslate in this kirk."
   But the name that reflects the highest honour on this parish as
the place of his birth, is that of General Sir Ralph Abercromby,
the hero of Aboukir, who was born at the family seat, at Means-
trie, in 1734. His baptism is registered in the, parish record,
bearing, date October 26, 1734. Of one whose fame is so widely
spread, it would be idle to speak here. He is numbered among
the best and bravest of Britain's many good and brave, and his
memorial is the history of his country.
  The principal resident landed proprietor's are, Lord Abercrom-
by, and Thomas Buchanan, Esq. of Powis.
   Parochial Register.--There has been no register of deaths or
burials kept in this parish, except in the years 1761 and 1763.
Baptisms have been recorded on application (which, however, has
been too much, neglected,) since February 12, 1688; and the record
of proclamation of banns opens on January 17 of the same year.
The session records have been regularly kept since 15th August
1688.
   Antiquities, &c.--Tbese may be briefly enumerated, viz. two of
those large upright stones, to be found in various parts of Scot-
land, intended, probably, to commemorate some battle or event
long since forgotten. They are situated'in Airthrey Park, about
quarter of a mile distant the one from the other. One is about-
10 1/2 feet in height, (of which upwards of 2 1/2 feet are under ground,)
and 8 1/2 feet in girth. The other is 9 feet 4 inches high above
ground, and 14 feet 9 inches in girth.
  2d. The remains of a Pidtish fort on Castle Law, one of the
Ochils ; or rather the tradition of such a fort, for the traces of its
Oxistence are bardly distinguishable.
  3d. A Roman ford and causeway across the Forth at Manor.
  4th. Above fifty years ago there was found a number of.Spear-
heads under some stones at Abbey Craig. They were composed
of a kind of bell metal, or brass, and it was concluded, they were
of Danish manufacture. One of these, however, at present in the


