
     Statistical Account

Hopes on the E. and a large rivulet on the W. stands the
ancient castle of Yester.  Sir David Dalrymple, in his An-
nals, relates, that "Hugh Gifford de Yefter died in 1267;
" that in his castle there was a capacious cavern formed
" by magical art, and called in the country Bobhall, i. e.
" Hobgoblin Hall."  A stair of 24 steps led down to this 
apartment, which is a large and spacious hall, with an arch-
ed roof; and though it hath stood for so many centuries,
and been exposed to the external air for a period of 50 or
60 years, it is still as firm and entire as if it had only stood
a few years.  From the floor of this hall, another stair of
36 steps leads down to a pit which bath a communication
with Hopes-water.  A great part of the walls of this large
and ancient castle are still standing.  There is a tradition
that the castle of Yester was the last fortification in this
country that surrendered to General Gray, sent into Scot-
land by Protector Somerset.  About a mile below this 
majestic ruin, and on the same water, is situated Yester
House*, a large, elegant and magnificent structure, built of
hewn stone of a fine reddish colour, brought from the
lands of Dalgety in Fife, which formerly belonged to this  

<FOOTNOTE>

the brass handle of a sword, which probably had been concealed there for
several centuries.  About 2 miles to the W. on the farm of Newlands,
there are 2 large artificial tumuls thrown up in the middle of a plain,
called by the country people the Black Castles and Green Castles.  The
Marquis of Tweeddale planted them with Scotch firs, and some gray
wood many years ago.  Antiquaries are of opinion that these tumuli,
from their etymology, were formerly Roman stations.  To the W. of
these tumuli there are other two encampments, onse on the farm of Park,
and the other on the estate of Hopes.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Yester House is not within the limits of these parishes; but as it was
scarcely mentioned in the Statistical Account of its own parish, the writer
of this paper thought proper to give this short account of it.


