

154                       BANFFSHIRE.

boundaries of the donation, in the following words-- "usq. ad me-
ta versus villA'de Banff que dicitur lie Stanemannishead juxta
commune de Banff antedict. ex boreali, deseendendo in aqua de
Dowern cum dicta aqua et piscatione ejusd. ascenaendo ad lie meir.
burn ex orientali usq. ad lie blackbank et fow1furd et inde exten-
dendo ad knockne ex austrah, aseendendo rivulem statent de lie
Claretwell usq ad vid ascendendo slakmethy et inde descendendo
per viii usq. ad slacklethy descendendo ad fontem et rivu em ejus .
usq ad redbank et illius ascendendo torrent fluent in aqua de Do-
wern usq. at Ranate billok et inde ad lie Crukithillok et ad lie
Scurryfurd ascendendo ad magnam foved vulgariter lie Greit slack
et Rishypannis, descendendo ad lie Comeswell et inde ad fontem
Sancti Joannis et bludypotts ad burgusaet stains inter cornmunam
de Banff et terrA ecclesiastic& de Alvetb antedict. ex occidentali
partibus cum alils omnibus,terris avisamentis simulet et libertati-
bus." This charter is dated at Aberbrothwick, " A. D. 1314,
die xx. proximo post Sancti Pauli Apli," and is signed by
many witnesses, among whom are the Bishops of Dunkeld and
Brechin, the Abbots of Dumfermling and Aberbrothwick, with
several knights and persons of distinction. The above-mentioned
donation is accompanied by a charter of confirmation granted by
Thomas Earl of Mar, Lord Strathalvetb, signed and sealed,
" apud Moravien. sedern an. dni 1314, et 19 marcij," in presence
of many witnesses of distinction.   To this charter of confirmation
there is a docquet subjoined in the holograph of Thomas Deir,
designed 11 clericus St Andreae dioc. ae sacra aplica aucto: No-
tarius," by which Henry, Bishop of Aberdeen, confirms the saiddonations, 1375.
The charters of donation and -confirmation, of which we have
here given the substance, are very interesting as documents of great
antiquity, and if rightly interpreted may yet become important in
other respects. The northern boundary of the parish of Alvah can-
not, at present, be precisely determined by the oldest inhabitant,
iaor, in so far as the writer has been able to discover, are there any
existing documents, excepting the charter before us, which seem at
all calculated-to throw any light on the subject.  If the localities
here mentioned could be exactly determined, the question would
doubtless bd set at rest but the face of the country has undergone
so many important changes from the progress of improvement, that
it is now impossible to identify the present names of places, with
names which have, probably, long since been changed and forgotten,


