
                             DUNNICHEN.                         149

ternate, which consists of interposing a green crop, or naked fallow,
between every two corn crops. At first breaking up from lea, oats
are sown; then turnips and potatoes drilled; next barley, with rye-
grass and clover; next pasture, for one or more years. Sometimes,
when the land is in very good heart, two or more crops of oats are
taken at first breaking up. Sometimes wheat is sown after pota-
toes, and sometimes on clover-lea, with addition of manure: if
after potatoes, or naked fallow, the grass seeds are always sown
along with it. But for some years past the seasons have been so
unfavourable at the critical time of flowering and fructifying, and
the wheat has been so much destroyed by the fly, that the culti-
vation of this grain has been almost abandoned, and barley substi-
tuted in its place. Formerly wheat was always sown after naked
fallow; and a part sometimes after potatoes or clover lea. Now,
with wheat, the extent of naked fallow is very much reduced, and
barley is sown upon the potatoe and turnip land, which receives all
the manure. Of late the turnip husbandry has been extended by
bone durt, which raises a good crop on light sandy ground, but
does not seem to succeed so well on stiff clays. The store-masters
of the Grampians send down their flocks of sheep to feed on
these turnips during winter, and they are confined to three drills
at a time by means of flakes. They prefer these wooden flakes to
nets, because the sheep being of the horned black-faced breed,
their horns might get entangled in the nets, and tear them in
pieces. The kinds of turnips cultivated here are the globe, the
green and red-tops, or rather a mixture of all. A portion of the
yellow turnip is in every field; but, unless the seeds themselves
were to be raised, they seldom can be got unmixed. Every farmer
has also a few drills of curly kail in his turnip field. The grains
cultivated are the potatoe-oat, of which they frequently change
the seed; the two-rowed barley; the white Essex wheat, of which
they receive frequent change of seed from London or the Carse of
Gowrie; gray peas in some places,--drilled beans having been tried,
but not found to succeed. Some farmers also sow portions of
vetches, as green fodder for their live stock. Various kinds of
potatoes have prevailed here at different times; but the kinds most
in vogue at present are the large globular red, and the small Ame-
rican of a white colour.
	Shell marl from the Loch of Restenneth, which belongs to the
estate of Dunnichen, although in the parish of Forfar, has been a
powerful instrument of improvement in this quarter. It is com-


