20                               FORFARSHIRE.

chiefly employed in agriculture; and 6828 in trade, manufactures,
and handicraft.
	It may be mentioned, that, during the period when cholera vi-
sited the town, the mortality was only 30 above what it was two
years before, when measles and fever prevailed; the number of
burials being for these two years 1445 and 1476.
	There are no noble families in the town, but several of indepen-
ent fortune. Of landed proprietors in the parish, there are six-
teen having property worth upwards of L.50 a-year.
	The number of inhabited houses in Dundee is 3892, of houses
not inhabited about 68. Many houses are at present in the course
of being built, in consequence of the opening of several new streets,
and the rapid increase of population and trade.
	Character and Habits of the People.--Amongst the better
classes in Dundee, from the progress of education, and a wide
and daily intercourse with other parts of the kingdom, as well
as foreign lands, the style of conversation has rapidly improved.
Among the lower classes there are still many expressions used
which may be called Angusisms,--while the tone of speech is
neither so drawling as in Fife, nor so sharp as in Aberdeen.
From the number of wealthy families resident in the tnwn, either
engaged in business, or enjoying the fruits of their hard and ho-
nourably earned affluence, the society of the place is extensive
and pleasant. The hospitality of the merchants to strangers is
almost proverbial. As business is transacted now chiefly before
dinner, the evening is often devoted to domestic enjoyment, to
useful instruction, to social parties, or to the club.* In the games
in use there is nothing but what is common to similar places.
Cricket, the favourite game of merry England, has of late been in-
troduced among our youth; and in winter, the curlers seek their
"roaring play" under the auspices of one of our divines, highly
skilled and most successful in the art, who imported it from his na-

<FOOTNOTE>
	* Many of the merchants, manufacturers, writers, and shopkeepers, have left the
close streets of the town, and built handsome houses on either side of it, on the banks
of the river.  The public works are advancing rapidly on the country.  A spinning-
mill, with its accompanying warehouses, occupies at present the site of the villa of the
late Mr Constable, the acknowledged Monkbarns of the Antiquary of Sir W. Scott.
The remains of what was once the largest and most splendid house in Dundee, is now
inhabited by trades-people.  It stands in the Nethergate, and belonged to the Craw-
ford family.  In this hnuse the marriage of Archibald Earl of Angus, called Bell the
Cat, with Maud Lyndsay, daughter of the Earl of Crawford, was celebrated with un-
common pomp and festivity.


