
1122			ABERDEENSHIRE.

Roman Emperor Constantius, was ploughed tip in a hitherto un-
cultivated piece of ground on Mains of Cushnie, which was sold
in Aberdeen; and, in 1839, there was found, near the manse, a
silver piece of James VI. in fine preservation, struck after the
union of the crowns.
    Picts' Houses.-Several of these subterraneous abodes are
found on the farm of Cairncoullie. When first discovered, they
contained a quantity of ashes, and fragments of half-burnt wood,
clear indications of their having been once inhabited. They are
about five feet high and eight feet wide, and roofed with large
flat stones.
    Entrenchments on Hill of Corse.-Near the summit of this hill,
there are two or three long trenches, with a considerable number
of small tumuli beside them; and on its south-eastern aspect,
looking towards Milmad, in Lumphanan, there is a long earthen
rampart with a ditch, facing a similar one, on the opposite brow
of Milmad. Tradition connects these with the closing scenes of
Macbeth's career, whose cairn, marking the spot where he fell, is
still to be seen, about a mile north from the church of Lumphanan.
    Ancient Chapels.-It is stated in the " View of the Diocese of
Aberdeen," that there was formerly a chapel at Lenturk. There
is now no trace of the building; but there is a spot still known as
the "chapel croft," a little way south-east from the site of the
castle. A small bit of grounds on the farm of Corbanchory, still
untouched by the plough, and called the "Chapel Yard," was
no doubt attached to another place of worship. The ruins of a
third, named "Terry Chapel," on the farm of Newton of Corse,
are still distinguishable; and the good taste and feeling of Sir
John Forbes, the proprietor, have led him to enclose and plant
the spot.
    Ancient Buildings.-The Castle of Lenturk, the most ancient
of these, was probably built by the Strachans, if it did not exist
before their date. In Monipennie's Brief Description of Scotland,
appended to his Abridgement of the Chronicles, 1612, he enu-
merates the castles of "Lenturk, Corsse, and Cragywar," among
the strongholds of "Marre." In the Old Account, in 1792, the
Castle of Lenturk is described as in ruins, and having a large
deep broad fosse around it. The very ruins have now disappeared,
and a farm-house occupies their site; but still a considerable por-
tion of the circular fosse is distinctly visible.
    Castle of Corse.-The date of this structure is pointed out by


