
			KINGARTH.                           87

and my heirs: I give, grant, and by this my deed, convey to the
said monastery at Paisley, and the monks serving God therein, the
church of Kingaif (Kingarth) in the island of Bute, with all the
chapels and the whole parish of that island, together with the
whole of those lands of which the boundaries, said to have been
fixed by St Blane, are still apparent from sea to sea." From this
charter, it would appear, also, that at the time of its date, this was
the parochial church of the whole island. The extent of the ec-
clesiastical lands mentioned in the above grant, it is not now easy
to determine. They may have comprehended the whole penin-
sula; perhaps only the part of it which would be cut off by a line
drawn from Dunagoil Bay on the west, passing a little to the north
of the church, and terminating at one of the small creeks on the
eastern shore. The church stands on a level space raised by art
considerably above the adjoining ground, and enclosed by a wall
of massy stones rudely piled one over another, 500 feet in circum-
ference. The whole of this space is found arched or built with
mason for underneath, at a distance of two feet from the surface.
Connected with it by a built passage that seems to have been un-
der ground, is another space on a lower level, and surrounded by
a similar wall 124 feet in circumference, which is known by the
name of the nunnery. It has been commonly considered to have
been the site of a convent; on no authority that has been disco-
vered, but that of tradition. Both spaces have been used for se-
pulture; but this ground is believed to have been set apart as a
burying-place exclusively for females; and the ashes reposing in
it have been little disturbed for ages, although frequent interments
still take place in the other. A considerable portion of the walls
of the church remain standing, and discover an architecture of
great antiquity. The elevation on which it is situated, is approach-
ed on the north by a flight of steps, leading from a grove at a short
distance, which contains a remarkable kind of building, of which
the use remains altogether unknown. This consists of a wall;
forming a complete circle 30 feet in diameter; rising to 10, feet
in height above ground, and obviously filled with rubbish to some
depth; 9 feet thick, and having a passage or gateway 9 feet wide,
The erection was doubtless formed with a view to great strength.
It is composed of rude stones, many of them of immense size.
The workmanship seems to be of a more remote date than that of
any other part of the adjacent ruins; but its evident communica-
tion with these, shown by marks still remaining, would indicate,


