
                                   GLENSHEIL.                                187

         the profusion of saxifrage, water cresses, and other fontine plants, by
      which their course is accompanied; and their generally forming a
      plot of marshy land covered with alder and willow trees.  There
      are no mineral springs except some that are tinged with iron ore,
      none of which are drunk medicinally.
        The lakes connected with the parish, of such extent as to re-
      quire notice, are three. Loch Cluonie, i. e. the lake of Meadows,
      the largest, has been already mentioned.  In the next valley to the
      south of it, occurs Loch Luin, about a mile long by half a mile
      broad.  The water of both these lochs flows eastward into the
      river Moriston, and they abound in trout of good quality.  The
      other lake is Lochsbeil, also already mentioned,-through which
      the river Sheil flows to the sea.
        Geology and Mineraloqy.-The mountains of this parish con-
      sist chiefly of gneiss, variously modified in respect of the size and
      proportions of its component minerals, and alternating occasional-
      ly with mica slate.  On the banks of Loch Cluonie, a tract of
      granite occurs, coarse grained, and tinged with red.  That part
      of Letterfearn, which lies to the south-east of the church, consists
      of gneiss, deeply tinged of a red colour with iron; beyond this, to
      the west, the rock resumes its ordinary grey colour.  At this point,
      there occurs a bed of primitive limestone, grey, spotted with green
      and red, and very impure.  A similar bed is found near the harbour
      of Ob-Inag, extending across the hill to Glenelg, and presenting
      veins of asbestos.  In this last position, the rock has a manifest
      influence on the vegetation in its neighbourhood, which is un-
      usually verdant.  The dip of the rocks is generally between
      north-east and south-east ; but both this and the angle of in-
      clination, whish is generally considerable, are extremely irregular.
      In the higher mountains, masses of quartz and plates of mica, of
      considerable size, are found ; and along the shore, beds of soft
      tale slate are not unfrequent.  In the hill above Ratagan, stones
      with drusy cavities containing crystals of quartz, lined with a, yel-
      low metallic ore, are found; and to the west of the manse,cubical
      masses of the same substance, being probably an ore of iron,
      have been discovered.
        Soil- The soil of the vallies of Glensheil an d Croe consists of gra-
      vel and sand of various degrees of fineness, well covered with vegetable
      mould, and would, in a more favourable climate, be well adapted for
      cultivation.  Along the sea shore, the soil is generally a coarse gravel,
      containing many stones, carried down by the streams from the ravines



