
854                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

     Live-Stock.-As the rearing of cattle forms an essential branch
of profitable husbandry, the attention of the farmer has been de-
servedly turned to the improvement of the breed of cattle. After
successive trials, the true native, crossed with the short-horned or
Durham breed, has been found productive of the most approved
and profitable stock. The size and symmetry of the cattle have
kept pace with tire improvement in agriculture.
   Husbandry.-The husbandry now almost universally adopted is
of the most approved description, and many of the obstacles that
formerly obstructed the progress of agriculture have yielded to the
combined influence of skill, industry, and capital.  The abolition
of run-rig, or intermixed allotments of ground occupied by differ-
ent tenants ; the conversion of crooked and highly raised, into
straight and moderately low riggs; the exclusion of surface water
from low-lying fields; the efficient draining, of marshy ground; the
removal of large surface stones, which were alike unseemly in ap-
pearance as detrimental to productiveness; the application of lime
to reclaimed ground, or to dormant soil, which deep ploughings
had brought into contact with manure; the introduction of early
seed from the more genial southerly counties ; the substitution Of
an improved breed of horses, for the puny and powerless animals,
the native breed of the county; the exchange of the cumbrous and
wasteful machinery of a twelve oxen plough, for the two horse
plough, of a lighter construction; the general prevalence of
drill-turnip husbandry; the adoption of the rotation of cropping
best adapted for the respective soils; the abolition of servitudes
and mill-multures; these, under the auspices of practical know-
ledge, and of moderate capital, have conspired in bringing the
husbandry of the parish into no distant competition with the boast
ed agriculture of the finest counties.  It is indeed impossible to
subdue the obstacles arising from climate and local situation, and
any attempt to raise wheat and barley often proves abortive, but
the crops of bear and oats are not, in favourable seasons, exceeded
very much in quantity or in weight in almost any part of Scotland.
Enclosures are still much wanted, to enable the farmer to turn
his fields to the best possible advantage.  Very few farms have as
yet the benefit of enclosures, though quarries for the purpose
might be opened on almost every farm; and the tedious operation
of the entail act of l0th Geo. III. presents an almost insuperable
obstacle to this desirable species of improvement.  To release
property from the fetters of entail would be an act worthy of as


