
                 DUNOON AND KILMUN.                    611

by William Campbell Esq. of Tullichewen, at that time the
proprietor of the Castle House, and is recorded in the minutes of
the meetings of heritors, as having been presented by Mr Camp-
bell, ''to the parish and village for the public use of the inhabi-
tants."
  The present church of Kilmun was erected in 1841, from a design
by Thomas Burns Esq. architect, Glasgow. It is in all respects
an excellent building, and its appearance not unpleasing nor un-
suitable to the surrounding scenery. More ambitious in the ele-
vation of its tower than its aged neighbour, the ancient tower of
the collegiate church of Kilmun, which still stands in the immedi-
ate vicinity, it may, to the taste of some, present a contrast more
abrupt than satisfying. The church, however, corresponds with
the modern village in its vicinity; and only betokens the change
which the old tower itself silently but impressively proclaims, as
having passed on the affairs and prospects of men, since the more
ancient days of its own erection.
  Two chapels have been erected in the united parish within the
last few years, one near the point of Toward, and the other at Ar-
dentinny in Glenfinart, partly by subscriptions, and partly by the
funds of the Church Extension Scheme. They are both substan-
tially and not inelegantly built and finished, and while supplying
needful accommodation for divine worship to those two portions
of the parish population, situated remote as they are from the
parish churches, they present a feature in the path scenery, not
detracting, at least, from the interest which its other features
awaken.
  A dissenting chapel in connection with the Associate Synod was
erected in Dunoon in 1829, and is a building of highly respecta-
ble appearance and style.
  Among modern buildings in the united parish may be classed
a Lazaretto, connected with the quarantine station in the Holy
Loch, erected by Government, on the Dunoon side of the Holy
Loch, about forty years ago. The buildings consist of an ex-
tensive and complete range of stores, suited to receive infected
goods of every description. The buildings are surrounded by a
high wall; and close to them is erected a range of houses for
the use of the superintendent of the quarantine, and the men em-
ployed in its service. The general opinion prevails of this qua-
rantine station not having served its purpose; or rather, it has
been proven that it had no adequate purpose to serve; and it is


