
674                             LANARKSHIRE.

Galium verum, sandy banks of the Clyde, below Partick.  The milk of the best
   Cheshire cheeses is said to be coagulated with this plant.  Highlanders employ its
   roots to produce a red dye.  They boil them with the yarn, along with some alum,
   to fix the colour.
Menyahthes trifoliata, below Partick, adjoining the Clyde.  Its leaves, used as tea,
   are represented to be a good tonic.
Anagallis arvensis, sandy fields below Partick.  Its flowers, which are of a beauti-
   ful scarlet colour, close on the approach of a storm.
Verbaseum thapsus, north banks of the Clyde below White Inch.
Adoxa moschatellina, foot of hedge below Partick.
Pyrola minor, in wood at Craigion sparingly.
Nuphar lutea, deserted bed of the Clyde below Partick.  The flowers, from their
   smell, have obtained in England the name of brandy-bottles.
Cochlearia officinalis, abundant on the north bank of the Clyde, below the Kelvin.
Botrychium lunaria, grassy banks of the Clyde, below White-Inch.
Lichen rangiferinus, in mossy ground near Shieldhall.  This lichen forms the prin-
   cipal food of the reindeer in Lapland.

                            II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Historical Events.-After the treaty had been concluded which
was agreed upon between the Queen Regent and the Protestant
party at Leith, on the 24th of July 1559, the confederate Lords
proceeded to Linlithgow, and afterwards to Stirling.  They had
no confidence in the promises of the Queen Regent, and justly
feared that her object was, with the aid of French soldiers, to de-
prive them both of their civil and religious liberties.  They there-
fore subscribed for their mutual defence a bond, in which they
pledged themselves to hold no communication with her without
each others knowledge and consent, and they resolved to have a
meeting with " their kin and friends upon Govan Muir, * beside
Glasgow."  This meeting, however, the Queen Regent artfully
contrived to prevent, by writing to all suspected persons of note,
as if she had been perfectly assured of their friendship and loyal-
ty, under the pretext of apprising them of what was intended, and
praying them to hold themselves and their retainers in readiness to
assist her should their services be required. " Gouen-Mure, neire to
a hill called, Langeside." + is likewise signalized in Scottish history
as the place where the army of the ill-fated Mary was defeated,
after her escape from the Castle of Lochleven.
   Eminent Men.-Constantine, King of Cornwall, having resign-
ed his crown, is represented, in the ancient chronicles of Scotland,
to have come to this country, from Ireland, in the train of St Co-
lumba, in the year 565, and to have founded a monastery at Govan,
of which he was the first abbot.  It is also said that he was buried
from ground which, previous to its being planted, did not yield ls. an acre, and
that in this instance, the sward consisted almost wholly of Pleum pratense, with a
small portion of Anthoxanthum odoratum.

<FOOTNOTE>Knox Hist. of Ref. p. 142.  Glasg. 1831.
          Balfour's Annales of Scotland, Vol. i. p. 344.
					     4


