
                           STRATHDON.                     535

formerly only visitors in their passage between the forest of Brae-
ar and Glenfiddich, but now located in our woods all the year,
although there is not as yet more than one well authenticated in-
stance of their breeding here.  The roe-deer (C. capreolus) are
very numerous; as many as thirteen have been killed in a day.
The hare; the alpine (L. var.) ; and the rabbit are found in abun-
dance, although it is only about twenty years since they last ap-
peared.  The black-legged or hill fox ( Vulpes vulgaris, var.) only
is found.  Serious injury is sustained by the sheep-farmer from its
depredations amongst the lambs.  Those who possess consider-
able flocks pay so much per annum to a fox-hunter for destroying
these creature.  He, at certain seasons, comes with a motley pack,
composed of a few couples of old fox hounds, greyhounds, lurch-
ers, and terriers, which are turned into the woods, and the passes
being guarded by men with guns, five or six are often destroyed in
a day.  The wild cat (Felis catus sylvestris) is met with, but is
rare.  A remarkable specimen, killed winter 1835-36, measur-
ed 12 inches round the head, 3 feet 9 inches including the tail in
length, and weighed about 15 lbs.  Five martins (Martes fa-
gorum,) were killed some years ago in one season, in Glenernan;
the polecat (Mustela putorius,) and the weasel (M. vulq.,) are
very common ; the stoat or ermine, (M. erminea,) less so.  An
opinion prevails that, when the stoats are numerous, it is the in-
dex of a severe season.  They were unusually abundant in the
beginning of the winter 1838; the remark was often made, and
the prediction fully realized.  The otter (Lutra vul.) is not un-
frequently met with on the banks of the Don.  The water-rat
(Arvicola aquatica) inhabits the banks of the Don and the Carvy.
The badger (Meles Taxus) has been killed at Coilnabechan, and
in the woods of Newe, but is now believed to be extinct.  The
hedgehog (Erinaceus Europ.) was unknown ten or fifteen years
ago, but is now common.  The brown rat (Mus decumanus,) has
not hitherto obtained a footing with us.  Some years ago, a soli-.
tary specimen was killed at Edinglassie, but the presumption is,
it had been imported with luggage from London, or from on board
ship.  The black rat (M. Rattus) is, however, numerous.  It is
well known, that wherever the brown appears, the black is extir-
Pated.  The latter is destructive enough in the house and offices
of the farmer; but it is a singular fact, he does not, like the brown,
infest the stacks in the corn-yard.  The farmers here are, indeed,
incredulous respecting the depredations of rats in stacks.  The


