
               PARISH OF BERTRAM SHOTTS.

     PRESBYTERY OF HAMILTON, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.

          THE REV. WALTER L. COLVIN, MINISTER.

		     I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
  	Name.--According to a tradition which seems well authenti-
cated, this parish derives its name from a robber called Bartram de
Shotts, who in ancient times infested this part of the country, and
was the Rob Roy of his day. He was killed not far from the si-
tuation of the present church.
	Extent, &c.--The figure of this parish is nearly that of an oblong
square. It extends 10 miles in length, and 8 in breadth; it varies in
elevation from 200 to 850 feet above the level of the sea. It is divided
from East Monkland and Torphichen on the north, by the Nort
Calder, and from Cambusnethan on the south, by the South Calder.
On the east, it is separated from Whitburn by a small burn, and
on the west, from Bothwell by an old fence. In ancient times
Shotts formed part of the parish of Bothwell, under the designa-
tion of "Bothwell-muir."
	Geology and Mineralogy.--The geology of the parish is of a
mixed character, consisting partly of a portion of the great coal-
field of Lanarkshire, where it encroaches on the calciferous de-
posits of Wilsonton and Clympie on the south-east, and the trappean
rocks of Shotts and Monkland to the north. Indeed, the parish of
Shotts, geologically speaking, nearly  divides itself into two great
groups or portions, the igneous and sedimentary rocks. The trap-
pean rocks are mostly dolerite or common greenstone, and are protrud-
ed in a very bold and massive group, constituting nearly the whole
of the northern half of the parish. The line of division between
the igneous and sedimentary rocks is indicated on the map with
tolerable precision by the south Edinburgh and Glasgow road.
Some of these traps are undoubtedly protruded upwards among
the coal measures of this extensive mineral district, while certain
portions are found overlapping the mineral deposits, or distinctly
interstratified between them. At Shott-burn, both coal and iron
are found below the trap, and the sandstone in contact with it is


