
                       GLENELG.                               131

bounded on the north by Ross-shire, on the south by Loch Hourn;
AEneas Ranaldson Macdonell, Esq. of Clanranald and Glengarry,
proprietor of Knodyart, bounded on the north by Loch-Hourn,
on the south by Lochnevis; and T. A. Fraser, Esq. of Lovat, proprietor
of North Morar, bounded on the north by Lochnevis, and
on the south by Lake Morar.
    Eminent Men.-Lord Glenelg, late Mr Charles Grant, eminent
no less for his literary taste than for his talents and success as a
statesman, both being graced and sanctified by his unostentatious
and unfeigned piety, has a place in the history of his country, as
one of those great men who, in the capacity of rulers, have been
raised up in the time of her need. The early period in his public
life, at which he was called to take a share in the councils of
the nation,-the anxiety of each successive government to secure
the benefit of his valuable services,-shews the estimation in which
he has been uniformly held by those best able to judge of his
character; and the master-band with which he has conducted each
department of the state entrusted to his care, with his consequent
progressive advancement in public confidence, proves that be has
not been overrated. His Lordship's Parliamentary career has been
from the beginning connected with Inverness-shire, first, as the Representative
of that district of burghs of which Inverness is the
principal, and subsequently, of the county,-on the death of his
father, whom he succeeded,-until his elevation to the Peerage.
The services he has rendered his country are well known. For
three years, he held the Secretaryship of Ireland, which country he
governed with great prudence and popularity. In the course of this
period he obtained for Ireland, the benefit of measures which it
required no ordinary sagacity to devise, boldness to advocate, and
labour to carry into effect. As President of the Board of Trade,
at a subsequent period, it fell to him to introduce that measure
for the protection of the corn interests (the most intricate of subjects)
which still forms the law of the kingdom, on a point so, important,
-none better to supersede it having hitherto been devisted.
As head of another department, it also fell to him to prepare
and bring forward the new law for our East India dominions,
-an act affecting so large a portion of the human race, and which,
in the face of opposing interests and able adversaries, was passed,
without any change in its material parts, with general approbation.
And in his new and extended sphere, similar important and benificial
results may well be anticipated, from the exercise of his


