

220                      STIRLINGSHIRE.

tion, hardness, and colour. The amygdaloid rock is abundant,
with agates and calc-spar of a globular form disseminated. Along
the face of the hills, and particularly to the westward, is a thick
bed of conglomerate rock, or breccia, having a dark-brown colour-
ed arenaceous base, in which are imbedded fragments of trap rock,
chiefly angular.
   The coal formation rocks are chiefly sandstone, of various shades
of white and red, with alternating beds of slate-clay, in which are
found beds and balls of common clay ironstone. Some thin beds
of coarse limestone are also found.
   In the midst of these strata of the coal formation, where they
rise to the west and form the west end of the trough or basin,
rises the remarkable rock known by the name of Abbey Craig. It
is a trap rock, and of that kind denominated greenstone. It rises
from the east to the west, at an inclination of about one in four,
and terminates in a very abrupt craggy precipice of about 500 feet
in height from the plain. From the foot of the precipice there is
a sloping foot or glacier of about half of the height, and this slope
is covered with very large boulders, and immense masses of the
rock which have fallen from the precipice. This rock of Abbey
Craig is, in every respect, both witb regard to texture, general
form, and dip, precisely similar to the Stirling Castle and Craig-
forth Rocks, in the immediate vicinity.
   The natural divisions or fissures of the Abbey Craig Rock are
the same as in all greenstone rocks, that is, they are at right angles
to the sole or bed on which it rests; so that the precipice presents
a rude columnar form.
   The greenstone rock does not compose the whole height of
Abbey Craig from the plain on the west, it being only about 250
feet thick, or nearly the half of the whole height. The strata
found under it are composed of the various coal strata before-men-
tioned. Here some trials have been made for coal and limestone;
the latter, of a coarse quality, was found; also, argillaceous iron-
stone, but no mineral of a workable value. It is, however, thought,
from the analogy of similar strata, that a workable limestone may
be found in this quarter.
   The greenstone is composed of felspar and hornblende, and,
when broken, presents a rough crystallized appearance.
   With regard to organic remains, none have been found in the
Ochils. This circumstance constitutes one of the chief discri-


