
168                        FORFARSHIRE.

stoat becomes white in winter, and is to be distinguhshed from the
weazel by its tail being always black at the end; it is also larger.
The polecat (M. putorius) is common. The martin has been
found in the woods of Balnaboth; the other frequents the banks
of the Esk, and of the burn of Ballandarg. The badger is com-
mon; one was killed some years ago in the poultry-house at Logie.
There are two varieties of the fox, the large black-legged grey-
hound fox, or hill fox, and the cur fox, or low country fox, which
is smaller. The hare is common. The white or Alpine hare
(Lepus variablis) is often to be seen in Glenprosen; it becomes
white in winter, except the tips of the ears, which remain black.
I have been told by a mole-catcher that he once found a white
mole near Newtyle. The large-eared bat (Vespertilio auritus,)
and the short-eared bat (V. murinus), are equally common about
old buildings; of the latter species I counted thirty-six, which
came out one after another from a crevice in the wall of the
manse.
	Mr John Fergusson has sometimes seen the viper or adder
(Coluber berus) in the hill of Glenoig. My late friend, Mr John
Bell, brought two nimble lizards (Lacerta agilis) from the moun-
tains of Glenprosen, and on placing them on the carpet they show-
ed that the name was well applied.
	Pearls.--Mr George Donn says, that the pearl mussel (Mya
margaritifera) is common in the Snuth Esk; and Dr Jamieson as-
sures us, that at one time there was a considerable fishery carried
on to procure pearls. He mentions that some of them were so va-
luable that L.4 were given for them in the first market. One
was got as large as the ball of a pocket pistol. The principal bank
where they were found was between the house of Bankhead and
the house of Inshewan. About two years ago, a quantity of pearls
was sold to a jeweller in this town, found in the South Esk, six
miles above Cortachy.
	Insects.-- There are several insects which have lately been ob-
served, and which have proved injurious to vegetation and fruit
trees. I shall mention a few of them as they occur.
	Curculio pini. Though the ravages of this destructive insect
have not been so great as in other places, they have been felt here.
This little animal, as Mr Headrick observes, cuts holes into the
tender vessels of the larch and birch, which allow much of the sap
to escape. The extravasated sap dries in the air, forming small
				4


