
			IRVINE.                           625

shop, and public library. The debtor's prison has this year(1840,)
been discontinued in consequence of the New Prison Act; and
the only jail in the county for civil debtors is now at Ayr. Cri-
minals are seldom confined in this jail beyond a few days; when
longer imprisonment is found necessary, they are usually trans-
mitted to Ayr.
	A Saving's Bank was instituted in Irvine in the year 1815, and
such has been the rapid progress of this excellent institution,
that, in the year 1839, the sums deposited amounted to no less
than L. 1050, Sterling. The depositors consist mostly of indus-
trious mechanics and servants.
	In ancient times, there was a magnificent market-cross in the
centre of the town, but it was taken down in the year 1694, The
principal stones of that edifice were applied in the erection of the
present meal-market in 1694 and 1695.
	There were also two ports or great entrance gates into the
town, the one extending across High Street from the west end of
the Glasgow Vennel; and the other across the street called Eglin-
ton Street, near to the house now belonging to James Allan,
weaver.
	Irvine appears to have been visited by a severel plague 1546,
in which year a commission was granted by Queen Mary, with
consent of the Earl of Arran, her tutor and protector, and gover-
nor of the kingdom, to the magistrates of this burgh, granting to
them very extensive powers for enforcing the necessary regulations
as fully as could be done by the Lord Justice-General.
	The present bridge of Irvine, across Irvine water, was built in
1745-6, by Thomas Brown, at the contract price L. 350 Sterling;
it was materially widened and improved in the year 1827, under
autbority of an act of Parliament.
	The town is well lighted with gas, from a work erected by pub-
lic subscription in 1827.
	" The Seagate Castle," says Robertson in his Topographical
Account of Cunningham, "is a ruinous fabric of considerable anti-
quity. It belongs to the Earl of Eglinton, and is supposed to
have been intended as the jointure-house of the Dowager Ladies
of that family. There is no date upon; but, from the circum-
stance of the united arms of Montgomery and Eglinton being en-
graved upon a central stone, in a vaulted chamber in the lower
story, it must have been built since the union of these two fami-
lies by marriage in 1361; and that it could not be much later
     AYR.                              Rr



