                                        MOFFAT.                                103

in the northern central parts; and steeper and higher lands range
along Moffat Water ; the gorges of these three vales and the three
rivers uniting below Moffat; and the united streams afterwards pas-
sing under the name of the river Annan. Although the village of
Moffat is situated at an elevation of about 370 feet above the sea, and
the meeting of the three rivers below must be at an elevation of about
350 feet above sea level, to this point of junction they all descend
briskly in their courses: Annan Water running southward about se-
ven miles: Moffat Water descending to the south-west about ten
miles; and only about four or five miles of the upper part of Evan
Water being in this parish, moving to the south by east. The beds
of Annan and Moffat Waters are mostly formed of gravel and sand
with rounded stones; the course of Evan is over almost vertical rocks.
The hills and mountains ranging along these rivers are generally
steep, in some instances almost inaccessible; but though the water-
fall is brisk, it is distributed over long spaces, and excellent public
roads have been long open in the direction of these rivers; the
well-known Evandale road, affording a safe and easy communica-
tion as part of the mail-coach road from Carlisle to Glasgow, and
the improved line in the direction of Annan Water being part of
the mail-coach road from Dumfries to Edinburgh; while up Mof-
fat Water carriages pass without any difficulty or danger by the
lakes and Yarrow to Selkirk, the access being good and safe in all
these directions; and very easy to the burgh of Annan on the south
distant 27 miles. The vales formed along Annan and Moffat
Waters are narrow, but of a dry and fertile soil; that of Evan Water
is not only more confined, but less fertile, and more heathy. All
these water-courses are well adapted for pasturage; and in the
vales of Annan and Moffat Waters there is also a proportion of
land in cultivation and planted with trees.  It is believed that the
passes at the upper parts of these rivers, when the greatest ascent
along the road from Moffat has been gained, may rise generally
to near a thousand feet in all, which, if distributed over a space
of ten miles, would make an ascent as easy as necessary.  But, of
course, part of the roads are steeper.
     The group of mountains called after Hartfell, and forming the
highest land in Scotland lying south of the Forth, contains the fol-
lowing, viz.  Hartfell, whose height above the sea at low water is 2635
feet; Whitecoom, looking down on the basin of Lochskeen, 2685
feet; Broadlaw in Peebles-shire and Tweedsmuir parish, 2741 feet;
Ettrick Pen, whose height is 2256 feet; and Queensberry to the


