
      PARISH OF GLENCAIRN.

             PRESBYTERY OF PENPONT, SYNOD OF DUMFRIES.

                  THE REV. JOHN BROWN, MINISTER.


              	I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HlSTORY.
   Name, Boundaries, &c.--GLENCAIRN, whose ancient orthogra-
phy was Glencarne, seems to be compounded of Glen, which in the
Erse signifies a valley, and Cairn, a collection of stones; the name
corresponds exactly with the appearance of the parish, and seems to
refer to the great hollow along which the river flows. The parish
is about 15 miles long, and about 311/2 miles broad, and consequently
extends to 5211/2 square miles. It is bounded on the south by the
parish of Dunscore; by Balmaclellan and Dalry on the west; by
Tynron on the north; and Keir on the east; and is of a rectan-
gular figure.
   Topographical Appearances, &c.--There are many ranges of
hills in the parish, most of which run nearly from west to east.
The upper ranges are mostly covered with heath, but the greater
proportion afford excellent green pasture. The valleys are in a
high state of cultivation, and produce luxuriant crops of all the
sorts of grain cultivated in this country. The height of the highest
hills varies from 1000 to 1500 feet above the level of the sea.
There are three valleys in the upper district of the parish, each ex-
tending to about six miles in length, which meet at the village of
Minnyhive; and a fourth of greater breadth, which extends seven
miles towards the lower end of the parish. The hills are chiefly
of the transition class of rocks, and their appearance is charac-
teristic of that series.
   The parish, from its proximity to high hills on the west, is fre-
quently visited with such copious rains as sometimes to inundate
the low grounds, and occasion considerable damage in the harvest
months: and in general the atmosphere is moist. The climate,
however, is mild and salubrious, and the people in general healthy.
   Hydrography.--On the farm of Lochurr, there is a lake which
                            3


