
176                   GENERAL OBSERVATIONS.

dentations, and where some land lies of which it is difficult to say
whether it belongs to that county or to Peebles. A small part of
the parislies of Innerleithen and of Peebles lies in Selkirkshire. *
   Rivers.-The only river is the Tweed which, with three trilling
exceptions, drains the whole county. None of its tributaries are
dignified with the appellation of river, + but receive the name of
waters, the next in deffree. The streams that rise in the county
and do not fall into the Tweed, are the Medwin, already mention-
ed, commencing in the parish of Linton, the North Esk, which rises
in the same parish, and the South-Esk, which has its source in Ed-
dlestone parish; the list two streams afterwards unite and fall into
the sea at Musselburgh. The course of the Tweed is north-east,
till it reaches the parish of Peebles, when it tikes all easterly di-
rection. There is a circumstance well known to store-farmers and
shepherds in this district, which I am not aware has ever been ac-
counted for, but which is worthy of investigation. As long as the
Tweed flows in a north-east direction, the hills on both sides of it
are equally healthy for sheep pasture, and the disease called sick-
ness is very little known. As soon as the river takes an easterly
direction, the sheep on the right bank become subject to that dis-
ease, and also to what is termed the louping-ill, to an extent tell
times greater than what takes place among those on the left bank,
which has a southern exposure.
   Ecclesiastical State.-All the parishes in this county belong to
the Presbytery of Peebles, except Skirling and the united parishes
of Broughton, Kilbucho and Glenliolm, which belong to the Pres-
bytery of Biggar. It is probably owing to this ecclesiastical ar-
rangement that these last named parishes are often not recognized
as belonging to the county of Peebles, but are transferred to Lanark.
There is perhaps nothing more objectionable in our church economy
than the division or union of parishes, in which it frequently happen
that very little attention has been paid to the comfort either of the
minister or his people. Thus a considerable part of Drummelzier
lies on the west side of the Tweed, which, when flooded, prevents
the inhabitants of that district from attending the parish church.
When the parish of Dawick was suppressed in 1742, and added to
Stobo and Drummelzier, the difficulty of crossing the Tweed to
attend the church of Stobo never seems to have been considered.

<FOOTNOTE>A great part of the parishes of Kirkurd, Linton and Newlands, may be considered
table land, with an elevation between 600 and 850 feet. The pleasure grounds of
Whim are exactly the same height as Arthur's Seat.
    The gradation in the names, is first a syke, for which there is no English word hen burn, water, river.


