
                                              ARNGASK.             893

          which amount to L. 172, 8s. 10 1/1 O/2d. ; 5 bolls, 3 firlots, 1 2/3 lippies                       lippies
          of meal, and 2 bolls, 2 pecks, 2/3 lippies of meal.  Mrs Wardlaw
          and Robert Low, Esq. of Fordets are joint patrons.
             There are 170 families in the parish, exclusive of a few bothies.
          Of these families, 149 belong to the Established Church; and
          21, including 82 individuals of all ages, are chiefly connected with
          the United Secession Church.  The Number of male beads of
          families in communion with the church is 115; and the total num-
          ber of communicants, taking the average of the last seven years,
          is 280.  There is no other place of public worship but the paro-
          chial church ; and the people, with few exceptions, are most re-
          gular in their attendance upon the stated services of religion.
            There has been a parochial society in operation for upwards of
          twenty years, whose object has been to assist in disseminating the
          pure and unadulterated word of God.  Since its formation in 1813,
          it has been connected with the Kinross-shire Bible Society, and
          contributed to the funds of that institution the sum of L.] 84, 5s.
          3d. Occasional collections have been made in aid of the funds
          of the Scottish Missionary Society.  And for many years we have
          had collections in behalf of the benevolent schemes which are
          sanctioned and recommended by the General Assembly.  The
          averagd amount of annual contributions and church collections for
          religious and charitable objects is L.15.
            Education.-The parish is amply supplied with the means of
          education, there being two schools in active operation within its
          limits, viz. the parochial school, which is situated near the church,
          and a school in the village of Duncrivie.  The number of chil-
          dren attending each of these schools is nearly equal, and, when
          taken together, they are found to vary from a seventh to a sixth
          part of the population. It is to be regretted that the attendance
          of some at school is of very short duration.  At the same
          time, there are none who do not obtain a share of education
          to the extent of being, in some measure, qualified for perusing the
          Sacred Scriptures. * The branches of instruction generally taught
          in both schools are, reading, writing, arithmetic, book-keeping,
          and geography.  Latin and Greek are also occasionally taught in

          <FOOTNOTES>There is a striking contrast between the present state of education in the parish
          and that which existed in the seventeenth century. In the register of the presbytery
          of Perth, 28th March 1649, is inserted a list of the families withhn several of the pa,
          rishes belonging to that presbytery, wherein some of the members could read.  Arn-
          gask is one of the parishes there specified, and, at the period referred to, it was found
          to contain only sixteen families in which some of the members could read.


