
     of Forfar.

   The burgh is governed by a provost, two bailies, and twelve
common counsellors, who are elected annually by themselves
with the assistance of four deacons of crafts, who are also
members of council, (but chosen by the members of the
respective corporations,) and fifteen other burgesses nomi-
nated for the occasion, by the retiring provost and bailies.-
The annual council, thus consisiting of nineteen members,
have the privilege of electing a delegate, 10 vote for the
election of one representative in Parliament for the burghs
of Perth, Dunlee, St. Andrews, Forfar, and Cupar in
Fife.-The revenue of the burgh, arising from lands, cus-
toms, &c. is supposed, communious annis; to be little below
L. 400 sterling clear, and it is yearly increasing.
   The incorporations of shoemakers, which is still the richest
in the town, was, previous to the year 1745, the most nume-
rous; and the wealth of the place arose chiefly from their in-

     VOL. VI. 3 T

<FOOTNOTE>

seem, that the community had been enriched y repented marks of royal
bounty, not do the inhabitants seem to have been insensible to the kindness
shown them by their sovereigns.  A parliamentary ratification, dated 1669,
of the Royal  wet of Novodumus, dated 1665, proceeds upon the ab-
straction of the original charters and rights of the burgh, and the
plunding of the inhabitants in 1651 for their attachment to the
Royal Family, and particularly on "the faithful testimony and diffent
"given be Alexander Strang, late Provost of Forfar, and commissioner for the
"said burgh, against passing of the unjust act of the Kingdom of Scotland
"concerning his Majesties Person."  This act, which bears such honourable
testimony to the humanity and public virtue of the chief magistrate of For-
far, besides confirming all the ancient rights and privileges of the burgh,
ratifies its right to the patronage and tythes of the parish, dispoused by James
and Sir George Fletchers of Restonet, and of any seas or rents payable out
of the burgh acres to the priory of Restonet, the abbley of Coupar, and Lord
Torphichen.  In the year 1684, as appears from the date upon it, the mar-
ket cross was erected, it is said, at the expence of the crown, and it stands to
this day, a monument of the loyalty of Forfar, though in the eyes of the people
it is perhaps a nuisance as an incumbrance on the street.


