                              MOFFAT.                        115

the constant residence of many respectable families occupied for
the most part in business or in trade, or preferring Moffat as a
permanent  residence.

<TABLE>
Number of families in the parish,                                            448
       of families chiefly employed in agriculture                           62
                   chiefly employed in trade, manufacture, or handicraft    151
                   residing in Moffat 320, in the country                   128

   Character and Haabits of the People.--The habits of the people
are  particularly decent and cleanly, and their language is among
the best samples of English to be found in any Scottish village.
The gray plaid, thrown round the body, or across one shoulder
and under the opposite arm, is still common.  Curling with heavy
dressed stones on the ice is the favourite amusement in winter.
There is a bowling green ; and a billiard table is prepared at the
bath-rooms.  A subscription and a circulating library furnish the
people with books, exclusive of two daily newspaper and many
others.  There is hardly any smuggling or poaching; and low and
gross acts of immorality are seldom heard of in Moffat.

                              IV.- INDUSTRY.

   The real rent of lands in this parish is about L.8000; of which
are paid from sheep L.5750, and from corn and cattle, L.2250.
The sheep-walkd comprehend, it is believed, about 34,200 acres;
the land in cultivation, about 3750 acres; natural woods, 200
acres, and plantation 250 acres.  In all, 38,400 acres.
   This view of the proportion of the land in cultivation corresponds
with what was reported in the Statistical Account of 1791, when
it was considered as about 3000 Scotch acres, being  nearly the
same as 3750 acres English; and in this respect there seems to be
on the whole very little alteration.  But though the extent of
lands in culture is nearly the same, it is well known that the mode
of cultivation is greatly improved.
   The noble author of a celebrated work on emigration was of opi-
nion, that, for such lands as those of Moffat parish, it was only ne-
cessary to have the shepherd and his dog.  But a reasonable propor-
tion of the lands in cultivation adds materially to the safety and
value even of the sheep; and they are indespensable to the com-
forts and subsistence of that population, by whose labours shel-
tering walls are erected for the use of the sheep stocks, and green
crops and swon grasses raised for the support of stocks that re-
quire it,--corn and cattle entering into the system, with sheltering
plantations equally beneficial to the owners and  their flocks, and



