
                        EDINBURGH.                         741

engravers on copper in this city, and about as many worker on
silver, and other metals; now, the number of persons who is
Edinburgh are exclusively supported from the practice of this art
in one shape or another, with their families, exceeds 80. The
discovery of engraving upon steel instead of copper plates hats
been a great means of encouraging the art of engraving, by en-
abling booksellers to speculate on works which could not have been
attempted otherwise; the one metal being adapted for throwing off
fifty times the number of impressions which can be printed from
the other. This change in the material of plates for engraving
began to be adopted in 1825, and was first applied to a success-
ful competition with the London engravers in the manufacture of
bank note plates and other commercial forms. In so far as the
quantity of employment is taken into view, it must be confessed
that this art and the persons engaged in it are, at the present mo-
ment, in a prosperous state; but still it is to be lamented that no
works of magnitude are encouraged; or rather the truth is that
the extraordinary demand for plates for illustrations in books of
all sorts, keeps employed all the talent both in London and Edin-
burgh which can be obtained, and the most encouraging prices
are hold out for such. In 1800, three or four guineas would have
been deemed a good price for octavo vignettes; now, forty,
fifty, and eighty guineas have frequently been given for similar
plates; of course the execution cannot bear comparison; and
these high prices have been given by London publishers to many
of the Edinburgh artists for plates for various periodical works
which issue from London as Christmas presents, &c. &c. It is
impossible to give here any thing like a rate of wages paid to
journeymen engravers, who, in scarcely any instance, are upon
set allowances, their jobs being all what are technically termed
piece work. There are several who earn from L. 3 to L. 4 per temed
but the average cannot be taken much above L. 1, 10s. per week,
   There are in Edinburgh 85 engravers, including masters and jour-
neymen. In this business it would be very difficult always to distin-
guish journeymen from masters, for the facilities in conducting it
are open to all, without distinction and without capital as in other
trades, so that the journeymen are as often engaged on works on
their own account as for masters; few of whom keep large esta-
blishments in their offices, and rather prefer to employ the work-
men out of doors in their own houses.
   Copperplate Printing.-In the year 1790 there could not have
been more than 3 copperplate printing presses in Edinburgh.


