
         		    PARISH OF CARMUNNOCK.

		PRESBYTERY OF GLASGOW, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.

			 REV. JOHN HENDERSON, MINISTER.

                     I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
        Name.-THE name of the parish now called Carmunnock ap-
pears in old charters in the various forms, Cormannock, Carmanoch,
Carmannock, and Curmanock. On the oldest of the communion
cups, (date 1707,) it is found in the form Carmannock, and the
same form occurs on the tokens still in use of date 1777. The
most probable account given of the origin of the name is that
which derives it from the Gaelic Caer-mannock, signifying the
Monk's fort.
        Extent, Boundaries, &c.-The original parish is about 4 miles
long from east to west, and averages 2 1/2 miles in breadth from north
to south. There are two annexations, however, quoad sacra tantum,
the one from the parish of Kilbride, and the other from the pa-
rish of Cathcart, inclusive of which it is fully 6 miles in length,
and 4 in breadth. These annexations were by a regular decreet
of the competent court united to the parish of Carmunnock in
1725. The parish originally belonged to the presbytery of Ha-
nilton, but was by authority of the General Assembly, and with
consent of the then incumbent, united to the presbytery of
Glasgow in 1597. The village of Carmunock, which is situated.
about the centre of the parish, is fully 5 miles to the south of the
city of Glasgow; and the parish is bounded on, the east, by the
Parish of Cambuslang; on the South, by Kilbride; on the west, by-
Eaglesham and Mearns; and on the north by Cathcart.
        Topograhical Appearances.-The parish, which is, generally
elevated, is beautifully diversified with hill and dale. From the
higher eminences, particularly from the top of Cathkin-hill si-
tuated towards its eastern boundary, and about 500 feet above the
level of the sea, it commands one of the richest and most exten-
sive prospects in the west of Scotland. In a clear day, the eye,
takes in part of sixteen counties, The immediate objects of at-
	LANARK. 		   Q q


