
     of Loth.

   There have been only three Presbyterian ministers in the
parish, prior to the present incumbent.  The first was Mr.
Robert Robertson, who was settled in 1717 or 1718, and
transported to Eddertoun in Ross-shire in 1730.  It was dur-
ing the ministry of this gentleman, and from this parish, that
the last unhappy woman that suffered for witchcraft in Scot-
land was executed.  She was burnt at Dornoch; and the
common people entertain strong prejudices against her relati-
ons to this day.

<FOOTNOTE>

sand, on which are cairns of stones close by one another, which appear evi-
dently to have been heaped up to cover dead bodies, some of whose bones
are still to be seen.  A number of these tumuli lie on the shore of Wester
Garty, which is said to have been the field of a bloody battle, betwixt the
Sutherland and Caithness men; the particulars of this engagement, under the
name of Stronrunkie, used to be a frequent and familiar subject of conversation
in the young days of the oldest men in the parish; but they themselves re-
member nothing but the tradition of the battle.  On this spot are the re-
mains of an edifice resembling the other Pictish buildings in the parish; in
which was found some years ago, the entire skeleton of a man, who, by the
size and length of the bones, must have far exceeded in bulk the common
standard of the present days.  There is a pretty extensive plain in the moor
above Garty, to the west of Helmsdale, which is said to have been the field
of another battle, fought at an earlier period than that of Stronrunkie.  A num-
ber of tumuli are still to be seen in this place which is called Lonrihomash.  In
a valley, betwixt two high hills, is a large stone fixed in the ground, and
standing pretty erect, evidently raised by art, as it is of a cylindrical form, and
more than ten feet high above the level of the ground; it has no discernible
inscription, or carving of any sort; neither is there any tradition as to the
cause for which it was erected.  Near it are other two stones of a smaller
size erected in the same manner.

