
        124                    INVERNESS-SHIRE.

        no expense is spared to insure success.  The herring-fishing is
        the great source of support to the country people; but when it fails,
        they are destitute, particularly in the village of Fort-William.


                           V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

           Fort William is a market-town; but the market-day is scarcely
        distinguished from another day, so little business is doing.  The
        village of Corpach, at the south end of the Caledonian Canal, is
        the only other village in the parish.  There are no houses of any
        value in Corpach, and there is no appearance at present of any
        improvement.
           Means of Communication.-There is a regular communication
        with Inverness is and Glasgow by steam in summer twice a-week, and
        in winter once a-week, besides a daily post from the south and from
        Inverness; also three times a week to and from Arisaig.  There
        is a penny post-office established lately at Corpach.
           Caledonian Canal.- The south end of this stupendous work be-
        gins at Corpach in this parish, and runs eight miles through it
        along the river Lochy to Loch Lochy.  It was a work long in con-
        templation before it was begun.  It occupied about twenty years from
        its commencement to its completion, and it cost nearly a million
        of money to the nation.  No one can yet say how useful it may
        prove; but already it has attracted thousands of travellers, British
        and foreign.  The number is increasing every year; and the steam
        navigation is improving and increasing in proportion, to meet the
        wishes of travellers and traders.  All admire the magnificent scene-
        ry along its banks for sixty miles, but particularly at the south en-
        trance, from whence the traveller has a full view of Benevis.  The
        only disappointment to which the traveller can be exposed is, that
        the monarbh mountain may be in a mournful mood,-half co-
        vered with mist.  To escape this disappointment, travellers should
        visit the scenery in the months of June, July, and August, when
        they have every chance of seeing the mountain free of clouds and
        mist, but never free of snow.
           Every encouragement should be given by the Honourable Com-
        missioners to the navigation of the Caledonian Canal.  At present,
        the Greenock merchants complain of the high dues, notwithstand-
        ing that these dues have been reduced one-half from what they
        were at first.  Tbe consequence is, that vessels which would other-
        wise pass through the canal, are sent round the north coast.  The
        steam-boats, in particular, ought to be encouraged; and were a tug
        boat allowed to pass free, in order to expedite the navigation on


