
514                     EDINBURGHSHIRE.

It is first mentioned as the seat of a distinct presbytery in the
year 1581.*
   In 1686, the minister having reported the church to be ruinous,
the presbytery order it to be completely repaired, and made wind
and water tight. In 1762, the building of a steeple and spire for
the church was resolved on; and in 1767 the church was again
ordered to be repaired.+  The church is far from being comfort-
able at present, and would require anew to be thoroughly repaired.
There are two bells of good tone; on one of which is the follow-
ing inscription:-"Decora domui tuae sanctitas, O Jehova, dierum
in longitudinem. John Milne & Son fecit. Edinburgh, 1768."
   Seats in the Church.-At what time fixed seats were first set up
in the church, we have not been able to ascertain; the practice
must have been adopted, to a certain extent at least, soon after
the Reformation; at all events we find that it was common in the
time of Cromwell, as lie burned all the seats and pews to make
room for his horses.+
   By a minute of the kirk-session, dated 31st July 1655, it was
resolved that the church should be furnished with seats. "The
sam day it was concluded in session, that it was expedient for
decoring of the kirk, that the same should be fitted up with
handsome seats, and therefore that the minister should give notice
that any of the heritors who had a purpose to make up a seat for
himself and his family, that he or they should come to the ses-
sion on any of the session days, betwixt and Martinmas next, and
give in their desire concerning the seating thereof, and if they
fail to do so, that the minister should certify to the said heritors,
that the session would, after Martinmas next, dispose of the room
in the kirk to such other of the inhabitants of the parish as should
be content to set up handsome seats for themselves and their fa-
milies therein, at the session's discretion, and that the intimation
be made out of the pulpit the next Lord's day."
   It may be remarked that transfers of seats were not reckoned
valid, unless reconfirmed by the session in favour of the parties to
whom they were disposed.
   Besides the gallery appropriated to the Duke of Buccleuch,
there are two tiers of galleries which belong to the different
incorporations of the town, and seem to have been erected by

<FOOTNOTE>Calderwood's History of the Kirk of Scotland, Vol. iii. page 522.-Wod. Soc.
Edin. 1843.
    Presbytery Records.
    Balfour, Vol. iv. page 88.


