
               MARISCHAL COLLEGE AND UNIVERSITY.            1185

the above payment, and any fees paid by graduates in divinity or
laws, the whole fees of whose diplomas, excepting the expense of
writing them, have been for a long time given to it; but the num-
ber of these has always been small.  The college has never en-
joyed the full benefit arising from the books entered in Stationer's
Hall; for only one copy being sent to Aberdeen, the righ tof
keeping them was given, by the Court of Session, in 1737, to the
older establishments but, as the decision bears, "for the use of
both colleges.  "The late alteration, by which an annual payment
is given to King's College in lieu of these books, has riot remedied
the unequal circumstances in which Marischal College is placed,
and which the Royal Commissioners have represented in their
reports.
   A theological library was instituted in the year 1700 by the
Synod of Aberdeen, who grLnted the sum of 1000 merks to the
Professor of Divinity in Marischal College, out of the rents of an
estate mortified to support the Professor of Divinity in King'r
College; the books purchased "to be set up in a distinct library
by themselves in the Marischal College, or some convenient room
in New Aberdeen," "so as to be patent for all the students of Di-
vinity in both colleges."  In 1754, the books were placed in the
Divinity Hall of the college, and the professor continued to select
those to be purchased till 1785, when a committee of the students
received the management.  The contributors of a small sum an-
nually for four years are constituted life-proprietors.  There is a
printed catalogue of the collection, and the regulations under
which it is managed are sanctioned  by the colleges, no alteration
of them being valid unless made with the consent of both colleges,
in order to avoid "the many evils arising from precipitation."
   Many articles of curiosity and specimens of natural history,
presented to the college at different times, were lodged in the
Library till 1786, when a separate apartment was partially fitted
up for them with cases, and which, in 1823, was remodelled and ex-
tended.  It is to be ardently hoped that, with the great advantages
of display which the new apartment to be fitted up as a Museum
is capable of affording, this collection will rapidly increase.  The
present professor of Natural History is in possession of an exten-
ive museum of objects useful in teabhhng that science, particularly
in Zoology and Mineralogy, which have been purchased at his own
expense.
   The Apparatus for teaching Natural Philosophy is extensive, and
   ABERDEEN                                      4 F


