
                             KINROSS.                              15

                        III-POPULATION.

	The population of the parish has been on the increase ever
since it was examined into.

<TABLE>
                           In 1755, it was           1310
                              1792,                  1839
                              1801,                  2124
                              1811,                  2214
                      and in 1831,                   2927
  Among the more usual causes of the increase of population
may be noticed a mortification, as it is termed, of land to the value
of from L. 80 to L. 100 of yearly rent, which, on the death of a
female of eighty years of age, who receives an annuity of L. 50,
will come to be divided among the domiciled poor. Such bequest,
it is greatly to be feared, may prove a premium to idleness, and a
strong inducement to vagrants to terminate their wanderings here.
The neighbourbood of coal, and the cheapness of living, may al-
so contribute to the growing population of the parish.
  The number of the inhabitants of Kinross, is about 2200, and
of the rest of the parish 727.
  The number of proprietors of land of the yearly value of L. 50
and upwards, (including two properties, one of which belongs to
the British Linen Company, and the other is disponed in trust
to the heritors, of this parish,) is 25.
  From a census made for this work, the number,of inhabited
houses in Kinross appears to be 566; of these unlet, 26; in ruins, 5.
There are 3 persons in the parish more or less insane or fatu-
ous, but not requiring confinement; 4 blind, 4 deaf and dumb,
and 1 in the Deaf and Dumb Institution, Edinburgh.
  Character of the People.-The general character of the people
as to intellect, morals, and religion, is not inferior to that of the
people of many parishes in like circumstances. There is not in
their number one professed infidel; and, there exists among them
a general external reverence for the Sabbath and its public ordi-
nances ; not a few of them being of exemplary Christian character,
and of eminent Christian qualifications. Affability, hospitality, and
a readiness to serve and oblige to the utmost of their pOwer,-nay,
sometimes beyond what a regard to their own private and family
interest's would dictate,-are peculiarities in the habits of many of
this place and vicinity, which, to strangers who have come to fix
their residence here, have been the subject of pleasing observation
and of grateful experience.
  Poaching, it must  be confessed, is still too much practised
both in the fields and in the tributary streams of Loch Leven. In


