
208                          DUMFRIES-SHERE.

less than six different landholders,--until all these gentlemen agreed
to their terms, (in the event of a vein being found, and that vein
stretching under any of their lands,) the company did not conceive
it prudent to bre`k ground. The greater number of these pro-
prietors, however, refused to accede to the terms proposed; in con-
sequence of which the whole mining scheme was abandoned. Had
this project (in which the heritors were not required to advance one
penny, unless they had chosen to become members of the mining
concern,) been carried into execution, the result, if successful, would
have been the improvement of the country, the enhancing of the value
of their estates, and the opening up of a new source of industry to their
nearly idle cottagers. Specimens of the ore were sent to the Royal
Museum in the University of Edinburgh, and some retained by the
incumbent in his possession. Whether this galena has been brought
here by the primeval waters of the globe, or knocked from off the
mouth of some vein in the immediate vicinity, no farther attempts
have been made to discover. No search for many years has been
made for coal; the shaft formerly sunk having been injudiciously
executed, the proprietors were unwilling again to risk their money
even on so valuable a field of investigation. *  Limestone was
quarried for some time at Whitehill, on the north-east side of the
parish, but has been abandoned for some years,--the rock sinking
too deep under cover. But, just beyond the parish march on the
west, conglomerate limestone is quarried and burnt for the private
use of the tenants on the property of Daltonhook.
	The only simple minirelas found in this parish are common jas-
per. Of this, some fine compact specimens, fit for the lapidary, are
found in the bed of the Milk; calcedony imbedded occurs in the
amygdaloid of Barhill. Flint is found in the glebe, evidently
brought there and manufactured into arrow-heads, or, as the coun-
try people call them, elf-shots. Hundreds of such flints were found
on ploughing up the holm of the glebe. Syenite in rolled masses is
found in the parish. It is a singular fact, that the nearest mountain
composed of this mineral is that of Criffel, in Galloway; yet the rolled
pieces of that primitive rock found in this parish and in the parishes
nearer the base of Criffel, are small, but as you recede from that
mountain the masses increase in size and quantity, and the bed of

<FOOTNOTE>One of the proprietors of this parish actually granted a lease to some miners of
a lead mine on his estate, in a contiguous parish. The contractors spent some money,
and then the miners, lead, and lease vanished altogether. They were drawn into this
wild-goose chase by having mistaken some bog iron-ore for lead.


