
     Statistical Account

the course of a year, it is supposed will amount to L. 1200
Sterling.
   It is but fair to mention, that several gentlemen in this
town have connexions in trade, that cannot be said to be-
long properly to this place, particularly Messrs James and
Thomas Arbuthnots, who are concerned in the manufac-
ture of kelp, and in the salmon-fishing, to a very large ex-
tent in different parts of the kingdom*, and are likewise
concerned as ship-owners; and the Messrs Huchinsons, and
other merchants, who employ a number of ships, their own
property, of great value, in carrying goods to merchants in
different places, some at a very remote distance; besides
some others, that have considerable transactions, that cannot

<FOOTNOTE>

*The Messrs Arbuthnots were early promoters of the fishings and ma-
nufactures in this place, and are still connected with them; they are
likewise tacksmen of the salmon-fishing on Ugie.  The Messrs Hutchin-
sons are likewise connected with the fishings and other branches of trade
belonging to this town.  It is to be regretted that the fishings have not been
extended farther.  The lobster-fishing from Peterhead to the Pentland
frith, is an object of considerable importance, and has been in the hands
of English merchants for these last 30 years.  The fishers in the town of
Peterhead are so well acquainted with the method of taking them, that
many of them are employed in different parts of the Moray frith by agents
settled in Peterhead by different companies in England.  Where are vast
varieties of flat fish on this coast, or at no great distance from this place,
which might be caught with a trail net, which has never been attempted.
Herrings are frequently on the coast, but a boat or ship never was sent in
search of them.  The Dutch catch them every summer, as well as cod.
Ships pass every week from the Pentland frith with live cod, and flat fish,
for the London market.  Great quantities of large ling and cod might be
caught here, and dried on the rocks, besides what are taken by the fishers
of Boddom in boats.
There is still room for improvements in the manner of catching fish.
In the Mediterranean, fish are caught in nets with flambeaux in the night
time.  In the rivers in Scotland it has long been a practice to kill
salmon and trouts with lighted torches in the darkness of the night.  It
has often been suggested to make trial of this method with salmon at
sea, but it has never been attempted.


