
32			BERWICKSHIRE.

to forty. English, writing, arithmetic, practical mathematics,
Greek, and Latin, are taught. The salary is L. 30; and the school
wages may amount to L. 10 per annum. Besides the above emo-
luments, the teacher has L. 4, 4s. for presenting in church and
officiating as session-clerk. He has also every legal accommoda-
tion in respect of a house and garden. When parents are very
poor, the heritors make no difficulty in paying for the education of
their children.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-Poors' rates were established in the
year 1771; they may amount to about L. 30 or L. 40 per annum.
This, with the annual collections in the church, is generally sufficient.
The heritors, however, by no means restrict themselves to this,
but cheerfully assess themselves to the full amount of what the
minister and session deem necessary. The landlords and tenants
pay in equal proportions; and though the latter are not consult-
ed when the assessment is made, they have never been known to
grudge their share. The average number of poor upon the foll is
about 8. They receive from 1s. to 2s. 6d. per week, according to
circumstances. It deserves notice, that the poor in this parish are
provided for at less expense than in any parish of the same extent
in the south of Scotland. This arises chiefly from the custom of
giving temporary supply in cases of distress, and also from the ex-
treme liberality and attention of the patron's family.
   Inns.-There are no inns in the parish, nor is any person al-
lowed to sell spirituous liquors.
		MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
The greatest inconvenience experienced by this parish is the dis-
tance from coal and lime, 25 miles. Every cwt. of the former costs
1s. 3d., and every single cart of the latter, from 10s. 6d. to 13s.
Another great inconvenience is, the want of an easy and ready com-
munication with the south side of the river, unless by the suspension
bridge at Dryburgh, which is useful only for foot-passengers or
single horses. There is no bridge nearer than Kelso, which is nine
miles, or Drygrange bridge, which is four miles. A suspension
bridge for carriages, &c. if erected in this immediate neighbour-
hood, would be of immense use; it would not only benefit this
and the conterminous parishes, but would continue the road from
Selkirk and St Boswell's Green to Berwick.

   June 1834.

                                4


