
	504				ARGYLESHIRE.

	L. 13 a-year. Labourers employed only occasionally are paid at
the rate of 1s. 3d. per day in summer, and 1s. in winter. Masons,
carpenters, and slaters, are paid 2s. 6d. per day, wages being mo-
dified, of course, by the demand, and the character and expertness
of the artisan.
	The duration of leases extends, in comparatively few instances,
to nineteen, and varies generally from seven to nine years,-a pe-
riod too short for effecting any material agricultural improvements.
	Though there are farmhouses within the parish which are sub-
stantial and commodious, and which thus keep pace with the pro-
gress of improvement in other respects throughout the kingdom,
it must be confessed that these form the exception, and do not
constitute the rule. We have tenants who pay hundreds of pounds
of annual rent, -who yet inhabit very mean houses, and whose farm-
steadings are entirely in keeping with their residences. Slates of
the best quality might be had at a cheap rate from the neighbour-
ing island of Easdale, or from Balicheilish, but these dwellings
still continue to be thatched with straw,-an employment which
occupies much of the tenant's time, consumes the provender which
would help to feed his cattle, and add, besides,  to the quantum of
his manure. Such houses are in danger of being laid bare by the
gales that sweep the country in winter.
	Quarries.-We have no freestone quarries in the arish, but
there is abundance of granite boulders, which, when split and
dressed, form substantial and beautiful materials for building.
Lord Breadalbane has opened, and is working successfully a gra-
nite quarry on his farm of Barrs on the upper shores of Loch
Etive, where stones of a l`rge size, of very superior quality, and
susceptible of a high polish, are obtained. For works in which
firmness and durability are necessary, finer materials can no where
be found.
	Mines.-Lead ore has been found on the farm of Drimvuick,
in Glencreran, but no mine has been opened there as on the op-
posite farm of Mynefield, in the petrish of Appin.
	Fisheries.-The salmon-fishing at Bunawe is by much the
most extensive carried on in or near the parish, though, in so far
as the Awe is concerned, that fishery is connected rather with
the parish of Innishail. There is also a salmon-fishery at Guala-
challin, near the upper end of Loch Etive, -and another on the
farm of Dalachellish, near the bead of Loch Creran, but these,
comparatively, are inconsiderable.


