
138                     BERWICKSHIRE.

accident, have as yet been left untouched, they may enrich some
future possessor with unexpected treasure hid either in the house
or in the field. To these there is now no clew. It is only a few
years since the carriage-horses of the present proprietor were nearly
swallowed up while ploughing in a field near the house,-owing to
the roof of an unknown but empty concealment giving way. Of
course not much treasure was found there.*
   Netherbyres.-Immediately adjoining to Gunsgreen is the estate
of Netherbyres, which, after having been in the possession of one
family and their descendants for more than two hundred years, has
lately been purchased by a gentleman well known to the world for
his valuable and extraordinary manufacture and construction of chain-
cables and suspension-bridges. By the latter, he has effected a se-
cond union of the sister kingdoms, in the beautiful chain-bridge over
the Tweed at Paxton, which, it is hoped, will soon lead to the erection
of others in this county, as it has already done in different parts of
the kingdom. Of this most necessary means of communication, there
is as yet a great deficiency in Berwickshire, over the larger streams.
This enterprising gentleman has already commenced improvements
on his newly-acquired property, where he intends to erect a splen-
did mansion-house, with an approach to it from the north side, by
means of a suspension-bridge over the Eye;+ and to form other em-
bellishments, all which will furnish employment to many industrious
individuals, and will contribute to ornament a parish already dis-
tinguished for its many beauties.
   Fairneyside, Greystonelees, and Chesterbank.-The next place
to be noticed is Fairneyside, a good property extending along the
sea-coast, with an ancient mansion and farm-house, both, however,
scarcely habitable. The former has been occupied by the farm
tenants for many years, and the latter by the farm-servants. Here
also smuggling concealments have lately been discovered,-indicat-
ing a twofold traffic carried on by a former tenant, the history of which
is sufficiently recent to be pretty well known to the parishioners even
at this day.-Adjoining to the foregoing property is that of Greyston-

<FOOTNOTE>It was in allusion to this mansion-house that a member once observed in the Se-
nate, that smuggling was carried on to such an alarming extent on the east coast of
Scotland, that one man had been enabled, from its gains, to erect a splendid palace.
It now belongs to a very different proprietor, lately the venerable pastor of this parish,
author of the former Statistical Account, and father-in-law of the present incumbent.
  The operations are even now far in advance, and have already produced a magi-
cal transformation on the place. The particular form of suspension bridge now erect-
ing is Captain Brown's own invention, and which the calls a Tension Bridge, being
supported by, instead of being suspended from, the chains. This, in the opinion of
some, is equally pleasing as the other form; while it saves the necessity and expense
of having the fulcra or points of suspension raised aloft in the air.
                                          3


