
                        NORTH BERWICK.                  329

majestic ruin. Its form is an irregular hexagon. The outward
structure is comparatively entire; the walls are of enormous
thickness. The only approach is from the west, which was defend-
ed by towers of a very massive construction,-and two ditches inter-
vened the inner one of uncommon depth. The entrance was over
a drawbridge. Above the entrance there still remains, sculptured
in a stone shield, though now much effaced, the memorable em-
blem of the Bloody Heart, the well known ensign of the Douglases,
its early, proud, and powerful proprietors. The interior exhibits
a labyrinth of inaccessible chambers and broken staircases; the
walls of the buildings remain all unroofed, of great size and extent,
and arched gloomy vaults beneath them. There are several dis-
mal subterraneous dungeons, the former prison-holds, no doubt, of
the miserable captives; and long, in later days, the hidden haunts
of smugglers-and the unsuspected depositories of their contrabands.
One of the most deep, and dark, and dismal of these dungeons is out-
side the castle, at the north-west angle, and only recently discover-
ed; and is conjectured to have been the dungeon-keep of the
guardhouse. The site of Tantallan Castle is admirably adapted
for a warlike strength. Its origin, and the date of its erection are
equally unknown. It rose with the power of the House of Douglas,
whose original settlement in East Lothian was on the accession of
Robert II., when William, Earl of Douglas, acquired the barony of
NorthBerwick. For centuries, Tantallan was the great and principal
strength and defence in the east of this proud and powerful family.
It was so admirably situated and so skilfully constructed, that it
mocked every military enterprise for its conquest. Its destruction
was regarded as impossible; hence the popular conviction, "Ding
down Tantallan-mak a brig to the Bass,"-accomplishments
viewed as equally hopeless. The barony of North Berwick,
with the Castle of Tantallan, was forfeited by the Earl of Douglas
in 1455. In 1479, they were given by James III. to Archibald,
fifth Earl of Angus, the well known "Bell the Cat," whose patriot-
ism and exploits,-whose remonstrance with James IV. against his
war with England, and consequent retirement to Tantallan,-have
become familiar to every reader, by the admirable delineations of
the anthor of Marmion, whose descriptions (by the way) are vi-
vidly faithful to the real character and localities of the celebrated
stronghold. When the succeeding Earl of Angus, married to the
queen-mother of James V., had fallen from his supreme elevation,
and lost his power over the person and councils of that youthful


