
              4                           BANFFSHIRE.

              bridges of Banff and Alva, (a distance of two miles-all compre-
              hended in Lord Fife's park,) * affords a succession of beautiful or              
              romantic scenes; though even, perhaps, as it is, the  "capabilities"
              of the ground have not received full justice : the walks not being
              always led with sufficient skill to catch the finest points of view,
              nor the necessary openings for the same purpose left in the wood.
                 The breadth of the river where it washes this parish does not,
              perhaps, in any place, exceed 130 yards.  Its depth is very unequal,
              and liable to great fluctuations from, shifting masses of sand
              and gravel.  In some places, it runs in shallow streams ; in others
              there are pools of 10 or 12 feet, or even of greater depth.  Under
              the arch of the bridge of Alva, where the stream is forcibly confined,
              it is said to be of 15 fathoms depth.
                 On some late occasions, the river, especially when aided by
              high tides and northerly winds, has overflowed the low part of
              the town) and occasioned much mischief and inconvenience.  In
              1799, in 1829, and in 1835, such inundations occurred, with a less
              considerable one between the two latter periods.  On these occasions,
              there have been five or six feet of water in some of the streets,
              the inhabitants being rescued from their houses by boats. In 1829,
              three horses of the mail-coach were drowned, in attempting to pass
              through the Market-square.
                Springs.-The parish is well supplied with springs, and water
              may be found in most places by digging.  In general, the water is
              slightly impregnated with carbonate of iron.  There is a spring
              perceptibly chalybeate to the taste, about half a mile west of the
              tnwn; and a very strong clialybeate (of great use as a tonic)
              about a mile farther west, in the parish of Boyndie.
                Geology'and Mineralogy.-The general direction of the strata
              within this parish is about from north-east to south-west; and the
              parish being narrow, and running in a direction parallel to that of
              the strata and including only within its range a limited number
              of beds of rock, affords but few remarkable geological features.
                The prevailing rocks. are clay-slate and graywacke, although,
               an intermixture of various other rteams of rock is frequently met
              with.
                 From the river mouth for about half a-mile, as far westward as

             <FOOTNOTES>A high degree of liberality is shown by the Noble proprietor in the freedom
              granted to the public, of walking in his  grounds.
                Por the selection on Geology other valuable assistance, the compiler has to acknowledge
              his obligation toJames Christie, Esq. solicitor


