
14                          HADDINGTONSHIRE.

neighbouring country and villages with such goods and articles of
merchandize as they may require.
   The fairs have gone into, desuetude, but there is a good weekly
market on Friday, when the several kinds of grain are exposed to
sale in bulk for ready money. It is perhaps the largest wheat
market in Scotland.
   The county courts are held here by the Sheriff every Thursday
during Session, and a small debt court every alternate Thursday.
A Justice of Peace Court also is held on the first Tuesday in every
month, except March, May, and August, in which months the
court is held on the first Thursday.
   Ecclesiastical State. *-Haddington is a Presbytery seat, and the
meetings of that body are usually held in it. The parish church
is collegiate. Both ministers have manses and glebes, and of late
both stipends have been made nearly equal; the first charge hav-
ing eight chalders of barley, eight chalders of oats, and three
chalders of wheat, with L. 10 for communion elements; and the
second seventeen chalders of victual, with L. 33, 6s. 8d. money
from the town, with L. 10 for communion elements.
   Besides the Established church there is an Episcopal chapel, a
congregation of Old Light Seceders; two Meetings-houses of the
United Secession, and an Independent and a Methodist chapel.
From the centrical situation of the town, these meetings draw a consi-
derable proportion of their members from the neighbouring parish-
es; and not a few in the town and its vicinity, warmly attached to
the Establishment, are forced from the parish church, through
more want of accommodation, there being seating only for 1129,
to a population of nearly 6000. The number of families in the

<FOOTNOTE>In the suburb of Nungate are the ruins of St Martin's Chapel, which belonged to
the Abbey of Haddington. It appears from the records of the Presbytery of Had-
dington, which are extant as far back as A.d. 1592, that the cure of the churches of
Haddington, St Martin's, and Athel staneford, were served by one clergyman, Mr
James Carmichael, from 1592 to 1602, and probably for several years preceding that
period. In 1602, Mr George Grier was ordained minister of St Martin's. He seems
to have had no successor. It is believed that his chapel was suffered to go into decay
as St Mary's (the present parish church) was then sufficiently large to contain both
congregations.
   An Episcopal visitation was held 16th September 1635, when it was agreed, in
presence of the Bishop of Edinburgh, the Magistrates of Haddington, and several of
the heritors, that a second minister was necessary to the kirk of Haddington, and
the year following Mr William Trent was collatid to that charge. His stipend con-
sisted of L. 600 Scots, all paid by the town out of the revenues of the burgh. The
patronage of the second charge was claimed by the town; but after a suit at law, it
was decided in favour of the Earl of Haddington, then proprietor of the barony of
Byres in the parish, and patron of the charge. There is  a famous though un-
successfull pleading of Sir George Mackenzie in support of the town's right, pub-
lished by him in his specimen "Eloquentise Forensis Scotie."
                                   3


