
	74                         SHETLAND.

	bears excellent crops; in other places, it is of a clavey or loamy
	nature, which also produces well. The soil, in general, is verx
	thin, even where it is thickened by the application of other earths
	by manual labour; and it is naturally wet, but draining would be
	a tedious and expensive operation, as the subsoil is so very hard
	and impenetrable.
	   Zoology.-In this parish, there are some birds which are consi-
	dered rare. There are several kinds of gulls; the Bonxie or Skua
	gull is the most rare. Rona's hill, Foula, and island of Unst are
	the only three situations in Zetland where it is to be found. It is
	a beautiful and powerful hird, and is said to have many a hard
	battle with the eagle, which is also an inhabitant of Rona's bill.
	There are also many varieties of wild ducks frequenting the voes
	and lochs, at all seasons of the year; and also different kinds of
	geese, such as the ember-goose, or great northern diver, and the
	rain-goose or red-throated diver. Hawks, snipes, plovers, curlews
	&c. are often met with. Large flocks of swans are sometimes ob-
	served flying about, but do not take tip their residence here.
	In this parish, a great number of cattle are reared every season
	and sold, and also ponies. Some of these are very small, for which
	sometimes high prices have been obtained. The real Shetland
	breed of sheep is hardly now to be found in this parish, except on
	Rona's hill, as it has been crossed by the Cheviot, or black-faced
	breed; and some think that it vould hawe been better, had such
	breeds never been iotroduced into the country, as the real Shet-
	laod breed is much hardier, and stands the climate better, and the
	food which nature has here provided is coarse, and not very nutri-
	tious.
	   Most of the lochs abound with salmon-trout, and great numbers
	are caught ewery season. Sea-trout is also very abundant, and of
	a large size. The spawning season is in the month of October;
        but it is thought by some, that they spawo two or three times io
        the year.
	   Many vasieties of shefl-fish are found here, such as oysters,
	spouts, mussels, cockles, and lobsters of a large size. These, in
	seasons of scarcity, afford food to the people, but are seldom or
	never used, so long as they are able to obtaio fish.
           Botany.-No rase plaots, I believe, are to be found in this pa-
        rish. A few are found of a medicinal description; some are also
	used for dyeing cloth. These are no forests or plaotations in this
         country; but the experiment has never been made, (and the pro-


