
738                   EDINBURGHSHIRE.

munity of Edinburgh. The simple mention of the names of these
will be sufficient to point out their objects,-The Society for the
Relief of the Destitute Sick and Fever Board-Societ for Relief
of Incurables-Society for the Suppression of Begging-Banevo-
lent and Strangers' Friend Society-Seamen's Friend Society-
Society for Relief of Indigent Old Men-Do. for Old Women-
Orkney and Zetland Society-House of Industry.
   House of Industry and Servants' Home-There are about 30
indigent females received into this Institution, where work is pro-
vided for them. About 80 children are also taught in an infant
school. Teachers are received at a very moderate board to be
trained for other schools.
   A very useful adjunct has been lately made to this charity,-a
Servants' Home, where respectable but friendless young women
are received when out of place, at a very small board; and work
furnished to them until suitable service can be procured. It is
under the management of a committee of ladies.
   Baths.-A society of the working classes has set agoing a sub-
scription for the erection of public baths, and a building for this
purpose has been commenced in Low Calton Street.
          VIII.-TRADE AND MANUFACTURES.
   Edinburgh has never been famous as a great manufacturing city.
It contains few general merchants, its trade being chiefly retail;
but Leith, which may be considered its sea-port, holds a conspi-
euous rank for its extensive shipping and export and import trade.
   In 1681 a Merchant Company was established by royal charter,
and in 1736 a Chamber of Commerce for the encouragement and
protection of the commercial interests of the country. The chief
Manufactures are those of candles, soap, flint glass, the distillation
of whisky, ale breweries, shawl and linen manufactures, iron foun-
deries, and type founderies. Book printing to a considerable ex-
tent is carried on.
   A silk mill was established some years ago in the vicinity of
Edinburgh, but it has not been successful.
   A considerable number of large paper mills are in active opera-
tion, in the county, and with which merchants belonging to Edin-
burgh are concerned. The carpet manufactory of Messrs Whytock
is also carried on in the vicinity of Lasswide.
   A manufanacture of tobacco pipes is established in the Canongate.
The linim manufacture, which at one time was considerable, has now
greatly declined-scarcely 50 looms being employed in that branch.
				3


