
416			 PERTHSHIRE.

Tay.  They have already been wrought for several hundred years,
and the stone which they produce is considered as equal to any in
Scotland.  It is of a bluish colour, very h`rd, and difficult of be-
ing chiseled, but extremely durable, susceptible of the finest po-
lish, and scarcely affected by exposure, however long, to the in-
fluence of the weather.  Castle Huntly, as is mentioned under an-
other head, was built of it in the fifeenth century, and also the
old and massy tower of Dundee, which was erected towards the
end of the twelfth, and which is still in a wonderful state of pre-
servation.  A good deal of it is required to meet the wants of the
surrounding country, but the chief demand for it of late years has
been from Aberdeen, Perth, and Dundee, where, independently
of what has been needed for more ordinary purposes docks have
been constructing, and other harbour improvements in operation.
The company who rent the quarries give employment in them to
between fifty and sixty men, at the average wages to good workers
of about 14s. per week.  They have three boats, one of fifty, and
two of thirty tons each.  The former carries stones to Aberdeen,
and other towns on the coast, while the voyages of the lattdr are
confined within the precincts of the river.  In some places, there
is a depth of rock of not less than 70 feet, and blocks of stone for
cylinders and engine seats are furnished, 12 feet long, 8 broad,
and 1 1/2 thick, and of the enormous weight of 10 tons and upwards.
  There is anothdr excellent freestone quarry on a farm in the
higher part of the parish, the property of Lord Kinnaird, from
which Rossie Priory was built.  Its colour is whiter than that of
the Kingoody stone.  It admits of an equally fine polish, and
were the situation a more favourable one, it might be wrought to
great advantage.
  Fisheries.-The landholders of this parish, whose estates are
adjacent to the Tay, at least some of them, have rights to the con-
tiguous fishings on it, secured to them  by charter.  These were
prosecuted with great success by means of stake-nets from  about
1899 till 1812, when they were finally interdicted.  On the reced-
ing of the tide, which leaves nearly a mile of sand between its
north bank, and the deep stream of the river, hundreads of salmon
were occassionaly found ecnlosed within the nets which were creet-
ed when the fishing season commenced, and taken down when it
closed.  The loss to the proprietors has of course been consider-
able, and the want of the advantage enjoyed in an ample supply
of salmon has been felt in the neighbourhood.
Produce.-In ascertaining the gross amount of raw produce


