
                        ON THE COUNTY OF SUTHERLAND.                   219

        Sutherland, which has not only opened up its resources, and pav-
        ed the way for its further and future advancement in prosperity,
        but has also been of incalculable importance in a national point of
        view, as consolidating remote and hitherto secluded districts with
        the rest of the empire, and securing all the other collateral bene-
        fits of well directed labour, and the increase of local wealth and
        public revenue.
           Ecclesiastical State.-There, are thirteen parishes in the coun-
        ty of Sutherland, besides part of the parish of Reay in Caithness.
        Of these the parishes of Assynt, Clyne, Criech, Dornoch, Gol-
        spie, Kildonan, Lairg, Loth, and Rogart, nine in number, consti-
        tute, the Presbytery of Dornoch; and the minister of the Go-
        vernment church of Stoer, in the parish of Assynt, is now an ad-
        ditional member of this Presbytery.  The remaining four parishes
        of Durness, Edderachillis, Farr, and Tongue, constitute the Pres-
        bytery of Tongue, which has two additional members in the mi-.
        nisters of the Government churches of Kinlocbbervie, in the pa-
        rish of Edderachillis, and of Strathy, in the parish of Farr.
           Civil History.-The early history of this county has not been so,
        satisfactorily traced as to autborize an epitome of it in a concise report
        like the present.  Suffice it to say, that its early annals are only to be
        traced in the history of the ancient Earls of Sutherland, who ap-
        pear, at the very first dawn of our authentic history, as the power-
        ful and apparently long-settled rulers and proprietors of the terri-
        tories still enjoyed by their lineal descendant, the present Duke of
        Sutherland.  Sir Robert Gordon's History of the Earldom of Su-
        therland, which was written in 1630, commences its narrative
        about the beginning of the thirteenth century, and is continued
        till the time when it was written.  It affords ample details, expressed
        in quaint language, of the affairs of Sutherland, and has been sub-
        jected to several tests, by the examination of other writings and
        contemporary authorities, which prove the correctness of his lead-
        ing facts.
           There has been no history of the county written since 1630; but
        materials exist for such a work, including public events in the north
        of Scotland, in the stirring times of the Revolution of 1688, and
        of the Rebellions qf 1715, 1719, and 1745; which are, at present,
        either unknown, or ill understood by the public.
           The Sutherland Family.-Theforegoing brief observations on the
        county of Sutherland, may with great propriety, be concluded by


