
102	                    LANARKSHIRE.

that they had a station on the spot, on which Glasgow is now built,
and being within the wall of Antoninus, which crossed the island
from the Forth to the Clyde, a few miles to the north of Glasgow,
it was included in the province of Valentia, and was retained by
that warlike people till their final expulsion from Britain. The
congregating of houses in this part of the country, begun by the
Romans, was afterwards hastened by St Mungo, who had establish-
ed a cell, and ultimately a religious fraternity at Glasgow. For many
ages afterwards, this city continued to be little else than a religious
establishment. At the Reformation in 1560, Glasgow also compre-
hended what is now known by the name of the Barony Parish, but in
the year 1595, it was found that the locality was too great for one pa-
rish; the Presbytery therefore disjoined it from the original parish,
and it now forms a suburb of the city. The extreme length of
the original and still existing boundary, from the Kelvin at Gars-
cube House, to the Bishop's Loch, is 8 miles and about 7 fur-
longs, and the greatest breadth from the river Clyde at Dalbeth,
to the boundary at Coshnochmoor, 4 miles and about 2 furlongs.
Glasgow, i. e. the ten parishes of the royalty, lies on the south side,
and is included in the above boundary. It extends from the Clyde
at Hutcheson's Bridge to the estate of Possil, northwards, 2 miles
and about 5-8ths of a mile; and from Camlachie burn, to M'Al-
pine's Street, at the steam-boat quay, westwards, 2 miles and about
1 1/2 furlongs.
	The Gorbals or suburbs lying on the south side of the Clyde
was originally a part of the parish of Govan. The lands of Gor-
bals were for a long period under the superiority of the Archbi-
shop of Glasgow; but in 1571 they were granted to George El-
phinstone, a merchant of Glasgow, from whom they descended to
his son Sir George Elphinstone of Blythswood, who obtained from
the Archbishop the privileges of a burgh of barony. In 1647,
the corporations of the city, Trades House, and Hutcheson's Hos-
pital purchased these lands, which have since been the source of
great wealth to these respective bodies. In 1732, a Chapel of
Ease to thd parish of Govan was erected in Gorbals, and in 1771,
Gorbals was erected into a separate parish. The word Gorbals
is of very difficult etymology; the most obvious interpretation
(though not very applicable) is by the British word Gorbal, signi-
fying very far or distant.
	Topographical Appearances.--The south part of the city is built
on a tract of flat land adjoining the Clyde, averaging  about half a
mile in breadth. On the north parts, the surface rises into upland,


