
84                         SHETLAND.

But on the west side, after advancing about eight miles to the
northward, the shore becomes bold and precipitous; so that from
Westsandwick to Gloup, the most northern point in the island,
there are only two places on a coast stretching upwards of eleven
miles, where a landing can be effected, namely, Whalefirtlivoe,
already mentioned, and the dale of Lumbister, and at this last
place only when the Weathers is fine, it being, apparently, a mere
track worn in the soft stone by the action of a stream of water
which passes over it.
   Although situated nearly in the. sixty-first degree of north lati-
tude, the air in winter, uniformly moist, is temperate to a degree
to which those accustomed to the cold prevalent at that season in
the interior of Great Britain are altogether strangers, and snow in
consequence seldom lies above a day or two at a time.
   In a note taken at the manse of Yell, December 24th 1832,
occur the following remarks: "The turnips are this day as green
as they were at Michaelmas. The rye-grass among bear-stubble
measures from eight to ten inches of green blade; and among the
year old rye-grass, is the daisy everywhere seen in bloom." To
these general remarks in reference to the mildness of Shetland
winters, the history of those of 1835-36, 1836-37, and of 1837-
38, forms a striking contrast, In each of the two first mentioned
winters, there were three different falls of snow, the average dura-
tion of which was eleven days, while, during the last mentioned,
the snow which fell on 6th January had not entirely disappeared
by lat of April. At no time, however, during this period was the
thermometer observed to range lower than 11, below the freez-
ing point. Thus 21&deg; maybe stated as the greatest degree of cold
ever known in Yell, and 69&deg; as the highest range ever attained by
thermometer in summer. The westerly are the prevailing
winds; and during the months of October, November, and Decem-
ber, there frequently occur tremendous thunder storms, most ge-
nerally at night. This fact, as well as some others wbich might
be mentioned, would seem to establish an identity between the
electric fluid and, the aurora borealis, which, from the mouth of
October to March, is seen almost-every. clear night, moving front
one quartet of the heavens to the other, in all its shapes and shader,
   As might be expected from the prevailing moisture of the cli-
mate, rhematism is a common complaint among all classes. And
from the  same causes perhaps, in connexion with the circumstances
                               3


