
     Statistical Account

those days, were like the swiss, hired out to fights, and the
Keiths the vassals of Earl Marishall, there was, it is said, a
battle in the neighbourhood.  It was agreed by the parties,
that the Guns should muster out man for man, and three for
Keachmore or meikle Keith, (a proverb used to this day, signi-
fying, that in fairness a very strong man ought to have more
than one to match him,) all were to appear to a certain num-
ber on horse back.  The Keiths, however, had recourse to the
stratagem of mounting two men on each horse; by which
means the Guns were overpowered by superior numbers, and
were obliged to fly for sanctuary to Saint Ere's chapel, where
many of them were put to death.  The most remarkable battle
or skirmish, that is known to have been fought in this parish,
was at a place called Auldnamarlich near Wick, on the north
side of the river.  This engagement happened in July 1680,
between George Sinclair, son of the Honourable Francis Sin-
clair, of Northfield and Kiefs, claiming the title of Earl of
Caithness, on the one part, and on the other the Earl of
Breadalbane, who, assisted by a military force, obtained the
victory.

<FOOTNOTE>

ploughman, who, some years ago, had no more than from
13 S 4 d. to 18 s. now earns for half a year, from 20 s. to 28 s.
including shoes, and three bolls meal for cost or maintenance.
Women servants, that some years ago had only from 6 s. to 8 s.
must now have from 20 s. to 24 s. half yearly; and boys, that
before had only from 2 s. 6 d. to 4 s. now demand from 10 s. to 12 s.
for 4 months, from the term day, (which here is the 20th June,)
till the corn is put into the yard.  A grieve or overseer has at
present from 3 L. to even 10 L. Sterling per annum, who of old
would have only got about two guineas.  Day labourers earn
6 d. to 10 d. per day, according to their work.  In cutting peats
they have 6 d. and their visuals.  Women hired for harvest get
6 d, per day, and a bannock.  Domestic servants have also raised
their wages from 6 s. 8 d. to 12 s. or 14 s. half yearly.  A com-
mon labourer, it is computed, is enabled to support his family,
by his wages, and his wife's and children's industry in spinning,
working nets, assisting at the fishery etc.


