
     Statistical Account

ward of Portincross; and forms the promontory or extreme 
point of land above mentioned.  The name is of Gaelic ori-
ginal, and signifies a high point, or Neel's high point.  It is
truly a noble precipice.  A small plain is interjected between 
it and the water's edge, from which it rises abruptly to the 
height of more than 230 feet perpendicular.  As we ap-
proach it upoin the S. side, we meet with a vast mound of
curious heterogeneous matter, which, if there was any vestige
of a crater nigh it, one might be ready to pronounce of the
volcanic kind.  But as there is every reason to conclude, 
that, not only the plain between the precipice and the water,
but the inland valley which runs along the back of it, have
been once occupied by the sea, and the precipice itself form-
ed into an island, another theory occurs, namely, that this
mound has, at some period, been thrown up by the influx
and eddy of the tide, and must have been collecting there for
ages; but being at last left dry by the retiring of the sea,
through lenght of time it is consolidated into a firm com-
pacted mass.  As we advance, the rock, composed of differ-
ent kinds of stone, grows more steep and elevated.  At bot-
tom, it is finely skirted with natural shrubbery; farther up, its
aged front is adorned with an endless varicty of plants, such
as hoar-hound, wild thyme, capillus veneris, etc.  Toward
the summit, it is lined with a thick covering of moss, which
gives it a very venerable and grotesque appearance; and here,
the whole terminates in 3 distinct cliffs, which, from their
exact funilarity in figure and altitude, have, time immemorial, 
obtained the appellation of the Three Sisters.  In this seques-
tered scene, where there is so much of the grand and the
beautiful, a person given to contemplation, and who loves so-
litude, may enjoy a walk to great advantage; he will have 
an opportunity of tracing nature, in some of her more strik-
ing features of awfulness and majesty.


