
482                     INVERNESS-SHIRE.

promote a desire of independence. It would be more advanta-
geous if they deposited their earnings in a savings' bank; but as yet
there is none in the parish,-the nearest, established about two
years ago, being in Inverness.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of persons re-
ceiving parochial aid is about 60. From the inadequacy of the
church collections to meet the real wants of the poor, private sub-
scriptions were set on foot in the parish for the last three or four
years. L. 20 were raised in this way about two years ago, and
Earl Cawdor liberally contributed L. 20 more. But, notwith-
standing that the annual sum allowed to each pauper was materi-
ally increased by these voluntary contributions, they have been
found insufficient to prevent the weekly applications of beggars.
   Fairs.-A great annual fair, the "Lammas Market," is held at
Campbelton on the 12th of August,-being the only fair in the
parish, and, its object and advantages being of a varied character,
masses of people congregate. Numerous reapers, chiefly females,
come from Ross-shire and the surrounding country, and they are
readily hired for the harvest, by farmers from Moray and Nairn-
shire, as well as from distant parts of this county. There is usu-
ally a good show of lambs from Strathnairn, Stratherrick, and
Strathglass; some sheep and milk cows, and a few horses. Wool
and homespun plaidings, cheese, and fruits are among the com-
modities of the country offered for sale.
   Inns, &c.-Of inns, ale-houses, and spirit-shops, there are no
fewer than ten in the parish; all in the village of Campbelton.
Whilst three or four inns for the accommodation of travellers
would amply supply all reasonable demands for refreshment, it
is too notorious, that, where there are so many competitors, the
incitements and facilities offered, and the idle and dissolute babits
formed, exert the most baneful influence on the morals of the
people.
   Fuel.-An abundant supply of coals from Sunderland and New-
castle is brought to the beach at Campbelton, and is purchased
for 15s. per ton. The carriage from the shore is 10d. per ton
additional. There are two or three yards where coals are stored,
and sold in the winter at a little increase of price. Peats are
brought from the parish of Cawdor, and other places, in small
carts, and sold at about 1s. 6d. a load. Fire-wood is procured
from the saw-mill at Kilravock and from Cawdor, at a reasonable
rate.
   September 1841.


