
     of Fossaway and Tulliebole.

wages of men-servants, throughout the year, when they eat
in the house, is L. 7; for women, not fully L. 3.  Farmers
have a ready sale for every article to be disposed of, and
there is a constant demand; The prices are, in general,
regulated by the markets of Alloa and Kincardine on the
coast, and are commonly a little below the Haddington
prices.  In the parishes, there are common rock, and free-
stone for building, moss, lime, and coal.  Peats may be got in
almost every corner of both parishes, but are not used in great
quantities; because coal is at a reasonable price, and near at
hand.  There are lime rocks in different places; but they are
only wrought at present upon the lands of Gartwhinzian.
There are two rocks there, which are wrought by the pro-
prietors.  The one is on the plain, the other on the banks of
the Dovan.  The strata of the first are regular, and the stone
solid.  The lime when slacked, falls at first into large par-
ticles, and then gradually dissolves into a small powder of a
cream colour.  The strata of the other, are confused and un-
equal; but when slacked, fall immediately into a fine white
powder.  That upon the banks of the Dovan, is esteemed
the whitest; but the other is equally strong.  The lime of both
rocks, is at present sold at 1 s per boll, wheat measure.  The
sale being wholly inland, is not extensive; yet it is of great
service, not only to this parish, but to a considerable part of
the adjoining country.  The coal which is wrought at present,
is at Blairingone, and belongs to the Duke of Atholl.  It is
founds however, in several other parts of Fossaway, although
not wrought.  None of this coal is shipped; because it is at a
distance from the sea, and besides, the quantity thrown out,
is not sufficient to answer, throughout the year, the present
demand.  The price of the small coal, is 6 d, for 3 burdens;
for the great coal, 10 d, for 24 stones, Tron weight.  The
driving of lime and coal, is attended with the material disad-


