
     Statistical Account

a greater quantity, than serves for family consumption and pay
ment of the rent.  Thus, every person endeavours to supply
himself; and as he does not receive ready money for the pro-
duce of his own labour, he cannot advance it for that of
others.  Hence he cannot apply his whole attention to his
own profession.  One part of the day is employed about his
farm; another part allotted for the fishing, in order to supply
the immediate wants of the family.  In like manner, the
shoemaker, smith, taylor, and other handycraftsmen, cannot
bestow their whole time on their different professions.  They
have families to support; and their employment is not so
constant, or the returns for their labour so punctual, as
to enable them to devote their whole time to their respec-
tire lines of business.  It is necessary, therefore, to have a
spot of ground:  this spot must be attended to; and the
possessor thinks it more for his interest to labour it himself,
than to employ another.  Besides, the fishing must be attended
to, as mentioned above; for no man thinks of making a pro-
fession of fishing which is open to every one:  And again, no
man will think of purchasing with money what any one can have
by going for it.  All there circumstances operate in preventing
industry and improvement.  That this may not appear con-
tradictory, it must be observed, that the time usually spent,
every day, in the intervals between there different occupa-
tions, is nearly equal to the actual time of labour; and
therefore, though it cannot justly be said, that they are ad-
dicted to idleness more than others, it may with propriety be
affirmed, that they are not industrious.  In this sense, all the
inhabitants of the Western Isles, being in similar circumstan-
ces, are chargeable with want of industry.  And people who
are not well acquainted with their peculiar situation, and who
form an opinion of their character, in this respect, by a com-
parison with the inhabitants of the Low Country, may rashly


