
     of Kilmany.

mills have a much weightier reason, in the estimation of the
world, to induce them to make such a concession.  Their
own interest, independently of all equivalent given them,
would be thus advanced, for the removal of the mills*
would make way for the improvement both of the mea-
dows of their neighbours, and of those which belong to
themselves.  Till this change take place, the rich meadows
will be overflowed with water, and the country denied the
corn which in great abundance they would produce+.

   Wood.-Of all the ground which might be planted with
wood, only about 74 acres bear trees grown to a visible
size.  Except a few ashes, which cluster in the villages, or
run out in hedge-rows; and some trees of different kinds,
which are scattered round the family-seats, on the grounds
of Rathillet, Lochmalony, and Mountwhannie, the planta-
tions have, chequered with two or three staggling birches,

<FOOTNOTE>

*These four mills, one of which is used for dressing flax, are all that re-
main in the parish of a much greater number.  The small decrease in the
consumption of oats, peas, and barley (they were corn-mills), can hardly
be considered a reason of this diminotion.  A better will be found in the
superior size and mechanism of those that remain.  Thirlage, a species of
monopoly, which like all others that are privilege, arose from a fear, that
can exist only in the infancy of the arts, imposes here no heavier burden on
the farmer, than to make him grind the corn used in this family at the
nearest mill.

+In estimating the improvements in agriculture, which have been made
within the parish, it will not be safe to follow as a guide the increase of
cultivated land.  This increase has by no means corresponded to the supe-
rior order into which greater skill in husbandry has brought fields which
have been long under the plough' and unless the quantity of grain now
raised could be compared with what was raised formerly, a comparison
which cannot be made, it will not be known what have been the improve-
ments in agriculture, not what praise the farmers deserve.  The amazing
rise of rents may be some rule judging.


