
454                 EDINBURGHSHIRE.

   The walnut (Juglans regia) bears fruit abundantly on the North
Esk; and on the South, are very fine stately specimens of the
horse chestnut (Esculus hippocastus). In hedges of the park,
the witch-hazel (Hamamelis virginica) occurs, while the Portugal
laurel (Prunus Lusitanica), the purple rose-bay (Rhododendron
ponticum), and Azalea pontica, skirt the lawns with almost all
the beauty of their native shores. A new garden with a southern
aspect, on the banks of the North Esk, is now in progress; and,
under the direction of the present experienced gardener, it is to be
hoped that something worthy of the establishment will be effected.
The collection of plants, indeed, in the old garden was of consi-
derable extent; the Cape and Australian plants are at present
accommodated in a lately erected conservatory close on the banks
of the South Esk,-and the collection of Cacti, recently begun,
already embrace a great proportion of the species.
   Zoology.-As a mutual relation subsists between animal and ve-
getable existence; the zoological inquiry is subject nearly to the
same limited interest as the botanical. The animals here, like
the plants, are such, in general, as are common to the midland*
district of the lowlands of Scotland.
   It may be noticed, however, that, in the deer-park, three va-
rietias of the fallow-deer (Cervus dama) occur, the dun, the spot-
ted, and the pure white. Though usually now seen only in the
parks of the nobility, there can be little doubt but that the fallow-
deer are indigenous to our island. Buchanan mentions that in
his time, they were not only in a wood near Falkland, where they
might likewise have been introduced, but also in some of the
Western Islands, and in particular in one of the Curnbrays,-"In
aestuario Glottae sunt Cumbra Major et Minor, modico spatio
deremptae: major frugum, minor platyceroton ferax."  This
statement is farther confirmed by Cuvier,-"Cette espece qui
est le platyceros, et non le dama des Anciens, est commune dans
tous les pays d'Europe;"+ and passing over the well-known
hunting of Chevy Chase, a philosophical writer about the middle
of this seventeenth century observes, that, "not many years ago,

<FOOTNOTE>In the earlier days of King James VI. a trained nightingale seems to have been
kept at Dalkeith, whose song is commemorated by the royal muse. See De Luscinia
in Hieroglyph. Animal. The Siskin (Fringilla spinus) has been observed to breed in
the wooded banks of the Esk.
          Le Ragne Animal, par Cuvier, a Paris, 1817, tom, i. p. 255. Baron Cuvier,
however, in the edition of this work published at Paris in 1829, is inclined to con-
sider Barbary as the original source of the fallow-deer. It is still found there in its
native state; "nous avons," says he, "rocu un daim sauvage tue dans les bois au
sud de Tunis."


