
56                     BANFFSHIRE.

greatest, 35. Average of both classes, 87; smallest, 82; greatest
96. The average payment at last distribution (to each old per-
son or young family,) was at the rate of L. 2, l5s. per annum; the
highest being L. 4, 1Os.; lowest, L. 1. L. 10 per annum is paid
to the teacher of Pirie's school for instructing boys, and L. 5 to
the teacher of the female charity school for instructing girls on
the bounty.
   By a will dated 7th May 1825, Miss Elizabeth Wilson, an un-
married female residing in Banff, pursuing an intention that had
been mutually formed between her and her deceased brother, Mr
John Wilson, baker there, bequeathed, to certain official and pri-
vate trustees, the whole heritable and moveable property of which
she should die possessed, with directions to apply the yearly produce
of the same, (with immaterial deductions,) in equal annuities, to six
tradesmen and six maiden women of the age of fifty years or upwards,
and who have resided in Banff twent years. The will also directs that
L. 2 yearly should be laid out in the purchase of books (selected by
the minister) for the use of the annuitants; each of whom is far-
ther to receive, on appointment, a Bible and book of devotion.
Annuitants are named by a majority of the trustees. The ave-
rage amount paid to each hitherto has been L. 9 or L. 10 per an-
num.
   Alexander Chalmers, Esq. of Cluny, who died last year, left a
settlement, jointly executed by himself and spouse, by which he
appointed the whole of his heritable and moveable property (sub-
ject to certain legacies and annuities, and to Mrs Chalmers's life-
rent,) to be vested in trustees, for the "founding, erection, and
endowment of an hospital and free dispensary of medicines,"
to be called "Chalmers's Hospital,"- "for the support, mainte-
nance, cure, and relief of destitute sick paupers, lunatics, and
other diseased and poor infirm persons of both sexes, born, domi-
ciliated, and resident in any town or parish of the said county of
Banff, the inhabitants wherdof shall make collections (for the in-
stitution) at their respective parish churches," &c.-the site of
Mr Chalmers's residence in the sea-town of Banff being at the
same time assigned as that of the hospital to be erected. The
trustees named for the management of this bequest are the Lord
Lieutenant of the County; Member for the County; Sheriffs-
depute and substitute; Provost; Ministers of Banff, Gamrie, and
Marnoch; President of Society of Solicitors, and Peter and John
A. Cameron, Esqs.-three a quorum.


