
	                 LEUCHARS.                           217

L.12. We have contributed liberally to the schemes of the Gene-
ral Assembly for education in the Highlands of Scotland, and for
the propagation of the Gospel in India.
   Education.--There is only one school in the parish. The ordi-
nary branches of instruction are taught. The salary is the maximum.
The fees are small, and do not produce above L.15 per annum.
There is no person in the parish unable to read and write, but very
many who read and write very ill.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.--The poor roll is at present a heavy
one.  We have many aged persons, and two families of orphan
children. There are 13 in the receipt of a weekly aliment.
We very seldom give the allowance in money, but authorize the
tenant under whom the paupers reside, to give as much meal and
potatoes as will keep them with comfort. Our annual outlay is
nearly L.30. Of this sum we have about L.12 from church col-
lections,--the rest is drawn from monev belonging to the poor.
   Fuel.--The only fuel used in this neigbourhood is coal, which is
driven from the mouth of the pit. The nearest mines are those
of Coul and Balbirnie, about nine miles distant. The fuel from
both is good, and the price is moderate.

July 1836.

                    PARISH OF LEUCHARS.

	      PRESBYTERY OF ST ANDREWS, SYNOD OF FIFE.

	      THE REV. DAVID WATSON, MINISTER.

		I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.

   Name.--THE ancient name of the parish seems to have been
Lough-yards, which is now changed to Leuchars. The low and
level grounds, extending for miles to the east and west of the, vil-
lage, were under water for the greater part of the year, and might
well be considered a loch before the lands were drained. The
elevated ground in the immediate vicinity might be the yards at-
tached to the village. According to some, Leuchars is a Celtic word,
and signifies a rushy or marshy flat. Sibbald says, the name is
"a Locro, Pictorum magnate ejusdem possessore."
   Extent, Boundaries.--This parish, from north-east to south-west,


