
                           FEARN.                           313

of minerals, any vestige of organic remains has ever been dis-
covered.
        Zoology.-No quadruped or bird is known to belong to the pa-
rish, which is not common. Grouse abounds in the hills, and
black-cock also, in one particular district. A breed of pheasants
was introduced not long ago, but it is thought to be now nearly
extinct. A solitary specimen of the Bohemian chatterer, as was
believed, appeared some years ago in the depth of winter; and as
soon as seen was shot and transmitted to Kinnaird, for preservation.
	Similar observations are applicable to the botanical field.  We
know of nothing in any of these departments which we can call
peculiarly our own.

                        II.-CIVIL HISTORY.

        Land-owners.-Among five heritors, the proprietor of the Barony.
of Fearn holds pre-eminent rank, as possessing at least four-fifths
of the whole parish. One small farm is the property of the Right
Honourable the Earl of Fife.
        Mansion-houses.-There properties have no mansion-houses.
The other three proprietors are in possession of substantial
and suitable mansions. On one of these (Auchnacree) the
work of planting, enclosing, and otherwise improving, is only be-
gun, but it is begun in such good earnest, that beauty and fer-
tility may soon be expected to spring up out of a bleak and rugged
solitude. Another (Deuchar) in possession of higher natural ad-
vantages, has been judiciously laid out, and begins to appear or-
namental to the neighbourhood. The third (Noranside) seems,
to want nothing but the actual presence of the proprietor to be
converted into one of the most cheerful and splendid residences
in the county. Such is the peculiarity of its situation, that, though
apparently not elevated, the eye can range from its balconies east
and west over the vale of Strathmore, to the extent of an hundred
miles.
        Antiquities.-Perhaps it may startle the admirer of ancient,
Gothic architecture, to insinuate a supposition that traces may still
be found of a permanent human abode, which can be referred to
an age prior by many generations to that in which the foundations
of the first Gothic structure was laid in our land. Such apparent
traces are to be met with only on moors, or ground untouched by
recent industry, and are generally connected with, patches of sur-
facd hrregularly laid out, and exhibiting a slight indication of an-
ent culture. They consist of a circle of moderately large stone
planted upright, the diameter varying from 9 to 20 feet, and up-


