
418                     EDINBURGHSHIRE.

there remains merely the evidence of such a structure having once
existed.  It is still put down in the maps as "Bow Castle." On
Lugate Water, there have been two.  One of them, close to the
present farm-house, was called Lugate Castle.  All that remains
is a portion of one of the walls, now built into an outhouse.  The
other, of which a great part of the square tower yet remains, is to-
wards a mile farther up on the north side of the water.  This is
what is now usually called Lugate Castle, but appears to have
been originally named "Ewes Castle," from the ancient name of
the water.
   Torsonce Castle has been roofed in, and is occupied by the
proprietor as a cottage or Summer residence.
   The old Castle of Torwoodlee, now in ruins, was of unusually
large dimensions, and in the extent of its accommodations, and
superiority of its architecture, bears evidence of the wealth and
splendour of this ancient family at a remote period.  It was inha-
bited as a mansion-bouse till 1784.
   There were three castles on Cadon Water.  There are some
remains of the one at Redhead farm-house on the property of
Whytbank.  There was another at Blackhaugh, a little way up
the Cadon, of which every vestige has now been removed.  It
remains that we notice, as the last, Windydoors Castle, the
ruins of which are connected with the present farm-offices, or ra-
ther form a part of them.  A few particulars concerning this
ruins may give a general, though, in many cases, too favourable
an idea of such structures in this district.  Its form is that
of a parallelogram, 52 feet by 24, over walls, which are 4
feet thick.  What now remains, being the castle keep, and still
used for a similar purpose, includes the whole space inclosed
by the walls, and is strongly arched over, with a square space
in the centre of the arch, used for a trap door as a commu-
nication in circumstances of danger.  Above were the human
habitations; and a considerable part of the walls still exhibit to
us the wonderful strength of the original structure.  The stones
are of huge dimensions, and must have been raised to their pre-
sent locality by some ingenious mechanical power.  It is to the
extraordinary strength of the mortar that we owe the existence of
a single fragment of this ancient structure; for about forty years
ago, when the present farm-house was built, the old castle was
determined on as the quarry from which the stones were to be
furnished. The attempt was made for a few days, and then re-


