
			LOUDOUN.                       839

child of Hugh Craufurd,) was mother of Sir William Wallace
as old Winton says,
		His father was a manly knight,
		His mother was a lady bright.

Susanna Craufurd, only child of the Sir Reginald who died in
1303, and great-grand-daughter of the first Sir Reginald, married
Sir Duncan Campbell of Lochawe, (grandson of Sir Colin Camp-
bell More of Lochaw,) who held the sheriffship of Ayrshire, and
was the first of the Campbell of Loudoun. The following short
historical notices of some of the descendants may be inte-
resting.
	Sir Andrew Campbell followed King David into England, was
taken prisoner at the battle of Durham in 1346, and was not re-
lieved until 1357. His son,
	Sir Hugh, was one of the barons nominated to meet the King
at Durham, in 1423. His son,
	Sir George, was of the hostages for the ransom of King James I.,
when his (Sir Goorge's,) annual revenue was, estimated at only 300
merks. He accompanied the Princess Margaret to France in
1436.
	Sir John succeeded his father, Sir George. A charter was given
by his wife to support a chapel on Irvine water, in 1451. The
ruins of this chapel are still seen at Loudoun kirk.
	Sir Matthew promoted the cause of the Reformation. He was
taken prisoner at Langside, when fighting (so rigid was his loyal-
ty), on the side of Queen Mary. From Sir Matthew's second son,
who settled in Livonia, and who assumed the surname of Lou-
doun, the Austrian field-marshal, Laudoun, was descended.
	Sir Hugh, Sir Matthew's eldest son, and tenth Campbell, was
created a Lord of Parliament, by the title of Baron Loudoun, in
1601. Sir Hugh had one son and three daughters. The son
George, died young. Margaret, his eldest daughter, Baroness
of Loudoun, succeeded her grandfather in 1622 and married Sir
John Campbell of Lawers, who was created  Earl of Loudoun
in May 1633. His Lordship was one of the commissioners
from the Scottish army who settled the pacification of Ber-
wick in 1639, with Charles I. He sat as a member of the fa-
mous General Assembly of 1652. He was made Lord Chan-
cellor in 1642, and died in 1652. He was buried in the vault of
Loudoun kirk, where, beneath the coffin lid, his face, a few years
ago, might be seen in perfect preservation. A full account to his


