
     Statistical Account

in the other 4 parishes of Eskdale in the year 1773.  In
the landward part of the parish, the proprietors and tenants
assess themselves quarterly, according to the exigencies of 
the poor, each paying a half of the sum assessed.  No scheme
has yet been adopted to meet the general approbation of
the inhabitants of the town, (nor perhaps is it possible for
human wisdom to devise one by which they can be all as-
sessed exactly, according to each of their abilities), though
the most respectable part of them cheerfully contribute
their share, according to the assessment of sworn valuators.
The quarterly assessments, which are made by the heritors,
minister, and elders, have never exceeded L. 30; the ave-
rage may be about L. 25.  These assessments are paid to a 
collector, who also receives L. 1, 5 s. or L. 1, 10 s. quarterly
from the kirk-treasurer, out of the weekly collections, 
which, with the fines levied from those who incur the dis-
cipline of the church, may annually amount to about L. 15.
About L. 90, by different donors, have been bequeathed at
different periods to the poor of Langholm, for the education
of poor children, and other pious purposes, which the session,
as guardians of the poor, have placed out at interest upon
proper security.  No poor are allowed to beg within the
bounds of this presbytery.  Though every person of huma-
nity is happy to contribute his mite to the maintenance of
those, who, by age, sickness, or infirmity, or other una-
voidable calamities, become objects of compassion, yet, it
is much to be regretted, that the worthless and the profli-
gate, (and what town or district is without them), who are
accessory to their own misery, look forward to this provi-
sion as a matter of right , not of favour; and having this re-
source in view, are too apt to indulge themselves in idle-
ness and dissipation, without making any prudent reserve,
either for themselves or their families, against the evil day.
Of all the inventions of modern luxury, none have contri


