
<TABLE>
			DRYFESDALE.                              455

                  Flax,                              50
                  Land in pasture,                 3900
		Gardens and orchards,             200
		Thinnings of woods,               100
		Other produce,                    200

                                              L. 17,550

			V.--PAROCHIIAL ECONOMY.
	Lockerbie.--The market-town of Lockerble, the only one in the
parish, merits a particular description. Lockerbie is supposed to
have derived its name from Loch, and bie, the Celtic name for a
station or place of strength. Accordingly, there is an old square
tower still standing called the Mains, which was the mansion
place of the ancient family of the Johnstones of Lockerbie, a
branch of the old family of Johnstone of Lochwood, the ancestor
of the late Marquis of Annandale, and of the present Marquis
of Queensberry, and Mr Douglas of Lockerbie. This tower
had been placed on a ridge, between and almost surrounded
by two large lochs or lakes,--one on the east and the other
on the west, which are now drained, and are all either cultivated or
in rich meadow; and it may be worthy of notice, that the great
Roman road already described passed through one of these lochs,
about half a mile below the tower, at a place called Blackford.
From this mansion and its dependencies, it gradually increas-
ed to the size of a village; and from that, by the liberality of some
of the lairds of Lockerbie in granting feus and long tacks, it
has yearly increased to its present dimensions. It is now a neat
cleanly town, situated in a fertile and inviting part of the country,
midway between the rivers Annan and Milk: it lies 12 miles east
from Dumfries, and 4 from Lochmaben, 16 south from Moffat,
17 1/2 west of Langholm, 10 north of Annan, and 6 from Eccelefechan.
The number of inhabitants is of males, 646; of females, 768;
total, 1414. There are as yet no public manufactures establish-
ed in the town. Many of the common people here and in the country
are very expert in making many parts of their own wearing apparel.
	Means of Communication.--The town and parish in general en-
joy excellent communication,--the great post and turnpike road
from London to Edinburgh and Glasgow, running through the
town of Lockerbie and parish, for the length of three miles. On
the London road, at the north-west side of the parish, is an old
but strong, firm, and well built bridge, over the Dryfe; another at
Scroggs, on a parish road, and over the Milk. But the one most
worthy of notice is at Stullahill, on the new road from Dum-


