
     Statistical Account

excellent free-stone, and the north-west with Ofmond stone,
in great request for ovens*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Mr Napier of Blackstone has planted about 15 acres of moss bent, that
is, the stuff left after the peat is taken off, with trees of all kinds.  They have
been planted about 17 years, and are in a thriving condition, although grow-
ing upon 4 feet of moss.
   In the year 1761, James Milliken of Milliken, Esq; planted a number of
fir, with a mixture of other trees, on the Bar-brae, among tremendous and
precipitous rocks, which he had enclosed for that purpose.  He made a fine
foot-passage from his house, around the bottom of the rocks, among the brok-
en fragments of basalts, formerly impassable.  It is amazing to see the pro-
gress the different kinds of fir have made among these rugged rocks How-
ever, I find the pines answer best on a rocky soil, as their sibres find crevices
in which they securely fix themselves, and often form a kind of net-work a-
round the stones.  Here they are better secured against the violence of the
winds, and suffer less from the summer's drought, than when they are plant-
ed in a light gravelly soil.  In this last situation, their horizontal fibres can
have but little hold of the earth, and their perpendicular roots are so small
that they are easily shaken with the wind.  If they be planted where there
is a clay bottom, the damp of it chills them.  Upon this estate of Milliken,
there are about 80 acres of thriving planting.
   At Craigends, the property of Mr Cunningham, there are 30 acres of
planting, in which are found some very stately old ash, elm, and plane trees,
superior to any in the perish.  One ash, in particular, deserves attention.  It
measures 5 feet in diameter at 18 inches above the ground.  The trunk, which
is perfeclty straight, rises 43 feet without a branch, and its top is in propor-
tion to the whole.
   Dr Colquhoun purchased in 1787, upon the higher grounds, north west of
the parish, 369 acres, on which there was then no planting.  In 1789 and
1790, be planted about 16 acres with all kinds of trees, in large clumps.  He
thought this sufficient for an experiment; but as the plantations are thriving
beyond his most sanguine expectation, he does not mean to stop.
   This season, 1794, Mr M'Dawal of Walkingshaw is employed planting
trees of every kind on some rocky spots on the north-west of the parish.  In-
deed it were to be wished the several proprietors would plant off all the rocky
spots in the high and western parts of the perish.  The experiments already
made, shew that the planting would thrive.  The intermediate spots, which
admit the plough, should be kept as much in pasture as possible:  for the soil


