
   172                       BANFFSHIRE.

   grazing.  The fat cattle (three year old) on the best farms, will
   weigh on an average 35 stones Dutch, but over the parish little
   more than 30 stones ; four year olds will weigh from 45 to 50
   stones; while a few older cattle are sold annually, weighing 70
   stones and upwards.  If there be any thing reprehensible in our
   practice, it is that of overstocking and paying too little attention
   to the nourishment of calves, and the qualities of bulls.
   The propriety of introducing what is called the short-horned,
   or Teeswater breed, is at present a much agitated question.  The
   experiment has been made, with peculiar propriety, by some of
   the heritors in this and the neighbouring parishes, but few, if any,
   of the farmers here have yet followed the example, and probably
   will not do so, until they are satisfied as to the favourable nature
   of the result, and can make the experiment at less expense.  The
   prevailing opinion is, that, in crossing the sbort-horned with the
   native breed, the race will degenerate, and at last leave in the
   country a race retaining all the bad qualities of both, with few of
   the good, and thus destroying the purity of both.  In Aberdeen-
   shire, where the experiment has been longer tried, it has been
   found that upon good and sheltered land, especially if enclosed,
   one cross betwixt the Teeswater bull and the Aberdeenshire cow
   answers extremely well, coining to a greater weight and earlier
   maturity than the native breed ; but upon inferior land and open
   field, it is generally thought they never can supplant the native
   race.  Their flesh cannot at all compete with prime Scotch in
   the London market, and the Aberdeen butchers consider them,
   even when crosses, as very inferior, and in fact would never wish
   to see them on their stalls./f*
   Horses.-For,twenty years back, a considerable number of our
   best horses have been brought from the south ; but this practice
   is now generally abandoned, and in some cases the trade has been
   reversed-a circumstance affording pretty strong proof of the im-
   provement of the breed.  The original breed of horses in the pa-
   rish was peculiarly hardy and durable, but not equal to the pre-
   sent in point of bone and symmetry.  The agricultural societies
   in the neighbourhood have, for a good many years, been giving
   premiums annually for the best horses, which have generally been
   gained by horses from the south ; and, as our horses are usually
   descended from these itinerant prize-winners, the old breed of the

<FOOTNOTE>Since this report was drawn up, the sbort-horned breed has been introduced to
    a considerable extent on several of the best farms in the parish.



