
314                     HADDINGTONSHIRE.

too small for the population, and, indeed, at the period of its ori-
ginal erection, it must have been deficient. It is capable of being
both heated and lighted,-advantages the value of which are duly
felt and appreciated by the parishioners. The extent of the glebe
is 6 acres. The stipend is 16 chalders, and above L. 17 in money,
in'which the allowance for communion elements is included. The
manse was put into a most comfortable state of repair in 1834. It
would be a happy condition for the families of minister, in gene-
ral, if the same consideration for their comfort were displayed by
heritors, as those of this parish have all along manifested for the
personal and domestic comfort of its incumbent.
   Almost all the population adhere to the Established Church,
and, in so far as any man has an opportunity of knowing the con-
dition and feelings of the people of a parish so poor as this is, he
will not be slow to condemn Voluntaryism as utterly inadequate to
the supply of their spiritual wants. The Dissenters of all deno-
minations and ages amount to 100 individuals.
   Education.-Besides the parochial and infant schools, the latter
of which is on the Lowland Scheme of the General Assembly's
Committee, there are four schools in the parish. One of these has
been commenced lately under the patronage of Sir George Grant
Suttie Bart. As it is planted in what is rather a necessitous dis-
trict, and receives most valuable assistance from its patron, it is
likely to be well attended, and to prove exceedingly useful. The
teacher appears to be diligent in his work, and is deserving of all
encouragement. The other three schools are taught on the
teachers' own adventure alone. The parochial schoolmaster has
the maximum salary: and his fees may amount to L. 40 a year.
He is also session and heritors' clerk. The school is taught by an
assistant and successor. A Sabbath school has been taught in the
parish'church for several years. Nearly 200 children attend. It
is taught by one of the elders the parochial schoolmaster, and se-
veral members of the church.
   Friendly Societies.-At one period, this parish had more than
enough of such institutions. The only survivors now are the Carters',
Gardeners', several yearly societies, and the Sailors' Incorpora-
tion. The funds belonging to the last-mentioned exceed L. 1200
and hitherto have been managed with considerable skill and pru-
dence. It is much to be feared that, except the yearly societies
and the Sailors, the others are not based on those principles which
can insure their continuance or prosperity.
				    3


