
                            LONMAY.                            223

appointment both of synod and presbytery, preached, &c. where-
upon the presbytery did legally and orderly call the said Mr Gor-
don to be minister."
   The entries made in the session record are very full during Mr
Gordon's incumbency, which ended at his death in 1743.  Be-
sides the ordinary account of poor's money and matters of disci-
pline, there are some notices of a miseellaneous character, which
serve to illustrate times past.  Collections are reported for repair
of roads, bridges, the barbour of Banff; in 1718, for the distressed
Protestants in Lithuania; in 1726, fasting and humiliation on
account of scorching drought; in 1723, thanksgiving for deliver-
ance from pestilence raging in foreign countries, and especially
in France. *  Inquests on the bodies of murdered persons seem
sometimes to have been left to the kirk-session.  1727, April 9,
the minister reported that "he understood there was a design
among the heritors of this and the two neighbouring parishes of
Rathen and Crimond to erect ane Episcopal meeting-house near
to this church, as yt place most centrical to them all; and it was
found by the unanimous sentiment of the session that this designed
meeting-house was promoted from very malice and splen to the
established government of church and state, and to instil into the
people of this corner, principles of rebellion against the Govern-
ment, and favour for a Popish Pretender; and as they were per-
suaded of this from weighty reasons, which are not proper to be
insert here so particularly from this consideration, yt all the com-
mon people of these three parishes, and especially in this, had
always been most punctual and precise attenders upon, and par-
takers, of all gospel ordinances dispensed by yr respective minis-
ters, had frequently signified their satisfaction with yr ministers,
and resolution to adhere to yr ministry, unless they should be
compelled (as they feared) to attend a worsbip fringed with cere-
monies (by yr respective masters)," &c.  And it was found that
the principal promoters of this division, and intenders to have the
meeting-house near this church, were "Mr Fraser, present heritor
of the barony of Lonmay, who was engaged in the late rebellion,
and still continued in yt same strain against the Government and
Gospel ministry; and also William Cruden, one of the Fraser-
burgh posts, a nottour Bourignian in his principles," &c. &c.

<FOOTNOTE>In 1787, Provincial Synod of Aberdeen appoint a day for humiliation on ac-
count of abounding sin, and particularly bloodshed, under which this province groans.
ln 1741, King and church appoint a fast on account of threatened famine.


