
98                         KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

deathbed, of which the interest is applied to their relief. The great-
est annual amount I have known arising from these different sources
was L. 132, collected three years ago. The average per annum,
I should think, about L. 75. The management of the funds is in
the hands of the kirk-session, and attended with no expense what-
ever. Vagrant mendicants, accompanied sometimes by troops of
ragged and filthy children, had had become an intolerable nuisance, and
by their insolent importunities and frequent impositions, had pro-
duced an impression unfavourable to the interests even of the native
poor. The baseness of some of these miscreants is almost beyond
belief. It has repeatedly happened that when the farmers, of whom
they asked lodgings for the night, were prompted by a supererogation
of benevolence, to furnish them with bed-clothes, the vagabonds
would abscond in the morning, before the family were astir,
carrying off with them every article of their benefactor's property
within their reach. The attention of the gentlemen of the counry,
however, has been at length energetically directed to the preva-
lence of mendicity, and the consequent appointment of a rural po-
lice, although of short duration, has already had a sensible effect
in suppressing the abuse.

	December 1843.

                          PARISH OF BALMACLELLAN.

            PRESBYTERY OF KIRKCUDBRIGHT, SYNOD OF GALLOWAY.

            THE REV.  GAVIN CULLEN, A. M., Minister.

            THE REV.  GEORGE MURRAY, Assistant and Successor. *

                     I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTOR
        Name.-BALMACLELLAN is one of the four parishes in the
northern district of the stewartry of Kirkcudbright, commonly known
by the name of Glenkens. The compound word Bal-Maclel-
lan is understood to signify the township or manor of the Maclel-
lans, once extensive proprietors in Galloway. The power of this
ancient family, however, is now gone; the title of Baron Kirkcud-
bright, by which a branch of it was ennobled in 1633, is now dor-

<FOOTNOTE>By whom the following account is drawn up.
                                     3


