
260                    DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

February 1832, there were put on board 500 sheep, 46 cows, and
5 calves. Another steamer, called the Solway, has begun, more
recently, to ply between Bowness and Liverpool. Both vessels
are weekly in full employment, to the advantage of both Annan-
dale and Galloway.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The church was built in 1793; it has no
gallery, but may accommodate nearly 300 sitters. The glebe, in-
field and out-field (for there are two) contains 20 imperial acres,
and may be worth L.30 per annum. The stiped is 14 chadlers,
half barley, half oat-meal, with L. 8, 6s. 8d. for communion ele-
ments. The manse was built in 1778, and has undergone during
that thme several repairs; the last of vhich was in 1828. It is
still a good and convenient house, and has been well and judiciously
planned.
	In this parish there are no dissenting chapels, but there are ten
families of dissenters who resort to the Secession church at Annan.
	The parish church, to the credit of the parishioners, is well and
regularly attended by about 145 families; and the number of com-
municants is about 100.
	Sermons are occasionally preached, and collections made for Sab-
bath schools and Bible societies, the average collection, after de-
ducting the usual sum for the poor, being about L. 3, 10s.
	Education.--There is one parochial school with a salary of
L. 34, 4s. 2d. The fees or school wages do not exceed L. 25
yearly; though they would doubtless amount to more were it not
that there are two other schools without salary, where the quarter
pence or wages are lower. The schoolmaster has other emolu-
ments to the amount of L. 5 a-year. In the parish school, which
is taught by a talented teacher, all the branches which are usually
pursued in respectable seminaries are taught with persevering dili-
gence and the strictest accuracy. The master has the legal ac-
commodation, a good house, and a field of nearly an imperial acre,
part of which is set apart for a garden. The average number of
scholars in the parochial school is 50. There are two other
schools, viz. the village sbhool, attended by 40 scholars, and the
north school by 20.
	 Library.--A subscription library was established in the parish
in the year 1830, and contains now about 100 volumes, some of
which were presented by members of the committee of management.
	Poor.--The number of persons receiving parochial aid is 22;
and the average sum allowed to each per week 1s. 1d. The aver-


