
     Statistical Account

   Improvements.- About 40 years ago, a great part of the
lands in this parish lay in their natural uncultivated state, and
such of them as were in culture produced poor starved crops.
The tenants were in poor circumstances, the rents low, the
farm houses contemptible.  The communication from place
to place was along paths which were to be known by the foot-
steps of beasts that passed through them.  No turnips, pota-
toes, or cabbages, unless a few of the latter in some gardens;
and a great degree of poverty, indolence, and meanness of spi-
rit, among the great body of the people.  The appearance of
the people, and their mode of thinking and acting, were but
mean and indelicate; their peats were brought home in creels;
the few things the farmer had to sell were carried to market
upon the backs of horses; and their dunghills were hard by
their doors.  What has been done for promoting the industry,
prosperity, and happiness of this parish and neighbourhood,
must reflect great honour to the memory of the late Alexander
Fraser of Strichen, one of the senators of the College of Jus-
tice.  He first introduced improvements; gave lime to his te-
nants, gratis, and, in spite of their prejudices, prevailed with
them to use it as a manure; brought skilful men from the
south country, who taught them how to sow grass feeds, and
raise turnips, cabbages, and potatoes in the fields.  He gave
them leases, during their lives, at a reasonable rate; and did
not think his interest hurt when he saw his tenants enjoying

<FOOTNOTE>

wages, about 40 years ago, were about L. 2, or L. 2: 5 sterling per annum, now
from L.5 10 to L.6. sterling annum.  A woman servant's were then L.1 or L.1:1
Sterling; now from L. 2: to L. 2: 5 per annum.  A day-labourer then got 6 d.
per day, now 9 d. and when cutting corn or hay, from 1 s. to 1 s. 4 d.-a wo-
man in corn or hay harvest, or peat mire, 10 d. a mason, from 1 s. 4 d. to
1 s. 6 d. per day; a carpenter, 1 s. and a taylor, 8 d.  Handycraftsmen are all
well employed; and day-labourers are in so great request, that turnip fields
are sometimes in danger of being lost for want of hoeing in due season.                              


