
18                             BUTESHIRE.

ginning of the sixth century another Celtic race,* a colony of Irish
Scots, usually called the Datriads, effected a settlement in the
western districts of the Highlands, more especially Argyllshire;
and Arran lying so near Kintyre, which was their first settlement,
would probably have formed an early part of their conquests. This
meet in the course of the three following centuries, gradually es-
tended their power over the greater part of the mainland of Scot-
land, to which they gave the name which it still retains. But the
dominion of the Hebrides was wrested from them by the Scandina-
vians; who, after many previous piratical expeditions to these isles,
began, towards the end of the ninth century, to form in them re-
gular settlements. At length Harold Harfager, after establishing
himself as King of Norway, and subduing Shetland and Orkney, ad-
ded to his other conquests the whole of the Hebrides, south to the
Isle of Man. Arran must then, if not before, have fallen under the
Scandinavian yoke. From this period till the final cession of the He-
brides to the Kings of Scotland, Arran shared the fate of the rest
of these islands, which were ruled by chiefs, dependent sometimes
an Norway, but more frequently on kings of the isles, who yielded
to Norway more or less allegiance. What changes were effected
on the early Celtic population of the isles, by the conquests of the
North-man it is impossible now to ascertain. But as the language
of the Celts ultimately prevailed, it is evident that the Celtic blood
continued all along to predominate in the great body of the peo-
ple, whose language their conquerors gradually adopted. For
some generations previous to the incorporation of the Hebrides
with the dominions of the Scottish monarchy, Arran appears to
have been in possession of one of the branches of the family of
Donald, Lord of the Isles, probably the Macruaridhs, who ruled in
Bute. Monro, Dean of the Isles, speaks of a monastery in the
Holy Isle, opposite to Lamlash, said to have been built by one of
the sons of Somerled, and endowed by him with the lands round
the bay of Lumlash; and Somerled himself is said to have built a
castle in the same island. It would seem that Arran passed next
into the family of the High Stewart of Scotland. Shortly after
the death of Sommerled, Walter, the High Steward, got for himself
same fouting in the neighbouring island of Bute. He inprov-
ed this advantage, and stregthened his interest in Bute, by the
marriage of Alexander, his son and heir, to the grand-daughter of

<FOOTNOTE>For an sccount of the origin of the Scott and Plets somewhat different from this
and pehaps a more probable-one, was Sir W. Bethan's Gael and Cimbri.


