
			URQUHART AND LOGGIE-WESTER.            379

put into operation in the different districts of the parish, all of
which are well attended, and are successful in conveying to the
rising generation, as well as to others, much important Scripture
knowledge.  All these schools are taught without remuneration. --
There is scarcely a Dissenter in the parish.  A considerable number
of the inhabitants of the western districts of the parish were, thirty
or forty years ago, Episcopalians ; but, of that persuasion, there
are now very few indeed,--almost all the young people having be-
come attached to the Established Church.  The attendance upon
divine service is very regular throughout the whole year.  The
number of communicants, at present, exceeds 150.  There is a
penny-a-week society, the average amount of whose annual con-
tributions to the cause of religion may be stated at L.10.  It
has been in operation for upwards of twenty years.  The amounts of
church collections for religious and charitable objects may ave-
rage, yearly, L.20 Sterling.
   Education.-There are 3 schools in the parish,--the parochial
school,in the centre; a school maintained by the Society in Scot-
land for Propagating Christian Knowledge, in the east end; and
one,established a few years ago by Sir F. A.Mackenzie on his
own property, in the west end; and to which, besides having provided,
at his won expense, the whole of the requisite accommodations, he
very laudably grants a small salary out of his own pocket,and also al-
lows a master a good garden.  All these schools, are especially
during the winter and the spring months, well attended; consequently,
there are but very few, indeed, of the young people who do not
obtain some share od education, to the extent, at least, of being
taught to read the Scriptures in both languages.  The parochial
schoolmaster has the legal accommodations; the salary is the
maximum ; and his fees may amount to L.12 per annum.  The
emoluments arising to him from the office of session-clerk are from
L.4 to L.5.  The average attendance of scholars is about 65.
The branches taught are, English and Gaelic reading, English
grammar, writing, arithmetic, book-keeping, Latin, geography, and
mathematics.  The rate of fees per quarter is,for rading. 2s ;
reading and writing, 2s. 6d.; arithmetic 4s,; Latin,4s; mathe-
matics or geography,7s.6d; and for three sets of book-keeping,
L.1, 1s. the Society schoolmaster is L.15.  In
addition, the proprietor allows him a small portion of land.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-- the number of persons at present
receiving parochial aid is 170.  It is neccesary to observe, that none


