
248 		               ARGYLESHIRE.

tends to about 536 feet in length.  The first or lowest level enters
from the high road, which passes between it and the sea, at a
height of about 28 feet above half-tide mark.  A tram road ex-
tends from along the whole face of the rock to a bank formed
in the sea by the rubbish of the quarries thrown over. Along this
road, the whole quarried rock is carried by means, of trains of wag-
gons, and the blocks which contain workable slates are manufac-
tured into their various sizes on, the bank, and the unproductive
part, or rubbish, is tumbled into the sea.
   The second level is 66 feet above the bottom of the first, and
communicates in the same manner with another bank, asso formed
in the sea by an arch thrown over the high road, where the produce
is disposed of, in the same way as in the first.
   The third level is 74 feet above the bottom of the second, and
rises to the extreme height of the hill in that part, which is 76
feet from its bottom.  The produce of this third level is conveyed
down an inclined plane, by means of a fly-wheel to the same bank
where the second is emptied.
   It is in contemplation to open a lower level, from the level of
half-tide mark, to be wrought in succession to those now in opera-
tion, to reach which it will be necessary to tunnel under the high
road.  It will be observed, that all these levels being above the level
of the sea, and open to it, no interruption to the work can ever
arise, from an accumulation of water, as it is drawn off into the sea,
as it arises.
   The slates are all inanufadtured by contract, the rock being let
annually to several parties, consisting generally of four men, each
party being, called a " crew," and paid at a stipulated rate for
the number: of slates which they make, Within the period of the
agreement.  The workmen keep up their tools, and pay for the
powder that is used in blasting the rock, and the master maintains
the tram roads, and furnishes waggons.  The blocks of rock which
contain slate are separated from the rubbish within the quarries,
and are conveyed from thence to sheds on the banks, where they are
split to the proper thickness, and shaped into the various sizes that
are made.  When the rock is friendly, one man splitting gives full
employment to the cutter, and a crew is said to do well when two
men quarrying can keep the other two employed in splitting and
shaping.  The proportion of the whole rock which is convertible
into roof slate an average, one to seven of refuse or rub-
bish.


