
506                    INVERNESS-SHIRE.

cal Journal, Vol. xxvii.  They are situated in Glenroy, a lateral
branch of the larger Glen Spean, about ten miles to the north
of Fort-William. Glenroy is about eleven miles in length,
and one mile in breadth, with pretty steep sides. The stream
Spean falls intothe river Lochy, near Loch Lochy, and the
Roy falls into the Spean, five miles eastward. On both sides
of Glenroy, there are three narrow terraces or roads, formed
of gravel and clay, called the " Parallel roads." They project
several feet from the sloping side of the mountain, forming
three slightly marked lines along the valley from end to end, and
exactly parallel to each other. At some parts they are not to be
seen such as when they cross the bare hard rock, where loose soil
or gravel would not rest, and where the surface of the bill is gently
inclined, because the slope there coincides with that of the allu.
vial cover. Very often the appearance is so faint, that a spectator
may find himself standing on one without being aware of its exist-
ence; but, at other parts, they swell out into pretty broad terraces,
and, what seemed obscure to a spectator in juxtaposition with it,
becomes more distinct when seen from the opposite side of the
valley, where the eye takes in the line for a length of some miles.
Each of these, terraces, by the test of the level, have been found
not only horizontal in their individual bearing longitudinally, but
also horizontal as regards the corresponding terrace on the oppo-
site side.  The first or lowest terrace is 972 feet above the level
of the sea the second is 1184 feet, while the third is 1266 feet.
The base ofthe terraces have an inclination towards the centre of
the valley. In the valley of Glen Gloy, in the vicinity, which is
separated by a ridge of high ground of about half a mile thick,
there is a terrace twelve feet higher than the highest in the for-
mer, or 1278 feet above the sea level, but none lower. There is
a remnant of a similar terrace at Kilfinnan, four miles northward,
which is 40 feet higher than the highest in Glenroy, or 1306
feet above the surface of the sea. The three terraces of Glen-
roy follow the line of the valley down to its junction with Glen
Spean, passing into. all its sinuosities and recesses. Here two of
them disappear; but the lowest continues its course up to the
head of Glen Spean, and down nearly to its mouth, over a space
of twenty miles, always preserving the same level. Portions of
terraces have also been traced on the sides of the valley of the
Spey, many miles eastward of those just described, and at a beight
of about 800 feet.  Sir Thomas Dick Lauder and Dr Macul-


