
     of Rathven.

road passes through the parish in a westerly direction for
upwards of 8 miles.  The first 5 from Cullen to the burn
of Buckie, are almost equally good in all seasons, and easily
kept in excellent repair.  The other 3 miles not having
so good a bottom, are apt to become deep in rainy wea-
ther; it is in contemplation to change the direction of this
road in part; and it will require great attention to pre-
vent the public from suffering by the alteration, when car-
ried to the intended extent.  On entering the parish, the
beautiful arch of the bridge over the rivulet at Cullen
house, strikes the eye of the beholder on the left hand.
After passing the bridge in the line of the public road,
which is too narrow and wants parapets, fine fields, and
thriving plantations adorn the scenery for the first 3 miles,
and cheer the weary traveller, in spite of a moss on the
left, which forces itself on his observation, and accompa-
nies him for more than 2 miles.  A bleak and dreary pro-
spect succeeds for 2 miles through the moor of Ranna-
chy*.

   Harbours.-Nature has formed the oly harbours at the
fishing stations.  But to render them safe and commodious,

<FOOTNOTE>

*To the right, on this moor, at the distance of 100 paces from the
road, is an eminence evidently artificial, called Tarrieclerack and sup-
posed by some to be a burial-place.  The view is confined, as before, by
hills and moors, covered with heath.  Hardly does any pleasant object
appear to break the barren uniformity, and relieve the mind.  At length
a peep of the Moray frith, and of the Caithness hills, at the distance of
90 miles, dissolves the gloom, and awakens the attention to a fertile
country, finely variegated with little hills and fertile plains, in a high
state of cultivation.  The burn of Tynet, which separates this parish
from Belly, stands in need of a bridge.  Though its course be but short,
and quantity of water trifling in dry weather; yet in rainy season, it is
frequently swelled into a torrent, which the traveller cannot pass with-
out fear and danger.
  

