
                          NORTH UIST.                              163

    highest of the basaltic pillars mentioned, which points to, or ra-
    ther is at the very entrance of one of the finest harbours in Scot-
    land. South of this is Loch-west, which extends six miles into the
    country. The entrance is narrow ' but the anchoring-ground safe,
    and would undoubtedly be more frequented, did not its more capa-'
    cious and better-known neighbour, Lochmaddy, almost monopolize
    the trade.
       Southward still is the harbour of Rhueva, which, likewise, is very
    narrow at its inlet, but safe when entered. And lastly, at the
    southern extremity of the parish, is the harbour of Keallin, formed
    by the point of the same name and the Island of Ronay. It is
    considered safe for vessels of no large burden.
       The grounds along these barbours, generally barren and mossy,
    afford no idea of the fertility and beauty which the west side pre-
    sents.
       Islands.-- About two miles from North Uist, and to the north
    of it, lies Boveray, an island a mile and a-balf long and half-a mile
    broad. It is very fertile, supporting thirty families in comfort equal
    to that possessed by others of their class in this part of the coun-
    try. Further south, and adjoining the main-land of North Uist,
    is Orinsay, about half-a mile long, and insulated only at high water.
    Of this description there are several along the west and south-
    west coast of the parish. Four miles from this coast to the west-
    ward lies Vallay, likewise an island at high water, and separated
    from the shore by a spacious strand of nearly two miles, which is dry
    within two hours of high water, and at low neap-tides is not covered by
    the sea. It is two miles long, and about a quarter of a mile broad;
    nearly the whole of it sandy. It is beautiful in pasture, and fer-
    tile in crops when the summer is rainy, but produces very little of
    either when that season is dry. The next island is Husker, al-
    ready mentioned. The islands of Kirkebost and Illeray stretch
    along the west coast, both insulated only at high water. The latter is
    about four miles long; the former, or Kirkebost, is a mile long, but
    of no great breadth. This island was at one time of considerable
    value. It is composed of the fine sand already described, and being
    exposed to the western gales, a great part of it was literally blown
    away, and the sea now occupies fields which formerly produced fine
    crops of bear or barley. This destruction took place before a
    process now practised to obviate such a misfortune was known, to
    which we shall in the proper place advert.
       Along the south-west coast, the strand, dividing North Uist from


