
                         KETTLE.                           107                        107

these pendicles holding of the proprietors, and some of the larger
farmers. The occupiers of these pendicles not having sufficient
work, find employment for their spare time in drawing coals, lime,
or metals for the roads.
   Commons.--These have all been divided and subjected to the
plough, or planted with the various kinds of trees for which they
were considered to be best adapted. And they now, instead of
presenting to the eye a naked and barren landscape, enliven with
verdure our higher grounds. At Dovan, Milldeans, Burnturk
Common, Chapel, Forthar, and Lathrisk, there may be above 200
acres under plantations; but most of these are hid from passen-
gers on the great thoroughfare road, by the rising of the ground
which intervenes.
   Rent of Land.--The rent of land is from L.1, 10s. to L.2, 15s.
per acre on the low grounds; and from 13s. to L.1, 12s. on the higher.
   Wages.--The servants are generally, one man to each pair of
horses,--an orrow man, as he is called, for looking after tbe cattle
and for incidental work,--and two women; and their wages are, for
married men, from L.8 to L.10 in money, with a house and yard;
6 1/2 bolls oatmeal; 1 Scotch pint of sweet milk daily; their coals
driven; and about 24 falls of ground for potatoes. If any of them
have a cow, or the milk of a cow, they have from L.3 to L.4 less
of money. For unmarried men, from L.8, 10s. to L.10, 10s.
and their victuals in the house; or if they live in a bothie, or out-
house, they have 6 1/2 bolls oatmeal in the year, and 1 Scotch Pint
of sweet milk daily. The wages of women servants are from L.5
to L.6 a-year. Most of the greater farmers have cottagers, whom
they call out for hire when their work requires additional hands;
and they and others are supplied by any other hands they want,
from the villages. The wages of these day-labourers are, for men,
Is. 4d., to Is. 6d per day; for women, 8d., without victuals.
   Husbandry.--There is, as is said above, very little ground let for
pasture in the parish, except some parks at Beddies' Craigs, which,
when let for a season, cost from 12s. to 18s. per acre. The other pas-
ture is in the course of rotation, and is all eat by the farm stock.
Hence the stock in summer must always be measured by the provi-
sion for it, unless grass parks in the neighbourbood be taken for them,
which is often done for the rearing up young stock. But in au-
tumn, a great number of cattle is bought in to be fed on turnip
and potatoes during winter, and sold off to fleshers when fattened.
The usual rotation is, after well-dunged potatoes, to sow down


