
         		MOULIN.				663

Propagating Christian Knowledge.  The present incumbent is the
Rev.  William Grant.
   At Strathloch, in the Strathardle district of the parish, the mi-
nister officiates five or six times a- year. There is no church. * The
preaching is in the open air. The inhabitants of, that territorial
division of the parish are inconveniently situated in regard to the
means of religious instruction and pastoral superintendence. Ac-
cess to the church for 83 families, or 412 inhabitants, is impeded
by a hill of from three to four miles in length.  The nearest resi-
dence is five miles from the parish church, and. the eastern ex-
tremity of the Stratbardle district is about two miles; from. the
church of Kirkmichael.
   The Church is generally well attended, and, notwithstanding the
section of the parish, containing 269 souls, attached to the recent
erection of the Tenandry, there are still freat complaints of the want
of comfortable family accommodation.  The sacrament, of our
Lord's Supper is generally dispensed on the third Sabbath of June.
The average number of communicants is 600, and of these, 200
are entitled to exercise the "veto" in the settlement of a minister,
according to the roll adjusted in November 1838.
   There are only seven Dissenting families in the parish; three of
these are Episcopalians, connected with the excise, who have late-
ly come to reside within the bounds; of the other four families, three
are of the Baptist, and one of the Independent persuasion.  There are
also a few single persons.  The whole number of Dissenters, reckon-
ing the children of Dissenting families as such, is 58: of these, 22
are Episcopalians.  Their places of worship are in the adjoining
parishes. It may here be remarked, that the children of some
the members of the Dissenting body  are connecting, themselves
with the Established Church. Within a few years, the writer of
this Account baptized two adults, one of whom was a marridd man
whose parents were Baptists. There,seems to be no disposition
On the part of the secede from the Established Church.
On the contrary, they are deeply and ardently, attached to the
church of fathers.
   Ministers of Moulin.-William Balneaves, was minister
of Moulin in 1643; died in M`rch 1705. James Stewart was trans-
lated from the parish of Scone, 1st October 1707. Adam Fer-

<FOOTNOTE>A subcription, amounting to L. 130. been lately raised in the parish for
the purpose of building a church at Strathloch, and it is hoped that, ere long, with
aid from the General Assemly's Church Extention Committe, we may be able to
effect so desirable an object.


