
448                     ABERDEENSHIRE.

cestor, and, by adding two large wings of a corresponding charac-
ter, has contrived to give to the whole a very imposing effect.  We
have already noticed the mansion of the Honourable the Master
of Forbes, proprietor of the lands of Brux and others, which is
likewise situated in this parish.  It stands near the river Don,
and is completely surrounded with his thriving plantations.  Cal-
lievar rises in solemn majesty before it on the south, and Lord
Arthur's cairn raises its head immediately behind it on the north.
The public road which introduces you through this mountainous
pass from the higher country to the vale of Alford winds by the
banks of the river, and the mansion, both in its character and lo-
cality, corresponds well with the other romantic beauties of this
short drive.
   Parochial Registers.-The session are in possession of a regis-
ter belonging to Forbes.  Its earliest date is 1729, and the latest
1752.  Another of the same parish is in the bands of the minis-
ter of Auchindoir, which, it is believed, relates to the period from
1752 to 1808, when Forbes was annexed to this parish, and
Keam to Auchindoir.  The register of Tullynessle commences
in 1760, and comprehends Forbes since the date of the junction.
It appears to have been tolerably kept.
   Eminent Men.-The Rev. Walter Syme.  Of this gentleman, in
as far as his own character and talents are concerned, it is sufficient
to say that both were good; but it is not perhaps generally known
that the present Ex-Chancellor, Lord Brougham, is a near de-
scendant of his.  His Lordship's history will obtain a conspicuous
place in the annals of his day.  Whatever may be the general
verdict awarded him by posterity, the meed of unrivalled ora-
torial powers will, without doubt, be unanimously conceded ; and
it is with a feeling somewhat akin to pride, that the writer gives
the following account of his Lordship's relation to a predecessor in
the manse of Tullynessle.  The eldest son of the Rev. Walter
Syme, now mentioned, named James, was a short time minister
of Alloa, and married a daughter of Principal Robertson of Edin-
burgh.  The only daughter of Mr James Syme, named Eleanora
Syme * (still aiive), was married to Henrv Brougham, Esq. of
Brougham Hall, Westmoreland, and is the venerable mother of
the present Lord Brougham and Vaux.
   Maps.-There is a recent map of the county, which was exe-
cuted by a Mr Robertson, at the request of the county gentlemen.

<FOOTNOTE>The lady is Since dead.
                                3


