
8                    LINLITHGOWSHIRE.

not favourable to the morality of the town. The use of ardent
spirits is greatly increased, and the influx of carters, not generally
of the most exemplary character, casts an influence round the her-
ring season which is most injurious to sound morals. Since the
year 1831, the fishery of herrings has been very irregular. Occa-
sionally, some good seasons have occurred; but, in general, they
have been very unproductive. For three or four years, in the
herring-season, immense shoals of garvies, mixed with young her-
rings, have appeared off the town and adjoining bays. They are
an excellent article of food, and have amply rewarded the exer-
tions of the fishermen, when in demand; but the Board of Fishery
has often interfered, tinder the idea that the use of the trawl net,
with small meshes, is injurious to the herring fishery. It is much
to be wished that this matter were settled, so as to allow the fish-
ermen to pursue their avocations. They must destroy many young
herrings, but they are a mere fraction to the my ride of garvies
that fill the water.
   A number of females are very profitably occupied in, the summer
months in spinning hemp for nets, which the younger members of
the family (boys and girls) work tip with great neatness, and ex-
pedition. A net when finished is worth about L. 3, though an in-
genious individual, Mr Paterson, once resident here, but now re-
moved to his manufactory in Musselburgh, is able to furnish them
at L. 2, 10s., by the aid of machinery, which he has brought to
an astonishing degree of perfection. In the summer months a few
boats of larger size, from the end of July to the beginning of Sep-
tember, are employed in the northern or western fishery, each
boat engaging with the cures, to furnish about 200 or 250 bar-
rels, for which they receive 7s. or 8s., and sometimes a higher sum.
But they are not always able to complete their quantity. A few of
the young men also, from time to time went to the Greenland whale-
fishery, though misfortune and want of success in recent years have
rather deterred them from engaging in this hazardous voyage, and
they generally engage in the coasting trade, or proceed in vessels
engaged in the North American wood trade.
   The manufacture of soap was formerly carried on with great
skilt, and on a great scale, in this town. There were four works
employing about thirty or forty men, and paying an excise duty of
L.8000 or L.10,000 per annum. But the fluctuations of trade have
been experienced here, as well as in other quarters, and for the last
seven years there has been only one small manufactory employing


