
                          HUMBIE.                                105

   Except in the extremities of the parish, which are near some neigh-
bouring school, there are no individuals in the parish residing at an
inconvenient distance from one or other of the above schools. In
such circumstances, there is not one of the young capable of re-
ceiving instruction that cannot read; and generally they are taught
to write and count with a conriderable degree of readiness and ac-
curacy. Some are taught gratis, or paid for from the poor funds.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The poor funds arise from assess-
ments, collections, and interest, &c. The lying money amounts
to L. 360 Sterling. The yearly amount of church collections is
small,-the non-residence of the heritors, and the practice of legal
assessment being unfavourable to that kind of charity. The
amount of assessment is from L. 60 to L. 100 per annum; but on
any pressing occasions, it is considerably more. The present num-
ber of paupers on the roll is 18, and the allowance given them va-
ries from 6s. to 10s. each monthly,-besides occasional aid given
to industrious families in distress. As might,expected from the
rural simplicity and distance of the people from scenes of dissipa-
tion, (there being only one alehouse in the parish,)-they are sober
and industrious, but perhaps less provident than in former times,
and therefore soon brought to poverty when age or distress comes
upon them. When thus pressed, they shew little reluctance to
apply for parochial relief.

                MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   Forty years ago, the real rental of the parish was L. 2700. It is
now upwards of L. 6300. The increase of produce with that of
prices, also, till of late years, has been nearly proportional. But this
great increase of product is not owing so much to more land being in
tillage as to the superior and more expensive mode of cultivation.
Since the above period, the number of cattle and sheep fattened
for the market has been more than doubled. These are not en-
tirely fed on farm produce, but partly on draff, dreg, and oil-cake.
But the present aspect of things is too likely to give a check to
every expensive improvement.

   September 1835.




