
                                  CALLANDER.                      357

                                 IV.-INDUSTRY.

         Agriculture.-The pasturage of this parish is adapted for the
      rearing of black cattle and sheep.  The attention of the tenants is
      therefore turned to this object, and many of them cultivate no more
      of their low grounds than what will serve to raise meal and pota-
      toes, for the consumption of the family.  There are, however, farms
      in the parish which are entirely arable, and these are in general
      well managed.  A regular rotation in cropping is attended to, and
      green crops are becoming common. The farmer finds the advantage
      of this, not only as the means of pulverizing and ameliorating the
      soil, but as of essential benefit in rearing young stock, which en-
      ables him to pay his rent when the price of grain is low as at pre-
      sent.  A considerable quantity of waste land has been improved
      and brought into cultivation within the last twenty years, and the
      draining of wet and spouty land has rapidly increased, in some in-
      stances at the expense of the landlord, and in others at that of the
      tenant himself.
       Leases.-The general duration of the leases of arable farms
      is from thirteen to nineteen years; and of sheep farms, from nine
      to thirteen.  The style of farm-houses has been much improved of
      late; many of them are comfortable and covered with slate.  Were
      the farms more subdivided with sufficient enclosures, the industri-
      ous tenant would be more encouraged in going on with his im-
      provements.  Oats are sown about the 22d of March.  Potatoes
      planted about the end of April.  Barley and turnips are sown in
      the middle of May.  Very little flax is now raised in this parish.
      The kinds of oats sown are the Flemish, the Cupar-grange, the
      Hopetoun and the Blainslie.  The straw of the Cupar-grange is
      reckoned the best for feeding cattle, but the others are earlier and
      more productive, particularly the Flemish.  The smooth barley is
      preferred to the rough bearded sort, and fetches a better price in
      the market. The barley sells at 19s. 3d. per imperial boll; the
      oats and oat meal at 14s. 6d. the boll of 140 lbs. avoirdupois im-
      perial weight.
         The valued rent of the parish is L. 3278, 10s.

                       V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
       Means of Communication.-The village of Callander has its ad-
      vantages.  There is here a daily post; a coach that runs to and
      returns from, Stirling every lawful day in summer, and twice a-week
      in winter.  Post-chaises and cars are to be had for hire, and there
      are regular carriers to Edinburgh, Stirling, and Glasgow.


