
                                    DULL.                  777

 The church is a long building, with a small belfry, and has a gal-
 lery at each end. The date of its erection is unknown. In 1840,
 it was completely gutted, and thoroughly floored and reseated, so
 that it is now, in a manner, comparatively comfortable. The area
 of the church is divided among the heritors in proportion to their
 respective valuations. It accommodates about 600 persons, and
 no seat-rents are exacted.
   A new and commodious manse, with a suitable range of offices,
 were this year built for the minister by the heritors, at an ex-
 pense of about L.940.
   Previous to the Reformation, the lands and immunities attached
 to the living of Dull were far superior to what they now are. It
 would appear that the then Popish vicar, a David Guthrie, wished
 to alienate, as was usual in the immediate prospect of the Refor-
 mation, the whole lands of his benefice, with the exception of what
 he considered a suffhcient establishment for a minister of the pa-
 rish. Accordingly, in the year 1561, he granted a feu-right to
 George Johnston alias M'Gregor, and Janet Burgh, his spouse,
 and longest liver of them two, in liferent, and to the said George's
 heirs and assignees in fee, of all and singular the half of the kirk-
 lands of Dull, viz. " Omnes et singulas dimidietas terrarum ec-
 clesiasticar. de Dull, viz. totas et integras terras de Croftclachan,
 Drumdewan, Kynell, cum integro molendino de Dull, cum suis
 multuris et privilegiis totar. et integrar. terrar. Ecclesiasticar. de
 Dull solit. et consuet.  Necnon dimidietatem totius montis de
 Craigdull, dimidietatem terrarum de Achtavye, decimis garbalibus
 omn. praefat. terrar. inclusis, cum suis pertinen. jacen. in Regali-
 tate St Andrew et infra Vicecomitatu de Perth, excepto manso
 nostro, cum hortis et toftis eid. adjacen. cum illis duobus domi-
 bus vocat. Market-stance et lie Clerk's house, cum libera p-tate
 pascendi, seu libera pastura, ad sex summas animatium, cum ani.
 malibus dict. Georgii et Jacobi hearedumque suor. respective in
 terris praefatis. Cum cespitibus, viz. lie pettis, feal, et divotts in
 terris praedictis pro reparatione domor. et edificiorum praefat.
 prout in n-ro desup. co-fecto latius co-tinetur." Of the same
 date with the feu-right of the first half, the said David Guthrie,
 vicar of Dull, with the consent of the commendator of the priory
 of St Andrews, granted another feu-right to Alexander Stewart,
 brother to Grandtully, and his spouse, of the other half of the
 said kirk-lands of Dull, viz. " Omnes et singulas dimidietates terra-
 rum nostrum ecclesiasticar dict. nostrae parochiae de Dull, viz. to-


