
20                     PERTHSHIRE.

accompany tbunder stormr in July; and the latter to the uniform-
ly cloudy weatber which generally prevails in November. The
mean annual quantity derived from the above table is 30.89 in-
ches; but if it be deduced from a period of sixteen years, it is only
25.948 inches, which is probably nearer the annual average. The
minimum quantity, belonging to the period of sixteen years, was
15.59 inches, being the quantity in 1814; and the maximum,
31.01 inches, which fell in 1817.
   The greatest quantity of rain observed to have fallen at Perth,
in a short period of time, was on the 7th of October 1823, when
2\bT\p1 inches fell in fifteen hours.
   The driest months of the year are March and April, and the
wettest July and August. The cold north-easterly winds which ge-
nerally prevail in the two former months, come to this country from
the northern regions of Europe, charged with humidity at a low
point of deposition; whereas, in the two latter months, the tempera-
ture of the season having attained its maximum state, the absolute
humidity of the air is increased in a corresponding degree. Hence
the reason of the great dryness of the air in March and April, and
of its opposite condition in July and August.
   The results obtained by a rain-guage at the top of a round tower
on the summit of a detached conical hill belonging to Lord Gray,
which is 612 feet above the level of the sea, and about 3 miles to
the eastward of Perth, considerably exceed the quantity of rain
collected in guages placed on the plain at the bottom of the hill,
and about half a mile to the south-west of it. Thus, for a period
nf six years, viz. from the beginning of 1814 to the end of 1819,
the mean quantity of rain collected in a guage placed in the centre
of the garden of Kinfauns Castle, was 26.15 inches; whereas that
which was received in a guage at the top of the tower, amounted
to 34.965 inches.  In 1816, wbicb-was a remarkably rainy season,
especially during the harvest months, the former gave 24.95 inches,
one-half of which fell in July, August, September, and October;
and the latter no less than 52.43 inches. This singular result
receives a satisfactory explanation from the circumstance, that the
prevailing wind of the district being from the south-west, and
there being no hill of equal altitude for many miles in that direc-
tion, the air, when transported to the summit of the hill, is consi-
derably reduced in temperature, and being previously charged
with humidity, to a degree corresponding with the temperature of
the plains over which it has been wafted, it is frequently cooled
down below the point of deposition, and thus deprived of a portion


