
                   CUPAR.                            5

ducting some assault upon this fortress. Now, however, there re-
main no vestiges of the fortress. The hill has long been held as
the property of the town, and occupied as the site of the schools
and academy. In the times of Sir David Lindsay of the Mountil it
is said to have been used as the play-field for the exhibition and the
acting of his dramatic pieces. The name of Castle-hill has mow pas-
sed into the more peaceful name of School-hill, and the plays ex-
hibited daily, are those of youths when just " let loose from school."
    Under this hill, on the south, stood a convent of Dominican or
Blackfriars. belonging originally to the Island of May, and after-
wards transferred to St Andrews, which, like its more warlike neigh-
bour, has now been completely removed. That part of the chapel
".built of cut freestone," which at the writing of the last Account
is said to have been standing, has been taken away to make room
for a very handsome street. Near or on the very site of the cha-
pel of the convent, stands now the Episcopal chapel, St James's,
which is a very handsome building, meant to form part of the street
when completed. And lately, when the grounds of the convent were
trenched, to answer the purposes of a kitchen-garden, many re-
ceptacles of the dead were disturbed, and their skeletons dug up.
    Another striking remembrancer of the olden times is a small co-
nical eminence on the opposite side of the Eden, and lying a little
further down the river than the School-hill. This, which, at the
time of the last Account, was under cultivation, is now covered
with a young thriving plantation belonging to the Proprietor of
Tarvit. It was the site of the church of the parish of St Michael,
and formed the burying-ground of that parish. A few years ago,
when an alteration was making upon the public roads, many of the
depositories of the dead were broken open, and the remains of their
inmates brought to view after a repose of at least two centuries.
This receptacle of the dead has thus been again converted into
common earth. In the same manner, has the burial-grouind of the
parish of Cupar, which lay at a remoter period at a distance of fully
a mile to the north-west of the town, and of the present burial-
ground, where the church also stood been converted again into
common earth, and scarcely does a vestige remain to shew where
it was. At the time of the last Account, it formed part of what was
called the grebe of the first minister of the parish. An excambion
has since been made to accommodate the proprietor of Sprin field,
in whose policy it lies. With the exception of its being a little
more elevated than the surrounding field. nothing remains to tell



