
                	 PARISH OF DREGHORN.

		 PRESBYTERY OF IRVINE, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.

	     THE REV. JOHN CAMPBELL JAMIESON, MINISTER.

                   I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	Name, Extent, Boundaries.--THE parish of Dreghorn, in Cun-
ninghame, extends in a narrow stripe from the Water of Irvine
on the south, where it joins Dundonald, to the parish of Fenwick,
on the north-east; and is bounded on the east by the Gawreer
Burn, which divides it from Kilmaurs, and by the Annock Water
on the west, that separates it from the parishes of Irvine and
Stewarton. Its extent is nearly 8 miles from south-west to north-
east, and from three-quarters of a mile to two miles in breadth. Its
surface amounts to 4477 acres, of which, by a calculation made in
1820, there were in tillage, 1490 acres; cultivated grass land, 2774
acres; woods and gardens, 122 acres; and roads, 61 acres.
	This parish, which is a dead flat towards the sea, from which it
is only two miles distant and, not much in that quarter above its
level, rises in gently undulating hills towards, the east and north-
east; and is throughout of very considerable beauty, particularly
the section of it that runs along the Annock Water. It is well en-
closed and planted. The soil in the south-eastern district of it is
a deep rich loam, yielding remarkably good crops. Towardr the
north-east, it is nearly of the same character, and also productive.
To the south-west, the land varies in nature and quality, running
in patches from loam to gravel. The coal formation is exhibited
here as in the neighbouring parishes; but there is nothing remark-
able in Dreghorn in a geological point of view.
                        II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	The whole of the parish was formerly the property of the De
Morvilles, who were constables of Scotland and Lords of Cunning-
hame, the first of whom seems to have settled in this country as
early as the time of Alexander I., and to have had very extensive
possessions in it. The property of this family passed by the heiress
of William de Morville to Ronald, Lord of Galloway, whose son


