
     Statistical Account

the middle it is black loam; and hard on the shore, the
ground is light and sandy.  The whole has been much im-
proved of late, and it produces excellent crops of wheat, oats,
barley, pease, rye-grass, turnip, potatoes, etc.  About 27
years ago, the magistrates planted 110 acres of muir with
Scotch firs, which are thriving very well, and in a short time
will bring a considerable addition to the revenue of the town.
-The coast is flat and rocky, and, from the rocks, sea-weed
is cut every third year, for the purpose of making kelp.  The
quantity made is very inconsiderable, and the emolument
thence arising to the town not worth the mentioning.

<FOOTNOTE>

     +At Sea, May 24 th.\c-
   "Gentlemen, See whether you will come to some terms with
"me, or I come in presently with my cutter into the arbour,
"and I will cast down the town all over.  Make haste, because
"I have no time to spare.  I give you a quarter of an hour for
"your decision, and after I'll make my duty.  I think it would
"be better for you, Gentlemen, to come some you aboard pre-
"sently, to settle the affairs of your town.  You'll sure no to
"be hurt.  I give you my parole of honor.  I am your," &c.
   To this letter the magistrates sent a verbal message to Fall,
that they would be glad to see him on shore, and hoisted a flag
of defiance on the Ballast Hill.  Finding his threats to be in
vain, after firing some few ineffectual shot, he weighed anchor,
and failed in pursuit of some sloops which came into the offing,
which he captured, but did not return.
   To prevent all insults of this kind, from so mean an enemy,
for the future, a battery was proposed to be built.  A subscrip-
tion was opened for this purpose, which was soon filled up.
Government was applied to, and Captain Andrew Fraser was
sent down to plan the work, which was quickly finished.  The
battery, mounting 6 12 pounders, is built somewhat in the form
of a half-moon, of stone and lime, and faced with large banks
of rods The platform is paved with stone, and below it there
are vaults bomb proof, for keeping powder and shot, with other
necessaries.  It is built on the Ballast Hill, between the harbour
and the sea, and has a compleat command of the Bay, so that
now no Fall, with his Fearnought, dare insult Arbroath with
impunity.


