                        ROBERTON.                              89

  The water of Borthwick flows from the range of hills on the
west of parish.  Its direction is eastward, its course rapid, and
length about thirteen miles.  It falls into the river Teviot about
two miles west of Hawick.
  Geology and Mineralogy--The prevalent rocks are of the grey-
wacke series.  A seam of very excellent ironstone crosses the parish.
The alluvial deposits covering these rocks are generally gravel,
sand, clay, marl, and peat.  There are many mosses in the parish,
in some of which are found excellent shell-marl and peat.  De-
cayed trees are often found imbedded in these mosses, as also
horns of the deer species and of other animals, which, from the
size of the bones, seem to have been of a species distinct from any
of those of the present day.
  The soil in the vale of Borthwick is of good quality.  Upon the
ascents on each side of the water it becomes thinner, gravelly, and
dry.  Towareds the summits of the hills, it is wet and boddy--es-
pecialy in the western part of the parish.
  Zoology--In most of the lakes are found abundance of perch,
pike, and eel, and where the pike is not found, there is abundance
of excellent trout.  During the spawning season, great quantities
of sea trout, grilse, or young salmon come up the Borthwick and
Ale.  The spawning season in the Tweed is perhaps more early
than than that of its tributary streams; but this may be owing to the
shallowness of the latter.  It is during the autumnal floods that
the greatest quantities of fish come up.  They commence their
run upwards about the end of October, and continue coming and
going with the floods during the winter season; and some lingering
ones are caught so late as April; but these are in a very exhausted
state, and not good for food.
  A certain grub has of late years done considerable damage both
to crops and pasture in this neighbourhood.  As an instance, it
may be noticed that about ten acres of pasture were destroyed by it
upon the farm of Todshawhaugh.  This pasture first lost its verdure,
and then became quite brown.  On pulling up a handful of the wither-
ed grass or moss, a number of these insects were seem.  Thex vere
of a dirty whitish-colour, of the shape of the common caterpillar,
but rather thicker and shorter.  The crows at alast discovered them,
and made great havoc amongst them,--literally pulling up every
stem of grass, in order to reach them.  Latterly the appearance
of the ground was almost that of ploughed land covered with
withered grass.



