
                      CAMBUSNETHAN.                         609

ter water, which rises near Bontyhillock in Carluke, after form-
ing the boundary between that parish and Cambusnethan for up-
wards of a mile, pursues a serpentine course through the parish
for about three miles, and falls into the South Calder at Bridgend;
and Garrion Burn, which separates this from Carluke parish, after
running for three miles through a most romantic gill, often pre-
cipitous, shaded with wood, and adorned with orchards, empties
itself into the Clyde above Dalserf.
	Topographical Appearances.--The grounds on the banks of the
Clyde are low and level, expanding into a series of beautiful and
fertile haughs. From the eastern border of these haughs, the
country rises to a considerable elevation; the face of the acclivity
being generally adorned with orchards. The distance from the
river to the summits of these acclivities is nearly a mile. From
them there is a general rise, till the parish merges into the Lo-
thians. The elevation of the haughs on the Clyde is not more
than 120 feet. The high ground which skirts them on the east
may be about 250 feet in elevation; while, some of the higher lands
in the east end of the parish attain the altitude of at least 900 feet.
The climate is much the same as in the neighbouring parishes.
At the confluence of a small stream near Badallan with Breich
Water, the parishes of Cambusnethan, Whitburn, and West Cal-
der, and the counties of Lanark, Linlithgow, and Lothian meet.
	There is an artificial knoll at the north-west corner of this pa-
rish, close to the river Calder, below Wishaw House, where it is
said the four parishes of Cambusnethan, Dalzell, Bothwell, and
Shotts unite.
	About twelve years ago, a new road was formed from Edinburgh
to Ayr, which reaches this parish at Breich Water, and comes
down through the centre of it, nearly eleven miles, to Garrion-
bridge, which was thrown over the Clyde in 1818.
	The eastern, which is the highest part of the parish, has a very-
extensive view. From Knownowton you see the Castle of Edin-
burgh, Tinto, Loudon-hill, Dumbarton Castle, and the hills of
Argyleshire: and to no evening scene have I ever been attracted
with greater rapture, than to observe the summer sun setting be-
hind the serrated cliffs of Arran, or throwing a blaze of parting
radiance around the lofty Benlomond. From the church of Cam-
busnethan you can see fifteen country churches, besides those of
Glasgow. *

<FOOTNOTE>In Acta Parliamentorum Gulielmi, 1695, there is an "act in favour of Sir


