
                     ON THE COUNTY OF LANARK.                   959

great scale, for the spinning of cotton thread; but the most ex-
tensive establishment of this kind in the county is that of New
Lanark, founded by Mr David Dale, for many years under the su-
perintendence of the noted Robert Owen, and now belonging to
the firm of Walker and Company.  Upwards of 1100 persons are
employed in the establishment; and the neatness of the buildings
for both the mills and dwellings,--the beauty of their situation amid
the most interesting scenery of the Clyde,--the cleanliness and or-
der with which they are kept,--and the judicious regulations for the
comfort and moral decency of the operatives,--render it one of the
most interesting factories that are anywhere to be found.  The Blan-
tyre Spinning Mills, originally founded likewise by Mr Dale, em-
ploys 458 persons, and are also under very judicious management.
They are the property of Messrs Henry Monteath and Company.
   Means of Communication.--In a county of such commercial im-
portance, the means of communication are of course particularly at-
tended to.  Its roads in every direction are of the best description.
The great English road by Carlisle, in particular, planned by Mr
Telford, is one of the best in the kingdom.  A new line of road from
Edinburgh to Ayr, and traversing this county from Cambusnethan to
Strathavon, was opened some years ago.  The old road by Carnwath
and Douglas is likewise well kept.  New lines of road have, within the
last few years, been opened to Dumfries from Glasgow by Lanark and
Chesterhall, and from Edinburgh by Biggar and Chesterhall; and
in general, throughout the county, there is abundant facility of com-
munication by excellent roads.  New bridges, too, have been re-
cently thrown across the Clyde, of which, besides the GLAGOW
BRIDGE, we may particularly mention two handsome bridges at
Cessford and Milton-Lockhart,--the latter built at the sole ex-
pense of the spirited proprietor of that estate.  It has been for
some time in contemplation to have a railway between Glasgow
and Carlisle.  Eminent engineers have been employed to survey
the intervening country, with the view of determining the most
eligible line; but so many circumstances are to be taken into ac-
count that it is difficult to come to a decision.


