
96                      HADDINGTONSHIRE.

light gravelly soil, exceedingly well adapted for the culture of turnips
and potatoes; both of which are here raised to a great extent. A
great part of the soil in these parishes is either of this description,
or of a deep rich clay.
                      II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Laud-owners.-The chief land-owners of the parish are, the
Marquis of Tweeddale. Robert Hay, Esq. of Linpburn; Earl of
Wemyss; Miss Hay of Nunraw; Mr Douglas of GarvaId; and
Captain Hay of Hopes.
   Parochial Registers.-The Parochial registers are regularly kept.
The earliest d4te of the births and baptisms is 1694. The ses-
sional records commence in 1721.
   Antiquities.-Adjoining the Lammermoor hills, are situated the
ruins of Whitecastle, in the eastern boundary of the parish. ln
early times, this fortification was of considerable importance, as it
guarded a pass from the Merse and from England.-About a mile
to the north on the farm of Garvald, there is a large fortification
or encampment, situated on a rising ground; it is of a circular form,
and is in circumference about 1500 feet in extent.-A little to the
westward, on the farm of Carfrae, there was an encampment near-
ly of the same form and dimensions. Several years ago, the stones
of the encampment were dug up to enclose the farm. One of the
workmen, in digging up these stones, found the brass handle of a
sword, which probably had been concealed there for several cen-
turies.-About two miles to the west, on the farm of Newlands,
there are two large tumuli thrown up in the middle of a plain,
called by the country people the Black castle and Green castle.
The late Marquis of Tweeddale, many years ago, planted the
spot on which hey stood, with Scotch firs and some gray wood.
To the west of these tumuli, there are two other encampments,
-one on the farm of Park, and the other on the estate of Hopes.
   Mansion Houses.-There are only two mansion houses in the
parish, Nunraw and Hopes. The house of Nunraw, some centu-
ries ago, was a nunnery belonging to the priory of Haddington,
and though modernized, still exhibits evident marks of great an-
tiquity. An elegant house has lately been built at Hopes, by the
present proprietor, and is pleasantly situated very near the bot-
tom of a glen, and to the westward of one of the Lammermoor
hills, on which there is an extensive and flourishing plantation of
various sort of trees. This plantation and several others upon
the estate were raised by the late Charles Hay of Hopes, Esq.
                               3


