
116                  CLACKMANNANSHIRE.

from Perth to Glasgow by Dollar; but has been given up for
want of encouragement. There is a wooden bridge over the De-
von at the Rack-mill; but in a very ruinous state, and often im-
passable, which proves a great inconvenience to parishioners who
live on the south side of the Devon, in going to church, and also
to children going to school.
   Ecclesiastical State.-- The parish church is situated about a tenth
of a mile or less from the eastern boundary of the parish, but is
very convenient for tbe great body of the population, who reside
chiefly in the old and new villages of Dollar, which are in the im-
mediate neighbourbood of the church. The old church was built
in 1775. A new church is building at present, (1841.) The
most important benefaction to the parish is Macnab's legacy,
which has been fully noticed already. There are, besides, a few
small donations to the poor, amounting to L. 319, and the interest
of L. 31, left for the behoof of the schoolmaster.
   The old church afforded accommodation to about 300 sitters;
the new church will accommodate above 600. There are no free
sittings. The whole seats, with the exception of the minister's,
schoolmaster's, and elders' seats, are divided among the heritors
and feuars. The kirk-session have, for several years, been in the
habit of letting the communion table seats at a small annual rent,
for the benefit of the poor, but of late it has amounted to almost
nothing. The manse was built in 1795. It was repaired and a
considerable addition made to it in 1817, and new offices were built
in 1820. The glebe consists of four acres of good land. The stipend
is in general below L. 150. The augmentation from the Exchequer
amounts to L. 23, 6s. 8d. There is a Dissenting chapel connect-
ed with the Associate Synod of Original Seceders. The minister's
stipend is paid from seat-rents, and collections at the door of the
chapel. The stipend promised is L. 90, but he has no bond for
security of payment. There are no Episcopal or Catholic
chapels in the parish. Several Episcopalians reside in the parish,
and attend public worship regularly in the Established Church, ex-
cept on the great festivals of their own church, when they gene-
rally go to Alloa, where a new Episcopal chapel has been lately
erected. There are 262 families, who attend the Established
Church, and 1306 persons of all ages, connected with the Esta-
blisbed Church.  Thirty-one families, consisting of 140 individuals,
attend the meeting-house in the parish.  Six families, consisting
of 25 individuals, attend the meeting house in Muckhart. Two
families of 10 persons go to Tillicoultry meeting-house. There
are, besides, one family of four who profess to be  Methodists: one


