
     Statistical Account

of the small water of Ythan, there is a great deal of rising
ground, covered with short heath, little capable of improve-
ment; yet there are some fine extensive farms on that side,
well improved, except the moor ground.  On the other side
of said rivulet, a beautiful prospect presents itself to every
stranger.  The farms large and close, in general in high cul-
tivation.  Little more than 20 years ago, the greatest number
of these fine and extensive farms were in the same neglected
state with many others in the country.  The leases were ge-
nerally for 19 years.  On one estate mostly liferents.  By
the first, the farmer tried to improve his ground for 9 or 10
years, and the remainder of his lease, he scourged and over-
cropped it, by which he both injured himself and the posses-
sion.  By the second, or liferent leases, the judicious farmer
saw he might ruin himself, by launching out too far in im-
proving his farm, and might be cut off by death before he
drew in any return for the expenses he had been at, and leave
his family destitute.  Therefore, to remedy these evils, seve-
ral of them applied to the proprietors to have their leases
lengthened out to a longer period.  This several of the most
improving tenants obtained, and got new leases for their own
lifetime, 19 years after that, and a lifetime to one of their
sons, upon paying a grassum or fine, or a moderate rise of
rent at the commencement of each of these periods.  This en-
couraged the spirited and enterprising tenant, which has had
a most happy effect.  The exertions they now make are very
great.  English shell lime is now brought from Banff or
M'Duff, at the distance of 18 or 20 miles in large quanti-
ties.  Instances are not wanting here of farmers carrying
400, 500, and even from 1000 to 1200 bolls to lay on their
possessions in the course of one year, which will soon amply
compensate them for this great expense.  It has answered
another valuable purpose, viz, setting such an example be-


