
                386                        ARGYLESHIRE.

                not  be dispensed with ; hence, early marriages became general,
                and  rapidly increased the population. But, fortunately for the
                rporals of the lower orders of the community, the evil has in a
                great measure been remedied, and smuggling almost suppressed,
                by the vigilant exertions of excise officers, aided in the discharge
                of their duty by crews of revenue cutters.
                   Character of the People, &c.-The natives of the parish are, in
                general, a tall, raw-boned, plodding, persevering, and robust race.
                From constant exposure to a variable climate, rather sallow in
                complexion.    In their habits, they are sober, honest, and very in-
                dustrious ; liberal to the poor of the parish as well as itinerant
                beggars.   In cases of emergency, when a neighbour has been re-
                duced by untoward 'circumstances to a state of privation and po-
                verty, they have been often known to contribute, without any so-
                licitation, a sum of money for his relief.*
                  The farmers, with a few exceptions, enjoy, in a reasonable de-
                gree, the comforts and advantages of society.  They are, lli)on
                the whole, comfortably enough lodged, and well fed with whole-
                some and substantial food.  Within the last three years, a few
                have become discontented with their lot and circumstances.  They
                complain of high rents, and apparently with some reason.  At the
                same time, it is but an act of justice to the landlords to say
                that, the _majority of them are disposed to show their tenants every
                indulgence.   It may be said that servitude is nearly abolished.
                Thd residing tenant has the first offer of a lease for an equivalent
                rent, and it is seldom that a case of insolvency occurs.    if some
                farms have been set beyond their value, and the fact       cannotbe
                denied, the tenant himself is more to be blamed than the pro-
                prietor of the land.   When the lease of a farm expires, it is a
                common practice to offer a higher rent for a neighbour's farm
                than the produce of the land can afford to pay.  Little blame call
                he attached to a landlord for setting his lands to the best advan-
                tage, particularly when a substantial farmer, possessed of capital,
                comes forward with a higher offer of rent.  But, when the sea-
                sons are adverse, and markets low, tenants frequently complain Of
                oppression, because reductions of rent, which they have often ob-
                tained, are not permanent.
                 The most numerous class of the community are cottagers, or

                  Since the unfortunate. disruption in the church, a section of the people have be-
              dame discontented with their lot, and hostile to religious establishments.


