
                     OLD KILPATRICK.                       19

in the Dalmuir sand have in general lost all colour, and become
of a dull yellowish white, but otherwise, though brittle, the are
in a state of beautiful preservation. They appear to be all na-
tives of the British seas, with the exception of the F. lamellosus,
which has only been observed about the Straits of Magellan, and
Nautica glaucinoides, which is a crag fossil." And again," The
shells which have been assembled in this confined spot and bu-
ried in sand in this extraordinary manner, appear to have been
collected from very different situation. The Nucula minuta, and
the Velutina, inhabit deep water; the Buccina and the Astarte fre-
quent the sands about low water, in which the Mya truncata and
the Cardium edule bury themselves; while the Mytilus and the
Modiola attach themselves to rocks in deep water, and the Litto-
rina (and probably the Natica) frequent those rocks which are
alternately covered and laid bare by the ebbing and flowing of the
tide." And again, "It is remarkable, and is a circumstance which
adds to the extraordinary nature of this deposit, that the sand in
the immediate neighbourhood of the fossils is quite destitute of
any traces of shells. Few of the shells which it contains have
been previously found fossil, and therefore it appears probable,
that, if not considered as belonging to the recent period, it must
be referred to a very late tertiary era, at a time when all the low-
lands on the banks of the Clyde, at least as far up as Glasgow,
have been covered by an arm of the sea."
  Mineralogy.-The mineralogy, as well as the geology of this
parish, is full of interest. A great variety of zeolites have been
found. The different species are, Prehnite, Stilbite, Heulandite,
Thomsonite, Laumonite, Cross-stone, both single and crosse;
Analcime and Mesotype. Of these, beautiful specimens have been
collected. The Hunterian Museum has been enriched with a
splendid collection of these treasures of the rock, which were pre-
sented by Dr William Couper, Professor of Natural History in
Glasgow College. The Doctor continues to make an annual per-
ambulation of these bills with his geological pupils, as affording
the most interesting field of observation in the neigbbourbood of
Glasgow. There are two quarries of whinstone, which are wrought
for providing metal for the roads, out of which these different
species of minerals are still obtained from time to time. The one
is about half a mile behind the village of Old Kilpatrick, and the
other is on the side of the public road from Glasgow to Dumbar-
ton, about a quarter of a mile below Bowling Inn.


