
4                        LINLITHGOWSHIRE.

The length of the town does not extend to one quarter of a mile,
and its breadth to a few hundred yards. It forms one street,
bounded by one row of houses on the north, and on the south
several closes, as they are called, extend backwards. The shore
is flat and sandy, except on the east and west, where ledges of
rocks extend a considerable way into the sea. On the western
ridge the harbour is formed. The rude erection of an early time
has been replaced by a very substantial pier and harbour, built
under the directions of Mr Stevenson, civil engineer.
   Parochial Registers.-The parochial registers extend from 1635
to the present time. The first entry in the record of baptisms is
1635, and in that of marriages, 1635. They are not voluminous,
but have been regularly kept, though the register of baptisms ap-
pears, with a few exceptions, since the commencement of the seces-
sion, to contain only the names of those connected with the Esta-
blished Church. *

<FOOTNOTE>Extracts from the Session Records of Queensferry, by Elias Johnston, schoolmaster.
-"At Queinsferrie, August 13,1635.-The qlk day Mr David Lindsay, second bis-
chope of Edinburt, came yairfra to the above namit toun of Queinsferrie, for the
consecration of yr new erectit church yr, and for admitting of Mr Robert Gibbisone,
minister yrto, being the first man yt was presentit to yt place.  And after the said
Mr David his entrie in the toun, he went by the (sleip) way towardis the doore of
the kirk, qlk was then lockit, qre mett him, Rot Daulling and Rot Hill than
present baillies, accompanist wt the haill honnest men of the toun. The said Mr
David demanding the baillies and the rest of the companie yair, to what end they
had build that hous, wha replyit onlie to the glorie of God, and for his worshipe, and
in tockin yrof they did rendir him. This being dune, and doore maid oppine, the
said bischope did ascend the pulpit, and yair after prayer conceivit and salme sung,
he maid chois of his text forth of .................. Qlk endit          to the con-
secration of the church, and nixt to the admissione of the said Mr Robert. Sermon
being endit, two childrene war baptizit, ye on to Galbin Sympsone, namit Edward,
and uthr to Andro Hutton, namit George. After this the said bischope dischendit
to ane seat before the pulpit, qr he did demand furth of the bookis of ord (ination)
such and such questionis as concernit the admissioun of the said Mr Rot., to yt
divyne calling and replyis war maid be the said Mr Rot yrto.  Qlk finischit he
resavit imposition of hands, and last of all the sacrament of the Lord's supper was
celebrat. Qlk endit and a salme sung, the companies than yr convened for the for-
said wark, war dismist."
   "At Queinsferrie, August 23,1635.-The quhilk day coveinit Mr Robert Gibbisone,
minister at South Queinsferrie, accompaniet with the wholl honnest men of the said
burij, and than did nominat and choizit the personis following to be deaconis and
eldars wthn the said paroch, viz. &c. &c. Upon the same day it was appoyntit be uni-
forme cosent of the sessions that the chief place wthin the church should be apply it
or the barflies and counsillors. Also it was appoyntit that thair should be no seats
or dasks within the kirk, bot all pewis."
  " September 6, 1635. -The qlk day sessione being mett, it was ordaint that James
Dalling, eldar, should keip the kirk box, and Robert Dalling, wth David Wilsone,
should kelp the keyis for the first qrter. Upon the same day it was ordainit that
whatsoever personis war buikit for the performance of matrimonie, should
   wth sufficient canners that they should performe and accomplishe marriag wth-
in fourtie dayes, under the paine of fourty poundis. Upon the same day it was or-
danit that quhasoever should defyle the marriag bed before marriag should pay six
poundis Scottish moey, and that to be cosignit thair marriag. It was also or-
dainit that qtsomever personis should buik thamselfis to perform the band of matri-


