
                                 ARBROATH.                                    87

              As illustrative of the general character of the population, it is
           worthy of notice, that, considering the limited extent of means,
           subscriptions for any public or benevolent purpose, which of late
           have been frequent, have, in almost every instance, met with dis-
           tinguished success. In proof, also, of an improved tone of senti-
           ment, it may be observed, that the smuggling of gin from the con-
           tinent, which, thirty or forty years ago, was in such repute as to
           enable smugglers from the coast of Kent to aspire after matrimo-
           nial alliances with respectable families in the town, would now sub-
           ject the man who was known to engage in traffic of this kind to
           public scorn.
              One great source of demoralization in large towns has not yet
           found a place in Arbroath, viz. pawn-broking establishments ;--al-
           though we regret to be under the necessity of stating, that in some
           of the low public houses, articles of wearing apparel, and even bed-
           clothes, are taken as a pledge for payment of the liquor consumed.
              From the foregoing remarks it will be seen, that, as is the case
           in other communities of the same extent, there is a mixture of
           good and evil in the society of Arbroath ;--whilst some of the
           particulars here noticed may serve to indicate where and how the
           application of moral means may be used with a view to the cure of
           existing evils.

                                      IV.-INDUSTRY.
              Agriculture and Rural Economy.--The whole of the land in the
           parish is in a state of cultivation; and the only portion of it appa-
           rently which has never been under the plough, is a common of
           twenty-six acres, which is in pasture. The ordinary rotation of
           crops is, 1st, grass; 2d, oats; 3d, green crop, viz. potatods or tur-
           nip; and, 4th, barley. The rent of land is L. 6 per acre near to
           the town,--gradually diminishing as the distance is greater, till,
           at the farther extremity of the parish, it is only L. 1, 106. per acre.
           The average rent of land throughout the parish may be stated at
           L. 2. 10s. per acre. Farm-servants, viz. males, are hired per half-
           year at L. 5 or L. 6; and female labourers are hired, for the day,
           at from 6d. to Sd.
              Manufactures.--The principal manufactures carried on in Ar-
           broath are those of yarn spun from flax and tow,--canvas, brown and
           bleached linen, leather, cast-iron, bone-dust tallow-candles, &c.
              Exclusive of those in the suburbs, the number of mills in the


