
     Statistical Account

   This season, 1794, being remarkably favourable for kelp
burning, promises all abundant crop in Orkney, which may
equal, or perhaps exceed that of 1792.
   The quantities of kelp made, with the average prices at
the different periods above specified, are taken, in a great mea-
sure from the information given by the Orkney gentlemen
in the year 1766 to Mr M'Tavish, who was directed by the
Board of Trustees to procure information respecting that
and many other particulars*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*By the above slate it appears, that the heritors and parishioners of this
district, have drawn from kelp, since the manufacture of it was introduced
by James Fea of Whitehall, in the year 1722, no less a sum than 29,197 L.
10 s. during a period of 71 years; being 41 years purchase of the whole district
at the present gross rent.  Those of the other islands of Orkney have drawn
nine times as much money; that is, 262,777 L. 10 s., being 36 years purchase
of these islands, at the present gross rent; both sums amount to 291 976 L.
Sterling, which is more than 36 years purchase of all the islands of Orkney,
the gross rent of which is only about 8,000 L. Sterling annually.
   In these calculations, the profits and advantages accruing to the traders and
others in Orkney, by carrying this commodity to market, are not included.
When, however, it is considered, that the ships belonging to Orkney have been
almost the only carriers of it for many years past, the profits and other ad-
vantages derived from this branch of trade in these islands, must not only
have been great to them as individuals, but also of no small importance to
the nation at large, by extending its commerce, increasing its wealth, and
producing a nursery of excellent seamen.
   On this subject, the following remark, to many readers, will, it is presumed,
naturally occur:l That James Fea of Whitehall, of the island of Stronsay, in
Orkney, (that is the name and designation of the man, who introduced so
valuable a manufacture into his native country,) ought not only to be kept in
remembrance, but that some permanent testimony of gratitude, from these
who have reaped and still do reap such important advantages from his spirit-
ed exertions, ought to be devised, in honour to his memory, and for the
encouragement of aspiring genius in succeeding ages.  Premuims of this na-
ture, conferred by societies, by district, or by the public, honourable as they
unquestionably would be to the memory of those on whom they were con-
ferreds would certainly be no less creditable to those who bestowed them.


