
     The Statistical Account.

     The Proverb, the Allegory, the Fret and the Song.-No peo-
ple, however-rude, was ever destitute of some rules to in-
struct them in the transaction of business, the requisites of
economy, the interchange of civility, and the history of the
country.  To the illiterate of the preceding age, these rules
were communicated by the proverb, the allegory, the fret and
the song.  The proverb in every mouth, and seemingly flow-
ing from the blood of the Panchas in every vein, explained,
frequently in a coarse, but always in an expressive manner,
the laws of propriety and prudence.  The allegory shadowed
forth, by the entertainment to be prepared for certain per-
sonages, what stores were to be allotted for the various sea-
sons.  The fret, enforcing the duty to the neighbour and
friend, contained the code of vulgar good-breeding*.  Many
frets, like the institutions of Brama, cannot now be traced to
their origin; but the benevolent mind rejoices to perceive that
some of them strongly enforce the dictates of humanity+.
The song conveyed the outline of a flattering chronicle, and
enforced the dictates of patriotic virtue: while it illustrated
     T 2

<FOOTNOTE>

*It might throw light on the real state of the Chinese, if it should be in-
vestigated how far they resemble our fathers in their mode of instruction.
Similar institutions frequently distinguish mankind in similar states of society.
+It was most unhappy for a woman, after bringing forth a child, to offer a
visit, and for her neighbours to receive it, 'till she had been duly churched.
How strongly did this enforce gratitude to the Supreme Being for a safe deli-
very?-On the day when such a woman Way churched, every family, favoured
with a call, were bound to set meat and drink before her; and when they
omitted to do so, they and theirs were to be loaded with tier hunger.  What
was this but an obligation, on all who had it in their power, to do the needful
to prevent a feeble woman from fainting for want?-It disturbed the ghost
of the dead, and was fatal to the living, if a tear was allowed to fall on a
winding-sheet.  What was the intention of this, but to prevent the effects of a
wild or frantic sorrow?-If a cat was permitted to leap over a corpse, it
portended misfortune.  The meaning of this was to prevent that carnivorous
animal from coming near the body of the deceased, left, when the watchers
were asleep, it should endeavour to prey upon it.-etc. etc.


