
438                          PERTHSHIRE.

in summer, is .2s. and in winter, ls. 6d. If engaged for any
length of time, from 9s. to 10s. a week is a common rate.
Slate quarriers get higher wages, as their work exposes them
to risk.  A woman's wages for weeding and hoeing are 9d., in
some cases only 8d. A good ploughman capable of taking the
management of a pair of horses gets from L. 12 to L. 14 a-year,
with six bolls and a half of oat meal and a Scots pint of new milk
a-day.  When from home the greater part of the day with carts,

they have each sixpence additional. Women-servants get from
L. 5 to L. 7, with bed and board a-year. Reaping in harvest is
generally done by the threave; and 3d. are given for eats and
barley, and 4d. for wheat per threave, exclusive of binding and
stooking.  A wright gets from 2s. 6d. to 2r. per day, as does also
a mason.  A tailor when he goes out to work charges 1s. 3d. per
day with victuals.  A blacksmith gets L. 3 for keeping a team of
two horses in shoes, and for keeping the carts, ploughs, and harrows,
used by them in order. A cart costs from L. 7 to L. 10; an
iron plough,-no other sort used now,-from L. 3 to L. 4; a drill
harrow costs L. l, 10s. There are 140 ploughs in the parish.
   Live-Stock.-The draught horses are generally large and power-
ful, and a considerable number of them is bred in the parish.

<TABLE>
                 Number of draught horses,   -   400
                           milk cows,        -   750
                           young cattle,     -  1400
                           sheep,            -  4000
   The breed of cattle has been greatly improved of late years, by
being crossed with the Ayrshire and the short-horn breeds. Some
of the farmers have the pure Ayrshire; and some of them have
introduced a few of the Angus-shire with advantage. The black-
faced Scotch sheep is the only breed kept on the hills.  A small
number of the Leicester breed is kept by several of the farmers
on the lower grounds.
   Husbandry.-The most improved and skilful methods of hus-
bandry are practised throughout the parish. The five hand
shift is now generally in use, as it has been found by experience

a great improvement to have the land in the course of five-years,
two of them in grass, one for hay, and the other for pasture.
Wheat is raised in the lower districts of the parish, but oats and
barley are the most prevalent grain crops.  One-fifth part of the
farm is always under turnips and potatoes, and the application of
bone manure to the former is now much practised.  On the large
farms, the half of the turnip crop is eaten on the ground by sheep;


