
     of Luss.

the islands of Inchtavanach and Inchmurren, the Strone hill
near Luss, and the point of Farkin; but, in order to have
this last view in the greatest perfection, it is necessary to a-
scend considerably higher than the line of the road.  Loch-
lomond is about 24 English miles long, in some parts above
7 miles broad, and contains above 20,000 acres of water.  Its
depth south from Luss seldom exceeds 20 fathoms, or 120
feet.  North from that it is much greater.  Opposite to the
point of Farkin it is 66, and a little farther north 80 fa-
thoms.  For about a mile south from Tarbet it is, with little
difference, 80 fathoms; but about two miles north from it,
opposite to Alt-garv, it is 100 fathoms, which is probably the
greatest depth of the lake.  Beyond that its depth gradually
diminishes to its north end.  The north and deeper part of
Lochlomond is never covered with ice; but south from Luss,
in severe frosts, its surface has been so completely frozen, as
to render it safe for men, and even for horses and loaded
sleds, to go from each side to the different island.  It is re-
markable, however, that part of the narrow found between
the islands of Inchtavanach and Inchconagan, the average
depth of which no where exceeds two fathoms and half,
and where there is no perceptible current, yet was never
known to freeze, not even in the year 1740.  This, perhaps,
may be owing to some springs rising there, fed by the adja-
cent high grounds.  After great floods in winter, the sur-
face of Lochlomond has been known to rise about 6 feet
higher than it is after much drought in summer.  Its average
height above the level of the sea is 22 feet; but that it is
now considerably higher than it once was, and is therefore
gaining upon the ground, there is clear evidence.  Across the
channel of the river Falloch, at the north end of the lake,
there are stones fixed at regular distances, once evidently in-
tended for enabling passengers to step from one side to the

     VOL. XVII. I 1


