			KIRKBEAN.                           237

	The mussels on this coast are large and fine. Oysters have
never yet been got in abundance. Mussels and shrimps are the
only fish of this description which can be regarded as useful, in an
economical point of view. They are sometimes carried to Dum-
fries for sale, but generally consumed at home.
	Woods.--There is little, if any, natural wood here; but all com-
mon kinds seem to thrive well in the plantations. These, however
are neither so large nor numerous as either to shelter or beautify
the parish to the extent which could be desired. At Arbigland
there ire a gond many very large and fine silver firs, some of
them perhaps as much so as any in Scotland, though the largest
were destroyed in the great storm, 7th January 1839.
		      II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
	Eminent Men.--Admiral John Campbell was son of the Rev.
John Campbell, minister of this parish. He was born 1719.
and, while very young, sent to sea in a small coasting vessel,
where his services were so little appreciated, that be was only em-
ployed in the meanest offices. Afterwards, by distinguished bra-
very and skill, be rose to the highest honours of the navy, attended
the celebrated circumnavigator, Anson, in his voyage, commanded
several of the largest and finest ships in the British navy, and
died 1790. An inscription upon the bell in the parish church
shows it to have  been the gift of his father.--John Paul, after-
wards notorious as Paul Jones, was also a native of Kirkbean.
His father was gardener at Arbigland. The cottage in which they
lived was repaired, at the expense of Lieutenant Pinkbam of the
American navy, an enthusiastic admirer of our celebrated coun-
tryman, whom be appeared to rival in professional energ and
far surpasses in many of those points which add true dignity and
worth to the human character.--The late Dr Edward Milligan,
distinguished as a lecturer on medical science in Edinburgh, like-
wise owes his birth to this parish. Of this man's energy and
success as a teacher it would be difficult to speak too highly. His
father, who died lately, was a stone mason. He himself was for
a considerable time a shoemaker. As a linguist and mathermati-
cian, be was in a great measure self-taught, though be had for a
short time the advantage of being instructed by the Rev. Mr
Murray, parish schoolmaster. Having made some money in his
humble profession, be went to college, and, after much patient
toil in teaching himself and others, acquired not only  great
eminence among the learned, but a considerable fortune in money,



