
90                  HADDINGTONSHIRE.

chalders. There are upwards of 1200 communicants in the parish
belonging to the Established Church.
  In 1792, there was a Burgher meeting in Dunbar, and an Anti-
burgher meeting at East-Barns. The latter was in 1820 transferred
to Dunbar. One of them is now called the High Meeting, and the
other the Low Meeting; and they both belong to the united Asso-
ciate Synod. There was then also a small meeting of Wesleyan
Methodists; and what was said in the last Account respecting these
societies, is applicable to them still, "their congregations are made
up of a collection of people from all the parishes in the neigh-
bourhood."
   There are 815 families that adhere to the Established Church,
and 294 families of Dissenters or Seceders of various denominations.
   Education.-There are two parochial schools,-the one at West-
Barns having all the legal accommodations, with the maximum sa-
lary, and the other, at East-Barns, having only one-half chalder, and
the interest of L. 100 Sterling, bequeathed by William Hume,
tenant at that place, and of L. 50 Sterling bequeathed by the
Reverend George Bruce; and both these sums are committed in
trust to the Presbytery of Dunbar, for the benefit of the school.
The burgh has an English and a grammar school, united at pre-
sent under one master, and a mathematical school. The teacher
of the former has a house and forty guineas of salary; that of the
latter a house and L. 20 Sterling. There are three unendowed
schools.
   The rural inhabitants of the parish are very attentive to the edu-
cation of their children. Education is also highly prized by the
people of the burgh; and if among the latter there are individuals
who are inattentive to the instruction of their children, they should
on no account be discharged from the task by their children being

<FOOTNOTE>to the Sheriff of this proceedings who immediately ordered the pews to be opened,
and having heard parties, found, "That although the heritors of the parish may
be entitled to stipulate for, and receive rents from the parishioners for the seats in the
parish church, yet, in default of obtaining tenants, they are not warranted in shutting
them tip in the manner here complained of, and therefore prohibits and interdicts the
respondent, the chief Magistrate of Dunbar, from shutting up, in the manner com-
plained of, the seats held by that burgh in the parish church, and finds him liable in
the expense of this proceeding, reserving to him his relief against the magistrates and
the community of said burgh, as accords" The Provost presented a petition against,
this interlocutor, alleging that the shutting up of the seats was the act of the magis-
trates, and not his individually. The kirk-session answered, that they had no means
of ascertaining by what authority he acted, but what they affirmed they offered to
prove. The Sheriff than ordered the magistrates and council to be called, conjoined
the two processes, interdicted them from shutting up the seats, found them liable in
the expense, and reserved to them recourse agains each other. The magistrates next
presented a bill of advocation to the Court of Session, which was repelled, and the case
remitted simpliciter to the Sheriff. The magistrates acquiesced, and paid the whole
expense of procedure.


