
     of Kilmarnock.

would be more desirable, than to discover some method of co-
vering the roofs of farm-houses, so as to render them cheap
and comfortable.  A slate roof is too expensive in many parts
of the country, from the difficulty of getting either the tim-
ber, or the flate.  Tile roofs do not last, and common thatch-
ing is of very short duration, is more liable to the danger of
fire, affords shelter and encouragement to vermin, and is ve-
ry apt to be destroyed by violent winds.  But there is a mode
of thatching with straw and mortar, introduced into the neigh-
bourhood of Kilmarnock, about 22 years ago, in consequence
of a receipt given by the late Mr Macdowal of Gartland, which
is, in many respects, preferable to every other, for the nor-
thern parts of the island.-The thatching is carried on in
the usual manner; only mortar, very well prepared, and mix-
ed with cut straw, is thinly spread over the strata of thatch,
with a lrge trowel made for the purpose.  One expert thatch-
er will require two men to serve him with straw, one to pre-
pare the mortar, and a fourth to carry it up.  If the work is
properly done, it will make a covering which will last 40 or 50
years; and, when it begins to fail, it can easily be repaired.
Sometimes clay is used instead of mortar, and answers nearly
as well.  As it makes a most excellent roof, the timbers ought
to be good, and the spars straight, and neatly put on, that
there may be no heights and hollows in it.  Such a roof will
stand in the most exposed situation, against the most violent
winds; gives no shelter to vermin; is not near so much in
danger of fire; and though a little more expensive at first than
the common thatch, yet does much more than compensate for
that circumstance, by its being so extremely durable.

   Plantation.-Timber is very scarce in this part of the coun-
try, except about gentlemens houses.  It is commomly reck-
oned not to be for the interest of the proprietor to plant forest
     Vol. II. O


