
     of stronsay and Eday.

black cattle, etc. graze at large.  Their number, it is sup-
posed, might be greatly increased and the breed improved,
were proper shepherds to take charge of them The corn
and grass fields which he along the skirts of the island, are
interrupted by the common pasture, which, in some places,
runs a great way along the shores*.
   There are two commodious harbours or road-steads, in
the island of Stronsay, safe for shipping at all seasons, and
in all weathers; viz 1st, Ling, a found on the West side
well sheltered by Mukle Ling, or holm of Midgarth from
westerly winds, and from all other winds by the island itself.
This harbour has two entries, a South West and a North
West entry; through the South West one, which is the
widest, large vessels may easily pass, with the assistance of a
pilot, and can ride on four fathoms water 2 d, Papa found,
on the North East side of Stronsay, sheltered by the small
island of Papa Stronsay; there are two entries, one from the

<FOOTNOTE>

*The sea coast is various, sandy, stoney, gravelly, and, in some places on
the South West and North side, hold, from 4 to ten fathoms The water,
though not very deep, washes the feet of these principles The remaining
parts of sea coast are low rocks or sk????s, covered with tang, of which a
considerable quantity of kelp is manufactured annually Eday lies West from
Stronsay.  The found which separates these islands is about three miles over
at the Ferry.
   Fairay lies West from Enay, at the distance of a mile and half, the West
side of which is exposed to the Atlantic Ocean, which rushes with great ra-
pidity through Westray Firth:  This in of sea separates the islands of West-
ray on the North, and Rousay on the South:  From this cause, the island of
Fairay is much exposed to have its crops of grain damaged by the spray of
the sea.  This island, and two holms appertaining to it, are well adapted for
the pasture of cattle or sheep; and tang grows on some of its shores, for the
manufacture of kelp.
   The three holmes which belong to the island of Eday; and the four which
belong to the island of Stronsay, do all produce excellent pasture for sheep,
for some small horses and for black cattle which the tenants transport by
boat from the inhabited islands, in the beginning of June, and carry back
by the same conveyance about the end of September.


