
   16                           ORKNEY.

   ed, a few years agoll for one season;  but the soil being near the
   rock, and the summer dry, the crop was poor, and therefore the
   cultivation was discontinued. - The channel which separates the
   holm from Houton head becomes (try for about two hours at low
   water. The inlet on the side next to the church admits sloops
   into the bay, even at low water.  For many years past, it has been
   in contemplation to convey the mail from Thurso, by a decked
   vessel, direct to the bay of Houton, from whence runners could
   bring it soon to Kirkwall and Stromness.  This bay was lately
   surveyed for the purpose, but the result is not yet known.
      There is a small skerry, about two miles south-east of the church,
   called the barrel of better, the origin of which name is said to be,
   that the tenants on the lands of the Bull, which surround the
   church, paid to the proprietor a rent of a barrel of butter for the
   privilege of killing seals on this skerry. It is never completely
   revered by the sea at stream tides.  There is a spot of coarse
   grass in the middle.  On this, seals are seen to bask on a sunny
   day, but of late, no attempt has been made to disturb their repose.
      Hydrography.-The frith between Houton bead and the island
   of Walls is about four miles broad.  By this, all vessels from the
   south and east pass to Stromness, and approach either between
   the island of South Ronaldsa'y and the islands of Walls and Flotta,
   or by Holm sound.
      Springs.-There is a great abundance of copious springs of pure
   water.  There are also a few chalybeates, which are reckoned salu..
   tary and beneficial in nervous complaints.
      Lakes.-There is but one lake; the lake or loch of Kirbister,
   1 mile, I furlong, and 116 yards long; circumference, 2 miles, 3
   furlongs, and 170 yards; surface, 180 Scots acres; the depth va-
   ries from. 3 to 9 feet.  It is supplied by small burns in various di-
   rections; and near the south-east, there is an excellent mill.  It
   abounds in small trouts, which are taken by hooks and flies. by the
   peoples in the neighhood : and anglers fromi Kirkwall occasion.
   ally resort to it in summer.
      Geology.-The rocks along the shore are nowhere high, few
   above So feet.  They are generally of sandstone; in some
   places, slaty.  In the bay at the church, at low water, there
   several rocks of the schistose kind, running nearly in a
   south and north direction, about six feet in breadth, rising from
   their bed about two feet, sloping on the sides, and exhibit-
   ing in the middle the appearance of having been pressed to-



