

       112                        PETHSHIRE.

       erected, and each minister was restricted to his own church and
       parish.
         In the year 1788, a chapel was built by subscription and by col-
       lections made in the churches throughout the synod, for the High-
       landers who resided in Perth and its neighbourhood.  By an act
       of Assembly in 1834, it became a church in common with many
       other chapels, and, as it was intended for the benefit of the High-
       landers in the city and Deighbourhood, the presbytery assigned to
       the minister of it as his charge the whole Gaelic population resid-
       ing within four miles round it.
         In the year 1834-35, a number of the friends of the Establish-
       ment, taking into coiisideration the increased population of Perth and
       its vicinity, and the great need of additional church accommodation
       occasioned thereby agreed to build, by subscription, a new church.*
       It has been built accordingly.  A constitution has been obtained
       for it from the General Assembly; and a minister has now been
       officiating in it for above twelve months.  Thus there are six
       Established churches in Perth.
         Their sittings are 6650; but none of these is free, or accessible
       to the community rent free.  Two thousand nine hundred and fif-
       ty-four belong to the city corporation.  The remaining 3696 are
       the property of other corporations, and the proprietors of St. Sts-
       pbens and St Leonards churches.
         The seat rents drawn by the city and other incorporations amount
       at present to L. 1050, 15s. 7d.   The city expenditure on the
       churches, as stated in the report of the Commissioners, is L. 989,
       19s. 4d.   Thus the income to the city and corporations from the
       churches is L. 60, 16s. 3d. more than what is expended on them
       by the local authorities.  That the city is a pecuniary gainer, by its
       connections with the Church Establishment, to a higher amount,
       I shall hereafter show.  '
         It may not be improper to remark here in passing, that the prac-
       tice of seat-letting is at variance with the fundamental constitutional
       principle of an endowed church.  The great design of an endow-
       ed church is, that the poor as well as the rich may have free access



<FOOTNOTE>         * In 1650, the population in the landward part of the parish was so great, that the
       Presbytery found it to be their duty to recommend the erection of it into a separate
       charge; and, in order to carry that into effect, to lay the matter before the Commis-
       ioners for Plantation of Kirks.  Two of the brethren were deputed by the Presby-
       tory to hold conference with the heritors thereanent.  Repeated conferences were held;
       but obstacles were thrown in the way, and they proved unsuccessful.  The minute
       Of Presbytery, 9th April 1651, says, "the affairs of the landward parish of Perth de-
       layed, because of the troubles of the times."


