
378                      LANARKSHIRE.

	Hydrography.--A considerable part of the parish is bounded
on the north by the river Clyde. The Bowtree dam, which sup-
plies the mill with water, is the only pool in the parish.
	Mineralogy.--There are five coal-mines in the parish, viz. one
worked by Mr Farie at Farme; two by Mr Gray at Eastfield; one by
Mr Cunningham at Stonelaw; and one by Mr Colin Dunlop at Ha-
milton Farme. Some of these mines produce a small quantity of
ironstone. It appears from the Government abstract for 1831,
page 999, that 305 persons were then employed in the coal mines,
and 27 in the quarries of Rutherglen. Prior to 1775, the colliers
of Rutherglen, and other places in Scotland, were by the common
law in a state of slavery. They, and their wives and children, if
they had assisted at coal-works, became the property of the coal-
masters, and were transferred with the coal-work, in the same man-
ner as the slaves on a West India estate.
	In the Rev. Dr Maclae's report of the parish of Rothsay for
the Statistical Account in 1791, it is said that a cart of coals con-
taining 12 cwt. cost 3s. 6d. in Glasgow, and an equal sum to take
them to Rothsay in the Island of Bute. For seven years prior to
1836, coals in quantities were delivered in Glasgow at the steam-
boat quay from Rutherglen at from 6s. 9d. to 7s. 9d. per ton. The
supply for families was 1s. more per ton.

		II.--CIVIL AND ECCLESIASTICAL HISTORY.
	The following facts, collected from the records of the burgh,
the Presbytery of Glasgow, the Synod of Glasgow and Ayr,
Ure's History of Rutherglen, and other authentic documents, con-
tain a pretty accurate account of the state of society in Ruther-
glen at the periods referred to.
	The distinguishing characteristics of the people of this parish,
(like others in the neighbourbood,) about the time of the Re-
formation, and for nearly a century after it, were ignorance and
a fierce sanguinary spirit. Their belief in apparitions, witches, se-
cond-sight, their profanation of the Sabbath by working, rioting
at fairs, and the numerous murders and cases of incest of the worst
description, exhibit the depravity of the age. The administration
of justice, and the execution of the criminal law must have been
in a most deplorable state, when such crimes were left to the cen-
sure of the church.
	A long letter from King James VI. is engrossed in the Synod
records. It is dated at Ruthen (Ruglen) 19th August 1586, and
directed to Mr Andrew Hay, Commissioner for the west country.


