
200                    ROXBURGHSHIRE.

place both at dinner and supper. Coffee and tea are daily becom-
ing more general among all classes; and few of our tenantry now
breakfast without one or other of them, or dine without animal food.
The people are generally intelligent, moral, and exemplary in their
attendance on religious ordinances. The writer is sorry, however,
to say, that poaching in game prevails to a considerable extent;
but chiefly by persons not resident in the parish. Daring bands
of these modern freebooters from the English borders have lately
traversed the hills, making great havoc among the game. The
waters have recently been fished to great excess, and not by the
most legitimate means of capture. The Kale and all its tributary
streams are poached without interruption during the season of
spawning. Smuggling in whisky holds out strong temptations to
illicit traffic, and lawless gangs of smugglers from the English bor-
ders have long infested this neighbourhood.
                         IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture and Rural Economy.-The number of acres stand-
ard imperial measure in the parish is 14,458, roads, fences, &c.
included. The real rent of land is about L. 5000; of which are
paid from sheep, L. 3973, and from corn and cattle, L. 1027.

<TABLE>

The sheep walks comprehend about         -          -                 13,590 acres.
Of these there are about of heath and of mossy pasture, from which the
  inhabitants are supplied with peat,     -        -                    1500
The land in cultivation or occasionally in tillage, or in meadow, about  766
Under wood, natural or planted,       -                      -           102

                                                       In all,         14458
There are no lands in a state of undivided common.
   Rent of Land, &c.-The average rent of land per acre * may be
about 7s. The average yearly rent of grazing maybe at the rate
of about L. 5, 10s. for an ox or cow, if fed in winter with fodder.
The year's grazing for full-grown bill-fed sheep may be from 6s.
6d. to 7s.
   Rate of Wages, &c.-Full-grown farm-servants maintained in the
family are commonly hired by the half year. Men-servants, be-
sides board, are paid from L. 5, 5s. to L. 6, 6s. for the summer,
and from L. 4, 4s. to L. 5, 5s. for the winter half year. Female
servants receive from L. 4, 10s. to L. 5, 5s. for the summer, and
from L. 1, 15s. to L. 2, 2s. for the winter half year, with board.
Married men-servants, or hinds, besides being paid L. 3 of money,

<FOOTNOTE>The lands are seldom let at any certain amount per acre. The farmers calculate
the value by the number of sheep the lands are known or supposed to keep.


