
244                         ABERDEENSHIRE.

   Parochial Registers.-The parochial registers begin in 1623.
They are not voluminous, but appear to have been very regularly
kept.
   Antiquities.-There were two or three of what are called Druid-
ical circles on the moor lands of this parish, about thirty years
ago.  One of them was large and very entire.  The moor is now
cultivated, and not a vestige of any of them remains.  On the
same moor, a very destructive battle seems to have been fought;
but when or by whom neither history nor tradition give any infor-
mation.  A great number of barrows or tumuli commence about
a quarter of a mile from the sea, near a small hill called Tarbathy,
and, keeping nearly a mile in breadth, extend about tvelve mile,
inland.  In some places they were very numerous, especially where
there were circular enclosures of stones, with a ditch outside, con-
taining about a quarter of an acre or less ground.  On the out-
side, all around these enclosures, turnuli are very numerous.  In
the small tumuli nothing is found; but those that are larger fre-
quently contain coarse earthen urns, containing in them what ap-
pears to be ashes and pieces of burnt bones.  I have never heard
of any pieces of armour being found in the tumuli or on the moor
ground; but on the alluvial soil near the sea there is a bed of yel-
low flints, in which a number of very well formed arrow-heads are
frequently found.  The whole of this moor will soon be cultivated,
and all traces of such a battle having been fought will then be lost.
Some gold ornaments, not very pure, and of very rude manufac-
ture, but of considerable value, owing to the quantity of gold con-
tained in them, have been found near this moor.
   There were four places of worship in this parish when the Ro-
man Catholic religion was the established religion of this country.
All remains of two of them are gone.  The ruins of one, and the
burial-ground around it, are yet to be seen, and the east wall of the
present parochial church probably is part of the wall of a Roman
Catholic church.  When the foundation of one of these churches
and burial-grounds, which have now disappeared, was cleared out,
several small silver coins were found, but none of them of much
value or great antiquity.

                        III.-POPULATION.
   In the first and middle part of last century, the population
seems, to have been stationary or rather decreasing; but from 1791
to 1836, it has increased from 1318 to 1640, equal to 322 in for-
ty-five years.  This increase of the population was entirely owing to


