
				RATTRAY.                             243

	residence, seek a more sheltered situation.  The rate of feuing is
	about 1s. the fall, or L.8 the acre, though some of it lately has
	risen much higher.  The two villages are almost contiguous, and
	the climate and soil of both are warm, dry, and healthy. The in-
	crease of population is chiefly owing to the spinning-mills, which
	have been reared within the last twenty years, and which will re-
	quire particular attention.    The average number of births for the
	last seven years is 32, of marriages 12; of deaths, though more
	various, the number is perhaps nearly the same.  The population of
	Old Rattray, of all ages and sexes, is about 400; of New Rattray,
	300,-leaving 600 and upwards for the country part of the parish,
	   The number of proprietors of L.50 and upwards annually is
	seven; and the whole rental about L.2000.
	   The inhabitants of the country are all engaged in agricultural
	operations; those of the villages are employed in trades and ma-
	nufactures.  The great business of the common people is weav-
	ing of a coarse fabric, the materials for which are sent from Dun-
	dee.  The inhabitants in general are sober, industrious, and eco-
	nomical.  In former times, smuggling in malt and whisky prevail-
	ed much in this neighbourhood, but has now almost disappeared,
	in consequence of the decisive measures adopted by Government.
	This is a happy change for the character, the circumstances, and
	the morals of the people.  Poaching in game is much complained
	of by gentlemen at certain seasons of the year; which shows the
	idle, pernicious, and despicable habits, of a few of the lower orders
	of the people.
	Number of families in the parish,                                   318
	                   chiefly employed in iculture,                     64
					trade, manufactures, or handicraft, 149

				IV.-INDUSTRY.

	   Agriculture.-Rattray being comparatively a small parish, and
	not remarkable for soil, furnishes no great scope for agricultural
	operations.  The farms in general are of moderate size; and
	those in the higher grounds, intended both for pasture and til-
	lage, are seldom let by the acre, but by as much rent as the ten-
	ants imagine they will bear, according to the mode of husban-
	dry to which they are to be applied.  The land about the village
	gives L.3 per acre.  The leases for small portions are for nine or
	eleven years; for farms, fifteen or nineteen years. On the estate
	of Craighall, there are considerable plantations of Scotch and larch
	fir, which were much enlarged by the late Baron Clerk Rattray.
	They are scarcely in a state for felling, but they are regularly thin-


