
               ISLAND OF SKYE-DUIRINISH.                   347

   The ordinary food of the peasantry is potatoes and fish, some-
times potatoes and salt, and sometimes potatoes alone. Butcher-
meat is almost unknown to them, and very little meal is used.
Considering this wretchedly low diet on which they subsist, it is
astonishing what work they perform, and what fatigue they un-
dergo.
   Character.-The intellectual character of the people is good,-
insomuch that, if a comparison were instituted between the advance-
ment made by such Highland boys as attend school for a year
or two, and that made by the boys of the peasantry in the Low-
lands in similar circumstances, it would be found very much in fa-
vour of the former.
   If we compare the amount of crime committed in our parishes
here with that committed even in rural parishes in the south, the
balance will still be found in favour of the Highlands. But it is
too apparent, at the same time, that crime in this part of the coun-
try has been much on the increase for several years back. This
is partly owing to the poverty of the people: but in a great degree
to the kind of intercourse which they carry on with the Lowlands.
The great majority of the young women go thither annually dur-
ing the harvest season, where they are not only withdrawn from
the superintendence of their parents and friends, and destitute
of the ordinances of religion, but are exposed to the contami-
nation of the worst and most degraded society, and the effects are
sadly visible in their loss of modesty and virtue. Many of them,
after their return, give birth to children, who are unacknowledged
by a father, and grow up without being received by the church,
or much cared for by their mothers. There are several in the
parish, of this unfortunate outcast class, unbaptized and unedu-
cated.
   The young men generally go south in the latter end of spring,
and continue at such work as they may find, until the begin-
ning of winter, when they return home, and contribute of their
earnings to the payment of their parents' crofts, but spend the
remainder amid utter idleness, until the ensuing spring, when they
resume their travels and their toil. Many of the aged men again,
pass the months of June, July, and August, in fishing herring on
the east coast of Scotland, and return to their homes only when
their presence becomes necessary for the securing of their crops.
Thus the population is quite a fluctuating one. The people, old
and young, especially the latter, are for a considerable portion of


