
                                       3

64                    LINLITHGOWSHIRE.

youth brought up in this parish. He was eminently successful in
life, and affords a memorable example of the distinguished place
in society to which the careful cultivation and judicious application
of superior talents may raise their possessor. He was created a
baronet on the 21st June 1804.
   As proprietor of the estate of Carriden, the late Rear-Admiral
Sir George J. Hope, K. C. B., became converted with the parish
above twenty years ago. He was a very distinguished officer, and
highly appreciated in the service for his exemplary discipline, his
decision, promptitude, and bravery, and his veneration for religion.
He entered them navy at the age of fifteen, in the year 1782, and
after passing through the usual gradations, attained the rank
of captain in 1793, and that of rear-admiral in the year 1811.
During the above period, he commanded the Romulus, Alcmene,
and Leda frigates, the Majestic, Theseus, and Defensw seventy-
fours, being present at the battle of Trafalgar in the ship last
named, aud served as captain of the Baltic fleet during 1808 and
the three subsequent years. In the year 1812, he went to the Ad-
miralty, which he quitted temporarily in the following autumn to
bring over the Russian fleet to England during the French inva-
sion of that country. In 1813, he held the chief command in the
Baltic, and at its termination returned to the Admiralty, where he
remained as confidential adviser to the First Lord till his death on
the 2d May 1818; thus closing a life spent in unremitting active
service in the discharge of the duties of the highest posts of our
Naval administration.
   Land-owners.-The Duke of Hamilton; the Earl of Hopetoun;
Sir James Dalyell, Dart of Binns; James Hope, Esq. of Carri-
den, Post-Captain in the Royal Navy; James S. Cadell, Esq. of
Grange; and James Johnstone, Esq. of Straiton, are the principal
proprietors of land. Captain Hope holds the place of first heri-
tor; but the greatest anaount of superiority and the patronage of
the church belong to the Duke of Hamilton.
   Parochial Registers.-These are very voluminous, and in a state
of excellent preservation. They have, upon the whole, been kept
With great regularity. Seven volumes contain the collections and
disbursements for the poor, from 1688 down to the present time,
without any interruption but between 1708 and 1714. The ses-
sion minutes occupy six volumes commencing with the sederunt
dated 27th January 1691, and have been regularly record, with
only two exceptions, the one amounting to about two months, the


