
     of Kirkpatrick-Durham.

been opened with the north of England, whence lime, that
great source of improvement, has been imported; and thus, a
spirit of agriculture having been excited, it has given employ-
ment to a great number of labourers, and artificers of different
descriptions. 2.  The proprietors of land, who were formerly ac-
customed to let whole estates to one tenant, for the purpose of
pasture, (a practice which tended very much to depopulate the
country, and to produce continual emigration,) have of late years
been induced to divide their property into smaller possessions, and
by that means, have greatly encreased the number of tenants. 3.
A village has lately been erected in the vicinity of the church,
which, though projected only about 7 or 8 years ago, has ad-
vanced so rapidly, that there are about 50 dwelling-houses al-
ready built, and nearly as many seued, which, it is expected,
will be built in the course of 2 or 3 years.  This village, though
as yet but in its infancy, has given a liveliness and animation
to the place, formerly unknown in that part of the country;
and has made a very considerable addition to the number of the
inhabitants.  But, as villages will always become nurseries of
dissipation and prosligacy, when the inhabitants are idle, plans
have been formed to give them honest, and creditable employ-
ment.  In the course of the last year, the three following so-
cieties, or copartneries, were established:  1. A society for
carrying on a cotton manufactory, consisting of 6 members,
whose operations were commenced on a capital of L. 120, or
L. 20 each share.  2. A society for carrying on an woollen ma-
nufactory.  This society consists of 5 members, and begin its
operations on a capital of L. 100, or L. 20 each share.  3. A
society of trade and commerce:  This society consists of 80 mem-
bers; and begins its operations upon the small capital of 80
guineas, or 1 guinea each share.
   These societies have their respective regulations, drawn up,
with as much care and attention as possible, to prevent error or


