
     Statistical Account

   As far as tradition can be depended upon, no battle, nor
skirmish of consequence, ever happened in this country.  The
only one mentioned, was fought between Macdonald of the
Isles, and an Alexander Stewart, chief of that name.  The
former, with the greatest part of his men, was killed, and
from the carnage of that day, the place is still called Blar
nan Mairbh, the moss or field of the dead*.
   If any persons of eminence were ever born in this district,
time has swept them from its annals.  But, if such there have
been, Mr. George Gordon of Foddaletter, is justly entitled
to be ranked in the number.  This gentleman's abilities rose
beyond that mediocrity, which sometimes acquires celebrity
without the possession of merit.  As a chymist and botanist,
his knowledge was considerable; and this knowledge he ap-
plied to the extension of the useful arts.  At an early period
of life, he discovered, that by a certain preparation, the ex-
crescence of the stones and rocks of the mountains, forms a

<FOOTNOTE>

difference of the persons appointed to superintend them.  No good roads can
be expected according to the present mode of management.  To effect this, a
commutation is absolutely necessary.  On the river Ath-fhin, there is a bridge,
where it is crossed by the great road.  Two other bridges, one at Delvoran, and
one at Delnacairn, a little E. of the kirk, would prove essentially useful, as
they would facilitate the water-course, which at present is frequently inter-
rupted, and render the communication safe and commodious.  Another upon
Ailnac at Delnabo, and one upon Conlass at Ruthven, would also be very ne-
cessary.
*Casual rencounters have frequently happened.  Manslaughter, murder, and
robbery, at a period not very remote, form a distinguishing feature in the cha-
racter of the Highlanders.  But from the detail of such scenes of barbarity, the
human mind turns away with horror.  One instance, however, it may not be
improper to mention:  In the year 1575, soon after the establishment of the Re-
formation in Scotland, a priest who had refused to marry the uncle to the niece,
was seized by the ruffian and his party, laid upon a faggot, bound to a stone,
and in this manner burnt to death.  The remembrance of this attrocious deed
is still preserved in the name of the stone, which to this day, is called Clach-anc-
shagairt, or the Priest's stone.


