
                    ULVA..                                      347
 
Stretching up Loch-nan- Gaul, and giving name to the grounds
where the Ulva mansion-house is situated, is:the promontory of
Ardnacallieb, or old wife's point. This appearance of the rock
forming the termination of the promontory in the very extmordi-
loary figure of the bust of an old woman, is only to be seen from
a certain point sailing out of the Sound of Ulva towards Inch.
kenneth or Gribon. The point being past, the resemblance is
lost. At the point, a more perfect and well-defined figure of an
old woman's bead and face, with all the features distinct, cannot
well be conceived, standing fortb, in strong alto relievo, as the
guardian genius of the strand.
Ardtiacallich Bay and the Sound of Ulva are safe and Com-
modious anchorage ground. On the north side of the island,.the
bay of Soribi, and on the south side, that of Crakaig,'are like-
wise considered good anchorage for vessels, particularly that of
Soribi, for shipping of any tonnage. Glackingdaline bay, in the
sound separating Ulva from Gometra, is another harbour for
shipping.
The soil of Ulva is superior, of a sharp but fertile nature, pro-
ducing the best crops, and the grazing rich and wholesome for
cattle. The shores around the island ftirnish lime-shell sand in
abundance, and which, being applied to the land, produces a very
rich manure. Sea-weed or wreck is likewise used for manure.
The fineness of the climate, and the earliness of the harvest, in-
duced Mr Clark, the proprietor, in the spring of lt337, to try
wheat and peas by way of experiment. They both succeeded,to
admiration. Seven bolls of fine wheat were raised, a sample of
which, as considered the first wheat raised in the Hebrides,$ being
sent to the Highland Society, has been by the Society trafismit-
ted to their Agricultural Museum, under the charge of Messrs
Lawson and Son, for the- inspectionof the curious. In this mu-
ftOr4 the verge, with the view of extorting a confession, oic deterring her from com.
Hitting like de redations in future. Untrtunately, the tonag tightened, and
     p                                                                  stran
guiation took place. find the scene which followed may be more easily imagined tbast
dwribed. Tfiegtidewifebecameincotisolal)le,forthegirlwasanearrelativ'ofth

		eve the vital spark had fled,'vhile her neighbouirs tol-
		ded her, with the utmost abhorrence, as a murderes&
                ion of justice was suminary, and investigation took u
		extenuation would avail, anif an &vital ei'-
		ishroent, and the detestation in which beg
                took place th restrain the popular inaigiia.
	tio,	b in a large sw*,'amid the execrations of her people, wtied
        bit     shore, and tliire iplaced an a rock covered by the sea at high wg.
                nattd eiistenft- by the risibg tide. IMi ro'kWll'beiii-bei
	raw	C4ristina be&re -noticed.


