
256                        STIRLINGSHIRE.

menced in January 1831. The work performed consists princi-
pally of bleaching books of muslins, and a small portion of wash-
ing. In the year 1836, 1,273,038 yards were bleached. The
number of persons employed last year was 90 on an average, and
the wages amounted to L.1554, 15s. 1O 1/2d. The rate of wages
varies from 2s. 6d. to 17s. 6d. per week. Last year 587 tons of
coal were consumed.
  Connected with Glenmill is a house inhabited by females em-
ployed in the work. To the management and education of these
persons, Mr Mackinlay pays a degree of attention which is highly
Honourable to himself, and cannot fail to be very beneficial to
them.
  The alum-work is the property of Messrs Mackintosb and Co.
In the year 1806, an enterprising company established in this parish
extensive chemical works for the manufacture of alum, copperas,
prussiate of potash, Prussian blue, &c. The alum and Copperas
are derived from a schist or aluminous shale, which is found in
the coal strata in this district, and is imbedded between the coal
and the limestone, at a thickness of between eighteen inches and
two feet, the limestone being above and the coal below.
  The constituent principles of this schistus are various. After
the coal has been wrought ouf, the schist, being exposed to the
action of the air, undergoes decomposition. The sulphur it con-
tains is, by the absorption of oxygen, converted into sulphates of
the metallic bases with which it is combined, and by its exfolia-
tion readily separates itself from the limestone, and falls down
into the space formerly occupied by the coal. When in a state
of complete decomposition, the schist assumes a beautiful efflores-
cent appearance, like that of flock silk, and is very soluble in water.
This schistus, as drawn from the coal wastes, is lixiviated at the
works in large stone cisterns, and the liquid being afterwards eva-
porated till it attains the requisite specific gravity, it receives the
portion of sulphate or muriate of potash necessary to its formation
into the state of a crystallizable salt. This is the alum of com-
merce. In this process, the copperas, existing in the ore, is se-
parated.
   The prussiate of potash manufactory, which was the first, and
for many years the only manufactory of the kind in Great Britain,
is upon an extensive scale, and well arranged. This salt is the
ferroeyanate of potassium of chemist. It is used by calico-print-
ers in blue dyeing, also by wool-dyers, and likewise in the manu-


