
                   MID AND SOUTH YELL.            87

bert Bruce, Esq. of Burravoe, both resident and, with the excep-
tion of Charles Ogilvy, Esq. of Seafield, and Captain C. Mouat
of Garth, who are non-resident, there is not another, of all the
28 heritor connected with the parish, whose income therefrom
amounts,to L.50.
   Parochial Begisters.-The parochial registers extend no far-
ther back, than to the beginning of the eighteenth century, and,
though kept with tolerable accuracy, contain little, and that
little, perhaps, of still less importance.
   Antiquities.-In so far as can now be traced, no religious houses
have, at any time, existed in this parish; and beyond a few Pictish
buildings, and sonae,traces of the dwellidgs of the Shetland abqri-
gines, in which last have been found soine stone adzes and knives,
with drinking cups, lamps, and hammers of the same materials,-
there is little now existing either, to excite the inquiry of the anti-
quary, or to speak to its present inhabitants; of the deeds of other
years.


                    Ill.-POPULATION.

The population is exclusively rural, and amounts to 1853.
    of these, there are under 15 years of age,   701
              between 15 and 30,       .         556
                      30 and 50,       .         360
                      50 and 70,       .         246
              above 70 years of age,   .          89

The average number of births in seven years has been             42
              marriages                                          11.6
Of bachelors anti widowers above 50 years of age, there are      12
Unmarried women upwards of 45 years of age,                      69

There are 2 fatuous individuals, and 7 in a state of lameness
throughout the parish.
   Besides the two principal resident heritors, there, is not another
of independent fortune in the parish.
   The inhabitants are, in general, a quiet and orderly class of peo,
ple; but although acts of gross and open immorality would be
branded by common consent, yet it must be confessed, that otliPF
immorality kes are pract6ed, to. an extent which calls forth an ad-
mission frova all quarters, that some remedial steps ought to be
taken. The less flagrant imuaoialities now alluded to can, per-
haps, be tmced to no catse so directly, as to the want of an early
training of the young to,the,observauee of,moral and religious 4ur
ties, by means of the discipline of, public schools,- a tuition to
which the inhabitants, of, Yell have been but little accustomed
For until within the List sixteen years, such a thing as a parochial
school was unknown within its bounds; and when established in


