
                        PORTPATRICK.		            159

number for the necessities of the whole parish. In one district a
teacher was recently employed by a committee of the inhabitants,
who could hardly write, and who could not spell the most common
English words. He lived in the school-house with his wife and
two children; and they begged in the neighbourhood whilst he
was teaching. This was certainly an extreme case; but it occur-
red only three years ago. It may be safely affirmed that, during
the last six years, three-fourths of the teachers in the parish have
not earned the wages of a good ordinary labourer. A considerable
sum has been subscribed, chiefly by the principal heritor and his
sister, Miss Jemima Hunter Blair, for the erection of a comfort-
able school-house and schoolmaster's house in a central position
of the country part of the parish. It is hoped that this school
will supply the gre`ter part of the deficiency, which is altogether
a deficiency in the quality, and not in the number of the schools.
There has been a visible improvement in the general conduct and
morals of the people since the facilities of education were increas-
ed. But a considerable share of the credit, so far as educa-
tion is concerned in it, is due to Sabbath schools, originally esta-
biished by a committee composed of Dissenters and members of the
Established Church, patronized by the late minister, and assidu-
ously cherished by his daughters, who taught in one of them.
These Sabbath schools have been recently united in one, under
the superintendence of the kirk-session, and having on its lists 210
scholars, of whom about 180 may be reckoned to attend every
Sabbath. Only religious instruction is given in this school, and
it forms also a congregation of the young, in which prayer and
praise are united with frequent addresses from the minister. Twen-
ty-one teachers, male and female, give their services gratuitously.
	Literature.--There is a small library connected with the Sab-
bath school, and consisting of 250 small volumes, which are lent
out to those scholars who pay 2d. during three months for the use
of them. There is a parish library consisting of 352 volumes,
which are lent out to subscribers ia the parish at the rate of 2s.
per annum. This library was founded about nine years ago, by a
donation of 108 volumes from Miss Hunter Blair, of whom men-
tion has already been made, and who, though residing in Edin-
burgh, has ever shown the liveliest interest in the spiritual welfare
of the parish.
	A Friendly Society, instituted, in 1817, for the support of mem-
bers in sickness, has done some good. It would have been of more


