
     Statistical Account

is about 130; but besides these, there are between two
and three dozen fed for the butcher.

   Heritors, farms, etc.-The heritors of Navar and Leth-
not, are three in number, none of whom reside.  The valu-
ed rent is L. 1031: 13: 9 Scots:  The real rent is about
L. 410 Sterling.  The proprietor of the greatest estate gave
leases (a little after 1760) to all the tenants in the lower part
of the parishes for two nineteen years and a life; and for
one nineteen and a life, to those in the upper or more hilly
part of the estate, obliging the tenans to carry on certain
pieces of improvement specified in their leases.  They became
obliged to build substantial houses on their respective farms,
to inclose a certain portion of the farm, to bring in and im-
prove baulks, and such pieces of waste ground as were fit
for improvement, and to plant an acre, or half an acre, ac-
cording to the size of the farm, of young trees in some
convenient place, and to keep a sufficient fence around them
till grown up.  Some of the tenants have completely ful-
filled these stipulations.  All the farms are set upon mode-
rate terms, some at 7 s. per acre, some at 5 s. and some as
low as 2 s. 4 d.  Their size is very various; some consist of
30 acres, some of 50, some of 80; there is one of 100 acres,
and another of 160.  The rent of those farms which lie
in the lower part of the parishes, is made to rise at the end
of every nineteen years of the lease.  Thus the farm of 160
acres, which paid L. 33, for the first nineteen, pays now
yearly during the currency of the second nineteen L. 39,
and is bound to pay for the first nineteen of the life L. 45.
   All the tenants have already increased the value of their
farms very considerably by improvements, and by bring-
ing waste ground into cultivation:  But there is still a good
deal of waste ground on most of the farms, which will re-
quire the industry of many years fully to improve.  Most
of the larger farms consist of what was formerly two farms.


