
                            ALVIE.                           85

the memory of man, is an incident connected with the retreat of
some rebels through the parish after the battle of Culloden. These
rebels, after the defeat of the Pretender's army, being reduced to
the last extremity, applied to the Rev. Mr William Gordon, then
minister of Alvie, for relief. Mr Gordon feelingly sympathised with
them in their sufferings, received them hospitably into his house,
and humanely afforded them all the relief in his power.  Informa-
mation was directly conveyed to the Duke of Cumberland, then
stationed at Inverness, that the minister of Alvie favoured the rebel-
lion by harbouring rebels in his house, and Mr Gordon was in con-
sequence summoned to appear before the Duke of Cumberland at
Inverness, to answer for his conduet,--when he fearlessly addressed
the Duke to the following effect: "May it please your Royal High-
ness, I am exceedingly straitened between two contrary commands,
both coming from very high authority.  My Heavenly King's Son
commands to feed the hungry, to clothe the naked, to give meat and
drink to my very enemies, and to relieve, to the utmost of my power,
all objects in distress indiscriminately, that come in my way. My
earthly king's son commands me to drive the houseless wanderer
from my door, to shut my bowels of compassion against the cries
of the needy, and to withhold from my fellow mortals in distress
the relief which is in my power to afford. Pray, which of these com-
mands am I to obey?"--"By all means," replied the Duke, "obey
the command of your Heavenly King's Son; your character is very
different from what it has been represented; go home in peace, act
conformably to the benevolent spirit of that Gospel which you are
professedly employed to preach and to explain." Thus ended an
interview, from which a very different result had been anticipated;
in a manner equally honourable to the character, both of the hum-
ble pastor of the parish of Alvie, and the illustrious Commander-
in-Chief.
   Eminent Characters, &c.--The parish of Alvie, although situat-
ed in a remote Highland glen, has been honoured for nearly half
a century, particularly during the last forty years, with the occa-
sional residence and frequent visits of distinguished personages.
The late Duchess of Gordon, upwards of thirty years ago, se-
lected for her summer residence, Kinrara, a romantic situation,
within less than two miles from the church of Alvie, where she
usually resided every year during the remainder of her life, from
the beginning of July to the beginning of November. In that de-
lightful residence, to which her Grace was enthusiastically at-


