
966 				PERTHSHIRE.

of the war of extermination carried on against them by the game-
keepers.
   There is one species of the tribe Plantigrada, the common
badger, or Meles vulqaris. This used to be a very common animal
in the neighbourhood; but, since the introduction of the wild
rabbit, it has been hunted down and destroyed, under the idea
that it was destructive to the young litters. A number, however,
are still to be seen.
   Of the Digitigrada there are several species. The sanguinary
polecat, Mustela putorius, Cuv.; the weasel, M. vulgaris; and
the ermine or stoat, M. erminea, are very common, and very de-
structive to the game and poultry. The elegant and beautiful
pine martin, M. abietum, Ray, used to be frequently met with,
but is now, comparatively speaking, a rare animal. The fox, Ca-
nis vulpes, is now rarely seen in the neighbourhood.
   The common otter,--genus Lutra, Ray,--is still to be ob-
served about the banks of the river and neighbouring lakes.
This animal afforded at one time a considerable revenue to some
of the country people, who, during part of the winter, used to hunt
it down for its skin. This has now ceased, in consequence of the
preference given in the market to the skin of the sea-otter.
   Of the genus Felis, the only indigenous species in the common
wild-cat, Felis Catus, Linn. They were at one time in great num-
bers, and of great size in the woods around Dunkeld; but, like the
fox, they are now rarely to be found.
   Rodentia.--There are numbers of these to be met with.  The
squirrel is so plentiful as to be a nuisance to the nursery and
seedsmen. The hare and rabbit are common. The alpine hare
is to be found in great plenty in the upland parts of Dowally.
   Pecora.--Of this order, the only species common in this neifh-
bourhood is the roe-deer, Cervus capreolus, Linn.  About Dunkeld
and Dowally they abound to an enormous extent.  In the large
larch plantations of the Atholl family, they are as common as sheep
on the moors. A stray red-deer, \C1ervus elaphus, from the Blair
forest may also be occasionally seen.
   Ornithology.--Of the class Raptores there are, the peregrine
falcon, F. peregrinus, Linn. Although not common, yet it cannot
be called a rare bird. The merlin, F. AEsalon, Linn.; the kestrel
F. tinnunculus, Linn., very common. Of the next division, or sub-
typical, there are, the sparrowhawk, Accipiter fringillarius; the
asprey, Pandion haliaeetus. During the winter of 1840, Dunkeld


