
                           PETERHEAD.                             353

may be so designated, of submerged algae.  These are so different
in their external characters, and of such variety, that a wide field
is presented for investigation and classification. A few of those
best known and most abundant may be named, viz.

<TABLE>
   Fucus vesiculosus          Fucus digitatus           Fucus pinnatifidus
   ----- nodosus              ----- saccharinus         Ulva plana
   ----- serratus             ----- esclulentus
   ----- bulbosus             ----- palmatus

   Fungi.-Of these there are many species growing on the links
and by the sides of dikes.  The Agaricus campestris, or common
mushroom, is very abundant, and is gathered for, catsup sauce.
   Lichens and musci are also to be found in great variety upon
the rocks and shrubs, and in the mosses; and afford an ample
field for investigation to those already acquainted in some degree,
or desirous of becoming acquainted, with this branch of natural
history.

                        II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Peterhead is mentioned in various acts of the Scottish Parlia-
ment.  The original charter of erection has been published.  It
is a very distinct deed, and shows the commencement of the burgh
of barony, and the vocations of the original inhabitants.
   Account of the Parish.-The late Dr William Laing, of the
Episcopal chapel of Peterbead, published, in 1793, "An Ac-
countof Peterhead, its mineral wells, air, and neighbourhood,"
The Statistical Account of Dr Moir was published in 1795.
In 1815 the late James Arbuthnot, Junior, Esq. published
"An Historical Account of Peterhead, from the earliest pe-
riod to the present time, comprehending an account of its trade,
shipping, commerce, and manufactures; mineral wells, baths, &c.
with an Appendix containing a copy of the charter of erection,"
&c.  In 1819, Mir Peter Buchan published "Annals of Peter-
head," containing the same, information as Mr Arbuthnot's account,
with such additional matter as he had been able to collect.
   Historical Notices.-The Earls Marischall had their chief resi-
dence at Inverugie Castle, on the opposite side of the Ugie, in
the parish of St Fergus; but a large portion of the parish of Pe-
terhead was embraced in their estates.  It would be out of place
here to enter into a historical account of that ancient family, which
will be found in the general history of Scotland.  The founder of
Peterhead was also the founder of Marischall College, Aberdeen.
The last Earl forfeited his estates in 1715, in consequence of his
adherence to the family of Stuart.  The Pretender landed at Pe-
terhead in December 1715.  The inhabitants were attached to
   ABERDEEN.                            Z


