
     Statistical Account

ven into the ground, should be well heated, before they
are dipped into the half pitch.  Nails are lackered, by
heating them in a wire basket over a stove, and hastily
dipping them, while hot, into the tar.  As they cool, the
tar dries on them, and when thus prepared, they are not
apt to rust, or render the wood what is called iron sick.
Worms do not penetrate into wood that has been proper-
ly impregnated with the tar; if the bottom of a vessel
therefore be of fir, all that is necessary is to fire her well,
and while the plank is hot, to lay on a coat of the tar heat-
ed in a pot.  When the seams are chaulked, finish the
whole with a coat of half pitch prepared in the same man-
ner.  But as oak, from its close texture, will not imbibe
a sufficient quantity of tar, to preserve it against the worm
for any length of time, it is necessary to sheath oak bot-
tomed vessels with white fir wood, impregnated with the
tar, to lacker the sheathing nails, and lay over all a coat
of half pitch to finish it off.  British varnish is preferable
to turpentine varnish, because the oil of which it is made,
is of a more penetrating nature than that of turpentine.
The effect it has, when laid on wood, is to close its pores,
by filling them with the rosin it contains, and thus to ren-
der white, or sap wood, equal in quality to red.  The
bright or clear varnish is used in the same manner as tur-
pentine varnish, and answers as a substitute for lintseed oil,
in painting all colours, except with red and white lead
when dry; but if these be ground with oil, it is then equal
to turpentine varnish, and comes much cheaper.  The
black varnish is designed for all parts of a vessel exposed
to the weather, where paint or pitch is not used.  It dries
fast, and gives a fine gloss to the wood.  The tar, before it
is boiled, is sold for greasing carts at 6 d. a Scotch pint.
A barrel of boiled tar containing 32 gallons English mea-
sure; is sold at the works for L. 1, 3 s.  Sterling.  And


