
                                  ALVAH.                            153

       much greater proportion of ash, oak, beech, elm, spruce, and sil-
       ver fir, than has yet been introduced.*

                            II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
         Documents, Transactions, &c.-In the Advocates' Library at
       Edinburgh, is preserved a very ancient parchment,+ containing the
       particulars of a transaction connected with this parish, at a dis-
       tance of more than 500 years.  This document is a charter of do-
       nation made by Marjory,+ relict of the deceased John Earl of
       Atholl, Lord Strathalveth, with consent of her son David, her law-
       ful heir.  The tenor of the donation is, that for the salvation of her
       own soul, as well as that of her deceased husband, John, Earl of
       Atholl, Lord Strathalveth, and. of her father Donald,$ Earl of
       Mar, she gives to the blessed Virgin Mary, to God, and to the
       Abbot of Cupar, the right of patronage of the kirk of Alveth,
       with the whole lands of KirktoWn of Alveth next the kirk.  The
       charter, after the usual preamble, details very minutely the

          <FOOTNOTE>We have every reason to believe, that, if the following species were introduced
       here, they would thrive better and prove more useful than any of the pines and firs
       now cultivated in this quarter : Pinus uncinata P. resinosa, P. Pyrenaica, P. pinea,
       P. Laricio, P. mitis, P. Gerardina, P. Strobus, P. excelsa, Abies pinea, A. Webbiana,
       A. Douglassii, &c.
           This parchment was formerly one of the manuscripts of the late William Rose,
       Esq. of Montcoffer, to whose son, Patrick Rose, Esq.  Banff, the writer is indebted
       for the copy now, for the first time, published.  The writer has also to acknowledge
       his obligations to the same gentleman for affording him the use of the materials, out
       of which the repori on this head has chiefly been drawn.
           This countess was the daughter of Donald, alias Bayne, Earl of Mar, and wife
       of John, tenth Earl of Atboll and Strathbogie.  This Earl of Atholl was a great pa-
       triot, and joined Robert Bruce at the battle of Methven : but, being afterwards dis-
       covered, was conducted to London, where, notwithstanding his alliance by blood, to
       the English monarch, he was condemned and executed A.D. 1306.  In consequence
       of his royal descent, he was hanged on a scaffold thirty feet higher than ordinary.
       Before life was extinct, he was taken down, when his head was cut off, and fixed on
       London Bridge, and his body burnt to ashes. As a ransom for his soul, his widow
       gave the lands of Alvah, ut supra.
         David, eleventh Earl of Atholl, was son and heir of the above-mentioned countess,
       and of John Earl of Atholl and Stratbbogie, and gave his consent to the above-men-
       tioned donation.  He was a favourite of King Robert Bruce, and was made High
       Constable of Scotland in 1311. Having afterwards withdrawn his allegiance, and                                                                                            R"ce' an
       revolted to the English monarch, the office of High Constable was given to Sir Gil-
       bert Hay, and Atholl's estates were forfeited.  He was married to Joan Cumyn, eld-
       est daughter and cobeiress of John Lord Badenoch, and by her had a son, David
       de Strathbogie, the twelfth Earl of Atholl.  It is said he had other sons, from whom
       the M'Intoshes, Duffs, &c. are believed to be descended.
         $ This Donald, Earl of Mar, father of the Countess of Atholl, Strathbogie. and
       Strathalvah,was taken prisoner at the battle of Methven, confined eight years in Lon-
       don, exchanged for an English nobleman taken at Bannockburn, and conducted to
       Scotland in 1314.  About this time he appears to have died, for the charter of confir-
       mation accompanying the charter of donation, is granted by his son and successor,
       Thomas Earl of Mar, on the 19th March in the same year.
         From an old and scarce work entitled " Index to Charters by King David II," it
       appears that this Thomas, Earl of Mar, granted a charter of the lands of Sandhaugh.
       (now called Sandlaw,) and of the half of Auchenbadie to Thomas Hill, a person of
       whose history nothing is now known.


