
     of Dunrossness.

failure two reasons may be assigned.  The want of a profes-
sional owner, to combine his interest and skill in the manage-
ment; and the choice of the spot, which was inconvenient.
The fittest place for works belonging to this manufacture,
would be the Loch of Sound near Lerwick, where there is a
regular resort from all parts.-The prices of provisions are
greatly raised within these 30 or 40 years.  A fat ox or cow
was then 30 s. now it is 3 L. 10 s. and other provisions in pro-
portion.  Butter, from 4 s. is now 7 s. or 8 s. per 30 lb. weight.
The proprietors, in letting their lands, proportion the extent
of farms to the number of persons in a family.  Thus two merks-
land is usually let to a man and wife at first; but, as the family
increases, they may have 3 or 4 merks-land.  The great object
is to set out as many boats as possible to the fishing, as, through
this medium, the rents are paid.  Hence the price of land
on sale in this country is higher in proportion to the rent
than almost any where else.  The estate of Sumburgh, to the
surprise of the gentlemen of Edinburgh, was bought at 52
years purchase: It was a good bargain, not because the rents
were low, but from the mode in which they are paid.  The
rents of this country are chiefly paid out of the sea.  The
tenants have from their landlords threepence allowed for a
ling, a penny for a cod or tusk, and a halfpenny for a seth,
(cole fish); and these, when salted and dried, will, in the
Hamburgh market, yield four or five times as much, besides
debentures from Government.  Add to this, double or triple
the prime cost for goods brought back and sold to the people,
viz. linen, tobacco, spirits, hooks, lines, etc.-There are three
sorts of boats used in the fishing trade, a larger and a smaller
size of 6 oared boats, and 4 oared boats.  In all, there are
about 200 boats through this ministry.  Some brigs have
formerly belonged to owners in this district, the last of which
was captured by the French.  Of late, a small sloop that goes


