
60                     ABERDERNSHIRE.

ed and destitute; these children to be admitted between the ages
of two and four; to take the name of either Shaw or Davidson;
and to be taught English, and a little French, writing, and arith-
metic, (the girls also to be taught needle-work.)  The boys to
continue in the hospital till they are twelve years of age, and to be
allowed L.6 of apprentice fee, and to receive L.10 when their
apprenticeship is out; the girls to continue in the hospital to the
age of thirteen, and to get L.10 if afterwards they remain five
years in the families with whom they are placed as servants.  A
clause is also inserted in the deed, directing that an boy of supe-
rior genius is to be retained in the hospital till he is twenty-one
years of age, to study the French language diligently, and to be
permitted to learn any profession for which he may be fitted and
most inclined.  As yet the trustees have not been in a condition
to carry this deed into full effect, but they have within the last few
months rented a house in the Gallowgate for the purpose of carry-
ing into execution the benevolent designs of the founder.
   Miss Cruickshank's Fund.-Miss Elizabeth Cruickshank, who
died in 1818, bequeathed the bulk of her property to trustees, for
the purpose of accumulation until it should be sufficient to found
and support an asylum for the blind in Aberdeen.  These trus-
tees were three in number, but two of them having died, the sur-
vivor, by virtue of a power contained in the deed, assumed, in the
year 1832, several gentlemen to act along with him in the dis-
charge of the trust.
   Various difficulties occurred in regard to the disposal of some
parts of the property, and it was not until very lately that any fur-
ther steps were taken towards carrying Miss Cruickshank's bene-
volent intentions into effect, than taking a census of the number of
blind persons in the city of Aberdeen and its neighbourhood, with
their ages and circumstances.  Within the last few weeks, how-
ever, a plan of the intended building has been approved of, and its
erection will be proceeded in forthwith.
   United Coal Fund.-Bequests had been at different times made by
various individuals, for the purpose of supplying the poor of Aberdeen
with coals during the inclement weather in winter, and in 801, by
an agreement among the trustees appointed over four of these be-
qoests, viz. those of Mr Alexander Robertson, Mr Andrew Robert-
son, Mr. John Smith, and Mr John Cushnie, they were united into
one fund for this benevolent purpose.  The fund thus obtained
amounted to L.1000, and by various donations and bequests since
                             3


