
120                         ARGYLESHIRE.

western extremity; and while an unbroken range of high mooun-
tains may be traced overlooking Loch Sunart on the one hand,
and Lochshiel on the other, the intermediate country, especially
as we approach the boundary, consists of an irregular assemblage
of huge hills, circular valleys, and glens,
   Moidart, pronounced in Gaelic Muidard, (" Mud," an old Gaelic
word for sea spray, and " Aird," heights, literally the heights of
sea spray, a most descriptive designation,) about 25 miles long,
with a breadth all along probably of 10 or 12.  It lies parallel to
Sunart along the whole extent of Lochshiel, and to Ardnamur-
chan, for a few miles west from that lake, jutting out in several bold
and craggy headlands in that direction into the ocean.  Washed
on the west and north by the sea, and on the south by Lochshiel,
and the river which constitutes the western outlet of that lake, it
is, like Ardnamurchan and Sunart, bounded on all sides by water
except on the eastern end, which rests partly on Arasaig and the
parish of Kilmalie.  Both sides present a nearly unbroken chain
of mountains, but the space between baffles description, consist-
ing of

                    " Crags, rocks, and hills confusedly hurl'd,
                    The fragments of some former world."

These, all resting on a high mountain range, are covered with
scanty grass and heath, the uniform brown of which bleak pastur-
age is varied only by the gray and often precipitous rocks, the
shadows of some dark ravines, and the grayish-green of hollows
where the accumulated washings of the rocky masses form a
deeper and less barren soil.  There are, however, valuable plains
and valleys in this interesting district, which sball yet be noticed.
   Arasaig and South Morir.-Aras, place or dwelling-place; aig,
a harbour or bay, the place by the harbour; morir, mor, great;
and thir, pronounced hir, land, the great or mainland.  The
first is descriptive of the best known and most fertile part of Ara-
saig; the second would naturally have been conferred on the dis-
trict by the islanders, being, as it still is, a common resort for
island craft.
   These, districts being divided by no well-defined natural demar-
cation, may be described as one.  They constitute together a por-
tion of country twenty-four miles long by, fifteen broad, the west-
ern parts of which, like those of Moidart, project seaward, in seve-
ral rocky points and headlands.  The hills on the sea coast are
generally rather low, though rugged and sterile.  Farther back,
without losing, but rather gaining, with respect to the latter cha-


