
                     GENERAL OBSERVATIONS

        	          ON THE COUNTY OF SUTHERLAND.

             The superficial extent of the County of Sutherland is comput-
           ed to be 1865 square miles of land, and 38 square miles of water;
           or 1,193,940 acres of land, and 24,230 acres of water.  The ex-
           treme length of the county, in straight lines, at three different
           points, viz. from Inverkirkaig to the Ord of Caithness, is 60 miles ;
           from Rhustoir in Assynt, to the Height of Knockfin, is 56 miles
           and from Cape Wrath to Drum-Hallastain, is 42 miles; while the
           breadth from Dornoch to Strathy-point is 54 miles; and from
           Rosehall to Wbitenhead is 42 miles. Sutherland is situate be-
           tween 57/d1 55', and 58/d 37 of north latitude;  and 34/dC 43' and 5/dC,
           23' 30" west longitude.
             Name.-The name of the county in the earliest writings extant
           is speltSudrland,-thereafter Southerland, and now SUTHERLAND,
           and can be traced back to the ninth and tenth centuries, and is
           probablx of an older date. It evidently originated among the north-
           men, who acquired settlements about the periods referred to, in
           Caithness and Orkney, and who, from their northern position,
           distinguished the country immediately adjoining them, by a gene -
           ral name, signifying the land south from them.  In like manner,
           the most southern habitation or township in the county was called
           Suderha (the soutbern-hall,) and is still known as Sidera, intbe
           parish of Dornoch.
             Boundaries.-Sutherland is bounded on the south from the Ord,
           in a south-west direction to the Point of Dornocb, by the Ger-
           man Ocean or Moray Frith; and thence to the west sea, by the
           county of Ross.  The Dornoch Frith, formerly known as the
           River of Portnaculter, and its leading stream the Oykill, separate
           the two counties, in a straight line of about 35 miles.  Thence,
           the march wanders among the, high grounds, between the two
           seas; whence the waters shed, in opposite directions to the east and
           west, and where the ancient and natural march was departed from
           in favour of Ross-shire, in consequence of an award upon evidence

           <FOOTNOTE>Drawn up by George Sutherland Taylor, Esq.  Golspie.


