
                        LOCHWINNOCH.                        87

where they were attacked by the forces of King James VIL, whom
they defeated, and remained on the field behind a natural entrench-
ment till it was dark. Afraid of the enemy being reinforced, they
retired during night, and proceeded southwards to the parish of
Beith. The King's fordes made a similar retreat under the shade
of night, and so the field was found next morning deserted of both
parties.
   Though Renfrewshire was never visited by the "Bloody Cla-
verhouse," nor laid waste by the Highland host, and seems to have
suffered less than some other parts of the country during the un-
natural wars of the Stewarts against their own best subjects, yet it
did not escape the rage of persecution, and the names an
dences of many individuals belonging to this parish are preserved
in Wodrow's History, who were seized and tried, imprisoned and
fined, robbed and tortured, banished and enslaved. The persecuted
ministers, followed by the afflicted people, met in the moors among
the hills, preached the Gospel, and baptized the forefathers of some
who are still alive in the parish. The celebrated Renwick preach-
ed in different places here and in the neighbourhood. *
   Amongst the eminent characters connected with this parish, we
are entitled to number Sir William Wallace, the celebrated de-
fender of Scotland. There is a barony of land in the south-east-
ern extremity of the parish, called Auchinbathie Wallace, Upon
which there are still the remains of an old castle, which belonged to
his progenitors. Near it on the flarm of Laightrees, there is a
small eminence in the midst of a morass, which it a meadow in
summer but a loch in winter, called Wallace's Knowe where, ac-
cording to tradition, Wallace defended himself against a party of
Englishmen. There is no doubt of his possessing property here;
and we are willing to believe he resided sometimes in the Castle
of Auchinbathie Wallace, and performed exploitis in the neigh-
bourhood.

<FOOTNOTE>I cannot help mentioning one anecdote, out of lany, not recorded in Wodrow's
History, of James Glen of Gillsyard, who was great-grandfather of William Glen,
at present the oldest efficient member of the kirk-session, and an heritor in the pa-
rish, and the same relation to John Glen, another small proproeter; he had a child
baptized one day among the hills. In the evening of the day following,when be was
proceeding towards Bridge-end, he saw two horesmen, who iminediatly pursued him,
Whilst he was flying before them he percieved a horse-shoe, which he picked up and
deliberately placed under his cap. He was overtaken at the old mill of bridge-end,
where he tried to escape amongst the brambleson the side of the road, but one of the
soldiers succeeded in striking him a violent blow with his sword on the head, and
perhaps thought he had killed him, and left him dead among the brashwood. The
horse-shoe, however, placed under his cap protected his head, and as it was in the
dusk of the evening he was allowed to remain unhurt in his turking-place.


