
544                          FIFESHIRE.

in Dundee, 14s. In May 5th 1709, a collection was ordered for
those whose houses were burn in Edinburgh. "In October 23d
1747, the session met, and the minister represented that the rebels
having been in his house several times during the late rebellion,
and carried off some of his effects, he had put in places he thought
they would not suspect, some papers of value in his custody, particu-
larly a bill of seventeen pounds sterling, belonging to the kirk-ses-
sion, and that be could not recover the said bill." As this bill was
afterwards renewed by tha person who owed it, the kirk-session lost
nothing by this depredation of the rebels.
   The Lawries of Hill Cairnie are the oldest residenters in the pa-
rish. They have lived upon the same farm for 118 years, and,
from 1720 to 1834, they were members of the kirk-session. The
first, Mr David Lawrie, was admitted into the session of Kilmany
in 1720. His son, Mr David Lawrie, was elected an elder in 1766;
and his son, Mr David Lawrie, (who died 1834,) in May. the 5th
1814.
   Antiquities.-Kilmany is not remarkable for the number of its
antiquities; and there are no traditions with regard to those which
exist. A considerable number of stone coffins have been dug up
behind the farm-house. of Starr. A few earthen vessels with bones
were found on the farm of Drumnod, and one of the same descrip-
tion at Kilmany. Some of these were of the rudest construction,
and others of them displayed more refinement of taste, and more
elegance of workmanship. Those found at Drumnod were in the
possession of or Fleming of Aberdeen, when he was minister of
Flisk; and, Mr Edie, Kilimany, had a part of the urn found on
his farm for many years. Coins have been occasionally picked up
at Myre-Cairnie and Hill-Cairnie, of different sizes and value.
These I never saw, and there are none of them, as,far as I know,
in the possession of any individual, in the parish.
   Modern Building.-The house of Mountquhanie, built by the
late Mr Gillespie, is an elegant modern structure, on a fine com-
mandiug situation looking to the south. The policy around it is kept
in excellent order, and the whole appearance of the grounds is about
it is improving in beauty every year. The other houses of  resident
baritoss are neat and commodious, and suited to their circumstan
ces, to the extent of their families or to their indiviadaul taste

                  IIL -POPULATION.
   The population of kilmany has been decreasing for many years.
This arises from the enlargement of the farms, from the want of


