
     Of Nairn.

and affiduous, has been remarkably successful in his line. 
The number of scholars is seldom below 80, and often ex- 
ceeds 100.  Gentlemen from all quarters of the county, and 
some from England, send their children to be educated here. 
Every branch of education, which now makes such a noise in 
the academies, is taught at Nairn, in perfection.  Several scho- 
lars are annually sent to some one or other of the universities; 
and many gentlemen who now make a figure in distant parts 
of the world, and not 2 few who are an ornament to their 
country at home, in the learned professions, received their edu-
cation at Nairn within these 25 years from the present teach- 
er.  The salary is only a chalder of victual; and even that 
paid in pecks and lippies by the tennants*.-The poor are ex-
tremely numerous, and many of them very indigent indeed. 
The roll contains upwards of 150 names; and therefore, any 
relief they can receive, must be but very inconsiderable. 
The funds for their support, arise from the church collections 
on the Sabbath days, a small mortification, and the interest 
of some money laid up by the session in good years for the 
behoof of the poor.  A public distribution is only made once 
a-year;  but they who are greatly reduced, and very needy, 
receive occasional supplies.  None, even in 1783, died for 
want.  Independent of the victual bestowed by Government, 
the session advanced a considerable sum for the wants of the 
necessitous.  The weekly collections are but trifling, seldom
exceeding 3 s. Sterling of good copper.  Many of those who 

     VOL. XII. 3 C

<FOOTNOTE>

*What a pity, that men of abilities and character, who dedicate time 
and labours to the improvement of youth, should be so poorly rewarded, as the 
generality of the schoolmasters of Scotland are; It is truly melancholy to
think, that grooms and footmen should receive such extravagant wages, whilst
a body of men, on whole labours the welfare of society doth so much depend,
should, in a manner, be neglected and overlooked.  There is also in the town 
a school for girls, with a house for the mistress, and 10 L of salary. 


