
38                          FIFESHIRE.

ject to damps and hoar fros ts; but, by means of thorough drain-
ing, these evils have been almost entirely removed. In conse-
quence of its dry and sheltered situation, it is considered by medi-
cal men as peculiarly healthy. Agues are unknown, and fevers
occur but seldom, and are generally milder in their character than
in other places.
L(ildrography.-There are several rivulets in the parish, all of
which fall'into the river EdeD. There is only one of them of such
a size as to turn a mill-wheel without the aid ' of a dam. In some
places, owing to the porous nature of the subsoil, the supply of
water is deficient; but in general the springs are abundaDt, and
the water good, without any trace of mineral impregnation.
Geology.-The northern half of the parish consists of a mass of
wbinstone, full of rents, speedily yielding to the action of the at-
mosphere, and, consequently, unfit for building. There are, how-
ever, isolated portions of a harder and more 'durable Dature. In
some places, agates are found imbedded in the rock. Besides these
portions, which seem to have been formed at the same time as the
softer rock by which they are surrounded, there are two contigu-
ous veins, or seams, of a more recent formation, running nearly
east and west for many miles. The one to the north is a very
tough, heavy, and coarse-grained stone, and varies in thickness
from 15 to 40 feet. The other is harder and closer in the grain,
and is from 10 to 20 feet thick. Between these veins there some-
times occur cavities, in which very beautiful crystals of carbonate
of lime and sulphate of barytes have been found.
The southern half of the parish contains some sandstone, be-
longing to the coal formation, which is spread over a large portion
of the county.
The more hilly parts present very evident proofs of the action
of a strong current, flowing from the west or southwest. On that
side of the differeDt rising grounds, the soil rests immediately on
the whinstone, and consists of decomposed rock and vegetable
mould. Wherever it is of suflicient thickness, it produces abun-
dantly all the different species of cultivated plants. On the east
and north, the whinstone is covered by a deposit of clayey till se-
veral feet in thickness. The soil in such places is more tenacious,
and generally less productive.
In the more level district, the coal strata are covered with a thick
bed of gravel and sand, apparently deposited by an extensive lake,
which had at some former period extended over the 11 Laigh of
3


