
                          EDINBURGH.                         631

About this time the King, with a view of cementing his nobility
more harmoniously together, and of compromising their many
quarrels and personal feuds, invited them to an entertainment in the
palace of Holyrood. From thence lie conducted them in, proces-
sion through the streets of the city, each hand in hand with his
new-made friend. A collation of wines and sweetmeats was pre-
pared at the public cross; and there they pledged each other in
mutual friendship. The populace, delighted with this spectacle,
and anticipating from it future peace and prosperity, joined in loud
and repeated acclamations.
In 1588, while the Spanish Armada threatened the shares of
Britain, the Scotch nation entered into a bond of union called the
Covenant, for the mutual protection of their liberties and religion,
and the defence of the King's person.  On this occasion the town-
council ordered 300 men to be raised for the defence of the city.
In 1592 the Presbyterian form of church government was es-
tablished by a solemn act of the Parliament; wherein the privi-
leges of, the Church and the supremacy of the King were attempt-
ed to be defined and limited. Yet lo vague seemed to be any
definition, or so imperfect its observance, that mutual jealousies
and disputes were continually arising.
In 1596 a clergyman from St Andrew's of the name of Black,
having in a public harangue denounced the King as an encourager
of the Popish lords lately recalled, was summoned for trial before
the privy-council. His cause was espoused by the other clergy,
and they were backed by the citizens of Edinburgh. The King,
incensed at their proceedings, issued a proclamition requiring the
standing council or commission of the Church, which bad been.
previously appointed to watch over their affairs, tobe dissolved,
and twenty-four of the principal citizens to leave the town within
six hours. Still farther to add to the general commotion, a letter,
said to be fictitious, was sent to one of the ministers, Bruce, cau-
tioning them to look to their safety, as Huntly, one of the returns
ed Popish lords, had, been in conference with the King the pre-
ceding night. A petition was forthwith drawn up, to be present-
ed to the King by two lords, two gentlemen, and two ministers,
On the day the petition was to be presented, the King happened
to com to the Court of Session, then sitting in the Tolbooth.
The King was in an upper room when he received the petitioners,
and Mr. Bruce, one of the ministers, acquainted him "that they
were sent by the noblemen and barons convened in the Little.


