
10			    FORFARSHIRE.

Gas Company, the town and neighbourhood are now supplied with
a cheap and beautiful light. The work is situate to the eastward
of the High Street, about a mile; and it sends out light both to
the north and westward, to the distance of more than two miles.
Not only are the lamps in the public streets supplied, but likewise
almost all the shops and spinning-mills, and a great proportion of
dwelling-houses.
	The prospect of another Gas Company, threatened to be formed
sometime ago, induced the proprietors in the orighn`l Company to
reduce considerably the price of their article. The concern is
understood to be profitable; and it has now partners in Perth,
Aberdeen, and London, and seems to work so well as to supersede
the necessity of any other like establishment.
	Royalty of the Town.--The privileges of the town of Dundee,
as a free and royal burgh, are of very ancient date. The place
appears to have enjoyed many immunities previous to the reign of
King William, who is supposed to have first erected it into a royal
burgh in 1210, before conferring the town on his brother, David
Earl of Huntingdon, and is reported to have granted all the privi-
leges to Dundee that had been bestowed on the most favoured
Royal Burghs.
	These rights appear to have been confirmed and enlarged by
many succeeding princes, in particular, by King James VI. in the
charter dated Holyroodhouse 1601, and finally by Charles I. in
1641.
	Civil Constitution of the Burgh.--According to this sett or con-
stitution, the town-council consisted of twenty persons, including
the magistrates, that is the provost and four bailies, who were elect-
ed yearly at Michaelmas, as also the dean of guild and treasurer;--
the nine deacons of the trades assembling in the Town-hall,
along with the members of the council, and proceeding to elect
the new council from leets or lists transmittdd them by the magis-
trates.
	The formation of the new council was thus almost entirely de-
pendent upon their predecessors; and although, to use the words
of Dr Small, it is due to "the honour of the magistrates to ac-
knowledge, that in many instances they exerted themselves with
laudable zeal and success in promoting the public good, yet a cor-
poration thus constituted, without a greater degree of intelligence
and public spirit than what falls to the lot of ordinary men, was
under strong inducement and temptations, to consider that as a fra-


