
                    WANDELL AND LAMMINGTOUNE.                   813

Be this as it may, it is allowed by all, that he became possessed
of the estate of Lammingtoune, and that, through relationship
with him, it soon after came into the family of Baillie,-as appears
by a charter of the lands of "Lambinstoun," granted in favour
of Sir William Bailie by King David II. of date 27th January
1367-68.
   Many highly respected names occur in the long list of this
honourable race. The chief of the family seems generally to have
enjoyed the favour of his sovereign, and, with but few exceptions,
uniformly bore the honour of knighthood, which in those times carried
along with it a much higher rank than it does at the presendt day.
William Baillie of Provand, cousin to the then proprietor of the estate,
was appointed to the benefice of Lammingtoune proper, in 1557, and
was the first incumbent of it after the Reformation.  At that pe-
riod, a certain proportion of the Lords of Council and Session were
chosen from among the clergy; and in 1566, the minister of Lam-
mingtoune was called to the Bench by the title of Lord Provand, and
subsequently was raised to the presidency fo the Supreme Court;
but, notwithstanding, continued to hold the cure of the parish till
his death in 1593.  About the middle of the seventeenth century,
the proprietor of the barony was also named Sir William Baillie.
He was a true churchman, and an elder in the kirk-session of his
own parish, whose meetings he very generally attended, and seems
to have taken an active part in providing for the wants of the poor,
and in the general business of the parish  He frequently re-
presented the presbytery of the bounds, as their ruling elder in the
General Assembly.  Being also a staunch monarchical man, he
engaged in the Royal cause in the troublous times immediately
preceding the martyrdom of the unfortunate Charles the First.
For this praiseworthy act of a loyal subject, the kirk-session,
either overawed by " the pressure from without" or in-
fluenced by a time-serving sycophancy, at their sederunt of the
" 25th January 1649," thought fit in their wisdom to " discharge
the Laird of Lammingtoun from being ane elder in the Session, for
his accession to the late unlawful engagement, qll he make satis-
faction;" and at a subsequent meeting they chose another member
of their body, " Archibald Baillie of Whitehill," as elder in room
of Sir William to the presbytery of Biggar, by whom, for the same
reason, he was in like manner returned as their ruling elder to the
General Assembly.
   The Rev. David Blinshall, ordained to this cure in 1708, live


