
                     PARISH OF CUPAR.

            PRESBYTERY OF CUPAR, SYNOD OF FIFE.

        THE REV. LAURENCE ADAMSON, D.D. FIRST MINISTER.

        THE REV. JOHN BIRRELL, A. M. SECOND MINISTER.


		I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.

   Name, Boundaries, &c.--THIS parish consists of the two parishes
of Cupar and St Michael of Tarvit, which were conjoined in the
beginning of the seventeenth century, in 1618,--the boundary of
separation betwixt them having been the small river of Eden, as it
then flowed. It is situated about the middle of the county or pe-
ninsula of Fife, and is nearly equidistant, about 10 miles, from New-
burgh, Ferry-Port-on-Craig, St Andrews, and Largo. It contains
the town of Cupar, which was made a royal burgh, invested with
extensive privileges and properties at an early period, and is de-
scribed by Cambden as "Burgus insignis." Though divested now,
by the liberality or prodigality of its rulers, of nearly all its extensive
properties, as a burgh Cupar enjoys still the privileges that are al-
lowed by the late Reform Act, and ranks as the county town of
Fife.
   The parish is of a very irregular form, and is much indented
by the parishes of Dairsie, Ceres, and Monimail. It measures
from east to west nearly 5 miles, and about the same from north
to south. Its surface is beautifully diversified by rising grounds,
and intersected by the river Eden and the Lady Burn, or St Mary's
Burn, which meet at an acute angle at the eastern extremity of the
town. It is bounded on the north and east by Dairsie and Kem-
back; on the south by Ceres; on the west by Cults and Monimail;
and on the north by Moonzie and Kilmany.
   Meteorology.--The climate of this parish is mild and salubrious.

<FOOTNOTE>Drawn up by the Rev. John Birrell, second minister of the parish.
          Having been a few years ago straighted, a small portion of St Michael's is situat-
ed to the north of the Eden, near the County-Hall.
          By, the ancient charters to the town of Cupar, preserved in the Register Office
in Edinburgh, whereof an authentic duplicate is deposited with the town clerk, the
magistrates possessed a much more extensive jurisdiction over the surrounding pa-
rishes than what is now or has been for a long time exercised.
    FIFE.                               A


