
72                     KINCARDINESHIRE.

on the hills behind Drumtochty. It runs through the bold and
romantic grounds on the west and south of Drumtochty Castle,
and at Auchinblae receives a small stream from the hills of Glen-
farquhar. From this it takes a south-easterly direction, passing
along the base of the beautifully wooded banks at the manse of For-
doun. At Fordoun House it turns in a south-westerly direction,
and ultimately enters the parish of Laurencekirk below Pittarrow.
The Bervie water also rises in the hills of Glenfarquhar, in this
parish. For a considerable distance, it runs in a south-easterly di-
rection, until it passes Glenbervie House, winding round the Knock
hill; it afterwards takes a south-west course to Leithfield; from
thence it runs in a south-east direction through the grounds and
plantations of Arbutbnott House, and falls into the sea at Bervie.
None of these streams are of great size; they are consequently of
little value as fishing streams. The Luther is thought to afford
good sport for the angler, but the trouts are small, seldom exceed-
ing six or eight inches in length. Salmon are occasionally got in
the Bervie, but it can only be considered as a trouting stream.
Both these streams, with the tributary burns, afford, however, ex-
cellent spawning-ground for the salmon, which are often found as
far up as the very base of the Grampians.
         Geology and Mineralogy. *--The geology of this parish may
illustrate that of many similarly situated along the southern decli-
vity of the Grampian range. It embraces two parts, a mountain-
ous and a level portion; the former extends to the summit of the
chain, which it skirts for a considerable distance; the latter forms
share of what is called the 'How' or valley of the Mearns,'
a remarkably level tract, extending for many miles in a direction
pretty nearly north-east and south-west. This how or valley is
to be considered rather as formed by contiguous parallel ranges
of bills (the Grampians and the low range of Garvock ex-
tended into Forfarshire, and forming the valley of Strathmore
by their continuation in the Sidlaw range,) than as an im-
mediate effect, either of elevating or excavating agency. Ac-
cordingly, we find the strata nearly horizontal, and, where expos-
ed, but little disturbed. These strata are of new red sandstone,
and remarkably follow the southern base of the Grampian chain
throughout a great part of its length, conducing to the formation
of some highly picturesque scenery. The upper strata are thin,
soft, and much variegated by white spots; the lower ones, which

<FOOTNOTE>Geological Notice by Professor Forbes of Edinburgh.



