
                PARISH OF LANGTON.

PRESBYTERY OF DUNSE, SYNOD OF MERSE AND TIVIOTDALE.

        THE REV. JOHN BROWN, D. D. MINISTER.


         I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name, Boundaries, &c.-THE name of this parish is derived
from the village of Langton or Lang-tun, which was probably so
called from its long straggling figure. It extended at one time
from the immediate neighbourhood of Langton House almost to
the eastern limits of the parish. But, as it interfered with some
improvements which Mr Gavin, a former proprietor, wished to in-
troduce, he offered to the inhabitants, on advantageous terms,
another situation about half a mile distant. They accepted his
offer,-removed in 1760,-and, in honour of its founder, named
the new village Gavinton.
   The figure of the parish is irregularly triangular, about 4 1/2 miles
in mean length, and 2 1/2 in breadth. It contains 11 1/4 square miles,
lying partly in the Merse and partly among the Lammermoors,
which, under the name of Langton-Edge, run from east to west.
Their height may be about 900 feet above the level of the sea.
Langton-Burn, almost the only stream in the parish, is so small
as scarcely to deserve notice. It runs eastward, and joins the
Blackadder. The air, like that of the surrounding district, has
always been reckoned pure, and the situation healthy.
   Botany.-That part of the parish which lies amont the Lam-
mermoors is almost completely covered with the heath and some of the
coarser grasses. By the sides of its streams, and in marshy situa-
tions, may be found Myosotis repens of Don, Veronica scutellata
with its flowers sometimes white, and the beautiful Sedum villosum.
Viola lutea grows sparingly on the hills; Saxifraga hirculus has
been lately discovered; and, for the last two summers, Hypnum
stramineum has been noticed in fruit in a boggy situation, which does
not seem to have been elsewhere observed. Its fruit is perfect in
June. Near Langton-Lees there is a small stream, the steep banks
of which are covered with natural wood. Its most interesting plants
                                  4

