
                      BALFRON.                             297

  Wages.--The rate of wages is from L.6 to L.12 and L.14 per
annum, according to age and other circumstances, the farm-
servants having, besides, the common allowance of milk and meal if
not resident in the house. Good dairy-maids have L.5 in the
half-year. A day-labourer's wages is 1s. 6d. a day in summer,
less in winter; a mason and carpenter's ate 2s. 6d. per day.
   Live-Stock.--The breed of sheep and cattle has been greatly
improved, particularly the latter, under the patronage of the Strath-
Endrick Agricultural Club, one of the oldest, and one of the best
district Associations with which we happen to be acquainted,
formed originally at the suggestion of His Grace the late Duke
of Montrose, who, as long as he lived, from the date of its for-
mation, took an active interest in its success. It is still warmly
patronized by the present Duke, and its members are landlords
and tenants connected with the western district of Stirlingshire and
Dumbarton; by whose liberal subscriptions, premiums to a very
great amount are annually distributed. Under their influence,
stock of all kinds, more particularly the dairy stock, is wonderfully
improved. For the dairy, the Ayrshire breed of cattle is generally
preferred. In this class, many of the farmers in this district have
been enabled successfully to compete with the most distinguished
breeders of the south.

                  V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

   In our village there is every convenience which bankers, bakers,
butchers, grocers, and haberdashers can supply, with a proportion-
al number of tailors, shoemakers, blacksmiths, and carpenters;
most of the shops are lighted with gas, an abundant supply of which
there is from the cotton-works.  Our chief intercourse is with
Glasgow; and daily is the communication by carriers, and by a
light and comfortable four-horse coach. The post arrives and de-
parts also every day. The length of the turnpike roads, within the
parish does not exceed four miles.
   Ecclesiastical State.--In 1832, it was found necesrary to rebuild
the parish church. In 1833 it was opened for public worship,
and is seated for 700. None of the seats are let. It is commo-
dious enough, and is in all respects built according to the inten-
tion of the resolution, "that no ornamental work be permitted,
and that every possible expense, consistent with the security of the
sitters, should be avoided." The expense of building and finishing
this fabric, including plans and specifications, was, in all, L.930.
The Earl of Kinnoul is patron of the living, as proprietor of an


