
  10                        ELGINSHIRE.

  with the church. An unseemly court-house and jail, a few yards
  to the westward of the church, prevent this fine portico from be-
  ing seen to advantage, but an act was passed last Session of Par-
  liament for their removal, so that this deformity to the church and
  to the street will soon be corrected. The vestry on the ground
  story of the tower communicates directly with the pulpit, which is
  placed about ten feet from the wall, by a small stair, and there is
  a stove for heating the church.  The interior arrangements of gal-
  leries and pews are most convenient, and a beautiful simplicity, well
  suited to the forms of Presbyterian worship, characterises the whole.
  It was opened for public worship in October 1828; and, includ-
  ing communion plate and a fund of L. 300 for repairs, cost the pro-
  prietors L. 8300.
     Grey's Hospital.-This also is a building of two stories, in the
  Grecian style of architecture, having on the front, which is to the
  east, a fine projecting portico of four Roman Doric columns, and
  entablature, rising to the same height as the walls of the building,
  and the centre crowned with a dome, which has been found fault
  with as too heavy. It stands on a rising ground at the west end
  of the town. and coming into view almost immediately after passing
  the church, it forms a very striking and beautiful termination to
  the High Street. A small lunatic asylum for paupers, containing
  ten cells and the necessary accommodation for keepers and servants,
  was built, 1834, by a voluntary assessment on the land-owners,
  amounting to L. 850. It is situated on the grounds of the hospi-
  tal to the westward. Some delay in opening it has been occasion-
  ed by the want of funds to provide furniture, and to erect appen-
  dages to the building absolutely necessary, though not included in
  the original plan and estimate. The Trinity Lodge Assembly Rooms,
  spacious and elegantly furnished; Sir Archibald Dunbar's town
  house; the Episcopal Chapel; the House of Westerton, are all of
  recent erection, but the limits of this report do not admit of their
  being fully described.

                         III.-POPULATION.
      If the returns of the population of the town and parish prior to
  the Government census be correct, it has fluctuated very consider-
  ably.

  <TABLE>

      in 1750, according to Dr Webster, the amount was    -    -       6306
         1793      -       Rev. John Grant  -      -                   4534
         1801      -       Government census       -    -              4345
         1811      -         Do.           -     -     -               4602
         1821      -         Do.                                       5308
         1831      -         Do.    males 2824, females 3306,          6130


