
326                ARGYLESHIRE.

bishops usually resided in Iona, and the great church belonging to,
the abbey served as the cathedral of the diocese. There has
been great diversity of opinion concerning the ancient Sodor from
which the bishops of the Isle of Man still derive their title, some
supposing that it was the name of a town there so late as the fif.
teenth century, and others that the town in Iona was the ancient
Sodor. It is now generally conceded that the foregoing account
is correct, according to Torffaeus, the Danish historian, and ex.
plained by Dr Macpherson.
  In the year 1507, John, Bishop of the Isles, and who was a
privy-councillor to King James IV., obtained the annexation of
the abbey of Iona to his see.
  We now come down to the Reformation. In 1561, the Con.
ventioii of Estates passed an act, at the desire of the Church,
for demolishing all the abbeys of monks and friars, and for sup-
pressing whatsoever monuments of idolatrie wdre remaining in the
realm," the execution whereof in the west was committed to the
Earls of Arran, Argyle, and Glencairn. The learning of ages
which had been treasured up in Iona, the records of nations, and
the valuable archives of remote antiquity, which had been safe there
under the fury of barbarians, now fell at once a sacrifice. Autho-
rized by this, and by an ill-judged decree of the synod of Argyle,
the zealous mob fell upon Iona, as the most valuable and venerat-
ed seat of the Popish clergy, and nothing escaped destruction, but
such parts of the building and such solid monuments as were proof
against the hands of'rage. Of three hundred and sixty crosses
said to have been standing, only three were left. Some were
thrown into the sea, many carried away, and to this day some are
to be seen as gravestones in every churchyard in Mull and the
surrounding islands. Pennant says, that the cross at Campbleton
was transported there from Iona. Spottiswoode writes, that " the
very sepulchres of the dead were not spared, but digged, ript up,
and sacrilegiously violated. Bibliothecks were destroyed,the volumes
of the fathers, counsells, and other books of human learning,
with the registers of the church cast into the streets, afterwards
gathered in heaps and consumed with fire."

<FOOTNOTE>Not a little has been written with respect to the library at Iona. Pennant says,
the public was greatly interested in the preservation of the- buildings at Iona, being
the repository of most of the ancient Scotch records ; aid that the library must
have been invaluable. According to Boethius, Fergus II. assisting Alaric the Goth
in the sacking of Rome, brought away, as share of the ]under, a chest of books,
which he presented. to the Monastery of Iona. And Aeneas Sylvius (afterwards


