
     of Dunfermline.

formerly healthy and invigorating liquor, from additional 
duty, and other causes, is now sadly degenerated, and be-
come so weak and insipid a beverage, that whisky is too
often substituted in its place.  The general use of whisky is 
arrived at an alarming height among many in the lower 
ranks of life.  This is a growing evil, and loudly demands
the serious and speedy attention of the Legislature*.

   Poor.-There is no legal assessment for the support of the
poor.  Few beg in the parish, but the indigent who receive
charity from different funds are numerous.  No vagrants 
have been permitted for some time past to ask alms in the 
borough.  The poor belonging for the sectaries are not admitted 
on the parish funds; the money collected at some of their 
meetings is not, it is said, wholly given to their poor, but
converted to the support of their ministers.  The number
of poor on the roll of the kirk-session is variable, but for

<FOOTNOTE>

*To furnish the people with good and cheap malt liquor by a reduction
of the duty, seems to be the most effectual method of preventing the ge-
neral and pernicious practice of using spirits.  It is unquestionably cri-
minal, and a direct by cach of moralty, to detraud the revenue; but many
seem to think that there is nothing very sinful in the practice.  If the in-
clination to evade taxes be too common, surely the opportunities and temp-
tations to smuggle ought to be as few as possible.  Were the duty taken
entirely off the ale, and laid wholly on the malt, this would not only pre-
vent the brewer from defrauding the revenue, but meliorate the quality of 
the ale.  In discussing this subject. "The only people," lays an intelli-
gent writer, "likely to suffer by the change of system here proposed, are 
those who brew for their own private use.  But the exemption which this 
superior rank of people at present enjoy, from very heavy taxes, which are 
paid by the poor labourer and artificer, is surely most unjust and unequal,
and ought to be taken away, even though this change was never to take
place.  It has probably been the interest of this superior order of people,
however, which has hitherto prevented a change of system that could not 
well fail to increase the revenue, and to relieve the people." Dr SMITH's
Wealth-of Nations, III 370.


