
142			STIRLINGSHIRE.


scriptions, being much of the nature of carse land. On the whole,
the light gravelly soil prevails, and, consequently, it is much better
adapted to the production of barley and green crop, than for
wheat or beans, &c.
  In the East Barony, there is a considerable line of ironstone, con-
sisting of strata from four to fourteen inches thick, separated from
each other by seams of clay or dalk, and subdivided by perpendi-
cular fissures into small square wedges from six inches to two feet,
which has been worked by the Carron Company for a considera-
ble time, and to whom the estate of Tomrawer, to the east of the
village of Banton, belongs, containing two tolerably good arable
farms. In the northern hilly part of both baronies, there are seams
of excellent coal at no great depth, the western approaching to the
nature of the best Newcastle coal, the eastern of a harder quality,
but also valuable, and now more difficult to work.
   The Garrel glen freestone quarry is of excellent quality, easily
wrought, of a fine whitish colour, and durable; not much inferior
to the famous Possil quarry near Glasgow. The water which flows
through this romantic glen, possesses the remarkable quality of
forming curious vegetable impressions upon the surface of freestone
pillars, vulgarly called coal-stalks, rising from the seam of coal like
trees from the surface of the earth. They have a close resem-
blance to petrifactions; and yet the substance is just freestone si-
milar to that of the surrounding rock. They, in some instances,
branch out into regular ramifications at top, as they almost always
do at bottom ; and these do most strikingly resemble trees of the
hawthorn, or elm species. Specimens are very easily met with.
In the garden of Colzium, and in the garden belonging to the
manse, there are to be seen, brought from the Garrel glen, remar-
kably good specimens of this curious incrustation or formation :
nay, so commonly are they to be met with, that, in several gardens
about the village, we find them set up by way of ornament.
  For the following very particular and accurate account of the
soil, and of the lime and ironstone of the parish, I am indebted
to the late Mr John Rennie, farmer at Currymire.
  The best of the soil is alluvial, which has been carried down
by the mountain stream, (particularly in 1733, as before noticed;)
it is incumbent upon moss, mud, or clay; it has been much improv-
ed, and is capable of still greater improvement by drainage, which,
being encouraged by the proprietor, will make the Vale of Kilsyth
                              3


