
290			KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

Mr Johnstone, who held the pastoral office in Lochrutton about
1682; Mr John Gillespie, curate, who died in 1682; Mr John
Willox, ejected at the Revolution; Mr John Reid, the first Pres-
byterian minister after the Revolution, who was ordained, in 1691,
and died in 1727, having held the ministerial office thirty-six years,
and Mr George Duncan, who was ordained in 1728, and died
in 1765, having held that office thirty-seven years. He was suc-
ceeded by his son, Mr George Duncan, the late minister, who was
ordained in 1766, and died in 1807.
	Education.--The parochial teacher has a salary of L. 30, with
a dwelling-house of the legal dimensions, and the intdrest of L.62,
14s. 2 1/2d. of mortified money. The school fees may amount to
L. 15 per annum. Though the parochial school be not incon-
veniently situated for the greater part of the population, there
is generally a small school kept in the most distant corner of the
parish for such children as cannot attend the parochial school, es-
pecially in the winter season. A very small sum was mortified for
this school by the Rev. Mr George Duncan, minister of this pa-
rish, and the late minister's father. There are none in the parish
who cannot read, and few who cannot write.
	Poor and Parochial Funds.--The annual amount of the funds for
the relief of the poor may be about L. 20,--out of which sum seven
persons receive a regular allowance, at an average of more than L.2
to each per annum. Six others receive aid occasionally from these
funds. The proportion of the poor to the whole population is as
1 to 50. None of the poor beg from door to door; but scarcely
a day passes, that the parish is not visited by vagrant poor from
neighbouring parishes, but chiefly from Ireland. The parochial
poor are unwilling to apply for aid, and refrain from doing so until
it becomes a matter of necessity. But it is thought that this dis-
inclination is not increasing among them.
	Alehouses.--There are four in the parish.
	Fuel,--The fuel commonly used is peat. There are several
mosses in the parish, from which the farmers are allowed the pri-
vilege of cutting what fuel they need, but not to sell any. There
is, however, one moss which is let to a tenant for fuel, who not only
cuts a great many peats himself for sale, but also lets a part of
it yearly to persons in the parish and neighbourhood for cutting
them. They are sold at from 2s. 6d. to 3s. a cart load.

	February 1841.


