
                          PERTH.                                    105


     stand in the same place, viz. at the east end of the building.  The
     first of the new altars was that of St Ninian, to whom I have now
     referred.  It was founded 14th August 1401 by Robert Brown,
     a burgess of Perth.  The whole length of the building is 207 feet.
       The most prominent part of the edifice is the square tower. It
     remains the same that it was originally, only that it has been `t
     some after period surmounted by a wooden erection of a pyrami-
     dical shape covered with lead, designated in an act of council in
     the year 1675, "the prikit of the steeple,"-an erection which is
     by no means in good keeping with the building.  The whole height
     is 155 feet.  It was repaired in the year now mentioned, and in
     1767 the pricket received a new covering of lead.  The magistracy
     under whose reign this work was done have their names perpetuat-
     ed upon it in alt.  It had anciently one dial or horologe on the
     north,-another was put on the south side in 1675.
       There was at one time in it a set of bells of celebrated power
     and tone.  Respecting them there is the following entry in the
     city records, of date 21st March 1652.

                 "Visitatioune about the Steepell and Bellis.
     Preaching Bell.
                 I. On the upper syde of the Bell without
                                 Meckle pearling is about.
                                  Pxx.
                    Joannes Baptisti Votar Ego
                       Vox clamantis in Deserto
                  Mecline Petrus Magheneus me formavit
                    Sit benedictu qui cuncta Creavit.
     147 zeiris old.              1506.
          II Commone Bell  This bell is in the diameter in wydnds wt.ne the
                           lippis I ell I quarter and ane half.
                Joannes Baptisti Votar
                Nos autem gloriari opportet in crucem domini
                    nostri Jesu Christi.
                   Anno Domini 1520.  This upmost on the head
                    Pearling on Ilk syd           of the Bell
                    Fact sum Meckline per Georgio Magheneus
                           Ego vox clamantis in deserto
                               Parata viam Domini
                       Stamps of John the Baptist on Ilk syd
              In middest Christ ryding on ane as colt and people crying.
                 III.  On the skelloche * littill Bell anno dom. 1400.
     253 zeirs old               253 zeirs old this bell is
                    IV. On the Curfew bell on legeabill letters old
                        character
              No date        onlie this read     pro nobis      on it twa crounes
                                                  clamare       and ane cross.
     V.
     Anno 1526               Seven houre Bellis without the steephill viz. on Bell for
                             the hair hor. and six for the haff hour.

   <FOOTNOTE> Skelloche, Northern Scots, a shrill cry or squall. Jam Scot. Dict, -Skellat, a
   small bell, a sort of iron rattle-lb.



