
44	                BANFFSHIRE.

principle. This engine was wholly made by the Messrs Fraser,
the proprietors. There are about 10 persons employed at this
establishment.
   The distillery is at Mill of Banff, about a mile from the town
on the Huntly road. From 11,000 to 12,000 gallons of spirits at
proof are produced here yearly. There are 6 or 8 persons em-
ployed-generally about fifteen hours a day.
   There is a small manufactory of ropes and sails for home use.
Ship-building is only carried on occasionally.
   A somewhat considerable thread and stocking manufactory, which
was carried on here at the time of the last Statistical Account,
was discontinued about twenty years ago. The proprietors enjoy-
ed a patent for a species of stocking-frame, but farther improve-
ments in machinery enabled the English manufacturers to under-
sell them. The thread manufactory was kept up for a consider-
ably longer period; but the increasing use of cotton instead of thread
was gradually lessening the demand for it.
                V.-PAROCHIIAL ECONOMY.
   Town.-The town of Banff consists of two parts, completely se-
parated, of which the first (which may be called the body of the
town) lies partly on the lower extremity of the plain on the river
side, already described, partly on the declivity; the other part (cal-
led the sea-town) on an elevated level, which generally terminates
abruptly within a small distance of the sea, by which it is bound-
ed. Seen from the low ground beyond the river, the sea-town ap-
pears to stand on a long ridge, having the battery at its northern
extremity. On a piece of table-land projecting midway from be-
tween the town and sea-town, stands the castle, nearly opposite the
river mouth, and commanding an extensive and varied prospect,
the sea, the town, and hill of Macduff, the sweep of the river and
beautiful opposite slope, surmounted by the wood of Mountcoffer.
The castle is a plain modern building with wings.
   The streets, though composed of houses of unequal size, are ge-
nerally straight, and not deficient in width. The High Street,
Castle Road, and a street in the sea-town terminating in the battery,
form a continuous line from south to north, of above half a-mile in
length. Within the last few years, many of the older houses have
been pulled down and replaced by others; and there is scarcely a
building now remaming which would indicate the antiquity of the
town.
   Some years ago it was proposed to form a new street to the south-


