
     of St Andrew's.

Land-marks, etc.-On the lands of Brownhills and Kin- 
kell, which form the first rising ground eastward from St An- 
drew's harbour, there are a few insulated rocks from 20 to 
40 feet high, and of nearly equals breadth; one about half 
a mile from the harbour, called the Maiden Stone, which 
stands alone; and about half a mile further, the Rock and
Spindle, adjoining to one another.  These are close upon 
the beach, above ordinary high water mark, and are of very 
little use as land-marks, because the closely adjacent land is 
much higher than they.  About a mile farther east, among the 
rocks of Boarhills, near to a creek where small vessels may 
enter and unload, is such another insulated rock, called 
Buddo, which is generally marked on sea-charts, because 
it is better seen at sea, the adjacent land being flat.  This 
rock is perforated by a kind of gateway, 4 or 5 feet wide. 

   The chief land-marks in this parish are the steeples of St
Andrew's and a small obelisk of stones, on the highest part of 
the farm of Bahymont, about 2 miles S. E. from the town*. 

   Minerals, Cases.-Freestone is often dug from the sea
rocks; but in general the texture of it is very open and 
porous, or it crumbles and dissolves when exposed to wa- 
ter or humid air, after the external incrustation is broken. 
On Strathkinness Moor, about 3 miles from town, and on 
Nydie Hill, which is a greater elevation of the same moor, 
to the westward, are excellent quarries of freestone for buil- 
ders, door-cheeks, windows, stairs, and grave-stones.  These 
quarries require very little tirring.  In some places the rock 
has no covering of earth.  Many marks of very old quar- 
ries.  It is supposed, that out of some of these were dug the 

     VOL. XIII. C c

<FOOTNOTE>

*There have occasionally been found on the shore some petrified sea- 
weeds and a few years ago, part of the trunk; at its division into two main 
branches, of what seems to be a petrified tree.  It was by the late Ho- 
nourable Colonel John Nairne, made the door-post of a grotto in a garden 
of this city, now belonging to Mr Erlkine of Cambo. 


