
             		KINNOULL.                         943

may let for about L.22. There is no grass glebe nor any allow-
ance for one.
   The present incumbent is in possession of an instrument of sei-
sin, dated 13th June 1726, giving infeftment in these acres to the
then incumbent, Mr Andrew Darling, for himself and his succes-
sors in office--rather a rare mode, it is believed, of making good
the title of a minister to his glebe lands. It follows on a contract
of excambion between George, Earl of Kinnoull, and Mr Dar-
ling, and contains a power of resiling, so soon as the minister or
his successor "shall complain of the quantity of his glebe, and
desire to have the same augmented."
   The stipend was in 1835 augmented to 124 bolls, 3 firlots, 3
pecks, 1/4 lippie of barley; 129 bolls, 3 firlots, 2 pecks, 1 3/4 lippie
of meal. L. 42, 10s. 2 1/1 1/2d Sterling; and L. 10 for communion
elements. A small part of the money stipend, which is laid on
the feuars of Bridgend, has hitherto been lost to the  present in-
cumbent, from the difficulty of apportioning it.
   The proportion of thd population belonging to the Establish-
ment, as given up to the Royal Commissioners in 1836, was stat-
ed to be about 2060; belonging to other denominations, 780;
not known to belong to any, 160. But in this last number were
included 91 patients in the Lunatic Asylum; and the remaining
69 included the children of those who were not members in any
church. The difference in the above proportions since that period
is so' trifling as to be scarcely perceptible.
   There are eight Episcopalians in the parish, and three Roman
Catholics.
   From the circumstance, before noticed, of so many of the pa-
rishioners having, for a period of half-a century, been accustomed
to seek accommodation for themselves and their families, in the
different places of worship in Perth, it can easily be understood
that the habit of resorting thither still continues with not a few;
and when it is farther considered that, within the last seven years,
two additional churches, connected with the Establishment, have
been reared there (while the population, both in Perth and in this
parish, has been rather on the decrease,) it is not, perhaps, to be
wondered at, if the same fluctuations in the attendance of parish-
ioners are observable here as in other localities similarly situat-
ed. The partial disruption of the parochial system, which such
concominantnt bauses tend gradualy to introduce, it is difficult to
abviate, and more especially where such a quantum of accommo-


