
                           KILMANY.	                 537

sionally during winter, by the woodcock. Immense flocks of
wild geese traverse the air and the fields in spring and autumn;
and in winter, when the weather is mild ; but from the open nature
of the country, few of them fall by the gun of the sportsman.
Wild ducks were at one time common; but they have, in a great
degree, retired before the agricultural improvements which have
taken place. A few of them are still occasionally seen abont
Kilmany mill-dam, and upon the Motray. The, same may be
said of the water hen, or common gallinule. The heron is seen;
but does not build in the parish. The yellow wagtail is also rare.
The ringdove produces in abundance, and for some years past
has become a nuisance to the farmer. In winter, they fly in flocks,
and during a storm, attack every thing green which appears above
the snow. They are particularly severe upon the turnip crops.
Many acres of this valuable root are annually severely damaged
by this destructive bird. Means should be employed by proprietors
and tenants to diminish their numbers. The lapwing appears
in March and April, and the corncrake's voice is beard during
the summer, from May to October. Both these birds disappear
before the winter. During a storm, or rather at the approach
of it, various species of gulls are seen in flocks on the fields, mixing
with the common crew. They appear upon these occasions to
feed on the worms turned up by the plough, and to devour whatever
grain or seeds come in their way.
    The Motray was once famous as a fishing stream. Its course
was not direct, nor its waters equally shallow, as they now are;
but at every turn, there were excellent pools or crannies, where
the finny race could harbour, feed, and grow to maturity. By
the improvements in agriculture, its character, in this respect, is
in a great degree lost. It now assumes the aspect of a large even
draim. As such, it has answered the excellent purposes for which
it was cast. It has converted a large tract of marshy ground into
rich and productive fields; but it has removed those corners and
holes, where trout, pike, and minnows delight to dwell. The
angler is now seldom seen on its banks; and when he does appear,
his labour and patience receive a very poor reward.
    There are no very rare species of animals found in, this neigh-
bourhood. The roe-deer was for a long time banished from this
part of the country, but of late has again made its appearance. A
much larger species of deer, sit one period must have existed in
this parish,and neighbourbood. This is evident from some fossil



