
                           EDINBURGH.                            749

offices too onerous, the managers, on his suggestion, recetly ap-
pointed a chaplain. A committee of ladies daily visit the female
inmates to read the scriptures, and converse with them on religious
subjects. Missionaries also Occasionally visit the work-house. The
whole inmates assemble morning and evening for divine worships.
   There was recently erected at the work-house a Funeratory, to
which the bodies of the poor who die in the work-house, and in
different parts of the parish, are removed previous to interment;
and from that house the funerals are conducted, and are generally
attended by relatives, and other friends of the deceased.
   The heritors purchased forty perpetual rights at L. 34 each,
amounting to L. 1360, for the admission of lunatic paupers into
the Royal Edinburgh Lunatic Asylum at Morningside, and are
entitled, by agreement, to have accommodation in that excellent
institution for all the lunatic paupers whom the parish may have
at any time to provide for, and that at the lowest rate of board,
which at present is L. 15 per annum. Accordingly, the male lu-
natics, eight in number, were transferred from the work-house to
the asylum, on the 23d March 1841; and the female lunatics,
twenty-five in number, on the 14th September 1842. The num-
ber of these patients has increased to sixty-five an the 30th June
1845.
   The out-door poor are paid once every month by the work-house
governor, who disburses all the money expended in the various
departments of the management, keeps a regular set of books, by
double entry, embracing accounts of his own transactions, and of
the intermissions of the collector of the assessment, and of all the
funds and expenditure of the parish, which are annually audited
by a professional accountant, unconnected with the Board of Ma-
nagement, who reports thereon to the statutory meeting of heri-
tors and kirk-session held in August annually.
   The kirk-session managed the affairs relating to the support of
the poor until August 1833, since which period the administration
thereof has been conducted by a Board of Management, consist-
ing of 120 heritors. This board, who meet quarterly, subdivide
themselves into six boards each having twenty members meeting-
monthly in different parts of the parish for the superintendence of
the out-door poor. They divide themselves also into the folllowing
committees: viz. 1. Committee on the internal Management of
the work-house. 2. Committee on Education. 3. Assessment
committee. 4. Finance Committee. 5. Out-pension Commit-
   EDINBURGH.                             3B


