
			FETTERESSO.                         251

appeared that one of the leg bones had been broken near the mid-
dle. An urn about six inches in depth, and 28 in circumference,
was found lying in the tomb, as if it had been folded in the arms
of the corpse. Upwards of a hundred jet beads were discovered
over the breast of the corpse, perhaps having formed ornaments
on the edge of the urn.
   It may be only farther noticed here, that, on the top of a rock
adjoining the sea at Cowie, there remain vestiges of a building,
generally called the castle of Cowie. It must have been but of
very limited dimensions, not fitted for the residence of the Thanes.
Most likely, it served only as a place of refuge in danger. There
are similar remains along the coast southward.
    Distinguished Families.--Many of the noble families* of Scotland
are descended from the Frasers, of whom notice has been taken.
The estate of Durris, the last property belonging to them in this coun-
try, afterbeing, for a considerable period, in the possession of the Mor-
daunts, Earls of Peterborough, came into the Gordon family, and
was excambed for lands in the upper district of Banffshire, which
are now the property of the Duchess Dowager of Richmond, as
heiress of entail to her brother, George, last Duke of Gordon.
   Family of Marischal.--The family of Marischal, the history of
which is well known, had their principal abode, for many genera-
tions, at Fetteresso. To this place James II. repaired, imme-
diately after landing at Peterhead, in the year 1715. From that
period may be dated the total downfal of a race, which had been
conspicuous in the annals of the country, from the time of Malcolm
II., who began his reign in 1104.
     About the year 1540, the family of Marischal was possessed of
the greatest landed estate in Scotland, the rental of it amounting to
270,000 merks, or L. 14,208, 6s. 8d. Sterling, and it was so situated,
that, in travelling from the north point of Caithness to the borders of
England, the Earl of Marischal could sleep (it has been said) every
night on his own property. In latter times, it became much em-
barrassed; wadsettidg, on every hand, almost close to the places of
residence, having prevailed. Many were in existence even down
to the time of sale by the York-Buildings Company in 1782.
   Family of Barclay of Ury.--Although the property of
Ury did not come into possession of the family of Barclay
until 1647, that family is of very long standing in the county
of Kincardine. In the foundation charter of the Abbey of

<FOOTNOTE>Wigton, Tweeddale, Hamilton, Gordon, and others.



