
               OATHLAW OR FINAVON.                   301

  Land-owners &c.-The estate of Finhaven has pasred out of
the family altogether. In the year 1635, we find a retour grant-
ed in favour of Lord Kinnoull, making over to him the whole of
the lands and barony of Finhaven. From a notice in the acts of the
Parliament of Scotland, of the year 1686, we find it at that time
in the possession of Sir James Carnegie, a branch of the North-
esk family. In the year 1728, James Carnegie, then Laird of Fin-
haven, was indicted for the murder of the Earl of Strathmore, and
as in this trial, through the manly confidence and overpowering
eloquence of Dundas of Arniston, counsel for the prisoner, jury-
men for the first time shook off their timidity, and emancipated
themselves from the intimidation then exercised by government,
I may be pardoned for mentioning the circumstances of the case.
On the 9th May 1728, the Earl of Strathmore, Mr Carnegie of
Finhaven, and Mr Lyon of Brigton, happened to be present at a
funeral in Forfar, and as in those days intemperance in drinking
was very common even on such occasions, these gentlemen with
some others had indulged rather freely in liquor before the inter-
ment, and after the ceremony adjourned to a tavern. Here Mr
Lyon of Brigton abused and insulted Carnegie with the most im-
pertinent language, and after coming, to the street, pushed him into
the kennel. On recovering himself, Carnegie drew his svord, with
the intention of taking immediate vengeance on the Laird of Brig-
ton, and was in the act of aiming a thrust at him, when the Earl of
Strathmore, stepping in between them, received the sword of Car-
negie in his body, and died in the course of forty-nine hours.
	Previous to this trial, the verdicts of jurymen had uniformly been
proven or notproven; but now they found Carnegie not guilty, by
a majority of twelve to three. This same James Carnegie, laird of
Finhaven, appears afterwards to have been out with Prince Charles
in 1745, and, notwithstanding these crimes, he kept possession of
the estate till his death. The last laird of this name died at Lisbon
in 1775, and the estate was purchased at a judicial sale in Edin-
burgh by the Earl of Aboyne, for the sum of L. 19,500. It was
sold by one of this family in 1805, to Mr Ford for L. 45,000.  It
was again purchased in 1815, by the present Earl of Aboyne, for
the sum of L. 65,000.
	Major Wilkie, H. E. I.  C. of Newbarns, being the only resi-
dent landed proprietor in the parish, may next be noticed. This
Property at one time belonged to the Honourable Thomas Lyon, a


