
     Statistical Account

that period constituted the parish,) were disjoined from the
parish of Ayton, and annexed to Mordington.  Lammerton
had originally been either a separate parish, or a chapel of
ease to Ayton.*  The building in which public worship
was performed still remains, and is now the burying place
of the family of Lamerton.  The writer of this article has
not been able to learn the etymology of Mordington.  Lam-
merton is probably derived from the French, la mer, expres-
sive of its situation, being immediately on the sea side,

   Surface and Soil.-On the South, towards the river Whit-
adder, the ground is flat, and rises by a gentle and gradual
ascent to the North, for more than half the length of the
parish; when it attains a very considerable elevation above
the level of the sea, to which the lands again gradually des-
cend on the east of this ridge.  For home space from the
Whitadder, the foil is a stiff clay, well adapted for wheat
and beans; from thence to the sea side, the land is a light
loam, on a rotten rocky bottom, which renders it excellent
for raising turnips and found for grazing sheep.  The most
elevated part of the ridge is thin and poor, though the great-

<FOOTNOTE>

*The church or chapel of LAMMERION; is noted to have been the place
where King JAMES IV. of Scotland was married to MARGARET, daughter
of Henry VII. of England, in the year 1503; which paved the way for the
happy Union, first, of the two Crowns, and afterwards of the two kingdoms.
Some alledge, that it was built on purpose for the celebration of that mar-
riage.  A tradition has long prevailed in this part of the country, that, on
count of the ceremony of his marriage having been performed in this chapel,
the King of Scotland granted to the clergyman of this parish and his suc-
cessors, in all time coming, the liberty of marrying people without proclamation
of banns.  It does not appear, however, from any of the histories of these
times, which the author has consulted, that there is any foundation for
tradition.


