
<APPENDIX>

General Appendix to

lent disregard, reminded them to apply in future to that tri-
bunal, to which alone with propriety application may be
made.*
   Mortified by disappointment, these gentlemen now con-
sider it as vain to address the legislature on any subject, or
in any form.  Weariness and disgust, say they, have stop-
ped the ears, and steeled the hearts, of the rulers of the land.
Petitions, recommended by the importance of the matter,
enforced by energy of composition, and supported by dignity
of signatures, have been presented, and disregarded.  What
reception then can be expected, where the petitioners and
the subject are equally unknown?  Truth there no doubt
is in this assertion, but it is involved in much exaggeration.
Many of those in power certainly possess regard for the wel-
fare of their country, that will not permit them to be fa-

<FOOTNOTE>

*Since the commencement of the present political serment, there has been
so much suspicion on the one side, and so much ambiguous design on the other,
that it seems very proper, nay, almost incumbent, on every man, when he has
occasion to mention the subject, to declare his sentiments in such a manner as
that they may not be misunderstood.  The present malcontents of Britain may
be divided into two great classes.  Of there, the first class, equally respectable
for their abilities and inoffensive deportment, are no upstart petitioners at the
bar of justice.  Their complaints have long been before the public; and though
zealous in their attempts to obtain redress, they have not overleaped the bounds
of temperance.  In the recent commotions, it has been their misfortune to be
confounded with the other party, and thus involved in unmerited disgrace, on
account of tenets and designs, which it is probable they never either encourag-
ed or avowed.
   Of the second class, we may warrantably say, with a late writer, that they
are generally 'men of weak heads, bad heart, or ruined fortunes.'  Neither
understanding the nature, nor relishing the blessings of true freedom, they seiz-
ed the crisis of the French Revolution as a favourable opportunity to impel
their countrymen to desperate deeds, and thus to acquire an unnatural impor-
tance by the indiscriminate subversion of every thing that was sanctioned by
experience or antiquity.  Never could the forcible language of the Roman his-
torian be more justly applied, than to there revolutionists.  'Falso libertatis vo-
'cabulum ab us usurpatum, qui privatim degeneres, in publicum exitiosi, nihil
'spei nifi per discordiam habeant.'  TACITUS.


