
     of Ecclesgreig, or St. Cyrus.

   Laurieston.-On the side of the Den of Laurieston stands
the ancient castle.  It was erected in the 10th or 11th cen-
tury+.  It was formerly surrounded with a deep moat; and

<FOOTNOTE>

with a high hand.  He of course became obnoxious to the gentlemen of the coun-
ty, who complained of his conduct to the king then reigning, who, it is said, was
James I. of Scotland.  Barclay of Mathers, in particular, made frequent and repeat-
ed complaints; tired of which, in a moment of unguarded impatience, the King
said to him, "Sorrow gif he were solden and supped in brie."  As your Majesty
pleases, replied Barclay, who instantly withdrew from the royal presence, and
coming home in haste, convened the gentlemen of the county, who were as
much dissatisfied with the conduct of the sheriff, as he was himself.  Having met
in close cabal, they agreed to adhere literally to the King's words, and to make
the innocent, but unguarded expressions of royal impatience, a pretext for destroy.
ing the sheriff.  In order to accomplish their plan, in a manner the least likely
to create suspicion in the mind of Melville, or put him on his guard, they agreed
to have a hunting party on the forest of Garvock, and invited him to make
one of their number.  In the midst of the hunting ground, a fire was by their
direction kindled, and a caldron full of water boiled upon it.  In the midst of
their sport, they rushed with fatal design to this memorable spot, seized the un-
suspecting sheriff, stripped him naked, and threw him into the boiling caldron.
After he was boiled for some time, or sodden, according to the King's expression,
they took each a spoonful of the sup; so after he was sodden, they supped him in brie.
When the King heard of this tragical event, he was highly incensed against the
gentlemen of the Mearns, and particularly against BARCLAY, WISHART, and
ARBUTHNOTT, who were the active and leading men in this horrid busi-
ness.  To screen himself from royal vengeance, Barclay built the Kame of
Mathers, where in those days he must have been very secure.  So tradition re-
ports the story, and many firmly believe it.  Indeed, compared with the civi-
lized and gentle manners of our days, those of our forefathers, in every part of
Scotland, were rude and barbarous.  From the natural aversion which we have
to every species of inhumanity and cruelty, a tragic tale of this sort appears
scarcely credible.  It is affirmed, however, that there is extant, amongst the
papers of Arbuthnott, a royal pardon to the Laird of Arbuthnott, for being art
and part in that murder; and the ground of this pardon was "because he is
"within the tenth degree of kindred to M'DUFF Thane of Fife!"

+In the reign of King DAVID II., in the year 1336, it fell into the hands of


