
86                   LANARKSHIRE.

been called by agriculturists, was followed here for a course of
years, and is in some cases still retained, but it has been found by
our experienced farmers far too severe, and has been given up.
The introduction of bone dust for raising turnip forms a new era
in the history of the agriculture of this district, and promises to
be of essential consequence to the farmer.  It was introduced on-
ly about five years ago by one of our oldest and most enterprising
farmers, and there is hardly any one of capital on this south side
of the parish who does not use it.  The turnips raised by it are ge-
nerally ate off by sheep, and thus, while the sheep pay well, the
field is left in the very best order for barley, with grass seeds.  By
the use of it, too, the manure made at the steading by the cattle
fed there, and the cows kept, which are both numerous, can be
applied to other grounds, or the farmer is enabled to extend his
quantity of green crop.  The bone dust has been confined here
chiefly to the raising of turnip; but Sir Norman Macdonald
Lockhart, Bart. when factor on the estate of Carnwath, applied
it to top-dressing, and with every promise of success.  A very dif-
ferent mode of culture is followed in the northern part of the pa-
rish.  Oats are chiefly raised; and only as many turnips as will
keep a few cows giving milk through the winter, while the quan-
tity of potatoes is generally restricted to what is necessary for fa-
mily use.  This is caused by the nature of the soil, which is ge-
rally a wet clay, lying on a close bottom of till.  Some most suc-
cessful attempts have been made, however, of late to introduce a
much greater extent of green crop into this part of the parish ;
and in a few years as great a change may be expected on the
clayey, as has already been made on the mossy grounds.
   The latter, however, have occupied the chief attention of the
farmer in this quarter for a number of years back; and I may
state, that within the last thirty years there has been taken out of
moss, and brought into crop, from 800 to 1000 acres.  The greater
part of this ground was unproductive, being saturated with mois-
ture, and incapable of being pastured.  Where any thing like grass
was produced, it was generally cut in the month of August, and
converted into a kind of meadow hay, but of so coarse a kind that it
was of little use, except for litter.  In places, however, where this
used to he the only produce, we have now most luxuriant crops of
oats and hay, and even of rich pasture.  The mode followed in
operating this wonderful change has generally been the following:
The field is first laid dry, dug, limed, and dunged, and two crops
of oats taken.  It is then sown down with rye-grass, Yorkshire


