
                           DRUMOAK.                          879

the river, become superior in quality to those which remain in the
loch, the pureness of the water and greater abundance of food
making them whiter, firmer, and more delicate; those which ave-
rage from two to three pounds are esteemed the best.  In the
Dee, all the kinds already mentioned occur more or less frequently;
also par, sea-trout (Salmo trutta), white trout or phinoc (Salmo,
albus), and flounder.  But the fish for which it has long and justly
been celebrated is salmon (Salmo salar).  They formed, in ancient
times, the principal article of exports from Aberdeen, and were
esteemed of so superior a quality, that a small barrel of them
formed part of the provisions of the ship, which was sent in 1290,
to bring over the infant Queen of Scotland from Norway.  Al-
though less abundant now than formerly, they still retain their
character for excellence, and generally bring the highest price
both in the home and foreign markets.  They ascend the river
heavy with spawn about the end of September, and are found re-
turning to the sea until the close of February.  The state of the
salmon-fishings here, and the cause of their unproductiveness, will
be noticed afterwards.
   Botany.-As the soil of this parish is generally of inferior qua-
lity, and none of its surface much elevated, a great variety in its
botanical productions cannot be expected.  The Dee, however,
enriches its flora with many beautiful specimens of alpine species;
a considerable number of aquatics are furnished by the loch of
Drum ; and a few plants, of rather rare occurrence, have been
observed in other localities.  It would be useless to particularize
many of the more interesting species, such as

<TABLE>
Utricularia intermedia      Nymphaea alba        Goodyera repens
Arundo epigejos             Nuphar lutea         Osmunda regalis
Poa aquatica                Origanum vulgare     Piluluria giobulifera
Potamogeton heterophyllum   Clinopodium vulgare  Equisetum fluviatile, &c-
Pyrola minor                Subularia aquatica
Peplis portula              Hieracium subaundum

as they have already been noted, and their localities indicated by
Mr Dickie in his Flora Abredonensis, and by the late Dr Murray
in his Northern Flora.  But the following plants, to which these
writers have assigned no habitat in this parish, may be mentioned
with propriety, as they are either rare in Scotland, or of infrequent
occurrence in the surrounding district.

<TABLE>
Galium, boreale, near old church.             Hedera helix, rock near the manse.
Primula veris } *                             Ligusticum meum, near Park House.
P. elatior    }      Do.                      Statice armeria,       Do,

<FOOTNOTE>These plants were also gathered, by the writer, a good many years ago, on an
inch in the river opposite Bieldside; and in a field upon that property, he found,
about the same time, the rare and beautiful Verbascum thapsus.


