
                       LAURENCEKIRK.                      147

Lord Gardenstone having obtained funds, to which he himself
largely contributed, for building an Episcopalian chapel in the
village of Laurencekirk, he attached to the lands of Johnston
the burden of upholding the building,--of paying to the minister
of the chapel (who is presented by the proprietor of Johnston)
L.40 and 40 bolls of meal annually,--and of maintaining a house
for him. He likewise assigned a garden and three acres of ground
to the minister, who draws nothing from the congregation, which is
by no means numerous.  There had formerly been an Episcopa-
lian chapel near the village or Kirktown, on the south-east side of
it, of which the remains are remembered by persons yet alive; but
it is not known when it was discontinued.  There were also two
small chapels about three or four miles distant from the vil-
lage to the east and west, of which one was within this parish.
These were used for some time after the Laurencekirk chapel was
opened, but it is now many years since they were taken down.
There are 159 persons in this parish connected with the chapel,
(according to the census of 1835,) viz. 85 adults and 74 children.
	There is also a Berean meeting-house in the village, in which
divine service is performed by a person, who follows a mechanical
profession, who resides in the parish of Fettercairn, and officiates
also there. It is attended by very few persons, the individuals of
the Berean connection in this district being but scattered remains
and descendants of the followers of Barclay, by whom the sect was
founded in 1773. In this parish there are only 17 Bereans, all
persons of advanced years, except 7, who compose one family.
There is no other dissenting place of worship. The only other
Dissenters are 13 Independents, (two families and two single indi-
viduals,) who attend at Sauchieburn, in the parish of Marykirk;
9 Associate Synod Seceders, (7 adults and 2 children,) who ge-
nerally attend at Luthermuir, in the same parish; and I Glassite.
	The average number of persons communicating at the dispen-
sation of the Lord's supper, in the Established Church, is about
880: the actual number of communicants in the parish (accord-

<FOOTNOTE>et animarum cura in eadem et illi imminens nullatenus negligatur sod per vicarium
pensionarium jam formn institutum et in futurum per nos et successores nostros Sti
Andrea Archidpincepos pro tempore instituendum que de fructibus dictes paro-
chialis ecclesias unite sufficientem portionem pro sua annua sustentatione una cum
mansione et horto habeat percipiat et possideat juxta fortnam et tenorem statutorum
at decretorium tam provincialis quam synodalia conciliorum per nos novissime cele-
bestorum editorum et promulgatorum in divinie debite deserviatur et ejusdem con-
grae supportetur onera consueta," &c.


