
80                      PEEBLES-SHIRE.

the united streams throw themselves into the Tweed opposite the
spacious and fertile haugh of Drummelzier.  Here all the streams
of the three parishes are united, and the scene may, with propriety,
be styled "the meeting of the waters."
  Geology.--Ratshill, a singularly formed eminence near the village
of Broughton, is composed of hard loose stones of a slaty appear-
ance, a species of trap of tuffa, excellently adapted ot the Macad-
amizing of highways.  Attempts have been made to find coal in
Broughton, Glenholm, and Kilbucho, without success; the pre-
vailing rocks here being those of the transition class, coal was
scarcely to be expected.  The general character of the soil in
this united parish is moss, clay, loam, with a considerable pro-
portion of alluvial deposition.  Beautiful pebbles are frequently
found on the north side of Biggar water, but on the south side not
a single specimen has ever been discovered.  Porphyry and jasper
in small masses are abundant; and gray whin or puddingstone in
detached pieces is of frequent occurrence.
   Soil.--The vales through which the streams already-mentioned
flow are at the upper end generally of a mossy or coarse grassy
character, but where they spread out at the lower ends into hohn
or haugh land, the soil is deep, rich, and adapted to any species
of crop.
   At the junction of Biggar water with Broughton burn, the soil
rivals th`t of the finest carse lands, and where the Capolm meets
these united streams, the alluvial deposits render the ground exceed-
ingly fruitful.  They require no manure, but yield the same white
crops for five or six years successively, and these are in danger of
lodging from their exuberant growth.  But for their liability to
be overflowed by the swellings of Biggar water, the fields would
make an ample return of green crops.  The potatoes have some-
times materially suffered from the inundations; and early frosts
have proved fatal to the pease, as well as the potatoes.
   Meteorology.--In winter, the thermometer varies from below
zero to 40&deg;, and in summer from 50&deg; to 90&deg;, and the barometer
takes the whole range from 28&deg; to 31&deg;, or from great storm to very
dry.  The clouds assume every variety of shape, colour, and ap-
pearance.  In the mornings, the valleys `re often covered with a
thick fog, which gradually ascends the hills, and is often the pre-
lude to a hot sultry day.  When the mist forms first on the hill
tops, and descends towards the valleys, it prognosticates rain; when
the clouds rise gradually around the horizon, and move towards the


