
98                       ARGYLESHIRE.


ness, stand the remains of the prieses humble dwelling. It was a
thatched house and built with dry stone. It is said to have been
afterwards, occupied for some time by the proprietor. It is a
sweet secluded and romantic spot, fit place for the exercise of
meditation and prayer.
   A green spot near the top of Creaggan Chaorach, is pointed out
as a place,where once stood a chapel or oratory. No remains of
it are to be seen. Tradition alleges, that a bold attempt was
once made to throw a bridge across Lochawe, a little to the north
of Cladicb. On the south side of the lake, on the farm of Baran-
dryan, huge blocks of stone may, in a clear and calm day, be traced
into the lake to a, considerable distance, placed, it is said, at regu-
lar distances. These stones and cairns, the foundation on which the
intended bridge was to have rested, constitute the sole remains and
monument of this formidable undertaking. These remains are
called the Druid's bridge.
   A cairn of stones was opened, some years ago, on the farm of
Stranmilchan, in which was found a stone coffin containing an urn.
   Modern Buildings.--The modern buildings in the parish of
Glenurchy are the church and manse, the miln and kiln; and in
Inishail parish, the family mansions of Rockhill, Inishdrynich,
and New Inverawe.

                     III.-POPULATION.
   The census taken by Dr Webster in 1755, and by Dr M'ln-
tyre forty years later, differ exceedingly little, if the former, like
the latter, excluded the district of Ichrachan from his census, there
is only a difference of 60 between them.
   A great and rapid decrease has, however, taken place since.
This decrease is mainly attributable to the introduction of sheep,
and the absorption of small into large tenements. The abori-
ginal population of the parish of Glenurchy (not of Inishail)
has been nearly supplanted by adventurers from the neigbbouring
district of Breadalbane, who now occupy the far largest share of
the parish. There are a few, and only a few shoots, from the
stems that supplied the ancient population. Some clans, who
were rather numerous and powerful, have disappeared altoge-
ther; others, viz. the Downies, M'Nabs, M'Nicols, and Fletcbers,
have nearly ceased to exist. The M'Gregors, at one time lords of
tbe,soil, have totally disappeared not one of the name is to be
found among the  population. The M'Intyres, at one time ex-
tremely numerous, are likewise greatly reduced.


