
164                       RENFREWSHIRE.

in winter, T. minuta, have been killed in the parish.  The Scolo-
pax gallinago and gallinula are sometimes observed, as also S. rus-
ticola.  The Vanellus cristatus, Squatarola cinerea, Charadrius
pluvialis and morinellus, are all regular summer visitors.  From the
proximity of the parish to the Frith of Clyde, several aquatic birds
are occasionally seen, especially in stormy weather and during win-
ter ; such as Anas Boschas, crecca, and penelope, Clangula vulga-
ris, Larus canus, argentatus, fuscus, ridibundus, and rissa; Cata-
ractes vulgaris, Puffinus Anglorum, Sterno hirundo, Alca torda.
   The fishes commonly met with in the Black and White Cart
consist of the Petromyzon fluviatilis, Salmo salar, fario, and trut-
ta; occasionally Osmerus eperlanus, Thymallus vulgaris, and the
small fry of Clupea harengus.  The Esox lucius, Leuciscus rutilus
and phoxinus, Pagrus vulgaris, Perca fluviatilis, Platessa Flesus,
Anguilla vulgaris, Gasterosteus aculeatus, and, not unfrequently,
the Cobitis barbatula, are all indigenous.
   The following land shells are to be found in the parish in win-
ter, under the rubbish of old quarries and turf-capped walls, and
in the fir plantations on the Gleniffer hills, viz. Helix aspersa, ne-
moralis, hortensis, arbustorum, nitida, and rufescens, Vitrina pel-
lucida, Bulimus lumbricus, Pupa muscorum and bidentata, Cary-
chium minimum, and Balea perversa.  In White Cart and Pais-
ley canal, the Anodonta anatina is very abundant, and of large size,
and occasionally contains well-formed pearls.  The Lymnea palus-
tris, limosa, and fossaria, and, more rarely, the Ancylus fluviatilis
and Planorbis carinatus are to be found in streams of running water,
as the Gleniffer burn: the Physa fontinalis is now very rare.
   In the lower strata of the blue clay which abounds in the lower
part of the parish, the following sea-shells occur, enveloped in a
seft muddy clay, viz. univalves, Turbo littoreus and rudis, Nerita
littoralis and glaucina, Fusus corneus and antiquus, also two spe-
cies of Buccinum, not now inhabiting the adjoining seas; toge-
ther with numerous fragments of Patellae, Balani, Corallines, and
Serpulae.  The Bivalves consist of Cyprina Islandica of all sizes,
Mya arenaria and truncata, Mactra lutraria, Mytilus edulis and
mediola, Nucula minuta, and numerous remains of Pectens, Tel-
lonae, and Lucinae.
   In the limestone and shale found in the parish, the following
shells and eauvia occur: Terebratula sacculus, ambigua, and cru-
mena, Productus longispinus and  Martinii, Gryphaea incurva, Nu-
cula attennata, Unio Urii, Pedunculata mytilloides, with many
Entrochi, and, rarely, fragments of Ammonites and Orthocerites.


