
     Statistical Account

   Roads and Canals.-All the great roads leading to the city
of Glasgow, except by the two bridges on the S. side, pass
through this parish.  They are all kept in good order; but
on the N. side of the city they have been originally formed
upon a most improper plan, being carried over the top of
every hill, instead of being led about the side, which would
have been as short, and nearly level.  The Great Canal be-

<FOOTNOTE>

dious place of worship will be provided for the inhabitants.  It is proper to
mention, that by the care of the elders in the distribution, no assessment has
ever been laid on the heritors, to a greater extent, than the sum stated above;
and some years no assessment has been required.  Before any person or family
is admitted to receive any sessional charity, a strict examination is made into
their employment, state of health, circumstances and earnings, all of which
are distinctly entered into a book kept for the purpose, and to which recourse
is had at any time, that the charity may be economically and properly distri-
buted.  The sums given by the session, are, in many cases, very inadequate to
the necessities of particular persons; when this is the case, private contributions
are made among their neighbours to supply the deficiency, and a great deal of
money is annually raised in this manner, which is always bestowed at the sight
of the elder of the portion.  Besides this, there are many charitable socie-
ties established in the parish, which afford much relief to tradesmen and la-
bourers when laid aside from work by sickness.  In general, the members, when
in health, besides their first entry-money, pay a certain small sum quarterly into
the funds of the society, for which they are entitled to a weekly provision in
sickness; funeral expenses also are allowed, in case of death, and some of them
also give a certain allowance to the widow.  Many tradesmen are members of
several of these societies at the same time; so that in sickness, they are better
provided for than in health.  These societies are of much advantage; because
in this way, youth and health make a provision for old age and sickness.  They
are also friendly to the morals of the members, because riotous, disorderly per-
sons forfeit their right in the society, and, in general, they are cut off from any
support in diseases evidently brought on by intemperance and vice.  Of there
societies, there are 16 in the parish.  Some of them distribute annually from
7 L. to 20 L., and one of them distributes from 45 L. to 50 L.  In general, the mem-
bers receive from 4 s. to 5 s. a-week, when confined to bed, and 2 s. or 3 s. when
able to go about, but not to work.  One society also, besides defraying funeral
charges, gives to the widow 10 s. yearly, for the education of any children un-
der 10 years of age.


