
16                        CAITHNESS-SHIRE.


freestone are found in different of the parish.  And shell
marl is dug up in large quantities in Dunreay and Brawbin, which
is of no small advantage to the adjoining lands.
     In the Caithness division of the parish, the soil is fertile.  To-
wards the sea coast, about Borrowston and Dunreay, the soil is
clayey, incumbent on a gray freestone and bluish slate, and very
tenacious of moisture, but sandy about Reay and Sandside.
     In the Sutherland division, the soil is composed of dark earth
mixed with crystally sand, and yields good crops when proper-
ly cultivated.
     Zoology.--Of the animals found in the parish, the rarer are, deer,
roebucks, badgers, foxes, otters, goats, and polecats.  The birds
are, eagles, cormorants, marrots, kingfishers, herons, swans, wood-
cocks, blackcocks, moorfowl, &c.
     Formerly in the spring season, large flocks of a small bird of the
sparrow kind used to appear; but for some years past, they have
not been seen.  The rivers abound with salmon, grilse, trout, and
eels, as also flounders.  Lobsters are plentiful on the coast.
     Trees.--There are neither forests not plantations in the pa-
rish, except a few natural birches in strathalladale.  The soil
seems to be nowise congenial to their growth.  A green hill to the
east of the manse, named Koltag, produces different plants adapt-
ed for medicinal purposes.
                     II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
     Tradition relates that, at the time when the Danes overran
these northern parts, a son of a Danish prince, named Alluva,
was slain, and interred at a place in Straballadale, called after
his name Dalalluva, and that another Danish prince, named Far-
quhar, was interred at Brubster, in  a place to this day denominated
Clashna  Farquhar.
     Eminent Men.--Under this head falls to be noticed the late
Rev. David Mackay, who was minister of the parish upwards of
half a century.  In early life, he felt the power of divine truth on
his soul, and as he advanced in years, he progressively realized the
sweet influence of the Gospel, imparting light, purity, and peace
to the heart, and sanctity and consistency to the life.  Amid the
varied trials he was called to bear during a life of eighty-four, and
a ministry of more than fifty-one years, the word of God was his
support.  He cultivated with assiduity an acquaintance with those
literary and scientific subjects that tend to render the minister of the
                                  3






