
                                KINFAUNS.                       1213

	and was ever after his faithful friend, and aiding in his ex-
	ploits.  Upon that hero's being betrayed, and carried to Eng-
	land, Sir Thomas Charteris retired to Lochmaben, where he re-
	mained till Robert Bruce began to assert his right to the erown
	of Scotland.  He joined Bruce; and was, if we may believe
	Adamson, who refers to Barbour, the first who followed that king
	into the water, at the taking of Perth, January 8, 1318.
	   Bruce rewarded his bravery, by giving him lands in the neigh-
	bourbood of Perth, which appear to have been those of Kinfauns,
	and which continued in the family of Charteris for many yearr.
	   About ninety years ago, upon opening the burying vault under
	the aisle of the church of Kinfauns, erected by this family, there
	was found a head piece, or kind of helmet, made of several folds of
	linen, or some strong stuff, painted over with broad strips of blue
	and white ; which seems to have been part of the fictitious armour,
	wherein the body of Thomas Longueville, or Chatteris, had been
	deposited.
	   The estate of Kinfauns afterwards belonged to a gentleman of
	the name of Carnegie, of the Northesk family; from whem it
	passed to that of Blair, whose heiress was married to John Lord
	Gray, grandfather of the present Lord.
	   There is also in the house of Kinfauns, which stands on an ele-
	vated situation, overlooking the Tay, an iron flag or vase, 2 feet
	long and 1 foot broad, turning upon a staff of the same metal, 8
	feet high.  It has the date, 1688, cut in the middle, and was
	wont to be placed on the top of the castle. This was a mark, or
	badge, of an heritable office, or power of admiralty over the river,
	annexed to the estate of Kinfauns, for preserving the fishing, and
	punishing all trespasses committed in destroying the salmon.  In
	a charter under the great seal, in the year 1671, the old jurisdic-
	tion is explained and confirmed; and, according to the tradition
	of the country, it was acknowledged by all vessels passing in the
	Tay, by a salute, or lowering of their colours to the castle.  This
	power extends from Drumlie Sands below Dundee to the heart of
	the river, and entitles the family of Kinfauns to a salmon, annu-
	ally, out of every fishing boat on the Tay.
	   There is an old house, still standing, on the estate of Glendoich,
	near the east and of the parish, in which the Pretender, Prince
	Charles Edward Stuart, as said to have passed a night after his
	defeat at Callenden.  This house was at the time in the occupancy
	of Lord Goerge Murray; but how his Losdshilp care to reside


