
			SORBIE.      			    29

Comyn, the Earl of Buchan, as one of the heirs parcessers of the
Lords of Galloway. The same author father informs us,* that
in l292, John Comyn, the Earl of Buchan, obtained from Edward L
a license to dig in the ruins of the Calf of Man, for lead, to cover eigth
towers of his castle of Cruggleton, in Galloway; that John Comyn
was afterwards totally defeated by King Robert Bruce, who seiz-
ed his estates and castles; and that the castle of Cruggleton was
involved in the ruin of his family. It existed as a ruin before the
year 1684. The castle is now  on the estate of Sir Andrew Ag-
new of Lochnaw, Bart.
	The old Castle of Eggerness stood upon a bold part of the coart,
on a head-land of the same name, and must have been a place of
considerable strength. Scarcely any vestige of it now remains,
except a part of the fosse, and its history is involved in entire ob-
scurity.
	The old place or tower of Sorbie is a beautiful ruin, surround-
ed by wood, and situated about three quarters of a mile from the
parish church. It appears to have been a place of strength.
There are the remains of a fosse on the eastern side, where the
land is rising; but from the nature of the ground on every other
side, we think its chief defence must have been formed by a sheet
of water. The Hannays possessed this estate and Castle of Sor-
bie, together with other lands in Wigtonshire, in the reign of
James IV., and continued here during the seventeenth century.+
The estate of Sorbie now belongs to the Earl of Galloway.
	Modern Edifices.--The only modern edifice in Sorbie worthy
of particular notice is Galloway House, the seat of the Earl of
Galloway, which was built about seventy or eighty years ago. We
quote the following account of it from the Old Statistical Account.
"Galloway House forms part of a landscape truly beautiful and
grand. Garlieston Bay is on the north, and Rigg Bay is on the
south of it. From its windows are seen the richest fields; an in-
dented coast, adorned with growing improvements; a cluster of
isles, and the lofty mountainr of Cumberland and Man, appearing
at a proper distance. The principal rooms are spacious, and the
library is stored with many thousand valuable volumes."
	The houses of the villages are in general well built. There are
three mills in the parish. The materials, generally employed in
building are whinstone (of which Sorbie furnishes an abundant sup-
ply), and American pine, which is annually imported.

<FOOTNOTE>Caledonia, Vol. iii, p. 372.          + Ibid. p. 389,


