
     of Inverness.

The water, notwithstanding, when taken out of the lake
or river, freezes as soon as any other; and when the de-
gree of cold is extreme, even the agitation of the water in
carrying it to distant parts of the town, does not hin-
der its freezing by the way.  The water is soft, has no mi-
neral taste, and easily bears soap, and yet is believed to be
impregnated with some mineral substance, for it proves lax-
ative to persons who are not in the use of drinking it.  This
effect it has on horses.  Travellers or their servants are there-
fore invariably directed by innkeepers to another stream to
water their horses.  The water, however, has no more ef-
fect on animals in the use of drinking it than any other
water.  We have not heard that it was attempted to in-
vestigate and ascertain, by chymical analysis, the compo-
nent parts of the Ness water*.  The lake is navigated by

<UNREADABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

* The not freezing of Lochness has been ascribed by some to many
fountains supposed to be in the lake, and by others to hot springs; but
by Sir John Pringle (on the Diseases of the Army) to the great depth
of the lake, Count Ma???  observing that the sea, from 6 to 120 fathoms,
is of the same degree of heat from December to the beginning of April.
Now, says Sir John, it is reasonable to believe, that the great depths in
fresh water, will be little more affected than those of the sea with the
heat and coldness of the air, and therefore that the surface of Lochness
may be kept from freezing, by the vast body of water underneath, of a
degree of heat considerably greater than the freezing point.  Another cir-
cumstance he says concurs; there is never any perfect calm upon the lake,
and the wind blowing always from one end to the other, makes such an
undulation as must much obstruct the freezing of the water.  He says
further, this account seems to be confirmed by an observation commonly
made in the neighbourhood, which is, that when the water is taken out
of the lake and kept from motion, it then freezes as soon as any other
water.  We know not whether the Count has ascertained the degree of
heat in great depths of the sea with precision.  It is not probables how-
ever, that the heat arising merely from the depth of the great body of
water underneaths, and said by Sir John, on the authority of the Count, to
be considerably greater than the freezing point, is so great as to counter-

</UNREADABLE>


