
                              PERTH.                            51

        upon his neck with this just inscription,-DONALD M'DONALD,
        PROVED GUILTY OF DEATH FOR THEFT AT PERTH, DECEMBER
        5TH 1701, AND GIFTED AS A PERPETUAL SERVANT TO JOHN EARL.
        or TULLIBARDINE;" and recommending also his Lnrdship to
        transport him from the said prison once the next week.  And the
        said Commissioners have ordained, and hereby do ordain, the ma-
        gistrates of Pertb and the keeper of their Tolbooth, to deliver the
        said Donald M'Donald to the said Earl of Tullibardine, having
        the said collar and inscription, conform to the sentence of doom
        foresaid "-Extracted furth of the Books of Adjournment of the
        said distric4 by me, James Taylor, Writer to his Majesty Sig-
        net, Clerk of Court.-(Signed) JAMES TAYLOR, Clerk.'
           Maps, Plans, &c.- There are. no separate maps, plans, or sur-
        veys of the parish.  There are the following maps of the city:
        1. By Mr Henry Buist in 1769, four feet by three.  It is in the
        museum of the Antiquarian Society; 2. by Mr Rutherford in 1792,
        one sheet, engraved by Mr Kirkwood; 3. by Mr Macfarlane in
        1805, one sheet, enoraved,by Mr Kirkwood; 4. by Mr Reid in
        1808, four sheet.  It is executed with great minuteness and ac-
        curacy.  The original is in the possession of the town-council,
        5. by Mr Wood in 1823, one sheet, engraved by Mr Clerk.
           There was published in 1831, a map of the basin of the Tay
        by Mr Knox, two sheets, engraved by Mr Gallatly.
           Eminent Bharacters connected with the parish by Birth, Resi-
        dence, or BuriaL-One of the most distinguished characters whose
        history is connected with Perth, was John Knox, who may justly
        be said to have commenced here the work of Reformation in Scot-
        land.  In the year 1544, Cardinal Bethune, having obtained an act
        in favour of the bishops and clergy to persecute and punish here-
        tics, came to Perth, when an accusation was forthwith lodged
        against certain persons, for interrupting a friar of the name of
        Spence, while delivering a discourse in which he taught that there
        was no salvation without the prayers and intercession of the saints.
        Three of the persons were indicted for nailing two ram's horns to
        St Francis head, putting a cow's rump to his tail, and eating
        a goose on Hallowe'en.  A fourth was charged with haunting
        the company of those heretics, and the fifth, a woman, Helen
        Stark, was charged with refusing to pray to the Virgin Mary, and
        saying that she would pray only to God in the name of Jesus
        Christ.  The men were found guilty and condemned, and on the
        following day, they were, under this windows of the Spey town.


