
                                KELSO.                      343


     already contain about 2000 and 1500 volumes respectively, chiefly
     of modern works. There is ,also a Sunday school library con-
     nected with the Established Church; a congregational library be-
     longing to the Relief, Church; besides three sections of the East
     Lothian Itinerating Libraries, which were lately introduced for the
     use of the working classes, principally through the exertions of the
     present minister of the United Secession congregation. In con-
     nexion with libraries may be mentioned a Book-club, consisting
     of twenty-four members,(some of the extra-parochial,) who con-
     tribute each a guinea annually for the purchase of books,which are
     circulated among the members, and sold at the end of the year,--
     the proceeds of the sale going to augment the means of purchas-
     ing books. This Club has existed for many years; and has very
     materially contributed,both by the kind of works it has circulated,
     and by the intercourse it has kept up among the members--to
     maintain a taste for literature in the town and neighbourhood.
         Scientific Societies.-- The school of arts,"which gave rise to
     some interesting courses of lectures on chemistry and mathematics
     from 1825 to 1828, is no longer in existence. But the basis of
     a scientific institution, destined, it is hoped, to be longer-lived, has
     recently been laid in the " Kelso Physical and Antiquarian Society,"
     which, though its object is restricted, in the meantime, to the
     formation of a museum of natural history and antiquities, way per-
     haps ere long turn the collection to some useful purpose, by ingraft-
     ing upon it a lecture or demonstration on souie subject of philo-
     sophical or historical interest. The name of the eminent person
     at the head of the society, Sir Thomas M. Brisbane, Bart. may be
     regarded as a pledge that something more is eventually contem-
     plated than a mere repository of archaeological relics and physi-
     cal rarities; while the eminent success which has attended their
     labours in this, the preliminary department, ought, doubtless, to
     encourage the directors to -adventure on an attempt to compass,
     the ulterior object also.
         Reading-Rooms.-There are two reading rooms for newspapers
     in the town;one of considerable standing, belonging to a select
     society of gentlemen; and one, of recent date, open to all who
     pay the annual subscription. It is to the honour of the latter that,
     by an express regulation, it is shut on the Lord's day.
         Newspapers,&c.-The " Kelso Mail" and the "Kelso Chroni-
     cle" newspapers are printed and published in Kelso, the for-
     mer twice, the latter once a-week. The "Chronicle" was esta-


