
                           BLANTYRE.                         323

a quarter from eight in the evening, forty-five minutes being allowed
for breakfast and one hour for dinner. On Saturday the workers
only remain nine hours in the mill,--making in whole sixty-nine
working hours in the week.*
	In addition to spinning and weaving, another branch of business
has been carried on at these works for the last forty years, namely,
the dyeing of Adrianople or Turkey red upon cotton yarn. It
was the second work of the kind erected in Scotland, and the co-
lours have long been celebrated for their richness and perma-
nency.
	The total number of males employed at all the works is 362;
the number of females 553. The water power is estimated at 150
horse, the steam at 60,--total, 210 horse power.
	The village for the workers is contiguous to the works, and is
pleasantly situated on a rising ground which overlooks the Clyde.
The company, Messrs Henry Monteith and Company, erected a cha-
pel seven years ago in connection with the church of Scotland, suffi-
cient to accommodate 400 sitters. A clergyman was appointed
the following year, one-half of whose stipend is paid by the com-
pany, the other half by the sitters. The secular affairs of the
chapel are conducted by a committee chosen annually, one-half of
whom are Dissenters, the other half belonging to the Established
church. The chapel is so arranged that during the week it is em-
ployed as a schoolhouse. The schoolmaster is appointed by the
company with a salary of L. 20, along with a free house and gar-
den. The rate of wages is regulated by the company. The ave-
rage number of day-scholars is 136, and the average number of those
at the evening class is 56.
	The rapid increase of the population in this parish is entirely
owing to the mills.
	The people at these works are in general as healthy as their
neighbours in other parts of the parish, many of them attaining a
great age. This month, one of the mechanics died aged ninety-
four. There is an overseer at present in the service of the com-
pany, seventy-seven years of age, who has been employed for-
ty-eight years within the walls of the mill. There are several
others between eighty and ninety who still enjoy good health,
and not a few between seventy and eighty, some of whom are fol-
lowing their usual avocations. Many workers are now employed
who have been upwards of forty years in the service of the com-

<FOOTNOTE>The hours are regulated in terms of the late Factory Act.


