
     Statistical Account

good offices of a justice of the peace, who resides in the parish,
or by Lord Breadalbane's Chamberlain, or Steward, when he
comes to the country:  and the small fines that are, at times,
imposed for mildemeanours, are generally paid to the kirk-
treasurer for behoof of the poor of the parish.

   The superior class of tacksmen live in commodious and decent
houses, in the enjoyment of the comforts of life, with order,
neatness, and hospitality:  and even the middling and lower
ranks of the peasantry live in a style of plenty and cleanliness,
very different from that of their predecessors Formerly, in-
deed, milch of that time, which is now spent in useful in-
dustry, or in acquiring mental improvement, was passed in in-
dolence, in the favourite chace, or in listening to the captivat-
ing "tales of other times."
   A strict attention to credit, and a marked punctuality in
discharging every money engagement, has long characterised,

<FOOTNOTE>

said.  King George II. was much moved, when he heard of the fate of Mac-Ian;
and declared, that if he had known the circumstances m proper time, he would
have put him in a situation, in which he would not have been tempted to steal
a cow for subsistence.  The Chevalier had ordered him a little money, but Mac-
fan never received it - At Inveraray, there has not been a tingle criminal execu-
ted these 42 years!
   At a period not very remote, an awful retribution quickly followed an act of
singular intemperance in this parish.  A military party marching through the
country in a hot summer day, some of the men broke into shealling, and used
an unwise freedom with a churn-full of cream they found in the hut One
man, tempted with the richness of the feast, would neither be persuaded to mo- 
deration, nor to retire with his fellow depredators.  Afraid, however, of being
reported to his superior, he ran hard to overtake his party.  Humanity throws
a veil over the shocking fate of this unfortunate spoiler.  He was buried near
the road, and his grave inculcates a lesson of honesty, chastened gratification and
moderation, on all who behold it, and know the occasion.  He was not a High-
lander.


