
                                         WEEM.                      713

         Near this bridge, the Forty- Second or Royal Highlanders, with
       which so many of our brave countrymen have been connected, and
       which has been concerned in so many of the gallant achievements
       of our army, was first formally embodied into a regiment, exactly
       a hundred years since, under the name, Am Freiceadan Dubh, or
       the Black Watch.  The seat of one of its distinguished officers.
       the late Colonel Alexander Stewart of Clochfoldich, who com-
       manded it at the battle of Alexandria after the senior command-
       ing, officer had been wounded, is quite near this place of its first
       embodying.  Another spot is pointed out, between the bridge and
       the village of Weem, where Sir John Cope's army is said to have
       encamped in 1745.  There is a bridge over the Lochay near
       Killin; and there had been one over the Lyon, close to the old
       Castle of Comrie, which has fallen down some years since, and
       has not been rebuilt, though much needed.
         Ecclesiastical State.--The situation of the parish church is con-
       venient for a much greater part of the population than any other
       place could be, but many are cut off from all access to it by their
       distance, which, in the case of some, is from twenty to thirty miles.
       It was built in 1835, affords comfortable accommodation for about
       600, and the sittings are all free.
         The manse was built in 1830.  It has a neat external appear-
       ance, but its internal accommodation is very ordinarys, as well as
       that of the outer buildings.  The glebe is about five acres, and
       worth about L.10.  The stipend is six chalders, half meal and
       half barley; and L.66, 13s. 4 1/2d. including L. 8, 6s. 8d. for com-
       munion elements.
         There is no chapel-of-ease in the parish, but parts of it are
       connected with the mission chapels of Lawers and Amulree.  The
       Government church, or now quoad sacra parish of Glenlyon, is
       quoad civilia in the parish of Fortingall; but a part of this parish
       is annexed to it.
         Ten individuals in the parish attend the chapels of Dissenters.
         Divine service is very well attended at the Established Church,
       but a great part of the congregation is from contiguous parts of
       the parishes of Dull, Logierait, and Fortingall.  The average
       number of communicants is about 650; but many of them, like
       the congregation, are from the preceding parishes.  Besides this
       weekly collections for the poor, there is raised yearly, at an ave-
       rage, by church collections, for religious purposes, from L- 8. to
       L. 10.


