
                              PAISLEY.                           221

shop, this practice was ordered to be discontinued, and the pres-
bytery were enjoined to hold their meetings at Paisley, the pro-
per seat.  Accordingly, the first meeting of that court, after the
injunctions of the Archbishop, was held at Paisley on the 5th of
March 1684. *
   On the introduction of Episcopacy in 1661, the presbytery was
broken up; but it was reconstructed in 1663 by an act of the
archbishop and synod.  The first meeting, under this new regime,
was held on the 29th of October 1663, when the whole presby-
tery consisted of only five members, +  with two correspondents
from the presbyteries of Glasgow and Dumbarton. +
   At the era of the Revolution, another change seems to have
taken place in the constitution of this presbytery.  For we learn

<FOOTNOTE>" Paisley, March 5, 1684," "No exercise this day, because of some disturban-
ces at the brethren's first meeting at Paisley.  The exercise is continued on Mr Wil-
son."-Presbytery Records.
          " John Hay, parson of Renfrew, moderator ; James Taylor, Greenock ; Wil-
liam Pierson, Paisley ; Andrew Abercromie, Kilmalcolm ; and Alexander Turner,
Neilston."-Presbytery Records.
          At the time of the " Act of Uniformity," 1663, by which 400 of the most zeal-
ous and able minister of the Church of Scotland were ejected from their parishes,
the presbytery of Paisley consisted of 16 minister of whom one only conformed to
prelacy; a second did conform, but it was at a later period.  The name of the first
of these was Mr James Taylor, of Greenock; and that of the second, Mr John Ha-
milton of Innerkep.  The names of the rest, all of whom suffered "the loss of Hall
things," rather than abandon their principles, were as follows, and they deserve to be
held on honourable record:-Mr Alexander Dunlop, Mr John Drysdale, and Mr
James Stirling, all of Paisley; Mr John Stirling of Kilbarchan; Mr Patrick Simp-
son of Renfrew ; Mr Hugh Smith of Eastwood ; Mr William Thomson of Mearns;
Mr William Thomson of Houston ; Mr James Hutchison of Killalan; Mr James
Alexander Of Kilmalcolm ; Mr Hugh Peebles of Lochwinnoch ; Mr James Wallace of
Inchinnan ; and Mr Hugh Walker Peebles of Lochwinnoch; Mr James Wallace of
Inchinnan ; and Mr Hugh Walker of Neilston. " These persons were not only deprived
of their livings in time to come, but of the last year's stipend for which they had served;
and in the winter season (December 1663,) Obliged, with sorrowful hearts and empty
pockets, to wander I know not how many miles with their  numerous and smalll fa-
milies, many of them scarce knew whither.  But the Lord wonderfully provided for
them and theirs, to their own confirmation and wonder."-Wodrows Hist.  Vol
i. p. 326.  8vo ed.
   On December 14.1670, an interesting meetting was specially held at Paisley, betwixt
Archbishop Leighton and Bishop Burnet, on the part of the Episcopalians, and the
brethren of Paisley, Glasgow, and neighbourhood, in the Presbyterian interest, with
the view of bringing about an "accommodation" between the parties.  A full report
of this meeting is given by Wodrow in the second volume of his History, (2d ed.) It
ended in smoke.  The Presbyterians were not satisfied of the sincerity of the mo-
tives which led to the proposal; and the Episcopalians were not prepared to grant
such concessions as would please the conscientious adherents of presbytery.  In 1679
a meeting of persecuted Presbyterian ministers was held at Paisley, when a whole-                        whole-
some warning was drawn up by them against property, together with a short vindica-
tion of Presbyterian principles, but the paper was never printed.  " After this, says
Wodrow, " till the Revolution, Presbyterian ministers had few or no meetings; and
I shall have little more to say of them, but that they remained in retirement, few ven-
turing to preach in the fields, and some now and then in houses.  And through the
following years I shall have little more to relate, but a continued scene of presecu-
tion of ministers and people, and heavy oppression of the whole country."-Wodrow
Vol. iii. p. 176.


