
                          FRASERBURGH.                         253

lic roup, they are always advertised for letting,-the former te-
nant generally receiving a preference, when his offer is within ten
per cent. of the highest; and in unfavourable seasons Lord Sal-
toun makes liberal deductions to his tenants.  The soil here is
well adapted to green crop, and produces all kinds of grain ; so
that this parish not only supplies itself with all kinds of provisions,
but annually exports a large quantity of barley, oats, and potatoes,
of good quality.  The distinction of infield and outfield has long
ago ceased, and a regular rotation of cropping is now followed.
For that purpose there is here abundance of manure.  Besides an
inexhaustible store of shell-sand, and a constant supply of sea-
weed or ware, the farmers avail themselves of fish refuse for ma-
nure, of which there is also a large quantity during the herring-
fishery.  Bone-manure is also successfully applied to dry soils.
   Wages.-The wages for male farm-servants are from L. 3 to
L.6 Sterling, and for female from L.1, 5s. to L.2, 10s. in the half
year.
   Live-Stock.-The rearing of cattle for the market has always
been a principal object of concern with the farmer; but, ow-
ing to the admission of all kinds, the Buchan, or native breed,
which is deservedly esteemed, has been considerably diminished.
There are, nevertheless, many of good size and quality; and some
farmers have of late introduced the Teeswater, by which it is ex-
pected the breed will be improved.  The price oi cattle has risen
of late, and a new market has been opened for them by exportation
to London, which has hitherto brought a profitable return.  There
are no sbeep-farms in the parish-a few only are reared upon
ground of inferior quality.
   Though many of the fields are inclosed, yet it is much to be
regretted, that the system of enclosure is not universally follow-
ed out, and that the tenantry are still without sufficient accommo-
dation as to dwelling-house and offices.  When any alteration to
the better in this respect is effected, it is generally by the tenant's
laying out the money himself, with consent of the proprietor, who
agrees to deduct it at the expiration of the lease; or then still
evades the expense, by requiring of the incoming tenant to repay
it under the designation of "dead inventory:" an expedient which
is no less unfavourable to the interests of the proprietor than to
those of the tenant.
   The Town and Civil History of the Parish.-the town is situated
upon the south, side of Kinnaird's Head, and is nearly of a square


