
                             CERES.                        523

longed to the several baronies of the parish. These baronies
were five or six in number. Ceres is a burgh of barony holding
of the Hopes of Craighall, and the feuars are bound to attend the
head courts; but it has no charter. Hopes are now entertained
of its receiving the privileges of a burgb. Craigrothie, which is
adjacent to Struthers, seems to have long enjoyed these privileges.
Its inhabitants still elect their bailie and councillors; and two cares
are on record, where individuals were sent to them for judgment,
and disposed of according to their pleasure. The Earl of Crawford
patronized this council, and left an important case to its decision.*
   Land-owners.-The present land-owners are, The Earl of
Glasgow; Mr Wilson, Craigrothie; Captain Wemyss, Wemyss
Hall; Sir George Campbell, Edenwood; Major Christie, Findas;
Captain Ker, Greenside; Captain Stark, Teasses; Sir Alexander
Hope, Craighall; Messrs Thom, Rumgay; Mr Thomson, Newbig-
ging; Mr Lumsden, Callange; Mr Speirs Kinninmont; Mr Ped-
die, Bankhead; Lady Baird, East Pitscottie; Baldinnie is divided.
into seven shares; General Bethune of Blebo; Mr Barclay of
Magus; and Mr Normand of Baltullo.
     The original proprietors of Craighall and Struthers seem to
have possessed great part of the parish; and many valuable pro-
perties are still held in feu from the Hopes of Craighall. These
feus, in former times, were equal to the full value of the rent of the
property; but at present, from the rise in the value of land, they
are equal to about one-sixth of the rent which is paid by the far-
mer to the feuar.
     Parochial Registers.-The records of the kirk-session are in pre-
servation, from the year 1620 ; and from that date to the present,
they have been kept regularly. Under date 1638, we find an account
of the Confession of Faith which was agreed to in 1560, and imme-
diately after it, a solemn declaration or covenant, in which the no-
bility and gentry bind themselves to stand by the confession, and
to withstand the many attempts which were then made agaisnt
their religion. This declaration is signed at the kirk of Ceres,
"the last day of Apryll 1638," by "Lindesay," "Hy. Ja. Hope,"
and " Jo. Scott," the minister, elders, and heads of families. In
1667, William Rowe, minister of Ceres, had been deposed, be-
cause he would not conform to, Episcopacy; and we find, in the re-
cords of that date, an edict by " Lord St Andrews," appointing
Alexander Leslie to be minister in the room of Mr Rowe.

<FOOTNOTE>In a case of horse-stealing, sentence of banishment was passed and executed.


