
                      DUNBARNY.                                       809.

barny.  It stood about 300 yards sotth-east from the present
mansion-house. Its dilapidated ruins still exist, though so deeply
embosemed in wood, that a stranger may be near it without being
aware of its existence, from the thick foliage of the trees and ever-
greens by which it is surrounded. Bones occasionally dug up,
and other appearances, as well as, the uniform voice of traditional
concur in proving that the ground encircling it was used as a ce-
metery.  The interior of it is used as a burying-place by the. fa-
mily of Moncrieffe, where the ashes of many successive generations
repose. The walls of the edifice are nearly entire, though not a
vestige of the roof remains.  It is 30 feet long, 18 broad, and the
walls 10 feet high.  It has a north aisle, containing a vault under-
neath, and a small belfry at the east gable, the bell formerly be-
longiiig to which is still preserved in the House of Moncrieffe.  This
ancient and venerable pile is thickly overgrown wit4 mantling ivy,
and has a solemn aspect suitable to the spot where the bones of
so many illustrious men are mouldering to decay. Douglas states
in his Baronage, that at so remote an era as 1357, Duncan Mon-
creiffe of that Ilk and his lady were buried here. The families of
the Moncrieffes of Tippermalach, and the Moncrieffes of Kin-
month were at one time interred within the same chapel. The
remains of an edifice which constituted the residence of the lat-                            !
ter family, may still be seen a little to the west of Easter Mon-
crieffe; a part only of the walls have survived the ravages of time.*

<FOOTNOTE>George Moncriefre, son of Sir Malcolm Monerieffd, who was appointed by King
James II, one of the Judges of the Supreme Court of Judicature, (now called Lords
of Session) was the ancestor of the old family of Tippermalach. His lineal descend-
ands possessed the estate of Tippermalach from 1473 to 1664 or 1666. Matthew
Monerieffe, brother of the said George Moncrieffe, was ancestor of the family of East-
er Moncrieffe. He rnarried Christian Mauld, the heiress of Easter Moncrieffe, in
1447, and had by her two sons, John and Archibald. John succeeded him, but died
without issue in 1514; he was then represented by Archibald, who had two sons,
John and James. The history of these two brothers is conected with some facts re-
lative to the ancient property of the church. " Adam Foreman, the last prior of the
charter-house near Perth, when his house was demolished by the Reformers retired
which his brethren to Errol, of which church they were patrons, and there be let out,
with consent of those who staid at home, to John Foreman, son and heir to Robert
Foreman of Luthrie, for a sum of money,-Terras suas de sacdllo beatte Marilae
Magdalene (the Magdalene lands)nuncuptus, terras de Frireton, terras de Craigle,
et insulam austraken burgi de Perth, tenacum piscaria sua salmonum, super
man, but the lands specified came all into the possesion of the family of Moncrieffe,
to whom the Foremans were nearby allied, and have ever since belonged to them; for
contemporaneous with the granting of the above-mentioned charter to John Fore-
man, the property of the charterhouse itself, with the houses, grounds, and gardens
connected with it, was sold to John Moncrif, the eldest of the brothers, previously
referred to by a charter dated 14th November 1569, and this deed is afterwards con-
firmed by a charter from James VI. dated 18th May 1572, in Jacobus filius Archibaldi
James who suceeded him, and who is there designated Jacobus filuis Archibaldi
Moncreif de Easter Moncreif,"


