
54                       SELKIRKSHIRE.

rish of Buccleuch, which was annexed to Ettrick, and some farms
north of the Tweed, annexed to Innerleithen in 1650 ; the great
extent of Yarrow being the principal reason of their disjunction
from it.   The church is ten miles distant from the extremities of
the parish ; but the situation is centical.  It appears to have been
built in the year 1640.   It was put into a state of very complete
repair in 1826, and affrods accomodation for 500 persons.  The
sittings are divided among the heritors according to their valua-
tions, and by them among their tenantry.  The manse was erected
in 1811. It is singular that the glebe lies eight miles to the west;
it is on the side of the loch, and is the same that was attached to
St Mary's Chapel, no excamb having ever taken place.  The
original boundaries are forgotten ; but it is altogether hill pasture,
and will support sixteen soomes of (i. e. 160) sheep).  The an-
nual value of the glebe is L. 32, 16s. ; allowance for grass glebe,
L. 20 Scots, or L. 1, 13s. 4d. ; communion element money, L. 8,
6s. 8d.; and the stipend in victual, sixteen chalders, equal to 186
quarters, 3 bushels, and 1 3/4  gallon imperial money, on an
average of prices for the last seven years, L.259, 6s. 5 1/4d.  The
old valued rental of the parish amounts to L. 31,377, 9s. 8d.
Scots. The deans of the Ch`pel Royal are titulars of the teinds,
and generally take a grassum for nineteen years.  His Grace the
Duke of Buccleuch is tacksman, paying,a small annual rent. The
numbers belonging to the Established Church are, of families 210,
and individuals 1161 ; to the Dissenters, 17, and indivi-
duals 60.  The average number of commmunications at the Esta-
blished Church is 330, and divine service is generally well attended.
Two societies for religious purposes are established.  " The
Yarrow Parish Bible, Missionary, and Jewish Society," his an
annual collection at the church doors, averaging L. 12. There
is also a Missionary Society at Redfordgreen; the members belong
to the parishes of Yarrow, Ettrick, and Roberton, and the yearly
contributions vary from L. 6 to 10.
   Education and Literature.--The total number of schools is
four; of which two are parochial, and the other two supported by
subscription of individuals.  Beside the usual branches of instructions
Latin and geometry are occasionally taught.  A large and hand-
some new school-house was built at Yarrow in 1830.  It is now in
excellent order.  The schoolmaster's house has been long a great re-
sort for boarders, to the number frequently of twenty-five; the board
being moderate, and the situation particularly healthy.  The paro-


