
240                       LANARKSHIRE.

the days of full and change, nor neap tides on the day that the
moon enters the quarters, but about two days after.
	The tide-wave rolling northward from the Atlantic Ocean, on its
arrival at the British isles, divides into three branches; one pro-
ceeds up the English channel; another enters St George's chan-
nel, south; the third flows round the west and north coast of Ire-
land, and meets the second branch near the Isle of Man.
	The tide that flows up the Clyde is derived from the two lat-
ter branches; and it is easy to conceive how it must partake of the
irregularities produced on them by the action of high winds, and
hence the anomalies that sometimes are observed, when no appa-
rent cause is operating on the Clyde itself. Likewise high winds
in the Clyde affect the time and elevation of high water; and by
considering the form and course of the Frith, it is obvious that a
gale from a northerly quarter, by opposing the flow of the tide,
will cause the time of high water to be earlier, and the height of
the tide to be less than otherwise would be the case, while a gale
from an opposite direction, acting in concert with the flowing tide
will produce a contrary effect.
   Iron Steam-Boat.--Since the part of the article relating to
steam-boats went to press, a launch of rather a novel nature
has taken place at the Broomielaw Harbour. Messrs Tod and
M'Gregor, engineers, constructed a steam-boat, every part of
which is of iron excepting the boards of the deck; and having
all her machinery and equipments complete, and her steam up,
they placed her on a carriage in their works, from which she
was taken on 16th July 1835 to the large crane at the harbour,
and being lowered into the river, she immediately proceeded on a
trial trip, when she went against a head wind at the rate of eight
miles an hour. This pretty little vessel, named the Plata, is 45
feet long from stem to stern, 9 feet on the beam, and 17 feet over
the paddle boxes. She draws 22 inches water, and her whole
weight is eleven tons when her boilers are filled. She is propelled
by two high pressure engines, each of five horse-power--the cylin-
ders are 6 1/2 inches diameter placed horizontally--the stroke 2 feet
4 inches. She is kept in motion for five hours with 5 cwt. of coals,
and has accommodation for twelve cabin, and twenty-five deck pas-
sengers. This vessel, built for river navigation in foreign parts, is
the prperty of Mr Robert Jamieson, of the firm of Messrs
Jamieson, M'Crackan, and Company. She is to be taken to her
destination on the deck of one of the company's ships.


