
	                  INCHINNAN.                          129

here in the seventh century.  Be this as it may, there was a church
on the site of the present one in the reign of King David I.  This
prince gave the church of Inchinnan with all its pertinents to the
Knights Templars.  Hence, when Walter the High Stewart, who
founded the monastery of Paisley, gave to it all the churches
in Strathgryfe, he expressly excepted the church of Inchinnan. *
The Knights Templars, whose office, as is well known, was to de-
fend the city and temple of Jerusalem, to entertain Christian stran-
gers and pilgrims, and guard them safely through the holy land,
although poor at first (in token of what their seal bore, two knights
mounted on the same horse,) came to possess 9000 houses in
Christendom, and had property in land or houses in almost every
parish of Scotland. +  They appear to have obtained considerable
grants of land in Inchinnan, and are supposed to have had an esta-
blishment at Greenend, now called House of Hill.  Upon the sup-
pression of the templars in the early part of the 14th century, their
property was transferred to the Knights ++ Hospitallers, or Knights of
St John of Jerusalem, whose principal settlement in Scotland was
at the preceptory of Torphichen in Linlithgowshire.  As the suc-
cessors of the templars, the Knights of St John enjoyed the rec-

<FOOTNOTE>self, according to the Scottish breviaries, he was the first Archdeacon of Glasgow, and
his festival was celebrated on the 18th of May.  The historians record that he made
a famous oration at the funeral of King Aidanus, and that his monument at Inch-
innan was for ages a place of resort to the pious.  Fordun writes, " Unus vero dis-
cipulorum ejus (Kentigerni) praecipuus erat Sanctus Convallus, miraculis et virtuti-
bus praeclarus, cujus itaque ossa sepulta quiescunt apud Inchenane, quinque milliari-
bus a Glasgw."-Scotichron, Tom i. p. 134.  Boethius says, " Et Convallus divi Ken-
tigerni discipulus, cujus reliquae celebri monumento in Inchennen haud procul a
Glasguensi civitate a Christiano populo hactenus in magna habentur veneratione."  Sco-
torum Hist. Lib. ix.  We are farther told that he was an author, " Scripsit Kentigerni
Magistri Vitam. Lib. i. ; Coatra ritus Ethnicorum.  Lib. i.; Ad clerum Scotico-
rum super Ecclesiae Statutis, Lib i. ; Vide Dempster. Hist. &c. p. 157.
    Walterus, &c. Sciatis me dedisse, &c. Deo et Sancte Marie, et ecclesiae Sancti
Jacobi et Sancti Mirini, et Sancti Myldburge de Passelet, et priori ejusdem loci, et
monachis Deo servientibus (inter alia) omnes ecclesias de Stragryf, &c. ecclesia de
Inchinnan excepta.  The above charter was confirmed by Pope Alexander III. in
1170. Reg. Mon. de Paselet, pp. 7 and 409.
    Temple property had great value and importance attached to it from the right
of sanctuary which it enjoyed.  Tenements of the Templars within burgh in Fife
are still called houses of refuge.  Not many years since, an old woman, who had got
into some squabble with the magistrates of Kinghorn, when pursued by the town-
officers, rushed into a Temple tenement in that town, and, putting her head over the
window, dared them to do their worst, upon the belief that this sanctuary could not
be violated.-Vide Abstract of the Chartulary of Torphichen.  Edinburgh, 1830.
    " From the Rolls of Parliament, so far as preserved, it would seem that the Pre-
ceptors originally sat among the territorial Barons, and not among the Ecclesiastics;
but in the reign of James IV. Sir William Knows took his place, not with the feu-
dal Barons, but among the Lords of Parliament, under the title of Dominus Sancti
Joannis.  His successors, Sir Walter Lindsay, and Sir James Sandilands, in like man-
ner assumed the title, and sat as Lords St John."-Introductory notice to Abstract,
above quoted, p. 3.


