
                        KINCARDINE.                        405

abound,-the eagle (Aquila), hawk (Falco), raven (Cervus), kite
(Milvus), and hooded-crow (Cornix cucullatus).
  Reptiles.-Among the reptiles are,-the viper (Coluber berus)
adder (Anguis cryx), lizard (Lacerta), frog (Rana), and toad
(Bufo).
  Botany.-Among the rarer plants found in this parish, the fol-
lowing may be mentioned: Eriophorum, pubescens, which grows on
a mossy height near the bridg of Oikell; and amongst the trees
on the banks of that river, the Hieracium denticulatum occurs
in great luxuriance, and sometimes upwards of four feet high.
Dr Greville found the very rare plant Ribes petraeum, three miles
east of Roseball. Hieracium alpinurn grows on some of the lofty
hills; and Isoetes lacustris, Eleocharis multicaulis, Juncus balti-
cus, and Betula nana, also exist, and the last very abundantly.
		II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
  The first era to which reference can be made in the history of
this parish, is the fourteenth century, in which the battle,of Tui
team-Tarbhach took place.
  This serious conflict arose out of the following circumstances:
Angus Mackay, the chief of the Mackays, had married a daughter
of Torquil Macleod of Lewis, by whom he had two sons, Angus
Dow, (so termed from his black hair), and Roderick Gaid (or
Lowland). Angus died young, leaving his sons and his lands un-
der the tutorage and government of his brother, Houcheon Dow
Mackay; some dispute happening between the tutor,--as Houcheon
was called-and his sister-in-law, the widow of the late Angus,
probably regarding the management of the estates and tutory, to
which she claimed a preferable title, in right of her son, Angus
Dow, she complained to her brother, Malcolm, the chief of
Lewis; who, in consequence, came to the Reay country, accom-
panied by a number of chosen men, resolving to have his sister re-
dressed, either by treaty or by form. He appears, however, not
to have succeeded in his object, for he returned homeward in great
displeasure, and in revenge laid waste Strathnaver, and a great
part of the Breachat in Sutherland, in the Mackay's lands, besides
driving off a great spoil of cattle. As soon as Houcheon Dow
and his younger brother Neil Mackay, learat this intelligence, they
acquainted Robert, Earl of Sutherland, who immediately dispatched
Alistair Ne-Shrem-Gorme (Alexander Murray of Cubin,) with a
number of resolute men, to assist the Mackays.  They pursued
the islanders with great baste and overtook them at a place in the


