
        142                          PERTHSHIRE.

        opposite shore-called the Gibraltar.  Immediately after the
        building of the bridge, George Street, leading from it to the
        High Street, was opened.  Charlotte Street, leading from the
        bridge also to the Dunkeld road, was not built till 1783.  John
        Street, lying between the High Street and South Street, was
        opened in the year I8O1. The suburban population was very in-
        considerable, till within these fifty years. Within that period al-
        most all the houses on the south of the city, including Pomarium,
        havebeen built,-and a great portion of those which are on the north
        and west.  But the populous viaglles of Balhousie and Muirtoun,
        in the neighbourhood, have been thrown down, or allowed to fall
        into decay.

	   March 1837.

                          PARISH OF METHVEN *

               PRESBYTERY OF PERTH, SYNOD OF PERTH AND STIRLING.

                     THE REV.  THOMAS CLARK, MINISTER.

                     I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
           Name, Boundaries, 8C.-IT is not known by tradition, neither
        is it to be found upon record, that this parish ever had any other
        name than that which it now bears, the orthography of which, it is
        said, is derived from the Gaelic word "Meodhan," signifying  "mid-
        dle ;" and it is understood that the name, or rather the word from
        which the name is derived, has special reference to the situation of
        the parish, in regard to the Great Strath, or Strathmore, which ex-
        tdnds from Stonehaven on the east, to Dumbarton on the west, and
        is bounded on the north by the Grampians, and on the south by
        the ridge of the Ochil hills,-near the centre or middle of which
        strath this parish -is situated.
           The average length of the parish from east to west is 5 miles,
        and the breadth from north to south between 3 and 4. The whole
        area is estimated at about 17 square miles, or, more accurately,
        10,700 imperial acres.  It is bounded chiefly on the north and on
        the east, by the river Almond; on the west, by the parish of Fow-

        <FOOTNOTE>This Account has been chiefly drawn up by Mr R. Wilson, schoolmaster, Meth.
         ven; and Mr Thomas Bishop, overseer, Methven Castle.


