
     Statistical Account

so intersects that of Dudingston.  They dip into the sea a-
bout or near to its eastern extremity, and are said to have been
recognized again on the opposite coast of Fife.  Quarries of
grit and free-stone have been opened upon the sea shore, and
of whin, or basaltic rock, near the situation of the church.
Detached strata of clay have been wrought, so pure and un-
mixed with heterogeneous matter, that crucibles, bricks, etc.
formed of it are capable of resisting a very great degree of
heat.  In the bed of Dudingston burn, there is a stratum of
black coloured stone, soft, smooth, and unctuous in appear-
ance, which, as it admits of an agreeable polish, might be
converted to useful architectural purposes if wrought below
the crop rock, and treated with skill.  Petroleum, or fossil
pitch, and manganese in small quantities, have also, been found
in the crevices of the free-stone quarries.  Upon the sea coast,
in the interstices of rocks and stones, curious and rare speci-
mens of petrified plants and trees have been found.  Some of
them resembled the finest Marseilles quilting: others formed
the evident petrifactions of reeds and exotic plants, now known
to be indigenous in tropical regions only; a circumstance
which as it has sometimes occurred so unaccountably in nor-
thern climates, has given rise to so much ingenious specula-
tion, and to so many extravagant theories.  Small pieces of
chalcedony, porphyry, and agate in larger masses, have also been
picked up upon the beach of the Forth, the boundary of the
parish.  Many of these have been polished, and preserved in
the cabinets of the curious; and few remnants have escaped
the avidity of collectors in so public and accessible a spot.
Marle of different kinds and great richness, has been found in
great abundance in Dudingston loch, the property of Sir Wil-
liam Dick, and occasionally wrought, though from the vicini-
ty of the place to the unfailing stores of strong Edinburgh ma-
nure, it has been undervalued and neglected.


