
     Statistical Account

   This parish has in common with others experienced years
of scarcity, on which a few remarks are subjoined in a note*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Great scarcity approaching to a famine.  The most remarkable was during
the 7 last years of the last century.  And for that reason, they are called the
7 dear years.  There may perhaps have been one, or even two years successively
of as great scarcity since that period but there never has been more.  Of course,
the evil was more lasting and more generally felt at that time, than ever since:
and in all probability accumulated every year; till at last the absolute necessaries
of life could scarcely be got for any money.  The price of provisions was exorbi-
tant Barley meal, though very inferior in quality, was sold at a merk the peck;
oats rose to the enormous sum of L. 30 Scots the load, while oat meal was not
to be purchased.  For though several of the more opulent inhabitants went to
Falkirk, the richest corn country within 30 miles, they could procure no sup-
ply at any price.  Greens boiled with salt, became a common food.  Fodder
was as scarce as grain.  Many of the cattle perished at the stall, and many of
them who were driven out to seek a scanty pittance expired in the field.  Mo-
thers fell down dead with their infants at their breasts.  Even many of the peo-
ple who survived, were feeble and emaciated, and became a prey to numberless
and fatal diseases.  The mortality was so great, that a pestilence seems to have
succeeded the famine.
   The causes of this scarcity are not known.  But it is said, that the harvests were
late, and the winters early; so that the frost and snow blasted the growing corns.
   Various shifts not known since, were tried in order to ward off the evil.  A-
mong the rest it is mentioned, that snails were collected in summer with
great care, and salted for the winter's store.
   Indulgent Heaven has been more liberal to us.  So that this generation has
never known want, like that which our fathers experienced.  The year 1740,
was a year of scarcity, perhaps equal to any one of the 7 dear years.  Oat meal
rose to the exorbitant price of 2 s. the peck: and at one time could scarcely be
procured for money.  Every other necessary of life was in proportion deal:
yet few, if any,died of absolute want.  As money, however, scarce, and
manufactures almost unknown among us, numbers whose situations gave them
no reason to expect it, were through want of employment reduced to the hu-
milating necessity of craving a scanty pittance from door to door.  Others
were supplied from the poors funds, in a more private manner.  The num-
ber of Paupers was thus greatly increased; and their necessities and demands
increased in proportion.  Of course, the parish funds were deemed insufficient,
and an assessment became necessary.  Yet this is the only year since the Re-
volution, that the session were driven to this expedient.


