
                       STRATHDON.                         529

   Another evil the Strathdon farmer has to contend with is the
highs.  From the funnel shape of the strath, the wind (being
confined by the mountains on each side) may be said to blow
only in two directions.  From the west, varying a point or two
north and south down, and from the east up the strath.  The
latter, however, except in spring, is comparatively of rare occur-
rence, and generally only lasts three days, bringing continued
heavy rain.  But by far the most prevailing wind is from the
north-west, which often sweeps down the valley with tremendous
violence, in the more exposed situations shaking the standing
corn, so as to leave the straw completely thrashed, and sometimes
actually overturning the stacks that have been led into the barn-
yard.
   Epidemic distempers are seldom known, and there is no endemi-
cal disease.  Stone or gravel is mentioned in the former account as
very prevalent.  It is now confined chiefly to one glen, (Nochty).
A few years ago there were five or six cases at one time in that
glen.  One individual, in 1832, 73 years of age, went to Liston in
Edinburgh, and had three stones the size of a hen's egg extracted.
In a few weeks he returned cured, and at this day retains perfect
health, walking three miles to church every Sabbath, and dis-
charging his duties as an elder, which he has been in the parish
for upwards of thirty years.  Hernia is not uncommon.  In seve-
ral instances young men are afflicted with it.  The former account
states that " consumptions are very rare."  There is no reason to
believe the parish less healthy at the present day than forty years
ago, but it cannot now be truly said consumption is rare.  In its
various forms, with the diseases resembling and connected with
it not a few fall victims to its ravages.  Of these diseases, tin-
questionably scrofula is most predominant.  One family in the
parish, consisting of a father and four children, have been cut off
by it, and the childless widow is a helpless cripple.  There is one
decided case of bronchocele, as distinctly marked as the writer
has often witnessed it on the Cretins in Canton de Vallois in
Switzerland.  There is, however, no Cretinism or fatuity in this
case.  The woman has a numerous family,, but the disease has
not hitherto appeared in any of her offspring.  It is a singular
circumstance, that the woman lives in the glen already mentioned

<FOOTNOTE>ceived opinion amongst the inhabitants of this district, founded on accurate obser-
vation, and verified by experience, if the strath escapes frost from the middle to the
end August, and more particularly about the 20th, they count upon the crop
safe for the season.
   ABERDEEN.                                       L l


