
	180                        ELGINSHIRE.

	what usually occurs in a similar elevation and distance from the
	sea. Surrounded by extensive plantations, under the most ap-
	proved svstem of farming, within the influence of the mellowing
	breeze from the Moray Fritb, and with an elevation not exceed-
	ing 100 feet above it, the district in the vicinity of Darnaway
	Castle, (one of the seats of the Earl of Moray) and comprehend-
	ing two-thirds of his Lordship's domain lands there, and one-third
	of the extensive nursery grounds and gardens the atmosphere
	is remarkably dry, mild, and salubrious. But leaving the forestry,
	and ascending towards the southern extremity of the parish, the
	difference of climate is very perceptible. Here, from the entire
	destitution of wood, and from its proximity to the lofty mountains
	on the south-west, which are yet not so near as to afford shelter
	from the prevailing boisterous winds which blow from that direc-
	tion, the air is sharp and cold ; the winter is often severe and
	of long continuance; the snow is frequently found covering the
	Whole surface to the depth of several inches, and the frost consi-
	derably intense, when the plough is in active operation on the
	lower grounds. On the latter, the grain seed-sowing and harvest
	are often on the eve of being finished, when here they are only
	beginning. At an average, there may be a difference of three
	weeks between them. More rain, too, falls here than on the low
	grounds of Morayshire, and, consequently, the old proverb, " that
	Morayland enjoys forty days more of fair weather, and fifteen days
	more of summer, than any other part of the. nation," must be
	taken with especial liniitation, as respects the more remote and
	elevated districts of this parish. The air, however, is healthful,
	and no peculiar diseases are known to the inhabitants of any part
	of it. In 1834, when cholera was raging throughout the whole
	length and breadth of the land, and when it committed such fearful
	devastation in Inverness, about twenty-four miles distant, and prov-
	ed fatal to several of the inbabitaints of Nairn, only seven miles off,
	it desdrves to be recorded, with feelings of gratitude, that not a
	single case of infection occurred in this parish ; nor even, what is
	more remarkable, as being the only county in Scotland complete-
	ly exempted from it, in any parish in Morayshire. There have
	been many instances in this parish of extraordinary longevity.
	Within the last twelve years, twenty-two individuals were residing
	in it at the same time, above eighty years of age, four of whom
	were ninety-three, one ninety-five, and one ninety-six. When the
	census was taken on the 7th June 1841, there were seventeen in-
	dividuals who were each upwards of eighty years of age.


