
           160                       BANFFSHIRE.

           tains an extensive portion of the lands of her ancestors, and is, at
           present, the most considerable proprietor in the parish.
            Eminent Characters.-This parish has produced but few indivi-
           duals eminently distinguished. Dr George Chapman may, perhaps,
           with some hesitation, be mentioned as one. By a reference to the re-
           gister of baptisms, ib appears that he was born at Little Blacktown,
           and baptised August 18, 1723. A minute in the session records
           also intimates, that, while a student in philosophy, be taught the
           school of his native parish. He afterwards acquired distinguisbed
           reputation as a teacher and a sebolar, at Dalkeith, Dumfries, Inch-
           drewer, and Banff. He finally removed to Edinburgh, where for
           some years be carried on business as a printer, and at the same
           time, received boarders,the instruction of whom formed his favo-u-
           rite recreation almost to the close of a life which extended to the
           age of eighty-three years. His 11 Treatise on Education," and his
           other smaller publications on the same subject, were, at the time of
           their appearance, justly esteemed for their practical utility.
           The name of another individual to whose memory a monument
           has been erected at the public expense, may also be allowed a
           place in the statistics of the parish in which he resided, and in
           which, his- memory is still cherished with respect. The late Ma-
           jor General Andrew Hay, who sold the estate of Montblairy to
           the uncle of the'present proprietor, was distinguished in the parish
           by his generous and public spirit, no less than by b is valour in the
           field. To perpetuate his military fame, an elegant monument has
           been erected in St Paul's Cathedral, London, bearing the follow-
           ing inscription : 41 Erected at the public ex pense to the memory
           of Major General Andrew Hay. He was born in the county of
           Banff in Scotland, and fell on the 14th of April 1814, before the
           Fortress of Bayonne, in France, in the fifty-second year of his age
           and the thirty-fourth of his services, closing a military life,
           marked by zeal, prompt decision, and signal intrepidity."
             Land-Owners.-The only heritors in the parish are, Lady
           Abercromby, who possesses the patronage of the church; the Earl
           Of Fife; the Trustees of the late Earl James Fife; Alexander Mo-
           rison, Esq. of Montblairy; Hans George Leslie, Esq, of Dunlu
           gas; and Harry Leith Lumsden, Esq. of Rosyburn. It is but
           ju'stice to say that they are all liberal and encouraging to indus-
           trious tenants. The only resident proprietors are Mr Morison and
           Mr Leslie
              Parochial Registers.-These consist of one quarto and six folio


