
34                              BERWICKSHIRE.

jectured, that, at their departure, they transferred some names of
places from their old to their new domains. Thus Huntly, a pa-
rish with which they are connected in the north, was also the name
of a small hamlet which existed till of late, and stood in the west-
ern extremity of the parish. A solitary tree still stands to mark
the spot. A little to the north of the village of West Gordon,
an eminence, dignified by the appellation of The Castle, is yet
pointed out as the spot on which the ancestors of the Duke of Gor-
don had fixed their residence. A moat or ditch may still be traced;
but the whole is now covered with plantations, and even the very
name is becoming obsolete.
   Greenknow tower, now nearly in ruins, was once the residence
of a zealous Covenanter, Pringle of Greenknow, whose memoirs
have been lately published.
   Land-owners.-The chief land-owners are, Baillie of Jervis-
wood; Fairholm of Greenknow; Robertson of Ladykirk; Hamil-
ton of Rumbletonlaw; Innes of Stow; and Erskine of Shieldfield.
   Parochial Registers.-The first date in the parochial registers
is the 11th of January 1652. They are on the whole regularly
kept, especially of late.

<TABLE=Population>         III.-POPULATION.

          Amount of population by census of 1801,   .   800
                                            1811,   .   850
                                            1821,   .   737
                                            1831,   .   882
   The great proportion of the population is rural. The only vil-
lage in the parish is West Gordon, which contains about 300 in-
habitants.

1. Number of families in the parish,   -   -   -   -	                       185
          of families chiefly employed in agriculture,   -   -                 106
                      chiefly employed in trade, manufactures, or handicraft,	36
2. Number of unmarried men, bachelors or widowers, upwards of 50 years of age,   5
          of unmarried women, including widows, upwards of 45,   -	        20
3. The average number of births yearly, for the last 7 years,   -   -       	23
                         deaths,   -   -   -   -   -                        	14
                         marriages,   -   -   -   -                              6
4. The number of persons at present under 15 years of age,   -   -             315
                                    upwards of 70,   -   -   -                  49

<FOOTNOTE>The decrease in the population in 1821 was accounted for in the return which was
then made out, and which, was engrossed in the session records of the parish, from
the system which had been adopted some time before by proprietors, of dividing and
letting out their lands in large instead of small farms, as formerly. According to
this theory, the effect of such a change did not become apparent till 1821. Large
farms require proportionably fewer hands to cultivate them than small ones, and this
together with the various improvements which 8 system of hus-
bandry, tended, it was alleged, to diminish the number of the inhabitants. The
gradual increase since may be accounted for in the ordinary way, and from the in-
crease of houses in the village of West Gordon, which, from the facility of obtaining
fuel from Greenknow Moss, in the immediate neighbourhood, are easily let.


