
54                       PEEBLES-SHIRE.

              MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.

    Since the last Statistical Account was drawn up, the whole sys-
tem of agriculture in the parish has been changed, improved, and
extended.  The old Scottish plough is now entirely laid aside, atid
four horses are probably never seen yoked together in the field.
Instead of " a small quantity of turnips being raised," they form a
regular rotation in everv farm.  Instead of " 500 bolls of barley
being exported," there is now at least double that quantity.                  In-
stead of the wheat being " nothing equal to thd consumption," that
consumption is not only immensely enlarged, but a considerable
ovelplus for sale is left.  Instead of the small coarse-woolled black-
faced breed of sheep, we have now the Cheviot.  Instead of one
resident heritor, we have four.  Preparations are now going on for-
a very considerable extension of the plantations on the estates of
The Glen and Cardona.  Every farm-steading in the parish has
probably been rebuilt in the interval.  It only remains to add, that
the first water-meadows in Scotland were formed in this parish.  Some
of them are still irrigated regularly, and we have heard one farmer
allege that they would amply repay the original cost, were he com-
pelled by wet seasons to cart the grass they produce directly to the
dunghill.

   Owing partly to the lightness of the soil, and partly to its having
been so long in cultivation, the land in general is becoming ex-
hausted. Much of it will no longer produce clover and rye-grass,
(the only grasses, we believe, that have been atttempted to be rais-
ed in this district,) so as to be renumerating crop, and some
farms seem also to have begun to weary of turnip; It all events,
the disease known familiarly by the name of fingers-and-toes has
shown itself more or less in some of our fields.
   The writer would propose, in the first place, that there ought
to be an understanding, at the commencement of every lease, that
if the tenant cultivate his farm properly, and pay his rent duly, it
shall be in his own option to continue in the farm so long as he
does so, on a rise or fall of rent corresponding to the fiars prices
and to the times; for it is known to every one, that, by the stimu-
lus of lime, a tenant can " take every good quality out of the soil
that is in it," by the termination of his lease, and yet not violate
a single condition of the contract.    Hence the desire the tenants
all express that they should know whether the are to " flit " or
not, even several years before thd end of the lease.


