
                           HUTTON AND CORRIE.                   551

bably too low a calculation, and that there are 1000 parishes, be-
ing a few more than the actual number, this gives L. 400 as the
average for each parish. Such is the annual sum paid for an ar-
ticle of luxury, the using which arises from a mere idle habit, and
which cannot be proved to be beneficial in any shape whatever.
And since by far the greater part is consumed by the lower ranks,
what inconsiderate folly on the part of this class, to expend upon
an useless nuisance what might be usefully employed in purchas-
ing food and clothing for themselves and their poor families !
	I shall here state a circumstance, showing in a strong point of
view, the foolish and unfortunate habits of the country. A con-
siderable number of years, ago, the kirk-session of this parish distri-
buted somewhat less than L. 20 annually amongst its paupers, of
whom the whole, or nearly the whole, made use of tobacco. And
it was computed by those who had access to know, that a sum
equal to the whole given by the session, was spent by these pau-
pers in purchasing this article of luxury. This places in a strong
light the absurdity and folly of wretched habits among the lower
orders. Almost the whole of the collections in the church, toge-
ther with sums derived from other sources, were expended by these
poor people upon a nuisance! To this poor result, and to the gra-
tification of artificial, unnatural, and degrading appetites, the col-
lected benevolence of the charitable of a whole parish was made to
contribute! This is a subject well deserving the consideration of
those who have to support the poor. The use of these articles
unquestionably adds very seriously to the burden of supporting
them. L. 200 or L. 300 might be stated as a probable annual
outlay for the nuisance in a parish. But I know parishes in the
county of Dumfries, by no means distinguished for affluence, where
the annual expense is above L. 800; and the greater part, perhaps
nine-tenths of the nuisance, is consumed by poor people.
	Before concluding, I have shortly to advert to two other griev-
ances, which, it is believed, are found generally over the country,
and which deserve the consideration of those who have the dispo-
sition and ability to promote the interests of society.
	1. The general condition of cottagers is far from comfortable.
The old clay or stone and turf houses are disappearing; and sub-
stantial cottages, built with stone and lime and slated, are rising in
their stead. But these last do not rise in sufficient number, and
the accommodation of great numbers of poor families is very
wretched, It is not uncommon to see two families, each pretty


