
24                            ORKNEY.

where sloops and larger vessels lie in safety, and are protected by
the Holm from south and southeast gales.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The church stands on a bay, on the
eastern shore, upwards of a mile. east of Houton Head.  The
manse is delightfully situated on-a rising ground, about half a
mile west of the church, and well sheltered by hills on the west
and north.  The church was built in 1829, and contains 574 sit-
tings, the accommodation allowed by law, and is every way com-
fortable.  The sittings are all free.  The manse was built in 1789,
and is in a good state of repair.  The grebe, with hill pasture,
would bring L. 15 of rent annually.  The stipend is L. 150, of
which L. 34, 3s. 8d. is paid, by Government annually.  The num-
ber of Dissenters is considerable, being, by a late census, 107
above fifteen years of age, and 142 below this age. They belon'g
to the United Associate Synod.  Part attend at.  Kirkwall, and
part at Stromness.    There is also one Baptist.
   The sacrament of the Lord's Supper is dispensed once a-year,
in summer.  The number of communicants is about 300, and
about 100 attend on this occasion from neighbouring parishes.
Collections are occasionally made for various purposes, and amount
annually to from L. 1, 10s. to L. 2.
   Education.-There are three schools; one parochial, and two
maintained by mortifications.  The salary of the parochial school
was, at the last augmentation, raised to L. 26.  The fees, though
fixed, are not demanded ; the master accepting, in place thereof,
the gratuities, which may amount to from L. 5 to L. 6. The com-
mon branches of education are taught, and the master has the
legal accommodation.  The Mortification schools were founded
by natives.  The first by Magnus Twatt, who lived aDd died in
the service of the Honourable Hudson's Bay Company.  He ap-
pointed by his will the heritors and kirk-session patrons.  This
school has been in operation upwards of thirty years, and has a
fund of L. 700 laid out on landed security.     The other has been
only two years in operation, and was founded by James -Tait, who,
after having been many years in Hudsou's Bay, died in Strom-
ness, soon after instituting the school.  The sum left by him for
this purpose is L. 100, and he appointed the kirk-session. patrons.

<FOOTNOTE>The Dissenters have increased in the same proportion aq the rest of the popu-
lation, and are still about onb-faurth of the postulation, 1841
t In 1840,-L.8 were collected for the five- Schemes of the General Assembly, And
L,4 were collected by subscription for cases of destitution.


