
                          OLD CUMNOCK.                          489

ty good repair, though too small for the accommodation of the pa-
rish. It contains from 600 to 700 sittings. The heritors seem
quite willing to enlarge the present church; but there are diffi-
culties in regard to the best mode of getting it accomplished. Se-
veral plans have been laid before them with this view, but none
of these has as yet been adopted. The parish church is in ge-
neral well attended; though there are not a few in the parish who
are very negligent in attending on the means of grace. The most
remote in point of distance are in general the most regular in
their attendance.
   The manse was built about the year 1750, though several ad-
ditions have subsequently been made to it. It is very prettily situated
on the banks of the Lugar, on the north side of the town; and for
an old house, it is in a tolerable state of repair. The extent of the
glebe may be from 11 to 12 acres, but a part of it is not arable.
The yearly value will be about L.20. The stipend is L. 218 in
money.
   There is a Dissenting church in the town, in connection with
the United Secession, which may contain about 900 sittings.
The number of communicants belonging to the Established
Church is about 500. The collections made in the parish church,
in behalf of religious and benevolent objects, amounted last year
to the sum of L. 29, 18s. 1 1/2d.
   Nearly two-thirds of the population of the parish belong to the
Established Church, and rather more than one-third are Dissenters.
   Education--There is one parochial school in the parish. The
average number of scholars in it will be about 100. Besides the
ordinary branches, Latin and mathematics are also taught. The
school fees are--3s. for English reading, 3s. 6d. for writing.
4s. for arithmetic, and 6s. for Latin per quarter of twelve weeks.
There are also five private schools in the parish, and sometimes
one or two additional during winter. There are very few above
the age of fourteen who are not able to read and write, as parents
evince a laudable anxiety to give their children the common
branches of education; and the Marquis of Bute pays for the
education of twenty poor children, which is a great boon to the
parish. The parish schoolmaster, in addition to the maximum
salary, receives L.25 a year from a mortified fund left by a Mr
Duncan, for the purpose of educating and providing with school-
books, &c. twelve poor children, natives of the parish. He is


