
28                       ROXBURGHSHIRE.

fifty, country part, 92, village, 86, = 178; from fifty to seventy,
111 ; above seventy, * 28; total in parish, 781.
  There are 8 unmarried men above fifty years, and 10 widowers
ditto ; and there are 18 unmarried women above forty-five years;
and 5 resident heritors having above L. 50 of annual rent.  Seven
are nonresidents, besides about a dozen feuars, most of whom are
resident.
  In December 1831, the population of the village was 380, and
of the country, 425.    It may be proper to observe, that the popu-
lation of this parish is about 30 generally in the winter half-year,
above what it is in the summer half.  The chief cause of this dif-
ference seems to arise from the temptation of service in summer,
when the wages to a female-servant are from L. 4 to L. 5, 10s. and
the temptation to come home in winter, when the wages are from
L. 1, 5s. to L. 2. A number of boys also get service in summer,
who cannot obtain employment during winter.(+)
  Character of the People.--They are in general industrious in
their calling, and respectable in their station.  They are also regu-
lar in their attendance on the institutions of religion, and possess
a good knowledge of its doctrines and precepts.  There are many
who have treasured up these in their minds as principles for me-
ditation and rules of conduct.

                    IV.--INDUSTRY.
  Agriculture and Rural Economy.--The number of English acres
now in tillage is about 2600 ; uncultivated and chiefly mossy
ground, 50 acres.  There are about 2000 acres of high-lying
land formerly cultivated, but now in grass for pasture, which should
not be again brought into tillage, unless the prices of grain rise
higher than they have been for many years past.  There might
be 1000 acres on the estate of Riddell added to the cultivated
land in the parish with great advantage.  This land having been
let in grass parks during many years there can be no doubt
that capital would yield a profitable return by being laid out in
its cultivation.  The quantity in undivided common does not ex-
ceed two or three acres.  The plantations, &c. of forest trees
amount to about 600 acres consisting of larch and Scotch firs,

<FOOTNOTE>A few of the last class above eighty.
<FOOTNOTE>It may be noticed, that the great number of beggars who traverse Scotland hav-
ing no fixed residence, have not been reckoned in the population returns.  In this
parish, for a great number of years past, about fifteen, upon an average, have daily
passed through it.  A similar number may be found in many other parishes.  They
form no less than a fifty-second part of the population of these places, and are there-
fore a considerable omission inthe Government Returns.


