
               SANDSTING AND AITHSTING.                                        113

    Modern Buildings-Churches.-From the time of the Reforma-
tion till tbeyear 1780, there were two churches in the parish, viz. one

<FOOTNOTE>
of the same father) made ready their horses, prepared their war-sbirts, (shirts ofmail),
girded on their swords (which were fastened) at the hilt with chains.
            "well give now, (turn thou this to good) wielding God, quoth Hilti-
brand, whose word is done.  I wandered summers and winters sixty out of (my)
land; there they detached me among shooting people (archers); never in any burgh,
(city, castle), fastened they my legs; (but) now my nearest relation will hew my
neck with his bill, (battle-axe) or I entangle his legs, (tie him like.a captive.)
              " said Hiltibrand.-Good fellow citizens, bejudges who it be that this day
must quit the field of battle, or who will have both these brunies (hauberks) in his
possession.
   "Then they first let asben (spears) fly with rapid force, that they stuck in th
shields.  Then they thrust together, resounding stone-axes; they wrathfully heaved
white shields."-Illustraticns of Northern Antiquities.
   These extracts,from a composition of so remote a date as the eighth century, may be
considered as illustrative of the general mode of warfare adopted at that time by the
Saxon and Scandinavian tribes of Europe, among whom a greater similarity of lan-
guage and manners then prevailed, than was to be found at a later period.  The first
ofthe offensive arms oftbe Teutones of the eighth century     was the Battle-axe. It ap-
pears that these axes were constructed of stone.  The heroes of theTeutonicroniance
are said to have "thrust together resounding stone-axes; these weapons being ex-
pressed in the original by the term Staimbort, from Stein. a stone, and Barte or Barde,
an axe. In Shetland, numbers of stono axes have been discovered, which are wrought
from a remarkably compact green porphyry, probably derived from Scandinavia. In
a note, the Doctor remarks, 11 the stone contains, along with quartz, a considerable
portion of felspar in its composition,and probably some little magnesian earth; i tre
sembles a rock that I have seen associated with serpentine, as well as a substance that
is used in the construction of some of the stone hatchets of the South Sea Islands."
In form, the Shetland steinbarte, or stone axe, is of two varieties ; it is either single Or
double edged.
   Single-edged Steinbarte.-This variety has one cutting-edge, generally of a semilunar
outline, and tapering from opposite points to a blunted extremity or heel.  In some ape
chnens, both sides are convex; in others, one side only, the other being flattened.  All
the edges, except the brod sharpened margin, are bluntly rounded off.  The single-
edged stone axes of Shetland vary much in their dimensions, being from four to
eight or ten inches in length; their breadth proportionally differing.  When the
Shetland steinbarte was used in war, its blunt tapering extremity may be supposed
to have been introduced within the perforation made into some wooden or bene haft,
and afterwards secured by overlapping cord, formed of thongs o fleather or of the en-
trail, of some animal; twine of hemp not being then in use. Another kind of stein.
barte has been said to occur it.  Shetland, the shar edge of which describes the seg
Ment ofa circle, whilst the cbord of the outline    thickened like the back of a knife.
probably its blunt edge was fixed within the groove of a wooden or bone handle, so as
to form a single-edged. cutting instrument.
   Double-edged Steinbarte.-The blade of this instrument is a stone completely flat.
tened on each of its sides, and not more than the tenth of an inch thick ; it is of an ob-
long shape, having one blunted margin perfectly straight, and when the stone is held
in such a position that the dull edge is the uppermost, we have the form of a blade
presented, in which the two narrow edges are irregularly rounded off at their angles,
so that one edge is much broader than the other.  Every part of the margin but that
which constitutes the summit of the outline is sharpened; by which, means, there is
a great addition made to the extent of the cutting edge.  The blade is five inches and
a-half long, and from three to four broad. MaIlet, in    his History of Denmark, de-
scribes a battle axe of two edges, as used by the ancient Scandinavians,'and he adds
that, when it was fixed to a long pole, it constituted a halberf- In reference to this,
observation, I have supposed a long staff with, the extremity so penetrated at one or
two inches from the summit, as to form a lonar four inches in length, through
which the stone blade with the blunt side kept uppermost, may be drawn half-way,
and then secured to its station by me of cross ligatures. The whole would them
present the form of a two-edged battle-axe. Autiquaries it was in the course of
weapon was probably in use from the earliest period ; but since it was in the course of
time wielded by the Trabants, or those who stood upon guard in the castles of their

  SHETLAND.                       H


