
344                         FORFARSHIRE.

tic pile of building, is situate about one mile north from the vil-
lage on the flat frnunds at the confluence of the Glammiss Burn
and the Dean. There is a print of it given by Slezer in Charles
II.'s reign,-by which it appears to have been anciently much
more extensive, being a large quadrangular mass of buildings,
having two courts in front, with a tower in each, and gateway
through below them; and on the northern side, was the principal
tower, which now constitutes the central portion of the present
castle, upwards of 100 feet in height. The building received the
addition of a tower in one of its angles, for a spiral staircase from
bottom to top, and of numerous small turrets on its top, with coni-
cal roofs. The wings were added, at the same time, by Patrick
Earl of Strathmore, who repaired and modernized the structure,
under the direction of Inigo Jones. One of the wings has been
renovated within the last forty years, and other additions made
but not in harmony with Earl Patrick's repairs.
	There is also a secret room in it, only known to two or at most
three individuals, at the same time, who are bound not to reveal it,
unless to their successors in the secret. It has been frequently the
object of search with the inquisitive, but the search has been in
vain. There are no records of the castle prior to the tenth- cen-
tury, when it is first noticed in connection with the death of Mal-
colm II. in 1034. Tr`dhtion says that he was murdered in this
castle, and in a room which is still pointed out, in the centre of
the principal tower; and that the murderers lost their way in the
darkness of the night, and by the breaking of the ice, were drown-
ed in the loch of Forfar. Fordun's account is, however, some-
what different and more probable. He states that the King was
mortally wounded, in skirmish, in the neighbourhood, by some of
the adherents of Kenneth V.; accordiiigiy, to the eastward of
the village, within a wood near Thornton, there is a large cairn
of stones surrounding an ancient obelisk, bearing similar charac-
ters with the one near to the church, and which is called King
Malcolm's grave-stone. Now, although he was buried at Iona,
it appears probable that these stones mark the spot where the
battle had taken place, and where the king fell.
        King Malcolm's Grave-stone.-Within a few yards of the manse,
is to be seean an obelisk or large stone of rode design, erected, as is
generally supposed, in memory of the murder of Malcolm II. King
of Scotland. The perpetrators of that horrid deed fled with pre-
cipitation eastward, during night, and when the fields were covered


