
     Statistical Account

   Climate, Diseases, Population, etc.-Durable frost or snow
is very rare, and the air is tempered by the sea; yet it may
be called a cold climate, in winter, without any shelter.  It
may also be called rainy three fifths of the year.  When there

<FOOTNOTE>

is at the chapel of Kilkeneth in Tiry a burying ground so sandy,
that, by blowing, heaps of human bones are seen, and coffins of-
ten exposed, before half consumed.  It is now surrounded by
sand banks higher than the side walls; they no longer bury
here.  Alongst the coasts, in many parts, are buried the remains
of drowned persons cast ashore.  At the above hill of Ceanm-
harra, on a very rugged declivity, is situated St Patrick's temple.
The vestige of a wall incloses it in one third of an acre of land.
It is 26 by 11 feet within walls; the side walls 5 1/2 feet high; one
gable six inches thicker than the other; without a roof, and ill
built of stone and lime.  A square altar in the east end is still 18
inches high.  The cross without the pedestal 4 feet Within 60
yards of it, at the shore on the top of a rock is made a hollow, 2 feet
diameter and 4 deep, called by the country people St Patrick's
Vat.  There are 9 or 10 long stones, in different parts of the
parish, seemingly erected as monuments.  British, Danish, and
other small silver coins, in small earthen vessels, have often been
dug out of mosses and sandy ground Two years ago, was dis-
covered a bent tubular piece of gold about 2 L. value, the two
ends not closely joined, and not unlike a sort of ear-ring.  In a
stack-yard at Cornaigbeg in Tiry, in digging pits in sandy
ground to secure potatoes during winter and spring, there were
found at different times human skeletons, and nigh them the
skeletons of horses.  They seemed to have been compleatly armed,
according to the times.  Two handed swords were found dimi-
nished with rust; silver work preserved the handles; there were
also shields and helmets, with a brass spear.  Nigh this was dis-
covered another skeleton, holding the skeleton of an infant in
its arms.  It is proposed to dig more of this ground.  Some of
these curiosities are in the possession of the Duke of Argyle.
   In Coll near the family seat (a good modern house three sto-
ries high with wings, &c.) is the old habitation, a square built
castle, with turrets and some lower additions.  The main build-
ing is still roofed; the whole apartments are distinct.  Near the
center of Tiry is a lake with an island in it, whereupon was
built a similar castle; the access by a made road and draw-bridge.
Upon the ruins of this, in 1748, was erected a house with a gar-
den for the Duke of Argyle's factor, The island was sometime
ago made a peninsula.


