
                          MONZIE.                             265

the light of his fire in the night, his pursuers came tpon him in
the very act of roasting one of his fleecy victims, and for his crimes
he underwent the last penalty of the law at Perth, having previ-
ously, without the form of trial, suffered the loss of one of his ears
for a similar offence committed at Glen Ledneck.
   Kirk of the Grove.-In the vicinity of the cave is a natural cu-
riosity, known by the name of the "kirk of the grove," consisting
of several large stones piled above one another. Not far from
this, stands a solitary and aged pine, perhaps the last of an exten-
sive forest; but as the Caledonians are said to have frequently
Planted a fir tree near or upon the tomb of a warrior, it requires
no great stretch of the imagination to suppose that this may point
out the last resting place of an ancient hero:-"a tree stands alone
on the hill, and marks the slumbering Connal."
The small glen having attracted the notice of Mr Wordsworth,
any apology for introducing the subjoined beautiful lines, from the
pen of that distinguished poet, will, it is hoped, be deemed unne-
cessary.

               In this still place, remote from men,
               Sleeps OBSIAN, in the Narrow Glen;
               in this still place, where murmurs on
               But one meek streamlet, only one:
               He sang of battles, and the breath
               Of stormy war, and violent death;
               And should, methinks, when all was past,
               Have rightfully been laid at last
               Where rocks were rudely heaped and rent
               As by a spirit turbulent;
               Where sights were rough, and sounds were wild,
               And dvery thing unreconciled;
               In some complaining, dim retreat,
               For fear and melancholy meet;
               But this is calm, there cannot be
               A more entire tranquillity.
               Does then the Bard sleep here indeed ?
               Or is it but a groundless creed?
               What matters it ?-I blame them not
               Whose fancy in this lonely spot
               Was moved; and in such way expressed
               Their notion of its perfect rest.
               A Convent, even a hermit's Cell
               Would break the silence of this Dell:
               It is not quiet, is not ease;
               But something deeper far than these:
               The separation that is here
               Is of the grave ; and of austere
               Yet happy feelings of the dead:
               And, therefore, was it rightly said
               That, Ossian, last of all his race!
               Lies buried in this lonely place.

   Temperature.-The temperature, as might be expected from
the mountainous character of the district, is various; that of Glen-


