
276                        HADDINGTONSHIRE.

<TABLE>
                                                  Males.  Females.  Total,
   Population under 15 years of age,                64      61       125
              between 15 and 30                     40      44        84
                      30 and 50,                    34      37        71
                      50 and 70,                    17      19        36
              upwards of 70,                         3       4         7

                                                   158     165       323
   Proprietors of land of the yearly value of L. 50 and upwards, - 8
   Number of families chiefly employed in agriculture,        -   67

   During the three years preceding the date of this report, there
was one illegitimate birth in the parish.
   Manufactories.-There is one manufactory for smith-work, one
for rural carpentry, and one corn and barley-mill, belonging to
three families, and employing six or seven individuals. There is
no tailor, no shoemaker, and no public-house.
   There are no insane persons at present in the parish, and none
deaf and dumb, or blind. *  It is not believed that there are any
who engage in poaching or smuggling.
   As Bolton is an entirely agricultural parish, and none encouraged
to reside in it but such as are necessary for agricultural purposes,
the trifling increase or decrease of the population in different
years is owing to the state of agriculture, and to the state of the
families, as to numbers, which are perpetually fluctuating, in con-
sequence of the frequent changes of residence from one parish to
another. The same cause accounts, to a certain extent, for the
fluctuation in the proportions between the male and the female
portions of the population.
   But there is another point of view of much more importance,
in regard to the influence which these frequent changes are cal-
culated to have on character and morals. Those who are fre-
quently shifting their places of residence can never feel themselves
identified with the views and interests of any neighbourhood, nor
fully experience the salutary influence of its institutions. In re-
ference to the causes of these frequent changes, is it not deserv-
ing the serious consideration of all parties concerned, whether they
sufficiently cherish that reciprocal sympathy and regard for each
others interests, which is so productive of good in every relation,-
and whether there be a proper distinction made by those who have

<FOOTNOTE>Since this was written one case of insanity has occurred. This person is under
the care of her relatives, who receive for her from the parish L. 12 per annum. There
is also a case of blindness. This young man is at present, at an expense of five shil-
lings a week to the parish, supported in the Edinburgh Asylum for the Blind, with a
view to his being instructed in some art by which he may be enabled to support
himself.


