
	 512                    FIFESHIRE.

                            V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
              The nearest maket-town is Dundee, - which is only separated
	from the parish by the Tay. Cupar, which is also a market-town,
	is distant about eleven miles. Both of them are frequented by
	the farmers, weekly, for the sale of produce.
              The parish enjoys the benefit of a ready communication with
	other parts of the country both by land and water carriage. There
	is a post-office at Newport, and there are two daily coaches com-
	municating with Edinburgb, besides a daily mail-coach lately es-
	tablished.
              Roads.-The principal turnpike road betwixt Edinburgh and
	the north-east of Scotland, by the ferry at Newport, runs tbrough
	the parish for about two miles and a half. The other roads are,
	1. the old turnpike to Woodhaven, the length of which within the
	parish is about three miles; 2. another turnpike road, which joins
	it about one mile and a half from Woodhaven, leading by Kil-
	many to New Inn, length within the parish two miles and a half.
	3. the turnpike road from Cupar to Ferry-port-on-Craig, length
	about a mile; 4. a turnpike road made a few years ago betwixt
	Ferry-port-on- Craig and Newport, length in parish one mile and a
	half ; and, 5. a road of communication betwixt Newport and
	Woodhaven, length one mile. There are also two parish or sta-
	tute labour roads connecting the principal or turnpike roads. These
	are maintained in good order, particularly the great road which in-
	tersects the parish into nearly equal parts, and which is always in
	the best condition.
              Ferries.-Till the year 1822, there bad been, from time imme-
	morial, two public ferries in the parish communicating with Dundee
	across the. Tay, viz. one at Woodhaven, and another at New-
	port, about a mile farther east. These ferries were supplied by
	sail boats of a small and inconvenient description.
              About the year 1790, a new turnpike road was made to the
	ferry of Woodhaven, which, therefore, became for some time tbe
	principal ferry, and commanded the greatest resort of passengers,
	&C. But about the year 1806, by the exertions of the late Mr
	Berry and his son, the present proprietor of Tayfield, another
	turnpike road was made communicatin with that betwixt Wood-
	haven and Cupar, at a point distant about four miles from New-
	port. In consequence of this and of the communication with
	Dundee by Newport being shorter and more convenient, the
         thoroughfare began gradually to change, so as at length to make


