
                          DALKEITH.                     523

mentioned by Wodrow, no one appears to have been subjected to
any inconvenience.
  Episcopalians.-There has been at different times an Episcopa-
lian minister stationed in this town; but they have not hitherto
obtained much support from the inhabitants.  The Rev.  Erasmus
Middleton officiated for three years, from May 1769 till May
1772.  We have not learned whether any minister succeeded him.
  7. Education.-There are in all at present ten schools in this
parish, viz. one parochial,-four endowed,-and five unendowed.
The parochial or grammar school of Dalkeith has long held a
distinguished place among the seminaries of Scotland.  It was in
former times chiefly eminent for classical studies ;-but, during
the incumbency of the late Rector, (1826-1843), it assumed a
more comprehensive character, and embraced all the branches of
a liberal education.  In it were taught the English, Latin, Greek,
and French languages,-occasionally also Italian and German;
-writing, arithmetic, and book-keeping;--geometry, algebra, and
practical mathematics;-geography, history, composition, and
scripture instruction.  The salary is the maximum,-being L.34,
4s. 4 1/2d.  The school-fees were 7s.  Od. for English,--10s. 6d. for
English, Latin, and Greek;-5s. for writing and arithmetic;-
5s. additional for geography and history;--and 5s. for geometry,
algebra, and practical mathematics:-but if the latter two divi-
sions be taken by themselves, each was 10s. 6d. per quarter. Com-
position and scripture instruction were taught gratuitously.  The
house and garden are not surpassed in extent, or in beauty of si-
tuation, by any in Scotland, and reflect the highest credit on the
liberality of the heritors.  The house was built in 1828 expressly
for the accommodation of boarders, and contains on the ground
floor four spacious rooms, besides kitchen, laundry, &c.-and nine
excellent rooms above.  The ground attached is somewhere about
three quarters of an acre, including, besides the garden, a piece of
ground called the park, given in perpetual feu to the rector af the
grammar school, at the yearly duty of L. 1 Sterling. * The extent
and figure of the whole way be seen in the ground plan of Dalkeith,
drawn in 1822 by Mr J. Wood.  Of the unendowed schools, one is
set apart for the education of infants or very young children,-and
the Benbow school (established in 1825), for the children of very
poor persons, both being supposed by the Duchess of Buccleach.
The schools of Lugtou and Whitehill are chiefly for the children

<FOOTNOTE>Records of Kirk-Session, anno 1752.



