
506                       ARGYLESHIRE.

	Ecclesiatical State.-The present parish church was opened
for divine service in 1836. A new church having previously been
found to be necessary, it was erected about three miles from the
m`nse and site of the former building, and is now nearer, by that
distance, to the body of the parishioners, though, in a parish so ex-
tensive, some of the people must necessarily be inconveniently si-
tuated in reference to the means of grace. The church may ac-
commodate 430 sitters, and is a commodious and well-finished
place of worship. The sittings are all free, and are divided among
the heritors in the ratio of their valued rents. The application of
this law, if it be a law, has been found practically unsuitable, at
least here, the upper districts of the parish being very thinly peo-
pled, while the lower comparatively are the reverse. Hence some
of the heritors have had ten times more church room allocated to
them than the people on their lands can occupy, while others, on
the contrary, have, a great deal less adjudged to them than the
population requires.
	Ministers of the Parish.-Some notices of Mr Colin Campbell,
minister of the united parish of Ardchattan and Muckairn, or, as
there sometimes designated, Balvaodan and Kilespickerrell, have
already been given. The names of the incumbents from the Re-
formation till Mr Campbell's appointment cannot be ascertained.
Mr Campbell was succeeded, in 1731, by Mr Archibald Banna-
tyne. Mr James Stevenson succeeded Mr Bannatyne in Fe-
bruary 1732, and departed this life September 1751. The Rev.
Ludovick Grant was admitted on the 29th day of April 1756,
and departed this life in November 1795. The Rev. George.
Campbell was admitted the minister of the united parish, Sep-
tember 1796, and died at Long Ashton, near Bristol, whither he
bad gone for the recovery of his health, January 1817. The
Rev. Hugh Fraser was admitted October 1817, and demitted the
charge, along with nearly 500 other ministers, in consequence of
the control claimed by the civil courts in matters spiritual, June
1843.
The manse of Ardchattan, which is pleasantly situated on the
northern margin of Loch Etive, was built in 1772. It received a
large addition in 1814, besides partial repairs since that time, and
is now, in point of accommodation, not surpassed by any in this part
of the country ; the offices attached are equally commodious. In
commendation of the glebe, much cannot be said. The pasture
for milch cows is inferior in quality, and though considerable


