
                           KIRKCALDY.                         757

fessedly for encouraging or improving any branch of industry, is
an Agricultural Society. It meets twice a year for competition
among its members in seeds, crops, and stock; and it might be very
advantageous to farming interests, if the proprietors in the neigh-
bourhood were more generally to give its meetings the support and
countenance, by premiums and attendance, which they justly deserve.
                   V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Markets.-Kirkcaldy is the market-town, not of the parish only,
but of an extensive district. Retail dealers in the surrounding
towns and villages are supplied with goods by Kirkcaldy merchants.
This creates business for carriers, who frequent the town chiefly
on Tuesdays and Fridays, and cause considerable bustle on the
streets. A corn-market is held on Saturday. It was at one time
only a sample market, and most of the buyers came from Leith.
After the sales, the grain was shipped at the ports along the coast
most convenient for sellers. The town-council erected a stock-
market, and opened it for business in 1827. Not only is the grain
grown in the neighbourhood mostly sold in this market, but large
quantities are brought to it from within a circuit of fourteen or sixteen
miles. The attendance of merchants belonging to the burgh, and
buyers from other places, is numerous; and prices are generally a
shade higher here than in any other market in Fife. The market
was unpopular at first, and not a third part of the grain raised
in the district was brought to it for some years after it was opened.
When the fact came to be known that better prices were obtained
when grain was sold in stock than when sold by sample, the pre-
judices of the sellers were removed, grain was brought from more
distant places, and the quantity offered weekly for sale increased,
so that this has now become the leading corn market in the county.
About 25,000 quarters of grain are annually sold in the Kirkcaldy
stock market; and 10,000 quarters more are annually sold in the
market by sample. The success of this market has operated fa-
vourably on other branches of business, by augmenting the num-
ber of weekly visitors, and adding not a little to the circulation of
money in the town. In this as in other stock markets, all sales are
for ready money, and the effect of this upon the retail trade in the
town is beneficial. The market-dues are 1 1/2d. per quarter, and
no shore-dues are charged on market grain, if it be shipped within
fourteen days after it is sold.
   Few places in Scotland have a better flesh-market. Besides
furnishing the town and neighbourhood with a regular supply of


