
              462                       RENFREWSHIRE.

              himself, snd succeeded beyond expectation. But finding his bodily
              strength unequal to the exertion requisite, he has for the last five
              or six years employed, at his own expense, a young man, whose
              office it is to assemble the children on the forenoon of the Sab-
              bath, and superintend a Sabbath school in the evening, and to
              visit the parents or other relatives of the children through the
              week, with the view of insuring a regular attendance at the fore-
              noon meeting, and in the school.  A probationer of the Church
              of Scotland is now engaged in this interesting, and, it is hoped,
              useful department, and is regularly attended in the forenoon by
              upwards of 300 poor children, who would otherwise be wandering
              through the streets or the fields, corrupting one another and pe-
              rishing for lack of knowledge.
                   The minister of the old parish has for six years past employed
              a parish missionary at his own expense, to aid him in the over-
              whelming duties of that large and populous parish; and similar
              means have been employed at various times by the congregations
              of the Middle and East Churches.
                   Divine service at the churches connected with the Establish-
              ment is generally well attended.
                   Adding to the returns of communicants given in to the Com-
              missioners of Religious Instruction, the communicants in the new
              Church of St Thomas', the number on the roll of the eight pa-
              rishes is about 4680.  The average number actually communicat-
              ing may be stated at 300 or 400 below,that sum.
                   The following enumeration of the churches of Evangelical
              Dissenters in Greenock is taken from the Eighth Report of the
              Commissioners of Religious Instruction:
                   L. There are three- connected with the United Secession.
                   1. Inverkip Street Church, the Rev. Sutherland Sinclair, mi.,
              nister. The congregation was first established in 1740. The
              present place of worship was built in 1803, and contains 790 sit-
              tings, of which 50, provided by the congregation, are set apart for
              the poor.
                    2. Nicholson Street Church, the Rev. Robert Wilson, A. M.,
              minister. The congregation was established in 1790, and the
              chruch was built in 1791, and contains 1106 sittings, of which 40
              are set apart for the poor, and 6 are free. The poor are permit-
              ted to occupy them on application to the managers.
                   3. Union Street Church, the Rev. Thomas Finlayson, minis-
              ter. The congregation was established in 1833, and the chruch


