
18			   LANARKSHIRE.

	Modern Buildings.--There are several very handsome seats in
the parish. The lordly-looking mansion of Lee, the seat of Sir
Norman Macdonald Lockhart, was renovated a few years ago,
after a design of Mr Gillespie Graham.  The style is castellated.
Its principal ornament is the lofty Gothic hall in the centre, which
replaces the open court of the old house, rises high above the rest
of the building, and is lighted by twelve windows, three on each
side near the roof.
	Bonington, the jointure house of Lady Mary Ross, is an elegant
modern mansion, delightfully situated within a quarter of a mile from
the Corra Lin. It was lately much improved by the addition of a
handsome porch in front, also from a design of Mr Gillespie
Graham.
	Smyllum, a spacious mansion of imposing appearance, was built
about twenty years ago. It is in the castle style, and stands in a
high and very conspicuous situation half a mile above the town.
	Cleghorn is an old and comfortable dwelling-house, finely situ-
ated upon the north bank of the Mouss, and surrounded with fine
wood.
	Sunnyside Lodge is an elegant English villa, beautifully placed
upon the steep bank of the Clyde, about a mile and a-half below
Lanark. A particular point in the avenue commands one of the
richest and most extensive prospects in the country.
	Many of the houses in Lanark have been rebuilt within the last
ten years, in rather a handsome style, which has greatly improved
its appearance, although it has deprived it of its ancient title to
be considered a finished town. The best house in it was built a
few years ago by the Commercial Bank for the accommodation of a
thriving branch of their business. The stones principally used are
rag and freestone, the former from quarries near the town; the
latter is brought from the adjoining parishes of Lesmahagoe and
Carluke. The Auchinheath and Maingill quarries yield a stone
which is found not to bear exposure to the weather. A new quarry
has, lately been opened at Pittfield, on the road to Carluke, the
rock of which promises fair, but has not yet been sufficiently tried.
Lime is brought a distance of four miles from Craigend-hill.

Extract out of the Bookes of the Assemblie holden at Glasgow, and subscribed by
their clerk at their command.
							"M. ROBERT YOUNG,
						"Clerk to the Assemblie at Glasgow."


