
     of Kilwinning.

   Rents, Agriculture, etc.+-The average rent of the
farms, per acre, is 18 s.  The whole of the parish is
inclosed with hedge and ditch.  Such of the hedges as

<FOOTNOTE>

+By way of contract to the present improved state of the parish, it
may not be improper to insert the rent, mode of cultivation, prices of privi-
sions, etc. etc. that took place about 50 years ago.  In the year 1742, the
average rent of an acre was 3 s.  The parish was then wholly uninclosed,
excepting an inclosure or two about Eglintoune Castle.  The farmers
plowed with 4, and sometimes with 6 horses, and 3 men.  The business of
of the third man,it was pretended, would keep the plough steady, and prevent its
starting aside, or going out of the straight line.  The ridges were excessively
broad, and raised very high in the middle.  Nearly two thirds of every ridge
were left, in a great measure, without any of the soil, and even the very little
that remained being, during the winter, almost covered with water, was soured,
and consequently in a state that produced very little, either of grass or grain.
Every farm was considered as divided into OUTFIELD and INFIELD, or, as this last
was called, the croft.  The infield, or the croft, was in proportion to the size of
the farm, from 6 to 16 acres.  It was kept constantly in tillage.  The course of
crops, was, 1st, bear; 2 d, pease and beans; 3 d, oats; then dunged for bear.  The
outfield was never manured.  It was divided into two parts, cropt with oats a
years, and pastured 2.  This was the general practice.  There were some who cropt
it 2 years, and pastured 3.  Produce from 1 1/2 to 2 county bolls.  This produce
did little more, (if so much), than to defray the expences of seed and labour
There was no sown grass; consequently no hay, except in some few farms,a
little coarse meadow hay.  From this slovenly and absurd mode of management,
the pasture was extremely scanty, and of a very poor quality.  There were no
carts.  The produce of the farm was brought to market in sacks on horseback.
The dung was carried to the croft in small creels on horseback, or in sledges.
Though the soil was wet, and entirely without any shelter, every farm kept a
certain number of sheep.  The number varied according to the extent of
the farm.  They were constantly housed at night.  The wool they produced
was coarse, and in very small quantities.  There were very few milk cows.
From their ignorance of a dairy, the profits the farmers made of the few cows
they kept,were extremely inconsiderable.  Skimm'd milk cheese was the only kind
they knew how to make.  The little sweet milk cheese which was then used,
was imported from Ireland.  Lime was very little known, and still less used as a
manure.  There were no potatoes planted, except perhaps a very few in a gar-
den, or in the corner of a field.


