
120                     PERTHSHIRE.

James Stuart, the King's Advocate for Scotland; and the Earl of
Tullibardine, the Principal Secretary of State; Mr Munro, Provost
of the Old College of the University of St Andrews; Mr Craigie
of Glendookie; * the magistrates and town-council of Perth, &c.
The arrangement did not take place. How it failed is matter of
uncertainty. The following extract of a letter of Provost James
Cree of Perth, 1698, to Mr Anderson, Rector of the University,
shews bow the city of Perth regarded the proposition. "For as
we are confident that it will be found in due time a meane through
God's blessing, to advance the public good of the Universitie, and
also of the kingdome, so we are resolved to cum as great a length
for advancing so noble a design as we are able, whereof we hope
we have given sufficient evidence in the offer of a fund for pro-
vyding of lodgings and accommodations needful for that effect."
   Perth has been for a long time celebrated for distinguished
teachers in its schools of learning. The first Rector of the Gram-
mar School after the reformation, whose name is on rebord, was Mr
William Rynd.  Such was his reputation that he was appointed
governor and travelling tutor to the young, Earl of Gowrie, and his
brother Alexander, when they went to study at Padua.  His suc-
cessors in office, of whom a list has been regularly kept, appear to
have been men of professional eminence and great ardour in train-
ing their pupils.  Mr Logan, a gentleman of high scholarship, is
the present Rector.

<FOOTNOTE>Mr Craigie alleges various reasons of translation, among which are the following:
It would contribute much to the civilizing of the Highlands, Perth being near to them.
The victuals are dearer at St Andrews than anywhere else, viz. fleshs and drinks of all
sorts.-St Andrews is ill provided of all commodities and trades, which obliges us to
send to Edinburgh, and provide ourselves with shoes, clothes, hatts, &c., and what are
here are double rate.-St Andrews is ill provided of fresh water, the most part being
served with a stripe, where the foul clothes, herring, fish, &c. are washed. so that it is
most pairt neasty and unwholsome.-St Andrews is a most thin and piercing air, even
to an excess, seeing that nitre grows upon the walls of chambers when fires are used, if
there be light to the north, for the most part of the whole year; as in Mr Ramsay, &e.
and this the reason why old men coling to this place are instantly cut off.-As also
why infectious diseases have been observed to begin and rage most here, as in the visi-
tation in 1640, when Dr. Bruce died; and last year a most malignant flux, whereof
dyed upwards of two hundreth persons in a few weeks, which much prejudiced the Uni.
versity.-St Andrew's being now only a village where most part farmers dwell, the whole
streets are filled with dunghills, which are exceedingly noisome, and ready to infect the
air, especially at this season when the herring gutts are exposed in them, or rather in
all corners of the toune by themselves, and the season of the year apt to breed infection,
which partly may be imid to have been the occasion of list year's dissentiric, which frorn-
its beginning here raged through most part of the kingdom."
  In the city records, February 21, 1698. there n entered an act for offering the
town-house and yard for the college, or the sum of 20,000 merks to build one.   -
  In the articles of communing between the commissioner of the university and the
town-council, the town-house is designated that great lodging situated next to the Spey-
gate, whereof the are heritable keepers, i. e. GOURIE's PALACE, and the whole
proffer is estimated at 80,000 merks.


