

                        DURNESS.                              103

100; of those upwards of 15, is 216.  It must be borne
however, that the majority of those not included in this
cannot write.  It is to be hoped that the district where
assembly school is situated will, ere long, derive considerable
from the school, both in a moral and intellectual point of
and Parochial Funds.-The number of poor receiving pa-
rk aid is 45,-in sums of from 3s. to 8s. or 10s. each.  The
amount of contributions for their relief does not exceed
vix. church weekly contributions, L. 12, with the interest of
spicy, L.2, and alms, L.6. It must be noticed, however,
in this, as well as in other Highland parishes, where the cir-
cling medium is very scarce, the poor are regularly furnish-
with meal, fleeces, clothes, &c. in value at least equal to the
out of money annually divided by the kirk-session.  It is to be
sitted that, of late, the poor do not consider it degrading to be
the roll of the session funds.  There are no assessments for
the poor, or charitable instituions; yet, when extraordinary calls
made, the inhabitants have always manifested a commendable
morality.
Inns.-There ar three inns, or rather houses licensed to retail
lucky.  But hitherto, travellers have been in most cases obliged
draw on the hospitality of the inhabitants.  Comfortable inns 
and stabling are, however, now in progress.
MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
The most important change since the last Statistical Ac-
count has been the introduction of sheep-farming, which commen-
ted about thirty years ago, and has been extended since.  Though
some respects this may have augmented the revenue of the pro-
sistor, and added to the commercial wealth of the nation, yet it
a very questionable, if it has added, in the meantime, to the in-
tellectual, moral, or religious superiority of the inhabitants.
The division of the parish into such extensive farms has also
depressed almost entirely the middle classes of society, who paid
counts of from L. 10 to L. 50, and has thereby tended to extinguish,
a great degree, the intelligence and laudable emulation of the
new classes.  The former generally felt a desire of giving every
advantage of education to their children at school, and their ex-
ample diffused an emulation among the latter.  The great sheep-
partners who are resident employ teachers in their families; the
schools are attended by the poorer classes, who are all on the same


