
     of Kilwinning.

the laziness and the poverty of the farmers, and the very igno-
rant and absurd manner in which they cultivated their lands, his
Lordship, at a great expence, engaged and brought to his
estates in the parish, and other parts of the county, men of
real knowledge and experience in agriculture, who had been
regularly bred to it, and who had long successfully practised
it.  By the conversation and example of these practical im-
provers, the people, roused from their former torpid state,
ventured to deviate from the mode of management handed
down by their forefathers; and, convinced at last, of the
infinitely superior advantages of this new system of husbandry,
by degrees adopted it.  His Lordship also instituted an agri-
cultural society, consisting of the most active, intelligent, and
respectable farmers.  In this society he presided for several
years.  By communicating such observations as were the effects
of his own experience, and such as he had collected in con-
versing with men of knowledge, his Lordship excited and dif-
fused a keen and enterprising spirit of industry and experi-
ment; the very happy effects of which, in the improvement
and wealth of the country, had little more than appeared,
when he died by the hands of an unprincipled and merciless
assassin.  His Lordship's farm of Eglintoune, with the planta-
tions, contains about 2000 acres Scotch measure.  The whole
is planned and executed, with such an exquisitely fine taste,
as to render the ancient seat of the family, one of the noblest
and most beautiful of any in Scotland.  To the patriotic ex-
ertions of this truly great man, his country chiefly owes the
act of parliament, which abolished what was called the optional
clause of the Scotch banks.  By the above clause, the banks
had it in their power, to refuse payment of their notes, for no
less than six months after it had been demanded.  This cer-
tainly was a very great national grievance, and had it continued,
Scotland could never have made the improvements, which it


