
     Statistical Account

Lochar-bridge at the head of this moss. There is only a fall
of 14 feet from it to the sea.  The estimate of the expence
is said to have been L. 10,000. Besides the benefit arising
from a communication with the sea, the greatest part of this
extensive morass would have been rendered arable, or fine
meadow around.  In its present state, indeed, there are
considerable tracts of excellent meadow along the banks of
rivulets which run into it from the high grounds on all sides.
There are likewise several good farm in different places on
the higher parts of the moss, on both sides of Lochar, which
divid s it nearly into two equal parts.  There is a tradition,
universally credited, that the tide slowed up this whole tract
above the highest bridge in the neigbourhood.  In the bot-
tom of the moss sea-mud is found; and the banks are evi-
dently composed of sea food.  A few years ago, a canoe of
considerable size, and in perfect preservation, was found by a
farmer, when digging peats, 4 or 5 feet below the surface,
about 4 miles above the present flood-mark; but it was de-
stroyed before any Antiquarians had heard of it.  Near the
same part of the moss, and about the fame depth, a gentle-
man found a vessel of mixed metal, containing about an Eng-
lish quart, supposed by some to be a Roman modius, and by
others to be of much greater antiquity, as the Phoenicians,
according to tradition, traded with the natives for tin, several
hundred years before the Romans had discovered the island.
The vessel is still preserv d.  Antiquities of various kinds are
found in every part of this moss where peats are dug, even
near its head, such as anchors, oars, etc.; so that there is no
doubt of its having been navigable near a mile above the
highest bridge, and fully 12 miles above the present flood
mark.  Near the manse there is a narrow gut, between two
sandy hillocks, called Collyveat, supposed to be a corruption
of Collin's boat, where it is thought there was a ferry, which


