
190                        FORFARSHIRE.

ries, and many of the necessaries of life, are brought from the
coast, a distance of twenty miles; and the nearest road is across a
range of hills, in many places steep, and difficult of access. The
want of water is at all times justly complained of, and in years of
drought much inconvenience is experienced; but it is with no small
degree of satisfaction that I have to remark, that all these disad-
vantages have been in great measure surmounted by my parish-
ioners. By the skilful hand of culture, our "muirs" have become
gardens, and the wilderness literally blossoms as the rose. The
landholders have laid out their estates in farms of a convenient size,
and thriving woods and plantations wave in all directions. Our
morasses have been drained; and corn crops, of the most extraor-
dinary luxuriance, now grow on lands which had lately been the
habitation of the lapwing and other water-fowls. The water of the
Garie is also carefully collected by us into dams; and it is wonder-
ful how many corn and plash mills, on the most improved con-
struction, are set in motion by it. Although the yarns must be
carried from the shores in carts and along roads construbted on
the common principles, * and although the cloth, when manufac-
tured, must he carried back by the same rude conveyance, such is
the ingenuity of our weavers, and such their industry, that we are
not only able to compete with our rivals in the more favoured
towns on the coast, but even to bear away from them the palm of
victory. In proof of this, I have only to mention, that upwards of
50,000 pieces of linen, of various fabrics and qualities, are annual-
ly in manufactured among us; and that several mill-spinners in Mon-
trose and Dundee,--towns possessing many natural advantages to
which we can lay no claim,--have been accustomed, for some time
past, to send their yarns to be woven in this distant quarter,--a
measure which they never would have had recourse to, did they not
find it their interest to do so. Our streets are regularly cleaned
and lighted, as in larger towns; and the landholders in the neigh-
borhood have only to countenance our undertakings, and the ob-
structions complained of by them and by us will be removed.
	It may be remarked, in concluding, that there is an immense
tract of country, with a numerous population, on the northen side
of the Grampians, to which Kirriemuir is by many miles the nearest
market; but the inhabitants have been hitherto prevented from

<FOOTNOTE>It gives me the greatest plearure to say, that, since the above was written there
is now the greatest probability that the Newtile rail-road will ere long be extended
to Kirriemuir, which cannot fail to be of the greatest advantage to the parish.


