
              ISLAND OF SKYE-SNIZORT.                          287

designate him by his surname, but by his genealogy, perhaps four
or five generations back, and many of them can trace them much
farther. Such names, therefore, are frequently heard, as Aonghas
mac Alasdair, mhic Raonuill, mhic Uistein, mhic Cholla; Angus,
the son of Alexander, the son of Ranold, the son of Hugh, the
son of Coll. In the same manner, when speaking of the High-
land chiefs, they designate them patronimically; as, Lord Mac-
Donald, MacDhonuill ; Rasay, MacGhille Chaluim; Glengarry,
Mae mhic Alasdair; Glenmoriston, Mac mhic Phatric; Argyle,
Mac Chailein Mh•ir, &c.

November 1840.

                 PARISH OF SNIZORT.

          PRESBYTERY OF SKYE, SYNOD OF GLENELG.

          THE REV. RODERICK MACLEOD, MINISTER. *

          I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Extent and Boundaries.-This parish, which is of an irregular
form, is about 14 miles long, and from 6 to 10 broad. It is
bounded on the south, by the parish of Portree; on the south-west
and west, by the parishes of Bracadale and Duirinish, and Loch Sni-
zort, an arm of the sea; on the north by the parish of Kilmuir;
and on the east, by that of Steinscholl, and the channel which di-
vides Skye from Rasay.
   Topographical Appearances.-Its surface is diversified by flat-
hills, clothed with heath and green pastures, and is intersect-
ed by narrow valleys or glens, through which small streams or
rivulets wind their course to the sea. Most of the hills are not
remarkable for their elevation. In the southeast part of the pa-
rish is a huge and lofty mountain ridge, called the Storr, which
is one of the most interesting formations of nature in - the whole
island. The isolated peak of St/a4rr, projecting to an immense
height from the bosom of the adjacent hill, is seen from afar, and
its ragged irregular outline cannot fail to attract the traveller's
notice at a distance of many miles. Towards the east, the Storr
presents a range of rugged cliffs, broken into irregular formations,

<Footnote>Drawn up by Mr Donald Fraser, Parish Schoolmaster of Kilmuir, Skye.



