
     Statistical Account

provision for the poor appears to have been considerable.  It
has since, however, been greatly increased; and, at present,
perhaps, there is no parish of equal extent in Scotland, where
the poor are so amply provided for as here.  This provision
arises from a funded principal of 700 L. bequeathed at diffe-
rent times by the family of Fletcher of Salton, from collec-
tions and mortcloth dues amounting to about 12 L. a year,
and from a bequest of 150 meeks Scoth, annually, by the
celebrated Gilbert Burner, Bishop of Salisbury, for the private
distribution of the minister of the parish.  These different
sums, amounting to shout 52 L. per annum, are fully sufficient
for the exigencies of the poor.  A part is laid out in the pur-
chase of meal for the monthly supply of 20 indigent persons,
whose names are inserted in the poors roll; part in the pay-
ment of house rents, and the remainder for the relief of in-
cidental necessity.
   Several years ago, two academies were established in this
parish, through the public spirit of the late proprietor of Sal-
ton, Mr Andrew Fletcher, and the former incumbent, Mr
Bannerman.  They were supplied with able teachers; and one
was appropriated to the education of boys, the other of girls.
The characters of the teachers, and the peculiar healthiness
of the situation, added to the laudable zeal of the patrons of
the institution, soon procured a number of boarders of both
sexes, from various parts of Scotland.  The instruction was
not confined to the more common parts of education; it in-
cluded also its higher and politer branches, music, mathema-
tics, natural philosophy, and astronomy, for which proper ap-
paratus was procured.  The success of this institution, for some
time, gratified completely the wishes of its founders, and was
attended with much emolument to the parish.  This success,
however, did not long continue, and the plan was unaccount-
ably laid aside a few years after its commencement.  No at-


