
                            KELSO.                              329

tem, however, in general application, is that of the four and five-
shift courses, the former predominating.  Except upon those lands
(to the south of the Tweed) which rest upon a retentive subsoil,
turnips or potatoes in limited quantity, are taken as a fallow crop;
this is followed by wheat or barley; sown down with grass-seeds;
and when these grasses are taken up at the end of one or two
years, as the case may be, an oat crop follows; no manure being
applied in the course of the rotation to any but the turnip crop or
fallow.  The manures generally employed are, besides common
manure, lime and bone-dust.  The average quantity of lime used
annually is estimated at 843 tons; the average quantity of bone-
dust, 25 tons.  As regards the improvements of which the husban-
dry is susceptible, nothing very specific can be stated.  The rich
loam on the north of the Tweed, as also the lands on the south,
which are upon a dry subsoil, are in the highest state of cultivation,
and seemingly incapable of any additional improvement beyond,
what judicious management, and the application of suitable ma-
nures, never fail to produce.  But much of the wet and tilly soil
in the southern section of the parish is, doubtless, notwithstanding
the great and beneficial change which its present enterprising oc-
cupants have of late years wrought upon it, still susceptible of ex-
tensive amelioration from a more thorough application of draining
and similar essential operations.
  Leases.--The general duration of leases is nineteen or twenty-
one years.  The only exception is in the ease of small enclosures
and crofts in the immediate vicinity of the town, which are let, for
the most part, for a double rotation of crops.
  Farm-buildings, &c.--The farm-buildings are generally substan-
tial; in a few instances, tasteful and elegant.  The implements of
husbandry are likewise in accordance with the latest improvements.
On one large farm, Spylaw, steam is employed as a moving power in
the operations of thrashing, &c.  The whole parish is enclosed and
subdivided into fields, generally by hedges, which, from the prac-
tice of regularly cutting them with a bill, give the face of the coun-
try a garden-like appearance.  Where the fences are of stone, the
walls are well-built, and sometimes coped with ruble-work.  AIto-
gether the state of the parish, in reference to agriculture may be
justly described as worthy of a district, which has always kept pace
with the rapid strides made by the country at large in this depart-
ment of national industry, and which has long had the good for-
  ROXBURGH.                             Y


