
               CRAIL.                               943

ing, for whom David I. founded a monastery, which was after-
wards dedicated to St Adrian, whose body was buried there, and
whose coffin, cut out Of Stone, is still exhibited in the ruins of the
chapel. From the monks it was purchased by a bishop of St An-
drews, and attached first to his own cathedral and afterwards to
the priory of Pittenweem. In aftertimes it became the property
of Cuningham of Barns, and all parochial burdens exigible from
it are understood to be paid out of his barony in the parish of
Crail. This proprietor in 1635 received power from Parliament
to erect a lighthouse upon the island, (though one bad existed
there before), and to collect certain duties from the shipping for
its maintenance.
   The lighthouse then erected consisted of a square tower, on the
top of which a quantity of coals was kept burning every night.
Rude as this mode of giving light to the navigators of the Forth
may seem, it continued with little improvement till l816, when
the Commissioners of the Northern Ligbts (having previously
purchased the island with all the rights of the light-keeping),
erected a beacon with a stationary oil light, 240 feet above the
medium level of the sea, and capable of being seen at seven
leagues distance.
   About the same time the attention of the Commissioners was
directed to the Carr-a reef of rocks extending betreen one and
two miles from Fifeness, on which, according to calculation, there
had been at least two shipwrecks every year. And after years of
Tabour and many disappointments, they at length succeeded in
erecting a building at the extreme point, where there is water deep
enough for vessels entering the Forth. This building consists of
a base of solid masonry, from the top of which spring iron pillars
terminating in a point, with a hollow ball raised 25 feet above
the medium level of the sea. This erection was reckoned a
mighty boon to the shipping interest; but still the Commission-
ers wer4a not satisfied. Guided, therefore, by Mr Stevenson, civil
engineer, they, in 1843-44, built a second lighthouse upon the
May, with a light so directed as to point out the position of the
Carr, and show mariners how to enter the Frith in safety. This
light was first exhibited in autumn 1844; yet, strange to say, on
the lst of October of the same year, the Windsor Castle steamer,
on her return from Dundee with about 200 passengers, who bad
gone thither to witness the Queen's departure, struck upon the
Carr rock beacon with such violence as to compel the commander

