
                            DAVIOT.                           825

or profitable thickness. The error of this method has now be-
come evident, and a plan, apparently more judicious, is adopted,
namely, rooting up and removing those parts of the plantations
which do not seem thriving, digging large pits, (in many cases
trenching would be preferable,) and planting the young trees in
masses, and such kinds only as appear to have thriven best in the
soil.
   Rent of Land.-The average rent of arable land in the parish
per acre is a little above L.1, 1s.
   Rate of Grazing.-An ox or cow may be grazed for L.2, 10s.,
and a full-grown sheep for 10s.
   Wages.-The wages of a labouring man in summer is 1s. 6d.,
and in winter Is. per day with victuals. Those of tradesmen 2s.
per day in summer, and Is. 6d. in winter, with victuals also.
   Live-Stock.-The common breed of cattle in the parish, till
within the last few years, was the Aberdeenshire, and the animals
of this breed were by no means generally of the finest quality. Much
more attention, however, has been paid of late to improve the qua-
lity, and produce the greatest weights in the shortest time ; and ac-
cordingly, a cross of the short-horned with the breed of the county
is found to succeed well,-for the bullocks of this cross attain a
greater weight in three years with good a keep than the pure Aber.
deenshire in four; and, from the facility with which they can be
conveyed by steam, without loss of weight, to the London markets,
they yield a much greater renumerating price to the feeder.
   Few sheep are reared in the parish, and these only for family
use.
   Husbandry.-The mode of husbandry pursued is believed to be
good. A seven-shift rotation is that generally adopted, viz. three
grasses, two grain crops, one green crop, and one grain crop again,
and with the seed of this last crop are sown rye and red and white
clover grass seeds for the hay crop of next year. A few indivi-
duals have, instead of a seven, adopted a six-shift rotation, that is,
one instead of two grain crops after the third year's grass, and they
affirm that the proceeds are as great, while the land is less ex-
hausted than by following a seven-shift rotation. As the six-shift
rotation, however, gives a less breadth for grain crop than the
other, some time may yet elapse until its advantages be satisfac-
torily established and duly appreciated. There are other two
shifts occasionally permitted and practised, namely, a five-shift ro-
tation, with one grain crop after two grasses; and a six-shift rota-


