
     Statistical Account

   Miscellaneous Observations.-The air of this place, though
often loaded with fogs and damps, which exhale from
the low grounds, which are of a wet nature, cannot be
reckoned unhealthy.  Any noxious effects which these
might produce, are probably prevented by that ventilation
which this place receives by the winds, which frequently
blow here with considerable violence, from the W. and
S. W.  There are not here any endemic diseases; and
the epidemic diseases, when they prevail, have by no means
here any peculiar virulence.  The village of Corstorphine
hath generally been reported to be in an unhealthy situa-
tion, by reason of dampriess.  I have met with no proofs
of this opinion, in the situation of the health of its inha-

<FOOTNOTE>

object of attention, with advantage.  There is a great part of the season, as in
winter, when the farmer needs not the work of those people, which is sum-
mer occupations require.  The labour in which they are employed in their own
houses, during that interval, is seldom to productive as to subsist them with
comfort.  To employ them in that season, is such mnufactures as would keep
alive and stimulate their industry, and be a source of emolument to their fa-
milies, would be to dispense to them essential benefits.  But to accomplish this,
will be found to be a work of greater difficulty than at first sight may appear.
The point in question to be gained is, to promote in them the industrious spi-
rit and habits of the manufacturer, to permit them to reap and enjoy a share of
his habits, without debilitating their minds, impairing their health, or destroy-
ing their predilection and relish for the labour of the field, when the season
calls them forth, and to which the most decisive preference ought ever to be
given.  To discuss this subject, is greatly beyond the bounds or designs of an
article in a Statistical Report.  It presents a field of laborious discussion, con-
cerning those means by which it might be made practicable, and which would
exhaust a volume.  I am not possessed of the information necessary, or the ta-
lents requisite for the execution of such a work.  I hope the opinion on which
it is founded, will not be considered as chemical, or the plan impracticable.
The idea presses on my mind, as being of the highest importance, in a political
and moral view.  The man who, with success, shall consecrate his labours to
accomplish this object, is justly worthy of envy:  For to him shall be due the
praise of having advanced and secured the best interest of patriotism, of hu-
manity, and of virtue.


