
464			AYRSHIRE.

landscape. They are best the day they are built, and from that
moment are subject to the law of decay.
   The rotation on the richer lands is sometimes the three-shift,
but more generally the four-shift. A large proportion, however,
of each farm is in grass, and there are some beautiful dairies in
the parish. There is less cheese made here than formerly, as it is
in general thought more profitable to dispose of the dairy produce
in milk and butter. A few calves are reared each year, and the
rest sent to market.
   There is still room for considerable improvement in agricultural
matters in this parish. Little encouragement has, yet been given
for furrow-draining. A beginning, however, has been made, and
we doubt not that it will spread over the whole parish, and add
greatly to the value of property.
   The farms are let on lease of from twelve to nineteen years. Some
are let from year to year. This may do for small patches around
towns and villages; but for farms, it is a bad and comfortless
system.
   Very considerable benefit is derived by the farmers from the
sea-wrack, which in stormy weather is cast ashore, and diligently
carted away by them for manure.
			V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   There is both in SaItcoats and Stevenston a tolerably good
market. If any day can be called the market-day, unfortunately,
it is the Saturday. It is much to be regretted that this is the pay
day in the public works, as those who are given to intemperate
habits are thus more powerfully tempted to disqualify themselves
for the duties of the approaching Sabbath, by making the Satur-
day evening a night of riot and bustle, instead of calm domestic
enjoyment.
   Post-office.--There is a daily post from Saltcoats and from
Stevenston.
   Coaches, &c.--A coach leaves Saltcoats for Glasgow every law-
ful morning at 7 o'clock, and returns in the evening about 9 o'clock.
A coach leaves SaItcoats for Kilmarnock every lawful morning at
8 o'clock, and returns to Saltcoats about 6 o'clock.
   In summer, a coach starts from Glasgow at 6 o'clock in the
morning, and another coach from Kilmarnock at 8 o'clock in the
morning, to convey passengers to Ardrossan in time for the steamer
for Arran; and when the steamer returns in the afternoon, they
are ready to start with passengers for Glasgow and Kilmarnock.


