
484       	               INVERNESS-SHIRE.

The Davoch of Erchless and Annat, on the north side of the river
Beauly, belong to this parish ; and another Davoch, consisting of
three farms, called the Crochails, on the south side of the river
Glass, belongs to the parish of Kilmorack: but, with the above ex-
ceptions, Loch-Affaric, Loch-na-luire, and Loch-beinnemhian,
together with the rivers Glass and Beauly, constitute the march be-
tween the parishes of Kiltarlity and Kilmorack.
   Topographical Appearances.-There are hills on each side of the
River Glass along the whole of its course : and, with the exception
of a low- lying country, of about nine square miles at its eastern ex-
tremity, the parish is composed of hilly and rocky ground, intersect-
ed by valleys and glens, the most considerable of which are Strath-
glass and Glenconvinth. The hills and mountains in this parish are
not remarkably high; probably the highest amongst thern is Aonach
Sassan, (English kill), on the property of William Fraser, Esq. of
Culbockie. It is estimated at about 2000 feet above the level of the
sea. They generally present a roughly rounded outline ; few, if
any, ascending in the form of peaks. They range from east to
west, and from south-east to north-west. Indeed, by far the
greater part of the surface of the parish is very rugged and rocky.
In the western portion, many of the rocks are inaccessible to human
tread, and are inhabited by goats, which have become so wild, that
their owners are under the necessity of shooting, ere tbev can take
them.The presence of these creatures gives much additional in-
terest to the solemn grandeur of the surrounding scenery.             On
ledges of these high rocks, eagles form their eyries and rear their
young in defiance of the attempts sometimes made by shepherds
to dislodge them. The peregrine falcon, formerly so much prized
by the falconer for its docility and courage ; the fork or salmon-
tailed kite, the kestril, and the raven, dwell among the cliffs and
ravines. Few places in the Highlands of Scotland can vie with
Strathglass in romantic beauty and grandeur. The black and
barren appearance of the rugged and lowering mountains on either
side, although happily,relieved in many places by the presence of
a considerable quantity of birch, hazel, and natural fir, contrasts
well with the fertility and loveliness of the smiling vale below,
through which the river Glass gently wends its serpentine course
over a bed of purest sand, glistening like a silver thread in the light
of a summer sun, and ever and anon concealed from view by the
intervening foliage of a fringe of alder, mountain-ash, and weep-
ing-birch,  by which its banks are ornamented. So gently, indeed,
does the river flow in many places,that a current is scarcely at all


