
     Of Kirkmichael.

   In these mountains, it is asserted by the country people,
that there is a small quadruped which they call famh.  In
summer mornings it issues from its lurking places, emitting
a kind of glutinous matter fatal to horses, if they happen to
eat of the grass upon which it has been deposited.  It is some-
what larger than a mole, of a brownish colour, with a large
head disproportionate to its body.  From this deformed ap-
pearance, and its noxious quality, the word seems to have
been transferred to denote a monster, a cruel mischievous per-
son, who, in the Gaelic language, is usually called a famh-
shear.  Other quadrupeds once indigenous to the Grampian
mountains are now extinct, and now known only by name;
such as the Torc-neimh, or wild boar*, an lon, or the bison.
Lizards, and serpents, may be frequently met with, and,
of the latter, different specieses, some of them striped and
variegated, others black and hairy.  It is a curious fact, that
goats eat serpents, without any prejudice from their bite.
Hence, it has passed into a proverb, cleas na gaoithr githeadh
na nathrach, "like the goat eating the serpent," importing a 
querulous temper in the midst of plenty.  Incredible as this
fact may appear, it may not be improbable.  Goats are ani-
mals that feed much upon plants and herbs; and upon the
supposition that the bite of serpents were more poisonous than
what they are known to be in our northern latitudes; yet,
by an instinct of nature, goats might be led to have re-

     VOL.  XII. 3 L

<FOOTNOTE>

arte quadam extremos ab ipfo agmine distraxiffent, qui mox reginae et nobilium
canibus in praedam cessere.  Confecti autem eo die suerunt circiter 360 cum 5 lupis
et capreis aliquot."
*It has been asserted by some antiquaries, that the bear was never a na-
tive of Scotland.  It is a fact, however, well vouched, that during the resi-
dence of the Romans in Britain, bears were sent from it to Rome and baited
there.  In an ancient Gaelic Poem ascribed to Ossian, the hero Dermid is said
to have been killed by a bear on Beinn Ghielleinn in Perthshire.


