
238                  ROXBURGHSHIRE.

   During the last three years there have been not less than 6 il-
legitimate births in the parish.
   The whole of the original parish of Sprouston is the property
of the Duke of Roxburghe, with the exception of Hadden and
Notilees, which are the, property of Sir William Elliot of Stobbs
and Wells; and the farm of Softlaw, which is the property of
Sir George Douglas of Springwood.  Lempitlaw barony is the
property of the Duke of Buccleuch.

                      IV.--INDUSTRY.
 Agriculture.-- All the male population, with the exception of
26 weavers, 16 masons,10 wrights, 6 tailors, 4 smiths, and their
apprentices, 1 cooper, 1 baker, and 1 fisherman, are employed in
agriculture, either as hinds, carters, or day-labourers. A great
proportion of the unmarried female population are employed in the
fields and barn-yard.

<TABLE>
The number of acres standard imperial in the whole parish,         8207
                     under cultivation,                            7128
                     under wood, principally fir,                   123
                     lying waste,                                   556
                     of which capable of improvement,               400

 Rent of Land.-- The average rental of arable land per acre, L. 1,
3s. 9d. ; the average rent of grazing per ox, L.4 ; per ewe, 11s.
 Wages.-- Day's-wage for labouring men, 1s. 6d.; women, 9d.;
masons, 2s. 6d.
 Live-Stock.-- The Leicester is the breed of sheep usually fed.
 Husbandry.-- Five-shift, or alternate husbandry, is generrally
adopted in cultivating the soil.   Improvements by draining and
otherwise carried forward to an average extent.  Nineteen and
twenty-one years are the lenght of the lease commonly given.
The buildings and enclosures on some of the farms are excellent,
on others they might be better.
 Quarries.-- Sprouston, till of late, was celebrated for a freestone
quarry, situated about half a mile from the village, and close by the
turnpike road.   Kelso bridge and Abbotsford were built of its
stone.   A new quarry has been opened about half a mile to the
south of the old one, which produces an inferior stone, and is
not considered very profitable in the working.
 Fisheries.-- There is a fishery for salmon, which, along with a
ferry for the convenience of the parishioners, is at present let for
L. 71, 15s.
  Produce.-

<TABLE>
The average produce of grain of all kinds, whether cultivated for food of man or for
                           domestic animals, may be estimated at     L. 16,537
                    of potatoes and turnips,at                            4636
                    of hay at                                             1760
                    of land in pasture at                                 3743



