
                             LUSS.                        165


fifty men employed in working them at present. They bring out
many thousands annually. There are two varieties of them, the
one light or grayish blue, the other dark blue. The last named
bring the highest price in the market.
                   V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   The nearest market-town is Helensburgh. It is nine miles from
the village of Luss, but is not three from the south-west extre-
mity of the parish at Inverlaran. Although this rising town is en-
titled to the privilege of a weekly market every Thursday, it is on-
ly in summer that a regular demand for articles of country pro-
duce is kept up. But from this town to Greenock, there is only
an additional distance of about four miles across the Clyde, which
is readily passed at all seasons in the steam-boats.
   Means of Communication.--The turnpike roads to Helensburgh
and Dumbarton are excellent. The post road from Dumbarton
along Loch Lomond to the Highlands, extends throughout the whole
length of this parish. The road which branches from the one at Red
House at the south end of the parish, and extends up through Glen-
froon, is within this parish for three miles, and the branch lead-
ing off to Helensburgh, for two and a-half. Again the road from
Dumbarton to Arrochar by Helensburgh and Loch Long, passes
along the narrow slip which extends to this arm of the sea. Alto-
gether, there must be an extent of about fourteen miles of turn-
pike roads within the parish. The post-office is at the village of
Luss, and there is a delivery of letters from Dumbarton and In-
verary daily.
   There are three bridges over the Froon, one for each of the
roads above specified; and one over each of the rivers Finlas,
Luss, and Douglas. Those on the main or Dumbarton road
are very sufficient; the two on the Heleusburgh and Glen-
froon branches are of an old construction and rather narrow. The
fences are generally either hedges or stone dikes; but the arable
land cannot be considered as on the whole well enclosed. An ex-
cellent wall, built of stone and lime, extends for about three
miles, along the east side of Dumbarton road, as a fence touche
Ross-dhu pleasure grounds. It is built of freestone, and is finish-
ed with a cope of the same. The only direct water-carriage is by
Loch Lomond. This lake renders the different districts around its
extended margin easily accessible by boats of different descriptions;
but although the river Leven is also navigable, it is only by very
small vessels; so that communication this way is limited, to the


