
			CARSPHAIRN.                         275

productive. The proprietor has now a number of miners em-
ployed, and there are more labourers employed than ever were in
this parish, at any former period. In a season when provisions
are high, it is satisfactory to see labour provided for the industrious
poor; and it is earnestly to be wished, that the hopes of the pro-
prietor may be realized in their fullest extent. Iron has likewise
been discovered on the same estate, and in the same neighbour-
hood. They are both found in that range of hills which forms the
western or south-western boundary of the parish.
	The rock which seems most generally diffused throughout the
parish, is greywabke. Granite abounds, however, on the south-
west part of the parish, near to and at Loch Doon, both in large
masses and detached rocks. The Castle of Loch Doon, an an-
cient ruin, is situate on an island of granite in the loch, at nearly an
equal distance from the parishes of Straiton and Carsphairn.
	On the summits of the highest mountains, there is but little ve-
getation. In some places; small stones cover a considerable
portion of the surface; in others, a long white moss, which yields
to a considerable depth under the pressure of the foot. Where
there is any vegetation, it is very stunted, and not calculated to
afford nourishment to the flocks.
	Zoology.--The eagle is frequently seen soaring between Cairns-
muir and Carline's Cairn; but his place of greatest security is
about the rocky mountains of Star, in the parish of Straiton. It is
commonly said, that the last place in the south of Scotland which the
ptarmigan frequented, was Cairnsmuir. They have, for some time,
however, been completely destroyed or banished. Other species
of grouse are plentiful. Black game abound in every part of the
parish; and the common grouse are very numerous. The migra-
tory birds which visit us, are those which are common to high and
muirland districts. The curlew, the green plover or pea-wit, are
very common during the breeding season, but retire towards the
shore as the reason advances. Wild duck are numerous at all
seasons. Owing to an almost entire want of woods or plantations,
song birds are rare. The lark, however, abound, and gives ani-
mation to the most remote and retired parts of the parish.
	In the two principal streams in the parish, the Deugh and the
Ken, the progress of the salmon is interrupted, by falls, which they
cannot surmount, and which shut them out from much good
spawning ground. Towards the junction of these two, there is
some good salmon fishing. All the streams abound with trout,


