	498                             ARGYLSHIRE.

	between a human skeleton, in similar compartments on its upper
	section, together with the entire ornamental drapery, are all exe-
	cuted with much skill and taste.  This monument is also placed
	over a stone coffin.  The inscription on its sides and margin is in
	the old Irish characters, and, in so far as it can now be traced, is as
	follows :-"' HIC JACENTT NATI SOMERLEDI MACDOUGALL DUNCA-
	NUS ET DUGALLUS, HUJUS MONASTERII SUCCESSIVE PRIORES,
	UNA CUM EORUNDEM PATRE, MATRE, ET FRATRE ALANO, QUO-
	RUM DUGALLUS HUJUS MONUMENTI FABRICATOR, OB]IT ANNO
	DOMINI MCCCCCII."
	Claurch of-Bal-maodan.-About ten minutes' walk from the pri-
	ory, and on the brow of the hill behind it, stand the remains of
	this old parish church ; its site, and particularly an adjoining
	knoll, commanding a view which will amply compensate the toil of
	the ascent. Indeed, one striking peculiarity of the West High-
	lands is the diversified character of the scenery, the doubling of
	every headland, the ascent of every eminence, and almost every
	curvature on the road presenting a new picture to the traveller.
	Tradition will have it that the church of Bal-maodan is more an-
	cient than the priory, but tradition is, probably, in this instance not
	correct. It was a very plain building 54 feet in length, and 22
	feet in breadth, within walls; having two small square recesses at
	the east end, and only two windows, one in each gable, but so
	narrow as to admit only a very dim light. The area of the church,
	and a piece of ground around it, is still used as a burial ground,
	though, from some unaccountable neglect, it has been long unen-
	closed. - Modan's* well is in the close vicinity, at the upper end
	of a wild and wooded ravine.
	<FOOTNOTE>Kilcolmhill, that is, "-the church dedicated to Columba," better
	known by its contracted name of Kiel, is situated in the lower end
	of the parish, and a little to the northward of Craignook. The
	vestiges of this building are all that now remain, though the small
	plot of burial-ground around.it continues to be used by a few fa-
	I It is not unlikely that this Modan was the same who, in 522, was elected abbot or
	bishop ofKelso, and who was a person 6fprofound piety and devotional babits. He
	is said to have spent five or six hours of everyday in meditation and prayer.  Ardent
	in the cause of the Redeemer, he made frequent incursions into the remoter parts of
	the country especially to the banks of the Forth and Clyde, preaching with much
	eloquence. He retired at timer, to a lonely locality near Dunbarton, then Alcluyd,
	where he continued in meditation 30 or 40 days, and where he spent the last of his
	days. A church was dedicated to hinx at Roseneatb, and be was what was called
	patron or tutelar saint of the high church of Stirling. His name is said to be still
	traditionally remembered about Dunbarton and Falkirk.-See Morton's Monastic
	Annals of Teviotdale.


