
                           PERTH.                              115

  sake, therefore, of the respectability of this parish, and the city
  generally, we look forward with some interest to Mr Dewar's mo-
  tion at the next council meeting, when the delay party will, we
  trust, vote more in accordance with their avowed wishes, than they
  did on Monday last."  The discussion here commented on is re-
  corded in the provincial newspapers, and presents to the public a
  curious and not very creditable specimen of the reasoning, by
  which the members of a town-council came to the conclusion,
  that the stipend of L. 280, previously given to the minister
  of the West Church of the city, was L. 80 too much, and
  that there for it should be for the future, or in the mean-
  time, only L. 200.  The liberality displayed may be judged of
  by the fact, that though the burgh of Perth be the first in Scot-
  land in point of unioncumbered property, and freedom from local
  taxation, it now proposes to remunerate its ecclesiastical office-
  bearers at a lower rate than any other burgh in the nation. The
  ministers of Edinburgh receive per annum, L. 520; those of Dun-
  dee, L. 275; those of Aberdeen, L. 300; those of Glasgow,
  L. 425; those of Montrose, L. 340; those of Paisley, L. 313.
  The discussion referred to ended in a motion, carried by a ma-
  jority, that the stipend of the West Church should, in the
  me`ntime, be L. 200.  At a future meeting of council, it was
  carried that the sum should be raised to L. 250.  In consequence
  of reiterated broad averment, by some municipal rulers who are
  hostile to the Establishment, that the church is a burden on the
  funds of the city, Mr Dewar, one of the magistrates, published a
  pamphlet, entitled " an Inquiry as to the pecuniary gain or loss
  arising to the town-council of Perth, from its connection with the
  Established Church, containing a translation of Queen Anne's
  charter, of date 20tb November 1604, which conveyed certain lands
  properties, and revenues to the town on account of the church."
  In this pamphlet, Mr Dewar has discussed the subject in a man-
  ner clear, masterly, and conclusive, and, by authorities the most
  unquestionable, has established the fact, that the town bar, by its
  connection with the Established Church been not only no loser, but
  gainer to a very considerable extent ; that it " is at the present
  moment a 'PFCUNIARY GAINGER to the extent of at least L. 300 per
  annum."  By the Queen's charter, it became titular of the teinds
  of the parish, and obtained possession of considerable property,
  which has never to the present time been valued or paid an fractio
  of stipend.  Mr Dewar those concludes his able pamphlet:" In the


