
                             ERROL.                                391

        Within the last ten or twelve years, many hundreds of acres have
     been drained so thoroughly that a drain has been laid in every al-
     ternate, and sometimes in every furrow.  The drains are all of the
     narrow wedge shape.
        The general dur`tion of leases is for nineteen years.
        The state of farm-buildings has of late years been very greatly
     and very generally improved.
        Embankments. But the principal improvement connected with
     agriculture, which has recently been made in this parish, is one
     by which the largest proprietor, John Lee Allen, Esq. has, by an
     extensive embankment, succeeded in recovering from the river Tay
     and adding to his estate, about a hundred imperial acres of deep,
     rich soil.  Till about forty-five years ago, the river continued to
     make, every year, very serious encroachments on the land,-en-
     croachments which were aided by the injudicious practice which
     then prevailed, of letting all the furrows discharge the surface
     water over the' abrupt earthy banks, instead of collecting it into
     transverse drains, and directing it obliquely into the lower part of
     the shores.  So serious were the inroads which the river had made
     on the land on this side, that the farm-house and offices on the
     farm of Daleally bad, at two different periods been moved back-
     wards to a more inland situation, the present one being still with-
     in 60 yards of the bank.  Nay, so serious were these inroads, that
     they began to affect the value of the property so circumstanced.
     A cnntiguous estate of about 300 acres was sold partly from the
     idea of its insecurity, and: at all events, for a sum greatly below
         Soon after this transaction, however, not only was greater care
     empployed in conducting the surface water from the furrows, but
     the banks were slo ed down and planted, fenced at the top by a
     hedge, and, protected, by a retaining stone wall at the bottom,
     against the direct action of high tides.  Besides all these expe-
     dients, projecting dikes, at convenient distances, were built from
     the bank towards the stream, for the purpose of retaining the co-
     pious sediment which was daily deposited on the lower side of them
     by the retiring waters.  And, lastly, a broad belting of reeds was
     planted all along the shores, which, besides serving the important
     objects of breaking, in some degree, the action of the tides in
     summer, contributed at all times, by their, strong, and interwoven
     roots, to give stability to the soil in which they grew;  while the
     amount of decayed vegetable matter, annually- accruing from the


