
				DOUGLAS.                         487

about the middle of September; for the last two seasons, it has
been considerably earlier. In the former Statistical Account of
this parish, drawn up by the immediate predecessor of the present
writer, it is said, that the corns are rarely got in sooner than the
end of October, or the first week of November. As they have not
been known for many years to be so late, a considerable improve-
ment must have taken place, either in the seasons or in the mode
of husbandry.
	State of Property.--Nine-tenths of the parish belong to Lord
Douglas. The other estates are Carmacoup, belonging to James
Paterson, Esq. resident; Polmunckshead to Samuel J. Douglas,
Esq.; Springhill, Misses Hamilton, non-resident; and Crossburn
House, a small property, with a good villa and grounds tastefully
laid out, belonging to James Howison, Esq. M. D. resident.
	There are few parishes in Scotland, if any, more fortunate in their
proprietary than Douglas. Lord Douglas, who resides chiefly at
Douglas Castle, takes the greatest interest in the improvements,
not only of the lands in his own natural possession, but in every
part of his estates in this district; and stimulates the exertions of
his tenantry by the most liberal, yet judicious encouragement. New
and commodious houses and steadings have been recently built on
almost every farm; suitable fences, chiefly of stone, are always
readily granted; clumps of plantation, each of several acres, have
been set down and enclosed on the store farms, for the protection
of the sheep in the winter storms; and the face of the country has
thus, within these few years, undergone the most decided improve-
ment. No set of tenantry could be more worthy of such encou-
ragement, or could more gratefully and cordially appreciate it.
In the grounds around the castle, the spirit of improvement has
been, for a number of years, in most active and successful opera-
tion. Bothwell Castle having been, ever since, the death of his
first lady, the favourite residence of the late Lord Douglas, the
castle and place here were almost entirely neglected. Fortunate-
ly his son took up his residence, about seventeen years ago, at Dou-
glas Castle, for which he has ever since retained a decided parti-
ality. Under his spirited and tasteful improvements, the place has
assumed a quite different appearance; and is every year exhibit-
ing new beauties. An unseemly morass of several acres, in the
immediate vicinity of the castle, has been transformed into a large
lake, ornamented with finely wooded island. Extensive plantations
have been formed in judicious adaptation grounds, and ac-


