
     Of Kemnay.

sum of 10 L. a-year bequeated by a Mr. Anderson of the
Island of St. Christopher's, (who was once a beggar boy, and
educated in this parish at the public expense), under the ma-
nagement of the principal landholder, and distributed by him
in meal, to those whom he deems most proper objects of cha-
rity, whether they are on the session's list or not.  Yet, not-
withstanding the scantiness of our provision for the poor, there
are but 3 common beggars in the parish; only one of whom
is a native, and he never begs without the bounds of the
parish.

   Eminent Men.-I have heard of no eminent men to whom
this parish has given birth.  It gave burial to one, who made
no inconsiderable figure both in the literary and political
world; I mean Thomas Burnett, Esq. the grandfather of the
present Mr. Burnett of Kemnay, and the first of the family
who possessed the estate.  This gentleman travelled over a 
great part of Europe, and was the friend and correspondent
of Leibaitz, and of several other learned men of his time.
He was the relation and intimate friend of Dr. Gilbert Bur-
nett, Bishop of Sarum*.
     VOL. XII D d

<FOOTNOTE>

*"He was long at the Court of Hanover," fays a manuscript account of
him, that is in the possession of his grandson, "where he was honoured with many
distinguishing marks of favour, and, after the prospect of the succession o that
illustrious family to the Crown of Britain, began to open, he was trusted by
the Princess Sophia, Electress of Hanover, in conveying her sentiments, on some
of the most critical and delicate occasions, to some of the great men in England.
His real and fidelity in his service drew on him the resentment of the Jaco-
bites, by whose influence be was imprisoned in the Bastile, in passig through
France to Hanover, where he was detained, till the Duchess of Orleans pro-
cured his libery, at the repeated instances of the Elecress, and Queen of
Russia, her daughter.
"Mr. Burnett was honoured with many letters from her Serene Highness the
Electress, expressing an entire satisfaction in his services, and wishing for an oc-


