
338                        STIRLINGSHIRE.

annuities and liferänts, which fall to the institution. Mr Simpson
had built a large and comfortable cottage, and the trustees, by a
suitable addition, at once completed the plan, and greatly increas-
ed the accommodation. In this asylum, there are at present thirty
inmates, who are comfortably lodged, fed, and clothed, and to each
of whom a little pocket-money also is allowed. Nor are their spi-
ritual interests neglected. The trustees gave the ground on which
the new church of Plean is built, and contributed most liberally to
its erection. A Portion of it is allotted for the accommodation of
the old men. The Scriptures are read, and prayers offered up
morning and evening in the asylum, whilst the chaplain is the
ordained minister of the church, and takes the pastoral superinten-
dence of an extensive surrounding district.
  Poor and Parochial Funds.--The number of paupers on
the regular poor's roll of the parish may average 140,--and
the allowance to each varies from 2s. to 7s. 6d. per month, ac-
cording to the degree of poverty of the parties. In addition to
this, relief, to a considerable extent, both to those on the roll and
others, is granted by the kirk-session out of funds at their dispo-
sal. The legal parochial assessment averages about L. 250 per
annum, and mortified funds in the hands of the kirk-session yield
L. 120 a-year of interest. There are very few cases in which the
poor manifest a disposition to refrain from seeking parochial re-
lief; nor do they appear to consider it as degrading. Sometimes
a distinction is made between what is collected at the church door
and what is contributed by the heritors. No reluctance is ever ex-
pressed at receiving from the heritors,--the feeling seems to be
that they give too little.
  About fifty years ago, William Werdie, Esq. of Cambusbarron,
left L. 1120 to the kirk-session of St Ninians, the interest of which
they are, on the 4th day of October, " to divide among the poor-
est inhabitants of St Ninians, not being common beggars." This
has been thought to operate injuriously to the town; and a wish
has often been expressed, that it were extended to the whole pa-
rish.
  A few years before his death, Mr Simpson, the founder of Plean
Asylum, at the desire of his son, gave L. 500 to the kirk-ses-
sion of St Ninians, the interest of which they are requested " so
to divide among the poor as not to relieve the heritors from their
bounden duty of supporting them."
  Mr Greenock of Whitehouse left L. 500 to the kirk-session;



