
   336                       BANFFSHIRE.

   same period, without awarding to that noble institution, the merit
   of those mighty improvements, which have raised our native Scot-
   land to so. distinguished a rank among the agricultural nations of
   the world, notwithstanding the comparatively unpropitious nature
   of its climate and soil.  One, and perhaps the most important, of
   the benefits, resulting from the exertions of the above society, has
   been, the formation of local Associations throughout the country,
   by which means, every improvement in husbandry may be said to
   be brought to the door of the humblest individual.
      So far back as 1730, an Agricultural Association vas formed in
   Banffshire, under the designation of "a Small Society of Farmers
   in Buchan," in which district, those parts of Batiffshire, which are
   upon the south side of the river Deveron, have been generally in-
   cluded.  Notwithstanding the modesty of its title, it was composed
   wholly of landed proprietors, several of whom belonged to the
   southern counties of Scotland.  Although it is now scarce possible
   to ascertain the beneficial influence of this Society, upon the ge-
   neral state of the agriculture of the county, yet we may fairly pre-
   sume, that it bad the edect of directing the attention of the noble-
   men and gentlemen of the district, to the concerns of husbandry,
   which bad hitherto been accounted beneath the notice of people of
   fashion.
      In 1785, the   proprietors and farmers of the county formed an,
   Association, under the title of , the Banffshire Farming Society."
   Excellent rules were framed and printed, for conducting the busi-
   ness, and prosecuting the objects of the institution ; but they seem
   to have rested in good intention only.  Politics usurped the place
   of the plough, and the meetings of :the society became thinly at-
   tended.  Those who continued their attendance, deemed it unfair,
   that they should bear both the expense and trouble of the busi-
   ness; and, by a natural course of events, the funds were debited
   with the tavern bills. . The consequence was, that the meetings
   of the Society dwindled into a kind of: lounge for a few Of the
   members, whose situation allowed them, without inconvenience,
   to attend.  In this state of matters,a meeting was at last formed,
   for the purpose of investing the whole of the funds, which then
   amounted to a considerable sum, for carrying on a section of the
   turapike county read  which proposition was adopted, but not
   without a keen opposition.
      In 1821,an Agricultural Association was formed, under the
   name of  the Bariffshire Farmer Club." This institution has fared


