
                            GAIRLOCH.                            97

there is a vestige of such a demoralizing practice remaining, there
can be but slender hopes of moral improvement. It may be men-
tioned to the honout of one of the heritors, that he has erected a
licensed distillery, for the sole purpose of giving a death-blow to
Smuggling on his estate.

                      IV.-INDUSTRY.

   Agriculture.-The number of families employed in agriculture,
including those who employ servants, is 556; male servants upwards
of twenty years of age, 86; female servants of all ages, 141.
Number of acres under wdod, 5000. 1 have already mentioned the
trees indigenous to this parish, and also the exotic trees planted for
timber. The woods are generally kept in good condition, bx thin-
ning, pruning, &c.
Rent of Land.-Average rent of arable land is from 1 Os. to L. 1,
per acre; rent of grazing a cow or ox for a year, from L. I to
L.2 ; rent of pasturing a ewe or sheep for a year, from Is. 6d.
to2s. 6d.
Wages.-Farm-servants receive from L. 5 to L. 8 per annum
for wages, exclusive of their victuals; masons receive from 2s. 6d.
to 3s. ; carpenters from 2s. to 2s. 6d. ; blacksmiths, 3s. ; weavers,
from Is. 6d. to 2s. per day, all including victuals. '
Fisheries.-The various kinds of fisheries carried on in this pa,.
rish, are salmon-fishing, cod, and ling-fishing, and herring-fish-
ing. The salmon-fishings are let at L. 150 per annuua. Salmon-
fishing is carried on by cruives, stell-iiets, bag-nets, and st-ake-
nets. ' Cod and ling are taken by long lines, and the hand-line;
and herring, by the common mode of meshed nets.
IVavigaCton.-There are four vessels belODgirlg to the several
ports in the parish, averaging about thirty-five tons burthen each.

                    V.-PAROCIRIAL ECONoMY.

   Means of Communication.-This parish is extremely ill sup-
plied with the means of communication, owing to the want of roads.
We have one post-office situated at Poolewe.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is as conveniently si-
tuated as it could well be, considering the extent of the parish; its
distance from the eastern extremity of the parish, is twenty-eight
tniles; from the southern, fifteen miles; from the western, twel'Vd
miles; and from the northern extremity, twenty miles. The church
was built in the year 1791, and got a thorou-ah repair in 1834. The
church affords accommodation for 500 sitters only. The manse wasf
built in the year, 1805; but a considerable addition was built to it
ROSS AWD CROMARTY.
                                          G

