
                              COMRIE.                           591

	to Perth; and one thrice a week to Crieff. The Killin carrier pas-
	ses weekly through Bomrie.  There are three stone bridges upon
	the Earn, three on the Lednock, and one on the Ruchill; and there
	are five wooden bridges upon these rivers, all in good repair.
	There are no canals or railroads, although there have been pro-
  posals to make one or other between Perth and Loch Darn.  Farm
	produce and lime might be exported, and coals might be import-
	ed by a canal or railroad, to the great benefit of the district, but,
	it is to be feared, without corresponding advantage to the share-
	holders.
	  Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church, situated in the village
	of Comrie, at the eastern extremity of the parish, is convenient for
	the greater part of the population.    There are 674 persons resid-
	ing farther than three miles from it, 107 houses are more than
  four miles, and 30 houses are more than six miles distant from
	it. Having been built in 1805 it is in good repair.  The accom-
  modation is for 1044 sitters, at eighteen inches each, and there
	are no seat rents.
     The manse was built in 1784, and an addition was made to it
	in 1822.  There are two glebes ; that of Tullychetal at the manse,
	which is a mile and a quarter from the church, contains eight acres,
  for which L. 1, 10s. per acre would be a high rent. The glebe
	of Comrie, adjacent to the village, contains four acres of good soil,
  and has drawn a rent of L. 12.  The stipend consists of 16 chal-
	ders of victual, and an allowance of L. 10 for communion elements;
	the average value in money for the last seven years is L. 244.
     There is a chapel at Dundurn, five miles west of the parish
	church; in which the parish minirter appears, for a long time back,
	to have been in the habit of preaching every fourth Sabbath.  In
  1834, this chapel was almost rebuilt by subscription, and is seated
  for 400 persons.  For the last three years, a preacher having been
	engaged at a salary of upwards of L. 60, raised by subscription, to
	officiate in the chapel and neighbouring district, not only have the
  population around Loch Earn, amounting to upwards of 800, and
	many of them much more than five miles distant from any church,
	been supplied with religious ordinances, but also 800 sitters in
  the church of Comrie are no longer deprived of preaching every
	fourth Sunday.  An endowment would lead to the immediate esta-
  blishment of a parish at Loch Earn side, and is much needed.
     There has been a small body of Seceders in this parish, almost
  since the commencement of the Secession in Scotland.  The per-


