
990                        ABERDEENSHIRE.

of the Tables there assembled, "comes immediately back to
Turriff, takes meat and drink at their pleasure, and fears Mr
Thomas Mitchell, minister, at Turriff, very evill."  In 1642, we
find from the, same chronicler, that the said Mr Thomas Mitchell
was accused before the provincial assembly of Aberdeen, of a very
heinous offence against religion and morality, and that the assem-
bly appointed a committee of thirteen ministers and eight ruling
elders to take cognizance of this matter.  After due investiga-
tion, it is satisfactory to be informed "that Mr Mitchell was ab-
solvit from this scandall, and found a good barne."
   The grammar school of Turriff seems at an early period to
have enjoyed a considerable reputation.  The celebrated Demps-
ter, who was born in 1579, received the first rudiments of his edu-
cation at Turriff, "tum Turraviae sub ferula plagiosi Andreae
Ogstoni tircinium exercuit.  "On the 7th October 1546, Andreae
Hay, rector of Turriff, with consent of George Earl of Errol, and
William Hay, canon of the cathedral church at Aberdeen, granted
a charter on seven roods of land lying on the west side of the town,
to the chaplain and master of the grammar school in Turriff.
And at a subsequent period, Mr Andrew Skene, prebend, to pro-
mote the interests of education, made over the customs of the
markets to the Earl of Errol, on condition that be should pay an-
nually L.100 Scots, as salary to a schoolmaster, which salary has
been regularly paid by the proprietors of Delgaty, who have the
right of presenting to the office.
   The Earls of Errol, who resided at the castle of Delgaty, had
also, it would appear, a lodging in the town of Turriff, which pro-
bably was the "forehouse, hall, and chambers, disponed by Tho-
mas Mowat," and which, after changing many occupants, is now
the property of Mr Norman Gordon, bank agent, and still retain-
ing, by way of distinction from any other premises, the charac-
teristic name of "the Lodging."  For about 350 years immedi-
ately preceeding 1762, the family of Errol were superiors of Tur-
riff, and from that family several of the present feuars hold the
charters which give them a right to the tenements they possess,
and ground attached thereto, and for which they pay an annual
feu-duty of six denarii, or one half-penny Sterling.
   Ancient and Present Proprietors.-The Cumines, Earls of Bu-
chan, are the most remote proprietors of whom any thing is known,
but the precise time when they acquired their extensive estates in
this parish cannot be exactly ascertained.
                              4


