
756                        ABERDEENSHIRE.

fallowed with turnips, bears another crop of oats, sometimes bar-
ley, the sixth year, grass being sown in along with it for hay crop
the following year.  This rotation is called the six-sbift, and is
rapidly taking the place of the seven-shift formerly used, and ac-
cording to which two crops of oats were taken in succession after
three years of grass, which, besides that the second crop was ge-
nerally a poor one, took away much from the chance of a good
crop of turnips the year followings,-a matter of serious considera-
tion where so much dependence is placed upon the rearing and
fattening of live-stock.  The application of bone-manure to the
raising of this crop is now generally practised with great advantage
in light soils.
   Although, generally speaking, there would be little difficulty in
supplying enclosures with water, yet, owing to the scarcity of ma-
terials, i. e. of stones and wood, suitable for diking or paling,
and the cultivation of hedges being but little encouraged, there
is as yet only a small proportion of enclosed fields.
   The farm-buildings, if the value of the farms be taken into ac-
count, must in general be pronounced of an inferior description.
Few of them are slated, notwithstanding their vicinity to the slate-
quarries; and a great deal of straw is, in consequence, annually
consumed on thatch, which would be more, profitably employed
as provender or litter for cattle.  The remedying of this state of
things lies with the landlords, who would greatly enhance the va-
lue of their properties by erecting substantial farm-buildings, on
a good plan, and at their own expense, and thus leaving their te-
nants with the full command of their capital to improve their
farms, which would, of course, bear a higher rent; whereas the,
general system at present is to let the tenant provide himself with
buildings, such as be thinks proper, allowing him only one year's
rent, or one and a-half year's, at the end of the lease, for his
whole outlay; or, in some cases, allowing the value of the mason-
works, deducting lime and carriages; and, in others, only the value
of the roof.
   The general duration of leases is nineteen years.
   The thrashing of corn by machinery is now almost universal.
For driving the machines, water-power is used where available;
where it is not, horses are employed.  On the farm of Nether-
boddom, where there is not sufficient command of water the en-
terprizing tenant (A. Jopp, Esq. Advocate, Aberdeen,) has, for
some time back, employed steam-power.
          		           3


