
498                      ABERDEENSHIRE.

The brairds of grain, flnd the grasses, are somewhat more forward
in spring, on south-lying lands ; but when the sun comes near the
northern tropic, those on the north-lying lands soon come up,
with them; and there is scarcely a difference in the earliness of
the hay crops, and none at all in that of the grain crops.  In short,
the influence of aspect on the earliness or lateness of both these
crops is quite obscured by the greater influence of a dry or damp
subsoil.  The earliest ripened grain crops in the parish, every
year, are on a piece of the steepest cultivated land in it, having a
directly north exposure, but of which the subsoil is uniformly dry.

			II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   There is no other account of the parish known than the one
in the old Statistical Account.  That contains a very interesting
description of the then  existing state of the parish, especially of its
agriculture.  The system of the agriculture, to state it in few words,
then was, to have about one-third of a farm, denominated infield,
always in grain crop; one-third part of this always in bear, to which
all the dung of the farm wasapplied, and the other two-thirds in oats.
The other two-thirds of the farm, called outfield, was arranged into
eight or ten divisions, each of which bore four or five crops of
oats in succession, and was then left uncultivated for four or five
years to bear such grasses as might naturally spring tip in iL
Such animals, chiefly horses and black-cattle, with a few moun
tain sheep, were at the same time kept, as could subsist on the
outfield leys and natural pastures round the arable land in sum-
mer, and on the straw of the grain crops in winter.  There was no
application of any manure but the dung of the animals.  The
teams for ploughing consisted each of ten small oxen; and car-
riages were performed by small horses who did little other work.
In the account thus given of it, the imperfections of this agriculture
are pointed out with an ability which might have augured, that
great improvements, since happily realized, were then near at
hand.  The printed copies of the account abound with typogra-
phical errors, deforming a paper of much interest.
   Land-Owners.-The following gentlemen are the present land-
owners of the parish, John Farquharson, Esq. of Haughton, who'
possesses nearly two-thirds of the parish, and resides here during the
summer months; Andrew Farquharson, Esq. of Breda, resident. *
Charles Forbes, Esq. of Asloon, not resident; William Stewart,

<FOOTNOTE>Since this was written, the parish has been deprived of this esteemed and valuable
inhabitant by his death.  The property is now liferented by his widow.


