
     of Glenorchay and Inishail.

This bird is remarkable for its longevity.  Mr. Keyfler
relates, that an eagle died at Vienna, after a confinement of
104 years.

   Character of the People.-The inhabitants of this parish
have, from time immemorial, been marked, for peculiar re-
gularity of conduct, and decency of manners.  They are, in ge-
neral, sober, industrious and humane; courteous, peaceable,
and contented.-They are all of the established church, and-
attend the public institutions of religion, with becom-
ing attention and decorum.  Here are no religious controver-
ties to agitate the human mind; to hurt the best feelings of
the heart, and to render men fierce, injurious, and uncharita-
ble to one another.  Enormous crimes are unknown in this
place*.  Law suits occur but seldom.  The little differences, that
arise occasionally among neighbours, are settled either by the

<FOOTNOTE>

*The Lowland people, who have long believed, that every Highlander lived by
plunder and rapine, will hardly credit, that there is perhaps less thievery and
picking in the Highlands, than in any part of the King's dominions.  In feudal
times, and before the operation of law in the remote parts of the kingdom, there
was a general system of depredation, too prevalent in many Highland countries.
But, as this was, often, only a retaliation for similar injuries, and patronised by
the heads of clans at variance with one another, it subjected the spoiler, neither
to punishment nor disgrace.  Impelled by hunger, the starving Highlander was
indeed tempted, at times, to purloin subsistence from the folds of the wealthy:
but, on all occasions, he avoided the cattle of the poor, with a scrupulous and
humane attention.
   MAC-IAN, alias KENNEDY, after the defeat of the unfortunate Charles Stuart,
at Culloden, watched over him, with inviolable fidelity for weeks, and even
robbed, at the risque of his life, for his support, at the very time that he himself
and his family were in a state of starvation, and that he knew he could gain
30,000 L. by betraying his guest.  This poor man was afterwards executed at
Inverness for stealing a cow.  A little before his execution, he took off his bonnet,
and thanked God, "that he had never betrayed trust, never injured the poor,
"and never refused a share of what he had to the stranger and needy." It is


