
     of Bendothy.

poor, and they be burned with the summer's drought.  It
seems to proceed from animals* scraping the skin, when
they can get nothing else to live on.

   Diseases incident to Children-are, the small-pox, chin-
cough, measles.  The ague, formerly frequent here, is now
seldom known.  It seems to have arisen from colds, and
working too early in the morning to avoid the heat of the
day.  There are some fevers that are epidemical; and
some are infectious to those of the same blood and family,
but not to others.

   Stormont.-The Stormont Loch, at the corner of this
parish, has been thought by some to give name to the di-
strict of Stormont, which lies between that place and Dun-
keld.  But the word Stout signifying a fight or battle, (see
Johnson's Dictionary on the word), that name seems rather
to have arisen from the Stormont having been the field of
battle+ between Agricola and Galgacus in the 84th year of

<UNREADABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

*The caterpillars are sometimes hurtful to gooseberry bushes.  The ani-
mals I speak of begin at the leaves next the root of the bush, and eat every
leaf as they proceed, gradually up to the top; and when the bush is made
bare, they descend, and begin at the bush next adjacent, proceeding from
bottom to top in the same manner.  To save the bushes, make a rope of
cansy, about the grossness of one's arm, and lay one upon the ground, at
the root of each bush, so as to encompass the stalk of the bush completely.
Its smell is offensive to the animals, and prevents them from ascending.
Probatum est.

</UNREADABLE>

   +The account, which was transmitted to the editor hereof some years
ago, of this parish, and of the traces of the above event in the Stormont,
having been lost or mislaid, and the clergy more immediately concerned
having concurred in the opinions therein suggested, it will be unnecessary
for me to do more than glance on a few leading points, and to compare the
history of Tacitus with the appearances, and both these with the account of


