
                           KINTORE.                        657

their aspect in general, is southward or eastward.  Besides the
flat haughs, however, there are several extensive hollows where
the moss grounds occur, around which the exposure is different.
   Botany.-There are but a few plants, that can be said to be
rare, found in the parish.  Of these the following may be consi-
dered worthy of notice: the alternate leaved golden saxifrage,
Chrysoplenium alternifolium; the great water plantain, Alisma;
and restbarrow, Ononis arvensis.  Other rare plants growing wild
occur here, which are sometimes called native, though they seem
to be in reality outcasts from gardens.
   The woods in the parish are very extensive; some of which are
full grown, and others but recently planted.  On Lord Kintore's
property, a great deal of the uncultivated ground is now covered
with thriving plantations.

                       II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   It is evident, from many circumstances, that Kintore was for-
merly a place of some consequence.  The original charter of the
burgh, tradition says, was given by Kenneth II.  That, however,
has long been lost; but one which bears to be a confirmation of
it by James V. is said to be still extant.  Kintore edjoys all the
privileges of a royal burgh.  It has always had a regular magis-
tracy; and under the late Burgh Reform Act, its municipal con-
stitution remains unchanged.
   Several of the small heritors hold their lands of the Crown on
very old deeds. One possession has continued in the same family
of the name of Hill ever since the days of Robert Bruce, from
whom they received their charter.  Another family of the name
of Smith still possess a piece of ground which was given to one
of their forefathers by James V.
   Eminent Men.-Many persons born in the parish of Kintore
have attained to the highest respectability in different spheres of
life, and have been eminently successful in commercial or profes-
sional pursuits; but the writer is not aware that any of them are
sufficiently distinguished, on public grounds, to merit particular
notice here.  The celebrated Arthur Johnston, though not a na-
tive of the parish, when very young, attended the school of Kintore.
This circumstance is beautifully adverted to in one of the lighter
pieces of that most elegant Latin poet.  The same fact is also
mentioned in the Lives of Eminent Scotsmen.  And surely his clas-
sical and general acquirements were such as to reflect credit on the
seminary in which their foundation was laid.
  ABERDEEN.                             T t


