
		        FETTERCAIRN.                         117

the juqs, the old instrument of punishment in Scotland, appear,
from the marks on the stone, to have been suspended.
   The Fettercairn estates, which also seem to have formerly borne
the name of Middleton, were possessed by one called Middleton,
in the twenty-fourth year of the reign of Alexander III. In 1539,
John Middleton sold the lands of Middleton to David Falconer of
Halkerton; after which he and his successors went by the desig-
nation of Middletons of Pitgarvie and Cadham. From these de-
scended the distinguished Earl John above-mentiotied, who reco-
vered the Middleton property; but whether by purchase or other-
wise, does not appear.
   Earl of Middleton.--This nobleman was the son of John Mid-
dleton of Cadham, and his wife, Helen Strachan, one of the Thorn-
ton family. He devoted himself to literary pursuits till the civil
wars broke out, when he took up arms on the side of the English
Parliament. In 1644, Sir William Waller, by virtue of powers from
the Earl of Essex, gave him the command of a troop of Harque-
busiers, and afterwards raised him to the rank of a lieutenant-ge-
neral, in which capacity he acted till, the Parliament cashiered Es-
sex, when he resigned his command, and eatered into the service
of the Estates of Scotland. In 1647, he was made Lieutenant-
General of the Horse, in the army raised to liberate Charles I.,
then a prisoner in the Isle of Wight. In the battle of Pres-
ton he was taken prisoner, and afterwards confined in Newcastle,
till his royal master was beheaded. He then found means to
escape and reached Scotland at the time when Charles II. arriv-
ed in that kingdom. He again obtained the command of the
Horse, in the army which Charles led, in person, into England,
and fought bravely in the battle of Worcester, in 1651, where he
was wounded, and again made prisoner. He was sent, bv Crom-
well's orders, to the Tower of London, there to be executed; but
again he escaped, and joined his sovereign in Paris. In 1653, he
arrived in Scotland with a royal commission, and superseded the
Earl of Glencairn as Commander-in-Chief of the Forces. Being
unable to receive foreign supplies, he struggled with difficulties
for about a year, when he was defeated by General Monk, and
obliged to seek his safety in concealment. In 1655, he escaped
to the Continent, and again joined his master at Cologne, with
whom he continued during the remainder of his exile. After the
Restoration, Charles raised him to the peerage, by the titles of
Earl of Middleton and Viscount Fettercairn, in Scotland, and
Lord Clermont, in England. He was also made Commander-in-


