
                      CRAMOND.                       599

   John Law of Lauriston was born at Edinburgh in 1671. His
early studies were devoted to the exact sciences, and their appli-
cation to the subject of finance. Having gone to London, and
there having fought a duel, arising out of an affair of gallantry,
and killing his antagonist, he fled to escape the penalty of the law,
first to Holland and then to Italy. Under the protection of the
Duke of Argyle, he returned to this country; but his plans of
finance being rejected by both the Scottish and English Parliaments,
he visited Paris, Geneva, Venice, and Genoa, and, on the death
of Louis XIV., gained the confidence of the Regent of France.
At Paris, he established a bank in 1716, which became the ge-
neral bank of the kingdom, uniting with it also the interests of
the Mississippi Company. While France considered herself thus
rising into opulence, and Law, as comptroller and financier, was
purchasing large possessions, the real prosperity of the country,
from the spirit of speculation, was gradually diminishing. The
Parliament opposing the Regent, and the public indignation being
roused, the bank became embarrassed, and Law obliged to retire
to Brussels; but instead of being recalled, as he expected, he re-
ceived an official appointment in Bavaria, where he remained till
the Regent's death. He afterwards travelled over different parts
of Europe, visited England, was presented to George I., and re-
turned to the Continent, where he died in poverty at Venice in
1729.* His daughter was married to Lord Wallingford in Eng-
land, and his brother's family remained in France.+
Besides those eminent persons thus mentioned, we cannot for-
bear alluding to the fact that the estate of Barnton was once the
property of Viscountess Glenorehy, a lady pre-eminently distin-
guished for her piety and good works.

<TABLE=III.-POPULATION>

		In 1811,				    1645
		   1821,		        	    1804
		   1831,		        	    1984
		   1841,		        	    1986

                     	IV.-INDUSTRY.

The real rental of the parish is I. 17,529, 17s. 9d. Sterling,
<FOOTNOTE>The following epitaph was written soon after the death of this distinguished fi-
nancier.
                       Ci git'cet Emssois celebre
                       Ce calculateur sans egale
                       Que par les regles del'Algebre
                       A mis France a l'hopital.
  See Biographie Universelle. His works are published in one volume 8vo, 1790.
The French writers on his system are Forbonnais Dans ses recherches et considerations
sur les finances de France; and Monthyon, in his work entitled Particularites et
observations sur les Ministres des Finances de France depuis 1660, jusqu'ex 1799.


