
352		          EDINBURGHSHIRE.

three hundred yards to the south of the Hewan, within another
fold of the Esk, where this romantic river seems to linger in a re-
gion of surpassing sweetness and loveliness.  Nothing now remains
of this fortress but parts of the foundation, which are still visible at
some points.  And even tradition is unable to communicate any
notices of this stronghold, which, as its name indicates, was never
taken by an enemy.  Though the oldest inhabitants have been
questioned on this subject, they are found to be acquainted with
nothing more than the name of the castle, whose origin and his-
tory have been long lost in the mists of antiquity.
   Stone Coffin. --In August 1754, a farmer ploughing his field near
the village of Roslin turned up the corner of a stone coffin, about
nine feet long, which contained the bones of a human body.  The
bones were much decayed, except the skull and teeth, which were
sound and large.  This must have been the grave of some British
warrior, rather than the coffin of one of the chiefs who fell in the
battles of Roslin, in the year 1302.
   Hezekiah Merricks, Esq., Eskhill, has in his possession three
silver coins, apparently of very considerable antiquity.  Each of
them is about the size of a common sixpence, and is supposed to
belong to the reign of Edward I. of England.  They were found
on the public road at Harpers Hall Brae.
   A silver buckle, of very rude workmanship, and also a brooch,
with engraving, and something like green enamel on it, were found
at the above-mentioned place.  These were in the possession of
John Merricks, Esq. Eskhill.
                           III.--POPULATION.
   About the time when the chapel was building, Roslin was the
most populous town in the Lothians, excepting Edinburgh and
Haddington.  It was erected into a burgh of barony by James II.
in 1456, with the privilege of holding a weekly market, and a
yearly fair; and the pedestal of the ancient market cross is still
to be seen at the centre of the village.*
   Roslin is now a small village.  The following has been its po-
pulation for the last eleven years:--

<TABLE>
			1829, 68 families--259souls,
			1830, 74   ...	   287 ...
			1831, 81   ...     320 ...
			1832, 88   ...     343 ...
			1833, 82   ...     343 ...

<FOOTNOTE>See MS. for an accurate copy of the original charter, as it is to be found in
Father Hay's Manuscript.


