
302                       LANARKSHIRE.

of the parish the soil is light and dry, and susceptible of great im-
provement, especially in the higher districts.
	Geology.--The rocks of this parish belong to the coal forma-
tion of the secondary class. The common whinstone or trap which
is found in great abundance in every part of the parish, exhibits at
its junctions with the coal formation many, interesting pheno-
mena. Clay ironstone abounds. Limestone is very plenty in various
districts; and is wrought at three different places. There is also
a sufficient supply of coal for burning the lime in the immediate
vicinity of the kilns. But though perfectly fitted for burning the
lime, this coal is not accounted sufficiently good for family use.
Coal used for family purposes is brought from the works of Quarter,
in the parish of Hamilton, and Marlage, in the parish of Dalserf.
The distance to each is about five miles; and 14 cwt. can be laid
down at Strathaven for 5s.
	Hydrography.--The Avon is the principal stream in the parish,
which it divides nearly into two equal parts. It rises on the con-
fines of Ayrshire, and runs nearly east by north. It is a beautiful
stream, with gently sloping banks; but which unfortunately are al-
most entirely destitute of wood. Indced the want of wood is felt
throughout the whole parish, especially in the upper district of it.
There are several smaller streams which join the Avon in its pro-
gress through the parish. There are Cadder and Pomilion on the
north; and Givel, or Geil, Lochar, Lowhere, or Lockart, and Kype,
on the south. On this last stream at Spectacle-eye-miln, about a
mile to the south of Strathaven, there is a considerable waterfall.
The waters of the Kype fall over a precipice of about fifty feet. The
scenery in the neighbourhood, has been much admired. Trouts abound
in all these streams. Salmon used to be found at the very source
of the Avon, till some erections were raised lower down the river,
which for some years has prevented them from ascending. Report
says that arrangements are now making to permit the fish again to
ascend; so that we are in the expectation of being once more vi-
sited by this delightful fish.
	Zoology--Grouse, &c.--Vast quantities of grouse are to be found
on the moors in the higher districts of the parish. His Grace the
Duke of Hamilton has some thousands of acres in sheep pasture,
and kept for grouse shooting. Perhaps few places in the south of
Scotland are more favourable for game than the Strathaven moors.
Partridges abound in the low lands. Plovers and ducks, &c. are
to be found everywhere,


