
466                      FORFARSHIRE.

alternate Sabbaths, and the parishioners of Lundie generally go
to Fowlis; but, having the church of Liff within the fourth part
of the distance, few of the inhabitants of Fowlis frequent the
church of Lundie. Lundie church is plain but comfortable, of
considerable antiquity, but well rep`ired about forty years ago,
and capable of containing about 330 sitters.
	The church of Fowlis, however, is a structure of extraordinary
antiquity. The tradition of the neighbourhood is, that it was
built, under a vow, by a lady of the Mortimer family, during the
crusades in 1142, "in case her husband should return in safety
from the holy wars;" and this date is stated in the former Statis-
tical Report to be there legible on a beam that had apparently
supported the organ gallery. In that work, however, the erection is
ascribed to the Grays, though the estate, as already noticed, did not
come into the power of that family for more than 200 years after.
The church is of the purest Saxon-Gothic architecture, 88 feet
6 inches in length, and 28 feet in breadth, built of polished
ashler, and so excellent in the quality of the material, that on al-
most every stone you can plainly see the private marks of the
hewer. In the east, is a beautiful oriel window; and in the west,
a large pointed Gothic one. The doors have the round arch
without any ornament, except the west door, which has carving
over it, and is highly ornamented. Within the doors are the
fonts for holy water, quite entire; but a large baptismal font, of
beautiful workmanship, with many emblematical figures, is sadly
dilapidated. The whole of the tipper part of the screen, that se-
parates the church from. Lord Gray's burial-place, is covered with
paintings on oak, evidently of great antiquity, though of no great
merit as works of art. They represent the crucifixion, the flight
into Egypt, the Apostles, and the Holy Family in various circum-
stances. It is extremely to be regretted that so little is known of
a building that has stood so long, and that is still as entire as ever;
at least I have not found anything satisfactory stated respecting it
in any book to which I have had access.
	This very imperfect notice of it, however, may direct towards it
the attention of some antiquary capable of rescuing it from unme-
rited obscurity. It is regarded by professional men as a gem in
architecture; and its history as a religious fabric may also be well
worthy of attention, if the means existed for clearing it up.
	At present it is internally in sadly a ruinous condition; but were
it new-seated, and the pulpit placed in the west end, it would be a


