
38                        BERWICKSHIRE.

ago. It is in a flourishing state, and has been the means of spread-
ing a taste for general reading.
   Poor and Parochial Punds.-The average number of persons
receiving parochial aid is 25. The average sum allotted to each
per week is 1s. 4 1/2d., or per year, L. 5, 3s. 0 1/4d. The annual
amount of contributions for the relief of the poor, besides the church
collections, is L. 142, 16s. 4d. The only regular mode of procur-
ing funds is by assessments on the landed property, and by church
collections. The church collections for 1833 amounted to L. 14,
2s. 7 1/4d. In some cases there is a backwardness shown in solici-
ting relief; and instances have occurred wherein the parties have
been known to submit to many privations rather than resort to what
they consider the last shift.
   Inns, &c.-There is one inn and one alehouse; neither of which
at all tend to the promotion of good morals.
   Fuel.-The fuel used consists of peat and turf. Coal, which is
brought from a distance of twenty-four miles, is also used, but not so
generally.
                MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   Improvements in the parish have been going on since the last
Statistical Account was written. The chief of these has been the
planting of part of the moors, which has greatly improved the ap-
pearance of the country.
   There is a circumstance relating to the improvement of some
waste land in the neighbourhood of the village, which is well worthy
of the attention of political economists. In 1787, the then pro-
prietor of Greenknow estate sold in perpetual feu about 100 acres
of his moors to purchasers, in lots of from forty acres to two. The
lots were disposed of at L. 5, L. 3, and L. 1, 10s. per acre, with
1s. per acre of feu annually. No sooner were the purchases
made, than the feuars commenced the clearing of their lands; and
some idea may be formed of the laborious nature of the undertaking
when it is stated, that in most places upwards of a thousand tons
of stones per acre had to be raised and removed before the soil
was capable of bearing any crop. Many of these stones had to be
blown with powder before they could be carried away. In marshy
places, draining also had to be resorted to; and some of these
drains measure six feet wide and five feet deep. This helped to get
rid of the stones. Another method was by building small enclo-
sures of from one to six acres. Some of the dikes thus built mea-
sure from three to four and a-half feet thick, and four feet high.


