
				ESKDALEMUIR.               403

inner ditch is 10 feet wide and 3 feet deep. Between the inner
ditch of the praetorium on the north side, and the inner ditch of the
praetorium on the south side, is a space of 270 feet:; the inner ditch
itself is IO feet wide, and 3 feet deep; the rampart between the inner
and outer ditch is IO feet at the base, and about 3 feet high. The
outer ditch on the south side of the practorium is 10 feet wide, and
3 feet deep; and the space between the outer ditch of the practo-
rium and the south-west corner of the camp is 140 feet; making
the whole length on the west side to be 580 feet.
	Such, then, are the outward limits of the Roman camp at Rae-
burnfoot; but they include a considerable space, as the praetoriun,
which deserves next to be described. It is bounded, on the south
side, by two ditches, and a rampart between them. From the
south-west corner to the entrance, is a space of 120 feet; the en-
trance itself is 20 feet, and parallel to the outer entrance on that
side; and the space from the entrance to the south-east corner is
100 feet, making the south side of the proetorium 240 feet in all.
There is no appearance of ditches or ramparts on the east side. The
north side of the praetorium has the same number of ditches and
ramparts as the south side, and is of the same dimensions,--only
the division of the line is different. For from the north-east cor-
ner to the entrance is not 100 feet, as on the south side but 110
feet; the entrance is 20 feet wide like the rest, and parallel with
the outer entrance on that side; and the distance from the entrance
to the north-west corner is not 120 feet, as on the south side, but
150,--to make it correspond with the outer ditch on that side. The
whole length of the praetorium, therefore, on the north side, is
280 feet. From this account it is evident that the southern en-
trances into the camp and praetorium are parallel, and the north-
ern entrances into the camp and praetorium are parallel. But they
are not all opposite to each other, for the southern entrances are
120 feet distant from the west side of the camp, and the northern
entrances are 150,--owing, as I formerly observed, to the greater
length of line on that side, to cut off any chance of danger from
the hill.
	The area of the whole encampment is supposed to be, in extent,
5 English acres, 1 rood, and 30 poles. But this is only the extent
of the area in its present imperfect state. Were the lines on the
west side of the entrances extended as far as those on the east side,
so as to make it a square, it would contain 6 English acres, 3 roods,
and 24 poles.


