
696                      ARGYLESHIRE.

head is seated for 480, having one-third of the seats free; and the
new erection at Camlodden for 300, the seats being all free. The
Committee of the General Assembly an the royal bounty em-
ployed a missionary, who preached alternately at Lochaweside and
Lochfyneside in this parish; but at present the mission and the
new erection at Camlodden are vacant.  The manse of Glassary
was built in 1841, and cost L.1200.
  The glebe is very good, consisting of more than twelve acres,
situated close to the church and manse, descending from them by
a gentle declivity to the river Ad, which forms the boundary. In
1691, when a minister had been settled in it, in connection with
restored Presbytery, the following minute is in a separate register
of the Presbytery of Inverary; and records the history of this and
many other grebes.
  " According to the appointment of the last Presbytery, the he-
ritors in Kilmichael in Glassary have taken the following method
in settling the minister's manse, yard and grebe, viz. they have
stented themselves in 800 merks, the half thereof to be paid at
Candlemas next, and the other balf at Whitsunday thereafter, to
Mr Daniel Campbell. Of the which 800 merks, 300 to be given
to Achanbreck, (Sir Duncan Campbell) for the stance of the
manse and yard; and the same Sir Duncan Campbell hath se-
questrate the piece of ground called Gortain na Kirk, for the
stance of said house and yard; the other 500 is allowed for Mr
Daniel Campbell for building the manse. And in regard the pa-
rish, by reason of the late troubles and vastations, is not put in ca-
pacity to buy a sufficient glebe, they have therefore stented
themselves in fourtie pounds each merk'land to be paid yearly into
the small books to the said Mr Daniel Campbell, in lieu of his
grebe, aye and until they be able to buy the same, the which
money so payable out of the parish, the said Mr Daniel is to pay
to Achanbreck yearly for the acre of old called John Damsone's
acre, adjoining to his yard and house, betwixt the east end of the
church and the water, the which acre the foresaid heritors have
obliged themselves to buy within four years of the date of their
putt to be a glebe to their minister. Of the which acre Achan-
breck lately granted a tack to the said Mr Daniel, and put him in
actual possession thereof, aye and until the parish buy the same
by paying the rent thereof as aforesaid."
   The ministers of Kilmichael * Glassary, were Mr Daniel Camp-

  <FOOTNOTE>This and the preceding extract were supplied to me by the Rev. Duncan Camp-
bell, clerk of Presbytery.


