

                                ALVAH.                         155                        

Several of the places mentioned in the charter, however, are known
by the same names at the present da -a circumstance which en-
ables us to form a more probable conjecture with regard to the lo-
calities of the rest; and accordingly with this assistance and that
of the native octogenarians and others, we have given in a note*
  To determine the precise locality of the Stanemannishead is the first and greatest
difficulty which presents itself in tracing the bounds of this ancient donation.  From
the words of the charter, the Stanemannishead must have extended on the north to
the town lands of Banff, and these lands are known from tradition and other evidence,
to have stretched into the interior of the country as far as Cuirnelpie, situated on the
north-eastern angle of the fa,m of Wardend, ana are supposed to have been bounded
by a line, nearly straight, pas.ing from thence to the river Doveran, in the direction
of the row of oid thorn trees which crosses the upper end of the deer-park.  That part,
of the parish which lies adjacent to this line is now called CraiF-head,-a name which
bears some distant resemblance to the Stanemannisbead, and in terms of the charter
lies due north of the church of Alvah. Supposing this line, then, to ulark the boun-
dary on the north, we are now directed, in the eastern limit, to ascend the river
Doveran as far as the Meirburn.  This name, although now almost forgotten, is still
remembered by a few as the name formerly given to the small burn which flows be.
teen the farms of Mill of Alvah and Clayfolds. On ascending this strearniet, in
terms of the charter, we arrive at Blackbank and Fowlfurd, places which, although
now unknown by these names, must have stood on the same burn a little below the
present manse.  A little farther up lies Knokkne, a place which still retains its an-
cient name. From this we are directed to ascend the stream which flows from Cla4
ret-well, until we come to the road ascending to Slakmethy.  The Claret-well is still
known by the same name, and the stream which flows from it is only the upper end
of the'Mcirburn-circumstances which confirm the opinion given in regard to the
previously mentioned localities.  The road ascending southward to Slaekrnetby, (al.
though this name is now forgotten), can be no other than the road ascending to the place
now called Berryhillocks, and the descent from thence to Slacklethy must be the conti.
nuation oftbe same slack to the place now called Komplemire.  From the well at Slack-
lethy(Kernplemire,) the charter directs us to follow the stream to its junction, at Red.
bank, with the torrent which flows into Doveran.  Redbank mu!t be identified with
Path-head, and the torrent passing this and flowing into Doveran    "the burn ofStony.
lea.  Ascending this burn, as directed, we arrive at Ranate hillock, a place which
probably corresponds with what is now called Ranald's hillock, situated on the same
burn a little below Bythestown.  Farther up we come to the Crukit-hillock, a name
which, although now lost, is quite descriptive of the Broornhillock below Firfolds.
Still farther up is Scurryfurd, which is probably the place where an, old road now
crosses the marshy hollow north-west of Bythestown, near the Slacks.  We are next
directed to ascend to the Greit Slack and Iiisbypannis, The Greit Slack is, 110 doubt,
the Slacks of Tipperty, which commence immediately above the supposed locality of
Scurryfurd.  Rishypannis or Rishypans is a name not uncommon in this part of the
country' and probably the Rishypaninis ofthe charter may have been somewhere about
the lower and once marshy extremity of the Slacks of Tipperty. From these Slacks
hollow on the farm of T-ipperty leads directly'to the next station, viz.  Corneswell-
R which still retains its ancient name.  In completing the circuit, wer are now
directed to proceed from Corneswell to St John's well, and Bludypott's ad Burcusat
stains inter commuriam de BanfFet terri ecclesiastic! de Alveth.  The site'&f St
John's well is now unknown, and that of Bludypott's'can only be conjectured.  In
regard to the Burgusmt stains we have more certainty.  One of these was due up
more than twenty years ago, near the wood of Bauchlaw, on the north-east an -le of
the farm of Wardend. The letter B was rudely carved on it, and tradition       L halpre.
Viously marked the spot where it was found, as the point to which the Bauff lands; at
oneperiodexterided.  With true anti quarian taste and feelin this is to ilew"brok'
downandemplovedasmaterialforb f1ding.  Neartheplacewhereitvrasdiseavered,u
once stood a citirL known by the name of Calmelpie, in removing which, thefragments
ofa human skeleton were found.  According to madition,'these, were the remains or-a
Person murdered here in former times, -and as the cairn once stood on the, margiq of


