
                      KIRKINTILLOCH.                        169

was not till 1659, when a new church was built for the accommo-
dation of the eastern end of the parish at Cumbernauld, (Cumar-
n'-old, i.e. the meeting or confluence of streams,) that both pa-
rishes settled down to their present forms, each retaining its mo-
dern name. The chapel of the Virgin Mary then became the pa-
rish church for the inhabitants of the western end, at Kirkintil-
loch, and is still in use.
  Boundaries and Extent.--This parish and the parish of Cum-
bernauld, although both in the county of Dumbarton, lie quite de-
tactied from it, so that the western extremity of Kirkintilloch is
about six miles distant from the south-east end of the main body
of the county to which it belongs, the county of Lanark coming
in on the south, and the county of Stirling on the north, and meet-
ing between them. The portion so detached includes a district
about 12 miles long from west to east, and from 4 1/2 to 2 miles
broad. It contains 32 1/2 square miles, or about 20,800 English
acres; a space nearly equal to that covered by the waters of Loch-
lomond. The parish of Kirkintilloch forms the western end of
this district. From a point between Gallowhill and Boghead in
the west, to Dalshannan in the east, it is 6 miles and 6 furlongs
in length. The widest place, from Mollinburn in the south, to
Auchinvole in the north, is 3 miles and 3 furlongs. It is bound-
ed on the east, by the parish of Cumbernauld; on the north, by the
parishes of Kilsyth and Campsie, in the county of Stirling; on the
west, by the parish of Cadder; and on the south, by the parishes of
Cadder and New Monkland, in the county of Lanark. It contains
8527 Scots acres, or 10,651 English acres, and about 17 square
miles.
  Topographical Appearances.--The parish constitutes a portion
of the northern boundary of the great valley of the Forth and
Clyde Canal, stretching from east to west, of considerable extent,
and rising very little above the level of the Atlantic and German
Oceans. It is cut off from the fertile districts of the Forth by the
range of hills a little to the north, called the Campsie Fells, and
from the vale of the Clyde on the south by the high lands of Monk-
land. The bottom of the valley seems at some ancient period to
have been washed with a mighty flood, or rather with a continual-
ly flowing tide. The banks on the north are high and often
abrupt; but on the south they are more undulating, and of no
great elevation, consisting chiefly of trap ridges, with rich and ex-
tensive arable lands between. The face of the country, therefore,


