
                       SOUTH KNAPDALE.                      267

in facilitating the intercourse between a manufacturing and mer-
cantile community, with a great extent of isolated coast and coun-
try in the West Highlands, much to their mutual benefit.  Had the
execution of the canal been limited to these views, it would not
only have realized all that at the time ought to have been
anticipated from it, but in all probability would have produced
at least some part of that pecuniary benefit to the subscribers, to
which they were entitled; but in place of limiting the dimensions
and consequent expense of the canal to the above legitimate ob-
ject, itentered into the speculation of a number of those who em-
barked in it, to form the canal sufficiently capacious, to admit the
Baltic and West India trade,-a view that was begun to be acted
on, and subsequently departed from, but in a degree that, while
it produced a canal inadequate to the enlarged view, a canal was
at same time produced, larger than necessary for the local and
more legitimate objects of the undertaking, and which, from the
imperfect or incomplete execution of some parts, could not be taken
full advantage of, even had the trade required it; and this conse-
quently led to an expense which has burdened and embarrassed
the canal ever since, an embarrassment, no doubt, much increased
by natural difficulties in the execution of the work, leaving nothing
to the subscribers but the merit of conferring an important public
benefit at their individual and private expense.
   The stock of the Company was intended to consist of 2400
shares of L. 50 each, creating a stock of L. 120,000, which was
subscribed for to the extent of 1963 shares, equal L. 108,150 ;
but ultimately, from the withdrawal and forfeiture of shares, they
settled down to a capital of L. 92,550, in 1851 shares of L. 50
each, a great part of which were obtained within the county and
other places in the west of Scotland, and the remainder were fill-
ed up from England.  Many of the former may be considered to
have derived some benefit in return for their subscriptions in the
improved value of property adjacent to, and to the westward of
the canal; but to all others their subscriptions have produced no-
thing.  After experiencing difficulties from natural causes imped-
ing and increasing the expense of the work so as to lead to pecu-
niary difficulties, which probably again affected the due and pro-
per execution of the work, the canal was opened for the passage
of vessels, incomplete as it then was, in the month of July 1801,
to effect which a loan was obtained in 1799 from the Barons of
Exchequer in Scotland, of L.25,000, on an assignment of the tolls


