
     of Kilsyth.

clung around their aged sire, either to plead for, or defend
him.  In this posture it is said, they were all cut to pieces,
and now lie in one tomb.
   On this article I may mention, that there is a very fine arch-
ed vault, or burying ground, under the church.  This was
originally erected by the family of Kilsyth; and it has been
their burying ground for many generations.  As the estate
was forfeited, and the title became extinct in the year 1715,
it has never been used as a burying ground since that period.
The unfortunate Viscount himself fled to Flanders; and though
he returned more than once, inccg. in the habit of a com-
mon beggar, and as such, lodged with several of his tenants,
and secured a considerable quantity, if not the whole of his
silver plate, yet it is certain, he was not buried in Kilsyth.
The tradition is, and it is said to be confirmed by a variety
of people, and even by some papers and letters lately found,
that he and a number of the unfortunate Noblesse, were
either murdered, or died by a sudden accident in Holland,
about the year 1717.
   The last that was buried in this place, was his lady.  She
is said to have been of the family of Dundee*.  Her body
     P p 2

<FOOTNOTE>

*Jean, daughter of Lord William Cochrane, son and heir of William
Earl of Dundonald.  She was first married to John Viscount of Dundee;
then to the Viscount of Kilsyth.  Her son died in infancy.
   See Crawford's Peerage, Dundee, Dundonald.
   Lady Kilsyth with her infant son, was smothered or killed in Holland, or
Flanders, by the falling of a roof, along with her husband.  It has been sup-
posed that the thing, happened not by accident, but design; that several con-
siderable persons who had been concerned in the Rebellion 1715, were in-
volved in it, as well as the family of Kilsyth; and that only two of the whole
company escaped, by being seated in a window.  That this account is in ge-
neral true, may be seen from letters lately found (in 1780), among the papers
in the Advocates library, which refer to Kilsyth, The fact is detailed besides


