
               KILHAITCHAN.                             369

Baeonetcy in this county, and one of the most ancient in Scotland,_
descended to Sir William Napier, who was, in March 1818, by a
most respectable jury, served heir-male of Archibald, third Lord
Napier.
James Milliken of Milliken, Esq. who, in 1733, acquired the
present estate (formerly Johnstone) from the representative of Sir
Ludovic Houstoun, to whom it had passed in the reign of Charles
I. from the family of Wallace of Johnstoun, did the limits of our
report admit, should have merited especial and honourable notice:
Also the late Colonel Robert John Napier, whose career, as an
officer, commenced in India in very early life; and who, in 1794,
braved with his friend, the immortal Abercrombie, the perils and
privations of that frightful campaign in the north of France and the
Low Countries; and who also accompanied Sir Ralph to the West
Indies, encountering the dangers of a hostile climate. Ai his de-
mise, in 1808, he was, with a single exception, the senior officer
of his rank in the army.
Napier of -Blachstoun.-This family is descended from Adam,
the fifth and youngest son of John Napier of Merchiston. The
house of Blackstoun, having been unfortunately burnt down, was
rebuilt about 1730, by the fourth Alexander Napier, who had the
rank of Captain in the Scots Greys. Major Alexander Napier,
the sixth of that name, succeeded, in 1801, his father, the fifth
Alexander Napier. Having, as Lieutenant-Coloiiel of the 9,2d,,
served with great distinction for many years, he fell with his gal-
lant friend, Sir John Moore, at Corunna, 16th January 1809, and
was succeeded by his brother, William Napier, Esq the present proprietor.
Clunin,qltame of Craigends. This family is lineally descended
from William Cuningbame, one of the younger sons of Alexander,
first Earl of Glencairn, raised to that dignity by James IIL, and
who received the lands of Craigends from his father before, thre-
end of the fifteenth century. One of the family,- namedt, Gabr'-el,
fell ht the battle of Pinkie in 1547. In 1689, the freeholders 6t
R,enfrowshire gave William Cuninghame of ads the highest range
mark of their confidence, by electing him their commissioner toL the'
Convention -of Estates; where, and in the several stibae,qu6nt S"-
sions of Parliament, he was distinguished by the                fidelity
and honour. The family is at pre.Rent represented by agentlemw
of the same name.


