
     of Banff.

   The traditional report is corroborated by some ancient
grants in favour of the Earl of Buchan, in which are speci-
fied "the salmon-fillings at the mouth of the river, and in
"the sea," jacentes apud Down.
   That piece of low ground on the east side of the river,
called the Gaws, now a part of Lord Fife's pleasure-grounds,
was lately the property of the town, is still within the roy-
alty, and, it is highly presumable, formerly lay on the west
bank of the river, which divided the earldom of Buchan
from the county of Banff.  The river, indeed, seems fre-
quently to have altered its course; sometimes passing in a
straight line through the beach, and at other times winding
to the west, near the Castlehill, where it now runs, and
which has been its channel for several years past.
   The stream has sometimes been so small, as not to have
currency sufficient to keep the passage open, the water
oozing through the bank of gravel, and preventing the en-
trance and departure of the smallest boat.
   Hence arose the necessity of building a harbour in a more
convenient situation.  It was begun so early as the year
1625, westward of the river mouth.  The attempt was fre-
quently frustrated, and as often resumed.  After various
interruptions, and repeated applications to Parliament, and
to the Convention of Burghs*, the work was finished about

<FOOTNOTE>

*The Convention of Burghs appointed the Commissioners from Aber-
deen, Elgin, Inverness, etc. as a Committee, to examine and report the
true state of the harbour, etc.  Accordingly, these commissioners met at
Banff, and reported, "That the trade appeared for years past to increase:
"That the merchants had very enterprising genius, but discouraged by the
"bar on the mouth of the river, insomuch, that it often happened from 
"Candlemans to Martinmas the water mouth was in no condition to receive
"a boat; and that the last season, three ships, after being loaded, were
"locked in by the bank of gravel, so that 20 coaches might pass in a breast
"dry.  And farther declared, That the place was exceedingly well situated


