
                  KINROSS.                                    7

and ends on the first of September, is at present let for seven
years, at L. 204 per annum.  The price of trout, which thirty years
ago was 4d. is now Is. a-pound at Kinross, although often lower at
Edinburgh, Glasgow, and even at Manchester, where there has
been of late a regular market for it.  Pikes are sold at 2d. a-pound,
and perches, which are most plentiful during the heat of summer,
at 2d. a-dozen.  There is now no stated fishing of eels, as for-
merly, from August till December.  Two boats and four boatmen
are employed during one part of the fishing season.  The two men
employed throughout the whole of it have IIs. a-week; the other
two, whose labours are confined to the summer months only, 10,s.
With regard to the fishes, it is further to be noticed, that they
ascend the tributary streams of the lake, ready to spawn by the
middle of August, and continue to do so nearly the whole month
of February.
   We here add an extract from an article in the Transactions of
the Royal Society of Edinburgh for 1839, entitled "Account of a
new species of British Bream, and of an undescribed species of
Skate: to which is added a List of the Fishes of the Frith of
Forth, and its tributary streams, with observations, by Richard
Parnell, M. D., F. R. S., E., &c.
   "Salmo coecifer, Parnell, (bearing coeca,--the coeca being more
numerous than in any of its congeners;) Salmo Levenensis, Wal-
ker, Lochleven trout, common in Loehleven.  This species of trout,
which is well known to many persons as a delicious article of food,
is considered by most naturalists as a variety of the Salmo fario or
common fresh water trout, the redness of its flesh depending on
the nature of its food.  I consider it, however, not only as distinct
from the Salmo fario, but as one of the best defined and most con-
stant in its characters of all the species hitherto described.  It is
at once distinguished from the common fresh water trout by the
number of its ececal appendages, which vary from seventy to eighty,
whereas in the Salmo fario they are never more than forty-five or
forty-six in number.  Its tail is crescent-shaped at all ages, and its
body has never a vestige of a red spot.  The tail of the common trout.
is sinuous, and at length even at the end, and its body is almost
always marked with red spots, besides its flesh being always of a
white appearance.
   "I have no doubt that more than two species of trout are to be
met with in our fresh water streams, which at present receive the
name of Salmo fario" -P. 154.


