
                            PARISH OF BARRAY.

                   PRESBYTERY OF VIST, SYNOD OF GLENELG.

                  THE REV.  ALEXANDER NICOLSON, MINISTER.


                      I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
               Name.-Some have supposed that the parish derives its name
            from St'Barr, who was always considered by the natives as the
            tutelar saint of Barray, to whom the principal Romish churches in
            the island are dedicated, and called Killbar in honour to him.
            Nothing can show better the estimation in which this personage
            was held in the eyes of the people, than their having set apart a
            day annually as a holiday to his memory.  On that day (25th
            of September,) all the Roman Catholic population convese in
            their chapel in the forenoon to hear mass, from whence they set
            off to Killbar, each man riding his small pony, with his wife or
            favourite lass mounted behind him; who, after riding thrice round
            the sacred edifice, return to the place from whence they set out.
            The females provide, before-hand, quantities of wild field carrots
            for this occasion, with which they treat their partners. This
            superstitious ceremony, which has been adhered to for ages, is
            still countenanced by their priests, although they acknowledge
            that the Roman calendar has never been honoured with St Barr's
            name.  But it must be observed that, by the intermixture of
            strangers with the natives, this ceremony is falling greatly into
            distise.  With due respect for St Barr, it is much more probable
            that the name of Barray was originally derived from its particular
            situation or bearing, i. e. from Ay or I, an island, and Bar, a point
            or top; Barray forming the point or top island of the Hebrides.
               Boundaries, Extent &c.-The parish is formed of that cluster
           of islands lying at the south-west end of Lewis Islands, or the
           Western Hebrides.  It is bounded on the north by a channel of six
           miles, separating it from South Uist; the islands of Canna and Rum
           are the nearest lands to it on the east, distant about twenty-six miles;
           the islands of Coll and Tyrie, are the nearest lands to it on the
           south, distant about thirty miles; and on the west it is bounded by


