
			SORBIE.                                    23

raised above the level of the sea, but several of them are sufficient-
ly elevated to present a beautiful panorama of the surrounding
country, including Wigton Bay, the Solway Frith, with the Cum-
berland hills recedinf behind it, and also the Isle of Man. On
the farm of Palmallet, on the south-eastern shore, where the coast
is rocky and abrupt, there, are two caves, almost contiguous which
are walled and arched by solid rock, and floored with beautifully va-
riegated stones. The one has the appearance of an oblique fis-
sure, and is about 120 feet long, I00 feet high, and 36 feet wide.
The other is somewhat funnel-shaped, being widest at its en-
trance, and may be about 120 feet long, 40 feet high, and 15 feet
wide.
	The extent of coast, including all its windings, is upwards
of two miles. The shore is sandy and flat on the north-east, and
in Garlieston and Rigg Bays. At Eggerness point, it is rocky,
but not very high. From the south-eastern extremity of Rigg
Bay, however, to the point where it joins Whithorn, it is bold and
precipitous, rising in some places nearly 200 feet, above the level
of the sea. The principal  bays are Garlieston Bay, Rigg Bay,
Innerwell Port, Orchardton Bay, Port Allan, and Port Whapple.
The principal  sands are those of Orchardton, Culscaddan, and
Innerwell; and the chief headlands are Innerwell Point, Egger-
ness Point, and Cruggleton Point.
	Meteorology.--The monthly or annual temperature of the at-
mosphere has not been accurately recorded in this parish, but we
may state, what is common elsewhere, that in winter the cold is
more moderate, especially along the sea coast, than  in the more
inland parishes. The thermometer in the shade has during the
present summer of 1831, ranged from 64&deg; to 74&deg;, and in the sum it
has been upwards of 100&deg;. The pressure of the atmosphere, as
indicated by the barometer, ranges from 29 to 30 1/2 inches. Our
prevailing winds are from the west, south-west, and south; but in
spring and the latter end or autumn, we have often a long period
of east wind, which is generally accompanied by dry weather.
The state of the weather is sometimes prognosticated; by a cloud
resting on Cairnsmoor, a high hill in Kirkcudbrightshire; which,
after a long period of dry weather, affords a pretty sure sign of a
change to rain. A dark haze stretching from the south to the west,
and studded with small white clouds, is remarked as often preceding
rain; and an appearance in the atmosphere, here called the " wea-


