
     of Halkirk.

lished.  It is called by the people to this day, St Thomas's
Chair.
   Besides these, there were several chapels, or places of wor-
ship, in other parts of the parish, some of which seem, from
what yet appears of them, to have been of some note in those
days.  One at Westfield, called St Trostan; one at Olgang-
beg, called St Peter; one at Deal; one at Sibster; one at
Banniskirk, and several more.  I can say nothing about
them but one thing, viz.  That the church had its own share
largely of this parish, as indeed the bishop had of this dio-
cese, which made it one of the most lucrative bishopricks in
Scotland*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Before I dismiss this article, I would close it with a remark, and an
anecdote.  Such was the superstitious regard the people paid to these
houses about 80 years ago, that there was scarcely any who was married,
or delivered of child, or was successful in any enterprise, or rescued from
any danger, but embraced the first opportunity, after such events, of re-
pairing to one or other of these sacred houses, with a large gift or offer-
ing to the tutelar saint of that particular house, These gifts were a great
share of the emoluments of the clergy in the days of Popery; and so fond
were the people of paying them, in the time of reformation, when there
was no ghostly priest to receive them, that they guzzled and gormandi-
zed the meat and drink-offering themselves, all along drinking the Saint's
health.  Thus they went sober devotees to visit the dead Saint, but re-
turned home perfect Bacchanalians and Epicureans.

Anecdote.-So lightly were clergy and divine worship esteemed some
time after the Reformation, that an Mr Cumming's days, the last Episco-
palian minister in this parish, there was no singer of Psalms in church
but the lettergae, as they called the precentor, and one Tart gardener
in Braal.  This Tart sung so loud, and with such a large open mouth,
that a young fellow, of the name of Iverach, was tempted to throw a
small round stone into his mouth whereby his teeth were broke, and his
singing stopped at once, and he himself almost choaked.  Iverach imme-
diately took to his heels; the service was converted to laughter; two of

     VOL. XIX. G


