
18		       EDINBURGHSHIRE.

being thus allowed to go at large; those with short heads and up-
right ears are reckoned best, and in the market the white are
reckoned more valuable than the black.
Leases.-The general duration of leases is nineteen years.
Gardens, &c.-Gardening is carried on in this parish with great
skill and success.   The soil is peculiarly adapted to the growth
of vegetables of all kinds.  I have seen even in the manse garden
an early cabbage weighing 16 oz.  The earliest strawberries in the
Edinburgh market are sometimes raised at Stenhouse.  In 1832,
they were ripe as early as the 5th of June.  There are admira-
ble and most productive gardens, with forcing houses, at Mor-
tonhall, St Catherine's, Inch, Moredun, Drum, Sunnyside, South-
field, and an excellent garden at Niddry.  The Moredun gar-
dens are still as famous as when Mr Whyte's account was written,
and no expense is spared in improving them by the present ex-
cellent proprietor.  Besides moveable glass frames, there is ex-
posed to the light in the vineries, peach-houses, and pine-pits, at
Moredun, upwards of 8223 square feet of glass.  Hollies thrive ad-
mirably in this soil, and there are not only many splendid speci-
mens, but whole hedges of this beautiful plant.  At Moredun there
is a holly hedge, very tall, and reaching the whole breadth of the
garden, and at Niddry a very splendid one, 30 feet high, which,
when annually cut, are of course scaled by ladders.  These hedges
are like solid evergreen walls.  There are several very large trees
in this parish.  A sycamore tree at Niddry measures 19 feet in
circumference, and another at Mortonhall, said to have been plant-
ed in 1700, measures 14 feet. At Moredun, Drum, and Inch,
there are also many fine trees.
Mines and Quarries.-1. Coalwork at Gilmerton.-At Gilmer-
ton there are about 20 seams of coal from 21/2 to 10 feet,thick.
The working of the coal, which is of excellent quality, is supposed
to have commenced at a very early period; probably 3OO years
ago. It was in vigorous operation in 1627, and in Mr Whyte's
time, fifty-four colliers were employed.  This number was, how-
ever, greatly augmented afterwards, about eighty families being
constantly employed, the quantity of coals annually raised being
from 20,000 to 24,000 tons, and the amount of wages paid being
L180 a fortnight to colliers alone. In addition to colliers, a num-
ber of carters were employed, and employed themselves in driving
these coals to Edinburgh, making the population of the village of
Gilmerton to be upwards of800 souls. The seam of coal lately work-


