
                       BORROWSTOWNNESS.                 133

1678, and also that of Mr William Thomson in 1665, are noted
in the parish record.
   On November 30th 1687, the brethren of the presbytery of
Linlithgow met at Bo'ness, "and having called upon the name of
God, they did constitute themselves in a presbytery."  This was
probably the first of the regular meetings of the presbytery after
the liberty. And on December 7th they met again at Bo'ness, "in
order to the settling of Mr Michael Potter to be minister unto the
Presbyterian congregation of the Ness."
   This Mr Potter had been subjected to the most rigorous per-
secution. In 1673 he passed his trials before some Presbyterian
ministers, and soon after was privately ordained upon a call from
a great body of Presbyterians in the parish of St Ninians. At
the instigation of the Bishop of Dunblane, a violent persecution
was raised against him, which compelled him twice to retire to
Holland. He was at last apprehended in his own house in Bo'ness
in 1681, and imprisoned in Edinburgh, and afterwards sent to the
Bass. In 1685, his confinement in the Bass was altered into an
act of banishment. But circumstances preventing his some, once
more to Holland, be remained in secrecy till the liberty in 1687,
when he was settled in Bo'ness. In 1693, he was called to Ec-
clesmachan, and afterwards to Dunblane, where be died. His son
was minister of Kippen, and afterwards Professor of Divinity in the
University of Glasgow.
   Mr Robert Hamilton, afterwards Sir Robert, (son of Sir Tho-
mas Hamilton of Preston and Fingalton), who was very promi-
nent and  zealous in the cause of the Coverianters, resided at Bo'.
ness for some time previous to his death, which took place in 1701.
   The following names are recorded amongst the worthies who
experienced the violence of persecution. Belonging to kinneil
Mr Robert Hamilton, son of the Chamberlain of Kinneil, regard-
ing whom there are still some traditional recollection, was impri-
soned and tortured, and Andrew Murdoch was borrished. Be,
longing to Bo'ness, Archibald Stewart, William Gougat, William
Cuthill, and the intrepid and devoted Marion. Hsirvoy, were exe-
cuted.
   John Gib, a sailor in Bo'ness, was the leader of that remarkable
sect of fanatics who appeared a short time before the Revolation,
and assumed the name of "Sweet Singers," but were generally
called Gibbites.
   The memory of Mr John Henderson, shipmaster is held in


