
				RUTHWELL.                       235

	Means of Communication.--The access to the parish is easy,
as it is traversed by one of the freat toll roads leading from Dum-
fries to Annan and Carlisle, which is kept in excellent repair. A
heavy coach passes and repasses daily along this road through the
towns already-mentioned, which affords a ready means of convey-
ance to all parts of the kingdom. There is also a runner who re-
sides in the parish, and who goes regularly with letters and parcels
to Dumfries and Annan on alternate days, S`bbath excepted, as
well as a carrier, who drives his cart to the former town twice, And
to the latter once, a-week. Besides these modes of communica-
tion by land, there is a creek at the debouche of the Lochar, where
small vessels find access, and by means of which the inhabitants
are usually supplied with coal from the opposite coast of Cumber-
land.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The parish church is situated within the
precincts of the glebe, about a mile and a-half from the eastern
extremity of the parish, and between five and six miles from its
western extremity. As the two villages, however, lie towards the
east, each about half a-mile distant from the church, its situation
could not be considered as inconvenient, were it not that on the
west the Locharwoods quarter stretches to a considerable distance
in a long stripe, bounded on the one side by the stream of the
Lochar, and on the other side by the morass of that name, and
rendered difficult of intercourse by the badness of the roads. This
place of worship was about a century ago a miserable building
thatched with heath. When the present incumbent came into
possession of the living (in 1799) it was scarcely in a better con-
dition; for, though slated, it still remained without a ceiling, and
was of most inconvenient dimensions, being within the walls 96
feet long, and only 14 broad. Soon after this period, it under-
went a thorough change, 30 feet having been taken off its length,
and ten feet added to its breadth. It was even then, however, fi-
nished in a very slovenly manner, and has rince undergnne, at dif-
ferent times, considerable repairs, which have at last rendered it
comparatively comfortable, though still, in point both of accommo-
dation and of architecture, much inferior to some of the neighbour-
ing churches, and to the average state of these public buildings
throughout the country. It affords easy accommodation for
about 420 sitters. There are only ten or twelve sittings unappro-
prhated; but the accommodation of the villagers and cottagers has


