
	506			PERTHSHIRE.

	   Number of blind, 5; deaf and dumb, 2; insane, in or connect-
         ed with Crieff, 5;  fatuous, in or connected with Crieff, 9.
           Language. - The language generally spoken is the best
	Scottigh dialect.  Within the last two or three years, a Gaelic
	sermon has been  preached in Crieff on communion occasions,
         and the attendance was considerable.  But many of the hear-
         ers came from a distance; and the great majority of them are ca-
         pable of deriving benefit from Sabbath ministrations in English.
           Habits of the people, &c.-The habits of the people are cleanly;
         they dress remarkably well; and, in general, they live comforta-
         bly.  This latter circumstance must doubtless be attributed, in a
         great measure, to their own industry; but it is considerably aided
         by the accommodation which is given by the proprietors of the
         town and neighbourhood, in the shape of what are ordinarily term-
         ed feus, pecks and acres.
           Feus, &c.-The whole town consists of feus, which have been
	granted at different periods, and are held at different rates of feu-
         duty; but its antiquity is not to be confined to the date of the
         earliest feu-charters ; inasmuch as there is every reason to
	believe that there was a village in the place, long before the exist-
         ence of any of the present charters.  Crieff, properly so called lies
         east of the tolbooth, and the oldest feus are near the cross.  They
         all hold of the family of Crieff and Dollerie, and some of them
         before the middle of the seventeenth century;  others
         were granted before the middle of the seventeeth century; others
	are of a more modern date; and the last feus are not yet twenty
         years old.  The remaining part of the High Street, from the tol-
	booth to Comrie Street, including St James' Square, was feued by
         James Drummond of Perth, in the year 173 with the exception
         of the portion between Fraser's Corner and Hill's Wynd, on the
	north, and the tolbooth and Brydie's Corner, on the south side,
	which had previously been feued bv George Drummoiid of Milnab,
	in the year 1683.
	   Commissioners' Street; King's Street, as far as the meadow;
        Gultil More; Tainshe's Lane; the upper part of Hill's Wynd;
        and the back feus west to Comrie-Street,-were feued by the com-
        missioners upon the forfeited estates of Perth about the year 1774-
        Brown's Row, from the Meadow to M'Farlane's Lane, and a
        small portion of the street at the north of Bridgend; Mitchell
        Street; Miller's Street; Comrie Street; and Milnab Street, -were
        feued by James Lord Perth, after the year 1784,  when the for-
        feited estates were restored.


