
                                  KELSO.                        339

     from the proceeds of seat rents and collections, with the exception
     of the Episcopal clergyman, whose stipend is derived from a volun-
     tary assessment upon the members of the congregation.  All of
     them, with the same exception, have manses.  Their stipends vary,
     with the numbers and wealth of the congregations, from L.200 to
     L.50, and are, so far as has been ascertained, as follows : minister
     of United, Secession, L.200 ; minister of the Relief, L.150;
     minister of the Original Seceders, L.50.  As respects the time and
     diets of public worship, &c. the Dissenters follow nearly the same
     rule as the Established Church.  There is divine service, generally
     speaking, every Lord's day, as also two distinct diets, excepting dur-
     ing the winter half-year, when a double diet without any interval is
     adopted.  The Lord's Supper'is likewise dispensed in the two most
     numerous congregations on the same days as in the Established
     Church;and in the others it is dispensed with equal frequency,though
     not generally at the same times.  The United Secession and Relief
     congregations number among their members many persons of great
     respectability in point of wealth as well as character, and the Sab-
     bath attendance is not only respectable but numerous, considering
     the distances which many of the members have to travel.  One
     of them--the United Secession, is composed of persons collected
     from so many as thirteen parishes.
          The following table exhibits the accommodation of the va-
     rious places of worship, together with the number of persons in the
     parish of all ages connected with each denomination respectively,
     as ascertained by a census taken in 1835:

<TABLE>

         Denomination.                Accommodation.      No. of Perjrons.
      Established Church,      -          1314        -       2631
      Episcopalians,           -           218        -        153
      Reformed Presbyterians,  -           320        -         66
      Original Seceders,       -           600        -         30
      United Secession,        -           955        -       1034
      Relief,                  -           778        -        598
      Not known to belong to any denomination,                 602

        Religious Societies.--The societies established for the purposes-
      of Christian charity are, the Kelso Bible Society, (which gives the
      most of its funds to the Edinburgh Bible, Society,) the Kelso
      Missionary Society, (auxiliary to the Scottish Missionary Society,)
      the parish Society for the spread of the Gospel, (its, funds have
      been applied to the support of a parochial missionary,)--and the
      Society for the Missions of the United Secession Church. The
      first two are supported by Christians of various denominations;
      the last two, as their designations import,by members of the Esta-


