
28                       INVERNESS-SHIRE.

contributions from the county proprietors; and they are maintain-
ed under a system of the most efficient repair by the same mean
which effected their formation. The expense is defrayed in about
equal proportions by Government aid and county assessment, the
latter being of late years considerably relieved by the produce of
tolls, which have been established on several of the roads. The
other roads contained in the parish, which are of subordinate im-
portance, are under the management of the district proprietors, a
trustees, and are maintained by general assessment originally im-
posed by virtue of certain local statutes, which were consolidated in
a new act of Parliament passed 29th May 1830. The expense of re-
pairs on the parliamentary roads in the neigbbourhood of Inverness,
where the traffic is considerable, averages from L.10 to L.15 per
mile.
   Bridges.-There are two bridges across the River Ness. One
of stone with seven ribbed arches, erected in 1685 by contribu-
tions throughout the kingdom, at a cost of L.1300; and one of
wood, finished in 1808, from public and private subscriptions, and
which cost L. 4000. A pontage is levied at both bridges from
strangers. Two small but beautifully wooded islands in the Ness,
a smile above the town, are now in course of being connected with
the opposite banks by airy chain suspension bridges, the interior
being laid out in walks; and when this improvement is completed
(one of the bridges has been in existence for many years, and
funds have been recently collected for the other,) Inverness call
boast of a set of public promenades almost unequalled for extent,
variety, and beauty of scenery, by those of any town in the kingdom.
   Harbours.-Three harbours have been erected near the mouth
of the river at different times, the lowest of which admits vessels of
250 tons burthen; while large ships have exellent anchorage ground
in Kessock Roads, or can receive and deliver goods at the Caledo-
nian Canal wharfs within a mile of the town.
   Churches and Ecclesiastical Affairs.-Both the parish churches
are in the town. The High Church, in which English alone is
preached, was built in 1772, and is a large plain building attached
to an old square tower, said to have been erected by Oliver Crom-
well, and is seated for 1800 persons. It is, however, found too
small for the increasing congregation, and the erection of another
or additional parish church is contemplated. The Gaelic church,
which is properly the parish church, and in which Gaelic alone is
preached, was erected in 1794, and contains about 1200 sitters,


