
                          KINGUSSIE.                           77

are besides, occasional collections in aid of the Northern Infir-
mary.
   There is a catechist in the parish, with a salary of L.20, one-
half of which is paid by the Society for Propagating Christian
Knowledge, and the other half by the present incumbent.
   Education.--In the parish, there are, the parochial school,--
two seminaries supported by the Society for Propagating Christian
Knowledge, one of which is a female school,--and one supported
by the Glasgow Auxiliary Society: and in the Insh district, one
school supported by the General Assembly's Committee. There
is also an infant school maintained by individual subscription.
Besides these, there have been for some years past, two aid schools
during the winter and spring months, in remote and necessitous
parts of the parish, supported by the Inverness Education Society.
The salary of the teacher of the infant school is L. 10, besides,
some perquisites; and the branches taugbt are, English reading,
writing, sewing, and knitting. Latin and mathematics are taught
at the parochial school.
   The salary of the parish schoolmaster is the maximum: that of
the teacher appointed by the General Assembly's Committee,
L. 20; of the Society's teacher, L. 15 per annum. The parochial
teacher is in the annual receipt of about L. 16 for school fees.
The schoolmaster furnished by the Glasgow Auxiliary, Society re-
ceives L. 14 from that society, and L. 8 from the people of the
district in which he teaches for school fees. The parochial school-
master has the accommodation required by law; and the heritors,
in the most handsome manner, came forward some years ago, and
erected a large and commodious school-house, far beyond the legal
requirement. There is scarcely any part of the parish so distant
as not to be within the reach of one or other of the schools we have
mentioned; and the people seem in general anxious for the benefits
of education to their children, provided they can be obtained at a
cheap rate. The number of young people betwixt six and, fifteen
years of age who cannot read or write amounts to about 39. The
schools are obviously producing a very beneficial effect.
   Literature.--About four years ago, a Subscription Circulating
Library was established in the village of Kingussie, and consists
now of upwards of 300 volumes, comprising books in divinity, his-
tory, and general literature. Besides this, there is a small library
for the benefit of the scholars connected with the parish school,


