
890                        LANARKSHIRE.

cows on Blacklaw, and let the other farm; that she was often a
visitor at Whitemoss, sometimes at Torrance, and at Calder-
wood; and that she was highly respected by the neighbouring
gentry.  He was at her funeral, and walked close after her bro-
ther from the house to the grave.  About twenty years ago, a te-
nant of Blacklaw opened her grave, in the hope of finding gold
rings on her fingers, but was disappointed.  The place has since
been known by the name of Mount Cameron.
   Long Calderwood, a place about a mile and a half to the north-
east of the village of Kilbride, must always be peculiarly interesting
to literary and scientific men, as having been the birth-place of
Dr William Hunter, eminent both as a physician and as a scien-
tific inquirer; and of his brother, Dr John Hunter, who, having
arrived at the head of his profession in London, distinguished
himself so greatly both by his medical investigations and in other
respects.
   Land-owners.-The chief land-owners of the parish are,
Miss Stuart of Torrance; Lady Montgomery; Sir William Alex-
ander Maxwell of Calderwood; and William Kippen, Esq.  The
nearest gentleman's seat to the village of Kilbride is that of Pa-
trick Graham, Esq. of Lirnekilns; but the greater part of his
property lies in other parishes.  Property of considerable extent
in point of valuation is also held in the parish of Kilbride by the
Duke of Hamilton; by Alexander Downie, Esq. of Crossbasket;
and by John Reid, Esq. of Kittochside.  There are 18 proprie-
tors, Of whom each has land with above L.100 Scots of valua-
tion.  There dre about 110 who possess land to a greater or a
less extent, or have such house property as to give them valuation.
  Parochial Registers.-The oldest parochial register extant bears
to have been commenced on the 20th of march 1688.  The first
register of a marriage is dated the 28th of that month.  The first
register of a birth is dated the 1st of April of the same year.
The register has since been kept with tolerable regularity.
Antiquities.-In the neighbourhood of Kittochside, there were
two andient fortifications, referred to by Mr Ure.  They stood
on two hills, now known by the names of Castlehill and Rough-
hill.  The former is on the north, and the latter to the south of
the Kittoch; the distance between them is about 200 yards.
They have been so well described by Mr Ure, that it is unne-
the Castlehill has been beautifully covered with trees, and that


