
				ABDIE.                         55

a sufficient time. They are obliged, on account of the poverty of
their parents, to go to a trade, or to work for their livelihood before
their education be completed.
  Poor.-There are 12 at present on the roll, but the average
number may be 7 or 8. They are supported by the session fund,
which consists of the interest of L.320, a small mortification, and
the collections at the church door. There are 4 lunatics, 2 furi-
ous, and confined in the asylums of Perth and Dundee, 2 others
tractable, and kept in the country. The rest are old infirm people.
The whole are maintained for about L.50 a-year, of which the
heritors contribute a part by a voluntary assessment. The church
collections amount to about L.14 per annum. L.200 of the poors'
money was lost lately by the failure of the person in whose hands
it was placed.

                   MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
  It would contribute greatly to the comfort of the parish, could
the necessary articles of coal and lime be procured at a more rea-
sonable rate. They are very dear at present. Whether coals are
bought at Newburgh shore, or sent for to the Balbirnie or other
coal pits, they cost 10s. a single cart load, and lime is proportion-
ally expensive. Therefore, a railway has been talked of from the
New Inn to Newburgh, and I doubt not but in some future time
this improvement may take place. It would also be desirable, could
the waters of the lake be confined within a narrower compass by
such operations as have lately been carried through at Lochleven.
By these means, a more equable supply of water might be furnish-
ed to the mills, and many acres of marshy and useless ground might
be rendered arable. This, too is an improvement which the lapse
of time may bring about. Much has been done since last Report;
many waste acres have been reclaimed; the hills are now cultivated
nearer to the summit; the grounds are better enclosed; and the
houses and cottages much improved.

  March 1836.


