

        			LUMPHANAN.                  1081

principal material of which the green sward on its margin is com-
posed.

                               II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
         Ecclesiastical History.-Alan de Lundin, named, from his of-
fice in the King's court, the Doorward or Durward, erected, in
1233, an hospital at Kincardine O'Neil, dedicated to God and
the Blessed Mary. He conferred on it the patronage of the
church of Kincardine O'Neil, the patronage of the church of Lon-
fanan, and its chapel of Forthery (probably Fordie), with certain
pieces of land, the names of which are given, and the marches ac-
curately described, in the chartulary of Aberdeen. * In 1330,
the hosphtal and church of Kincardine O'Neil were incorporated
with the cathedral establishment of Aberdeen; the rector was
raised to the dignity of a prebend; after that period, he had a
manse assigned him within the chanonry, while a perpetual vicar re-
sided at Kincardine, and discharged the duties of the benefice. Dun-
can, Earl of Fife, the inheritor of the possessions of the Durwards,
bestowed on the Bishop of Aberdeen the patronage of the church
of Kincardine O'Neil, and the chapels annexed to it, reverently
depositing, to increase the solemnity of the transaction, with his
own hands, on 7th March 1338, the charter of donation on the
altar of the Blessed Mary in the cathedral church of the city. +
The first Protestant minister was George Levingstoun, who had
under his charge the parishes of Kyncardin, Lanfannane, Midmar,
and Clwyne. To enable him to perform the labours of this ex-
tensive cure, a reader was appointed at Lumphanan, whose name
was John Mychell. ++ In 1595, William Strathaucin of Cluny
was infeft in the patronages of Kincardine O'Neil, Glentanner,
Lumphanan, Cluny, and Midmar, annexed thereto. In 1599, his
possession of these patronages was ratified by the parson of Kin-
cardine. In 1617, be disponed them to Mr William Forbes of
Craigevar, who obtained, in the same year, a ratification from Bi-
shop Patrick Forbes, and twenty of the chapter of Aberdeen. His
son, Sir William Forbes of Craigevar, obtained another ratifica-
tion, in 1637, from Adam Bellenden, Bishop of Aberdeen; and
his lineal representative, Sir John Forbes, Bart. is now the pa-
tron of three of thdse churches,-Kincardine O Neil, Lumpha-
nan, and Midmar. $

<FOOTNOTE>Chart.  Aberdon.  pp. 174-78.
          Chart. Aberdon. p. 173-74.  Orem's Old Aberd. p. 125. Aberdeen, 1830.
          Register of Ministers, pp. 63-67.
          Charters in possession of Sir John Forbes of Craigevar, Bart.
	For the greater part of this section, as well as for many of the most interesting



