
                         GALASHIELS.                          17

About that time a place of some note, as appears from the report
by the Lords of Commission for the Plantation of Kirks, dated
1622. The report bears, "that there lived above 400 people in
Galaslhiels; and so meikle the more as we (the ministers of the
adjoining parishes) find ane house already there, well built, comely
apparelled, and with small help, as is provided, my easily be made
sufficient for the whole people in their most frequent assemblages."
The kirk was accordingly transplanted from Lindean to Gala-
shiels for this father reason, as given in the report, that the old
vicar's church of Lindean had been abandoned for thirty-six years
preceding. *
   Land-owners.-The chief of these are, Jo. Scott, Esq. of Gala;
Robert Pringle, Esq. of Clifton, proprietor of Fairnille, in this pa-
rish; Miss Plummer of Middlestead, liferenter of Lndean, which
belongs to this parish; and Nicol Milne, Esq. of Faldonside.
   Parochial Registers.-That of birth from 1672 to 1690 is ex
tant. But from this latter date till 1714, there is a blank in all the
parish records. From 1714 till the present time, the register of
births has been kept regularly; but none of burial or marriages
his been kept since 1776, before which time, during a period of
thirty years, these were recorded but imperfectly.
   Antiquities.-Traces of two ancient camps, one on the pro-
perty of Nicol Milne, Esq. the other at Rink, on the estate of
Fairnilee, and also of a considerable portion of Roman road, are
distinctly visible.
   Modern Buildings.-These are, Gala House, embowered among
fine old trees, and the house of Nicol Milne, Esq. of Faldon-
side. There are also ten large machinery houses, or cloth fac-
tories, of various standing;-one recently rebuilt, and one entire-
ly new. The greatest improvement in building is to be found

<FOOTNOTE>Perhaps the most ancient, notice of the town of Galashiels is to be found in Lord
Hailes' Annals, where it is mentioned that the Scots, after the battle of Crichton dean
(Krithtown) in the reign of David II. 1337, quartered at Galashiels, and that
the English crossed the Tweed near to this place; and the statement is confirmed by
tradition. At the distance ofamile from the town, on the way to the most likely
place for crossing the Tweed, near to abbotsford, was a marsh, now cultivated, and
long known as the spot where some of the English fell in skirmish, and which still
goes by the name of the Englishmen's Syke; here also were dug up certain imple-
ments of war inthe process of draining the ground. And tradition farther says, that
the English were taken by surprise in the act of gathering the wild plums with which
the environs of the town, till of late years, greatly abounded. Hence the proverbial
expression "sour plums," (as they proved to the English), and which was adopted as
the sarcastic and triumphant motto to the arms of the baronial burgh.

     SELKIRK                           B


