
146                            KINCARDINESHIRE.

is too small. The number of those actually communicating at the
dispensation of the Lord's supper generally exceeds even the
number of these calculated sittings by 120. All the sittings are
either in the hands of heritors and their tenants, or let and occu-
pied.
	The manse now consists of what were two successive additions,
the one built in 1796, and the other in 1805, when the old manse
was taken down, and the addition of 1796 left standing. Since
1805, no farther changes have been made, except what were ne-
cessary to keep the building in ordinary repair. The glebe con-
sists of nearly 9 acres of arable land, which may be valued at about
L.20 per annum. The minister has also possessed, from time
immemorial, a piece of ground of about 9 acres, at present let for
L. 1, 3s. per acre, a mile distant from the manse, and surround-
ed by Lord Kintore's lands. This possession, it is understood,
was bestowed on the incumbent of the parish in times of Popery,
and escaped only by its insignificance, from the hands which seiz-
ed so large a portion of the Church property, at the period of the
Reformation.
	The stipend consists of 16 chalders of grain, half barley and
half meal, with L.8, 6s. 8d. for communion elements; and on the
average of the last six years amounted to about L.236. For crop
1826, the stipend considerably exceeded the teind. The minister
has the right of digging peats on a piece of ground called the Mi-
nister's Moss, on the top of the Cairn of Mount, one of the Gram-
pian Hills,--on which hill also the farmers on Lord Kintore's
estate were in use to avail themselves of the privilege of digging
peats; but for some years the practice has been much discontinued
	The patronage of the church belongs to St Mary's College,
St Andrews, to whom Archbishop John Hamilton, the last Roman
Catholic Primate, gave the teinds of the parish, for the endow-
ment of the recently erected college. *

<FOOTNOTE>The following extracts from the deed may not be uninteresting. The title is,
"Donatio Ecclesise Parochialis de Conveth per Joannem Archiepiscopum St. Andrew
in Cavorem Magisdtrorum, Regentium, Capellanorum, Bursariorum, et Rttdentium
Novi Collegli." "Junii 26. 1559." The rectory was vacant at the time of the do-
nation, as appears from the following clause: "Cum itaque parochialis ecclesia rec-
toria nuncupata de Conveth nostrae Sti Andreae diocesis quam nuper bonae memorise
Magister Willielmus Lamd dum viviret obtinebat per obitum ejuadem Willielmi ex-
tira Romanam curiam et in partibus defuncti vacaverit et vacet ad presence," &c.
Another extract shews the provision made for the performance of the pastoral duties
in Conveth, and also affords some illustration of the general views at that time ex-
pressed by the Romish Hierarchy as to pastoral superintendence, "Volumus autem
qwod propter perpetuam unionem, annexationem, et incorporation praefatas paro-
chialis ecclesis de Conveth units bujusmodi debitis propteres non fraudetur obsequiis


