
100                     CAITHNESS-SHIRE.

hedges. Most of the stone fences are old and decayed, and do not
suit tbe improved system of keeping a suitable portion of each
farm under sheep. Should the present system be persevered in,
as is most probable, they will require to be renewed. Indeed, this
is to conunence immediately on the farm of Clyth, the property
of Sir George Sinclair, where a new farm-steading and proper en-
closures are forthwith to be erected on a new lease of that excel-
ent farm. All the new houses are slated, and in other respects
very commodious.
   Improvements.-The principal improvements which have taken
place within the last thirty years, in as far as agriculture is con-
cerned, may be briefly enumerated as follows: fully 2000 acres of
waste ground reclaimed; better accommodations in farm-buildings;
a vast extent of enclosures executed; agriculture much more sys-
tematically and advantageously pursued; more attention given to
the culture and clearing of the land; draining practised much
more extensively, and executed in a more skilful style; better breeds
of horses, cows, and sheep; superior facilities both for expedition
and security in conveying them to the southern markets; a much
wider breadth of turnips sown and heavier crops raised, and con-
sequently a much larger quantity of stock reared and fed, and fit-
ted in a much shorter time for the butcber. After sbipping the
stock at Wick in the morning, it is possible for them to be shown
in the Edinburgh market next afternoon ; thus accomplishing in
the astonishingly short period of thirty hours what used to occupy
nearly as many days, to the much greater damage of the stock.
Great as these improvements are, nothing but the want of ca-
pital prevents their proceeding at a much more rapid rate; and
were additional encouragement to be given by proprietors, by grant-
ing leases to the small tenantry on reasonable terms, a great deal
more migbt be done, even upon the existing resources of the peo-
ple . One of the greatest obstacles with which the spirit of im-
provement has now to contend, is the non-residence of almost all
the proprietors;  a circumstance which did not exist, to the same
extent, until very recently; and hence the same initerest can hard-
ly be expected to be taken, either in promoting the comforts of
the inhabitants, or in reclaiming or ornamenting the lands. But it
is hoped tbat this inconvenience may only be of short duratiom.
   Fisheries.-There are four descriptions of fisheries prosecuted in
this parish, viz. the henring, and, salmon, and lobster. Of these
the hersing-fishery is the most considerable, forming as it does,
                                 3


