
182                     STIRLINGSHIRE.

the botanist to examine. Almost every moss of the class Crypto-
gamia is seen among the hills, also a great variety of what is rare
and useful belonging to the Phanerogamia.

                        II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
  Village.-The village of Alva is situated near the base of the
Westhill. It does not appear certain when it was begun to be
built, but we learn from the chartulary of Cambuskenneth, that
Alva was a parish nearly 550 years ago, and probably a village of
minor consequence existed at the same time. In the year 1795
the village was only about one half its present size, and contained
130 families, including a few single persons, each of whom oc-
cupied part of a house. Towards the end of the seventeenth or
beginning of the eighteenth century, Sir John Erskine, then pro-
prietor, granted feus of a small parcel of ground to several inhabi-
tants, on which they built cottages and laid out gardens. A plan
seems to have been formed by Sir John, to build a village in the
form of a square, two sides of which appear to have been actual-
ly completed, but the other houses have been set down at random,
or wherever a convenient spot for a garden could be obtained.
About the year 1767, Lord Alva, resolving to enlarge the village,
granted feus to those willing to build, and in one season a com-
plete row of new houses, amounting to 20, was erected, each house
having a small garden of a few falls, equal in breadth to the ex-
tent of the front of the house. A few years afterwards, another
row of houses, parallel to the former, and with gardens laid out in
the same manner, was completed. The rate at which the ground
was feued, was at first 13s. 4d. per fall, or 36 square yards, but it
advanced by degrees to 15s. and 16s. per fall, as the premium or
purchase-money, together with fourpence the fall of annual feu-
duty. Taking the medium rate of 15s. it will amount to L. 120
Sterling per acre, as the price of the ground. and L. 2, 13s. 4d. as
the annual rent to the superior.
  House of Alva.-The house of Alva, the seat of James John-
stone, Esq., is about a mile east of the village, and is delightfully
situated on an eminence projecting from the Woodhill near its
base. The height of the projecting part where the house stands,
is 220 feet above the level of the Devon, and Woodhill rises be-
hind it to the height of 1400 feet higher, making in all 1620 feet.
The Woodhill is richly ornamented with plantations, and its sum-
mit affords a most extensive prospect to the south, east, and west.
The north-west view is interrupted by the hill of Dalmyot; but


