
     Statistical Account

nation, either of money or meal, into that execrable poison
into that unhappy instrument of their own ruin*!

<FOOTNOTE>

*The witling may sneer at this, 'if he can, if his heart is so callous to
every emotion of pity; but such a picture, and it is not a fancy piece,
must excite honor in every thinking in every benevolent mind.  Every
person who has any claim either to the character of a Christian, or of a
man, will shudder at the direful consequences; Tradesmen, some of whom
at times have been able to earn a guinea a-week by the loom, etc. instead of
living comfortably with their families, and having a little for a reverse of cir-
cumstances, have not often on Saturday night wherewithal to subsist during
the ensuing Sabbath: Instead of associating on that day, a day devoted to rest
and pious reflection, to sanctify and to reverence the sanctuary of Him who
is the giver of al by worshipping him as the God of their fathers, it is
often spent in dozing over this deadly poison in some low tippling house
or private dram-shop.  It would be some consolation if these remarks
were applicable to one parish, or to one district only.  Reformation in
that case might then be more easily accomplished.  But every paltry
hamlet, from Graham's Dyke* to John o' Groats's, is feeling and while
it is permitted, will continue to feel, its woeful effects.  It has engendered
that depravity, that dissipation and prothigacy of manners, which, like the
dstroying angel, is stalking forth, and with rapid strides, dealing de-
struction every where around it.  The most contagious pesfulence that
ever desolated a country cannot produce more dreadful effects upon the
natural, than it is now producing in the moral world, upon every public
and private virtue.  It is not only extinguishing that energy of mind,
that praise-worthy spirit of induftty and enterprise, which urges on to
progressive improvemtent and happiness, but riot, contempt of lawful au-
thority, that authority by which society alone can subsist, Licentiousness,
under the sacred, though prostituted, name of Liberty, fraud, robbery,
murder, insanity, and suicide, every where mark its fatal progress! If such
are its direful train, is it not high time for those in authority to step forth,
and administer an antidote to this fatal poison, before the diseases it occa-
tions become desperate, and battle the utmost efforts of political skill to
remove them? Not a moment is to be lost.  "Now is the accepted time,
now is the day of salvation"  Partial remedies may protract the malady,
but will never operate a cure.  The axe must be laid to the root of the
tree.

*The boundary on the Carlisle road between England and Scotland.


