
744                         LANARKSHIRE.

nearly in the centre of this favoured range.  The orchards are
chiefly planted on the declivities which overlook the river, or on
the sides of the ravines which run into it, and very few of which
could be cultivated by the plough.  A few acres are planted on
the holms and banks along the side of the Avon, on the western
boundary of the parish, but not with the same success as in the
Vale of Clyde.  The plum district is not co-extensive with the
general fruit one.  Taking Dalserf as the centre, the plum range,
on both banks of the river, does not extend beyond three or three
and a-half miles on either side.  Within thdse limits, several kinds of
plums appear to be indigenous, and thrive and yield a crop in
hedgerows, and without cultivation.  The native varieties of this
sort of fruit are, hornets, whitcorns, horse-jags (harsh gage ?)
bullets and devons-all of which row luxuriantly, and yield fruit
without care, besides filling the surrounding ground with suckers.
It was long believed, that, even in this favoured tract, grafted
plum trees would not thrive unless reared against walls.  This
idea has been corrected by recent experience.  It has now been
ascertained, that magnum bonums, Orleans plums, precoce de
Tours, green gages, red imperials, and other varieties, flourish as
luxuriantly, as standards, as the indigenous plums, and, taking the
average of a few years, yield a larger crop.  They merely require
the same treatment as apple and pear trees, namely, regular cul-
tivation and manuring.   Of apples, about sixty varieties are now
cultivated, viz. sixteen sorts of summer, twenty of harvest, and twen-
ty-four of winterapples.  Of pears, there are about twenty-fourkinds.
Different kinds of fruit prefer different soils and situations.  Speak-
ing generally, however, orchards are observed to succeed best on
a clay soil.  On sandy land, the trees grow faster, but yield less
fruit, the blossoms and leaves being more exposed to blight and
the ravages of the caterpillar.  In preparing the ground for an
orchard, every springy or damp place is carefully drained, either
by open or covered drains.  Young trees are planted at the depth
Of from six to eight inches, and the earth raised a foot or eighteen
inches around them above the roots, to enable them to withstand
the blast.  For some years at first, much attention is required to
prevent the bark and twigs from being bitten and destroyed by the
hares in winter.  A tree that has been hare-bitten, even to a small
extent, seldom does any good; and some young orchards, planted
at considerable expense, have, from want of care in this respect,
been entirely ruined.  Some of the old orchards are very irregu-
                                     3


