
     Statistical Account

since.  The number of heritors is 20; the superior,
Sir Thomas Dundas, the greatest heritor non-residing;
small heritors residing 11; non-residing 8.-The poor
of this parish have been, at an average, about 14 or 15
these number of years, and the alms are collected by
the hands of the elders in their boards, and given out,
at the discretion of the session, to poor persons, accord-
ing to their need.  The parish really cannot clothe their
poor, because their funds are too small.  Legacies we 
have none.  The annual produce of the alms of the pa-
rish is below 20 s. Sterling a-year; to which may be add-
ed, the mortcloth money, as also the marriage money,
which, by the custom of this country, is 1 L. Scots each,
which is really the property of the minister, as our
public records can attest; but it is thrown into the pub-
lic fund by the present minister, and he believes by
most before him*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*As to the prices of provisions in this parish, we seldom buy or sell
between one another; so that the prices cannot be well ascertained.  But 
when a cow is disposed of, it may, at an average price, be sold at 16 L.
Scots; a sheep at 3 s. Sterling; a swine at 5 s. Sterling; butter at 5 d.
the mark of 1 1/2 lb. avoirdupois; corn, counted by the superiors fiars up
and down, and always paid by the name of malt, at 11 1/2 stones each meil,
the county fiar price at 6 L. Scots each meil malt; and the oat meal
sometimes 8 L., sometimes 9 L. Scots each meil, of the same weight.-
We have no day-labourers in husbandry.  As to boat carpenters, they
are generally hired from Stromness, and work by the piece, at 2 s. the foot
of keel.  Bricklayers or masons, we employ none; because our masons are 
self-taught.  Tailors are generally paid in days victuals and corn by the 
inhabitants for their work; and other workmen much in the same
manner.  Weavers in general work by the hundred, and take the same
prices as others of the same trade in Scotland.-The fuel here is peat al-
together, brought from the distance of 6 miles; and every man procures
his own, except the minister and the schoolmaster; as also cottagers and 
handicraftsmen, to whom the tenants lead most cheerfully.  At an ave-


