
660			PERTHSHIRE.

ago, Dunkeld and Perth were the places with, which this district of
country used to transact its business; but of late, young men of in-
telligence, enterprise, and capital, established themselves in Pitlo-
chry who have immediate connexion with the principal commer-
cial cities in the south. The country, therefore, is now equally
well served, and as moderately, with every article of merchandise,
as in either of the above towns.  One of the mercantile establish-
ment is well lighted with gas, a novel spectacle in these quarters !
In 1834, a laboratory was opened in Pitlochry. In 1826, a branch
of the Central Bank of Scotland, and also in the same year a branch
of the Commercial Bank, were established there.
   It had, been often the subject of complaint that such a village
should have. been so long without a suitable inn.  The want is now
remedied.  Mr Butter of Fask`lly has built a good commodious
house, where the tourist will find himself comfortably accom-
modated; and should he be a real admirer of nature's beauties,
few districts there are, if there be indeed any in Great Britain, to
equal it in the rich variety of its scenery.  By adhering, however,
to the high road, as the ordinary traveller can scarce avoid, he will
lose the better part of what he might obtain, if, as the poet says,
"he wooed nature in her coy retreats."-" He, then, wbo can com-
mand, or borrow, or steal an hour from time, will be unpardonable
if be'does not linger at Pitlochry and he who can rob the day of
two or three, will be still more so, if he does not diverge to visit the
unexpected and strangely placed village of Moulin, a village than
which it would be difficult to point out another more picturesque;
an irregular mixture of houses, and mills, and bridges, and falling
waters, and noble trees; a careless profusion of the elements of
rustic landscape, to which is added a rich and singular surround-
ing country, offering all the characters of: ancient wealth and cul-
tivation, backed, on the one hand, by the beautiful declivity of
Beinvrackie, and extending its views over the magnificent ex-
panded vale of the Tay," *
   Post-Office.-The post office. is in  Pitlochry, and yields to the
revenue about L. 400 a-yd`r. The Royal Mail commenced run
ning between Perth and Inverness on the 6th July 1836. It pas-
ses through Pitlochry on its way north, about half-past one P. M.
and so its way south about eleven o'clock A. M. It runs every
day. Bannoch, to which there is a runner three times a week, is a
sub-office to Pitlochry. In the summer and autumn months, two
<FOOTNOTE>See M'Culloch's Work.


