
     Of Ruthven.

The parishioners are all of the Established Church, except 2 of
the Church of England, who attend public worship regular-
ly in the parish church, while they reside here.  The parishi-
oners, for the most part, are employed in agriculture; there
are, however, a few manufacturers, tradesmen, millers, and
day-labourers.  They are, in general, honest, sober and in-
dustrious, living peaceably and comfortably.  The ague was
formerly very common among them, probably from their
poor way of living; but now it is searcely ever heard of.

   Antiquities.-On the S. and W. side of the parish, there is
an enclosure of great antiquity, concerning the use of which
tradition gives no account.  It is nearly of a square form,
and contains about an English acre ground.  The walls,
which are of earth, as far as can be judged, have been origi-
nally of considerable height and breadth.  A deep and wide
ditch on the outside of the wall, filled with water from an ad-
joining morass, is still almost entire.  This fort, now known
by the name of Castledykes, was probably a place of retreat
to the neighbourhood in times of turbulence and barbarism.
The north part of this parish is said to have been the scene of
engagement betwenn the English and Scotch forces, under
King Edward and Robert Bruce.  Although there is no men-
tion of this skirmish in history, yet it is confirmed by several
monuments of antiquity and tradition: confirmed in this man-
ner, it must ever be valuable in a country where authentic re-
cords have been destroyed by the barbarous policy of its in-
vaders.  The English army seems, at this time, to have been

     VOL. XII. P p

<FOOTNOTE>

at home, the cottagers, in general, lived comfortably according to their station,
and brought up a numerous and hardy offspring.  For the most part they have
emigrated to the manufacturing towns, and their removal has proved, in many
respects, an essential loss to the interests of agriculture, particularly for one ar-
ticle, having rendered country servants and day-labourers very expensive, and
difficult to be got.


