
72                   ROSS AND CROMARTY.

each.  The collections at church, in their behalf, may amount to
L. 24 or L. 30 a-year.
   Fairs.- We have two public fairs held, each year, in the months
of March and July.
   Fuel.-The principal fuel used by the poor, are, peats, turf, the
roots of broom, branches of trees, and some coals.  Coals are al.-
ways used by the more wealthy portion of the inbabitants,-for
which they pay from Is. 6d. to 2s. the Scots barrel, or from Is. to
Is. 2d. the imperial barrel.  The coals are brought from Newcastle.

             PARISH OF LOCHBROOM.

        PRESBYTERV OF LOCHCARRON, SYNOD OF GLENELG.-

        THE REV.  THOMAS ROSS, LL.D. MINISTER.

          I-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name, Situation, and Extent.-THE parish of Lochbroom de-
rives its name from a fresh water lake of about 43 Scotch miles in
length, and I in breadth, at the distance of from 12 to 15 miles
from the sea,-wbich, being surrounded by high bills, and conse-
quently much visited by the moisture of the passing clouds, is
known by the very characteristic appellation of Loch-a'Bhraoin,
or the Lake of Showers; Braon, or Braom, in Gaelic, signifying
a shower, or drizzle of rain.  The same name of Broom is, from
this lake, also communicated to the river, which flows from it
through a considerable part of the parish, and to the great arm of
the sea into which that river falls near the parish church.
   The parish is bounded on the west bv the channel called the
Minsh, which separates the island of Lewis from the mainland of
Scotland. It has the parish of Assint on the north; the parishes
of Kincardine and Contin on the east'; and the parish of Gairloch
on the South.
   The figure of the parish is exceedingly irregular, a great part
of it consisting of a variety of promontories of very different ex-
tent and appearance, and separated from each other by lochs and
creeks and inlets of the sea.  The distance, in a straight lines be,
tween the extreme points of the western boundary, is not more
,than fromt 22 to 24 miles yet within that space of direct latitude
there, are included above 100 miles of shore washed by the ocean.


