
			PARISH OF CREICH.

		PRESBYTERY OF CUPAR, SYNOD OF FIFE.

                 THE REV. ALEXANDER LAWSON, MINISTER.

	I-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-The name of the parish has been written in these dif-
ferent ways, Creigh, Creich, Creche, Crich, and Criech; but in the
Session records, is almost invariably written Creich. The parish
very probably received this appellation from,the farm of Creich,
in the centre of which the old church and the burying-ground are
situated, and where the manse also was at one time placed. The
word is generally thought to be derived from the Gaelic word
Craigich, signifying rocky or craggy ground,- a discription appli-
cable to the appearance of the parish, especially of the grounds of
the farm of Creich.
   Extent and Boundaries.-The parish is of an irregular figure.
It extends in length from north to south about 3 miles, and
varies from 1 mile to nearly 2 miles in breadth, the greatest
breadth being in the middle, and the least in the north. It is
bounded on the north by the parish of Flisk; on the south, by the
parishes of Moonzie and Monimail; on the east, by those of Kilma-
ny and Baliberino; and on the west, by those of Abdie and Dunbog.
   Topographical Appearances.-The parish presents great inequali-
ties of surface. It consists of hills, which are part of the Ochil
range, of various sizes and forms, the highest not appearing to ex-
ceed 550 feet above the level of the sea. Of thesel some are cul-
tivated to the top, others are partly covered with thriving planta-
tions, which add much to the beauty of the surroundioa country;
while several still exhibit a rocky and rugged aspect, and produce
little else than heath and furze. Were these last tastefully and
judiciously planted with varieties of wood, the ground, which now
generally affords but a scanty Supply of pasture, would be more
profitabl occupied, the climate would be improved, and a few
would display more varied and beautiful scenery. The sides of
most of the hills and the lower grounds are fertile and well cul-



