
472			AYRSHIRE.

ployed in purchasing Bibles and tracts for distribution, and in pay-
ing the school-wages of children whose parents are not paupers,
but in straitened circumstances. The average expenditure of the
last four years, in both parishes, has been L. 23, 6s. 8d., the half
of which for this parish is L. 11, 13s. 4d. It has gone steadily on
in doing good by aiding the Assembly's Schools, and missionary
societies; and by providing Bibles for the poor at home. The
Saltcoats (Stevenston) Female Benevolent Society is a clothing
society, supported by weekly subscriptions; and their expenditure
during last year was L. 22. Saltcoats (Stevenston) Benevolent So-
ciety is supported by weekly subscriptions, and the expenditure last
year to the indigent was L. 24, 1s. Total L. 57, 14s. 4d.
  Friendly Societies.--These are supported by the weekly subscrip-
tions of the members, who, according to their regulations, are to re-
ceive from their funds in time of sickness.

<TABLE>
1.  The Benevolent Female Society last year's expenditure was,              L. 35 14 9
2.  The  Permanent Friendly Society do.                do.                     23 12 0
3.  The  Colliers' Society,                  do.                do.            75  5 0
4.  The  Free Masons Society,                do.                do.            64 11 9
5.  The  Weavers' Society,         do.                 do.                     33 17 1
6.  The  Benevolent Penny Society,  do                 do.                     21  2 7
7.  The Saltcoats Sailors' Friendly Society, yearly expenditure.                3  7 0
They have not needed to distribute more, and have a good stock in the bank.

                                                                          L . 257 10 2
  Fairs.--There is a fair in Stevenston held on the 30th October,
which is St Monoch's, or in English St Monk's day, or more ele-
gantly as with us, euphoniae caus-, Sam-Maneuke's day. As far as
I know, this fair is for nothing but drinking and revelry. There
is a procession during the day, and a ball in the evening; and per-
haps neither procession nor ball would do much harm, were it not
for the never-failing strong drink, which induces many to spend the
greater part of the week of the fair in idleness and dissipation, and
is an inlet to all manner of wickedness.
  A fair is held at Saltcoats on the last Thursday of May.
About fifty years ago, Quay Street, on the fair day, had a long line
of merchant's stands on each side; and the arrival of the fleet of
Arran boats on the evening before the fair, was watched with de-
light by the youngsters. Now, it is the day on which a number
of the farm-servants are engaged for the ensuing half year, espe-
cially such of them as come from the Highlands. It is likewise a
cattle market, particularly for little Highland cows; and also for
pigs and lambs, &c.
   Inns, &c.-There are in the parish no less than thirty-three inns
				   3


