
284                       ROXBURGHSHIRE.

are the foundations of several buildings, which occupy a consider-
able space of ground.  They are situated on the right bank of the
Rule, on an eminence, at a small distance  from the church.  The
dike which separates them from the ploughed land on the east, con-
tains some hewn and ornamental stones, which, there is every rea-
son to conclude, formed a part of the ancient castle.  About a
furlong  to the north-west of the ruins on the other side of the
Rule, which washes one side of it, is a mound partly artificial and
partly natural, called Fastcastle, and seems to have been an out-
work to the main building.  It is of considerable height and com-
pass, and must have been once surrounded with water, and, as its
name imports, must have been very strong.  Though this mound is
now in the parish of Cavers, it seems, from its vicinity to, and con-
nexion with, the Castle of Bedrule, to deserve a place in this account.
   From the site of the castle of Bedrule, the prospect of the sur-
rounding country is very extensive, exhibiting a combination of
mountain and glen scarcely to be equalled.  Among these objects,
Ruberslaw, and the magnificient wood of Wells, containing about
fifteen miles of walks, form a very prominent part of the picture.
   At Fulton, once a separate village and farm, but now united to
Bedrule, there is a considerable ruin of one of those strongholds
called Border Peels.  There are three side walls pretty entire, and
of great thickness and solodity.   The building is about the usual
size, of a square form, with loop-holes in the wall, for the discharge
of arrows. *
   Historical Notices.--The earliest account of this parish is to
be found quoted by Chalmers in his Caledonia, where he says that
Randolph, eldest son of Dunegal of Stranith, (Nithsdale) a Gaelic
chief in the reign of David L., possessed a large share of his father's
land, and, as  the head of the family, was superior of the whole.

<FOOTNOTE>There is a tradition in the country, that the last person who inhabited this peel
was one of the Turnbulls, between whom and the Kers Fernthirst there was a
deadly feud.  A band of the latter came to seize Turnbull, and having got access by
stealth into the tower, came upon him, who, never dreaming of such a visit, was
holding his infant child on his knee, while the gudewife prepared the soweus for sup-
per, and amusing it by singing the old Scotch ballad,
                            Little wat ye wha's coming,
                            Jock and Tam and a''s coming.
The Kers rushing in upon him, exclaimed, "Little wat ye wha's coming" indeed,
and, were proceeding to seize him.  Turnbull, though thus totally unprepared, leaped
up and seized his sword, and being a powerful man, was preparing  for resistance,
but was withheld by the tears and entreaties of his wife, who clung to him and pre-
vented farther resistance.  What became of him, after he had thus fallen into the
hands of his enemies, the writer has not been able to learn.


