
194                          RENFREWSH1RE.

   Alexander Stewart, consanguineo suo, i. e. his kinsman, upon the
resignation of Hector Stewart of Raiss, his father, anno 1484." *
They now belong to James Sharp, Esq. merchant in Glasgow.
   Stanelie Castle, an old tower, still in tolerable preservation, is si-
tuated about two miles south-west of Paisley.  It stands low, with
the braes of Gleniffer rising immediately behind it.  The masonry
has been strong; and a cornice at top, the corbels of which pro-
ject considerably, gives an agreeable finish to the pile.  Its height
is about forty feet; fully ten feet lower than the most elevated
part of Cruickston Castle.  Stanelie Castle and barony formed an
ancient possession of the Danzielstons of that ilk, t+  "For I have
seen," says Crawfurd, "in the public rolls of King Robert III. a
charter granted to Sir Robert Danzielston, Knight, of these lands,
the second year of his reign (1372.)"  The property came into the
possession of one of the Maxwells of Calderwood, and is now in
that of the Right Honourable the Earl of Glasgow.
   Besides these ancient castles, there are a few other antique
structures in the parish.  Hawkhead house is the principal ofthese
in point of rank and extent.  It is the residence of Lord Viscount
Kelburne, and the property of his Lordship's father, the Earl of
Glasgow.  This house is an irregular pile, of which Crawfurd
thus writes: "South-west from the Castle of Crocston lie. the
castle and barony of Halkhead, situate upon the river Cart, the
principal residence of the Right Honourable William Lord Ross. ++
This fabric is built in the form of a court, and consists of a large
old tower, to which there were lower buildings added, in the reign
of King Charles I. an. 1634, by James Lord Ross, and Dame
Margaret Ross, his lady, and adorned with large orchards, fine
gardens, and pretty terraces, with regular and stately avenues,
fronting the said castle, and almost surrounded with woods and
enclosures."??  Since Crawfurd's time, the house has undergone
considerable alterations.
   Blackhall House, lately occupied by a farmer, is now, the roof

<FOOTNOTE>Sample's Crawrfurd, p. 241  Robertson's Crawfurd, p. 89.
    Of this family, Hamilton of Wishaw thus speaks: "Robert de Ross is wittness
to repair a year upon I even in the first year of King Alexander the Third, which is
1248.  They are frequently wittnesses in the charters of the monasterie of Pasley.
Thereafter, they were nobilitat by King James the Fourth, about the year 1492;
and have continued in honour and reputation since.  Godfridus de Ross. Miles, some
and heir of Sir Godfride de Ross, Knight, confirmes the lands in Stewarton, which the
abbacy of Pasley gott from Sir James Ross.  Amongst the witnesses is William de
   Account of the Sherrifdom of Renfrew, p. 77, printed for the Maitland Club in
the year 1831.
   Robertson's Crawfurd, p 54.


