
			CARSPHAIRN. 				277

terred at Moffat, but the family tomb is in the churchyard of Cars-
phairn.
	Mr M'Adam, late of Castle Dykes, Dumfries, was a native of
Carsphairn. Born in low circumstances, and but little favoured
with the blessings of an early education, he, nevertheless, by his na-
tural talents and application to business, realized a princely for-
tune, which he, bequeathed among many relatives, in a manner
which did honour both to his head and heart. To the place of
his nativity, he left L.500 for the benefit of the poor, and L.590,
the interest of which was to increase the schoolmaster's salary;
--both sums under the management of the minister and session.
	Land-owners.--The heritors connected with this parish are
eleven in number, of whom the principal are, the Honourable
Colonel M. Cathcart of Craigengillan'; Robert M'Millan, Esq.
of Holm; Colonel Clarke of Knockgray, &c.
	Antiquities.--There are scarcely any tracesof antiquities in this
parish, except some very large cairs. It is said, that, in remov-
ing some of these, stones in the form of coffins have been found,
containing human bones. One of the largest is not far from the
church, near the road leading to Dalmellington, on the farm of
Holm of Dultallochan. On the same farm, and at no great dis-
tance, are found large stones forming a circle.
	Near the Holm of Dalquhairn, on the estate of Mr M'Mittan
of Holm, there are a number of knolls, remarkable for their si-
tuation and the regularity of their forms. They are situate in the
bottom of a deep valley, high mountains rising on two sides. They
have the appearance of having been artificially formed; but closer
observation wil perhaps shew that they have been formed by de-
bris from the surrounding hills. The name which they have always
borne, is the Allwhannie Nowes.

			III.--POPULATION.

		By census taken in 1755 the population was 609
				   1801,                   496
				   1811,                   459
				   1821,                   474
				   1841                    542
				   1841,                   790

			IV.--INDUSTRY.

	Agriculture.--Surface draininly has been carried on for several
years to a considerable extent, and has in many eases considerably
improved the sheep-walks, but the general appearances of the coun-
try is but little changed. It would be unjust however, to say that


