
820                          	AYRSHIRE.

lity of the people was imposed upon by the appearance of a mi-
racle, which served to enhance the fame of the monastery, and
the power of its priesthood.
	Few of the abbots of Kilwinning attained to much celebrity, or
are noticed in history. One of them swore fealty to King Edward
in the year 1296, and another, more patriotic, fell, with his sove-
reign, on the fatal field of Flodden. The last of the order, Gavin
Hamilton, was the most distinguished. He was frequently em-
ployed, by Queen Mary and her party, in offices of great trust
and responsibility. In 1566, he was admitted an extraordinary
Lord of Session, on the Queen's letter. He appeared in her
cause at the battle of Langside, and was among the commissioners
at York, in 1568, for settling disputes between Mary and Eliza-
betb. In 1571, he was declared a rebel, in a Parliament held by
the Regent Lennox, and, in the same year, lost his life in a con-
flict, at Restairig, near Edinburgh, between the Earl of Morton
and the Queen's party.
	Gavin Hamilton, and his immediate predecessors in office, fore-
seeing the fall of the Roman Catholic Church, considerably di-
lapidated the revenues of the abbey, by conferring grants of its
lands on their friends, or relations. What remained at the Re-
formation was annexed, with all other church lands in the country,
to the Crown. The King gave the office of commendator to
Alexander Cunninghame, third son of Alexander, commonly cal-
led the good Earl of Glencairn. He was bound to pay the sala-
ries of the reformed teachers, in the parishes that held of the ab-
bey, but appears to have been unwilling to recognize this obliga-
tion; for, in 1581, he was denounced and put to the horn, by
John Boyd, "reider at Kilmarnock," for non-payment of his stipend.
Imitating the example of the last Popish abbots, he conferred the
estate of Mountgreenan, a valuable part of the abbey lands, on
his son Alexander, in whose family it remained for several gene-
rations. In 1592 tho whole remaining abbacy, or halydome, was
erected into a temporal lordships in favour of William Melville
of Raith, then commendator, who soon after transferred his rights
to Hugh, fifth Earl of Eglinton. By charter from the Crown, in
1603, these possessions were confirmed to the Eglinton family, in
whose hands they still remain.
	In 1560, the Estate of Scotland passed an "act for demolishing
such cloisters and abbey churches as were not yet pulled down."
The work of havoc war intrusted in the western Lowlands, to the
                                 4

