

                	  KILMARONOCK.			     215


entries in these books are not always made according to the exact
order of their date, and many children in the parish have not been
registered at all. They cannot, therefore, be said to be regular-
ly kept. The only book containing a register of proclamations or
marriages, and preserved to the present time, has for its first date
15th November 1755, and contains a regular and continuous re-
gister to the present date. These, together with a book and some
loose papers, containing, accounts of money transactions relative
to the poor's fund, form the entire records of church matters in
the parish.
   Modern Buildings.--The modern buildings in the parish of any
consequence are the following : 1. Baturrich Castle, belonging to
John Buchanan, Esq. of Ardocb, which was completed about five
years ago. It is built on part of the ruin of the ancient castle of
Baturrich, on the rising ground about half a mile from Loch Lo-
mond, near the western corner of the parish; and from it,.there is
a very fine view of the lake, beautifully studded as it is with its
numerous wooded islands, and also of the whole vale of Leven to
the river Clyde; 2. Ross Priory, to which a considerable addition
was made about thirty years ago, by the late Hector Macdonald
Buchanan, Esq. and which is now the residence of Mrs Macdonald
Buchanan. It is also beautifully situated on, the south-east bank
of Loch Lomond, at about two miles, distance northward from Ba-
turrich Castle, and surrounded by a lawn but little elevated above
the level of the lake, and finely interspersed with a variety of trees,
some of which are old and of great size and beauty. The house
faces the north-east, and an avenue of about three-quartes of a
mile in length leads to it in a straiht line from the south-east,
shaded on each side by a row of fine tall oaks, beeches, &c.; 3.
Catter House, though not a modern building, I may here mention,
as it is an admirable old mansion-house, and it is now the resi-
dence of Stewart Jolly, Esq. factor to the Duke of Montrose. It
is finely.situated on an eminence near Dryinen Brid go, On thq
river Endrick, and faces the north. From it there is a splemdid
view of the lawn and woods around Buchanan House, belonging
to the Duke of Montrose, and westward across Loch Lomond
along the numerous windings of the slowly flowing Endrick.
   There are two churches in the parish, viz. the parish churh
which was built in 1818, and the Relief meeting-house, built
1774. There are three meal mills in the parish;  Catter mill,
Mavie mill, and Aber mill. There are no manufacture.



