
542                          AYRSHIRE.

man, who is said to have been killed on the Spot A. D. 1444, by
an arrow from one of the Kilmarnock family. About twelve years
ago, the inhabitants of that quarter of the town erected, at their
own expense, in the wall which surrounds the burying-ground, and
which fronts Soules Street, a niche, in which they placed a hand-
some fluted pillar, surmounted by a vase. On the pediment is the
following inscription:
	          To the memory of Lord Soules A. D. 1444.
		    Erected by subscription, A. D. 1825.
		       The days of old to mind I call.
	Modern Buildings.--About the beginning of the present cen-
tury, the magistrates obtained an Act of Parliament for improving
the town. This was luch wanted, for the streets, like those of
many of our old Scottish towns, were irregular and narrow. The
Commissioners appointed by this act have, in a few years, effected
a very great improvement. The principal street along which the
great road from Glasgow to Ayr and Portpatrick passes, is very
spacious, adorned with many elegant buildings and shops, and more
than a mile in length. The houses are built of freestone, which is
found in great abundance in the immediate neighbourhood, and
the fronts are generally formed of polished ashler.--The town-
house, a neat modern building, stands in the centre of the town, on
an extended arch over the water of Kilmarnock. It consists of
two stories with a belfry.--The butcher's market, which is con-
tiguous, is erected on the same arch, which has now sustained,
without any visible injury, this immense load for forty-seven years,
with all the carriages which are constantly passing and repassing.--
The Merchant's Society have built, at a great expense, a very ele-
gant inn, which, while it affords the best accommodation to travel-
lers, is a great ornament to the town.--The office of the Ayrshire
Bank, which is directly opposite, is also a very elegant building.--
The carpet factories, which are six in all, have either been, rebuilt
or greatly enlarged within these five years. These improvements
have not only enabled the manufacturers to extend their business
but have greatly promoted the health and comfort of the opera-
tives. There are five wills in the parish, four of which are situat-
ed on the water of Kilwarnock, which passes through the town,
and the fifth and largest on the Irvine, about a mile from the town.
These, are chiefly employed in spinning worsted or woollen yarn,
for the carpet factories and bonnet-makers.


