
196                     ABERDEBNSHIRE:

of inhumation to the representatives of the former occupiers, whe-
ther resident in the parish or not; and it is to be hoped that the
time will never come, when a sacred regard to the place of " their
fathers' sepulchres," and a wish to be laid in death beside those
whom they loved in life, shall cease to be fondly cherished by the
people; for feelings like these are akin to piety and virtue.  For
this lonely spot the late eminent Dr Beattie is inown to have con-
ceived a peculiar predilection, and to have frequently expressed a
wish to have his last earthly home in the churchyard of St Fergus.
   In consequence of an agreement entered into with the principal
heritor, the burial-ground was enlarged in 1883, at the expense
of the kirk-session, who, in virtue of authority conveyed to them
by that agreement, can now sell permanent rights of sepulture in
this peculiarly retired and peaceful domain of the dead.  In the
churchyard may be seen fragments of the fount and other pieces
of rude sculpture which had belonged to the old church.  It ceased
to be a place of worship in 1616.  A portion of the south wall to
the depth of several feet still remains, but is completely covered
the accumulated soil.  Its area, which is pretty distinctly de-
fined, shows it to have been a very narrow building.
   A good many years ago, a silver groat of Robert II was found
at the Castle of Inverugie, and a shilling of Charles I. in plough-
ing a field in the parish.  A copper spear bead was found on the
grebe some years ago.  The base is a hollow square cone for re-
ceiving the pointed end of the shaft, and it has what its possessor
calls a pot-ear, through which a thong bad passed to secure it to
the shaft.  In excavating the canal, a small malleable iron shot
was found at the point where the canal makes its nearest approach
to the ruins of the Castle of Raven's Craig, on the opposite bank
of the Ugie; and more recently, in digging near the base of
Raven's Craig, another and a similar one was discovered.  These
would seem to indicate the early introduction of artillery into this
part of the country. These are the only pieces of antiquity, so
far as the writer is aware, that have been found or dug up in this
parish.  They are all in the possession of Adam Arbuthnot, Esq.
Peterhead, who has perhaps the best private museum in Scotland,
And who, with a liberality that does him great credit, is ever ready
to welcome both strangers and friends to, its inspection.
   Modern Building.-Since the last Statistical Account was writ-
ten, a school-room and schoolmaster's house were built by the
late James Ferguson, Esq. who was ever read to forward any


