
     Statistical Account

and oatmeal, is purchased, by commission, for merchants in
other parts of the kingdom, and shipped at Portsoy, which
is 12, Banff, which is 15, or Macduss, which is 16 miles
distant.
   Most farms are small, only five or six being rented above
L. 40, of which one is rented at L. 110, another at L. 140.
Few leases exceed 19 years.  Grassums are in use.  Per-
sonal service* and harvest-labour are no longer exacted.
Of late, a great part of victual rents were converted into
money at the rate of 12 s. 6 d. a boll; and multure-rent,
formerly every thirteenth peck, is now 35. 6 d. for every
pound of farm-rent, Conversions not less favourable in
their consequences to the progress of agriculture, than to
the immediate interest of the farmer.  The miller's fee
(which remains to be converted into money) is every eigh-
teenth peck.  Astrictions to particular mills prevail here,
as in other parts of Scotland; and the grain of one of the
best districts of the parish is astricted to a mill in a neigh-
bouring parish, and belonging to a different proprietor.
Would it be any disadvantage to society, is mill-astrictions
of every kind being abolished by a just compensation, every
one were at liberty to choose his miller, as well as his
smith, his carpenter, or any other mechanic?
   The valued rent of the parish is L. 3170 Scotch.  The
whole parish is the Earl of Fife's, except about a tenth
part, the property of Major Alexander Duff of Mayen.
His Lordship occasionally visits his property here.  Major
Duff+ constantly resides in the parish.

<FOOTNOTE>

<UNREADABLE>

*By personal service, as different from harvest-labour, is meant, going
on , and the like.  The service of carrying the landlord's meal to
the shore is still retained; nor, indeed, could it be conveniently dispensed
with, where victual-rents are paid, and especially where the landlord does
not reside.

</UNREADABLE>

<UNREADABLE>

+The Major, beside some very laudable improvements of his estate by
planting and , has lately built an elegant and commodities house.

</UNREADABLE>


