
248                        DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

of fish distinct from the salmon. Those who maintain that they
are distinct, argue that there are two kinds of herlings, the one
rdd, the other white; while the other party deny this, alleging that
the same herling is red at one season of the year, and white at ano-
ther, and that, when they have plenty of food, they become red
earlier in the season than at other times: these further maintain,
that, after remaining two seasons in the river, they go down to the
sea in spring, and return salmon in the following autumn. * In
the Solway Frith are taken large quantities of salmon, sea-trout,
herling, flounders, and a small species of thd cod, called codlings.
Turbot and soles are also sometimes, caught, but not in large
quantities. The fishings on this part of the Solway close on the
25th of September, and open again on the l0th of March; but it
is generally thought that it would be a better regulation did it
both open and close a month later. Considerable quantities of
mussels and cockles are gathered by the poor people along the
shores of the Solway, and sold weekly at the Dumfries and Car-
lisle markets.

			II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Land-owners.-- The chief of these is the Marquis of Queensberry,
whose property in the parish is upwards of 5000 acres in extent.
The only other land-owners in the parish are the Earl of Mans-
field, General Sharpe, and Mr Murray of Murraythwaite.
	Parochial Registers.--The parochial registers of Cummertrees
are not yet seventy years old; and indeed it is only within these
three years that they have been kept in a regular form.
	Antiquities.--On the farm of Broom there is a field called Bruce's
Acres, where it is said that Robert Bruce, through the treachery
of a blacksmith, sustained a severe repulse from the Eglish.
A quantity of human bones, and several swords, were lately found
in a moss near the field where the battle is said to have been fought.+

<FOOTNOTE>Mr Pennant first noticed the herling as a separate species, and it is described in
Dr Fleming's Hirtory of British Animals under the name of Salmon albus.
        There is a tradition still current among the people, that Bruce, in passing along
the shore, came to a place where a farmer gave him rye-bread to. eat, and that he
named it Rye-hill, which name it still bean. It is also said, that when Bruce was
on the shore, at a place called Priestside, being weary and exhausted by hunger and
fatigue, a farmers wife fed him with bread and eggs, but without salt,  On learning
that the people along the Priestside were not allowed to make salt, Bruce, with his
usual generousity, immediately granted to the people in that quarter a charcter to make
salt, duty free. Several years before the salt duty was removed, the excise tried the
validity of the Priestside, or rather Annandale salt character, at Edinburgh, when af-


