
530             GENERAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE

   The general declination of the surface of Renfrewshire taken
on the great scale, is towards the Frith of the Clyde, and the
trough or outlet of nearly all its waters centres in a point at Inch-
innan.  There are only one or two remarkable exceptions, which,
like some other exceptions, serve to confirm the general rule.
When the Frith of the Clyde takes its noble sweep southwards by
Gourock and Innerkip, presenting an easterly flow of wave towards
the shore, the little water of Kipp, (hence Inver-Kipp,) and Hous-
ton Burn, with the usual devotion of the smaller to the greater
streams, run directly west to add to the Clyde the tribute of their
diminutive waters, these being almost the only streams of the smal-
lest note in Renfrewshire, with an exception to be afterwards not-
ed, which do not find their way directly or indirectly to Inchinnan
Bridge.  The most elevated lands are in the south-west and south-
east.  There is nothing in the whole shire approaching the moun-
tainous. The chief range of hills is at the west-stretcbing along
the coast at various angles, from Greenock to Ardrossan.  The
greatest elevation of this ridge, whicb seems as if set down near to
the shore, as the great barrier between sea and land, are at Misty
Law and the Hill of Staik, in the parish of Lochwinnocb, or upon
its borders.  The Misty Law is generally supposed to be about
1250 feet high, and the Hill of Staik is probably still more ele-
vated.  But these points of dispute bore and elsewhere will be
speedily set at rest by the publication of the Trigonometrical Sur-
vey of Scotland, now going on by the appointment of Goverment.
The other considerable elevations are on the south-east of the
county, in the parish of Eaglesham, such as Belageich, Dunwan,
Mires, &c.  Towards the centre, the general features are striking
and picturesque, in many places being well-wooded, and varied by
fine undulations, knolls, and rising-grounds.  Some of these knolls,
although of no great elevation, command extensive views.  The
whole of the less elevated district is, in short, a sort of table-land,
full of irregularities, but all cultivated or capable of cultivation.
There is, besides the above, a considerably elevated tract of land
passing from Paisley along by the eastern parts of Locbwinnoch,
gnd running on towards the western coast.  The vallies' in this
county are extensive and beautiful and lying as they do in the
centre of a manufacturing district, they are still more valuable than
seemly.  The great vale of Renfrewshire is unquestionably Strata-
gryffe.  Connected with this is another vale which runs through
Kilbarchan; Lochwinnoch, and along by Kilbirnie and Dalry


