
220                               LANARKSHIRE.

in the cathedral, the Rev. Dr Macleod of Campsie, to act as grand-
chaplain, and Mr Watson, superintendent of police, as grand-mar-
shal.
	In addition to the civic and ecclesiastical authorities of the city,
the procession was honoured by the Magistrates of the following
burghs, viz. Rutherglen, Irvine, Renfrew, Paisley, Hamilton,
Gorbals, Port-Glasgow, Greenock, Pollock-Shaws, Calton, Air-
drie, Anderston. Besides the Grand Lodge of Scotland, thirty-two
provincial mason lodges attended the procession in all the splen-
dour of the craft. *
	The details of this ceremonial, the most splendid that ever took
place in Glasgow, have been preserved in a pamphlet, printed at
the expense of the Trustees.
	Banks.--The Bank of Scotland was established by charter in
Edinburgh in 1695, and the following year in Glasgow; but was
recalled for want of business in 1697. In 1731, it was again esta-
blisbed in Glasgow, and recalled in 1733, from a similar cause.
In 1749, the Ship Bank commenced business. This was the first
bank belonging to the city and till lately it was called the Old
Bank. Since 1749, a number of banks have been established in
Glasgow. The Glasgow Arms Bank commenced business about
the year 1753, the Thistle Bank in 1761, and the Glasgow Mer-
chants' Bank, and Messrs Watson's and Thomson's banking-houses
were formed shortly afterwards. The Royal Bank of Scotland,
which was established by charter in Edinburgh in 1727, sent a
branch to Glasgow in 1783. The Glasgow Banking Company com-

<FOOTNOTE>The following is the inscription on a metallic plate deposited in the foundation
stone:

			Broomielaw Bridge, Glasgow.
The foundation-stooe of a bridge across the Clyde at Jamaica Street, was laid on 29th
	September 1768; and to afford more suitable accommodation, such as the increas-
	ing population and trade of the city and adjacent districts required, it was re-
				moved, and
	  By the favour of Almighty God, the Hon. James Ewing, LL. D. F. R S.
	   Lord Provost, and one of the Representatives in Parliament for the city,
		Laid the foundation-stone of this Bridge
			On the third day of September
			  Anno Domini M.DCCC.XXXIII.
			    AEra of masonry 5833,
	In the fourth year of the reign of our most Gracious Sovereign William IV.,
      Assisted by the Grand Lodge of Scotland and thirty-two provincial lodges, and by
    James Cleland, Esq. LL. D. Grand Director of the masonic ceremorial, in presence
		of the  public bodies of the city, and neighbouring districts.
    Thomas Telford, Esq. F R. S. L. and E. Architect for the Bridge; Charles Ather-
            ton, Esq., resident engineer; Mears John Gibb and Son, contractors.
	Which undertaking may the Supreme Architect of the Universe blees and prosper.


