
     Statistical Account

   Manufactures.-The only manufacture of nay consequence
carried on in this parish, is that of brown linen, yard wide,
made out of the slax produced in the parish, and which is
spun, wrought and bleached in the parish, and sent to the
London market.  There is also another species of linen-
cloth, called Silefias, narrower thant the brown, but about
1/4 beter in quality, made from foreign yarn, which affords
work to a good many of our weavers.  There is also in
this parish a small manufactures of white thread; and we
have 3 bleachfields, which are carried on to confiderable 
advantage.

   Roads.-The new made turnpike-road from Perth to
Cupar of Angust, runs through the fourth side of this parish;
and a bill has passed this season in Parliament, to erect toll-
bars, and make another turnpike through the north side
of the parish, between Perth, and new projected bridge
over the Ila, near the boat of Kinclaven.  The cross roads
have been much neglected of late years; but as the tolls

<FOOTNOTE>

nity to the Carse of Gowrie, the price of labour is here already very high,
and is still rising.  Since the writer of the present sketch took up house in
1785 it is doubled.  His first ploughman cost him L. 5 a year; the wages
of a servant of the same description are now from L. 10 to L. 12. Female
servants, which then earned L. 2, now get from L. 3 to L. 4.  The wages
of a man servant for harvest-work are from L. 1, 5 s. to L. 1. 10 s.; of a
woman servant for te same period, from 16 s. to L 1.  A day-labourer
gets from 1 s. to 1 s. 6 d. a-day without victuals; a mason from 1 s. 8 d.
to 2 s. ; a carpenter from 1 s. 6 d. to 5 s. 8 d.  The great rise in the price
of labour, and the expenses of farming utensils, are more generally com-
plained of by the farmer than the rise of the rent of their farms.  The
price of provisions here is regulated by the Perth market.  Wheat sells 
from  L. 1 to L. 1 5 s. the boil; barley from 15 s to L. 1 oats from 11 s.
to 15 s.; pease from 12 s. tog 14 s. meal from 13 s. 4 d. to 16 s. ; pota-
toes from 4 s to 5s the boil.  Butcher meat from 4 d. to 6 d. the lb.;
sowls from 9 d. to 1 s.; eggs 4d, the dozen; cheese 5 s. the stone; butter
9 d. the ib.  Horses sit from farm work from L. 20 to L. 30.  Fat castle
about 5 s. the stone.
 

