
   				BARBAY				215

   pretty close to the manse. It is about six, miles from each extre-
   mity of the main island; of course, convenient for the attendance
   of all the parishioners resident on the main island. All the seats
   are free. The manse was built in l816, with offices and garden.
   glebe is a grass one, sufficient for the grazing of sixteen soums
   of cattle. It is of considerable extent; but much broken up by
   rocks and stones. The present incumbent has, however, converted
   a good deal of it into excellent arable land, which, yields good
   crops. Its value at present may be about L. 406 per annum. The
   stipend is one of those augmented by Government to L. 150, ex-
   clusive of L. 8, 6s. 8d. for communion elements. There is one
   Roman Catholic Chapel in the parish; the bishop under whose
   jurisdiction it is, resides in Greenock. The number of Protestant
   families in the parish is 65; the number of families attending
   the Roman Catholic Chapel is 306. Divine service is pretty
   well attended in tl-ic Established Church, as also in the Roman
   Catholic Chapel. The number of communicants in the Esta-
   blished Church may average about 70. Owing to the poverty of
   the people, no contributions are made for charitable purposes;
   neither are there any collections in the church.
      Education.-The parochial is the onlv school now in the pa-
   rish. English and writing only are taught there at present, although
   the teacher is qualified to teach Greek, Latin, arithmetic, book-
   keeping, and geography; but as the school has but lately been
   opened, there are no scholar as yet advanced fartber than Eng-
   lish reading.
      The salary of the parish schoolmaster is L. 26, exclusive of
   L.2, 2s. in lieu of a garden. No school-house has been built
   as yet, but the school, is accommodated in the meantime in a house
   which is not fitted to accommodate any tolerable number of the
   parishioners. The fees, generally exacted are, ls. 6d. for Eng-
   lish; 2s. for English and writing; reading, writing, and arithmetc,
   2s. 6d.; Latin &c. 3s. per quarter.
      The number of scholars at last examination amounted to 40.
      The clergyman keeps a private tutor for his own  family, who
   teaches the highest brancties of education. There was formerly
   school in the parish supported by the Society for Propagating
   Christian Knowledge, which has for some time back sup-
   pressed, for want of requisite accommodations. There was like-
   wise a female school from the same Society; but it is not taught
   at present, as the mistress, has been superannuated for some years


