
100                            ARGYLESHIRE.

bly lodged, their dwellings being, for the most part, built with
stone and lime, and slated. Their offices, generally speaking,
are of an inferior description being for the most part built with
dry stone, and thatched either with straw, fern, or rushes. There
is a deficiency of enclosures. A great deal, however, in this way
has been done of late throughout the parish, particular counte-
nance being given to this species of improvement by the Noble
proprietor of Glenurchy.
   Several important improvements have taken place in the parish
since the former Statistical Report was drawn up. It was subsequent
to that period, that the present church, manse, and schoolhouse,
mill and kiln, were erected. Since then, the inn of Dalmally has
been considerably enlarged. A very comfortable and respectably-
kept inn has been built at Cladich, and another on the south side
of the ferry of Portsonachan. The whole of these places of enter-
tainment are provided with excellent accommodations, and kept,
it is believed, in a manner highly satisfactory to the public. Our
high roads, of which there are several lines, are maintained in an
excellent state of repair. Facilities for travelling have greatly mul-
tiplied. Conveyances of every description, from the seated cart to
the gay and dashing barouche, and post horses are kept at all our
inns, more especially at Dalmally.
   Fisheries.-Salmon and trout are the only fishings. They
yield about L. 300 Sterling per annum.

<TABLE>
  Produce.-
    Produce of grain of all kinds, probably      L.2350    0   0
               potatoes and turnips,               2000    0   0
               fisheries, river and lake,	          300    0   0
                                                   -------------
                                    Total,       L.4650    0   0

   It is impossible to ascertain the return from cattle and sheep;
but it must be great.
   Manufactures.-The only branch of manufacture in the parish
is a pig-iron manufactory at Bunawe. It gives employment, at
some seasons of the year, to near 600 hands.
   There is an agricultural Association in the parish of Glenurcby,
and confined to it exclusively. It is only of very recent origin,
but its benefits are already felt.

                        V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Ecclesiastical State.-A better locality could; not in any respect
have been chosen for the parish church of Glenurchy, than the
spot on which it stands. It is in the centre of the population.
This church was built in the ear 1811, after a design by James


