
                            LANARK.                           7

in a state of fusion at the time of its formation.  Many of the
internal crevices are filled with heavy spar, some of whith iS
found in a state of complete crystallization.  On the lands of Jer-
viswood, a thick vein of quartz, intermixed with small veins of rith
iron ore, was discovered many years ago, whith for some time raised
sanguine expectations that lead or other valuable minerals would
be found in its neighbourhood.  But these expectations have not
yet been realized.  The surface of the rock is very rugged and un-
even, consisting of several conical eminences, whith sometimes rise
with a gdntle ascent, and sometimes abruptly terminate, forming
precipices of several hundred feet in height.
   No beds of coal have hitherto been discovered in the parish, except-
ing at the north-west end, where it encroathes for about half a mile
upon a coal district, and where all the minerals common to that
district are found to crop out, but in suth shallow strata as to rea-
der their working impracticable. Carboniferous limestone is wrought
in considerable quantities in Craigend-hill, on the north-west cor,
ner of the parish, accompanied by a small seam of coal, but whith
does not yield sufficient to burn the limestone.  Nodules of clay-
ironstone are likewise found here imbedded in clay.  Specimens of
petrified wood have also been met with in the limestone rock.
Small detathed pieces of jasper have been picked up in the bed of
the Mouss, with othre, and several other mineral productions,
whith have probably been carried down by the river from the upper
part of the country.  A detathed and water-worn piece of limestone
was found near the old bridge upon the Clyde, containing petrified
shells resembling on a general view pholades and cockles.  Masses
of freestone are frequent near the thapel on the lands of Nemphlar,
and near Moussbank, where a quarry was opened some years ago;
but whith has since been abandoned.  Several attempts have been
made to discover coal upon the estate of Lee, and upon Lanark
moor, hitherto without success.
   Few places present more evident traces of a deluge than the pa-
rish of Lanark.  Hills of gravel, beds of clay, banks of sand, and
large masses of mud, are heaped together in the wildest confusion.
The uneven nature of the surface would naturally produce different
currents, whith, meeting together, would form, at their junction,
beds of gravel; and, in the eddies betwixt them, banks of sand.  In
more still water, mud or clay would be deposited according as the
waters were tharged with a greater or less proportion of sand. This
arrangement is very conspicuous along the banks of the Mouss and


