
                          ELLON                               909

12,000 are under cultivation.  From a rough estimate it is pre-
sumed, that, were sufficient encouragement afforded, an extent of
about 300 acres additional might be reclaimed, with a reasonable
hope of its yielding ultimately a remunerating return.  The great-
est proportion of the land, however, which is still waste, seems,
from its elevated situation, and from the absolute poverty of the
soil, to be condemned to a state of perpetual sterility.
   Rent.-The gross rental is within a trifle of L.10,000, being
about seven and a half times the amount of rent paid at the date
of the last Statistical Account in 1792.  It must be observed,
however, to prevent mistakes in a matter of so much statistical
importance, that the augmentation of the rental, though un-
doubtedly very great, is yet not quite so great as from the
above statement it would appear to be.  When the last Sta-
tistical Account was drawn up, a considerable number of the
farms were held on leases, for which, in addition to the annual
rent, a premium, or, as it is usually termed, a grassum, had been
paid at the period of entry.-Still, due allowance being made for
the item of grassums, the rental at present cannot be less than four
or five times its former amount.  Two of the largest farms in the
parish are still rented, much under the full value.--the old leases
by which they are held, and for which grassums were originally
paid, having not yet expired.  On the expiry of these leases, the
gross rental will amount to upwards of L.10,000.  Some of the
land in the immediate neighbourhood of the village is rented at
the high rate of upwards of L.5 per Scotch acre; but its actual
annual value probably does not much exceed one-half of the rent
which is now paid.  It is farmed by the villagers in small parcels,
less with a view to profit than pleasure and convenience.  The
average rent of land of the same quality, in more remote parts of
the parish, is from L.2 to L.2, 10s. per acre.  On the inferior,
soils, the rent per acre varies from 10s. to 15s.  The average rent
of arable land for the whole parish will be found, from the data
already furnished, to be within a small fraction of 17s. per Scotch
acre.
   Live-Stock.-The breed of work-horses has of late years been
much improved.  Superior mares have in several instances. been
brought from Clydesdale and other parts of the west country, cele-
brated for breeds of horses of good bone and action.  Much has
been done also for the improvement of the breed of horses by the
spirited exertions of the Highland and Agricultural Society.  The


