
                               KENMORE.                        467

      Collyn Campbell of Glenurquhay." In the interval between the
      foundation of the priory, and its last occupancy by these holy sisters,
      the island must have been the scene of some not uninteresting events.
      The following meagre notices are all that I have been able to
      collect.
         " Sir Duncan Campbell of Glenurquhay, who succeeded Sir
      Colin in 1480, biggit ye great hall, chapel, and chalmeris in the
      Isle of Lochtay."-Black Book of Taymouth.
         " Combusta fuit insula de Lochthay ex negligentia servorum in
      Sabbato palmarum ultimo dieMartii anno Domini m&deg; quingente-
      simo nono." 1509.- Vicar's MS. page 8.
         " Obitus Mariote Stuart dme de Glenurquhay XXVI die Julii
      apd Insulam de Lochthay et sepulta in Finlark ao Dmi MVXXIIII:"
      1524.-lb. page 28.
         " Sir John Campbell, 5th Laird of Glenurquhay, deceissit in
      the Isle of Lochthay, in 1550."-Black Book of Taymouth.
        From the foregoing quotations, it is manifest that the island
      must have been a residence, as well as a place of religious retire-
      ment. But it has long ceased to serve either the one purpose or
      the other. At this day, however, it is not without its inhabitants.
      Besides being the haunt of some few swans which enliven with
      their presence and graceful motions this end of the lake, and nes-
      tle here for the purpose of rearing their young, the branches of its
      trees are colonized by a swarm of rooks, far more numerous, and
      of a nature infinitely more clamorous than were the recluses that
      first occupied the cells below. From the spot where the writer
      now sits, and whence the island is distinctly seen, it is often his
      amusement to witness the wheelings and circlings of these birds,
      over their water-girt dwelling; as oftener still is he pleased to listen
      to their singular music, when at even they return from their forag-
      ing flights, and ere they settle for the night, unite in one univer-
      sal song, as if they were offering the tribute of their vespers to the
      Great Parent, who deigns to comprehend them, as He does the
      highest seraph, within the range of His superintending Providence.
         Coins.-Some few coins, chiefly silver, of Edward I. of Eng-
      land, and Alexander III. of Scotland, have been found in the pa-
      rish ; and here, as in other districts, the situations where they have
      been discovered are such as could little have been expected to
      contain these relics of other days. There are some in the pos-
      sessoin of Lord Breadalbane, which were turned up in digging a
      field near the head of Lochfraochie. In the parish of Moulin
                                

