
                       WESTRAY.                        123

  Memorable Occurrences.--The only occurrences of note or in-
terest that have taken place in this and the other isle within the
memory of the oldest inhabitant, consist chiefly of dismal ship-
wrecks. About nine or ten in number have happened within these
thirty years, in which five of the crews perished; and as many more
perhaps during the same period, may have met their fate on the
lofty precipices of our northern shore, under the cloud of night, and
in the wintry tempest, when no eye witnessed the disasters. For
the detached pieces of broken ships and their contents, occasion-
ally scattered upon our shores, we cannot well account, but from
this cause.
   Eminent Men.-As connected with this parish by birth or resi-
dence in his early life, we have to mention one respectable charac-
ter, namely, John Balfour, Esq. of Trenaby, late Member of Par-
liament for the county of Orkney and Zetland, and who has in this
island a property of considerable extent, from whence he takes his
title. From history, it appears that Papa Westray was the residence
of one Kolus, who married the daughter of Erlend, one of the
Orkney Earls, and who had that island and other lands conferred
upon him for merited services.
   Land-owners.-Tbe principal land-owners in the parish are,-
the Right Honourable Lord Dundas; George Traill, Esq. of
Holland; John Balfour, Esq. of Trenaby; James Stewart, Esq.
of Brugh; Dr Thomas Stewart Traill of Tirlet; Dr George
Traill of Skail; Thomas Mackenzie, Esq. of Ground Water; and
Messrs Smith of Breckowall.
   Parochial Registers.-There are only two parochial registers
kept in this parish, viz. a register of baptisms and another of mar-
riages. The baptism register commences with the year 1733, and
the marriage register reaches no farther back than the year 1784;
and both have been brought down, with very few omissions, to the
present time.
   Antiquities.-The castle of Noltland, in this island, forms a ve-
nerable monument of antiquity. It is both an ancient and noble
structure, and bears every mark of an intended place of defence
similar to many of the kind throughout the kingdom, erected in
feudal times. Its walls are of great thickness, and it is surounded at
all points with loop-holes, so that no enemy could approach without
being exposed to a shower of deadly missiles. Its plan is rather that
of an oblong than a square, and a court within. The entry to it still


