
358                      RENFREWSHIRE.

waters a very fertile plain between the bridges of Barnsford and
Inchinnan; whence, from the point of junction here with the
White Cart, it constitutes the latest as well as the largest addi-
tion to the noble estuary of the Clyde. As might be e xpected
in a tract of country rising so little above the level of that river,
the tide 'Makes up a considerable way above, the House of Black-
stoun, the site -of which is not far from the apex of the triangle to
which we said this parish has a resemblance.
 Some beautiful cascades are formed by the Locher, about five
miles' from its source, and before leaving the trap amid which it
takes its rise, and entering into the rocks of the coal formation. The
banks of the rivulet where these cascades appear, and to which
the pencil only could do justice, are overhung by plantations, in
.which the elm, the hazel, the bireb, and the mountain-ash by
turns prevail.
Cic*ology and Mineralogy.- The geology of this -parish presents
nothing very peculiar. The whole 'is of secondary formation.
:The species of rock most abundant are, greenstone, ainygdaloid,
and wacke conglomerate. Trap tufa also is found, but is not
common. In widening a road a little to the west of the village,
upon the border of the secondary trap, and very near its junction
with the coal formation, a curious variety of rock was lately found.
It consists of pieces of chalcedony, in size from one-half to one-
fourth of an inch or less in diameter. The pieces of chalcedony
were firmly united together by an argillae-eous cement, forming,a
compound exceedingly hard. It occurred in ill-defined flags,
overlaid by clavstone, and both resting upon very fine-grained
greenstone. the pieces of chalcedony were aDgU]ar, forming,
with the cementing substance, a ebalcedonic breecia. A few spe-
cimens of white carnelian were observable in the claystone over-
lying it. Iron ' stone, there seems reason to thidk, exists in CODsi-
demble quantities, and a pit is now in progress of sinking for work-
ing it.
 CoaL-In the lower section of this parish the secondary rocks
ard overlaid by the independent coal formation. The extent, how-
ever, of this deposit to the eastward is not well ascertained, as it
Covered by diluvium. The rocks belonging to the coal fonna-
tion in this parish do not extend into Ayrshire by the valley of
,.the Black Cart and Castlesomple Loch, as has been supposed.
-They are interrupted af Kenm'uir, on the western side of this pa-
secondary greenstone, 'Which'crosses the valley at this


