
                     ROSENEATH.                               117

of similar occurrences at a less distant period in the south of the
peninsula. On one occasion, as the story goes, Wallace, having been
hotly pursued by his enemies, galloped in the direction of this
cliff, and having no other way of escape, leaped his horse from its
lofty brink. The poor steed was killed upon the spot, and its
grave is still marked by a rude block described as its tombstone;
but Wallace himself made for the Gareloch, swam across, and so
escaped his Saxon pursuers. Such is the tale of tradition; but
Blind Harry describes a visit of his hero to the "Isle" under more
auspicious circumstances: for instead of hurrying hence as a fugi-
tive in imminent peril of his life, he took and set on fire and de-
molished the castle, and then crossed in triumph to Fasslane, a re-
sidence of the Earl of Lennox, whose patriotism never gave way
in those days of aristocratic apostacy. To use the language of the
old ministrel,

            Yan to Faslan ye wortbe Scot yan pass.
            Quhar Erle Malcolm was bydand at defence,
            Richt glad was he of Wallace gude presence.

   In what condition the castle remained for centuries, or whether
it was ever rebuilt or possessed while within the Lordship of Len-
nox, it is impossible now to say. About 1630, it seems to have
been fitted up by the Marquis of Argyle, as a subsidiary residence
to the old family mansion of Inverara. A small castellated build-
ing situated on the point south of Campsail bay, the late Duke
enlarged, and surrounded it with more commodious suites of apart-
ments. About thirty years ago, Rosneath Castle was once more
burnt to the ground, which gave occasion to his Grace, then a very
aged man, thus piously to express his gratitude to Divine Provi-
dence, as he viewed the conflagration from Ardencaple on the op-
posite shore, "I thank my God I have another house to go to."
   Of religious houses there are no ruins, although the names of
several places indicate their former existence, and tradition con-
firms the impression conveyed by the name. Of tbese, Kilcraigin,
the chapel of the Rock, and Port Kill, the harbour of the chapel,
may be given as examples. Some traditions attaching to these
spots have already been alluded to; and it may further be stated, that
the bodies of the dead used to be brought thither from the Hebrides
and other districts of Argyleshire, and even from Ireland, as if to
enjoy a more sacred and happier sepulture in ground, from a
very early period imagined to be of peculiar sanctity. In one of
the fields near Port Kill, several stone coffins were found about
thirty years age. They were of very rude construction; and the


