
20                          ARGYLESHIRE.

condition of the people.  His memory is still respected, and his
savings deemed oracular.
   In 1644, this, like other portions of Argyleshire, was ravaged
by a body of Irish, sent by the Marquis of Antrim, under the
command of Alexander M'Donnel, aided by Montrose, and nei-
ther age nor sex formed any security against the savage and in-
discriminate fury with which they butchered.  During the short
time that the Marquis of Argyle was employed in collecting a
force to repel this sudden incursion, houses and woods were burnt,
cattle were destroyed, and the sword spared none whom it could
reach.
   The sufferings of this country at this period were great, per-
sonal security could not be enjoyed, in the midst of the disturban-
ces that prevailed.  Thus, in October 1644, the synod of Argyle
could not convene at Inverary or elsewhere, according to appoint-
ment, nor yet in the month of May following, as was usual.  So
the record of their meeting at Inverary, in 1645, states, "that,
in regard to the diverse and manifold distractions wherewith it
pleased God to suffer this province to be troubled thir years by-
past, it was impossible to keep the dyet appointed by last pro-
vincial or anyelse before this present, which was appointed by the
moderator." * Their next meeting, for the same reason, was not
till September 1646, when it is said, "All the absents are excus-
ed, because of the troubles of the country, and of their being scat-
tered and chased frae their dwellings.  The presbytery of Cowal
having gone for shelter to the Lowlands, the presbytery of Kin-
tyre being under the power of the rebels, and none being re-
sident in the presbytery of Argyle and Lorn, but such as were
sheltered in garrisons, and no ruling elder present."
   In 1650, circumstances were so far changed, that many per-
sons eame here from the low country, probably as a place of re-
fuge, and it became necessary that the English language should
be preached to them.  Accordingly, in November of this years
a second minister was appointed for the Lowland congregation,
when, "the Marquis of Argyll and Lord Lorne were chosen el-
ders." +
   After the execution of the Marquis of Argyle, in 1661, for his
stedfast adherence to the principles of the Reformation, the mi-
nister of the Lowland congregation was outed by a particular sen-

<FOOTNOTE>Record of the Synod of Argyle.  Record of kirk-sesion.


