  			      FORDOUN.                         91

<TABLE>
   			 No. of        Inhabited       Uninhabited
		        families.        houses.         houses.
	    1801,         490             465              41
	    1811,         543             513              18
  	    1821,         554             493              13
	    1831,         522             463              21
	    1834,         545             484

	The number of insane people in or belonging to the parish are
2, fatuous 6, blind 2, deaf 1.  The above person is totally deaf,
but can read and speak a little.
	Character of the People.--The people are in general regular in
their religious duties, and orderly in their conduct. They are
cleanly in their persons, and dress well,--indeed, it is a common
observation, made by strangers, that nowhere is a more respectable,
better-looking or better dressed congregation to be seen in a
country church, than in that of Fordoun. Considerable amend-
ment has taken place in the cleanliness and economy of both farm-
houses and cottages, but as to ornament there is still much room
for improvement. The tenantry are a highly respectable class,
and their manner of living is similar to that of the better sort of
farmers in other parts of Scotland.*
	Amongst the agricultural labourers, marriages are not contract-
ed at, very early period. There is a general desire to save some-
thing to procure "providing" for the bride, and to enable the
bridegroom to furnish his cottage in a tolerably comfortable man-
ner. In endeavouring to do this, and to postpone their union un-
til prudence should sanction it, passion sometimes gets the better
of principle, and the consequences are obvious. The average
number of illegitimate children, born yearly in the parish, is 4,
exclusive of those who are rendered legitimate by the subsequent
union of their parents.
	The people are regular and decorous in their religious duties,
and generally moral in their conduct; and although that keenness
for disputation on religious subjects, so common in the west and
south of Scotland, does not prevail here, still their sense of reli-
gion, and its influence in promoting our happiness here, and its
necessity to our salvation hereafter, is not less sensibly felt or de-

<FOOTNOTE> It is customary in this parish, and indeed in the district, to designate farmers
not by their Christian names, but by the names of the farms they occupy, or contrac-
tions of them. Thus the tenant of Pitnamoon is familiarly known by the name of
Pitnamoon or Pitnie, of Westmoston by that of Wysie; Odmiston, Carnbegg,
Drumtochty, Drumsleed, &c. respectively by Oddie, Carnie, Drums and Drummie.
The practice of designating proprietors by the names of their estates is likewise com-
mon in the northern counties of Scotland.


