
                       PARISH OF NEW CUMNOCK.

           PRESBYTERY OF AYR, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.

                 THE REV. MATTHEW KIRKLAND, MINISTER.


	          I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	Extent, Boundaries.--THE parish of New Cumnock, lying at
the south-east extremity of Ayrshire, was separated from Cum-
nock in the year 1650. Its length from east to west averages 12
miles, and its breadth from north to south 9 miles. It is bound-
ed on the north, by the parishes of Auchinleck, Cumnock, and
Ochiltree; on the west, by Dalmellington; on the south, by Cars-
phairn and Dalry in Galloway; and on the east, by Penpont, San-
quhar, and Kirkconnel in Dumfries-shire.
	Topographical Appearances.--Its surface is hilly, and towards
its southern boundary chiefly mountainous. The valley of the Nith,
which stretches from west to east nearly the whole length of the
parish, is the lowest ground in it, and is about 500 feet above the
level of the sea. The beautiful valley of the Afton, lying north
and south, is about 50 feet higher. The highest mountain, Black-
craig, has an elevation of 1600 feet above the valley of the Nith;
the Knipe, to the south of this, 1260; and Corsancone, 872. This
last hill, from its position, commands a beautiful and extensive
view of the surrounding country.
	Meteorology.--The clouds frequently rest on the tops of the
hills, and thick mists often settle in the valleys, so as to appear from
the higher grounds like a vast sheet of water. By these, the in-
habitants are enabled to prognosticate with great certainty the ap-
proacb of rain. Thus it has become a proverb, "If Corsancone
puts on his cap, and the Knipe be clear, it will rain within twenty-
four hours." This sign, it is said, never fails.
	The climate, owing to the large extent of mossy and unculti-
vated land, and to the marshy nature of the valley of the Nith,
is rather moist; and, consequently, agues and fevers are said, in
former times, to have been prevalent diseases. The culture of
the land, and the open drains that have been cut along the sides


