
580                        AYRSHIRE.

ministered justice to his vassals and tenants.  The hill itself is
smaller than others in the district. There is a finer specimen at
the town of Dairy, which is still denominated the Courthill, and
there is another near the mansion-house of Lainshaw. The lands
on which the one in Beith stands, are, from this circumstance, call-
ed the hill of Beith. They were early feued by the Abbot of
Kilwinning, and for several generations belonged to a branch of
the family of the Cunninghames, the same being sometimes de-
signated of Hill, and sometimes of "Hill of Beith." The residence
of the Cunninghames was a square tower which stood not far from
the moothill. It was removed about the middle of the last cen-
tury. In Pont's Cunninghame Typographized, it is styled a "pretty
building, veill planted, belonging to John Cunninghame." It is
now the property of Hugh Brown, Esq. of Broadstone.
	Adjoining these lands is the farm of Boghall, which affords another
article in the antiquities of this parish. In the map of Cunning-
hame in Blau's Atlas, published in 1654, there is laid down a piece
of water called the Loch of Bogball. This loch belonged to the
Monastery of Kilwinning, and was of old called Loch Brand. In
the Acta Dominortun Concilii, there is mention made of a case, 1Oth
December 1482, at the instance of the Abbot and Convent of Kil-
winning against Robert Montgomery, son and heir to umquhile
Robert Montgomery of Giffen, Knight, John Montgomery, his
brother, Alexander Montgomery, William Montgomery and
James Kerr, who were accused of the dangerous destruction, and
down-casting of the fosses and dikes of the loch called 'Loch
Brand. The cause was continued, but the record does not state
what was the result. The Abbot of Kilwinning here mentioned
must have been William Boyd, second son of Sir Thomas Boyd,
of Kilmarnock; by Joannah Montgomery, daughter of Sir John
Montgomery of Ardrossan. The lands of Boghall passed from
the Montgomerys of Braidstane about 150 years ago. The loch
was drained about 60 years ago, when firm stakes of oak and elm
were found in the soil, and which had been used for fixing the nets
for fishing.
	In the map of Cunninghame in Blau's Atlas, already mentioned,
there Is exhibited a cross on the northern boundary of the barony
of Beith. Tbe Brands adjoining to the barony of Beith on the
east and north belonged to the Abbacy of Paisley and lay in the
country of Renfrew, so that the cross was probably fixed as the
boundary by consent of both of these religious houses. Their



