
270                      KINCARDINESHIRE.

situated, and conjectured to have been derived from the residence
of a Romish ecclesiastic of that name on the adjacent lands of
Criggie, or Mount Cyrus, where a field and a spring of water
still retain the name of the saint.
   Situation, &c.--The parish lies at the extreme southern angle
of the Mearns, and is separated on the south-west side from the
parishes of Montrose and Logiepert by the river North Esk,
which here also marks the confines of the counties of Angus and
Mearns. On the north-west, north, and north-east, it is bounded
by the parishes of Marykirk, Garvock, and Benholme, and on the
south-east, by the German Ocean. Its length, in a direction pa-
rallel to the general line of the sea-coast, from the North-water
bridge to the hill of Bridgeton, is about 5 miles; its breadth at
the former place, about 3 1/4; at the latter, about 2 1/2; and its area,
about 14 square miles. Its figure is nearly that of a parallelo-
gram.
   Surface, &c.--Part of the chain of low hills lying between the
great valley of the Mearns and the sea, passes through the pa-
rish. From the summit of Garvock to the sea-coast, the breadth
of the chain is about four miles, and the descent from the former
point, which is said to be from 800 to 1000 feet above the sea-
level, is by an irregular succession of elongated little hills, which
run nearly parallel to the axis of the range, that is, from north-
east to south-west. At the western extremity of the parish, the
continuity of the range is interrupted by the defile through which
the North Esk flows, and again, near the eastern extremity, by
another defile intersecting that portion of it lying within this pa-
rish, between the hollow of Garvock and the sea. The hills of
Bridgeton and Jackston, in the east, and of Morphy and Pitbeadlay,
in the west, may be stated at about 500 feet high; of Snadon, at
450; Brand's hill and Woodston hill, at 630 feet above the
sea; the last being the most prominent object in the parish, and
situated near its centre. From the circumstance of most of these
elevations being insulated from each other by deep valleys and ra-
vines, the surface presents many rapid inequalities, and much
pleasing diversity of outline.
   The coast, from the mouth of the North Esk to within half a
mile of the fishing village of Johnshaven, is five miles in extent, and
juts out into three low rocky promontories, the most southerly
forming, with Montrose-Ness, the two headlands, between which


