
                       BOURTIE.                              623

bour, seem to render very doubtful.  They were the invading and
more powerful party, and came to seek not a secure retreat but,
as they believed, an easy victory over the Bruce, already depressed
with reverses and wasted by most valetudinary health.  Barbour's
account of the battle, which is the most authentic, is here sub-
joined.  It was fought on 22d May 1308.  " The King having
crossed the Grampians received the allegiance of some barons,
but, in a short time, fell sick at Inverury; he was unable to take
any sustenance, and his strength entirely failed him.  Having
been placed in a litter, he was carried to the Slenach or Sliach,
in the parish of Drumblade, a fortification of some strength.  After
Martinmas, when the ground was covered with snow, the Earl of
Buchan raised an army, and along with his brother, Sir John the
Mowbray, and Sir David Brechin, nephew to the Bruce, marched
against the monarch.
   The conflict lasted three days, but, being confined to discharges
of arrows, little harm was done.  The forces of Bruce were at last
obliged to quit their defences by famine, and having placed the
royal litter in the centre of their army, they proceeded to Strath-
bogie without any molestation from Buchan, who seems to have
feared to attack them.  Shortly after, they removed the King to
Inverury.  Meantime Buchan, Mowbay, and Sir David Brechin,
assembled another army, and encamped at Old Meldrum.  The
next morning, Sir David Brechin, with a small party, rode towards
Inverury, and so suddenly entered the west end of the burgh, that
he drove the King's troops before him, and killed several.  The
Bruce lay at the east end of the town, and on receiving tidings of
the onslaught by his nephew, instantly called for his horse, that
he might do battle with the enemy. It was in vain that his friends
remonstrated with him.  " The insolence of these men," he re-
plied, " has made me hale and fair; no medicines could so speedi-
ly have cured me as they have, and so many God be my help, for
either I shall have them, or they shall have me."  At the head of
his troops, in number about 700, Bruce marched towards Old Mel-
drum, and was met by Buchan.  Astonished at the sudden appa-
rition of the King, the soldiers of Cumming hesitated and were
confused: Bruce pressed furiously upon them; and in a few mi-
nutes they were put to flight, and utterly discomfited. * The Earl

<FOOTNOTE>The disjecta members of the various popular legends on this subjects may be some-
how thus incorporated: " On a time lang syne, when the English wished to tak awa
our liberties, the fause Comyn cam up frae Buchan wi' a' his falluwers and a fouth o'


