
  			   PENPONT.                        503

is ascribed to Thomas the Rhymer so far back as the thirteenth
century. The words are,--
		"When the Park burn rins where never man saw,
		The Red-house of Hassock is near hand a fa."
In explanation of this prophetic couplet, it may be necessary to
state, that the castle, which is built upon a piece of high table or
flat land, in the gorge between two hills, must occupy the place of
an older building of similar colour, to which the oracular prediction
referred; for it is well known that the castle itself dates about four
centuries later. It has various dates engraved on it, from 1675 to
1688, and is the workmanship of Inigo Jones. The word Has-
sock is said to be a corruption for "haus o't," signifying the throat
or passage between the hills. It is said, likewise, that, in order to
beautify the gardens with a cascade from the high ground behind,
the course of this stream had been changed by Duke Charles of
Queensberry; whereupon, the prophecy was fulfilled by the pro-
perty coming in the year 1810 into the possession of the family of
Buccleuch. Another poet, however, and better known than Tho-
mas, has attached some celebrity to this beautiful streamlet. For
it was beside it where Burns wrote the fine song, beginning
	    "Theire groves o' sweet myrtles let foreign lands reckon."
	In the neighbourhood of Drumlanrig, there are still shewn the
ruins of an ancient castle, called Tibbers Castle, and so called, it is
thought, by one of the Roman generals, in honour of Tiberius Caesar.
The traces of this monument of antiquity are now nearly oblite-
rated,--etiam periere ruinae. In 1812, the lintels of a doorway were
standing, and several steps of a winding staircase; but they have since
been removed. From the niches then seen in the wall, it is con-
jectured that the outer doorway had been hung, and drew up and was
letdown, like a window,--while the inner apparently had been hing-
ed. A labourer, who had been inadvertently allowed to, pull down
a part of the ruins, for the sake of the lime, found, about the door-
way, various masses of lead, which might have been thrown upon
assailants in a state of fusion, or may be supposed to have indicat-
ed the fate of the building itself. He also found a number of ar-
row heads, generally square and tapering to the point; a few were
grooved out like the sides of a bayonet; and all of them were of a
dark blue colour. There were found, likewise, broken pieces of
earthenware, lined with metal resembling copper, of the thickness
of tea-chest lead; and a spear head about two feet long, includ-
ing socket, sharp-pointed and two-edged.


