
842                           FIFESHIRE.

feet long, and 7 or 8 inches in diameter, lying horizontally, and
about 40 feet from the surface.
   Quarrymen are not fond of meeting with these fossil remains,
since, wherever they occur, there are generally cracks, technically
called dries, which prevent long blocks being taken out.
   It is the remark of an old observant quarryman that he has al-
ways found the Lepidodendron lowest in the rock, then the stig-
maria, and the Sigillaria highest, and that near the last, the rock
is in an unsolid loose state; and farther, that he has never seen a
root penetrating a layer of earthy matter lying between two beds
of stone, while he has noticed it passing through two contiguous
beds not so separated.
   Petrifactions have been found also in the Pittencrieff quarry, 
73 
and particularly a species of Stigmaria, which is thought to be
undescribed.
   At Millhills quarry, too, there have been got impressions of
Spirifers and Pecten papyraceus, Producta on bituminous shale,
Corbula sulcata in clay-ironstone, and Spirifera bisulcata.
   The principal specimens of these fossil remains which have
been noticed are to be seen in the New Museum of the Highland
and Agricultural Society of Scotland, Edinburgh.
   Composition of Hills and Plains.- The bills are generally com-
posed of greenstone, as is the case in those of Craigluscar and
Roscobie.  The Hill of Beath, adjoining to the Halbeath Col-
liery, some of the minerals under which belong to the Marquis of
Tweeddale, and are leased by the Halbeath Company, is com-
posed of greenstone, and must have been projected after the coal-
strata.  For, when the workings were carried under the hill, the
strata were observed to rise towards the Centre, or rent, through
which the greenstone must have been projected.
   In the high grounds and plains, at least so far as the coal-for-
mation extends, there are alternate beds of sandstone and blaes (or
slate-clay), with balls of ironstone in it.  Bituminous shale and
indurated or fire-clay frequently intervene, but the first two com-
pose the greatest part of the strata above the coal, and are found
in beds, varying from 1 foot to 20 feet in thickness, and to the
depth of from 20 to 100 fathoms before reaching the lowest seam
of coal, under which sandstone of different colours and textures
more generally prevails, to the depth of 50 or 60 fathoms, until
it reach the limestone.
   Ores and Simple Minerals.- Ironstone, to a greater or less ex-
                                 3

