
544                             LANARKSHIRE.

dustry.  In reference to the state of the farm buildings, it may be
said that they are not so good as they ought to be, and, compared
with, those in other parts of the country, are decidedly inferior.
It ought, however, at the same time, to be stated, that the tenants
in general are contented with them, and seem more desirous to
improve their farms, and to excel in husbandry, than to enjoy ele-
gant houses.
	Produce--The average gross amount of raw produce raised
in the parish cannot be accurately ascertained. The following is
an approximation towards it, but is only to be viewed in that
light:

<TABLE>
Of oats and barley, 580 acres, yielding 6 bolls per acre, at 15S.	    L. 2610
Of potatoes and turnips, 200 acres, at L. 5 per acre,			       1000
Of hay, 200 acres, yielding 150 stones per acre, at 1.3 per 100 stones,	        900
Of pasture, 900 acres, at L. 2 per acre,			               1800
Of do. 1180 acres, at 5s. per acre,						 295
									     L. 6605
			V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

        Market-Town, &c.-The nearest town is that of Carnwath,
at the, distance of three miles; but in consequence of the Clyde
intervening, and the river being frequently impassable, particu-
larly in winter, the inhabitants generally resorted to Lanark, at
the distance of five miles and a half, having easy access to it by
a bridge over the Clyde at Hyndford. The communication with
Carawath, however, was greatly facilitated about six or seven
years ago, by means of a large boat, or float, stationed where the
ford formerly was, and open at each end; and by means of which
the river can now be passed at all times, except when it rises to
such a height as completely to overflow the road, and to render
the entrance into the, boat impracticable. The float is attached
to a patent chain cable stretched across the river, is worked so
easily by machinery, that a boy can manage it, is capable of receiv-
ing cattle, and carriages of every description, and can even at one
time convey four carts across. It has been found to be of great
advantage to the parish, and, indeed, to all the adjoining district.
It cost at first about L.500, and the-public are indebted for it to a
few public-spirited gentlemen in the neighbourhood, viz. the late Sir
Charles Macdonald Lockhart, Bart., the late Coloner Anstruther,
Henry Monteith, Esq. of Carstairs, and some other, who came
voluntarily forward, and subscribed the requisite amount. A small
sum is exacted in crossing, but the facility and security afforded is
so great, that the exaction is readily complied with. Before it was
established, it frequently happened that, during the winter months,

                        	4

