
                 SANDSTING AND AITHSTING                     111

seen stuck up in the walls of the dwelling-bouses office-houses,
yard dikes, &c. of fifteen families in the village.
  About a mile to the westward of the two Culswicks, and on the
summit, of a precipitous cliff of red granite, of several hundred feet
in height, stands a burgh, or rather the ruins of a burgh, which
still, though recently demolished, presents the appearance of having
been in former days a place of very great strength.*
  A burgh, built on a low neck of land, and formerly surrounded
by the sea, is to be seen immediately below the present dwelling-
houses of Nunsburgh.
  Another burgh stands in the middle of the voe of East Burra-
firth, a few hundred yards from its mouth, and opposite the dwel-
ling-houses. Whether this burgh was built on an islet or a foundation
forced for it, I cannot say. The voe is not deep where it
stands, and there is no spare space around it.
  There are several other ruins in the parish; but, as all of them
are to be met with on the tops of rising grounds only, the most
probable conjecture regarding them is, that they have been watch-
towers: and this conjecture is supported by the name given to the
particular spots which these ruins occupy,-for instance, " the
wart" (which, no doubt, is a corruption of ward) of Reawick;
" the wart" of Brouland, &c.
  In his notices of Shetland, Mr Pennant observes, " that the
Norwegians had anciently their ward-madher or watchman, a sort
of sentinel who stood on, the top of a vord-hill, and challenged all
who came in sight." We know that it is customary with foreigners
to change w into v,-thus, ward, vard or vord, Shetlandice,
wart.
  There are several tall unhewn stones standing in different parts
of the parish. The purpose of these cannot be stated with cer-
tainty.

<FOOTNOTE>
  * See description, of this burgh by Dr Hibbert.
    I may mention the tradition respecting two standing stones in the neighbourhood
of West Skeld, which will show bow little credit is to be given to tradition
when unsupported by some collateral evidence.  These two stones are said to be the
metamorpbosis of two wizards or giants, who were on their way to plunder and mur-
der atbe inhabitants of West Skeld; but, not having calculated their time with suffi-
cient accuracy, before they could accomplish their purpose, or retrace their steps to
their dark abodes, the first rays of the morning sun appeared, and they were imme-
diately transformed, and remain to the present time in the shape of two tall moss-
grown stones of ten feet in height.  All the ancient buildings which have been erect-
ed, and large stones which have been raised upright, about which there is no parti-
cular tradition, are uniformly ascribed to the agency of the Picts, or Peclits, as they
are called, or to evil spirits.
  Since writing my account of the antiquities of the parish, I have been put is pos-


