
148                        LANARKSHIRE.

from the drawing rollers, passes through a tube revolving at the
rate of 5000 turns per minute, whereby a hard twist is thrown
up to the rollers, and the roving being wound on a spool or bobbin
at the opposite end of the tube, gives off all the twist, but from the
compression and, rubbing it has undergone, retains a round and
compact form, and has sufficient tenacity to pull round the spool or
bobbin, in being drawn into the spinning-machine. This machine
is simple, goes at a great speed, and turns off a deal of work, but
it has not yet been successfully applied to any numbers above
forties.
	There are now many splendid spinning establishments in and
around Glasgow.  Those of the Lanark Company, on the Clyde,
about twenty miles from Glasgow, are the most extensive in one
establishment; but the three establishments of Messrs James Fin-
lay and Company of Glasgow, (of which Mr Kirkman Finlay is
the head,) at Catrine, Deanston, and Ballindalloch, are the most
extensive ones in the whole kingdom, and employ about 2400
hands in spinning, weaving, bleaching, &c.
	In reviewing the various machines which have been invented for
the cotton manufacture, the result terminates in this,--that one
man, can now spin as much cotton yarn in a given time as 200
could have done sixty years ago.
	On the 21st of July 18134, Mr Leonard Horner, one of the Par-
liamentary Factory Commissioners, reported, " That in Scotland
there are 134 cotton-mills; that, with the exception of some large
establishments at Aberdeen, and one at Stanlet, near Perth, the
cotton manufacture is almost entirely confined to Glasgow, and
the country immediately adjoining, to a distance of about 25
miles radius; and all these country mills, even including the great
work at Stanley, are connected with Glasgow houses, or in the
Glasgow trade. In Lanarkshire, (in which Glasgow is situated,)
there are 74 cotton factories; in Renfrewshire, 4] ; Dumbarton-
shire, 4; Buteshire, 2; Argyleshire, 1; Perthshire, 1. In these six
countries, there are 123 cotton-mills," nearly 100 of which belong
to Glasgow. The following statement, also from the Factory
Commission Report, will give a pretty good idea of the amount of
cotton trade in Glasgow: " In Lanarkshire, there are 74 cotton,
2 woollen, and 2 silk factories; 78 steam engines, * namely, 17, each

<FOOTNOTE>Mr (afterwards Sir Richard) Arkwright obtained his patent for spinning cot-
ton with rollers in 1769. Soon after this he erected his first mill as Nottingham,
which he worked by horse-power. His second mill he erected at Cromford in
Derbyshire in 177], to which he gave motion by water. In l785, Messrs Boulton


