
98                           INVERNESS-SHIRE.

Loch Moy; on the banks of which, the church of Moy is situated.
The larger glen or strath, together with the smaller one of the
Funtack, form the whole parish. It is commonly called Strath-
dearn,fromuisgeEire,theGaelicnameoftheriverFindhorn. The
whole of the strath was formerly under wood, the remains of which
are still extant in the shape of bog-fir. The mountain ranges are
not remarkable either for their height or their formation; the high-
est is perhaps not more than 2500 feet above the level of the sea.
There is but one range of any importance,-called the Monadh-lia
bills, which extend from Strathdearn, in both directions, towards
Badenoch and Stratherrick. It is one of the widest ranges in
Scotland, and is stocked with deer and abundance of game. This
range is intersected with numerous valleys or glens; through the
largest of which flows the Findhorn, before it enters the inhabited
part of the district. This stream rises out of a very extraordinary
stone, called the Clach Sgoilte, or cloven stone, from the stream
issuing through a rent in the stone. This stone is at the very
head of the valley, which, below this, is joined by various other
minor glens, each contributing its share to swell the waters of
the Findliorn. These glens are called shealings; and the High-
landers were in the habit of driving their cattle to feed in them
during the warm season,-where they found abundance of the rich-
est natural grass. After entering the inhabited country, there are
few valleys in the mountains,-with the exception, perhaps, of a few
pretty deep hollows formed by burns, and which are generally cul-
tivated for about half a mile.
In the mountains, there are no caverns or natural excavations, if
we except one spot called Ciste Chraig an Eoin (the chest of Craig
an Eoin,) which is a circular hollow surrounded with high rocks,
and accessible only through one narrow entrance. This hollow is
situated about a mile from the church of Moy; and from being
quite close to the pass called Starsach na Gael, " the gate of the
Highlands," it was used as a place of concealment for their wives
and children by the Highlanders during their predatory excursions
into the low country. Here it was that Donald Fraser Smith, at
Moy, defeated Lord Loudon, who commanded the King's troops
at Inverness during the Rebellion of 1745 and 1746.* Quite

<FOOTNOTE>Loudon had obtained information, that Prince Charles Stuart was at 1VToy Hall ;
Upon which he immediately set off froin Inverness with a considerable bod y of troops,
in order to take him prisoner. lady Mackintosh being apprised of this movement,
ordered Fraser to collect as many men as he could, and to endeavour to stop him.
Fraser obeyed her irders, and on coining to Craig an Eoin stationed his men in such

