
     Statistical Account

monks being settled in I, about the period assigned to
Fergus the II. by the Scotch historians.  The first Chris-
tians that possessed themselves of I were, in all proba-
bility, the Culdees.  They were a kind of monks, un-
der certain regulations; and as they affected retired
places, as their name* imports, they could not in any
country find a place more happily suited to their pur-
pose.  One place in I is still called the Culdee's Cell+.
It is the foundation of a small circular house, upon a
reclining plain.  From the door of the house, a walk
ascends to a small hillock, with the remains of a wall
upon each side of the walk, which grows wider to the
hillock.  There are evident traces of the walls of the
walk taking a circuit round, and enclosing the hillock.
The figure the Druids and Culdees made in I is uncer-
tain.  History may be said to be silent concerning their
transactions in that island, and even tradition carries
down but saint traces of, their having existed there.  It
was reserved for Columba to raise the same of I to the
great height it attained to in his own and after ages;
though, no doubt, the merit of his successors contri-
buted not a little++.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Culdee is a Gaelic word, signifying a monk, or hermit, or any se-
questered person.  Cuildeach is common to this day, and given to persons
not fond of society.  The word is derived from Cuil, a retired corner.
+Cathan, or Cothan Cuildich, signifies the Culdee's cell or couch.
++This eminent man, according to Bede, B. III. c. 4. came to Britain
to preach the gospel to the northern Picts, in the year 565, and in the
reign of Eugene the Third.  After stripping the History of Columba of
the ridiculous and fabulous legends with which it is disfigured and dis-
graced, enough remains to convince us, that he was a man of consi- 
derable political abilities, of an undaunted and firm disposition, and of
zeal in religious matters, capable of carrying him through any danger
or fatigue.  Kings listened with reverence to his admonitions; armies,
when ready to engage, stopt at his command; and he maintained the


