
                         UNITED PARISHES OF

                           DYKE AND MOY.\f*

                  PRESBYTERY OF FORRES SYNOD OF MORAY.

                  THE REV. MARK AITKEN, MINISTER.

                 I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HiSTORY.
         Name.-THE name of the parish of Dyke is supposed to be the
       Gaelic word Dig, signifying a water drain or ditch; that of Mov,
       the Gaelic word Maigh, Signifying a plain.
         Boundaries, &c.-The parish is situate on the south coast of
       the Moray Frith, and on the west side of the river Findhorn. Its
       extent is about 27 square miles.
         Topographical Appearances-The forest of Darnaway covers a
       considerable extent in the southern part of the parish, concealing
       from the view the park and open grounds around the castle. of
       Darnaway. The ground slopes gradually to the north, with a
       gently undulating surface. After leaving the forest, the view is
       particularly rich and picturesque. To the left are the fine woods
       around Brodie House; and, northward from it, appear the church
       and village of Dyke, embosomed in trees, and almost hid from the
       view. Behind the village, to the north-west, the ground rises con-
       siderably, with fine fields sloping towards the south, surrounded
       by trees and hedge-rows; while the Muckle Burn, and two smal-
       ler rivulets, fringed with natural alder, wind their way through the
       low ground, adding greatly to the beauty of the scene. Farther
       to the north are seen the woods and House of Dalvey. The
       ground still retains its undulating character, as far as the ancient
       boundaries of the parish of Dyke extend. The rich level land of
       Moy and Kincorth, ornamented by hedgerows and avenues, stretch
       from Dalvey to, the sand-hills of Culbin. These, cover an im-
       mense extent along the shore from east to west, relieved at the
       east end by the few acres which have as yet escaped devastation
       upon the estate of Binsness. To the northwest, there is a consi-

<FOOTNOTE>Drawn up by Mr William Ogilvie, Parochial Schoolmaster of Dyke.


