
                         AUCHTERARDER.                          285

the church for last year was L.17, 10s. 2d. The collections, with
the interest of L.280, under the management of the kirk-session,
have hitherto supported the poor without any legal assessment
  Inns, &c.-There are no inns or alehouses in the parish.
  Fuel.-The fuel used is peat, coal, and wood.  Peat costs about
1s. per load; coal 2d. per stone, and the price of wood sold by
auction is regulated by the demand.

  May 1837.


                       PARISH OF AUCHTERARDER. *

       PRESBYTERY OF AUCHTERARDER, SYNOD OF PERTH & STIRLING.


                  I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
  Figure, Boundaries, &c.-THE parish of Auchterarder is 8 miles
from south to north, and 3 miles from east to west. It inclines, in
the form of a parallelogram, from the Ochil hills to the water of
Earn, in a north-easterly direction. It is bounded by Blackford
on the west; Glendevon on the south; Dunning on the east; and
Trinity-Gask on the north. The greatest elevation is Craig-
Rossid, one of the highest of the Ochils, which are 2359 feet above
the level of the sea. To the west of this hill, the body of which
runs north and south, there is a very striking chasm, commonly
called the "Heuch of Coul." From the Ochils various rivulets
come down, which meet in the Ruthven, a considerable stream,
which nearly bisects the parish, and at the north-east extremity
loses itself in the Earn.
  Climate.-The climate may be regarded as favourable. Crops
are ripened earlier than in a more westerly direction, and not a
week later than in the Lothians. The situation of the town is
high, and more than ordinarily healthful.
  Geoloqy.-Auchterarder rests upon a formation of old red sand-
stone. In the lower part of the parish, this sandstone has an ar-
gillaceous basis; and is commonly called liver rock, thick in the
post, and excellent for building. In the higher parts, it has a sili-
ceous basis; veins of mica slate traverse the rock,-rendering
it very hard and frequently unworkable. Near the surface, in some

<FOOTNOTE>Drawn up by Mr Jales Aitken.


