
       158                         BANFFSHIRE.

       pears that-Maria Douglas, Countess of Buchan, had in 1615, charters
       of the following lands, in the barony of Montblairy, viz.  Waistryne,
       Newtown, Todlaw, Qubitfield, Smedytown, and Haltown of Mont-
       blairy, the dominical lands of Auchenbadie with the mill, the lands
       of Staneley, the other lands of Aucbenbadie, and lands of Ryland
       with the mill.   Soon after this, a great part of these lands seems
       to have passed into other hands; for from the work just referred
       to, we find James Earl of Moray in possession of the barony of
       Montblairy and Ryland in 1619.  About seventy or eighty years
       previously to this date, the other lands of the parish seem to have
       been possessed chiefly by Sir Walter Ogilvie of Dunlugas, whose
       rare turn for the acquisition of property is noticed in the present
       Statistical Account of the parish of Banff.   Among the valuable
       manuscripts which belonged to the late William Rose, Esq.  Mont-
       coffer, was a charter to Sir Walter Ogilvie of Dunlugas, granted
       2d February 1593, by the Cistertians of Cupar, of the lands of Al-
       vah and Inverichny.   The lands of Alvah, here mentioned, were,
       no doubt, the donation of the Countess of Atholl, already particu-
       larly noticed; but bow the Cistertians became possessed of In-
       verichny is not very clear.  From Nisbet's Append. 171, Inver-
       ichny would seem to have been mortified to Strathbogie, and pro-
       bably may have been presented by him to the Abbot of Cupar
       soon after the donation made by the Countess of Atboll.  The
       charter conveying the above-mentioned lands to Sir Walter Ogilvie
       is now deposited in the Advocates' Library at Edinburgh, and as
       it seems to have been quite unknown to all the collectors of antiqui-
       ties of this kind it may here be intelligibly presented in the fol-
       lowing abridged form: "Omnibus, &c. Donaldus, &c. Abbas
       monasterii de Cupro, &c. dedisse, &c. Waltero Ogilvy de Dunlu-
       gas militi et Alisonae Home ejus conjugi et eorum, alteri diutius
       viventi in conjuncta Infeodatione et heredibus suis subscriptis pro
       nonnullis magnis pecuniarij summis per ipsos nobis in nra magna
       urgente et cognita necessitate, &c.  Totas et integras terras nrs
       de Alveth et Innerrithny cum piscariis earund. supra aqua de
       duvern et suis pertinen. intra vicicomita de Banff extenden annu-
       atim nro in rentali in omnibus proficuis ad summa duodece libra
       monetae Scotice--Tenendas et Habendas, (viz. said lands, &c. by
       the said Walter and Alison, and longest liver of them)--et beredi-
       bus inter ipsos legitime procreatis seu procreandis; Quibus defi-
       clen Georgio Ogilvy filio, naturali predict.  Walteri et beredibus
       suis de corpore suo legitime procreandis; Quibus Oibus, quod ab-


