
320                        RENFREWSHIRE.

     By dividing these mosses and moors into fields of fifty acres
broad, and 60 or 70 long,-throwing around each hold a strong,
broad belt of plantitilr: by draining it till it is perfectly dry, and then
laying upon it from I Io to 130 bolls of lime per acre, to lie two or
three years on the sward, before the ground is broken tip, and
when it is broken up, (which should be done in November at the
latest, that so the frosts and, thaws of winter may operate upon
it;)-by such or similar means, much of it may, bv seed-time, be
brought into mould. By tl)is management, crops Of corn, barley,
rye, potatoes, carrots, cabbages, turnips and cole-seed, may be
plentifully obtained; and, under judicious and well conducted im-
provemetit, a returii had, not of IO, but of 30 or 40 per cent. per
anntim, More than this has been frequently realized from the out-
la ; whilst from such improvements, many advantages are derived,
such as enlarging the redt-roll; beautifying and ornamenting the
estates, and increasing their value; excitingindustry amongtheirten-
antry ; multiplying the means of human food, and.tbereby produ-
cing cheaper markets. If lie was deemed apatriot who made two
stalks of grass to grow, where only one grew before, he certainly
has a better title to the name, who makes abundant crops for hu-
man food to rise from the barreii heath. We bid Colonel Mtire
and Mr Speirs look to what has been done by the late and pre-
sent worthy and respectable proprietors of Hartfield and Fereneze.
They have (tone much ; but they, too. have still much to do, ere
their moors be reclaimed and made productive.
I Mines.-Saving those of coal, free and whinstone, there are no
other mines in thi;3 parish. Freestone is wrought at Upla-moor,
-it is a fine pillar, and of great depth. WhiDstone is wrought
at Brownside to a considerable extenl More than 6000 yards are
taken out of it yearly.
Zoology.-In this department, there is nothing that is rare. We
have all the domestic anitnals, and of the best kinds. 'I'lie un-
domesticated quadrupeds are, the fox, the polebat, the weasel, and
the hedgehog. The otter and badger make their appearance but
rarely.Grouse abounds in the higher district of the parish. The

blackeockis to be met with, as also pheasants; and in the middle

and lowerdistricts, partridges are often abu'ndadt. Snipes, wild
eal ducks, plo'vers, and herons, freqtiedt all our mosses, -and
are now, in consequence of thew improvements, says Mr Wilson, 1812, "let at
L.495." MrFultoiapersevered,"andoutof675ac'resofverydeepandsoftmcss,
450acreshavet)eenreclaimed." H'encetlieriseoftherental,asabove.


