
           OBSERVATIONS ON THE COUNTY OF RENFREW.           529

(for such is the meaning of Levern,) who mustered round the Pad.
Renfrewshire, by way of pre-eminence, is often termed the Baro-
ny of Renfrew, because, being the ancient inheritance of the fa-
mily of Stuart, it gives the title of Baron to the heir apparent of
the Crown.  The greatest length of the county from Drumduff in
Eagleham to tbe Cloch,is about 3l 1/2 miles.  The extremebreadth,
from a bridge near Kilbirnie Loch to Erskine House, is 13 1/2 miles.
Lanarkshire bounds it on the east and north-east; Ayrshire on the
south; and the Frith of Clyde, separates it from Dumbarton, on the
north, and from Argyleshire on the west.  This important district
lies between 55&deg; 40' 40", and 55&deg; 58' 10" north latitude, and be-
tween 4 15' and 4 52' 30" longitude west of Greenwich.  The
county town is 50 miles west of Edinburgh. The area of this shire
is 241 square miles, or 154,240 English acres.  It is entirely si-
tnated on the southern side of the river Clyde, with the exception
of the King's Inch near the town of Renfrew, amounting to about
1294 acres, which lies on the northern side of the river.  It appears,
front the late Dr Burns's account of the parish of Renfrew, that,
in the course of last century, the Clyde left its usual bed, nearly
opposite to Scotstoun, took a semicircular direction, leaving the
King's Inch upon the north side,and running along by,tbe bottom
of the garden belonging to the manse, came into its present direc-
tion, near to the place where the ferry now is.  A much more in-
convenient addenda to the county of Renfrew consisted in the an-
cient attachment of the lands in the parish of Bathgate in West Lo-
thian, to the jurisdiction of the sheriffdom of this county. This
jurisdiction continued till about 1530; and so completely was Bath-
gate, after that disjunction, isolated from other counties in Scot-
land, that it continued a separate sheriffdom till the abolition of,
heritable jurisdictions in 1748, when it was united to Linlithgow.
This county was probably very early divided into wards or districts,
like Lanarkshire.  In 1616, William Cunningham of Craigans
was served heir to the office of coroner and mayor of fee, in the
west ward of Stragryffe, and in the upper ward of Renfrew, as ap-
pears from the Inquisitio Specialis now in Paisley Library, 38.  In
1815, when a Sheriffs'- Court was first appointed to be held at Green-
ock, the judicial district assigned to him, consisting of Greenock,
Port-Glasgow, and Innerkip, was termed the Lower Ward of Ren-
frewsbire; and that which is under the jurisdiction of the sheriff
at Paisley was termed the Upper Ward.  The Sheriff Court has
been held at Paisley since the reign of James VI.


