
                NEWBURGH                           59

which standns in the immediate vicinity, were required to wast off
the stain from their murderous hands, to which reference is made
in the well known inscription on that ancient monument,
         " And by their only washing at this stone,
         Purged is the blood, shed by that generation,"
   Geology, Soil.--The county of Fife, of which the parish of New-
burgh from the north-west extremity, may be regarded in a geolo-
gical view as one of the most interesting in the whole island, rich
in organic remains, and in all those important facts which belong
to the carboniferous era.  Although this parish partakes of few or
none of its distinguishing characteristics, one or two observations
may be permitted on the materials in its immediate neighbourhood,
from which the relative position of its own may be best ascertain-
ed, and in which some interesting valuabel facts recently brougth
to light may be stated.  Immediately on the east, along the mar-
gin of the Tay, the old red sandstone appears, on which there rests
a bed of limestone, and corresponding to this on the opposite side
of the river, a similar bed is to found in the property of Mewrie.
Not far from the lomestone and nearer to Newburgh, ther is a bed
of clamstone with a begetable impressions, and the flowering portions,
in considerabel numbers, of what Dr. Fleming considers a Scirpus.
It lies immediately under clinkstone trap, and although the junc-
tion cannot be traced with regard to the sand and limestone, its
position is unquestionably that of an upper member of the series.
A similar bed, with identically the same impressions, occures near
hte mouth of the irver in the parish of Arbroath.  The parish
of Abernethy, on the west, lilkewise displays sections of the old
red sandstone, and at a very elevated position, on the very sum-
mit of the Ochil, a conglomerate bed of limestone may be ob-
served.  Near the church of Drom, a clayslate or calmstone, simi-
lar to that on the east of Newburgh, occurs in the same ralative
position to the strarifield and amorphous rocks, but without, as far
as has yet been observed, vegetable impression. Intermediate be-
tween what has now been described, rises the parish of Newburgh,
in one unbroken undulating mass of trap, the lower portion, imme-
diately above the town, being a fine-grained porphyritic greenstone;
that in the higher ridges approaches to a compact feldspar, and on
the property of Pitcairly, beds of trap tuffa may be traced.  In the
small veins which occur abundatly in the greenstone, may be ob-
served crystals of quartz, carbonate of lime, barytes and olivine; the
feldspar rock contain nodules of claystone and jaspery agates, the



