
              ISLAND OF SKYE- DUIRINISH.                     353

and effectual farming implements, and in general all the improve-
ments in agriculture known in the south by the upper classes.
  The chief obstacles to farther improvement by the gentlemen and
tacksmen are the raininess of the Climate, which renders it diffi-
cult to secure a crop, though it should be reared; in some instan-
ces, want of capital, and in others, indifference to the subject.
Among the cottars, again, one obstacle is want of leases; (it should
be remembered that thev are only the occupiers of extensive farms
who generally have leases,-that the cottars are almost universally
tenants at will) ; want of capital, ignorance, and the rooted at-
tachment that they feel to the habits in which they have been
brought up. They know that the system which they follow is an
unproductive one. They see a proper system pursued by the gen-
tlemen around them: but some will say that they will not bestow
their labour on improving land which may become another's be-
fore the end of a year. Others again, that they cannot afford to
purchase good farming implements, to drain or to enclose; and
many, that they will live as their forefathers did.
  Fisheries.-There are no fisheries for which rent is exacted
but there is a considerable quantity of fish caught in the creeks and
lochs on the coast. The average annual value may be stated at
L.900. The fish is chiefly cod and ling, which are split up, salt-
ed, dried, and in this state sent to the market.
  Raw Produce.-The total value of raw produce raised in the
parish I am unable to state. The rental is L.4200, and the crop
is not sufficient for food to the inhabitants, during more than eight
or nine months of the year.
  Kelp.-There are about eighty tons of kelp manufactured an-
nually in the parish. It does little more than repay the bare
expense of making; but it is taken as payment of rent by one of
the landed proprietors ; and thus he turns the labour of the people
to some account.
  Navigation.-There are three wherries, each about ten tons
burden, belonging to the parish. No foreign vessels visit it for
the purpose of trading.

		V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
  Market-Town, &c.-There is no market-town in the parish.
The nearest is that of Portree, which is twenty-four miles distant
from the central part of the parish. There is a village called
Stein, in the district of Waternish, built several years ago by the
North British Fishery Society, which, however has not in any


