
512                     FORFARSHIRE.

small scale, and employing few hands, it does not seem necessary.
to give any particular account of them. In the village of Mary-
well, at Collieston, and other small hamlets, as well as detached
cottages throughout the parish, weaving, in brisk times, is carried
on to a considerable extent; but, latterly, there has been a sad
lack of employment, and many of the poor people have now little
to support them, except the produce of their cow and a small pen-
dicle of land, whose scanty crops have been rendered still more
scanty of late years, by a succession of bad harvests.
	Before concluding this rapid sketch of the manufactures of St
Vigeans, it may be proper to warn those unacquainted with the
locality, and its peculiar relation to the burgh of Arbroath, that
the whole extent of the manufactures of that town is not to be
considered as comprised within the preceding statistical details.
It so happends, that the parish of St. Vigeans runs into the royalty
of Arbroath, in a manner so very remakable, as almost to defy
the sagest antiquarians of the district to point out, in some parts,
the precise line of demarcation between them. In one quarter of
the town, namely, West Port, there is a house of two storeys, which
enjoys the peculiar distinction of being situated, one-half in the
parish of Arbroath, and the other half in the parish of St Vigeans.
There is also one in Guthrie Port, in a similar situation.  The
name Arbroath, however, is common to the whole continuous
range of buildings, whether in the one parish or the other; but,
in some important respects, they are very widely disunited.  All
those, for example, whose property or dwelling-houses happen to
be within the ill-defined boundaries of the royalty, are entitled to
all the privileges, such as they are, of municipal citizenship; while
those beyond the supposed line are excluded entirely from all
voice in corporation affairs, however great their stake in the town
at lar may otherwise be. The consequence of this is, that out
of 408 electors for the town of Arbroath, under the Parliamentary
Reform Act, there are only 233 qualified as municipal electors.
	To the natural facilities enjoyed by St Vigeans, (Arbroath),
for carrying on manufactures, it adds certain other advantages,
which in these days, seem almost essential to the progress in im-
provement of any trading town or district. We refer to railway
communication and harbour accommodation. In these respects,
Arbroath is in advance of many towns of greated population. About
three years ago, a railway was opened, connecting it with the great
manufacturing town of Dundee, distant sixteen and three-quarter


