
			      ROTHESAY. 		    109

every acre turnip grown, together eith clover and rye-grass for
sowing out the lands. The allowance of grass seeds was conti-
nued till 1830. On these two items many thousands of pounds
have been expended, But this is not all, as will appeat from the
following brief communication. A barrel if lime was given for
each yard of compost made; this is still continued; two prizes
yearly are granted for the greatest quantities of dung imported,
still continued; several prizes yearly for a number of years, for the
best kept fences; and also, foa a number of years, the sum of
L. 40 yearly was given in premiums for horses and cattle.
	The material used for filling drains is stones, of which there it
an abundant supply on every farm. For a time, deep drains were
exclusively made for cutting off the principal springs; but for some
years past, the system of furrow or thorough draining has been
extensively adopted. The leases on Lord Bute's estate are almost
all for a term of nineteen years, and are found to be most beneficial
to the tenant. The farm steadings have, for the most part, been of
late years rebuilt and enlarged, and the rest are in the course of
being so. Most of the farms are enclosed with white thorn hedges,
which are thriving and well kept, being under the acre of an ex-
perienced hedges, maintained  by his Lordship. His Lordship is
also building numerous neat cottages in the farms, which hold of
himself, and have each an allotment of land suffiecient for a garden,
potatoes, and a cow's grass. This arragement is intended for
the benefit of the farmers, who thus procure labourers at hand,
and also for the comfort of the cottages themselves. It is found
to answer remarkably well.
	Formers Society.--The agriculture of the parish has also beem
greatly indebted to the Bute Farmers' Society, which numbers
above one hundred members. Part of the funds has been devoted
to the formation of a library, which now contains a very excellent
selection of all the principal works on agriculture, and may works
on collateral subjects. The society grants yearly premiums for
the best ploughbing, for the best cattle, cheese, butter, seeds, roots,
&c. and for the encouragement of cleanliness among the cottagers.
Part also of the accumulated funs has been laid out in providing
tow weighing-machines, placed in such parts of the island as were
most in want of these useful auxiliarities to the farmer.

	There are in the parish of arable land, 6805 imperial acres.
				   grass and pasture, 3652 hill and moor,                   
                           8724 moss, 556


