
			RUTHWELL.                          227

STANS RETRO SECVS PEDES EIVS LACRIMIS COEPIT RIGARE PEDES
EIVS ET CAPILLIS CAPITIS SVI TERGEBAT.
	The rest of the inscriptions on this side are altogether illegible,
and the sculpture does not seem to require any particular explana-
tion. The figure with the bow and arrow may, however, be ad-
verted to as particularly remarkable.
	Commencing now at the bottom of the other Raxon face, we find
both the sculpttre and inscription of the first compartment entire-
ly destroyed. The next contains a figure, supposed to be that of
the Virgin riding on an ass, and carrying the infant Jesus in her
arms, with a shapeless mass in the upper corner on the left, which
may have been the representation of an angel or of Joseph. An
inscription of which the commencement (MARIA ET IO) only re-
mains, gives credibility tn the conjecture that the figures were in-
tended to represent the flight of the holy family into Egypt.
	Next come the figures breaking a loaf of bread with the inscrip-
tion SES PAVLVS ET A+ * * * * * * * * FREGERUNT PANEM IN DE-
SERTO. It is not easy to conjecture to what scriptural or tradi-
tionary event this refers. The allusion in the next compartment,
however, is sufficiently evident. It contains a figure of our Saviour
trampling on the heads of two swine, with the Greek letters lHZXPZ
on the transverse border, while on the right hand margin we find
IVDEX AFQVITATIS SERTO SALVATOREM MVNDI and on the left, BES-
IAE ET DRACONES COGNOVERVNT INDE.  Hf " serto" be a mis-
spelling for certo, as is probable, the translation will be " Jesus
Christ the Judge of Righteousness. Him assuredly to be the Sa-
viour of the world, beasts and dragons knew from thence," allud-
ing to the miracle of the devils (dracones) sent into the herd of
swine (bestiae.)
	Immediately above this on the upper stone, is the image of the
Father, with the Agnus Dei in his bosom, and his feet on two
globes, indicating probably his power over the world which now is
and that which is to come. The only letters of the legend which
can be deciphered, are DORAMVS, doubtless adoramus. The in-
scription round the eagle at the top of the cross is altogether
effaced.
	Besides the Runic monument, of which so lengthened a de-
scription has now been given, there are in the same garden, two
	+ Pennant read " et an," and conjectured it to have been originally angelorul,
erroneously supposing it to have been a continuation of the inscription on the same
side immediately above it.


