
   224                         ELGINSHIRE.

     Husbandry.-On the-estate of Darnaway, the tenants are bound
   to follow the five-shift rotation and on the other properties, the
   six-shift. The farms are generally let for a period of nineteen
   years. They vary in size from 40 to 150 acres Scots. The aver-
   age produce of wheat is 4 1/4 quarters ; of barley, 6 quarters; of
   oats, 51/4 quarters per acre, Scots. Wheat weighs from 60 to 65
   lbs.; barley from 52 to 57 lbs,; oats, from 40 to 45 lbs. per
   bushel.The average produce of hay is 150 stones per acre
   Scots.
      Improvements.--Subsoil ploughing and furrow-draining have
   been tried upon a farm belonging to the Earl of Moray; and there
   is no doubt that there will be an ample remuneration for the outlay.
   Several acres have been trenched with the spade during last win-
   ter. Limb and marl have been extensively used. Bone dust is
   also in general use. It is planted or sown with the hand at the
   rate of ten bushels to the acre, and produces excellent crops of
   turnips, for which the soil is well adapted.
     The subsoil varies considerably. In some places, it is a fine
   open sand, or gravel; in others, it is composed of a bard pan,
   called Moray coast, impervious to water. Furrow-draininga Lid
   subsoil or trench-ploughing might be profitably introduced to a
   great extent.
     The few bedgerows are generally ill-kept and broken. They
   serve to enrich the landscape, but are of little use as fences. From
   the expense of driving material, there are very few stone dikes.
   The most common fence. is paling, which is cheap, and of easy
   carriage.
      Great improvements have been made within these few years
   upon farm-steadings. Still,bowever, much remains to be done,
   in that respec4 especially on small farms.
     There are sixteen thrashing mills in the parish, for the most
   part worked by horses.
     Woods.--The wood consists of oak, ash, beech, elm, Scotch
   fir, larch, spruce, birch, sycamore, horEe-chestnut, and alder.
   The plantations are generally wall and regularly kept. The
   management of the Darnaway forest, as to pruning, tbinniDg,
   &c. does very great credit to Mr Cutler the forester. His im-
   proved plan of raising oak plants from the seed deserves to be
   especially noticed, and made extensively known. The bed intend-
   ed to be sown, which in this case, is 40 feet square, is excavated
   to the depth of a foot. Sleelmm are then laid three feet apart,


