
                                ROW.                        71

fully, although a bore was made to the depth of 50 fathoms. The
only appearance of coal was a stratum of crow coal of about an
inch thick. Gypsum and thin beds of limestone are associated
with the sandstone, which rises to the height of 334 feet behind
the town of Helensburgh, and is covered by till or diluvium of a
whitish constratified clay full of water. There is a blue limestone
on the top of the slate in Ardenconnel moor and in Glenfruin, in
which masses of pyrites are found. There are also worn boulders,
either from the rocks of the neighbourhood or from others which
lie in the north. Greenstone and mica slate abound. In the lower
part of the parish, resting upon this deposit, are alluvial beds of
gravel, sand, and clay containing marine shells, indicating a change
in the relative levels of the sea and land, posterior to the deposition
of the diluvium. The shells in general agree with those of the
adjoining seas. There are, however, amongst them, some which are
not known to be identical with any existing species.
   Zoology.-Among the animals which have now become less com-
mon in many places, there are occasionally found the roe, the fox,
the badger, the wild-cat, martin, and the squirrel. The following list
of birds was made up by a very accurate observer, George Camp-
bell, Esq. Ardincaple: Sparrow-hawk, peregrine falcon, kestrel, mer-
lin, common buzzard, hen-harrier, kite, short-eared owl, barn-owl,
tawny-owl, goat-sucker, chimney-swallow, martin, sand-martin, com-
mon swift, spotted fly-catcher, missel-thrush, fieldfare, song-thrush,
red-win, blackbird, moor blackbird, European-dipper, redbreast,
redstart, black-cap warbler, whitethroat, wood-wren, golden-
crested wren, great titmouse, blue titmouse, cole titmouse, long-
tailed titmouse, hedge sparrow, pied wagtail, grey wagtail, yellow
wagtail, shore-pyet, sky-lark, yellow-bunting, corn-bunting, house
sparrow, chaffinch, mountain-finch, siskin, goldfinch, common
brown linnet, green grossbeak, common bulfinch, cross-bill, com-
mon starling, raven, carrion crow, hooded crow, rook, jackdaw,
magpie, jay, common creeper, common wren, cuckoo, ringdove,
common pheasant, black grouse, red grouse, partridge, heron, cur-
lew, redshank, sandpiper, woodcock, common snipe, jack snipe,
dunlin, corncrake, common gallinule, common coot, oyster-catcher,
turnstone, water ouzel, green lapwing, golden plover, ringed plover,
bernacle goose, sheldrake, wild duck, teal, common widgeon, scaup
pochard, goosander, horned grebe, red-throated diver, bill auk,
common gull, herring gull. Of these the rarest in the parish are
the merlin, horned-owl, mountain finch, siskin, sheldrake, common



