
	92                          BANFFSHIRE.

	in the parish, and without any drawback, so far as has yet been ex-
	perienced.  It has studded the church with young faces, which, be-
	fore it was erected, were very rare.  It has rendered many of the
	children familiar with the Scriptures, and, it is hoped, will ultimate-
	ly, in a similar manner, affect the whole youthful population.  It has
	brought the minister acquainted with the names, faces, and dispo-
	sitions of this important portion of his parishioners, and affords him
	every Sabbath an opportunity of conversing with them in a familiar
	way, of taking advantage of every local dispensation and occurrence,
	and speaking home to their consciences, while it also does good to
	parents, partly by the good feeling which it excites in them towards
	the instructor of their children, and reflexly, by stirring them up to
	the study of the Scriptures, and to a more tender walk and con-
	versation on account of the improved knowledge and growing ac-
	quaintance with Christian character on the part of the children.
	The Sabbath school is at present taught in the church; but as this
	has been found inconvenient, the parishioners are now engaged in
	erecting a building near the church for Sabbath instruction.
	   Poor.-The following statement is to be found in the session-
	book about the middle of the last century: Income-The session had
	at interest L. 786, 13s. 4d. Scots, (about L. 65 Sterling); the in-
	come from collections. &c. L. 50 Scots, about L. 4 Sterling; income
	from interest on capital, L. 39, 6s. 8d. Scots; collections, &c. L. 50;
	total L. 89, 6s. 8d., about L 7 Sterling.-Expenditure:-4 paupers
	that can do nothing, L. 104 Scots; 9 paupers that can do a little,
	L, 140, 8s.; total L. 244, 8s., about L. 20 Sterling.  To meet this
	they had one-half of collections and interest of capital, L,3, 10s.
	Sterling; from the heritors, L.16, 10s.; total L.20.  The other half
	of collections was used for occasional and accidental cases of charity.
	By some notices in the parish records, it appears that it was not
	unusual in early times to give the Sabbath collections to travelling
	mendicants.  In 1723, the poor funds were distributed twice in the
	year, and at that time the number of poor receiving regular assist-
	ance was 7.  In 1755, the number of the poor had increased to
	11.  At both of these periods, the population seems to have been
	about 600.  The daity collection averaged between 15s. and l6s.
	Scots money, and the annual allowance to each pauper was from
	L.17 to L.18 Scots.
          As the subject of pauperism is intimately connected with morals,
	and every fact which tends to,illustrate the system pursued in Scot-
	land is of value, the following tables are subjoined:


