
                             PETERHEAD.                         369

attainder of the last Earl, in consequence of his accession to the
Rebellion in 1715.  It was then purchased by the York-Buildings
Company, who sold it to the present proprietors, the Governors of
Maiden Hospital, founded by the Company of Merchants of the
city of Edinburgh and Mary Erskine, in 1728.
   The original inhabitants appear to have been fishers, and the
chief trade carried on at Peterhead, for a long time after it became
a burgh of barony, was the white-fishing, in which the proprietor
had an interest by drawing teinds of the fish caught.  The fish-
ermen were taken bound to assist in the erection of a harbour,
which they did, and which still remains under the name of Port
Henry.  By the original charter in 1593, the Earl Marischall esta-
blished a municipal government in the town in the following terms:
"For gyding and rewiling of the quilk brugh, the said Erle and
his foresaidis sall elect, nominat, and chuse baillies, clerkes, and
otheres officeares, necessares and meit for the governement of the
samin, of the nichbouris, and fewares of the said brugb, actuall in-
duellers for the time, within the same, the said Erle alwyse and
his foresaidis remaning proveist or sd baillie yairof," &c.  And
this system of municipal government continued until the passing
of the Parliamentary Burgh Reform Act.  By this act the muni-
pal government has been vested in twelve councillors, who, from
their own number, choose a provost, three baillies, and a treasurer,
and the boundaries of the town have been defined and considera-
bly extended, embracing part of the lands of Black House and
Invernettie, beyond the limits of the barony of Peterhead.  The
barony of Peterbead, besides the estates of Peterhead proper,
embraces the lands of Clerkhill, Auchtygall, and Collielaw.  The
lands of Torterston are erected into a separate barony, under the
name of the Barony of Torterston.
   The town of Peterhead has been much extended, and the num-
ber of its inhabitants has greatly increased since the last Statistical
Account was written.  The ground now occupied by the town ex-
tends to about 70 imperial acres, of which about 20 are occupied
by streets.  The length of the streets is about 4 miles 5 furlongs
and 148 yards.  The number of inhabited houses is about 1000.
The rental of houses and warehouses in the town is about L.7500.
   Ronheads.-The Ronheads is situated within the burghb, oppo-
site a ridge of rocks on the north side of the north harbour.  It
is inhabited chiefly by fishermen, who supply, the town with fish,
and act as pilots.  Some of these at least may be reasonably sup-


