
                            BEDRULE.                            281

course of the river* as one of its most remarkable characteristics,
and as geological science was little attended to at the time be wrote
his beautiful poem, the fact of his giving it so prominent a place
in his description, may be considered as an evidence at once of the
accuracy of the poet's; observation, and of the circumstance having
at all times formed one of its most characteristic features.
   If any of the proprietors thought it worth their while to bore,
it is likely that coal might be found in the course of the river.  At
all events, it i's worth trying for.  Attempts were made about forty-
years ago by the proprietor of the lands of Bedrule, who was at
considerable expense in boring for coal, and though there were cer-
tainly some thin seams found, yet in the issue he was not so suc-
cessful as his laudable enterprize justly merited.  The failure, as is
still thought, was not owing to the uncertainty of the symptoms,
but to the great deepness of the main seam.  Limestone is found
in Bedrule hill, and Mr Pringle, the late tenant of Bedrule farm,
opened a quarry, and constructed a kiln, from Which he not only
supplied his own farm with lime, but sold a considerable quantity
to the neighbouring tenants.  Mr Brodie, the present tenant, has
not continued the practice, and considers the limestone of an in-
ferior quality.  The distance and consequent high price of coal
must always prove a great impediment to undertakings of the kind
in this parish.
   Climate.--The climate in this parish varies considerably, as
might be expected from its variety of elevation.  The tempera-
ture of the higher parts, consisting of a range of hills, beginning
at the Dunian on the east, and extending nearly the whole breadth
of the parish, varies considerably from that of the lower grounds
lyjng near the banks of the Teviot and the Rule; and'while the
former are white with snow, scarcely a particle will be found in the
latter ; so that we have, as it were, two climates in the same pa-
rish.  Upon the whole, the climate is damp and vaporous, especi-
ally on the banks of the two streams.  A dense and impenetrable
fog frequently arises from the Rule, especially in the autumnal
and winter months, and can be distinctly traced till it joins a
larger exhalation arising from the Teviot, at its confluence with
that stream. , Ruberslaw frequently attracts the lightning, and a
thunder-storm, in its neighbourhood is a very grand and marnifi

     <FOOTNOTE>Between red ezlar banks, that frightful scowl,
     Fringed with gray hazel, roars the raining Roull.
                                           Scene of Infancy, P. i. page 318
    ROXBURGh.                                    T


