
550                       ARGYLESHIRE.

  Such is a meagre detail of the principal objects seen from above
Poltalloch; but it is scarcely possible to convey an adequate idea
of the picturesque forms,--the happy combinations and contrasts,
--the beautiful play of tints and colours, which this view presents.
The atmospheric changes, and the consequent variety of lights
and shades over so vast a picture in so changeable a climate, in-
vests it with a new charm, each time it is enjoyed.  But at no time,
perhaps, does it look more magnificent than in the depth of win-
ter, when the mountains of Mull are covered far down their sides
with a dazzlingly brilliant mantle of snow, giving to them an al-
most Alpine appearance.
  Were this view better known, or if it lay more in the usual track
of tourists, there can be little doubt it would be classed among
the finest panoramas of its kind, that our Scottish Highlands can
boast.
  The valley of Kilmartin may be traced from Loch Ederline,
about a mile from the west end of Lochawe.  For the space of
three miles westward to the village of Kilmartin, it is confined
within a very narrow space, by two side long ranges of bills, rising
in some places almost perpendicular from the base; and, notwith-
standing of several windings, maintaining their relative distance
and elevation with singular exactness.  At Kilmartin, it gradually
widens into a level plain of from 5000 to 6000 acres, including
the moss of Crinan, a considerable part of which lies in the ad-
joining parish of Glassary.
   The rising ground on both sides of the valley of Kilmartin is
tastefully ornamented with thriving plantations intermixed with
open glades and green knolls, giving to the whole the appearance
as well as the reality of a clothed and cultivated country.
   Geology.--The district in which the parish of Kilmartin is si-
tuated, belongs geologically to the mica slate formation, and bas
been usually classed, (according to Dr M'Culloch,) in that divi-
sion of this extensive and intricate group of rocks, which is named
chlorite slate.  Chlorite slate 4s found in considerable abun-
dance; but associating and alternating with it are a number of
rocks of very different texture and hardness, from the softest ar-
gillaceous shale to the hardest hornblende slate.  Occasionally, mica
slate occurs; but much more frequently the rock has a granular
silicious character, and sometimes becomes purely quartzose.  In
short, the rocks, even within the confined district of this parish,
offer examples of most of the varieties common to the mica slate


