
962                        ABERDEENSHIRE.

of Corse in spiritual matters, without the permission of the minis-
ter of Leochel, is discharged from such intermeddling, they being
annexed quoad sacra to the parish of Leochel.
   Coull, quoad sacra, has the advantage of being without a single
ale-house.  There is a parochial library, consisting chiefly of prac-
tical religious works, with a few select volumes of history, biogra-
phy, and travels.  About eight years ago, a great improvement
took place in the mode of conducting funerals here : Instead of
inviting the people at ten o'clock A. M., as used to be done, while
the funeral generally did not move until late in the afternoon, and
thus, those who attended early had to wait several hours, the people
are now invited at a specified hour, and the funeral moves exactly
one hour after that time.  Regulations for conducting funerals
on the above plan having been proposed by the minister, were
most readily adopted, and the whole parish is now very sensible of
their advantage.

   August 1842.

                        PARISH OF METHLICK.

             PRESBYTERY OF ELLON, SYNOD OF ABERDEEN.

               THE REV. JAMES WHYTE, MINISTER.

              I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-The name of this parish is said to be derived from
two Gaelic words, which signify vale of honey.  The oldest spell-
ings are Methelak, Methlayky, Mythlik, Methlik.  The parish
was dedicated to St Devenick, who, according to Dempster,
flourished toward the end of the ninth century.  An altar in ho-
nour of him was founded in the cathedral church of Aberdeen,
and the office used in his day may be seen in that rare work, the
Breviary of Aberdeen, printed in 1509.
   Extent, &c.-This is a landward parish, and contains upwards
of 20 square miles.  It is situate wholly in the county of Aber-
deen, the two-thirds which lie on the north side of the Ythan be-
ing in the district of Buchan, and the remaining third on the south
side of the river being in that of Formartine.  It is bounded by


