
                              STRICHEN.                     691

these examinations, which are well attended, are seen young and
old, from seven to seventy years of age.
   Library.-There is a well selected library, the books are
lent out, on payment of a small sum annually.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The number of poor on the roll of
the kirk-session varies from 50 to 60, besides from 10 to 20 more
who get occasional aid in money, meal, blanckets, and body-clothes.
They consist principally of aged females, who are very destitute,
and, though they were able, could not earn sixpence a week.  The
income for their support depends chiefly on the collections made
in the church.  The capital stock belonging to the session yields
annually about L.16.  The amount of the collections, including
three extraordinary ones, and what is given at the time of dispen-
sing the Lord's Supper, may amount to about L.75 Sterling.  To
this may be added a small sum for the use of the mortcloth.  Of
late years, the expenditure has increased so much, that the kirk-
session have drawn largely on their small capital, and every six-
pence of this capital would have been expended years ago, had not
several benevolent individuals belonging to the parish, and now
deceased, made liberal bequests to the session funds; and the
mortification by the late truly benevolent Mr Burnett of Dens has
been of great service.  In the year 1807, the first of the pre-
sent incumbent, the expenditure was L.53, 4s. 3d.  During the
years 1837 and 1838, it has each year exceeded L.160 Sterling.
   The collections for the poor on the Lord's day have been always
liberal, and to the different calls made upon the congregation for
aid to the India Mission, Church Extension, Highland Schools,
and other benevolent objects, they have been ever ready to re-
spond.  On two different occassions, a good many years ago, when,
from the deficiency of the crop, the price of meal rose to L1, 10s.
the boll, and even to L1, 16s, a call was made upon them, by
intimating an extraordinary collection, for reducing the price to
the poor; and, on one of these occassions, the amount was L.20,
and, on the other, L.18.
   Friendly Society.-There is in the village a Friendly Society.
On payment of a small sum annually, the funds yield some aid to
old men, above the age of sixty, and to widows.  There is also a
Mason Lodge, and a lodge of Odd Fellows.
   Banks.-A Savings's Bank was established some years ago, and
the deposits amount to upwards of L.1000.  The North of Scot-
land Banking Company  have an agent in the village.


