
410                        STIRLINGSHIRE.

concerned in the Raid of Ruthven, took possession of the town
and castle.  Being obliged to flee into England, they remained
there till next year, when they returned with a larger force, and
again took possession of the town.  When they were preparing to
invest the castle, which was not in a state to hold out against them,
James sent commissioners to treat, and the result was their pardon,
the reversal of their forfeiture, their restoration to the king's con-
fidence, and their elevation to offices of public trust.  This expe-
dition was called the Raid of Stirling.  Upon the ferment at
Edinburgh in 1637, from the introduction of the liturgy, the Privy-
Council and the Court of Session were, by royal mandate, remov-
ed to Stirling, and continued for several months.  The liturgy
was proclaimed at the cross.  The Earl of Home, with a great
number of barons, ministers, and burgesses, entered a public protes-
tation against it; and in the evening, the town was taken posses-
sion of by 2000 armed men on the part of the Presbyterians.
They all left the place, however, on the following day, to join their
friends in Edinburgh.  In 1645, a pestilence having entered Scot-
land from the south, the parliament removed from Edinburgh to
Stirling, but, being followed by this dreadful enemy, retired to
Perth.  It ragred here from the middle of July till October.  The
town-council held their meetings in the open field, near to what is
now called the inclosure.  Tents were erected for the sick on
Sheriff moor lands, north of the bridge.  Cleansers were appoint-
ed for the different quarters of the town, and a spot of ground
near St Ninian's Well was allotted for the burying of the dead.
  In 1648, when " Duke Hamilton's Engagement," as it was called,
had been entered into, the Marquis of Argyle and others raised a
considerable force, with a view to bring about its renunciation by
the estates of the kingdom.  Argyle occupied Stirling; but while
he was at dinner with the Earl of Mar in the Castle, the small
body of Highlanders he had stationed at different posts, were sur-
prised; many of them were cut in pieces, the rest surrounded.
He himself effected his escape.  In 1650, after the defeat of the
Scottish troops at Dunbar by Cremwell, Stirling because the ren-
dezvous of the Committees of Church and State, the Magistrates
of Edinburgh, and the remains of the army.  A Parliament, the
last held in Scotland in which the sovereign personally presided,
met here, but adjourned to Perth.  In consequence of their de-
liberations, an army was collected at Aberdeen, and thence march-
ed to Stirling, and afterwards encamped at Torwood.  After a varie-


