
328                       KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

consulted, and which I have already quoted, be correct, this union
was not dissolved till 1636, and not ratified by Parliament till
1641. In this ease, Anwoth could only have been a separate pa-
rish quoad sacra, during Rutherford's incumbency,--and must
still have been a part of Kirkdale and Kirkmabreck quoad civilia.
The Rev. William Dalgleish was minister of the united parish of
Kirkmabreck, Kirkdale, and Anwoth, till the appointment of Ru-
therford to Anwoth;--afterwards he continued minister of Kirk-
mabreck and Kirkdale till 1635, when he was deprived of his liv-
ing by the bishop of the diocese. In 1637, he ventured to return
tn his flock, as Episcopacy began in that year to totter; and in 1638,
he was a member of the famous General Assembly of Glasgow, as
minister of Kirkmabreck. In 1639, he was translated to Cramond,
near Edinburgh; but was deposed for non-conformity in 1662.
He continued, under all circumstances, the friend and correspon-
dent of Rutherford.* In November 1686, Renwick received in
this parish the famous protestation of Matchutchison and others.
And it is a singular fact, which I state on the authority of the
present Mr M'Culloch of Barholm, that John Knox had his
hiding place in the old tower of Barbolm for some time pre-
vious to his escape to the continent. This circumstance Mr
M'Culloch learned from an old man of the name of Andrew
Hughan, who was running footman to Mr M'Culloch's great great
grandfather, and who said that he recollected John Knox's signa-
ture on the wall of the small arched apartment or bed-room at the
bead of the staircase.
	This parish has also the honour of being the birth-place and
burial-place of Dr Thomas Brown, Professor of Moral Philosophy
in the University of Edinburgh. This distinguished individual
was born in the old part of the present manse on the 9th January
1778. His father and grandfather were ministers of this parish.
His grandfather was proprietor of Barharrow, and was married to
a daughter of Murdoch of Cumloddan, a family that had been in
possession of that estate from the time of Robert Bruce. His
father was married to a daughter of John Smith, Esq. of the Cus-
toms, Wigtown; and his grandmother, Mrs Smith, was a daughter
of a younger son of M'Dowal, of Logan and of Miss Hamilton of
Dalziel.+
	Dr. Brown was the youngest of thirteen children. His father

<FOOTNOTE>Dr Murray's Life of Samuel Rutherford, p. 84.
          Dr Murray's Literary History of Galloway.


