
   22                     BANFFSHIRE.

   the religious and political disputes of his times, he was sent on a
   mission to Oliver Cromwell, which be executed with such appa-
   rent skill as to draw from the shrewd Protector the remark, that
   "this gentleman might well, according to a Scottish phrase, be de-
   nominated Sharp of that Ilk." The succeeding events and tragi-
   cal termination of his life are matter of general history. A letter
   from his son Sir William Sharp of Stonyhill, to Sir James Baird at
   Banff, describing the circumstances of the archbishop's murder,
   will be found in the former Statistical Account, Volume xx.
   p.373.
	James Macpherson was an illegitimate branch of the family of
   Invereshie in Inverness-shire. His mother was a gipsy. He was
   reared at his father's house until the death of the latter, when he
   was taken under his mother's charge, and acquired the habits and
   pursuits of the race, to which she belonged.  He was remarkable
   not only for strength and beauty of person, but for the degree of
   talent which he displayed for certain mental accomplishments, for
   the cultivation of which his mode of life might seem to have af-
   forded little opportunity. I am not aware that any of his poetical
   productions are known to exist except his Lament; but he seems
   to have been celebrated, during his lifetime, for his skill on the
   violin. It is said, too, that his conduct often afforded evidence
   of his being imbued with those feelings of generosity and pity which
   the fine arts are supposed to generate ; and it does not appear that
   any cruel or atrocious act was ever laid to his charge. After se-
   veral escapes fronijustice, to which he bad made himself obnoxious
   by his lawless habits, he was eventually apprehended by the Laird
   of Braco, and some of his followers at a Keith market: Braco him-
   self being the first to seize upon him So desperate, however, is
   said to have been his resistance, aided by one Peter Roy, that it
   was only by blankets being thrown over his head from the windows
   above, that his numerous assailants could obtain any advantage
   over him. He was thus compelled to fly; and seeking to reach
   the gable of the church, parrying jhe attack of his enemies by the
   way, he fell over a grave-stone, when be was secured, and lodged
   in the jail of Banff. His sword is yet in the possession of Lord
   Fife (Braco's descendant,) at Duff House, and is a weapon of such
   weight as only a most powerful man could wield. M'Pherson
   was brought to trial along with James Gordon and Peter and
   Donald Brown, before the Sheriff of Banff, on the 7th November


