
122                             ARGYLESHIRE.

face tall and fantastically-shaped rocks, wood-crowned heights,
and all the most striking features of Highland scenery; while, as
if to contrast human mutability and grandeur passed away with
the vast and unchangeable creations of Almighty power, the high
gray turrets of Castle Tyrim, a stronghold of the Clanranald, now
in ruins, are seen from many different positions,-a memorial of the
times when the shout of armed clans and the clang of the conflict
disturbed the silence of these still waters, and now peaceful so.
Iitudes.
   Loch-nan-Uamh, an open unsheltered arm of the sea, is situated
betwixt Moidart and Arasaig.  It is about four miles in mean
breadth, for about the same distance of its length, until, at the
headland of Ardnish, it becomes narrower, and terminates, three
or four miles farther on, in a small bay beyond Barradale.  Loch-
sinart, five or six miles long, generally less than a quarter of a mile
broad, winds betwixt Ardnish and Moidart, and terminates at Kin-
chregan in Arasaig.  It is a branch of Loch-nan-Uamh.  The
course of both is from west to east.
   Loch-na-Reaull, immediately north of the point of Arasaig, is
in length about three miles or upwards, being from northwest to
south-east: it is a shallow expanse of about one and a-half or two
miles in breadth.
   Loch Shiel.-Of the inland lakes, which abound in all parts of
the parish, this is, in every respect, the most important.  It fills
the lower part of the entire valley which divides Sunart and Moi-
dart, is computed at twenty-five to twenty-seven miles in length,
varies from 200 yards to three-quarters of a mile in breadth, but
in the greater part from a quarter to half a-mile.  At its west end,
it is shallower, and reposes on a bed of fine sand (as do the great
moss flats contiguous,) similar to that of the sea-shore, about two
miles distant.  About six miles to the eastward, it becomes deep,
and, from the character of the country, retains, it is probable
great depth on to its eastern end.  Its water has the usual dark-
brown colour of lakes similarly situated, but is clear and pellucid
is a glass vessel, pure and pleasant to the taste.  Its elevation
above the sea cannot be great, for the river by which it flows into
the Western Ocean is navigable, except during great drought, for
open boats.  From its eastern end, it discharges its waters, in con-
siderable volume, by a stream a few miles long, through the parish
of Kilmalie into Locheil, a branch of the Linne Hiloch.


