
     Statistical Account

one could easily perceive where the chapel had joined to
it; and a few years ago, when the gardener was trench-
ing the ground there, he dug up human bones in several
places.

<FOOTNOTE>

S. S. E. from that of the Caledonians at the Buzzard-likes.  And it seems
that the Roman generals, in ancient times, (similar to the practice of the
moderns), frequently sat down at such a distance from the enemy, pre-
vious to a general engagement.-The ground which the Caledonians are
thought to have then assumed as the scene of their martial atchievements,
lies about 7 or 8 miles N. E. from Dunkeld, on the open declivities of
the hills, facing the south, and commanding a full prospect of the lower
Stormont and Strathmore.  In several parts of this neighbourhood, the
surface of the ground exhibits a singular appearance of long hilly ridges
(or drums, answering very well to the "colles" of Tacitus), running pa-
rallel from W. to E. and rising above one another, like the seats of a
theatre.  This appearance is remarkably exemplified at the guard-drums,
which are partly inclosed by the Buzzard-dike or Vallum, which is still,
in many places, 8 or 10 feet high.  This inclosure, through which the
burn of Lornty passes, might be designed by the Caledonians principally
as a place of security for their cattle and provisions, as well as for their
wives and children.  These "colles," or long extended eminencies, rising
gradually one above another were well fitted for displaying the Caledo-
nian army to the best advantage.  And, from the splendid account given
of it by Tacitus, one is led to conceive a magnificent idea of its appear-
ance: "Jamque super triginta millia armatorum conspiciebantur, et ad-
"huc affluebat omnis juventus, et quibus cruda ac viridis senectus, clari
"bello, ac sua quisque decomgestantes."  And again, "Britannorum acres
"in spectem simulitic terrorem editioribus locis constiterant; ita ut pri-
"mum agmen ‘quo ceteri per acclive jugum connexi velut insurgerent."
-That the auxiliary troops, who fought the battle on the part of the Ro-
mans, were at some distance from the legionary station, before they began
the attack, appears plainly from this expression of Tacitus: "Arcessendas
plerique legiones admonebant." "Most of them gave it as their advice,
that the legions, ought to be sent for." Mr Playfair is of opinion, that
the two armies might have met, and the line of battle might have been
formed, somewhere on the lower grounds of Balliard or Balcairn.  If so,
then Agricola's right wing might extend to the neighbourhood of that
hill (above Marlei) which still retains the name of Craig-Roman;
where, as we are credibly informed, several Roman urns and Roman spurs


