
                           AVCHTERTOOL.                       249

instances could be given at a latter period of the same Political
and contentious spirit. Matters are now more quietly and peace-
ably managed. The burgh and parliamentary elections excite no
great interest among the inhabitants.

  November 1836.

                      PARISH OF AUCHTERTOOL.

                PRESBYTERY OF KIRKALDY, SYNOD OF FIFE.

                    THE REV. DAVID GUILD, MINISTER.
                           _________________

      I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.

Name.--Auchter is said to bea Gaelic word, signifying a height,
and Tool seems to be a corruption of Tiel, a rivulet which rises in
the parish and runs through it; hence Auchtertool signifies the
higher grounds on the Tiel. It does not appear that its name has
undergone any alteration from that originally given it.
   Extent and Boundaries.--The parish is about 3 miles long,
and about 1 1/3 wide on the average, comprising 4 square miles,
equal to 2570 imperial acres. It is bounded on the north by the
parish of Auchterderran; on the north-west, by the parish of
Beath; on the south, by the parishes of Kingborn, Burntisland,
and Aberdour; on the east and north-east, it is at some points
conterminous with the parishes of Kinghorn and Abbotshall.
   Topographical Appearances.--Its figure is irregular, but ap-
proaches nearer to that of a parallelogram than any other regular
figure. There is a range of hills at the west end of the parish,
commonly called Cullalo hills; their acclivity on the south side is
very steep, and the elevation of the highest above the level of the
sea is 750 feet. In regard to each other, the difference of eleva-
tion is inconsiderable.
   The climate is temperate and salubrious. The dryness of the
soil throughout the most populous part of the parish, its moderate
distance from the sea, and its elevation above it, must naturally
contribute to its salubrity, and to the healthiness of its inhabitants.
   Hydography.--There are springs by which the inhabitants of
this parish are abundantly supplied with water; some of these are


