
16              		WIGTONSHIRE.

was found a collection of half-burnt human bones, in an oblong
space, formed of stones ste on edge, and covered with a flat stone
on the top, but there was no inscription. In 1789, an urn and
same bones, partly consumed by fire, were discovered in the same
place.
	The old castle of Baldon has now become celebrated in
romance;--an incident that occured within its walls having
furnished Sir Walter Scott with the tragic subject which he
has wrought into the tale of the Bride of Lammermoor. (Vide In-
troduction to that tale, last edition; also Symson's Elegies, append-
ed to his Description of Galloway.)
	Modern Buildings.--The only modern building in the parish of
any note is Barnbarroch House, the seat of Colonel Vans Agnew.
	Dunbars of Baldoon.--The family of Dunbar of Baldoon was found-
ded in the beginning of the sixteenth century, by Archibald Dunbar,
a younger son of the Knight of Mochrum. The Baldoon branch con-
tinued in the parish for about two centuries, and ultimately ende in
a female, Mary, heiress of Sir David Dunbar. This young lady
married Lord Basil Hamilton, sixth son of the Duke of Hamilton.
His Lordship, having been drowned while crossing the Minnoch, a
small stream in the stewartry of Kircudbright, was succeeded by
his son, Basil Hamilton. On the death of the latter in 1742,
Dunbar Hamilton succeeded him, and two years afterwards, on
the death of his grand-uncle, the Earl of Selkirk, fell heir to his
title and estates; on this occasion, he assumed the name of Dou-
glas. The Dunbars of Baldoon are now, therefore, represented
by the noble family of Selkirk. The estate of Baldoon remained
in the family till 1793, when it was sold to the Earl of Galloway.
(Murray's Literary Hist. of Galloway, 2d edit. 1832, p. 305-8.)

<TABLE=POPULATION>
			III.--POPULATION.
	Of the state of population in ancient times little is known.
Some have imagined that, as there are the remains of many old
steadings in the parish, the population must at one time have been
greater than it is at present. It appears from the synod record, that,
in the year 1697, the number of examinable persons was 500; the
population at that time, therefore, must have been about 1000.
		According to Dr Webster's returns, it was   792
                In 1801, it was,			   1100
		   1811,			           1433
		   1821, 			           1488
	           1831, males 729, females, 785           1514
		Increase during the last ten years 26 only.
	To account for this, it may be sufficient to observed, that a great


