
412                         LANARKSHIRE.

were kept, partly from the persons who had the care of the money
becoming insolvent. The kirk-session had above L. 400 morti-
fied for the poor, and solely at their disposal; but it was all ex-
pended during the time that the settlement of the minister was
opposed.
	The present manse was built in 1794, and received a partial
repair in 1819. It was originally insufficient, and no repairs will
ever make it comfortable. The extent of the glebe is about 10
acres of very light land. The extent of glebe in 1793, was 4
acres, 1 rood, and 26 falls, and about 20 acres of bog undivided
from it, which Mr Dun claimed as part of his glebe; and the mi-
nisters of Cadder, for at least 800 years, could get water for their
cattle without possessing all the solid part of it, which some say ex-
tended to six, others to eight acres. The minister besides, had a
right of pasturage over at least 100 acres of moor, on which and the
bog, he ordinarily grazed three cows, two horse, and some young cat-
tle. In 1793, an excambion took place, and part of the glebe on the
west of the canal, was exchanged for very inferior land on the east of
the canal; and four acres were obtained for the servitude over the
moor. The bog was neither inspected nor excambed; but was af-
terwards held as included in the excambion, the minister receiving
for tent-ground a piece of waste land of about an acre in extent.
The excambion was encroached upon, when the fence between the
glebe and the lands of Crofthead was drawn. The extent of the
glebe was thereby greatly lessened.
	Cadder parish was mostly valued between 1735 and 1750; and
though extensive, it had then neither roads nor fences, and the
greatest part of it being covered with heath, rushes, and reeds, was va-
lued very low. The College of Glasgow were then titulars of the
teinds, and the professors were disposed to value it wholly in moneys
except about as much meal and barley as the might require. The
money stipend amounts to L. 211, 13s. 4d. The meal is 56
bolls, 1 firlot, 2 pecks. The bear 5 bolls, 3 firlots, average be-
tween L. 260 and 270. There was an augmentation obtained in
1819, which cannot be,realized, as the teinds are exhausted, and
the College have surrendered them to the incumbent, who draws
as stated above, communibus annis.
	There was, in the corner of the park belonging to Mr Robert
Bogle, about twenty yars from the readleading past Aunchenloch
to Kirkintilloch on the south, and about equally distant on the
north from the read, from Auchenloch to Chryston, a meeting-


