
284                         FIFESHIRE.

stone, limestone, basalt, and clinkstone, mixed together, which,
with innumerable small veins of calcareous spar interlaced and
weaved in every direction, give to the whole a variegated and in-
teresting appearance. The imbedded portions of this compound
mass are not generally water-worn, but for the most part sharp and
angular pieces, varying from less than an inch to more than a foot in
diameter. The coal measures are traversed by several trap-dikes,
by which they are not only up-heaved, but greatly altered in texture
at the line of junction. One of these consists of basalt, which
having opposed a hard front to the beating of the surf, may be ob-
served elevated considerably above the surrounding strata. It ap-
pears as a long narrow ridge, about two feet thick, projecting into
the sea, and distinguished easily at a distance by its deep black
colour; it is very compact, and contains crystals of augite. Upon
the whole, the line of section here bears the most striking marks
of great internal disturbance--of violent injection among the strata
of melted subterranean matter--and of the existence of agencies
which have long ceased to act in this quarter of the globe. Such
as delight in the speculative department of the interesting science
of geology, will find on this coast ample materials on which to ex-
ercise their ingenuity, nor will it be any surprise to those who view
nature on the great scale to find, on the opposite side of the pe-
ninsula of Fife to the eastward of St Andrews, precisely the same
class of phenomena in relation to the same class of rocks, as have
been noticed above.
   The shale beds contain impressions of various arundinaceous
plants, but few or none of the Filices, so beautifully developed on
the corresponding deposit at Wemyss and Dysart. Stems and
branches of trees are to be found in abundance in the sandstone.
At Sauchur Point, a beautiful gem is met with, which forms an
object of great attraction to the sea-bathers who resort here in
summer. It is of a deep reddish colour, and varies from the size
of a small grain to that of a garden pea. It is usually denominat-
ed "the Elie Ruby," being confined to this parish, and, indeed, to
the narrow headland of Sauchur point; but, mineralogically con-
sidered, it belongs, we believe, to the garnet family of gems, and
of these ranks among the precious class. It is allied to the car-
uncle of the ancients, and by modern mineralogists is termed Al-
mandine. Its component parts are silex, alumine, and oxide of
iron. It does not appear, so far as can be detected, to be an in-
gredient of any of the rocks in the neighbourhood, at least such as


