
   220                   ROSS AND CROMARTY.

   reign commerce, but because their inland traffic was intercepted
   on all sides by the burghs of barony which were springing up
   around, under the patronage of the lesser proprietors who were
   now rising in importance.
      The burgh at one time possessed a considerable extent of pro-
   perty, but through the rapacity or mismanagement of its function-
   aries, this was, even so early as towards the end of the seventeenth
   century, almost wholly alienated,-being either sold or feued out
   for a merely nominal equivalent.  So that the heritors and inha-
   bitants were reduced to the necessity of submitting to a personal
   stent or impost, to maintain the " liberty and credit of the town"-
   a state of things which could not have been favourable towards ef-
   fecting works of public improvement.  The necessity for some of
   these, about this period, may be inferred from a report presented in
   1733 to the town-council of Inverness, by certain of their number
   who bad been commissioned to explore this " terra incognita."
   " There was," it says, " no prison, but there was a lake close to
   the town, which kept the people from church and market for want
   of a bridge."  It further states, that there was no trade in the
   town, but that there were one or two inclined to carry on trade
   if they had harbour."  (Inverness burgh records.)  For some
   time after this, we find no occurrence worthy of notice.  The pub-
   lic tranquillity was occasionally affected by the feuds of the sur-
   rounding clans, and when any of the hostile parties met, as they
   occasionally did at fairs, affrays frequently ensued, which some-
   times ended in bloodshed.  In one of these, in 1740, the lady of
   the provost was killed.  But various circumstances, shortly after
   this, tended to improve the condition of the place.  Its trade was
   extending in proportion as the surrounding country grew in agri-
   cultural importance, which the altered habits of the Highlanders
   subsequently to 1745, tended to promote.  Under a better and
   purer management, the revenue arising from its remaining property
   was increased.  Bridges were built,-a jail was erected, the streets
   were paved, and water introduced into the town.  And the loss of
   the common lands was in some measure compensated by their ra-
   pid conversion from swamps and pasture lands, to fertile fields and
   thriving plantations, a change at once beneficial and ornamental.
   In more recent times, the cutting of a canal began in 1815, and was
   completed in 1817, by which vessels of considerable burthen are
   brought into the immediate vicinity of the town.  The establish-
   ment of a branch bank in 1828,-the high state of culture to
   				4


