
                          CROMDALE.                              435

Eminent Men-Family of Grant.-The names and biography of
the family of Grant of Grant are honourably interwoven in the history
of the British empire.  Historians do not exactly agree about the
origin of the Grants, the precise time of their settlement in Scotland,
or whether they were of the aborigines of the country.  It is, however,
most fully ascertained, from the best authenticated sources,
that they, were a very powerful family, and made a considerable
figure in Scotland upwards of 600 years ago. The first of this
family found on record is Gregorius, or Gregory de Grant, sheriff
principal of Inverness, Ross, Sutherland, and Caithness-shires,
in the reign of King, Alexander II., who succeeded to the crown
of Scotland in the year 1214, and died in 1249.  At this time
Gregory was also proprietor of the lands of Stratherrick.
  Sir John Grant, great-grandson of Gregory, was the first of his
family, it is believed, who got possession of part of the lands of
Strathspey, by a royal gift from King David II., about the year
1346.  Tbis gentleman frequently distinguished hirnself, both in
the field, and as a diplomatist.  He commanded a battalion of
his clan and followers, in the right wing of the army, at the battle
of Hallidon hill.  In the year 1359, he and two other distinguished
individuals were appointed ambassadors to the court of France,
to renew the ancient league between Scotland and that kingdom,
and to transact other state affairs.    This embassy they discharged
with much credit and ability. Sir John, after this period,
was frequently sent to the court of England, to negotiate state
affairs.
   The  necessary brevity of this Account precludes the possibility
of taking notice of many individuals of the family of Grant, who
greatly signalized themselves in the two opposite professions of the
gown and the sword; and, therefore, we shall only mention one
more, Alexander Grant of Grant, who, doubtless, was one of the
most distinguished men of his day in Scotland.  He rose to the
rank of Brigadier-General; and, during the war in the reign of
Queen Anne, he served with great applause, and performed many
brilliant exploits.  Brigadier Grant was the inseparable companion
and bosom friend of that great man, John, Duke of Argyle,
He was one of the commissioners who settled the articles of union
between England and Scotland, and a member of the first five British
Parliaments; and withal, according tothe testimony of an impartial
historian, equally qualified,for the carrip)and court, and alike
uncorrupted and, faithful in both. Brigadier Grant died at Edin-


