
   22                   ROSS AND CROMARTY.

   unknown. It seems now a days as much neglected as that well of
   spiritual salvation, of which the Evangelical Prophet sweetly sung
   of old in the land of Judah. In the centre of the parish, Dear the
   Black Hill, is a well named John the Baptist's well. But why it
   has been so called, none can tell. At Dunskeatbness, close to the
   ferry of Cromarty, there is a draw-well in the sand, the water of
   which deposits a siliceous sediment.
      Geology.--Professor Sedgwick of Cambridge, and Mr Murchi-
   son of London, examined the geological structure of this parish and
   coast a few years ago, and gave to the public the result of their in-
   quiries in the Transactions of the Geological Society of London.
   Last year, Messrs Anderson of Inverness favoured the public with
   a very good essay on the same subject in the "Guide to the High-
   lands:" and Mr Hugh Miller of Cromarty has, in his " Scenes and
   Legends of the North of Scotland," given an idteresting and beau-
   tifully descriptive, at the same time highly poetical chapter on the
   various processes, whereby the present structures of rocks, and hills,
   and vales, has been made to spring out of the original mass of
   chaotic elements.
      But all these learned authorities may speak for themselves; and
   in the mearitime the following sketch by a novice may suffice. A
   scientific one is not attempted.
      1st, The more elevated part of the parish must at one time have
   been an island,--as throughout the whole extent of the neck of land
   betwixt the Cromarty bay to the west, and the village of Sbandwick
   on the sbore of the Moray Fritb to the east, the substratum contains
   a layer of sea shells and shingle, mingled with such organic remains
   of land vegetable matter as the neigbbouring shores may be sup-
   posed to have added. Even at Fearn, which is two miles distant
   from the present shores of either frith, the skeleton of a cetaceous
   animal has been found,
      2d, This island must, at a previous period, have formed a con-
   tinuation of the Black isle, as an examination oftbe submarine strata
   betwixt the Sutors will testify. The dissruption may have been
   caused bv an agency comparatively local.
      3d, The rocks of the parish may be described as follows: In an
   ascending order, 1. The north Sutor consists of granitic gneiss,
   much foliated and nearly vertical; conglomerate of rolled pieces
   of various size and composition; white sandstone alternating with
   schistose limestone; and red sandstone forming a terrace on the
   northwest side of the hill, from one extremity to the other. The


