
     of Unst, in Shetland.

   commons, are generally covered with a short, tender,
flowering heath.  Some curious and rare plants have been
discovered in this island by some gentlemen skilled in bo-
tany.  The common people gather scurvy grass, tresoil,
and some other plants that grow in the island, for their me-
dicinal qualities.  The roots of the tormentil are used in
tanning bides.

   Quadrupeds.-The quadrupeds of this island, which,
indeed, are common through the rest of the Shetland isles,
are black cattle, horses, sheep, hogs, rabbits, dogs, cats,
seals, and otters.  The oxen weigh from 300 lb. to 500 lb.
which may be valued at between L. 2 and L. 4 Sterling.
The cows are of various colours.  Some are curiously
speckled and spooted, and weigh from 150 lb to 200 lb.
The bees of these is of very superior delicacy and flavour*.
The whole number of cows and oxen in the island is not
fewer than 2000.  Of these 1150 are milk cows.  In

<FOOTNOTE>

*Prices of Provisions.-There are no regular markets for provisions
in this island.  But the prices may be estimated at the following rates:
beef at three halspence per pound; live calves, a week old, from 14 d.
to 16d. each; sheep, between two and five years old, from 3 s. to 4 .s
6 d; 6 d. pigs, ready for the spit, rarely to be bought under 1 s.; chickens
three hapspence each; coarse butter twopence halspenny per pound; eggs
1 d. a dozen; greese, 1 s. each; hens 4 d. cocks, 2 d.  The prices of 
meal and grain vary with the crops.  In a plentiful year, oatmeal is sold 
at 2 s. the lispond, of 30 lb. Dutch weight, or 32 lb. 12 cz. English; when
the crops prove bad, the price rises to 3 s. or 4 s. a lispond.  In the years
1783 and 1784, meal from Scotland was fold here at 30 s. a boll.  In
years of less excessive scarcity, Scotch meal is bought here at 3 s. or 4 s. a
lispond.  The price of cattle has risen considerably within these last 15
years.  In consequence of the increased value of the hides chiefly, of 
which considerable quantities are every year exported from Shetland to
Leith, the value of a cow or ox has risen, in this space of time, from 15 s.
or 20 s. to 30 s. and 42 s. and sometimes even considerably more.  Flour, 
barley, biscuits, peas, sugar, wines, teas, spintuous liquors, etc ate all im-
ported, and chiefly from Leith.


