
<APPENDIX>

     APPENDIX, No. IV.

     Observations on Scrabster Road, or Thurso Bay.

   The following observations, drawn up by persons of great intelligence in
the sea faring line, and of much experience in the navigation of the neigh-
bourhood of Thurso, are particularly recommended to the attention of those,
who navigate vessels in the northern seas, by adverting to which, many ves-
sels may be saved from destruction.

OBSERVATIONS on Scrabster Road, or Thurso Bay, near the Pentland
     First, in Scotland, particularly recommended to the attention of Vessels
     in the Baltic, Dutch, or Hamburgh trades, failing from Ireland on the
     western coasts of Scotland or England.

   Since Mr. Murdoch Mackenzie has navigated and surveyed the Pentland
First, it is found by experience, to be the safest and best channel to fail
through, from the Western Islands of Scotland to the German Ocean, or the
reverse; and at present the greatest part of the ships from Liverpool,
Whitchaven, Ireland. Solway Frith, and Frith of Clyde, in the Baltic,
Dutch, and Hamburgh trades, frequently pass and repass through that
Frith.

   Mr. Mackenzie has surveyed, with great accuracy and exactness, the
coast of Orkney, and given proper directions for failing into the different
harbours there; but he has neglected to take notice of Scrabster Road or
Thurso Bay, on the coast of Carthness, and this shameful negligence, of late
years, has been attended with the most fatal consequences, by the loss of
many valuable lives, ships, and cargoes, hetwixt Dunnet Head and Cape
Wrath, (about 20 leagues distant from each other); for when ships are
caught with a hard gale of wind from N. N. W. to N. N. E. the com-
manders, knowing of no place of safety from the main land, are at last re-
duced to the necessity of running the ship ashore, to save, if possible, the
lives of the crew.

<UNREADABLE>

   From a love to mankind, and the good of commerce, Sir John Sinclair
of Ulbster, Baronet, desired us William Innes, shipmaster in Thurso, and
John Dunnet,    there, and Pranch Pilot, from the Trinity House
of Newcastle upon Tyne, to found, survey, and give proper direction, for
anchoring     or Thurso day.  As the knowledge of this

</UNREADABLE>


