
68                   INVERNESS-SHIRE.

reared by the Comyns, on a green conical mound on the southern
bank of the Spey, in this parish,-a situation chosen, no doubt,
on account of its beauty and security, as well as for the exten-
sive and delightful view which it commanded of the valley of the
Spey.  Here the Wolf, considering himself secure, and presum-
ing upon his connection with the Crown, exercised a despotic way
over the inhabitants of his own immediate district, and spread terror
and devastation everywhere around.  His life was characterized
throughout by the most cruel and savage conduct.  It was he who, in
1390 and the following year, from some personal resentment against
the Bishop of Moray, set fire to the towns of Forres and Elgin,
which, with, the magnificent cathedral, canons' houses, and several
other buildings connected with the latter, he burnt to ashes, carry-
ing off at the same time all that was valuable in the sacred edifice.*
For this sacrilegious deed the Wolf suffered excommunication,-
the effects of which he soon felt even in his den; and having made
what reparation he could to the see of Moray, be was subsequent-
ly absolved. +  The Wolf died not long after, in 1394, and was
buried in the cathedral church of Dunkeld, where a Latin inscrip-
tion was placed upon his tomb. +  By the death of " Alastair m•r
mac an Righ," $ which was a name sometimes applied to the Wolf,
his possession fell to his natural son, Duncan, who seems to have
inherited the vices as well as the property of his father.  This is
the last of the Stuarts connected with Badenoch of whom there is
any account, written or traditional.  The district some time after this
period, passed into the hands of the first Earl of Huntly, who received
part of it in 1452, for his valuable services to James II. in defeat-
ing the Earl of Crawfurd at Brecbin.  The lands adjacent to the
castle of Ruthven were given him at an earlier period; II and the
principal part of the Lordship continued in the hands of the Gordon
family, till of late years, when some of it has been disposed of.
Land-owners.-The landholders of Kingussie at present are five
in number: George Macpherson Grant of Ballindalloch; James
Baillie, Esq. merchant in Bristol; Miss Macpherson of Belleville;
Cluny Macpherson; and Colonel George Gordon of Invertromie.

<FOOTNOTE> + Wyntown, Vol. ii. 363.                   + Chart. Moravien.
                + " Hie jacet Alexander Senescallus filius Roberti regis Scotorum,et Elizabethae
              More, Dominus de Buchan et Badenoch, qui obiit A. D. 1394."-Vide Scotichro-
              nicon, Vol. ii. cirea Goodall, Edinburgi, I759.
                 S Big Alexander, the King's son.
                ll Survey ofthe Province 6f.Moray, p. 17.
                 q At the commencement of the present century, an occurrence took place, in a re-
              mote part of the parish, which will long be remembered by the inhabitants.  The story
              has found a place from time to time in several periodical works; in some of which it
                                                     4


