
218 			  BERWICKSHIRE.

majority of the people are migratory,-the farm-servants, or kinds,
as they are called, frequently changing masters, and passing from
one parish to another. Their morals are generally good. There
is no prevailing disease; and the people are healthy,-the climate
salubrious. The parish schoolmaster has done the duty of his de-
partment, with but little interruption, for fifty-four years; and the
late incumbent who died in January last was only the third in suc-
cession since 1696.

                         <TABLE=IV.-INDUSTRY.>
    Agriculture and Rural Economy.-
       Number Of acres cultivated or occasionally in tillage,  3080
                       uncultivated,                              0
                       under wood,                              310
                       a lake or marsh,                          30

   About one-half of the wood, is full-grown, and the rest in a
thriving condition. The kinds are, Scotch fir, larch, ash, beech,
lime, oak, chesnut, sycamore, elm, poplar, maple, &c. The larch
is an increasing favourite, but on heavy soils it is liable to rot in
the heart after it has attained a height of forty feet.
   Description of Soil, &.-The northern part consists chiefly of
a wet reddish clay on a retentive bottom, interspersed with con-
siderable portions of good dry turnip soil. The southern section is
more in the vale of the Tweed, and partakes of the richer qualities
of that neighbourhood, being a mixture of clay and gravelly loam.
   Husbandry.-The system of husbandry is the ordinary rotation
observed in the counties of Berwick and Roxburgh, viz, in wheat
and barley, 1/2 in oats, 1/2 in turnips and potatoes, or fallow, and 2/3
in bay and pasture. The farmers, however, labour under great
disadvantage in point of locality, there being neither coal nor
lime within fifteen or twenty miles, and the distance being still
greater to the nearest sea-port, with an unnavigable river,-and no
rail-road or canal. The drawback, therefore, on the produce
sent to market is very considerable. Nevertheless, several of the
farms are in a high state of improvement, and all of them nearly
as well improved as circumstances Will admit of. Bone manure has
been applied to the turnip-soils with complete success. The rule is
to lay two quarters on an English acre,-the article being pur-
chased at Berwick, twenty-two miles distant, for L. 1 or L. 1, 1s.
per quarter.
   Rent.-The rental is L. 4100, inclusive of the returns of the
valuable grass parks of Nenthorn and Newton Don, annually let
by public group. Eight hundred acres are rented at L. 2 per acre;
				4


