
   288                      BANFFSHIRE.

   manure; 2. bone manure; 3. draining; 4. the ready conveyance
   of grain and cattle to the London market by sea ; and 5. the su-
   perior or mode of culture, and increased attention to the selection
   of grains suited to the soil, and to the breading and rearing of
   cattle.
      I have been favoured with the following account from Mr Gar-
   diner of Greenskains, of the improvements on his farm, which are
   a good specimen of the improvements in the parish generally.
   "The first of the more recent agricultural improvements I
   would take notice of, is bone manure, which was used by me first
   in the ydar 1829, and I have continued to use it in large quanti-
   ties, every successive year, since that time raising fine crops of
   turnips and the other crops in the rotation equally good ; the grass
    after the bone manure is particularly rich, and I have often observ-
   ed that the cattle'eat it in preference to grass, after any other ma-
   nure. The advantages to be derived from this manure in this
   part of the country are incalculable.
      "The additional turnips raised by it keep a greater number of
   cattle during the winter, and they of course increase the quantity,
   and improve the quality of the farm-yard's dungl, which being laid
   upon the farm the following year with a little more bone dust,
   must go on increasing the fertility of the farm to a very conside-
   rable extent; and the facility we have here of shipping the cattle
   to London, and other great markets generally, causes a good de-
   mand for the extra number of cattle kept.
       "The next improvement I would take notice of is the,wedge-
   draining, or, as it is termed, the frequent draining system of Mr
   Smitb of Deanston. I commenced this operation in 1834, and,
   since that time, I have put in about 10,000 ells of these drains,
   and have found the advantage of them very great, both from the
   increased quantity of corn raised, and also the superior quality of
   the grass. This, if properly followed out according to Mr Smith's
   plan, I consider the greatest of our modern improvements ; but
   the expease is so great, that few tenants on a nineteen year's lease
   would be justified in going on with it to any great extent, without
   the proprietor bearing part of the expense' . But I am perfectly
   satisfied, that there is: a very great deal of the arable land in this
   parish that could be more than doubled iut value by this improve-
   ment.
     "I wouldnext notice the. introduction of the short-horned breed
   of cattle.I have had that breed on my farmsince 1835, and find

                                      3


