
				ANWOTH.                       379

found, about sixty years ago, several silver coins; one of Edward
VI.; the rest of Queen Elizabeth.
	Under the head of antiquities may be named the old church of
Anwoth, built in 1626.* It was used as a place of worship till
within the last twenty years. Though a new church has been
built, the beritors, in good taste, have preserved the ancient build-
ing, which is of a barn-like appearance, and is one of the small-
est and most humble we have seen; its length being 64 feet 7
inches; its width, 18 feet 3 inches; the side walls being only 10
feet high. The pulpit is of oak, so perforated that it is probable
it had been used for some purpose previously to its being convert-
ed to the use which it has so long served. Several of the seats
are of the same wood, and most of them that are so are embel-
lished with carving. Two may be mentioned; one bearing the date
of 1631, the other of 1633,--a proof that the church had been
erected some years before the seating of it had been completed.
The former of these was that of the family of Bell of Hinton, and
bears the initials J. B. The latter has the letters J. W. carv-
ed on it above the representation of the family arms. These ini-
tials refer to John or James Walker, of whom nothing is known
except that their names appear among the signatures to the Peti-
tion from Anwoth in 1639. The church bell is qaid to have been
a present from Lady Kenmure; and to have been previously
used at Rusco Castle as a dinner bell; a thing not improbable
from its dimensions, namely 11 inches in diameter, and 13 inches
high.
	Bushy-Bield, the house in which Rutherford lived at Anwoth,
and which, as the name imports, stood in a sheltered situation
surrounded with wood, continued standing till the year, 1827,
when it was pulled down. It was of a baronial character, and
was not, it is probable, built for Rutherford, but bad previously
been the residence of a private gentleman. It was never in the
glebe, and the farm on which it was situated is now the property
of Mr Murray of Broughton.
	A walk close by, which Rutherford was accustomed, to fre-

<FOOTNOTE>This church was built immediately previous to Rutherford's being brought to
Anvroth. There was no manse at this time; nor indeed while he remained in the
parish. The truth is, the three contiguous parishes of Anwoth, Kirkdale, and Kirk-
mabreck, were united quoad sacra, though distinct quoad civilia, for some time at least
before Rutherford's induction; the cure of the three parishes being under the minis-
try Of one clergyman, (Mr Dalgleish.) The people of Anwoth at that time bad ser-
mon only "everie second Sabbath, by reasone of ane most inconvenient unioue with
other twa kirkis." (Life of Rutherford, p. 28,)


