
     of Alyth.

   Miscellaneous Observations.-Mount Blair is the most cosi-
derable hill in every respect in this parish.  It is a very con-
spicuous point of land.  The base is not less than five miles
in circumference; its exact altitude is not ascertained.  It af-
fords good pasture for a great number of sheep, and abounds
in lime stone.  About three miles S. from mount Blair, on the
west side of the forest of Alyth is the hill of Kingseat, about
1179 feet high abouve the level of the sea.  The situation is
very romantic, for the water of Ericht runs at its foot on the
west, and the side of the hill for a considerable way up is co-
vered with a beautiful natural wood.

<FOOTNOTE>

at 8 or 9.  The wages of women servants have inform proportion, from L. 2
to L 3.- And L. 3: 10 sterling.  The place of butcher nearly dou-
bled in that period.  Beef and mutton in the cheapest season are seldom be
L w 3 d. the pound, and very often at 4 d.  Poultry and eggs are equally ad-
vanced in price.

*Barty-hill is about a mile in circumference at the base, and 676 feet
high.  It is divided from the Fall of Loyal by a hollow, commonly called a
Glack.  The hill is of a circular or oval form.  On the summit there is an
area about 60 yards long and 24 broad, surrounded with a mound of earth,
at least 7 feet high, and 10 broad at the top.  On this mountain are the re-
mains of a rampant built of moor stones uncemented.  And on the outside of
the rampart there is a hollow about 50 yards in circumference, which seems
to have been intended for a bason.  The whole area within the rampart is a
circumference about 168 yards.  There is no vestige of an edifice to be traced
on it.  On the west and north borders of the area, are seen the marks of
something like huts built of dry stones, which have served to shelter the be-
sreged from the weapons of the affailants, and the molomency of the a.r.
The N and W. sides of the hill are very steep and almost inaccessible.  On the
S and F. where the declivity is more gentle, there is a broad and deep tosse,
over which at the S. extremity is a narrow bridge, built of unpolished stones
and vitrisied.  The entrance to the fort on the N. E. side has been well se-
cured by a bulwark of stone.  It evidently appears to have been designed for


