
     Of Dysart.

   General Observations.-The people are well clothed, have
good houses, and live comfortably.  They ought to be, and
it is to be hoped, are, contented with their lot.  No doubt
complaints are heard, and not altogether without reason, from
some in the lower ranks, of the hardness of the times.  Wo-
men, especially in the decline of life, find it hard to gain
livelihood by spinning, which is almost their only employ-
ment.  Farmers too complain of the difficulty of getting
hands for their work.  And it is to be regretted, that agri-
culture, useful to health, favourable to morals, and indispen-
sably necessary to the well-being of a state, should be so much
neglected.  But we cannot expect every thing to our wish in
this world:  and if the above account of this parish be just, it
will appear they have their own share of the comforts of this
life.  May they never forget the obligations they are under
to Him from whom their blessings slow; and that godliness is
the only sure foundation they can lay for lasting prosperity
and true enjoyment.  "It is profitable for all things, hav-

     3 U 2

<FOOTNOTE>

had been fought there.  A rivulet running through that field is called Kings-
law-burn.  The castle of Ravenscraig is situated on a rock, projecting into the
sea, at the E. end of Pathhead.  It was given by James III. to William St. Clair
Earl of Orkney with the lands adjoining to it, when he resigned the title of
Orkney.  It has been ever since possessed by the family of St. Clair.  It was in-
habited in Oliver Cromwell's time, and was fixed upon by a party of his troops.
It has, for many years, been uninhabited, and in a ruinous state.  Three old
trees stood together near the road from Dysart to Pathhead.  Two traditions
were handed down concerning them; the one, that three brothers of the St. Clair
family had encountered there, during the night, mistaking one another for rob-
bers, and had fallen by each others hands; that they were buried there, and
three trees planted on their graves.  The other is, that all the ground on the
neighbourhood of Dysart had been originally in wood, and that when the wood
was cleared away, these three trees were left as a memorial of its former state.
They were much decayed, and three young ones have been planted in their
place.  The arms of the town of Dysart bear one tree:  and it has long been
proverb here, As old as the three trees of Dysart.


