
				MOUSWALD.                        447

        Husbandry.--All the modern improvements in agriculture have
been successfully introduced into this parish, such as the use of
bone manure for raising turnips, and eating them off the ground
with sheep, which has been found to improve the soil very much.
Draining, where it can be effected, is carefully attended to; and very
considerable portions of the moss ground, particularly of late years,
have been redeemed from a state of waste, and converted into good
arable ground. The general duration of leases is nineteen years,
which, accordinf to the mode of cropping adopted in this quarter,
has been found to be the most favourable for both parties. The
state of farm-buildings would admit of great improvement; but the
subdividing and enclosing with proper fences the different arable
fields, has been by no means neglected.
			V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Market-Town, &c.--Dumfries, distant six miles from the centre
of the parish, is the post town, and the nearest place where regu-
lar weekly markets are held. There are four small villages, viz.
Mouswald, which may consist of about thirty inhabited houses, with
a population of 125; Woodside, 70; Cleughbrae and Banks, 74.
	Means of Communication.--The means of communication, in
every direction, enjoyed by this parish, are excellent. The turn-
pike and parish roads are kept in the very best state of repair. The
great post-road from Carlisle to Dumfries and Portpatrick, which
was finished in 1776, runs through the parish from south-east to
north-west, by the church and manse. Another road runs almost
in the same direction, and nearly parallel along the rising ground
of the eastern divisinn of the parish. Between these two roads,
there is also another parish road, which runs from the church to
Torthorwald, and gives easy access to the markets held at Loch-
maben and Lockerbie. This road leads also to the lime-works
at Kelhead, to Annan, and to Ruthwell. It was made by the
road-money, which is paid instead of the statute labour. Suf-
ficient bridges, wherdver they were required, are thrown over all
these roads. The Carlisle and Portpatrick mail-coach, besides
several heavy coaches to different parts of England, travel on the
principal turnpike road, affording an easy and ready communica-
tion to all parts of the world.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The church of Mouswald was dedicated
to St Peter; and there is near it, as we have mentioned, the remark-
able spring consecrated to the same saint. At what time, the old
church was built, which was taken down a few years ago, is not known.



