
			      IRVINE.                          631

	Imperfect when compared with the result to be desired, and
even with the result of Christianity in our day, was the state of

mission thereof, which also I have some tyme offered, but hitherto have not bein
taken off my hand ;--and now I am therefore constrained more earnestlie to presse
the same for these reasons following:--
	1st, I never was legallie settled minister of Irving, having entered amongst them
before our legall settlement, to preach only in a meeting-house to so many as then
called me, which I then looked upon to be only for ane interim, and did not expect
the libertie wee then had would have continued above a year or two; and if I had
thought it would have been of longer continowance, would never have undertaken so
heavie a charge.
	2d, My acceptance even of that call was upon condition and assurance given me
that I should have a helper (for which 1 refer to the records of the presbyterie, ane
extract whereof is herewith produced.) But that condition not having been fulfilled
during the whole space of fourteen years (though they have now the legale stipend of
which they had no prospect when that promise was made) I am no more bound by
my ceptance of that call, which was but for ane interim, and upon that condition.
	3d, Having latelie perused the call given, I find more than the one-half of these
who subscribed it either dead or removed out of the place, and near the one half the
whole families removed, so as neither they nor any of their posterity to he found in
the place.
	4th, Others are come or brought into their rourne, the outcasts of all the parishes
about, and some from very remote places, either altogether without teatimonialls, or
bringing very lame ones; and though I have bein for many years complaining of
this to the magistrates, yet hitherto have had little or no redresse at all. But, on the
contrary, they have received such as burgesses, whom the session unanimouslie voted
should not he received as members of the congregation, so that a relation of pastor
and people is made up between me and a great many of the present inhabitants of
Irving by meer force and compulsion, without allowing me the libertie of giving my
consent thereto, which yet 1 conceive is necessary to make up that relation.
	5th, My hands are not strengthened in the suppressing of sin and wickedness;
but these too much encouraged by connivance and other wayes.
	6th, I am now aged above 60, my strength decayed, and my voice too weak for so
numerous a congregations.
	7th, I am not willing to mention other grievance; some of them are known to
this presbyterie. But, in short, animosities are come to so great a height (though I
hope I can vindicate myself as having given no just provocation thereto), that neither
can I expect that the dospel will he received kindly off my hand by some, nor have
I have the freedom, to administer the sacrament of the Lord's Supper amongst them while
these remain; yea my hands are much weakened in preaching of the Gospel.
	To these reansons I crave libertie to add more, if neid he. And, in the meantime, do
not presse this presbyterie to any inorderly procedure in the affair, but allow them to
intimate to the congregation, that I have here given in such reasons for the presby-
terie's acceptance of my demission, and require them to give in their answers there.
to, if they have any, against the next presbyterie day. But withall, earnestlie obtest
the presbyterie, to disobey have considered how weighty and rele-
vant my resons are. 28th July 1702."
	Accordingly, in February 1703, as we learn from the manuscript sermons of Mr
Reid, minister of Stevenston the church vacant by appointment of pres-
bytery. The following passage from the discourse which he preached in the church
of Irvine, on the occassion to which reference is now made, may be quoted as giving
a view of the actual state of religion in this country at that time.
	"How few now-a-days esteem ministers in love of their work's sake! how many lie at
the catch, and wait for their halting! what unjust reproaches and asperations are they
many times loaded with; and, how readily are the enemies of a minister believed,
even by the bulk of profesors! Talk of him what you will how are his proceedings
and conduct misconstructed? What discouragements of this sort does your present
minister labour under, owing partly, from the unaccountable ignorance and weakness
of some, partly, from the enmity and malice of others; but chiefly from that decay
in religion and love to it that the most part of professors are lying under. And bare-
sins, I cannot but take notice of the little love and esteem some of you, at least, in this







