
     Statistical Account

cupied only by 30 of these brave Fleemings, who defend-
ed it to the last extremity, and who rather than survive
its destiny, or live to see their habitation in the hands of 
the English, chose all to expire in the flames*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*No vestige of this tower now remains, only the place where it for-
merly stood is pointed out.  It was entirely demolished in the beginning
of the present century.  Two other towers at a moderate distance, and
both within view, are said likewise to have belonged to the Fleemings.
Of these, the one at Holmhead, in this parish, was only demolished a-
bout 30 years ago.  The other at Stonehouse, Earl Mansfield's property, 
is partly standing; and though at present comprehended within the li-
mits of Gretna parish; yet, from its standing directly upon the border,
there is the greatest reason to think, that it likewise, in ancient times,
formed a part of the parish of Kirkpatrick-Fleeming.  Upon an eminence,
about the distance of three quarters of a mile eastward of Redhall, there
is the vestige of an old camp or fortification.  Some are of opinion, that 
this was formerly a Roman camp; but this opinion is contradicted, both
by the form of the camp and manner of its fortification.  Indeed, it used
by the Romans at all, it must have been only as their simple extra, and
a resting place for refreshing the troops, upon their march between the
stations of Netherbie and Middlebie.  It is most probable, that this was
the camp occupied by the English army, which attacked the tower of
Redhall.  Upon an eminence to the westward, and nearly at the same dis-
tance from Holmhead, there is the vestige of another camp, doubtless of
the same kind as the former.  There are several tumuli in this parish, a-
long the south bank of the river, which there is every reason to believe are
British, and which appear to be of the sepulchral kind.  The name, indeed,
of one, seems to favour a conjecture of its having been, in ancient tunes,
concecrated to the purposes of religion.  This, which is also distinguished
above most of the others, on account of its size, is called Beltonmont,
which name it appears to have derived, from its having been the mount
or altar upon which the Druids worshipped, and offered their sacrifices
at this season of the year.  Several years ago, a considerable part of this
cairn or mount was removed; and in its bottom, within a large square
stone chest, formed of 6 flags, were found some Druidical beads.  It
doubtless has been the sepulchre of a Druid of rank, which, on account
of his respectability, was afterward consecrated to a religious purpose.

     3


