
532                         ABERDEENSHIRE.

side of the vein is in a very shattered state, and has assumed a
schistaceous appearance.

   On the north-west of the Don, there is a great ridge of serpen-
tine rock, having in it small disseminated crystals of chromate of
iron.  It is about a mile in breadth adjoining to the sienite; this
is in contact westwards with mica-slate, in which are found beds
or veins of primary limestone.  To the mica-slate, clay-slate suc-
ceeds, and lies upon it.
   In Glenkindy again, in the lower end of the parish, there is an-
other great dike, or vein of serpentine, between four and five miles
eastward of the former, and apparently running nearly parallel to
it.  It seems scarcely so broad.  It is in contact with graphic
granite, which probably is connected with the sienite in its vicini-
ty.  A red granite is found in abundance on the other side of the
hill, which certainly conjoins with the sienite, although its junc-
tion has not been laid open.
   In this serpentine of Glenkindy, there is at one point a consi-
derable deposit of bright green, scaly chlorite, and immediately
below, masses of compact white chlorite of a beautiful appearance.
   In the line of the first mentioned serpentine dike at Corgarff,
in the south-west end of the parish, the serpentine and limestone
intermixing form marble exactly similar to the Glentilt.  And
it is deserving of notice, that the serpentine at Portsoy has con-
nected with it the Glentilt marble and the graphic granite.  The
Portsoy vein or dike has been traced in a direct line towards Cor-
garff for thirty miles, and at about twenty miles from Portsoy, it
seemingly divides into two dikes, which, at the distance of thirty
miles, are at about five miles from each other, just as in this pa-
rish, as above stated.  What seems further to prove the identity
of the Portsoy, Corgarff, and Glentilt vein, or at least to call for
investigation, is that if a ruler be laid on the map of Scotland,
(in the maps of the Society for the Diffusion of Useful Know-
ledge,) on Portsoy and Corgarff, Glentilt will be fund within less
than four miles of the line.  The graphite vein in this parish also
points to the identity of the Portsoy serpentine, and the dikes of
that mineral here ; as graphite is found in several localities along
the directly traceable course of the Portsoy serpentine dike. *
   It may only be further noticed on this head, that the distinc-
tive peculiarity of appearance of this section of the Grampians

<FOOTNOTE>For the above notice, the writer is chiefly indebted to his friend, a learned pro-
fessor, who declines allowing declines allowing his name to be given.


