
322                     BERWICKSHIRE.

It measured about sixty-six feet in length. The species was the
Balama Boops.
   In the department of ornithology there is no great variety. The
kingsfisher and dipper are occasionally seen flying about the Eye.
The golden-crested wren is also frequently met with. The star-
ling, fieldfare, and missel-thrush occasionally halt for a week or two
in large flocks. The Bohemian chatterer is also occasionally seen
in the plantations about Netherbyres. The sandpiper breeds on
the margins of the streams. The woodcock, the common snipe,
and the jack-snipe, are common. The water-hen abounds in the
Eye. Herons are observed in great numbers preying upon the
smaller fish both in the Eye and on the sea-coast. The creeper,
great titmouse or ox-eye, cole-mouse, long-tailed titmouse, &c. are
common. Linnets and finches of various kinds are also common;
the bullfinch being not infrequent. A few months ago several
swans made their appearance in the bay of Eyemouth, one of which
was shot. Owing to the neighbourhood of St Ahb's Head, well
known as a great breeding station of sea fowl, a great number of
aquatic birds frequent our coast; of these the principal are cormo-
rants, auks, gulls, many of the ducks, several of the divers, and
one or two species of grebes. The solar goose is an occasional vi-
sitant. The guillemot and tern are abundant; and occasionally,
in particular states of the weather, the stormy petrel is observed at
no great distance from the shore. The more common birds of the
game kind are partridges and pheasants, the latter having increased
considerably within the last few years. The principal fishes of the
coast are haddock, cod, ling, turbot, halibut, skate, &c.
   Botany.-Owing to the small extent of the parish, a great va-
riety cannot be expected in the department of botany. On the
sea shore, however, we meet with several interesting plants, while
the woods about Netherbyres, and the banks of the Eye and Ale,
contribute their numbers. In the former station we may mention,
among others more commonly met with, Ligusticum Scoticum (lo-
vage,) Thalictrum minus, Silene maritima, Veronica scutellata, Tri-
glochim maritimum, Eupatorium cannabinum, Cynoglossum officinale,
Glaucium luteum, Cakile maritima, Arenaria marina, and, in exca-
vated sea rocks, the Asplenium marinum, (a very pretty fern.) On
the sea banks at Gunsgreen, the beautiful Scilla verna occurs in
considerable abundance. The station is not exactly within the pa-
rish, but is so very near its bounds that it cannot be omitted. The
discovery of this interesting plant is due to the Rev. A. Baird,
minister of Cockburnspath. The station now mentioned is the


