
                          EAST KILBRIDE.                  891

none of the stone remain on the top of the Rough-hill.  It is
worth while, however, to mention a discovery which he made of
a celt or stone hatchet, lying not far from the ruins on the Rough-
hill.  It was formed of a coarse kind of ironstone; it was 6 1/2
inches in length, and 3 in breadth at the face, but only 1 at the
other end.
   The ruins of Mains Castle, once the extensive habitation of
the rich and powerful families of the Cummins and the Lind-
says of Dunrode, are about a mile to the north of the church and
village.  They remain much in the same state in which they were
described by Mr Ure.
   The mansion-house or Castle of Lickprivick stood about a
mile and a half to the south of the village.  It was probably older
than most other buildings known to have existed in the parish.
About sixty years before Mr Ure's time, the whole of it was re-
duced to ruins.  When he surveyed the spot, nothing remained
but some scattered rubbish.  Even that last trace of it has now
completely disappeared.  But the artificial mound of earth, not
far from the site of the building, still continues as a marked ob-
ject, being 14 feet in height, square at the top, with each side
measuring 12 yards.
   In 1793, the remains of a very large cairn, called Herlaw or
Harelaw, were still to be seen on the farm of Rawhead, about the
centre of the parish.  The site of it is nearly 4 mile distant from
the present farm of Harelaw.  When Mr Urie wrote, some thou-
sand cart loads of stones had at different times been taken from
it, and some thousands then remained.  The stones appeared to
have been gathered from the land.  Many urns with fragments
of human bones were found in one corner of it, but none of them
were preserved.  It was about 12 feet in height, and covered a
base of 70 feet in diameter.  But its dimensions must have been
much greater when it was entire.
   This cairn was entirely removed about the year 1808, and no
distinct remains of it appear on the little mound of earth which
was its base.  The stones were used as materials in the erection
of fences.  The spot is now planted with trees, and two or three
stones are lying imbedded in the grass, at what was formerly the
centre of the pile.
   The remains of another cairn were to be seen in Mr Ure's
time at Lawknowe, near Mains Castle.  It has now entirely dis-
appeared, and its site is occupied by a modern potato house.


