
	               ARDCHATTAN.                              487

surprise him at the pass of Cruachan ; but Bruce used the pre-
caution of ordering Douglas to make a circuit towards the summit
of the mountain,-his own troops having Loch Awe on their left,
aiid Bencruachan on their right. On entering the pass, Bruce
was attacked by the men in ambush, which, when Douglas ob-
served, be rushed down on the assailants sword in hand.  The
event was not doubtful. Lorn's troops, headed by his son, were
totallv routed.  Bruce then made himself master of the whole
country, took possession of Dunstaffnage Castle, the chief resi-
deuce of the Lord of Lorn, and made a grant of it and of a large
extent of territory to his relative Stewart, afterwards called Lord
of Lorn.  Macdougall and his son were permitted to retire to
England, where he soon after died.*
  During the devastations occasioned by Montrose in the reign of
Charles I., this part of Arglyleshire war ravaged by his barbarous
Irish auxiliaries, under the command of Alexander Macdonald,
better known here by his patronymic Alaster Maccoll.  Macdo-
entered this parish in the winter of 1644-5 by Loch Etive ;
and visited all who bore the name of Campbell with the pains of
fire and sword.+
   Eminent Characters.-Colin Campbell, for many years minister
of Ardchattan, appears to have been one of the most eminent men
of his age for attainments in mathematics and astronomy. I am in-
debted to his respectable descendant, John Gregorson, Esq. of Ard-
tornish, for the short account of him which follows: Mr Campbell
was son of Patrick Campbell, ancestor of the family of Barcaldine,
then of Inverzeldies, in Perthshire, and of Beatrice or Bethia,
daughter of Patrick, seventh in the line of the respectable family
of Ochtertyre. He was born in 1644, studied at St Andrews, and
afterwards, as Mr Gregorson thinks, at one of the English univer-
sities, either as companion or tutor to his relative, Robert, after-
wards Sir Robert Campbell of Glenorchy, one of the ancestors
of the present Marquis of Breadalbane.
   Mr Campbell is mentioned as an " expectant," in the records of
the presbytery of Lorn, in 1666,- and, in the following year, he
was admitted minister of Ardchattan and Muckairn. In 1668, he
was appointed presbytery clerk, which office he held till his death,
a period of nearly sixty years, discharging his duties in that ca-

<FOOTNOTE>Lord Hailes' Annals.
     +See narrative given in Chambers's Journal for December 1835.


