
386                          FIFESHIRE.

at 68,000; and the average wage of each weaver at 7s. a week:-
but a good and diligent worker will, without difficulty, make twice
that sum.
   There are not fewer than 69 hands employed as shoemakers
in the parish. The produce of their joint labour is of course
much more than is requisite for meeting the wants of the neigh-
bourhood; and the surplus is, for the most part, carried to the ad-
jacent market-towns, chiefly to Dundee, to supply the shoe-shops.
A small proportions is also disposed of at the principal fairs in the
neighbourhood.
   Reed Society.-The operative weavers of Kennoway, or at least
the great majority of them, sensible of the advantages that might
be derived from having the use of an extensive and proper assort-
ment of reeds; after having been, for a number of years, members
of a society in the neighbourhood, instituted for promoting this
object-about three years ago formed themselves into an associa-
tion for the same purpose, denominated the "Kennoway Reed
Society." The sole object of this society is to serve its members
with reeds of any given order and breadth. It is open at all times
for the admission of workmen properly qualified and recommend-
ed, who are of good character, and living within two miles of the
village of Kennoway. The entry-money is 3s. 6d. for one share,
and a member may hold as many shares as he pleases. A certain
rate is paid for the use of each reed, according to the description
it is of, and according to the amount of spindles it is employed in
the weaving of.
   This society is found to be of great benefit to its members. Of
these, there are 122, holding in all 199 shares. The number of
reeds which the society is possessed of, is 560; the average price
of each of which, when new, might be 5s.

                             V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Market-Town.-There are no market-towns in the parish, but
the access to Kirkcaldy and Cupar is easy, each being about nine
miles distant; the former in a south-westerly, and the latter in a
north-easterly direction. The means of communication, in every
part of the parish, are easy, the roads being in general good. Of
these, there are about two miles of turnpike.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The situation of the parish church, in the
village of Kennoway, renders it convenient for by far the greater
part of the population; there being in that village, and within the
compass of about half a mile around it, upwards of 1100 inhabi


