
                          CAMPSIE.                       251

   The produce of an inferior farm of say 70 acres may be as fol-
lows :-

<TABLE>
         20 acres white crops at L. 8,       L..160   0   0
         10 do. green  do. L.20,                200   0   0
         20 do. bay at L 4,                      80   0   0
         20 do. pasture at L. l, 10s.            90   0   0
        ---                                    ---- ---------
         70                                  L. 470   0   0

   In this case, there may be six milk cows, three young beasts
and three borses ; and the rent mav be L. 110.
   Husbandry.-The district being in the neighbourbood of Glas-
gow, an active tenant will always lay his account with purchasing
a considerable quantity of dung, in addition to what is produced
on his farm, and in raising as much green crop, particularly pota-
toes, as possible. Summer-fallowing is seldom practised, nor is
there much need of it, a nearly all the arable land in the parish
may be made, by thorough draining, to carry green-crop profit-
ably. Lime is to be had-prepared at sundry places in the parish,
and the soil generally being of a ferruginous quality, it is often
found to act with good effect. It is necessary, however, to em-
ploy it with discretion and judgment. The best quality of dung
will here, as everywhere, produce the best crops; and it may with
some truth be said, the best farmer is he who is the most liberal
in its use, the supply being almost unlimited. In our moist cli-
mate the earlier kinds of oats are found to be the most suitable.
Pease and beans are rarely sown; flax only in very small quan-
tities occasionally; rye never. Carrots have sometimes been suc-
cessfully tried in small, patches of deep free soil. None of the ar-
tificial grasses, except rye-grass and red and white clover, have
been attempted by the farmers; nor have any of the other more
uncommon of the vegetable products for soiling been cultivated.
The kinds of turnips raised are the Aberdeen, or Dutch yellow,
and the Swedish; and only a small breadth is sown for the use of
the dairy stock, as the ground suitable for growing them can be
more profitably employed in potato cropping, than in turnips for
other use.'
   The Dairy.- This is a branch of chief importance in the hus-
bandry of our district, as a ready and profitable market is found
in Glasgow for all its produce. Butter and butter-milk are the
Only forms, it may be, said, in which that produce appears in the
market. The Ayrshire breed of cows is carefully cultivated, and
no other kinds nor mixed breeds are to be seen here. A very good
cow will yield in a year, say 200 pounds of butter, at is., L.= 10,


