
				KILTARLITY.                    485

perceptible, and its unrippled surface reflects, as from a mirror,
the gaunt and hoary rocks which overlook it, and which seem as
if placed sentry there for the purpose of preserving the peaceful
and rustic scene below from the assault of conflicting elements or
the intrusion of unhallowed strife. This romantic strath affords
great attractions to tourists, many of whom visit it in the summer
season. Gentlemen's seats are not numerous, but, the situations
being generally very well chosen, they tend much to enliven the ap-
pearance of the country. The most prominent and remarkable
amongst them is a lofty turreted building called Erchless Castle. It
is said to have been built in the fifteenth century, but is still in a,
state of excellent repair, and is kept up as the family mansion of
"The Chisholm," chief of that ilk. It overlooks a noble park,
studded with venerable aged-looking trees, among which are some
of the remains of the old Caledonian forest. Besides a very con-
siderable quantity of natural timber, there have been about 1000
acres in the neigbbourhood of Erchless, planted with larch, oak,
ash, elm, beech, plane-tree, Scotch fir, chesnut, &c. and all this
has been done within the last twenty-four years.
   Of The Chisholm's property in this parish, there are about 750
imperial acres of arable, land kept in regular cultivation. The hill
ground was never measured, so that the number of acres cannot
be stated. The real rent of the property belonging to him in this
parish, is about L. 1036.
   At Fasnacoil, (which is upwards of twenty miles from where
Beauly falls into the sea,) the river Deaothack * joins the Glass.
This river is about forty feet in breadth,and from three to six feet
in depth ; the stream is very rapid, and its course runs from west
to east. It takes its rise from some springs and rivulets in the hills
on the south side of Strathglass, and is upwards of twelve miles in
length. The fishing upon it is very indifferent, consisting only of
small trout and eels. For about four miles of the extent of this
small river, there is a continuous succession of rapids and cascades,
the most remarkable of which is Plodda Fall, situated about a mile
and a half to the westward of Guisachan Hoilse. The proprietor,
William Fraser, Esq. of Culbockie, has been at considerable
expense in forming a pleasure-walk along the banks of this river,
which possesses all the attractions which the most fanciful dispo-
sition of rock and wood can contribute. The wood along the
banks consists of old magnificent Scotch firs interspersed with
oak and birch, which add much to the effect of the scenery, in

<FOOTNOTE>A Gaelic word signifying that it, occasionally becomes dry.


