
                             DUNBAR.                           85

days. Some of these poor creatures appear never to have cut corn
before, and they have no object but to remain their hours and to re-
ceive their meat and wager. The field is too often a scene of con-
fusion; there is neither a sufficient portion of work done, nor is it
done in a workman-like manner. The corn being irregularly cut
and laid in the sheaf, much of it is lost in working, and the irregu-
lar heads escape the mill in thrashing. Perhaps it is thought, that
where nature has been bountiful, the fowls of Heaven and the poor
have a right to their share; but it is certain, that when the corn is
led from the field, a gleaner will with ease collect a bushel per day.
It is true, some farmers rake their fields; but grain which remains
on the ground is discoloured and injured; and the best raking is
clean-cutting. There are distinguished exceptions in the parish;
but the practice is too generally applicable to the district. It may
safely be affirmed of the Dunbar farmers that they readily make trial
of any thing that promises to be useful; that there is amongst them
a great deal of good-natured emulation; and that they frankly com-
municate the results of their experiments. In short, so much has
been done here, both by nature and by art, to render the earth pro-
ductive, that perhaps there remains but little to carry husbandry to
perfection.
   Quarries.-Red freestone more or less compact abounds. There
are also two quarries of gray limestone. The lime is very pure, very
white, and forms a strong cement. Much lime for manure is carried
from this quarter to Berwickshire.  It is to be regretted that in this
parish, where it abounds, it has not been so copiously applied for
that purpose as it ought, from a belief that the free nature of the
soil does not require it; whereas Sir Humphry Davy asserts, that
"all soils are improved by mild lime, and ultimately by quicklime
which do not effervesce with acids and sands more than clays."
   Fisheries.-White fish of all kinds and lobsters are caught off
the coast. The cod are pickled, and sent to London; the had-
docks are smoked and sent chiefly to Edinburgh and Glasgow.
The lobsters are preserved in pits cut out of the rock within sea
marks, which are called hullies, and sent to London. In August
and September, herrings of excellent quality are caught off Dun-
bar: some years, 300 boats have been so employed; but of late,
either the fish have not been upon the coast, or, what is, more pro-
bable, the fishermen have not found them.,
   Raw Pradure.-Wheat having fallen, in price so much of late,
a considerable portion of barley is now sown after turnips, in place
of wheat, in the rotation above stated; but supposing these two kinds


