
                             BELHELVIE.                         243

some places, small hills of trap rise to a considerable height, per-
haps several hundred feet, above the level of the rivulet.  The trap
contains in it all the variety of minerals usually found in similar
seams.  On the south-west side of the trap seam, the rocks and
outlayers of stone are almost entirely of granite.  On the north-
east side almost no granite rocks, not even outlayers or water-rol-
led pieces of granite, are to be found.  They are all of the coarsest
varieties of rock, scarcely fit for any useful purpose, except for
building dry stone dikes.  There are no quarries or mines
wrought, nor fossil organic remains or ores, in any noticeable
quantity, found in the parish.  The alluvial deposits are a rich
clay loam and clay, mixed with rolled blocks of stones of all sizes,
from the size of a walnut, to that which weighs several tons, gra-
vel and fine sea or river sand.  It is probable that in many places,
especially in a line from north to south, about a mile from the
sea, these alluvial deposits are very deep, for no rock or solid strata
have been found even where pits have been sunk to a considerable
depth.
   There is a great quantity of peat-moss in the parish.  Some of it
near the-coast is considerably under the level of the sea, and is
covered to the depth of 10 or 12 feet by sea sand.  It is probable
that this moss extends a considerable length out to sea, and that
there is a submarine forest somewhere in this bay at no great dis-
tance.  For on Christmas 1799, when there was perhaps the
most dreadful tempest that any person remembered to have seen
on this part of the coast, several cubical blocks of peat moss
were cast by the sea upon the sandy beach, some of them contain-
ing upwards of 1700 cubic feet.  Pieces of wood, like branches
of oak trees, apparently converted to a consistence like moss, pas-
sed through these blocks in every direction.  Both moss and wood
were perforated by a number of Auger worms of a large size, and
most of them were alive in their holes.  The moss was of a much
harder consistence than any found in this part of the country.
Such large blocks could not have been carried to the sea by any
of the neighbouring rivers for they were not swelled at that time,
but were all firmly bound up with ice.  In general, when any thing
like a tempest occurs at sea, a considerable quantity of peat moss
of the same kind is cast upon this sandy beach; but no person re-
members to have seen it in so large masses as at Christmas 1799.

                          II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Land-owners.-There are 15 landowners in the parish; The
rental of the principal land-owner is about L.900, the least L.80.


