
                    GLENURCHY AND INISHAIL.                   93


size, to be seen in the Auchay below the farm of Stronmil chain.
Large oaks have been recently dug up in the close vicinity of the
house of New Inverawe; and trunks of a very large size may, when
the lake is low, be seen along the shores of Lochawe. Besides
these valuable kinds of trees, our mountains and valleys were
clothed, as they are partially still, with oak copice and birch, the
aspen, the ash, and elm, and the ever-green holly. But these, ge-
nerally speaking, are rapidly disappearing; and our mountains, and
valleys, and straths have become comparatively naked and bare.
The vale of the Urchay, though comparatively denuded of its an-
cient garniture, is, notwithstanding, well-wooded, both with na-
tural and plantation timber; and every possible attention is paid
thereto by its noble proprietor. The same remark applies with
equal justice and propriety to the woods of Inverawe, Rookhill,
and Inishdrynich.

                      II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
  The introduction of sheep constitutes an era of great importance
in the history of this, as of almost every other Highland parish. It
effected, everywhere in the Highlands,a complete revolution in the
condition of the population. It snapped the tie which bound the
occupant to the owner of the soil, and which began to be relaxed
on the suppression of the Rebellion of 1745, which was attend-
ed with the complete prostration and extinction of the hopes long
indulged by the majority of the Highland chiefs of the elevation
of the House of Stewart to the throne of their ancestors, and thus
greatly lowered the vassal in the estimation of his cbief. The an-
ticipated result followed. Vast tracts of our straths and valleys,
of our moors and mountains, exchanged stock and occupants. The
deer and the goat gave place to the sheep; and, in many Instan-
ces, the intelligent, well-educated, well-descended, and hospitable
Highland tacksman, with his attached devoted cottars and depend-
ents, gave way to the plodding industrious low country store farmer
and shepherd. One or other of three alternatives was adopted by
the unfortunate mountaineer,--that of removing to some of the
manufacturing towns of the south,--of emigrating to America--or
of contenting himself with a small patch of land, with the keep
a few cows, in some assigned locality in native strath or valley.
  Eminent Men.--Glenorchy gave birth, at a comparatively re-
cent period, to two highly gifted and distinguished individuals,
brothers, viz the late Rev. Dr John Smith of Campbelton, and


