
814                               PERTHSHIRE.

his anxiety for the education of the poor residing in it, that, by
his last will, dated at Edinburgh, 4th July 1677, he left or mor-
tified to the kirk-session 500 merks, the interest of which was to
be paid yearly to the schoolmaster for his "encouragement to
teach puir bairns who are not able to pay quarter payment."
He left also a similar sum, for like purposes, to the parish of
Avondale, which was probably the place of his nativity.* He had
been one of the resolutioners, and, though a moderate man, was
yet firm in his non-submission to Prelacy.
  A considerable interval now elapsed, during which only one
sermon was preached in the parish church; it extended from De-
cember 1664, to the 8th of June 1665, on which day,

  5. Mr John Wemyss, chaplain to Viscount Stormont, was or-
dained at Dunbarny. He was son of Mr David Wemyss, minister
of Scone, (who was ordained in 1620, and died in 1664), and he
had three brothers ministers of the Church of Scotland, one of
whom succeeded his father at Scone, while the other two exer-
cised their pastoral functions at Lecropt and Aberdalgie respec-
tively. He died on the 8th of June 1675.
  He seems, from the session records, to have been one of the

<FOOTNOTE>Since writing the above, I have met with the following interesting notice of Mr
Robert Young:- "Mr James Wiseman being admitted Professor of Philosophy 10th
Nomoember 1638, programs were emitted indicting a new trial for the vakaing profession
of humanity,left by Mr James Wiseman. Two competitors appeared, Mr Robert Fair-
ley, son to an honest citizen, laureat, anno 1624, and long practised in the profession
of humanity, cum laude: and Mr Robert Young, son to Mr Andrew Young (late mi-
nister of Abercorn), who had been laureat in Glasgow at the Lambmass preceedeing
the rigorous tryal ad operturam libri was made use of. No man doubted but the first
named (having so manv advantages, and being so well seen in humanity,) should carry
the prize. But it pleased the Lord so far to desert him at that time, that no man did
voice for him; whereupon Mr Robert Young was admitted, Professor of Humanity
14th November 1638." On the reshgnation of Mr Alexander Hepburn (1644), who
had been regent (of the 56 class, 28 in No.) for about nineteen years, "many of the
town council inclined to chooser Mr Robert Young, who now had professed huma-
nity in the College of Edinburgh for five years. At length, in the beginning of Oc-
tober, with general consent, Mr Fairley was elected and established in the profes-
sion of philosophy, and Mr Robert Young (an eloquent preacher), at first employed
to assist the ministers of Edinburgh, there being some places vacant, and thereafter
was presented by the city council, as patrons, to the kirk of Dumbarny."
  Mr Young's legacy was peculiary seasonable, as it appears from the annexed
extract, that, at this period, one-half of the population were unable to read,-a
strange contrast to the present state of the parish, as there are not now three adults
in it unable to read. It will be seen, however, that other parishes were in the same
condition.
  From the presbytery register of the date of March 28th 1649, "A list of the
families, wherein some of them can read, within the parishes following:-

<TABLE>
              Scone,             25            Kilinoul,             18
              Dron,              36            St Martins,           10
              Dumbarny,          55            Redgorton,             9
              St Madoes,          9            Amgask,               16
              Rynd,              25            Abemethy,            100."


