
     Marischal College and University College of Aberdeen.

one University, but into one College, particularly in 1747; but,
from the opposition of some individuals of the one or the
other, hitherto without success.  Upon the 8th of November
1754, after various meetings and consultations held for that
purpose, all the members of both Universities unanimously
agreed to, and subscribed certain articles of union, and appli-
ed to the Duke of Argyle, then at the head of affairs in Scot-
land, for his support and influence in rendering it effectual
and permanent.  By this agreement, the number of professor-
ships in the united College was limited to the number then
existing in King's College, with the single addition of a pro-
fessor of mathematics; and of those offices, such as Greek,
philosophy, medicine, etc. in which each College had a pro-
fessor, the half was to be suppressed; one of these professors
either resigning in favour of his colleague, or teaching the
class alternately, until the death or resignation of one of
them.  The respective patrons of these double offices were
to present by turns, and all the professors were to receive a
considerable addition to their salaries, out of those to be sup-
pressed.  The only difficulty remaining to be adjusted was,
whether the locus, or seat of the united College should be in
New or Old Aberdeen?  the Marischal College, with the ma-
gistrates of Aberdeen, and other patrons, insisting on its be-
ing placed in that city; while the members of King's College
strongly maintained a contrary opinion.  This point being
therefore at last referred to the decision of the Earl of Fin-
later, he determined it in favour of New Aberdeen; but in
confequence of fresh remonstrances and opposition on the
part of King's College, the whole previous agreement fell
to the ground, and the two Colleges remained separate as
before.
   After the failure of this attempt, no other endeavour ap-
pears to have been used to effect an union until the year

     VOL. ULT. P


