
                                      SPEYMOUTH.                      51

	Statistical Account, were in their infancy, and hesitatingly attempt-
	ed by some of the more wealthy tenants, are now generally adopt-
	ed.  Turnips and sown grass, which were then far from common,
	may now be seen on every, even the smallest farm; and with re-
	gard to the dress and diet of the people, a considerable change to
	the better has evidently taken place in both.

	   April 1835.


                            PARISH OF SPEYMOUTH.

                   PRESBYTERY OF ELGIN, SYNOD OF MORAY.

                     THE REV. JOHN GORDON, MINISTER.


                        I.-TOPOGRAPHY, &C.
	   Extent and Boundaries.-THE extent of the parish from north
 	to south is about 7 miles; and from east to west about 2 miles,
	on an average.  It is bounded on the north by the Moray Frith;
	on the east by the Spey.  The parish is formed of the two old pa-
	rishes of Essil and Dipple, which were united in 1731.
	   Topographical Appearances.-At the distance of about half a
	mile from the sea, the ground rises suddenly to a small hill.  Be-
	yond this there is almost one continued plain, of 3 1/2 miles in length,
	and about 1 1/4 in breadth, bounded on the side towards the river
	by a steep bank, from forty to fifty feet in height. The soil is for
        the most part light.   The climate is mild and temperate, and
	the situation healthy.
	   About the year 1800, the extensive moor adjoining Garnouth,
	called the Common, was divided among the - feum-s, the Duke of
	Gordon retaining a portion.  Nearly the whole was planted with
	Scotch firs, which are thriving well, and have mich improved the
	appearance of the country.
                              II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
 	   Antiquities.-The only relic of the past in this parish worth pre-
	serving, was part of the house in which Charles II, is said have
	signed the Solemn league i1nd Covenant butl; but this was razed to the
	foundation last year.  In digging in several parts of Ahe beach at

<FOOTNOTE>Vide Old Statistical Account.


