
     of Campsie.

from the remains of large trees occasionally dug up in the
swamps, and of the scattered copse-woods in the glens and
braes.  There are still three considerable woods in the parish;
the three together contain at least one hundred and ten acres
of ground, and consist of oak, aller, birch, saugh, and ash
though the timber of these woods be reckoned good, they are
but of slow growth; the woods upon the banks of Lochlo-
mond arrive at fuller maturity in 18 years, than the Camp-
psie wood in 28.
   The different articles made from these woods are sold at
the following prices on the spot: Stobs at 4 s. the hundred,
four feet long; kebbres for houses at 3 s. per dozen, if made
of birck, and 6 s. of ash; cart-trees at 1 s. and 1 s. 4 d. the pair.
A woodman receives 1 s. 2 d. for cutting and making the hun-
dred stobs; and peelers of bark, if men, 1 s. per day, and wo-
men 8 d. Bark sells at 15 s. the boll, 12 stone weight; and
     VOL. XV T t

<FOOTNOTE>

Dartick mills, upon the Kelvin, is the sole cause why the fish come not up in
rodding time to the Glazert.  Perhaps there is some truth in saying that one
great reason of the scarcity of salmon in the Clyde, is the little regard paid to
the young fry.
   It would at least be an object to the country at large, and particularly to
that city, that greater attention should be paid to this article, so that the tri-
butary streams which formerly supplied the Clyde with fry, should not be
rendered totally useless I have not heard of a single salmon being seen in
our river for 18 years; whereas, in former days, they were so plenty in spawn-
ing time, that it was customary, though unlawful, for the country lads to go
out with torches made of the dressings of lint, and with long spears to kill
considerable quantities of these soul fish.
   Although sometimes the water from the coal-wastes destroys the trouts
in the Glazert, yet as the glen and burns, at the head of the parish, are well
stocked, the river is quickly replenished.
   Our trout seems to be of two distinct species; the muir trout, with the
black back, is a poor, lank, insipid fish; the Kelvin trout is yellow in the
skin, and much plumper and richer in the fish.  There is only one loch in the
parish, containing about 32 acres, where there is considerable quantity of
perch.


