
			CARMYLIE.                          359

reached its minimum about thirty-five or forty years ago, being
then about 700. Since that period, the annual average of bap-
tisms, and the population returns, shew a gradual increase.
	It is difficult to account for so large a population as the above
averages seem to imply, during the latter part of the seventeenth
century, in a part of the country, which, at that time, must have
been indifferently cultivated, and where trade and manufacturers
had no existence. But it is well known that the cottar system pre-
vailed much in those days; and the wants of the people, being then but
few, were easily supplied. The convenience of procuring fuel from
an extensive moss in the parish might have been an inducement
then, as it is at present, for the poorer classes to congregate in its
neighbourhood.
	The decrease which afterwards took place may have been ow-
ing, in some degree, to the forfeiture, which took place, in 1715, of
the lands constituting the greater part of the parish; to the diffe-
rent management of them which must then have succeeded; and
to the various inconveniences thence arising to the tenantry.
	The decrease which took place at a later period, was probably
occasioned by the breaking up of the cottar ryrtem, and the en-
largement of the farms at the commencement of the agricultural
improvements of than parish.
	The gradual increase of the last forty years, especially since the
beginning of the present century, seems owing principally to the in-
troduction of the manufacture of coarse linens, a considerable num-
ber of the population being employed in weaving that article; and
also to the employment afforded by the slate and pavement quar-
ries in the parish, which are now wrought to a much greater ex-
tent than formerly.
	But there are also other causes which ought to be taken into ac-
count. In the precarious climate of the parish, it is of importance
for the farmer to have an ample supply of labourers at command,
particularly in the time of harvest, and various cottages have been
built with this view; and when we add to this, the facilities afford-
ed for this purpose by the abundance of building materials, especi-
ally in the neighbourhood of the quarries, from which they are car-
ried out as rubbish; and also the custom of early marriages, now
so common, and the preference generally given to married farm-
servants;-we are at no loss to account for the increase which has
taken place in the population of the parish.
	There are three small hamlets in the parish, containing a po-

	FORFAR.				  A a



