
                  TOROSAY.                         293

   The late Mrs Maclaine of Lochbuy, mother to the present
laird, presented the parish, about forty years ago, with two hand-
some communion cups.  In 1829, Colonel Campbell of Possil
made a present to it of a church bell.
   Prior to 1831, the incumbents had manse money in lieu of the
legal accommodations.  In that year a manse was built at Craig-
nurie; but, not being water-proof, it stood in need of considerable
repairs two years thereafter.  These repairs it received, and the
evil that rendered them necessary, was completely checked by the
harling of the walls with Arden lime.
   The glebe is 27 1/2 acres in extent, and if let might draw about
L.11 of rent.  The stipends are permanently fixed at L.172,
19s. 4 1/10d.
   Prior to 1828, the minister preached alternately in the parish,
church, which is at Craignuire, and at Kinlochspelve, which is
twelve miles from Craignuire.  A missionary officiated at Salen,
the other extremity of the parish.  In the course of that year, a
Parliamentary manse was built there, and the church, which had
been erected about sixty years ago, for the use of the Mull mis-
sion, was given over by the heritors to the Parliamentary commis-
sioner's, when it was enlarged, and a minister appointed to it.  An-
other Parliamentary church and manse were built at Kinloch-
spelve, and a minister was inducted there that year also.
   Each of them has a glebe of about two acres in extent, and
L.120 of stipends, payable out of the Exchequer.
   Of the population of the parish about 1000 are attached, quoad
sacra, to the two Government churches, and to the parish of Kil-
finichen.
   All the families in the parish, with the exception of five, attend
the churches of the Establishment.  Of these, two are Roman
Catholics, and three Anabaptists.  With the exception of one,
they are not natives of the island.  A few years ago, two families
Of Dissenters, from the low country, came to reside in the parish.
One was in connection with the Associate Synod, the other with,
the Relief body.  They both joined the Establishment.
   Education.-The number of schools in the parish is seven.  Of
these four are parochial, one an Assembly's school, one is sup-
ported by the Glasgow Auxiliary Gaelic School Society, and one
is a subscription school.  Three of the parochial teachers have
each a salary of L.15, 8s. 10 1/4d.  The fourth, who only teaches
a branch of the parochial schools in a sequestered glen, has only


