
                         KIRKCALDY.                           741

distance inward from the sea the land is nearly level, and then it
rises rather abruptly. On this flat ground, along a section of a
spacious bay on the north side of the Frith of Forth, the town
stands. It is ten miles due north from Edinburgh.
   It may be proper to mention, while speaking of the town of
Kirkcaldy, that it comprehends much more than the royal burgh,
though this be all of it that lies within the parish. When it is
viewed as a considerable sea-port, and an important manufacturing
town, it must be regarded as comprehending Linktown, in the pa-
rish of Abbotshall, West Bridge, in the parish of Kinghorn, and
all this is included within the Parliamentary burgh. To this also
may be added Pathhead and Gallaton, in the parish of Dysart.
These places are all adjoining, and form one town, though they
are looked upon as distinct by the inhabitants, more from the divi-
sions of parishes than from any thing else. The town, in this
extended sense, has a population of 15,000; and little more than
5000 reside within Kirkcaldy proper.
   Climate.-The climate is dry and salubrious, and favourable to
longevity, of which there are numerous instances. On account of
the great and sudden variations in the temperature of the atmo-
sphere during the end of spring and beginning of summer, croup,
bronchitis, and other forms of thoracic inflammatory complaints
are prevalent.
   Hydrography.-This parish presents scarcely any thing worthy
of notice under this head. The East Burn, a small stream, after
receiving one or two nameless tributaries in its course, which does
not exceed three miles, falls into the sea at the point where the
parishes of Dysart and Kirkcaldy meet on the coast. This rivu-
let deserves to be mentioned chiefly on account of its romantic
and richly wooded banks, which are commonly called the Den.
These woods and banks are intersected with walks, to which the
proprietor allows the public to have access; and thus the inhabit.
ants have the privilege and advantage of a beautiful and agree-
able retreat in the immediate vicinity of the town.
   Minerals.-The limited extent of this parish, the absence of
rocks on its sea coast, and the fact, that, in very few places,
the strata make their appearance on the surface, render it scanty
in geological phenomena. The general dip of the strata, where
their bearings are regular, and have not been deranged by the
convulsions which threw up the trap rocks, that intersect this coal-
field, and are so troublesome in the working of the coal, is south-


