
                        EDINBURGH.                          673

was collected, the foundation of the new building was laid, and
the work commenced immediately, after a plan furnished by Ro-
bert Adam, architect.  The design, however, was soon found to
be far too extensive for the limited funds; and scarcely was a
fourth part of the building erected, when the work was abandoned
for want of money to carry it on.  In this unfinished condition it
remained for twenty-five years; till, in 1816, by the exertions of
Sir J. Marjorbanks, then provost of the city, aided by the mem-
ber of Parliament for the borough, a Parliament grant of
L.10,000 a year was obtained to complete the buhlding.  A now
plan was furnished by Mr Playfair, architect, which was deemed
expedient, as heavy alterations were found necessary, chiefly in
the interior departments of the building.  In a few years, the whole
was finished, with the exception of a dome above the front entrance,
which was included in the original plan.  The structure forms a
magnificent quadrangle, with an open space in the centre.  The
length of this quadrangle is 358 feet by 255.  The entrance is
ornamented by a portico, supported by four Doric columns, 26
feet in height, each formed of a single piece of sandstone.
The constitution and government of this university differs from that
of all the others in Scotland which were established under the Pa-
pal power. No power is conferred upon it by the charter as an in-
dependent corporation; everything is left to the town-council as
patrons. There is no mention made of a chancellor, although in
early times the name was occasionally assumed by the Lord Pro-
vost. The case with regard to the offices of Rector and Dean of
Faculty is nearly the same. The office of Rector was held by so-
veral persons, though with frequent intervals till 1640, when the
council resolved to elect a rector annually with six assessors,-two
members of council, two ministers, and two professors.  But, in
the beginning of last century, the office of rector was permanent,
ly annexed to that of Lord Provost, who, as head of the council,
Already possessed all the authority which could be deputed to the
rector.  Accordingly no chancellor or vice-chancellor, rector, or
dean of faculty exercises any authority or jurisdiction over the
principal, professors, or students in the university.  The business
is manage by the town-council, who take charge of the revenue,
communicate with, the senatus, and. exercise a general superin-
tendence over the seminary.  Eleven Professorships have, at dif-
ferent times, been founded by the Crown; of eight of which it
has retained the patronage; but the exercise of this power has


