
                               GLENSHEIL.                        183

       by mildness and humidity.  The thermometer seldom indicates a
       higher temperature than 77&deg;, and has not been observed lower than
       24&deg; of Fahrenheit.  The average temperature, as ascertained by
       observations upon the heat of springs, may be about 47&deg;.  The
       changes in the pressure of the atmosphere are frequent and rapid,
       the mercury in the barometer, which usually stands at 29 1/2 inches,
       often rising or falling half an inch, in the course of a few hours.
         The heat of summer is tempered by the influence of a moist soil
       and cloudy sky, - while in the lower parts of the parish, in conse-
       quence of the vicinity of the ocean, frost is seldom felt, and is
       never intense, or of long continuance.  The prevalent wind is
       the south-west, which blows more frequently than all other winds
       together.  This wind, sweeping over the expanse of the At-
       lantic, and being consequently saturated with moisture, proceeding
       from a warmer to a colder latitude; and having its temperature fur-
       ther depressed in passing over the mountains b which the parish
       is surrounded, is necessarily a rainy wind, and by its prevalence
       communicates the same character to the climate.  The chief falls
       of rain are experienced in the months of August, September, and
       November. October is often dry, although storms of westerly wind,
       accompanied with thunder and lightning, not unfrequently occur.
       The winters are usually open and mild, snow seldom falling on the
       low grounds, and never lying for more than a few days; but in the
       high mountains, it falls to a considerable depth, and does not en-
       tirely disappear before the middle of June.  The spring months are
       always boisterous and inclement, and May is often cold and unge-
       nial, but in June and July the weather is almost invariably delightful.
       As a proof of the mildness of the climate, it may be mentioned that
       tender greenhouse plants, as hydrangea, fuchsia, balm, geranium,
       and others, live out the winter, in gardens, with scarcely any pro-
       tection from the weather.  The climate is also extremely salubrious.
       No endemic disorder is known.  Contagious diseases are rare, and
       since the disappearance of small-pox, have not been extensively
       mortal.  The complaints most prevalent are pneumonia, rheuma-
       tism, and dyspepsia, with phlegmonous and erysipelatous affections;
       disorders which have their origin, probably, in the fatigue and cold
       to which the people are exposed in prosecuting the herring fishery,
       combined with the effects of a moist climate and insufficient nourish-
       ment.  Upon the whole, the inhabitants of the parish enjoy a fair
       portion of health.  The prejudice against the practice of vaccina-
       tion, which at one time prevailed, has given way before the expe-


