
460                         ABERDEENSHIRE.

to yield 13-20th of iron, but that it had never been wrought on ac-
count of the scarcity of fuel in this part of the country.  The work-
ing of it has never yet been attempted, probably for the same reason.
   In the same hill was discovered, some years ago, a quarry of fel-
spar, which was wrought for some time by an agent of one of the
Staffordshire potteries, but has been abandoned on accounted chiefly,
it is said, of the great expense of the land carriage to Aberdeen,
a distance of twenty miles, from which the stones, broken small and
packed in large casks, were conveyed by sea to England.  This
quarry was searched for and discovered, according to the agent's
account, in consequence of a specimen of the spar, marked Mony-
musk, having, been observed in the British Museum.
   Zoology.-The wild animals found in this parish are of the same
kinds with those common in the north of Scotland, such as deer,
roes, hares, rabbits, foxes, &c.  Besides the birds more common.
to the country, great numbers of the woodcock and blackcock
are to be found in the woods and oung plantations, as also phea-
sants in considerable numbers, wbich, having been lately introdu-
ced by the proprietor, are now thriving at large.
   The cattle and horses are, upon the whole, of a good breed, to
which the farmers, in general, are careful to pay some attention;
but there is nothing remarkable in their quality or size to distin-
guish them from those of the neighbouring parishes.  Sheep, of
which vast numbers were formerly kept in this parish, are now al-
most entirely banished, being injurious to the young plantations on
the sides of the hills where they formerly pastured.
   The river Don abounds with salmon and very fine trouts, and
contains also some pike.  The salmon are observed here to come
up for spawning about the end of September, and to return towards
the sea about the beginning of April.  Their progress depends a
good deal on the state of the river; but thev are all down by the
end of the month.
   Forests or Plantations.-There are several extensive woods and
plantations in the parish, chiefly of fir, to which the soil in general
appears most congenial; but on the lower grounds, the harder woods,
such as oak, ash, elm, beech, and plane, birch, alders, and hazel, of
all which there are considerable quantities, thrive well, and many of
them come to large size.  In the old and once beautiful garden of
Paradise, laid out in 1719, and now forming part of what is called
Paradise Wood, there is a number of large spruces and larches
by the river side, upwards of a hundred years old, several of which


