
824                       PERTHSHIRE.

of Dunbarny, who, in 1743, mortified L.5 Sterling; and still
more by the late Rev. James Beatson, who, in 1820, mortified
L.108 Sterling, the annual interest of which sums is paid to the
schoolmaster for teaching poor children. Shortly after the pre-
sent teacher was appointed, the late Sir David Moncrieffe of
Moncrieffe, Bart., bequeathed to the school a bursary of L.100
Scots, to be awarded as a prize to the best classical scholar; and
in addition to the above mortifications for the education of the poor,
the Right Hon. Lady Lucy Grant of Kilgraston allows annually the
sum of L.5 Sterling (limited to the present teacher) for the same be-
nevolent purpose. The parochial teacher's salary is the maximum.
The school is commodiously situated, and the dwelling-house is a
neat modern fabric.
  Fuel.-The parish is provided with coal principally from Kelty,
Lochgelly, and other districts in Fifeshire, besides supplies con-
veyed from the neighbourhood of Newcastle to the Bridge of Earn
in small vessels by the river Earn, and which are sold about the
same price as in Perth.
  Cottages.-At Craigend on the Edinburgh road, about two miles
from Perth, the Moncrieffe family have erected a number of ele-
gant cottages, which have a certain space of ground for gardens
attached to them. They are built with projecting eaves somewhat
in the English style. Three years ago, the Higgland Society
agreed to award ten prizes to such cottagers in the county of
Perth, paying L.5 of yearly rent or under, whose cottages should
be distinguished by general neatness and cleanliness, and whose
gardens should be laid out and kept with a superior style of taste-
fulness and elegance. The inhabitants of five of the Craigend
cottages became competitors for these prizes, and the first five of
the prizes held out to the whole county were adjudged to them.
  Libraries.-A public library was established in this parish many
years ago. It comprises 300 volumes, consisting of standard works
in history, divinity, and other departments of knowledge. There
is also a library connected with the Sabbatb-school, containing
250 volumes on religious subjects, which are read with the great-
est avidity.
  Savinqs-Bank.-There was a Savings-bank organized in the pa-
rish some years ago, but it was dissolved through a groundless ap-
prehension, very generally diffused through the country, that
Government wished to appropriate the funds of such institu-
tions.
                                3


