
 74                         LANARKSHIRE.

continues to receive annually 15s. 2 1/2d. as feu-duty from the lands
called Kirklands.
   There are no chapels or dissenting-houses in the parish; and
hence the parish church is generally well attended.  The average
number of communicants is about 170.
   The yearly average of collections for the last seven years, in-
cluding fines, mortcloth, interest, &c., is L. 19, 2s. 6 3/4d.
   Education.-There is only one parochial school in the parish.
Latin  is taught.  The salary is about L. 28.  The schoolmaster
has the legal accommodation, though it is supposed there is defi-
ciency of garden or glebe.  There are no individuals in this parish
who have not been taught from their infancy to read and write.
   Friendly Society.-A friendly society was instituted about the
year 1799: it continues, and has for its object to support the sick
or disabled members, and to assist in the funeral expenses of hus-
band or wife.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of persons re-
ceiving parochial assistance for the last seven years is 5 6/7, and the
sum annually allotted to each is about L. 6.  The funds arising
from collections, fines, mortcloths, proclamations, and interest of
money lent out to the road trustees at five per cent., in general
cover the expenditure; but when found insufficient, recourse has
been had to voluntary contributions.  There was at one time an
extreme aversion to receive parochial aid, and there are still many
in necessitous circumstances who would feel degraded by accept-
ing it.  But the spirit of independence is gradually wearing away,
and many consider it not only as not degrading, but talk of it as a
right given to them by the law of the land.
   Alehouses.-There are no houses of this description in the pa-
rish.
   Fuel.-The fuel generally used is coal, which is driven from a
distance of twelve miles, and costs about 12s. a ton.  A great deal
of peat is dug.  In the moors or in the marsh on the banks of
the Medwin, it is to be had in great abtndance, but coal is consi-
dered more profitable.

               MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.

   When the former Statistical Account was published, the modern
system of husbandry was little known, and as little practised.  Nay,
those who had the genius or the hardihood to deviate from the old
beaten path were branded as visionaries.  This, however, is not


