
                              SALTON.                       129

is now raised; the adoption of the improved system of tile-drain-
ing: and the consolidation of the numerous small farms which pre-
viously existed into a lesser number of larger ones. The fences and
enclosures are also much better kept than formerly, and in no part
of the country are they superior either in appearance or efficiency.
The parish roads are likewise greatly improved, and at all times
afford a safe and easy means of communication.
   The comforts of the people have here, as elsewhere, been in-
creased by the increased cheapness of the commodities in general
requisition. In a moral point of view, the removal of the public
works already mentioned has had its effect in altering, and in some
degree, it is believed, in improving, the character of the popula-
tion. The chief, and almost only social vice which still exists is
that of illicit connexion-a vice, it is to be feared, unhappily pre-
valent in almost all the rural districts of Scotland. The secon-
dary causes to which, it appears to the writer of these remarks, the
prevalence of this vice in this part of the country is chiefly owing,
are, in the first place, the very inadequate accommodation afforded
by the dwellings of the peasantry, few or none of which contain
more than a single apartment, in which the whole members of the
family, although of opposite sexes, are obliged habitually to reside;
a circumstance, it is obvious, which must naturally produce a dis-
regard to the modesty of domestic intercourse, and consequently
lead to a relaxation of social morals: and, in the second place, the
too general practice of employing young females in out-field work,
where they are associated with persons of the opposite sex, and
where unsuitable intimacies are too frequently easily formed. Both
of these causes it is in the power of individuals almost entirely to
remove; and to the means of doing so the attention of the pro-
prietor and the agriculturist cannot be too seriously directed.

   September 1835.

   HADDINGTON.                         I


