
	                       BORTHWICK.				175

		While round the brier the honeysuckle wreaths
		Entwine, and with their sweet perfume embalm
		The dying rose; a never failing blow
		From spring to fall, expands; the sloethorn white,
		As if a flaky shower the leafless sprays
		Had hung; the hawthorn, May's fair diadem;
		The whin's rich dye; the bonny broom; the rasp;
		Erect; the rose, red, white, and fainteit pink;
		And long-extending bramble's flowery shoots.

		"The bank ascend--an open height appears,
		Between the double streams that wind below;
		Look round, behold a prospect wide and fair;--
		The Lomond hills, with Fife's town skirted shore
		The intervening sea, Inchkeith's grey rocks,
		With beacon-turret crowned: Arthur's proud crest,
		And Salisbury abrupt: the Pentland range
		Now peaked, and now, with undulating swell
		Heaved to the clouds: More near, upon each hand,
		The sloping woods, bulging into the glade--
		Receding then with easy artless curve--
		Behind, a grove of ancient trees, surrounds
		The ruins of a blood-cemented house
		Half prostrate laid," &c.--Birds Scotland.

This property, originally, was but of small extent-not exceeding,
as I have been informed, 400 Scots acres.  The first baron of Arnis-
ton was Sir James Dundas, who was knighted by James V., some
time between the years 1530 and 1540.  Most of the old trees in
the neighbourhood of the mansion-house are believed to have been
planted about that time.  Castleton was the first accession to the pro-
perty;--the last family that possessed it bore the name of Bryson.
Halkerston and Esperston were a later purchase from a family of the
name of Liddle, some of whose descendants are still in this neigh-
bourhood.  They had a peel or place of strength at Halkerston in
the field where the hinds' houses now stand.  No vestige of it remains,
The baronies of Shank and Haughhead were purchased about
the year 1756.  The house of Shank is said to have been built by
the Duke of Argyle or Earl of Bute.  It was successively inha-
bited by families of rank and importance. It must have been
a considerable time in the possession of the Scots of Scotstarvet,
as they had an aisle in the old church of Borthwick adjoining to
that of the Arniston family.  Afterwards Sir George Mackenzei,
the celebrated King's Advocate occupied the house. It was next
tenanted by a family of the name of Grant, who seem from the
following traditional story to have been of Highland descent, and
to have been aware of the dignity which belonged to that cele-
brated clan.  It seems that two brothers of the, name of Whyte,
ancestors of the present venerable tenant of the farm of, Yorston,
but at that time residing at the farm of Carrington Barns, when


