
428                            AYRSHIRE.

formation of the truth of the tradition, that boat anchors and frag-
ments of boats have been dug up in marshly ground near Ardeer,
in the line in which the Garnock is supposed to have flowed; and
till the great goat or drain was made in that low tract, there was
a continuous line of little lochs, or as they are called dubbs, which,
for a length of time after the river had found a new channel, would
make the sand-hills an insch or island. We know a case perfectly
similar in Galloway, where the Ken changed its course some hun-
dred years ago, and where a large and fertile bolm, intercepted
betwixt the new channel of the silver stream, and the remaining
dubbs of the old channel, still retains the name of the muckle isle,
and continues to be a part of the parish of Dalry, though now cut
off from it by the river. A similar change has taken place on the
course of the Doon near Ayr.
	In the map of Cuninghame, published by Bleau in 1654, but
prepared by Pont nearly half a century before,--and probably, in
some respects, copied from a map more ancient still,--instead of
finding the Lugton joining the Garnock, and the garnock and lrvine
uniting near Irvine Bar, we find the three streams falling, into the
sea at a considerable distance from each other. The course of
the Irvine is the same as it is now. Far to the west, however, the
Garnock, in lonely pride, winds its way to the sea through the bills
of sand; and the Lugton, as unsocial as its more powerful neigh-
bours, loses itself in the mighty ocean, about midway betwixt the
Irvine and the Garnock.
	But there is not only tradition for the change, but for the cause
of the change; and though those who lived at the time and wit-
nessed the event, might be deceived as to the cause, they could
not be mistaken as to the fact. St Winning, we are told, had
gone to fish--not men but trout. The Garnock trouts, however,
were not complaisant enough to allow themselves to be caught;
and the angling saint became so greatly incensed, that, dreading
his ire, trout and stream fled before him, seeking the sea by a new
chanel.* We may laugh at a Popish miracle to effect a changed

grounds, and to this day containing water, known under the name of the old burn,
along the side of which, when there were no enclosures, was the church road from
Saltcoats to Stevenston. No danger was dreaded to the pits from the burn, in its
meandering progress to the sea. But in the time of a great flood in the burn, the
made its way into the coal-pit at no great distance, and several colliers who were at
work at the time were drowned. In changing the course of the burn, it was made
to flow in such a line as to form the bound betwixt the estates of Ardeer and Sea-
Bank.
	Beith Papers, penes James Dobie, Esq. of Crummock, to whose kindness we are
indebted.


