
                             BERVIE.                        13

lime and coals at little expense, and where they deliver their
grain, &c.
	Quarries.--There are at present several open quarries of sand-
stone in the parish, which afford large blocks of excellent materials.
They might be turned to good account, if building were to go on
extensively in the neighbourhood. The most of the new build-
ings in this and the neighbouring parishes have been supplied with
stones from these quarries. The greater part of the stones for the
new parish church was got frol them.
	Fisheries.--Of these there are several kinds; the salmon, cod
and ling, and haddock fisheries. The salmon-fishing is carried on
in the bay. The salmon is taken by stake-nets placed in the rocks
near the mouth of the water, and by floating nets in the bay; and
is acknowledged to be of a superior quality. It is high priced at
the commencement of the fishing, and is sent principally to the
London market. The fishing begins on the 2d of February, and
ends on the 14th of September. It rents yearly at L. 130. The
price of the salmon when purchased at the fishing station varies
from 2s. 6d. to 2s., 1s. 6d., 1s., 10d., 8d., and 6d., per pound,
according to the season, the grilse and trout being proportionally
cheaper.
	The cod and ling fishery is kept up by a fish-curer, who engages
a good many of the fishermen in the parish, during the season,
and employs an experienced person to dress and salt the cod and
ling for the London market. The number prepared for exporta-
tion yearly may be about 97 barrels, containing each 3 cwt.; and
they are sent to Montrose to be there shipped for London. This
fishery commences oti the Ist October, and closes on the 15th
July. A trade in summer is carried on by the same person in the
drying of cod, for home consumption.
	The haddock-fishing is also carried on to a considerable extent,
and, till lately, the consumption was chiefly home consumption.
In the course of last year, a few individuals formed themselves into
a company for haddock curing, and made an engagement with the
fishermen to supply them daily. They have hitherto been carry-
ing on a very successful trade in dressing, smoking, and barrelling
the haddocks for distant markets, such as those of London and
Glasgow, where they have found a great demand and ready sale
for them; and they are likely to have, at the proper season, suffi-
cient encouragement to enable them to keep up this establish-
ment. This undertaking affords many advantages to the fisher-


