

2                        STIRLINGSHIRE.

The parish is of an oblong shape, stretching from the north-east
to the south-west; and about four miles to the south, it is indented
by parts of Polmont and Cumbernauld on the east and west, in
nearly opposite directions.
  Topographical Appearances.-From the eminence on which the
town is situated, northward to the river Carron, forming about a
third part of the parish, the ground is perfectly flat, and consists
of fertile carse soil in the highest state of cultivation. For a, con-
siderable space southward from the town, the country rises gra-
dually to the height of about 600 feet above the level of the sea.
Of this district the greater part is arable, and is diversified by
wood or natural growth, and by thriving plantations. Near to the
southern boundary, there is an extensive moss, which gives to that
part of the parish a dreary aspect. To the east and west of the
town the ground is of an undulating shape, and is in general in an
improved state. From the heights on the south a view may be
obtained, scarcely excelled in Scotland for richness, variety, and
extent. In the north-west, and at the distance of thirty miles, are
to be seen Benledi and Benvoirlich, raising their lofty heads in
wild sublimity. Within a more contracted range, circumscribed
by the high grounds above Kilsyth and Denny, and by the Ochils
and the Saline hills, many interesting objects meet the eye in a
landscape studded with stately mansions, and with several towns
and villages, while the broad expanse of the Forth intersects, en-
livens, and beautifies the scene. When viewed from the north
also, the town and wooded rising-grounds behind are picturesque
and imposing.
  Climate, &c.-The climate of the parish, upon the whole, is mild
and temperate, although cold easterly winds generally prevail in
spring and the beginning of summer. These have been the cause
of great injury to vegetation, and render the fruit crop very pre-
carious. In some seasons the verdure of the hedge-rows on the
sides exposed to the north and east, has been entirely destroyed.
Near the centre of the parish, there is more warmth than either
to the north or south. At Grangemouth, when the wind blows
from the sea, the air is extremely cold, while it is mild in the
interior. On the approach of winter and during the early spring
months, snow frequently covers the ground in the higher part,
when it is unknown in the lower. The parish is remarkably
health.  There are no diseases peculiar to it, and many of
the inhabitants live to a good old age. At one time, fever and


