
462                       LANARKSHIRE.

ing it, this operation is not so regularly attended to as it ought to
be. When a branch is taken off, either with the knife or with the
saw, it is cut close to the trunk; if large, it is cut in sections, and
the wound is carefully smoothed over with the knife, and the bark
around it, and then rubbed with a little earth. In the course of a
few years, if the tree is not old, the bark covers the wound, so that
it becomes imperceptible. Dr Lyon's plan of taking off the out-
er bark was tried by the late Mr Hamilton to a considerable ex-
tent; but, except in the case of canker, it has not been productive
of any advantage. The trees are pruned during the winter or
spring, when the weather is fresh. In a few instances, this has been
done in June and July, when the tree has not been under crop, and
has been found to answer well.
	Cultivation.--Strangers, in observing the prices obtained for
fruit upon the Clyde, are apt to conclude that the whole is profit.
But it holds with regard to fruit, as well as every other kind of
crop, that unless due care be bestowed in cultivating the orchard, no
return can be expected. Forest trees grow without cultivation, but
not fruit ones, except in some rich holms, where straggling ones
have been planted, by way of ornamenting a gentleman's policy.
Orchards if neglected in regard to culture soon die out, and any
fruit they produce is small and destitute of flavour. Lime is found
of great service, especially so here, where the soil is a strong clay,
and seems to have the same effect that it has in regard to other
crops.
	When the orchard is large the ground is taken in rotation. Po-
tatoes are planted occasionally while the trees are young, or
when the ground requires to be cleaned. The rotation of crops
usually followed is, first, potatoes or tares; second, barley or tares;
third, hay; seldom more than one crop of hay is taken, under wise
management, and it is generaIly cut before the seed ripens. When
laid down with hay, a quantity of dung is put to the roots, near the
trunk, when it can be obtained,--which, when the ground is a slop-
ing bank, is laid chiefly on the upper side of the tree. In regard
to manuring, the same rule is followed as in regard to other land
designed for crop. *
	Mode of selling.--The fruit is, with few exceptions, sold by auc-
tion to the highest offerer, on producing bill and caution to the
satisfaction of the exposer and judge; or he is allowed a reasonable
deduction for ready money. Should any dispute arise in connec-

<FOOTNOTE>The common rate for digging is fourpence per fall.


