
     of Kilsyth.

   Miscellaneous Remarks.-A few remarkable phenomena which
have appeared in this parish, are likewise subjoined in a note*.

<FOOTNOTE>

   The causes of this scarcity are generally known.  The harvest was late.
The corns of course were greatly injured by the winter frost, which set in early
and severe.  Potatoes, though introduced into this parish, were only cultivated
in very small quantities by Mr Graham.  Even those that were raised, were
not preserved with such care as to protect them from the storm, which was un-
commonly severe.  Many fowls, some cattle, and a few of the wild animals,
were frozen to death.  Many of the people were frost bitten.  And much of
the furze, broom, Land brushwood, and of course, all the greens and garden
stuffs, decayed and became useless.
   It is almost unnecessary to mention, that there was a considerable scarcity in
the year 1782.  I believe it was generally felt; and in other districts more sen-
sible than here.  The potatoes though a most luxuriant cropt were rather late,
and they were totally lost.  The corn harvest was also late.  The winter was
early; so that a great part of the oats were never ripened.  And no small part
was rotted in the field after it was reaped.  Even that part which was preserved,
was not productive.  The following year added to the calamity, for the seed be-
ing generally bad, and equally scarce, the produce of course was small.  The
poor had less to sow, and what was sown was much less productive; so that
upon the whole, that year was not much more abundant than the former.
And, had it not been for a very seasonable supply of white pease, both the
poor and the rich must have been m a deplorable condition.  Even the respec-
table farmers, who have generally meal enough and to spare, were reduced to
the necessity of buying one peck of meal after another.  Yet the price never
much exceeded 1 s 6 d.
   The inhabitants of the village, especially the society of weavers, very wisely
laid out a part of their funds, for purchasing that necessary article, at the
lowest wholesale prices: and retailed it at prime cost.  This proved a great re-
lief to multitudes.  For meal was thus almost always to be had here, and at a
lower price than could naturally have been expected.  The society lost little
or nothing; at the utmost only the interest of their money for a few months.
   In the year 1793, and 1794, the great stagnation of trade, and the almost
total want of employment, bore hard on the manufacturing class of inhabi-
tants.  And had the same circumstances operated in same degree for a single
year more, all rank, and denominations must have felt the consequences.
*In the year 1733, on the 27th June, there was a very remarkable thun-
der storm, The morning was fair: the sky clear: the sun bright, About


