
2                        BERWICKSHIRE.

above the level of the sea. Connected with those of Lammermoor,
and extending in a south-east direction on each side of the Leader,
are ranges of hills of a moderate height, to the summits of which
cultivation has been pushed, and in which there are various open-
ings to the east and the west. Between the ranges lies Leader
vale, varying from one to two miles in width, and in which is to be
found the best land in the parish.
   Meteorology.-In the spring months, and sometimes in May,
the prevailing winds are from the east, and are for the most part
attended with drought and cold weather. During the rest of the
year they blow more frequently from the south and south-west.
In a dry summer it has often been observed, that the clouds, af-
ter collecting apparently above the higher districts of Tweed or
Ettrick, are attracted by the Lammer moor hills on the north, or
the Cheviot on the south, and diffuse their refreshing showers on
either of these places, leaving the intermediate regions, especially
in the lower parts of the parish, in a parched state. The climate,
though variable, is, on the whole, salubrious. To its influence no
epidemical disorders can be traced. Agues and consumptive com-
plaints were at one time rather prevalent, but the former have
long ago disappeared, and the latter are now very circumscribed
in their ravages.
   Hydrography.-The parish is generally well supplied with pe-
rennial springs of excellent water, some of which issue from whin-
stone rock, and others, from sand or gravel. The principal river
is the Leader, which has its source in the junction of two rivulets
descending from the hills of Lammermoor, about four miles above
the town of Lauder. To the extent of nine or ten miles it winds
its course through the parish, and about nine miles below Lauder
it mingles its waters with the Tweed at Drygrange. It runs with
emsiderable rapidity, and in a south-east direction, affording good
sport to the angler. The localities on the banks of this stream
have been celebrated in the old Scottish song of "Leader haughs
and Yarrow."
   Geology.-On the rising grounds to the south-west of the Leader
there is an inexhaustible supply of rock (whinstone) of very excellent
quality, which is used for building, as well as for making the turn-
pike ready, and is equally adapted for both these purposes. The
soil is much diversified. In general that of the arable land is light
and dry, peculiarly fitted for turnip husbandry; a good deal of it


