
		   DINGWALL.                             223

   well spoken by most of the inhabitants. It has become the lan-
   guage of ordinary conversation among the young, Gaelic being
   now rarely heard on the play ground. Still the older members of the
   community are strongly attached to it, and public worship is every
   Sabbath performed in it, at which a large proportion of the people
   attend.
	There are no popular customs peculiar to this parish worthy of
   notice. The taste for amusements would seem to be declining
   here; even the Christmas and Newyear's shinty matches, in which
   but recently, both old and young used to indulge with eager inte-
   rest, are now abandoned, and exchanged, it is to be feared, in many
   instance, for pastimes of a less equivocal character.
   	The people generally are simple, industrious, and temperate in
   their habits, rather cheerful, in their dispositions, and affable in
   their manners and address. Although by no means filthy in their
   persons, they are far from remarkable for cleanliness in their dwell-
   ings and domestic arrangements. But a marked change in this
   respect is now taking place. More regard is now paid to neatness,
   at least in the exterior of their houses; and the dunghill, which
   used to disfigure the approach to them, is now pretty, generally
   giving place to a flower-plot or shrubbery. The staple articles
   of food among the peasantry are potatoes and herrings, which, with
   oatmeal, form the subsistence of the poorer classes. Fresh fish,
   with which the market here is abundantly supplied at particular
   seasons of the year, comes on these occasions within the reach of
   their limited funds, and supplies them with a wholesome and
   agreeable variety. But the standard of living is exceedingly low,
   -butcher meat being to the lower orders a luxury in which they
   seldom indulge. Still, however, the people are social and con-
   tented, and enjoy the comforts of society in a higher degree than
   their slender circumstances would indicate.
	Their intellectual character stands as high as that of most peo-
   ple who labour under the disadvantage of using the Gaelic as
   their vernacular tongue, in which there existed nothing, at least
   until recently, deserving the name of literature. Most of them, it
   is true, were taught to read and write English, but they think in
   Gaelic, which renders these acquisitions of comparatively little
   use to them. But although thus necessarily, in a great measure,
   strangers to the intelligence acquired by reading and consequent-
   ly a good deal influenced by the narrow  prejudices inseparable
   from ignorance, they are naturally shrewd and observant,sagacious


