
			PERTH.                              101

	try appear, from an early period, to have paid a vigilant attention to
	the navigation of the river, as it contributed very much to theirwealth
	and prosperity.  During a great part of the eighteenth century, trade
	was carried on to a considerable extent between the port of Perth
	and the principal ports, not only of Britain, but of Russia, Germany,
	France, Holland, Sweden, Norway, Denmark, Spain, and
	Italy.  This foreign intercourse, however, has, particularly of late
        years, been very much diminished.  Various causes have operated
	in producing the decline, such as a total change in the description
	of the manufactures of the place; a successfully pushed competition
	on the part of other ports which are free from the inconvenience
	of river navigation; the establishment of extensive general
	agencies, through which our merchants now obtain the products of
	other countries.  But the most powerful of all causes has been the
	natural obstructions to navigation which have arisen in our river
	itself.
	  Many centuries ago, a superiority over the navigation of the whole
	river of Tay was granted by royal charters to the burgh of Perth.
	Robert the Bruce, by a charter dated the 4th of April 1316, prohibited
	stranger merchants coming within the Tay from presuming
	to sell or break bulk without the license of the burgh of Perth,
	until they first offered their cargoes to the merchants at the port
	of Perth.  This charter was confirmed by David II. the 10th of
	April 1365, and by Robert III. 6th of May 1400, and lastly,
	James VI., 15th November 1600, confirmed the charter already
	mentioned, and granted in addition, to the provost, bailies,
	councillors, burgesses of Perth, the power of charging and uplifting
	all customs, anchorage, port-money, tributes, and -duties
	within the said bounds of the vater of Tay, and established allenarly
	to the said burgh of Perth, the jurisdiction, liberty, and
	privilege of the said water of Tay, and right of the same.  These
	powers of liberty and privilege of free port were afterwards limited
	by decreet-arbitral of King James, 31st December 1602, to
	those parts of the Tay running opposite to the sheriffdom of
	Perth.
	  Notwithstanding the ample powers conferred on the burgh of
	Perth over the River Tay, more attention appears to have been,
	bestowed upon the rigid exaction of harbour dues, than the preservation
        of the navigable properties of the river; and consequently,
	very serious obstructions had arisen, by the formation of sandbanks
	in the navigable channel, while, at the same time, the


