
                          THURSO.                                9

  tion. The principal is that over the river Thurso, at the entrance
  to the town from the south and east. This bridge is a very large
  and substantial and ornamental one. It was not in existence at
  the time of Sir John Sinclair's Account, in which much is said of
  the great inconvenience felt by the want of a bridge. It is diffi-
  cult to imagine now, how this want could have been so long borne.
  There are not many fences in the parish ; but where they are to
  be found, they are generally in good condition.
   There is a harbour at Thurso at the mouth of the river, where
  vessels of twelve feet draught land and lie in rafety. Scrabster Roads,
  within the bay of Thurso, distant about a mile from the town,
  affords good and safe anchorage for vessels of any size; and it is
  at present in contemplation to erect a pier there.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church has been already spoken
  of as a very handsome structure. It is situated in the town of
  Thurso, which, considering the number of people in the town, is
  manifestly the most convenient place for its erection. It is dis-
  tant three miles from the eastern extremity of the parish, and six
  from the southern and western extremities. On the north it is
  within a quarter of a mile from the sea. It was built in 1832, and
  opened for public worship in'January 1833, and is, as might be
  expected, in a good state of repair. It affords accommodation for
  1540 persons. There are but 32 free-sitlings set apart for the
  use of the poor.
   The manse was built about the year 1770, and was repaired in
  1831.
   The glebe consists of about 7 or 8 acres, and may be of the
  yearly value of L.15.
   The stipend is 18 chalders standard imperial measure half,meal,
  half barley. There being no barley fiars struck in the county,
  the barley is paid according to the fiars' price of bear. L.10 are
  allowed for communion elements.
   There is no place of worship in the parish attached to the Esta-
  blishment, except the parish church.
   There is no missinnary in the parish. There is a catechist sup-
  ported by the people, with the aid of a small salary from the So-
  ciety for Propagating Christian Knowledge, The office has been
  for some time vacant, but a new appointment is about being
  made.
   There is a meeting-house in the town belonging to a congrega-


