
              UNIVERSITY AND KING'S COLLEGE.                 1159

been already alluded to, are equally divided among the ten mem-
bers.  The balance of the superiority fund hardly varies from
L.230, while that of the procuration or general account varies frnm

L.200 to L.500, or even more, according to circumstances.  When
money must be expended on permanent improvements of the Col-
lege property, it is borrowed from the mortification funds, at the
current rate of interest, and the debt thus incurred each year is
paid off by ten annual instalments.
   The accounts are kept and the property managed by the com-
mon procurator or College factor.  This office was formerly held
by one of the masters ; but, of late years, a man of business has
been appointed, who receives a small salary, and a very small com-
mission on his introimissions with the trust-funds.  The present
procurator is William Gordon, Esq. Advocate.
   Degrees are granted, as formerly mentioned, in all the faculties.
Those of D.D. and LL.D. are commonly honorary degrees.  The
degree of M. D. is conferred after examination in presence of the
Senatus, according to regulations adopted in 1839.  Since that
period, the average annual number of medical degrees conferred,
exclusive of a few honorary degrees, has been seven.  For many
years previously, no degrees at all had been conferred in medicine
The cost of a medical degree, including the L.10 stamp, is L-26,
5s. 6d.  Of the degree of A. M. mention has already been made.
The expense of it is L.2, 16s. 2d.
   The students in divinity are common to both Colleges, and at-
tend alternately the Professors of Divinity in King's and Maris.
chal College.  They often amount to 150.
   The Medical School of King's College includes the following
classes:

<TABLE>
   Chemistry, taught by the       .      Mediciner.
   Anatomy,         .       .       .    D. A. Moir
   Surgery,       .       .       .      Dr D. Kerr:
   Practice of Medicine,    .       .    Dr A. Kilgour.
   Midwifery,     .       .       .     {Mr Fraser andM
                                        {Mr. Robertson, Surgeons.
   Theory of Medicine and Physiology,    Dr Templeton.
   Materia Medica,          .      .     Dr G. Dickic.
   Botany, summer class,         .       Dr G. Dickie.
   Medical Jurisprudence,          .     Mr. W. Fowler, Surgeon ;

besides Clinical Lectures at the Hospital.  A building, as already
stated, has lately been erected for the accommodation of the
lecturers.  The school is at present prosperous, and this not-
withstanding the existence of another medical school in Aberdeen
attached to Marischal College.


