
954                        ABERDEENSHIRE.

Besides from twenty-one to twenty-two tons of cured pork, and
nearly as much value in live pigs shipped for the London market,
which amount to L.1826, 4s. 4d., by an enterprising individual,
not included, only a very small portion being the produce of Keig,
equal to about L.100.
   Manufactures.-Under the head of manufactures there is only
to be mentioned, that knitting worsted stockings for the Aberdeen
manufacturers continues to be the principal occupation of the
poorer females.  Upwards of 5000 pairs, at from 3d. to 5d. per
pair, are annually made by about thirty families.  It may be ob-
served, that this is an employment which does not interrupt their
attention to many of their domestic concerns in or out of doors.

                     V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Market-Towns, &c.-The parish contains no village.  The
nearest towns are Inverury and Kintore, at distances of twelve and
fourteen miles; but the only market intercourse is with Aberdeen,
from which the centre of the parish is twenty-five miles distant.
The Aberdeen and Alford turnpike road passes for half a mile
through the southern extremity of Keig.  A mail gig runs daily
to and from Aberdeen, and a stage-coach every alternate day.
The Whitehouse post-office is just beyond the boundaries of the
parish.  Keig has ten and a half miles of commutation roads,-
the funds for the support of which are L.31, 10s. 2d. a year; and
upwards of five miles of roads made and kept up by the respective
proprietors of the lands through which they pass, the whole being
well directed and kept in excellent repair.  There are besides
about five miles of little used and bad hill roads, and one and a
half of old commutation in much.the same state.  Keig bridge,
over the Don, has been mentioned.  It was built in 1817, at an
expense, including the approaches, of L.2300, and has been of in-
finite benefit.  One-half of the money was raised by subscription,
and the other was advanced by Government on condition of being
relieved from the annual Exchequer allowance of L.57, 17s. 3d.,
under the Small Stipend Act, to the ministers of Keig and Tough,
by the union of the two parishes, on the demise of either of the
incumbents,-Lord Forbes liberally taking upon himself the pay-
ment till the junction should take place; but since that time the
parishes have been disunited again by the Court of Teinds.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The parish of Keig was originally made up
of church lands, belonging, apparently, to the priory of Monymusk,
at first a seat of the Culdees, but erected in the reign of William the
                                         3


