
582                        EDINBURGHSHIRE.

an opportunity of examining, on their applying for baptism to
their children, to be unable to write or read; and while all such
were lamentably unacquainted with religious truth, he has
found some so deplorably uninformed as to be ignorant of the
very first-principles, even that a Saviour had come into the world.
Feeling it to be his duty to endeavour to remedy such a state of
things, he in all cases undertook personally their instruction, and
with some had to begin by teaching the letters. Where there
was perseverance and a fair degree of ability, even these last have
been brought to read tolerably, and to be versant in the cate-
chism; but where these were wanting, which was too generally
the case, it was only labour lost, and occasioned all the more re-
gret, that what in youth had been neglected could not be supplied
in manhood. We shall only add, that the people are by no
means alive, as it is desirable they should be, to the benefits of
education. Nor does this apply exclusively to the collier popula-
tion. It is true also, though certainly not to the same extent, of
the agricultural labourers, who, too surely in this respect, are fol-
lowing, a downward course in this part of the country, where there
is much more ignorance than the public is at all aware of, or than
would be credited perhaps, except on personal observation, such as
has fallen to the lot of the writer in his ministerial intercourse with
the various classes of his parishioners.
   Literature.-At present there is no circulating library in the parish.
One such there was, at a former period, maintained by and for the
benefit of the collier population; but such was the effect of the en-
largement of the works near the commencement of this century,
whereby some hundreds were added to that class in a few years,
consisting chiefly of the most reckless characters, that the whole
body became deteriorated; and before the writer's connexion
with the parish commenced, some twelve years ago, the library
was sought up, there being not a single subscriber remaining, and
it has ever since so continued, though the books are still ex-
tant. With a few honourable exceptions, books are neither
read nor sought after; but there are working men of the former
reputable and intelligent class, such as the collier population
are known to have been a century ago, when, as we have seen,
they provided themselves with accommodation in the parish church
at their own expense,-and who are possessed of books that would
grace any library, whether as to the subjects of them or their out-
ward condition.


