
          BROUGHTON, GLENHOLM, AND KILBUCHO.                 81

zenith, or when dark cloud, with a well-defined edge, hovers at
no great height, we are sure to have a storm of thunder and light-
ning, and hail or rain.  A luminous arch of electric matter extend-
ing nearly in the direction of the Milky Way has been seen three
times at least within these twenty years, and mistaken by some un-
philosophical observers for a lunar rainbow, but at the time ther
was no moon in out hemisphere, and the bow was in the zenith.
  The climate is in general moist, and the atmosphere cloudy.
Yet the improvements in agriculture, especially the draining of the
bogs and cultivation of the mosses, have greatly improved the health
of the inhabitants.  Ague is now unknown, and many other ma-
ladies are either mitigated or exploded.
  Diseases.-- The principal disorders are fevers, typhus, inflamma-
tory or rehumatic: colds accompanied with coughs, asthma, and
consumption.  Vaccination is almost universally practised.  Stone
and gravel are less prevalent than they were in days when strong
ale was the favourite beverage.  Gout is scarcely known.  Cuta-
neous eruptions are by no means common.  this must in a great
measure be attributed to that weekly lustration which takes place
among the church-going part of the community, prapatory to their
attendance on public worship.
  Longevity.-- The instances of longevity are perhaps unparalleled
among a people so limited in respect of numbers.  About twelve
years ago, there were each considerably above eighty years of age.
In Kilbucho, there were also four who had reached the borders of
ninety.  Four brothers were born at Broughton-Mill, who all
weathered the frosts of fourscore winters.  In the village, there
are at present six individuals who have passed the promised age of
threescore years and ten.  In the country par of the parish, there
are six persons between eighty and ninety years of age; and one
man has lived to see six incumbents in the pastoral care of Brough-
ton parish, though one of them was upwards of forty years minister.
The oldest man in the united parish at present, and who is tolera-
bly healthy, is eighty-nine, and the oldest woman, who also enjoys
a comfortable share of bodily strenght, is eighty-two years old.
  Hydrography.-- There are at Rachan two fine pieces of water,
ornamented with wooded islets.  The one is stocked with trout,
and the other with perch.  The latter is fringed round the margin
with an aquatic plant called tench grass.
  Of riverswe have none save the Tweed, which forms the southern

  PEEBLES.                       F


