
       260                          INVERNESS-SHIRE.

       Strehgth, together with his being rendered violent through despair,
       made it doubtful for a time whether or not the party could re-
       tain him.  At length, being encumbered with his dress, and unable
       any longer to defend himself against the men who surrounded him,
       he was seized, and fastly bound, and carried prisoner to the family
       seat in this parish.  He was cast into the dungeon of the castle,
       which was a dark, secluded vault on the ground-floor of the edifice,
       where he was chained in the centre of the apartment.  He was fed
       on salt beef, and when he stretched forth his band to grasp a
       covered pitcher which was placed near him, and which he no doubt
       supposed to contain water, he found it empty! Writhing in agony
       with thirst, be found neither alleviation nor repose, until death put
       an end to his sufferings. *
          The next circumstance which merits particular notice, as hav-
       ing occurred in the parish and districts adjacent, is the letting of
       the lands of Troternish, together with the Island of Lewis, to a
       Lowland Company, at a stipulated rent, that they might improve
       the same, according to directions prescribed by the King, (James
       VI.) The Company, however, soon found cause to relinquish their
       engagements, and to leave the lands to the management of those
       chiefs who maintained a preferable right of occupancy. +
          Three years after the granting of the above lease, viz. in A. D.
       1601, the peace of the parish, in common with the rest of Mac-
       Dhonuill's estates in Skye and Uist, was in no small degree dis-
       turbed by a bloody feud which broke out between the two power-
       ful chiefs MacDhonuill and Macleod of Dunvegan.  The quar-
       rel arose from some private affairs connected with their families.
       Ruairidh Macleod of Dunvegan, having Assembled his vassals and
       clan, invaded the barony of Troternish, and carried fire and sword
       into every district of it.  Donull G•rm mor, on the other hand,
       with a powerful retinue of his clan, entered the Island of Harris,
       tben the property of Macleod of Dunvegan, and caused it to suf
       fer in a similar manner.  For the purpose of being revenged,

            <FOOTNOTE>Uistean's remains were interred in the parish burying-ground.  Some ages after.
       wards, his skull and thigh bones were exhumed, no doubt as curiosities, owing to their
       immense size.  They were lying for many years about the walls and recesses of the
       old church, until they were again committed to the dust about sixteen years ago.
         According to Gregory and others, the Lowland company consisted of the Duke
       of Lennnok; Patrick, Commendator of Lindores; William, Commendator of Pitten-
       weem; Sir James Anstruther; Sir James Sandilands of Slarmanno; James Leir-
       moat or Bacomy; James Spens of Wormestown; John Forret of Fingask; David
       Home of Wedderburne; and Captain William Murray.
         The annual rent for Troternish was fixed at 400 merks, and the date of the, lease
       was May 1598.


