
366                        EDINBURGHSHIRE.

 It appears that this Sir James had resided for several years at
Malta; and, being esteemed as a young man of excellent talent
and good education by Sir Walter Lindsay, Lord St John, he was
elected by the Grand Prior and his Chapter to be one of the
knights of that ancient military order, and was thus appointed
successor to Sir Walter, at whose death he was invested with the
title, power, and jurisdiction of Lord St John of Jerusalem in
Scotland, and in all the rights and revenues belonging to that
order. Independent of what the Hospitallers obtained from the
estates of the Templars, it appears, from the register of the Great
Seal, Book 12, No. 51, that James IV. conferred on them a va-
riety of other grants and privileges, which had been bestowed upon
them by former kings. In the above charter the hospital of Je-
rusalem, from which the name is derived, is called Torfichin; and
the head of the order is styled Preceptor of Torfichin.
  Having, at the time of the Reformation, in 1560, renounced
Popery, and abjured the tenets of his order as Master of the Hos-
pitallers in Scotland, Sir James Sandilands embraced the Protest-
ant religion, and was among the first to receive the s`crament of
the Lord's Supper from the hands of John Knox, in the great
ball of Calder House, according to the Protestant form. As a
necessary consequence of the Reformation, the ecclesiastical rights
of the Hospitallers were suppressed; but Sir James having re-
signed the lordship of St John into the hands of Queen Mary, her
Highness was graciously pleased, in consideration of his great
merit and services, to grant to him and his heirs, on payment of
10,000 crowns of the sun," and 500 merks feu-duty yearly, the
whole possessions which had belonged to the order, together with
the accompanying dignity of a Lord of Parliament. He thus pur-
chased the estates of both orders; and a charter was granted
thereto, in which he is specially designated Lord St John, but
which title he subsequently exchanged for that of Lord Torphi-
chen. These lands were afterwards erected into the temporal
lordship of Torphicben, by a charter under the Great Seal, 24th

<FOOTNOTE>At the time of the Reformation, 20 crowns of the sun were equal to L.26, 8s,
Scots. This appears from the treasurer's accounts of the town of Edinburgh for
1559-80, when the following entry occurs: -20th September, and precept to pay to
Robert Watson 29 crowns of the sound, to be delivery to him, to Jhone Willochis,
26lb. 18s. 4d. The writer has to thank the Rev. Dr Lee for this extract and expla-
nation; and be further states, that a pound Scots was, at that time, nominally about
one-fourth of the value of a pound Sterling; but, in Scotland, a pound Scots would
purchase as large a quantity of the necessaries of life as a pound Sterling would do
in England.


