
22                         SELKIRKSHIRE.

dated to ill dimensions of person or of purse, being from 3s. to
30s. a-piece.  A new manufacture called Indiana for ladies' gowns,
price 8s. or 9s. a yard, has lately been tried; but time is wanting
to prove its success.  There can be no want of success from ina-
bility to spin a fine thread, as I have seen a specimen of yarn so
delicately drawn, that the eye would doubt whether the substance
were still in the state of carded wool; and being told the less in-
telligible amount of spindles and slips, I thought it more convenient
to reduce the quantities to lineal measure; the result Of which
was, that a pound of wool yielded a thread of more than thirty-
seven miles in length.  Attempts have not been wanting to pro-
duce broad cloths of the finest quality; but these have hitherto
been but scantily supplied.  The structure of the machinery, and
the education of the operatives, must undergo a gradual change
before the finer cloths can become the staple commodity of this
place; but neither is there ground for the apprehension that the
industrious may want employment, should the consumer want a
more costly apparel, there being here no want of enterprise, or of
success in the adaptation of machinery to the production of such
articles as suit the wants or the taste of the public.
    The progress which this branch of manufacture has made, and
is still making, may be known by comparing the quantities of raw
material consumed at different periods.  According to the former
Statistical Account, there were used in the year 1774 only 722 stones
of wool by the clothiers, and scarcely as much more, it is added,
could be manufactured bv private persons; while in the year 1790,
243 packs of wool (each pack containing 12 st. of 24lb. English)
were purchased by the manufacturers ; besides which, they received
from different quarters wool, yarn, and weaved cloth, to a consider-
able amount, to be dyed and dressed for private use or for sale.
Thus in 1790, the quantity used by the clothiers was 2916 stones;
whereas the consumption during the current year 1832, as above
stated, amounts to 21,500.  At the time of the former Statistical
Account, 241 women were constantly employed in spinning wool
there were besides occasional spinsters ; and three machines, hav-
ing each thirty or thirty-six spindles, were employed two or three
days in the week.  At present there are no females engaged in
spinning wool, and no such thing is a human hand occupied in
drawing only a single thread.  Some of the machines spin up-
wards of 200 threads at once; the total spindles are 5336, of
which 4352 are driven by water, and the remaining 984 by the


