
586                          FORFARSHIRE.

male, as employed in manufacture, and the remaining third, as
consisting of labourers, masons, mechanics, carters, &c.
	The depressed state of the linen trade, for some time past, has
been severely felt by the operatives in this quarter. Many fa-
milies have, in consequence, been brought to a state of indigence
and destitution.

                        V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
        Market-Town.-The market-town to which the people of this
parish resort is Dundee, where they find a ready sale for all
country, produce.
        Villages.-Excepting the village of Lochee, there is scarcely
another that deserves the name. There are twenty-six families
in the Kirktown of Liff, about twenty in Denhead and Denmiln,
and thirty-five in Birkhill Feus. The last may, in process of
time, attain to a considerable population. The ground, which
belongs to Mr Wddderburn of Birkhill, is feued in small portions,
and at a low rate, and being situated on the, turnpike road from
Dundee to Meigle and Cupar-Angus, at the distance of from four
to five miles from Dundee, an opportunity is afforded to weavers,
or persons of small capital, to establish themselves in a convenient
locality for carrying on their respective trades and occupations.
        Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is new, having been
finished in December 1831. It stands in a beautiful and com-
manding situation,-Lord Gray having, with his accustomed li-
berality, made over to the heritors, as a grant, a sufficient space
in his fine park, for the site of the church, and suitable precincts.
The building is of the early English style of Gothic architecture;
the body of the church is of a plain rectangular figure. The
bell tower, at the east end of the building, measures, from the
base to the top of the battlements, 60 feet, and is surmounted by
a stone spire, 48 feet in height, making the whole height, from
the base of the church to the top of the vane, 108 feet. At the
top of tbe battlements, there are introduced eight ornamented
pinnacles, and four flying buttresses resting upon the corners of
the spire. The effect thus produced, contrasted with the plain
solidity of the whole structure, is very pleasing. The plan was
furnished by Mr William M'Kenzie, architect, Perth.
	The estimate for the building, exclusive of the spire, was nearly
L.1900, but the actual expense exceeded L.2200. It is seated
for 750, and is capable of containing 100 more if necessary. The
number of communicants is about 600. The heritors, as is usual


