
     of Kirkoswald.

works are equally distant and much worse, than those above
mentioned to the lime.  Some attempts have been made, of
late, to discover coal in the parish, but without success.  There
was indeed a coal mine in this parish, but it was set on fire
about 45 years ago, and is still burning.  Several methods
have been tried to extinguish the fire, but they have proved
ineffectual.  It has been the opinion of the best coal miners in
the west of Scotland, that if no part of the coal near the fire
were to be wrought for a number of years, it would of course
be soon extinguished.  This method has accordingly been
adopted, and the fire has gradually lessened.  The want of
this coal has been a great loss to this parish, as it was a valu-
able mine, consisting of 5 seams of coal, from 6 to 15 feet
thick*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*The dryness of the soil, the openness of the country, and
the proximity of the sea, render the climate pure and salubrious.
For these 40 years past, no putrid fever or flux have appeared
in the parish.  During the first 20 years of the above period, a
fever prevailed every six or seven years, with a considerable de-
gree of inflammation.  It spread most rapidly, but, by the appli-
cation of the accustomed remedies of bleeding, and taking great
quantities of weak diluting drink, it was not very mortal, nor-
withstanding its infectious nature.  During the above period,
the small pox prevailed at times without inoculation, and, when
introduced into the parish, few families escaped.  In some, the
disease was exceedingly fatal; but it cannot be ascertained from
the register how many died of it annually.  The stopping, or
croup, a disease frequent on the sea coast, never once made its
appearance here, during the above mentioned period.  The
measles and chincough have always been very favourable.  Du-
ring the last 20 years, the fevers have taken a considerable
change.  They are now, generally, of the slow nervous kind, and
when introduced into the parish, are by no means very preva-
lent or mortal.  This, in part, may be owing to the improved
habitation of the farmers.  Formerly these were small, and all
the sick of the family crowded into one place, and kept so close
as to prevent the proper circulation of air.  This change in the
fevers may also have been caused, by the great increase of the

     VOL. X. 3 R


