
334                          DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

   There are the remains of a mine at Caitloch, which is supposed
to have been wrought for lead at a very distant period; but at pre-
sent, there is nothing which indicates that lead has ever been found,
or that it ever existed there.
   Rental.--The net rental of the parish may amount to L.11,175.

<TABLE>
   Of which cattle may produce per annum,                    L.  4575
		 sheep,                                        2800
		 crop,                                         2100
		 horses,                                        700
		 pork and pigs,                                 400
		 wood,                                          200
                   houses and feus,                               400
                                                             ____________
                                          Total,             L. 11175
   We have stated the net rental, as it was found extremely diffi-
cult to give an accurate account of the gross amount of raw pro-
duce raised in the parish.

                    V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Market-town, &c.--The nearest market-town is Dumfries, dis-
tant from the centre of the parish fifteen miles. There is one
daily post to Minnyhive. The length of the turnpike road in this
parish amounts to about eighteen miles: and a coach affords a
communication three times a-week between Dumfries and Glas-
gow, passing through the whole length of the parish. There are
four bridges upon the turnpike line, all in good order, and six other
bridges upon the parish roads.
   Ecclesiastical State.--The parish church is well situated for the
convenience of the greater part of the population, being distant
from the extremities of the parish seven miles and a-half. It is
uncertain when it was built. It was repaired about twenty-one
years ago, but it is still far from being comfortable. The church
affords accommodation for between 500 and 600 sitters: and the
heritors have agreed to erect a new church to contain accommo-
dation for 1050 sitters. The manse was built about fifty-eight years
ago, and since that time, it has undergone several partial repairs.
 The offices belonging to it are at present in a very bad state. The
glebe extends to 12 acres of good arable ground, whose value may
be stated at L. 2 per acre per annum. The stipend amounts to
L.280, 7s., including L.8, 6s. 8d. for communion elements: the
teinds were exhausted at the last augmentation, dated 24th Janu-
ary 1821.
   There is one Dissenting meeting-house, belonging to the United
Secession church,--the minister of which is paid by his hearers,
and his stipend may amount to L.90 per annum. The number


