
232               GENERAL OBSERVATIONS

prospects to be had in Scotland; and doubly interesting by com-
bining a view of the summits of the wildest Highland hills, with
the rich mercantile highly cultivated districts of Renfrew and
Lanark--the workshops of the west of Scotland. No district in
North Britain can boast of finer scenery than the county of Dum-
barton, and certainly none is more variegated or more frequently
visited, or admired by strangers.
   Hydrography.--This county may truly be termed the land of
"lakes and streams." The muse of Smollet has made the Leven
familiar to every classic ear; and Loch Lomond presents attractions
to the eye with which the fervid anticipations of the most pictures-
que fancy are more than gratified.  The landscape view of the
district, however, comes only partially within the drier definition
of statistics. In alluding to Loch Lomond, in all respects the most
interesting sheet of water in Dumbartonshire or Scotland, forget-
ting the scenery, (or remembering to forget it,) we shall state only
a few facts carefully and statistically ascertained.
   This magnificent expanse of fresh water is, as near as can be as-
certained, twenty-four miles in length, (not thirty, as in various po-
pular publications,) and in some places six or seven miles broad.
Its direction is nearly south-west and north-east, but rather in-
clined to nortb and south. The bed in general is a soft detrital
mud, formed from the washings of the adjoining rocks. It is re-
markable that where narrowest this lake is generally deepest; and,
from there being little or no waste of rocks from currents, the in-
equalities of depth must be natural, and not from recent artificial
acts of abrasion. In the south at Kilmaronock, Bonbill, and in
part of Luss, the width is considerable, probably about seven miles.
It tapers and twists gradually northwards to near Ardleish, like an
eel, where it receives two rivulets of tiny dimensions. North of
the Clachan of Luss, the lake is deepest and narrowest, but pro-
bably in no place does it exceed in depth 600 feet, namely, oppo-
site Alt Gary, and in other places north of the above village
it varies,in depth from 396 to 480 or 540 feet. At Faskin it is
66 fathoms, northwards a little 80 fathoms; two miles north of
Tarbet 80 fatboms, and at Alt Garry, as above, 100. In these
northern parts, the lake never freezes, being too deep to attain an
equal temperature.  Soutb of Luss, Loch Lomond is seldom deep-
er than 120 feet, but with this depth of water frost is seldom strong
enough to congeal its surface. In some places, however, a fri-


