
496                            EDINBURGHSHIRE.

Alexander Barrie, Esq. teacher in Edinburgh, and author of
the "Collection" and several other popular school-books, resided
many years in dalkeith.  He was a native of the parish of Mo.
nedie.  He died at dalkeith on the 9th May 1831, at the age of
81, and wad buried in the new burying-ground.
     John Berrie, Esq. merchant, was born in dalkeith on the 90th
September 1762.  He published "an Abridgment of Marshall
on Sanctification."  Edinburgh, 1820.  And "an Abridgment of
Caryl's Exposition of the Book of Job."  Edinburgh, 1836, 8vo.
He died on the 17th July 1838.  He was a man of high respec-
tability, and took an active part in the management of the reli-
gious and charitable institutions of the town.
     In 1842 the Blane gold medal was presented to Dr. James Or-
miston M'William, surgeon, R. N., a native of Dalkeith, who ac-
ccompanied the Niger Expedition as chief medical officer.  This me-
dal. given by the late Sir Gilbert Blance, is awarded every second
year for the best medical journal in the service.  Dr M'William's
journal contained the cases that occured on board H.M.S. Scout,
of which he was surgeon, when that vessel was employed on the
coast of Africa in the years 1838 and 1839.*\f
     Land-owners, &c.--The chief land-owners of the parish are,
His Grace the Duke of Buccleuch, who possesses about seven-
eighths of the whole; Lord Viscount Melville; the heirs of
the late Hugh Watson, Esq. of Torsonce; the heirs of the late
John Watson, Esq. Leith; the trustees of James ker, Esq. of
Blackshiels; the Marquis of Lothian, &c. &c.
     At the western extremity of the parish are situated the
lands belinging to Lord Melville.  They consist of 126 imperial
acres are of execellent soil, and, with the exception of some plan-
tations, are all under cultivation.  There, too, is the brickfield
belonging to the trustees of the town of Dalkeith; it has been
wrought for a considerable time, and yields a small revenue to the
town.  Next to it is the small tract of land belonging to the
kirk-session.  The space betwixt this and the town is occupied by
tracts of land belonging to several small proprietors.  Gallows-
hall is a central point, intersected by six high roads, and is a great
thoroughfare.  Eskbank House, which was erected in 1794 by
the Rev. James Brown, minister of Newbattle, became the pro-
perty of the late John Moffat. Esq. Musselburgh, and belongs
now by feu to His Grace the Duke of Buccleuch.  It overlooks

     <FOOTNOTE> Edinburgh Courant of December 12, 1842.



