
			NEWLANDS.			  139

    With the aid of bone and oil-cake manure, none of the land
need lie unimproved, excepting probably 500 acres of the apex of
hills, inaccessible to the plough. But a great part of this is occa-
sionally ploughed, cropt with oats, and then resigned for years to
pasture.
    I would observe in general, that, from the vicinity of the parish
to Edinburgh, dairy farming is much in practice. The most pro-
ductive mode of dairy farming here is to churn the whole milk, and
to send both butter and butter-milk daily, or twice or thrice a-week
to the capital. The next mode in point of profit which our farmers
adopt is to churn only the cream, and convert the skimmed milk
into cheese; sending the butter by weekly carriers to Edinburgh,
and selling the cheese at the end of the season. At a greater dis-
tance, it is expedient to convert the whole of the milk into cheese.
    Sown Grasses.-Fallow land, when sown out for hay, is sown
with grass seeds at the rate of 8 lb. red clover, and 1 1/2 bushels of
annual rye-grass per imperial acre. If intended for pasture, at the
rate of 4 lb. red, and 5 lb. of white clover, and the same quantity,
1 1/2 bushels, of perennial rye-grass. Where the soil is mossy, Ti-
mothy and rib-grasses are mixed with the clovers; in some few
instances double the clover, with only two-thirds of the rye-grass
above specified, are sown.
    Live-Stock.-The stocking of a sheep-farm is the number of
sheep that are smeared and kept through winter; whether lambs
bought in the end of June or beginning of July, kept over winter
and sold as hogs next June or July, or ewes, as a breeding-stock,
whose lambs, excepting those retained to keep up the stock, to-
getber with the old discarded ewes are sold to the butcher, or the
lambs sold to farms of the first description, part being kept to re-
place the breeders discarded, or part may be even retained upon
the farm to be sold as hogs.
    In this parish both old sheep and lambs are sold to the butcher,
excepting the lambs retained to keep up the breeding-stock.
    Produce.-The average gross amount and value of raw produce
yearly raised in the parish may be as follows:

	       Imperial acres.   Return per acre.            Total.
Sown grass hay,      367,           125 stones,        45815 stones.  L. 1145 0 0
Watered meadow,       60,           200 do.            12000   do.        250 0 0
In fallow, gene-             probably one-tenth may
rally with turnip     509,   be deducted for bare fal-
and potatoes,                low previous to wheat.


