
now occupied by the church officer.  There was also a viliaoe o
,some: extent at the Hole of Ruthven, and there is still to be seen
in the iieighborurhood an old stoiie cross, where a regular market
ivas wont to be held; but the village is now no more.  The only
villages in the parish at present, are those at the two public works,
Hurttingtower field and Ruthven field,.
Means ofCommunication.-The roads in the parish are in ge,.'
b,era-I very good.  The turnpike road to Crieff passes through it
for about three miles, after which the line is continued to the west
of the parish by a stattte-labour-road, not much inferior to the
turnpike.   There is also a good- statute-labour-road along the
north of the parish to the new bridge of AIMODD and it is inter-
cepted from north to south by another excellent road.     The roads
,tre kept in good repair, and thev are all of easy access from the
principal farm-steadiDgS and public works.
Ecclesiastical State.-The main body of the church is very art-
cient.  It appears to have been built as early as 1632.  The
Wills are Very strong, and the whole fabric is in excellent repair.
In the year  1810, the Ruthven Field Company were permitted
to build an aisle to the north of the church for the accommodation
of their work-people.  This aisle was purchased by the heritors in
1835 for L.120, when about L.100 more was laid out in repairs
on it and the rest of the church.   The aisle is near as large as
the church, and they both together contain abou-t 600 sittei's,
This was nearly the legal amount of accommodation at that time;
but the population, and also the church-going liabits of the people
have increased so much since, that every seat is occupied, and
there is A constant demand for more.         A considerable tim-
ber of families reside within a mile and a-half of Perth, which
is fully three miles from the parish church.      Hence many of
them find church accommodation in Perth. The church is
talented very near the centre of the parish, and must have been
commodiously sittiated for the poptilatioi! when it was build
The erection of the public works, however, has removed the great
body of the people to a considerable distance, so that the ma-
jority lof the hearers -Lravel from two, to three miles to churcit-'
There is no Dissenting place of worship in the parish ; but there
are two or three in the immediate vicinity, and there are in the
parish about 70 famili Ies not coi-knected With the Established



