
                    TINGWALL, WHITENESS, AND WEESDALE.                  65

	spring, it requires to be drained; for when it runs over the soil,
	it renders it unproductive. The subsoil of most of the meadows
	is blue till, mixed with small stones. This is even found under
	the beds of marl. The hills on the east side of Tingwall parish
	are composed of clay slate, and micaceous schistus, and appear
	capable of cultivation; those on the west side do not appear so
	capable. Whenever the moss on them is cut, the whole surface
	is covered with large stones of coarse granite and gneiss.
	   Near Rova Head, on the north-east part of Tingwall parish,
	Sir Arthur Nicolson, Bart. has discovered a field of fine blue
	slate, which promises to be of great benefit to the country; the
	gray slate, in use at present, soon splitting when exposed to sun
	and air.
	   In some of the meadows, There are quantities of fine shell marl,
	which answers well as a manure, especially for green crops.
	   The want of enclosures is much felt: cattle injuring the crops,
	and poaching the land in the winter time. In some places, how-
	ever, there are good stone enclosures.
	   An improved system of agriculture has been introduced, and in
	many places a regular rotation of crops followed. The common
	rotation is, 1st year, turnips and potatoes; 2d, big barley, with
	grass seeds; 3d, hay; 4th, pasture; 5th, oats. The potato is
	cultivated to a large extent, and in ordinary seasons, Lerwick and
	Scalloway are supplied from Tingwall parish. The potatoes are
	planted in drills, horse-hoed, and when taken up, put into pits du-
	ring winter. Turnips grow well. The red and green tops and
	Swedish are tried; but the yellow are preferred. The barley in
	use is the four and six-sided big. The two-sided has been tried,
	but does not answer. It is some weeks later in ripening, not so
	productive, and more easily injured by the wind. Wheat and rye
	have been attempted, but do not answer, owing to the want of
	sun. Pease do well, unless when we are visited by early frosts,
	but are little cultivated. Flax and hemp have also been reared,
	and grow luxuriantly, but the people do not know how to manage
	them when pulled.
	   The old one-sided plough is still in use. In some parts, the
	Rotheram, or Small's plough is in more general use, drawn by
	two horses; if they are small, assisted by two oxen. Close carts
	are also much used. The land is in many places cultivated by
	the spade.
	   The method of making hay is much improved. It is in general
            SHETLAND.					E


