
			PARISH OF GRAITNEY.

		PRESBYTERY OF ANNAN, SYNOD OF DUMFRIES.

        	  THE REV. JAMES RODDICK, MINISTER.

    		  I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.

	Name, Boundaries, &c.--Some suppose the name of the parish
to be derived from the Anglo-Saxon words signifying the Great
Hollow,--,others from Great Knowe in the Scottish dialect, having
reference to a hill within its bounds of considerable altitude. The
parish extends six miles in length, and three in breadth, and con-
tains eighteen square miles; the figure is rectangular, and almost
rectilineous. It is bounded on the east by England, on the south
by the Solway Frith, on the west by the parish of Dornock, and
on the north by Khrkpatrick-Fleming and Half-Morton: towards
the west and south its surface is generally level, but towards the
east and north it rises into a variety of little hills of gentle accli-
vity, of which Graitney, the highest, does not exceed 250 feet above
the level of the sea. From this, however, the prospect is extremely
pleasant and extensive, commanding the rich and beautiful vales of
Esk and Eden, the Solway Frith, and the coast of Cumberland as
far as the Isle of Man, and St Bees westward, and the mountains
of Dumfries-shire and Northumberland.
	Topographical Appearances.--The whole length of this parish
is washed by the Solway, the shore of which is but little elevated,
and consists of a mixture of sand and clay. Rockcliff sands, out-
spread between the rivers on the Scotch and English shores, are
extensive. There are no bays of any note on the coast, except,
perhaps, that opposite Browhouses, formed by the principal head-
lands, Redkirk and Tordoff points, which last is rather of a bold
character,--and, together with Bowness on the opposite shore, con-
fines the impetuos tide within the narrow space of two miles.
Then the channel rapidly expands, is divided, and follows the cours-
es of the two rivers Esk and Eden,--thus presenting the semblance
of a fine lake of about 40 miles in circumference. At no great dis-


