
	936				FIFESHIRE.

	have been made, during the last twenty-five years, the value of real,
	property must have considerably increased. The average rent of
	arable land per acre is L.1, 12s. 6d.,  of pasture land, 7s. 6d.
	  Manufactures.-A great part of the population of the parish
	are engaged in hand-loom weaving. There are no manufacturers-
	carrying on business, on their own account, in the town of Falk-
	land; but one individual manufactures dowlas and sheeting in,
	Newton of Falkland, and six manufacture window-blinds in the
	village of Freuchie. The weavers are principally employed by
	manufacturers in the neighbouring towns of Newburgh, Kettle,
	and Kirkcaldy.

				V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	  Seven markets for horses and cattle are held in Falkland dur-
	ring the year, four of which are mentioned in the charter of the
	burgh. The Lammas market was formerly one of the most ex-
	tensive in Scotlaud, but it has greatly declined. The other mar-
	kets have also fallen away, except the one held in November, im-
	mediately before Hallow Fair, which is steadily improving. These
	markets were held at one time upon the Lomond Hills, but of late
	years they,have been held alternately in the streets of Falkland,
	and in a small commonty adjoining the town. We cannot but
	consider these markets as injurious to the morals of the people.
	They lead to much intemperance. There is no market for grain
	in the town; it is sold either to, the dealers in the surrounding
	villages, or at the market in Kirkcaldy, twelve miles distant.
	  Villages.-Besides the ancient royal burgh of Falkland, there
	are two villages in the parish, Newton of Falkland and Freuchie.
	None of these villages are built upon any regular plan. Nar-
	row dirty streets cross each other in every direction, and the
	primitive, but most odious custom of making dunghills in front of
	the houses, is still maintained. Freuchie and Newton of Falkland
	are inhabited principally by feuars engaged in hand-loom weaving.
	  Falkland was erected into a royal burgh by James II. in 1458
	The preamble to the charter of creation states, as reasons for
	granting it, the frequent residence of the royal family at the manor
	of Falkland, and the damage and inconvenience sustained by the
	many prelates, peers, barons, nobles, and others of their sub-
	jects who came to their country-seat, for want of victuallers and
	innkeepers. This charter was renewed by James VI. in 1595.
	The corporation consists of three bailies, fifteen councillors, and


