
758                     ABERDEENSHIRE.

   The feuars of Insch are heritable proprietors of their hot,
and small gardens, paying a small feu-duty to Sir A. Leith Hay,
their superior, from whom they also rent about four acres of
ground each.
   The present population is about 220.  There are several shop.
keepers who deal in groceries, cloth, hard and stone ware, drugs,
&c.  There are also two watchmakers, a baker, a saddler, and
other tradesmen.  Most of the shops and dwelling-houses have
been for some years lighted with gas.
   There is no post-office nearer than Old Rain, which is three and
a-half miles off, the letters being at present conveyed to and from
that by a runner (not a servant of the post-office), who is paid by
a penny on each letter.  A post-office at Insch would be a great
boon to the neighbourbood.
   There are from six to seven miles of turnpike road in the pa-
rish, including parts of three lines, one, the mail-road from Aber-
deen to Huntly, which intersects the parish on the north side of
Foudland, the other two, variations of this, taking, the one, a
nearer course over the west shoulder of Foudland, the other a
more circuitous but more level course through Kennethmont and
Gartly.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church stands in the town of
Insch, close on the southern boundary of the parish, so that the
parishioners in the Glens of Foudland, i. e. on the northern
boundary, have to travel from five to six miles to it, and this by a
very difficult road, over the east end of the hill.
   The, date on the belfry of the church is 1613, and the common
belief is, that the church itself had been built in that year.  The
building, although it has at various times undergone considerable re-
pairs and alterations, and has therefore been in some sort moderniz-
ed, still bears indications of considerable age.  The walls are about
four feet thick.  It was new roofed in a very substantial manner
in 1789, and new seated in 1793; and the roof is still excellent.
But it is to be regretted that so much should have been expended
in repairing a building, one of whose walls was even then bulged
and out of plumb, and which, though perhaps at that time large
enough, the population having previously undergone a considerable
decrease, from which it was but beginning to recover, as now, as
might have been expected, far too small for the accommodation
of the people.  About fifteen years ago, there was a meeting of
Presbytery for the purpose of examining into the state of the


