
454                          ARGYLESHIRE.

respect and affection for the noble family of Argyle. A Royal
Charter was granted by- King William Ill., dated 19th April
1700, raising the old burgh of barony of Lochliead to the dig-
nity and privileges of a royal btirgh.
Extent.-The parish coinpreliends a large extent of the peniti-
sula of Kintyre. According to a map published by a late land-
surveyor to the Duke of Argyle, the extreme length of the parish
from north to south is twelve and a-half miles ; its greatest breadth
at the north is about six miles ; the whole being eighty-seven and
a-half square miles. It is bounded on the north, by the parishes
of Killeati and Saddell ; on the south, by the parish of Southend;
on the east, by the sound of Kilbrandon ; and on the west, by the
Atlantic Ocean.
There are no ranges of mountains in this parish ; but it may be
worthy of remark, in the way of illustration, that there are several
words in the Gaelic languaoe whibh express various degrees of
elevation on the earth's surface. Thus, Cnoc signifies a small
surface, erminence, or little hill; Sliabh, a hill of considerable ex-
tent and elevation ; and Beann, a mountain of the largest magni-
tude. The district of Kintyre abounds in bills of the first of
these orders; of the second there are several also; but to the lat-
ter appellation there is only one in the Mull of Kintyre, which
rises to the height of 2036 feet above the level of the sea. Heights,
however, of considerable elevation, from 800 to 1000 feet, over-
hang the south and north sides of the bay or loch of Campbel-
ton. Both ends of the parish to north and south are hilly. The
low ground consists chiefly of a large plain, four miles in length,
by three in breadth, lying between the town of Campbelton and
bay of Machirhanish, called the Laggan of Kintyre, which has
some appearance of being alluvial. From the small height, (forty
feet above the level of the sea,) and the appearance of the soil, it
is not improbable that the two seas united here at a former very
remote period. The hill of Bengaillin lies about a mile from the
town, and is the highest land near it. From the top of this bill
an admirable view can be obtained of the neighbouring country,
embracing Islay, Jura, Gigha, to the north-west; Ireland, with the
island of Rathlin, to the south-west; with Arran and Bute, Cowal
and the Frith of Clyde, to the north-east; the lowlands, as far as
Lochryan, to the south; with the picttresque rock of Ailsa in the
foreground.
 Caves.-In Island Devar, at the mouth of the loch, the sea has


