
                        STRICKATHROW.                          663

	Dunlappie (from Dun, a hill; and Lappie, water,) is very ap-
propriately named,--the upper part of the district being occupied
by the Hill of Lundie and the Dye, or West water, flowing along
its base on two sides and part of a third; while the lower grounds
are intersected by numerous steamlets.
	Extent and Boundaries.--The extreme length of the united pa-
rish from south-east to north-west is about 6 3/4 miles; the breadth
is very unequal, but averages about 1 1/3 miles. It is presenting a super-
ficies of 5440 imperial acres, or 8 1/4 square miles. It is bounded
by the parishes of Dun, Brechin, Menmuir, Lethnot, Edzell, Fet-
tercairn, Marykirk, and Logie-Pert. A small portion of the
parish and county, (comprising 36 acres of arable Land, and 36
acres of beach and gravel,) is severed from the rest, apparently
from a change in the channel of the river North Esk, the old bed of
which is still distinctly visible. This part of the parish is deserv-
ing of notice, as it is supposed to be the site of the Roman station
of Tina; * but the supposition has not been confirmed by the dis-
covery of any vestiges of a camp or other antiquities. There are,
indeed, about a mile to the north-west, the remain of an exten-
sive encampment, but evidently not of Roman construction. It is
of an oblong form. The ramparts are composed of large stones
piled upon one another; and at the end, bordering on the bank
of the Esk, are the foundations of what appears to have been a
round tower. It would seem that the Dye or West-water, has for
a long time past been gradually encroaching upon this parish and
enlarging that of Edzel. Within the memory of man, the en-
croachment has beeo above 70 feet, involving the destruction of a
village called Portsoy; and that, at one time, it had joined the
Esk about a mile above its present embouchure, is evident, both
from the appearance of the ground, and from the name of the
farm-house near which, the original channel is still very observa-
ble; " Invereskandy," i. e. the Esk and Dye.
	Topographical Appearance.--The parish is naturally divided
into threel parts. The south-east is occupied by the hill of Stra-
cathrow, a table-land, elevated about 400 feet above the level of
Strathmore, and stretching into the neighbouring parishes of Lo-
gie, Dun, and Brechin. A great part of it is under wood, which,
though indifferently managed, has attained a considerable size;
but the arable land is mostly poor, and lies on a cold clay subsoil.
	From the brow of the hill the view is very fine embracing the

<FOOTNOTE>Knox's Topography of the Basin of the Tay, p. 96.


