
510.                       RENFREWSHIRE.

and the place became vacant for upwards of two years, the more
respectable of the inhabitants, who are mostly weavers, formed
themselves into an educational sochety, to be managed by twelve
directors under the presidency of the minister. A certain number of
the more intelligent of the villagers who were willing to undertake
the task of teachers, were selected ; a room was hired for the pur-
pose, and a school, opened from eight to ten o'clock at night, in
which the teachers, two by two, in monthly turn, gave gratuitous
instruction to whatever children were committed to their charge.
The duty of the directors was principally to visit the school, and
to wait upon careless parents to trge upon them the propriety of
securing to their children the advantages which it offered. The
plan was attended with the greatest success, and continued in ac-
tive operation until rendered unnecessary by the arrival of a regular
teacher. An excellent parish school and schoolmaster's house
were erected in the year 1830, at an expense approaching L. 500.
It is thinly attended, and the parochial schoolmaster has stated to
the writer that, in his opinion, the cause of this may be its proxi-
mity to the river! The salary is about L. 31 ; and the office, con-,,
nected as it is with that of session-clerk, affords a very comfortable
competency.
   Societies, &c.- There is in the parish a Ladies' Society for cloth-
fing the children of the poor, and other purposes. By them a
girl's school, formed very much on the lodel of the schools of
industry, has been instituted. A salary is given to the teacher--
appointed by them, who is bound to receive and instruct gratui-
tously a limited ntimber o girls recommed ed by the society,
while she is allowed to receive the fees of those who are voluntarily
placed by their parents tinder her tuitions The same ladies pro-
vided last year for the complete clothing of no less than fifty-two
poor children, and are this year still further extending their geiie.;
rosity, in the exercise of which, they are handsomely supported
by the wealthier classes of the parishioners. Under the same
friendly auspices, a Sunday-school has been instituted, over which
the minister presides, and,in the management of which he is ably.
assisted by twelve of his congregation. For the use both of the
girl's school and of the Sunday-school, the old parish schoolroom
has been kindly appropriated by the heritors; and through the
liberality of one of their number, it has been placed in such a state
of repair as to. be inferior to few schoolrooms in Scotland, either
in point of accommodation or comfort. The number of children


