
                    GLENURCHY AND INISHAIL.               101

Elliot of Edinburgh, and executed by Allan Johnstone, architect
of Taymouth Castle.  It is exceedingly admired, and constitutes
one of the most interesting features in a landscape, not surpassed in
beauty and loveliness by any in the Highlands.  It is kept in excel-
lent repair.  The church of Inishail is a paltry building, erected
about seventy years ago.  It is, all things considered, set down in as
suitable a place as could have been selected, yet it is, notwithstand-
ing, both distant and difficult of access to a large body of the pari-
sbioners.  Lochawe, which intervenes, constitutes a serious obstacle
to their attendance on public worship.
   Several benefactions, though small in amount, have been
made at several periods to the parish of Glenurchy, none to
the parish of Inishail.  The largest of these was a sum of
L. 100, bequeathed by Colin Campbell of Carwhin, great grand-
uncle to the present Marquis of Breadalbane.  The benefit is
limited to the widows of tacksmen in reduced circumstances.
This bequest, together with a sum of equal amount, made up of
several small benefactions, left by several individuals, whose names
are recorded in the session records, is placed in the hands of the
Marquis of Breadalbane, for which he gives a handsome interest.
The number of sittings in both churches inclusive, amounts to 750,
(Glenurchy church 500, Inishail 250.) All the sittings are free.
The manse was built in 1805.  It underwent some repairs, and
bad some additions made to it about twelve years ago Glebe,
extent 22 acres, value L. 22.  There is, besides, summer keep
allowed for eight cows, being a servitude of two cows on each of
four farms in the neighbourhood.  An equivalent in pasture is
given in one locality, in consequence of a private arrangement en-
tered into with the proprietor.  This enhances the value of the
glebe L.10 more.  To the incumbent the value of both may be
equal to about L. 40 a year.
   The stipend is twelve chalders meal, and L. 26 Sterling yearly
teind. The teinds are all exhausted.
   There is what was a Chapel of Ease, until the Assembly Chapel
Act was passed, giving the Chapels of Ease the status of quoad sa-
cra parishes.  It is one of the two places of worship in the quoad
aacra parish of Strathfillan.  This chapel is situated in the braes
of the parish.  Public worship is celebrated here every third Sab-
bath, the public ministrations of the clergymen being confined on
the other two to the more populous district of Strathfillan.  The
two churches are placed six miles from each other.  This parish,


