
     of Kirknewton.

upon them.  The statute labour is commuted at the rate
of 18 s. the ploughgate.  The largest farms let at L. 150
and L. 200, and are generally inclosed, except the hilly
sheep farms.  There are 12 heritors, two only of whom
reside constantly in the parish, some of the rest occasionally.
The valued rent is L. 3760 Scotch.  From the manse, a
prospect opens to the eye one of the richest and most beau-
tiful to be seen in Scotland.  On the east it is terminated
by a full and picturesque view of Arthur's seat, the metro-
polis, and its venerable castle, which is on a level with the
manse, and which seems as if only about 5 or 6 miles distant.
On the north appear the Ochil hills, the frith of Forth, a great
part of Fife, and several of the coast towns; and on the
south arise the Pentland hills.  From a rising ground, a few
yards distant from the manse, a part of 13 counties may be
seen, and a stretch of country of about 100 miles, almost from
Berwick to Greenock.  The great Glasgow road from E-
dinburgh passes through the parish.-About 50 years ago,
it was usual for the most substantial farmers to appear at
church and market in home-spun cloth and plaiden hose.
Now their menial servants and cottagers are equipped in
English broad cloth, silk and satin.  This turn for finery is
a great loss to them, as they live up to their wages, not-
withstanding their being so high.  Thus they enter into a
married state, with their whole substance upon their back,
especially women; and when sickness, or any misfortune
prevents their daily labour, they immediately sink into the
depth of poverty.  It is generally observed, that the inha-
bitants of villages are more licentious and dissipated, than
those who live in separate and sequestered hamlets, and
are employed in agriculture.  The almost universal use of
tea and spirits, of an inferior quality, tends greatly to hurt
both the health and morals of the lower people.-Some
stone pillars in the form of a cross, and appearances of


