
   204				ELGINSHIRE.

   into Morayshire, falls at length here into the Moray Frith.  It
   abounds with salmon and trout, and affords excellent sport to the
   angler.  There is also a rivulet or burn, called the Burn of Kin-
   loss, which flows due east and west, and divides the parish into
   almost equal parts.  Receiving at the east end of the parish two
   tributary streams, and fed in its progress by numerous drains, it
   occasionally swellsto a considerable size, and empties itself into
   the bay of Findhorn, a little below the parish church.
      Meteorology.*- The mean density of the atmosphere is found
   to be 29.595; the mean temperature in the shade 48.6 ; the mean
   monthly depth of rain 2.006 inches.  For about one-third. part of
   the  year, the south-west wind blows; to which circumstance is to
   be ascribed the superior mildness of the air in Morayshire, during
   the summer and autumn.  In the end of autumn, and for the most
   part of winter, either a north-west wind prevails, increasing often
   to a tempest, with cold rain, sleet, or snow, or a north wind, which
   is always cold, generally fair, but occasionally accompanied by
   heavy rain.  The most unpleasant weather in all the year is about
   the end of spring and beginning of summer, when a keen easterly
   wind continues for weeks in succession.  In this particular locality,
   when the wind blows either from the north or east, in winter or
   spring, it is intensely cold, and, on the other hand, in summer and
   autumn it is uncommonly sultry and hot.  The transition also from
   heat to cold and from cold to heat is not only frequent but some-
   times sudden.  Yet the climate is remarkably healthy, and the
   inhabitants live in general to an advanced age.  Pulmonary com-
   plaints and rheumatism are not unfrequent.
      Geology.-- There is considerable diversity of soil in the parish,
   -clay, loam, sand, and moss; but a rich fertile loam is its pre-
   vailing character, particularly in the lowest part of the valley, and
   towards the gently rising acclivity of its southern boundary, where
   alluvial deposits from the higher lands of the surrounding district
   settle down.  Clayey loam abounds chiefly in the east end of the
   parish, deep black loam in the centre, about the precincts of the
   abbey, and light, sharp, sandy loam northward in the direction of
   the sea.  The average depth of the soil is from eighteen inches
   to three feet, resting on a subsoil, sometimes of yellow or blue
   clay, but, for the most part, of red or white sand.  Below the sand

      *The substance of this part of the article is taken from a meteorological
   journal kept at the Elgin Institution for 1835.


