
                           CARNOCK.                          695

appear in large flights during severe winters.  Attempts have been
made to introduce the pheasant; but the want of proper covers
and the depredations of the poacher have prevented their success.
An individual of the species, however, is occasionally seen.
   Botany.-Of the rarer plants, the following, kindly pointed out
to me by Andrew Dewar, Esq. surgeon, Dunfermline, may be
mentioned.  Their localities are added:-

         Eleocharis multicaulis, Carnock Moor
	Melica nutans, Blair Dean
	Galium uliginosum, Do.
	Potamogeton heterophyllum, Carnock M.
	Primula elatior, Pitdionies
	Trientalis Europea, Clune
	Saxifraga tridactylites, Carneil
	Chelidonium majus, Carnock village
	Mentha viridis, Carneil
	variety cripa, Do.
	Lamium maculatum, of Reichenbach, Do.
	Nasturtium sylvestre, Bonhard
	Corydalis claviculata, Carnock Moor
	Senecio saracenicus, Do.
	Ophioglossum vulgatum, Carneil.

   The rein-deer moss is found in considerable profusion in Car-
nock Moor.
   Wood.-The plantations in this parish cover several hundred acres
of ground; and, being laid out with considerable taste and skill,
they serve both to beautify and shelter the lands.  They consist
chiefly of the different kinds of fir, intermixed with oaks, elms,
planes, &c. On the lands of Clune there is, besides several belts and
hedge-rows of trees, a considerable plantation of Scotch firs, of
nearly a hundred years growth, and of superior quality.  And on
the same estate, there is a large clump of aged beeches, which
both shelter and ornament the surrounding grounds.  In Luscar
Dean, which is all planted, and where a few trees of considerable
age and height are found, there was a venerable beech, of which
mention is made in the former Account of the parish, evidently of
great antiquity, but the age of which was unknown.  It was digni-
fied by the name of the "Queen of the Dean."  Growing on the
slope of a confined glen, and closely surrounded with other trees,
it was not seen to advantage.  But even near at hand it appeared
a Magnificent tree.  Its girth at the ground was 16 feet, and at
seven feet above thatpoint, 13 feet 8 inches.  Of the two large
limbs into which it separated, the one was 9 feet thick, and the
other nearly the same.  Its height was upwards of 100 feet.  This
tree, however, was blown down one stormy night in the spring of
last year.
   Of late years, a large number of trees, which must have been
planted above a hundred years ago by Colonel Erskine, and which
had attained their full growth, or were partially going into decay,
have been cut down ou the estate of Carnock.  A considerable
number, however, evidently planted by the same spirited gentle-


