
                           YESTER.                     171

Begbie, Esq. of Gifford Vale, to educate poor children. The
interest, amounting to L.4, 10s., is appropriated to this pur-
pose by the kirk-session. The session also, when necessary,
pay for the education of poor children; and several members of
the family of Yester bear the expense of educating between ten
and twenty children. There are two Sabbath schools in the
parish.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-There are at present eighteen regular
paupers, each of whom receives on an average L.3 per annum. Be-
sides these, about eight or ten receive occasional assistance. The
whole yearly expenditure of the kirk-session is about L. 120. In
1722, the average of the Sabbath collections was L.2 Scots money
each day. In 1751, it amounted to 4s. Sterling; in 1792, to 8s.;
at present the average collection on Sabbath is L. 1, 3s.; and the
annual amount is about L. 60. In 1710, the session received from
the Laird of Newtonhall the sum of L.1519, 3s. Scots, which was
expended in purchasing from the Marquis of Tweeddale thir-
teen acres of land, subject to a few-duty of 1s. per acre. The rent
of this tract, which is called the "precious land," amounts at pre-
sent to L. 29; which sum is also appropriated to the maintenance
of the poor. In 1798, the Rev. Mr Innes, and his brother, Dr
Robert Innes, mortified to the kirk-session the sum of L.200, the
interest of which is applied to assist the poor in paying their house
rents. This sum is placed in the hands of Lord Tweeddale, who
still allows L. 10 of interest. It has been mentioned, that on the
first Sabbath of the year, a collection is made to supply the poor
with coals, amounting usually to L. 7. All these sums, together
with what is derived from the use of the mortcloths, &c. may
amount to about L.110, which is nearly adequate to the supply of
the poor, and happily renders assessments unnecessary. About
twenty years ago, during a period of great scarcity, an assessment
was made to supply the labouring poor. Although necessary at
the time, it had by no means a good effect on that feeling of honest
pride which is characteristic of Scotchmen. At present, however,
there is no undue anxiety to obtain parochial relief. Many would
rather submit to the severest hardships than live on the parish.
The poor are all supported in their own houses, and the supplied
with medicines from a dispensary gratis. Many of the poor are
supplied with soup three times a-week from the Marquis of Tweed-
dale's kitchen, and with wood for fuel in winter from the grounds
of Yester.


