
                    BORROWSTOWNNESS.                      137

   Herrings seldom appear here in great quantities. In 1794-5,
there was a very successful fishing, but there has been none here
since.
   The establishment of a salmon-fishery at the mouth of the Avon
has been proposed, but not yet carried into effect.
   Haddock, cod, and skate, are found in the Frith; but little at-
tention is paid to fishing, owing, probably, to the want of bait.
   Small quantities of trout and flounders are occasionally taken
with hand-nets, in the stream of the Avon.
   Manufactures.-Tambouring was formerly a very profitable em-
ployment to a great number of females in this place. This branch
of industry now affords but a small remuneration, although a con-
siderable number is still employed in it.
   The Bo'ness Pottery commenced on a small scale in the year
1784, and has been carried on by various individuals since that
time. The present proprietors have greatly enlarged their pre-
mises, and extended their works. They manufacture almost every
variety of stone and earthen-ware.
   The Bo'ness Foundery is generally well employed. The che-
mical has lately been much enlarged.
   At the east end of the town there is an extensive bonded wood-
yard, and an open wood yard on the Links. Connected with them,
and driven by steam, is a saw-mill, containing both circular and
vertical saws, and a very ingenious and efficient planing machine,
The same steam-engine moves machinery for preparing bone
manure.
   There is a rope-work on a small scale on the Links.
   The Bo'ness distillery, at the west end of the town, is an exten-
sive establishment; but the present proprietor is working it on a
limited scale, producing only spirit of superior quality. The re-
venue paid to Government, including malt duty, is sometimes con-
siderably above L. 300 per week. The farmers obtain a large,
supply of excellent manure from the distillery, as there is connect-
ed with it extensive accommodation for feeding cattle.
   Besides the grain malted and used at the distillery, a conside-
rable quantity is malted elsewhere, and sent out of the parish.
   At this port there is an extensive grain trade, foreign and Bri-
tish. The grain merchants have accommodation for warehousing
15000 quarters. Almost all the granaries have been used as
bonded warehouses.
   Shipping.-In the course of the 17th century, Bo'ness became


