
                    PAISLEY.                                 185

Sproull, Hew Fulton, Christopher Strang, indews (i. e. indwellers)
in this burgh, efter Bodthil Bridge, and suffering and permitting
them to have the liberty and privilege of his Majesty's free lieges
sensyne within this burgh, and ellet aiding, abetting them in meate,
drink, armour and amonition, in manner at length exst in the said
endyctment.  And it being asked whether it sould be ane towne's
business and towne's purse to bear and sustaine the expenses, they
all in one voice have concludit, and ordainit, that whatever expences,
imprisonment, or fine, the baillies or any of the counsell sall hap-
pen to sustain through the said endyctment, during their abode in
Glasgow for the said cause, that the samen shall be paid furth of
the towne's readiest rents and duties: And have ordainit the trea-
surer to advance money to the baillies and councill for defraying
their expences during their abode at Glasgow, and their expences;
of imprisonment and fyning, if any sall happen to be.  And the
treasurer to give in ane particular account of his disbursement,
which shall be answered to him on demand, after their return from
Glasgow.  And for the effect foresaid, they have appointed William
Fyfe, and the clerk, to go to Glasgow, and make moyan with the
bishop to be the towne's friend before the day of compearance, and
to pay the horse hire and expences they sall happen to deburse
and pay in said affair, and their pains therein."
   8 June 1683.-"Sederunt, &c., who have concludit that there
be ane precept drawn upon the thesur for advancing to the baillies
and counsell of the soum of two hundred punds Scots money, and
have appoint four geanzies of gold to be taken out of the common
kist, partly for defraine the expences at Glasgow, employing advo-
cates, and partly for complimenting the clerk of the circuit court,
and making of necessarie moyan therewith, in order to bring off
and assolyzie the town for the indytment given them, for the al-
leged conversing with, aiding, and abaiting the rebells at Bodwet
Bridge.
   22 March 1697.-"The same day the baillies and councell,
taking to their, consideration that the commissioners for tryal of afthe
witches, is to sit at Pasley, swa that, for decorment of the town,
they think it convenient that the Tolbuith be repared, and for
that effect they appoint, the seats within the bar to be repaired,
and a heigh table made for the judges, againts their coming, and
other things as shall be thought convenient.  Then they thought
it fitt to buy a cloth, with a silk fringe, to be laid on before the
baillies ilk Sabath-day in the kirk seat."


