
   					KINLOSS.                           203

   masts, with the commercial flag waving in the breeze; and the ocean
   rolls its waters into a bay, at full tide, more than seven miles in
   circumference.  The scene altogether suggests the idea of health,
   peace, and plenty.
      The line of coast, which extends east about four miles, is uni-
   formly low, excepting the mounds of drifted sand, which extend
   along, and often change their position by the action of the wind
   and tide.  Behind these sandy hillocks, runs a bleak bank of coarse
   shingle, about one-fourth of a mile broad.  That the land once
   projected out where the bar now is, cannot be doubted; but be-
   ing low, as well as loose and pliable, it is not at all surprising that
   it should have yielded to the impetuosity of the sea, which, al-
   though now more effectually opposed by this gravelly ridge, pre-
   sents as much as ever the appearance of an ambitious adversary
   still aiming at new conquests.  In proof of this, it may be mention-
   ed, that the present town of Findhorn is the third that has borne
   the name.  The first stood about a mile west of the bar, the point
   at which the, river originally had its confluence with the Frith, until
   those tumuli called the Sandy Hills, by whatever impulse set in
   motion, drove it, in their progress eastward into the channel it now
   occupies.  The founders of the second took up a position a little
   to the north of the present village, where they doubtless imagined
   it would be safe; but in the course of time, the advancing ocean
   reached their habitations also, and swept them into its watery bed.
   Nor is the existing town free from the risk of being overtaken, par-
   tially at least, by a similar catastrophe.  The little space that in-
   tervenes between tide-mark and the north end, is a broken bank
   of sand, that drifts dreadfully with every hurricane, covering the
   streets and gardens to the depth sometimes of eight or ten feet:
   and this constitutes but a feeble bulwark against the tremendous
   surf that beats with a north-easterly swell; so that if means be not
   taken to give it a solid surface, either by laying it over with turf,
   or planting it with bent, there is reason to apprehend that it will
   by and bye be blown away altogether, leaving Findhorn that now
   is to share at some future period the fate of its predecessors.
      Hydrography.-The only river in the parish is the Findhorn or
   Erne, which, taking its rise in the mountains near Badenoch, and
   winding through the counties of Inverness and Nairn by a course
   of about sixty- miles from south-west to horth-east, amid some of
   the most romantic scenery in Scotland, especially after its entrance


