
			HOLYWOOD.                              559

parish bells. They are of excellent tone, and one of them, by the
inscription it bears, was consecrated by John Wrich, probably the
abbot, in the year 1154.
	Tower.--There is at Fourmerkland a tower of small extent. It
was built by R. Maxwell, in the year 1590, and is still in part in-
habited.
	Druidical Temple.--Not more than a quarter of a mile south-
west of the church, eleven large stones are placed in an oval form.
There were twelve originally; but one, many years since, was re-
moved. Their origin has always been traced to the times of the
Druids. They are situated near the lower termination of the Sa-
cred Grove, to which reference has been made. And there are
lands about half a mile to the east, which of old extent are design-
ed Woodneuk, so named because they were situated at one of the
corners of the grove.
	Six of these stones are small-grained greywacke; two, coarse-
grained greywacke; and other two are greywacke, but the colour
is of a green tint; and the last is a small-grained granite rock.
	The greywacke seems to be of the same general description as
the varieties of this rock which occur in Dumfries-shire. The ori-
ginal locality of the granite rock is more doubtful, as it differs
from that of Criffel.
	It is not easy to conceive how these masses could have been
transferred to their present locality. The difficulty may be conceiv-
ed, when it is stated, that the largest stone, by cubic measurement,
weighs nearly twelve tons; and the second largest, nine tons.
	On the lands of Holm, within a mile due east of these stones,
there was, within the last fifty years, another Druidical temple. It
consisted of nine large stones, and was situated on a small emi-
nence within 200 yards of the Nith. Unfortunately, and without
the knowledge of the proprietor, Peter Johnston, Esq. of Carnsal-
loch, they were broken and applied to the purposes of building.
	Cup.--Among the res sacrae of the parish, there is a commu-
nion cup, made of silver. It is saucer-formed, and contains three
gills and a half imperial, and weighs nine ounces. There is around
it, an inscription in rudely formed capital letters--For THE PA-
RISH OF HALIEWOOD, 1619. The initials of the stamp, C. R. F. E.
	Hospital.--In the list of religious houses, Spotiswood states,
that Robert II. comfirmed the foundation of an hospital made
within the monastery of Holywood, by Archibald the Grim, Earl
of Douglas.


