
                         INVERAVEN.                            125

the coast. Vegetation, though commencing late, advances rapidly
when stimulated by summer heat, heightened by the reflection
from the mountains, and in favourable years, of which for the last
thirteen there has been little or no interruption, the grain crops
produced even in the Braes of Glenlivet might not unfrequently
compete, both in respect of quantity and quality, with the produce
of the low districts of Banff and Moray. In the summer months,
water spouts sometimes fall, and thunder storms are very common.
No disease seems to be peculiar to the parish. Frequent cases
of cancer have occurred of late, and consumption is very common;
but the people are in general both healthy and hardy.
   Hydrography.-It is not a little singular that, in so wide and
mountainous a parish, there is no lake, with the exception of a very
small one near the Kirkmichael boundary, and within a short dis-
tance of the Aven, supposed to have been formed by that river when
running on a higher elevation than at present, which people in the
neighbourhood describe as bottomless, and as containing "a
ploughman, his plough, and a yoke of oxen." The linn of Livet,
which was the only waterfall in the parish, was destroyed some
years ago, with the view of affording free course to the few salmon
that enter that stream. Springs are numerous; some of them
very copious, and almost all affording water of excellent quality,
though none are said to be medicinal. The most remarkable is
one at Chapelton of Kilmaichlie, in the immediate neighbourhood of
the outlines of the old chapel, mentioned in the former report, which
is cased with stones, indicating that though now visited only as an
object of curiosity, it was possibly in repute in times of old, for
common or medicinal purposes. Another spring, close by, is also
cased at the mouth, though only recently, and in imitation of
the former.-Of rivers in the parish, the most important is the
Spey, which sweeps the parish on the north-west for about seven
miles, and is said to discharge as much water as any river in Scot-
land, though, from the rapidity with which it flows, smaller in appear-
ance than some others. The Aven, the largest of the Spey's tri-
butaries, though, except in floods, which usually commence twelve
or more hours earlier, producing but little perceptible increase of
its waters,-takes its rise from a loch of the same name lying at the
foot of the mountains of Benmacdui, Benna-maur, and Cairngo-
rum, and after flowing through the parish of Kirkmichael, for thir-
ty or thirty-five miles, enters this parish, about seven miles from its
mouth. At Drumin, it receives the Livet, swollen into a considerable


