
326                      BERWICKSHIRE.

lished in terms of a treaty concluded at Boulogne between France
and England, 24th March 1550. A few years after, Regent
Mary, wishing to involve Scotland in the war then raging be-
tween France and England, ordered D'Oysel, her general, to re-
build these fortifications; who, though much harassed by the
garrison of Berwick, succeeded in again putting the place into
a state of defence. At the subsequent peace, however, it was a
second time demolished; and the next reign, which witnessed
the union of the two kingdoms, deprived it of its importance as
a border fortress, and prevented all attempts at its re-erection.
From the circumstances just mentioned, the remains of the walls
are very scanty: the outline of the fortifications, however, as indi-
cated by the large grass-covered mounds, is everywhere observ-
able, and shows it to have been a place of some strength. Be-
ing considerably elevated above the town, and commanding a good
sea view, the Fort is a favourite walk of the inhabitants, and is
much frequented by the youth of the parish when engaged in their
various sports. *
   Modern Buildings.-There are no buildings worthy of particu-
lar notice in the parish, the old Manor House of Linthill only ex-
cepted. It is a good specimen of that kind of architecture so hap-
pily described by the author of Discipline and Self-Control, as
characterizing the residences of the minor Scottish lairds, and,
with its steep roofs and peaked and crowstepped gables, forms not
an unpleasant feature in the landscape. The view from it is
pleasing, embracing Captain Brown's villa of Netherbyres and its
surrounding woods, Gunsgreen House, and the shipping in the
harbour of Eyemouth, with the sea in the distance. In the town
of Eyemouth are many good dwelling-houses, but none entitled
to particular attention. In Chambers' Picture of Scotland, it is
observed, "that at one time all the people, high and low, young
and old, rich and poor, were more or less engaged in smuggling,
and no house was built without a view to accommodations for con-
traband goods. The whole town has still a dark cunning look, is
full of curious alleys, blind and otherwise, and there is not a single
individual house of any standing but what seems as if it could un-
fold its tales of wonder." There is no doubt that, during the
greater part of last century, the contraband trade was pursued to

<FOOTNOTE>In the immediate neighbourhood of the Fort, there is a field called the Bare-
foots, said to have been the scene of a battle in which the Scots, having been surpris-
ed in their beds, and not having time to put on their shoes, fought with bare feet
and yet gained a decisive victory.
                                   3


