
			PARISH OF CRAIG.

	PRESBYTERY OF BRECHIN, SYNOD OF ANGUS AND MEARNS.

		THE REV. JAMES BREWSTER, MINISTER.

		   I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name, &c.--The parish of Craig comprehends two distinct ti-
tularities, viz. Inchbrayock or Craig, and St Skeoch or Dunni-
nald; which were united in the year 1618, and appear from that
period to have received the common name of Craig. Inchbrayock,
or Inchbroyock, a word of Gaelic origin, is supposed to signify
" the island of trouts ;" and the greater part of the fishing ground
on this island is still called "the trout-shot;" or, according to
another etymology, " Inis-Breic, the church or chapel island,"
as the church formerly stood on this island, and the spot is still
occupied as the parish burial-place. St Skeoch, or St Skay, as it
is usually pronounced, appears to have received its name from some
of the northern saints.*/f A very picturesque spot on the coast is
usually called the Chapel of St Skay; but no ruins remain to
mark the existence of any former edifice. A small burying-place
is preserved around the spot, which is occasionally used for inter-
ments; and the site of the manse is still pointed out in an adjoin-
ing field. An annual payment of L.40 Scots also is still paid as
rent of the glebe to the Earl of Strathmore, as superior of Res-
tennet.
	Craig was formerly the name of one of the principal properties
in the parish, " the barony of Craig;" and may have originated
in the circumstance of a succession of rocky strata extending along
the whole of the sea coast, and occurring also throughout the in-
terior, very near the surface of the ground.
	Extent and Boundaries.--The parish extends about 6 miles in
length, and nearly 2 1/2 at its greatest breadth; comprising a sur-


<FOOTNOTE>Several years ago, some of our fishermen found a boat at sea with the name, " St
Skieou, Wolgast," painted on the stern, which I personally examined and noted at
the time. If pronounced Skieoff, according to the analogy of the northern language,
it would approach very near to the appellation Skeoch.


