
22                          ARGYLESHIRE.

with an established system of religious truth, could not fail to pro-
duce.
   Eminent Men.-The eminent characters of which this parish can
boast appear principally in one distinguished family.  In the family
of Argyle, there has been, from time immemorial, a succession of
men, almost all of whom have, been great and dear in the estimation
of their country.  "I know of no family in Europe of this eminen-
ey," says Wodrow, * "whom the Lord hath honored so much as this
of Argyll." AmoFig such men, whose reputation is the property
of their country, and engraved on every page of her story, the
martyred Marquis and his martyred soxi cannot, and ought not,
in a publication of this nature, to be omitted; "for, to all persons
of consideration and reflection," says the same historian, " they
both shine brightly as martyrs for religion and their country, and
it is beyond contradiction the Lord owned them both, and sealed
a deep eiise of his favour upon their souls." Equally improper
would it be not to particularize Archibald, the first Duke of Ar-
gyle, with his two sons, Duke John, and Duke Archibald, who
were among the most accomplished statement and distinguished
generals of their times.
   The memory of the Rev. John M'Vicar, a native and mi-
nister of this parish, is cherished by the people, and is worthy of
being preserved.
   The Rev. George Campbell, Professor of Divinity the Uni-
versity of Edinburgh, a man called by Wodrow "singularly ino-
-dest and excellent," was also a native of this parish, and the son
of George Campbell, the first Writer who settled here, and after-
wards Sheriff-substitute.
   The Rev. Claudius Buchanan, so much and justly estimated,
spent his early years in  this parish, his father having been teacher
of the grammar school
   The late Major-Generals Charles Turner, Dugald Campbell,
and Duncan Campbell, were also natives of the parish ; and so is
Mr William Napier, known throughout the world for his improved
printing-press, &c.
   Parochial Registers-The Parochial registers consist, Ist, Of
the records of baptisms andr marriages, Vol. i. extending from
to July 8 1688; Vol. ii. from December 1699 to Pecew-
ber 1763;, VoL iii. from January 1764 to January 1790; Vol. iv.

<FOOTNOTE>History of the Sufferings of the Church of Scotland, Fol. ed. page 545.
                                             4


