
28                           NAIRNSHIRE.

lites, or fossil remains of fishes, are enclosed in nodules, or flat
elliptical bodies, of fibro-carbonate of lime, and imbedded  in a
loamy shale, which overlays a schistose sandstone, having vegetable
impressions.  The nodule are composed of the purest lime, and,
when burned, yield excellent shells for manure or building pur-
poses.  They run so much into each other as to present a pretty
thick bed of compact limestones, which is found highly useful, and
burned to a considerable extent, principally for manure to newly
improved land. The fossil contents of these nodules have lately'
excited much curiosity and attention in the scientific world. The
fishes they contain arein a state of perfect preservation,-every
scale and fin, in many of them, remaining in their places. They
are believed to have been inhabitants of the sea, but the very ge-
nera to which they belonged are now totally extinct, viz. Coc-
costeris, Pterichthys, Cheirolepis, Cheiracanthus, Diplocanthus, Os-
teolepis, Gyrolepis, sides others which, though discovered, have
not been hitherto named. Many geologists are assiduous in their
investigations into this subject, and the locality is already distin-
guished in the annals of geology. The burn of Lethen, in its
downward course, cuts through and exposes sections of the newer
beds of the old red sandstone, in whicb fossil remains of fisbes,-
totally different from those of Lethenbar, Clune, and that neigh-
bourbood,--have been discovered; but these sections are beyond
the boundaries of the parish.
   Tha strata of the  rocks of the primary series, forming, as has
been said, the prevailing rocks of the parish, are generally placed
at a high angle, dipping in various directions. Those of the old
red sandstone dip to the north-westat an angle of 14&deg;ic. The
sandstone Strata have undergone little disturbance, no trap dikes,
or (Other indications of volcanic agency, occurring in the parish.
The sandstone beds are not of great thickness, so far as hithertn
exposed.
   No mineralogical survey,bas ever been made of the parish; and
no metallic ores to any extent have been discovered, though indica-
tions iron and manganese have been-observed.  Neither have
any simple minerals of value been detected.
   The Upper or alpine, has divisions of the parish, belonging to the
primary series of meks, has been scanty coveein of alluvial mat-                      9
tar or vegetables mould for the support of herbage, and yet trees
of luxuriant gorwth find rootting among the crevices of the rocks.
But she alluvial deposits at the sides of the rivers and streams,


