
     Marischal College and University of Aberdeen.

College, which commences on the first day of November, and
ends in April.  The fees paid to the professors, and which
have not been raised for many years, are for the lowest bur-
sars, twenty merks, and for the higher, in proportion to the
amount of their bursaries.  The others, called free students,
pay an honorarium of at least one guinea and a half, but
more frequently two or three guineas.  None of the students
reside in the College, but are boarded and lodged in houses
kept for that purpose, or with their friends.  The number of
students in philosophy varies from 120 to 140, of whom 10
or 15 are generally from England or the West Indies.  Their
conduct is as carefully attended to as possible and every Fri-
day, in the public school, the delinquents, whose names are
marked in the catalogue, for the transgressions of the week
preceding, are called out by the Principal in presence of the
Professors, and punished by censure or fine, according to the
fault.  At this meeting also, the students, in the three higher
classes, deliver Latin discourses upon subjects prescribed to
them by their respective masters for that purpose.  They all
wear long scarlet gowns, with broad velvet collars, of the
same form with those of the clergy of the Church of Scot-
land; attend prayers, which are pronounced by each of the
four regents in his turn, to whom this duty belongs, every
morning at eight, in the public school; and some weeks be-
fore the conclusion of the session, undergo a solemn exami-
nation, in presence of the Principal Professors, and all who
may chuse to attend.
   The expence of living here was formerly extremely low,
all the common necessaries of life being very plentiful and
cheap.  They are now considerably raised, yet young men of
the best families are still boarded and lodged at the rate of
less than thirty pounds a year; and the other expences for
cloaths, books and education, need not exceed twenty, pounds

     VOL. ULT. Q


