
186                        ARGYLESHIRE.

peopling are here in full operation.  To the former there are
strong inducements.  The country, undoubtedly, is, to a great ex-
tent, a pastoral district, and, of whatever improvements the soil may
be susceptible, and whatever fertility it may, and, in some districts,
really does possess, the variable character of the climate renders
the raising of crop precarious; and, besides, the price of sheep and
wool has of late years maintained an entire ascendancy over that
of black-cattle and agricultural produce.  Accordingly, on the sale
of the Argyle estates, and the breaking up of the old tack leases,
the sheep system came into more general operation.  The people,
though in some cases partially continued, from motives of com-
passion, have but slender holdings.  In other cases, they have
been wholly removed.  This process has again facilitated the in-
troduction of another, in one point of view, certainly the most com-
mendable, but, on the whole, perhaps not the least pernicious in
its effects ; for, in place of repairing to the south, in search of
steady employment, or taking the more decided and advisable
step of emigrating, the dispossessed tenantry have here and else-
where become the occupants of small allotments in wretched vil-
lages, where idleness exercises its unhappy influence over them,
and lands them in penury and wretchedness.
   These remarks are made, not as advocating either of the sys-
tems, or, reproaching any of the respected individuals by whom
they are severally practised.  Each system has its advantages and
disadvantages, as judiciously or injudiciously acted on.  Both
are to be condemned, when carried to an undue extremity.  The
evil effects of the allotment system are obvious; but, in addition
to its more immediate, but perhaps temporary effects on the con-
dition of the people, the other system referred to will, in all pro-
bability, yet be seen to produce evils of great magnitude.  It will
suspend the reclaiming of waste land, and, while the arable now
or lately in cultivation will soon become overrun, as it has a strong
tendency to do, with fog, heath, and brushwood, the existing dikes
and farm-steadings will become dilapidated; and then, should the
price of black-cattle, as it is net improbable, regain its former
will the acknowledgment be more readily given than than at
present, that a system, combining, as formerly, the agricultural
and the pastoral, is of all the most conducive to the improvement
of the country, the comfort of the people, and the interest of the
proprietors.
                               3


