
206                        ARGYLESHIRE.

dinary tide-mark, there is one of these pieces of rock, commonly
called ringing-stones, supposed to be about twelve tons weight.
It is not balanced, or capable of being moved by a small force, as
these stones sometimes are, being firmly supported by two or three
small stones interposed between it and the rock beneath; and,
when struck by any hard body, it emits a hollow sound like a
kettle; hence its name of Clach a Choire, or kettle stone.
   Several old coins, chiefly copper, are reported to have been
found from time to time, but little or no authentic information
can be given regarding them. A small silver coin was discovered
in a sand-bank about fourteen years ago.  It was somewhat larger
than a sixpenny piece, seemed pretty entire, and was inscribed in
Gaelic with the words Righ Callum Ceannmor, or King Malcolm
Ceannmor, who flourished in the eleventh century, and was con-
temporary with William the Conqueror.
   About forty years ago, a circular piece of gold, supposed to
have been an ornament for the arm, was found by a person while
digging a stony knoll in a farm near the ford formerly mentioned.
He described it as quite circular, at least five inches in diameter,
about one inch broad, so thin as to be easily flexible, and evidently
intended to clasp or lock.  Some decayed human bones were found
at the same time, scattered among the earth and stones.  This
ancient relic was soon afterwards sent to Glasgow, and sold there
for a trifle.
   The middle and principal part of Coll is an ancient possession,
the charter having been granted to John Garve, first laird of Coll,
and, predecessor to the present family, by King James II.  The
two extremities of that island, which were acquired by the Ar-
gyle family at the same time with Tiree, have been latterly sold
by his Grace, and Coll is now possessed by three proprietors.
   There are many traditionary legends of sanguinary conflicts be-
tween the M'Leans of Coll and the M'Neills of Barra, who con-
tended fiercely and with various success for the possession of that
island, but the latter were finally defeated and driven off.  Several
places are still named from these encounters, such as Baugh
Chlainn Neill, the Bay of the M'Neills; Slochd na dunach,
the Pit of Havock or Destruction, a small cave or creek at the
sea side, to which the remnant of that clan had retired for secu-
rity, after a bloody and unsuccessful battle.
   Afterwards the Island of Coll was the scene of further bloody con-
tentions.  The then chief of M'Lean, who appears to have been of a


