
692                       FIFESHIRE.

masses of trap overlying these like a cap.  On the top of the hill,
there is a hollow of some depth, which is always more or less
filled with water, and which, without a stretch of imagination,
may be supposed to have been the aperture through which the
igneous matter forced itself.  Indeed, the appearance of the trap,
as seen distinctly overcapping the sandstone, and forming preci-
pitous masses on one side of the hill, strongly countenances the
idea of its having partially upheaved, and at last forced its way,
when in a liquid state, through the strata on which it now rests.
  In the neighbourhood of the village of Carnock, there is a bed
of white indurated clay, apparently of considerable depth and ex-
tent, which is usually denominated cawn, and is much sought after
for domestic purposes.  It dips towards the south, and lies im-
mediately under a stratum of rich soil and clay of considerable
depth.  The layers are very regular and compact; but the joints
are numerous, and extend in all directions, so that no piece of
any great magnitude is ever dug out.  This stone receives a fine
polish and being so soft as to be turned on an ordinary lathe,
it is frequently manufactured into small articles.  The bed seems
gradually to pass into the strata of slaty and shaly substances that
lie to the east of it.  It is not found in any other part of the pa-
rish, nor, so far as we can learn, in any great quantity in any of
the neighbouring parishes; and hence, as it is in some request,
it is carried to considerable distances for sale.
   Ironstone is frequently met with in the parish, especially on the
lands of Pitdinnies and Blair.  The quality is considered rich,
particularly of that which is found on the Pitdinnies; but on nei-
ther estate has the ore been wrought.
   Coal is diffused generally throughout the parish, and was at no
distant period wrought in five different places.  The only mine
at present in operation, is on the estate of Blair, in the west of
the parish. It has been wrought for a long time past, but with
greater spirit of late years than formerly.  It consists of four dif-
ferent seams of coal.  The uppermost, a three feet seam, is a
blind coal, used by brewers and malsters.  The others are house-
coat of different qualities, and are 6, 4, and 2 1/2 feet in thickness
respectively.  Part of all these seams have been wrought and are
at present working.  The produce, which is about 2000 tons an-
pually, is almost wholly used in home consumption.  The entire
depth of the pit, which is at present wrought, is twenty-three fa-
thoms.  A dike cuts one of the seams near to the pit, causing a


