
720                         ABERDEENSHIRE.

staple, nay, almost sole species of grains, and for the growth of tur-
nips and potatoes, which in favourable years, it grows in great
abundance.  A powerful auxiliaary to the other kinds of manure,
which our vicinity to the sea enables us to command, has been
found in the bone manure, which us suited to the generality for our
soil, and of which a considerable quantity is annually imported.
A vast quantity of hering refuse and of sea-dogs, (the livers of
the last of which are converted, by the thrifty farmer's wives, into
oil for the replenishing of their winter's evening lamps), are also
annually brought into the parish.
   Botany.-Our plantations are few.  Placed in small, irregular,
insulated patches or in narrow continous beltings (amounting,
however, in whole to about 2170 acres, 40 of which have been
planted since 1826, at the rate of 7000 trees per acre, thus giv-
ing at an average, since 1826, 21,000 trees annually), in the vi-
cinity of New Pitslige, in the upland district of this parish, expos-
ed, from their elevated and unprotected position, to every blast
that blows, yet the trees have made tolerable progress.  They
prove that ash, plane, fir, aller, mountain-ash, the constituent trees
of these plantations, are fitted to grow in this country.

                            II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Eminent Men.-The first individual connected with this parish,
where history and fate possesses any degree of public notoriety
and interest, is Mr. Forbes of Boyndlie, a scion of the noble family
of Pitsligo, the first possessor and builder of the first house of
Boyndlie, and who was killed at the battle of Craibstone in 1575.
   2. His descendant, John Forbes of Boyndlie, was taken pri-
soner on the 12th September 1644 at the battle of Abedeen, by
the celebrated Montrose ; but was liberated  shortly after on his
parole of honour, to return in case he could not, along with his
liberated fellow-prisoner, by the united influence with the Cove-
nanters, procure the liberty of the young Laird of Drum, and also
under the provisionary generous clause, not to return in case his
captor should sustain a defeat before the stipulated period.  With
a spirit worthy of a man and a Christian, he, like Regulus, did
return, upon finding incuperable obstacles in the way of the libe-
ration of the stipulated prisoner.  And when others, frightened
by the apprehend dangers and privations of a winter's retreat,
and perhaps a winter's campaign, amidst the wilds and fastnesses
of the Highlands mountains were in crowds deserting Montrose,
he nobly abode in the camp, determitted to brave all things rather


