
62                   HADDINGTONSHIRE.

parish of Garvald, and joining the Nunraw burn at the east extre-
mity of that parish, flows in an easterly direction through a beautiful
glen or valley, in a winding course, bending sometimes to the right
bank and sometimes to the left bank, both of which are covered
from the top to the bottom with the finest trees of various kinds.
This stream runs through a beautiful and romantic glen, by
Beil, Belton, West Barns, and falls into the sea at Belhaven. The
Whittadder rises on the north-west point of the farm of Johns-
cleugh, and flows from the white well southward about three miles,
and joins Fasseney water at Millknow. This last mentioned stream
rises on the eastern part of Westhope's farm, in the parish of Gar-
wild. The Whittadder having received this addition at Mill-
know, rolls on in a south-east direction, till it falls into the Tweed
four miles above Berwick.
   Geology and Mineralogy.-In the parish of Whittingham there
are several excellent quarries of red freestone, which have been
wrought to great extent. The Fasseney water, in Lammermoor,
will ever be a spot peculiarly interesting to the geologist, from the
appearance which it presents. It is well known that the extensive
range of mountainous country called the Lammermoor hills extend
across the whole island, from the east sea to the west. It consists of a
series of transition rocks, especially greywacke. It is obvious, that,
however high their situation is at present, they must have once been
laid at the bottom of the sea, and must have been raised up to their
present situation by some immense expansive power from below,
and which not only gave their elevation but their inclination, which
in the whole range is almost vertical. It is not improbable that
this has been effected by a mass of granite under them. Granite, it
is generally admitted, appears either in mass, or in veins from it.
The granite here is in mass; but, so far as I know, it has never
been discovered, as thrusting its veins into the superincumbent
schistus.
   The appearance that it makes here is equally interesting both to
the Wernerian and the Huttonian, each maintaining that it affords
a confirmation of their respective theories. The Wernerian holds
that granite is of the oldest formation of rocks, supporting all others.
The Huttonian, on the other hand, maintains that it is a rock va-
rying in age, consequently alternating with Neptunian rocks of dif-
ferent epochas. The Wernerian, of course, affirms that it owes its ori-
gin to water, the Huttonian to subterranean heat. But its present
elevation and inclination could not have been produced by water, but


