
418                       ROXBURGHSHIRE.

the authorities in arresting the progress of crime and enforcing the
authority of the laws.  The number of convictions, inclusive of
cases, brought not only before the m`gistrates and justices of peace,
but before the Sheriff, and the circuit court at Jedburgh, amount-
ed in 1838 to 58.
  Spirit Licenses.-The number of spirit licenses granted to inn-
keepers, grocers, and others in the parish, from Whitsunday 1838,
to Whitsunday 1839, amounted to 53, and it is not to be doubted
that these have exerted a prejudicial influence on the morals of
the people.
  Fairs.-Markets for cattle and for hiring servants are held ge-
nerally on the 17th of May,-for sheep on the 20th and 21st of
September,-for horses and cattle on the third Tuesday of Octo-
ber,-and for cattle and hiring servants on the 8th of November.
These markets are in general very numerously attended.
  Fuel.-Both wood and seats are occasionally used; but the
principal fuel is coal, brought partly from Etal, in Northumberland,
and partly from the Duke of Buccleuch's pits in the neighbourhood
of Langholm.  From the distance of land carriage the expense of
this article is considerable, the average price being about Is. 1d.
per cwt. It is computed that 7OOO cart-loads are consumed in Hawick
annually, which are estimated at upwards of L.6000.

              MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   The state of matters in this parish at the present time is widely
different in almost every respect from what it was at the period of
the former Statistical Account.  In the enlargement of the town,
the increase of the population, the arection of extensive factories,
the construction of new roads, the revenue of the post-office, the
system of husbandry, the rate of wages, and the state of the mar-
kets, we discern evidences of a change no less rapid than remark-
able.  And in all that relates to rural economy and commercial
enterprize, we believe there are few  places of equal extent that
have affected more with the means placed at their disposal, or
risen by their own vigorous exertions to a  higher and more inde-
pendent position.  It were well if, in matters of greater moment,
and more especially in regard to the means and opportunities of
moral and religious improvement, they had enjoyed advantages as
ample as their circumstances required, for in that case the virtues
of the population might have kept pace with their success in the
ordinary business of life.  But in this respect they have laboured
                                4


