
58                    KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

portions is always easily kept, soon fattened, and, as Mr Rimsay
has observed, "commonly tells well at the end of the balance."
The sheep pastured herek for some time, chiefly consisted of the
Leicester breed; and, more recently, a breed from the Cheviot ewe,
crossed with the Leicester ram, has been preferred, as more hardy,
and the mutton superior.
   Husbandry.-The recent introduction of bone manure, and the
opportunity afforded of communication by steam with the English
markets, have materially affected the system of husbandry of this
district.
   Turnip husbandry has very much increased; the soil of Borgue
is particularly well adapted for it; and, from its kindly dry nature,
is likely to derive from it permanent betmfit. At the same time,
from the unarable character of the surface in many fields, and
from the lightness of the soil, it is not desirable to push tillage
beyond the necessities of the winter fodder required for cattle, on
most of the farms.
   The rotation nf cropping considered to be the best adapted for
the parish in general is the following: 1st year, a crop of oats; 2d,
turnips; 3d, barley or oats; 4th, hay or pasture; 5th, pasture;
6th, do.; 7th, do; and so on for two or three years more if the
contingencies of the farm will admit; care being taken to lime and
dung the fallow sufficiently, and to feed off with sheep. Land
thus partially grazed, on account of the nutritive qualities of its
pasture, pays better than under a close system of tillage.
   Improvements, &c.-For some time after the close of the war,
agriculture was in a state of stagnation. During the last fifteen
years, improvements have again advanced rapidly. By Sir John
Gordon, extensive plantations have been outspread along the steep
slopes of his demesne and the adjoining farms; much has also been
done  by the same spirited proprietor in draining, and cultivating
moss; a considerable extent of which, in the neighbourhood of his
policy, is now converted into good meadow. Mr Ireland of Rat-
traw has also planted and enclosed, in a very judicious manner, a
considerable extent of his property in Borgue.
   Many of the farms on the Earl of Selkirk's estate have, in the
course of a few years, completely changed their appearance. This
is partly due to the intelligence and enterprise of his tenantry,-
but still more to the liberal encouragement given by his Lordship
for liming and draining wherever required.
   The good effects of judicious liming are also apparent on the


