
                                 PERTHSHIRE.

        was raised was procured by Lord Kames from old trees at
        Auchenbowie in Stirlingshire.  A great number of them have
        sprung up in the moss on the opposite side of the road, and form-
        ed a new plantation, being  self-sown from the cones, which crows
        have been observed carrying to the open moss for the purpose of
        feeding on the seed.  "The timber of this species is much superior
        to that of the other two kinds which are frequently cultivated, one
        of which has a short and thin foliage, and produces but little tim-
        ber, and the other, although it is of rapid growth, produces timber
        of an inferior quality." (Journal of Agriculture, October 1843.)
          The ash and plane (sycamore) trees at Burnbank are much
        older than the trees at Blair-Drummond.  Some of them exceed
        11 feet in circumference, and there is a walnut tree there 11 feet
        7 inches at 3 feet from the ground.
          Walnuts usually ripen, chestnuts not so often, though not long
        ago they ripened three years consecutively, and as many plants as
        were wanted were raised from seed.
          On the estate of Ochtertyre, belonging to David Dundas, Esq.
        M.P., there are some trees remarkable for their age and size, and
        of which the following deserve particular notice.
          An ash near the house, called the jug-tree, from the jugs hav-
        ing been fixed in it, was measured in 1800 by the late Mr Ram-
        say, and, at about two feet from the ground, was 11 feet in cir-
        cumference, the branches extending 38 feet from side to side.
        The circumference of the same tree in 1838, at two feet from the
        ground, was 13 feet 8 inches.
          In 1838, the following measurements of other trees of vanrious
        kinds were taken at the heiglit of two feet from the ground: Se-
        veral oaks, seventy years old, were from 8 feet 8 inches to 8 feet
        11 inches in circumference.  One large lime, ninety-eight years
        old, 10 feet 5 inches; a beech, 10 feet 7 inches; a poplar, 12
        feet; another, 10 feet 7 inches; a larch, seventy years old in
        1838, growing near the river, measured 7 feet 7 inches, and others
        growing near it from 7 feet 7 inches to 9 feet 5 inches.  Two
        others, on the bank of the river, 10 feet; one elm, 10 feet; and
        several Scotch firs from 6 feet 8 inches to 6 feet 10 inches.
        These trees grow chiefly in a gravelly or sandy soil.
          In the neighbourhood of the manse and otber'situations in this
        parish, some of the commoner plants, as they appear in succession,
        are remarkable for their profusion and elegance.  The woods are
        literally clothed in April with the white flowers of the anemone



