
368                      RPNFREWSHIRE.

best evidence of its former importance is, perhaps, that it has not
been levelled to the ground ages ago. The enclosure may alto-
iether exceed in -extent half an acre, and commands in every di-
rection a most extein.-,ive prospect. Among the columns above-
mentioned may be remarked, a seat or natural 11 armed chair," dig-
nified by tradition with the title of Wallace's Seat. Its peculiar
form seems owing to the circumstance of the top of one of the co-
lumns, which are articulated, having been removed from its original place.
FamiliesconnectedwiththisParish.-lVapierqfMilliken. This
very ancient family is now represented by Sir William Milliken
NapierofMillikenand-Napier,.Baronet. Thefirstofthisfamily
flourished in the reign of Alexander III. John Napier of Mer6histon,
the twelfth of the family, was author of the admirable work which, in
1614, disclosed to the world his Logarithms, pro nounced by a very
competentjudge, and who was far from being lavish of praise, 11 the
noblest offering which philosophy ever presented to science." Born
at Gartness, in Stirlingshire, or, as some allege, at Merchiston, near
Edinburgh, thirty-two years before that University was founded,
St Andrews was his Jim-a Mater ; and supplied those precious seeds
of knowledge which be continued to cultivate and mature in the
far-famed seats of learning on the continent of Europe, and among
the master spirits of the age. As an office-bearer in the church,
,he took a distinguished place in her General Assemblies, in times
fitted to try men's souls, and task their highest talents. It is mat-
ter of regret that part of the MS S. of this distinguished man, who
died in 1617, in his sixty-seventh year, perished unfortunately by a
fire in Milliken House in 1801,/f*
John Napier, his oldest son, was, in 1627, created a Baronet of
Nova Scotia, and raised to the peerage the same year, by the title
of Lord Napier. In favour. of his grandson the patent was renew-
,ed and extended to heirs-female also, and passed, -afterwards by a
sister into the family of Scott of Thirlstane, while the Baronetcy
reverted to the'oldest heir male. It ' is incompatible, with the ob-
ject of this brief notice, to trace the Connection of the N*,en of
Merchiston and Culereuch, and, of courser the steps by which the
rank of Knight Baronet of Nova Scotia, with the territorial rights
attached to it, by patent ofdate 2 May 1627,-the most ancient
be Life of Napier, by Mark Napier, Esq. Advocate


