
164                 LINLITHGOWSHIRE.

about 500 in summer to 300 in winter. In the three Dissenting
chapels, which contain 1569 sittings, the average attendance was
stated by the ministers to be 780, and the number of sittings let
630; but as these congregations embrace 392 persons beyond the
bounds of the parish, the proportion, allowing both classes to be
equally exemplary, would give an attendance from the parishioners
of 603, and 487 sittings rented by them. The number of persons
who have been admitted to the communion of the Established
Church, and have not been cut off from that privilege, nor have
joined themselves to any other congregation, is about 660; but as
this includes old people who cannot attend, some careless people
who will not attend, and some whose necessities keep them back
from the house of God, it is greatly above the number who join
at any given communion. In winter, about 320, and in summer
about 350 communicate.
   There is no religious society in the parish. The collections in
the Established Church for religious and charitable objects, inde-
pendent of the ordinary collections for the poor, have averaged an-
nually L. 20, 5s, 6d.
   Education.-Besides two schools exclusively for sewing, there
are three schools in this parish, viz. one parochial, one endowed, and
one unendowed. In the unendowed school, only English, writing,
and arithmetic, with a little geography, are taught. The parochial
schoolmaster, though qualified to teach classical literature, French,
and mathematics, is seldom required to teach anything more than
the teacher of the unendowed school. The endowed school is
an institution known by the name of the Bathgate Academy, es-
tablished under the will of Mr John Newlands. Mr Newlands was
a native of the parish, who, after being bred a carpenter, left Bath-
gate at an early age and proceeded to Jamaica, where by degrees
he amassed a considerable fortune, and ultimately became a
wealthy planter. He died in that island in 1799, leaving by his
will the bulk of his property to certain trustees,* "to erect a free
school in the parish of Bathgate." The will, however, was chal-
lenged by friends of the testator in Scotland, and the claim of the
trustees opposed by the executors in Jamaica. The trustees took
alarm at the prospect of being involved in heavy law expenses, and
would probably have abandoned the trust, had not one of them,

<FOOTNOTE>When the will came to be acted on, a number of the nominations to the office
of trustee fell, from misnormers, &c. The only nominations which held, were those
of Mr Marjoribanks of Balbardie, Lord Polkemmet, Colonel Gillon of Wallhouse,
and the minister of the parish. The eldest sons of the three first, and the successor
of the last, are the present trustees.


