
     Statistical Account

   Advantages and Disadvantages-The natural advantages of
this country are succinctly enumerated by the author of the
book above quoted, p. 9. of the State of Scotland, where
speaking of the instances of longevity mentioned by Martin,
which he ascribes to the healthfulness of the climate and the
temperate way of living, he adds, that, 'this is very good
'encouragement for others to adventure stocks and factories

<FOOTNOTE>

'ed well for a time.  The fish they caught were accounted the
'best of their kind in Europe, and yielded a price accordingly;
'but the king withdrawing his money afterwards, to supply
'his pressing occasions, the merchants were displeased at it, and,
'differing among themselves, did also withdraw theirs, which
'ruined the design.'
   Since that period no particular attention has been paid by ad-
ministration to a country, in which this single experiment might
have taught them to look for neglected sources of public wealth;
and the only object of the landlords was to raise their rents with-
out attempting any improvement whatever; till the year 1783,
when the late Captain Macleod, of patriotic memory, having be-
come proprietor of Harris, took up his residence in the country,
and commenced a scheme of improvements, which, if he had
lived to accomplish, was likely to advance the general prosperi-
ty of the inhabitants.  His object was to call the attention of
the people chiefly to the fishing.  He deepened, at a consider-
able expence, the entrance to an excellent little bason at Row-
dill, fit to accommodate all the boats belonging to the country,
as well as several vessels of ordinary burden.  Within this he
built two quays and a breast-work.  He employed the people,
and paid them well for their labour.  He caused the tenants to
begin to make cart roads for opening a communication through
the country  In order to give the proper direction to female
industry, he built a house for manufactory, endows it with a
salary for a mistress, and got to it a number of spinning wheels.
He entered into terms with the British Society for erecting a
fishing station at Tarbert, where ground to a considerable ex-
tent was accordingly measured out for this purpose.  In a word,
he was zealous in promoting the public good, but his time was
too short to consummate any one of the beneficent projects he
had laid.  All the labours which he commenced, have ceased,
and all the monuments of his patriotism, which he left half fi-
nished, are now verging to decay.


