
                    KILBARCHAN.                        367

chapel or bhurch of the "Hill bounded Vale."  From two to three
miles westward of this village there is situated on St Bride's burn
already noticed as the boundary of this' arish and Lochwinnoch, and

on. the direct road thither--a stone of uncommon dimensions
named, as is the farm it stands on, Clochoderick, or Clachna-
druid, i. e. the Druidical stone.  This explanation of the name is
strongly corroborated from the prevalence of names clearly.of
Celtic origin in this western section of the parish.  Its length is
22 feet, its breadth 17, and its height 12; its figure that of an
irregular oblong square standing nearly due east and west.  It is
composed of greenstone, the same as that of the neighbouring hills,
but is totally, unconnected with the surrounding rock.  Utterly
impracticable, as it must prove, to attempt movina, so ponderous a
mass even in this age of great mechanical resources, one is led to
think of some other possible account of the matter.  Might not,
then, this singular mass have perhaps constituted a sort of nucleus
in the midst of soft wacke and amygdaloid, of which some nei-ah-
bouring, though somewhat distant, rocks are com sed.  Peculiarly
liable to be acted upon by the atmosphere, and a runninlr stream
occasionally swelling to a rapid torrent, running close'by, these se-
parated parts might be washed away in the cotrse of ages, the stone,
in the present state, remaining a monument of their disintegra-
tion. Farther down the same stream, may be seen other stones of
the same kind, which bave attracted less notice, but may yet
owe their present elevation to the same cause.  None of these
stones are bouldered.  What is thus suggested as merely poss-
may have taken place at a period indefinitely remote and
the circumstance may have been. made in some way subservient
to the purposes of devotion in a very  early and rude state of
society.
  Upon the Barr-Hill, to eastward of this village, May be-traced
the remains of a small eamp; by some:supposed, from its semicir
cular form, to have been of Danish origin: by others, it is believed
to have been merely a post of observation when the country was
frequently torn by feuds and intestine commotions.  For either pur-
pose it is, from situation, admirably adapted; the one side defend-
ed by lofty precipitous rocks of greenstone, the other guarded against
any sudden surprise, by a long and steep though regular ascent from
the plain below; on which side it was, moreover, defended by a ram
part of stone, though now not exceeding 3 feet in height. The
RENFREW.                             Bb



