
     Of Barvas.

the same kind in a lake at Bragir, called Loch Duin, but
not so large.  Three more are to be seen in three small
lakes behind Strather and Borve, at a considerable distance
from the sea, each of them having a causeway leading to
them, which are visible in dry weather.  Betwixt Barvas
and Strather, in the middle of a deep moss, where no other
stones are to be seen, and at a considerable distance from
the sea, there is a very large stone standing upright, called
Clach i Drushel, famous for nothing but its size, being 18
feet above ground, and 14 feet in circumference, having no
figures upon it, as erroneously related, The vulgar tradi-
tion concerning it, is too absurd and superstitious to deserve
any notice.  The island of Rona, situate in the northern
ocean, about 16 leagues distant from Eorapie Point, or the
butt of the Lewis, (which is reckoned the furthest to the
north-west of any in Europe), belongs to this parish.  It is
reckoned a mile in length, and half a mile in breadth;
there is a temple in it dedicated to St Ronan.  It is rented
by one of the Ness tacksmen at L. 4 Sterling per annum,
who regularly, every season, sends a large open boat, and
brings from it some corn, butter, cheese, a few sheep, and
sometimes a cow, besides some wild-fowl and feathers.
There were once five families residing upon it, but now
only one, who are employed by the tacksman as servants.
   The rock Sulisker lies 4 leagues to the east of Rona; it
is a quarter of a mile in circumference, and abounds with a
great variety of sea-fowl.  The boat which goes to Rona,
generally touches there for fowls and feathers.  There is
in Ness a most venturous set of people, who for a few years
back, at the hazard of their lives, went there in an open
fix oared boat, without even the aid of a compass.  There
is no place in it where they can draw up their boat; some
of them continue in it, taking shelter under the lee-side of
the rock, whilst the rest are busy in taking the birds, who


