
                         ORWELL.                              59

rugged and uneven. No tradition exists in the district regarding
their origin, though various conjectures have been formed ;-some
supposing that they indicate a Danish battle; others, that they form
the remains of a Druidical circle. It may, however, be observed,
that, in the same field, stone coffins have been occasionally turned up
by the plough; and a few years ago, the ground was in many places
dug tip by a neighbourilIg proprietor, when quantities of bones, much
decomposed and mixed with charcoal, were discovered. The bones
were about fifteen inches below the surface of the soil, and gene-
rally a layer of small stones above them. A request was once
made to the Antiquarian Society of Edinburgh to send a deputa-
tion to examine the ground carefully; but this was never accom-
plished.
   The old church of Orwell, situated on the shore of Loch Leven,
and near the south-east boundary of the parish, was only a chapel
of ease in the reign of Robert I.; who, says Sibbald, in his History
of Fife and Kinross, gave to the monastery of Dunfermline in
puram et perpetuam eleemosynam, Ecclesiam de Kinross cum Ca-
pella de Urwell. At what period it became the parish church is
unknown.
   Burleigh Castle, situated about a quarter of a mile to the south-
east of the village of Milnathort, seems to be of considerable an-
tiquity. It was at one period a place of great strength, consisting
of a square, surrounded by a wall of ten feet in height, a deep
ditch filled with water, and a redoubt. The castle itself is entirely
in ruins, though part of the square still remains. About twenty
years ago, two towers were standing; one was of considerable
height, and must have been very capacious. The south or small
tower appears to have been the most modern structure of the
whole. The date, 1582, with arms and the initials I. B., and be.
low these M. B., doubtless of some of the possessors, were on the
north corner of the west gable. The great tower must have been
built at a much more remote period; but no date or trace can be
discovered from which a conjecture as to the time of its erection
can be formed. The buildings on the north were probably erect-
ed about the same period as the southern tower. The plantations
about Burleigh were at one time very extensive and regular; but
almost all the trees have either been cut down, overturned by the
wind, or have died of old age. About thirty-five years ago, there
was a considerable number quite hollowed out; and one in par-
ticular, an ash, was known to, have been so for upwards of a cen-,



