
204                    ABERDEENSHIRE.

   Live-Stock.-Till within these few years, the Aberdeenshire and
Buchan, and a nondescript result of crosses from these, were the
only kinds of cattle reared in the parish, and little attention was
paid to the improvement of stock.  But of late, the practice of
" breeding in and in," to which the deterioration in the size and
other valuable qualities of the cattle was mainly attributable, has
been abandoned, and, by the introduction of the Teeswater breed,
a great improvement in the general quality of the stock has been
effected.  The inaptitude of the soil for turnip husbandry has
been a great discouragement to the rearing of cattle in this parish,
but the ready communication now opened up with the London
market has given a wonderful impulse even here to this branch of
rural economy.  The subjoined list of live stock has been prepared
with much care, and may be regarded as almost correct.

<TABLE>
Work horses,     .  263   Queys in calf,     .    52  Three years old cattle, 152
Riding ponies,    .   8   One year's old cattle, 426  Pigs and swine,      .   87
Cows,    .      .   520   Two years    do.       376  Sheep,    .         .   180

   To the above list should be added 8 work oxen four years -old
and upwards, and about 10 four years old cattle, bought in for feed-
ing during winter.  The above enumeration, being made with
reference, to the winter keep, does not include the number of calves,
which may average in the season about 450, nor the number of
lambs, which may be estimated at 240.  It may afford some idea
of the agricultural state of this parish to mention, that, on a farm
rented at L. 300 per annum, there are 8 work-horses, 14 cows,
22 one-year old stots, 29 two-years. old, 20 three-years old, 8
swine, and 14 sheep.
   Rate of Wages.-A capable farm-servant's wages for one half-
year are usually from L. 6 to L. 7, but inferior hands readily engage
for L. 4.  The wages of female servants for the same period vary
from L 2, 10s. to L. 3, according as they are to be exclusively
confined to household work, or occasionally employed in out-door
labour.  The practice of employing females in spreading manure
and other field occupations, which obtains to a certain extent on
some large farms in this parish, is objectionable on many accounts,
and ought to be discontinued.  The above wages are inclusive of
lodging and maintenance.  Male-servants who are married, in-
stead of receiving their food and accommodation in the houses of
their masters, have, in most cases, a free house and garden assign-
ed to them during their period of service.  They are engaged for the
year at from L.6, 10s. to L.7, besides having a cow kept for them at
the expense of the master, and an allowance of six and a half bolls of


