
186               HADDINGTONSHIRE.

                   III.-POPULATION.

   From the appearance of ruined houses on both sides of the pa-
rish, an opinion has prevailed that the inhabitants were once more
numerous than they are now. But by a numeration which was
made at the first seating of the church in 1697, it appears that
the number of inhabitants then must have been under 1350.
When the census was taken by Dr Webster in 1755 the numbers
were 1415, and at the time when the last Statistical Account was
drawn up the population was 1380. By the census in 1821 it
was found to be 1623, and in 1831 it amounted to 1658. Since
that time, it has varied very little. Of these, 822 are males, and
836 are females.
   From the above statement, it appears that the population in the
course of less than a century has increased more than 200. This
increase has arisen, not from the introduction of manufactories or
public works, (there are none such; and a brewery, which was for-
merly carried on at Trabroun, has for many years been given up,)
but from the general improvement of the parish. The whole pa-
rish, many parts of which about a century ago were bleak and
barren, covered with brown, and furze, and brambles, has been
gradually brought into a state of high cultivation, and made ca-
pable of producing all kinds of crops. In consequence of which,
a stimulus has been given to improvement, which, notwithstanding
the great depression in the prices of grain, is still going on, and
gives employment to a far greater number of families than former-
ly. Besides, the greater demand for coals, occasioned by the in-
creased consumption from steam engines, must have given employ-
ment to an additional number of families. The population resid-
ing in the villages of Samuelston, Penston, and Longnidry,
amounts to 684; in the country, 974. In that part of the parish
inhabited by colliers, the population is constantly shifting, and in
the course of two or three weeks may vary from 20 to 50. This
shifting has prevailed very much, of late, in consequence of a change
of tenants.
   The average number of births, for the last five years, was 51, the
number varying from 40 to 59. The average number of marriages
for the same time was 16, varying from 10 to 24. No account of
deaths being kept, the average number cannot be ascertained. There
are several persons in the parish above eighty, chiefly men, two of
whom have now reached their ninetieth year. The number of fa-
milies is 358. The number of in habited houses is 343. In the agri-


