
                             GLENURCHY AND INISHAIL.                      89


is formed by the bold, rugged, and overhanging rocks of Craigand-
avuaidh, now completely shorn of its once rich garniture of wood.
At the gap, or upper part, and only distinguished for a space
from its parent lake by its narrowed and contracted dimensions, the
Awe steals slowly and silently along, until at length, as if alive to
the blessings of freedom, it rushes rapidly, foaming, and thunder-
ing along its rocky bed, till, after a short but rapid career of four
miles through its own lovely valley, it empties itself in Lochetive
at Bunawe.
   The only rivers hn the parish worthy of the name, are the
Urchay and the Awe. The circumstance that the former escapes
from its reservoir in a lateral direction, is rather a singular and
anomalous one in the history of rivers. It is believed that it holds
almost universally true, that their outlet is at the extremity of their
parent lake, and not, as in this instance, at the side. It is the
current belief, that the Awe, at a remote period, formed no ex-
ception to this general rule, that Lochawe discharged its waters
by its western extremity into the sea at Loch Crinan. The
foundation on which this belief rests, is partly a faint and dying
tradition in the country to this effect, and the names of some loca-
lities in the supposed line of its ancient channel, and the levels,
open nature of the valley that stretches away towards Loch Crinan
from the western extremity of the lake, together With the anoma-
lous character of its present outlet. The run of the Awe, as al-
ready stated, is short, although the volume of its water is great,
as compared with that of most Highland rivers. Its breadth va-
ries according to the nature of the bed over which it runs; from
two to three hundred feet, may be a fair average. Its direction
is north-west. It is, generally speaking, a shallow stream; al-
though pools ocbasionally occur of considerable depth. Its flow is
very rapid; indeed, until it approaches Lochetive, it may be describe
ed as a series of small rapids and puny cataracts. The Urchay,
whose source, length, and character, have been already in some de-
gree described, is, like its neighbour, an exceedingly beautiful river,
and like it of considerable value on account of its salmon fishings.
It may lay claim to a greater variety of character than its neighbour.
Its flows from the parent lake for a space of six miles, rapid
and turbulent; and at one place, Caitnish, it descends by a suc-
cession of bounds or leaps of considerable height, to the more level
part of the valley; and thereafter, although occasionally assum-
ing its former character, it meanders silently along, until at length;


