
     Statistical Account

cumstance, as they are plentifully supplied from a variety of
coal-pits, with which the parish is surrounded.  The ordina-
ry price of this necessary article, is from 2 1/2 d. to 3 1/2 d. the
cwt. according to its quality; but during the course of last
winter, it was much higher, on account of an universal scar-
city, and an additional rise of price at the pits.

   Markets.-With respect to markets, the parish is very
conveniently situated.  One of the most considerable, perhaps
the greatest market for grain of any in Scotland, is held in
Dalkeith every Thursday, to which is brought, a very great
quantity of oats (in particular) from all the neighbourhood,
and especially from the south country.  It is remarkable, that
all the grain sold here brings ready money; a circumstance of
much importance to the farmers, who generally purchase here,
such articles as they find necessary for themselves and their
families, before they leave the town.  A great proportion of
the grain and meal sold at Dalkeith, goes to the supply of the
west country, about Carron, Glasgow, and Parsley.  From
Martinmas till about Whitsunday, there is likewise a market
for meal, every Monday, and one for cattle, every Tuesday.
We have also an annual fair held on the third Tuesday of
October for horses and black cattle, etc.  This fair, it is said,
was formerly of much more consequence, and better attended
than it is at present*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Prices and Wages.-The village is abundantly supplied with excellent but-
cher meat, which may be had in great perfection on the Thursdays, and Satur-
days.  The butchers here contribute considerably to the supply of the Edinburgh
markets, and some of them tell there the whole of what they kill.  During the
season of winter and spring, the price of beef is 4 d. the lb. avoirdupois, veal 5 d.,
mutton 5 d., and pork 4 d.  From the month of September till about the middle
of January, the price of beef and mutton, is 3 d. or 3 1/2 d. the pound, but during
the rest of the year, it is not lower than what has been mentioned above.  In the


