
86.				ROSS AND CROMARTY.

carried on in this parish.  Even the manufacture of kelp, which
was once a source of considerable profit, is now discontinued, since
the duty on barilla was taken off, and the raw material is used only
as manure for the land.
   Navigation.-There is no navigable river in this parish, nor any
foreign trade carried on with it; and there are but two or three
small sloops at the port of Ullapool, which ply between that place
and Greenock, Liverpool, and Ireland.
			    V.-PAROCHIIAL ECONOMY.
   There is no market-town in the parish, nor any nearer than
Dingwall, at the distance of about forty-five miles from Ullapool.
There is a foot-runner, who carries the post letters twice a week
from Dingwall to Ullapool; but no turnpike roads, or rail-roads,
or public carriages, or canals; and but one village, viz.  Ullapool
the harbour of which, though small, is in tolerable repair.
   Ecclesiastical State.- The parish church is situate at the head of
the Big Loch, at the distance of about thirty-five miles from the
extremity of the parish, in one direction; and of twenty-five miles
from the extremity in another.- It was built in the year 1817, and
is now, (May 1835,) undergoing a repair, in consequence of a
panic which seized the congregation about four years ago, causing
a rush to be made to the doors and windows, by which many were
crushed and bruised, though none killed.  The alarm was given,
not from any defect in the church, but by the scream of a person
seized with epilepsy; yet such was the effect of the shock on the
nerves of the people, that many of them could not be prevailed
upon to enter the church again, unless it should undergo a repair.
It affords accommodation for 1200 sitters.  All the sittings are free.
   The manse was built in 1811, and is now under repair.
   The extent of the glebe is not well ascertained, being connect-
ed with a piece of ground given by the family of Seaforth to the
church.  The whole consists of an extensive piece of a very steep
and rugged hill, at the foot of which the present incumbent has
cleared and brought into culture about a dozen acres at an im-
mense expense, which they will never repay to him.  The rest is
let to small tenants or crofters, who labour the ground with their
own hands and feet, by means of a certain implement called the
cas-chr•m, and for which they pay a precarious rent.
   The amount of stipend is 18 cbalders, one-half barley, and one-
half meal; the former, however, being one thirty-second part, and
the latter, one-ninth part per boll, less than the county measure; and


