
100                    STIRLINGSHIRE.

that of Buchanan. The most conspicuous points of this ridge are,
Benvraick (the spotted hill,) and Guallan (the shoulder,)-the
former of which may be 1600 feet above the sea level,-the lat-
ter 1300 or 1400. But, from the circumstance of their standing
on a broad and elevated base, the appearance they present is not
striking. *
    A second muirish track, of considerable extent, and forming
part of the Stockiemuir, occupies a great proportion of the south
angle of the parish. The largest portion of arable land is situated
between these two elevated muirs, within the picturesque and well-
sheltered vale of the Endrick. The rest lies to the east of the
Bog of Ballat, before-mentioned, and has a northern exposure to-
wards the Forth. There is also some cultivated land along the
banks of the Duchray and Keltie waters: but the breadth of this
is inconsiderable.
    The scenery of some parts of Strath Endrick is very beautiful;
and it is rendered not the less interesting from its being in con-
trast with the wide and desolate muirland, from which you descend
on either side. From an eminence not far from the manse, there
is a prospectthat is much admired. In the fore-ground, you
look down upon the rich and extensive lawn of Buchanan, stud-
ded with innumerable trees; beyond which, is the wide expanse of
Lochlomond, with the mountains of Ben-Leven + and Argyle-
shire in the back ground.
   In the north-east of the parish, there is the commencement of
the low, flat, moss lands which extend all the way to Stirling-six-
teen miles. This is called the Flanders Moss. It is generally
supposed to have bid its origin from the overthrow of a vast fo-
rest, (part of the horrida sylva Caledoniae,) which was cut down
by the Roman soldiers in the time of Severtus, to prevent the mo-
lestations of the natives, who had their fastnesses within it. Trees
of an immense size are frequently dug out, having the marks of
the axe upon them; and they are found lying in every direction,
indicating that they were not overturned bv a tempest, but by the
hand of man.

<FOOTNOTE>The haughs on the banks ofthe Endrick, in the western extremity of the parish,
are about 40 feet above the level of the sea, twelve miles distant. The land on the
Forth, though still further from the coast, is rather lower. The greater part of the
arable land in the parish may be at an elevation of from 100 to 250 feet.  The high-
est cultivated land is about 450.
            Ben-Leven is the peninsula which stretches from Dumbarton to Arrochar,-
bounded on the one side by the Leven and Lochlomond, on the other by the Frith
of Clyde, the Gareloch, and Loch-Long,--called the Isle of Ben-Leven.


