
222                   EDINBURGHSHIRE.

and sale of hay and  potatoes. Of other trades there are as fol-
lows, viz. 3 bakers, 1 flesher, 8 grocers, 9 spirit dealers, 2 wrights,
2 blacksmiths, 4 tailors with journeymen, 2 shoemakers with
ditto.
   The village of Gogar is said to have contained 300 inhabitants
at one time. About sixty years ago, among its constant residen-
ters were, a watchmaker, flesher, baker, blacksmith, and wright,
besides the schoolmaster. Now the three last, and two or three
families of farm-servants, constitute its whole population. In 1838,
it contained, including the farm-steading, only 7 families, compos-
ed of 24 individuals.
   There are two other small villages in the parish ; the one, Stan-
hope-mills, on the estate of Saughton, deriving its name from
Janet Stanhope, wife of Richard Watson, Esq. of Saughton, who
lived about 1550, contains 20 families, consisting of 67 indivi-
duals; and the other, Four-mile-hill, contains 12 families of 49
individuals. In each at present there is a resident schoolmaster.
   There is an old house in Stanhope-mill, having above the
door the arms and initials of Patrick Elphingston, with the date
1623, and the words " Blisit be God for all his giftis." One of
the rooms has a circular roof, highly ornamented, and the Royal
arms on the wall, with the initials C : R : 2d.
   Means ofCommunication.-We have already mentioned, that
there was a regular conveyance eight or nine times every week-
day, and four times every Sunday, between, Corstorphine and Edin-
burgh, during the summer and autumn of 1749. The fare by
this conveyance was 6d. for each person. To show the populari-
ty of Corstorphine at that period in comparison with other places
now more resorted to, we may mention, that, in the same year,
a stage-coach went and returned -thrice every day from Edin-
burgh to Musselburgh, the fare being 9d.;. while the regular stage-
coach to Glasgow went on Monday and Thursday, and returned
on Tuesday and Friday, every person paying 9s. of fare, and be-
ing allowed to take with him a stone weight of baggage.* As the
highway'which leads from Edinburgh to Glasgow', and also to
Falkirk and Stirling, passes through the village, the means of
communication are very frequent although there is not now any
coach from: Corstorphine to Edinburgh.  Two years ago an at-
tempt was made to, establish one, but it was only continued for
one season.

<FOOTNOTE>Scots Magazine, Vol. xi.


