
130                  LINLITHGOWSHIRE.

tle, named Castle Lyon. It was built by a lady of the house of
Glamis, and was probably the jointure house of Lad Margaret
Lyon, daughter of Lord Glamis, and widow of John, first Mar-
quis of Hamilton. A path leading from the high ground towards
the shore, still, called the Castle Loan, and some remains of a wall,
called the Castle garden wall, indicate that the site of Castle Lyon
was near the Snab.
   Kinneil House.-Kinneil House, one of the family seats of the
Duke of Hamilton, is the most remarkable building in the parish.
The barony of Kinneil is one of the most ancient possessions of
the-house of Hamilton, and is associated with some interesting
events in the history of that noble family.
   According, to "Frier Mark Hamiltonis Historie," King Ro-
bert the Bruce gave all the lands of Kinneil to Sir Gilbert Ha-
milton, "for his trew service and greit manheid," and especially
for having slain "the greit Lieutennant of England upon Kyn,
nale Muir." *  From the same authority we learn, that this Sir
Gilbert, bad been with The Bruce in the field of Bannockburn,
and was one of the seven knights that kept the King's person.
For Sir Gilbert's exploit upon Kynnale Muir, "King Robert
gaif till him his armis till weir in Scotland, thre sinkfuilzies
in ane bludy field."  The descendants of Sir Gilbert have
held the lands and barony of Kinneil by various charters from
the kings of Scotland. One of the earliest is dated July 28th
1323, granted by Robert I., in favour of Walter, the son of Gil-
bert. A charter of the lands and barony of Kinneil was granted
to James, the first Lord Hamilton, who, in 1474, married the
Countess of Arran, which event connected the house of Hamilton
with the royal family of Scotland.
   When the Duke of Charterherault was Regent, be made large
repairs upon Kinneil House. Considerable alterations were made
upon it by Duchess Anne and Duke William, who, according to
Sibbald, greatly embellished it. Probably at this period, the old
castle or keep was modernized in the front, but not in good taste.
The battlement was converted into a cornice and balusters; the

<FOOTNOTE>In a place formerly known as Kirneil Muir, a remarkable stone lay near the
road which used to be at rough fare between Linlithgow and Falkirk, or Stirling.
It was seven feet long, five feet broad, and three feet thick. Its upper surface had
been roughly dressed, a groove bad been cut round the border, and a cross in the cen-
tre. It had a monumental appearance; but there in no vestige of tradition regard-
ing it. Excepting the achievement of Sir Gilbert, there is no remarkable event associat-
ed with the locality. About twenty years ago, the stone, being an obstruction to the
plough, was blown to pieces and removed.


