
336                  ROSS AND CROMARTY.

distance. It is not, strictly speaking, within the parish of Alness,
but, as it forms part of the western boundary to the parish, it ap-
pears worthy of notice, especially as it is interesting in a geologi-
cal point of view. The chasm, as has already been stated, is up-
wards of 14O feet in depth, and about a mile and a quarter in
length, occurring in a thick bed of conglomerate, apparently of the
old red sandstone period.
  In order to account for its formation, one of two opinions must
be adopted. The water must either by continual action have
worn down the channel to the present depth, or the fissure must
be referred entirely to a fault in the rock, the chasm occasioned by
the fault having either remained unoccupied, or been filled up with
loose material, which could offer no great resistance to running
water. The former supposition is rendered more probable, if we
suppose that when the water first began to flow, the rock was softer
than it now is. Each of the pebbles which form the conglomerate
would then, when once set in motion, lend its aid by abrasion in
deepening the channel.
  The conclusion that such a process gave rise to the chasm, is
therefore probable at first sight; but on a closer examination, it
is not found consistent with observation on many streams which
flow over exactly the same species of rock. On the contrary,
where a stream flows over this species of conglomerate, which is
very frequently the case in this district, the water seldom or never
finds its way further than a few feet into the rock. From the cir-
cumstance that the rock in which the fissure has been made is a
conglomerate, and not a regularly stratified mass, we are deprived
of the additional confirmation to the supposition of a fault, which
might be derived from strice, and other appearances usually observ-
ed on the sides of shifted strata. But the single fact of its great
depth, taken in connection with what is observed in similar streams,
sufficiently warrants us to conclude, that the chasm has not been
owing to any abrasive process in the course of the stream, but must
be referred to a pro-existing fault.
   Ores.-About five miles from the Frith, and on the property of
Finlay Munro of Lealdie, an iron-ore has been discovered, which,
from all, appearances, may be of considerable extent. Previous to
the, writing of the former Statistical Account, a specimen was sent
to the Carron Company, at their own desire, which was found to
yield 75 lbs. iron per cwt. The rock in which the vein occurs is
agneiss, and it is worthy of remark, as confirmatory of an obser-


