
     Statistical Account
   Antiquities.-The parish affords little to interest
or to gratify the antiquarian*.-Cairns of stones, or tumuli,
containing the remains of human bodies, are frequent in this

<FOOTNOTE>

members of the synod of Angus and Mearns, though they
amounted to no less a number than 80.-Mr William Miller
of Star, and Mr Alexander Melvil of Kilmaron, were born in
Cupar in the course of the same year, and lately died in it, at
no great distance of time from each other, about the age of 90.
The union of the last of these two with his wife had subsisted
upwards of 60 years-David Brown weaver, and his wife, who
both lately died, had lived in the married state during the same
uncommon length of time-There were living, about 10 years
ago, 5 men in the town of Cupar, all considerably upwards of
90, and who all died nearly about the same time, viz Walter
Douglas, musician, 96 years old; David Brugh gardner, 95;
John Lorimer, weaver, 94; James Anderson, wright, 91;
and-Lumisdain, day-laborer, 92.  The first of these,
Walter Douglas, who died in his 97 th year, was town-drum-
mer, had served the corporation in that capacity 74 years,
and, at the time of his death, might perhaps have been justly
accounted the oldest office-bearer in the kingdom.  He was
of low stature, but broad chested and well built Through the
whole of life, he could only command coarse and scanty fare,
and knew none of the advantages of warm and comfortable
lodging.  Angling was his favourite amusement, and he con-
tinued to fish on the river till within a little of his death.  He
was of a family in the town, who had long been noted for their
longevity.  His brother John died nearly of the same age with
himself, after having buried a son upwards of 72.  Some of the
same name still reside in the town, who preserve a striking like-
ness to the family, who possess the same robust appearance and
vigorous frame, and who bid fair to equal the age of their fa-
thers.

*In levelling a piece of ground, in order to form the turn-
pike road that leads from Cupar to the east, there were lately
found, in the vicinity of the Castle-hill several stone coffins con-
taining human skeletons.  The coffins were adorned with the
figures of warriors, rudely sculptured, and covered with un-
known characters.  English and French coins, of considerable
antiquity, have been dug up, in removing the rubbish from the
ground where the Castle once stood.


