
          	         GLENISLA.                           423

consequence, to have them conveyed thither at a very early hour.
Trinkets of various sorts  were thrown into the well by those who
had used its waters, either as thank-offerings or with the view of
preserving its sanatory virtues. These qualities, however, it seems
to be regarded as having now-a-days lost, as it is seldom drunk of
but by the passing shepherd, or those whom curiosity, arising from
its former reputation, induces to pay it a visit.

	Some of the springs are a slight chalybeate; but in general they
are without any traces of mineral impregnation.

	The Isla is the principal river in the parish. It takes its rise
in the wilds of Caanlochan, and runs, in general, in a south-east-
erly direction, until it join the Melgum at the bottom of the pa-
rish, and immediately behind Airlie Castle. The average breadth,
depth, velocity, and body of water of the Isla, in so far as it is
connected with the parish, are as follows: breadth in feet, 47;
depth in feet, 1.2; velocity in feet per minute, 116.28; flow in
cubic feet per minute, 8248.5;  flow in gallons per minute, 5141.22.
To the admirers of wild and romantic scenery the Isla, as it ap-
proaches the lower extremity of the parish, has many objects of
peculiar attraction. From the Bridge of Milna-Craig downwards,
the bed and banks of the river assume an entirely new character,
and every spot is interesting, either from the beauty of its foliage,
or the hugeness of its crags, or the fearful struggling of its wa-
ters. The cataract of the Reekie-Linn, a short way below the
bridge just mentioned, is undoubtedly one of the most splendid
and remarkable features of our Scottish rivers. Here the Isla,
having an average flow of about 11,000 cubic feet, is suddenly
opposed by projecting barriers of rock, unless at a narrow gorge,
whence it dashes from a height of 60, and almost immediately af-
ter from another height of 20 feet. In both cases, it throws the
whole weight of its waters upon serrated masses of rock in the gulf
below, thur creating reverberation that seems to shake the solid bar-
riers, 120 feet in height, which surround it, and sending up a spray
that shrouds them in perpetual mist, and rises to the height of
the beautiful sylvan scenery which crowns their summits.

	The rocks, the falls, and "the deep placid pool below" are
seen to great advantage from a rustic bower, erected by John Hill,
Esq. the proprietor, on the south bank of the river.

	Nearly two miles further down the Isla are the Slugs of Auch-
rannie. The upper one is the most deserving of notice. Here
the river is suddenly contracted by stupendous cliffs into a space


