
                         KILRENNY.                          973

a portion of the interesting deposit which ranges westward from
Pettycur."
     The soil in the parish varies considerably.  Along the coast, al-
though containing a strong mixture of clay, it is rich and produc-
tive, while in the higher parts, as it rests on strong clayey subsoil,
it is more retentive of moisture, and, in wet seasons, less produc-
tive.
     It is astonishing, however, to observe that vast change and con-
sequent improvement which have taken place within the las few
years, form the skill and enterprise which the tenants have dis-
played in draining their farms.
     Zoology.-There are not many of the rarer animals to be found
in this locality.  In winter a great many birds flock to the shore
which are not to be found in summer.  Among the feathered tribe
frequenting this locality may be mentioned pheasants, the golden
plover, starling, and the golden-crested wren, though but rarely
seen; while there is no lack of common birds.
     In the woods of Innergelly, some of the deer species, (Cervus
capreolus), have been observed, but they are not numerous. The
most interesting class of animals, both as to number and import-
ance, in an economical point of view, is the fish found in the
Frith of Forth. The following are found in abundance: Cod, 
ling, haddock, skate, flounders, and halibut: turbot very rarely.
Besides these, which are of great importance, as affording a
cheap and wholesome diet, there is the dog-fish, which is very
abundadnt at times, and very destructive to the haddocks when
caught upon the line, but which is useful as affording a certain
portion of oil, and still more so to the farmer, as a rich manure
when formed into a compost with earth. There is also th cat-
fish, which certainly has not a very seemly appearance, but is
highly relished by some when dressed as fish and sauce. The
shell-fish which are caught along the shore are the lobster, the
parten or commom crab, the wilk, and the limpet.  Of late great
quantities of wilks have been gathered from the rocks and sent
to the London markt.  There are no oysters or mussels to be
found along the shore.
     Botany.-As the parish does not rise to any great altitude above
the level of the sea, the plants along the sea-side, and the Algae,
or plants growing among the rocks from low to high water level,
are those which chiefly deserve notice.  Of these the following


