
                           LOCHBROOM.                        75

ous effect on the growing woods of the country in general,--and
also on its race of heroes.
   Meteorology.--The temperature of the atmosphere, though ex-
ceedingly changeable, is rather moderate and mild; neither so high
in summer, nor so low in winter, as on the eastern coast of the
island, in Cromarty, Leith, or even London. The mercury in the
thermometer perhaps never falls below 16&deg;, nor rises above 74&deg;,
Fahrenheit. In the barometer, it runs over the whole range, from
28 to 31, sometimes beyond it; and it has been often seen to fall
or rise a full inch and more, in the course of one day. The climate
is certainly moist, and much rain falls from the one end of the year
to the other; yet more harm is done to the crop, on the whole, by
dry weather than by excessive rain. Rainbows by the sun and the
moon are frequently observed. Of the latter, a most beauti-
ful instance occurred on Thursday the 24th of October 1833,
at 8 o'clock P. M., forming a magnificent arch over the whole
of the Big Loch, from side to side, such as Telford never con-
structed. The Polar Lights are often exceedingly grand and bril-
liant.  The prevailing wind is the south-west, which, almost always
brings foul weather.  There seem to be no diseases which can be
said to be peculiar to the country; but consumption, and obstinate
constipation of the bowels, are the most prevalent distempers among
the people. In the year 1812, the parish was visited by small-pox
in the natural way, which carried off almost all that were attacked
by it. But the minister got the people, by much persuasion, to
agree to have their children inoculated.  A physician was accord-
ingly called in, who inoculated from 900 to 1000 young people,
out of which number only 5 died.  Vaccination has been partially
used; but the small-pox has not since prevailed in the parish.
   Hydrography.--There is little to be said on this head. The
lochs, rivers, and lakes have been already noticed. There are some
beautiful cascades in the parish, as may well be supposed from the
nature of the ground, and the quantity of rain which falls upon it,
but none of them of sufficient importance to merit a particular
description here. There are also many mineral springs, which are
chiefly of a chalybeate nature.
   Geology.--Old red sandstone forms extensive tracts in this pa-
rish. as Coigach and other parts on the mainland, and the Sum-
mer and other islands along the coast. Quartz rock abounds in
some quarters, and Beinn Deirg on the east, Fannich on the south-
east, and other mountains, are chiefly composed of gneiss, with


