
			 RESCOBIE.   		         609

are fed off. The common breed of the cattle is the Angus-shire,
with a mixture here and there of the Durham.
        Manufactures.-The only manufacture in the parish is that of
coarse white linen. The number employed in weaving it, is 29
males and 26 females.

                        V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
        Market-Town.-The nearest market-town is Forfar, distant
rather more than three miles from the parish church. There is
no village in the parish, and only four or five hamlets.
        Means of Communication.-There is no post-office. There
are two turnpike roads that extend through the parish from west
to east, one from Forfar, running on the south side of the loch to
Arbroath, and another from Forfar, on the north side of the loch,
to Montrose. And there is the turnpike road from Forfar to
Brechin, that extends through the west and north-west end of the
parish. There is also the Auldbar turnpike from Brechin, which
skirts a small part of the east side of the parish. The length od
all these in the parish cannot be les than nine or ten miles.
The state of the bridges and fences in the parish is good.
	The railroad betwixt Forfar and Arbroath was opened in De-
cember 1838, constructed for conveying passengers and goods.
It has hitherto succeeded beyond expectation, especially in the
number of passengers conveyed since it was opened.
        Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is centrically placed. It
was built in 1820, is in good repair, and abudantly large for the
population. It affords accommodation for 560 persons with ease.
	The manse was built in the summer of 1837, is a substantial
house, and has a neat appearance in front. The church and
manse are beautifully situated on the northa side of the lake.
	The extent of the glebe is betwixt eight and nine Scotch ares,
or about eleven acres imperial. Some part of the glebe is well
worth l.2 an acre, and some of it scarecely worth L. 1.
	The amount of the stipend is L. 130, 12s. 3 1/4d. Sterling, and
68 bolls, 1 firlot, 3 1/5 lippies of meal, and 28 bools, 3 firlots, and
3 1/5 lippies of barley.
	The number of families attending the Established Church is
132; the number of communicants 350.
	The number of families of Dissenters, is, one family of Inde-
pendents, three of Episcopalians, seven of the United Associate
Synod, and one family of no religious profession.
	The number of communicants, belonging to these Dissenters,


