
     of Kilwinning.

sudden inundations*.  On this river, and also on the Lugton,
there are some situations extremely proper for erecting cotton
mills.  There is a plentiful and constant supply of the very
best water for all kinds of machinery; a populous and highly
cultivated country, in the near neighbourhood of some good
market towns; oatmeal, the ordinary food of the labouring
people, is cheaper by 1 d., and sometimes by 2 d. a peck, than
in Glasgow and Paisley; and all other kinds of provisions are
in the same proportion.

   Roads and Bridges.-There are 4 turnpike roads in the
parish.  These were originally made and kept in repair by
the statute labour.  This was exacted formerly in kind; but,
for more than 20 years, it has, by an act of parliament, been
converted into money.  Every farm, whether in tillage or in
grass, pays at the rate of 3 d.  Sterling for every pound Scotch
of valued rent; and every householder, who does not occupy
land to the amount of 12 L.  Scotch of valued rent, pays 3 s.
Sterling yearly.  Such poor families as produce a certificate
to the collector, from the minister, of their inability to pay
this tax, are exempted from payment.  The average annual
amount of the money levied for statute labour is 99 L.  This
sum being sufficient for making the roads, and keeping them
in proper repair, there is no toll levied, nor any toll-bar
erected in the parish.  Unfortunately, the 4 roads are almost
in the very extremities of the W.  and S.  W.  parts of the pa-

<FOOTNOTE>

*On the 19th of September 1790, there was a very remarkable inundation.
The river role 4 feet higher, than ever it was known to have done at any former
period.  This flood did great damage to the growing corns, and carried into
the sea great quantities of such as were cut down.  The town lies on both sides
of the river; and the lower parts of it were laid almost quite under water.  As
this inundation happened in the night, many of the inhabitants were in the greatest
danger, and had just time to escape with their lives.


