
22			BUTESHIRE.

sword all the neighbouring country. The last time that Arran
saw an enemy on its soil was during the temporary occupation of
Scotland by the usurper Oliver Cromwell. He placed a garri-
son of eighty men in Brodick Castle, and strengthened it by
raising on its north side a bartisan, which still remains. His
troops fell victims to the angry passions of the Highlanders. It
would appear that they used some improper liberties with the fe-
males of the island, and otherwise conducted themselves with the
usual license of conquerors. The Highlanders, fired by such in-
suits, watched their opportunity for revenge; and, taking the Eng-
lishmen by suprise when out on a foraging excursion, they put them
all to the sword. The last of the party that fell was dragged forth
from his concealment under a large stone near the road side at
Sannox, which still, from its remarkable appearance, attracts the
notice of visitors.
	Antiquities.--This parish abounds in relics of antiquity. Among
these the first place is, from its importance, due to the Castle of
Brodick. It is believed that there was a fort on the present site
of the castle as far back as the occupancy of the island by the
Danes. During the stormy periods of Scottish history it was so
often demolished that it is probable that no part of the original
structure is now standing. But part of it is unquestionably very
old; more especially a high and massy quadrangular building to
its north-east side, which bears every mark of the architecture of
those times of feudal warfare and disorder, when every castle was
a stronghold, and strength and security were more valuable pro-
perties of a habitation than comfort and convenience. The castle
is still inhabited. Somewhat more than a century ago, the Duchess
Ann of Hamilton made an addition to it on the west side, which,
with a few alterations on the older parts of the building, has render-
ed it a tolerably commodious habitation. It is occasionally the
residence of the Hamilton family, during their visits to Arran at
the shooting season. The castle still retain much of its ancient
feudal appearance. The large court behind the castle, with the
high and thick wall enclosing it, still remains. And the broad
and deep moat, which at one time protected it on one side, can
easily be traced along the whole line of its compass.
	Relics of much ealier times than the feudal are presented in
many parts of the parish. Some of these are, however, disappearing
every year before the attacks of the pickaxe and the plough. Last
year a double circle of those erect stones, usually called Druidical,
				 3


