
658                   ARGYLESHIRE

  Fuel.-Peat is the chief fuel used. Coal is preferred by some,
which ma0y be brought from Glasgow at a freight of 5s. per ton.

                 MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
  At the time the former Statistical Account was written, flax was
cultivated to some extent; when prepared, it was spun by the fe-
males into fine yarn, for the market; but the superiority of the flax
imported from the Baltic, with the more general application of
machinery, has entirely superseded this branch of domestic eco-
nomy. A great improvement has taken place in the facilities of
communication. A powerful steam packet plies regularly between
the island and Tarbert. Districts almost inaccessible are now
opened up by means of good roads; but the houses and mode of
living appear to have undergone no great change. The altera-
tion in the habits of the people has arisen, it is to be feared, more
from the compulsory suppression of smuggling, than from their
own conviction of its evil effects, for were the restraints which are
imposed by law removed, it would in all probability become as
prevalent as at any former period. One class of tenants were from
the extent of land occupied by them, and from their better educa-
tion, at that time very influential, but are now nearly extinct.
They held extensive tracts of the best pasture on very reason-
able terms, which, during war, when prices were high, placed
them in comparative affluence; but unfortunately their prosperity
became the cause of their ruin. They adopted the style and ex-
pensive habits of landed proprietors; and when, after the peace,
the markets fell, they did not alter their habits to meet the change
in their circumstances, and they have been since compelled to
give place to strangers, and to a class of tenants of more economi-
cal habits. A dislike to continuous labour prevails extensively
among the working-classes. The inquiry, then, is, How is this to
be changed? As their natural wants do not seem to be sufficiently
stimulating to produce a change, a more efficient moral influence,
by means of the force of education on the female mind, must be
brought to bear on the general character.
  In the year 1825, only 1 in every 22 1/2 of the females above six-
teen years of age knew the letters of the alphabet. As the feel-
ings and habits of the young are necessarily formed to a great de-
gree by females, it is reasonable to suppose that the impressions
which they.communicate, modify the character of the future man.
When their mind is so totally unenlightened with the knowledge

                                6


