
118                      CLACKMANNANSHIRE.

yearly expense will be L. 3, 17s. The children of artisans or la-
bourers who have been three years in the parish, pay 6d. per quar-
ter for the library, &c., and 8d. per quarter for each class they attend;
consequently, if they attend three classes, the annual expense will
be 8s. 9d. per annum; if four classes, it will be 11s. 1d. per an-
num.
  The above statement of expense of education at Macnab's school
is made upon the supposition, that one pupil only out of each family
attend; but when more than one of a family enter, the first only
pays at the rate now stated ; but if more than one, all the rest are
admitted at half-price. The fees for teaching in the parochial
school are, for English 8s. 9d. per annum; for English with writ-
ing, 1Os. 6d. per annum ; for English, writing, and arithmetic,
14s. per annum. In the girl's school, English, writing, and sew-
ing are taught, and the fees are 2d. per week, or 2s. per quarter.
  Library.-There is a very extensive and well-chosen collection
of books belonging to Macnab's school or Dollar Institution, to
which the parishioners have access.
  Friendly Society.-A Friendly Society was instituted here in the
year 1829, and is doing well. Its object is to give a weekly al-
lowance to sick members, and such as are not able to work. Its
funds are regularly on the increase; at present, they amount to
L. 220. Besides the weekly aliment to the sick, small pensions
are given to the more destitute widows of deceased members.
  There is no savings bank in the parish; and the nearest to
Dollar is in the parish of Tillicoultry, about three miles distant,
and was established about the year 1835.
  Poor and Parochial Funds.--The average number of persons
on the poor's roll, and who receive regular parochial aid, has for
some  years past been about 12 or 13. Of late, the number has been on
the increase, amounting occasionally to 19 and 20. Various causes
may be assigned for this increase of pauperism; among others, we
may notice Macnab's legacy, which has been the means of indu-
cing a number of worthless, at least not very respectable, charac-
ters from other parishes to settle in Dollar. In corroboration of
this opinion, we may mention that the number of illegitimate chil-
dren has, of late years, considerably increased. During the three
years preceding 1841, there have been no less than 12 illegitimate
children born in the parish.
  The average monthly allowance to those who have got upon
the poor's roll is 5s. or 6s. Besides those upon the poor's roll,
who get regularly their monthly allowance, there are others
not on the poor's roll, who receive small sums to help them


