
              440                   RENFREWSHIRE.

              Greenock to receive their machinery; of these are several of Her
              Majesty's steam-frigates.   The average weekly rate of wages for
              grown men in this department is 18s, for boys 5s.
                Distinct from the iron-works now mentioned are two chain-cable
              and anchor manufactories employing from 105 to 110 hands, and
              a work for forging iron bars, employing 16 hands, and about to be
              enlarged.
                  Sugar Works.-Sugar refining is carried on to a very consider-
             able extent.  There are in the town and parish eleven works of
             this description, giving employment to upwards of 350 persons,
             And refining yearly -14,000 tons of the raw material.  All these
             are conducted on'Mr Howard's patent for boiling in vacuo.  The
             extracting of raw sugar from molasses, and the making of loaf su-
             gar, are the objects of the sugar-refiner. One of them refines
             exclusively for exportation, and with this view the sugar is re-
             ceived in'bond, and afterwards exported without drawbacks Su-
             gar refiners work ten hours daily.  Their average wages are, for
             men, 16s.; for boys, 5s. weekly.
                 Sail-cloth Manufactory.-There is a sail-cloth manufactory,
             giving occupation to about 270 persons, male and female, and
             manufacturing yearly from 500 to 600 tons nf the raw material.
             Wages to males, from 8s. to L. 1, 4s.; and to females, from 2s. 6d.
             to 7s. weekly, according to age and skill.  They work twelve hours
             per diem.  To this nianufactory there is attached an extensive
             rope-work, producing a large quantity of cordage ; besides which,
             there are other three rope-works, giving employment to upwards
             of 80 personal and manufacturing yearly from 600 to 700 tons of
             cordage.  Wages per week, men, 15s.; boys, 5s.  The intro-
             duction of chain-cables has materially affected this branch of our
             manufactures.
              Tan-Works-There are four tanning companies, employing in
             all 45 hands, and turning over stock to the amount of L. 180000
             yearly. The largest work is very complete.  It was erected and
             fitted, up at great expense by a joint stock compan some years
             ago. The company became insolvent, and the manufactory has
             not been occupied since to its full power.  Operative tanners work
             ten hours daily in summer, and eight in winter;  curriers eleven
             hours. Wages, 15s. weekly.
               Polteries.-Two potteries give occupation to upwards of 200
             persons, male and female; and manufacture yearly about 100,000
             potters' dozens of white and printed earthen-ware. Wages for


