
     Statistical Account

an immensely large sword, with a helmet, said to have
been used by King Robert Bruce at the battle of Bannock-
burn; both of which the bequeathed as a legacy to the
present Earl of Elgin.  The direct male line of the family
of Bruce of Clarkmannan being extinct, a dispute is now
keenly agitated by two claimants for the chiefship, the Earl
of Elgin and Alexander Bruce, Esq. of Kennet; but un-
less some farther evidence be adduced, than what has yet
appeared, it is not probable, that it will soon be termi-
nated in favour of either of the parties.  It is astonishing,
therefore, how Mr. Astle, in his late publication, "On
the Seals of the Kings of Scotland," etc. should, without
hesitation, and without showing any good evidence, have
assigned the chiefship to the Earl of Elgin.
   A tree of the family of the Bruces, from their first ar-
rival in Britain, is in the possession of that nobleman, left
to him as a legacy by the late lady of Clackmannan; a
copy of which also is in the possession of Lord Dundas.
It is dated 1686; but upon what grounds its authenticity
depends, it has not as yet been shown.  This, however,
must be judged of, in a great measure, according as the
facts related in it agree or disagree with the general te-
nor of history.  If this tree shall be pronounced authen-

<FOOTNOTE>

She was one of those rare characters, which at times appear on earth as
the ornaments of their nature.  To all the high sentiments of a dignified
and enlightened mind, the added those amiable virtues of the heart.
which render their influence iressistable.  As long a the lived, therefore,
the Tower of Clackmannan was frequented by her numerous friends and
acquaintances, of various ranks, and of all ages; for her extreme weight
of years had not made the least impression upon that happy vivacity and
cheerfulness of temper, which had always made her company for much
the admiration and the delight of her friends.  She was formed to sup-
port to the last, with adminished dignity, the character of the ace
from which she was sprung.


