
     of Rosemarkie.

down from a hill above it, and kept in by a rising ground on
the side contiguous to the king's highway.  Owing to this,
it was, in the middle, at least four feet deep; and a small
boat has been seen paddling through it, with persons in
quest of wild ducks.  By the stagnation of the water in
the heat of summer, and the steeping of lint by the people
(which raised a most disagreeable and unwholesome smell),
it was often an intolerable nuisance.  Many schemes had
been formed for draining it, but they were generally thought
impracticable.  However, the writer of this, considering that
his glebe, which lay directly opposite to it, on the other side of
the road, was upon a bank of gravel, (having first taken a feu
of it from the town, at a reasonable feu-duty), determined to
cut a very deep drain across the road into his glebe, so as to
command the level of the water (which required about 14 feet
in depth), and then to let it off by degrees, in hopes the gravel
bank might swallow it.  The experiment answered his expecta-
tion; and, in the course of less than a month, there was not
drop left in it.  He then cut a wide and deep ditch by the
side of it, to receive the water as it fell from the hills; and,
besides a number of cross drains, filled with stones, he dug
under ground an open drain, faced with stone and covered with
flags, communicating with the bottom of the ditch, and convey-
ing the water, for more than 150 yards, into the bank of chingle,
where it sinks, and never more appears.  Sometimes, indeed,
on a sudden thaw, or a violent rush from the hills, the drain
cannot immediately command the water, and so it breaks out
upon the surface; but in a short tract of fair weather it goes
down, and leaves a slime, which serves to enrich the soil.
These operations were attended with considerable expence;
but the success has amply repaid it.  From a single boll of
Essex oats, sown here in 1789, in scarce an acre and a half,
there were actually reaped 22 bolls and 2 firlots, a very ex-
traordinary return.  The stalks in many parts were from 6 to

     VOL. XI. U u


