
			AYR.			            39

	The walls of the ruin, which formerly gave access to strangers
into the interior, have now been shut up and formed into a burial-
ground, for the Cathcarts of Auchendrane and the Crawfords of
Doonside. *
	The Moat of Alloway is a place of considerable antiquity, and
evidently of artificial construction. It is still to be seen on the
right hand side of the avenue leading to the House of Doonholm.
The magistrates of Ayr appear from the records of the town to
have frequently held courts of justice, for the trial of petty cases, ac-
cording to their charter, on its summit, which was hollowed out in
the middle like the crater of a volcano. This and the old tower
of St John's Church are the only distinct monuments of great
antiquity now existing in the parish. The old cross, which was
removed in 1788, was a building, it is said, of some elegance, in
the form of a hexagon. Coins of the reign of Charles II. having
been found at its foundation, show it to have been erected in his
reign.
	Roman Road.--The remains of the great Roman road, lead-
ing from Galloway into Ayrshire, are perfectly distinguishable,
within a mile and a half of Ayr. These no one can have any diffi-
culty in finding, who wishes to examine them. They lie to the south-
west of Castlehill gardens, behind the gardener's house, extending
from near the avenue to the mansion, to the bottom of the hill to
the south-east, and up the adjoining hill, passing close by the
farm-house of Breston. The features of this curious, remnant of
antiquity are distinctly marked, and can hardly be mistaken. We
have seen also part of the same road in perfect preservation many
years ago, in the neighbourhood of Dalmellington, bearing similar
features. From this point, it appears to have run to the east of the
River Doon, by the farms of Ponessan, Boreland, &c. on to near
Cockhill, from which it had been continued in a straigth line, past
Castlehill, Forehill, and Fowlcauseway, to Ayr, which it entered
by the ground opened for quarries at the head of the town, and ran
along in the direction of what is now called Mill Street. In many
parts of this course, distinct traces of it could be recognized till

<FOOTNOTE>So much did the mania for collecting relics of Burns at one time prevail, that
when the old kirk was open to visitors indiscriminately, in the course of a very few
weeks, the whole of the old oak that remained attached to the walls was torn away,
to be manufactured into snuff-boxes, which are now valued by their owners ar almost
beyond price. A very handsome chair of an antique form was also constructed of the
same wood, with the poem of the Tam o'Shanter engraven on brass plates on the bank, and
presented by Mr Auld to his late Majesty George IV. during his visit to Scotland,
and very graciously received. Another of the some kind was likewise gifted to the
late Earl of Eglinton, and may be seen in Eglinton Castle.


