
28                         BANFFSHIRE.

and the grant makes no mention of, and cannot be supposed to
comprehend, the houses and, gardens of the monastery in the town.
Sir Walter, however, appears to have subsequently become pos-
sessed of the whole, at least there is evidence of his descendants
being soon after in possession.; and these continued to hold the
yards till a late period, parts of which, indeed, are still held by
them, either in possession or as superiors.* Through these yards
was formed, about the year 1770, the street called Bridge Street,
now one of the principal thoroughfares of the town. The rest of
the Cormelite lands, extending southward frnm the town.  were suc-
cessively conveyed (in 1630) to Lord Airl and (in 1690),to Lord
Fife. The superiority and fue-duties, which, in the year 1617,
had been gifted by James VL. to King's College, Aberdeen, were
also bought up, in 1752, by Lord Fife.
   A few ve old persons can yet remember some large massy
ruins, standing on the space now occupied by the plainstones, cal-
led the Towers. These have probably been originally a part of
the monastery, but are known to have been latterly a residence of
the Lords Banff. In some old rights this building is styled a pa-
lace-a distinction it is supposed to have acquired in consequence
of having been the temporary abode of certain of the Scottish kings,                     9
who, as appears from the date of some old charters, had visited the
town. This building was demolished by General Monro, in August
1640, as is thus related in the Histo of the Gordons, (Vol. ii.
P. 339,) "Monro having marched to Bamff, (as said is,) encamp-
ed in Sir George Ogilvy, (afterward created by the King, Lord
Bamff,) his garden, inclosed with excellent stone-walls, and plant-
ed with the best fruit-trees then could be had. All of which they
immediately hewed down, not leaving one fruit-tree, or barren,
Young or old, standing; and they dug tip all the hedges by the
root.  They entirely demolished his house there, one of the state-
liest `nd finest in the north, and carried away all the timber and
iron work in. it, leaving nothing standing but the ruinous walls,
When 4his barbarous, act was told the King ('tis reported) he said,
as for the house, it mattereld not much, money could build it up
again in a short time; but it was a cruel thing to destroy the gar-
den which many years could not repair."  Spalding also speaks

<FOOTNOTE>The Mgistrates of Hanf pay a feu-duty for the site of the town-house to this day,


