
			CARMYLIE.                                365

	The usual hire of a plough of two horses and ploughman is 1s.
per hour employed, or 5s. per yoking of five hours. The mode
of reaping* now commonly adopted in the parish is called threac-
ing. The farmer's cottars are bound to labour on these occasions:
other hands are obtained in the parish, and sometimes from a dis-
tance. Thex receive 3d. per threave of 24 sheaves, of a certain
girth, for oats and barley, and 3 1/2d. per threave for wheat of 28
sheaves, and sometimes an allowance in addition of milk and po-
tatoes. An additional halfpenny per threave is allowed for bind-
ing and stooking; but these operations are commonly performed by
separate labourers, at 2s. per day with victuals, or 2s. 6d. without
victuals.
	As thrashing-mills are not numerous in the parish, a good deal
of our grain is thrashed by labourers, called barn-men, engaged for
the season, who receive the twenty-fifth boll or part of whatever
kind of grain is threshed, and two meals a day, when employed; or,
the twenty-first boll or part without victuals.
	We have only two corn-mills in the parish; the seventeenth peek
is paid for drying, grinding, and sifting.
	Common labourers and quarriers receive from 1s. 6d. to 1s. 8d.
per day in summer, and from 1s. 4d. to 1s. 6d. per day in winter,
without victuals labourers engaged for the year on days wages,
receive about 0s. per week, without victuals--female labourers at
turnip-hoeing, &c. receive 9d. per day without victuals. A wright
receives 2s. a day besides victuals. + A mason from 2s. 4d. to 2s.
6d. without victuals; a tailor 1s. 2d. a day besides victuals; a wea-
ver makes at present about 1s, 6d. a day journeyman smith's
wages ard 04s. a week without victuals, or from L.12 to L.14 a
year, besides victuals.
	Ditches and drains are generally done at a certain rate per rood
of thirty-six running ells, according to their dimensions. Stone-
dikers receive from 10s. to 11s. per rood of thirty-six square ells.

<TABLE>Wood and wright work of a cart for 2 horses, L.7, 7s.  Do. including iron-
  work                                                                     14  0  0
Wood and wright work of a common plough, L.1, ls. Do including iron-
  work                                                                      3  0  0
Wood and wright work of a pair of common harrows 15s. Do including iron-
  work,                                                                     1 10  0

clothing, and of a coarse linen called Harn, for shifts,--and from a document of
that date, which I have lately seen, it appears that a ploughman's wages in the quar-
ter were then L.,30 Scots a year; a carter's L.24; and a servants-maid's, L.15, ex-
clusive of board and lodging.

<FOOTNOTE>Since 1831, the common acythe has been used in some instances for this pur-
        + A wright's wages fifty years ago were 8d. per day, besides victual



