
56                       INVERNESS-SHIRE.

the appointment of another missionary, to whose charge they were
given, they were totally neglected for a period of ten years. It
is said that, during the long incumbency of the Rev. Thomas Fraser,
a register of the births and marriages had been kept, hut that
the person to whom it was entrusted lost it in the act of passing a
rapid stream. There is no register of the Boleskine district previous
to the year 1798. There are now two distinct ones, kept for
both Abertarff and Boleskine, which are regularly transmitted
about the first of January, every year, to the incumbent; and their
entries transcribed under his immediate superintendence, according
to their respective dates, into one volume.
    Antiquities.-In the vernacular language of the county, the present
grebe is called " Druim-a-dhampuil," signifying Temple
Ridge, it being a ridge on which were the ruins of several Druidical
temples of a circular form, the greatest number of which have been
removed by the present incumbent, as they were generally placed
in the centre of the fields, and interrupted the operation of the
plough. There are still some left to exercise the industry and patience
of his successor. *
   There is a farm in Boleskine called " Tom-a-bhoid," and another
of the same name in Abertarff, derived from " Tom," a green
eminence, which describes the local position of both, and " mod,"
an assembly or court,-the term being still applied to an assembly
of persons qualified to administer justice. Each of these farms
overlooks the rest of the country.
  In the Great Glen of Scotland, through which the Caledonian Canal
passes, are to be seen the remains, at various distances, of several
vitrified forts ;-of which there is one, on the west, on the
farm of Auchteran in Abertarff, and another on the eastern boundary
of Boleskine, but properly speaking in the parish of Dores, which
is there separated from Boleskine by a very small and contemptible
rivulet. These towers or forts are every where called by the
same appellation, namely, " Dungeardal," literally signifying a protecting
eminence, or a guarded fortified hill They were compacted
or cemented in a manner more firm, indissoluble, and indestructible
than any modern building notwithstanding the vaunted
improvements made in architecture.
  Across the hill of Suidh-Chuiman is the great Military Road
from Inverness to Fort-Augustus; and- on its very summit, within
two yards of the road, there is a small cairn, such as is commonly

<FOOTNOTE>For some account of the minor antiquities of the parish we MS.


