
34                         INVERNESS-SHIRE.

Flichity, at the Inverness academy, now worth about' L. 28, 218.
The annual products of these charities vary according as they are
invested in the town's funds or Government securities.
   There is no compulsory assessment for the support of the poor;
and we trust there will not, as it would probably increase pauper-
ism, by encouraging the habits which lead to it.
   Prisons.-The ancient jail of Inverness consisted only of a single
damp dingy vault, in one of the arches of the stone bridge, and
which (subsequently used as a mad-house) was only closed up about
fifteen years ago.  It was succeeded by another prison in Bridge
Street, which, from the notices of it in the burgh's records, must
also have been a most unhealthy and disagreeable place of confine-
ment. The present jail was erected in 1791, and cost L. 1800,
the spire having cost about L.1600 more. Besides prisoners for
debt, all those charged with crimes from the northern counties are
sent here previous to their trial before the eircuit.courts of Jiis-
ticiary, which sit at Inverness twice a-year. Although a great im-
provement at the time of its erection, this prison is now found to
be too small and very inconvenient, there beino, no proper classi-
fication of delinquents, while there is no open court or yard for
them to walk in, nor can any manual employment be required of
them at present. There is no bride'well or poors-hotise in this pa-
rish. By the subsisting law the expense of the jail's support falls
on the magistrates of the burgh, who are also answerable for the
safe cus tody of the prisoners; but the heritors of the northern
counties contemplate the erection of a new jail on the Castlebill,
on a large scale, and under a more modern system of prison dis-
cipline.  Unless subjected to some manual labour or solitary con-
finement, it seems questionable whether the superior accommoda-
tions of modern prisons do not render access to them, in many
cases, a privilege rather than a punishment.
   Fairs.-Anciently all classes of the community depended much
for te, supply of nebessaries on the public fairs, held in such towns
as Inverness, and which'were in consequence attended by great
crowds, the merchants' booths being kept open for weeks together.
At present there are four great fairs held in the year at Inverness
for the sale of dairy produce, and of manufactured goods, and
coarse household stuffs, made by the Highland women in the neigh-
bourhood; but the establishment of shops throughout the country
has greatly diminished their importance, and the magistrates of
the town, to avoid the rioting and intemperance which sometimes


