
1148                  ABERDEENSHIRE.

   The present Professor is Mr James Bentley, A. M.

   The students are divided into students of arts and students of
divinity.  Most of the latter have previously obtained the degree
of A. M., or, if not, have attended the necessary courses, and may
obtain the degree when they require it.
   The curriculum of study for the degree of A. M. occupies four
winter sessions, each of five months' duration, viz. from the first
Monday of November to the last Friday of March.
   The students of the first year constitute the first class, or Ba-
jabs.  They attend Greek about three hours a-day, and Latin
one hour or one hour and a-half.
   In the second year, they form the second or senior-class.  In
this they attend mathematics, the second or advanced Greek and
Latin, and chemistry.  The latter class, however, may be attended
during any year bui the first.
   In the third year, the students form the third or tertian class,
in which they attend Natural Philosophy, the second Greek and
Latin, and Chemistry, if they choose to take that class in this year.
   In the fourth year, the students constitute the Magistrand or
fourth class, attending Moral Philosophy and Logic, the second
Greek and Latin; and, if not previously attended, the Chemistry.
   The second or advanced mathematical class may be attended
either in the third or fourth year.
   The Professor of Moral Philosophy graduates his class, that is,
such of them as desire the degree of A. M., at the close of each
session.
   The number of students in Arts in the first class varies from 50
to 80; in the second, from 40 to 70; in the third, from 35 to 50;
and in the fourth, from 35 to 45.  This progressive diminution
arises from the circumstance, that many leave the university to
enter on professions before completing the course.  The number
of students attending the chemistry varies from 40 to 70, includ-
ing a certain number of medical students, and of others who at-
tend this class alone.
   In all of these classes frequent examinations are held, in most
of them daily ; exercises are prescribed, and regular attendance is
strictly enforced by calling the roll daily and fining absentees.
At the end of each session, examinations on printed questions are
held, the average duration of which, in each class, is about four


