
                                   CRIEFF.                            509

      heads of cattle are annually fed by the different distillers within
      five or six miles round us.  The bdrt beef may thus be command-
      ed at a marketable price; and while the mutton of this district
      has always been accounted superior, there is no part of the country
      where a more regular or better s pply of bot can be bad, at all
      seasons of the year.
         The black-cattle are, commonly crosses between the Dunlop,
      and the Highland or Teeswater breeds.  The farmer have paid
      particular attention to the improvement of their stock; and there
      are few districts in Scotland where a cnmparisons in this respect
      would not be creditable to them.  The- breed of horses has been
      greatty improved of late years by the exertions of the Agricultural
      Society; and Strathearn might now compete successfully with the
      south of Scotland.
         Husbandry.-Tbe husbandry is of the most improved kind, by-
      alternate white and green crops; and particularly by allowing the
      land to remain long under grass. Draining, too, has been brought
      to great perfection throughout the parish, and deep or trench
      ploughing is likely soon to become very general.  Colonel Graeme,
      of Inchbrakie has drained and trench-plougbed the whole of his
      home farm; and he has likewise completed about ten acres of
      flooded meadow.  Mr M'Laurin of the Broich has also been in
      the habit of ploughing his parks very deep$ after they have been
      pastured for a considerable time and he has practised, irrigation
      successfully for many years.*  The farming at lncbbrakie is thus
      described by the enterprising proprietor himself, who has obliging
      ly favoured us with the following remarks;  The fields are drain-
      ed five feet deep. The drains are filled with small round stones
      to within twenty-two inches of the top, - and covered with the earth
      formerly cast up.  In trench ploughing, the common plough drawn
      by two horses and two oxen is followed by the trench plough
      drawn by four oxen and two horses, and making a furrow eigh-
      teen inches deep; the ground is then cross-ploughed to the same
      depth, and in the same manner; and, after the large stones have
      been blown with gunpowder, and removed, together with the small
      ones, which should be done with as little delay as possible, it is
      then harrowed, rolled. limed with forty bells of shells, which are
      ploughed in with the small plough to the depth of six inches, and

      <FOOTNOTE>Great care and attention are necessary, in order to flood meadows.  If
      the drains or conduits be not well and skillfully managed, the thing is sum to fail;
      and, if the necessary processes be negldbted or delayed, beyond the proper time in
      spring, sucess cannot be reasonably expected.


