
52                            BUTESHIRE.

	There is another, but much smaller one, called Tor-a-chaisteil,
on the farm of Sliddery. Though generally regarded as a Danish
fort, its size, situation, `ppearance, and name, seem rather to in-
dicate that it was a dastle or circular building, roofed in either for
refuge or defence. Druidical circles are found on many of the
moors, and the moss which generally surrounds them prices the
places to have been at one time covered with wood. The most per-
fect and interesting of these is that on " Sliabh-nan-carachan," on
the farm of Tormore. It is called " Siudhe choir Fhionn," or
Fingal's cauldron seat. All structures or monuments of magnitude
are invariably ascribed by the Highlanders to the gigantic race of
Fingal, whose stature and strength, if estimated by their works,
completely cast the sons of Anak into the shade. On this circu-
lar row of stones, the cauldron of Fingal is said to have been sup-
ported, and if its depth bore any proportion to its diameter, it might
have served for a boiler to the largest steamer that has yet crossed
the Atlantic. In one of the stones that form the circle, there is
a perforation, evidently artificial, and well worn on the edges, to
which Fingal tied his favourite dog Bran.
	Immediately adjoining this circle, stand three upright columns
of rough unhewn stones, about 15 feet in height and 11 in cir-
cumference. A fourth has long since fallen, or been broken down
by the surface, and attempted to be made into mill-stones; but
they seem to have been spoiled in the making, for they still re-
main on the spot, As one-third, at least, of their entire length
must be under ground, that cannot be less than 20 feet. They
consist of primitives red sandstone, and millstone grit--a species of
rock that is not to be found in situ near the spot. They must,
therefore, have been carried from a considerable distance, up a
long but gentle ascent, to their present position. The conveyance
of such immense blocks, from such a distance, and by such a way,
would require more skill in mecbanics than is possessed by the pre-
sent inhibitants of the parish. Tradition therefore, ascribes their
erection to Fingal, and his followers though by some it is consi-
dered as more probably due to the Scandinavians, who long pos-
sessed the islands of the Hebrides, and whose native country is
thickly set with such massive monuments. In the moss around the
eminence on which these obelisks stand, large trunks of oak trees
are found imbedded, which show that the place was formerly a
forest, and which has been held as proof that this was a fane of
Druidical devotion. We know that the Druids performed their




