
62                  RENFREWSHIRE.

and brambles were only to be seen. Clumps of ranting are
rising all over the parish, which arealready affording shelter, and
adding beauty to the scenery; and tracks, on which nothing met
the view but barren rocks, are now covered with the fir, the birch,
and the spruce. The manner of cultivating the land is all modern.
Excellent cattle and good instruments of husbandry abound. It
may be fairly said, that few places have made more progress in im-
provement, and there is little doubt that it will continue.
  It is worthy of remark, that the sacrament of the Lord's sup-
per was dispensed in this parish, by the celebrated John Knox,
in the house of Finlayston, then belonging to the Earl of Glencairn.
The cups used upon this occasion were two candlesticks of the
finest silver. The lower part or sole formed the cup, which was
screwed into the upper. These cups were used in the parish church
at the dispensation of the sacrament so long as that fainily con-
tinued in the parish. Then they were replaced by four copper cups
gilt, furnished by the Countess of Glencairn, who, it is said, car-
ried the silver cups along with her. Report also states that these
cups are still in the possession of the friends of that family.

   January 1836.



     PARISH OF PORT-GLASGOW.

 PRESBYTERY OF GREENOCK, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.

     THE REV. JAMES BARR, D.D. MINISTER.

     I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
Name.-THis place originally formed part of the adjoining pa-
rich of Kilmalcoln, and consisted of the small village of Newark,
so- called from the barony of that na'me which lay in its immediate
vieinity. The land on which the town stands was, in 1668, pur-
ehased from Sir Patrick Maxwell of Newark, by the magistrates of
Glasgow, with a view to provide a convenient harbour for the ves-
sels belonging to the merchants. of that city., In the year 1695, it
was by the, competent authority, disjoined from Kilmalcolm, and,
wwith a few farms in the neighbourhood attached to it,, erected into,
a distinct parish, under the mme of New Port-Glasgow, or more


