
270                         FIFESHIRE.

per imperial acre, and averages about L. 1, 17s. The grazing of a
cow averages about L. 4; of an or L. 3; and of a ewe or full
grown sheep, pastured for the year, 12s.
   Rate of Waqes, &c.--A day-labourer receives 1s. 6d. in summer,
and 1s. 4d. in winter; a mason, carpenter, or othermechanic, receives
from 2s. 2d. to 2s. 6d. in summer, and from 1s. 10d. to 2s. in winter;
an unmarried farm-servant receives from L. 1O to L. 11 per an-
num, with board in the farmer's kitchen; and when he lives in the
bothie, he has the same wages, with 6 1/2 bolls of oatmeal, and a
pint of sweet-milk per day; a married man, who has a cow, receives
from L. 6 to L 7, with a house, 6 1/2 bolls of oatmeal, and 6 bolls of
potatoes, or ground to plant potatoes; those who have no cows
receive L. 2 or L. 3 additional, with a pint of sweet-milk per day;
a woman farm-servant receives from L. 5 to L. 6 with board; and
women employed in out-door labour have 8d. per day of nine
hours. The rate of mason, carpenter, and other mechanical work
is as follows:-ruble building per rood of 36 square yards, from
28s. to 32s.;  stone and lime dikes per do. 16s. to 20s.; dry-stone
dikes per do. 7s. to 1Os.; slating per do, 10s. to 14s.; tiling per
do. 5s. to 6s. 6d.; plastering two coats per yard, 2d. The price
of different articles, for the purposes of rural economy, which are
in use and manufactured in the parish, is, a farm-cart with iron
axle, from L. 10, 10s. to L. 11; an iron two-horse plough, L. 3, 5s.;
iron swingle-trees, 15s.; a pair of iron harrows, from L. 2, 5s. to
L. 2, 8s.; a two-horse self-cleaning iron harrow, L. 5, 5s.; an
iron trenching skeleton plough, from L. 5, 10s. to L. 6; an iron
strip plough L. 2, 2s.; a drill harrow L. 2, 2s.
   Breed of Cattle and Sheep.-There are few sheep in the parish,
and these are generally bought in the south country markets, about
the month of August, either to be fed off on turnips during the
winter, or to be kept as a breeding stock, when the lambs are sold
in the spring, and the ewes are fattened and disposed of during the
summer. The general breed of cattle is the native horned black
breed of the county. About twenty years ago, this breed_ was in
great request by the English dealers, to drive to the southern mar-
kets, where they met a ready demand, on account of their kindly
feeding qualities, and the great weight to which they were raised-
on the English pastures. At that period, nearly one-half of
the cattle bred in the county were taken, to England in a lean
state. But now, from the general improvement in husbandry, and
the introduction of artificial manures, the system is completely


