
682                       ARGYLESHIRE.

velly fields and shores with Erythrea centaurium, Eryngium mari-
timum, Statice Armeria, Arenaria eploides, Sedum anglicum, &c.;
and the meadows with Lychnis dioica, L. Flos Cuculi, Ranunculi,
Caltha palustris, Centaurea nigra, Orchis maculata, O. albida, &c.
The plague of the cultivated fields is various specie of Rumex
or dock, which grow everywhere as if the seeds had been sown
with care.
     There are plantations of oak, fir, &c., of various extent, through-
out the parish, though it cannot by any means be said to be wood-
ed.  On the estates of Camlodden and Minard, Kilmory and
Auchandaroch, and with few exceptions throughout the whole
district, they are well fenced, are kept clean, and thrive well.
There is also a considerable portion of natural wood, as oak, hazel,
birch, &c., along Lochaweside.

                     II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
     There is no written account of the history of the parish known
to use, by which we can learn any thing of its ancient condi-
tion.  Neither are there documents, papers, or pictures known
to be in the possession of any one, illustrative of its spast his-
tory.  Much must, therefore, be left to conjecture; but it is
probable that the south-west portion of the parish must have
been of importance, when the Scots held their seat of govern-
ment in Argyleshire, and when the frequent feuds between the 
two branches of the regal family, living the one in Kintyre and
the other in Lorne, rendered this their pathway in their mutual
incursions, and probably their battle-field.*
     In the eleventh, twelfth, and early portion of the thirteenth cen-
tury, it is probable that the inhabitants of this district were kept
in continual alarm by the near proximity of the Danes, who had
possession of all the western coast, and had settled in great num-
bers in the neighbouring parish of North Knapdale.  The remains
of ancient buildings, intended, as their form and sites evidetly in-
dicate, as watch-towers, built in order to convey the most rapid
intelligence of the movements of any party on the coast to the in-
ternal parts of the country, give countenance to this opinion.
These are still three in number.  One is called Tor a Bhlarain,
on the top of a hill called Barnafuar, near Kilmichael, and it

<FOOTNOTE>Early in the eighth century, a division was made of lands lying between Lorne
and Kintyre, whereby the portion of the king of Dal-ruadh was seperated from
that of Lorne.  There is in this parish a farm called Ruadh-dal, contracted Ru-dal.
Can it be the limit of the part of Ruadh, the Reuda of Bede, according to the above
division?
                                                                 
                                        4






     
 

