
     Statistical Account

a most rapid current, and has even bedded the Isla for some
way with gravel; the Isla being destitute of gravel all the
way above the confluence.  The superiority of the soil, on
some of the low grounds of this parish, seems to have origi-
nated from their vicinity to the rivers, though now above
the reach of their highest floods.  The soil of the other
estates of this division, which lie N. W. from Grange, as
Blacklaw, Polcalk, and Muirtown, consists of a bottom,
and generally a top, of mortar, or that red coarse clay,
which is the mother earth of this part of Strathmore, and
most generally found in the neighbourhood.  These grounds
rife briskly from the Grange, and form part of a ridge of
the Grampians.  Those parts of this ascent, which are most
level, have the blackest and most beneficial earth.  Those
parts which have the steepest ascent have redest earth, and most
of the colour of the bottom.  Here and there, especially, in
the steepest ascent, appears a red rock, mixed with small
rounded pebles.  There are many detached, rounded, whin
or moor-stones in these grounds, blue and hard, a sort of
porphyry, from one foot to three or four feet diameter,
which have no mother rock here.  The farms on the estate
of Blacklaw, are divided from one another by thorn hedges;
and there are some stone-dike inclosures on Muirtown and
St Fink.  There are not above 100 acres of this division
uncultivated.  On these grounds, and neighbourhood, espe-
cially at St Fink and Chapeltown and Little Drum, there
are many of these singular ridges of nature, called here
Drums* (dorsum); perhaps 10 or 12 of them within a

<FOOTNOTE>

   *There are many of there drums in the neighbourhood, in the parishes of
Alyth and Rattray, and in the Stormont, which have the same parallelism
and position with the above.  The Garrydrums in the Stormont, which are
delmeated by their dales and rills in Stobie's map, are among the most: re-
markable, being a mile and an half long each, about 100 feet high, and
600 feet broad at base, and rising above one another, according to the na-


