
                  ARTICLE GLASGOW.                     923

fore, over little more than eight years.  The presbytery are
indebted for this important gift to W. Walker, Esq., a descendant
of the session-clerk of Glasgow; and the reader is indebted for
the decyphering, which required no small skill, to the Rev. Mr
Leishman of Govan, whose historical and antiquarian attainments
are well known to his friends.  The record is valuable, not so
much, perhaps, for the ecclesiastical information as for the picture
of manners which it supplies.  It would be vain to attempt, in the
narrow limits of this paper, to give any extracts which could af-
ford the reader an idea of the general contents: I shall therefore
select a few topics bearing on the character of the Church of Scot-
land at that early period.  Ecclesiastical history too frequently
deals in mere secularities.  I shall refer in the following pages
chiefly to facts and circumstances which bring out the spiritual
character of the Establishment as a church of Christ.
   Had not the Rev. Mr Leishman, in the Statistical Account of his
parish, related the anxious labours of the kirk-session of Glasgow
for the maintenance, reparation, and orderly care of the ca-
thedral, I would have noticed this circumstance, so honourable to
the session, as furnishing a complete refutation of the com-
mon charge, that the Reformers and their friends were, in their ha-
tred to Popery, enemies to the lawful architecttiral ornanwnt of
churches.  There can be no question that such a charge has beea
grossly exaggerated.  Both at Perth and Scone, it appears from
Wodrow's MS. collections, that Knox and Erskine of Dun re-
strained and withheld the people from pulling down the Popish build-
ings.  It is certain that the adherents of the Church of Rome could
not have more carefully watched over the cathedral than the early
Protestant Presbyterians.  The record, which has lately come to
light, is full of the proof of this.  The references to the High
Church are perpetual.  I have counted above sixty in the eight
years embraced in the record.
   With regard to the population of Glasgow at the period of which
the session record treats, we have no evidence whatever.  A writer
of some interesting early notices of Glasgow, who is supposed to
have been the late Rev. Dr Porteous, states, that in 1600, ten years
subsequent to the date of which we speak, he had reason to think
the town of Glasgow did not contain above 6000 inhabitants.  He
adds, " probably they were considerably below that number."  We
should think they were considerably less.  Down to 1587,
a year comprehended within the record,--there was but one mi-


