
                              CULLEN.                              337.

   very differently from its predecessor, having, under judicious ma-,
   nagement, been productive of the most beneficial results, in awak-
   ening a laudable spirit of enterprise and emulation among the
   agriculturists of the lower district of the county, who may bear
   a comparison with any of their brethren in Scotland, forskill and .
   success in the several departments of husbandry.  Thorp are two
   ordinary meetings of the club in the course of the year, which are
   held at Cullen, on the first Tuesdays of March and November-
   On these occasions, the members dine together in an elegant ball,
   provided for them by the liberality of the Right Honourable the
   Earl of Seafield, and, on the removal of the cloth, proceed to the
   discussion of some subject connected with agriculture, of which
   previous notice has been given, each member being expected to
   afford to those present, the benefit of his practical knowledge, as:
   it may happen to b ar upon the question for the day.  An ex-
   traordinary meeting of the club is held annually at Cornbill, on,
   the first Tuesday of August, for a competition show of horses and,
   cattle, on which occasions the sum of from L.25 to L30 of the.
   funds of the association, is expended in premiums to the successful
   competitors.  The interest excited by the important object of
   this meeting, has the effect of securing a numerous attendance, of
   local proprietors and tenants, and of agriculturists from the adja-
   cent districts.  The quality of the stock exhibited is invariably,
   such as to do the greatest credit to the exhibitors, and to main-,
   tain the high character which the county has so long held, for the,
   successful prosecution of this important branch of husbandry.,
   Ploughing matches and seed,showsare occasionally held, Under
   the patronage of the club; and it deserves to be mentioned, that,
   to this association, the lower district of the county has been mainly,
   indebted for the services of a veterinary surgeon,a liberal salary
   having been for many years paid, from the funds, for the encou-
   ragement of a resident practitioner of this important department
   of the healing art.  The club is composed almost exclusive of
   landed proprietors, and practical farmers, and consists at present
   of eighty-three members, of whom twenty are honorary. Each
   member contributes one guinea annually to the funds.  Attached
   to the club, is a library for the use of the members, containing
   100 volumes, on subjects more immediately connected with agri-
   culture.
      Fisheries.-All the different kinds of white and shell fish, com-
   mon to Scotland, are to be found in abuadance on the coast, and


