
               		STIRLING.                             449

price is only to a trifling extent enhanced, by the expense of car-
riage. Yet coal is dear. An advance on the price took place about
five years ago. Before that time, the best coal could be obtained for
little more than 6d. per cwt., or from 10s. to 11s. per ton. Since
that time, it has cost from 8d. to 9d. per cwt., or from 13s. 4d. to
15s. per ton. A few peats are brought from Blair-Drummond
moss, and sold for fuel.

             MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   The most remarkable differences between the present state of
the parish of Stirling and that which appears to have existed at
the date of the former Statistical Account, are the following:
   1. A great increase of the town both in extent and population.
   2. A great improvement of the buildings, by which the comfort
of the inhabitants has been augmented, and the natural beauty of
the situation has been set off to advantage by handsome, and, in
some cases, splendid edifices, both public and private.
   3. An immense improvement of the streets in respect of slope,
causeway, and side-pavement; and the lighting of, the town with
gas, which has also been introduced into the churches and meet-
ing-houses, as well as many private dwellings.
   4. New institutions, literary, professional, charitable, and reli-
gious.
   5. A considerable increase of the trade of the town and port,
and decay in some kinds of manufacture, with extension of others,
in particular that of woollen goods.
   6. A considerable change of the relative proportions of the ad-
herents of the Established Church and those of the Dissenting
denominations; the latter now bearing a smaller proportion to the
former.
   7. The character of the people does not appear to have im-
proved; but the contrary. A great number of young persons have
been, and are, growing up regardless of the Sabbath and of reli-
gious ordinances; and habits of intemperance have been increasing
among the lower orders. This may be traced in part, to the in-
crease of the population without a corresponding augmentation
of the provision made for their pastoral instruction, &c. ; to the
decay of parental training and habits of domestic piety, consequent
on this increasing disproportion; to other causes, which have al-
ready been particularly adverted to; and to others still, which might
require more argument, and a larger induction of faces to establish
them, than could here be admitted.
  STIRLING,				        Ff


