
958                  GENERAL OBSERVATIONS

Belhaven; Coltness House, now in the possession of Mr Houlds-
worth; Allanton House, the beautiful seat of Sir James Henry
Macdonald Stewart; Woodhall, the seat of Mr Campbell of Isla;
Cleland House, the seat of Mr North Dalrymple; Douglas Park,
belonging to Mrs Douglas; RoseHall, the property of General
Pye Douglas ; Airdrie House, the seat of Sir William Alexan-
der; Newton House, belonging to Sir James Montgomery of
Stanhope; Monkland House, the seat of the Hon. William El-
phinstone; Castlemilk, the property of James Stirling Stirling,
Esq.  Many elegant houses besides these are to be met with
in different parts of the county.  The Lower Ward especially is
thickly studded with seats and villas; but a mere enumeration of
the principal mansions is all that our present limits admit.  More
detailed descriptions of them will generally be found in the ac-
counts of the parishes in which they are situate.
   In commercial importance Lanarkshire ranks far above any other
county in Scotland.  Glasgow, which rivals Manchester in its manu-
factures, may already be termed the Scotch Liverpool for trade.  The
rapid advances which Glasgow has made within the last half century;
the vast improvements which have been effected in the navigation of
the Clyde, and the magnificent plans for its further improvement,
which have been recently undertaken,--the striking fact, that vessels
ofmore than 600 tons burthen, drawing 16 or 17 feet of water, can now
pass, where the river, only seventy years ago, was not two feet
deep,--and that the river and harbour dues, which in 1771 were
only L.1021, now exceed L.40,000,--warrant the most sanguine
anticipations of the future increase of its trade.  In no city on the
face of the globe, indeed, is enterprise more active, or in general
more successful, and, in none, perhaps, have a greater number of
fortunes been amassed,--in many instances by individuals of the
lowest origin,--than in Glasgow.
   The original source of its prosperity, and still the staple of its
trade, is its manufacture of cotton, which is carried on in all its va-
rious branches, and to a degree of perfection which is nowhere
surpassed.  The finer fabrics, except of complex patterns, are
wrought chiefly in power-looms, the number of which in Glasgow,
in 1835, was 15,127.  The number of hand-looms in the city and
suburbs was, in the same year, 18,537, and employed by Glasgow
manufacturers in other towns, 13,468. Of the latter, however, a
considerable number may be supposed to be in other counties. In
Glasgow and its vicinity, there are now many establishments on a


