
                PARISH OF PRESTONPANS.

    PRESBYTERY OF HADDINGTON, SYNOD OF LOTHIAN AND
                    TWEEDDALE.

        THE REV. W. BRUCE CUNNINGHAM, MINISTER.

         I.- TOPOGRAPH1Y AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-THE parish of Prestonpans, (or more properly of Pres-
ton,) derives its name from the circumstance of the monks of Ho-
lyrude and of Newbottle, the early superiors of the soil, in this and
part of the adjoining parish of Tranent, having erected on the sea
shore pans for the manufacture of salt. For a long time, its eccle-
siastical name was Salt-Preston. Its present name, however, Seems
to have been in common use from an early period. The most an-
cient name appears to have been Aldhammer or Alhammer; but
this was soon lost in that of Priestistoun, Prieststoun, Priestoun,
Prestoun.
   Origin.-The church, a vicarage of the monastery of Holyrude,
was, with the town and castle of Preston, burn by the Earl of
Hertford in 1544, and the inhabitants of the united baronies of
Preston and Prestonpans had thereafter obtained a right of fre-
quenting the church of Tranent, though there was not any regular
union of the two parishes. This continued until the conclusion of
that century, when George Hamilton, the proprietor of the united
baronies, and his son, Sir John, having bestowed the ground for a
church, churchyard, and school, and endowed a minister and
schoolmaster, with glebe, garden, and stipends; while, at the same
time, a church and school-house had been erected at his own ex-
pense by the celebrated Mr John Davidson. Preston was, in 1595,
recognized by the ecclesiastical legislature as, quoad sacra, an in-
dependent parish; and, in 1606, an act of Parliament was obtain-
ed by Sir John Hamilton, formally separating it from Tranent, in
order,to obviate all dispute in regard to its temporal, relations. The
inscription over the north or principal door of the old church was-

                     SEDEM DEDIT PRESTONUS.

		     AEDIFICAVIT DAVIDSONUS.

		      TEXIT WILLIAMSONUS.


