
                      GLASSARY.                              695

answer that they have "appointed the Presbytery of Argyle, after
they have considered the decreets of plantation for disuniting the
said parish of Kilmichael from the lands about Lochgair, to ob-
serve what rectification these new erections would require, in or-
der to the erecting and planting of the said new church, and this
with concurrence of the said Sir Duncan Campbell and other
gentlemen in the parish."
  In 1696, the Synod, "considering they now have in their cus-
tody the principal minutes of the decreets of plantation," recom-
mend means to petition the Lords of Commission and Plantation
to sustain and approve these; which petition they seem to have
formally made at a later period. * In 1697, the people of Glass-
ary petitioned the Synod to recommend + to the Lords of Planta-
tion to make the decreet of plantation, passed in the year 1650,
effectual; by which decreet the parish of Glassary, as it now
stands, was divided into three distinct charges, viz. the parish of
Kilineuair, parish of Lochgair, and the new parish of Kilmichael;
and the Synod unanimously concurred in the prayer of the petitioin,
and agreed to recommend accordingly. It thus appears that pro-
vision was made for improving the ecclesiastical condition of this
parish ; and, in 1707, the ninth act of the Parliament of Scotland,
held in that year anent plantation of kirks and valuation of teinds,
enacted, that any authentic extracts from the records and other
proceedings of former commissions, brought in and presented to
their Lordships, should be recorded in a particular register, and
be reputed as valid and authentic as if the principal warrants
themselves were extant. Yet, for reasons unknown to us, the pa-
rish of Glassary was not divided.
  In 1828 a Government church was erected in a corner of the
parish where the village of Lochgilphead had arisen; and in 1841
a church was built by the Committee of the General Assembly
for church extension, aided by the Duke of Argyle and Sir Ar-
chibald Campbell, Bart. at Camlodden, for the benefit of that
portion of the parish, and the adjoining district of the parish of
Inverary, wherein a probationer officiated for some time. The pa-
rish church is well situated for the district in which it is, placed,
but is too large.  It was built in 1827, was struck by lightning,
and much injured in the winter of 1829-30, and was afterwards well
repaired and improved.  The Government church, at Lochgilp-

   <FOOTNOTE>MSS. among the papers of the Synod.
             R‚cords of the Synod of Argyle, Vol. ii. p. 287.


