
                     TIREE AND COLL.                        211

spring up too rapidly during the beat of summer, ripen too fast,
and do not fill properly.  The increase is accordingly small ; the
average returns from potatoes being 8 seeds, from bear and large
oats, 4, and from small or black oats from 2 to 3.  Of late years,
the people seem to be more attentive in some of these respects.
They are getting into the practice of compounding their manure,
and also of changing their seed more frequently; the good effect
of which is beginning to be already visible.  Here it may be pro-
per to notice a great natural disadvantage, to which part of Tires
is liable, and which I fear is incurable, viz. the drifting or blowing of
sand, which commits great devastation from year to year.  Some of
the farms, especially on the west and north-west coast, have been in a
great measure ruined by this circumstance.  When the surface of a
sand-bank oreminence once gives way or is broken, it never ceaces to
blow till reduced nearly to a level ; and the neighbouring lands are
sometimes covered by it to a great extent.  The clouds of sand
carried away in this manner have, at a distance, very much the ap-
pearance of a snow storm.  I have been informed by persons now
living, that they remember cutting down fields of barley and hay
in places which are now a barren sandy waste, in consequence of
this frequent and destructive visitation.
   In Coll, notwithstanding the general rockiness of the ground,
the crops are much more productive.  The inhabitants of that
island have been always remarked as an industrious, hard-working
race of people.  In many situations, a plough will hardly work, and
they are in the habit of carrying on a considerable portion of their
agricultural operations with the spade, which, though a more te-
dious and laborious process, is found in the end to be more pro-
fitable.  They finish their sowing a month earlier, and their ave-
rage increase is much more considerable than here.
   When the crofts are small, it is customary in Tiree for two
neighbouring crofters to join for a plough.  The number of
Coll at 64.

<TABLE> Number of imperial acres cultivated in Tiree,     .      5824
 	                 waste or in pasture,  .     .    .      10,747
                          covered with water,     .      .        756
                                                               ------
                                                        Total, 17,327
                                                               ------
          that might be added to the cultivated land say,  .      300
          in a state of undivided common,           .            5645

   Not much has been done in Tiree, in the way of improv-


