
			          EVIE AND RENDALL			       199

	pose of quarrying, the uniformity of the strata and alsoof the dip
	is very marked.
	   I have not seen, nor have I been informed, of any organic re-
	mains being discovered, or of any particular spars. Towards the
	north end of Evie there is a vein of pyrites; but it is too insigni-
	ficant to be worked.
	   It is said that at Woodwick, on the Southern extremity of Evie,
	there is a considerable deposit of marl. If it really exists, no use
	is made of it. In the neighbourhood of the rivulets, on pieces of
	low ground, there are various deposits of sand and gravel mixed
	with clay and peat-mould, washed down from the hills. Part of
	the ground close to the manse is of this description.
	   There is an inexhaustible supply of excellent peat to the va-
	rious valleys which intersect the hills. There are also peat-bogs
	in the low grounds, which might easily be drained. In Rendall
	there is a large valley, which is an unbroken peat-moss. Some
	portions of it are so full of the roots and branches of trees, that
	the people cannot work to advantage. Last summer, there. was
	excavated a solid trunk of a tree. It appeared to have been
	of stinted growth, and was chiefly remarkable forits freshness.
	It is interesting to ascertain the fact, that trees, even of puny di-
	mensions, have at some remote period adorned a country, where
	now they can onlyhe reared in inclosed gardens.
	   The soil of these parishes is partly a rich black loam, and
	partly a mixture of clay and sand, resting on blue slaty rock,
	sometimes inclining to sandstone. In Rendall, the soil is gene-
	rally of a lighter and sharper description than that of Evie.
	   Zoology.-Although the whole country is destitute of cover, the
	quantity and variety of small birds is great-starlings, larks, lin-
	nets are the most numerous.  Grouse are found on the hill-grounds,
	and snipe in the marshes. As a rara-avis, there once was brought
	to me a young water-hen.  Sea-fowl, large and small, from the
	heron and the cormorant to the dotterel, abound ; but I am not
	aware of any species existing here, that is not common to other
	parts of Orkney.  I have seen lately a very fine specimen of the
	Death's headmoth.
	   Botany- The natural grass is full of wild flowers, which  not
	only give to the pasture-ground the appearance of a beautifully va-
	riegated carpet, but it is probable that this aromatic and medici-
	nal food contributes both to the health of the cattle, and the rich-
        ness of the milk.


