
                LYNE AND MEGGET.                      167

Whatever may have been the state of Lyne in former times,
it is at present almost divested of trees, belts of which would be a
great improvement, as they would not only be ornamental but ad-
vantageous, tending to diminish the violence with which the wind
frequently blows from the west and the east.
   The parish is certainly not insalubrious, and there is no pre-
vailing disease among the inhabitants which might be supposed
to arise from some local peculiarity.
Megget, which is situate at the southern extremity of Peebles-
shire, and which at one time seems to have been named Rodonno,
is distant from Lyne about fourteen miles, with the river Tweed and
the parish of Manner intervening between them. It is above six
miles in length, and in some places more than five in breadth. It is
bounded on the east by Yarrow; on the south by Ettrick and Mof-
fat; on the west by Tweedsmuir; and on the north by Manner. It
is almost entirely covered with hills, which extend in two parallel
ranges from west to east, having between them a narrow valley,
which scarcely in any part exceeds a quarter of a mile in breadth.
In this valley the soil is extremely various, but the greater portion
of it seems to be very unsuitable for agriculture. There are parts,
however, especially near the farmhouses of Cramilt and Hender-
land, where it is of a much better description, and where crops are
obtained not inferior to many in lower situations. Through this
level ground runs Megget water, which rises about the western li-
mit of the parish, and though its course is short, it soon becomes
a considerable stream by the accessions which it obtains in its pro-
gress; and at the eastern boundary it is received by St Mary's loch,
a large and beautiful expanse of water, which yearly attracts a
number of persons who are eager to behold so pleasing an object,
and to enjoy the amusement of angling. On the hills, which oc-
cupy most part of the parish, there is a diversity of soil. There
are places where it is shallow and dry, but commonly it is deep and
wet, and it affords excellent pasture, which produces superior sheep. *
   Megget is in one of the most elevated districts in the south of
Scotland, and some of the hills rise from their base to a consider-
able height: there is consequently some degree of damp and cold
In the climate, but this is not such as to impair the health of the
inhabitants.

<FOOTNOTE>Some ancient historians mention that gold had been found in a stream that runs
down Glengaber into Megget water, and traces of the labour employed in searching
for it are still discernible, but it does not apppear that any has been discovered in mo-
dern times.


