
92                      DUMBARTONSHIRE.

  Ecclesiastical State.--The parish of Cardross did not originally
extend along the Clyde, beyond the site of the modern church,
but some detached lands in Glenfruin belonged to it. In 1643
a new arrangement, under the sanction of the Commissioners for
the plantation of kirks, assigned to this parish its present bounds,
and threw Glenfruin into that of Row. The church was at the
same time moved from the point opposite Dumbarton to its pre-
sent situation, which is the most central that could be found. It
contained about 450 sitters, and, being found too small, was, in
1826, replaced by the present building, which was erected with
considerable taste, and can accommodate above 800 persons. The
average number of the congregation is from 750 to 800; of com-
municants about 500. The Crown is patron, and the minister is
titular of the teinds. The stipend amounts to 11 1/2 chalders, besides
an augmentation of three which was obtained in 1814, but which has
never yet been followed up by a locality, chiefly on account of the
difficulties arising out of the arrangement of the parish in 1643.
The grebe contains 9 1/2 acres of arable ground, and the manse is
believed about a century old. There is now a regular missionary
connected with the Establishment, residing in Renton.
   At Renton is a chapel, in connection with the Associate Pres-
bytery, with a congregation of about 400 in attendance on Divine
worship: the minister has L. 120 a-year, with a manse and glebe.
There is at Bridgend a Congregation of the Relief body, of whom
about 600 attend worship. The minister is understood to have a
house and about L. 125 a-year. These salaries are paid by the
respective congregations.*
   Societies.--The religious societies are, a Bible society, formerly
drawing about L. 20 a-year, but which has not been in operation
for the last two years; and a Bible and Missionary Society at Ren-
ton, the income of which is L. 30. There is now also a society
connected with the four schemes of the General Assembly, and
another for the promotion of Female Education in India.
   Education.-- There is a parish school, of which the teacher
draws about L. 34 of salary, and, L. 24 of school fees, besides
L. 15 as the average value of some ground; bear and'money mor-
tified in the seventeenth century by the Napiers of Kilmahew.
His emoluments as clerk to the session, and to Mrs Moore's trust,

<FOOTNOTE>There are about 470 families nominally connected with the Established Church,
and there are about 270 families nominally connected with Dissenters and Seceders:
these are almost entirely confined to the villages of Renton and Bridgend, which lie
in the very confines of the parish, and upward of three miles from the parish church.
--(1839)


