
                          DUMBARTON                            3

                      II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
    No general account of this parish has ever been drawn up (so
far as known), except that in the Old Statistical Account. A very
good account of the castle, and some excellent remarks as to the
ecclesiastical state of the parish, are to be found in the third vo-
lume of Chalmers's Caledonia. There are two works on the agri-
culture of the county of Dumbarton, which contain some notes on
the agriculture of the parish. Both of these are reports which were
drawn up for the consideration of the Board of Agriculture: the
first drawn up by the Reverend David Ure, and published in
1794: the other, the joint performance of the late Reverend
Andrew White, minister of the parish of Kilmaronock, and the
Reverend Dr Macfarlane, then minister of the parish of Drymen,
now Principal of the University of Glasgow, and published about
seventeen years after.+ A good plan of the town of Dumbar-
ton was published by Mr Wood in 1818, in the map of the coun-
ty ; at the same time, a separate plan of the town was published
by him. A very neat and correct plan was drawn in 1830, from
surveys, made by the late Mr Henry Reed, one of the masters of
the public school; it belongs, to the magistrates of Dumbarton.
   Parochial Registers.-The parish registers consist of three sets;
the minutes of sederunt; the register of baptisms and marriages;
and the register of deaths. The minutes of sederunt consist of
nine volumes, which are generally in good order, but are only
complete from 1704. The earliest date is 1667. A volume of
minutes bearing date about 1620 had fallen, by some chance, into
the hands of an individual in town; the kirk-session, however,
think that they will be able to recover it.
   There are six volumes of the registers of baptisms and mar-
riages. The earliest date is 1642; and they are complete from
1701,
   The register of deaths consists of two volumes the one from
1691 to 1749, the other from 1783 to 1795.
   Antiquities.-At a very early period, it appears that there was a
town at or near the site of the burgh of Dumbarton, which was cal-
led Alclud or Alcluid, and was the capital of the kingdom of the
Attacotti. The word Alclud signifies the rock of the Clyde, or on
the Clyde; it was at first applied to the castle, and afterwards to
the town, as the name Dunbriton was applied in the same manner,
at a later period. The Romans had a naval station here, which they

<FOOTNOTE>4to, London, 1794.    + 8vo, Glasgow, 1811.


