
   94                            SHETLAND.

    No natural crops of clover and rye-grass spring here, except on
a small spot at Sumburgb.
    The island of Colsay carries a good number of sheep of the
English breed : and until the scab invaded the island of St Ni-
nians, it carried a considerable number of sheep of a large kind.
It is at present devoted to the -grazing of cattle.,
  There has happened a very heavy loss in this parish, of a snug
estate that belonged to Alexander Sinclair, Esq. of Browi all tile
most valuable part thereof having been blown over with sand, and
only some small patches, called outsets or peodicles" now remain-
ing. A part of the estate of Sumburgh, which was surrounded
withsand, like an oasis in a desert, and which carried a good flock
of sheep, is now also so much overspread with sand, that it has not
one upon it. And a small inlet, which could formerly admit sMall
craft is now filling u very fast by 'sand blowing from the waste.
   Fishing. Mr Bruce' of Sumburgh's tenants, are allowed to cure
their own fish, which are delivered to him at a certain stipulated
price,in their marketable state, and of course his lands are let at
an advariced rice. But other heritors who have the fish given
them by their tenants in a green or uncured state, let their lands
at an inferior price.
    A berring-fishing has, for some years past, been carried one
partly in Dunrossness,but chiefly in the parishes of Sandwick and
Cunningsburgh, where a number of large boats'have been fitted
out at  at great expense. This fishing was begun by the tenants of
Mr Bruce of Sumburgb, under his patronage; and by his resid-
ing at Sand Lodge, in the vicinit of the herring stations, he has
given them'great encouragement. Three or four brigs bi, sloops
arrive annually at Levenwick bay, from Rothsay, and receive the
herrings as-they are caught, at a stipulated price per cran. Mr
Bruce of Bigtown is, with his tenants, embarked in a similar enter-
prise.
   Except at Quendale, Bigtown, and Sumburgh, where ploughs
are used, the tenants, having but small portions of land, cultivate
a few ploughs a used drawnn by all horses.
   Very little kelp is manufactured in this parish.

                    V-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Some years ago, there was a very handsome, substantial, and
expensive light-house, erected on the summit of Sunnburgh Head,
the most southerly promontory in Shetland.  The tower is ele-



