
                                  FORGAN.                                509

The yearly average of births for the last seven years was,              23
                      deaths,                                           22
                      marriages,                                         7
   Character of the People.-The parishioners are in general quiet
and orderly in their deportment. Their houses are for the most
part clean and well kept-while some of the cottages are distin-
guished for their neat and tasteful appearance.

                         IV.-INDUSTRY.
The parish contains about 5000 acres, nearly 4000 of which are under cultivation.
                   Of unarable land there are about      250
                      plantations,                       360
                      grass parks,                       370

   Plantations.-Since the last Statistical Account, there has been
a great increase to the plantations on the estates of St Fort and
Tayfield. There is still, however, a considerable extent of rocky and
hillyground that might be planted with great advantage. The trees
are chiefly of the fir tribe-but the soil is well adapted for the
growth of such bard wood as the oak, ash, chestnut and beech.
There are several old trees at St Fort and Newton. In regard to size,
there are none deserving of notice, with the exception of three yews
in the garden at Kirkton, which probably are not to be equalled
by any in Scotland. The management in regard to thinning and
pruning is excellent.
   Rent of Land.-The annual rent of land in the parish is from
L.1 to L. 3 per acre. Some near the Tay, from its local ad-
vantages, is let at L.4 per Scotch acre. The general average is
about L. l, 15s. The rent of grazing is L. 2, 1Os. per ox or
cow, and 10s. per ewe.
   Rate of Wages.-Labourers earn from 1s. 6d. to 1s. 8d. per
day, and have almost constant employment. Masons, carpenters,
and other handicraft receive from 14s. to 18s. per week. The
wages of ploughmen, paid partly in money and grain, vary from
L. 20 to L. 28 per annum,-a number of the farm-servants being
allowed to keep cows.
   The prices of all produce are regulated by the Dundee, Cupar,
and St Andrews markets, where it is sold. In general, they are
not so high as to those obtained at Kirkcaldy, where there is a
stock market, although the grain grown in the north of Fife is of
excellent quality.
   Husbandry.-The tenants in this parish are distinguished by
their intelligence, enterprise, and skill. They readily and spirited-
ly avail themselves of any improvements that may be introduced
into the methods of cultivating the land, or of improving the breed


