
                             STOBO.                           123

on his estate with an ardour and a taste scarcely equalled among
his contemporaries. I must mention also the late Lord Chief Ba-
ron Montgomery, of his Majesty's Exchequer in Scotland, who was
distinguished not only as an enterprising purchaser and improver,
but for his great spirit in public undertakings, being always forward
in encouraging every measure that could contribute to the advan-
tage and improvement of the county of Tweeddale, over which he
long presided in all matters of public concern. His remains are
deposited in the family burying ground in the churchyard of Stobo.
   Land-owners.-The chief land-owners in the parish are Sir James
Montgomery of Stanhope, Bart.; Sir John Nasmyth of Posso,
Bart.; the Right Honourable the Earl of March and Wemyss; and
William Gray, Esq. of Brown's Lands.
   Parochial Registers.-The date of the earliest entry of the pa-
rochial register of births, marriages, and deaths is in the year 1653;
since that period a register has been regularly kept, and the prin-
cipal events in the parish briefly recorded.
   Antiquitics.-On Sheriffmuir there are two large stones three
feet in height and six feet distant from each other, which are sup-
posed to mark the grave of some chief who had there fallen in bat-
tle. There are also two cairns of stones on this muir, and single
stones about a foot in height planted at regular distances, which
some suppose to have been planted to perpetuate the memory of
some person of distinction, while others regard them as relics of
Druidical temples.
   There is also to be seen in this muir a large round cavity in the
form off basin, called Pinkie's Hole. It is about ninety paces in
circumference; and at the time when the former Statistical Account
was written, it was at the centre between six and seven feet below
the level of the adjacent plain; but the depth is now considerably
less, from the decay of the luxuriant crops of grass in the inside,-
the grass in the inside being far more luxuriant than on the rim of
the cavity, probably from the soil being enriched by the decay of
the bodies therein buried, of those who had fallen in battle.
   This muir, being both centrical for the county and well adapted
for Mustering the Tweeddale militia whilst the unfortunate animo-
sities subsisted between the sister kingdoms, was the place where
the sheriff-depute was accustomed to summon them to appear be-
fore him on a certain day and at an appointed hour; hence it was
called the Sheriff-muir, and still retains the name.
   Modern Buildings.-Stobo Castle is the chief modern building
in the parish. The materials generally used for building are whin-


