
344                    KINCARDINESHIRE.

emanated from individuals connected with this parish (Dr Camp-
bell's Essay on Miracles, and Bishop Douglas's Criterion.)
	Dr Gilbert Burnett, Bishop of Salisbury, was the eldest son of
Robert Burnett of Crimond, appointed one of the Lords of Ses-
sion at the Restoration. He was born at Edinburgh, 18th Sep-
tember 1643, but was educated in the country under his father,
until his tenth year, when he entered the college at Aberdeen.
After the usual courses he took his degree, before he was fourteen
years of age, along with James Gregory, the celebrated inventor
of the reflecting telescope, (1657.) He then commenced the
study of civil and feudal law; but, relinquishing it after a year,
devoted himself wholly to divinity, with such diligence and suc-
cess, that, before he was eighteen, he was licensed as a probationer
or preacher of the Gospel, and was offered by his cousin-german,
Sir Alexander Burnett, the living of this parish. He refused,
however, tn `ccept it on account of his youth, and, wisely bent on
improving himself, spent several years in the study of the best
authors on divinity, in intercourse with some of the greatest and
most learned men of the age, and in foreign travel, before he at
length accepted from Sir Robert Fletcher, his father's friend, the
living of Saltoun, in the county of Haddington. There he conti-,
nued for five years, and discharged the functions of a parochial
minister in an exemplary manner. An account of his subsequent
eventful and important career, both in this country, and in Eng-
land, must be,sought in the several biographies written of him.
The "History of his own Time," published after his death, 1724,
has an account of his life by his youngest son, who was one of the
Judges of the Court of Common Pleas. He published in his life-
time 58 single sermons, 13 treatises or tracts in divinity, 17 on
the Papist controversy, 26 political and miscellaneous, and 24
historical and biographical, He kept up occasioml intercourse
with his relations in this place till his death; but only one or two
unimportant letters of his have been preserved. He sent his por-
trait, painted by Sir Godfrey Kneller, to be kept in Crathes
Castle, where it still remains; and he appointed the Baronets of
Leys patrons of the bursaries which he left to the Marischal Col-

lege of Aberdeen. The original sum was 1000 merks; but, in
1835, the stock amounted  to L. 1389, 12s. 8d., nearly the whole
interest of which is paid to four bursars in arts, and two in divinity.
	John Douglas, D.D., also Bishop of Salisbury, was born at
Pittenwem, Fifeshire, 1721. His father, a respectable merchant,


