
	1222			ARGYLESHIRE.

           The glebe contains about five imperial acres, and is valued at
	L.20.
	   The stipend consists of 16 chalders, partly of grain and partly
	of oatmeal, together with L.10 of money; out of which, how-
	ever, the minister is bound to provide the communion ele-
	ments.  These 16 chalders comprehend 4 bolls Scots of wheat,
	126 of barley, and 126 of oatmeal, all converted into money by the
	highest fiars of the county.   It will be seen from this, that the
	amount of stipend must vary from year to year along with the
	prices of grain; but the average annual amount, for the last seven
	years, was L.257, 18s. 10 1/2d.
	   Before the great secession from the Establishment, in May
	last, the number of families belonging to the Established Church
	was I30 ; the number of Dissenting or Seceding families, was 12 ;
	and the number of Episcopalian families, 2.  But, at the present
	time, it is impossible to says, With precision, how many families or
	individuals belong to the Establishment; as the people are, in this
	respect, in a very unsettled state.  Divine service in the Esta-
	blished Church has generally been very well attended.  The
	average number of communicants for the last ten years has been
	in summer 345, and in winter 320.
	   Education.-There are two schools in the parish exclusive of
	Sabbath schools, viz. the parish school, situated close beside the
	church; and another, situated in a barren moor, on the north bor-
	der of the parish, which derives most of its scholars from Bal-
	thayock, a detached, portion of the parish of Kinnoull.
	   The branches of education commonly taught in the parish
	school are, English reading and grammar, writing, arithmetic, and
	geography.  Practical mathematics and Latin are occasionally
	taught.  There have been sometimes also pupils learning Greek
	or French, but these were usually persons not belonging to the
	parish.  The braches taught in the other school are the same as
	those commonly taught in the parish school.
	   The parochial shcoolmaster's salary is L. 34, 4s. 4 1/2d.  As the
	schools-fees are very low, they de not amount, on an average, to
	more than L. 25 yearly; but of this sum more than L. 17 is sel-
	dom paid; often considerably less.  His other emoluments amount
	to about L. 7, 10s. at present; but the amount varies in different
	years; and these emoluments are not inseparably connected with
	the office of schoolmaster.
	   The rates of fees at the parish school are 2s. per quarter for
					3

