
     of Cross, Burness, etc.

kelp holds its price.  It is proper to observe, that the above
cannot strictly speaking he called the rent for the land only,
since part of the above rent is paid on some farms for the
stocking, part of which belongs to the proprietor, and is
called steelbow.  This stocking is appretiated to the tenant at
his entry, and he must pay 10 per cent or more for it yearly,
and leave the same value at leaving the farm;-but for milch
cowsthus in steelbow, the tenant pays yearly one lispund, that is
equal to 32 lib.  Dutch of butter.  The whole stocking in the isle
of North Ronaldshay belongs to the tenants, and the steelbow is
only on some farms in the isle of Sanday.  The writer of this
cannot ascertain how much caught to be deducted from the
rent for the steelbow rent, nor will he hazard a conjecture con-
cerning it.  The conversion of the foresaid rent in grain, as
it corresponds to the measures and weights used in Scotland,
is as follows, viz. 79 chalders 6 meels bear or bigg of Ork-
ney weight is at 21 bolls Linlithgow measure, from the Ork-
ney chalder, equal to 1662 3/5 bolls, or 103 chalders 14 bolls
2 1/3 firlots Scotch measure; and 136 meels 2 settings 12
merks oatmeal, of Orkney weight, at 11 1/4 stone Dutch to the
meel, is at 8 stone to the boll equal to 191/12 bolls.  It is un-
necessary to convert the butter, as 7 lispunds are allowed to
the barrel, and the lispund, as it stands at present, is 32 lib.
Dutch, that is, each barrel contains 14 stone Dutch.

   Church and Stipend.-In the year 1742, the incumbent in
Ladykirk parish reported to the presbytery, that his stipend
was worth only 49 l. 6 d. Sterling.-It has been farmed out
for a dozen of years at 66 l. exclusive of the glebe;-and late-
ly, it was farmed at 70 l. exclusive of the glebe, which is va-
lued at 2 l. yearly-say for both 72 l. Sterling.
   The stipend of Crosskirk was reported to the presbytery
by the incumbent in 1742, to be worth, exclusive of the

     VOL. VII. 3 P


