
     Statistical Account

And did they not take this method, the whole would be
consumed upon such as contribute nothing to it*  Besides
the above, there are others, such as seamen, and of other
professions, who enter into societies, and pay into what they
call their box, and publicly collect from others, and though
they attend the church, give nothing to the poor.  Thus
the public fund is much injured, and the whole collection
which comes from a few persons, is but small; which, with
the rent of four acres of land, and two houses, cannot be
calculated at more than about L. 9 a-year.  There are now
upon the poors list three persons and two orphans.  None
are allowed to beg publicly.  The parish, however, is much
infested with beggars from towns at a distance.

<FOOTNOTE>

*It may be proper to observe, that the above sectaries are always
ready to break the public peace.  A flagrant instance of which they
lately gave in this corner.  By forming socities, which consisted, if not
wholly, yet mostly of persons of these sects, for circulating seditious
pamphlets, and disseminating disaffection to King and Government, by
these meetings, and private conversations.

   Miscellaneous and Observations.-In the 1782, the harvest was very late,
owing to the rains through the summer, and heavy falls of snow and in-
tense frosts in the end of September, and the whole of October  This did
not only greatly injure the crop, but made the harvest uncommonly site
in this parish.  And as this weather was similar over all Scotland, the
country was threatened with a general scarcity.  The meal quickly rose
to 1 s. 3 d. the peck, which rendered it very distressing to the poor, the
industrious labourer and artificer, having a family of children, being a-
bove what they could procure by their labour.  The session, moved with
compassion, and fearing the fatal effects of the scarcity, came to a resolu-
tion to lend their aid for preserving the lives of the inhabitants.  For this
purpose, as oats or meal were very difficult to be obtained, they thought
it proper to have recourse to Sir Robert Anstruther, Bart, for his farm-
oats to be converted into meal, and to be applied to the support of the
parish; and agreed to give him for every boll of meal the price current,
and to give it 3 d. the peck to the inhabitants below the market price.
Their request he was so good and humane as to grant.  Having thus se-
cured meal, the session, to prevent impositions, made a survey of the pa-


