
242                      EDINBURGHSHIRE.

the towne of Corstorphine, lying betwixt the minister's manse on
the east, and John Aitken, mason, on the west, together with ane
aiker and half of land lying above the smiddie upon the east side
of the walk which goes to Cramond, and an aiker of land lying
bewest the Cowesbrigge, upon the south syde of the little house
that stands in the way-side, commonly called the Lamp Aiker,*
within the parochine of St Cuthberts,"  &c.  In December 1655,
the Session, by advice of the Presbytery, prohibited a man and
his wife from teaching in the village, as an interference with the
rights of the parochial schoolmaster.  In 1699, however, it ap-
pears that there were two schoolmasters in the parish, the one
probably teaching at Corstorphine, and the other at Gogar.
  In April 1714, the fees per quarter to be charged by the parish
schoolmaster were fixed by the kirk-session as follows, viz.   Latin
and arithmetic, 2s. 6d.; English and writing, Is. 8d.; English
alone, Is. 2d.  In September 1756, they were altered by the
same authority to the following sum: -Latin, 5s.; writing and
arithmetic,2s. 6d.; English, 2s.  The fees now chargeable are,
English,2s. 6d.; writing,3S.; writing and arithmetic, including
mensuration and geography, 3s. 6d.; Latin or French, 5s.  The
average number attending the parish school is from 50 to 70.
The annual salary of the parish schoolmaster is L.34, 4s., and
his perquisites are a dwelling-house,garden, and one acre and
one rood of land,in the village, with the Lamp Acre, near Colt-
bridge, in St Cuthbert's parish, which has been feued to Mr
Murray of Henderland for the following feu-duties per acre, viz.
one boll wheat, one boll oats and one boll barley.
  There has been, since the middle of the seventeenth cetury,
a scbool at the village of Gogar.  It is supported by subscriptions,
which at present amount to L.9 per annum.  The school fees
per quarter are, for English, 2s. 6d., and for English and arith-
metci, 3s.  The number of scholars averages about 40.  Some
years ago a school was opened at Stanbopemill, and least year ano-
ther At Four-mile-end.  These are taught by Dissenters, and
have no support except the fees paid by the scholars.  There is
a thriving female school in the village of Corstorphine, and there
are Sabbath schools both there and in Gogar.
  Library. --A parish library was collected in the village of Cor-
storphine in 1&38 by.the present clergyman.
  Poor and Parochial Funds.  -In former times there was a box

<FOOTNOTE>See last Statistical Account for origin of this name.


