
  			    CAMPSIE                         263

French. We are at present uncommonly fortunate in our teachers;
so that I am sanguine in the expectation, that, in the course of a
few years, there will not be an inhabitant in this parish that can-
not read and write.
  Libraries.--There are two libraries in this parish. The Camp-
sie Subscription Library was established in 1837, and consists of
a good selection of books. It is the property of subscribers to
the amount of L. 1 or upwards. The Campsie Popular Library
originated the same year, and belongs to subscribers to the amount
of 5s. It also contains a considerable number of books. The
terms of reading are very low in both.
   Poor's Funds.--It appears on a retrospect of twenty years that,
at the commencement of that period, there were 30 individuals
on the roll of paupers in the parish of Campsie receiving regular
monthly allowances: in 1827, there were 44; at present, there are
70, besides those receiving occasional relief. The expenditure
on account of the poor amounted in 1817 to L. 136; in 1827,
to L. 148; in 1837,- it exceeded L. 226. The regular sources
from which the sums were derived necessary to meet these dis-
bursements were, 1. collections at the church doors; 2. dues of
proclamations and mortcloth; 3. perpetual annuity of L. 15 from
Woodhead; 4. interest of L. 500 lent on bo nd. Previous to the
year 1832, the money required for the poor, in addition to these
branches of incomes, was supplied by voluntary contribution.  In
1831, a subscription, according to their valued rent, having been
set on foot, certain of the heritors refused to contribute their pro-
portion so long as there existed a lying fund belonging to the poor.
This fund was accordingly drawn upon, till 1838, when it was ex-
hausted.  The necessity of a legal assessment has been in the
meantime avoided by a voluntary contribution by the principal peo-
ple in the parish, together with the heritors--to raise the requisite
funds for the current year.

  May 1841.


