
470                     FORFARSHIRE.

trap, stands at the western boundary, and the ground declines
from this in a ridge to the eastward, which slopes down to the
north and south into irregularly defined valleys. A small stream
called the Lunan, flows through the valley on the south, and
forms the boundary line of the parish in that direction. The
land to the south of the ridge above referred to is generally of
good quality, being chiefly a black loam, underneath which is a
thick stratum of clay, which is strongly retentive of water. The
soil, it is believed, might be rendered much more productive by
draining, which is greatly needed; and also the subsoil-plough,
invented by Mr Smith of Deanston, by means of which, in this
neighbourhood, vdry beneficial results have been produced. The
remainder of the land, in this northern division, is of inferior qua-
lity; almost all of it is much in need of draining; and, in regard
to a considerable portion, perhaps a fourth part of it, such is the
inherent poverty of the soil, that a great outlay of capital and la-
bour must take place before it could be rendered moderately pro-
ductive; and even then, the returns would be no adequate reward
for the pains bestowed. The southern, or Carbuddo portion of
the parish is generally level, with the exception of the locality
on which the mansion-house of Carbuddo is placed, which is
slightly elevated above the surrounding land. The remarks made
as to the qualities of the soil, in the northern division of the pa-
rish, are generally applicable to this, the southern portion of it;
with this modification, that the quantity of good land is consider-
ably less than in the Guthrie portion of the parish; and the need
for draining, and agricultural improvements, generally, is much
greater. Around Guthrie Castle, particularly, and also at Kirk-
buddo House, there is much wood; a considerable portion of
which is old and full-grown. In both divisions of the parish, also,
there are plantations and stripes of thriving timber, which tend
to beautify and enliven the face of the country.

                        II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
  Land-owners.-The whole parish, which consists of about six
square miles, whereof nearly four belong to the Guthrie or north-
ern portion, is divided among three proprietors, viz. John Guthrie,
Esq. of that Ilk; P. W. Carnegy, Esq. of Lower and Turin;
and George Ogilvy, Esq. of Carbuddo. The Guthrie division is
shared between the two first mentioned persons, in the proportion
of about three to one; Mr Guthrie having,the larger share. The
whole of the Catbuddo portion is owned by G. Ogilvy, Esq.


