
616                          AYRSHIRE.

above L. 2, 10s. an acre. The garden contains about an acre, and
is well enclosed on two sides by a high and substantial wall, lately
built at the sole expense of heritors. The stipend, as de-
creed by the Court in 1811, consists of lll bolls, 1 firlot, 1 peck,
1 3/4 lippy meal, 77 bolls, 3 firlots, 1 peck, 1/2  lippy barley, with
L. 60, 3s. 8d. in money, and L. 8, 6s. 8d. for communion elements.
	There is no Dissenting place of worship in the parish. About
forty years ago chapel in connection with the Relief body was
erected in the village; but it has long since been pulled down.
The parish church is well attended. The number of communi-
cants on last sacramental occasion was between 600 and 700, those
who communicated for the first time amounting to 120. The sacra-
ment of the Lord's Supper has hitherto been dispensed only once
a-year; but arrangements have now been made for its dispensation
twice a-year. The number of individuals belonging to the Esta-
blished Church, when last ascertained, was 2410; to other deno-
minations, including United Secession, Relief, Old Light, Came-
ronians, or Macmillanites, Independents, Baptists, Methodists,
Episcopalians, and Roman Catholics, 304.
	Education.--There are three schools in the parish, attended by
upwards of 250 scholars. The average attendance at the parish
school is 100. The branches taught are, English reading, spel-
ling, and grammar, arithmetic, writing and book-keeping, Latin,
Greek, and French. The fees per quarter are the following: for
English reading, 3s.; reading and writing, 3s. 6d., with arithmetic,
4s.; book-keeping, 6s.; Latin, 7s, 6d, with Greek, 10s. Gene-
rally about one-half are taught reading only; the rest receive
the various other branches above specified. The schoolmaster has
the maximum salary. The average amount of fees annually is
L.50. He enjoys other small salaries and perquisites, as session,
heritor's clerk, &c. One of the other schools is in the village, at-
tended by about 100 scholars. The other is at Hurlford attended
by about 50 scholars; and to this are attached a free house and
garden. The house was built by subscription, and the ground was
given by the Duke of Portland. The teacher has no income in-
dependent of his fees. Nothing but the ordinary branches are
taught in these private schools. A school of industry for females,
and an infant school Sabbath schools, one in the village of Ricarton,
and the other at Hurlford; they are attended by about 180 scho-
lars and are both under the superintendece of the minister.


