
 124                      EDINBURGHSHIRE.

ens receive 10s. per week in the summer, and 9s. in winter. But
old and infirm men are always to be had for less; and able bodied
men who work in quarries get higher wages.  Women and boys
who work in the fields at bowing, &c. receive 9d. per day; but in
the time of harvest and of lifting potatoes, their Wages are regulat-
ed by the hiring market, which is held in Edinburgh every Mon-
day morning during, the season.  Wrights and masons earn from
2s. to 3s. a day; blacksmiths generally work by the piece.  They
charge I. 3 per annum for shoeing a pair of horses and keeping
the plough and harrow, &c. in repairs.
   Leases, &c.-The land is let on leases varying from twelve to nine-
teen years; but any lease under nineteen years is unfavourable to both
landlord -and tenant, as it invariably prevents the liberal investment
of-capital in improvement.  The tences are generally good, partly
thorn-hedges, partly stone dikes. The farm-steadings are mostly
very old, with thatched or tiled roofs, affording very, indifferent
accommodation when compared with those which have been re-
cently built.  In one or two instances, however, where new stead-
ings have been erected, more attention has been paid to eomforta-
ble accommodation, and the roofs have been slated.  A steam-
engine for driving the thrashing-mill is, round at Bonally steading,
lately erected, and, belonging to Gillespie's Hospital.
   Quarries.-There are two good quarries of freestone in the parish,
the one on the lands of Hailes, the other on those of Redhall. In
Hailes quarry, the stone is ofa slaty structure, and divides easily into
thin portions forming excellent materials for the steps of stairs, and
the pavement of lobbies, and of the foot-ways in the streets for which
purposes it is very extensively used; while the smaller portions are
employed in ruble work. It is wrought to a great depth, about 90
feet, being kept free from water by a steam-engine which was, erect-
ted in 1787, and is very productive, In 1825, when building in
Edinburgh was pushed to a great extent, there were daily sent
into that city from the quarry, 600 carts of stonesi; and the land-
lord, Sir Thomas Gibson Carmichael, Bart, who receives from the
tacksman, a lordship of 11s, in the pound, drew from it that
year about L. 9000.  But, in consequence of the building having
been then overdone, for many years past not more than 60 or 70
earts of stones a day have been sent into town, and the produce to
the landlord at present is only about L. 1500 a year. The Red
hall quarry is a yellowish freestone. The bare is considerable,
and the working expensive, so that the landlord recieves only



