
			     LIBERTON.                            17

word, there is all the difference here which exists between the power-
ful and steady action of a steam-vessel, and the feeble and irregu-
lar motion of a paddle boat.  Besides, the use of this machine
forces the farmer to straight his furrows, and square his fields, which
will be found a mighty advantage in ploughing, harrowing, reaping,
and every other operation of husbandry.  There is an instrument
in use here, which I have not seen in the west of Scotland, called
a grubber, which is drawn by one horse, and is used with effect in
clearing out the weeds between the drills of potatoes and turnips, thus
making the operation of hoeing much easier, and more effectual.
The horse rake also may be mentioned as a modern instrument,
which is employed in raking over the whole ground, cut with the
sickle after the grain is carried, and thus clearing off the entire crop.
Carts here cost L. 12; a pair of harrows L. 3; an iron plough
(wooden ploughs being discarded,) L. 3; and smiths receive L. 3,
10s. for every plough kept on a farm, for which they are bound both
to supply iron and keep the farming implements in order.
  Waste Lands reclaimed.-The upper part of the farm of Li-
berton TowerMains, where it joins the Braid hills, containing from
12 to 20 acres, was formerly covered with furze and brushwood.
Mr Brockie, the tenant, obtained a lease of it for 5s. an acre, and it
is now entirely cleared, and converted into good land, bearing all
kinds of crops.  The land,too,in the barony of Broombills, of which
Mr Whyte says, that "the expense of draining and putting it into
order, would far exceed any profits that might thence arise," was
lately drained, and is in the rapid course of improvement, and
will, it is believed, amply repay the expense incurred. It amounts
to about 40 acres.  There is scarcely, therefore a rood of waste
land in  the parish.
   Pigs and Poultry. - Most of the farmers keep poultry, some I of
them a large number.  On some of the farms the ordinary stock
of common fowls is sixty or seventy, besides turkeys, geese, and
ducks, so that at Niddry Mains, for example, there may sometimes
be about 200 of these creatures.  The geese grow to a large size,
weighing sometimes not less than  1 stone of 16, oz. Poultry
are not reckoned profitable in any other sense than that they
are supported by grain gathered in the barn-yard, which other-
wise would be lost. Pigs are also kept about all the farms. They
also receive little food except what they pick up in the straw
yard, and yet they become very large and fat, weighing often 16
or 17 stones Dutch. They thrive much better in consequence of
EDINBURGH.                                      B


