
                          HAMILTON.                      249

	The frequent associations and combinations which prevail here,
and are connected with similar combinations in different parts of
the country, to raise the price of labour, are very hurtful. They
interrupt trade, and attempt what is impracticable, as the price of
all labour must be regulated by the demand. They keep trades'
people in a constant state of agitation, and make them spend much
of their time and money in attending their frequent meetings. These
combinations prevail most among the colliers, and the weavers.
The great number of inns, alehouses, and spirit-shops that abound
in Airdrie, and other parts of the parish, affords great temptations
to idleness, and dissipation, which involve many families in po-
verty and misery. Licenses on these houses should be greatly in-
creased, so as greatly to reduce their number.

	July 1835.

				PARISH OF HAMILTON.

		    PRESBYTERY OF HAMILTON, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.

                        THE REV. WILLIAM MEEK, D. D.}MINISTERS. *
			THE REV. WILLIAM BUCHAN,}

		I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	Name.--THE ancient name of this parish was Cadzow, com-
monly pronounced Cawgo or Caygae, the etymology of which is
uncertain. From "Acts of Parliament published by command of
his Majesty," we learn, that the name of this parish was changed
from Cadzow to Hamilton, by virtue of a charter granted by James
Second of Scotland, to James first lord Hamilton, dated 3d July
1445. In the above carta erectionis we have the following words,
" Et manerium dicti Jacobi, (i. e. of Lord Hamilton,) quod nune
le Orcharde nominator, jacen. in baronia de Caidzhow, erit in futu-
rum principals capitale messuagium omnium baroniarum, superi-
oritatis, et terrarum prenominatarum, cum pertinen. totius dominii
Predicti, et Hamilton vocabitur et intitulabitur;" from whence it
appears that the manerium or manor-house of the Hamiltons, si-

<FOOTNOTE>This Account was drawn up by the Reverend William Patrick, author of a
"Popular DesCription of the Indigenous Plants of Lanarkshire," &c.


