
644                       FIFESHIRE.

   Ancient Fort.-On the Greencraig, a little to the eastward of
the manse, are two  cocentric circles of rough stones, at no great
distance from each other, which extend round the hill, near to its
summit, except on the north side, where it is precipitous.
   Some have supposed that they are the remains of an ancient
camp of the Danes, which had two lines of circumvallation; that
when the Danes invaded the country for plunder, they here depo-
sited their spoils until they found it necessary, from being attack-
ed by the natives, to remove their pillage to their boats in the
Tay.  Others have supposed, that they are the remains of a fort
erected by the natives, for the purpose of defending themselves
and their property against the predatory incursions of the Danes
or other enemies.
   An ancient quern was lately found here by some workmen when
employed in trenching, and was kindly presented to the present
incumbent by Mr Mitchell, tenant of the farm on which it was
discovered.
  Urns, &c.-Besides the two jars mentioned in the former Sta-
tistical Account, as having been found in a rising ground near to
the manse, two urns were discovered many ears ago a little to the
west of the present house of Parbroath, and two stone coffins a little
to the east ofit. Urns have also been found on the lands of Balmea-
dowside. All these were deposited on knolls, and contained human
bones; but nothing worthy of notice is remembered regarding them.
  Creich Castle, the ancient residence of the Bethunes, is now a ruill.
It is 47 feet in length, by 39 in breadth, and three stories high,
with a court-yard on the'west. Within this court-yard the present
farm-house is situate. The castle has been a place of very con-

<FOOTNOTE>Since the above was written there was discovered, on the 8th of February 1898,
when digging a grave within the old church of Creich, a few inches under the pave-
ment, a grave-stone, 6 feet 7 inches in length, 2 feet 8 inches in breadth, and 4
inches in thickness. On the top of the stone are carved two figures,-one of a man
in a complete coat of mail, and another of a lady in a long embroidered robe. Above
the figures are canopies of tabernacle work, finely desil ed. "Upon two shields are
emblezoned the ars of the  families of barelay and Douglas. This stone was found
lying partly within and partly in front of a niche, on the top of which are the Barclay
arms, On the outer edge of the stone, which is bevelled, is the following inscription,
in old English characters. Two of the words, which are a little defaced, are comitted
HIC JACET DAVID BERCLAY DE...... DNS DE..........QUI OBIIT DIE MESIS...........

                         ANNO DIY. Mmo.CCCC
HIC JACKT HELENA DE DOUGLAS UXOR PRIDECTT QUI OBIIT XXIX DIE MEBIS
                      JANUABII ANNO DIY. MO/DCCCCXXL

   The Figures, although not in relief, are executed with great freedom and artist-like
skill, and the lettering of the inseciption is done with a ccorrectness and beauty that
coulda scarcely be equalled at the present time. From there being hollows cut in
the stone-for the faces and hand, it appeard that these had been inserted in metals
   The was a French copper coin, defaced, found a few inches under the old
grave-stone.



