
                    GAMRIE.                              273

other. From this last appearance some think that these gulleys
have been formed gradually during the lapse of ages, by the action
of water washing away the soft earth, and leaving the hard rock
standing, first abrupt, and afterwards sloped by the mouldering
away of the sharp edges; but the general belief is, that the glens
were formed at once by the flood, when the windows of heaven
were opened, and the fountains of the great deep were broken up.
There are four of these dens, or great openings in the rocks, which
serve as outlets for the water of the interior, and which, branching
off, or wideninf as they retire from the sea, become straths or val-
leys. The first to the westward is called Oldhaven, between the
lands of Cullen and Melrose; the second, and principal one, east
of the old church, called the Den of Afforsk; the third, at the
fishing village of Crovie; and The fourth at Cullycan, near
Trouphouse. Nothing can be more lovely and romantic than the
scenery of these passes or ravines, in their approach to the sea.
A short description of the one below the old church may be inte-
resting, as it is the deepest of the whole, and the richest in natu-
ral scenery. The best view of the den is from a ledge or table
of rock about half way down the point of the Rin of Afrorsk, a
steep acclivity in the form of a wedge which separates the ravine
into two, and where the two burns meet at the bottom. There is
thence a view of the higher part above the church, covered with
beath, furze, and occasional bushes of rasp and whortleberries
(blaeberries) in the more sheltered spots; and below, of the beau-
tiful deep-winding valley or ravine, with the clear brook at the
bottom, gurgling through its numerous sinuosities, overhung some-
times with the naked rock standing in single gray buttresses, like
fragments of an old castle, and then sparkling up to the steep
banks which rise high on either side, exhibiting all the shades of
green according to their position, with here and there a brake of
thorns, well-peopled with thrushes, blackbirds, linnets, and other
songsters, which enliven the solitude with their music. The point
of the Rin below, and all the western valley above it, as well as that
on the east side, is loaded with a profusion of herbage, and affords
the best field for botany in the parish. Even one who is no bo-
tanist cannot help admiring the richness and variety of herbage
and gaudy wild flowers in this locality. The rocky places are
throughout ornamented at the bottom with wild geraniums, cranes-
bills, foxglove, primroses, hawthorn, wild-roses of differen colours,
and other indigenous flowers of the season; while the modest wild


