
           746                        PERTHSHIRE.

           cants is about 300.  A Parochial Church Association, having, for
           its object the extension, defence, and reformation of the Church
           of Scotland, was formed in 1835.  During the two last years, the
           period of the incumbency of the present minister, the corngrega-
           tional collections for religious purposes amounted to L.58, 7s.
              Education.--The parochial school is the only one in these pa-
           rishes.  The branches of instruction generally taught are, Eng-
           lish reading, writing, and arithmetic.  The school and dwelling-
           houses are in good repair, and the teacher has the legal accom-
           modation.  The salary is the maximum, L.34, 4s. 4d.  The
           school-fees average about L. 15, and thd emoluments, arising from
           session-clerkship, &c. amount to about L.7 per annum.  The ex-
           pense of education per quarter is, for English, 2s. 6d.; writing
           and arithmetic, 4s.  All the young betwixt six and fifteen
           years of age are taught to read and write.  A considerable num-
           ber of individuals above that age may be unable to write; but
           there are only two or three who cannot read.  The school is si-
           tuated in the centre of the two parishes.  The average attendance
           of children at school is about 40,--a very small proportion, which
           may be partly accounted for by the fact, that the most populous
           parts of the parish are adjacent to the schools in the neighbour-
           ing parishes.  The people are generally alive to the benefits of
           education ; but it is to be regretted that the attendance of many
           of the children is not so very regular or long-continued as it ought
           to be.  There is one Sabbath school in these parishes.
              Literature.--In 1831, a parochial library was begun to be form-
           ed, in which there are now upwards of 250 volumes, chiefly reli-
           gious works.
             Poor and Parochial Funds.--The average number of persons
           receiving regular parochial aid is 11, being at the rate of about
           one in 55 of the whole population.  The average weekly allow-
           ance to each is about 1s. 1d.  Besides these 8 persons receive
           occasional assistance.  In 1837, the sum of L.72, 19s. 3d. was
           contributed for the relief of the poor, of which L.47, 19s. 3d.
           arose from church collections, proclamation and mortcloth dues,
           L.20 from legacies, and L.5 from interest on two sums, each of
           L.50, bequeathed to the poor by William Toshach, Esq. of Ja-
           maica, and Alexander Riddoch, Esq. merchant in Dundee, both
           natives of the parish of Monivaird.  Unless in cases of extreme
           exigency, there is a reluctance to accept parochial aid.
              Fairs.--Three fairs were formerly held in Monivaird and
           Strowan; but they are now transferred to Crieff.


