
     of Lanark.

   It does not appear when, or by whom, the old parochial
church of Lanark, now in ruins, which stands about a
quarter of a mile to the S. E. of the town, was erected.  It
has been an elegant (Gothic building of hewn stone, divid-
ed in the middle, from one end to the other, by a wall sup-
ported upon pillars, forming 5 or 6 fine arches: and a-
round it, is the burial ground and cemetery of the town
and parish.  This church appears from Blind Harry's
History of Sir William Wallace, to have been the only
church of the town in his days.  Thus ad ann. 1297, he
makes mention of Wallace passing
   "On from the kirk that was without the town."
There is a charter, noted in the general Index of charters,
in the Signet office, "Willielimo Clerkson Capellano mo-
"derno ad altare gloriosissimae Virginis Mariae, infra
"ecclesiam parochialem de Lanark."  Granted by James
iv. and dated at Lanark 18th October 1500.
   The monastery of Franciscans, or Grey Friars, founded
here by Robert I. in 1314, was situated to the West of
the present parochial church.  In the burial ground belong-
ing to it, still called the Friar's yards, there lately existed a
beautiful conical hill or tumulus, which has been recently

<FOOTNOTE>

Lanark, anno 1197; and there are still in its neighbourhood places called
Kingsons know, Kingsons stane, and Kingsons moss, which favour the tradi-
tion of its having been a royal residence.  That it belonged to the crown,
appears from the negotiation between John Ballot and Philip of France in
1298, where Philip agrees to give his niece, the eldest daughter of the Duke
of Anjou, in marriage to the son and heir of Baliol: and in security of the
lady's jointure, which was 1500 l. sterling a year, Baliol mortgaged his es-
tates in France, and some of the crown lands in Scotland, viz. the Castle and
Castellany of Lanark, Kadzow, Maulsley, etc.  This castle was frequently
in the hands of the English during the 13th century, and I have seen several
coins of the first Edward that were found here.  A bowling green is now
erected upon the site of the Castle.


