
268                             FIFESHIRE.

tical Account, that some "some stone-coffin were found to the east.
ward of the river, with human bones, supposed to have been de-
posited there in the ninth century, when a battle was fought upon
these grounds between the Scots and Danes." But a more in-
teresting relic of antiquity was opened up about fifteen years ago,
in the corner of a field upon the estate of Aithernie, when digging
out moulding-sand for a foundery in the neighbourhood. This was
an ancient cairn or turnulus, containing about twenty stone-coffins,
and formed upon the apex of a conical hill.  The base of this tu-
mulus was about forty yards square, and laid with a coating of clay;
and the cistvaens or coffins were constructed of rude slabs, placed
on edge with a covering stone, and cemented with clay puddle.
Above the coffins was a cairn of small stones, about three feet in
depth, and over this was spread a composition of clay and sand, so
hard that it required the aid of a pick-axe to penetrate it. In two
of the coffins, near the end, was placed a small urn made of clay,
and rudely ornamented, and about six inches in diameter and the
same in depth. These urns contained a blackish substance, which
was covered with oak-bark; but the bark immediately mouldered
down, upon being exposed to the atmosphere. Five of the coffins
contained each a larger urn of similar materials, about 14 inches
in diameter, and 24 in depth. These were placed with their
mouths inverted upon a square stone, and were filled with calcined
bones. In one Coffin, smaller than the rest, were found a quanti-
ty of beads made of charred wood, and about half an inch in length.
All the coffins, except the five which held the larger urns, contain-
ed human bones; but a much greater quantity of these relics of
mortality were scattered around the cemetery, and were protect-
ed only by the dry stones which formed the cairn. The great
number of uncoffined bones might warrant the conjecture, that a
battle-field was not far distant; but the absence of all instruments
or emblems of war, and the presence of a female corpse, which the
beads, the usual ornaments of the British women, indicate, would
more naturally lead to the belief, that this tumulus formed a peace-
able dormitory of our pagan forefathers.*
  Modern Buildings.-The modern buildings are, the mansion-
house of Durie, built in 1762; that of Kilmux in 1832; and that
of Monthrive in 1836; and five spinning-mills, and one flour-mill,
all of modern erection. The materials used for building, especial-

  <FOOTNOTE>Some of the urns and beads are still in the possession of Mr Balfour, the tenant
Upon the farm.


