
380                     RENFREWSHIRE.

in the parish, or beyond the bounds; L. 120 per annum, with a
house and garden, is understood to be the provision made for the
support of the minister.
  The second chapel is situated at Bridge of Weir, in connexion
with the original Associate Burgher Synod.  It was removed thither
nearly twenty years ago, from Bruntchelt or Burntshields, where
that respectable body of Dissenters had their earliest settlement, to
the west of Glasgow, soon after the beginning of the Secession.
The services of a minister are imperatively called for, on account
of the increasing population at that busy seat of the cotton manu-
factures, as the population of the whole village is little less at this
date than 1400.  The provision for the minister at this station is
believed not to exceed L. 100, including house and garden.
  In Kilbarchan village, a small meeting of Baptists has existed for
many years.  Their place of assembling may accommodate 60 per-
sons or thereby.
  The congregation of the Original Burgher church is understood
not to be so very numerous as the privileges which the people en-
joy in consequence of the settlement of a minister there, might
have led one to hope.
  In the parish church, as well as in the Relief congregation,
public worship is well attended.  In the former, the number on
the communion roll is 320.
  Education.-The number of public schools in this parish is 7.
The teacher of one is connected with the Relief congregation; and
a female teacher, who conducts a sort of charity school, and part-
ly one of industry for girls, has temporarily withdrawn from at-
tendance at church ; but the other five teachers tire all in com-
munion with the church.  One of the private teachers, as well as
the parish schoolmaster, has qualified to Government, and others
are quite ready to do so when an opportunity is afforded them.
The parish teacher and two of the private teachers have had a
classical education, by at least two sessions of attendance at the
University of Glasgow.  A fourth, though never at college, has
made very considerable acquisitions in classical literature.  Latin
and Greek, as well as French, are taught in the parochial school,
as occasionally required.  Most of those who, for the last ten or
twenty years, have been successful teachers in our private schools,
have received their own education there.  The whole native po-
pulation appear alive to the importance of tuition at school.  The
necessity of being able to write also is strongly impressed on them,


