
46                     LINLITHGOWSHIRE.

sives one is directed to Lord Torphichen for the parish. (See
Wodrow, Vol. iii. pp. 360-1.)
   Sir Robert Sibbald, an eminent Scottish naturalist and antiqua-
rian, was connected with this parish by becoming proprietor of
the estate of Kipps, in right of his mother, heiress of the family
of Boyd, its former proprietors. He resided for some time at Kipps;
and there are still to be found some proofs of his taste in some
kinds of exotic plants introduced by him, and now growing wild
on the lands.
   The Rev. John Bonnar is well known as one of the marrow-
men; and subsequently as one of the ministers who assisted at the
remarkable revival of religion which took place at Cambuslang
in 1742, at which time he was still minister of Torphichen. It
is stated, that he was then very old, and so infirm that his journey
to Cambuslang occupied him three days, though the distance
is not more than eighteen miles. Although none are now living
who enjoyed his ministrations, his memory is still held in the
highest respect and veneration. It appears, also, that Mr Gillon,
of Wallhouse, ancestor of the present W.D. Gillon. Esq. was at
that time an elder in Torphichen, and officiated as such at Cam-
buslang.
   Mr Henry Bell, celebrated as being the person who first suc-
cessfully applied the steam-engine as a propelling power, for the
purpose of river and canal Navigation in Britain, was a native of
Torphichen. In a little spot of level alluvial ground, formed by the
Avon, in a bend of that river, near Torphichen bridge, and shel-
tered by steep banks, may still be seen the ruined side walls, and
the solitary gable of the cottage in which he was born. A few
years before his death he paid a visit to the secluded scene of his
infancy, with a view, it is said, of purchasing the spot, and erect-
ing another cottage, and in that calm retreat terminating a careers,
the honours and rewards of which had been, as too often happens,
but ill proportioned to its usefulness. He did not, however, pro-
secute his intention, and the solitary ruin remains his melancholy
memorial.
   Land-owners.-The chief land-owners are, the Right Honour-
able Lord Torphichen; W.D. Gillon, Esq. of Wallhouse;
Colonel Ferrier Hamilton of Cathlaw; David Pringle, Esq. of
Kipps; Joseph Hume, Esq. of Lochcote Captain David Hope
of Bridgecastle; William Wardrop, Esq. of Bridgehouse; Pete
Sawers, Esq.: R.C. Buchanan, Esq.; and Sir Thomas Living.


