
                                   DUNBARY.                     797

      fields in the Ballenderick grounds, which is commonly designated
      the Nether Oxgang field, and is contiguous to the Pitkeathly and
      Dunbarny estates, the mineral water is so copious that when any
      part of the west end of it is dug to the depth of six or seven feet,
      it immediately accumulates in great profusion, and of the same
      quality as that diffused through the springs already mentioned.
        The new village of the Bridge of Earn was built for the accom-
      modation of strangers frequenting the wells.  There the lodgings
      are good, cheap, and abundant.  There are two inns or hotels in
      this parish intended for the entertainment of strangers,-one near
      the wells, and another at the Bridge of Earn.  The former is the
      old mansion-house, formerly occupied by the proprietors of Pit-
      keathly.  Of late it has undergone considerable repairs.
        But the hotel that is most resorted to, is that of the Moncreiffe
      Arms, at the Bridge of Earn.  It is one of the most commodious
      inns in Scotland, finely situated on the banks of the river, and
      near the handsome bridge that has been erected over it.
        Mineralogy and Geology.-The rocks which occur in this pa-
      rish belong to the secondary formation; a great part of it consists
      of secondary trap, commonly called whinstone, and the remainder
      of sandstone.  Trap composes the whole of Moncrieffe Hill; at the
      north of the parish, it extends over the greater part of Dunbarny
      property; it may be seen to advantage, in the whinstone quarries
      on that estate; and at Glencairn cottage, in the vicinity of Mr
      Craigie's mansion house.  The sandstone, wbich stretches through
      a part of the southern division of the parish, is that kind of sand-
      stone which lies below the coal formation, and which is supposed
      by some to be the old red sandstone.  It is to be regretted that,
      though the trap and sandstone are found within a few hundred
      feet of each other, there is no place where their junction can be
      discerned.
        The trap of Moncrieffe Hill embraces the three different varie-
      ties of clinkstone, greeinstone, and amygdaloid, which are frequently
      found in the same mountain.  The amygdaloid occurs in various
      parts of the hill, but may be seen to the greatest advantage in the
      quarry near Easter Moncrieffe.  The following contains an enu-
      meration of the various minerals imbedded in tbe amygdaloid
      found there, and in the amygdaloidal masses distributed through
      the other parts of the hill: barytes or heavy spar, calcareous spar,
      fibrous limestone, jasper, agate; but the predominating mineral
      at that quarry, and one which is frequently disseminated in the


