
     of Collace

ed, and James gave them a licence to act in his capital, and
before his Court.  "I have great reason," he adds, " to think
" that the immortal Shakespear was of the number."  And
in the Statistical Account of Perth, vol. xviii, p. 522, we
are told, that plays were actually exhibited in Perth, only a
few miles from Dunfinnan, in 1589.  It is extremely im-
probable, that the occurrences, as narrated by Shakespeare,
and the traditions of the country, could have borne so strong
a resemblance, unless he had gathered them upon the spot
himself, or employed some other person for that purpose.
The only material difference is, than, according to tradition,
Macbeth threw himself from the top of a rock; but it was
much more poetical, as narrated by Shakespeare, his falling
by the hands of Macduff, whom he had so greatly injured+.
   About the period alluded to, anno 1772, I took much plea-
sure in tracing the antiquities of Scotland, on the spot where
the different occurrences happened; but was too young, (be-
ing then only about 18 years of age), to do justice to such in-
teresting inquiries.  I have been tempted, however, from
the peculiar historical importance of the castle of Dunsin-
nan, to state the substance of the traditions I had collected re-
specting it; and perhaps it may not be improper to add, that
I found the traditions regarding the battle of Luncarty, and
other ancient events, much more distinct and accurate than
is commonly imagined; and, in general, authenticated by

<FOOTNOTE>

+History narrates, that Macbeth was put to death at Lumphannan; but
the tradition of the country is, that he was killed and buried in the
neighbourhood of his own castle.  It is singular that Buchannan, in his Hi-
story, points out the story of Macbeth, as admirably calculated for the dra-
ma.  Did Shakespeare take the first hint from, or give it to, the Scottish hi-
storian?  The idea of Shakespeare having been in Scotland, is rendered still
more probable, by the number of Scottish words and phrases made use of in
his plays, and also from his parody on the well known lines in the Scotch
ballad, beginning.  "In days when our King Robert rang."


