
     of Hutton and Corrie.

583.  The decrease has probably been owing to laying
farms together.  There were in the first mentioned period
many of them possessed run-dale, with 2, 4, or 6 tenants
in a farm.  In all situations, the restriction of each farm to
one tenant has been found the first necessary step to im-
provement, particularly for improvement of sheep and
cattle.  The number of farmers, as observed, is 41, and 
cottagers of all kinds, 85, which includes 2 millers, 1 dyer
and walk-miller, 1 shopkeeper, 1 publican, 2 tailors, 1
shoemaker, 15 weavers, 2 wrights, the rest labourers and
herds.  No record has been kept for many years back of
the births, marriages, or deaths.

   Miscellaneous Observations.-The number of ploughs in
the parish is about 40, and carts 80.  There are about
700 acres annually in tillage, of which 3/4 are in oats; the
other 1/4 in barley, potatoes, some turnip, and a small quan-
tity of flax for every farm, not commonly exceeding 20
falls for each.  The crops of the parish serve the inhabi-
tants.  In the severe years of 1782 and 1783, though
some particularly farms of dry land sold oats for feed, yet the
generality of tenants bought meal and potatoes.  But they
were at no loss to be supplied, as the neighbouring parishes
lower situated had abundant crops in these years.  There
are no markets within the parish; each farm supplies it-
self*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Fowls are sold here at 8 d. and chickens at 3 d. for the Edinburgh
market; and eggs at 3 d. the dozen are carried by Tiviotdale to Berwick,
for the London market.  Every farmer seeds one or two swine, and many
cottages one.  They are killed from 10 to 15 months old, and sold from
L. 2 to L. 3, 10 s.  Butter brings 6 d. and lean cheese green, 2 d. the 1 b.
English; ewe milk cheese green, 3 d. the lb. ditto.  Labourers get from
1 s. to 1 s. 4 d. in summer and harvest, and 10 d. in winter.  The wages
of men servants are from L. 7 to L. S; and of servant women from L. 3 to
L. 4 yearly.


