
16	         		BUTESHIRE.

many sheltered spots in the hills, were covered with natural wood.
There are still about 150 Scotch acres of such woods, scattered
in patches of unequal size, rocky eminence, and the banks of
streams, from Sannox, to Knockankelly. They consist principally
of oak, ash, birch, rowan, hazel, and alder. There are about 553
Scotch acres under regular plantations. Of these about a dozen
of acres are planted on the grounds round the Bay of Lamlash;
and all the rest at Brodick; principally in the neighbourbood of
the castle. Mr Fullarton has, within these few years, planted a
considerable number of acres on his well-cultivated and picturesque
property of Kilmich`el. The plantations round the Castle of
Brodick are of various ages. The oldest contain many large and
stately trees; and all, in whatever stage of growth, have a healthy
and vigorous appearance. In these plantations, the prevailing
trees are, Scotch, silver, and spruce firs; larch, oak, ash, elm,
sycamore, and birch. In more favourable situations, these are in-
terspersed with poplars, walnuts, chesnuts, and laburnums. By a
very excellent arrangement, most of the stack and kail-yards in
the parish have rows of forest trees planted round them. The
thinnings of the plantations have of late years proved extremely
serviceable to the people of Arran, by supplying them with pal-
ing for their fences, and wood for their houses and farm imple-
ments. The improvident destruction of the natural forests, which
was for several generations allowed to go on without check, made
wood not long ago so scarce in Arran, that the people had often to
cross over to Ayrshire, with no farther errand than the procuring
a stick to mend a cart or a plough. Now all such wants are sup-
plied promptly at home, at little expense either of time or labour;
and by judicious management, there will in future be no lack of
wood for any ordinary purposes.*
			II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Accounts of the Parish.--A very minute account of the parish of
Kilbride and of the Island of Arran in general, is givdn in a work by
the Rev. James Headrick, published in the year 1807. It embraces a
"view of the mineralogy, agriculture, manufactures, and fisheries of
Arran, with notices of its antiquities." A shorter but very accurate ac-

<FOOTNOTE>The list in Botany and Conchology, and many of the facts stated under the head
of Zoology, the writer owes to kindness of his scientific friend, the Rev. David
Lundsborough of Stevenston. This gentleman has viewed the Island of Arran with
the eye both of a poet and a man of science. His well-known poem "Arran" con-
tains many beautiful and striking descriptions of Arran scenery, of which the writer
would have made very liberal use, had the limits assigned him admitted of it.

			               3

