
                             ALVIE.                              83

green corn, often disappoints the industrious farmer's expectation,
even when built upon the most promising appearance. The cli-
mate has, however, of late been much improved, for neither frost
nor mildew have done any harm for the last seven years.
   Diseases.--The diseases most prevalent in the parish are
scrofula, dropsy, and palsy. These diseases, which are chiefly
confined to the poorer class of the people, have not the most dis-
tant connection with any peculiarity in the climate; for though
the air is keen and sharp, it is salubrious in a very high degree;
as a proof of which, strangers who come to the country in delicate
health, after a few weeks' residence in the bosom of the hills, be-
come vigorous and healthy. The principal cause to which the
prevalence of those diseases may probably be ascribed, is a poor
watery diet, consisting, for the most part, of vegetable substances,
such as potatoes, kail, turnips, &c. which, without a due propor-
tion of animal food to correct their natural tendency, relax the so-
lids, vitiate the blood, and bring on at last a general debility of the
system.
   Hydrography.--There are no springs in this parish that merit
particular notice. The only lake is Loch Alvie, if we except
Loch Inch, formed by the Spey, the one-half of which may be
said to be within the parish of Alvie. The length of Loch Alvie,
which almost surrounds the glebe, may be computed at a mile;
the breadth half a mile; and the greatest depth 65 feet or 11 fa-
thoms. Its temperature, for want of a proper instrument to ascer-
tain it, cannot be correctly stated. The Spey is the only river
passing through the parish. Its source is in the Braes of Bade-
noch, near the border of Lochaber, at a distance of not less than
30 miles from this place. Its mean breadth may be reckoned at
50 yards; the average depth of the deepest pools at from 10 to
12 feet; and its length from its source to Garmouth cannot be
less than 100 miles. The direction of the Spey is nearly from
west to east. From the south-west extremity of the parish to
Loch Inch, a distance of five miles, the course of the Spey is slow
and gentle; but from Loch Inch to the other extremity of the pa-
rish, it flows with considerable rapidity.
   Geoloyy and Mineralogy.--Tbis parish does not furnish much
matter for geological researches. Under this head, therefore, the
following information, in popular rather than scientific terms, must
suffice. The mountains of this parish are composed solely of gneiss,
which, is intersected with veins of granite and red porphyry, of


