
546                       ARGYLESHIRE.

which so much has been done in improvement, (and that by the
exertions of one individual  alone,) as the estate of Colonsay.The
present proprietor, Mr M'Neill of Colonsay, (who retains the,
greater portion of the island in his own hands,) has not only turned
the land formerly in tillage to the best account, but he has also re-
claimed a vast extent of moors, hills, and peat mosses from a state of
absolute waste to that of productive soil. He has introduced the im-
proved system of husbandry, in the utmost latitude of the expression,
into  Colonsay, and his crops are among the best in the West of
Scotland. Of late years he has drained a great extent of meadow
land, and every year more of the barren land has been brought
into cultivation, and several thousand roods of stone dikes have
been built.
  No roads were made in Colonsay till the present proprietor
commenced them, and the island is now intersected by an excel-
lent road, made entirely at his expense, with the aid of the statue
labour. Mr M'Neill has thus, by judicious, persevering, and
well-directed efforts, not only brougt his estate into a high con-
dition of cultivation and productiveness, but be has likewise much
improved the condition of the small crofters, and afforded constant
occupation to a numerous and comfortable population.
  In addition to this, Mr M'Neill has much improved his stock
of black-cattle, and brought them to a degree of excellence which
has never been surpassed. By good management and great at-
tention to breeding, his stock are now the best in the market. The
bulls bear a very high value for breeding, and have sold for L.200.
He breeds about 200 calves yearly, and winters about 1000 head
of black-cattle. The principal exports, besides cattle, are bear
and potatoes. Of the latter, Mr M'Neill raises about 1000 bolls
(4000 sacks) annually.

         	V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
  Harbours.--There is an excellent harbour in Colonsay, called
Portnafeamin, where a substantial quay, has been built by the
proprietor, and from which a good road leads into the island.
Rise and fall of tide fits it for repairing vessels of considerable
burthen, and it is considered the best harbour for this purpose in
the Hebrides. There are also two good road-steads; one called
Stursanaic and the other Coulismore. Cod-fishing is carried  on
to a considerable extent by the people of the island, and its banks
are frequented by the fisbing boats of Islay, Gigba, and Kintire.
The flat fish on the banks nearer the shore is also abundant and
of the best quality.


