
548                    EDINBURGHSHIRE.

ter, and his son, Sir James Skene, Lord President in the reign of
James VI.
   The Scots of Malleny of that period, both father and son,
were eminent in the legal profession. The son was elevated to a
seat on the Bench.
   Sir Thomas Craig of Riccarton, a contemporary of these illus-
trious men, was celebrated as a feudal lawyer, and attained the
dignified station of Lord Advocate.
   John Brand of Baberton, a favourite of James VI.
   Sir Archibald Johnstone of Warriston, so famous in the history,
of the Church of Scotland, possessed property in this parish, if
he did not belong to it.
   James Anderson, LL. D., author of several agricultural essays,
and projector of the North British Fisheries, was born at Her-
miston.
   The late General Thomas Scott, who died at the advanced
age of 96, disthnguished himself by his services both in Ame-
rica and on the continent. He entered the army when almost
a boy, and on one occasion during the American war, some import-
ant despatches requiring to be conveyed to a portion of the regi-
ment which lay on the other side of the enemy, young Scott was
entrusted with the mission, which he executed with the greatest
dexterity and success. Having secured the papers in his rifle,
he assumed the dress of a pedlar, and in that disguise passed
safely through the hostile tents. His gallant services were ac-
knowledged by the Government of Lord Melbourne, who, with-
out any solicitation, settled a handsome pension upon him for life.
   Heritors.-The following was the roll of heritors in 1691: Lord
Ravelrig; Robert Craig of Riccarton; John Scott of Malleny;
Alexander Brand of Baberton; D. Denira of Curriehill; Charles
Scott of Bavelaw; Laurence Cuningham of Balerno; William
Chesley of Cockburn. The heritors in 1844, according to their
valued rent, are, Sir James Gibson-Craig, Bart. of Riccarton;
Carteret Scott, Esq. of Malleny; Lord Morton; Lord Aberdour,
through his recent marriage into the family of Saughton; Archi-
bald Christie, Esq. of Baberton; John Marshall, Esq. of Currie-
hill; Lord Rosebery, Buteland; Robert Davidson, Esq. of Ra-
velrig;-Graham, Esq. of Ravelrig; the Governors of George
Watson's Hospital; Lieuten`nt-Colonel Barclay of Balerno Lodge;
David Davidson, Esq, of Balerno Bank; and Miss Davidson of


