
                         CLOSEBURN.                        83

were to be seen the ruins of a chapel, dedicated to St Patrick,
which gives the name of Kirkpatrick to the farm on which it stood.
--On another farm there are the remains of a vaulted building.--
There are several large cairns, but no account of any of them is
transmitted to the present times.--Six years ago an urn of coarse
earthern-ware, about one of foot in depth, and nine inches in width,
filled with human bones, considerably decayed, was found in a piece
of garden ground belonging to the free school. Beside this urn
was a smaller one empty, and capable of containing about a
quart. It was raised nearly entire, but the other, in an attempt to
raise it, fell to pieces. If they be of Roman manufacture, which
is very probable, they must have been under ground above 1400
years. Both of these relicts were deposited in the museum of the
antiquaries of Scotland. It may be added, that at a small distance
from these urns, two other deposits of human bones were soon after
found in a very decayed state.
   Modern Buildings.--The only modern building is Closeburn
Hall, the seat of Mr Stuart Menteath. It is a large building of
Grecian architecture, and situated in one of the most beautiful val-
leys in the south of Scotland.

        			III.--POPULATION.

   One of the reasons in the recommendation of the Presbytery of
Penpont for the disjunction of the parishes of Closeburn and Dal-
garno was, that "the number of communicants being 700 or there-
about circumstance, as showing that the united parishes were at
least as populous then as at present.

<TABLE>
		In 1755, the population was    999
		In 1791,                      1499
                  In 1811,                      1762
                  In 1821,                      1682
                  In 1831,                      1680

   The progressive increase was occasioned partly by extensive
lime-works which commenced in 1772, and partly by the improve-
ments of the present proprietor: and the decrease, by these improve-
ments having been in a great measure for many day-labourers to go else-
where for employment. The number of the population residing
in villages is 628, and in the country 1052.


