
342                        DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

of them anciently belonged to distinct families of the name of
Kirk or Kirko, and sometimes also spelt Kirkhoe. That of
Sundaywell is still inhabited as a farm-house. There is a stone
over the door bearing the initials I. K., and opposite S. W.,
meaning John Kirk of Sundaywell. Under these initials, and
at the bottom of the stone, which is in thd shape of a heart, is
the, date 1651. In the troublous times of persecution, this house
was a favourite resort of the Covenanters, to whom the proprietor
at that period, the same John Kirk who erected the tower, seems
to have been particularly friendly. Mr Blackadder, and others
of the ejected ministers, were in the habit of visiting Kirk, and
preaching at Sundaywell. And Kirk himself, in all likelihood,
was present at the celebrated communion dispensed in the bosom
of the hills of the neighbouridg parish of Irongray, at which John
Welch, who had been driven from the cure of that parish, presid-
ed,--of which communion an interesting, though rude, memorial re-
mains to this day, consisting of rows of stones placed in the form
of sacramental tables. For Blackadder was residing at the time
with Kirk at Sundaywell, and preached the preparation sermon on
the preceding Saturday in "Meiklewood moor"--a district partly
within this parish, and in which the ruins of an old house, bearing
the name of the "Preaching Walls," still remain.
	Eminent Men.--It may here also be noticed, that the famous
John Welch, grandfather of the minister of Irongray above-men-
tioned, and son-in-law to John Knox, was a native of this parish.
His father was laird of Collieston, a small property belonging to
the family of Welch for several generations, and situated in Glenes-
lin of Dunscord, and not in the parish of Irongray, as erroneously
stated in the "Scots Worthies." It now belongs to William
Copland, Esq.
	Church Lands.--A very considerable portion of this parish an-
ciently belonged to the Catholic church. Mr Chalmers, in his
Caledonia, (Vol. iii. p. 51, note,) has the following statement:
"At Dunscore there was formerly a lake where none appears at
present. In 1236, Alexander II. granted to the Monks of Melros
'lacum de Dunscor in valle de Nyth, et quicquid continetur, infra
eundem lacum.' " And be refers to the Chartulary of Melrose,
1639, as his authority.
	This seems to define the extent of the church lands, and it may
also help to determine the site of the quondam lake. For as it
included beneath it the whole church lands in the parish, it seems


