
                                   ALNESS.                    335

depth and narrowness of the opening, an observer, though obtain-
ing a view directly downwards, can scarcely discern the water, as it
boils and hisses below. A stone of ordinary density, dropped from
the bridge, strikes the surface of the water in three seconds, giving
a depth of about 140 feet, wtiich may be regarded as the average
depth of the chasm unoccupied by water. The depth beneath the
water is not so easily ascertained, and most probably varies consi-
derably at different points in the length.
   On examining the course of the Auldgrande, two very interest-
ing subjects of inquiry are naturally suggested: 1st, What are the
causes which have operatdd in the production of a phenomenon so
unusual ? And 2d, what are those traditions, which, though now fast
dying away, the superstitious character of the Highlanders cannot
have failed to connect with a place of such a description? These
questions, however, will more properly find a place under the re-
spective heads of Geology and Antiquities.
   Geology and Mineralogy.-To the researches of the geologist,
the parish of Alness presents a field of inquiry neither very inte-
resting nor instructive. The best geological section that can per-
haps be obtained of the district, is that given by the course of the
Alness; and from an examination of the rocks denuded by this
stream, together, with those which appear occasionally on the sides
of the hills, it may be inferred that the parish rests entirely on the
old red sandstone formation leaning to the north on gneiss, and
some of the other primitive rocks of the Wernerian nomenclature.
The sandstone strata, as laid bare by the Alness, exhibit great uni-
formity in texture, composition, and external appearance; but they
have yielded no traces of organic remains, either animal or vege-
table, to any observations as yet made upon them. In ascending
the stream, the strata are found to dip to the south-east by east,
at an angle varying from 12&deg; to 20&deg; till the observer arrives at a
certain point, about two miles from the Frith, when they change
their direction, and dip at much the same angle to the opposite
point of the compass. Immediately beneath the sandstone occurs
a bed of conglomerate, which also belongs to the old red sandstone
formation. It is chiefly composed of rounded pebbles of quartzite
or quartz rock, and sometimes of pure quartz. These rounded
masses vary in size, from a small fraction of an inch to a foot in
diameter, and are held together by an arenaceous cement.
   Notice has been taken in a former part of this account of the
extraordinary chasm through wbich the Auldgrande flows for some


