
     Statistical Account

ral small ones were united, when the last leases were grant-
ed, yet the population of the country has not been so ma-
terially affected by this measure as by the gradual sup-
pression of cot houses, and a reduction of the number of
hands employed in agriculture, by the changes which have
taken place in the mode of farming.  A part of two e-
states is not under lease, but let from year to year in pa-
sture; and the principal heritors, with their families, are ei-
ther gone from the parish altogether, or at most but occa-
sional residenters.  A great proportion of the parish still
continues uninclosed.  Much has been done, but much still
remains in respect of draining, which has always been
found a most beneficial improvement.  With a very few
exceptions, the farm houses and offices are bad; an evil
which, it is hoped, will be remedied when new leases are
granted.  There is no doubt but in the end, the landholders
would find their advantage in this.  The tenant, who, at the
risk of a valuable stock, is answerable for a rent of L. 100,
L. 200 or L. 300 a-year, is entitled to good accommodation.
In the present improved state of society, a man of spirit or
property has no encouragement to engage with a farm,
where he and his family must be obliged to live in a hovel,
destitute of every convenience and comfort.  About half
the valued rent of the parish belongs to Miss Scott of Scot-
starvit, a young Lady, whose amiable disposition affords the
fairest prospect, that her ample fortune will be directed in a
manner highly advantageous to the interests of humanity in
general, and to the particular improvement of those parts
of the country, in which one has an immediate concern.
Besides the farmers residing in the country, about 12 or 15
live in the town, who cultivate from 3 to 20 or 30 acres
each, partly rented, and partly their own property.  These
are an industrious class of men, whose numbers it is to be
wished may not be reduced.  Several of them are in the


