
298			LANARKSHIRE.

	Number of bachelors upwards of 50 years of age,			7
    maids upwards of 45 years,                        9
    widowers,                                         25
    widows,                                           36
Number of births during the last 7 years, at an average each year,		45
    deaths,                                                           24
    marriages,                                                        15
Number of houses inhabited,                                          269
     uninhabited,                                                      1
     building,                                                         8
The number of families employed in manufactures,                     123
        in agriculture,                                              133
	The number of proprietors of land is 50. Of these 17 are non-
resident, and 36 stand above L. 50 in valuation. A considerable
number of females are engaged at the loom, at which they spend
usually fourteen hours each working day. For some years past the
remuneration has not at all been adequate to their support, but is
now much improved. Such a mode of life is not beneficial to the
health or morality of females in particular.

			IV.--INDUSTRY.
	Agriculture.--As mentioned at the commencement of this ac-
count, the number of Scots acres in the parish is computed to be
5598. Of these 440 are reckoned not arable, being chiefly a deep
moss. It is probable, however, that, in the course of a few years,
the greater part of this waste will become cultivated ground, if
farming operations continue to improve as they have done of late
years. There is but little wood, and that little is planted. Beech,
ash, and fir trees prevail.
	Rent of land.--The average rent of arable land is L. 1. 10s. per
acre; that for grazing a good cow, L. 3; sheep, 6s. per head. The
breed of cattle is principally Ayrshire. A good deal of attention
has been paid to rearing them. Oats are mostly cultivated here.

upon the foresaid account, and forced to pay five pounds Scots before he could get out
of his hands again.
	"Item, Alexander Hamilton in Shawtonhill was taken prisoner by Gavin Muir,
Laird of Sachopp and his men, on pretence of having been at a conventicle, and car-
ried to Glasgow tolbooth, where he lay a month imprisoned.
	"Item, John Alston, Elder, in Glasford, was fined in three dollars, because he did
not baptize his child by the curate Mr Davison, which he actually paid.
	"Item, John Marshall in Heads was imprisoned fourteen days in Hamilton tol-
booth, because of his wife not hearing the curate Mr Davison.
	"Item, Gavin Paterson in Nethershields was fined in three dollars, which he accord-
ingly paid, for his wife not hearing the curate.
	"Item, Ann Semple, spouse to Thomas Watt in Croutherland, was imprisoned
fourteen days in Hamilton, for not bearing the curate.
	"Item, Thomas Watt, foresaid, was fined in three dollars, and John Young in Flatt,
was fined in two dollars, which they both actually paid, upon the account of their
hearing a sermon at the Torrance House, preached by Mr Robert Muir.
	"Item, Adam Fleeming in Shawton was imprisoned in Hamilton tolbooth, for lodg-
ing Mr Matthew M'Koll two nights in his house, and was fined in fifty pounds Scots
besides.
	"This account of sufferings within this parish, the session appointed to be insert
in their register, ad fuluram vos memoriam."

