
808                      FIFESHIRE.
   
in Scotland, and was His Majesty's Secretary for Latin Records,
had his patrimonial estate in this parish.\f
   Land-owners.-The principal heritors of this parish are, the
Earl of Rosslyn for the lands of Invertiel, Tyrie, South Piteadie,
and South Glassmount; Colonel Fergusson of Raith for Easter
and Wester Balbarton, Easter and Wester Boglilly, Cauldhame,
Seafield, Vicars-Grange, Grange, Baidland, and other lands;
John Boswell, Esq. of Balmuto for the estate of Balmuto; Mrs
O. T. Bruce for Grangehill ahd other lands; John Drysdale, Esq.
for Kilrie and North Piteadie; the Trustees of the late Robert
Philp, Esq. of Edenshead for Banchory, Drinkbetween, Justine
lands, and other acres; the Trustees of the late Burridge Purvis,
Esq. for North Glassmount; Robert Stocks, Esq. for Abden;
the Duke of Buccleuch for lnchkeith; Mr George Greig for
Easter Balbeardie; the Trustees of tbe late Mr Greenhill for com-
mon of Kinghoxn; Mr Shanks of Castlerigg for acres near King-
horn, Glammis Tower, &c.; the burgh of Kinghorn for the Ross
lands; and a few others whose property is very limited.
   Parochial Registers.-The earliest register is of baptisms, com-
mencing in 1577. The session records commence with some re-
gularity in September 1607, yet there are earlier notices of the
proceedings of the session. We find in one of the volumes, not
only the parish signatures to the national covenant already noticed,
but also a number of special reasons recorded for a general fast to
be held as early as October 1593. The records of baptisms and
marriages, and the proceedings of the, kirk-session, are kept with
much regularity and fulness from the close of the seventeenth cen-
tury to the present time.
   Antiquities.-The rage for modern improvements here has al-
most swept away every vestige of those ancient buildings in the
town of Kinghorn which formerly distinguished it in its ecclesias-
tical and civil importance. St Leonard's Tower was the last re-
maining edifice of this nature, which, subsequent to the Reforma-
tion, was converted into a town-house and jail. It was a few years
ago entirely removed for the erection of a handsome modern build-
ing as a townhouse and prison. History, and not stone walls,
must tell us what Kinghorn formerly was.-The very seals, (Scot-
ties, selches,) along the shore, now enjoy an absolute respite from
the conditions of the charter granted by David I. to the Abbacy of

<FOOTNOTE> Patie Birnie, the far-farmed fiddler, ought not to be forgotten among the emi-
minent characters belonging to Kinghorn.


