
     Statistical Account

conveniency of the inhabitants, though it is reckoned rather 
steep for a carriage*.  In Auchmithy, as perhaps in most
fishing villages, the accent of the inhabitants differs remark-
ably from that of their neighbours, even to such a degree, 
that the writer of this can easily distinguish the voice of any 
person belonging to that village, though speaking in a dif- 
ferent room. 

   Stipend, School, etc.-The stipend, by a decreet as old as
the year 1635, is 11 bolls and 1 sirlot of wheat, 47 bolls, 3 
sirlots, 1 peck, 3 lippies, and 1/5 of a lippie of bear, and 80
bolls and 1 sirlot meal, at 7 stones the boll, equal to 70 bolls, 
3 sirlots, and 2 lippies, at 8 stones the boll, and 7 L. 17 s. 11 1/2 d.
Sterling vicarage;  but there is no allowance in the decreet
for the expenses of communion elements+.  The church con-

<FOOTNOTE>

*This place was burnt down by some fishermen in the end of the left cen-
tury.  In digging the floor of a house in Auchmithy, a few years ago, in order 
to erect a partition wall, 33 coins were found in a small earthen pitcher, some 
of Henry IV, of France, others of several German Princes, the rest of Charles 
II. and William the III.  Some of the pieces were of a square form.  About 
18 miles southward from Auchmithy, in the German ocean, there is a large 
rock about half an English mile long, and one quarter broad, visible at low 
water, where large cod are caught. Tradition relates, that in the last century 
there was a bell erected there on pillars of wood, and a machine so contrived, 
as to make the bell ring with little wind; that a Dutch master of a ship re-
moved the bell, and that the next time he visited the place, has stop was 
wrecked. 
+The decreet makes the teinds payable ipsa corpora, and it is not known 
when the above conversion was made.  At the date of the decreet, James 
Marquis of Hamilton is mentioned as titular of the teinds of the said parochme, 
and the stipend is said to be given in full contentment and satisfaction to the 
said minister and his successors, of any further provision which they, or other of 
them, might claim thereafter, from Patrick Archibishop of Glasgow, out of the
pension granted to him out of the rents of the Abbey of Aberbrothock.  This 
was Patrick Lindsay, of the family of Edzell, in this county, who was settled 
 

