
304                     ARGYLESHIRE.

coast, but the most remarkable is that upon the hill called Bein-an-
Innie.  This hill is composed of horizontal strata of basalt and wacken,
which alternate and rise to the top of the hill, like grdat natural
terraces.  The coal appears in the bed of a rivulet upon the side
of the mountain, and is about three feet thick, and immediately
covered by basalt.  Jameson thinks it one of the greatest beds of
coal that has as yet been discovered in the western Highlands,
and as such worthy of particular attention.  Several trials have
been made with a view to the working of it, but of a nature so
trifling, that they only deserve notice as showing how little the
importance of the subject has been understood.  Sir David Mur-
ray of Stanhope, about 120 years ago, was the first gentleman who
seems to have been aware of its consequence, for he then pur-
chased the hill solely on account of the coal ; he proposed to open
the bed in a very extensive manner, and to work it until he
should be satisfied whether it was practicable to continue it to ad-
vantage.  This scheme was unfortunately frustrated by a failure
in his affairs, and the working was stopped a short time after he be-
gan.  Since then, the property changed hands, and several at-
tempts have been made to work it; but the business appears to
have been committed to persons who were satisfied with making
very superficial and unsatisfactory trials.  Sir James Riddel of
Ardnamurchan, about fifty years ago, then the proprietor, made
a trial; but after some coals were dug, he also fave up the work.
The quality of the coals is said to be good.
  A seam of about eighteen inches thick appears on the sea
coast of Ross, the property of the Duke of Argyle.  Coals also
appear in Brolas and in Gribun, and Mr Maclean of Pennycross
is presently boaring for coal in his lands of Carsaig with every
prospect of success.
  Zoology.-In the lakes and rivers, are to be found trout, and
is the former pike.  Great shoals of various kinds of fish surround
all the coasts of the parish ; such as herrings, cod, ling, mackerel,
laith, codling, seth, gurnot, rock fish, &c.  The shell fish are,
oysters, clams, cockles, muscles, welks, crabs, lobsters, and vari-
ous others.  Seals frequent the coast, porpoises often ; and some-
times whales came after the herrings.  The wild quadrupeds in
the parish are deer, rabbits, and hares ; the deer during harvest
frequently leave the mountains, to eat the corn in the low grounds

                                    4


