
 	              TIREE AND COLL.                       209

   Language, Customs, &c.-Gaelic is the language almost uni-
versally used among the lower orders.  If not actually losing
ground, it is certainly a good deal corrupted by a mixture of Eng-
lish words and phrases, in consequence of their frequent inter-
course with the low country.
   With regard to diet or manner of living, the people follow
a pretty low regimen, perhaps as much from necessity as from
choice.  Flesh meat is seldom used among them, their ordinary
food being potatoes, barley and oatmeal, milk and fish.  Until of
late years, when poverty laid its iron band upon them, in common
with their other countrymen in the Highlands, it might be justly
said that they were a cheerful, happy, and contented people.
   There is one custom still prevalent, which calls loudly for
a reformations,-a custom now happily confined to a few remote
parts of the country : drinking of ardent spirits at funerals.  It
is quite melancholy to consider what sums are worse than thrown
away in this manner.  There are instances of poor families part-
ing with their last horse or cow, to furnish an entertainment of this
kind.  They reckon it a point of honour to do so; and thus what
might have contributed to their support for a twelvemonth is wasted
in a day, to keep up a savage and disgusting custom.
   Illicit distillation was formerly carried on here to a considera-
ble extent ; but has been strictly prohibited and suppressed
for the last twenty-five or thirty years.  Some legal stills were
afterwards employed to supply a market for the superfluous bar-
ley of the island; but the duties being then high, these were
soon discontinued as an unprofitable concern.  A good deal
Of smuggled whisky used also to be imported formerly from the
north of Ireland and other places.  The pernicious influence of
this traffic on the character and morals of any people, wherever it
has been of long continuance, is universally known and acknow-
ledged.
   The people in general are intelligent and enterprising-
They possess much of the spirit of traffic, and carry on a pretty
constant trade in country produce with the low-country, espe-
ciallY with Glasgow.  It cannot be denied, however, that this
frequent intercourse with the low country has its disadvantages
well as advantages.  It is apt to infect them with a spirit of ava-
rice and lucre, not always solicitous aboa the fittest means of ac-
quiring money, and to incline them to overreach one another in
their transactions, as may be inferred from their frequent disputes
   ARGYLE.                                         O


