
     of the Abbey Parish of Paisley.

measure, interrupted by several hitches, at one of which the
mass of coal is suddenly thrown up about 50 feet, at another
about 30.  These hitches interrupt not only the direction,
but the degree of the dip.  On one side of the first mention-
ed hitch, it is about one foot in three; on the other side, on-
ly one in six.  Some years ago this coal took fire; and the
pillars giving way, the ground sunk, and left the furnace in a
very rugged state.  The excellent judgment and persevering
industry of the proprietor have surmounted many difficulties
that have occurred in working this valuable coal.  It now
employs about 30 pick-men; and there are commonly 12 or
14 horses below ground.  The produce some years has been
not less than twenty thousand tons.
   Free stone quarries abound in the parish.  The stone in
most of them is of a good quality, lies near the surface, and
generally dips towards the east.  A quarry of coarse granite
or blue whin, in what was formerly the Abbey garden, af-
fords excellent materials for paving the streets.  A stone,
here called Osmond Stone, found on the tops of the hills in this
and the adjoining parish of Nielston, is used for hearths of
ovens; but the Inverary stone is preferred to it.-We have
several lime-stone quarries.  That at Stanley, the property
of the Earl of Glasgow, merits the examination of the curi-
ous.  An enormous rock, projecting from the brow of a bill,
contains the limestone lying in a mass of about ten feet thick,
and dipping towards a centre, like the Quarreltown coal.
Several mines have been driven into the rock; and these
meeting in the heart of it, present a very singular piece of
subterranean scenery.  The limestone at Blackball, the pro-
perty of Sir Michael Stewart, is also wrought by mining, but
not without danger, having only a clay roof.  The Hurlet
lime lies in a stratum three feet thick, incumbent on the seam
of coal.  After the coal is dug out, the limestone is blown

     VOL. VII. L


