
632                           AYRSHIRE.

religious knowledge and practice in the days to which we have now
referred. Both among the laity and the clergy, superstition was
prevalent to an extraordinary and lamentable extent. Their loud-
est and most plaintive wailings were raised against the sin of
witchcraft, so that about the period of which we have been writ-
ing, persons suspected of it were prosecuted with persevering in-
dustry by the people; and, at the instigation of the clergy, they
were punished by the executive, with unrelenting severity. The
leading cause of the fast which the General Assembly appointed
in 1649, was the supposed prevalence of witchcraft. Confession
on the part of the accused was the only attainable evidence of a
definite kind, and its validity was never questioned by the judges.
Of proceedings in such cases, several instances are stated in the
records of the presbytery of Irvine. * The only effort made in
dealing with the accused was to bring them to a fuller acknow-
ledgedment of their guilt. This being done, the day of execution
was appointed. Of the 22d April 1650, the record of the pres-
bytery of Irvine bears, that, 11 the presbyterie, finding that the sin
of witchcraft was growing daillie, and that in the several paroches
meikle of the hidden works of darkness was discovered and brought
to light in the mercie of God, and that severalls were apprehendit
and in firmance for that sin, did meet occasionallie this day to heir
and receive the confessions of some, of the said sin of witchcraft,

<FOOTNOTE>place have shown for your humble and godly pastor, which grievances he has these
several years been labouring under in this place, how little his heart has been encou-
raged and his bands strengthened in his work. The unkind treatment he has met
with from some is too well known in this neighbourhood. I especially instance
those base, scurrilous, and caluminatory papers that some in this place dropped against
him. Those papers contained reactions so shameful and unjust that the authors
durst not avow them. It is probable there were but a few at Pennine of them, and
possibly some of those few may be present; and I wish there had been as few at pains
to spread them. But it is not the first time that sinners have been at pains to glory
in, and spread abroad their own shame: however, it was your ministers good for-
tune to be as generally known as the papers were; so that the memory of them lies
to day, not as a blot upon him, but upon this place. It was the wish of many at
this time, who had a regard to their reputation, that wore had been done by the ma-
gistracy of the place, to testify their abhorrence at such a base practice. How it was
possible to keep the ministers of synod and presbytery, who had occasion to see these
papers and to bear of them, and the concern the people of Irvine had in their ministers.
I say was it possible to keep them from these reflections upon it? Oh! but the peo-
ple of Irvine must be audly degenerated! Would your furefathers have treated an
honest minister of the gospel at auch a rate? I have heard them, here, you will ob-
serve, I shall not speak of your asperation publickly, and by some amongst you, up-
no the ministers of these bounds, &c."--Manuscript sermons in the possession of
Thomas Whytte, Req. 134, Princes Street, Edinburgh.
	The records of the presbytery of Irvine are incomplete. The first volume ex-
tent is from 2d of June 1646 to July 1650. The succeeding volume is not ex-
tant. The sext of those preserved is from 17th August 1687 to 18th April 1699.
The volume next in succession is wanting, and the one that follows is from 26th
September 1710 to 16th June 1750.


