
     of Channelkirk.

   Stipend, Poor, etc.-The Earl of Marchmont is patron
of the parish.  The living consists of L. 600 Scots, and 3
chalders of victuals, half oats, half barley.  The glebe consists
of nearly 9 English acres of land, but the one half lying de-
tached almost a mile from the other, and the whole being
unenclosed, it is of very inconsiderable value to the mini-
ster.  The living, glebe included, is not worth more than
L. 84 Sterling a-year; as the incumbent intends to raise a
process for an augmentation of stipend, he wishes these
facts to be generally known.  The church is built in the 
old Popish form of a cross.  When it was erected is un-
certain.  It underwent a thorough repair in the year 1702.
The manse and offices were rebuilt 7 years ago, and are at
present in good repair.-The number of poor on the pa-
rish roll is at present 12.  The annual expense of suppor-
ting them amounts to L. 30 a-year, which sum is raised
by collections in the church, and by assessments on the
heritors.

<FOOTNOTE>

from L. 3, 10 s. to L. 4 yearly.  Day-labourers get from 9 d. to 10 d. a-
day, with victuals; carpenters, 1 s.; masons, 1 s. 2 d.; tailors, 8 d.  Dal-
keith is the market-town to which our farmers carry their grain; it is
distant about 14 miles.  Their carts return loaded with coal or lime.
We have butcher meat of all kinds from Dalkeith; and in some seasons
of the year, are tolerably well served from Lauder, which is not above
6 miles distant from us.  The prices vary at different seasons, according
as the markets are supplied.  Beef, was last Christmas as high as 6 d. the
lb Mutton, 4 1/2 d.  Lamb has not been below 4 d. the lb. all this season.
The want of sea and river fish is much felt in this part of the country.
The streamlets which fall from our mountains, indeed, abound with very
fine trout; but the infamous practices of taking them with nets, and de-
stroying them with lime, which have for some years past been very pre-
valent, have greatly diminished the different species of this excellent
fish.
  

