
                                  WEEM.                             711

       is that of Sir Neil Menzies, Each of the three heritors has land
       in it of more than the yearly value of L. 50.
         There are 28 unmarried men, bachelors, and widowers, upwards
       of 50 years of age, and 45 unmarried women upwards of 45 years.
       The number of families is 190, and where there are children, they
       seem to average about 4.  There is one fatuous person in the pa-
       rish.  The language generally spoken is the Gaelic.
                             IV.--INDUSTRY.
         The number of acres in cultivation, as nearly as can be as-
       certained, is about 1647.  There may be about 300 more in grass,
       which were once in cultivation, partly in parks within the grounds
       of the two great heritors.  No particular statement can be given
       of the number under wood; but there are in the rock of Weem
       alone 190, and there must be about four times that number over
       the whole parish.  The kinds of trees that are planted are chiefly
       larch and oak, and next to these, ash, elm, and beech; and those
       which are indigenous are the Scotch fir, birch, hazel, and moun-
       tain ash.  There is much attention paid by the proprietors to the
       management of their woods.
         Rent.--The rent of arable land must be very doubtful, as it is
       almost always let with large portions of grazing; but it may safe-
       ly be stated, that it differs in value so much as from 15s. to L.2,
       10s. an acre, according to soil, climate, and exposure.   The rent
       of grazing a cow is from 18s. to L. 1, 10s., and from 3s. to 5s. for
       a sheep during the whole year.
         Wages.--A man-servant receives from L. 12 to L. 15 a-year,
       and a woman from L.4 to L.6.  A day-labourer receives about
       1s. 3d. in winter, and from 1s. 6d. to 1s. 9d. in summer, without
       victuals.
         Live-Stock.--The sheep are almost all of the black-faced kind,
       and there are in Glenlochay alone, in this parish, from 3000 to
       4000 of them.  The cattle are chiefly of the west Highland.
       breed, but there are some Ayrshire cows in two places very dis-
       tant from each other, at Castle Menzies, and in the braes of Gle-
       lochay.
         Husbandry.--The husbandry of this parish has been verv much
       improved, but not to the same extent in every place.  In the more
       favourable parts, the four or five-shift rotation is regularly adopted;
       and the young ploughmen in this district would not be afraid of
       competing with the most skillful men of the south in performing
       their work, chiefly in cosequence of annual ploughing-matches,


