
286                         AYRSHIRE.

	Education.--There are two schools; the parochial, which is si-
tuated in the village; and Hollybush school, about the centre of
the parish. The branches taught at these schools are English
reading and grammar, writing, arithmetic, book-keeping, Latin,
Greek, French, geography, mathematics, &c. The parochial
schoolmaster's salary is L. 30, which, with school-fees, L. 25, and
L. 8 in compensation for a house and garden, and perquisites from
his office as session-clerk, make his income from L. 60 to L. 70.
	The teacher of Hollybush school has a free school and dwell-
ing-house, and a good garden from Mr Hunter, the proprietor of
Hollybush. The average number of scholars at the parochial
school is 60; and at Hollybush school, 45; and both schools are
very well conducted. The parochial school-house was formerly
at St Valley, a little to the north-east of the village, and now
forms part of a farm-steading.  *
	Societies.--Of societies, there are a Friendly Society, a Musical
Society, a Burns's club, and a curling club. The Friendly Society,
or, as it is termed, "the Dalrymple Friendly Society," was insti-
tuted in 1807. According to the articles of this Society, the num-
ber of members must be sixty; and if, by the providence of Al-
mighty God, any member be disabled from work, by sickness or
any evident misfortune, and judged so by the visiting master, he,
without any regard to his circumstances, shall receive the sum of
6s. per week when confined within doors, and when able to walk
about shall receive 4s. per week; and when any member dies, the
surviving members are obliged to contribute each the sum of 1s.
towards defraying funeral expenses,--to attend the funeral, if de-
sired,--and if there be no relations, the preses is to act as chief
mourner.
	In 1836, a General Agricultural Association for Ayrshire was
instituted at Ayr, and the minister and several of the farmers of
this parish are members of the association.
	Savings Bank.--In May 1831, a savings bank was established
in Maybole for it and the neighbouring parishes, and, with the ex-
ception of Maybole, this parish, it seems, has contributed more
than any of the rest. In the course of that time, there have been

<FOOTNOTE>It is to this school that Mr Lockhart, the talented biographer of Burns, alludes
in his life of the poet. "When Burns," says he, "was about thirteen or fourteen
years old, his father sent him and Gilbert, week about, during a summer quarter, to
the parish school of Dalrymple, two or three miles distant from Mount Oliphant, for
the improvement of their penmanship. The good old man could not pay two fees, or
his boys could not be spared at the same time from the labour of the farm."
                                     4


