
                            KINNEFF.                           321

yours for procuring a schoolmaster, and that he had destroyed one
Mr Robert Gray to come this  length, who, being cloathed with
sufficient testimonials from the masters of the Marisehal College
of Aberdeen, offers to officiate as schoolmaster in this parish.
The minister also desyred that the heads of families might stay a
little and signifie their inclination with respect to their having
this young man settled as schoolmaster, and if they would contri-
bute for his encouragement and maintinence; to which the plura-
litie replyed they were satisfied, and shotld contribute." The
four years without any regular school-house, which it was still left
to the session to provide. Accordingly, in May 1709, "the ses-
sion, considering the great loss this parish is at for want of a school
Within their bounds, think fit to advance money out of the box
(poor's funds) for building a school near the church, and recom-
mended to the several parishioners to contribute for making up
the box again; and this day the minister gave three pounds Scots
for that end." The measures thus taken appear to have been suc,
cessful; but Mr Honeyman was still resolved to have the school
put on a more permanent and satisfactory footing. In 1718, a de-
creet was obtained from the Court of Session, assigning to the
schoolmaster the annul salary of 200 merks; and, in 1720, an
allowance of L.9O Scots was made by the heritors for the School
and schoolmaster's dwelling. Much difficulty seems to have been
felt in obtaining payment of these sums, and it was only after long
delay that every obstacle was removed. *

<FOOTNOTE>One of the heritors deserves to be mentioned as manifesting an enlightened re-
gard for the interests of education. Robert Young of Stank having on his deathbed
left verbally the sum of 100 merks Scots, to be disposed of within the parish for much
purpose as his son John Young of Hilton might think fit, "ht was pactioned and
agreed unto by the said John Young that the said one hundred merks be employed
by  the minister and elders for supporting a sufficient, schoolmaster within the bounds
of the said parish of Kinneff." This was four mouths before the first steps were
taken by the session.
	The expense of erecting the school-house falling in the first instance on the session
funds, various details are given in the record, and some of these may not be devoted
of interest. Thus we find them paying, in Scots money ,
            For " winning stones to build the school,                L. 3  0  0
            To masons,                                                 20  0  0
            For timber for the, school, and schoolmaster's chamber,    17  9  6
            For broom (thatob),                                         1 18  0
            To divotters,                                               4  0  0
These sums, with the other outlay, seem to have been covered by the allowances of
L. 90  Scots (L.7 10s Sterling), subsequently made by the heritors. With the salary
there was great difficulty. The kirk-session complain of an attempt on the part
of several heritors to prevail on the schoolmaster to accept of "one hundred
merks of salary instead of the two due in law (by decrea of the Court of Session)
to the schholmaster of Kinneff." They veiled, therefore, the advices and (??) (??)
   KINCARDINE.                                                 X


