
     of the University of Glasgow.

ceeding in their degrees; of the jurisdiction of the University
not being respected.  Sometimes, at the election of a rector,
not one of the nation of Albany was present; and once, none
either of Albany or of Teviotdale.-There seems only to have
been one dean in the University for some time before the Re-
formation, to wit, the dean of the faculty of arts; and,
therefore, it is probable the other faculties had no meetings.
In the later minutes of the University he is called Decanus Fa-
cultatis, without addition; whereas, more early, he is always
Decanus Facultatis Artium*.  This style, of Dean of Faculty of
the University, which we see was a considerable time before
the Reformation, continues to be used to this day; there
being only one dean of faculty in that University, who is con-
sidered not as the head of one particular faculty, but in the
light of an university, officer, as the rector is.
   There seem to have been two obvious defects in the ancient
constitution of the University.  The first, That no salaries were
provided for regular lectures in the high faculties.  It was not
to be expected, that the laborious work of teaching should be
performed by those who could not live by it; and who could
not, by their industry and eminence in their prosession, rise to
some degree of respect proportioned to what their talents and
learning might have raised them in another line of life.-The
second defect-That there was not sufficient power over the

<FOOTNOTE>

*This conjecture is confirmed by a notorial instrument of the foundation
of a chaplainry, by Mr. Thomas Leiss, while he was on a sick-bed, but found
in his mind.  This instrument was taken, the 8th day of March, in the year
1529, before respectable witnesses, five of whom signed it with the notary.
In it the notary says, Constituit dominum restorem Universitatis Glasguensis,
canum facultatis ejusdem, indubitatos patronos.  From this, it appears that only
one dean existed at that time in the University, or was expected to exist; and
we know that a dean of the faculty of arts was chosen annually till the year
1555.


