
                         HARRIS.                             157

    most primitive description, and of the coarsest materials, all ma-
    nufactured by themselves.  Their food principally consists of po-
    tatoes, fish, and meal.  They seldom can indulge themselves in
    the luxury of either beef or mutton.  Crime is very rare among
    them.  There is not a tradition of a murder, and theft is also un-
    frequent.  A powerful religious revival took place among them
    five years ago, and in consequence the Sabbath is strictly observed.

                             IV.-INDUSTRY.
       Agriculture. -The arable-ground is of very small extent.  The
    district is mord adapted for pasture. Some of the most ferthle
    farms, possessed by small tenants, have been depopulated, and coti-
    verted into extensive sheep-walks.
       Rent.- When kelp was in great demand, the rental of this pro-
    perty amounted to L.7000 a year; it is now reduced to L.3500.
    The estate was purchased a few years ago by Lord Dunmore for
    L.60,000.
       Rate of Wages.-Farm-servants receive from L.3 to L.3, 10s.
    in the half-year, and female servants from L.1, 5s. to L.1, 10s.
    during the same period.  Masons and carpenters from Is, 6d. to
    2s. per diem, exclusive of victuals.
       No leases have been hitherto given to small tenants on the
    estate, which must necessarily prevent the improvement of the
    soil.  The cottages occupied by these humble men are of very
    small dimensions, composed of unhewn stone and earth for mor-
    tar, thatched with straw, in which they and their families, as well
    as their cows and horses, live for seven months in the year.  The
    most respectable farm-steadings are built of stone and lime, but,
    from long unoccupancy, are now generally, if not wholly, falling
    rapidly into decay.
       Fisheries.-Various attempts were made by Alexander Mac-
    leod, Esq., the late worthy and benevolent proprietor, to establish
    fishing colonies in several parts of this parish; but they `ll proved
    unsuccessful.
       Producd.-The average annual value of raw produce raised in
    the country may be estimated as follows:-


    <TABLE>
	              Oats and barley, about	L.2500
   	              Potatoes,                   3000 
                      Hay,	                   400
	              Sheep,	                  1200
                      Black-cattle,               1500 
	              Wool,	                  1600
                      Fisheries,                   400
                      Kelp,                       1300
                                              ---------
                        Total raw produce,    L.11,900

