
           414                 ROSS AND CROMARTY.

	   with her fingers when she wished to look about her. In other re-
	   spects, she continued in pretty good health, but she often spat
	   large quantities of blood, and at the same time it flowed from her
	   nose. This continued for several years, but at last it ceased;
	   and soon after she had another fit, and after that a fever, from
	   which she recovered very slowly. Six weeks after the crisis,
	   she stole out of the house unknown to her parents, who were
	   busy in their harvest-work, and bound the sheaves of a ridge
	   before she was observed; but in the evening of that day, she
	   took to bed, complaining much of her head, and from that
	   time she never rose for five years, but was occasionally lifted
	   out of bed. She seldom spoke a word, and took so little
	   food, that it seemed insufficient to support a sucking infant; even
	   this small quantity was taken by compulsion; and at last, about
	   Whitsunday 1763, she totally refused every kind of food or drink.
	   Her jaws now became so fast locked, that it was with the greatest
	   difficulty her teeth could be opened a little, in order to admit a
	   small quantity of gruel or whey; but of this so much generally re-
	   turned, that it was not certain that any had been swallowed. About
	   this time, some water was given to her from a noted medicinal spring
	   at Braemar, some of which it was attempted to make her swallow,
	   but without effect; these attempts were continued, however, for three
	   mornings, her throat being rubbed with the water, which ran from
	   the corners of her mouth. On the third morning, during the
	   operation, she cried out "give me some more water," and swallow-
	   ed with ease all that remained in the bottle: she spoke no more in-
	   telligibly for a year, though she continued to mutter some words,
	   which her parents only understood, for fourteen days. She continu-
	   ed to reject all kinds of food till July 1765. At this time, her sis-
	   ter thought, that by some, signs she made, she desired her jaws to
	   be opened; and this being done, not without violence, she called
	   intelligibly for drink, and drank with ease about an English pint of
	   water. Her father asked her why she did not make some sign when
	   she wanted drink? To which she answered, "why should I when
           I have no desire?" It was now supposed that she had regained
	   the faculty of speech, and her jaws were kept open for about three
	   weeks, by means of a wedge; but this was afterwards remov-
	   ed. She still, however, continued sensible, and when her eye-
	   lids were opened, knew everybody. By continuing attempts to
	   force open her jaws, two of her under fore-teeth were driven out; and
	   of this opening her parents endeavoured to avail themselves, by


