
296			KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

lodged in Stirling Castle, from which, at the end of four years, he
was transported to Dumbarton Castle. In 1679, he was liberated.
He was again apprehended, and confined a close prisoner in Black-
nees Castle; from which place he sent a petition to the Privy-
Council, stating, among other things, "that he was turned
valetudinary; therefore craving the Council's compassion." The
only redress he obtained was the liberty of "walking about
the castle, and taking the air with a keeper." He was alive at
the Revolution; but whether he afterwards was inducted into a
parish charge, is not known. It is certain, at least, that he did not
return to Girthon. (lb. 286, ihi. 406, iv. 38.)
	Captain James Dennistoun of Creetown, author of "Legends of
Galloway," and of a poem entitled "Battle of Craignilder," and Mr
John Faed, an eminent miniature painter, are natives of this pa-
rish.--the former having been born, at Cruffock, the latter at
Barlay.
	Land-owners.--Family of Broughton.--Alexander Murray of
Broughton, M. P. for the stewartry of Kirkcudbright, is proprie-
tor of the entire parish. Cally, about a mile south of Gatehouse,
is the residence of the family. The earliest proprietor of Cally
that can be correctly ascertained was named Stewart; he de-
scended, in the thirteenth century, from the illustrious family of
the High Steward of Scotland. The title, which this Gallovi-
dian branch of the Stewarts bore, was that of Stewart of Kalecht-
Girton, or sometimes of Kalecht, (now Cally,) and Girton.
This family, after a lapse of nearly two centuries, terminated in
a female, Elizabeth, only daughter and heiress of Sir John Stew-
art of Cally, and this lady having married Donald de Levenax,
or Lennox, son, to the Earl of Levenax,* the property passed in-
to a new family, and the name of Lennox, which was eminent for
upwards of 300 years afterwards, was then first introduced into the
province.+ Donald Lennox, who died in 1454, is termed Do-
minus de Girthon et nobilis vir. John, the seventh of Cally, had

<FOOTNOTE>The houses of Lennox and of Stewart were previously connected by marriage,
as the wife of Sir John Stewart of Girthon, mentioned in the text, and who fell at
the siege of Orleans in 1429, was a daughter of the former family.--(Douglas's Peer-
age, L. 614).
         In addition to the family or Cally, there were Lennoxes of Plunton, Drumwall,
Drumruck, Tanniefad, Disdow, and all of them descended of the Cally branch; but
there has not been, with a single exception, since the year 1708, (when William
Lennox of Drumwall sold that property to Alexander Murray of Broughton,) a
landed proprietor of the name of Lennox in Galloway. The son of William Lennox
of Drumwall became tenant of that farm, and died in 1713, aged forty-eight.--(Case
of Margaret Lennox, ut supra, 30-3.)


