
			KILBIRNIE.			       695

band, was discovered in this and the adjoining parish of Dalry. It
is situated about thirty fathoms below the fourth coal. It is up-
wards of two feet thick, and yields about 40 per cent. of metallic
iron. This and a few of the other bands, it is supposed, may be
made available for the purpose of smelting. Considerable risk is
thought to attend the contemplated undertaking, arising especial.
ly from the nature of the coal, which in this district is of a softer
quality than any that has hitherto been employed in reducing iron
ore. Should it be found necessary to subject it, in the first in-
stance, to the process of coking, much additional expense will be en-
tailed on the manufacturer, and he will thus be less able to compete
with others who do not labour under the same disadvantage. If,
however, the works should prove successful, as it is hoped they
may, their establishment, on an extensive scale, will doubtless add
to the prosperity of the district.
	A vein of graphite or black-lead is intersected by the stream
which divides this parish from that of Dalry; but no attempt, it is
believed, has yet been made to ascertain its quality, or trace its ex-
tent.
	Soil--The soil in the lower or south end of the parish is a deep
alluvial loam of great fertility. Ascending the river it gradually
changes into a rich clayey loam, while to the east along Kilbirnie
loch and part of the course of the Maich, it is a light red clay,
resting on a stiff clay subsoil. West of the Garnock, clayey loam
likewise prevails, and occasionally adhesive clay mixed with sand,
varied with numerous stripes of meadow ground, almost every farm
in this quarter having two or more acres of this valuable ground.
The soil of the higher grounds being incumbent o n trap and lime-
stone, is light and dry, and its fertility is sufficiently evinced by
the excellency of the pastures. The moorish uplands are gene-
rally moss of various depths, resting on a light-coloured clay, and
the more level parts are much broken by hags and pools of stag,
nant water.
	Zoology.--There are no rare species of quadrupeds in this pa-
rish, nor are we aware that any uncommon remains have at any
time been discovered. The ordinary wild animals of the country,
such as the fox, the polecat, the weazel, the stoat, and the hedge-
hog, are numerous, especially in the higher parts of the parish.
The other also frequents Garnock and the loch, during the spring,
principally for eels, which it seems to live on at that season. The


