
     of Eckford.

was, in 1776, introduced by Mr. James Church, tenant in
Moss-tower, on part of the Duke of Buccleugh's estate in
this parish, tie raised them from 60 grains of Polish oats,
which he obtained from a friend, and planted in a corner of
one of his fields about the 14th of June that year.  Their
produce turned out very considerable.  They have been sown
on his farm every year since without degenerating.  The soil
inclines to gravel or light loam; and by experience they are
found to answer best on dry land in good heart.  They ripen
by a month earlier than common oats, although sown at the
same time and upon the same ground.  They must be cut
down sooner, and not allowed to continue growing until per-
fectly ripe, as they are more easily shaken than any other
grain.  They commonly yield between 11 and 12 stone of
meal to the boll of oats, which in this country is 5 fulls or
firlots for oats and barley, and 4 firlots for wheat, rye, and
peace; so that upon weighing a boll of these oats (including
the weight of the sack), the whole amounted to 28 stone by
the Kelso standard.  The reputation of those oats has increased
so rapidly, that they are now generally sown in this country.
as well as through most other parts of Scotland, several parts
of England, and they have even found their way across the
Atlantic to America.  The grain of every fort commonly
sown here, is suficient for the consumption of the inhabitants,
Quantities are sold by sample in the weekly markets of Kelso
and Jedburgh, at the prices then current. *Horses have of

<FOOTNOTE>

*Wheat is sown in September, and more frequently in October; rye much
about the same time; oats in March and beginning of April; pease about the
middle of that month; barley from the middle of April to the middle of May;
turnips from the beginning of june to the middle of July; harvest commences,
in favourable seasons, about the end of August, and generally through the
month of September.  The prices of gram and provisions vary according to cir-
cumstance and the state of the preceding crops; wheat, at an average, sells


