
672			AYRSHIRE.

successor, Malcolm IV. Nothing more is known or even conjec-
tured regarding it, until the reign of Robert II., who appears, by
several charters dated at Dundonald, to have made it the place of
at least occasional residence, from 1371 till the time of his death
in 1390. This later event is particularly mentioned by the Prior
of St Serf's Inch, Lochleven.
	         The second Robert of Scotland Kyug
     	         As God purwaid maid endyng
   	         At Downdownald in his countre.
                  Of a schort sickness thare deyd he. *--Wynton, B. ix. c. 10.
	That his gentle, but ill starred son and successor, Robert III.,
died in the same place, is also asserted by the same author; and
though his authority on this point is disputed by Pinkerton and
Fourdoun, there are others of no mean authority, such as Ruddi-
man and Macpherson, who stand up in defence of the testi-
mony of the poet. But, be this as it may, there cannot be a doubt
of his continuing to reside here some time after his father;s death:
and it is probable, that it was honoured by occasional visits from
his royal successors, till the time of James IV. From the prede-
cessor of this monarch, James III., Allan, first Lord Cathcart,
obtained the custody of the castle, with the dominical lands, in
1482, and with this family they may be supposed to have con-
tinued for some time. The next account we have of it is in
1527, the date of a charter from James V., confirmatory of one
probably given in his minority, and granting it in right of posses-
sion to a person of the name of Wallace, a cadet, in all likelihood,
of the family of Craigie, (see Robertson's Ayrshire Faimilies.)
In this descent it continued till 1638, when the proprietor, who
appears to have been deeply involved in the troubles of the time,
by taking an active lead in the covenanting interest, made it over
by sale to Sir William Cochrane of Cowdon, the ancestor of the
present Earl of Dundonald.+ In 1726, it passed again into the
possession of the Eglinton family, with whom it still continues;
and all that now remains to the Dundonald family, is merely the

<FOOTNOTE>The reader may remember an anecdote connected with this ruin, which, per-
haps, has rendered it more famous than all its history: that when Dr Samuel
Johnson on visiting the spot, was informed by Boswell of the fact above mentioved,
he made the old arch ring with a peal of derisive lauahter. This was probably only
meant to humble the national pride of his Scottish friend. But if otherwise, it was
unworthy of the mind of the gifted moralist.
	We take this to be the date of transfer, instead of that given in the former Statis-
tical Account, which is two years later; because that date is given without authority,
and we find Sir William's name entered in 1638, as a member of the kirk session,
which could scarcely have happened before the purchase of this estate, as it was his
only bond of connection with the parish.


