
740                       LANARKSHIRE.

class, are entitled to be described as cleanly in their houses and
persons, and neat in their dress.  The standard of dress among
them, indeed, is rather too high, often preventing persons who
cannot appear like their neighbours from attending church for a
time.  Speaking generally, however, this class of the population
are exemplary in their attendance on public worship and the ordi-
nances of religion.  They area simple-minded, sober, industrious,
and frugal race-respectful to their superiors and kindly towards
one another-peaceable and inoffensive, and not given to meddle
with public matters, either civil or eccleriastical.  The manufac-
turing population present a picture, in many respects, very different
from this.  The weaving class, from being enabled at a very early
period of life to earn a man's wage, marry, for the most part, in
mere boyhood, and begin housekeeping on credit.  What is begun
in imprudence is too often followed by thoughtlessness and impro-
vidence afterwards; and, if even occasional dissipation be com-
bined with the burden of a family, it cannot be wondered at that
the rapid result is poverty, squalor, and wretchedness.  The want
of clothes speedily prevents attendance on public worship, or, at
least, is the apology urged, and the Sabbath is spent in loitering
and sin.  This class, moreover, is too often very pestiferously busy
in regard to politics and church and state affairs-trying to reform
the institutions of the country, instead of trying to reform them-
selves, and to become sober, exemplary, and useful members of
society.  From this description there are many honourable excep-
tions ; or, rather, perhaps, the above description ought to be taken
as an exception from the general character of the manufacturing
population.  In Larkhall and the surrounding manufacturing dis-
trict, there is a great number of just as respectable and well-con-
ducted persons as any who are to be found in the parish.  Still
the above remarks apply by far too gendrally.  It is much to be
deplored, that the cotton trade, which has added so much to the
general wealth and resources of the country, should be allowed to
be the means of bringing down the standard of the religious and
moral character of the population.  The enlightened and patriotic
interference of Government, in regard to education and pastoral
superintendence, would do much to remove or abate the moral
evil, and at the same time to increase the temporal good.  For it
is righteousness alone which exalteth a nation.


