
                         ROSEMARKIE.                       353

who, after defeating the English in many battles, and quieting
the state of the nation, (according to Buchanan,) having gone
to the north to take a view of his possessions there, died in 1338,
and was buried at Rosemarkie.
   Eminent Men.-Sir George Mackenzie of Rosehaugb, that,
eminent statesman and able lawgiver, passed a part of his time at
Fortrose. Dr George Mackenzie, too, the laborious compiler of
the " Lives,of the most Eminent Writers of the Scottish Nation,"'
resided here, in an old castle belonging to the Earl of Seaforth,
and lies interred in the tomb of that family in the Cathedral. And
Dr James Mackenzie, who writes "the Art of preserving Health,"
is said to have been for some time employed in teaching the gram-
mar school of the burgh. In addition to these, it may be men-
tioned, that Sir James Mackintosh, so well known to the literary
world, here received the elements of his education; and even
at that early period, his studious habits, and great proficiency,
gave strong indications of his possessing high intellectual endow-
ments.
   Chief Land-Owners.-The principal proprietors are, Roderick
Mackenzie, Esq. of Flowerburn ; James Fowler, Esq. of Raddery ;
Evan Baillie, Esq. of Dochfour and Ethies ; Sir James W.
Mackenzie of Scatwell, Bart.; the Rev. R. M. Millar of Kincurdie ;
and Malcolm Maclean, Esq. of Hawkhill. There are several other
smaller heritors, who are possessed of burgage lands and tenements.
Only one of the principal heritors resides in the parish, namely,
James Fowler, Esq. of Raddery. The total valued rent of the
parish is L. 3725, 3s. 8d. Scots money.
   Parochial Registers.-From the loss of some of the old registers,
by accident or carelessness, and the negligence of the people in for-
mer times, in registering the births of their children, these records
do not extend far back, and are somewhat incomplete, previous to
the induction of the present incumbent, in the year 1815. Since
then, the session records of births, marriages, deaths, and poor's
funds, have been regularly kept.
   Antiquities.- An ancient shaft of stone, forming the Cross of
Rosemarkie, and bearing as capital a ducal crown, stands at the
west end of the street; another of a similar description was
erected of old in the market-place of Chanonry or Fortrose, and
a third of an inferior description on the Ness, where, according to
tradition, the last witch in Scotland was burnt.  Immeadiately above
the towm of Rosemarkie, there is a mound of nearly circular form,


