
274                       KINCARDINESHIRE.

caceous gray flagstones. All these rocks are well exposed in deep
sections, and are observed to be directed in conformity with the
axis of the range in which they are situated, and have, with the
exception above noted, a considerable dip to the nnrth-west. *
2dly, Trap. The whole elevations in the parish are probably
owing to the presence of this rock. It is found universally at the
summit of every hill, and mound and ridge, presenting a more or
less.abrupt step near the top, on the south-east side, and round-
ing off the hill in a convex sweep towards the northwest. It does
not appear to have, disturbed the lie of the sedimentary strata,
with which it occurs interstratified occasionally, but for the most
part conceals these rocks, by having been poured out over them
from a number of separate vents throughout the parish. It con-
tains often large fragmentary masses of the blue and green shales
from below, which are scarcely distinguishable from the older
clay-slates. + The varieties of trap observed in the parish are,
amygdaloid, greenstone, claystone, and a trap conglomerate, com-
posed wholly of the matter of ancient trap rocks, in rounded no-
dules of different porphyries.
	The imbedded minerals are, agates, agate-jasper, quartz (white
and brown, and occasionally in the form of a rough amethyst),
zeolites, calcareous spar, (rhomboidal, dog's tooth and satin),
heavy-spar, green earth, and steatite.
	Outlying boulders are seen along the sea shore, and on tbe
summits of the hills. They are principally granites, quartz, gneiss,
and mica slates with garnets, none of there rocks being found
in situ nearer than twenty miles. Some of the boulders are of
enormous size.
	The action of the sea on the coast of this parish is noticed by
Mr Lyell, (Geol. Vol. i. p. 399), and particular reference is made
to the destruction of the village of Milton of Mathers, by an in-

<FOOTNOTE>No organic remains were observed in any of these rocks prior to this year,
(1841), when in the gray sandstones of Canterland den, which correspond in geologi-
cal character to the paving stones of Turin, immense quantities of vegetable remains
were discovered to exist, by Mr James Peter of Canterland. These consist of bruad
tapering leaves, fragments of the stems, branches, and leaves of fuci, called.fucoides,
and rounded masses of oval or circular dots, resembling the compressed seeds of the
strawberry, and supposed by Mr Millar to be the roe of an extinct species of gigantic
lobster.
         So similar are these hardened shales to their ancient types, that the author of the
account of the parish of Tannadice has been led from observing some of them in this
neighbourhood, into the error of supposing a seam of the ancient clay-slate forma-
tioin to run from Johnshaven to Easdale.



