
                             DOLLAR.                           107

ascent, and passes the castle on the east, and then winds round to
a low bridge, which forms the entrance to the castle on the north,
the only point where the prominence on which the castle is situ-
ated, is connected with the surrounding mountains. The tourist
on foot, instead of clambering up the whole of this rugged path,
leaves it about half-way up, or less, and takes a footpath on the
left, which leads down to the stream in the bottom of the valley,
and, after crossing the rivulet, ascends by a narrow and difficult foot-
path, which winds round the knoll on which the castle is situated-
gradually ascending, till it joins the carriage road at the north entry
of the castle. The castle may be approached also on the west side,
but there is no regular footpath. This last mentioned approach
is peculiarly interesting on account of the diversified views which
it gives of the old ruin and the wooded banks on the opposite side.
After reaching the highest part of the bank on the west side-
nearly opposite the castle, we descend to the bottom of the ravine
below by a narrow winding footpath, at each turn of which, new
views of the castle, and the surrounding scenery are presented.
We then, by means of a wooden bridge, made of the trunks of two
trees, and without any hand-rail, pass a considerable torrent, which
comes down from the hills, and flows round the castle on the west
side, and then joins the stream on the other side, immediately
south of the castle. There are several very beautiful waterfalls
on this mountain stream; but they are so much hid by the woods,
through which the torrent forces its way, that they seldom attract
the attention of the traveller. After passing the wooden bridge,
we have to climb a very steep pathway, before we reach the car-
riage road, we formerly mentioned, which leads to the entrance
at the back of the castle, where are the remains of the principal
gateway looking to the north. It must have had a very strik-
ing appearance, when complete. A little to the north of this en-
trance, are seen a few ancient and noble sycamores, seemingly the
remains of an avenue, which add much to the picturesque effect
of the ruin.
   The area around the castle is so narrow and confined, that it is
impossible to quit its walls, but for a few yards, without the risk
of being hurled into the depths below. On the east side, the
steep acclivity terminates close to the bottom of the walls, and ren-
ders it impracticable to get round the ruin on that side. On the
south side, there is a beautiful green area of considerable extent,
which slopes gradually from the bottom of the ruin to the edge of


