
             42                         ELGINSHIRE.

             Latin and Greek, mathematics, geography, grammar, writing, and
             reading.  The number of pupils attending the different schools
             within the parish amounts at present to nearly 300, of whom the
             two seminaries specially mentioned engross one-half.
              The parish school salary is the maximum allowed by law, and
             the school fees, bating those of paupers and bad debts, may amount
             annually to L. 12, or upwards, and the teacher possesses the limited
             statutory accommodations,-with the prospect of sharing in
             " the Dick bequest." It is believed there are no young persons
             (of competent age) within the parish who cannot read and write,
             (though many adults, especially among the seafaring. part of the
             community, are destitute of these advantages,) which shows that parents
             and the people in general are alive to the benefits of education,
             and anxious to secure them for their families.
                Libraries.-Tbe only public libraries in this parish are on the
             itinerating plan; one being already in circulation, and another expected
             to be procured in a short time.  There is a public reading
             room in the village of Burghead.
               Poor and Parochial Funds.-The number of poor receiving
             parochial aid is at present 81, and the amount of contributions
             for their relief (almost entirely from church collections,) is from
             L. 50 to L. 56 a-year, to which the non-resident heritors have of
             late added liberal donations.  The total sum, however, when divided,
             furnishes but a miserable pittance, the average being 12s.
             a-year to each pauper; and holds out little temptation to the poor
             to solicit parish relief, which, with a commendable spirit of independence,
             they are still slow and reluctant to claim.
               Inns, &c.- The number of small inns and alehouses (often very
             carelessly licensed,) is very great, and their effects on the morals
             and circumstances of the people are most pernicious and deplorable,
             though not more so here than elsewhere.
             Fuel- Coals are the fuel chiefly used, with the addition of wood
             and peat, but the last is comparatively unfrequent.
                          MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
             The most striking differences betwixt the present state of the
             parish, and that exhibited in the last Statistical Account, are briefly
             these: A decided and palpable miprovement has taken place
             in agriculture ;-the farms being now held on regular leases, well drained
             and cultivated ;-tbe ordinary as well as the gentlemen farmer
             being comfortable in their circumstances and dwellings, and
             able consequently, to avail them selves of new improvements in farm


