
     of Edenkeillie.

more to Inverness; and another at Dulfie, upon the military
road from Granton to Fort-George.  This river crosses the
great port road to Nairn and Inverness, etc.  And although
it often detains tile mail for many hours, and notwithstand-
ing the loss of many lives every year, no aid has yet been
procured from Government to build a bridge over it*.  The
other river, called Divie, or Black Water, falls into the
Findhorn, and is perhaps one of the most rapid rivers in
Scotland, rising often very suddenly to a great height.  The
principal branch of it rises among the hills which lie betwixt
this parish and Strathspey.  The other branch flows from a
pretty considerable lake, in the S. W. corner of the parish,
called Lochindorb.  This branch is called Dorback, till it joins
the Divie, about a mile below the church. 

   Roads and Bridges.-The road, from Forres to Granton,
crosses the Divie by a stone bridge.  The same road crosses
the Dorback twice, and at both places there are stone bridges.
In the year 1783, another bridge was built over the Divie,
near its junction with the Findhorn.  The arch is 62 feet
wide, springing from the rocks on each side.  The expence,
about 220 L. Sterling, was desrayed by a grant of 100 L, from

     4 A 2

<FOOTNOTE>

a bridge, and affords acccss from a considerable part of the parish, lying on the
west side of the river, to the church.  Owing to the river being confined so much at
this narrow pass betwixt the rocks, it rises, in floods, to a prodigious height, some-
times more than 30 feet above its ordinary channel.
*Miss BRODIE of LETHEN, having procured some aid from the county
funds, and subscriptions from her neighbours, engaged in building a bridge
over this rapid river, about a mile below the house of Coulmony.  An agree-
ment with workmen was entered into, to execute this useful undertaking; and,
in a short time, a most elegant arch, 72 feet wide, was thrown over the river.
But, through some unlucky defect in the work, within less than a month after
it was passable, this useful bridge gave way, and, in one night, fell into the
river.


