								         277
                                     SLAMANAN.

<TABLE>

   Number of families in the parish in 1831,       		-     212
 	              chiefly engaged in agriculture,   	-     124
                       trade, manufacture, or handicraft,      -      69

                              IV.--INDUSTRY.

   The raw produce of this parish varies with the seasons, very
considerably. When the spring weather is favourable for sowing,
and the months of June and July warm, so as to mature the crop
in the month of September, the produce amply compensates the
labour of the farmer; but when frosts attack the corn, as they
occasionally do in September, before it is ripe, the produce is very
limited, and from that cause is rendered unfit for use. This was
particularly so in the year 1836, and year 1838, when the corn
in the poorer districts yielded only 7 or 8 pecks of meal, and that
in the ricber about 12 or 13 pecks per boll, after deducting the
mill dues, which is a peck per boll. The average of four
years prior to 1836 of the number of bolls of oats was about
7570, and 180 bolls of barley of the Stirling new measure. The
produce of the Annexation may amount to 2767 bolls of oats,
and 120 bolls of barley. The quantity of potatoes raised in fa-
vourable seasons, is very considerable. There are at least 3000
bolls, including the annexation. The quantity of cabbages and
turnips is very extensive; but the produce is very irregular, from
the nature of the climate, of which they who live in favoured dis-.
tricts can form but little conception. There were formerly very
considerable crops of lint raised in the parish, and the quality was
understood to be much finer than what is now raised. The reason
assigned for this deterioration in quality, is that the ground for
lint is over-limed; still the quantity sown is very considerable,
and the return abundant in a good season. Several proprietors
have set a spirited example to others, in dividing their lands, in
draining, and enclosing them by many judicious belts of planting,
so that in a few years their estates will attain a much higher state
of cultivation. Mr Ralston of Glenellrig, who is a resident heritor,
has been at great pains in laying out the grounds in the vicinity of
his mansion house; and the farm-steadings which he has lately
erected on his estate way vie with any of the same class in the
country both for neatness and convenience. Mr Waddell of Bal-
quhatston has commenced to make similar improvements on his
estate. Mr Storie of Bankhead has made a very great improve-
ment on his estate, in draining, planting, and in laying out his
fields. The great distance from the Bathgate and Cumber-


