
     of Avendale or Strathaven.

at from L. 2, 10 s. to L. 3.  The demand for veal is so great,
that the farmers never think of rearing more calves than
what is necessary to keep up their stock of cows.  The
number of cows kept is about 18 upon the ploughgate of
land.  They are of small size, but well made, and are
found to be more hardy, easier fed, and to yield more milk
in proportion to their size than cattle of a larger breed.
The value of milk is now so well understood, that even
the whey is turned to account by feeding young swine with
it.  During the summer months, there animals swell upon
it amazingly, and by being fed upon potatoes and oats, or
oat-meal, for a month or six weeks in harvest, are fit for
slaughter in the month of November, when they are com-
monly 8 months old, and weigh from 8 to 9 stone.  This
cleanly sort of feeding has reconciled the people here to the
use of swine's flesh, which was once held in abomination.
The old Scots plough is the only one in use here.  It is
sometimes drawn by 3, but oftener by 4 horses.  The num-
ber of horses in the parish has been gradually diminishing
of late years, owing to there being less land in tillage, and
a great deal of the wet grounds being laboured with the
spade.  Besides, it is now becoming customary to buy hor-
ses about the end of January, and to fell them again about
the end of May, when the labour is over; so that a farmer
who occupies a ploughgate of land, seldom keeps more
than two work horses for 8 months in the year.  There
are a few horses reared, and the breed is improving.  A
pair of draught horses, bred here, was sold a while ago at
L. 70 Sterling.  Although every farmer has more or less
land in tillage, yet the country part of the parish, in an or-
dinary season, does very little more than supply itself with
grain.  The greatest part of the oat-meal consumed in the
town of Strathaven, is brought from the neighbouring pa-
rishes, and the wheat-flour made use of by the bakers, is

     VOL. IX.   3 C


