
			LEOCHEL AND CUSHNIE.               1105

manifested in derangement of the digestive and respiratory or-
gans, 11 of consumption, 2 of dropsy, 2 of epilepsy, 2 from ac-
cidents by burning, 1 of apoplexy, 1 of hydrocephalus, 1 of in-
flammation of the bowels, 1 of constipation, 1 of hooping-cough,
and 6 of obscure and unknown complaints; and of these 49, 6
died in infancy, 3 in childhood and under twenty, 9 from twenty
to thirty, 4 from thirty to forty, 1 from forty to fifty, 3 from fifty
to sixty, 5 from sixty to seventy, 9 from seventy to eighty, 8
from eighty to ninety, and 1 at the age of ninety five. Urinary
complaints seem not uncommon among men in advanced life,
and chronic rheumatism prevails to some extent. Last season,
two or three cases of small-pox appeared, fortunately not fatal,
which were clearly traced to infection and neglect of vaccination.
         Hydrography.-The district is very well supplied in general
with perennial springs of excellent water. The burn or water of
Leochel, already mentioned, is the principal stream in the parish.
It rises at the south-west angle, from a cleft in the Hill of Cush.
nie, runs east for three miles through the south part of Corse,
then turns north-east and north for other three miles, partly
bounding and partly intersecting the parish, and then north-west
and north for four miles more till it falls into the Don at Alford.
The other rivulets are almost all tributaries to the Leochel, and
run from west to east. The burn of Rumlie rises in the moss of
Confunderland, waters the "Howe of Corse," and, after a course
of three miles, falls into the Leochel at Muirton. The burn of
the Sheal rises at the head of the "Howe of Leochel," and runs
through it for three miles till it joins the Leochel at Knockan-
doch. The burn of Cushnie, the next in size to the Leochel-
rises from the Glen of Cushnie, at the eastern base of the hill,
and has a course of four miles east, to its junction with the Leo-
chel at Brigton of Ininteer, and the Droich's Burn runs from the
south-eastern slope of the Hill of Caillievar, and divides the pa-
rish from Alford on the north. From the deep and narrow val-
leys through which they flow, and the high and steep grounds on
either side, all these rivulets are liable to sudden floods, and, in
1839, did no little damage in demolishing bridges, and carrying
away patches of the haugh land lying along their course. Most
of these little streams abound with trout, especially the Leochell
which hs reputed the best trouting stream in the whole district.
At the south-eastern extremity of the parish, a tiny streamlet,
which divides it from Tough, and the property of Lynturk from

	ABERDEEN                        4 A


