
                   PRESTONPANS.                      315

   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The annual assessment is about
L. 300,-a sum which, being required for a population of 2500
souls, is a painful evidence of the extent and depth of the pan-
perism. The number of poor on the roll is 80. To a very great-
extent it may be traced to the sale of ardent spirits on die, Sal)-
bath, and the many evil habits that ensue from that vicious prac-
tice. Within the last month, the third lunatic within the last two
years has been cast upon the poor's funds; and in each of these
lamentable cases, the origin is to be referred to the uncommon faci-
lities of excessive drinking afforded on the Lord's day by the neces-
sary cessation of toil, the enjoyment of wages, (which-are too ge-
nerally paid on the Saturday night,) and the open sale of intoxi-
cating liquors at all hours on the Sabbath day. Notwithstanding
the very onerous assessment which is annually born by beritors
and feuars, there are few parishes in Scotland where so much is
done in a voluntary way for the poor and destitute of their neigh-
hood. The average collections for several years have amounted
to about 12s. each Sabbath,-a sum which, as there are few
resident heritors in the parish, will cast into the shade the volun-
tary collections of wealthier and more important districts, The
average yearly amount of collection is L. 31. No spectacle
can be more gratifying to the mind of the friends of the poor, than
the large amount of copper-money which is weekly cast into the
charity-plates. It is highly expressive of the feelings of a class
who cannot boast of much gold or silver,-and may dictate a pro-
fitable lesson to many who have been much more highly favoured
with the good things of this life. A distribution of coals, provid-
ed by a public subscription, is annually made under the auspices
of Mr Paterson, whose services to the poor are not more unwea-
ried than they are disinterested,-while, with equal regularity and
constancy, the members of many a poor and needy household are
cheered and comforted by the generous offices of Sir George and
Lady Harriet Suttie, whose aid, amid the rigours of winter, is never
solicited in vain.
   Inns and Alehouses.-There are 24 houses in the parish in which
ardent spirits are legally sold; of these 7 are public-houses. As may
be inferred from what has been already remarked regarding a main
cause of the vast pauperism, by which both the property and in-
dustry of the parish are so severely oppressed, an enormous quan-
tity of inebriating liquors were at one period sold on the Sabbath.
The scenes connected with this fearful abuse were of the most


