
     of Leswalt.

<UNREADABLE>

ripping and burning the sod, and spreading the ashes.  After
these operations, some farmers have had seven or eight, and
some more, excellent crops of oats.  In some farms, the
same operations have been repeated on the very same ground,
three several times, and still attended with equal success.
But it is remarked, that, after these operations, the grass de-
generates, becomes very coarse, and resembles bent.  On the
south-west and north-west points of the parish, the ground is
very wet and spungy, consisting of a deep clay, mixed with
gravel, and is either green or covered with heath.  The in-
terjacent space along the Irish channel is much diversified.
In some places the land is flat, pastly, to a pinny covered
with heath; in other places there are line green vale, that
descend to the stone in a variety of turpings and windings.
The soil is either light and sandy, or deep most.  The coast
is high, bold, and rocky.  Here no improvement has yet been
attempted, from the difficulty of procuring manure.  Loch-
ryan is some miles distant, and there are several steep pulls
for carriages in the way.  There is not a safe port on the
west coast of this parish, for the importation of lime from
Ireland; though, at a small expence, a very commodious one
might be formed, much to the emolument of both proprie-
tors and farmers.  On this coast there are great quantities
of fish, particularly excellent cod, of which some are
caught by the tenants, at the intevals of labour, for the use
of their own families; a few only are sold, and none export-
ed.  The ground in the middle of the parish is high, and
either green, or covered with heath.  In some places
there are large tracks of deep moss.  Hence little improve-
ment has been made, except what has been done by Sir
Stair Agnew, adjacent to his own house, where there are
some fields highly cultivated, and which produce excellent
crops of clover and rye-grass.  There are also several ranges

</UNREADABLE>


