
  178                      ELGINSHIRE.

   to adopt changes which are likely to prove beneficial.  Large
   tracts of ground in the parish which, thirty years ago, were bare
   moors, are now covered with thriving plantations, or have been sub -
   jected to the plough; but it may be remarked, that, while the
   land rent is at present nearly double of what it was at the date of
   the former Statistical Account, it may be doubted whether the
   wealth of the community is increased, or the commerce and trade of
   the town extended.  The greatest changes have occurred in the
   public improvements of the town, and in the altered habits,
   tastes, and manners of the people.
	During the last thirty years the streets of the town have been
   newly paved, lighted with gas, and embellished by the erection of
   a number of handsome buildings.  In 1793, there was only one
   small bridge in the parish, and the passage across the Findhorn
   was made in a ferry boat, which often proved dangerous.  There
   are now four excellent stone-bridges on the burn, and an ele-
   gant cbain-bridge across the river In 1806, no public conveyances
   passed through the parish; now a mail-coach and two stage-
   coaches pass daily.   It were very desirable if we could add, that
   the improvement in the morals and religious feelings Of the peo-
   ple was commensurate with their increased social advantages ; but
   it is to be feared, that the tendencies of luxurious enjoyment are
   more adverse than conducive to good morals and religion.
   Februar 1842.

	  		 PARISH OF EDENKILLIE.

		   PRESBYTERY OF FORRES, SYNOD OF MORAY.

		   THE REV.  PETER FARRIES, MINISTER.


		   I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	   Name, Boundaries, &c.-The ancient Gaelic name of this pa-
   rish was Aodincoillie, which signifies the face of the wood.  This
   appellation, there can be no doubt, it derived from its general as-
   pect; for while it contained two-thirds of the royal forest of Dar-
   naway, and the whole of the royal forest of Drummine, the quan-
   tities of oak, fir, hazel, &c. which are still dug up in the peat-
   mosses, afford reason to believe, that the greater part, if not the
   whole of the parisb, was covered with wood.  This parish is not


