
324                    STIRLINGSHIRE.

ing stones in Randolph field, near Newhouse, are permanent me-
morials of the battle of Bannockburn. There are several cairns
or tumuli in the parish; but it is much more difficult to ascertain
the events which they were intended to commemorate. Two of
these, to a certain extent, have not long since been examined. On
the lands of Sauchie, and not far from the supposed field of battle,
there was a large cairn af stones, more than thirty yards in diame-
ter, and upwards of twenty feet in height. On removing the
smaller stones, which had evidently been collected from the neigh-
bouring fields, there were found two coffins, the one somewhat
larger than the other. These were of freestone; of the same qua-
lity as Catscraig quarry,-little more than a mile distant, and
which is still wrought. The other cairn was on the lands of
Craigengelt, in the high grounds of the parish. The name signi-
fies the rock of terror, or the bloody rocks; and both its name and
appearance give ground to believe that it had been the scene of
many tragical events.
  In almost every field the remains of rude fortifications, such as
entrenchments and breastworks, are still traceable, as well as
Druidical cairns. About 150 yards north of Craigengelt House,
there is a mound of the same kind as that which has been remov-
ed, but only one-half its size. It is also flanked with stones at
equal distances from each other. In the upper part of Craigen-

  <FOOTNOTE>About two years ago the tenant was engaged in levelling and improving a field on
the eastern extremity of Craigengelt, in which there was a large cairn or mound,
known in the country by the name of tbe "Ghost's, Knowe." It was quite circular,
exactly 300 feet in circumference at the base, and which was flanked around by twelve
very large stones, placed at equal distances, and it was 12 feet high, with a slight in-
clination to one side, and flat on top. On removing the turf and soil, it was found
that the interior consisted of large and small stones built together with great care,
which led the proprietor to think that it must have been a place of Druidical se-
pulture. About 6 feet from the centre, there stood four upright stones, each about
5 feet in height, describing an oblong figure like a bed. Within this a coffin was
found,tbe length of which was about 7 feet, 3 1/2 broad,and 3 1/2 deep.	The under past
or bottom of the coffin was whin-flag, as was also the upper part or lid. Within
this were found the remains of a human body of the ordinary size. The bones, ex-
cept a very small part of the skull, were of the consistence of	soft chalk,-tbe
body had been enveloped in something like a mixture of decayed vegetable matter
and tar, which, when exposed to the atmosphere, emitted a strong odour. Strict or-
ders were given to the labourers that if anything, like a coffin should be found, they
were not to open it till either the proprietor or tenant were present. But one
of them, an old schoolmaster, who knew something of antiquities, went during the
night, and carried off a variety of articles, the nature and number of which are not
now likely ever to be ascertained. With reluctance, he gave up a stone axe of beau-
tiful workmanship, and a goldring. The ring  bad had a jewel in it; but the jewel
was out, and it was what is called "chased," and must have been worn on a very small
finger. A labourer in the neighborhood sold a variety of things of a rare descrip-
tion to a gentleman, in whose possession, it is believed, they stili are. The axe and
the ring were the only things obtained by the proprietor, J. Dick, Esq. of Craigen-
gelt, and they are still in his possession.


