
                           ST FERGUS.				187

quent alternations of the weather, it does not appear that there are
any diseases which may strictly be called endemic in the parish,
nor are the inhabitants less healthy than in the more inland parts
of the country, though strangers coming to reside in it with a pre-
disposition to rheumatic and stomach complaints are generally
backward to bear testimony to the salubrity of its climate.  There
were twenty-four individuals lately living upwards of eighty years
of age; and one man, in his eighty-eighth year, * is able to attend
to the business of a small farm, and to walk to church almost every
Sabbath from a distance of more than two miles.  One man died in
1835 aged ninety-six.  The writer's maternal grandfather, who
died in 1810, aged ninety-three, officiated as an elder at the dis-
pensation of the Lord's Supper in this parish in that year.  The
oldest person now living in the parish is a woman aged ninety-two.
   The prevailing winds are, the north, northeast, and north-west.
The north-west is of all others to which we are exposed the most
destructive to vegetation.  It would tend much to meliorate the
climate, and to ensure an earlier and less precarious vegetation, if
the west and north-west boundaries of the parish were skirted with
a broad salvage of planting.  It is needless to hint what an acqui-
sition this would be to our tame scenery; and, whilst it gave a
more imposing, aspect to the landscape, it would impart additional
value to the soil.  It is to be hoped, when the opportunity of en-
tertaining this proposition is afforded by the expiry of the present
leases, that it will meet with due attention in the proper quarter.
   Hydrography.-The Ugie is the only stream of water in the
parish which deserves the name of a river.  It consists of two
branches, called the North and the South Ugie, which unite in
the parish of Longside; from whence it flows in one channel along
the south boundary of St Fergus to the ocean.  In the upper dis-
tricts of the parish, in dry summers, there is often a scarcity of
water for cattle.  In the lower district there are several excellent
perennial springs.  A few are chalybeate, but none of a very
strong impregnation.  About forty years ago, a canal was cut at a
great expense along the south side of the parish.  The then pro-
prietor had contemplated its extension to Peterhead, in order to
open up a water-carriage from that port to different parts of his
extensive estates in Old Deer, Longside, and St Fergus; but
meeting with some difficulties in effecting; the necessary arrange-

<FOOTNOTE>John Milne in Kilkyhill.  The above was written in 1837.  He is still living,
attending to the concerns of his farm, and able to attend church in a good day,-Ja-
nuary 1840.


