
                     EDINBURGH.                          647

   The Old Town is situated on a high ridge of ground with one
principal line of street, the High Street, extending from the Cas-
tle to Holyrood Palace, being a distance of about 5570 feet. Pa-
rallel to this runs the Cowgate, while numerous closes and wynds
extend on each side of the High Street, slanting along the decli-
vities of the ridge. The elevated situation and the irregular
height and antiquity of the houses on this ridge form a very
picturesque appearance; and contrast finely with the more mo-
dern and regular structures in the New Town. The oldest por-
tion of the New Town forms a regular parallelogram, built, upon
a nearly level surface, and extending 3900 feet in length by 1090
in breadth. Princes Street, George Street, and Queen Street
run parallel to each other, and are intersected at right angles by
Hanover Street, Frederick Street, and others. The northern and
more recently built portion still retains the general parallelism of
the streets, but more variety is introduced by crescent, circle,
and octagon.
   As the city extended its dimensions, various acts of Parliament
were passed extending the bounds of the royalty. Such were the
acts of 1767, 1785, 1786, 1809, 1814.
   The city now consists of the following districts:-
   I. The Ancient Royalty, being all the streets within the old
city walls, viz. Castlehill, Lawnmarket, High Street, Nether Bow,
St Mary Wynd, Cowgate, Grassmarket, Candlemaker-row, Society,
Brown's Square, Argyle Square, College, Infirmary, Surgeons'
Square, and North and South Bridge Streets-also Heriot's Hos-
pital Charity Workhouse, Greyfriars, and several houses without
the West Port and Nether Bow.
   II. The Extended Royalty, being all the grounds shaded with
a yellow line in Grainger and Miller's plan.\*
   These two districts are what is properly called the City of Edin-
burgh, and the election of town-councillors is confined to the par-
liamentary electors within them. But the ancient burgh, and the
jurisdiction of the city magistrates also includes other places, not
within the royalty, viz.-1. The common mills of the burgh at the
Water of Leith, which now belong to the corporation of bakers,
and lie in the Dean, to the westward of the great bridge lately
erected. 2. The Burgh Loch and Burgh Muir, which include
the Meadows, Bruntsfield Links, Bruotsfield, Greenhill, Mora

<FOOTNOTE>Plan of the paliamentary boundaries of Edinburgh by Messrs Grainger and Mil-
ler, 1828.


