
			TURRIFF.                            1011

butions are, aided by frequent donations from the Noble and gene-
rous patron of the church and parish, the resident heritors, some
of the neighbouring gentry, and the more wealthy inhabitants,
there is still much room left for the exercise of the benevolent
affections, and many cases of poverty and suffering which loudly
call for sympathy and support. It would be well if such were vo-
luntarily extended; for if the time should come, and, with regret,
we see symptoms of its approach, when a compulsory assessment
for the maintenance of the poor shall be resorted to, heritors and
tenants, merchants and mechanics, would all feel the pressure of
a tax which, in the southern part of the island, and in some pa-
rishes in our own land, has been found peculiarly burdensome and
grievous. Happily that feeling of independence and reluctance
to ask or to receive parochial aid, which was so characteristic of
the people in former days, is not yet altogether extinct; but it
requires to be cherished and kept alive, and every one who loves
his country, and has the real interest of the poor at heart, will be
anxious to do so. In an especial manner we hold this to be a
duty peculiarly incumbent on the ministers of parishes, who can
never be more usefully employed than in endeavouring to mitigate
the sufferings of the indigent, by encouraging among them feelings
of self-respect, habits of industry, and the Christian virues of
contentment and resignation, and, at the same time, of pointing
out to those in the higher ranks of life, whom a kind Providence
has blessed with abundance, the claims which God and man have
for a due portion of the gifts and good things they so liberally
enjoy.
	Coal Fund.--This fund was established about eighteen years
ago.  It is supported by an annual collection in the parish church
on the first Sabbath of every year, by the interest of a bequest of
L. 200 in 1829, by the late Dr Hall, long a respectable physician
in this place, and the interest of a donation of L. 50 in 1834, by
Mr John Johnston, merchant in Aberdeen, whose father was a
native of the parish, and by some minor contributions. It is ma-
naged by the kirk-session, and such householders as choose to at-
tend their meetings; and such is the public confidence in its use-
fulness, that the coals are now generally brought from Banff and
Macduff by the farmers, free of all expense, and distributed among
the poor on the roll, and any other indigent families or individuals
who are deemed fit objects of the charity. In connection with
this fund, and from its resources, the paupers also get a triennial


