
550                           DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

	3.The use of ardent spirits debases and depresses all clases of
the community. Two or three years ago, it was stated on autho-
rity,that the consumption spirits in Great Britain,was 30,000,000
of gallons, of which 5,000,000 were consumed in Scotland. The
population of Great Britain and Ireland was lately upwards of
23,000,000. And it has been calculated, that the expense of
bread, the staff of life, is greatly less than the expense of spirits.
The whole produce arising from the industry of all classes and pro-
fessions, throughout the United Kingdom, has been calculated at
L. 36,000,000, or L. 37,000,000. And a third of this has been
employed in purchasing spirits.
	But while it appears that the loss occasioned bv expending
money on strong drink is of no ordinary description, this as every
one knows, is by far the least evil attending the unfortunate pro-
pensity; the injury to health, and to every habit of activity, and
every moral and religious feeling being incalculable. *
	4. The habit of using tobacco and snuff wastes to a lamentable
extent the resources of the inhabitants of a parish. The follow-
ing statement will show what these articles cost immense numbers
of deluded people, throughout the nation. The duties paid on to-
bacco in Great Britain and Ireland for 1829 were stated to be
L. 2,859,000. Add to this the cost of production, the expenses
of freight, the profits of the manufacturer, wholesale merchant and
retailer, and the whole will amount to an annual sum, which, in
the course of fourscore years, would almost pay off the national
debt. And all this is of course paid by the consumer. The pro-
portion of duty for Scotland in 1829 was L. 273,000. Suppose
L. 400,000 paid for the article by the consumers, which is pro-

<FOOTNOTE>have been adopted for a short period only, and have, moreover, met with opposition
in some few quarters, vagrants have In a great measure vanished from the county. The
office of constables, where they have been employed, has been found nearly a sine-
cure. And it does not appear that their services will be long required.--Nov. 1837.
    In 1834, the House of Commons appointed a Select Committee of their number
to take evidence on the vice of drunkeness. The witnesses ascribe a large proportion,
much more than the half of the poverty, disease, and misery of the kingdom, to this
vice. Nine-tenths of the crimes committed are considered by them as originating in
drunkenness. The pecuniary loss to the nation from this vice, on viewing the sub-
ject in all its bearings, is estimated by the committee, in their report to the House
of Commons, as little short of fifty millions per annum. A great many of the wit-
nesses recommended the prohibition of distillation, as well as of the importation of
spirits into the kingdom. In a religious view, the consequences of this vice, as ap-
ears from the evidence, are no less afflicting. In London, Manchester, Liverpool,
Dublin, Glasgow, and all the large towns through the kingdom, the Sabbath, in-
stead of being set apart to the service of God, is made by hundreds of thousands
a high festival of dissipation, rioting, and profligacy. It is sincerely to be wished that
the excellent institutions for rooting out drunkenness, now appearing in every part
of the kingdom, may grapple successfully with this great destroyer.


