
			COUNTY OF WIGTON.                  223

disappeared; the number of post-chaises being supposed to be
now only a fourth of what they were twenty or thirty years ago.
Nor is this all. The importation of Irish horses and black-cattle
at Portpatrick has diminished to a similar extent. It appears from
the account of the parish of Portpatrick, that whereas the number
of such stock imported at Portpatrick, was 17,275 in 1790, and
20,000 in 1812, it was, hn 1837, only 1080. " Both cattle and
horses from Ireland," says the reverend writer of that account,
" are now conveyed so easily and safely by steamers to Liverpool
or Glasgow, that the short sea-passage at Portpatrick is not so
desirable for them as when steam navigation was unknown, or in
its infancy." We may here state that the mail-coach was first in-
troduced into Galloway in 1804, and that it has rince continued
to run daily between Dumfries and Portpatrick. An additional
mail-coach commenced two years ago to run between Newton-
stewart and Stranraer via Wigton, Whithorn, Portpatrick, and
Glenluce; but as the speculation, we believe, is a losing concern,
it is thought it will be discontinued, and the mail between these
places carried, as before, on horseback. There is not, nor ever
was, an opposition coach in Wigtonshire.
	Religious Houses and Ecclesiastical State.--Wigtonshire was
distinguished for the number of monasteries which it contained;
namely, those of Whithorn, Wigton, Glenluce, and Soulseat, of
each of which an account will be found under the parishes to which
they severally belong. The oldest church in Scotland, founded
by St Ninian, was built near the site of the present Whithorn.
This county, at the Reformation, contained 21 parishes, with va-
riots subsidiarx chapels, built either for the private use of some
baronial family, or for the advantage of the remote inhabitants of
a large parish. These chapels have long been disused; and in
some cases even their ruins have disappeared. Parishes have been
more judiciously arranged: in some instances, that of Sorbie,
for example, three, being annexed, form ond; and though three
new parishes have been erected, (Kirkowan, Stranraer, and Port-
patrick,) the number is reduced to 17.
	History.--As the civil history of Galloway, of which province
Wigtonshire formed a part, is curious and interesting, a brief sketch
of it, as connected with the county, may not be inappropriate in
this place. The aborigines, who were of Celtic origin, were the
Novantes: their chief towns were Rerigonium on the Rerigonius
Sinus, or Lochryan,--and Leucophibia, the present Whithorn.


