
452                     INVERNESS-SHIRE.

court, is an incontrovertible fact: Early in the morning after the
battle, orders were given by the Duke of Cumberland or General
Hawley, par ignobile fratrum, to inspect the wounded and mangled,
in whom there remained any symptoms of life, and collect them
into two heaps, and apply a six pounder to each heap: yet,
wonderful as it may appear, one Maciver, a private, (not an of-
ficer, as stated by Chambers,) though mutilated in several
parts of his body, survived this massacre a dismal memorial of
Cumberland's tender mercies. The man died near Beauly, about
the year 1796, where many are still living, who may have known
him ; but to put the bloody deed beyond the shadow of doubt,
the writer of this account knew for several years a John Reid
who fought that day in the second battallion of the Royal Scots,
and heard from his lips, that he saw the cruel deed, and thanked
God that he had nothing to do with the black wark. John fought
at the battles of Dettingen and Fontenoy, and only died about the
year 1807, in the 105th year of his age, and in the full enjoyment
of all his mental faculties. He was a lively little man, and retain-
ed a correct and vivid recollection of what he had seen and heard.
   Buildings.-The Castle of Kilravock, built by permission of the
Earl of Ross, stands upon a bluff rock, rising abruptly from a beau-
tiful plain to the south of the castle, through which the river Nairn
winds its way. At first, it consisted of a massive lofty tower with
the usual appurtenances, to which, from time to time, additions,
not in perfect keeping, have been made. Several of the apart-
ments have been modernized and furnished in a splendid style,
by the present occupant, Mrs General Campbell, who, with exqui-
site taste and judgment, has changed the appearance of the lawns,
gardens, and pleasure grounds, levelling the undulations of the
grounds, and, instead of stiff and formal angles in the alleys, sub-
stituting elegant curvatures. This venerable pile has been the
residence of the Roses since 1460. This family, truly an-
cient and honourable, have been distinguished for ages in the north
for every high and noble quality ; and, with their name almost above
any other in this part of the kingdom,-is associated the memory of
generous, noble, and patriotic deeds. The succession in this fa-
mily did not once diverge to a6ollateral branch, for upwards of 600
years. The present proprietor, Hugh Rose, is the chief, and the
nineteenth of his name, and twenty-fourth in lineal descent.
   General Sir John Rose of Holm, a cadet of the family of Kil-


