
     of Kilmore and Kilbride.

A few are now living in this parish, aged 90 years and up-
wards, and a few others died lately about the same age.

   Cultivation.-The mode of plowing, for 20 years past, was
by 4 horses abreast; but now, 2 only are used, which has been
found by experience to answer better*.  The implements of
husbandry have of late undergone a very considerable degree
of improvement, insomuch, that they are almost equal to any
used in the most improved parts of Scotland.  Within these
12 or 14 years, the use of carts has become common, both
among the gentry and the farmers, who are sensible of the
great utility of them.-The manures are chiefly produced by
cattle housed, or inclosed in moveable folds, from field to field.
Sea ware is also used, mixed with moss and earth.  Shell sand,
not being found in this part of the country, is brought from
the western parts of the counties of Ross and Inverness.  It
is laid on the lee grounds, produces good crops, and afterwards
greatly enriches the pile of grass.  Lime-stone is found here;
but the use of it is in a great measure totally prevented, by
the expensiveness of the fuel in this parish.  The quantity of
rain which falls here is so great, as to injure much the peat or
turf; yet notwithstanding this disadvantage, and the exorbit-
ant price of coals, owing to the late heavy duty and freight,
a few of the inhabitants have made an effort, and burn lime
with success.

     Q 2

<FOOTNOTE>

*Seed-time is about the middle of March; harvest about the 24th of
August; but some very rainy seasons retard the harvest to the succeeding
months.  In the memorable 1782, the weather being very cold and wet, the
price of meal rose to 126 s. per boll; but, from the very great attention of go-
vernment, in sending a seasonable supply to the poor, and the management of
those to whom the distribution was committed, together with the charity and
benevolence of the most able and best disposed in the country, the condition of
the poor was rendered tolerable.


