
402                       ROXBURGHSHIRE.

for that purpose, with their samples, and hope that millers and
others who want corn, will make use of that opportunity of pur-
chasing."
   The fair at Rink originated with the club, who proposed the
establishment of it to the proprietor of the ground, Mr Ruther-
furd of Edgerstone; and in consequence of every encouragement
being held out by him, the first fair was held on 15th October
1779, when there were 2540 sheep exposed to sale.  This es-
tablishment has been of very great use, and, till lately, continued
to be the most extensive fair for draft ewes and wedders in the
south of Scotland.  A market for hiring hinds and herds was also
formed at Hawick on the third Thursday of April 1780, which is
now generally held on the first, second, and third Thursdays of
that month.  In 1785, the club proposed to the magistrates and
town-council of Hawick, the establishment of a cattle tryst in the
mouth of October.  This also continues to be held annually, but
has not been quite so successful as was expected.
   Ploughing matches were held for some years, and premiums
given to the best ploughman.  The first was held on the farm of
Ashiebank, 15th April 1786, when ten ploughs started.  On the
25th January 1787, the second premium was gained by a servant
of Sir Gilbert Elliot of Minto, who Ploughed with two oxen with-
out a driver.
   In 1803 a premium of L. 5 was given for the best bull, and
L. 3 for the best quey; next year, additional premiums of L. 3 for
the second best bull, and L. 2 for the second best quey were added;
and these premiums were continued until 1814, when they appear
to have been superseded by the large premiums given by the Bor-
der Agricultural Society.
   In 1807, the club had the merit of rousing the attention of the
public to the great hardships sustained by farmers from the hypo-
thetical mode of estimating their profits under the Property Tax
Act.  The club appointed a committee to collect the sense of
the farmers of the county of Roxburgh On this subject, and, in con-
sequence of their recommendations, a general meeting of the far-
mers of the county was held at Jedburgh, and steps taken to bring
their situation under the notice of Government.  Their exertions
to procure a repeal or alteration in the mode of assessment were
continued for several years at a considerable expense: they were
latterly joined by the proprietors of land, and Government was at
last induced to repeal this very unequal tax.


