
			KILBIRNIE.                     721

succeeded Mr Malcolm Brown, who was admitted, 30th January
1734, and was in office until his death in 1794. He lived to the
age of 100 years, and was, as is stated on his monument, "a man
highly respected, esteemed and regretted." On the 6th of August
1795, the present incumbent was admitted.
	The parish church is situated about half a mile south of the vil-
lage, and may be considered as thus far removed now from the
central point of the population. Its position is not, however,
the subject of any complaint, as there is only one farm-house
so far distant as three miles from it. It is the most ancient,
and, in some respects, the most interesting ecelesiastical fabric ex-
tant in the west of Scotland. The body of the edifice, a simple
oblong, 65 feet in length and 29 feet and a-half in breadth, must
have been built considerably prior to the Reformation, for the
Glengarnock aisle attached to its south-east extremity, is evi-
dently a modern addition, though bearing the date 1597. The
Craufurd gallery, extending in a direction opposite to this aisle, is
the most recently constructed part of the edifice, having been built
in 1654, by Sir John Craufurd, as is recorded in relieved characters
over one of its windows. The church is, however, chiefly remarkable
on account of the carvings in oak with which this gallery and the
pulpit are profusely decorated, and for the numerous emblazoned
proofs on the former, of the ancestral gentility of John, first Vis-
count Garnock, by whose commands all these adornments were
executed in the early part of the last century. Along the front of
this stately family-seat, there are no fewer than sixteen armorial
escutcheons genealogically arranged, besides two elaborate repre-
sentations of the Viscount's honours. This heraldic display, with-
the carved decorations and some ancient monumental remains,
both within and without the church, render it an object unique in
its kind, and one of no common interest to the curious in matters
of heraldry and antiquity. As this venerable fabric will, in a short
time, be inadequate to accommodate the rapidly increasing popu-

		      To us, alas, he is no more,
		      His soul triumphs in endless gloir;
		      Why should we then his death deplore,
		      Who joined has the Heavenly choir?
		      To make his character compleat,
		      Nature blest him with temper sweet,
		      Kind to his own, to all discreet.
		      All who do love his memory,
                        Must like him live, and like him dy,
                        Then ye'l enjoy etenity,
		      In ever praising the Most High.
AYR.                                                    Z Z


