
                               WEEM.                     709

Captain James Menzies, had Comrie, and lived in the castle, of
which the ruins are still standing.
     16.  Sir Alexander, son of the said Robert, succeeded his grand-,
father.
     17. Sir Robert succeeded his father.
     18. Sir John succeeded his cousin, Sir Robert.
     19. Sir Robert succeeded his cousin, Sir John.
     20. Sir Neil succeeded his father, and is now in possession of
the estate of his ancestors.   He resides constantly on his proper-
ty, is a spirited improver of his estates, and a practical farmer to
a great extent.  He has lately been elected Honorary Secretary
of the Highland and Agricultural Society of Scotland, a merited
reward for his attention to the objects of that distinguished and
useful association.
     Land-owners-.-These are, Sir Neil Menzies of Menzies, the
patron of the parish; the Marquis of Breadalbane; and to a com-
paratively small extent, Ranald Menzies, Esq. of Culdares.
     Patrochial Registers.-The first entry in the parish registers was
in 1692; but they do not appear to have been kept with much
regularity till 1741, and at no period have the names of all the
children been inserted.
     Antiquities.-There are two upright crosses, close to each
other, in the district of Newhall, said to have been the sides of a
gateway to a Druidical  place of worship at no great distance, but
in a neighbouring parish.  Here must have been anciently the
business village of the surrounding district, as a fair called Feill
D...idh, or St David's, had been held at it, which was removed to
the village of Kenmore, where it is now one of the principal fairs,
and is held in March.  There was a burying-ground, also, with a
similar name, Cill D...idh, but no tradition exists concerning this
guardian saint.
     In the east end of the old church of Weem, which is still
standing, and is now altogether the property of Sir Neil Menzies,
there is a monument of very curious and varied sculpture, well-Wor-
thy Of the minute examination of an antiquary, bearing, by a Latin
inscription upon it, to be to the memory of Sir Alexander Men-
zies, the thirteenth in order of the family, and of his spouse, Mar-
jory Campbell, and others.
     Castle Menzies, the chief seat of Sir Neil Menzies of Men-
zies, Baronet, and where he generally resides, stands in the midst
of a rich, beautiful, and extensive lawn, finely interspersed with


