
666                      EDINBURGHSHIRE.

by an assessment on the rental of the houses, and an annual re-
venue secured on the Leith docks, in lieu of the merk per ton,
which has been abolished. The seat rents are levied by the town-
council, and are appropriated to the building and support of the
churches.
   Free Church.-The number of congregations belonging to the
Free Church is twenty-three.

Buccleuch.               High Church.             St Andrew's.             St Luke's.
Canongate.               Lady Glenorchy's.        St Bernard's.            St Mary's.
Dean.                    Newington.               St Cuthbert's.           St Paul's.
Gaelic.                  New North.               St David's.              St Stephen's.
Greyfriars.              Pilrig.                  St George's.             Tolbooth.
Henderson Church.        Roxburgh.                St John's.
   Episcopal Churches.-After the abolition of prelacy in Scotland
in 1689, a few congregations of Episcopalians were tacitly tolera-
ted, although after the rebellion of 1745 an act was passed against
the nonjuring clergy of this denomination. In 1722 an Episcopal
chapel was founded by Lord Chief Baron Smith, with an endow-
ment of L. 40 Sterling a-year to the clergyman. In 1746 two
additional chapels were built, one in Skinner's, the other in Car-
rubber's, Close. As these houses were very small and incapable
of accommodating the congregations, a larger church was built
in the Cowgate by subscription, in the year 1771, for the purpose
of accommodating all the Episcopalians then in Edinburgh, and the
congregation, according to Arnot, amounted to 1000. In 1816
the number of Episcopalians had so increased, and the wealth
and respectability of the members were so considerable, as to
demand still further church accommodation. Accordingly in that
year two large chapels were founded, and completed in 1818.
Both are Gothic structures; and the funds for their erection were
procured by subscription among the members of their congrega-
tiop. A fund for the support of the clergy was also raised in the
same manner, which is invested, under the management of trustees,
in government securities.
   St Paul's, Chapel is situated in York Place. The building
consists of a nave with four octagon towers, two at each end.
Two aisles run on each side of the nave, supported by light
buttresses and there is an elegant window in the eastern end.
The building cost L. 12,000. It accommodates a congregation
of 1000.
   St John's Chapel.-This elegant Gothic structure is situated at
the west end of Princes Street, adjoining to the West church.


