 
73 
838                            FIFESHIRE.

  Fossil Remains.-There is a great abundance of fossil remains
in the Charleston limestone. One large block of the stone, con-
taining a very rich specimen of these, has been transferred to the
lawn on the south-east corner of Broomhall House.
     Here there are, 1st, The Turbinolia fungites, vulgarly named
Sheephorn, from its resemblance to that object, or turbinated ma-
drepore.
     2d, The Tubipora, in great abundance.
     3d, The Encrinite. Whole masses of the rock at Charleston
are covered with this fossil, on account of the profusion of which,
the limestone might be called, as it sometimes is, " Encrinal."
     4th, The Producta is very plentiful in this quarry, and there are
some specimens of that species of it which have been denominated
the Producta Martini. There are also the Producta fimbriata,
pustulosa, and many others. There are observable on some of the
Producta long minute lines, like silver wires, proceeding from both
valves, commonly named needles, but now ascertained to be the
spines of the Producta. Some portions of limestone also contain
these spines without the Producta.
  There are here, too, several species of Spirifers and Terebra-
tulae, and a few rare instances of the Orthoceratite.
  On the shore, west of the harbour, was found a specimen of ap-
parently a coralline.
  Between Broomhall House and the quarry, there is on the ris-
ing ground a huge piece of lime-rock, preserved as a memorial of
the height which the rock once possessed, and full of the organic
remains now noticed, some of which are in thick regular layers.
This piece of rock is seen from a great distance, and has upon it
a flag-staff.
  Roscobie Limestone.-This is about three and a half miles north
from the town of Dunfermline, and is also of the mountain de-
posit. It has several varieties, the two principal of which are,-
compact, grey, fracture earthy, with many particles of calcareous
spar; and compact, grey, fracture earthy, with very few of these
shining particles. Two specimens of these were carefully analys-
ed for the writer in January and February 1839, by Rev. A. Ro-
bertson, Junior, well known for his chemical attainments, and were
found to contain as follows. The first,-
        Carbonic acid,                	423
	Lime,	                        52.8
	Magnesia,	                0.54
	Alumina and oxide of iron,	0.5

