

128                       PEEBLES-SHIRE.

which tend much to beautify and improve the country. The pre-
vailing winds are from the south-west, and the heavy rains are im-
mediately absorbed. Rheumatism is the most prevalent distemper.
   Geology.-The prevailing rocks in this parish appear to belong
to the transition class.
   Not long ago, in digging for marl in the Mount bog, several
horns of the elk, in a high state of preservation, were found. It
is conjectured that there must have been a lake at one time in that
place, perhaps in a semifluid state, and that the deer running into
it when pursued by the hunters had perished. In proof of there
having been a lake, it may be mentioned, that, in boring for marl
in another part of the bog, there were found several hazel-nuts
by no means in a decayed state. The discovery of these horns
affords one, among many other proofs, that this country must have
abounded in former times very much in wood.
                  II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Eminent Men-James Geddes of Rachan, whose ancestors pos-
sessed the large estate of Kirkurd for a long course of years, was
born in this parish in the year 1710. He was educated for, and
practised several years at, the bar, and was to have been appointed
to the Bench of Judges. He died of consumption before he ar-
rived at the age of forty. He published an Essa on the Compo-
sition and Manner of Writing of the Ancients, and left behind him
several other tracts.
   It is recorded in history, that, at the close of the civil wars with
the Douglasses in the reign of James II., Sir David Scott of Kirhurd
and Buccleuch obtained great gifts of land for his clan's service and
his own at the battle of Arkinholme, in the valley of Esk, where the
brothers of Douglas and his followers received a severe defeat, and
that the possession of this landed property was the commencement
of that course of greatness which afterwards raised his family to
the dukedom.
   Land-owners.-There are four proprietors in this parish, the
principal of whom are Sir Thomas G. Carmichael, Bart. of Skir-
ling, and John Lawson, Esq. of Cairnmuir. The former gentle-
man is patron of Kirkurd, and possesses several valuable estates
in other parishes. His estates formerly belonged to John Earl of
Hyndford, his grand-uncle. They are entailed in the male line.
   Parochial Registers.-With regard to these, it may be stated,
that three books exist containing part of the records of the kirk-
session. The first begins in September 23, 1705, and ends Fe-
                           4


