

                           LATHERON.                                91

       at his own expense in other parts of the country; a circumstance
       no less gratifying to the originator, than advantageous to,the sur-
       rounding community.
          Land-owners.-The chief land-owners of the parish are, Sir
       George Sinclair of Ulbster, Bart; William Sinclair, Esq. of
       Freswick; John Sutherland, Esq. of Forse; Donald Horne, Esq.
       of Langwell; Colonel Gordon of Swiney; Lord Duffus; Sir
       Ralph A.  Anstruther, Bart; Temple Frederick Sinclair, Esq. of
       Lybster; and Donald Munro, Esq. of Latheron.
          Parochial Registers.-The earliest datd of the parochial records
       now extant is 1755.  They have been pretty regularly kept till
       1770.  There is then a chasm of nearly, thirteen years to 1783,
       after which they have, with few exceptions, been correctly kept;
       especially since 1813, the entries are scrupulously correct.
          Antiquities.-From the great number Of castles in this parish, it
       would appear as if the chief strength of the county were concentrat-
       ed in it.  There are no fewer than eight of them along the sea-coast,
       and for the most part built on the very brink of high and perpendicu-
       lar rocks overhanging the sea, and inaccessible from that quarter.
       They were also so constructed as to admit of separation from the
       land at pleasure, the chief connection being by means of a draw-
       bridge.  The greater number of them are now in ruins, but, from
       the height, strength, and thickness of the walls of those that re-
       main, it may easily be conceived what a formidable obstacle they
       presented to an invading enemy in those times, standing as they
       do in such close succession.  Beginning at the south, their names
       are Berriedale, Achastle, Dunbeath, (still inhabited,) Knockinnan,
       Latheron, Forse, Swiney, and Clyth.  Several of them are still
       celebrated for the warlike deeds of their brave, though ferocious
       original possessors, and it is highly instructive to contrast the se-
       curity, peace, and tranquillity of those who now surround them,
       with the insecurity, rapine, and bloodshed that prevailed in former
       days.  It is hardly necessary to add, that these ruins present not
       the slightest traces either of the graces of ornament, or the em-
       bellishments of art, which so tastefully adorn more modern archi-
       tecture.
          Modern Buildings.-The only buildings of recent erection de-
       serving of notice are the churches of Berriedale and Lybster.  The
       former is a Government church, of very neat construction, though
       small in size.  It was built in 1826, and contains about 300 sitters.


