
                              INVERAVEN.		      	    129

	three of them with white wings, of which a male and female were
	shot, that presented a very singular appearance.  Previous to the
	great flood of 1829, which proved so destructive there and through-
	out this parish, chaffinches and house-sparrows were very numerous
	about Ballindalloch; but of the former, though almost as numerous
	as ever, few were to be seen for a year after, and not a single in-
	dividual of the latter has yet made its appearance.
	   Wood and Plantations.-Inveraven proper is studded in almost
	all directions with plantations, which, with the natural wood, con-
	sisting chiefly of birch, oak, and mountain-ash, lining the banks of
	the spey and the Aven, afford shelter, and are very ornamental;
	but with the exception of some stunted birches and alders, chiefly
	in the valley of the Livet, and some fruit, forest, and ornamental
	trees in the gardens and around the residences of some of the prin-
	cipal inhabitants, Glenlivet, including Morange and the Braes, is
	utterly destitute of wood.  A clump of venerable firs, one of them
	measuring eleven feet in circumference at eleven feet from the
	ground, and supposed to contain 212 cubic feet of timber, height-
	ens the natural beauty of the ancient place of Kilmaichlie, which,
	with the old widow lady who inhabited it, and some of her domes-
	tics, is so interestingly described in the 87th No. of the Lounger
	by the graphic pen of the Man of Feeling.  At Ballindalloch, and
	almost so near as to cast their shadows on the house, stand two
	splendid specimens of spruce fir, one measuring in circumference
	fifteen feet at the base, and nine feet nine inches at six feet from
	the ground, and the other, eleven and a-half feet at the base, and
	nine feet at six feet from the ground, both apparently healthy, and
	perfectly free from the aphis, to which other three of similar di-
	mensions, which stood close by, fell martyrs some years ago.  On
	the lawn, there are also to be seen a numcer of very fine old hard
	wood trees, among which is an ash with thirty-five feet of clear
	stem, measuring in circumference fourteen feet at the base, and
	nine feet at sixteen feet from the ground; and to the west of the
	house, within a few yards of the Aven, a magnificent Scotch fir,
	measuring ten feet in ciscumference at twelve feet from the ground.
	A considerable quantity of Scotch fir is nearly full grown on both
	sides of the Aven, which afford roofing, deals, planks, &c. for coun-
	try purposes,-while the younger plantations, both of hard wood
	and larch, aod Scotch fir, ase of great promise, and such as to
	giwe ewery encouragement to their furthes extension.  Some of the
	foreign species of pine, such as Pinus cymbra, Pinus maritima,
	   BANFF.			I


