
420			DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

	Parochial Registers.--The earliest register of baptisms commen-
ces in 1706; of marriages, in 1719; and of deaths, in 1704. From
which period till the present, the register of baptisms and mar-
riages has been kept with tolerable accuracy; but the register of
deaths is wholly awanting for one year.
	Antiquities.--The Castle of Langholm is merely a square tower
or border-house, which was formerly the property of the Armstrongs,
a powerful body of freebooters in this district ; and is now in ruins.
The Castle of Barntalloch, near Staplegorton, built of stone and
lime, stood on a rocky precipice above the Esk. Under this fortifica-
tion, rose a burgh of barony, where an annual fair of great resort was
held, which, many years ago, was transferred to Langholm. There
is a tract of ground which contains somewhat more than twenty-six
Scotch acres that still bear the name of the " Borough roods of
Staplegorton." At the junction of the Esk and Ewes, a small frag-
ment of a castle is visible, formerly the property of the Nithsdale
family. Wauchope Castle, where the old manse stood, was the
first residence of the Lindsays in Scotland. This family came into
this country from the manor of Lindsai, in Essex, along with Mal-
colm Canmore in the beginning of the twelfth century, who con-
ferred upon them the lands of Wauchopedale. This castle is built
upon a steep precipice near the river Wauchope, which renders it
very romantic,--the opposite banks being covered with a variety of
beautiful trees. In former times it must have been a place of great
strength. The fosse and other out-works can readily be traced,
even at this distance of time. Mr Pennant, in examining the site
of the old Castle of Broomholm, which was taken down about ninety
years ago, was of opinion, that the mansion-house of Broomholm
stands in a situation which was the heart of an old British town,
answering to Caesar's description, " Oppidum sylvis paludi-
busque munitum."--The Roman road of communication between
the encampments of Netherbie and Castle O'er, or Overbie,
in Eskdalemuir, can still be traced. This road enters Langholm
parish at the south-east corner, crosses the Esk a'short way above
Broomholm, and runs north-west till it enters the parish of Wester-
kirk.
	Coins.--On the farm of Broomholm, about fifty years ago, some
of Mr Maxwell's servants found six denarii aurei, three of which
were of Nero, two of Vespasian, and one of Domitian,--all in high
preservation. A few years later, on the same line of road, one Otho,
and two denarii aurei, were found hear Wauchope bridge. They


