
     of Portree.

properly managed at first, is very dangerous.  The head of
the serpent that inflicts the wound, mixed with certain
herbs, and applied to the parts that are most affected, is rec-
koned good to carry off the poison, and abate the swelling.
There have been instances of cattle wounded by them in
the tongue or lips that never recovered.  Of amphibious
animals, seals and otters are frequent here; the value of
whose skins, as well as of the oil made of the fat of the seal,
is well known.  Whales and cairbans, or sun-fish, come in
sometimes to the Sounds after their prey, but are rarely pur-
sued with any success.  The fishes commonly caught on
the coast are herrings, ling, cod, scate, haddock, makerel,
lythe, sye, and dog-fish; this last is of little or no use for
food, unless among the poorer sort of people, but its liver
is of value on account of the excellent oil which is made
of it.  The average price of ling at home is L. 13, 13 s.
per ton; when sold, one by one, if fresh, the price is
from 3 d. to 5 d.; if cured, from 5 d. to 7 d.  The barrel
of herrings seldom sells under 19 s. which is owing to
the great difficulty of procuring salt, even sometimes at
any price; and the same cause very often hinders ma-
ny from fishing more than is sufficient for their own
use.  The obvious method of remedying this, and which
would be attended with infinite advantage to the High-
lands and islands, is so well known, and has been al-
ready so often fully and ably treated of by others, that
to enlarge upon it here would be superfluous.  Syes under
one year old are called cuddies, and are caught in great
quantities in the latter end of harvest, throughout the win-
ter, and beginning of spring.  There are two ways of fish-
ing the cuddie; the one is by means of a rod, from the
top of which, suspended by a line consisting of half a dozen
hairs or threads in thickness, hangs a small hook, on which
bait being artfully fixed, it is let down into the sea; in
that manner an expert fisher catches several hundreds in an


