
	                    GLASSARY.                        683

commands a view of the hills of Knapdale, the coast, and Loch-
Crinan. Another is called Tunnan, and is placed upon a rock
called Creag na'n Tun in Glenaireidh, and within sight of Dun-
chuaich, another watch-tower in the parish, and above the Castle
of Inverary. The third is on Gortain Rainich, by the side of
Lochglaissean, and it commands a view of the two former, being
in the centre between them: The whole thus forming one line of
communication, by which any tidings might be intimated from
either district to the other.
Tradition states that a great portion of the parish was in pos-
session of the MacDonalds, and that the chief who held the sur-
rounding district in subjection lived on Lochaweside. There is a
ruin on the northern banks of that lake, called Fionn-chairn Castle,
which is pointed out as the residence of Mac Mhic Jain. It stands
upon a rock, which, rises up from the waters of the lake on one
side, and is all around steep and rugged, without a pathway, so that
it is entered by climbing with, some difficulty. It is a square
building, of small dimensions, having an area in the centre, sur-
rounded by what appears to have been rooms, or rather cells, one
tier above another, and the uppermost of them roofed in by flags
of a large size.
Tradition says it was destroyed by fire, and the account given
of its fall is illustrative of the times. Mac Mhic Jain was ac-
knowledged by all around as the chief, find he demanded the
services and submission which were supposed due to him in that
capacity. The fair Una was the daughter of a powerful vassal
in the neighbourhood, who was about to give her in marriage to
a youth who was worthy of, and who had won her heart. The
marriage day was fixed, and only one bitterness was mixed in
the cup of their ardent expectations. The chieftain, by cus-
tom, possessed privileges which he exacted, but which God and
nature teach to be the right of the husband alone. Una plead-
ed and wept; her lover remonstrated with the chief to spare
them the pain and disgrace; but be was inexorable. The mar-
riage party assembled; the knot was tied; and the supper was
spread in the hall. Mac Mhic Jain had arrived, as was usual, to
share in the feast. One, however, was absent from the board, and
be was the bridegroom. No sooner was be missed than the alarm
was raised that Fionn-chairn Castle was on fire. The truth flash-
ed on the mind of the chief, and he rushed forth the first to have
vengeance. This happened as the youth expected, who had avail-


