
900			PERTHSHIRE.

and Ashmore and the Kingseat on the west side of the hill of
Clayquhat or Colliemore, the summit of which is within the
parish. This hill, though of gentle and easy ascent, is the
highest elevation in the parish. Its height has never been cor-
rectly ascertained; but it is supposed to be about 1000 feet above
the level of the sea. A large portion of the upper part of this
hill is covered with plantations of larch. The vale of Glen-
Ericht, especially along the banks of the river, is adorned with
a good deal of wood, both spontaneous and planted; and the
scenery is picturesque and beautiful in a high degree.
   The lower division of the parish stretches away to the south,
from the foot of the hill of Blair to the middle of the valley of
Strathmore, a distance of four miles. It comprises an extensive
superficies, and is considerably diversified in the nature of its soil
and the character of its scenery. A narrow tract, lying directly
at the foot of the hill (comprehending the manor-farm of Blair-
gowrie and some smaller farms), consists of a good sharp soil, and
is in a good state of culture. To the south of this cultivated part,
there is an extensive tract of flat moorish ground, extending to
about 1000 acres, called the "muir of Blair," the greater part of
which is covered with thick plantations of Scots fir; and where
there is no wood, it is clothed with heath, forze, and broom.
The surface of the moor consists of two or three inches of light
dry soil upon a gravelly bottom, and could only be brought under
tillage at a great cost. All along the side of the Ericht, includ-
ing a large portion of the south-east extremity of the parish, the
land is fertile and highly cultivated. Along the southern boun-
dary, beyond the muir of Blair, the soil, though generally thin
and light, is under cultivation. The estate of Ardblair occupies
a considerable extent on the west side, and is partly under crop-
ping and partly laid out in grass parks.
   The town or village of Blairgowrie occupies a pleasant situation
on the west bank of the Ericht, on a rising ground, which forms
the first step of the activity of the "hill of Blair."
   The church is finely situated on the summit of thd hill of Blair,
immediately above the village. Close behind the church there is
a deep ravine or dell, finely wooded, both banks of which, at its
eastern extremity, descend almost perpendicularly to the bed of
the river. From the churchyard, which lies in front of the church,
the prospect is one of great extent and surpassing beauty,-em-
bracing the whole valley of Strathmore, from its western extremity
                               3


