
     of St Fergus.

   Eminent Men.-It might be proper, under this article, to
give a short account of the most eminent family in Scotland,
the CUMINES, who were Earls of BUCHAN,* and either pro-

     T 2

llThe chief of this family was CUMINE Lord BADENOCH, of whom were
descended the Earls of Buchan and Monteith, and 32 knights §.  This fac-
tion, with the Earls of MARR and ATHOLL, with whom they were connected
by marriages, ruled the kingdom as they pleased, during some years in the
latter part of the reign of ALEXANDER the II. and during the first part of
the reign of ALEXANDER III.
   The male line of the ancient Earls of Buchan failing in the person of
FERGUS ll, the last Earl of the ancient race, his daughter MARJORY married
WILLIAM CUMINE of the house of Badenoch, who in his right became Earl
of Buchan about the beginning of the 13th century.  His posterity continued
to enjoy this great estate for 100 years, and were the most powerful subjects
in the kingdom.  This Earl founded the abbey of Deer, and endowed it with
a considerable revenue in lands situated in the county of Aberdeen, Anno
1218 He was constituted great justiciary of Scotland by ALEXANDER II. in
1220; and his brother WALTER was by the same King created Earl of MON-
TEITH, he having married the heiress of that family, by whom he got a large
estate.  The CUMINES being now so rich and powerful, they became formi-
dable, not only to the nobles, but even to the King.  They were called to
answer before the King and Estates, anno 1255, for their various acts of
tyranny, oppression, murder, and sucrilege, and not appearing, a sentence of out-
lawry and forfeiture was pronounced against them; but Government was too
weak to put this sentence in execution.  The faction, greatly irritated by this
sentence, resolved to take the first opportunity of getting the king's person
into their power++.  WALTER, Earl of Monteith, was the principal actor in
this plot; and having along with him WILLIAM, the 2 d Earl of Buchan of

<FOOTNOTE>

^FORDUN and MAJOR.

llA Charter granted by FERGUS Earl of BUCHAN to JOHN the son of UCH-
FRED, is to be seen in the Advocates library.  From the charter it appears that
Fergus had exchanged the lands, situated betrvixt Gicht and the Bank of Behilch, with
John for the lands of Slains; and John was obliged to give attendance at the courts
held by the Earl his superior at Ellor.

++FORDUN.


