
                          EDINBURGH.                        675

the principal, and admonished or expelled.  No academical dress
is worn; no preliminary tests or examinations of proficiency are
required on first entering the classes; and every student is at
liberty to attend whatever church he is a member of,-about 200
seats being provided in one of the city churches for those stu-
dents who wish to attend.
   In all the classes (with the exception of those for languages).
oral lectures and demonstrations are the means of instruction em-
ployed.  In a considerable proportion of these, examinations of
the class once or twice a-week on the subjects of the lectures are
also adopted by the professors.
   Candidates for the degree of master of arts must be in the
fourth year of their academical studies, and must have attended
the classes of humanity, Greek, mathematics, logic, rhetoric,
moral and natural philosophy.  The regulations for medical de-
grees are as follow:-No student can be admitted to the exami-
nations for the degree of M. D. who has not been engaged in
medical study for four years, during at least six months in each
either in the university of Edinburgh, or in some other univer-
sity where the degree of M. D. is given, unless in addition to
three annual medicine in a university he has attended during at least
six winter months the medical or surgical practice of a general
hospital, which accommodates at least eighty patients, and during
the same period a course of practical anatomy,-in which case
three years of university study are admitted.  Candidates must
give sufficient evidence that they have studied once at least
each of the following department of medical science under pro-
fessors of medicine:-anatomy, chemistry, material medical, in-
stitutes of medicine, practice of medicine, surgery, midwifery,
pathology, and practical anatomy, during a course of six
months; clinical medicine, six months, or two courses of three
months; and clinical surgery, medical jurisprudence, botany, na-
tural history, during a course of at least three months.  One year
of the three must be spent at the university of Edinburgh.  A
thesis written by them must be given in previous to examination,
and a declaration that they are twenty-one years of age.  At the
conclusion of the third year of study, the candidate may submit
himself to a first examination on his knowledge of the Latin lan-
guage, and on anatomy, physiology, chemistry, and botany.  At
the end of the fourth session a second examination takes place


