388			ROSS AND CROMARTY.

  The exposure of than Craigwood, like that of all they cliffs along
the coast down to tho Sutors of Cromarty, and the clayish qualities
of its decomposing granites, render it extremely prolific in native
herbaceous plants. In no part of the Highlands rare more luxuri-
ant festoons to be seen of Vicia sylvatica, or larger and more showy
specimens of Geranium sylvaticum, and G. sanquineum, and Saxi-
fraga qranulata. The roses which make such a show in the same
neighbourhood, and which caused the celebrated courtier, Sir
George Maekenzie, to style his property " Rosehaugh," are of
the species Rosa canina and R. spinosissim`.
  In the above list there will be found several rare plants, and one,
Pinguicula alpine, recently discovered here in great abundance,
and not yet found in any other part of Britain. As this discovery
excited at the time and since, considerable interest in the botani-
cal circles, and as the particulars of it are variously detailed in se-
veral publications, it may be interesting to give the following ac-
count which the writer has received from Campbell Smith, Esq.
land-surveyor.
  In June 1831, while Mr Smith was engaged in the survey of Sir
James W. Mackenzie of Scatwell's estate of Rosehaugh, he invited
his friend, the Rev. G. Gordon of Birnie, to visit him, and make
a botanical examination of the neighbourbood. Upon Mr Gor-
don's arrival, Mr Smith presented him with a number of plants
which he had collected for his examination, (he himself having
only commenced the study of the science) with one of these, viz.
the new Pinguicula. Mr Gordon was delighted, and next day
proceeded to the ground to gatber fresh specimens of wbat he had
hastily, and without examination, denominated P. lusitanica, which
he had never seen either in a live or dried state; but which be knew
was to be found on the west coast of Ross-shire. He traced it in
great abundance from the bog of Auechterflow to Boggiewell. Rad-
dery, a distance of more than two miles, and although he, no
doubt, looked upon it with eye of an experienced botanist,
which he is, and observed the difference in the form of the spur,
the specific character of the genus, never questioning his first
impression, and far less dreaming of being in possession of a plant
which had as yet no place in the British Flora, and being content
with finding a new and  extraordinary station for P. lusitanica
which had ever been found on the east coast of the kingdom,
and rarely if ever in the interrior, he sent specimens of it as such
to several botanical friends, and among others to Mr H. C. Wat-


