
66				KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

this parish. Its channel is extremely rugged. Its banks are richly
wooded with oak, birch, ash, elm, alder, elder (the bourtree), thorn,
and hazel, and the current is, in some places, forced between per-
pendicular rocks seventy or eighty feet in height. It is boldest
and most stricking just before it joins the sea, and is seen to
most advantage when swollen by the rains of autumn, or by
the melted snows in spring. The best view of its impetuosity
is commanded from an old two-ached bridge a little above
high-water mark. It appears there in a straight line for near-
ly a quarter of a mile, and, the series of rocky shelves causing
it to rise in successive undulations, it resembles the convolutions
of an enormous serpent, while the large streaks and patches
of foam that diverge from their crests give an animation and a
savage beauty to the torrent which it would be hard to match
in many Scottish rivers. Its characteristics beauties are celebrated
in very sweet verse by Montgomery, in his poem of the "Cherry
and the Slae," the principal scene of which is laid on the most
picturesque part of its banks, immediately below the old bridge I
have already alluded to. As I shall have occasion to refer again
to this admirable production, I shall reserve such quotations as I
mean to give in illustration of the very accurate and poetical de-
scriptions with which it abounds.
	Geology.-Porphyry and clay slate are the prevailing rocks
this parish, in common with those of the neighbourhood. There
is one remarkable geological appearance. The rocky channel of
the Dee is composed entirely of slate, but in one place called the
linn pool, the strata are suddenly intercepted by a vein of por-
phyry mixed with jasper, about a foot and a half in thickness,
which, running straight across the stream, appears on both banks,
and is gradually lost in the vegetation and mould that cover the
rocks. How far it may extend on either side, it is impossible, of
course, to say.
        Botany.-The profusion and variety of plants are greater than
their rarity. Of the water plants, the white and yellow water lily,
the water plantain, the buckbean, the white ranunculus, the car-
dinal flower, and the snake-weed, occur in the lochs and in the
sluggish parts of the Tarff. Several species of the catch-fly, the
spatling-poppy, the cotton-grass, the needle furze (Genista An-
glica), the moon flower, the butterwort, the milkwort, the Trol-
lius Europeans, the twayblade (Ophrys ovata), the snapdragon,
te viper grass (Echium vulgare), Paul's betony, the pimpernel,


