
44                     LINLITHGOWSHIRE.
in feu ferme for payment of the soume of ane hundrethe merks
yeirlie." No other title being mentioned in the Act, except the
previous charter in 1563, it hence continued the regulating one,
to be in force as far as respected the remainder of the property
which had been still retained by the family. This "mean portione,"
wherein the title "subsists," is probably the central part of the ba-
rony, including especially the preceptory and its immediate demesne
lands, which was, perhaps, the most ancient part of the patrimony
of the knights.
   The earldom of Arundel in England is held, it appears, by
a similar tenure, the title being vested in the castle itself; and
this too was ratified in the reign of Charles I.
   The lands constituting the barony of Torphichen have been gra-
dually sold, till little more remains in the possession of the Noble fa-
mily than probably what constituted the original patrimony at first
bestowed upon the founders of the Order in Scotland, nearly 700
years ago; but the portion which remains is that in which the
title is vested, lying around and adjacent to the preceptory. It
would appear from a claim even in by John Gillon of Wallhouse
November 10th 1747, that the lands of Wallhouse, South and
North Hilderstons, Torphichen will, and other lands, were ori-
ginally hold under the lordship of St John, as he mentions that
they formed part of the regality of Torphichen, and that he had
acquired the superiority thereof, and right of regality by purchase
from James, Lord Torphichen. Mr Gillon states he had procur-
ed a crown charter of resignation under the great seal, on the 22d
of June 1733 upon which infeftment followed on the 29th of the
same month. He claimed L.300 as the value, but his claim was
   The lands of Lochcote, which are said to have belonged to the
same lordship of St John, enjoy the peculiar privilege of paying
no teind, apparently an the assumption of having been church.
lands.
   Eminent Characters, &c.-Some of the most eminent characters
connected with the parish by birth or residence, have been already
mentioned in the enumeration of the most distinguished prece-
tors of Torphichen. Of these the last preceptor, Sir James San-
dilands, occupies the most prominent position, in consequence of
the part which he took in the Reformation. This distinguished
man, having left no family, was succeeded in his honours by the
son of his older brother, Sandilands of Calder; and as Calder


