
14                        PEEBLES-SHIRE.

ground by sheep. The ordinary rotation is, 1. after grass, oats;
2. pease, turnips, or potatoes; 3. wheat or barley, and then rye-
grass and clover. The writer of this in spring 1832, and again in
1833, tried the experiment of sowing oats of the Kildrummy kind in
the month of February, as he had seen practised in the south of
England. Both experiments perfectly succeeded, though he was
told that one-half of the seed would be destroyed by the wet, and
the other half be devoured by birds. The return this season from
scarcely three quarters of an English acre was 8 bolls 4 bushels im-
perial measure, of 6 bushels to the boll, and 2 bushels of light grain.
It was of excellent quality. When made into meal, it yielded a
good deal more than what millers term meal for corn. In the be-
ginning of last November, he sowed two small patches with barley
and oats, the braird of which promises well.
   Breeds of Live Stock.-The Teeswater breed of cattle is gene-
rally reared by the farmers, as it fattens best for the butcher.
The sheep are the Cheviot and black-faced breed. Smearing is
generally practised, and tends greatly to the preservation of sheep.
Tar and palm-oil are generally used on black-faced sheep, and
tar and butter on the Cheviot. About six fleeces of the black-
faced smeared make a stone of 24 lb., and from six to eight fleeces
of the Cheviot. Rock mercury was at one time used for smearing,
but as it was found neither to contribute to the warnith of the sheep,
nor to promote the growth of the wool, it was laid aside. Wool has
been sold at higher prices this year than for many years past.
Black-faced, smeared, was sold at 13s. a-stone, and the Cheviot from
20s. to 28s. a-stone of 24lb. The diseases to which the sheep in
this parish are most subject are sickness and the louping-ill. The
former is inflammation in the bowels or blood, and prevails in pas-
tures where heather abounds. Hogs suffer most from this disease.
Castor-oil or salts are the best remedies. The louping-ill or palsy
prevails in the month of May and beginning of June, particularly
during a dry cast wind. It attacks lambs and sheep of all ages.
Sturdy, or water in the head, may also be mentioned in the list of
diseases. The seat of the disease is easily discovered by that part
of the skull becoming soft and spongy. If not near the root of
the horns, it is generally cured by applying red hot iron; but this
seldom succeeds if the disease is near the horns.
    Rent of Land.-The rent of arable land may be reckoned at
25s. an acre, except a few fields near the town, which bring a
higher rent. One of the best farms in the parish, and per-


