
                       TRANENT.                         301

L. 600. The stipend engaged to be paid to the minister,	the
Rev. Archibald Lorimer, is L. 80 per annum, secured by a bond
granted by several individuals who are interested in the welfare of
the district. The seat-rents, if fully let, with the collections,
may probably amount to about L. 60 per annum; but this is just
one of the cases which so strongly proves the necessity of a na-
tional endowment,-the fishermen, unwilling to move from the coast
to a church distant from their boats, were so anxious for the minis-
trations of a clergyman at their own homes, that they subscribed
to the utmost extent of their means; they further showed their in-
terest in the Church by delaying to proceed to the northern her-
ring fishery for several days, though the wind was favourable and
the season advanced, in order that they might be present at the
opening of their place of worship;-and yet with all this anxiety to
promote the object, they were utterly unable of themselves to fur-
nish even a small portion of the funds for building the church or
supporting the minister.
   There is one Dissenting chapel in Tranent, lately rebuilt, be-
longing to the United Associate Synod. The minister, the Rev. Wil-
liam Parlane, A. M., it is believed, is paid in the usual way from the
seat-rents and collections; but the amount of stipend is not known.
   The total population of the parish, as formerly mentioned, is
3650; of this number about 2980 are attached to the Establish-
ed Church, leaving about 640 belonging to all other religious de-
nominations.
   The attendance on the parish church is not particularly regular.
The average number of communicants at the Established Church is
about 600.
   Two missionaries, one supported by the friends of the Esta-
blishment, the other by the Dissenters, have lately commenced to
labour among the population of Tranent, and are well received by
the people.
   There are two Bible and Missionary Societies, one connected
with the Established, the other with the Dissenting congregation.
   The church collections for the poor are very small, not exceed-
ing L. 15 per annum, in consequence of the large assessment. The
collections for religious and charitable objects may be about L. 13
per annum.
   Education.-The total number of schools in the parish is seven;
the Parochial school in Tranent, the average number attending
being 100; a free school at Stiell's Hospital, endowed, attended
   HADDINGTON.                             U













