
296                    PERTHSHIRE.

sinking into decay.  Formerly there were five, with a great num-
ber of members; but, partly on account of the kirk-session refus-
ing to aliment some of the members, and partly because persons
in better circumstances reckoned it rather a degradation to take
the funds, a disposition has generally prevailed to dissolve the so-
cieties and divide the stock, and year after year has this been ef-
fected. One only is now existent, the Weavers' Society, instituted
in 1781. It has 161 members, and a capital of L. 450. A mo-
tion has also been made for its dissolution.
  Poor Funds.-Parochial relief is afforded to 22 regular pau-
pers: sixteen receive 1s. weekly; five, 1s. 6d.; one, 2s.; ten of
the regular paupers receive L. 1 yearly for rent; five of them 10s.;
five, not regular paupers, receive yearly for their rent, L. 1.  Dis-
tributed in occasional charities, L. 47, 14s. 8d. Total annual
amount for the support of the parish, L. 131, 16s. 8d. This ex-
penditure is met by collections at the church door, L. 59, 11s. 3d.;
interest on mortified funds, L. 23; annual assessment, L. 50.
This lart mode of supporting the poor has been recently introdu-
ced into this parish.
  Inns.-There are in the parish 23 public-houses; 21 in Auch-
terarder, and 2 in Smithyhaugh,-in which spirits and ales are
sold.  The policy of the Justices, for some time, has been to di-
minish the number of these, by withholding license, as much as
possible, from persons wishing to begin business in this line, and
withdrawing it from those who have been guilty of any gross misde-
meanour.
  Fuel.-Coal is the principal fuel used. It is generally laid down
at the door at the rate of 8d. per cwt.  The Glendevon turnpike
has greatly lowered the price of coal in Auchterarder.
                MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
  Since the time of last report, Auchterarder has kept pace with
the general improvement which has been going on in the kingdom.
In the town, old foundations have been erased, and buildings of
very superior appearance and comfort erected in their stead.  In
the country, a much better system of husbandry prevails, princi-
pally by the increase of grden crop, and the feeding of cattle of
a superior breed.
  Water.-In former Accounts of Auchterarder, the want of water
seems uniformly to have been stated as the greatest deficiency.
This defect has been abundantly supplied.  In 1832, mainly by
the kind and scientific exertions of Captain a spring, nine


