
           MARISCHAL COLLEGE AND UNIVERSITY.                 1177

greatly increased in value, with the exception of some small feu-
duties of 1d. and upwards, most of which had ceased to be col-
lected before 1753, or were disputed, and of which the whole
amount is only L.2, 11s. 1d. Sterling.  The Royal Commission,
did a useful service by printing this list, and many other documents
connected with the Scottish Universities.  (Vol. iv. p. 266-267.)
   The amount of fees paid by students of arts for instruction dur-
ing four sessions, including smaller payments for the library, col-
lege servants, and thd dxpense of taking the degree of A. M. is,
at present, L.27, 2s.; but from the greater part of the bursars,
smaller class fees are charged by the professors.  The fees in the
classes of law and medicine are on a scale of equal moderation,
and the same is the case in those of Hebrew and Church History.
In the Divinity class, no fees have yet been taken by the professor.
   The bursaries, which, as will be seen from the list of benefac-
tors, are very numerous, are held for four years, with the excep-
tion of the two founded by John Gray, Esq. for eminence in ma-
thematics, which are held for two sessions only, and the Ramsay
Divinity Bursaries, which are held for three.  All the bursaries,
of which the college, and the magistrates and town-council of
Aberdeen have been constituted patrons by their deeds of founda-
tion, have been, for a very long period, disposed of by an open
comparative trial, which takes place yearly on the last Monday of
October.  Those, which are under the patronage of private indi-
viduals, are bestowed by presentation.  In some cases, where the
disposal of the bursaries has been subjected to restrictions by their
founders, or to preferences in favour of particular descriptions of
students, it sometimes happens that a few are left vacant from the
want of qualified candidates.  The funds are then accumulated,

and the annual value to be bestowed is increased.  Several other
bursaries, without having been left vacant, have been increased in
value, from the nature of the investment of the funds, or from the
reservation of a small surplus left to accumulate.  All the pro-
perty of this description has been preserved, except a sum of L.90
lost by a bankruptcy, and much of it has been increased in value.
   The Royal Commission, in their General Report of the Uni-
versities of Scotland, expressed a decided opinion, that the great
number of these bursaries in some of the col leges produces an ar-
tificial resort of numbers who othorwise would never enjoy the
advantages of academical education.  In the various arguments
adduced in support of their views, one fact of great importance
has been omitted,-the superiority of the parish schoolmasters in


