
342                         FORFARSHIRE

of fishes have been long observed; and of late years, two entire
specimens of a non-descript fish, besides various imperfect portions
have been obtained; one out of the millrtnne quarry, and another
out of the quarry a short distance to the eastward of it, at Thorn-
ton. They have always been enveloped in the solid portion of the
rock, and not in the fissures. Similar fishes have been found in other
quarries in the district, but are very rare and none of them so per-
fect specimens as the two found here. The first one was got at
Thornton upon the splitting up a block into two rybats in 1831,
when a section of a fish was exposed in each of them, from the nose
to the tail, along the centre of the back bone, as if it had been cut
up purposely by a lapidary's wheel. The block was taken out of
the bottom of the quarry, thirty feet down in solid rock.
	The second was found, two years afterwards, in the millstone
quarry, and was entire, the stony envelope having been removed
off its back in the breaking of a block.
	They were each about six inches in length, having a very large
head in the shape of a shield, with the eyes close together near the
centre, on the crown of it.
	Specimens of this curious fossil fish, which proves to be a spe-
cies of a new genus, named by Agassiz, from the peculiar shape
of its head, Cephalaspis, were, we are informed, many years ago,
sent to Professor Jameson, and by him shown to the Wernerian
Society of Edinburgh. Mr Lyell, Junior, of Kinordy, has also in-
terested himself vdry much in bringing together specimens of the
Cephalaspis, and M. Agassiz, we understand, intends figuring the
Forfarshire animal from drawings of Professor Jameson's specimens,
under the names Cephalaspis Lyelli, in compliment to Mr Lyell, for
the eminent services he has rendered to geological science.  The im-
pressions plants are most numerous in the pavement beds, hav-
ing the appearance of reeds and a clustered fruit, the points being
star-shaped, something similar to that of the equisetacea when
pressed flat. Similar impressions we understand, are not unfre-
quently met with in the same fermation in other parts of Scotland,
and will be ficured in Brongniart's great work on Fossil Plants, at
present in the coarse of publication.
	There is also an impression frequently to be, met with on the
pavement, very like to that of an unshod colt's foot, and is  proba-
bly the impression of something organic. Naturalists, however,
				3


