
362                     ROXBURGHSHIRE.

   Of the numerous cryptogamous productions the following may
be specified:
   Equisetum sylvaticum
   Jungermannia asplenoides
   ------------ furcata
   ------------ bidentata
   Merulius cantharellus
   Agaricus subdulcis
   -------- piperatus
   -------- procerus
   -------- deliciosus (plentiful in some
       seasons)


   Agaricus integer
   -------- floccosus
   Helvella leucophaea
   Phallus impudicus
   Sphaerobolus stellatus
   Peziza scutellata and lentifera
   Stemonites fasciculata
   Phacidium coronatum
   Physarum aureum


The beautiful Peziza coccinea has been once observed in the
neighbourhood of Minto House.

                         II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Barony of Minto.-The earliest notices of the Barony of Minto
occur in the fourteenth century, at which time it was in the possession
of a family belonging to the ancient and powerful clan of the Turn-
bulls. Some smaller pendicles, however, would appear to have been
held by other proprietors, for there is a charter of Robert I. granting
part of the mill lands to one Gulielmus Barbitonsor; and another
grant in the twelfth year of Robert III. to Laurencius de Govane
and his heirs, on the feudal tenure of their yearly presenting to
the King a bow and twelve arrows, at the chapel of the assump-
tion of the Virgin Mary, in Ettrick Forest.  The lands of the
barony were, in 1390, granted by John Turnbull to Sir William
Stewart of Jedworth, and confirmed by a charter of Robert III.,
signed the same year at Minto, in the presence of Walter and
Matthew, Bishops of St Andrews and Glasgow. In the following
year, another charter confirmed to the same person the lands and
tenements of the town and territory of Minto, along with the ad-
vowson of the church freely disponed to him by John de Aberne-
thy. This Sir William Stewart hs considered to be a descendant
of Sir Allan Stewart of Dreghorn, killed at the battle of Hallidon
Hill in 1333, and to have borne the title both of Jedworth and
Castlemilk. He is described in the charter confirming the grant

<FOOTNOTE>The authorities for these facts are chiefly the Rotuli Scotise, Ayscoff's Catalogue,
and in one or two instances Rymer's Foedera.
    It is just possible that this may have been a relative of John Barbour, the poet,
who was a contemporary, as it has been conjectured his father might be the John
Barbour to whom Robert I. ordered the payment of a sum of money to be made by
Sir Alexander Seaton, Governor of Berwick. All research has hitherto failed to as-
certain the poet's birth-place; perhaps the mention of these names at the same pe-
riod of time in connection with the south of Scotland, might, in the absence of better
data, be held as favouring the supposition that he was sprung from a border family.
     In Rymer's Foeders, vol vii. p. 273, A.D. 1390, mention is made of the barony
of Minto as consisting of two parts. "Item le deux parties de Baronie de Mynte-
howe, one l'avouson de I'eglise q'estoit a Johan Turnebole."
                                        4


