
			ORWELL.                              63

   Leases.-The larger farms, especially those requiring improve-
ment, are let for fifteen or nineteen years : smaller farms for seven
years. Occasionally, single fields are let for three years, and ac-
cording to a specified rotation of cropping. The farm-steadings
formerly were in very bad order, but of late years much improve-
ment has been effected in this particular, and nearly all are now
in excellent condition. Thrashing-mills driven by horses are ge-
nerally used; two or three are driven by water, but none by steam.
Most farms are now enclosed either by dry -stone dike, or beech
or thorn hedges.
   The principal manufacture was formerly cotton goods by the
handloom ; but, owing to the low prices got, a new manufacture,
that of tartan shawls and plaididg, has been introduced within the
last twelve months, which has created a great stimulus. One or otber
of these gives employment to a great many of the inhabitants. As
the new manufacture requires larger looms, and the dwelling-
houses being generally unfit for such, One or two individuals have,
as a speculation, erected large airy buildings in the village of Milna-
thort, in which any of the work people can have a stance. This
is much more healthy than the old system. The hours for work
depend on their own pleasure.

                       V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Market-town.-Milnathort is the only market-town, and indeed
there is no other village but itself in the parish. There has been
a weekly corn-market (by sample) held here for nearly half a cen-
tury, to which distillers at considerable distances send agents to
purchase grain. It is likewise the only one in the county. About
ten or twelve years ago, there was an attempt made to have a but-
ter, cheese, and poultry-market; but it did not succeed. Milna-
thort has no regular system of police; but within these two years,
a small constabulary paid force has been appointed for the county,
and one of the officers has his residence in Milnathort, and in the
day time perambulates the district assigned to him. Owing to
the inhabitants of the towns and villages in the county not having
hitherto contributed one farthing towards this establishment, but
leaving all to be paid by the land-owners, it is not expected to be
kept up much longer, unless they come forward and pay a reason-
able proportion.
   The mail-coaches pass through Milnathort twice a-day, but it
is only a penny-post to Kinross. There are about fourteen miles
of turnpike roads; a similar number are kept up by statute labour



