
			KILWINNING.                           829

in repair, but the farm-steadings, for the most part, are ill-planned
limited in accommodation, and inconvenient.
	Quarries and Mine.--The coal-mines are, Doura Fergushill,
Redstone, and Eglinton, which employ 220 miners, whose wages
are, for each man, 4s. per day. The price of coal at the pit
month, is 5s. per twenty cwt. From these collieries are exported
annually about 50,000 tons at the Harbour of Ardrossan, the
greater portion of them to Ireland, some to the Mediteranean,
and a few to the Highlands. There are two limestone, and one
sandstone quarry, at which a considerable number of men are em-
ployed.

			V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	The nearest market-town to Kilwinning is Irvine, which lies,
towards the south, at the distance of three miles.
	The male inhabitants of Kilwinning are chiefly employed in
weaving and mining; the females in sewing. The only individuals
found necessary for keeping the peace are one of the county
police and a sheriff-officer. The town has a fine and picturesque
appearance from several points of view. It is situated on the
banks of the Garnock, about four miles from its mouth, is sur-
rounded by a considerable quantity of wood, and receives additional
beauty from the ruins of the abbey, and a very handsome modern
tower. The higher parts of it also command an extensive and
varied prospect, including the bay of Ayr, and the hills of Arran,
as well as the neighbouring country. The town itself, however, has
not much to recommend it. It consists chiefly of one narrow street,
about a mile in length, but the two portions at the extremities are
somewhat detached; that towards the west is called the Byres,
because, it is believed, the monks kept their cattle there; and the
eastern has got the name of the Corsehill, from its being the place
where they erected the cross.
	The principal villages are, Doura, Fergushill, and Dalgarven,
The two first contain each upwards of 200 inhabitants, and the
third nearly that number.
	For the accommodation of the public, there is a post-oftice, and
the parish is intersected, in all directions, by road eleven miles
of which are turnpike-roads.  The rest are kept up jointly by the
proprietors and tenantry. Formerly, there were several stage-
coaches, which passed, through Kilwinning to Glasgow and other
places, but they have all been given up since the opening of the
Glasgow and Ayr Railway, about two years ago, which affords the


