
     Statistical Account

English words, which the common people, ambitious to be
thought to understand something of that language, are fond
of using on every occasion.  Most names of places are from
the Danish, some from the Gaelic, of which instances have
been already given; and further, Aird-du, or Black Pro-
montory, from du, black, and aird, a promontory; Bail-
mainish, or Middle Town, from bail, a town, and mainish,
middling, or in the middle.  Of those of Danish origin,
Maanish, and Raasay; the former from Nish or Ness, which
plainly from the situation of those places whose names have
that termination, signifies a point or cape; the latter from
Ai or Ay, an island.  The first parts of the names, the sig-
nification of which is not now well understood, are only par-
ticles or adjectives, expressive of some particular circum-
stance, property, or quality of the places.  The inhabitants
are as humanely and generously disposed as any of their
neighbours.  The gentlemen tacksmen, or first class of far-
mers in Sky, do in general enjoy the benefits of a liberal
and polite education, and these inestimable advantages they
are willing to bestow on their children.  The common
people are naturally endowed with a strength of mind and
sprightliness of disposition that greatly distinguish them from
others of the same rank and condition.  Their inquisitive
turn, and fondness for news, frequently induce them to ad-
dress all they see for information; and their questions, and
shrewd remarks, are often very surprising.  This curiosity
is no where more conspicuous than in Portree, and perhaps
there are few places that afford more frequent opportunities
of gratifying it.  A sort of coarse woollen cloth called cloa,
or caddoes, the manufacture of their wives, made into short
jackets and trousers, is the common dress of the men.  The
philibeg is rarely wore, except in summer and on Sundays,
on which days, and some other occasions, those in better
circumstances, appear in tartans, a bonnet, and short hose,


