
464			DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

been reaped on a single acre. The soil of the table-land is gra-
velly or sandy; in some rare instances, approaching to clayey, and-
very stony. From the nature and depth of the alluvium on which
it rests, it is much drier than the soil of the hills, and more to be
depended on for a crop. It is so well adapted for barley, that that
grain often attains the weight of 55 and sometimes of 58 lbs. per
imperial bushel.
	Two lime-works are in active operation--one on the estate of
Barjarg, the other an Porterstown. The lime is of a scorching
quality, but for building and for manuring some kinds of land, it
is frequently preferred to the milder lime of Clnseburn.
	Zoology.--In a small loch, a quarter of a mile north-west of
the church, leeches are found. They are used in the neighbour-
hood, and sometimes sold. The kingfisher is often seen on the
banks of the Scar. Foumarts are extremely abundant. Salmon
begin to run up the rivers to spawn in the middle of November.
	Botany.*--According to Mr Rae, in the manse garden there
was "a fine stock of Bryonia alba. But I know not if it be there
now; for the late Homer Grierson, chirurgeon-apothecary in Dum-
fries, told me that he got of the roots of it several times for making
that drug called Facula bryoniae." The juice of Veronica becca-
bunga, called wallink, is much used for the diseases of infants.
	Much natural wood, consisting of oak, ash, birch, and alder, in-
tersects and adorns the lower grounds; and very extensive planta-
tions have been formed of larch, fir, oak, and ash, all of which
thrive well and promise to become very valuable. The sycamore
grows with great rapidity. The most remarkable tree is the oak
at Barjarg, in old title-deeds called the royal, the stag, or the
blind oak. Mr Rae says it was called the deaf oak, "because
if a person near it called to one on the other side he could not
hear him." By a joiner's measurement it contains 520 feet of
useful wood in the stem, and about 150 more in the branches.
Others have calculated it, after a very bareful measurement, when
all the wood was taken into account, at above 800. Its stem is
68 feet high, and since some decayed branches were lopped off, it
is growing with great luxuriance.
	A silver fir, at the back of Barjarg House, brought upon car-
riages from Tinwald when of considerable size, is now 91 feet

<FOOTNOTE>No very rare plants, except the Rhamnus frangula, have been found in the pa-
rish; but in the MS. of this Account will be found a list of those which are the least
common.



