
			AYR.				     71

schools of the burgh were formed into an academy, and a charter
obtained from the King, uniting the managers and directors into
one body corporate, with power to enact laws for their own re-
gulation. What formed the germ of this institution was the
sum of L. 1000, which was bequeathed for behoof of the pub-
lic teachers of Ayr, by Mr Fergusson of Doonholm, already
mentioned. A considerable sum additional was obtained by sub-
scriptions from the town, the heritors, and various wealthy indivi-
duals in the county and elsewhere, every L. 50 constituting the
contributor a director of the academy. By means of these sums,
a handsome building was erected for teachers' apartments, and
a fund formed for the payment of their salaries, and the sup-
port of the seminary. Its success has fully equalled the most
sanguine expectations that were formed of it. It has secured a re-
putation not surpassed by that of any other institution of the kind
in Scotland. The teaching department is conducted by a rector,
and five other principal teachers, besides an assistant in the Eng-
lish school. The rector has a salary of L. 100 a year; the other
masters have small salaries, the highest not exceeding L. 22,
and depend chiefly for their emoluments on fees from their pu-
pils. These fees vary from five shillings to a guinea a quarter,
but few of the branches taught exceed half a guinea, and the most
common are only charged at the lowest rate we have named.
The following is a list of the branches of education in the dif-
ferent departments, 'viz. mathematics, natural philosophy, che-
mistry, geography, natural history, English composition, modern
languages, Latin and Greek, writing and drawing, arithmetic,
book-keeping, and navigation, and English, English grammar, and
history. The numbers that attend the academy in the course of
each year average about 500, and this average has continued pret-
ty uniform for many years back, notwithstanding that similar in-
stitutions have greatly increased throughout the country, and even
in towns not far distant. The teachers are gentlemen of distin-
guished talents and attainments,--they live and act together in
great harmony; and the seminary, being under a liberal system of
management, has generally continued, since its commencement, in
a prosperous and efficient state. It has been of great benefit to
the town in different ways,--for instance, by attracting families to
reside in it for education, and by transfusing a spirit of intelli-
gence and enlightened thinking among its inhabitants.
	There are about a dozen of other schools in the parish besides


