
                        DUNLOP.                           293

veral years, they were appointed to fellowships in Trinity Col-
lege, then newly founded, and by their talents contributed much
to establish the high character which it soon acquired. After the
accession of James to the throne of England, James Hamilton,
who had discharged his mission to the satisfaction of the King,
was rewarded by extensive grants of forfeited lands in the county
of Down and elsewhere; and after being employed in several im-
portant services, was at length, in 1622, elevated to the peerage,
by the title of Viscount Clandeboyes and Baron Hamilton. This
title became extinct on the death of his grandson, Henry, Earl of
Clanbrassil. *
	Lord Clandeboyes' five brothers having followed him to Ireland,
shared his good fortune. Their numerous descendants, the Ha-
miltons of Down, Armagh, Dublin, and Carlow, with their various
collateral branches, are still possessed of great wealth and influ-
ence. From them are descended the noble families of Clanbras-
sil, Roden, Massareene and Dufferin. The first of these titles
having become extinct through the failure of heirs in the eldest
branch of Hans Hamilton's family, was granted to one of the de-
scendants of a younger son, but has again become extinct. Archi-
bald Hamilton Rowan, so well known from his connection with the
last Irish rebellion, was the lineal descendant of Hans Hamilton's
second son, Archibald.
	James Dunlop of that Ilk, and Alexander Dunlop, his son, are
deserving of notice as warm supporters of the Presbyterian cause
in the reign of Charles II. Their opposition to the oppressive
measures of the government, was severely punished by fines and
imprisonmenlt,  +
	In later times, several members of this family have been highly
distinguished in the profession of arms, particularly Lieut.-Gene-
ral James Dunlop, the last laird. His mother is well known as
the early friend and correspondent of Burns,
	Land-owners.--The chief land-owners, in the order of their
valued rents, are, William Mure, Esq. of Caldwell, John Dunlop,
Esq. of Dunlop, M. P., Richard Trotter, Esq. of Hapland, An-
drew Brown, Esq. of Hill, and Col. M'Alester of Kennox.
	Parochial Registers.--The register of proclamations commences
in 1700, and that of baptism in 1701. With the exception of
two or three short intervals, they have been kept with extreme in-

<FOOTNOTE>
	* Anderson's History of the House of Hamilton,
	+ Wodrow's History, i. 280. ii. 309, 873. fol. ed.


