

			KILBRIDE                              29

gaged by the day receive in summer from ls. 6d. to 2s. without
victuals: and females from 8d. to lOd. In winter, labourers gene-
rally work by the piece; and  when engaged by the day, generally
receive the same allowance as in summer. Reaping in harvest is
paid at the rate of 1OS. per acre, witbout victuals. Masons and
carpenters when they work by the day charge 3s. with victuals,
and 3s. 6d. without them. The rates of mason and other me-
chanical work, when done by contract, are as follows: Building
ruble walls (and carriage) per rood of 36 yards, from L. 5, 8s. to
L.5, 10s.; hewing per foot, including quarrying and price of stones
7d.; plastering per square yard, including lime and sand, 5 1/2d.;
flagging per square yard, 2s. lOd.; diking, per rood of 19 feet,
5s; slating with Easdale slates, large size, per rood, L. 3, 15s.;
do. under size, L. 2, 14s.; roofing per rood, with American
pine, including sawing and nails, L. 6, 10s.; with Scotch fir, L. 4,
7s.; sawing per 100 feet, 4s. 7d.;  windows per foot, from 2s.
4d. to 2s. 6d.; bound doors, full mounted, from 14s. to L. 1;
farm-carts with iron axle-tree, from L. 9 to L. 9, 10s.; with
wooden axle-tree, from L. 7, lOs. to L. 8; iron ploughs, L. 5;
wooden ploughs, L. 1, 14s.; a pair harrows complete, L. l,
8s.; wheelbarrows, from 18s to L. 1.
	Breeds of Live-Stock.--The sheep reared on the hills are all
of the black-faced kind. A few Cheviots and Merinos are oc-
casionally pastured on the lower grounds. The cattle are chiefly
of the Highland Argyllshire breed; for the improvement of which,
bulls, the property of the landlord, are distributed at convenient
distances among the smaller tenantry. The more opulent farmers,
besides their Argyllshire stock for rearing, keep cows of the  Ayr-
shire breed for a dairy stock; with which they have succeeded
well, their cheese and butter bearing a afair comparison with the
produce of the best dairy districts of Ayrshire. In cattle and dairy
produce, the small tenants, though rapidly improving, are still far
behind; as they have hitherto attended too little to the proper ro-
tation of crops, and the sowing down of their lands for pasture,
with. clover and rye-grass. Their sheep in the hills are also dimi-
nutive in size; but they take on flesh very readily, and make most
excellent mutton, when transported to the more luxuriant pastures
of the mainland.
	Husbandry.--In this department, the parish of Kilbride and the
Island of Arran in general, have been improving of late years with
rapid strides; and there is, perhaps, no place even in the He-


