
106				  BUTESHIRE.

same period is 133; and of marriages, both parties residing in the
parish, 22 5/7 and one of the parties only, 11 6/7; total number, 34 4/7.
	There are five proprietors in the parish whose lands are of
the yearly value of L. 50 and upwards.
	The English language is generally spoken by the natives,a nd
the Gaelic has rapidly fallen into disuse during the last forty years.
Scarcely any of the children now learn or understand it. The
habits of the people in regard to cleanliness and comfort are con-
stantly improving. This is owing partly to all the new houses being
of a better construction than formerly, partly to teh influence of
free communication with other places, and partly to prizes which
were awarded by a Society, to those who had the cleanest cottages,
in the country part of the parish. The dress generally worn is
the same with that which prevails in the lowlands. The ordinary
food of the peasantry and artisans is oatmeal and potatoes, with
herrings and salt beef in winter. Wheat bread is also frequently
used. Twenty years ago, there was only one baker in the whole
parish; now there are no fewer than eight master bakers, with se-
veral apprentices and journeymen. the population generally enjoy
much comfort, and many advantages for improvement. They are
remarkably contended, orderly, and peaceable, and are distinguished,
for their sobriety and attention to the observances of religion,
Poaching and smuggling are nearly unknown.
			    IV.--INDUSTRY.
	Agriculture.--That triangular-shaped portionf of the parish
which lies between the valley formes by Lochfad and the valley
containing ascog Loch, having for its base, on the east, the promon-
tory of bogany point, rests, through the greatest part of its extent,
upon a subsoil of red freestone conglomerate, which frequently,
especially on the ridge immediately south and east of the town of
Rothesay, crops out to the surface, and there, of course, the soil
is thin and unproductive. On the southern slope, rising up from
ascog Loch, and towards the apex of the triangle, the soil is of
considerable depth, upon a bottom of till, and is therefore rather
wet. The northern slope, and that part of the valley between
Rothesay and Lochfad is generally dry, and a considerbale portion
of it naturally very fertile.
	Through the whole lenght of the valley running from Rothe-
say to Ardsealspsie bay on the west, the under strata undergo
an abrupt and entire change; for while those on the south
side consist entirely of red freestone amd conglomerate, except
				   4


