
                            HADDINGTON.                             3

carried off the adjacent fields, from whence it appears that the har-
vest that year must have been remarkably late. As it approached
the Abbey of Haddington, a nun snatched up the statue of the
Virgin, and threatened to throw it into the water, unless Mary
protected her Abbey from inundation. At that moment the river
retired," says Bowmaker, (the continuator, of Fordun,) "and gradu-
ally subsided within its limits." On consulting, however, Goodall's
edition of Fordun's Scotichronicon the words are "In vigilia nati-
vitatis nostrae Dominae," (not nostri Domini, as some must have
read or imagined,) that is, the 7th of September, the nativity of the
Virgin Mary being the 8th of that month. In Hearne's edition of
Fordun, Vol. iv. p. 1053, the words are, "In vigilia nativitatis
beatae virginis." The harvest that year, therefore, was not late. It
is probable that Dr Barclay proceeded on the high authority of Lord
Hailes, who mentions it in his Annals among the miscellaneous and
memorable occurrences of that year.
   It appears by our MSS. histories, that upon the festival of St
Ninian, 1421, the waters, by constant rains, swelled to such a
height, that there were a great many houses entirely defaced in
the town, and the people went into the church in a boat, so that the
Sacristy, with their fine library and ornaments for divine service, were
greatly damaged, (Spottiswood's Account of Religious Houses in
Scotland, p. 274.) A similar flood happened on the 4th October
1775, which was 350 years after. The Tyne then rose seventeen
feet above its level in less than an hour, and inundated more than
half the town in its vicinity. This sudden swell is supposed to
have been owing to the bursting of a water-spout to the southward
Above Gifford, as there was not much rain to the north or in the
neighbourhood. As this happened during the day, mercifully no
lives were lost.
   Geology.-There are few sections, natural or artificial, in the pa-
rish, from which one can ascertain the disposition and direction of
the strata. The rock of which the Garleton range of hill is com-
posed appears to be a secondary trap, approaching to what is cal-
led clinkstone, contemporaneous with North Berwick Law and Trap-
rain, the two principal heights in the neighbourhood. Heavy
spar is found near the west end of the hills. In the lower grounds
is sandstone of different colour and quality. The alluvial matter
in the bed of the river is the debris of secondary trap, with nodules
of quartz.
   There are no mines in the parish. It appears from the ancient


