
                     DAVIOT AND DUNLICHITY.                   515

under the necessity of repairing to the Sheriff-court of Nairn, a
distance of nearly thirteen miles, when they have any judicial busi-
ness to transact, instead of going to Inverness, which lies not more
than five or six miles distant from the most remote north-easterly
point of the parish.
   The property of Dunmaglass, in the south-western corner of
the parish of Dunlicbity, holds a still more anomalous kind of con-
nection with the county of Nairn.
   About the church of Daviot, and for two miles to the west, on
both sides of the valley, are a great many sand-hills, which appear
evidently to have been formed at some very remote period by the
currents of contrary tides, and by the flux and reflux of some great
body of water.  They are from 600 to 630 feet above the level of
the sea.
   Hydrography.-There are a great many small springs; some
intermittent and perennial.  There are four lakes or lochs in the
parishes, viz. Lochs Ruthven, Coire, Duntelchaig, and Clachan.
Only one-half of Lochs Ruthven and Duntelchaig is in the
united parishes, their other half being in the parish of Dores.
   The river Nairn, until within a recent period, known by the
humble denomination of the water of Nairn, is the only one in the
district.  It rises in the south-west part of the parish of Dunlichi-
ty, and runs north-east.  Its length, from its source at Cairn Gre-
gor, until it falls into the Moray Frith, at the town of Nairn,
including its windings, is about thirty-six miles.  Its breadth and
depth is not great, but, at the time of a speat or flood, it flows
with considerable velocity, overflows its banks, and thereby creating
much damage to the lands and crops.
   Geology.-The strata and beds in the hills run from south-west
to north-east, upon both sides of the valley of the Nairn.  They
are principally of gray gneiss, but large blocks of white granite are
found loose upon the tops and sides of most of them.  Upon the
plains and low grounds are to be seen conglomerate or pudding-
stone of the old red sandstone formation, associated with a black
and blue bituminous shale.  There are also to be found blocks of
red and gray granite, the latter of a most durable quality'and beau-
tiful description.
   Several years ago, limestone was discovered a little below the
mains of Daviot, in the bed, and on both sides of the river Nairn.
The mass contained many metallic cubes of galena or lead glance.


