
322                       RENFRFWSHIRE.

     deserted the Levern. Thefirst emptying of their dye-stuffs and
other debris into the stream poisoned them ; they were found dead
next morning on its margin in great numbers. They have, how-
ever, long ago returned, though not feeding in that part of the
Levern wherein the debris is thrown. The salmon left it entirely,
and have Dever so far as known, made their appearance since the
water was thus polluted, though before they came in numbers to
spawn at the season.
     All the insects idjurious to vegetation in general, and to fruit-
trees, and to currant and gooseberry bushes, in particular, are as
abundant here as in the parishes around. Every method has been
employed for thehr destruction, but all in vain. Last year, the grub
and the wire-worm produced dreadful ravages.
     Botany.-All thie plants used for culinary purposes are grown with
us, and need Dot here be specified. Those for medicinal purposes
are, foxglove (Di
          .qitalispurpurea,) valerian (Valeriana officinalis,)
hemlock (Conium maculatum,,) tormentil (Tormentilla erecta.) The
first is found groWiDg on a bare and rocky soil, small and stunted in
its form and appearance, but most powerful in its application as a me-
dicine. The second is commonly the inhabitant of the low and marshy
grounds about Barrhead. The third delights, like the foxglove,
in a bare and rocky situation, or loves the shelter of an old dry
dike, where it rises into great vigour; and tge fourth, like the
moorfowl, loves the heather, and is found flourishing amono'st the
heath iii great plenty and luxuriance.
     The plantations are few and scanty. The timber which grows to
the greatest size is the beech, the plane, the asb, and the spruce.
Some of these latter kind are found about Caldwell and Glander-
ton, both Of,,ICODsiderable age and size. It is much to be regret-
ted-that plantations at once so profitable and so ornamental, are
so few in this parish.

             II.-CIVIL HISTORY.

     In this department the parish is rich. From one of its ancient
proprietors the present reigning family has sprung. In the twelfth
century, Stewartof Darnly niarried the sole heiressof Robertde Croe,
who at that time hdld the Lordship of Neilston, Darnly, and Croc-
ston. These he made over to his daughter, from whom sprang the
]Parls and Dukes of Lennox, and of whom was Darnly, the husband
of Mary, father of James VL of Scotland, and first of England.
     For long, it was a parish of qentlernen, noted for their prowess
and amenit
     ,y of manners. Crawford, in his 11 History of Renfrew-
                    4


