
                           WHITHORN.		            59

season, cannot be less than between 300 and 400. All the usual
branches of education are taught in both the parochial school and
in the other schools English reading, arithmetic, and writing.
There are none in the parish descended from Scottish parents, that
have attained the years of discretion uneducated. There are four
Sabbath schools in the parish, well attended by children, who also
receive family instruction in their own dwellings. Such as are
neglected by their parents, seldom seek religious instruction from
teachers.
        Savings Bank.-An institution of this kind has existed for near-
ly twenty years, much to the benefit of individuals and families.
The money deposited in it, is seldom below L. 2400, or above
L. 2600. The money deposited and drawn during the year
amounts to about L. 800.
        Poor and Parochial Funds.-There are 70 paupers upon the
poot's roll at present, who receive assistance every quarter of the
year, a few to the extent of L. 4 yearly, and the rest betwixt
L. 1 and L. 2. The funds far the poor arise out of collections in
the church, proclamation dues, mortcloth hire, and voluntary
contributions from the heritors. The heritors' contributions amount
to about L. 50 a-year. The kirk-session in ordinary years distri-
bute about L. 120, and the collections in the church average about
L. 60 yearly.
         Fuel.-The parish is supplied with peats to a considerable ex-
tent, and where peats are too distant to be sought after, with
Whitehaven coals discharged from sloops at the Isle of Whithorn,
and sold at 1s. per bushel of three Winchesters. Irish families
generally depend upon whins and brambles, which they carry in
burdens upon their backs, to the no small annoyance of proprie-
tors and farmers through whose grounds they travel.
        Fairs and Markets.-There are two fairs in the year,-the one
at Midsummer, and the other at Lammas; and a monthly cattle
market from April to January.
        Friendly Societies.-A few years agos, there were two Friendly
Societies; but the disbursements did not correspond with the con-
tributions, and they are now both extinct,
        Public-Houses.-These are all situated in the Burgh and Isle
of Whithorn, and are at the very least five times more numerous
than they ought to be. Ever one that asks a license obtains it;
and the magistrates justify their conduct in granting licenses by
saying it is an evil that will cure itself.


