
			GRAITNEY.                            263

tance from the junction of the two rivers, and near the extremity
of the Frith, a large tract of marsh land of a lively green has been
formed, and is daily increasing, from the encroachment of the wa-
ters on the opposite shores. The tide of the Solway flows directly
east with amazing rapidity. Its colour is whitish, caused by its flow-
ing over an immense expanse of sand. Indeed, from the point of
Criffel, where the Nith joins the main channel, a space not, less
than forty miles in length, and eight, at an average, in breadth, the
tides completely recede, and leave their channels bare,--a circum-
stance which obviously renders navigation diffictlt, may, almost -im-
practicable, to strangers.
	Meteorology.--The atmosphere is dry, the climate peculiarly
warm and healthy; rain, though sometimes violent, falls not so fre-
quently as in the more elevated parts of the country around. Like
the winds, it proceeds chiefly from the south-west, except in the
months of March and April, when cold eastern blasts prevail.
When the clouds are driven heavily from the south, when the west
appears dark lowering,or when the western rivers and approach-
ing tide are distinctly heard, rain may be confidently expected.  A
yellowish sky in the south-east also generally betokens a wet day;
and Carlisle being situated in that direction, there is a common
proverb, which runs, "The Carle sky keeps not the head dry;"
when, on the contrary, there is a small space cloudless in the north-
ern horizon, or when the clouds are moving to the south, the hus-
bandman confides in the expectation of fair weather.
	Hydrography.--There are several excellent perennial springs in
this parish, which rise through sandstone rocks, or beds of sand of
a reddish colour abounding in the greater part of the lower dis-
trict of Annandale. Sark, a small stream, separates Graitney from
the parish of Kirkandrews in England; and the Kirtle, another
small and romantic river, divides it into two nearly equal portions.
They both rise from the hills in the nehghbourhood of Langholm,
and purste a rapid southern course of about twenty miles, till they
are united to the Esk and Eden. The Kirtle flows over a bed of sand-
stone nearly horizontal. This rock is also found along the whole
shore, sometimes in detached masses, and sometimes in layers, va-
rying from 2 to 12 inches.
	Soil.--The soil on the sea-coast is of a rich loamy nature, spread
upon a deep strong clay above sandstones and appears in many
places to have been deposited by the tides, which have evidently
risen much higher at a former period. As the ground recedes


