960                       PERTHSHIRE.

according to Dr Buchanan, the proper Gaelic derivation should
have been Dun-challtuinn, not Dun-chalden.
   Extent and Boundaries.--Dunkeld, with the enclosed pleasure-
ground, is somewhat of a semicircular form, about 1 1/2 mile in
circumference, and about three-fourths of a mile in diameter. It
is surrounded by high hills on the east, west, and north, and skirted
on the south by the river Tay.
   Dunkeld lies about fifteen miles to the north of Perth, and at an
elevation of 130 feet above the level of the sea. It is bounded
on the west by the parish of Dowally; and, with the exception
of the site of the cathedral church and part of the town, the
ground lies within the parish of Caputh.
   The boundaries of Dunkeld as a parish, properly so called, are
not only limited, but not very easily ascertained. As Dunkeld
was the Bishop's see, and the service of the cathedral was per-
formed by his chaplain, or by some of the beneficed clergy in the
neighbourbood, it was not, during the time of the bishops, thought
necessary to constitute it formally a parish. In fact, it does not
appear to have been done. It is not entered as a parish in the
county cess-books. What might be called the parish quoad ci-
vilia can be no more than what was formerly included within the
boundaries of the old city of Dunkeld. It is said that the ca-
thedral church stood about the centre of the old town. In 1689,
the city, with the exception of the cathedral and three houses,
was reduced to ashes by the adherents of James VII. It is im-
possible now to state what were the boundaries of the old city, or
even to name the extent of ground they embraced. The last
Statistical Account says, that the houses and gardens to the west
and north-west of the cathedral occupied a space extending to
about five acres, and that that portion of the town was never re-
built. In 1690, the present town was built to the east of the ca-
tbedral. There is a small burn called the Ketlochy or Catlochin,
contained in a common sewer which runs through the town. On
the west side of that burn, the properties, are, by the title-deeds,
described as lying not within the parish, but within the city of
Dunkeld. On the east side of it, the properties are titled to be
lying within the parish of Caputh.
   Dunkeld is not a parish, properly so called, but, as an ecclesi-
astical parish, it consists of two parts,--the city of Dunkeld, and
that part of the city, within the parish of Caputh; the former
                               3


