
254     	                  BANFFSHIRE.

closures, near the farm of Woodside, south of the public road,
commonly called the " King's Cairn". Tradition has handed
down that it is the grave of Indulph or Indulphus, the 77th King
of Scotland, who, after obtaining a complete victory over the
Danes, was unfortunately killed near this spot.  It is a well-known
historical fact, that Indulphus's reign was much disturbed by de-
scents of the Danes.  There is, however, some dispute regarding
the precise period when this event took place.  Abercrombie says
that it was in 961 ; Buchanan in 967.  We agree with Aber-
crombie, as Indulphus reigned from 952 to 961, and was succeed-
ed by Duff, who fell by a conspiracy of his subjects in 965. The
above event was distinguished by the name of the Battle of the
Bands, at that time an extensive moor, now the property of Lord
Seafield.
   A great many small cairns are still visible on this moor, between
the village of Findochtie and that part of the Bauds now planted,
supposed to be the burial places of the Danes who fell in the bat-
tle with Indulphus. About seventy-five years ago, a countryman
found, on the lands of Rannes, in a tumulus or cairn which he was
removing, a stone-coffin, containing human bones of a large size,
" Having obtained permission," says the late Rev. Mr Donaldson,
" to ransack this grave, I found it covered with a large stone, 4
feet long, 3 broad, and about 14 inches in depth.  On removing
this, we found four other stones set on their edges, which served
as a coffin to part of a skull and jaw-bone, with several teeth, and
some fragments of a thigh-bone.  The dimensions of this coffin
were 3 feet 1 inch in length, 2 feet wide, and 1 foot 10 inches
deep. There was no stone in the bottom. The bones were re-
moved into a similar chest a few feet northward of this one, in the
same tumulus.  This last one was discovered, four or five years
ago, by a man in the neigbbourhood, who was removing a few more
of the stones for building a house. It is of smaller dimensions than
the other, and was originally covered with two stones, one of which
was off. No bones were found in it. There are many other cairns
near this one, but none of them has been searched. They are at
no great distance from the House of Rannes, on a farm lately im-
proved out of moor, called Westerside. The ruins of the House of
Findochtie, of an old chapel, near the farm-house of Farskane,and
of some buildings on the tops of two hills, on the east and west side
of the harbour of Portnockie, the former called the Green Castle,
and the latter the Tronach Castle, are still to be seen;" but by
				   3


