
                                   ROSSKEEN.                            265

         ter (M. lutra), the wild cat (Felis catus ferus), the common hare
         (Lepus timidus), the alpine bare (L. variabilis), the rabbit (L
         cuniculus), the mole (Talpa Europea), the bat (Vespertilio.)
            Birds.-Of birds which either occasionally visit us, or are na.
         tives to the parish, we may mention the following: The royal or
         golden eagle (Falco chrysaetos), the peregrine or common falcon
         (F. peregrinus), the Iceland falcon (F. islandicus), the sparrow-
         hawk (F. nisus), the glead (F. milbus), the hen-harrier (F. cyaneus),
         and several other varieties.  The owl (Strix flammea), the raven
         (Corvus corax), the hooded, royston, or grey-crow (C. cornix),
         the rook (C. frugilegus), the jackdaw or daw (C. monedula), the
         magpie (C. pica), the starling (Sturnus vulgaris), the greater but-
         cher-bird (Lanius excubitor), the throstle or song-thrush (Turdus
         musicus), the fieldfare (T. pilaris), the blackbird (T. merula), the
         stonechat (Motacilla rubicola), the water wagtail (M. alba), the
         lark (Alauda arvensis), the bullfinch (Loxia pyrrhula), the chaf-
         finch (Fringilla coelebs), the goldfinch (F. carduelis), the cuckoo
         (Cuculus canorus), the kingfisher (Alcedo ispida), the swallow (Hi-
         rundo rustica), the goat-sucker, fern-owl, or night jar (Caprimul-
         gus Europaeus), the wood-pigeon (Columba palumbus), the black-
         cock (Tetrao tetrix), the ptarmigan (T. lagopus), the moorfowl
         (T.Scoticus), the partridge (Tperdix), theplover(Charadriusplu-
         vialis), the lapwing (Tringa vanellus), the heron (Ardea cinerea),
         the woodcock (Scolopax rusticola), the curlew (S. arquata), the
         snipe (S. gallinago), the corncrake (Rallus crex), the sea-gull
         (Larus canus).  Large flocks of wild geese and ducks used during
         the winter months to frequent the Frith, but of late years they-
         have almost entirely disappeared.  To what cause this is to be at-
         tributed we know not.

            Fishes.-In the frith, are found cod, coal-fish, skate, flounders,
         and salmon. Of old, baddocks and whitings were also found, but
         they have for many years almost totally disappeared. This has
         led to the conjecture, that the bed of the frith is becoming gra-
         dually more muddy.  Herring used also to enter the fritb, but
         they have long ago totally deserted it.  Of shell-fish, we may men-
         tion the cockle (Cardium edule), mussel (Mytilus edulis), limpet
         (Patella vulgaris), razor fish, &c.  Very fine oysters (Ostrea edu-
         lis) are found by dredging.
            Botany. -The parish possesses few, if any, rare plants.  There
         are very extensive plantations, consisting chiefly of larch and
         Scottish firs; but the latter greatly predominate. There is also



