
816                            AYRSHIRE.

Saints, the date assigned to St Winnin or Winning, is 715, and
his festival was held on the 21st of January, on which day, O.S.
there is still an annual fair held here, called St Winning's day.
In Pont's MS. it is said, that "Vinnin was a holy man wich came
from Irland, with certane of his discipells and followers, and heir
taught the Gospell; the place of his residence retaining still ye
name Killivinnin, ye church or cell of Vinnin, unto quhome, as to
a notable sante, ye superstitious posterity dedicated." In the Pro-
prium Sanctorum, a different parentage is given to St Winnin, as
he is there said to have sprung of a noble family in Scotland. He
was famous for his power in curing, diseases, and for his control
over the elements. In the parish of Holywood, a fountain of pre-
cious virtue sprung up on his intercession, and remained in repute
until the beginning of the sixteenth century. A spring, of fine
water, a little to the south of Kilwinning manse, which still bears
the name of St Winning's Well, was also celebrated for its vir-
tue. But St Winnin could curse the waters as well as bless them,
for on one occasion, when the river Garnock would not yield up
any of his fish to one of his angling friends, the saint pronounced
a malediction, on which the river "left its bed, and followed an-
other course adverse to nature."*
	The fame and sanctity of St Winnin led to the building of the
splendid monastery, near the site of the more ancient church of
this place. According to the commonly received account, it was
founded in the reign of David L., A. D. 1140, by Hugh de More-
ville, Constable of Scotland, the chief benefactor, if not also the
founder, of Dryburgh Abbey. In the Pont manuscript before
quoted, however, a different origin is assigned to it, and the date
of the foundation, or perhaps the completion of the buildings, is
placed in the year 1591: "It was foundit by a noble Englich-
man, named Sir Richard Morwell, fugitive from his owne country
for ye slaughter of Thomas Beccket, Archbichope of Canterbur-
rey, (being one of them), in the raine of King Henry II. of Eng-
land, quho, flying to Scotland; was, by the then Scots King"
(Malcolm IV. he elsewhere affirms), "velcomed and honoured
with ye office of grate Constable of Scotland, as also inriched with
ye Lordships of Cunninghame, Largis, and Lauderdaill, quhosse

quities of the parish, I am indebted to James Dobie, Esq., Beith,--a gentleman rich
in antiquarian lore, and most obliging in communicating information, and granting
access to his valuable library.

<FOOTNOTE>Proprium Sanctorum, fol. 38. For an account of a change in the course of the
Garnock, which this tradition applies, see New Statistical Account of Stevenston.


