
580                          EDINBURGHSHIRE.

ing cannot exist with many, nor be formed by the young, since
there is only 430 sittings in all for the 1365 at present ostensibly
belonging to the Establishment, while there is a considerable pro-
portion of them not available to the full extent, from their being
particularly-allocated, which, especially in reference to the young
has long been felt as a grievance, since they cannot be encouraged
to attend, lest those more advanced should be thereby excluded.
   The number of communicants on the roll in 1835 was 363, and
in 1837, 343. The average number that has communicated of
late years is about 325. During the last five years, 122 have been
admitted for the first time.
   A parochial Association was formed in 1831 in support of the
General Assembly's schemes for education and the propagation of
the gospel in India, the only ones then in existence, and during
the seven years that have since elapsed, L. 232 have been collect-
ed for these objects. In 1835 another Association was formed,
auxiliary to the Church Extension Scheme; and afterwards it
embraced the Colonial Scheme. For the former there was col-
lected in 1835, L. 132, and for the two conjoined, in 1837, L. 64.
   Education.-There are one parochial, one unendowed, and two
female schools supported by individual subscription. The parish
schoolmaster has the maximum salary, and all the legal accommoda-
tions, with the exception of a small deficiency in the size of his gar-
den, which is compensated by a certain quantity of oatmeal, at the
fiars' prices annually, according to the provisions of the act of Parlia-
ment. He also has an annuity of L. 5 for the coal under his garden,
or rather for leave to drive a mine through it for the working of the
coal, payable by Sir John Hope, Bart. of Pinkie, and L. 8 per
annum for the education of four boys, according to the terms of a
mortification afterwards to be noticed. In a parliamentary return
made in 1834, L. 60 is given as the amount of fees, and L. 37 is
that of other emoluments, including, of course, the items before
specified, and also the session clerk's salary and fees In all,
the master's income is L. 131, 4s. 4 1/2 d., * with a dwelling-houses,
which is commodious, and garden, surrounded by an excellent
wall. It may be mentioned, to the credit of the heritors, that the
whole establishment of school and school-house is on the most
liberal scale, and in addition, a spacious playground, provided

<FOOTNOTE>L. 50 has since been mortified by the late Mrs Laing of Newton, the interest to
go to the schoolmaster, and the interest of L. 50 more, deducting legacy duty, for the
support of Sabbath schools.


