
700                         FIFESHIRE.

after mourning for a ]once period over the defections under Pre-
lacy, he was privileged to witness its overthrow, and to assist in
effecting the second Reformation.  His father-in-law, the cele-
brated David Ferguson, first Presbyterian minister of Dunfermline,
and coadjutor of John Knox, began to write a history of the
Church of Scotland, which Mr Row continued.  This history,
which consists chiefly of an abridgement of the Acts of the Gene-
ral Assembly, and which bears the name of Row's MS., has been
published both by the Wodrow Society, and the Maitland Club.
   Mr Row was settled minister of Carnock in 1592, and died
June 26th 1646, aged seventy-eiht years.
   The eldest son of Mr Row was named John, and attained to
such eminence both for his literary accomplishments, and for his
zeal in church affairs, that he deserves to be mentioned in con-
nection with his native parish.  He was for some time rector of
the grammar-school at Kirkaldy, and was afterwards translated to
the rectorship of that of Perth, where he taught during twenty
years with distinguished ability and success.  Subsequently, he
turned his attention more particularly to the church, and having
gone to Aberdeen be was ordained one of the ministers of that
city.  In 1652, he was appointed Principal of King's College,
Old Aberdeen, in room of Dr Guild, who bad been deposed the
preceding year.  When at the head of this college, he gave great
encouragement to learning, and was much respected.  He was de-
prived of his office of Principal after the Restoration in 1661.


<FOOTNOTE>His death is thus noted in the session records: "Junnie 28.--My father, Mr
Joline Row of worthie memories being departed this life, I, his youngest sone, Mr
William Row, minister of Seres, did preach, and after sermone did hold session."
His monument in the church-yard here, which seems to be of considerable antiquity,
though the date of its erection is unknown, has the following Latin inscription in
raised capitals: "Hic jucet M. Jo. Row, pastor hujus Ecclesiae Fideliss, vixit ac-
cerrimus veritatis et foederis Scoticarii assertor : Hie rarchias Pseudoepiscopalis et Ro-
manorum rituum cordicitus asor: in frequenti symmystarum apostasia cubi instar
coiistantissimus.  Duxit Gricelidem Fergusoniam, cuin qua annis 51 conjunctissime
vixit.  Huic Ecclesiae annis. 54 praefuit.  Obiit Junnii 26, anno Dom. 1646, aetatis 78.
Obiit et illa Januarii 30,1659.
  On another part of Row's monument is the following inscription: "Here lyes
Adam Stobie of Wester Luskar, born 1620, died 1711, and Margaret Gibbon, grand-
child to Mr John Row, born 1630, died 1670."  This Mr Stoble, who belonged to
the parish, was a zealous Covenanter, and met, in consequence, with much hard usage,
Both tradition, and the facts mentioned by Wodrow, fully establish the truth ofthe
following statement regarding him in the Religious Monitor for October 1808
"He was a gentleman much respected in the country, a man of great spirit and ex-
emplary piety.  His house was the resort of many of the ministers and others who
were persecuted for conscience sake,in the profligate reign of Charles II.  He him-
self was fined, imprisoned, sent to the Bass, and condemned to be transported beyond
zeas; but by a wonderful interposition of Providence, was landed in England, and
got safe home to his family."


