
     of Dunfermline

1706, and ratified in Parliament on March 21, 1707.
The family continued to enjoy the privilege till 1788,
when it was purchased by Government for L. 40,000 Ster-
ling, when the property that could injure the revenue was
nearly exhausted.

   The most remarkable, in these lands, are the seams, con-
sisting of 5 feet, 2 feet, and 4 feet each.  They are all
found within the space of 14 yards, at the distance of 3
fathoms and a half from each other, and in their natural
state, they dip from one foot in four, to one in fix towards
the N. E.  Immediately above the two feet seam, are the
strata of iron-stone already mentioned.  The surface being
irregular, the pits are from 10 to 80 yards in depth.  East-
ward from the mines of Pitserran, are those of Urquhart
and Pittencrieff, which are nearly exhausted, until deeper
levels are made or engines erected.

   Northward from there are the numerous seams of coals to burn his lime,
that appear above each other, (as per sectioz), situated un-
der the lands of West and Midbalbridge, Clune, Luscar,
and Rosebank.  They are the property of the Earl of El-
gin*.  They contain immense quantities of coal, of vari-
ous qualities,  within 30 fathoms from the surface of the

<FOOTNOTE>

*The difficulty of finding a regular supply of coals to burn his line,
lately induces has Lordship to purchase this extensive field of coal.  It con-
sists of more the 900 square acres, and contains valuable seams of all the
various kinds that are found in the country.  From these, coal-mines, his
Lordship is making a waggon way, of 4 miles extent, to his lime works.
It is  said he insteads to make a new harbour, a little wet from his har-
bour at Charlestown, for exporting his coals, which will have 20 feet
of water at stream tides, and be one of the best in Scotland.  A harbour
so safe and convenient will be extremely advantages for the town of 
Dunfermline, whenever the canal, which has been proposed, shall be
made from the town to the Frith.  Nor will it be less advantages for
the country in general than for his Lordship.


