
     of Keith.

dently shews, that these small funds are by no means suffi-
cient, for the maintenance of those to whom they are de-
voted.  This deficiency, however, is, in general, amply
made up, either by the generosity of their relations, or by
the charity and liberality of their neighbours.  For it
ought to be recorded, to the honour of the inhabitants of
Keith, that in liberality to the poor they are not exceeded,
it is believed, by any people of their circumstances and sta-
tion in Scotland.  Besides the above sum, there is annual-
ly collected from L. 5 to L. 6 Sterling, for the benefit of
the Infirmary of Aberdeen.

   School.-The parish of Keith has long enjoyed, with lit-
tle interruption, the benefit of a good school, to which, be-
fore other able schoolmasters were so frequent, there was a
great resort of young lads for the benefit of education.  At
present it is in a very prosperous stare, the office of school-
master being filled by a gentleman fully capable, and of the
most indefatigable application.  Besides-the usual salary and
perquisites, he enjoys annually 300 merks Scotch from a
mortification, of which a brief account is subjoined*.

     3 H

<FOOTNOTE>

*In the year 1647, Alexander Ogilvie of Edindeach, clerk to the
Signet, mortified his lands and mall of Edindeach, "for building and up-
"bolding a school-house, and maintaining a schoolmaster in the parochin
"of Keith," appointing the minister and elders trustees for the said mor-
tification.  In the year 1687, the laid of Braco, ancestor to Lord Fife,
raised a process as titular of teinds, for abstracted tiends, against the per-
son who was then schoolmaster; obtained decrest before the Commissary
of Murray, and got the lands adjudged to him for these teinds.  In conse-
quence of that adjudication, the laird of Braco, got possession of the mor-
tified lands, paying annually to the schoolmaster only L. 6 s Scotch.  In
the year 1747, a schoolmaster of spirit succeeded, who being assured by
good counsel, that he had a right to these mortified lands, raised a process
of reduction of the deed of adjudicatin.  This process he maintained for
ten years before the Court of Session.  His little funds being then exhaust-


