

116                        LINLITHGOWSHIRE.

and after a circuitous and somewhat rapid course in a north-easter-
ly direction, falls into the Frith of Forth at the village of Cramond,)
is, in this parish, except for the purposes of mills, a very insignifi-
cant stream in general, but when flooded, rises so as to be almost
magnificent, and increases in breadth to the great injury of its
banks.
   Geology and Mineralogy.-The Briech water has in its course
gradually made several deep sections of the circumjacent strata.
These are of the coal formation, such as clays, slate-clays, &c.
In the bed of the river quantities of boulders appear. The most
striking natural feature of the parish is the eminence commonly
called Dechmont Law, which, with the surrounding ridges, of
which it is the apex, are of the trap-rock formation. The green-
stone of the summit is succeeded by compact basalt lower down,
and at the foot of the eastern side, fine blue shale appears. Coal
and limestone abound at its eastern side, and thus, from its close
connection with strata of the coal formation, it bears a striking ana-
logy to the larger trap formation of Arthur's Seat, &c.
   A lake-stone rock, in the western part of the parish, is supposed
to be fifty feet thick, dips one in every three feet to the north-
west, and rises to the south-east. The lime, coal, and sandstone
near it dip with equal rapidity, and in the same direction as the
lake-stone. Sandstone is to be found in various directions, and
from twelve to twenty feet thick.
   Lime, coal, and whinstone abound over almost all the parish,
but hitherto they have not been very successfully worked.
   Botany.-Dechmont Law is in summer beautifully adorned with
the yellow moibntain-violet (Viola luter,) and white saxifrage (Saxi-
fraga granulate.) In a wood west from Livingstone village, the
elegant lesser winter-green (Pyrola minor) occurs. On the banks of
a small stream half a mile above it, the great leopard's bane (Do-
ronicum Pardalianches) is met with; and in the woods to the north,
   Habenaria bifolia, Listera ovata, and Hypericum hirsutum are
frequently seen.

                       II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Eminent Men.-Patrick Murray, Baron of Livingstone, well de-
serves to have his memory recorded. Living about the middle of
the seventeenth century, this young nobleman, in possession of an
ample fortune, turned his attention to the study of natural history,
and, not contented with forming at his own country-seat a botanic
garden consisting of one thousand species of plants, a great col-



