
				AYR.			          7

of the county, about thirty miles from its influx into the sea, and
it runs through the whole breadth of the shire, to which in this
view it appropriately gives itsname, dividing it into two nearly equal
parts. Along the upper part of its course, the scenery is naked
and uninteresting, as it flows through a moorland mountainous
country, covered with extensive sheep-walks, almost entirely bare
of wood, and with hardly any banks above the heaths and meadows
that surround it. After it reaches the village of Sorn, however,
the scenery becomes exceedingly grand and picturesque, and con-
tinues so all the way to its mouth. In fact, for nearly twenty miles,
few streams ban excel it for richness and variety of landscape.  It
exhibits the sublime and beautiful in nature's works, in endless
succession, and in every possible variety of combination, while at
the same time it receives ample assistance from the ornaments
of art, in the numerous magnificent mansions and pleasure grounds
which adorn its borders, seeking from it in return, variety, beauty,
and fertility. It is subject at times to sudden and impetuous
floods, during which it carries down great quantities of alluvial mat-
ter, which it deposits at its mouth, thereby forming a bar, which is
a great obstruction to the entrance and egress of vessels, and a
formidable drawback to the harbour of Ayr, as an emporitun of
trade. At a short distance above the harbour are "the Twa Brigs,"
rendered famous by the humorous poem of Burns, which bears
that title. The new bridge is a handsome structure, and well
placed, and convenient enough for the use of the public, though
rather too narrow. The other is entirely shut up, except to foot-
passengers.
	River Doon.--This classic stream, which forms the south-wester
boundary of the parish, rises out of a lake of the same name, about
eighteen miles inland to the south-east of Ayr, bounded by high
mountains, and situated on the confines betwixt Ayrshire and the
stewartry of Kirkcudbright. The lake from which it claims its
paternity hs exceedingly picturesque, from the elevated mountain
ridges with which it is surrounded, and were these covered with
wood, instead of being naked moorland pasture, they might vie with
the lake scenery of Cumberland. In issuing from this interesting
sheet of water, the river formerly ran over the top of a narrow
edging of rock, about 15 or 20 feet above the bed of the stream
below. But as the lake was found to be nearly of the same depth
on the other side, two mines have been cut though the rock
through which the water has been brought, and two sluices pla-


