
					MUCKART.                  309

	tablished Church. The consequence is, that many of the young
	people remain at home, and others make it an excuse for irregu-	
	lar attendance. The number of communicants at present is more
	than that of theregular seats in the church.
	   The manse is newly built, at an estimate of L. 600, is very
	commodious, and does credit to the contractors. The glebe con-
	tains 10 acres 1 rood, and may be worth about L. 20 per an-
	num. The stipend is L. 150, part of which is paid by the Exche-
	quer. There is one meeting-house in the parish, connected
	with the United Associate Synod. The present incumbent, it is
	understood, in addition to a manse and a valuable glebe of 13
	acres, has L. 100 per annum, paid partly from the seat rents, and
	partly by collections at the church doors. The number of fa-
	milies connected with the Establishment is 89, including 438 in-
	dividuals. The parishioners connected with the Secession church
	amount to 226. Their meeting-house contains sittings for about
	360, and of these there are about 285 let. Divine worship in the
	Established Church is generally well attended, and the number of
	communicants is about 200. The average yearly amount of col-
	lections at the church door is about L. 15.
	  Education.-There are two schools in the parish, the one paro-
	chial and the other unendowed. In both, the same branches in
	general are taught, viz. English reading and grammar, writing,
	arithmetic, book-keeping, and Latin, conjoined occasionally with
	geography, algebra, and French. The salary of the parish school-
	master is L, 25, 6s. 8d.; the amount of the fees may be L. 17; in-
	terest on some mortified money, L. 9. These may give as a total in-
	come L. 51, 6s. 8d.; along with a house and garden. The school
	fees are 10d. a month for English reading, with 2d. additional
	for any of the other branches, such as writing, arithmetic, or Latin.
	The fees in the unendowed school are understood to be a trifle
	higher. With the exception of two fatuous persons, all in the pa-
	rish arrived at years of discretion, as far as can be ascertained,
	have been taught to read, and almost invariably they have at least
	got some lessons in writing, although many may have altogether
	neglected it in after life.
	  Literature.-There is a library in the parish, for the united pa-
	rishes of Glendovan, Muckart, and Fossaway, containing a good
	selection of books.
	  Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of persons
	on the regular poor's roll is six, receiving each at the rate of

