
104			EDINBURGHSHIRE.

dren attend the panish school. There are few adult subscribers.
It is hoped, however, that the parents profit by the perusal of the
books taken home by the children, as they are generally of a cha-
racter from which the old as well as the young may learn.
   Friendly Societies.-There are at present 3 societies of this de-
scription existing. One is termed the Ratho Yearly Society; and,
as its name intimates, lasts only for a year, when it is dissolved and
formed of new. It embraces three objects,--the saving of a portion
of Money for rent, and other purposes; the relief of casual sick-
ness; and the diminution of the burden of expense consequent
upon a funeral. For these purposes, each member pays Is. 2d. a
week; the odd pence, with the interest of the whole, forms a
fund from which sick members are relieved, at the rate of 5s. a
week for the first thirteen weeks, 2s. 6d. for the next thirteen, and
Is. 6d. during the remainder of the year. In the event of a mem-
bers death, his family receives L.2 for funeral expenses and L.1,
10s. are giveri on the death of a member's wife. What remains of
the whole sum paid from November of the one year to the suc-
6eeding one, is, divided among the members at the expiry pf the
year. There are 62 individuals members of this society. The
affairs are conducted by a committee of twelve, exclusive of the
treasurer.
   Masons Society.-The Free Masons have a Friendly Society in
connection with their lodge. This society numbers at present about
50 members, and has, besides the building appropriated to masonic
meetings, a fund of L.300. The entry-money paid by persons
joining the fund is stated in the printed regulations to be L.1, Is.,
exclusive of what is paid by them as masons. This sum is now
reduced. Besides the sum paid on entering each member contri-
butes to the fund 2s per quarter, and in return, receives during
sickness, 6s. per week for the first twelve weeks 4s. for the next twelve,
2s. for the succeeding twenty-six weeks, after which he is put upon
the superannuated allowance of 1s. per week during the continuance
of his illness. L.6 are given for the funeral expenses of a mem-
ber. L.2 of this sum may be drawn by him on the decease of his
wife, and three only are then allowed to be drawn at his own death.
A collection of 1s. is made for each member when the funeral
money is taken in whole, 6d. when the L.2 is taken, and other 6d.
when application is made for the remaining L.3. From 1st June
1837, to 13th August 1838, this society received L.40, 3s. 2 1/2d.,
and paid out L.44, 16s. 6 1/2d.


