
     Statistical Account

by a small line; and with this frame they stand, having the
mouth of the net, which is fixed to the frame, opposed to the
stream, and the points of the rungs fixed upon the bottom,
holding firmly the middle of the beam:  so that, whenever a
fish strikes against the net, they, by means of the middle rung,
instantly haul up the mouth of the net above water, and the
fish which lies caught in the pock or hollow of the net, they
kill with an instrument kept for that purpose.  A dozen or
twenty men will sometimes go in, and stand a-breast in the
stream, at this kind of fishing, up to the middle, in strong run-
ning water, for three or four hours together.  A company
of this kind is called a Mell.-3.  Another method is cal-
led pock-net fishing:  This is performed by fixing stakes or stours
(as they are called) in the sand, either in the channel of the ri-
ver, or in the sand which is dry at low water.  These stours
are fixed in a line, acrofs the tide-way, at the distance of 40
inches from each other, about 3 feet high above the sand, and
between every two of these stours is fixed a pock-net, tied by a
rope to the top of each stour.  The under part of the net is
made fast to a hank or ring, made of twisted willow or hazle,
and flipt on to the stour on which it is moveable.  These pock-
nets are made of strong twine, and the mouths of them are a-
bout 3 feet wide both ways:  They are of a wide mesh, so that
the fish coming up rapidly witht the stream, instantly run
their heads into one of these meshes, where thry stick, and so
are unable to disengage themselves; and as soon as the tide is
spent, the fishermen go in and take them.  Five of these pocks
are called a clout; and ten clout of nets are the quantity al-
lowed to each fisherman, who has only one share in the fish-
ing.  They have also the distances regulated, so that one fisher-
man-4.  The fourth method is called raise-net fishing.  This
is by far the most profitable mode, yielding a rent of from 2


