
                             PETTIE.                             397

siderate estimate and investigation, in some instances, even at less
than the tenant has actually offered, and under the valuator's appre-
ciation,)-if this be a system of dealing between landlord and tenant,
embodying the favourite sentiment, "live and let live,"-we may in-
fer that, upon the whole, the tenants are satisfied with their cir-
cumstance. And, since poverty is as often the parent as the off-
spring of vicious habits, the character of the people, who are in
general orderly and moral, may be taken as presumptive evidence
that they are not ground down by the extortion of unrdasonable
landlords.
   Smuggling at one time existed, but it has entirely disappeared
of late years.
   As to the religious state of the people, there is no denying that
an universal opinion prevails in the Highlands, and it is not entirely
confined to laymen, that piety was more flourishing in the days of
their fathers than in their own day. If we consult, however,
the records of session of this parish, it will be, found, that the
instances of gross immorality and indecency which crowd and
contaminate their earlier paaes, become gradually fewer as we
approach the present day. Some of these have for years been
unknown. From the habits of society in former days, when
the Stratbdearn feuars used to meet the tenantry of this parish
and the factor at Castle Stuart, and spent not days but weeks in
uncontrolled revelry, scenes were then witnessed, such that the
very mention of them makes people of ordinary stomachs thankful
that they have been born out of season. On the other hand, we must
recollect that, if a man was then actuated at all by religious princi-
ples, he was obliged to stand more entirely apart from the common
intercourse of society, and his religion would shine forth in stronger
relief than would the character of the very same man if living now,
when a general decency of deportment prevails. Besides, the
absence of the variety of books and newspaperr now circulated
made our forefathers very much, and of necessity, men of one
business and ond book. Their small adjacent farms made it
as convenient to them to meet often as if they dwelt in a village,
and gave them neither poverty nor riches, but a competency and
leisure. Frequent prayer and fellowship Meetings became naturally
the fuel and the fruit of piety in such a state of things. Such reli-
gious men would be justly and greatly venerated as lights shining
in a dark place. Besides, the custom unknown to the Lowlands,
by which men of this description, at stated monthly meetings, and
on the Friday preceding the dispensation of the Lord's Supper,


