
160				WIGTONSHIRE.

general benefit, but that the surplus funds, having increased to a
large amount under a too cautions management, and the entry-
money bearing a fixed proportion to the amount of the funds hav-
ing risen to a large sum, for a long time operated to the entire
exclusion of a new members. This evil has been lately remedied,
and the number of members is increasing every month.
	A Savings Bank was commenced about nine years ago, by the
then assistant minister, Rev. Mr Campbell, with the countenance
and assistance of the late Forbes Hunter Blair, Esq. of Dunskey.
But the attempt to promote the design of this most desirable in-
stitution proved entirely abortive, chiefly in consequence, as it now
appears, of an ungenerous and most absurd suspicion among the
labouring classes, that their wages would be reduced if it were dis-
covered that they could save money from their earnings to depo-
sit in a bank.
	Poor's Funds.--The average number of names on the list of
regular paupers during the last seven years is 32. The allow-
ances are paid on the first lawful day of each month, and have va-
ried from 1s. 6d. to 17s. 2d. The average allowance may be
stated at 4s. 6d. per month. But, besides the regular paupers,
many receives occasional relief, and the sums thus given may amount
to L. 20 in the year. The collections at the church door on
Sabbaths have amounted to about L. 40 per annum at an average.
A legacy of L. 180, left to the poor of the parish by the late Earl
of Stair, yields L. 7, 4s. of interest per annum. The remainder
of the sum necessary for the support of the poor and for other pa-
rochial charges ordinarily made on the poor's funds, has hitherto
been contributed voluntarily by the heritors, in the proportion of
their respective valuations. There is no aversion among the poor
generally to accept of parochial relief, but quite the contrary.
	Prisons.--There is a lock-up-house in the town, where prison-
ers may be confined securely enough, though not very comfortably,
for a night or two; but it is very rarely used.
	Fairs have never been held in this parish.
	Inns, Ale-houses, &c.--There is a large and commodious Inn in
the town, where nobility and travellers of rank frequently lodge
in passing to and from Ireland. There are 8 other smaller inns
and ale-houses, and a spirit store where liquors are retailed. The
number of houses licensed for retailing spirits is beyond all doubt.
injurious to the moralr of the people here as elsewhere. Three
well regulated inns in Portpatrick would be amply sufficient for all


