
12                        RENFREWSHIRE.

and meadows therewith connected, granted in favour of Lord Lyll
and his heirs, and bearing date 1468.  After this, the Hawkhead
family became Heritable Constables.  Within the recollection of
many living, there was a deep fosse partially round the site, built
with stone on the inner side, and having a small rivulet passing
through it; but no part of the castle is recollected.  Immediately
adjoining and stretching away from the burgh, there had been an ex-
tensive orchard, and part of the fruit trees are remembered; and
farther on, was " the King's Meadow."  It is still called by the same
name; the lands formerly an orchard, are still called " the orchard;"
the site of the castle is still " Castle hill;" and part of the ancient
foundations were lately dug up, when several rings and a key were
found.  A small street immediately adjoining is still called the
" Dog Row," meaning the place where the ancient kennel was.
And a chimney-piece, of unusual length and remarkably low, is
still found in a cottage opposite the end of this row, which tradition
alleges to have belonged to an establishment for boiling dogs' meat.
Close by Renfrew are the domains of Eldersly, formerly an island,
and bearing the name of "the King's Inch."  On this island, and
only a short way in front of the present mansion-house, stood
another castle, formerly possessed by the Stewarts, and afterwards
by the House of Hawkhead.  In a charter granted by Walter " the
first Steward," the following expression occurs,-"cum illa maisura
super rupem, ubi aula mea erat fundata;" and in a confirmatory
charter, granted by his son Alan, "the second Steward," the same
clause is thus repeated, "cum illa maisura super rupem ubi aula
patris mei erat fundata."  It is a remarkable circumstance, that
there is not a spot in this parish, where rock is visible, except where
the ancient castle of the Inch stood.  Here there was a mass of
whin rock, which was removed on the erection of the present man-
sion of Eldersly.  And as it is clear, from the terms of these char-
ters, that the "Aula" referred to, was about Renfrew, we are dis-
posed to believe, that the first residence of "the Stewards" was on
"the Inch."  The castle and domains of the Inch afterwards pas-
sed into the hands of the Hawkhead family, and the ruins of the
last castle were taken down preparatory to the erection of Eldersly
House.  At that time they consisted of three stories, but were built
in a castellated form.  A sketch of the ruins was taken, not long
before their removal, and was possessed by the present provost of
the burgh; but it became amissing, and has not yet been found.
   Two points of the above narrative of the house of Stewart may


