
			      DALZIEL.                    461

till the second. The use of cutting is to make the roots strike,
and the tree branch out. The young trees are protected from the
hires, sometimes by placing broom around them; but no most
generally, by smearing them with a mixture of lime and cow dung,
or by covering them with a straw rope, which is taken off during
summer. Trees of all ages are grafted if healthy, when they have
turned out bad kinds, bad bearers, or not in repute; and the graft is
put between the bark and the wood. When the branch on which
the graft is put is a thick one, one is put on each side of it, and the
one which has thriven best, is preserved, while the other is taken
away, unless it be likely to grow in a preferable direction. *
	There is no anxiety felt here, to have what is called a handsome
tree, having a tall stem, before being allowed to branch out. The
great object is to have one that will bear a great quantity of fruit.
The trunk is seldom above three feet from the ground, sometimes
less. And another advantage resulting from this is, that the wind
is not so apt to overturn the tree, and to blow down the fruit. In
exposed situations, the young tree is sometimes kept in its position
by means of a straw rope attached to a stob or two. There is
little of the fruit on walls, except on houses, and in Dalziel garden.
Consequently, it is not generally so large, but the quantity is great-
er, and is considered superior in quality.
	The age to which a tree grows, depends on the soil, the quality
of the stock on which the graft has been put, and the regular cul-
tivation given. Many of the apple trees in the orchards here are
150 years old, pears much older. When an old tree dies out, care
is taken to plant one of a different kind from the former, i. e. to
put a pear where an apple has been, and an apple in the place of
a pear. The principal orchards on the estate of Dalziel were
planted by the great-grandfather of the present proprietor, who
was quite an enthusiast in growing trees of all kinds, and who
could not endure to see any of them cut down or destroyed.
	Pruning.--Care is taken, while the tree is young, to train the
branches, so as to make them spread out on all sides, to cut off-
those which are likely to encroach on others, and as much as pos-
sible to keep the tree open in the heart. From the older ones, rot-
ten branches are lopped off, and also those which are hurting others,
which, if suffered to remain, tend to injure the tree. From the
great number of the trees, however, and the time, required in do-

<FOOTNOTE>As the wind is apt to break the graft (when the branch is a thick one,) a piece
of stick is fixed to the branch with bass or mat-straw, to which the graft is slightly
attached.


