
348       		FORFARSHIRE.

the best soils and is sheltered situations. A great quantity of
Highland wedders are also fed on turnips in winter.
	The consequence of all which is, that, instead of inferior soils
being allowed to go out of cultivataon, since the peace,-their im-
provement has actually been much extended, in the face of the low
prices of produce.
	The tenants are most industrious; and the progress of improve-
agent has been much aided by the liberality of the proprietors in
the reduction of rents.
        Manufactures.-In 1806, a mill for spinning flax was built on the
Glammiss burn. It contains 16 frames. The water-wheel is of
sixteen h6rse power. And in 1820, a steam engine of ten horse
power was added, to, assist when the water becomes, scarce in, sum-
mer. There is also a plash-mill on the same stream, for cleaning
the yarn. 66 people of both sexes are employed on the premises.
The females have from 3s. 6d. to 7s. 6d., and the males from 12s.
to L. I per week, of wages. The yarn spun at the mill is manu-
factured in different parts of the parish, and produces about 4000
pieces of brown linen annually, principally for the Dundee market.
Thdrd are also manufactured annually by private individuals in the
parish, about 7500 pieces of brown linen, besides those wove by
the proprietors of the mill. The cloth is chiefly Osnaburgs and
sheetings.
	In 1831, a circulating library was established for the use of the
mill people, and now contains from 200 to 300 volumes.

                 V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
        Villages, Meems of Communication, &c.-The villages of Glam-
miss is situated nearly in the centre of the parish; it is a post-town.
The great northern, road from Edinburgh to Aberdeen passes
through it, and another crosses there, from Kirriemuir to Dundee,
which is the nearest port, and from which it is twelve miles distant
by that turnpike.
        Ecclestical State.-In this parish there are very few dissent-
ers from the Established Church.-net above 10 or 15 in all.
The parish church was built in 1793, and is remarkably well
attended. It is a plain commodious house, with a spire. It ac-
commodates about 950 sitters. The average number of commu-
cants is about 750. The manse, which is a commodious house,
was built in 1788: and during the present incumbency, a con-
siderable addition was made to it. The stipend is 138 bells of
barley, and bolls of meal, payable according to the fiars prices,
				4


