
     of Kincardine.

other half is employed chiefly in raising oats, barley and beans.
These in some farms occupy nearly equal portions; but in ge-
neral the proportion of oats is greatest, a few pease are fre-
quently mixed with the beans, and sometimes, although rare-
ly, they are sown by themselves.-Wheat, as appears from
the reddenda of the abbey of Cambuskenneth, and from some
old rentals, had been cultivated to a greater extend, in the car-
ses east from Sterling, antiently, than it was a few years ago.
-But its culture, except on two farms, has been but lately
introduced into this parish.  This is also the case with broad
clover, but both, and especially the last, are gaining ground
fast, as every farmer has some acres of it for green feeding, and
some have begun to sow it for hay.-The whole of the dry-
field almost is arable. Of such parts of it as are let in farms,
nearly three fifths are in tillage, and of this, three fourths, at
an average, are employed in raising outs; the remainder is
employed in the culture of barley, lint, and as many potatoes

     Vol. VI. 3 R

<FOOTNOTE>

him.-If this be the case, during the latter years of the first term of 19 years,
folly alone can prompt him to continue has operators, during the second terms ;
as he then pays, at the rate of 12 s. per acre, immediately when the ground
is reclaimed - When to this rent is added, the interest of the money, or the va-
lue of the labour bestowed on clearing the ground, it costs him 22 s or 24 s.
yearly, exclusive of the loss of the principal.  It may therefore be concluded
that it is evidently against his interest upon such a lease to employ himself
in removing moss, after one third of the lease is expired-But, when he is
paid in proportion to the quantity of ground reclaimed, it is for his interest
to continue has operations, to the last hour of his lease, as the interest of the
value of the labour bestowed, in no case, exceeds a very moderate rent for the
ground, and he receives his capital at the end of the lease- It is also the in
terest of the landlord to give the tenant such encouragement for reclaiming
his ground, rather than to have it lie waste until the end of his lease; for if
he pay the tenant at the end of his first term of 19 years, he gets a least 5 per
cent. for his money during the remainder of the lease; and, at the end of
the lease, he may be supported to draw at least 10 percent for a possession of
that small extent, with a suitable house and offices upon it.


