
246 	  		BANFFSHIRE.

south-east, which bounds the southern part of the parish westward.
The Benhill, the highest, is 945 feet above the level of the sea,
and serves as a land-mark to the fishermen, being seen by them,
according to their calculation, at fully fifteen leagues distance.
The other two hills, Maud and Adie, are of less elevation, and co-
vered with heath to their summits. They extend, in a westerly
direction, to the boundaries of the parish. The Benhill has been
much improved of late by the Earl of Seafield causing a carriage-
road to be made, which, by a circuitous course, leads to its top,
the view from which, in all directions, is most extensive and com-
manding. Previous to 1744, this hill, was covered with heath, but
it was then richly planted to the very summit.
   Climate and Soil.- The greatest part of the parish has a north-
west exposure, and suffers severely from the storms which blow
from that quarter. The most prevalent complaints are rheuma-
tism and catarrhs, brought on by the alternations of heat and cold,
particularly among the fishermen, who are exposed to all vicissi-
tudes of weather. It may be remarked, that, in the year 1794,
notwithstanding the large population of this parish, no medical
man thought it worth his while to settle within its boundaries. At
present, there are two surgeons and one apothecary in the village,
of Buckie.
   Surface, &c.-The surface ma be described as rather moun-
tainous, with some low-lying ground of good quality and conside-
rable breadth from the sea-shore to the base of the hills on the
south. The hills, as already mentioned, are covered with heath
or moss, and afford very little pasture, the soil being either hard
gravel, or of a mossy character resting upon a bottom of clay
very retentive of moisture. On the low grounds, part of the soil
is a light loam, rich, with a clay bottom; in another part, it is ra-
ther thin, and rests on a red kind of clay formed from the debris
of the old red sandstone, but at the same time is very productive.
Along the sea-shore it is sandy, and covered with an immense
quantity of small stones, evidently rounded by the action of the
sea, which, during ages long gone.past, must have flowed over this
part of the country.
   Hydrography.-The Moray Frith bounds this parish from east
to west, towards the north, for ten miles. There is nothing re-
markable with regard to the nature of the water, as to colour,
temperature, luminousness, saltness, or the flowing of the tides.
The shore abounds with Medusae, or sea-jellies. The depth of


