
     of Alloa.

lucky enough to find an old serjeant of the Royals, a diligent
virtuous man, who not only brought the children, but even
their parents, into some kind of order and discipline.  This
has greatly assisted the present proprietor, who, during the
residence of 21 years, has paid particular attention to the col-
liers, and has now the pleasure of seeing a very great reforma-
tion among them.  They were formerly remarkable for their
ignorance and dissoluteness of manners.  They are now rather
above the ordinary rate of the common people*.  Each collier
has a free house and garden, a quantity of meal proportioned
to the number of the family, at the rate of 10 1/2d. per peck,
and their firing:  Each family, upon an average, consumes
rather more than 7 cwt. per week.  The colliers are paid by
the piece; their earnings, therefore, depend on their own
diligence and skill.  The price of working varies according to
the quality of the different seams of coal.  A good collier can
clear from 15 L. to 35 L. per annum; an extraordinary clever
one may perhaps exceed this by 10 L. or 12 L.  The depth of
a bearing pit cannot well exceed 18 fathom, or 108 feet.
There are traps, or stairs, down to there pits, with a hand
rail to assist the women and children, who carry up the coals
on their backs, The price given by the colliers is 4 d. per
chalder, of 30 cwt.  A diligent bearer often brings up, from
the bottom of the pit, 6 chalders, or 9 tons of coal in the
week +.  When the pits exceed the depth that bearers can

<FOOTNOTE>

   *They have a fund, like other friendly societies, for burying their dead,
paying their schoolmasters, assisting those that are ill, and giving a small trifle
annually to the widows.  There are 4 bailies intrusted with the management
of this fund.  The principal one is appointed by the proprietor of the work,
for 7 years; the 3 others are annually chosen by him, from a list of 9 given into
him by the colliers.  They hold courts, to take cognizance of any dispute or
misbehaviour in the colliery, and exact fines from the offenders, which are
thrown into the general fund.
   +The weight which a good beater can carry, is very great.  Some year,


