
                        AUCHTERLESS.                             287

   There is a well at the distance of fully a mile east from the
church, supposed to have been dedicated to the Virgin Mary.
Within the recollection of some of the oldest inhabitants, money,
and other articles, were deposited on Pash Sunday by those whose
superstitious feelings led them to frequent the well, in expectation
of some benefit to be derived from drinking the water dedicated to
the Holy Virgin.  Close by this fountain are the remains of a place
of worship, to which bad been attached a burying-ground, where
several families of distinction were interred.  The old chapel had
been used, as is tbought, for a bead-bouse during the times of
Popery.
   The remains of Druidical circles are pretty numerous in diffe-
rent parts of the parish.  By far the most remarkable of these is
situated on a considerable eminence on the farm of Logie-New-
ton, overbadging the Roman camp, and called the Kirk-hill, pro-
bably from this cause.  Three concentric circles may be distinctly
traced; the stones are very large, and of a white colour.  A trench
of several hundred yards length, terminating about half a mile from
the camp in a north-west direction, called Cumine's trench, is still
distinctly to be marked, the ditch being in many places four feet
deep.  This was probably one of the stations of the Cumines be-
fore their defeat at Strathbogie, where Adam o' Gordon, who led
Robert the Bruce's troops, obtained a decisive victory, and laid
the foundation of the future greatness of the Noble family of
Gordon.
   On the front of the old castle of Towie Barclay, the property
attached to which is chiefly in this parish, we find this inscription
neatly cut in stone: "Sir Valter Barclay foundit the Tollie Mills
1210." This corroborates the common opinion, that corn-mills
turned by water were introduced into Scotland by the Saxon fol-
lowers of Malcolm towards the end of the eleventh century.
For, had corn-mills previously existed in the country, this would
not have been thought an achievement worthy of recording.  And
as the ancestor of the family (John Berkely, son of Lord Berkely
of Gloucestershire,) was one of the followers of Queen Margaret,
and obtained a grant of this estate for his son Alexander about
1100, this goes far to establish the fact, that they bad been intro-
duced by the Saxons.  About the thirteenth part of thee grain
over Scotland and England was considered a faii multure or re-
muneration for grinding the corn with machinery.  This shows
that the labour of doing it with the quern or hand-mill formerly


