
	               ARDNAMURCHAN.                      153

into an excellent state of cultivation by Mr M'Donald of Loch-
shiel, close by his residence, at an expense of L.13 per acre; and
also a considerable extent by General Sir Alexander Cameron of
Inveraylort.  These essays have not been made on the moss the
best subject for improvement.  The greater part of the improv-
able lands of this description might probably be reclaimed at
L.10 or L.12 per acre.  The obstacle to these improvements,
and the gradual advancement of agriculture and industry gene-
rally, is chiefly the want of capital.  The high rent of land, how-
ever, renders any expensive undertaking on the part of the tenant
generally imprudent. To these may be added the injudicious
distribution of the bulk of the people; the want of leases on the
part of the small tenants; their holding their lands in common
and not in separate lots ; their constant practice of sharing their
possessions with the married members of their families, to which
no practical check has yet been given ; the consequent inadequacy
of the land held by each family for its support; and the miscel-
laneous nature of the employments by which they eke out a sub-
sistence.  Dye-works and other manufactories, in or near Glas-
gow, afford as uncongenial employment as could well be imagined
with the habits of a rural population ; yet on these great numbers
of the small tenants and cottars, and the members of their families,
of the district of Ardnamureban, find their most profitable occu-
pation ; while the inhabitants of other parts engage in various and
far-sought employments.  This state of matters tends certainly to
develope the beautiful moral spectacle of the combined efforts of
relatives cheerfully devoted to the support of their kindred and
family, but drains away the earnings which would otherwise accu-
mulate and form little capitals, at the same time that the commix-
ture of employments prevents the formation of habits of steady
industry, with the advantages resulting from the constant prosecu-
tion of a single branch and a permanent residence.
   The remedy seems evidently to lie in such measures as shall
Promote a proper subdivision of labour, such as the enlargement
of the possessions of small tenants to an extent that will require
and repay their undivided attention; the total abrogation of hold
ings in common; the absolute prohibition of farther subdivision
among their families.  To effect this, either such an accession of
capital to the parish as should suffice to call forth its latent re-
sources; or, as that cannot be calculated on, the emigration at
the expense of Government of such as have no sufficient employ-


