
                ANSTRUTHER WESTER.                        617

trunks of trees, horns,and other organic remains, peculiar to such
deposits.
   Mines.-There are no mines of any description in the parish,
though coals have been worked a few hundred yards from the boun-
daries, at Waterriggs and Balcaskie. During summer 1838,borings
for coal were made by Lord William  K. Douglas; but thin seams
only were passed through. These trials seem to have been made
too far to the eastward, as the workable seeams of the St Monance
basin must crop out considerably fartber west.  If coals shall ever
be discovered in this parish, it must be between Grangemuir and
Balcaskie, and subjacent to the two Kellie seams now in process
of working.
   There are no quarries in the parish of anv note. Stones, for
Common purposes are quarried by the sea shore;-those for finer
purposes being brought from a distance.
   A considerable quantity of iron stone is to be found along the
shores of the burgh, which the magistrates let for Is. per ton; and
it is afterwards quarried and collected and shipped for Newcastle.
Copper ore is also found on the shore nearly opposite the manse.
There are appearances of coal in the parish at different places;
and the name given to some acres lying north-east from the glebe,
viz. the Cowpits or coal-pits, seem to indicate that that mineral
had formerly been wrought here. Last winter, many of the inha-
bitants got liberty from the magistrates to dig coal at the sea
shore, below flood-mark, and supplied themselves with,many cart-
loads.
   "A narrow stripe of flat land above the shore has evidently been,
at a remote period, covered by the sea, as it is composed entirely
of sea sand and shells, with a very thin covering of vegetable
mould; and the ocean is again fast approaching to its ancient
boundary, every succeeding storm making new encroachments
upon the land, in defiance of all that has been done by man to
guard it against the restless and resistless  element. A circum-
stance, worthy of remark is, that the sea is advancing upon a lower
level, the smooth bed of shells and sand over which its Waters for-
merly rolled, being now elevated some feet above its surface.
This may be observed in the face of every break alongst the coast
here; and, the writer does not know how the fact can be recontiled
with the modern theory that the channel of the. German Ocean
is gradually filling up, and its waters consequently rising and over-
spreading tracts of land on some parts of its shores."


