
     Statistical Account

every accommodation to fit it for the purpose for which
it was erected.  The two public rooms are each of them
60 feet long, and 30 broad.  One of the rooms is 20 feet
high, and the other 18.  There was expended on build-
ings, for public and private use, in the town and parish of
Inverness, during the last 14 years, no less a sum, at a mo-
derate estimation, than L. 50,000.

   Ecclesiastical State.-There are three ministers of the E-
stablished Church in Inverness.  The patrons of the li-
vings are, the King and the Honourable Mr Fraser of Lo-
vat.  The King is patron of the first and of the third li-
ving, and Mr Fraser of the second.  The stipend of the
first and second ministers, by a decreet passed in the year
1754, is to each 84 bolls 1 firlot 2 pecks 2 lippies victual,
half bear half oat-meal, and L. 541:8:6 Scots money.
Each of them has a glebe; but neither of the glebes is 4
acres.  They have no manses, though they are entitled to
them by law*.  The third minister is paid out of the
Bishop's rents of Moray and Ross.  The stipend is precise-
ly L. 108, 10 s. Sterling.  The church for the English
congregation was built in the year 1772, by the magi-
strates, in consequence of a compromise with the heritors,
who were to have a preference of seats at an equitable

<FOOTNOTE>

*In the year 1784, the presbytery's decreet against the magistrates
and heritors for repairing the two old manses was suspended at the in-
stance of the heritors.  A long litigation followed.  The second minister
being an old man, withdrew from the prosecution.  The first continued
to insist, and was found entitled to a reparation of his manse.  But it was
alleged on the part of the heritors, that the first minister was actually in
possession of the second minister's manse, a manse with which they had no
concern, whatever the magistrates might.  The minister was inquired to
give in a proof of his possession of the first minister's manse, in which it
was judged by the Court he failed.  At this stage of the business, tired
with a tedious and expensive litigation, he abandoned the process.


