
452               GENERAL OBSERVATIONS

from the nearest point of that county, it being surrounded on all
sides. by the shire of Clackmannan, except on the north, where it is
bounded by a part of Perthshire. Since the passing of the Re-
form Bill, Alva has been politically incorporated with Clackman-
nan; but for judicial purposes, it is still contacted with the county
of Stirling. The most striking feature of this portion of the coun-
ty is the Ochil range of hills, generally termed here the Alva
hills. The.hills are chiefly composed of trap, of which the
prevailing sorts are clinkstone, amygdaloid, and porphyry. Basalt
is sometimes visible, and greenstone very rarely. The mineral
treasures of the Ochils lie chiefly on their southern side, in Clack-
mannan and Stirlingshires. The most remarkable of these are the
silver ore of Alva and copper ore of Airthly, both at one time fur-
rishing Materials to the Scottish royal mint, and cobalt ore, preva-
lent in both places. The zeolites, agates, jaspers, and the Ochil
eye pearl are too well-known to require description. A very in-
terestiug portion of the geology of Stirlingshire is to be found near
Loch Lomond, and the most striking feature of the district here
is the lofty Ben Lomond, which, viewed from certain positions,
presents a noble and majestic appearance, rising to the height of
8200 feet. This hill is composed chiefly of mica-slate, occasional-
ly passing into tale slate, intermixed with beds of felspar, porphyry,
and greenstone, lying in a position conform with the strata of the
including rock. Dr Macknight remarks, that, in this species of
mica-slate, there is much quartz, particularly towards the sum-
mit of the mountain, the rocks appear remarkably penetrated
and traversed by that substance, in veins and masses of every size
and form. Indeed, it is found to be the prevailing ingredient
throughout  the whole formation, and often gives the mica-
slate a whitish', colour, resembling at a distance that of pure quartz.
did not, however, observe quartz in regular  beds. To the north.
the mountain has a great precipice, including considerably to the
east, which is very rude and awful. Its peculiar position on the
edge of the Highlands, skirted as it is by a magnificent sheet of
water, renders it a peculiarly striking object. A more full descrip-
tion of the whole will be found in Mr Patrick's account of Dum-
bartonshire contained in this work. A great stripe of graywacke,
a continuation of that which runs through Dumbartonshire, also
runs through the western border of the county. The other par-
ticulars respecting the Geology of Stirlingshire will be found pretty
accurately detailed in the several Accounts of the parishes.


