
                         KILMUIR EASTER.                        303

     Frith of Cromarty. In the sands opposite the shore, there	are
     considerable beds of cockles, and large mussel scalps, which are
     the source of some annual revenue to the principal proprietor in
     this parish, Mr Hay Mackenzie of Cromarty. There is also an
     oyster scalp, which thrives very well.
        Botany.-There are several superb and very ancient trees in
     the vicinity of Balnagown Castle, consisting of oak, and elm, and
     beech, and chestnut interspersed, and forming a Eplendid avenue,
     There is likewise, in the vicinity of Tarbat House a fine old grove,
     which contains trees of very ancient growth and large size. Larch
     is now frequently planted in the parish, but the Scotch fir is still
     the tree most commonly grown.
                         II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
        Eminent Characters.-Long ere the controversies which have
     lately agitated our church and land were known, and while the
     people, especially in our rural districts, were distinguished by their
     devoted attachment to the clergy of the Establishment, flourished
     the excellent and amiable Mr Porteous. The Rev. John Porteous
     -a name which was never pronounce& in Ross-sbire without the
     deepest veneration-was minister of the parish of Kilmuir Easter
     for the long period extending between 1732 and 1775. His grand-
     father is said to have come to Inverness in Cromwell's army, and
     after the Restoration he settled in that ancient burgh, of which
     Mr Porteous, the minister of Kilmuir, was a native. During the
     period of his incumbency in this parish, extending to forty-three
     years, he officiated with the highest reputation, adorning his pro-
     fession with all those gifts and graces which serve to remind us of
     the primitive purity and integrity of apostolic times. Nor did his
     Divine master fail to acknowledge him in his work of faith and la-
     bour of love, for he was favoured with many proofs of an accept-
     ed ministry while living; and there is abundant reason to believe
     that he will have many as his joy and crown of rejoicing in the
     day of the Lord.
         The distinguishing characteristics of this venerable man, as a
     preacher of the Gospel and a teacher of righteousness, appear to
     have been, sublimity and spirituality of doctrine; patriarchal sim-
     plicity of diction, and of manner; a deep insight into the arcana of
     the human constitution, and the power of embodying his concep-
     tions in striking and forcible language, and of carrying irresistible
     demonstration to the conscience. He possessed a brilliant imagina-
     tion, which, though subject to occasional eccentricities, was still so


