
22                        RENFREWSHIRE.

   Live Stock.-The common breed of dairy cows in this parish is
the Ayrshire,-only they are considerably heavier than in most parts
of Ayrshire.  And to prevent their becoming too heavy, they are
very commonly allowed to go into calf during the second year.
The sheep and bullocks are for the most part from the west High-
lands, but various, as being often the property of Glasgow butchers,
and consisting of such as are brought into their market.  And
working horses are, in consequence of our vicinity to the large
towns, also various; but they are generally of the Clydesdale breed,
or some of its crosses.
   Husbandry.-One of the chief improvements in agriculture, now
occupying attention, is furrow-draining; which, from the want of
stones, is executed chiefly with tiles.  In heavy and rather wet
lands, it costs about six guineas per acre, and has been found
to pay the entire outlay in two crops.  It is accordingly going for-
ward, in nearly all the farms in this parish.  The most common way of
meeting the expense is for the proprietor to pay the outlay, and
the farmer to pay a per centage, during his lease.  The most com-
mon manure, in addition to stable and byre dung, is " Soapers'
waste," which is largely used in the light soils.  It costs 5s. per
ton in Paisley, and from 7s. to 7s. 6d. when laid on a great
part of the land.  It is valued, particularly on account of its
giving adhesion to loose soils.  This special end might perhaps
be more cheaply served by pulverized clay.  Large masses of
very adhesive clay exist in the centre of our light soils.  Suppose
it to be raised towards the end of summer, dried and pounded if
necessary, with mallets, and laid on stubble or old pasture about
to be broken up, at the rate of 30 or 40 carts an acre,-it would
during winter amalgamate with the lighter soils, and give them
next season increased adhesiveness at comparatively small expense.
Let the same be repeated at the end of each rotation, for five or
six times, and the effect would probably be permanently to improve
the general character of the soil.  The implement's of husbandry
are the same here as in the neighbouring parishes ; in some of
which they will probably be described.  Comparing our farm stead-
ings with those in other parts of the country, they hold a middle
place.  They are decidedly inferior to those in the Lothians and
other districts, where the farms are very large; but are at least
equal to those in the neighbouring parishes, and throughout this
district.  Some of the farms here extend to perhaps about
200 acres, all arable ; and some do not exceed 40 or 50; but


