
			CRAWFORDJOHN.                         509

that the price got for them has been 50 per cent. above what could
be got for sweet milk cheese alone.
	Draining.--Surface draining has been carried on to a consider-
able extent and very successfully; but the draining of arable land
has not been prosecuted with the same ardour, or conducted upon
the most approved principles. Many fields have their appearance
disfigured, and are rendered much more difficult to cultivate, by
corners and plots of meadow or marshy ground in them, which
could be drained at a very trifling expense. Irrigation is attend-
ed to, and productive of many of its usual benefits; but these be-
nefits would be more extensive and more durable, were care taken
to level the surface. Several large meadows would, in the course
of a few years, repay the expenditure of L. 200 or L. 300 in level-
ling them.
	Leases, Farm Buildings, and Fences.--The leases are generally
for fifteen or nineteen years. The farm-houses and offices are not
in a good state. No one set of them has been built according to
any plan; in consequence of this, there is no correspondence be-
tween the constituent parts of the whole, and ample accommoda-
tion is not in fact provided, even when the houses are really nume-
rous. A great want of enclosures is still apparent, although many
miles of dry stone dikes have been lately erected.
	Tenants would soon feel, in their comfortable experience, how
much the management of their business is facilitated and their con-
venience promoted by order and cleanliness, could they get their
houses constructed in conformity with their wants, and with a spe-
cial view to dairy husbandry: their boiler and milk-houses, for in-
stance, placed near their byres, and connected with them by doors;
and their dwelling-houses with at least two doors in them, and a
separate approach to each, so that there might be no necessity for
every visitor treading in the path marked out by the cows. All
their offices ought to be slated; and the expense of this they them-
selves had better incur at the beginning of their leases, than be al-
most every year employed thatching. *
	Thorn hedges grow well and rapidly,--as may be seen around
the manse: and two or three fields, enclosed by them on every farm,
would afford admirable shelter to the cows, at particular seasons,
and during wet, stormy weather. The crofts are well fitted for
such enclosures, and in eight or nine years, a hedge, properly ma-

<FOOTNOTE>In the building of all dwelling-houses, whinstone should be used, for every kind
of freestone is porous, and draws damp in this wet country. Masons should be taught
to cut the whinstone with hammers of different sizes, as they do the granite at Aber-
deen; and with a little care, whinstone thus cut presents a very agreeable apperance.


