
                           DENNY.                        211

Mr Forbes holds the fourth part of the valued rent of Denny;
John Graham, Esq. of Myothill is the other principal heriter of
Denny, and resident in the parish, whose estate is about one-
seventeenth part of the valued rent. The remaining heritors are
about 120 in number.
   Parochial Registers.--The parochial registers consist of nine
volumes. The births and marriages commence about 1679; but
both the volumes are in a dilapidated state. They are merely a
list of names, having no speciality connected with them but, the
date.
   The minutes of session commence in 1742. There are great
gaps in them, not from decay, but from no minutes, so far as ap-
pears, having ever existed. *
   Since the commencement of the present century, the session
records exhibit all the meetings and the business done; and are
subscribed by the moderator. The births and marriages are also
entered in properly bound volumes. It is to be regretted, however,
that there are some who do not record the baptisms or births of
their children. Not a year passes in which parties do not suffer
from this neglect.
   Antiquities.--On the southern boundary of the parish, about
Bankier (Fair-fort), are circular places said to be the sites of
Caledonian camps. The great Roman station at Castlecarie,
a small portion of the remains of which, after seventeen centu-

<FOOTNOTE>Mr Watson, proprietor of Knowhead, a respectable property in the parish, and
whose ornamented tombstone is in good preservation in the churchyard, is supposed
to have been the first minister of Denny after the Revolution in 1688. His induction
is not mentioned in the Presbytery records, but his death in 1733 is mentioned.
    There is one remarkable minute in reference to a point, which, a few years ago,
was agitated between the heritors and the kirk-session, namely, the payment for the
education of poor children.  The act 1803 makes it imperative on the parochial
teacher to instruct the poor gratis; but in this parish, from the parochial school-house
being in the northern extremity of the parish, and there being families four miles
distant from school, the children of the poor not being able to attend the parochial
teacher, on account of this distance, must either be neglected, or taught at some
school nearer their dwellings; and in that case, it was contended, the school wages
must, according to use and wont, be paid out of the parochial poor's fund.  This
was resisted: but for peace's sake, the session acquiesced. At that time also, some 20
of the 121 persons entitled to vote at heritors' meetings, objected likewise to the
payment of the salaries of the presbytery and synod clerk, and their beadle, &c. The
argument from the use and wont payment of such charges was not listened to: and
from the causes just mentioned, these officers of the church have not been paid, as
heretofore, out of the parochial funds for the poor, since 1831.  There is before me
a distinct minute of session, dated 28th May 1746, with the list of the elders pre-
sent nominatim, and signed William Bennet, moderator, in which these disputed
charges are distinctly mentioned as paid, and reported accordingly.  In settling the
accounts, the words are, " also for the Synod and Presbytery clerk, and Presby-
tery beddal, as by particular account, the sum  nof," the amount paid is partly soiled,
and partly torn, and not legible throughout, and " also Jobn Bane is allowed by the
session twelve pounds Scoots for teaching poor scholars."


