
            66                      INVERNESS-SHIRE.

are of great extent, stretching along the Spey for its whole length
in the parish, and extending on both sides of the river, in some
places to three-quarters of a mile in breadth.  They are likewise
very deep and fertile, measuring in many places from 10 to 12 feet,
and yield natural grass in great abundance, and in general of a fine
quality.  Many years ago, a mine of silver was discovered at a
little distance from the church, but was never turned to any ac-
count.   Some specimens also of silver and lead ores have been
found in the river Gynag before referred to, but in very small quan-
tities.
   Zoology.--In common with the rest of the district, this parish
was at one time much infested with wild bears and wolves; but
these have long since disappeared, and none of the rarer kinds of
animals are now to be found.  The fishes caught in the rivers and
lakes are, trout, pike,and salmon;-the two first of which are
pretty plentiful.  Char appear in the Spey for about a fortnight
in the month of October.  Salmon come up to spawn about the
end of August, and return towards the end of October, or begin-
ning of November.  Pike spawn in March; and trout continue
out in the small brooks, to which they go for the purpose of spawn-
ing towards the end of September, till compelled to return by hard
frost.  ' The fresh-water mussel, containing pearls, is fished up in
considerable quantities from the Spey.
   The forest of Gaick, the only one in the parish, abounds in
deer, and is much frequented by sportsmen.  It contains no wood,
with the exception of here and there a few birch trees; but the
scenery is very wild and romantic.  The plantations, of which there
are several in the parish, of greater or less extent, consist chiefly
of common fir and larch interspersed with mountain-ash and oak.
For these the soil seems well fitted; but the species of wood to
which it appears most congenial are, alder, hazel, and birch, which
are found growing naturally in many parts of th& parish.  The
most plentiful of these is birch, which covers extensively the rising
grounds upon the southern bank of the Spey.
                            II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
Family ofthe Comyns.-The whole district of Badenocb, of
which Kingussie is the central parish, was originally the property
of the Comyns, who were at an early period of Scottish history
one of the most wealthy and influential families in the kingdom.
It is matter of doubt, at what time, and in what manner, this family,
who came from England during the time of David I., acquired pos-


