
             476                       PERTHSHIRE.

              finest imaginable tracery. There has lately started up another
              uncommonly handsome edifice, intended for a pinery, where the
              stone is seen in a still more beautiful state of polish; as is another
              of a harder grain, quarried near the village of Kenmore, which
              presents a natural face equal in smoothness or polish to that pro-
              duced by the chisel.
               Quartz.-Quartz is another stone which occurs in great plenty
              and in vast masses.  It is of an almost snowy whiteness.  The
              dairy in Taymouth park is constructed of this mineral, an erec-
              tion well worth the paying a visit to, whether to gratify the taste,
              or to examine the rtone, and to see the use to which it has been
              so curiously put.
                Mine.-There are no mines wrought within the parish, though
              there is good reason to suppose, that the ores of several metals,
              particularly lead and iron, exist pretty plentifully in our moun-
              tain range. The attention of Lord Breadalbane is at present di-
              rected towards this object, and it is to be wished that his researches
              may be successful.
                Fishery.-The :only fishery, properly speaking, is a salmon-
              fishery at the lower extremity of the lake, and for a few hundred
              yards at the head of the river.  It is for the present kept by the
              proprietor in his own hands.  Till the passing of the late act re-
              garding the Scottish fisheries, the Breadalbane family had the
              privelege of fishing in the lake for salmon all the year over.  There
              are no salmon in lochfraochie, the fish being unable, I ruppose,
              to surmount the falls in the Braan, at the hermitage near Dun-
              keld. But in this loch, as in Lochtay, are to be found pike, perch,
              eels, char, and other trouts.  The trout of Lochfraochie, though
              small, is an excellent fish, firl, and red-flesbed.  It is such as
              to attract the angler from Crieff, Perth, and even greater distances,
              to take up his quarters often for days in its vicinity.
                There is small manufactory in the neighbourhood of Ken-
              more, for carding, spinning, dyeing, and weaving wool; employing
              about a dozen of hands.
                Agricultural Society.-The only association for encouraging in-
              dustry is the Breadalbane Agricultaml Society established about
              two years ago, under the fostering patronage of Lord Breadalbane.
              lt gives. premiums for the state of the crops, for improvements in
              the breeding and rearing of cattle and sheep, and for good ap-
              pearance in the case of farm steading and cottages.  It promises
              to be very useful.


