
    		     ABERDEEN                        103

the foot of the Port Hill, over which the Gallowgate passes.
Soon after, Marischal Street was opened from Castle Street to
the Quay, and it was the first street in Aberdeen that was pav-
ed with dressed stones; but its steepness renders it inconve-
nient.
       	About the beginning of this century, a turnpike road having
been made to Inverury, a new line of approach to the town was
obtained, by opening George Street, through the,middle of what
had in former times been a loch or pool of stagnant water. But
the grand improvement of Aberdeen in this respect was not effected
until several years later, when a new approach was made from the
south by the opening of Union Street, and from the north by
means of King Street, both of which are spacious streets, which
pass right into the middle of the town, both opening into the
Castle Street. And it cannot be looked on as the least of the
benefits which Aberdeen derived from the opening of these street,
that, in order to their formation, it was necessary to remove a
considerable number of houses, which were huddled together in
a manner that renders it difficult to conceive how the town could
be ever free from pestilential disorders. In order to avoid the
inconvenience and danger of the steep descent of the Windmill
Brae, and the equally steep ascent of the Shiprow Nether Kirk-
gate, the hollow through which the Denburn flows was spanned
by a magnificent bridge of three arches, one of which has a span
of 132 feet, while the others (which are concealed being built
over) are of 50 feet each. Union Street, which is carried along
this bridge, is also carried over two of the old streets of the town,
viz. the Correction Wynd and Putachy side,* and by the opening
of St Nicholas Street, which connects it with George Street, the
access is rendered easy and direct from the north into the centre
of the town.
       	Pubic Buildings.--There are a good many public buildings in
Aberdeen, some of which are in no small degree ornamental to
the town. To enumerate them all here would be tedious and im-
proper, but it may be right to notice some of the principal.
      	The Barrack, which stands on the Castle Hill, was erected in
1796, and is capable of accommodating 600 men. The situation
is airy and healthy, and the design of the building good.

<FOOTNOTE>The intervening space, till it reaches St Catherine's Hill, part of which was
removed in opening the line, being filled up by embankments, so that Union Street
is considerably raised above the Green, which lies alongside of it,


