
	866	                         FIFESHIRE.

	1670. In the middle of June of this year, a conventicle or
	field-meeting was held at Beath-hill, partly in this parish, which
        produced a great sensation. It was kept by Mr John Blackadder,
        the ejected minister of Troqueer, and Mr John Dickson, the
        ejected minister of Rutherglen.
           On the 24th October 1715, about a month before the battle
        of Sheriffimuir, fought in the attempt of the old Pretender, James
        VIII., to ascend the throne, there was a surprisal of a Jacobite
        detachment at Dunfermline.
           Eminent Persons-Alexander Seton, first Earl of Dunfermline, a
        branch of the noble family of Seton, Earls of Winton. He was the
        fourth son of George, sixth Lord Seton, and was born about the
        year 1555.Queen Mary, who was his god-mother, presented to
        him, "ane god-bairne gift, the lands of Pluscarty in Moray."
           From the royal favour which be enjoyed on his own and his fa-
        ther's account, he was appointed on 27tb January 1585, an Extra-
        ordinary Lord, by the style of Prior of Pluseardine, and on 16th
        February 1587, being then Baron of Urquhart, be was promoted
        to the place of an ordinary senator of the College of Justice, un-
        der the style of Lord Urquhart. He was created Earl of Dun-
        fermline in 1605, and admitted a member of the English Privy
        Council in 1609. He represented the Royal Person in tbe Par-
        liament held on 24th October 1612, wherein the obnoxious pre-
        latic acts of the General Assembly, held at Glasgow in June 1610,
        were ratified, and the act of Parliament 1592, establishing pres-
        byteries, is asserted to have been rescinded. In 1613 he built
        Pinkie House, near Musselburgh, or rather converted the old one,
        which was a country mansion belonging to the abbots of Dunferm-
        line, who were at an early period superiors of Musselburgb, into
        its present shape, on the front of which is the following inscription,
        now hid by a portico, as translated into English, and which seems
        to savour a little of vanity :-" Lord Alexander Seton built this
        house, not after the fashion of his mind, but after that of his for-
        tunes and estates, 1613." Here lie died on the 16th June 1622,
        in the sixty-seventh year of his age, and was interred on the 19th
        July following, with all funeral solemnity, in his burial-place in a
        vault of the old parish church of Dalgety, now in ruins, on one of
        the small galleries of which were emblazoned the family arms.
           The Right Honourable James Abercromby born 1776, Speaker
        of the House of Commons 1835--39, and third son of the gallant
        Sir Ralph Abercromby, wbo was killed at Aboukir in 1801, was


