
472                        FORFARSHIRE.

	About three years ago, there were found at the south-east
corner of the northern division of the parish, on the banks of the
Lunan, two utensils of earthenware; one shaped somewhat in the
form of a kettle; the other, a rude resemblance of a Roman am-
phora. Both, unfortunately, were broken in being dug up from
a gravel pit, where they were deposited about three or four feet
below the surface. They bore no marks or inscription by which
their age could be traced. It seems sufficiently probable that
they had been left in the course of the movements, either of the
Roman or of the Danish armies; the course of both of which lay
in this direction. But it would be useless to prosecute conjecture
farther, in the absence of all light and evidence whereby to guide it.
	There is one meal-mill in the parish, but no mills of any other
description, nor manufactories of any khnd. The largest cluster
of houses in the parish is the Kirktown, containing in all nine fa-
milies. Among these there are, a baker, a brewer, a blacksmith,
a shoemaker, and a merchant, by which designation is meant one
who unites in his own person the character of grocer, clothier,
hatter, haberdasher, toyman, ironmonger, druggist, &c. The
Kirktown of Guthrie thus supplies all the necessaries, and not a
few of the luxuries of life, to the neighbourhood for several miles
around.

<TABLE=III.-POPULATION.>

                 In 1801, the population amounted to 556
                    1831,                            528
                    1841,                            530

The population of late has been rather on the decrease, owing
chiefly to the uniting of farms, and also in part to the removal of
some families to manufacturing districts in quest of employment.

<TABLE>

         Number of families in the parish,                              97
                       chiefly engaged in agriculture,                  73
                       engaged in trade, manufactures, or handicrafts   20
                Average number of births for the last six years,        14
                                deaths                                   7
                                marriages,                               3

                                IV.-INDUSTRY.
  Agriculture and Rural Economy.-There are about 3200 acres
of cultivated land in the parish; about two-fifths of this being in
the northern or Guthrie division, and about 660 under wood and
unreclaimed moor; somewhere about two-thirds of these 660
acres being in this latter state. The wood is planted, and is ge-
nerally thriving. A great portion of the moorland is susceptible
of improvenmnt, and portions of it are from year to year being re-
claimed. As already noticed, the great desideratum in the pa-


