
                    DUNLOP.                               301

dom ploughed up without being previously drained. The conse-
quence is, that the rushes, sprits, and other coarse and worthless
herbage, which formerly gave such a waste appearance to the coun-
try, are gradually disappearing, and the land is rendered much
more productive both in grass and corn. Much still remains to be
done in this way, as it is computed that not more than a fourth-part
of the parish has yet been gone over. On the Dunlop estate, where
landlord and tenant pay equal parts of the expense, nearly a-half
has been drained. The system of draining adopted here is fur-
row-draining. In every furrow a trench is dug, about 18 inches
deep, and 8 or 9 inches wide at the bottom. This is half-filled
with broken stones, of which there is almost everywhere an abun-
dant supply. Where tiles are used instead of stones, in forming
the water course, the trench is not made either so deep or so wide.
The average expense of draining is about L. 4 per acre. Where
the furrows have been laid dry, a few attempts have been made to
level and straighten the high crooked ridges, but this practice is
yet only in its infancy.
	The general duration of leases is from sixteen to nineteen years.
Rents are usually a fixed sum of money. On the Dunlop estate,
the rent is a stipulated quantity of cheese, convertible into money
at the prices given for it in Glasgow market, on certain specified
days. This mode of payment is very satisfactory to the tenant.
In all leases, tenants are bound to plough only a fourth of their
ground each year. This restriction seems to be very unnecessary,
as few of them seem inclined to cultivate as much as they have
leave to do.
	Some of the older farm steadings are exceedingly paltry and
incommodious; those more recently erected are neat and comfort-
able, though, as the farms are small, the accommodations are not
extensive. Many of the smaller heritors have erected substantial
and convenient houses on their farms. The whole parish is now
enclosed, partly with stone dikes, partly with hedge and ditch.
The hedges are often very indifferently kept.
	Quarries.--On the farm of Laigh Gameshill, a limestone quar-
ry has long been wrought. About 5000 bolls are taken from it
annually, part of the stone being burnt on the spot, and part taken
away by the farmers in an unburnt state, to be prepared at home.
Limestone is raised in several other parts of the parish, but as it
is quarried by the farmers, on whose  land it is found, for their own
use, no account of the quantity raised can be given. Quarries


