
			KIRKMICHAEL AND CULLICUDDEN         49

his annual course of cathechising.  The population of the parish for
this year, that is, from January to September 1836, is as follows:

<TABLE>
			Village of Gordon's Mill    -    42
			Village of Jeminaville      -   147
                        Remaining part of the parish-  1319
           Total population of the united parish 1836  1508

            Number of families                      -   349
            Average number of children in each family     4
            Yearly average of births for last seven years10
                           of marriages             -     6

   During the last three years there have been 8 illegitimate births
in the parish.
  				IV.--INDUSTRY
  Manufactures.--At Gordon's Mills,many years ago, the pro-
prietor of the estate of Newhall established a snuff-manufactory,
which,however, did not continue for any lenght of time, as the ex-
penses far exceeded the profits. The premises have ever since
been occupied ny machinery for the carding wool driven by the water
wheel.  The bussiness is, however, on the most limited scale,and
of late scarcely anything has been done.
   A lint-manufactory, established at the Cromarty, upwards of half a
century ago by an English company, had been, and still is, a great
benefit to the poorer class of females in this and the neighbouring
parishes, by giving employment to them as spinners.  The prices
of labours are now low and much lower than they had been ; but
the benefits is notwithstanding very generally felt, and it would be
a very great loss in the country,and bear very hard upon indigent
families, should  it be widthrawn together.
   There is a distillery in the parish, at the place of Braelangwell,
famed for excellent whisky.

			V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY
   Public Roads. --There are perhaps few parishes in the united
kingdom, at this moment,more completely destitute of the public
convenience of the good roads, than the parish.  With the exception
of a few hundred yards at the est end of it, there is not an inch
of what may strictly be called "made road" in the whole parish.
The roads that run through it have been formed by a continued
succession of patching and repairing.  They have never been re-
gularly formed or metalled ; but men are employed by the dis-
trict committee annually to keep the trenches open on each side,
and to throw moist clay taken from the trenches on the surface.
   During the drought of summer, the roads are barely tolerable;
but in winter, paricularly after the long continuance of frosty wea-
   ROSS AND CROMARTY.


