
     of Heriot.

das of Arniston, at present Lord Advocate.  We have no
manufactures here, which is very surprising, as we have
abundance of water during the whole year for driving ma-
chinery; and the rather, as we are near coal, and have plenty
of other fuel, as well as near market towns, such as Edin-
burgh, Leith, Haddington, Lauder, Dalkeith, etc.

   Antiquities.-There are in Carcant some vestiges of houses
called Shiels-Walls; and on Roughswyre ground, three Char-
ter Poles in different places, but no satisfactory account of
them can be obtained.  There is on Heriot-town hill-head, a
circle of high stones, 70 or 80 feet diameter; and on Borth-
wick-hall Mid-hill head, there are 3 large lings, or deep
ditches, about 100 paces diameter.  Whether they were old
encampments of the Romans, or of the Britons Danes, Pict,
and Scots, we shall not venture to determine; all tradition
about them here is extinct.  There is a circle on the side
of the Gala road, near the Bridge, over the water of He-
riot, and behind a weaver's cottage, belonging to the Abbey
of Melrose; to this place were driven horses, cattle, sheep,
etc. when they were poinded or rouped for behoof of the
creditor.  On the march between this and the parish of
Inverleithen, in the farm of Dewar, there is a grave, called
the Piper's Grave.  He was piper of Peebles*.  The head
and foot stones are visible to this day.  On Dewar Hill, not
far from the above grave, there is a remarkable large
stone, called Lot's Wife: the reason of this title is unknown.
At a little distance from this, there is the Wolf Cleuch, of which
a traditional story+ is asserted as truth.  A little from the

     VOL. XVI. H

<FOOTNOTE>

*The tradition is, that he engaged for a certain wager, to blow from
Feebles to Lauder, at a certain number of blasts; that he failed in the at-
tempt, died there, and was buried on the spot.

+The tradition is, that this cleuch was inhabited by a wolf, which
laid waste the country around.  It attacked and destroyed every passen-


