
     Statistical Account

   Church, Schools, Poor, etc.-The probable antiquity of the
church has already been noticed.  Its present appearance re-
dounds not so much to its praise.  The seats in the lower part
of the church are in a tottering and ruinous state, though the
pews in the galleries wear a respectable aspect.  It would not
require much expence to render the whole both commodious
and elegant.  A very beautiful semicircular arch divides the
choir from the chancel, and the walls and roof are in a very
respectable state.  An elegant marble obelisk stands in the
church-yard, a monument to the late Patrick Haldane, Esq.
of Gleneagles, to erect which, L. 200 ster. were consigned
by his unfortunate grandson, whose fate is recorded and sculp-
tured upon the same pile.  The manse is delightfully situa-
ted, and tolerably commodious.  The stipend is in money
L. 78: 12: 9, and in grain, three chalders.  The public school-
house is inconvenient and ill constructed; and the provision
for the teacher, as has so often been lamented in similar cases,
is deplorably diminutive and inadequate to the importance
and successful exercise of the office.  The legal salary is L. 9
per ann.  The perquisites, arising from the conjoined office of
session clerk, and the school fees, may one year with other, a-
mount to L. 16; in all L. 25 per ann.  The usual number of
scholars is about 40.  The fees per quarter, Latin and arith-
metic, 2 s. 6 d. reading of English and writing, 2 s. reading of
English alone, 1 s. 6 d. or as it is commonly paid by the children
of the labouring people, who form the great proportion of the
school, 1 1/2 d. per week.  Another school, situated in Easter
Dudingston, was originally erected by the tenants in the
neighbourhood, and is now supported by a small contribution,
and the ordinary fees of teaching.  A sunday school has also
been tried in the eastern district of the parish and has of late
been attended with considerable success.  For the support of
the poor, no rate or assessment has yet been imposed.  The


