
     of Gigha and Cara.

<TABLE>

     Handycraftsmen Etc.*

Weavers,       5   Boat Carpenters,   2
Apprentices,   3   Masons,            1
Taylors,       4   Distillers,        1
Shoemakers,    2   Inn-keepers,       2
Millers,       1   Fiddlers,          1
Blacksmiths,   1   Pipers,            2

</TABLE>

   Proprietors and Rent.-The island and barony of Gigha,
consisting of 30 merk land of old extent, holds of the Duke
of Argyll for the yearly payment of 400 merks Scotch of feu-
duty; five-sixths of the island, (including the farm of Aird-
glamy, which pays a feu-duty to Mr. M'Neill, who has an inter-
mediate superiority over it) belong to Mr. M'Neill of Gigha,
and the remaining sixth to Mr M'Neill of Gallachoillie.  The
valued rent of the whole is 1271. 5 s. 1 d. Sterling.  The
real rent cannot exactly be ascertained, as there is a part of
the lands in the proprietor's hands, but it is believed it may
be above 7001.  The island of Cara is the property of Mr.
M'Donald of Leargie, and is occupied as a farm by one man-
The valued rent is 61. 10 s. 5 d. Sterling; the real rent, in-
cluding public burdens, 351. Sterling.

   Ecclesiastical State.-Gigha and Cara are laid to have Been
a part of the parish of Jura and Colonsay, and also of the pa-

<FOOTNOTE>

*The common wages of men labourers are 8d. a day, summer and winter. 
A ploughman is hired from December to the end of May, at 2 L 10 s. besides
two pair of shoes, planting of two pecks of potatoes, sowing of a pint of flax-
feed, and maintenance.  A man servant is hired from the latter end of August
till the harvest is finished at about 2 L. 15 s. with a pair of shoes and his mainte-
nance; a maid servant for the same time gets a 1 L 10 s. with shoes and main-
tenance; common men servants are hired at the rate of 41 10 s. a year, and
maintained; maid servants at 2 L 10 s. with maintenance, shoes, and flax-feed
sowing; herd boys from 15 s to 20 s.; a taylor works for 8d. a day, and
maintenance; a shoemaker gets 1 s, for making a pair of shoes in his own house,
and 6d. when maintained.


