
     of Culross.

   The people, in general, are tall, well proportioned, with
good eyes vivid complexions, and, upon the whole, very ex-

<FOOTNOTE>

each of these usually drew along with it three or four more,
sometimes a whole week, of dissipation and idleness, it was wise-
ly contrived to sink them all into one, which is now the King's
birth-day, still a great day at Culross.  In this are united the
ceremonies of all the three, To this all the young people, of
both sexes, assiduously resort, even from the most distant quar-
ters of the country; and, whilst the Saint himself is forgotten,
and his name not so much as known to many of them, his cere-
monies are still preserved, and his spirit continues to inspire
them with social mirth and joy.
   The monastery, which was founded in the year 1217 by Mal-
colm Thane of Fife, lies N. W. from St Mungo's at the head
of the town, on a rising ground, commanding a beautiful and
extensive prospect of the Frith.  Considerable remains of it are
yet to be seen.  On the north side was the Abbey Church, which
had a tower or steeple in the middle, still entire, as is also a
part of the church, now made use of for the parish church.
The Abbey Church was dedicated not only to the Virgin Mary,
but also to St Serf  At the Reformation, the rental of this
Abbey amounted to 768 L. 16 s. 7 d. Scotch, in money; 3 chal-
ders, 3 bolls wheat; 14 chalders, 10 bolls, 2 firlots barley; 13
chalders, 12 bolls, 3 firlots, 3 1/2 pecks oats; 1 chalder, 2 bolls
salt; 10 wedders, 22 lambs, 7 dozen of capons, 28 1/2 dozen
poultry, 7 1/2 stone of butter; 79 1/2 stones of cheese, and 8 trusses
of straw.  At that time, there were nine monks, of the Cister.
tian order, in the convent.  About a quarter of a mile to the
west of the Abbey Church are the ruins of the old church,
which was, before the Reformation, the parish church, and
which, with the church-yard around it, is still used as burial-
ground.

   2d, Military Antiquities.-There are still to be seen the re-
mains of two old camps, from their oval form evidently Danish,
one in the N. W. quarter, near a place called Burrowan, which
is said to be the station to which the Danes retreated alter their
defeat at the battle of Innerkeithing; the other a good way far-
ther south, in the muir of Culross, was the station occupied by
the Danes before the battle of Culross.  The Praetorium is
pretty entire, at least the trenches around it are very discernible.
About an English mile farther east, are shown the traces of
the camp of the Scotch King Duncan; and betwixt these, in
the same line and nearly at an equal distance from both, is the


