
     of Cupar of Fife.

thunder storms.  Fatal accidents from lightning have fre-
quently been experienced*.

   Longevity.-Many in the parish of Cupar have attained, if
not to the utmost period of human life, yet to a very great
longevity It is not to be doubted, that in every place, and
in every age, persons have frequently reached a length of
days far beyond the period allotted to the ordinary race of
mortals.  But we are disposed to give too easy faith to the
many instances which are published to the world, from every
quarter, of persons having attained to extreme old age, from
that love of the marvellous which is natural to man, and
from that fond desire of protracting life to the utmost span,
which, in defiance of the sober dictates of reason, and the
frequent checks of experience, we foolishly and obstinately
cherish.  Whoever will take the trouble to inquire minute-
ly into the history of those, within the circle of his own ac-
quaintance, who have died in advanced age, and who have
been reported, in every publication of the day, to have
reached their hundredth, or hundred and tenth year, will
find, that in truth, in almost every instances considerable de-
ductions must be made from the exaggerated account.  Who-
ever attends to the numerous instances of 1ongevity, collec-
ted by the late Dr Fothergill, must be sensible, that the evi-

<FOOTNOTE>

*On the 30 th of April 1735, a black-smith, while employed
in shoeing a horse before the door of his work shop, was struck
down in the street, and instantly expired.  On the 20 th of Sep-
tember 1787, the inhabitants were alarmed by a tremendous
peal.  Every person trembled, while he inquired after the fate
of his children and his domestics The melancholy tidings were
instantly spread over the town, that four men had been killed
in the old correction-house, at that time used as a wright's shop.
Two of the four, though severely stunned and wounded, gra-
dually recovered.  The other two were found without any re-
mains of life.


