
402			LANARKSHIRE.

whinstone. From it, several ridges have originated, and run like
streams of lava, sometimes rising many feet almost perpendicular
on both sides above the surface, but generally sinking below till
they emerge at Baldernock, New Kilpatrick, or Barony parishes.
The freestone, roughly granulated, rises in several places to the sur-
face, and even a little above it, alternating perhaps with the whin-
stone. In addition to our inexhaustible supply of whinstone and
freestone, there is also abundance of limestone. None of it falls
readily or completely in powder; but it is all reckoned strong, and
forms a firm band in building. It has been partly wrought throught
the length of the parish, and is at present wrought on the estates
of Garnkirk, Bedlay, and Shankramuir, to a great extent. A great
part of it is at present required in the surrounding iron-works.
Common bivalve and other shells are found in the limestone. In
1829, and for successive years, the gas issuing from the fissures of
the limestone rock, rose through the earth, and even the water on
its surface, on the small property of the Holms, once belonging to
the lands of Chryston,--and was easily kindled with a match, and
burnt brilliantly on the surface of the water. It was visited by
scientific and other persons, both from Glasgow and Edinburgh.
Coal is universal throughout the parish at considerable depth; and
what has been wrought to burn the lime is perhaps not even of the
third quality. Larger seams and better coal would doubtless be
discovered at a greater depth. A small seam was lately disco-
vered in the west end of the parish. Any that has yet been wrought
is so far inferior to that in the Monklands and Barony, from which
we are so plentifully and cheaply supplied by means of canals,
railways, and roads, that it will not likely be soon wrought to a
great extent in the parish of Cadder.
	There are no other minerals yet discovered in the parish, ex-
cept immense fields of fire clay, on the track of the Garnkirk and
Glasgow railway, and elsewhere. That on the estate of Garn-
kirk varies in thickness from 4 to 19 feet, and is equal if not supe-
rior to Stourbridge clay. That on the estate of Baads, belonging
to Dr Jeffray, is not quite so fine, but is excellent for making fire
brick. At the extensive works on Garnkirk estate, vases and
flower-pots, and cans, and pots, and crucibles are manufactured,
which for elegance and durability are perhaps rarely equalled, so
that they are likely soon to become as general as Newcastle grind-
ing stone. In our limestone tirrings and other places, boulders of
ironstone are frequently found, which would furnish beautiful spe-

				4


