
                      MUTHILL.                               325

    were on the borders, or were the boundaries between Scotland
    and England, and that the Taus is the Solway, &c.-which view
    would overturn all our conceptions of the Roman movements; and
    would be making the Taus of Tacitus not that beautiful river
    which separates Fife from Angus and Perthshire; the Glota not
    the Clyde; and the Mons Grampius not that grand mountain range
    so well known to every Scotsman, but some little hil in the south.
       But the rivers Forth and Clyde answer too well to Tacitus' de-
    scription of Clota and Bodotria. "N`m Clota et Bodotria, di-
    versi maris aestibus, per immensum revectae, angusto terrarum spa-
    tio diremuntur.  Quod tum praesidiis firmabatur; atque omnis
    propior sinus tenebatur, summotis velut in aliam insulam hostibus."
    This description cannot be applied to any other rivers between
    Anglesey and the Grampian Hills, but to the Forth and Clyde.
      This boundary, says Tacitus, would have been sufficient to li-
    mit the Roman conquests in Britain, had it been consistent with
    the bravery of their army or the glory of their name. But as it
    was not, then we read of their crossing the Frith of Clyde, some
    say at Dumbarton, the following year.  With the new nations
    spoken of as lying to the west, or opposite the coast of Ireland,
    he had many successful encounters; and having subdued them, he
    placed forts with a view to future operations, and afterwards pro-
    bably returned to the isthmus from which he went, there to winter
    and make ready for his Caledonian invasion in the spring.
      But, before leaving this part of the history, we would advert to
    a difficulty as to the third year's undertakings.-" Vastatis usque
    ad Taum (aestuario nomen est) nationibus." Agricola is said to
    have continued his devastations through the several nations to the
    mouth of the Tay.  Thir being the case, it is evident he must
    have returned to the isthmus, where he erected his forts, for his
    undertaking in the fourth and fifth years were of course posterior to
    that in the third; and in this view, we require not to correct the
    historian's words, as some have dnne, by saying, that by the Tay
    he meant the Solway Frith, or the Tweed, or the Tyne.  In
    the fifth year, it is said that Agricola placed forces towards the
    west, on this side of the Clyde, which shewed that he was medi-
    tating an invasion against the Caledonians. That invasion he
    undertook in the summer of the following year; but as to his route
    from the isthmus towards the camp in which the 9th legion was
    attacked in the night, and afterwards to the Grampian Hills,


