
			PARISH OF GALASHIELS.

	PRESBYTERY OF SELKIRK, SYNOD OF MERSE AND TEVIOTDALE.

              THE REV. NATHANIEL PATERSON, MINISTER.


	I. -TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
  Name, Boundaries, &c.-Gicala, in the ancient British, signifies
"a full stream." The United Parish of Galashiels and Lindean,
the former part in the county of Selkirk, and the Latter In Roxburgh-
shire, is of an lrregular figure, the greatest length being nearly eight
miles,and the average breadth three. It is beautified and rendered
interesting by the well-wooded and classical streams of Tweed, Et-
trick, and Gala, which severally unite, and form a large portion
of its boundaries. The general aspect is hilly, with narrow and
winding vales. The greatest height, that of Meigle, a hill over-
looking the town, is 1480 feet, and the lowest plain, situated at the
junction of Tweed and Gala, is 280 feet above the level of the sea.
  Climate.-As to climate there is nothing remarkable, farther
than may be inferred from the elevation. The hills are for the
most part green and dry. Sheep-draining, as the mode of drying
hill pastures by open furrows cut with the spade is termed, has been
introduced, and is practised as far as needed, but not to any considera-
ble extent; and it is rare that the storms of winter are such as to pre-
vent the flock, from shifting for themelves. The easterly winds,
owing to the obstruction of higher grounds, and the tortuous course
of the vallies, lose much of their vicious humidity before reaching this
place; and the inhabitants are but seldom tried by that delicate
test of rheumatism, an easterly haar. There has not been a case
of ague in the parish for the last ten years; and public worship
has not once, in that time, been prevented by the severity of the
weather. Many now living remember intermittent fever as a very
common occurrence; but they remember also that wild ducks were
frequently shot in many pools and marshes of the neighbourhood
where wheat and clover now thrive. No mountains of the district


