
72			KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

--an object of considerable curiosity to the visitors. The polecat
is sometimes, seen, but very rarely. I have seen only one in eight
years. Then weasel is common. The stoat, a beautiful little crea-
ture, with dark prominent eyes, a white body, and a black tail, is
met with occasionally. I have observed three, one in winter, and
two in summer. I mention this for two reasons,first, because it
is a common idea, that the stoat is the weasel grown white from
the effects of winter; and, secondly, because it has been affirmed
by some naturalists, that the stoat changes its colour from white
to brown, according to the seasons. I can vouch, from personal
observation, that both these opinions are erroneous. Hares and
rabbits are plentiful, although not to the same extent as some
years ago. Montgomery, whose descriptions, to their other me-
rits, add that of correctness, mentions, among his enumeration of
the different animals, the "con" or squirrel as common in this
district. But whatever may have been the case in his day, it has
long since disappeared not only from this neighbourhood, but from
the southern part of Scotland. This change is remarkable, and
cannot be the effect of climate, as the squirrel is abundant in the
northern counties of England, and not uncommon in the Lothians.
	Birds.--Several years ago a bittern was shot by a sportsman,
who had it stuffed in commemoration of his adventure. So far as
I am aware no other specimen of that bird has ever been observed.
In the course of the last two years, king-fishers have been repeat-
edly seen along the Dee. The missel-thrush, the largest and one
of the most beautiful of our singing birds, was quite unknown to
us about twenty years ago. They long continued to be rare; but
now, although not numerous, they are not uncommon. Except
when breeding, they are the shyest of birds; but then they become
very bold, building their nest in the cleft of a tree, close to a
house, and attacking, with loud and angry screams, such animals
as threaten to approach them. For several years, a pair have
built on some old trees that surround the manse. At first they
selected the more distant trees and the highest branches, but,
from not being disturbed, they acquired additional confidence each
successive season. At length they ventured within a few yards
of one of the doors, and, while I now write, the female is hatching
in my orchard on a branch not six feet from the ground, and al-
most within arm's length of a walk, along which people are per-
petually passing. The yellow wagtail is a pretty little bird, re-
sembling, in elegance of shape and beauty of plumage, some spe-


