
<TABLE=ROSEMARKIE.>


Inhabitea houses,                              331
Uninhabited houses	                         9
Building	                                     4
Families chiefly employed in agiculture,       108
       trade, manufactures, &e.                133
All other families,	                       117

Number of illegitimate birthsin the course of the last three
years, 5.
   Character of the People.-Tbe people in this parish are, gene-
rally speaking, sober, cleanly, and industrious; and appear in every
respect contented with their condition, and the circumstances in
which Divine Providence has been pleased to place them.

                   IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture and Rural Economy.-The parish being divided
among a great many small as well as several principal heritors,
the number of acres cultivated or occasionally in tillage cannot be
satisfactorily obtained without actual admeasurement. Neither
can the number of acres of waste and pasture land with any accu-
racy be ascertained. It is supposed that the greater part of, the.
waste ground might, by the proper application of capital, be kept
in occasional tillage, or in permanent pasture. There are
under planted wood about 837 acres imperial measure. The
application of lime in Husbandry, the use of bone manure in
the raising of turnips, which are generally ate off the ground
by sheep, and which has been found very much to improve the
soil, with due attention to a proper rotation of crops, and rest-
ing the fields in grass, are becoming daily more prevalent here.
The, farmers residing near the shore avail themselves of ther advan-
tage of usiny sea-ware as often as they can procure it; which they_
either spread at once upon the lands, or mix in a compost, the lat-
ter process being found to be the best mode of applying it.
Some of the tenants keep still a few sheep of the Small country
kind, which are pastured on heath, and among whins and broom.
Leases of nineteen years endurance are general.
    Rent of Land.-The rents of land in the country part of the pa-
rish vary from L. 1, 10s.<footnote> to L.2 per acre; the lands about the
united burgh draw per acre from L.3 to L.4 and upwards.
   The state of farm-buildings would admit of great improvement;
and the Subdividing and enclosing with proper fences, the different
arable fields, hitherto greatly overlooked, would be highly de-
sirable as well as beneficial.
   Farming Society.-A society denominated "the Black Isle
Farming Society." consisting of the prepreitors and the more re-


