
186                         WIGTONSHIRE.

and the proprietors are disposed to give all reasonable encourage-
ment to industrious and enterprising tenants.
	The constant excitement about the corn laws, and the uncer-
tain state in which they are believed to be, are considered to be
most unfriendly to improvement.
	Quarries.--The only quarries in the parish are those of com-
mon bluestone (greywacke) already mentioned, as used in building
houses; and there is nothing particular in the manner of working
these quarries.
	Fisheries.--There is a salmon-fishing in the river Cree, and
also in the river Bladenoch; and in both rivers, spirlings are caught
in spring and autumn; sometimes they are caught in small num-
bers at other seasons. The rent of the fishings belonging to Pen-
ninghame amounts to about L.100 per annum.
	Manufactures.--In the end of last century, a manufactory for cot-
ton was emeted in this parish, at Newtonstewart, by Douglas, Dale,
and Co., at an expense of above L. 20,000. It was erected particu-
larly for spinning, but with the view of extending the work to weav-
ing, &c. in the village. The speculation did not succeed well, and af-
ter a few years it was given up. In 1826, the premises were pur-
chased by Lord Garlhes for about five per cent. of the original cost.
The houses have all been taken down; the materials of the mill,
&c. were partly sold, and partly used of the fue on which the
mill stood, became the property of the Douglas Trustees, having
been presented to them by the present Earl of Galloway, as a
site for the benefit of the Douglas funds.
	The weaving of cotton still continues to be carried on in
this parish, but not to a great extent; and it is rather diminish-
ing. The webs come from Glasgow to agents in Newton-
stewart, and the weavers have looms in their own houses, or hire
them in some neighbour's house, at a weekly rent of about 8d.
or 6d. The carriage from and to Glasgow forms a deduction
from the payment, that is felt considerably, when the rate is low.
In general, the trade does not remunnerate very well those employed
in it. The establishment of the cotton manufactory increased the
number of pauper, and did not produce any perlanent benefit
to the parish.
	There is now no regular manufactory in this parish. The trades-
men do not generally extend their work beyond the demands of


