
     Statistical Account

are no poor's rates, the only ordinary supplies arise from the
weekly collections at the church, with the interest of some
settled money, amounting in whole to about 35 L. a-year: out
of which the session-clerk and officers fees are paid.  This
would be by no means an adequate supply for such a number
of poor, if Lord Findlater did not only give 10 bolls and a fir-
lot of meal yearly to be distributed by the church session, but
also appoint supplies of meal and money for all their exigen-
cies, which makes their state here better than anywhere else
in the neighbourhood*.

   Woods.-It may not be improper from Cullen, the prin-
cipal seat of the Earl of Findlater and Seafield, to take a ge-
neral view of the immense plantations of trees made by that
family.  Before the year 1744, little in that way was done.
The whole country, and even about Cullen house, was naked
and destitute of cover or ornament from trees.  Since the
above period, it appears by attested lists before the writer,
that the Earls of Findlater have planted upwards of 8000

<FOOTNOTE>

the customs at Inverness, and his son bailie William Ogilvie, merchant in Banff,
bequeathed the sum of 44 L. 9 s. Sterling, the interest of which is to be applied
by the church-session of Cullen, for behoof of their poor relations, and the poor
of the parish in equal parts.  James Ogilvie, formerly wadsetter of Logie, be-
queathed for behoof of the poor of the parish of Cullen, the sum of 300 merks
Scotch.
*Although the whole produce of grain in the parish is never sufficient for
the consumpt of the people, yet meal is always here in as great plenty, and as
good in quality, and as cheap, as in any part of Scotland; owing to the atten-
tion of Lord Findlater and his managers.  20 or 30 years since, eggs sold 14 for
a penny, now they are 2 d. for 12.  Hens, which were sold for 4 d. each, now
give 7 d. and 8 d. Beef and mutton, which used to sell from 1 d. to 2 d. the
pound, now sell from 2 1/2 d. to 4 d. the pound.  Haddocks, which were from 1 d.
to 2 d. the dozen, fell now at 7 d. and 8 d. the dozen, and other articles in pro-
portion.  The price of labour is rising so fast, that it may be said not to be set-
tled at present.


