
                      ABERCROMBIE.                       345

There are no blind, deaf, or dumb in the parish.
Character and Habits of the Peop7e.-The people on the whole
are most industrious, and enjoy in a reasonable degree the comforts
of society. In most of the fishermen's families, there is at times a
striking air of comfort. For the wet, hungry, and weary fisher-
man (at sea since two or three o'clock in the morning) there is
a blazing fire, and a clean substantial breakfast set out, to which
be sits down with much relish and enjoyment. The ordinary food
of the peasantry at their meals is oatmeal, potatoes, fish, and in
most families, in the country part of the parish, a little pork of
their own rearing.
  During the last three years there have been 4 illegitimate births
in the parish.
                              IV.-INDUSTRY.

                        In tillage,     1015
                          plantation,     57
                          common,         12
                                             1084

Produce- The average gross amount of grain raised in the pa-
rish, as nearly as can be ascertained, is, say

         Wheat, barley, oats, beans,     L. 2700
         Potatoes and turnips,              1750
         Hay cultivated,                     600
         Pasture,                            330
                                          L.5380

 Rent.-The rent of land varies from L. 1, 14s. to L. 3, 4s. per
imperial acre. The greater part of the rent is paid in grain, and con-
sequently fluctuates according to the county fiars. The average
rent of the parish under cultivation may be taken at L.. 2, 5s. per
acre. A lease of twenty-one years has just expired; the rent was
one-half boll wheat, do. barley, do. oats, and. L. 1, Is. The saine
firm is now let at an equal amount of grain, and L. 1, 3s. per acre.
For pasturing a full-grown ox or cow during the season, L. 3.
  Husbandry.-The usual rotation upon easy land is grass broken
up for oats; oats followed by potatoes or turnips. If potatoes, wheat,
succeeds, the wheat laid down with grass. This is used for one
year for cutting grass or hay, and pastured perhaps for a year, and
again broken up for oats. Such is the outline of our husbandry.
As the soil is lighter or stronger, there occur of course varieties of
culture. Upon the whole, it coincides entirely with the agriculture
of the surrounding district.
 For potatoe ground to the people of St Monan's the farmer re-
ceives 2s. for the row of 100 yards, provided tile people afford the


