
                        PAISLEY.                           287

the principal work for both old and young was spinning of cot-
ton yarn on the wheel; but since the invention of machinery, this
kind of employment has been entirely given up.  For a time, when
the children were more numerous than they are at present, they
were partly employed as piecers in cotton mills, and at tambour-
ing within doors.  At present, a few of the men are employed at the
loom; the boys who are in any degree forwarded in their education
are engaged in operations connected with the manufactures of the
town; the girls who are beyond the age of mere children assist in
the work of the house; a few of the women are employed in wash-
ing, and in attending the kitchen, some in winding yarn, others
in sewing and knitting; but the far greater part of the inmates
are employed in reeling lashes for the manufacturers.  The pro-
duce of labour cannot, in a pecuniary view, be very great; but ha-
bits of industry are favourable both to comfort and to morals.
   It is the custom for the master to take all the young people along
with him to church twice every Sabbath ; and, immediately after
their return from the afternoon service, they are taken into the school,
and are employed in reading the Scriptures or religious tracts, re-
peating hymns and catechisms, and other religious exercises till the
time of supper and family worship, when they assemble along with
the whole household in the public hall.  Of late, it has been cus-
tomary to ask the services of one of the clergymen monthly on
these occasions.  The duty of conducting daily worship, morning
and evening, devolves on the master; but on those Sabbaths when
the clergyman does not attend, and when the master is engaged
with the catechising of the children, the religious exercises of the
evening are conducted by one of the directors, or by a pious lay
member or office-bearer of the church.  The sick and bed-ridden are
attended to in the same way, while the clergy and elders of all de-
nominations have at all times free access to the inmates.
   An annual examination of the Hospital School is held, when
the ministers of the town, the magistrates, and directors are in-
vited to attend.  On these occasions, it has been customary for
the ministers to pray with, and to exhort, the people both old and
young.  This annual examination is not only useful to the chil-
dren and their teacher, as a stimulus to diligence and exertion, but
it may also be considered as a seasonable pastoral Visitation to the
aged, many of whom are bowed down beneath a load of sorrows
and infirmities, and stand in need of consolation, while others,


