
786                         AYRSHIRE.

chalders; the glebe is 4 5/4 imperial acres in extent. The manse
was built in 1771, and is in a good habitable condition.
	Education.--There are six schools in the parish, including one
female school kept in the village of Kirkoswald. Salary of the
parochial schoolmaster, L. 30 ; average yearly amount of school
fees, L. 45. The Kilkerran family has endowed one of the
schools with accommodations, and a salary of L. 12 per annum
to the teacher.
	Poor.--The average number of poor is 46; afid the aver-
age allowance to each 1s. per week. The heritors contribute
for their behoof about L. 110 per annum and about L. 40 per
annum is derived from church collections.

	February 1842.

                           PARISH OF LARGS. *

	PRESBYTERY OF GREENOCK, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.

		  THE REV. JOHN DOW, MINISTER.

		I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	Name.--THE learned author of Caledonia says that the name of
this parish is derived from the Scoto-Irish Learg, signifying a plain,
and that the same word appears in various other names of places in
North Britain. The final s, the sign of the English plural, has been
added in consequence of two places bearing the same name.
This derivation is not, like the generality of Celtic names, very
accurately descriptive, for there is no extent of ground in the pa-
rish which can be called a plain. Some have supposed that the
word also signifies fields, and that, as it was the field or scene of
the celebrated battle with the Norwegians, the place has conse-
quently been called the Largs. This is, however, purely fanci-
ful, and is not consistent with fact, for the place bore the name of
Largs long prior to the event alluded to.
	Boundaries and Extent.--The town of Largs lies in latitude
55&deg;  49' 30" north, longitude 4&deg; 52' west. The parish cotitains about
37 3/4 square miles, or 24, 160 acres. It lies, along the coast of the
Faith of Clyde for nine miles. On the north it is bounded by

<FOOTNOTE>Furnished by James Dobie, Esq. Beith.


