
			KIRKCONNEL.                            321

of the latter, six or seven. The inhabitants are much attached to
the Established Church, and  are a church-going people.
	A few years after the induction of the present incumbent, which
took place in 1803, the present church was considerably enlarged
for the accommodation of the villagers. Since that time, the church
manse, and offices have undergone complete repair, and at present,
perhaps, there is not a more comfortable place of worship within
the county. The offices were rebuilt, and are in good condition.
	Education.--Besides the parochial, there are at present several
private schools in the parish; and the number of scholars who at-
tend these different seminaries, and were present at the annual
examination, amounted to 159: but the average number during the
year may amount to 170. The branches of education taught are
only English, writing, and arithmetic. The Scriptures are regular-
ly read, and the children daily repeat the Shorter and other Ca-
techisms usually taught in schools; and weekly, they recite portions
of Scripture. The salary of the parochial schoolmaster is the
minimum, with a good house and garden; he has, besides, the in-
terest of different small sums of money, for which he is to teach
one or two orphan children when any are in the parish, or such
whose parents are so indigent as not to be able to pay the school
fees, which are extremely moderate. The fees which he actually
receives may amount to L. 30 per annum.
	Poor.--The most necessitous of the poor receive some supply
in aid of their own industry, from the weekly collections made in
the church, which annually amount to from L. 16 to L. 20. This,
together with a small sum laid out at interest, is all that can be
calculated upon for their relief. There is no assesment for paro-
cbial relief, nor is there any occasion for it. The farmers are ex-
tremely attentive to the poor, by occasionally sending meal and
potatoes to be distributed by the session among them; and the
heritors occasionally send donations for the same purpose.* The

<FOOTNOTE>In the year 1817, when markets were very high and provisions scarce--and when
many of the labouring class, from the rate of wages, were unable to procure support
for themselves and families, a parochial subscription was voluntarily entered into,
aided by the resident and non-resident heritors; by means of which, a fund was rais-
ed to a considerable amount, with which provisions were purchased, at a considerable
distance, by farmers in the parish, and brought by them free of expense. Such of
them as had any stock of meal or potatoes for sale, reserved the same for the behoof
of the parish. By this means, a store of provisions was formed; and a committee of
management was appointed, who met weekly to consider the cases of the applicants;
and from the representations laid before them, instructed their store-keeper to give
out a certain quantity of provisions gratis, to the most necessitous; to others at re-
duced prices, according to their circumstances; and such as could afford to pay re-
ceived the article at prime cost. The quantity of meal served out and sold, as above
stated, amounted to 1950 stones, (besides potatoes and pot-barley,) within the space of


