
                       ABDIE.                          51

   Eminent Men.-Admiral Maitland, one of the present land-
owners in this parish, is well known as the Commander of the
Bellerophon, which received Bonaparte at the conclusion of the
late war with France. By his vigilance and circumspection, he
prevented the escape of this great troubler of Europe from
Basque roads. He has published a very entertaining narrative
of the transactions he had with that celebrated personage and his
attendants while they were with him in the ship. On all other
occasions, when on active duty, he signalized himself by his intre-
pidity and skill in naval affairs, and was esteemed one of the best
officers in His Majesty's service. While at home, he was attentive
to every scheme of public utility; and particularly interested him-
self in the erection of our new church.
   Parish Registers.-Baptisms and marriages have been register-
ed with some interruptions from the year 1693. This is now more
carefully done than formerly, though still there are many omissions.
   Antiquities.-The old church, which is now in ruins, may be
traced to the beginning of the fifteenth century. There still remain
in the porch the basin for the holy water, and, till lately, the steps
that led to the altar. All around, are the monuments of former
times. We have the Lecturer's Inch, the Teind Knowe, and a
park at Lindores called the Glebe. I have in my possession se-
veral old coins that were found in the neighbourhood; among these
is a shilling of the reign of one of the Jameses, having on the obverse
a crowned head, and on the margin Rex Scotorum ; on the reverse,
a cross, with the words villi Edinburgi; also a sixpence, having on
the obverse a crowned head, with the letters Edw. on the mar-
gin, and on the reverse a cross, with the word vici very legible.
Urns containing bones and ashes are occasionally dug up. One
very lately, of rude workmanship, was met with at the foot of Clat-
chard Crag, containing a skull and some bones. It was deposited
between three or four large stones placed together in the form of
a coffin. There was found nearer the abbey, several years ago, a re-
pository of the same kind containing a great number of very small
bones. In the village of Lindores, there are the vestiges of an

lost his eyesight by the small pox, but, notwithstanding, attained to great proficiency
in almost every branch of liberal knowledge. He traversed the country as lecture
on chemistry and all branches of natural philosophy. But his favorite subjects
were optics and the phenomena of light and colours. Those he illustrated with pe-
culiar propriety and success in spite of that bereavement of sight under which he la-
boured. He amassed a considerable fortune, which was bequesthed chiefly to his
brother.

<FOOTNOTE>Supposed to be Edward I. of England.


