
          36                        BANFFSHIRE.

          as to idiom and pronunciation: there are few who cannot express
          themselves in English, still fewer who do not familiarly understand
          it when distinctly spoken. Unmixed Scotch is never to be heard.
          The most common dialect is a mixture of Scotch and English, the
          Scotch used being of the somewhat vicious kind, known, I believe,
          by the name of the Aberdeenshire.  The Scotch, however, is gra-
          dually wearing out.  Every person remembers. the frequent use,
          in former years, of terms and phrases that are now seldom to be
          heard but among the older and more secluded.  Even, however,
          in what is called, by courtesy, speaking English, or using English
          words, there is often a sore lack of the genuine English pronun-
          ciation.  The defect is not so much in the accentuation, as in the
          vowel and diphthongal sounds.  Thus the three different sounds
          of the letter a in far, fat, fault, are all given alike, as infar. The
          sound of i, as in him, is made the same as e in her,-unless when
          some, flying from this Scylla of orthoepy, fall into the Charybdis
          of pronouncing it as if spelled heem.  No difference is made be-
          tween the two sounds of o in pop and pope, and the oa in broad.
          Rod, rode, broad, are all made to rhyme together.  The long a
          (as in made) is pronounced like the English short e: fed and fade
          are pronounced just alike.  Unaccented vowels are generally lost,
          or sounded like the French e in le.  Regular is pronounced reqler
          or regeler ; prelate, prelet ; absolute, abselet. Even in the matter
          of pronunciation, however, there is a great and progressive im-
          provement.
            Character and Circumstances.-Generally speaking, the intel-
          lectual, moral, and religious character of the people deserves to
          be favourably mentioned; though, undoubtedly, among particular
          sections of the population, profligacy and vice is to be found pre-
          vailing in no inconsiderable degree.  Perhaps vices of sensuality
          are more to be noted than those of injustice or inhumanity.  Of
          poaching or smuggling there are scarcely any instances in the pa-
          rish. The people are also, in general, very cleanly in their habits.
            The poorer classes in the country subsist mostly on meal, milk,
          and vegetables, particularly potatoes, and kail, or colewort.  Near-
          er the coast, fish may be easily had.
            Both in town, among the trading and labouring classes, and in
          the landward part of the parish, among the crofters and small
          farmers there are a considerable number of persons, who, if not
          in absolutely destitute, are in very straitened circumstances; and
          who, neither in regard to freedom from worldly anxiety, nor suf-


