
112                         AYRSHIRE.

land for a drop, it is generally manured with a compost of lime
and earth, or with dung; then two white crops are usually taken,
with the last of which grass seeds are sown, which yield a crop of
hay the following season; then the land remains in pasture for five
or six years, before it is broken up again. This is the ordinary
rotation. Other modes of management  are adopted, but only
to a very limited extent; and, therefore, need not be particu-
larized. The mode taken for reclaiming waste or hill land is by
first liming the same at the rate of 120 bolls to each acre; or by
paring the surface and burning it into ashes, which, with about
50 bolls of lime to each acre, are spread over it. After two white
crops are taken, it is sown down and kept in pasturage for sheep
three or four years. Furrow-draining is not carried on to any
great extent in the parish. Mr Tennant of Creoch has lately
drained, according to this system, about 100 acres, at the expense
of from L. 5 to L. 6 per acre. These drains are made about twenty
inches deep, and filled up with small broken stones at least ten
inches in depth.
	The advantages that arise from this system are very great, but
a tenant under an ordinary lease, would not be justified in at-
tempting it to any considerable extent. As such improvements
add permanently to the value of the lands, they should be carried
on at the expense of the proprietor, and the tenant charged with
a fair interest on the money laid out on the draining.
	Leases.--Many farms on the estate of Ochiltree were on life-
time tacks, but these are now nearly all expired by the death of
the textants. The leases of other lands in the parish are from
nine to nineteen years. Short leases are extremely injurious to
the interests of the proprietor and tenant. As the lease draws
near to a close, the occupier generally does as little as he can to
improve his farm, and becomes quite careless about the state of
his house and fences, being fearful were he to act otherwise, that
some other person might reap the fruit of his labours. It would
be for the advantage of both landlord and tenant, that the occu-
pier, if industrious, should have a preference and obtain a new lease,
before the expiration of the old one, by a fair valuation of the farm.
By this plan, the tenant would be encouraged in carrying on his
improvements, and the land always kept in good condition. The
farm-houses are mostly covered with thatch, a few with slates,
which is considered a great improvement, by giving less harbour
to and mice. The fences are partly made by ditches with


