
                          ARDNAMURCHAN.                       141

chinery, and roads.  A village was built, and named New York,
after the custom of settlers in other remote colonies; and many of the
arts of peace, hitherto. unknown, were introduced among the war-
like-Highlanders.  Of all this Sir Alexander Murray had just rea-
son to feel proud.  These mines continued, until about twenty years
ago, the source of considerable revenue to the proprietor and the
company, and of profitable industry to numerous families employ-
ed by the proprietor until within a few years back, notwithstanding
that the ploughshare has long ago obliterated every vestige of
New York, and the English workmen, unless we except a few of
their descendants (undistinguishAble except by their Saxon names,>
supplanted by hardy and industrious natives.  Sir Alexander and
some of his tenants were much harassed by the destruction of their
cattle, and other annoyances,-a fact accounted for by his zealous
loyalty to the reigning family.
   In 1715 and 1745, many of the inhabitants of these districts join-
ed in the insurrections of these periods.  On the suppression of
the last, a ship of war came to lay waste the country, but the mi-
nister and factor succeeded, by their representations, in saving the
inhabitants from the indiscriminate cruelties to which the High-
landers were at the time subjected.  The abolition of heri-
table jurisdisdictions at this era does not appear, for some time, to
have been followed by the better protection of the national laws
and functionaries.  Depredations on cattle were frequeut in Ard-
namurchan and Sunart, the robbers coming principally from dis-
tricts farther inland.  This chiefly arose from the exile and death
of so many chiefs and gentlemen, who (clan feuds and forays hav-
ing ceased long before) were the natural and most influential ma-
gistracy.  The mass of the people, however, were, even at this period,
orderly and docile, to a certain extent industrious, and under the
influence of their religious instructors; and the depredators, who
were never numerous, either died, or soon found that the age of
their vocation had gone.
   The Inverness-shire districts of the parish appear to have re-
mained in the possession of the family of Allan Mac Ruari, until
1337. when they came to be inherited by Amie, the sister of the
last heir-male.  This lady married John of Islay, Lord of the
Isles, and by this union the race of Somerled was continued in the
male as well as female line.  From Ranald, the son of thisJohn,
are descended the Clanranald, a bold and resolute clan, who main-
tained, in many fierce conflicts, their Celtic privileges, and the


