
				FORDOUN.  			    97

	Pigs form a very considerable article of produce, and the breed
is excellent. Fat pigs are sold to the pork-curers in Montrose and
Stonehaven. By them the pork is pickled, and generally sent to
the London market.
	Husbandry.--The rotation usually followed is the five-shift course,
viz. 1. turnip and potatoes, &c.; 2. barley; 3. grass; 4. grass; and
5. oats. Where the strength of the land warrants, the four-shift
course is adopted, and on some farms the seven-shift course is pre-
ferred, viz. turnip, barley, pasture three years, and followed by
two successive white crops; but these rotations are only exceptions,
the five-shift course being that generally followed. A small pro-
portion of the break, intended for fallow and green crop, is allot-
ted for potatoes, the remainder being generally turnips. When
the quantity of dung on the farm is insufficient to manure the
break, the deficiency is supplied by the application of bonemanure,
almost the greatest modern discovery in agriculture. The turnips
raised by bone manure are fed off by sheep. Barley, it will be
seen, is thus extensively grown, wheat and beans not entering into
the rotation; and flax can scarcely be said to be cultivated. All
the lighter operations of farm work, such as hoeing, raking, reap-
ing, spreading dung, assisting in the barn, are performed by fe-
males, whose ruddy appearance indicates the healthy nature of
their employment.
	The crop is partly cut down by the sickle and partly by the
scythe, the last method of cutting, in consequence of the difficulty
of procuring reapers, becoming yearly more prevalent. Although
the appearance of the crop, both in stook and stack, is rather
rough and slovenly, still those who have made trial of both me-
thods affirm that both grain and straw are taken up as well, in
every respect, by mowing as by the sickle, and owing to its being,
less compressed in the sheaf, is ready for the stack in much less time
than grain cut by the hand. Ten people accustomed to the
work will cut down, take up and stook, on an average, five impe-
rial acres daily.
	Improvements.--Although no improvements, on a great scale, have-
been executed in this parish lately, still, for the last thirty years, the
progress of draining the wet land, and reclaiming the waste ground,
has been pursued with much ardour, and in this laudable under-
taking, both landlord and tenant have been unremitting in their
exertions. Lime was formerly more liberally applied than at pre-
sent; perhaps the difficulties with which the agricultural interest

  KINCARDINE.                           G


