
     of Peterculter.

is common; but it is used in so small quantities, that no
great advantage is in general reaped from it.  They must
bring all the lime which they use from Aberdeen, for there
is no limestone hitherto found in the parish.  There may
be 3 or 4 farmers here, who annually bring out each be-
tween 30 and 40 bolls of unslaked lime, or shell-lime, which
is equal to thrice that measure of slaked lime.  Few of the rest
use above 10 or 12 bolls in a year, and some of them none
at all.  In the estate of Culter, and the lands in this parish
now annexed to it, there are 23 or 24 farmers; and al-
though 3 or 4 farms be sometimes let to one tenant, no
farmer pays above L. 40 of rent; some from L. 20 to
L. 30; and some from L. 10 to L. 20.  These farmers
have so many subtenants; but every one of them is re-
stricted to a certain number of fires.  The peat-moss be-
longing to the estate of Culter is almost exhausted, and the
tenants are prohibited from selling any peats.  They and
the tenants in the barony of Kenarty, may cut fuel in the
moss of Leuchar, which supplies the west division, but is at a
great distance, and the road is very bad.  In the lands of Coun-
tesswells peat-moss abounds; and therefore, when Mr Bur-
nett purchased that estate, the farms were divided into small

<FOOTNOTE>

and of a great tract of country around besides.  In digging up the foun-
dation of some old walls, which were said to have been part of the man-
sion of that family, my workmen found near an handful of silver coin,
about the size of sixpences, inscribed Davidus Rex.  About that time a
report was prevalent of a bull's hide, filled with money, being sunk in a
bog.  In trenching, the labourers went deeper here than any way, in full
expectation of discovering the treasure, but were disappointed.-In the
plantations there are foxes, hares, and deer, etc.  When I began to improve.
the use of lime was scarcely known, except at Culter, where soot and
lime were both used.  Of the latter I drove out many cargoes.  The
country people then said, I was not wise enough; but when they saw the
crops it produced, by the different methods of using it, they changed their
opinion, and very soon used it themselves, and found the benefit of it.
Now it is quite common.


