
                           PARISH OF RENFREW.

           PRESBYTERY OF PAISLEY, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.

                THE REV. DUNCAN MACFARLAN, MINISTER.

                 I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-The name of this parish, as well as of the county, ap-
pears to have belonged originally to the site and neighbourhood of
the present burgh. A town bearing the same name existed here
in the reign of David I., which commenced in 1124. We are,
from this and other evidence, carried back to a period when some
dialect of the Celtic must have been spoken in this part of the
country; in this immediate neighbourhood,-most probably that of
the Strath-Clyde Britons. Clyde, Leven, Lomond, Dumbarton
and, as we think, Renfrew, are all British names. The author of
Caledonia derives the last of these from Rhyn, in Welsh, or Rinn,
in Gaelic and Irish;-both, meaning a point of land; and Frew, or
Fraw, in Welsh, a flow of water; thus making Renfrew the point
of land near the flow or conflux of the rivers Clyde and Gryfe. All
who are acquainted with the localities of the burgh will recognize
in this an apt description; yet it must have been m much more so,
when these rivers spread out as they formerly did, leaving the lands
around the burgh literally as a point appearing amidst the waters.
Assuming, then, that this name was anciently applied to the site
of the burgh, it is easy to understand how it would afterwards be
given to the burgh itself, and from it to the parish; and we know,
that it was afterwards extended, first to the barony, and then to the
sheriffdom or county. Hence the name of the burgh, the parish
and the county of Renfrew. *
   Extent and Boundaries.-This parish comprehends the whole
of the burgh and a landward district extending to about 5 1/2 miles

<FOOTNOTE>It may not be improper here to notice an error, into which several respectible
writers have fallen on this subject; appwently copying one from another. Among
others, Crawford, in his history of the county, alleges Renfrew to be the same
Randuara, a name add to be found in Ptolamy, as quoted by Cambden. The re-
ference to Cambden is correct, but the word used by Ptolemy is Vaaduaria; and the
place which this latter name is applied, instead of being on the very banks of the
Clyde, appears to be nearly equidistant between it and the Ayrshire coast.


