
                        CARMICHAEL.                        519

pelled to contribute something more towards increasing the sub-
sistence of man and beast. There is a good deal of clayey soil,
resting on clay slate and greywacke slate, as productive as any
land in the parish. The reason is obvious,--the water is readi-
ly percolated through the fissures of the rock.
	Hydrography.--This parish has for part of its boundary line,
as has been stated, the Clyde and Douglas Water, and is inter-
sected and watered by several burns or small rivulets, which have
their sources in the high range of hills which form its southern
boundary. Three of these streams, with their tributary rills, flow
into Douglas Water, and four into the Clyde. There is a suffi-
ciency of water-power for working all the thrashing-mills in the
parish, had the farms been otherwise divided, and the farm-houses
built in those localities where advantage might have been taken of
this power which Nature has so liberally afforded. There are
many fine springs in the parish, but I am not aware that any of
them have been chemically analysed. There is a natural jet d'eau
close by one of the rivulets, and the side of a morass, and which
throws up the finest sand. The average temperature of the springs,
I am inclined to think, must range between 45&deg; and 47&deg; Fahr. The
temperature of six or seven of them on Tinto, from near the top
to the base, was ascertained, 15th December 1836, when the tem-
perature of the atmosphere was 24, to be between 36&deg; and 42&deg;.
The temperature of the water must have been cooled by the at-
mosphere or the stones near the surface. At any rate, as the ex-
periment was made by a person not trained to scientific exactness,
I cannot vouch for its accuracy.
	Geology and Mineralogy.--This parish contains abundant ma-
terials for the investigation of the geological student. Tinto
seems to belong to the same formation as the Pentland Hills. It
was surveyed by the late Dr Macknight, and the result of his sur-
vey was communicated to the Wernerian Society, and published
in the second volume of their Transactions, in 1818. To this sur-
vey I beg to refer, as containing many accurate observations,
and some probable conjectures concerning the internal structure.
of the mountain, and the formation on which it rests. As some
quarries have been recently opened on the south and west side
for metal to the roads, greater facilities are now afforded for a mi-
neralogical survey. A shaft was also dug a few years ago, to a
considerable depth, through a vein of heavy spar, in the Howgate
Mouth, in the expectation of finding lead ore; but the search was



