
     Statistical Account

are still 10 feet in height, and about 8 in thickness, ex-
mented in the strongest possible manner.  It is said to have'
been very high; and that the parish derived its name from
hence.
   Two of the subterraneous buildings, very common in
this part of the country, called by the people weems, have
been discovered:  one, at a small distance from the church,
and another not far from the house of Auchterhouse.
This last was completely dug up.  The space between the
walls and covering was full of rich mould; in which were
found ashes of wood, some bones, hand mill-stones, about
14 inches diameter, and a brass ring without any inscrip-
tion*.

<FOOTNOTE>

   *It is presumed, that a particular description of these buildings will
be given in the account of the neighbouring parish, Liff, where a vey
extensive one, within a few yards of Lundee-house, was laid open by Co-
lonel Duncan, the proprietor.
   These are all the antiquities of this parish; to which may be subjoin-
ed the following extracts from the old register, literally taken down:
"on Sunday, the 25th of May 1654, Andrew Smith conseste that hee
had carnal copulation with Jem Mores.  Sicklick Jo.  Williamsonne
consessed, that he had adoe with Elspit Low; therefore, they are or-
dained to mak there was but anes preaching, because of the enemie lying
so near hand.-On Sunday, the 20th of July, there was no preaching, be-
cause of the enemie being so near thge towne.-On the 5th July 1646,
there was intimation made out of the pulpit, of a sast to be keep on
the 9th of July.  Also the minister told the people out of the pulpit, that
the Earl of Seaforth was excommunicate.-Among many reasons assigned
for a salt, the following are two:  3d, Lecause of the desulate stat and
cure of several congregations, which have been starved by dry-brested
ministers this long witnesseth to sense of scant.  4th, Because of the preg-
nant scandal of witches and charmers within this part of the land, we
are to supplicat the Lord therefore, that he would enlighten and enclyne
ministers and people, and enslame their hearts with more zeal to God


