
398                         FORPARSHIRE.

chieftains, were hung up in the south aisle of Kinnell Church.
After the aisle was unroofed, and excluded from the church in
1766, the boot speedily fell to decay; but the spur still exists,
measuring 8 inches in lenfth, and 4 1/2 in breadth, and having a
rowel as large as a crown piece. And the verses, in which the
feats of the combatants were sung, have not yet altogether passed
away. from the remembrance of the people.
   In 1790 and 1805, there was found between Hatton and Hatton.
mill, in the face of the bank above the Lunan, a considerable
number of silver pennies and halfpennies, which the owners bad
probably concealed in troublous times, and afterwards, through
death or other accident, found no opportunity of bringing forth
again for the purposes of life. In both cases, the earthen pots
which contained them were but slightly sunk into the gravelly
bank; and, what is remarkable, they were in both cases discover-
ed by boys going to school, and those boys were brothers. It is
said that there was no specimen of any rare coin among them;
and accordingly, instead of passing into the cabinets of the curious,
they were almost all of them melted down; and a portion of the
latter finding still exists not far from the spot where they were
found, in an article of convivial utility, a ladle for a punch bowl.
A halfpenny, however, still remains of John Baliol, having on one
side a head crowned in profile and looking to the right, and a
sceptre surmounted with a lily before it, with the legend, "Jo-
hannes Dei Gra;" and on the other side, a crosr, with a spur revel
in two of the quarters, with the legend "Rex Scotorum." The
others were of Baliol's cotemporary, Edward King of England,
with the full face and legend of "Edw. R. Ang. Dns. Hyb," on one
side, and on the other side, the cross, pellets, and place of coin-
age, "I Civitas London. Cantor. Dublinie, Bristolie," &c. Three
years ago, in time of harvest, a similar coin, from the mint of
York, (Eboraci), was found in a field not far from the castle of
West Braky.
   But a piece far more valuable, both for rarity and intrinsic worth,
was found, in 1829, on the farm of Mainsbanks by the side of a
ditch, out of which it had probably been cast. It was an aureus
a gold coin of the Roman Emperor Antoninus Pius, bearing on
one side the Emperor's head, with the inscription " Antoninus
Aug. Pius P. P. Imp. II.;" and on the other a victory, with the
inscription " Tr. Pot. XIX. cos. IIII." that is, " Antoninus Au-
gustus Pius, father of his country; twice saluted with the title of
				4


