
                EDINBURGH.                              743

   Markets.-A meal market is held in the Grassmarket every
Tuesday, and a grain market in the same place every Wednesday.
                IX.-POOR.
   In Edinburgh, as in all Scotland, none is entitled to ap-
ply for relief but aged and impotent poor, or widows with
young children. Persons able to work, however destitutes, are
not recognised as legally entitled to parochial relief, but are allow-
ed occasional assistance. Persons applying for relief according to
the general poor law of Scotland, must have resided three con-
tinuous years within the royalty, comprehending fourteen parishes,
and during that time maintained themselves by their own industry,
and so acquired what is termed an industrial settlement.
   City Worhhouse.-The funds for relief of the poor are,-
   1. The collection at the church doors of the fourteen Esta-
blished Churches in the royalty, which formerly amounted on an
average to L. 2100 per annum, but which has now greatly decreased.
   2. A per centage assessment on the tenants of houses and shops,
on a charge of four-fifths of the real or actual rent, as surveyed
annually by the stentmasters. From this tax the members of
the College of Justice, viz. the Judges, Advocates, and Writers to
the Signet, whose aggregate rental within the royalty is about
L. 50,000 per annum, were exempted by an ancient privilege; but
by the recent poor-law bill, this exemption is abolished.
   Besides these sums, there are some mortifications or legacies of
mortmain, producing about L. 100 per annum, and an annuity
payable by the Town-Council of the city, by the original contract
at erection of the Charity Workhouse in 1740, of L. 200.
   There are also occasional sums received under the head of
"Casual Revenue," consisting of legacies or donations, the
amount of which is extremely uncertain and seldom of any extent.
Managers of the Poor's Funds.-Previous to 1740, each kirk.
session administered its own poor's funds, consisting of the col-
lections at the church door, and an assessment of two per cent.:
but in that year, in consequence of its being considered expedient
to erect a general charity workhouse or poor-house for all the
parishes, a contact was entered into on the part of the Lord Pro-
vost, Magistrates, and Town-Council with the kirk-sessions, by
which the managetnent of the whole poor, as well within as with-
out the poor-house, was vested in a set of managers, consisting of
representatives from the sessions, the Town-Council, and other pub-
lic bodies, with a general treasurer. These managers consisted


