
                                 DORNOCH.                      15

    years of age; and about 250, betwixt the years of six and fif-
    teen.
       Friendly Society.-There is a friendly society in this town of
    some standing; but it does not appear to be in a prosperous state,
    as last year its dissolution was talked of.
       Savings Bank.-A branch of a general savings bank for the
    county was lately set up here.  Nothing can yet be said of it but
    that the people shew a desire to vest their savings in it.  It is
    under the patronage of the noble family of Sutherland, who give
    every encouragement to the people to vest their money in it, and
    to promote provident habits among the working-classes.
       Poor and Parochial Funds.-The number of persons receiving
    parochial aid may be considered on an average at from 120 to
    130.  The funds for the poor, which are distributed only once a
    year, consist of collections made in church on Sabbath days, in-
    cluding what is given on marriage occasions, which may amount to
    L.36; the dues for the use of the mortcloths, amounting to about
    L.3, 10s.; an annual gratuity of L.6 from the Duchess Countess
    of Sutherland; and L.25, the interest of L.500.  The late Duke of
    Sutherland, who did not need to borrow money, very humanely took
    this sum from the kirk-session, and allowed the above liberal inte-
    rest for it.  The lowest sum which is given to any of the poor is
    6s., the highest is L.1, 5s.  There is a strong tendency among the
    lower classes to apply for relief to the parish funds.  It must be
    added, that the Duchess gives also annual gratuities to several poor
    and aged individuals,-one of which, I know, amounts to L.4; and
    that, besides these stated gratuities, the Noble family always gives
    a liberal supply of victuals to the poor on their. estates, in time of
    scarcity.
       Prisons.-The only prison in the county is in this town.  It
    was once the bishop's palace, which, from its remains, appears to
    have been a stately edifice.  In 1567, George Earl of Caithness
    sent his son John with some of his people, to invest the town and
    Castle of Dornoch, of which the Murrays, a tribe attached to the
    noble family of Sutherland, had possessed themselves.  The Mur-
    rays no longer able to maintain the ground they had occupied, retired
    to the castle; upon which the master of Caithness burnt the town and
    cathedral; but still the -besieged defended themselves in the castle
    for a month.  At length, however, they were obliged to capitu-
    late.  Whether the castle was dismantled at that time, I have no
    means of ascertaining; but it is well known that it lay in ruins for


