
110                        ARGYLESHIRE.

many beautiful small cascades, but the only one worthy of re-
mark is on a farm belonging to Archibald Campbell, Esq. of
Glendaruel, where the water pours over a perpendicular rock with
such force (when there is a flood in the stream) that it forms a
beautiful arch, and the only way of getting from one side to the
other of the stream when so flooded, is by going under the arch.
   Geology.-It principally consists of mica-slate and many hard
rocks lying in beds.  Several whinstone dikes appear in different
parts of it, which can be traced in a direct line for a great distance,
far beyond the bounds of the parish.  Limestone has been wrought,
but it is of a hard quality, and the purchasing of Irish lime in shell
has been found less expensive.
   Zoology.-It is not remarkable for any rare animals. The large
greyhound fox has become very numerous of late years, and
most destructive to the sheep stock.  Ottars are frequently found
along the sea-coast; badgers are now seldom seen; roe-deer are
plentiful; hares very numerous and of a large size, but the white
or alpine bare are now seldom met with; white and brown weasels,
are common; wild-cats were numerous some years ago, but are
not so now.  Rats, mice, and moles abound; but there are
not many adders or lizards seen.  All the common birds na-
tural to this part of the country are found here; crows are so
much encouraged, that they are prodigiously destructive, parti-
cularly to the newly sown fields and in the harvest time; grouse
are to be found on our mountains, and a few partridges in our fields;
the blackcock has become most plentiful of late years, and phea-
sants are to be seen in all quarters since their introduction into
the country by the late Kirkman Finlay, Esq. of Castletoward;
ptarmigan used to be found on two of our highest mountains, but
were said to have been extirpated some years ago by the game-
keeper of a neighbouring proprietor; wood-cocks, snipe, land
and water-rails, green golden, and grey plover are common in
their season; herons are very numerous.  In severe weather we
are visited by wild geese, but they do not breed in the parish;
swans are seen passing over us going south; land-barnacle some-
times alight in our fields in the harvest season; sea-fowls of every
kind are numerous on our waters, and a variety of divers, parti-
cularly in the winter; also, widgeon, teal, and other ducks.
   Loch Striven and the Kyles of Bute abound in fish of every
kind common on the west coast.  The most abundant are, the
whiteng, haddock, cod, ling, flounder, skate, mackerel, seath or


