
                               GLENSHEIL.                                201

        any prospect of amendment in their condition.  It cannot be ex-
        pected, that a people thus situated should feel satisfied with their
        condition; but they have learned to submit to their hard fate, and
        bear their numerous privations with a degree of patience extreme-
        ly commendable.
           In place of any general statement respecting the character of
        the people, the following incident may be taken as highly charac-
        teristic of the peculiar features by which it is distinguished.  When
        the eatates of William Earl of Seaforth were forfeited, on account
        of the share his family took in the rebellion of 1715 and 1719, and
        the noble proprietor was under the necessity of quitting the king-
        dom, the Commissioners on the forfeited estates appointed a Mr
        Ross of Fearne, as factor under them, to collect the rents.  This
        gentleman, regardless of intimations which be received of the de-
        termination of the people of the country to resist any attempt to
        collect their rents, except for the behoof of the person whom they
        still considered their lawful proprietor, proceeded to the west, ac-
        companied by his son and some other attendants.  On the day that
        these unwelcome visitants were expected, six men, armed with mus-
        kets, stationed themselves near the pass by which they were ad-
        vancing on the road leading from Strathglass.  Aware that his life
        was in danger, Ross had, before his party came to the pass, ex-
        changed horses with his son, directing the latter to ride some dis-
        tance in advance.  This arrangement proved fatal to the young
        man, for no sooner had he come within range of the Highlanders'
        guns, than, mistaking him for his father, three of them fired, and
        he fell dead; upon witnessing which, the factor and his attendants
        turned their horses and fled.  Many subsequent attempts were
        made to levy the rents; but, though supported by the presence of
        a military force, they proved equally unsuccessful.  While the
        people were thus resisting the royal authority, they acted a part
        which showed that their violent conduct was dictated, not by sel-
        fish motives, but by fidelity to their absent chief.  They volun-
        tarily pai id their rents to his factor, Mr Murchison of Auchtertyre,
        ancestor of the present distinguished Secretary of the Geological
        Society, and that gentleman regularly carried or sent them to
        France, where the expatriated Earl then resided, for many years,
        until the forfeited estates were restored.
          The qualities of stern determination and, disinterested attach-
        ment exemplified in this transaction, may be said to be still cha-
        racteric of the people of this parish.  Recent occurrences, which



