
448                         PERTHSHIRE.

fitted to yield to the inhabitants of such a village as that of Stan-
ley, for not a few, of whom better things might have been expect-
ed, have been busy in crying it down, not only as unnecessary,
but in stigmatizing it as a nuisance.  These persons think and say,
and have been at pains in spreading their opinions, that were they
to put their earnings into a savings bank, it would be the signal
for their employers to reduce their wages; and prefer spending
them as they are won, to laying aside what might be spared against
sickness or old age. The consequence of this feeling has been to
create a general and a strong prejudice against savings banks; so that
in four years only twenty-seven depositors had entered that of Stan-
ley, the amount of their deposits being L.214. This unhappy preju-
dice is the more to be regretted, as there exists no Benefit or Friend-
ly Society in the place, or indeed in the parish, although several of
the parishioners are members of institutions of this description both
in Dunkeld and Perth.  A savings bank was instituted in the vil-
lage of Bankfoot in January 1833, on liberal principles.  The
stock at present amounts to L. 350.  Deposits from ls. and up-
wards are received every Tuesday evening.  This institution has,
no more than that of Stanley, met with the encouragement it de-
serves.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of paupers
upon the poor-roll for the last seven years is 20, and the monthly
allowance to each is, according to circumstances, from 3s. to L. 1.
They receive their respective allowances once every lunar month;
and three times a-year-immediately after the dispensation
of the Lord's Super in summer, at the beginning of winter,
and at the new year,- they receive an additional allowance for the
purpose of purchasing fuel and warm clothing, and getting a loaf,
and perhaps a bit of butcher's meat, at a time of general rejoi-
cing.  The funds for the poor in 1837 were L. 120, 9s. 41/2d. and
were derived from the following sources:

<TABLE>

Auchtergaven collections,                                   L. 23  1  8 1/2
Two-thirds of the collections of Stanley church,               12  5  6

                                                            L. 35  7  2 1/2                                                                                                                       L. 35  7  21/2
Cash for proclaimations                                        11 18  0
Cash for the  of mortcloths,                                    5  2  6

                                                             L.52  7  81/2
Rent of land mortified for the poor                            28  0  0
From the heritern by voluntary assessment and other incidents, 40  1  8
                                                               ___________
                                                             L.120  9  41/2

   The average annual expenditure for the last seven years was


