
                    AUCHTERARDER.                            289

a few greens boiled together at mid-day, for dinner, and bear-meal
pottage evening and morning."
   On this report, Lord Kaimes remarks, that he had twice visited
Auchterarddr, and made particular inquiries about it, and bears
his testimony to the want of employment and distress of the people,
and to the necessity of introducing manufactures, and establishing
a weekly market.
   His Lordship speaks of one that sows clover, and mentions that a
formal complaint had been entered before the sheriff against him by
his neighbours, for causing them to herd after harvest, contrary to
use and wont; and engages, that, if this person should prevail on
others to sow clover also, he should receive a reward from the
Board. This Commission erected a granary to hold the unsold
provisions of one market day until the next; they gave houses,
rent free, on condition of beginning and continuing the manufac-
ture of linen. To this Commission we are disposed to ascribe the
still rising state of Auchterarder.
  Plan of the Parish.-A plan or survey of Auchterarder, and
some other parishes, was published in 1824, showing the length
of the different roads, and their directions, and the names and
localities of all the houses in the landward part of the parish.
  Parochial Records.-The records of the kirk-session have been
kept with great accuracy.  Those on baptisms, marriages, and
burials, commence in 1661; those on discipline and poor's funds,
in 1668.  They amount to thirteen volumes, and the entries seem
continuous.
  L`nd-owners.-Captain Hunter, Colonel Graeme, Earl of Cam-
perdown, Patrick Brugh Smeaton, James Beveridge Duncan, John
Malcolm, Peter Smitton, James Brugh, James Sheddan, John
Mailer.
  Mansions.-Auchterarder House is the principal one in the pa-
risb.  It is an erection, in the Elizabethian style of architecture,
built by Captain Hunter, who, a few years ago, purchased the
estate of Auchterarder, and who is doing much to improve and
beautify the place.
  Antiquities.-A little to the north of the town, there is a ruin re-
ported to have been a hunting-seat of King Malcolm Canmore.
As happens to many other pieces of antiquity, the romantic has been
made to yield to the useful.  A great part of this building has been
torn down, to put up the offices of a neighbouring farm.  The walls
of the remaining corner display great strength Of masonry; they
  PERTH.                               T


