
616                      ARGYLESHIRE.

these farms is that denominated a seven years' shift, varying, how-
ever, in particular instances. Ley ground, on being broken up, is
sown with oats; the year following, with green crop; it is then sown
down with grass seeds, together with barley or oats; one or two
crops of hay in successive years follow, according to soil and cir-
cumstances; and two, three, or four years of pasturage, when the
ley is again broken up to undergo the same rotation of cropping,
The principal crops raised are oats, potatoes, turnips, and hay.
Barley is not now so much cultivated as some years ago, it being
found that oats yield a better return. Wheat was tried, and cul-
tivated to a considerable extent on the better farms in the parish
some years since; but its cultivation has been abandoned, the soil
being found not of sufficient strength to withstand this species of
crop ; and while the farms on which it was raised, yielded beautiful
crops in favourable seasons, the climate was found, from its humi-
dity, unfavourable to the securing of it in perfect condition. On
the estates, of the resident proprietors, the state of farm husbandry
may be mentioned now as approaching that of the best cultivated
districts of the lowlands of Scotland. On the estates of Castle
Toward, Hafton, and Glenfinart, especially, this statement may be
safely ventured. On the first, indeed, the agricultural improvements
of which it is susceptible may be said to have been brought to their
full bearing several years ago. On the two latter, improvements,
liberally conducted, are every year making progress successfully,
in the reclaiming of waste land and draining, as well as in the im-
portant matters of farm-buildings and enclosures. Furrow and
tile-draiining are systematically pursued. The late Mr Finlay of
Castle Toward first introduced the practice of furrow-draining, and
is said to have been among its first promoters in Scotland. There
were strong prejudices against it in the minds of practical agricul-
turists, but its manifest benefits soon dispelled those prejudices,
and either that or tile-draining way now be said to be universally
adopted on the lands of all proprietors in the district who deem
agricultural improvements an object deserving of there attention.
Indeed, this system of draining, with that of regular enclosures,
are the improvements which have the first place in changing the
appearance and in advancing the value of any lands susceptible of
being improved at all; and, in this parish, they have of late years
been greatly advanced. A striking and not pleasing contrast is
now exhibited between the lands of heritors permanently residing
upon them, and those of heritors who entrust the management of


