
                             INNERWICK.                  235

in the parish, but the two following streams may be noticed:-the
Monynut, which, rising at the centre of the parish, proceeds
southwards along the hilly ridge called Monynut Edge, and at
length diverging towards the east, proceeds in a south-east course
to Berwickshire, where it joins the Whitadder at Abbey St Ba-
than's; and the Thornton water, which, rising almost at the same
point as the Monynut, flows through the parish from south to north,
and, after being applied to the use of a grinding-mill about half
a mile from its mouth, enters the sea beside the village of Thorn-
tonloch.
   Geology.-The geological structure of the parish of Innerwick
appears on the whole to be simple, yet by no means destitute of
interest; especially on the sea coast, and in several situations in
the higher part of the district. The parish may be divided general-
ly into two great portions, the high and the low: the one being com-
posed almost entirely of a coarse conglomerates which appears to
belong to the old red sandstone formation, the latter constituting a
portion of the coal formation. The first mentioned rock, viz. the
conglomerate, forms, as we would perhaps expect, the most elevated
portions of the parish, presenting in almost all of them the same
general appearances, being composed almost entirely of fragments
of greywacke and greywacke slate coarsely cemented together, and
constituting in many places large and elevated mountain-masses.
Frequently standing out from this conglomerate, we meet with
thick strata of a coarse sandstone, and frequently also the conglo-
merate is traversed by projecting dikes or veins of trap. The part
of the parish where these are most numerous, is in the neighbour-
hood of the farms of Aikengalls and Elmscleuch, where the
geological appearances present themselves in a shape so curious
and fantastic, as to have given rise to the popular idea, that the
fairies once upon a time had here their dwelling-place; for the ap-
pearances now alluded to are generally known in the neighbourhood
by the name of the "Fairies Castles."  The scenery may be
thus described. The country is hilly, with many deep intersect-
ing valleys, through each of which flows a stream scarcely per-
ceptible in summer, but in winter forming a very considerable tor-
rent. The beds of these little streams are wide, and formed of an
immense and very deep deposit of channel, the debris of the moun-
tain-tract through which they flow. In these valleys the old red
sandstone, or rather the sandstone conglomerate before alluded to,
is the prevailing rock. Jutting across these valleys, however, we oc-


