
                               TURRIFF.                              983

parishes, and which afford a stufficient supply of water for the various
mills which have been erected in the line of their course.  Through-
out the parish, there are numerous perennial spring, and an abun-
dance of excellent water, amply sufficient for all the purposes of
life and industry.  There are several mineral wells, but none of
them of any great celebrity.  One of them, in the immediate
neighbourhood of the town, has been rather famed for its medi-
cinal properties, and has been denominated the "Physic Well."
Another, on the opposite side of the burn, in the braes of Kinner-
mitt, is slightly impregnated with carbonate of iron, and of use as a
tonic, while on the north side of the parish, on the farms of Clay-
mires, Hilton, and Fernystripe, there are springs of the same
quality, but more powerful, as indicated by the dark and iron
colour of the water which issues from them.  There are other
wells which are called Saints' wells, as one at Slap, known by the
name of St John's Well, and St John's Well Stripe flowing from
it, and dividing the farm of SIap from that of Slackadale.  There
is also a well on the estate of Gask which had been notable, and
the virtues of which could not be secured but by a pecuniary of-
fering to its patron, and hence the name of the farm where it
exists, "Silverwells."  In the brae of Laithers, and in the neigh-
bourhood of a chapel, the foundation of which was some years
ago removed by the plough, there was a well which was annually
resorted to, on a particular day, by crowds from all quarters, the
water of which was supposed to insure a continuance of health to
those who enjoyed it, and to impart the blessing to such as were
deprived of it.  To these wells, and others scattered over the dis-
trict, several peculiar qualities were ascribed, as being specially
favoured by the saint to whom they were dedicated.  But the time
has gone by when such fanciful and superstitious notions have been
in any degree entertained.
   Geoloqy. *-The only two groups wbich form the parish grey-
wacke on the west, and old red sandstone on the east,-the space
occupied by the former being about three times as large as that
occupied by the latter.
   Greywacke.-This group differs in many respects from its equi-
valent of England and the south of Scotland.  In our locality it
consists of numerous alternations of greywacke, greywacke-slate,
and clay-slate, all regularly stratified, inclined at high angles, and

<FOOTNOTE> The writer begs gratefully to acknowledge his obligations to John Shier, Esq.
Professor of Agriculture in Marischal College, Aberdeen, for the article on Geology,
and the greater part of that on Botany.


