
258           		    GENERAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE

  The sandstone hills are of less elevation than the primary ridges,
and the whole country gradually slopes towards the shores of the
Frith. Hence, the rivers and streams which water the county, as
the Spey, Lossie, Lochty, take their rise in the high grounds to-
wards the south, and flow north and north-eastward to the sea.
  The plain of Moray consists generally of a light arenaceous
soil, interspersed with valleys and tracts of rich alluvium and loam.
In the lower district there is a deep clay. From the position of the
county along the shores of an estuary; from its slight elevation
above the sea level; and from the dry and porous nature of the
subsoil,-tbe climate is genial, and superior to that of the neigh-
bouring counties.  The elevated hills to the south carry off much
of the atmospheric moisture which would otherwise fall, and the
level of the frith extending to the northward, and bounded on the
opposite side by a chain of high hills, still farther prevents an ex-
cess of rain ; while the porous surface readily absorbs, and as rea-
dily gives off by evaporation, that moisture, which, stagnating in
less favourable localities, renders the surrounding air chill and un-
genial. There are few lakes or marshes of any extent in the shire.
Lochindorb, in the upper part of the county, is the most conside-
rable. Loch-na-bo, in the vicinity of Elgin, is celebrated for its
picturesque beauty. Loch Spynie was of considerable extent, but
it is now almost entirely drained.  In ancient times, a considerable
portion of the low country of Duffus and Drainy appears to have
been under the influence of the ocean; and along the coast, there
are proofs of an elevation of the land, probably at a comparative-
ly recent period.
  The county is decidedly Lowland, and the names, language, and
habits of the people, indicate them from a very early period as a
distinct race from their Celtic neighbours. They appear to be from
the same Scandinavian origin as the natives of the whole eastern
shores of Scotland.
  The lowland situation of Moray, joined to the amenity of its
soil and climate, must have pointed it out as a desirable locality
for our first religious establishments.  Accordingly, we find, that
it was early visited by the Culdees, the first messengers who brought
the pure spirit of Christianity from the primitive churches of the
east. Subsequently, about the beginning of tbe eleventh century,
numerous religious establishments from Italy, planted the Romish
religion in the province, and from that period till the Reforma-
tion, the church engrossed the chief sway and held extensive pos-
         	                      4


