

                                     LOTH.                           209

         structure of two arches, and each of a span of 70 feet, and its
         erection cost L.2200.  It was finished in 1811.
           The first improvement on the harbour of Helmsdale took place
         in 1818, when a pier and breastwork were erected, at an expense
         to the proprietor of L. 1600; but since then, several other sums
         have been expended in extending and enlarging the barbour; and
         other improvements connected with it are understood to be in con-
         templation.
           Helmsdale has a post-office, one principal and commodious inn,
         and several other public-houses ; and the mail-coach passes and
         repasses through the village, daily.
           A large distillery, close to the town, had been in active opera-
         tion for several years, until last summer, when the circumstances
         of the distillers caused the work to be stopped ; and since then,
         this distillery, and a beer brewery connected with it, have not been
         in operation.
           Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is new, owing to the
         great increase of the population of late years in and around Helms-
         dale, at an inconvenient distance from the greater part of the in-
         habitants, although it is locally situated nearly in the centre of
         the parish.  It is a new and very handsome church, and in a com-
         plete state of repair.  In order to accommodate the inhabitants of
         Helmsdale, and the increasing population of the eastern extremity
         of the parish, the late Duchess-Countess, and the present Duke
         of Sutherland, have erected a large, convenient, and substantial         '
         church in Helmsdale, which is now about being finished; and of
         late years, a clergyman of the Church of Scotland has been resi-
         dent in Helmsdale, who regularly performs divine service there,
         so that church accommodation is amply provided for in this parish.
         The present parish of Loth does not appear to have been a dis-
         tinct, religious district before the Reformation, and it is not, even
         named in the charter of Erection of the bishopric of Caithness.  It
         possessed, however at that period, several religious chapels, of
         which, that called St John's Chapel, at Helmsdale, was the most
         important and best endowed ; and it is probable that, with the aid
         of these minor religious houses, the present parish of  Loth, was,
         in Catholic times, divided, quoad sacra, between the jurisdictions
         of the Prebendaries, of Clyne and Kildonan. A church existed,
         however, at Loth in 1627, for Sir Robert Gordon states, that, in
         that year, the church of Loth was repaired.  During the period of
         Scotch Episcopacy, the conjunction of Loth and Clyne appears to 
                                         Z


