
     of Johnston.

   Sympathy is a striking feature in their character.  Before
the Union, and for some time after it, the inhabitants of
Annandale, like other Borderers, were riotous and quarrel-
some.  Now they are a sober, harmless people, and by the
encouragement given them, have of late become industri-
ous.  Emigration was frequent till within these 9 years;
but there is now employment found for the parishion-
ers and for strangers.  Only 2 have inlisted in the army
since the 1785.  None have entered into the navy, nor
gone to sea.  They are beginning to taste the sweets of in-
dustry and active virtue, and it seems hardly possible to de-
vise a better plan for ameliorating their situation, than that
which Lord Hopetoun is carrying on.  Not very long ago
this parish could not supply itself with provisions; at pre-
sent there is abundance for home consumpt, and a little for
exportation.  Forty-three new  houses have been built with-
in the last 10 years.-Most of the landed property in this
country is entailed, and therefore never in the market.-
The great road through this parish from Mossat to Dum-
fries, is in good repair.  Statute-labor is commuted.  No,
turnpikes in the parish.  St Ann's bridge over Kinnel wa-
ter, 13 miles from Dumfries, and 8  from Moffat, was built
by the present Earl of Hopetoun, in 1782.-One of the
chief disadvantages is the great distance from coal; the
nearest fuel of this fort is at Sanquhar, at least 30 miles off,
and the road very bad.  Douglas coal is farther off; but as
the road to it is better than that to Sanquhar, it is found
easier both for men and horses to bring coal from thence.
There is plenty of moss in the parish; but every thing con-
sidered, peats are always got at a great expence, and in wet
seasons can hardly either be sufficiently dried or brought
home.  Lime is 18 miles distant.-There are no prosesed
inns or ale-houses; but there are 4 houses in different quar-
ters, where ale and spirits can be bough by retail.  Few
     VOL. IV. F f
 

