
880                        LANARKSHIRE.

leaving Crossbasket, the Calder mainly follows, though its course
is broken by irregular windings, the boundary line between Cam-
buslang and Blantyre parishes for about three miles, till it reaches
the confines of old Monkland parish, and there joins the Clyde.
   The White Cart, after leaving Eldrig, forms the western boun-
dary for more than four miles northward.  About half a mile di-
rectly to the west of Jackton, the most western village in the pa-
rish, it meets Carmunnock parish, and bounds it on the west for
about five miles.  It then leaves Carmunnock about a mile from
the church of Cathcart, and after passing close to that church, it
turns westward, runs by Pollockshaws to Paisley, and is finally
discbarged-into the Clyde between the parishes of Renfrew and
Inchinnan.
   The water of the wells in the village of Kilbride and the im-
mediate vicinity is, for the most part, calcareous.  In the other
parts of the parish, the water is generally of the same character
where the wells are deep.
   Climate, &c.-The prevailing wind is from the south-west.
There is more humidity in the atmosphere of the upper and more
southern parts of the parish, than in that of the lower and more north-
ern.  The quantity of rain which falls annually in the former por-
tion is considerably greater.  The climate is rather cold, from the
elevation.  The frost sets in early, and continues late.  But the air
is, on the whole, pure and bracing.  The tendency of the parish in
regard to the health of its inhabitants has, probably undergone a
considerable change for the better within the last thirty or forty
years, in consequence of the improvements that have been made
in agriculture.  In the course of twenty years previous to the pre-
sent, there have only been two occasions on which fever has spread
among the people, and only one in which it prevailed to any great
extent.  It is a remarkable circumstance, with which I have been
made acquainted by a most competent medical witness, viz. George
Espie, Esq. M. D. Brousterland, that, in the year preceding that
in which Asiatic cholera was first known to be prevalent in this
country, there occurred upwards of thirty cases in the parish of
East, Kilbride, of a character such as would now be considered to
indicate the presence of that frightful malady.  In the year 1832
itself there were only one or two instances of the disease.  Con-
sumption is not unfrequently to be met with in this parish.  But
I am not aware any complaint so specially prevalent in it as to
merit particular notice.
                                3


