
4                      KINCARDINESHIRE.

song-thrush, blackbird, water-ouzel, stonechat, redbreast, white
wagtail, field-lark, several species of titmouse, yellow-hammer,
corn-bunting, green-finch, house sparrow, chaffinch, common lin-
net, window-swallow, black martin, ring-dove (or cushat,) par-
tridge, common heron, corncrake, common snipe, wild duck,
cuckoo.
	The birds which may be reckoned visitors are sea-fowl in im-
mense numbers, such as gulls, terns and wild geese, wild swans,
(two beautiful white swans were shot a few years ago at the mouth
of the river), the starling, curlew, rock-pigeon, woodcock, pheasant,
kite or glead, blue hawk, raven, fieldfare, snow-bunting, bullfinch,
goldfinch. The water of Bervie is full of fine trout; and salmon
frequent it. Crabs and lobsters abound among the rocks near
the bay, and shrimps are likewise got among the sands.
	In 1826 the beautiful king'sfisher, Alcedo ispida, (the famed
halcyon of antiquity), was frequently seen sporting among the
rocks at the mouth of the river, its plumage glittering in the
sunbeams.
	The horses in this parish are of good size, and hardy, and ex-
cellent for draught. The cows are excellent milkers; their calves
grow large, and readily meet a good market. The fat cattle,
which the farmers feed with turnips, bring always good prices.
Very few sheep are reared in the parish.
	Botany--Among the rare plants in this parish, may be noted
the following: Dianthus deltoides, Hordeum murinum and Pul-
monaria maritima. All the common seeds of plants and herbs for
culinary purposes,--such as cabbages, carrots, brocoli, cauliflower,
sallad, lettuce, crees, paraley, spinage, mustrad, peas, beans, leeks,
onions, raddish; and also some of the sweet and physical herb
seeds, such as marjoram, marigold, rosemary, thyme, &c. do well
in the gardens. Seeds for agricultural purposes, such as clover,
rye-grass, rid-grass, tares, turnip, carrot, &c. thrive well in the fields.
And the perennial herbaceous plants, subh as primrose, polyan-
thus, pinks, rocket, rhubarb, sweet William, violet, wallflower,
tulips, &c. are seen in the gardens in all their variety of colours.
And fruit trees, such as the Keswick codling, Ribston pippin, the
moorfolw egg, and Jargonelle pear, the May Duke and blackheart
cherry bear well in the little gardens, as well as the raps and
gooseberry bushes, the currants and strawberries.
	The more remarkable native plants in the vale of Brevie are




