
1174                        ABERDEENSHIRE.

gowns, and admissible to academical honours, are examined on
the subjects which are taught in the classes immediately below those
which they are about to enter, and any who are found to have made
so little progress in their studies as to be unqualified for receiving
sufficient advantage in the higher classes, are ordered to return to
study in those classes, in the subjects of which they have been
found deficient.  Students refusing to submit to this condition
are disqualified from holding bursaries, and can enter the higher
classes only as private students, not wearing gowns, or admis-
sible to the degree of A. M., but in all other respects are on the
same footing as the rest.
   The qualifications for the degree of master of arts are regular
attendance for four years in the above classes of the curriculum,
and strict examinations, which are carried on for seven days, in the
Evidences of Christianity, Latin, Greek, Natural History, Mathe-
matics, Natural Philosophy, and Moral Philosophy and Logic.
   The students of Divinity attend the professors of divinity, Ori-
ental Languages, and church history during a session of fifteen
weeks, from Christmas to the beginning of April.  The courses
of lectures, and the modes followed of delivering discourses
and other exercises, are accommodated to suit the rules of
the Church of Scotland.  For a long period, the number of stu-
dents who attended regularly was far smaller than that of those
who gave partial or irregular attendance, and who were generally
present for a week, or even less, in each sershon.  About fifty years
ago, the synod of Aberdeen recommended the discontinuance of
this irregular attendance, and overtired the General Assembly on
the subject; but it was not till of late years that any alteration in
the laws regulating attendance took place.  At Aberdeen, how-
ever, the number of regular and irregular students began to be
about equal in 1820 ; and from the rules of the church, now en-
forcing attendance on Hebrew and Church History classes, instead
of recommending it, and from other changes, the proportion of
those giving partial attendance has been still farther reduced.
   Medical School.-From an early period there have been in this
city many medical students who obtained their professional edu.
cation chiefly from the private instructions of the physicians esta-
blished in it, to whom they were engaged as pupils or apprentices,
and whose private practice they witnessed.  The institution of an
infirmary in 1742, and of a public dispensary in 1786, added to
their number, from the facilities of instruction being greatly ex-
tended; and in 1789, they associated in originating "The Medi-


