
			   CANONBIE.                          493

dition, from L. 6 to L. 12. Two year old stots (the age at which
they are generally sold) bring from L. 5 to L. 8. Farm-horses;
in good condition, may be purchased at from L. 18 to L. 30.
	A great number od swine are fed for the English market in this
parish. Every cottager has hi pig.
	Husbandry.--With regard to the state of husbandry in this pa-
rish, when contrasted with that adopted fifty years ago, perhaps
no parish in Scotland has been so much improved in appearance.
Under the superintendence of the late Mr Keir, new roads were
made,--farms laid out and enclosed where the plough had ever
before entered,-- suitable dwelling-houses and offices were built,
and slated at the Duke's expense,--and leases granted to the te-
nants upon such terms as enabled them to carry on their improve-
ments. All the modern improvements, therefore, in agriculture
are introduced here, and carried forward with great spirit, as far
as reclaiming waste land, draining, and enclosing can possibly go.
The late James Bell, Esq. who possessed Woodhouselee, one of
the largest farms in the parish, was amongst the first who set the
example of improvement, and who, by his superior skill in farming
operations, brought his farm from a state of nature to the highest
condition of cultivation. The late George Bell, Esq. sixty-five
years ago, was the first who introduced the culture of turnips in
this district, and the laying down of his grass fields with clover.
Mr Church, Tower of Sark, a very enterprising farmer, has of late
years improved a considerable extent of mossy ground by broad
ploughing and liming, which now yields him good crops. Leases
taken within these few years are commonly for nine or thirteen
years. There are no obstacles to improvement in this parish aris-
ing from the want of capital, or the want of encouragement by the
noble proprietor.
			V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Market-Towns.--Langholm, distant six miles from the church
of Canonbie, is the post-town, and the nearest place where mar-
kets are held. Markets are held also at Longtown and Carlisle, the
former distant six miles, and the latter fifteen. Ready sales for cattle,
pork, and land produce of every kind, are found at both places.
	Means of Communication.--In no parish in Scotland has so much
been done to improve the means of communication as in Canonbie.
About sixty years ago, every place out of the course of the river
Esk was almost inaccessible, except during a very dry summer.
Since that time, good roads have been made on the east and west


