
			   DUNBAR.                            83

The soundness of this opinion may at any time be questioned, but
particularly at present, when the price of grain is so low. Great
numbers, both of cattle and sheep of all kinds, are brought here to
be fed; and as the green crops partake of the richness of the grain,
it is perhaps the best feeding district in the kingdom. Cattle must
be well fed, indeed, if a Dunbar farmer cannot improve them. Not-
withstanding the high character of the short horns, judicious farmers
assert, as the result of their experience, that the west Highland cattle,
which either are, or retain the character of, the primitive breed, have
the greatest aptitude to fatten and yield the largest return. One thing
is certain, that when full fed their beef is most prized by the epicure.
   Husbandry.-The soil being dry, it is easily pulverized, and
cleared of rooted weeds; therefore, there is comparatively but
little fallow. The rotation of crops is, 1. Turnips upon two or
more ploughings dunged, and generally fed off; when carried off,
a compost of lime and earth is generally applied. 2. Wheat, with
clover and rye-grass seeds. 3. Grass, fed off with cattle or sheep.
4. Potato oats. 5. Beans drilled and dunged. 6. Wheat. Instead
of oats, wheat is sometimes taken, and then the rotation is confined
to four crops. This course, peculiar to the arise, has been called
the Dunbar system; hut objections have been made to it. Wheat,
every second year, it is said, exhausts the soil; the answer is, that
the food of plants in the soil may be exhausted by any kind of crop,
while the soil itself cannot be exhausted. Where there is a com-
mand of manure, there is no system which will so richly repay the
labours of the husbandman. It was adopted here, on one of the
best farms, for many years, without any diminution either of quan-
tity or quality; and in order to ascertain whether soil is injured by
frequent crops of wheat-the glebe of Dunbar was properly dres-
sed either with sea-ware, street-dung, or soot, and cropped with
wheat, for five successive years. The result was, an extra crop every
year, and the land left in such a condition that it may produce a
crop or two of any kind without additional manure. The least crop
in the succession was, on the third year, 10 1/2 bolls per acre; it pro-
mised to be the greatest, but it was lodged flat, as the surface soon
after it came into ear. All the other crops in the succession were
above 12 bolls per acre. One season, exactly suited to the soil,
there were 16 1/2 bolls per acre; and the last of the five years, crop
1834 there were 14 bolls per acre. It were ascertained, that, on
each of three of these years, there were more than 300 stones of
straw per acre. The soil is a sandy loam. There is another field
in the parish which has produced oats four successive years with


