
				KINCARDINE IN MONTEITH.            1259

	Torr, Miln of Goodie, Cuthil &c.  A few years ago, in repairing
	the mill of Torr, a stone, on, which, there had been a coat of arms,
	was found, which had probably been placed in the wall of the Pro-
	prietor's house, when the Muschets had a residence, there.  The
	shield is unfortunately defaced, but the motto "I thank my God,"
	and the date "1598," are distinct.
	   There is a tombstone of this family in the orchard of Burn-
	bank, and near where the house of the Muschets once stood.  It
	bears the following inscription:
	   " Here lyes the corpes of Margaret Drummond, third daughter
	to the Laird [of Invermay,] and [Spouse to] Sir George Mus-
	chet of Burnbanke : Her age 26 : Departed this life in the
	wisitation, with her three children at Burnbanke, the 10 of Au-
	gnst 1647."
	   In confirmation of the English origin of the family, the coinci-
	dence of the arms of the ancient name of Montfichet in English
	heraldry may be noticed. "Montfichet, Lord of Stansted, Mont -
	fietch Essex, Gules three chevrons or, with a label of three point's
	azure," v.  Arms of the Barons of England added to the supple-
	ment to Heylin's History.
	   The author of remarks on Ragman Roll, p. 42, (v. Appendix
	to Nisbet's Heraldry,) after mentioning "Richard Muschet" as
	one of those who swore fealty to Edward I.,adds, " This is a very
	ancient family designed in Latin De Montefixo, and were Barons
	of Cargil in Perthshire.  Sir William de Montefixo was Justici-
	arius Scotiae in 1332.  By his daughter and heiress the estates
	of Cargil and Stobhall came to Sir Jolm Drummond, one of the
	ancestors of the noble family of Perth.  Mushet of Burnbank was
	the heir-male, but lately decayed, though severals in, Monteith are
	of them, as the Mushets of Craighead, Cailziehat, Mill of Torr,
	and Mill of Goody."
	   An exemplified copy is preserved, in the Perth charter-chest of
	a very old charter, by which William the Lion grants "Richardo
	Mountfecht" the lands of "Kergill et praeterea Kincardin, juxta
	Strivelyn, cum socca et sacca, cum furca et fossa, cum thal et
	them, et infanganthef,"  to be held in free barony for the service
	of one knight.
	   An eminence about a quarter of a mile from the house of Blair
	Drummond, known by the name of the Gallow Hill, was pro-
	bably the place of execution under this jurisdiction.
	   The residence of the "Muschetts of Kincarne," according to


