
22                        ABERDEENSHIRE.

southward.  Soon after the Viscount of Aboyne resolved to pub-
lish at Stonebaven a proclamation, issued by the King, against the
Covenanters, but he was repulsed, and pursued by the Earl
Marischal, who, coming to the bridge of Dee, found it fortified,
but defended by a small number of men only.  These he over-
powered, and, coming to Aberdeen, entered it without resistance. *
   In 1645, the town having mostly acceded to the covenant, Mon-
trose, who had embraced the royal cause, having crossed the Dee
about ten miles up, marched down to within two miles of Aber-
deen ,and sent a drummer with a summons to surrender.  This
was refused, and the messenger dismissed; but as he was return-
hng, he was killed either accidentally or by design, on which Mon-
trose advanced, and being met by Burleigh's troops and the citi-
zens at the Crabestone, about half a mile from the town, a bloody
conflict ensued, in which Montrose overcame, and, pursuing his
victory, he took possession of the town, which he gave up to pil-
lage, putting many of the inhabitants to the sword.
   The reigns of Charles II. and James were noted for the cruel per-
secution of the Presbyterians, and for great distress among the
people generally, from which Aberdeen was not exempt.  Among
the arbitrary acts of the latter, may be noticed his having on seve-
ral occasions controlled the election of magistrates, which was not
restored to its former freedom till 1689.
   Some time previous to this (probably at the time when the dis-
turbed state of the country rendered it unsafe to dwell without the
walls) a double row of houses was erected, apparently at first of
wood, in the middle of the Broadgate, by which that street was
reduced in breadth from about thirty-five paces to its present
breadth of about fifteen or eighteen paces, and the west side ofit,
known by the name of the Guestrow, or as it is called in some old
writings, the "vicus lemurum," + thus became a separate street.
And, about the beginning of the eighteenth century, the magis-
trates, anxious to deprive marauders of the shelter afforded them
by the forest of the Stocket, gave permission to such of the citi-
zens as chose to take wood from it for that purpose, to add bal-
conies to the front of their houses, projecting eight or ten feet in-
to the street, viz. to the extent occupied by the outer stairs-and
thus the streets were considerably narrowed, and the town ren-
dered less healthy.  One or two of the houses thus altered still re-

<FOOTNOTE>Spalding's History of the Troubles in Scotland, 4to edition, Vol. i. p. 153.
          Book of Bon accord, i. p. 117.
                                                    3


