
6                        ABERDEENSHIRE.

small fishing, village of Torrie lies directly opposite to Futtie on the
south side of the Dee.  On the north and west sides, the parish of
St Nichola's is completely inclosed by the parish of Old Machar,
which contains the town of Old Aberdeen, lying about a mile north-
ward from Aberdeen, the manufacturing village of Woodside, at
the distance of about two miles to the north-west, and the village
of Ruthrieston, about two miles distant towards the south-west.
In this parish are also situated the suburbs of Broadford on the
north side; Gilcomston, along the north end of the west side; the
Windmill-brae and College Street near the south end of the same
side; Holburn about a mile off towards the southwest; and Dee
village about half a-mile off on the bank of the river.  Besides these,
the new streets which have of late years been added to Aberdeen,
and in which many of the best house are situated, are within the
limits of the parish of Old Machar, lying between Gilcomston and
the river, and extending westward nearly thee-quarters of a mile.
   Soil, &c.-The soil of the parish is on the east side principally
sandy, derived from its vicinity to the sea, the beach being here com-
posed of fine sand, with occasional beds of small stones.  The upper
grounds in the other parts consist generally of gravel, and the lower
grounds shew in several places extensive beds of neat moss lying
under and mixed with the remains of former buildings or artificial
soil.  There is reason to conclude that the whole of the parish
rests on a bed of rock of the nature of granite, and this rock may
be seen in some parts of the Broad Hill cropping out to the surface
It has been found, however, in those parts of the town and neigh-
bourhood, where boring for water has been practised, that the rock
lies at a depth of nearly thirty feet under the moss and gravel which
form the subsoil.
   According to the most recent determination, that of Mr
George Innes, which has been approved by the engineers employ-
ed in the Government survey, the latitude of the observatory on
the top of Marischal College, which stands not very far from the
centre of the parish, is 57&deg; 8' 57.8" north, and its longitude is 2&deg;
5' 41.56" west from Greenwich.
   The climate, in consequence of its proximity to the sea, is not
liable to very great or extreme varations; but from the same
cause it is very unsteady.  The frosts in winter are not often very
severe although occasionally the thermometer has been observed
as low as 13&deg;, or even 10&deg; but this not for any, long continuance.
And in the summer the temperature scarcely ever rises above 70&deg;


