
		586			LANARKSHIRE.

<TABLE>
		In 1821, the population amounted to	2925
		   1831,				3288
		   1838,				3879
	There is no accurate account of the state of the population
previous to 1755; but it would seem, for at least one hundred years
before, to have been as numerous as it was at that date, if not
considerably more so. The increase between 1801 and 1821, is
to be imputed, principally, to the opening up of the resources of
the parish, by improved agriculture, and the formation of highways
and parish roads, as well as to the extreme cheapness of fuel and
provisions, which induced many families, employed in weaving, to
take up their residence in the parish. The rapid growth of our
population since 1831 has been produced, almost exclusively, by
the influx of masons, miners, and other labourers, which the recent-
ly established works of the Shotts Iron Company have occasioned.
        Character ofthe People.-The population being at present, as
it were, in the very state of transition, presents an interesting sub-
ject of observation to those accustomed to study the formation or
change of general character, but, at tile same time, precludes any-
thing like a decided statement upon the subject. The native in-
habitants till recently possessed, and, to a great degree, do still
retain, much of that intelligence, and sterlings though unpolished
integrity, which are supposed to constitute a main feature in the
unsophisticated Scottish character. * Mingled, however, with
this patriarchal steadiness of principle, is a considerable portion
of that character's other ingredient,-a certain knowing shrewd-
ness, which, whilst it would scorn an actual breach of honesty or
morality, is apt, sometimes, to sail so very near the wind, as ap-
parently to place strict honour in some danger.
	The recent improvements in the parish, and extensive, intro-
duction of strangers, whilst they are obviously producing a higher
polish, and greater activity of mind, are as obviously bringing
along with them much of the profligacy and laxness of principle
so frequently found in more advanced society.
	Ancient customs and superstitions have, as might be expected,
rapidly disappeared. There may till, however, be seen hanging
in some byres, a phial of Lee-penny water, to keep the cows from
parting calf, and to preserve the milk from changing. To obtain
the former of these objects, the barbarous practice of burying a

<FOOTNOTE>Their own sober and sedate morality is a subject of ame pride to those who are
parish-born. All the violations of public peace and propriety, which are now too
common with us, are sure to be charged by a native, against " thae new incomers."


