
     of Kiltearn.

man who excels sometimes get L. 5 or L. 6 wages, and 8 or
10 bolls of meal.  Besides the above, every man servant has
the privilege of planting about half a boll of potatoes for his
own use, rent free.  The usual wages of female servants in
farmers houses is from L. 1: 4: 0 to L. 1: 10 : 0 yearly.  The
common method of managing the harvest work is to hire
a certain number of shearers for the harvest quarter, pro-
portioned to the size of the farm:  This is the old custom.
The men get about a boll and an half, and the women a boll
of meal, instead of meat and wages, during the harvest fea-
son.  But the active and intelligent part of the farmers begin
to fee the inconvenience of the above practice; because, while
they are confined to a few hands, they may lose by one stor-
my day as much as would defray the whole charges of cut-
ting down the crops.  Hence, they now hire their shearers
for the day, and increase or diminish their number according
to the slate of their crops.  This is evidently the more ra-
tional plan of the two.  The men receive 7 d. per day, and
the women 6 d.  The price of mowing hay is usually from
2 s. z d. to 2 s. 6 d. per acre.  Day labourers receive for or-
dinary work 6 d. per day all the year through, and something
extraordinary if their labour is harder than usual.  They are
more willing, however, to work by the piece; and then they
will earn, perhaps, 1 s. and upwards per day.  Trenching
ground about 18 inches deep, if it be free from roots and
stones, costs 4 d. the rood of 6 yards square; but, if the soil
is rugged, and hard to work, it costs 8 d.  The price of grain,
meal, and all sorts of provisions, has been gradually ad-
vancing for several years, and is not likely to fall.  Per-
haps the average price of barley and oat-meal, for 20 years
past, has been about 14 s. per boll.  This observation, and
what follows respecting the price of provisions, holds true
with regard to a considerable part of the county of Rofs, as


