
690                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

The offices are slated, and are in good repair.  The teinds of the
parish were exhausted more than forty years ago; and, to make
up the living of the present incumbent to L.150, he has an allow-
ance annually from the Exchequer.  The glebe, including the
garden and site far office houses, is just six acres, of rather indif-
ferent quality of land.  The fifteen acres of ground, mentioned in
formerr Statistical Account of the parish as in the possession of the
minister in lieu of augmentation, and which was considered part
of his living, do not now belong to him.  There was no regular
deed of mortification, and many years ago, possession was resum-
ed; and the present incumbent now pays rent for it annually to
the proprietor.  Along both sides of the approach leading to the
manse, also on part of his glebe and around the garden, the pre-
incumbent has planted trees, which are thriving, and add
greatly to the beauty of the situation.
   Education.-There is only one parochial school, which is at-
tended, during summer and winter, by from thirty to sixty scho-
lars.  The schoolmaster has taught thirty-nine years.  His emo-
luments are, the maximum salary, the school fees, Dick's Bequest,
and his allowance and perquisites as session-clerk.  The proprietor
of the parish, about forty years ago, resumed possession of the
dwelling-house, of two storeys, with eight acres of land, mentioned
in former Statistical Account, and the schoolmaster now resides in
a house under the same roof with the school.  There is a school
in the village for girls, where are taught reading, writing, English
grammar, needle work, and music; and three other schools, for
very young children, taught by females, two of which. are at some
distance from the village.
   A Sabbath School has been taught for some years, in the
Town-Hall of the village; by two of the elders, under the super-
intendence of the minister, and assisted by several other teachers,
and the number attending has sometimes reached 120.  Another
Sabbath school is taught in the east end of the parish, by two
elders, and has been well attended.
   Of the population, which exceeds 1800, there are not thirty
Diameters, of all denominations, taken together, throughout the
parish.  Besides the private examinations, and the instruction
communicated at the Sabbath schools, as many of the congrega-
tion, as are desirous to attend, have an oppurtunity of doing so
once a-year, at the annual examination of the people in the parish.
Families, to the number of eight or ten, are called in, and, at

