
     Of Peebles.

more and more to feel as the summer advanced.  The name 
Beltein-day, continued and gave designation to the Beltein fair 
of Peebles, long after the religion of the country, and the 
festivals of the season, were changed.  Peebles is only 20 miles 
south from Edinburgh, situated itself in a fine sporting coun- 
try, and on the straight road to the King's Forest of Etterick. 
The kings of Scotland made Peebles their usual summer re-
treat, for rural diversion or the administration of justice. 
Many of the nobility accompanied them, whose houses in 
Peebles still bear their names.  Extensive lands all around, af-
terward granted by royal charter in property or commonty 
to the burgh.  Cadmuir, Hornidoun, Venlaw, and Glentorie, 
were the king's property and hunting grounds.  The bridge 
over the Tweed seems to have been built at different times, 
and the whole structure to carry evidences of similar anti-
quity, as the Cross Kirk, and most probably was erected by 
king and subjects, as being most necessary and convenient for 
both.  On the S. E. of Peebles, and other side of the river, is 
the gallows hill, where criminals were hanged.  On the King's 
moor, between that and Peebles, were the ancient tourna-
ments exhibited.  There the country militia, amounting com-
monly to 300 horsemen, muster every year at their weapon- 
shawing in June and October.  Their horse races continued to 
be held at Beltein, till the middle of the present century; and 
last year, when a part of that moor was converted from its 
original to a more improved state, in a cairn of stones, was 
found a Roman urn inverted, containing the blade of his 
dagger, and the ashes of some ancient hero who had been 
buried there.  The town of Peebles originally extended from 
Eddlestone water westward to the meadow well strand, the cross 
standing opposite to the Ludgate.  It was several times plun-
dered and burnt by the English; so that nothing was left un-
destroyed but the churches, the manse, and the cross, which 


