
                GLENURCHY AND INISHAIL.                   97

No mean antiquary, the late Dr Donald Smith, claimed for this,
ruin a very remote antiquity. He considered it one of the resi.
dences or castles of the Fingalians. The tradition of the country
agrees in ascribing the same antiquity to it. On the farm of
Castles, stood another of these buildings,-- to which circum-
stance the name of the farm may be, with the most absolute cer-
tainty, attributed. Not a vestige of it now remains. There
are other localities in the parish which are called duns, on which
it is alleged forts or castles stood, of old. One of these, Dun-
athach, stood on a height, commanding one of the best views of
Loch Awe and Glenorchy, about two miles west of the inn Of
Dalmally, and where the traveller, journeying to Inverary, obtains
the first view of that noble sheet of water. There are two places
pointed out in Stronmilchain, where M'Gregor of Glenstrae had
his residence. One of them stood on the slope of the hill above
Tullich; the other, which was built of wattles and said to have
been surrounded by a moat, and accessible only by a draw-bridge,
was situate close to the White House in Stronmilchain. The
only other ruin of this kind in the parish, of which we shall take
notice, is one situate in an island in the Loch of Balimore, parish
of Inishail. It was the refuge and sanctuary, in times of danger,
of the proprietor, Baron M'Corquindale. It was of very paltry
dimensions.
  There are neither crosses nor obelisks in either parish, with the
exception of a large stone standing in a moss close by the Lorn
Furnace Manager's house. The only religious house, so far
as has been ascertained, that existed in former times in the pa-
rish, was the nunnery of Inishail, the ruins of which are still dis-
tinctly visible. The former Report says in reference to it, "there
is little on record, and tradition conveys but little information con-
cerning this house."  It was a house of nuns, memorable for the
sanctity of their lives and the purity of their manners. At the
Reformation, when the innocent were involved equally with the
guilty in the sufferings of the times, this house was suppressed
and the temporalities granted to Hay, Abbot of Inchaffray, who,
abjuring his former. tenets, embraced the cause of the Reforma.
tion. Separated from the mainland  by a very narrow channel, a
little to the eastward of the house of Rockhil, and, forming part
of that farm, lies a small but well-wooded island, called the Priest's
Isle. It is beautifully wooded, and in the centre embowered in
trees, and, surrounded by a dry stone wall of considerable thick-

   ARGYLE.


