
     Of Kilninian.

   Language.-The language commonly spoken here, is
the Gaelic, thought the English is daily gaining ground,
and would make more rapid progress,  were schools more
encouraged*.

   General Observations.-Upon a general review of the
description now given of the present state and circum-
stances of this part of the country, there seems to be
little ground to hope for a speedy increase of its popula-
tion or prosperity, but rather the reverse, unless the
evil be prevented, by some change of measures, in those
who are nearly concerned in the direction, and have a
special interest in the common welfare of it.  Were all
the heritors, for instance, to adopt, and proceed upon
more liberal and publick spirited principles, by fore-
going a small present profit to their families, for much
greater advantages in reversion, they might gradually ef-

     U 2

<FOOTNOTE>

lands, as a name of kirk, kirktown, or place of worship.  At the western
side of the parish, one of the Isles of Treishnish, called Cairnburg, was of
old considered by the natives, as a place of great strength, and sometimes
occupied by a small party, or garrison.  It is a high rock, of some consi-
derable extent on the top, inaccessible on all sides, excepting by one narrow
pass.  Little Cairnburg is a smaller rock near it, and seperate from it by a
narrow sound, to which the same description applies, in every other re-
spect.  These rock are said to have been the boundary of the 2 govern-
ments, into which the Hebrides were divided, when subject to the crown
of Denmark, called the Nodorees and Sodorees, or Northern and Southern
Isles:  And if tradition says truth, they sometimes contented for the pos-
session of this same fort of Cairnburgh, or Cairnbulg.

*Most names of places are evidently of Gaelic derivation, as "Tober-
mory," the Virgin Mary's Well; "Calve," an Island without the Bason,
and which covers one side of it, signifies in Gaelic, Harbour side; "Ulva,"
an Island separate from Mull by a narrow sound, signifies, Ready Ford, or
Pass.  So "Torloisk," is Burnt Hill, and "Aros" the Mansion, or Habita-
tion, applicable to the residence of any family of distinction.


