
                     ROSEMARKIE.                        351

Rosmarkiensis, and the Cathedral church stood in the town of
Chanonry, in a spacious square, where, together with the bishop,
resided a number of his clergy; so that there is scarce a house in
the burgh but was formerly a manse belonging to some of the
Chapter, as appears by the ancient charters and infeftments.
   The Episcopal see was founded by David I., King of Scot-
land; but there is no certain account at what period the Cathe-
dral was built, though it is said to have been a fine one, with a
lofty steeple. Bishop Leslie also takes notice of the palace, which
stood at a little distance from the houses of the canons; and he
represents it, in his time, as a splendid and magnificent building.
   This statement was so far confirmed a few years ago, while
trenching the field called the  "Precints,"  where it was said to
have stood, by the foundation walls being discovered considerably
under the surface, which walls, including the court or area, were
found to cover about an acre of ground.
   Only a small part of the ancient cathedral now remains. This
seems to have been a wing that ran from east to west, with an
arched roof, about 100 feet in length, and 30 in breadth. It had
a communication by entries or porches with the main body of the
cathedral. It was preserved and repaired by some of the bishops
since the Restoration, as a place for public worship; but it has
long since fallen into a state of decay, and is only now used for
the purpose of interment.
   It is highly probable that this cathedral, at the Reformation,
had suffered the fate of many others; though it be a current tra-
dition in the place, that the greater part of it, together with the
Bishop's Palace, just mentioned, was pulled down in the time of
Oliver Cromwell. By his order the stones were carried by sea to
Inverness, about the distance of eight miles, for erecting a fort
there, called "Cromwell's Fort," whereof the ditch and traces of
the ramparts are still discernible. No chartulary belonging to the
bishopric has been found in Scotland.
   It is probable that Leslie, the last Popish Bishop of Ross, and
the zealous advocate for the unfortunate Queen Mary, when he
was forced to go abroad, carried all the records of the diocese with
him, either to France or to Brussels, where he died, and where
these parchments may still be mouldering in dust and solitude.
   No inscriptions are to be found about what remains of tbe ca-
thedral, worthy of notice, excepting on the large old bell, now hung
in a small modern spire.  It bears the name of Mr Thomas Tul-


