
726                          LANARKSHIRE.

tolerable pavement is procured. At Auld Machan is found a
dark brown sandstone, of a coarse grain, and spotted with black
hroughout, resembling the Arenarius radians et decussatus of Lin-
naeus.  It stands the weather well, and is excellent for chimney
beads.  The old mansion-house of Raploch was built of this ma-
terial.  On the banks of the Avon there are several good free-
stone quarries, particularly one on the lands of Broomhill, from
which an excellent stone for building is got, and another called
Bannockstane, on Raploch Braes.  From the latter of these, the
village of Larkhall has been mostly built.  There ir very little
whinstone in the parish.  One small dike crosses the Clyde at
Garion Mill, and runs along the face of the high grounds which
skirt the western bank of the river in a southerly direction towards
Craignethan, in the parish of Lesmahagow.  Two singular dikes
or reefs of whinstone occur at Birkensbaw.  One of these, com-
pletely turned on its edge, crosses the Avon a little above Clock-
symill, now in ruins, to which it formed a natural dam.  Both
rise to the south-east.  The banks of the Avon abound with pe-
trifying springs, where beautiful specimens of petrified Spbagnums,
Hypnums, and also Marchantias are found.  Pipe-clay is found at
Millburn and other places.
   Soil.-The soil and surface of the parish vary considerably in
different places, and even on particular farms.  The low-lying
holms and haughs in the vale of Clyde are mostly composed of
transported soil, of great depth, formed apparently of the mud and
sand deposited in the course of ages by the damming up of water,
and the overflowings of the river.  The under stratum is entirely
composed of sand or gravel.  From these narrow plains the banks
rise to the west with a bold and quick ascent to a considerable
height, and are in many places steep and full of precipices.  From
the summit of this ridge the land rises very moderately till crossed
by the road from Glasgow to Carlisle, from whibh it again falls
down towards the Cander and Avon.  The villagd of Dalserf, on
the Clyde, is probably about 120 feet above the level of the sea,
the highest ground in the-parish about 400 feet in elevation.
The soil of the higher grounds is, in general, a very strong heavy
clay, lying upon a stratum of dense argillaceous substance, some-
times seemingly homogeneous, and disposed in regular horizontal
layers, but more frequently of a mixed nature, without any ap-
pearance of divisions in any direction, and interspersed with little
roundish stones of various descriptions.  This under stratum or


