
                        CORSTORPHINE.                          207

phine experienced so much benefit from using the water, that she
took up her residence in the village, and erected a building over
the well, placing a pump on it so as to make it more convenient
and accessible to the inhabitants.  This erection was allowed to
fall into disrepair, when the well lost its popularity, and the last
vestige of it was removed about fourteen years ago, and a deep ditch
was made on the north side of it, which completely destroyed the
spring.  As this well was so much connected with the prosperity
of the village in former times, many of the old inhabitants are
anxious to have it restored, and there is now some prospect of its
being again fitted up for use as a public well, with the concurrence
of the adjoining proprietors.  The lease of the farm on which it was
situated, still contains an exception of a space of ground round the
mineral well, and a footpath to it, from the village, of at least
four feet wide.
   Climate.-The village has always been considered as very
healthy, although, from want of proper drainage, the soil is very wet
and the atmosphere damp.  The cause of its salubrity has been
said to be its exposure to a rapid and complete circulation of air.
When the cholera was prevalent in this country there were no
cases in the village of Corstorphine, and only a few of a fatal
character at the outskirts of the parish.
   Botany.-From its vicinity to Edinburgh, the natural history of
this parish has been so fully investigated that it is unnecessary to
enter upon it here.  We shall merely notice one or two of the
rarer plants that have been found in it.  Phellandrium aquanticum
grows in the ditches of the meadows; and Pyrola rotundifolia,
Anthyllis vulneraria, Tanacetum vulgare, Listera ovata, and Ery-
threa centaurea are found at Gogar, and Parietaria officinalis on
the ruins of Corstorphine Castle.  Among the trees which for-
merly decorated the park of the Castle there is a very fine syca-
more tree, near the old pigeon-house, which has a most beautiful
golden colour in the sunshine, when the leaves first come out in
spring.
   Quarries.-There were at one time extensive freestone quarries
in Corstorphine Hill, upon the lands of Ravelston, from which
the stone was taken for the Parliament House, Heriot's Hospital,
and other public buildings erected in Edinburgh, between the years
1632 and 1650.  These quarries have not been in operation for
the last twenty years, but one of them has been lately cleared of
water, and the proprietor has advertised for a tenant to work it.


