
           232                  INVERNESS-SHIRE.

          high lands with which it is surrounded, the entry can very easily
          be found in the darkest night. The holding ground is of deep
          clay, and so firm and strong that it is very seldom, indeed, that a
          vessel is driven ashore,-and even should that unfortunately hap-
          pen, if she escapes from two or three rocky points, she will only
          be cast on a clayey or sandy bank. It is a good outlet for any
          quarter of the globe. At the entry, there is a breakwater formed
          by the hand of nature, which makes it narrow, but, at the same
          time, the water is very deep and the rock perpendicular at the
          edge. There are other barbours in the parish, but none to be
          compared to that of Portree.
              Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is situated in the vil-
          lage of Portree, at a distance of about two miles from the northern,
          land fifteen from the southern extremity of the parish, and conse-
          quently not only not convenient, but altogether inaccessible to the
          great body of the people. It was built about sixteen years ago,
          and is in an excellent state of repair. It will accommodate about
          8OO sitters, and no payment is exacted from any of them.
              The manse was built about thirty years ago, and, as soon as any
          thing is wanted in the way of repair, it is immediately supplied by
          the liberal heritors of the parish, on the application of the incum-
          bent. The glebe is sufficiently extensive, and, for the most part,
          consists of moss and hill pastures it is, however; very susceptible
          of improvement. In its present state, it is worth L.20 Sterling
          per annum. In the course of a few years, and in the possession,
          of a person able and willing to improve, it may be made doubly
          valuable. The amount of stipend is the minimuin,-L.150 Ster-
          ling, payable partly by the heritors, and partly by the Govern-
          ment. There is no Government church, but there is a missionary
          minister in the parish, on the establishment of the Committee of
          the General Assembly for promoting the knowledge of Christianity
          in the Highlands and Islands of Scotland. His salary is paid by
          the Committee from thd bounty annually allowed by the Crown
          for the reformation of the Highlands and Islands.
              There are no sectarians of any description in the parish.
              The attendance at the different preaching stations in the pa-
          rish is from 300 to 400 soun but frequently less in bad weather,
          when the people have a great distance to travel.  The number of
          communicants in the parish, of late years, has greatly diminished,
          from a kind of delusion among the people. They seem now, how-


