
                          CLYNE.                          163

   their possessions.  All passed happily and without cares so long as
   the seasons proved propitious, and that the produce of their stock
   was sufficient to pay the landlord and to afford the means of sub-
   sistence on their simple fare; but when the winter storms length-
   ened into spring, and the mill-dew and the early frosts destroyed
   the hopes of the harvest, then indeed came the period of distress;
   and it is not too much to say that-they suffered the very extreme
   of want, which often produced contagious fevers and other mortal
   diseases.  This was submitted to, however, in silence and with pious
   resignation : no tumults nor risings against the constituted autho-
   rities, who they well knew could not ward off the general calamity.
   Thus situated, helpless and without resourcess their only course
   was an appeal to the compassion of their natural protector, the
   landlord, and this was never done in vain.  He required often to
   import meal equal in value to the rent of two or more years, and
   generally leaving a large balance never to be recovered.  This state
   of things could not continue, while the rest of the world were mov-
   ing ahead, and making rapid advances in improvement; conse-
   quently, the great and deeply important measure was resolved on
   to remove the population to the coast-side, where they would be
   placed near the sea-become fishermen or artificers, and thus be
   able to benefit by the many and inexhaustible resources which
   Providence has placed within their reach.  At this time, there were
   but few bred tradesmen in the country.  When a man found it ne-
   cessary to renew his rude dwelling, he called the neigbbours to
   his assistance, and it was only the work of a few days to complete
   it. Every man was his own carpenter, for few implements were re-
   quired, and he had little to do with them.  One blacksmith served
   a district.  The shoemaker and the tailor migrated from house to
   house, receiving their victuals and a small pittance of wages in
   return for their labour.  There was scarcely a cart or a plough in
   the country, excepting on the larger farms.  No man tbought of
   increasing or improving his tillage or pasture lands by trenching
   or draining.  But let any one with an impartial and unprejudiced
   eye examine the present condition of the inhabitants.  Their well-
   built and neatly kept cottages and enclosed gardens far exceed
   what many tacksmen in former days paying from L. 50 to L. 100
   possessed.  Every individual in the family has some resource in a
   trade or other mantial labour-all is a stirring scene of industry;
   and positive comfort.  The father and the sons-cultivate the lot, if
   not tradesmen; while the females are engaged with household
   work, or preparing nets for the next herring season.


