
     of Halkirk.

dreadful and dangerous, and often overflow and inundate
the vallies and plains through which they run, especially
in the heights of the parish, where they are attended with
some damage, yet none of them merits the name of a river,
but one, which is called the river of Thurso.  This river
originates principally at Lochmore, a very beautiful lake
in the height of the parish.  In its course it receives all
the other waters and streams, which it discharges at Thur-
so into the Pentland frith.  They all abound with excellent
trout and eel; but the river of Thurso is very distinguish-
able for salmon, many in number, and excellent in quality.
It is allowed, that better and more agreeable salmon is not
to be found any where; I believe it is also the earliest in
Britain for furnishing that fish; nay, it wants not clean
and fresh salmon every day in the year; yet the fishing of
it is of late years very much on the decline; to what cause
this is to be attributed, it is not difficult to conjecture.  If
this is not seasonably adverted to and obviated, it is to be
feared that a very fine and useful salmon-fishing may, in a
few years, be reduced to nothing.  From this river the
town of Thurso derives its name; for the name of the ri-
ver is Thorsa in Earse, and of the town Inver of Thorsa.
Why the river is called Thorsa I cannot tell, unless it was
so called from Thor, a Scandanavian deity.  It runs almost
all along in a stoney or sandy channel, is very rapid and
impetuous in time of speat, and in certain seasons of the
year, proves a great terror to all who inhabit near its banks;
for it sometimes happens that it sweeps away corn and hay
in harvest from all the plains and vallies through which it
passes into the sea, and sometimes the tilled ground, to the
great loss and disappointment of the farmer, and detriment of
the land; yet few rivers are more beautiful, or run through
a more pleasant tract of country.  There is a great variety
of prospects along its banks, which are bordered with rich


