
                           LEOCHEL AND CUSHNIE.                      1123

the inscription on the lintel over the door; WF. 158l. ES. The
initials are those of William Forbes, father of the bishop, and of
his wife, Elizabeth Strachan. It is traditionally reported, that
his former dwelling having been plundered in his absence by some
Highland freebooters, he vowed, "If God spare my life, I shall
build a house, at which thieves will need to knock ere they enter."
The castle has long been unroofed and ruinous, but a good part
of the walls is still standing.
    Castle of Craigievar.-The Mortimers are said to have begun
this building early in the seventeenth century; but the embar-
rassed state of their affairs prevented them from completing it.
William Forbes, who purchased the estate from them in 1610,
carried it on, and finished it in 1626. It is still perfect, and af-
fords one of the very finest specimens of the Flemish style of cas-
tellated architecture. In 1826, Sir John Forbes, the present
proprietor, expended L.600 in giving the castle a new roof of the
best Memel timber; and since that time, various internal im-
provements have been made, all, however, in strict keeping with
the original style, which render it a commodious residence for the
family during the summer months.
    Mansion-Houses of Hall-head and Cushnie.-The former of
these was built in 1688, and the latter in 1707; but having both
been uninhabited for a considerable time, they are hastening to
decay.
    Historical Incidents.-On the 26th August 1580, John Gor-
don of Blelack and others carried off James Mortimer, "apperand
of Craigievar, and detained him captive and prisoner in the wood
of Kilblene for ten days," for which they were afterwards brought
to trial. About 1590, Gradoch, a reputed witch in Coldstane,
"took in hand to haif destroyit the Laird of Craigievar, his son,
and utheris," for which, and many other like crimes, she suffered
death.*  A few years after, in 1596-97, an active inquiry for
witches was instituted all over this district. Commissioners at
Aberdeen were appointed by his Majesty, for "tacking and ap-
prehending of witches, sorceraris, consultaris, and traffiquaris with
witches," who directed precepts" to all and sindrie ministeris of
Godig word, elderis, and deaconis," charging them " to convein
and tak up dittay" against all suspected persons in their parishes;
"the quhilk persones being delaittit as said is," these commis-
sioners could "do na less for the advancement of Godis glory,

<FOOTNOTE>Pitcairn's Crim, Trials, Vol. i. pp. 94,206,


