
                             SPROUSTON,                      239

<TABLE>
   Number of bolls oats raised in the parish,          9124
                   wheat,                              3041
                   barley and peas,                    3041

                  V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
  Markets.--There is no market held in this parish; the nearest
market-town, Kelso, being only two miles distant.
  Villages.--Of these there are two,--Sprouston and Lempitlaw.
The former is situated about 200 yards from the river, and is nearer
to Kelso than to Carham parish by about a mile.  It consists of
103 inhabited cottages, the school and schoolmaster's house just
newly erected, and the manse.  The church is in the center of the
village, and is built on what appears to be a gravelly eminence, of
about twelve feet above the turnpike road.  A spacious church-yard
surrounds it, which, in 1814, was enclosed with an excellent stone
wall five feet high.  It had before that time, like many other country
church-yards, been an open unenclosed space, intersected with nu-
merous footpaths.  The expense of the wall was defrayed by va-
cant stipend.
  Lempitlaw consists of twenty-three inhabited cottages, and three
one-storey farm-houses, and onsteads; one of the three being at
the south-west, and two at the north-east end of the village.
  Two turnpike roads run east and west across the parish; one
through Sprouston and Carham to Cornhill, the other along Had-
den-rig to Wooler.  The parish roads are in good repair, are
maintained by converted statute labour, and have lately in some
places been greatly Improved.
  Ecclesiastical State.--Though the parish church is situated in the
centre of the village of Sprouston, and therefore at one extremity
of the parish, it cannot be said to be at a very inconvenient distance
from any of the inhabitants.  Mensilaws, an old farm-steading, now
three cottages, at the extreme east, and one cottage at the extreme
south-west of the parish, are between four and five miles distant.
Lempitlaw district, Lurdenlaw, and Softlaw, which together con-
tain about sixty families, are between three and four miles distance,
and all the rest from one to two miles distance.
  The present church was built in 1781, had the stairs to the gal-
lery, which are inside, inclosed in 1822, and nothing now is want-
ing to render it a very comfortable place of worship but the flagging
of the floor.
  The number of families in the parish attending the chapels of
Dissenters or Seceders is about 90.
  The seats, 600 in number, are all free, but allocated to particular
farms.  Divine service is generally well attended. The average


