
156			BERWICKSHIRE.

is not to be excelled.	Spade work is done with neatness, exact-
ness, and celerity.
   Crimes are seldom heard of amongst them, and there is not an
instance, within the memory of any now living, of an inhabitant of
this parish having been tried before our supreme criminal courts.
   Convictions for poaching game and salmon indeed sometimes
occur, but these are by no means frequent. As inhabiting a bor-
der parish, the lower classes are also exposed to the temptation of
evading the excise laws, by smuggling whisky into England.  This
is a crying evil, and loudly demands the interference. of the legis-
lature.
   The great majority are attached to the Established church, and
regular in their attendance on the means of grace, and the ordi-
nances of religion.  The Sabbath is observed with reverence, and -
the cases are rare of any desecration of that sacred day bY tdle'ness
or dissipation. They are generally well acquainted with their Bibles,
and habitually accustomed to peruse them. Deriving their religious
knowledge from this pure and holy source, they are for the most part
well informed concerning the doctrines and duties of Christianity:
and in all the leading doctrines of our church, with regard to the
fall of man, the consequent corruption and depravity of our nature,
the inability of man to save himself, the method of restoration by
the death of Christ, the divinity of our Saviour, the sanctification
and divine work of the Spirit, justification by faith, and the great
object and design of the Gospel to promote purity of heart, and
holiness of life,-their notions are sound and correct. Their reli-
gious faith is practical and salutary in its effects, and demonstrates
its excellence by its influence on their lives.  Many of them still
attend to the ancient and wholesome, but too much neglected duty
of family worship, and devote the Sabbath evenings to the instruction
of their children in the elements of Christian truth and moral duty.
Their religion affords them support and consolation amidst the
hardships of a laborious condition, and under the trying vicissitudes
and afflictions of' life.  They feel that it is their best friend, and
the only source of true happiness.  A familiar intercourse with the
people of this parish, for nearly fourteen years, in his ministerial
capacity, entitles the writer to speak thus of their character. Nor
is be partial to those of his own religious Persuasion; for what he
has said applies not more to them than l' of the Dissenters of the
parish.
			IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture and Rural Economy.-With the exception of about



