                     PARISH OF MANNER.
         PRESBYTERY OF PEEBLES, SYNOD OF LOTHIAN AND TWEEDDALE.
              THE REV. JAMES CRUISKSHANK, MINISTER.
                          ___________________

    I.- Topography and Natural History.
 Name and Boundaries.- The name of this parish is at present
spelt Manner and Manor; but it appears from the parochial regis-
ters, of which the earliest entry is dated 1663,-and from a great
number of family papers in the possession of the principal heritor,
some of which are dated 1573,-that the first-mentioned ortho-
graphy was established by the usage of centuries, and continued
until the publication of the parochial Account. The origin of
the name is uncertain. 
 The parish extends from S. W. to N. E. nine miles, and ave-
rages about three. It is bounded on the N. E. by Peebles; on
the S. E. by Yarrow; on the S. by Megget; on the S. W. by 
Drummelzier; and on the W. and N. W. Stobo. The dis-
trict consists of the vale which is traversed by the stream called
"Manner Water," and of part of the mountainous range which
skirts it on either side.
 Topographical Appearances.-The rivulet just named takes its
rise among the mountains which bound the parish towards the
south, and pursuing a rapid and circuitous course, falls into the 
Tweed, about two miles above the town of Peebles. Two hills,
of which one is wholly and the other partly situated in this parish,
stand unconnected with the neighbouring range, and, excepting a
similar one in an adjoining parish, are the hills of this descrip-
tion which are to be found within the limits of the county.
 The acclivities of the several hills composing the chain are in 
general steep; and some of the cliffs fronting the stream near its
source, and approaching closely to each other, are very lofty and 
precipitous. The outline of the less elevated part of the range
is undulating, while the loftiest summits are round-backed. The 
highest peaks are those of Dollar-law and Scrape, from which an
extensive view commanded of the Lothians, Berwickshire, and
 3
