
     of Campbelton.

fleet of 120 sail, he made a descent on the Clyde, and fought
with the army of Malcolm IV. near Renfrew; but he there
fell, in the midst of a great number of his followers, a sa-
crifice to his ambition.
   The effects of this disaster were long felt by the family of
Somerled, who, instead of attempting to make conquests, for
some generations after, were hardly able to preserve the ter-
ritories of their father.  Accordingly, we find the kings of
Norway, of Scotland, and sometimes of England, laying
claim, at different periods, to the sovereignty of the isles, and
pretending to dispose of them at their pleasure; although the
descendants of Somerled, whose chief residence was at
Campbelton, still kept the possession, exercised the power,
and often assumed the title of kings.  Frequently, however,
they were obliged to temporise, and to attach themselves to
different powers, as prudence or policy directed.  Thus, in
1206, we find Reginald an independent prince.  In 1212,
we find him swear fealty to king John of England.  Soon
after, his successor declares himself the vassal of Alexander
II. of Scotland, and gives liberal donations to the monks of
Paisley, partly on condition of their praying for the soul of
the king his master.  After that, we find his dominions tri-
butary to Norway, till Hacho lost the battle of the Largs in
1263; after which his Norwegian successors yielded them to
the crown of Scotland, for the annual tribute of 100 marks,
as Donald Baine king of Scotland had formerly, in 1093,
given them up to Magnus the Barefooted, as the price of his
friendship, or as a bribe to avert his hostility*.

     VOL. X. 3X

<FOOTNOTE>

*It has been already observed, that Kintyre always shared
the same fate with the isles.  On this accasion Magnus, in order
to bring it within the compass of his grant, had his barge drawn
under sail over the isthmus of Tarbet: After which, consider-
ing the power of his sword, nobody could be found so hardy as
to deny that Kintyre was an island.


