
104                    DUMBARTONSHIRE.


with the exception of the isthmus connecting it with the mainland
of Dumbartonshire, entirely surrounded by water. Its form may
be described as somewhat resembling that of a boot; in such a
way at least, as to the eye glancing over the map of Europe, Italy
has been supposed to do. *
   Topographical Appearances. - The parish consists mainly of one
continuous ridge, rising gradually from the level at its southern
extremity, to the Gallowhill, and thence extending in undulating
lines of various elevation to the hill of Tamnahara, which is the
highest point of the peninsula, about 800 feet above the sea-level,
With the exception of the level grounds, where the castle and
policies are situated, and the few alluvial fields of the Clachan
farm, contiguous to the church, the cultivated parts consist of ac-
ctivities from the lochs on either side. The whole of the more ele-
vated tracts, comprising the summit of the ridge, and forming a
kind of table-land, are covered with heath and morass; and from
the edges of these, the enclosed and arable fields descend to the
gravelly beach or rocky banks which skirt the shores.
   The aspect of the whole parish is interesting and beautiful; to
the south especially, where it is adorned with extensive plantations
of various ages. The natural lines are of most delicate symme-
try, and generally the plantations have been so felicitously ar-
ranged, as to give every advantage to that original and intrinsic beauty
of the environs,--while the trees are so mingled, as to secure all
variety of tint to the foliage in the transitions of spring and autumn.
   It is often visited on account of its attractive scenery, and cer-
tainly nowhere in this or perhaps in any other country, does a lo-
cality of such limited extent contain within itself or command the
prospect of a greater variety of interesting objects. Proceeding
by any of the roads which intersect it, there is a succession of
magnificent landscapes, abounding with whatever elements of subli-
mity and beauty the eyes delight to look upon; and thus, from

<FOOTNOTE>Formerly the parish of Roseneath extended much beyond its present dimensions,
and was designated in presbytery records and other documents of the time, "the pa-
roohin without and within the isle." It is now limited to the isle alone, and that
morety without the isle forms now part of the parishes of Cardross and Row. The dis.
junction was effected in 1635. Considerable difficulties had occurred in accomplish-
ing new erection of the parish of Row, but at last a presentee was inducted on
the express proviso that he should sanction the measure when otherwise matured;
and, moreover, that he should denude himself of a portion of the teinds, to secure a com-
potent living to the incumbent: while, on the other hand, the laird of Ardencaple
only consented to his admission, on the condition of his preaching alternately in the
new kirk of Row, on the opposite aide of the Gareloch, and therefore without the
isle (except when the Marquis of Argyle should be resident in Roseneath,) without pre-
judiceto the course of the erection, &c.


