
344                ARGYLESHIRE.

              III.-POPULATION.
  By a private census taken in 1837, the population was 1920.
Adults, about two-thirds.
  The number of males and females nearly equal. Number of
families, 328.

               IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.-In agriculture, considerable improvement has
been made since the last Statistical survey, and there is a greater
quantity of crop now produced, arising from the different system
of management which now prevails, especially on farms of any ex-
tent. Besides, there has been of late years, in different parts of
the parish, a considerable quantity of waste ground brought under
cultivation; and the cultivation of turnips and clover, formerly
unknown in this corner, is now making rapid progress. The Che-
viot breed of sheep were, some years ago, introduced by Mr Ca-
meron, one of Mr MacCaskill's tenants, and they are thriving be-
yond all expectation.
  Formerly, kelp used to be manufactured on the different pro-
perties in this parish, which contributed considerably to the sup-
port of the population; but, of late years, this source has entirely
failed, as no kelp is now made.

           V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
  Ecclesiastical State.-There are two churches, one at Kilninian,
and the other at Kilmore, at the distance of about seven miles from
each other. Both these churches were built in 1754, and are
kept in tolerable repair. Last year they underwent a thorough
repair.
  There are five schools in the parish; one the parochial school,
another the General Assembly's, a third supported by the So-
iety for Propagating Christian Knowledge, a fourth by the Gae-
lic School Society, and the fifth by the Glasgow Auxiliary. On

<footnote>
Allan-a-sop being struck with the justice of this reasoning, and the old offence of
his scalded fingers being suddenly recalled to his mind, said, "I have not forgot what
a hot breakfast my father-in-law treated me to one morning. Farewell for the pre-
sent; you shall soon hear news of me from the other side of the sound." Having said
this much, the rover went on board, unmoored the galleys, sailed back to Torloisk, and
prepared to land in arms. His father-in-law hastened to meet him, in the expecta-
tion of hearing of the death of his enemy, Macquarie. But Allan greeted him in a
very different way from what he expected: "You hoary old traitor," said he, "you
instigated me to murder a better man than yourself;-have you forgotten how you
scorched my fingers, twenty years ago, with a burning cake? The day is come that
that breakfast must be paid for;" so saying he raised his battle axe, cut down his fa-
ther-in-law, took possession of the castle and property, and established there that
branch of the clan Maclean now represented by Mr Clephane Maclean.

