
		          GLASGOW.                        153

port improved the dressing-machine, and obtained a patent for
these improvements. This machine they also employed in dres-
sing webs to be woven on hand-looms by boys and girls. In 1804,
Mr Monteith prevailed upon Mr Archibald Buchanan of Catrine
to take a pair of looms from him, urging him to improve the ma-
chine. Mr Buchanan worked these looms for a year, with a view
to obtain experience on the subject; and finding the annoyance of
dressing the web in the loom great, he set about contriving a dres-
sing-machine. In this machine he used cylindrical brushes, and
succeeded at that time pretty well; but from the obstinacy of the
person engaged to work the machine, and his own want of know-
ledge in the art of dressing, he was led to abandon it. He then
invented a remarkably neat and effective loom, and in 1806 pro-
ceeded to fill a large room with them, and again applied himself
to contrive a dressing-machine; he abandoned the cylindrical
brushes, and adopted parallel moving ones, similar to those of Rad-
cliff and Ross; and after much experiment with various success,
and by the exercise of much ingenuity, and perseverance, he suc-
ceeded in effecting a complete machine, and rapidly extending his
looms, with the necessary dressing-machines. In the year 1807,
he had the first complete work in Britain, in which warping, dres-
sing, and weaving by power, were uniformly carried on; and if may
be said that from this establishment emanated the power-loom
weaving of Britain.
	When Mr Buchanan first began the power-loom, from seventy
to eighty shots or picks per minute were considered as great
speed; but, from improvements since introduced by Mr Buchanan
and others, a speed of a hundred and forty shots per minute is now
obtained. About this time, Messrs Foster and Corbet of Glasgow,
and the Messrs Crums at Thornlie Bank, began to use power-looms.
About the same time, Mr Peter Mansland of Stockport was the
first to introduce the power-loom into England on a practical
scale. In 1808, power-looms were begun at Deanston; and there,
in 1809, tweels, and in 1810, checks were first woven on power-
looms. In 1818 or 1819, Mr William Perry of Glasgow began the
weaving of figured goods; and some time since, lappets were woven
by the Messrs Reids of Anderston, Glasgow. The Messrs King
were the first persons celebrated for weaving strong shirting, and
domestics;, and the Messrs Somerville and Sons have recently in-
troduced extensively a very superior manufacture of furniture
stripes and checks, and an infinite variety, of similar goods for we-


