
                    FEARN.                              361

of baptisms and marriages. It begins in 1749. The entries have
been very irregularly made down till the year 1800.
Land-owners.-The chief land-owners are, Robert Bruce
'neas Macleod of Cadboll, valuation, L. 2489 ; Hugh Ross
of Cromarty, L.269; Representatives of the late William Baillie
Rose of Rhine, L. 400; David Monro of Allan, L. 1010; William
Murray of Pittkeire and Meikle Rhine, L.562; Sir Charles Ross
of Balnagown, L. 382; George M. R. Ross of Polfoil, L. 122;
'neas Barclay of Mounteagle, L. 230.
  Antiquities.-" There are several Druidical temples in this pa-
rish. The abbacy is one of the most ancient buildings here. It
is said to have been first made up of mud. It was not only a place
of worship before the Reformation, but ever since, until October
1742, when, on a sudden, in time of public worship, the roof fell
in. There were thirty-six persons killed instantly, by what fell in
of the roof and slate, on that melancholy occasion; eight more
died soon after.-The Castle of Lochlin, in the north-east cor-
ner of the parish, is another remarkable building. It is said to be
of 500 years standing. It stands upon an eminence about one
mile north-east of the loch of Eye, and about six miles east from
Tain, and is indeed one of the most conspicuous objects in this
country. It was certainly built as a place of security against sud-
den incursions in the days of violence. Its shape resembles two
figures, nearly square, joined together by the corners, in which
junction there is a staircase to the top. The lesser one, which
looks towards the west, being about 20, and the greater, which
looks towards the east, about 38 feet square. The castle is 60
feet high. It is fortified with three large turrets, of which one,
stands upon the lesser square, and two upon the greater. These
turrets are each of them capable of holding three, or more men
with ease, and in each of them are five small round holes, of about
four inches diameter, with three larger above them, of a quadran-
gular form. The latter, it is imagined, were intended for the sen-
tries or watchmen to see through, and the others for shooting of
arrows. The outer door of the kitchen was made of strong bars
of iron) as thick, as an ordinary man's leg, and the windows were
closed with a small grates or twisted stanechious of iron so that it in
be readily supposed that it was almost impregnable at the period
in which it was erected.-There is another very ancient castle,
that of Cadboll, equally old, if not older than either the abbacy
or the Castle of Lochlin. There are little remains of it now, but


