
432			FORFARSHIRE.

cluding, in this number, single and unmarried persons having
houses of their own, is 208, and the average number of communi-
cants is 630. The number of Dissenters is 6, of which 3 are
male heads of families. There are no Episcopalians, but occa-
sionally 2 or 3 Catholics, servants, in the parish. Divine service
is generally well attended, allowance being made for distance from
the church, the bad state of the roads, and the mountainous cha-
racter of the district.

   Education.-There are 3 schools in the parish. Of these, one
is parochial, one supported by the Society for Propagating Christ-
ian Knowledge, and the other is unendowed. The parochial
teacher has the legal accommodation and the medium salary.
His salary, with school-fees, is about L.40 per annum. The in-
come of the Society school teacher is L.20; and that of the un-
endowed teacher about L.18. The average rate of school-fees is
2s. 6d. per quarter. The branches commonly taught are reading,
writing, arithmetic, grammar, and geography. There are none of
the young betwixt six and fifteen years of age who cannot read.
Of persons upwards of fifteen, there are 3 who can neither read
nor write. The schools are conveniently situated for the bulk of
the population. The young, who reap not the full benefit nf them,
reside near the extremities of the parish, or in detached districts.
These parts are so thinly inhabited, that the erection of schools
in them is hardly to be expected. During the winter season the
schools are well attended. In summer the attendance is compa-
ratively small, a great proportion of the young being employed in
herding cattle, &c. The Society school has proved a great bles-
sing to the people in the upper district, where, by means of it, all
the poorer children are taught gratis. An endowment for the
school in the Burn of Kilry district is much wanted. Nearly two-
fifths of the young are within a reasonable distance of it; and a
moderate endowment, while it would reduce the price of education
to the poor, would also secure permanently the services of an effi-
cient teacher for that populous part of the parish.

   Library.-A library in connection with the Sabbath schools has
recently been established.

   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of persons
receiving regular aid from the parish is 81/3; and the average sum
allotted to each per month, exclusive of house-rent, is 6s. The
church collections for their relief amount to L.26 per annum.
The interest of money lodged in the bank and other funds destin-
ed for the purpose, average nearly L.12 more, making, the annual


