
920                     ABERDEENSHIRE.

required for tillage.  It is true, indeed, that the additional pro-
portion of produce, which, in the cultivation of inferior soils,
requires to be expended on labour, is by no means lost to the
country, inasmuch as it augments proportionally the rural classes
of society, and adds, therefore, to the healthier part of the popu-
lation.  Still, whatever advantages may thus result from an in-
crease of the number of agricultural labourers, it is obvious that
rent and the expense of labour stand to each other in an inverse
ratio, and, consequently, that, where the latter element is unusu-
ally large, the rent must bear a less proportion to the gross value
of the disposable produce.-These observations having been pre-
mised, which were judged necessary, in order that a just comparison
might be instituted between the rental of the parish and the gross
value of its annual disposable produce, the return afforded by the
latter will be found to yield nothing beyond a reasonable allow-
ance for the heavy expenses of rent, wages, interest on capital,
&c. with which it is chargeable.  In an estimate of this nature,
it is impossible to attain perfect accuracy; but, according to data
which cannot be liable to any serious error, the average annual
disposable produce of the parish will amount to from L.22,000 to
L.23,000.  Of this sum, about three-sevenths may arise from the
sale of grain, a somewhat larger proportion from the disposal of
black-cattle and other kinds of live-stock, while the remainder is
made up chiefly from the produce of the dairy.
  Manufactures.-There is no large manufacturing establishment
either in the parish or neigbbourbood, and consequently there is
no part of the population which, properly speaking, belongs to
the manufacturing classes.  Ten or twelve persons, indeed, are
employed at a small carding and spinning-mill on Lord Aberdeen's
estate of Ardlethen, but they are happily, in no respects, distin-
guished either in their manners or sentiments from the agricultu,
ral population by which they are surrounded.
  Formartine Agricultural Association.-Most of our principal
farmers are members of this Association, which has for its chief ob-
ject the improvement of the breed of black-cattle.  The Earl of
Aberdeen is patron of the Association, which is supported also by the
other proprietors of the adjoining districts.  There are upwards
of 2000 members, each of whom pays an annual contribution of 5s.
The Association is conducted on the most liberal principles, the
privilege entering stock for competition being allowed to occu-


