
                               GLENSHEIL.                          195

       hollow, from which there is but a very limited view, would prove
       its fallacy.  But in whatever obscurity the particular purpose of
       their erection may be involved, these buildings clearly indicate, by
       their great size and the mode of their construction, a measure of
       skill in the practice of masonry, and a state of society admitting the
       combination of the powers of many, to 'produce a common result,
       not easily reconcilable with the barbarism so unhesitatingly as-
       cribed to our remote ancestors.
          A barrow, constructed of small flat stones, laid with great neat-
       ness, and covered with flags overlapping one another in an imbri-
       cated manner, was discovered a few years since, in digging for gra-
       vel for the road upon the west side of the valley of Glensheil. Its
       height was 5 feet, its width 2 feet 3 inches.  It ran in a sloping
       direction from the bottom to the top of a small hillock of gravel
       to the length of 26 feet.  Nothing was found in it that could
       throw any light on its history.
          Land-owners.-The whole lands of this parish, as well as of
       the neighbouring parishes of Kintail and Lochalsh, were posses-
       sed by the family of Seafortb, until within the present century,
       when the greater part of them was alienated.  The property of
       Letterfearn, comprehending the portion of the division of that name,
       lying westward of the church, was purchased in 1834, by the late
       Lachlan Mackinnon of Corry, for about L. 15000; and that of
       Glensheil, consisting of the remaining portion of Letterfearn, and
       the south and west side of the valley of Glensheil, by Charles
       Lillingston, Esq. of Ipswich, for L. 28,000.  The rest of the'pa-
       rish, included between the rivers Sheil and Croe belongs still to
       the representative of the family of Seaforth, the Honourable Mrs
       Stewart Mackenzie
          Modern Buildings.-There is no building ofa class superior to
       that of farm-houses in the parish.  These including two recently
       built on Mrs S. Mackenzie's property, are substantial and com-
       fortable, though small.  There is no mill, those of the neigh-
       bouring parishes of Kintail and Lochalsh being sufficiently acces-
       sible to the inhabitants.
          The gneiss of the mountains to the eastward, though difficult to
       dress', is sufficiently compact to from excellent building stone. That
       of Letterfearn is too much intersected with fissures, to be fit for the
       purpose.  An attempt made, a few years ago to burn the limestone
       of Letterfearn into lime, was unsuccessful, the lime produced prov-
       ing too impure to be fit for mortar.  But good miles is to be had
       at Broadford in Skye, at the distance of twenty-four miles, from


