
	312			INVERNESS-SHIRE.

           Ecclesiastical State.-The church is situated in the burying
	ground of Kilchrist, and might accommodate about 200 sitters.
	It is very old, and was formerly a Roman Catholic place of wor-
        ship. It is now in a very ruinous condition, so much so, indeed,
	that for nearly two years back there has been no preaching in it
	A very handsome and commodious church, to be seated for 600,
	has just been commenced at Broadford, as being a locality more
        accessible to the bulk of the population. In the district of Strath-
	aird, in which divine service is performed every third Sabbath, a
	comfortable church was last year fitted up by the Trustees of Mr
        Macalister. But previous to this there was no church in that dis-
	trict; and the incumbent's father when he preached there, officiat-
	ed in the recess or cavity of a rock, for a period of fifty-two years.
	  There has never been a manse in this parish, the incumbents
	always occupying farm-houses in the vicinity of the glebe, which
	consists of 44 acres, and is valued at about L. 15 per annuin.
        The stipend is L.271, 2s. 6d. The Crown is patron. An intel-
	ligent catechist paid by the Society for Propagating Christian
        Knowledge, is constantly employed. A Baptist missionary has been
	stationed here for the last twelve years; but, from the firm attach-
	ment of the people to the Established Church, only sixteen con-
	verts have been made, and of these six are not natives of the pa-
	rish.
	   Public worship is generally well attended; but, owing to the
	extent of the parish, the ruinous state of the church, and the re-
	mote distance from it at which the great majority of the people
	reside, their attendance is much influenced by the state of the
	weather.
           Education.-There are five schools in the parish,-one paro-
	chial, two unendowed, and supported by the parents of the chil-
	dren, and two on the establishment of the Gaelic School Society.
	The parochial school is in the possession of an efficient teacher,
        and is well attended, particularly during the winter. The branches
        usually taught are, English reading, writing, and arithmetic. Very
	few now prosecute the study of Latin and Greek, although the
	teacher is well qualified to give instruction in those branches.
	From the detached position of the different hamlets in the parish,
	the parochial school can never be generally useful to the inhabit-
        ants. Three additional schools would supply all our wants in the
	way of education, in a manner sufficient for the diffusion of useful
	and salutary knowledge ; and it is pleasant to observe that the peo-


