
                     PARISH OF INVERARY. *

            PRESBYTERY OF INVERARY, SYNOD OF ARGYLE.

          THE REV. COLIN SMITH,     }  MINISTERS.
              REV. DUNCAN CAMPBELL, }

             I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-The parish of Inverary was at one period called Kil-
milieu, and also Glenaray; or probably these names were applied
to districts which formed distinct and separate parishes, now unit-
ed. Kilmilieu is now applied to the burying ground only, and
Glenaray to the north-east portion of the parish. The records of
the synod of Argyle, and of the presbytery of Inverary, as well
as those of the kirk-session, mention Glenaray and Inveraray as
united parishes; but as there is no territorial division corresponding
to these names, Inverary, when spoken of as a parish, includes the
whole district placed under the spiritual superintendence of tlle
two collegiate ministers.
   The parish takes its name from the river Aray. The old town of
Inverary was situated upon its banks, at its junction with the sea,
and as the plain formed by the deposition of mud and sand at the
mouth of a river is called in the Gaelic language In-aor or Inver,
the burgh took its name from its site, and was called Inverary, or
in Gaelic Inaoradora. Different opinions may be formed of the
etymology of the word Aray or Aora. The two principal streams
or rivers in the parish are the Aora and Shira, and the contrast
in their character and course is supposed to have suggested their
names. The waters of the Aray or Aora rush rapidly over a rug-
ged and rocky bed, while those of the Shira flow gently, for the
most part, on a pebbly channel, and, therefore, some, among whom
was Dr Fraser, the writer of the last Statistical Account of this
parish, think that the Aray or Aora means ao-reidh, not smooth,
and the Shira, sior-reidh, always smooth.
   Extent, &c.-The parish is from 15 to 16 miles in length,
and from 3 to 6 miles in breadth. It is bounded on the South-

<FOOTNOTE>Drawn up by the Rev. Colin Smith, minister of the parish.


