
170                        ARGYLESHIRE.

would have saved the writer, among others, many a buffeting from
wind and storm.  An old tumulus of very great size is still
pointed out as Carn-na-Caillich, or old wife's cairn ; and is indi-
cative of the capacity of the pannier, and of the power of this,
famed female architect.
   In the interior or upper district, the prevailing rocks are gneiss
and mica slate.  Ben-eaddan, Ben-na-hua, and Ben-na-guirmeag,
consist of tabular masses of trap, and repose in marked pre-emi-
hence on, or at least, on the verge, of high ranges of primitive rock,
in the district of that formation.
   Mines.-At Lurg in Glen-Dubh, a glen which runs parallel to
Loch Suinart, lead-one of considerable richness is found.  The
ore was first discovered, upwards of a century ago, by Sir Alexan-
der Murray of Stanhope, who also had the merit of discovering
the neighbouring mines of Strontian.  Having let the latter, of
which he was himself proprietor, on lease ta the Duke of Norfolk,
who afterwards made them over to the York Building Company,
he obtained from the Duke of Argyle a lease of the Glen-Dubh
mines, and caused them to be wrought for some time with con-
siderable vigour by a company styled " The Morvern Mining
Company." These mines are referred to, and their position
marked out, in a very curious chart of Loch Suinart, published in
Edinburgh upwards of a century ago, bearing the following mag-
niloquent title, " A Plan of Loch Suinart, &c., become famous
by the greatest national improvement this age has produced; sur-
veyed by Alexander Bruce, 1733." The chart is accompanied
by copious explanatory notes, and bears two engraved views; the
one, of the establishment at Strontian, and the other of the Mor-
vern Company's dep"t at Liddesdale.  It is dedicated in compli-
mentary terms to General Wade, and concludes a strange " corol-
lary of remarks" by the following couplet:

         	"Regnat Georgius SecunduLt,
          	Prieficit Georgius Wade."

   At Ternate, on the estate of Ardtornish, copper mines were at
one time, and, it is believed, at a much earlier period, in operation.
There are still, in that neighbodrbood, favourable appearances of
this very valuable mineral.
   Quarries.-The freestone quarries of Lochalin and Ardtornish
have been found to produce stone of the very best quality and
pearance.  Stone from these quarries was used in the construction
the Crinan Canal locks; of late years, in erecting a very hand-
some and substantial mansion-house for the proprietor of Lochalin;


