
38                    CAITHNESS-SHIRE.

in June and July, but they are not to be depended on as affording a
regular fishing.  Great numbers of cod and ling are taken in the Pent-
land Frith, as well as lobsters and other shell fish.  The lobsters are
collected by a London company at 3d. each, from the fishermen,
and forwarded by smacks to the London market Numbers of Lon-
don fishing smacks also frequent the frith for cod and ling.  In the
lakes there are a number of eels; and trouts only in the Loch of
Syster.  A few of these were put into the Loch of Dunnet, or
St John's Loch, a few years ago, by Dr John Jolly.  It is not
yet ascertained if they have bred.   St John's Loch is much re-
sorted to on the first Monday of May, and the first Monday 'of
August, November, and February, O. S., by invalids from all
parts of the country.  They walk round it, bathe, throw a piece of
money into the water, and are out of sight of it by sunrise.  Hy-
pochondriacs and nervous people may sometimes feel better after
this, from the power of imagination and exertion; but those seri-
ously ill are of course the worse for it, and die occasionally by
the road.
   The secret of the matter seems to be this: there was a Ca-
tholic chapel (St John's,) at the east end of the lake, to the wa-
ters of which the saint must have communicated virtuous qualities.
The money is evidently the offering to the altar; hence the very
wortby practice of curing the sick and enriching the church.
After the Reformation, the practice of throwing the money into the
loch would begin, it being possible that the minister would instruct
them to do so.  It is astonishing, that in these days such a su-
perstitions rite should be continued; but so it is, and people who
should know better have recourse to it.  I do not think it does much
good to the people in the parish ; it seems most efficacious to
those at a distance.
   Botany.-There are a vast number of rare plants on Dunnet-
Head in a dwarf state.  It is said to be a field worth the in-
spection of the scientific botanist.  The other districts of the pa-
rish possess little rare or curious in this department.  There is
nothing worthy of the name of a tree in the parish.  A few acres
of hard-wood were planted three years ago by Mr Traill; and
they are promising to grow.  Thorn hedges thrive pretty well on
the clay soils, and walled gardens produce apples and other small

                   II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   The following inscription occurs on a grave-stone in the church-


