
     of Grange.

   Manufacturers.-The only manufactures in the parish are
lime, and linen yarn.  There are inexhaustible quarries of
the very finest limestone in almost every part of the parish,
and nature had amply provided the means of manufactu-
ring it, in the extensive mosses, with which a great part of
the parish was formerly covered, and which are not by
any means exhausted by the consumption of many centu-
ries; though they are become more distant and inaccessible
than they were, and will now wear out much faster, as the
surface of them is generally dug up for turf, which puts an
end to their growing.  The quantity of lime burnt in this
parish, about 40 years ago, was estimated at 60,000 bolls,
of 64 Scotch pints to the boll, which was sold, at an ave-
rage, at 6 d. the boll.  The quantity at present manufactu-
red, may be estimated, at between 20,000 and 30,000 bolls,
which sells, after being carried from 6 to 10 computed
miles, at an average, at 8 d. the boll.  The heritors lay re-
straints upon the making of lime, both because it exhausts
the mosses, and draws off the attention of the people from
their farms.  Indeed they seldom lay any of it on their
own possessions, from an ill founded prejudice, that it would
not be useful, but hurtful, to ground that stands on lime-
stone, though frequent experiments, made by different
farmers in the parish, prove that it is capable, when judi-
ciously managed, of producing remarkable crops.  The
spinning of linen yarn, and making of coarse linen from
Scotch flax, was long practised, (as already observed,) be-
fore the manufacturers began to import Dutch flax, and gave
it out to spin, which they have done for many years.  Since
that time, there is but a small proportion of the Scotch
flax spun for the market; as the quality of the flax is not
so soft and fine as the Dutch flax, owing perhaps both to
the nature of the soil, and to the management of the flax.
There is, however, a good deal of it made into coarse li-

     VOL. IX. 4 C


