
                            AIRTH.                         285

imperial acres have been added to the Durimore estate, by land
taken from the sea, within the last fifty years; and to the Airth
estate no fewer than 185, within little more than the same period.
The land is of the very first quality. The embankments by which
it is defended from the water, are composed of mud and turf,
some of them with stone facings. Draining, particularly wedge-
draining, has been carried on to a very great extent, more than
one-half of the parish having been so drained, within the last ten
years. This, in Carse land, may be considered the very basis of
agricultural improvement. The expense is considerable, but the
tenant is assisted by the proprietor.
   The general duration of leases is nineteen years. Farm-build-
ings are, upon the whole, indifferent.
   Quarries.--There is abundance of sandstone quarries; nothing
peculiar in the mode of working them.
   Fishery.--No fishery in the parish of any importance. The
salmon-fishing, however, such as it is, and which is carried on by
means of staff-nets, commences in the month of July, and termi-
nates at the period prescribed by the Act of Parliament. A small
rent is exacted by the proprietors, and the produce is either sold
to the neighbouring families, or conveyed by the steam-boats, to
the Edinburgh market.
   Produce.--The average produce of grant of all kinds may be
estimated at about 6 bolls per imperial acre. The culture of po-
tatoes, turnips, cabbages, &c. in the fields, is exceedingly limited.
The average crop of hay per imperial acre is 200 stone. Produce of
gardens and orchards is, in general, very abundant.  The thinning
of the plantations rarely amounts to more than what is required
for paling. Total yearly value of raw produce raised in the parish
is about L100,000.
   Weaving is the only species of manufacture carried on, and that
to a small extent.
   There are only five registered vessels belonging to the parish.

                  V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

   Market-Town, &c.--Falkirk is the nearest market-town, distant
six miles. There are two villages, Airth and Dunmore. The
length of the turnpike roads in the parish, is about eight miles.
Two public carriages pass through the parish to Glasgow, viz. the
Alloa coach daily, and the Kirkcaldy coach, three times a week.
   Ecclesiastical State.--The situation of the parish church is
centrical, being about three miles and a half distant from the


