
                           PETERHEAD.                           347

muriate of lime, Glauber salt, common salt, and were impregnated
with fixed air.  Under proper regimen the mineral waters of Peter-
head were found by Dr Moir to be deservedly in repute for gene-
ral debility, disorders of the stomach and bowels, flatulencies and
indigestion, nervous complaints, &c.  In almost every part of the
parish, but especially in Stirlinghill and Blackhill, there are copious
springs, strongly impregnated with iron, which are found to possess
the same medical qualities as those in Peterhead and its vicinity.
The cool and salubrious air no the sea coast, the excellent accom-
modation for sea-bathing, and the variety of mineral springs, ren-
dered Peterhead, in former times, the resort of invalids during the
summer months.  Until lately the town of Peterhead was not
supplied with good spring water; but the country part of the parish
has always been well supplied with spring water of excellen qua-
lity.  The Ugie is the only river in the parish.  There is an excel-
lent stone bridge of two arches over the Ugie, at the distance of
two miles from the town of Peterhead.  This bridge was built in
1686, by virtue of an Act of Parliament, at the joint expense of
the shires of Aberdeen and Banff, and is still in good repair.
   The tide off Peterhead flows from Rattrayhead, in the parish of
Crimond, south and south-east, and ebbs north and north-west.
During spring-tides it runs three and a-half miles an hour.  There
are, however, considerable variations, in consequence, it is sup-
posed, of the adjoining headlands.  The sea at Peterhed is very
salt, and the temperature is never so low as in friths, or in the
vicinity of large rivers.
   Geology and Minerology.-The whole of the parish of Peter-
head is upon primitive rock.  In the Stirlinghill, Blackhill, and
Hill of Cowsrieve, the granite or syenite rises to the surface.
Along the coast, and in other parts of the parish, it is covered
with clay, supposed to be dilivual, and other matters to a greater
or less depth.  Upon the Stirlinghill, the granite rises to the sur-
face, or nearly so, over an extent of from 100 to 150 acres.  In
every place where the syentie or granite is laid bare, imbedded
masses, veins or dikes of primitive trap, gneiss, quartz, and com-
pact felspar are alternate with, and run through it.  In some cases
one-half of a block is granite and the other primitive trap is com-
plete cohesion, and often passing into each other.  At the old
Castle of Boddam, the rock is separated by a fissure or chasm,
one side of which is granite and the other primitive trap.  This
chasm runs east and west, the granite being on the south and the


