
192			WIGTONSHIRE.

        Poor.-The average number, of persons receiving,' regular paro-
chial aid is about 67, viz. paupers, 50; orphans, deserted children,
&c. II; insane and weak-minded persons, 6. The average sum
received by 50 paupers, is about L.54, yearly; by 11 children,
L.32, 16s do.; by 6 insane persons, L.25, 18s. do. Those sums
do not include occasional aid griven to poor persons not on the roll,
nor any extraordinary assistance given to the regular poor in par-
ticular seasons, nor in particular family circumstances, such as
sickness, &c. which frequently occur. In addition to the amount
of money distributed by the kirk-session, the poor belonging to the
parish go round to each farm-house within a reasonable distance
of their residence, once in the quarter, and receive meal or money.
That observation applies particularly to the village poor. Those
entitled to go receive a line from the kirk-session. The practice
keeps up a good feeling between the different classes of the com-
munity, and tends to preserve the real character of charity.
	The annual amount of collections in church for the relief of the
poor, on the average of five years, was L.75, 18s. 18 1/2d. The sum
of L.6, 1s. yearly accrues to the poor, from bequests lodged in
the national funds; and also the interest of another bequest of
L.100, at present yielding 4 per cent.;-in all L.10, 1s. yearly
The proclamation of banns also yields a small sum to the poor's
fund. The heritors contribute voluntarily for assisting the session
in supporting insane persons; and in seasons when the wants of
the poor are generally greater than usual, these voluntary contribu-
tions are greater also. In such seasons, those of the community who
are able have always shown a willingness to assist liberally in any
measures adopted for alleviating the wants of the poor. There is
no regular assessment in this parish.
	There is a disposition among the poor, particularly among the
Scotch poor, to refrain from asking parochial relief, from a feeling
that it is degrading; but it is to be regretted that such a feeling
is becoming less and less perceptible. The exception implied re-
specting the Irish is confined to those lately come, or who continue
in destitute circumstances. When any of them have acquired the
means of keeping themselves and their families in any degree of
comfort, so far I have observed, they do not fail in manifesting
a spirit of indepedence. In general they come to this country so
very destitute, that perhaps they may not seek nor estimate duly
these means.


