
502                           PERTHSHIRE.

It is curiously carved in front, having the form of a cross embossed
upon it; and there are traces of what is likely to have been a
motto or inscription, but the characters are so much effaced that
it is now altogether impossible to decipher them.  Of its early
history little seems to be known, save that it is not the original
cross of Crieff. Nobody can tell what or whose it was; but some
of the last, or at least of a previous, generation remembered that it
stood on the neighbouring farm of Trowan; and on the back part of
it (which is not carved) the remains of an iron loop or staple are dis-
eernible, to which a ring or collar might have been attached, for the
purpose of securing those who were sentenced to the pillory.  Another
implement of ancient jurisdiction, which was certainly used for
this purpose, and which is sthll preserved, is what is vulgarly term-
ed Choucks, probably the French Jougs. It is a tapering octa-
gonal stone, about 10 feet in length, to which an iron collar was
attached, which locked by a padlock. The ancient Crieff Stocks
are likewise preserved.
  At the demolition of the old parish church (which was an antique
Gothic structure, 95 feet long, 18 feet wide, and 14 feet in the
quire) in the year 1787, about forty gold coins of Robert I. of
Scotland were found deposited in a niche of the wall, about six
inches from the floor.  Each piece, which was equal in breadth
to a modern guinea, and precisely one-fourth of its weight, had
the head of this monarch, with the words, "Robertus Rex Sco-
torum," upon the one side, and St Androw with his cross upon the
other. These relics of antiquity, it is believed, passed into the pos-
session of some of the neigbbouring gentry. *
  There is a Roman road, or what is reputed to have been one,
passing through the lands of the Broich. It is supposed to have
connected the encampment at Strageath with that at Dalginross;
and, as a confirmation of the tradition, it is worthy of remark,
that, when the present road was being made through Burrel Street,
a pavement was discovered under ground, composed of common
flag stones, bedded close together, in the usual way that Roman
roads are laid, and manifestly surrounded with a different sort of
earth from that which was found in the immediate neighbourhood.

<FOOTNOTE>Fifty eight gold coins, nearly of the same, and sixty-two of a larger description,
were lately discoverd in the Cathedral at Glasgow, by some workmen, who were
employed in renovating the interior,  They were all found deposited under the pave-
ment, about five inches from the base of one of the pillars, which divided the outher
High Church from the nave; and they are all said to be in a state of the most per-
feet preservation.


