
52                    ROXBURGHSHIRE.

north-west angle of Roxburghshire, where that county separates
Selkirkshire from Berwickshire, and marches with Mid-Lothian.
   Topographical Appearances.-The principal high-grounds are
the Eildon Hills on the south -border of the parish, at the foot of
which the village of Melrose is beautifully situated.  Rising with
a triple summit, and an abrupt irregular acclivity on the right bank
of the Tweed, they are finely contrasted with the smooth surface,
and uniform height of the Gattonside Hills, which, with their con-
tinuation on the Langlee and Ladhope heights, form a ridge ex-
tending from the Leader to the Gala.       To the north of this long
ridge, the parish, for about two-thirds of its extent, and compre-
hending all the hilly country between these rivers, maintains a con-
siderable elevation above the level of the sea, and of the Melrose
valley.  It is from the north that the Eildon Hills are seen to most
advantage, where the two principal summits only being visible, their
proportions appear most beautiful, and their elevation above the
level of the country, magnificent: and in winter, when the sun
rises immediately behind them, one of the most splendid of moun-
tain phenomena may be seen in perfection in the neighbourhood
of Melrose,-the black opaque mass of the hills cutting against
the bright gleaming sky.  On the south, their elevation appears less
considerable, but the three hills are seen in a line,-their bare
summits contrasting with the richness of the surrounding country.
The view from the top of the Eildons is crowded with interesting
objects.  To the north are seen the windings of the Tweed through
the valley of Melrose, its banks studded with villas and villages,
the south front of the abbey distinctly and beautifully appearing
amid imbosoming wood, and the long mountain ridge which bounds
the valley on the north, flanked, on the one hand, by the Meiglot,
and, on the other band, by the Coldigknow,-beyond which the view
is prolonged in pastoral wildness to the distant heights of Lam-
mermoor, Soltra, and Yarrow braes.  To the south, the whole
level expanse of richly cultivated, but thinly wooded Tiviotdale,
is spread out before the eye, and bounding the view appears the
long blue line of the Cheviots, losing itself in distance toward the
west, and having at its eastern extremity three small conical emi-
nences, one of which is Flodden Hill.
    Geology.-In the Eildons, clinkstone appears in many places;
and in some places, where uncovered by vegetable mould, they seem
to consist of huge heaps of small thin oblongular splinters without
any cohesion, and free from sand or any earthy mixture.  On the


