
				FORRES.		                  173

			V.-- PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.*
      Town.-- It has already been stated that Forres is not a place of
   manufacturing importance, and that the employments of the peo-
   ple consist in the ordinary trades of retail and handicraft.  Since
   the Reform Act, the town has been governed by a provost, three
   bailies, a dean of guild, a treasurer, and twelve councillors--a pro-
   portion of whom are annually elected by the constituency of the
   burgh.  The revenue of the town is about L. 550,--and is deriv-
   ed from lands, feu-duties, petty customs, &c.
      There are daily markets for butcher-meat and fish ; twice a
   week for butter, eggs, poultry, &c. ; and grain markets on every
   Tuesday.  Fairs are held on the first Wednesday of January, third
   Wednesdays of February, April, and May; first Wednesday of
   July; fourth Wednesdays of August and September; and third Wed-
   nesday of November.  Besides these, feeing markets for agricul-
   tural servants take place on the Saturdays preceding the terms of
   Whitsundays and Martinmas.
      Means of Communication.-- The most ample means are enjoyed
   by the inhabitants of communicating with other parts of the coun-
   try.  The turnpike road from Aberdeen to Inverness passes through
   the town, on which a mail-coach and two stage coaches travel daily.
   There is likewise a turnpike road to Findhorn, five miles off,
   where the London and Leith steam-boats call regularly.  The
   parish is intersected in all directions by district roads, which are
   kept in excellent order.  There are four stone bridges on the
   burn, within the limits of the parish, all of which are in good
   repair; and where the turnpike road crosses the river Findhorn,
   at the western extremity of the parish, is a chain-bridge, which
   merits more particular notice, as it forms one of the greatest orna-
   ments of the county, and, although not so large as some others,
   is certainly one of the most elegant structures of the kind in Scot-
   land.  It was erected in 1831, to replace the former stone bridge
   at the same place, which was destroyed by the great flood of 1829,
   and when completed was opened to the public with a grand cere-
   monial procession early in 1832.  The design was afforded by Sir
   Samuel Brown, R. N. the celebrated engineer, who contracted to sup-
   ply the iron work, and the work was superintended by his able as-
   sistant, Mr Mitchell.  Beautiful Gothic archways, which form the
   entrance to the bridge at either end, are flanked on each side by
   finely proportioned towers, built of a beautiful light coloured free-

<FOOTNOTE>The contents of this head chiefly communicated by the Rev. Duncan Grant.



