
				LOCHMABEN.                  389

the latter interesting game, the parishioners of Lochmaben have
long been celebrated and unrivalled.
	Poaching, we regret to state, prevails to an alarming degree,
both in game and in the salmon fisheries. Smuggling is unknown
in the parish.

<TABLE=INDUSTRY>

                       IV.--INDUSTRY.
	Agriculture and Rural Economy.--
The number of acres arable and of meadow land may be computed at           9000
                  not in tillage, but affording good sound pasture,        1260
                  under wood and thriving plantations,                       90
                 moss and irreclaimable moor,                               400
                 Under the plough,                                         5500
	Rent, Waqes, Prices of Stock, &c.--In a parish of this kind, where
the soil is so various, the rent per acre must vary accordingly. Some
of the fine croft land in the immediate neighbourhood of the town
lets at L. 3 and L. 2, 10s. per acre. The lighter soils and high
grounds generally give from L. 1 to L. 1, 5s. The leases of the
principal farms are for nineteen or twenty-one years. The smaller
farms vary from nine to fifteen years.
	The grazing of a milk cow with a calf or stirk is from L. 4 to
L. 4, 10s. Few sheep comparatively speaking are kept in the parish.
Cows vary in price according to size, age, and condition, from L. 6 to
L. 10. Two year old stots of the Galloway breed bring from L. 5
to L. 7, 10s. Few farmers keep their young stock more than two
years, which is generally of the Galloway kind. This stock is well
adapted for the pastures on the banks of the different rivers, and
owing to its richness, they rise to a great size, and bring high prices.
The farmer finds it his advantage to pay great attention to the
breeding and rearing of cattle, as his profits depend much more
upon a good sale of his live-stock, than on the returns from his
grain produce. It is well known in Annandale that if cattle give
good prices, the landlord is sure to be paid his rent. The greater
part of these cattle are purchased by English dealers, and sent to
Norfolk, and fattened on the English pastures for the Smithfield
market, where they find ready purchasers, on account of the fine
quality of their beef. This breed in general does not yield much
milk, but the cream is very rich. They have no horns, are hardy,
docile and good feeders. Many of the poor people who keep a
cow pay little attention to the breed, provided they be, what they
call good milkers; hence they prefer a kind of cross-breed which
is common about Biggar and Carnwath.
	There is one enterprising farmer in the parish, Mr John Halli-


