
     of Grange.

the late patriotic Lord Findlater into his adjoining estates
upon the coast side, had crept gradually into this parish.

<FOOTNOTE>

off portions of them to the poor peeople to cultivate.  These were bad
subjects for bearing corn, being naturally of a poor, wet, four, stony, or
mossy soil; and when once the sward of them was broke, they loon ceased
to be good either for grass or corn, and improvers were unable to cure
the natural barenness of the soil with plenty of rich manure.  The loss
of the pasture was an irreparable loss to the farmers, the immense num-
bers of sheep and black cattle, which were formerly kept upon the hills
to which there was easy access, on the pastures and on the green mosses,
now almost wholly cast up for turff, or ploughed and burnt for corn,
produced a great deal of manure, which raised plenty both of grass and
corn; but the pasture being curbed and destroyed by the new improve-
ments, the cattle and sheep dwindled away, and the fields of consequence
did not produce as formerly The farms were necessarily enlarged; this
increased the number of candidates for farms, and consequently raised the
rents, by suggesting the plan to heritors, which they have too steadily ad-
hered to, of setting up farms to roup.  The high prices given for cattle
within these 30 years, also tended greatly to advance the rents and to di-
minish the number of subtenants, whose possessions were now become ne-
cessary for pasture  The new improvements soon became unfit, for the
reasons already assigned, to maintain the improvers and their families,
even with all the advantages of moss and lime; this occasioned the un-
iting several improvements into one possession.  All these changes tended
to lessen the population.  2d, The decay of the lime-trade.  Many pla-
ces that were formerly supplied with lime from Stryla, can now be sup-
plied with English shells, cheaper than it can be manufactured here with
peat, (always a precarious fuel, and obtained at much expense of time
and labour), and carried to a great distance, not less than S or 10 com-
puted miles; whereas formerly people came from a great distance, and
bought it at the kilns and carried themselves. 3d, Emigrations, prin-
cipally to the south country, occasioned partly by the rise of wages, and
the demand for hands, for the purposes both of agriculture and manufac-
tures there; but chiefly by the impolitic severity of the landholders, af-
terward to be taken notice of 4th, and lastly, A great mortality has pre-
vailed in this parish for several years past  The parish was always e-
steemed healthy, till within the last 10 years notwithstanding the moisture
of the climate; but the moisture cannot stagnate, as it is exposed to very
high winds from almost every quarter. As a proof of its healthiness,


