
     of Lanark.

hase complexion.  Their dress is considerably altered within
these 20 years.  A blue or black bonnet is now a singular-
ity; hats are in general use; and both sexes appear at
church, or at a ball, with almost as much elegance as the in-
habitants of the capital.  The dialect of the upper ward of
Clydesdale, as to pronounciation, is the same with that spoken
in Edinburgh, differing materially from that of the middle
and lower wards.
   Two customs, almost peculiar to the burgh of Lanark,
perhaps may here be noticed.  The first is a gala kept by the
boys of the grammar school, beyond all memory, in regard
to date, on the Saturday before Palm Sunday.  They then
parade the streets with a palm, or its substitute, a large tree
of the willow kind, salix caprea, in blossom, ornamented with
daffodils, mezereon and box-tree.  This day is called Palm
Saturday; and the custom is certainly a Popish relic of very
ancient standing.  The other is the riding of the marches,
which is done annually, upon the day after Whitsunday fair,
by the magistrates and burgesses, called here the landsmark

<FOOTNOTE>

He is now about 78 years of age, and, notwithstanding all his past services,
the only o^^ice he now can reach is that of parish beadle.  His annals con-
sist of 5 or 6 M. S. octavo volumes; and although some of them are trifling,
yet in general they are a curious and useful repository.
   An improvement, which may be followed with advantage in other places,
took effect here about 30 years ago.  A country fidler, but a man of penetra-
tion, having made some money, purchased about 3 or 4 acres of ground, of a
dry gravelly soil, consisting mostly of sloping banks, which did not yield above
3 L. 10 s. altogether of yearly rent.  These grounds were situated at the bot-
tom of the town, within 30 or 40 feet of a rivulet, which, passing through
the town and butcher market, conveyed away a deal of manure, garbage, etc.
The new proprietor, conscious of the advantages derivable from this source,
was at a considerable expence in driving a mine through those 30 or 40 feet
of ground, (a high bank,) by which, in two or three years time he so enrich-
ed his grounds, as to draw 14 l. annually of rent; and now 40 L. Sterling a
year has been refused for these very lands.


