
404                 INVERNESS-SHIRE.

  On what principle Government aid for the repair of boats is
only given to fisbers within a certain distance of a pier, we know
not; but it is obvious, that fishers who have to bring their boats
ashore on an open beach, run the risk of greater injury to their
boats than those who have the advantage of a pier. And a per-
son ignorant of the reason of such a rule, as the writer confesses
himself to be, would suppose that those who have a pier, and incur
less tear and wear, should not be the parties to receive any pecu-
liar favour or aid. Those who have no pier are at the expense
of two pounds morea year in ropes and anchors, by having " to
hing at anchor" so often in deep water before they can bring their
boats ashore. If we might judge from the public prints, it
would seem to be no great national outlay to extend the Go-
vernment aid to all fishers, wheresoever resident: " It appears
that the total sum voted by Parliament during the last ten
years amounted to L.144,000, of which there has been paid for
building or repairing ports or quays in Scotland, L. 27,666, or an
average of L.2766 yearly; for repairing the boats of fishermen in
Scotland, L.4435, or an average of L.443 yearly; and for salaries
and allowances of the officers, and incidental expenses of the esta-
blisliment, L.116,364, or a yearly average of L.11,636."
  It is another disadvantage of which the fishers of this coast
complain, that, although their business be on the great waters, they
are obliged to pay road-money on land. The fishers of Ross-sbire
are said to be relieved from this impost; and there are perhaps
twenty fishers in Ross-sbire for every one in Inverness-shire.
  The fishers both of Pettie and of Connage were formerly in
possession of crofts, by which one or more of a crew supported a
horse. They were thus enabled, except when they bad a large
take of fish, to leave their boats at home, and, independent of the
tide, to carry their fish to market, and to return home when they
had sold their fish, without loitering till the next tide on the streets
of Inverndss, by which means they escaped many temptations to tip-
piing. For some years they bad been deprived of these crofts. But
recently a crew has been rem oved from the estate, and crofts assign-
ed to the rest of those in Pettie. If the possession of crofts should,
as some,think, make them less industrious in their calling as fishers,
and enable them to carry, to Inverness small takes of fish which they
would, otherwise, sell in the parish, the moral benefit resulting to the
men themselves should reconcile us to their possessing them. It were
desirable that some plan or order were adopted, according to which
their houses should be built and placed: for their straggling turf


