
390                ROSS AND CROMARTY.

English Bar. He is the son of the late spirited and enter-
prising Sir Alexander Mackenzie, who, among many other
important discoveries in North America, discovered the river
which bears his name. The House of Avoch, whose beautiful
site was admired by every passer by, was burned in the year
1833, while it was rented by General Sir Donald Macleod,
H. E. L C. S. The third land-owner is John Matheson, Esq. of
Bennetsfield. He holds the rank of captain in the 78th Regi-
ment. He long served his King and country in foreign parts.
He is the chief of the ancient clan Matheson. He is now resi-
dent on his own estate in this parish-on a beautifully romantic
spot near Munlochy Bay.
  Parochial Register.-There is a parochial register regularly
kept. The earliest entry in the oldest register of this parish, which
was by no means regularly kept, is dated 1727.
  Antiquities.-Almost the only antiquities in this parish are the
site of the ancient Castle of Avoch, and the ruins of an old tower,
talled Arkendeith. The former occupied a detached rocky knoll-
about 200 feet above the level of the sea-which juts out from
the eastern corner of ther hill of Castletoun, which forms the north-
ern promontory of the Bay of Munlochy, and at the distance of
about a quarter of a mile west from the modern village of Avoch.
This knoll is now called "Ormond," or the "Lady Hill," and
its steep sides and smooth summit are bedecked with a green vel-
vety coat of grass, enriched by the lime and rubbish of the ancient
buildings, and which marks it out to the eye in the midst of
the adjoining healthy grounds. The eastern and more accessible
slope is traversed by three breastworks of earth, with ditches be-
hind them; and the summit, which is naturally divided into two
irregular areas, extending together to about half an acre of ground,
was covered with buildings formed of stones, cemented by shell-
lime, exceedingly hard; from which encircling walls proceeded
round the whole upper crest, of the robk, and down a slight open-
ing or ravine on the south side, along which the principal approach
was formed, and which, from the accumulation of rubbish at the
top and bottom,  seems to have been guarded by a barbican and
outer tower, with, in all likelihood, a regular portcullis and gate-way.
  But few historical remiscences exist of this castle. Mr Fraser
Tytler, in his History of Scotland, Vol, ii. page 665, mentions that
Sir Andrew Moray, "a Lord," as described by an ancient chro-
nicler, "of great bounty, of sober and chaste life, wise and upright


