
     Statistical Account

   Ancient state of rivulets, roads, and bills, etc.-From time
immemorial the rivulets and river above mentioned have
run in their present channels; but of late the roads in this
parish have undergone considerable alteration.  Within the
last twelve years, the road from Dundee to Brechin has
been made wider and straighter.  Within twice that num-
ber of years, the old road from Dundee to Arbroath was
formed; and the new tunrpike road is yet scarcely finish-
ed.  Within the last 50 years, no trees shaded any hill in

<FOOTNOTE>

but to do him homage.  The heart of Arran, the regent, which was never
intrepid, now shrunk within him.  To conceal his fear, however, he col-
lected the scattered remains of his enfeebled host, and, from the western
parts of Scotlad, where he had taken refuge under the unfortunate action
at Muffelburgh, marched by Perth and Dundee to blockade the castle
of Broughty.  After having lain before it from the 1st of October 1547
to the 1st of January 1548, he departed from the siege with the loss
of one of his best generals, and with that of all his ordnance, lamenting
his doom to perpetual misfortune.  Inspirited with this success, the
English fortified the hill of Balgillo, about half a mile northward, and
notwithstanding the active exertions of James Haliburton, provost of
Dundee, with a hundred horse, and of Sir Robert Maule, in his
castle of Panmure, about six miles northeastward, and about half a
mile east from the present beautiful seat of that family, in the pa-
rish of Panbride, laid waste Dundee, and and most of the county of Augus.
With rage the Earl of Argyll head the report.  He collected his valiant
clans, and, indignant, marched to Broughty; but felt the mortification
of repulse.  Not long after, a similar fate awaited three regiments of
French, commanded by D'Effe, and as many regiments of Germans, com-
manded by one of their own princes.  At last dissentions at home, and
war with the French abroad, engaged the whole attention of the Eng-
lish.  Provisions, arms, and ammunition, ceased to be regularly sent to
their garrisons in Broughty, and the fort of Balgillo; and thus, on Fe-
bruary 20, 1550, they sell an easy prey into the hands of the allied
army of Scots, Germans, and French, commanded by Des Thermes, the
successor of D'Effe.  Both fortresses were then dismantled; and though
they have been more than once repaired and fortified, yet history describes
them as the scene of no action which merits record.  At present, there
are only a few vestiges of fortification to be seen on the bill of Balgillo;
and Broughtly castle is fast waiting down to ruin.


