
                        WESTRUTHER.                            81

the stumps of these old trees are visible in day weather, and not
unfrequently interpose unexpected obstacles to the work of the
mower. This close and stinied wood, surrounded as it was with
heather and bogs, gave the whole country an aspect of dreariness
and gloom.* If, however, the old natural wood has almost entirely
disappeared, its place has been more than occupied by more thriv-
ing and beautiful trees, planted by the hand of man. The sys-
tem of planting began during the time of the grandfather of the
present laird of Spottiswoode. It has been regularly carried on
ever since; and in consequence of the very spirited improvements
which the last twenty-five year have witnessed, a very large propor-
tion of the parish has been beautified and sheltered with wood.
Formerly it was thought the coldness of the climate was pre-
judicial to the growth of plantation; and it was even said, in the
Reports of the Agriculturists, that no trees would thrive on the
brow of the Lammer moor. Experience has shown that this opi-
nion was wrong, since one of the most thriving plantations on the
whole of Spottiswoode estate is at Bruntiburn, one of the highest
points in the parish. The failure and the stinted growth of trees
formerly arose not from the climate so much as from the mode of
planting on a wet soil, and in small belts, in which no shelter was
afforded. A more judicious system is how adopted, by first drying
the ground through drains, and by surrounding the more valuable
with meaner wood, whose quicker and luxuriant growth may defend
the infant sapling, till it in turn rises to maturity, when it can bid
defiance to the blast. It must not be supposed, from what has been
said of a regular and extensive system of planting being compara-
tively recent, that there are no old trees in the parish. There are
some of a great age, some planes, in particular, which are com-
puted to be about 500 years old. Larch may be said to be most
adapted to the climate; but trees of every kind, and of every name,
have been planted, and are flourishing.
   Improvements.-It may be mentioned, that a great deal has been
done here in the way of reclaiming waste lands, and of improving by
drains in various parts of West ruther. On the Spottiswoode estate
alone there is the astonishing number of thirty miles of drains inter-
spersed, from 5, 7, to 13 feet in depth. Besides, there are some thou-
sand roods of open cuts, averaging from 10 to 20 feet wide, and from
5 to 7 feet deep, which discharge a large body of water on the
eastern side into the Blackladder, and on the western side into one of

<FOOTNOTE>It was while wandering here, in solitary musing, that Home composed the
greater part of his Tragedy of Douglas.

   BERWICK.


