
154                     RENFREWSHIRE.

found, not exceeding 2 inches in thickness.  It is also found very
generally imbedded in the coals, in round balls.  Both the proto and
persulphuret of iron are abundant in the sandstone, coal, and alu-
minous schistus.
   Aluminous schist is abundant at Hurlet, and probably also in
other localities.  At Hurlet, it lies beneath a bed of limestone, and
rests on coal.  It contains much proto-sulphur of iron, and is
employed in the manufacture of the sulphurets of alumina and
iron.  The stratum Of aluminous schist varies in thickness from
6 inches to 3 feet and a-half.  When first exposed by the removal
of the subjacent coal, it is in the form of a hard compact rock, is
quarried with difficulty, and is composed for the most part of
proto-sulphuret of iron, alumina, and coaly matter.  Soon after
the coal is removed from the pit, (especially, if there be little cir-
culation of air,) the inferior surface of the schist becomes covered
with an efflorescence, which after the lapse of some time is found
to  penetrate through, its, whole thickness, splitting the rock into
laminae, and thus rendering it easily quarried.  After a still longer
period of time, it falls to the bottom of the mine by its own gra-
vity, and, from its light and spongy texture is termed chaff by the
workmen.  It then consists of minute whitish or greenish colour-
ed fibres of the sulphurets of alumina and iron.  Besides these sul-
phurets the Hurlet mines occasionally produce specimens of the
native sulphates of magnesia and of soda; the former of these
in the shape of beautiful crystalline fibres.  Its constituent parts
in the fully decomposed state have been found as follows:

<TABLE>
                  Water,            -    45 per cent
                  Sulphur,          -    25
                  Clay,             -    10
                  Oxide of iron,    -    20
                                        ---
                                        100

   Fire-clay occurs abundantly throughout the lower division of
the parish.  Its colour varies, being sometimes of a lead, at other
times of a nut-brown colour.  It is generally compact, hard, and
capable of resisting a very high temperature.  It generally assume
the form of beds or layers above and under coal, lime, &c. and
often cointains ironstone balls in considerable quantities.
   Bituminous shale occurs in great quantities, alternating with-
sandstone, limestone, coal, and ironstone; its layers varying from
ohe-eighth of an inch to ten inches and upwards in thickness.  It
contains innumerable impressions of reeds and bivalve shells, par-


