
                       EDDERTOUN.                        445

Though this individual, obscure and unnoticed in all worldly
respects, has entered "the land of forgetfulness" upwards of a cen-
tury ago, such is the veneration and respect in which his memory is
still held in this parish, that there are several individuals living who
were named after him, and even within the last three years there,
has been one added to the number. It was lately proposed to
erect a monument to Alexander Oag's memory in the churchyard
here, where a flat stone marks the place of his interment; but this
proposal, though not abandoned, has not yet been carried into
effect.
  Land-owners.-Sir Charles William Augustus Ross of Balna-
gown, Bart.; His Grace George Granville Sutherland, Duke of
Sutherland, K.G.; and Robert Bruce Eneas Macleod, Esq. of
Cadboll, are the land-owners in this parish: all of them being pro-
prietors of land upwards of the yearly value of L.50, and non-
resident.
  The following is the present valuation of their respective estates
in the parish of Eddertoun:-Balnagown, L.1138; Sutherland,
L.320; Cadboll, L.70, 10s.
  Estate of BaInagown.-The lands of Balnagown in this and the
nighbouring parish of Kincardine have been in the possession of

<FOOTNOTES>abilities to lead the conversation to religious subjects, and thus occupied the time
till he retired to rest. The wife, however, less satisfied with the honesty of her
guest than her unsuspicious husband, rose at an early hour on the following morn-
ing, and immediately went to her lodger's apartment to see if all was safe; but what
was her alarm on finding the beggar gone, and one of the most valuable webs of cloth
in the house carried off! The first expression of her feelings was to attack. Alexan-
der, for his imprudence in admitting the beggar contrary to her express desire; but
his calm and cool rejoinder was, " I appeal to the surety." The beggar, on starting
from Alexander's house with his ill-gotten booty, at an hour before sunrise, made the
best of his way towards Alness, over what was then a trackless moor, many miles in
extent; but being overtaken by a dense mist, (it was a morning in the " soute sea-
son,") he wandered about the whole day, without a glimmer of sunshine, or a path
which might guide him So a human habitation. At length, soon after nightfall, he
observed a feeble rush-lijht at a short distance, and, overjoyed at the prospect of shel-
ter, food, and rest, exerted his sinking energies, and reached the door of the cottage,
at which he knocked several times. A voice which seemed familiar to him inquired
from within "Who is there?" To which the weary traveller replied, "A perishing
man, who seeks admission in the name of mercy!" Upon this the door was opened,
and the beggar, sinking under fatigue and the weight of his burden, threw himself
down near the fire, and, with a groan, looked around to see where he was, and what
reception he was likely to get from the inmates. The "gudeman of the house" now
came forward, after closing the door, to untie the stranger's burden, which seemed to
oppress him with its weight, and administer consolation to his drooping spirits, when
he was startled by the shrill voice of his wife exclaiming, " turn out the thieving
villain, or he'll be making off with more of your webs, I'se warrant.'-" No, Peg-
gy," was the reply, " our property is sent back by the Surety, and for His sake the
poor man shall be sheltered and entertained this night too."
  The incident was made the occasion of imparting reproof and Christian instruction
by Alexander Oag to the poor beggar, who was deeply affected, and it is said perma-
nently, benefited under circumstances so remarkable.


