
     of St Andrew's.

hour with such as choose to employ him.  At Boarhills, in 
the east end of the parish, and in a centrical spot for 
the west end of the parish, are schools for English, writing,
and arithmetic.  The houses have been lately rebuilt or
repaired by subscriptions from the neighbouring proprietors
and tenants, with a little aid from the kirk-session.  The
salaries, L. 3 easch, are paid chiefly by the session.  A pa-
triotic club of farmers, in Boarhills and the neighbourhood,
having formed a stock purse, by a small monthly contribu-
tion, fines of absentees, etc. purchased an acre of land, a mort-
cloth, and a hearse; the profits of these are given for the 
encouragement of their schoolmaster.
   The established roll of those poor, who receive a week-
ly pension, and are supported to need that pension during 
life, is 47.  But besides this roll, there are many indigest
families, etc. who get occasional supply; and the amount
of this supply is in some years not much below that of the
weekly pensions.  The annual average of the funds under 
the administration of the session, is, 1.  Produce of all do-
nations, mortifications, legacies, etc. vested in one com-
mon subject of land, about L. 33. 2.  Weekly collections
at the church-doors, about L. 76. 3. Rent of seats in the 
chuch, marriage-duties, etc. about L. 14.  Out of this re-
venue, amounting to L. 123, besides the supply of the 
poor, there fall to be paid land-tax, communion-elements, 
salaries to clerks and village schoolmasters, burials of the poor,
repairs of seats, etc.  Over and above these funds already
mentioned, the late Principal Murison of the New Col-
lege, who died 30th July 1779, bequeathed L. 100 Ster-
ling to the session as trustees; the interest thereof to be dis-
tributed on the 30th July annually to decayed househol-
ders*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Here, as in every other part of the country, the price of provisions 
has been considerably advanced of late years.  Average prices now are 


