
356                           LANARKSHIRE.

water winding most circuitously along the bosom of the little val-
ley. On issuing from the town, Biggar water enters a fine open
vale, which includes the southern frontier of the parish, and extends
to the Clyde on the one hand, and the Tweed on the other. It
enters this vale about a mile and a-half from the Clyde, and after
receiving a small tributary which connects it with that river, pur-
sues its way to the Tweed. As the Clyde in high floods sends a
portion of its waters by this channel to the Tweed, Biggar water
may be said to unite these two great rivers. Indeed, the waters of
the one might all be conveyed without any great difficulty to the
other. The length of the vale which extends between them is 7
miles and its descent 25 feet. Biggar water, from its rise to its
judetion with the Tweed a little below Drummelzier, runs a course
of 9 miles. The only other stream worth mentioning is Candy-
burn, which rises in the north-east corner of the parish, divides it
for the space of 3 miles from Peebles-shire, and then falls into
Biggar water. The parish is well supplied with springs, but none
of them deserve particular notice.
	Mineralogy.--There are neither coal, limestone, nor freestone in
the parish, the predominating rocks being varieties of the secondary
trap and porphyry series of Jameson, (whinstone of the peasantry.)
Of these Plutonian masses the following thay be mentioned: green-
stone, amygdaloid, and porphyry. They are very untractable in
the hands of the mason, but when once built form an excellent
wall. Some fine pebbles and moss-agates are occasionally found
in the amygdaloid rock, but are confined to the south-west quarter
of the parish.
	Soils,--There are probably about 1000 acres of clayey soil, which
are very open, and rest on an open substratum of clay or gravel.
That of which there is the greatest quantity in the parish, and
which prevails particularly on the higher grounds, is a light black-
ish soil, incumbent on rotten whin. The epithet deaf is often ap-
plied in the district to this kind of soil, and it seems much im-
proved by the stimulus of lime. There are probably about 2000
acres of this; after which, there are pretty equal proportions of sand,
gravel, sandy loam, blackish loam, inclined to moss, and peat moss.
The whole arable land of the parish is well adapted to turnip hus-
bandry, and capable of being very easily drained where required.
	Botany.--There is little interesting under this head. We have
no natural woods, deep ravines, or any of those localities so much
prized by the botanist, who will here feel but little tempted to


