
250                       LANARKSHIRE.

tuated near where the palace now stands, was formerly called the
Orchard.
	Boundaries, Extent, &c.--The parish of Hamilton is situated in
the middle ward of the county of Lanark, (of which the town of Ha-
milton is the capital) between 55 48 and 55 43 18" north latitude.
From Maidenlee in the south to Bothwell Bridge in the north, it
is six miles in length; and from Rottenburn, where it meets with
the parish of Blantyre on the west, to the bank of the Clyde op-
posite Carbarns, where it comes into contact with the parish of
Dalserf, on the east, the distance is exactly the same across. The
Clyde forms the north and north-east boundaries for about five
miles, separating it from the parishes of Bothwell, Dalzel, and
Cambusnethan. On meeting with Dalserf, at the above point op-
posite Carbarns, the boundary line takes a south-west direction,
cutting off one house in the north-west end of the village of Lark-
hall, crossing, the Carlisle road about a furlong and a-half above
the fourteenth milestone from Glasgow; and reaching the Avon
opposite Fairholm, it runs along the banks of that water to Mill-
heugh Bridge. After this, the parish of Stonehouse forms the
south-east boundary for a mile and a-half. Between the farms
of Langfaugh and Craigthorn hill, the parish of Glasford coming
in, forms the south and south-west boundaries, as far as Rotten-
burn. From this point to Bothwell Bridge, the parish of Blan-
tyre forms the western boundary. Thus we have Bothwell on the
north, Dalzel, Cambusnethan, Dalserf, and Stonebouse on the
east, Glasford on the south and south-west, and Blantyre on the
west. The figure of the parish is an irregular polygon. It con-
tains 22.25 square miles, or 14,240 standard imperial acres.
	Topographical Appearances.--Linnaeus remarks, that the ocean
is the mother of the land; and it may be said with equal truth,
that the Clyde is the mother of the lower lands of Clydesdale.
This noble river, rising in the higher regions of Crawford, traver-
ses a whinstone or trap district till near the falls above Lanark.
Here the rocks suddenly change from crystalline trap to sand-
stone and shale. Through these softer materials the river seems
to have forced a way. From a mild and placid stream, gently
meandering through verdant meadows, and wide expanding pas-
tures, it becomes all at once a turbid, unruly, boisterous torrent,
deeply engulfed in gloomy defiles of perpendicular rocks, or rush-
ing headlong over lofty precipices. Below the falls, the banks be-
gin to expand, and at their bases fertile haughs or holms are form-


