
			BUITTLE.                             201

by flowing through Carlinwark loch and Glengagrie, and falling
into the sea at Orchardton bay, have formed the boundary on the
west side. This supposition is strengthened, and in some mea-
sure confirmed, by there being a place on this line denominated the
Doagh, which would then have been a station for catching salmon.
Besides, when the river Dee is swollen, it flows into Carlinwark
loch, and nothing prevents the water issuing from that loch in this
direction, but a narrow ridge of accumulated gravel at Burntstick,
elevated a few feet above its present level. The length of the pa-
rish from north to south is 10 miles, and its breadth, which is ir-
regular, may average about 3 miles.
	Topographical Appearance.-The surface is finely diversi-
fied with hill and dale, and though it does not abound with
grand and sublime prospects, affords much beautiful and pictur-
esque scenery. In the lower and middle districts, the ground is
broken and uneven, and frequently juts out into steep banks and
rocky knolls covered with furze and broom. In the upper dis-
trict, it presents a more level and arable appearance.
	It is evident that thd sea has receded from this coast, and that
at a former period it must have flowed up the Urr, as far as
Furth-head, or Frith-head, two miles from its present boundary,
and considerably above its present elevation at high water, cover-
ing a great extent of ground on each of its banks.
	Climate.-The climate is mild and salubrious, as the longevity
of many of the parishioners testifies. There are at present eight
individuals about 90 years of age; and sixteen individuals, either
upwards of 80 or approaching nearly to that age. Twelve years
ago, one individual died at the age of 103. There are no diseases
peculiar to the parish.
	Woods.-The cultivation of wood has been greatly extended
during the last forty years, and might be profitably extended still
farther. Much ground, at present waste and uncultivated, and
many places naked and exposed to every blast, might be protected
and sheltered, and rendered capable of producing both grain and
pasture of a better quality. The soil, climate, an& situation are
in general well adapted for planting and raising wood, as the ra-
pid growth of various kinds of trees testifies. In some of the
woods at Munshes, there are larches of thirty years' growth, girth-
ing four feet and a-half at three feet from the ground; some of
the poplar and willow tribes, not yet twenty years planted, girth-
ing four feet. The Spanish chestnut thrives well, and increases


