
266                    EDINBURGHSHIRE.

ten, himself an eyewitness. "With blode and slaughter of ye
enemie, this chase was continued v miles in length westward fro
the place of their standings, which was in ye fallow feldes of Un-
dreske, untille Edinborowe parke, and well nigh to the gates of the
toune itself, and unto Lyeth; and in breadth nie iiii myle, from
the Fryth sandes up unto Daketh southwards.  In all whiche space
the dead bodies lay as thik as a man may notte cattell grasing in
a full plenished pasture.  The ryvere ran al red with blood, soo
that in the same chase wear counted, as well by sum of our men that
sumwhat diligently did make it, as by sum of them take prisoners,
that very much did lament it, to have been slayne aboove xiii
tbousande.  In all thys cumpos of grounde, what with weapons,
armes, handes, legges, heddes, blood, and dead bodyes, their flight.
mought have easily been tracted to every of their iii refuges."*
   After the English army had pursued the Scots for five hours, they
found themselves beside their camp on Edmonston-Edge, where
they mustered, and gave a shout so shrill and piercing, as to be heard
on the streets of the capital.  But the evening being now advanced,
they again retired eastward, and, as Patten says, "This night with
great gladnes and thanksgiving to God, (as good cause we had,)
about vii of the clock we pitched our campe at Edgbuklyng Brae,
besyde Pinkersclough, and a mile beyond the place we camped at
afore."+ We make this circumstantial extract to show, that the
ranges of stone-coffins lately exposed all along this ridge were con-
nected with the events of this bloody day; as the same diarist,
continuing his narration, states, that, "in the morenyng, a great
sort of us rode to the place of onset, where our me lay slayn, and
what by gentlemen for their freinds, and servants for their masters,
all of the ye wear known to be ours wear buried."++  Sir John
Hope of Pinkie has planted a copsewood where the ranges of
stone-coffins were found here, to mark out the lines.
   This battle, more disastrous to Scotland than any since Flod-
den, was fought on the 10th of September.  In the February of
the, following year, Lord Grey, at the head of a powerful force,
agam entered.  Scotland, and, carrying his ravages through the
Merse and Afid-Lothian, razed the towns of Dalkeith and Mus-
selburgh. On this occasion all the archives and charters of the
burgh were taken away or destroyed.  The oldest now extant,

<FOOTNOTES>Patten's Expedicioun, p. 67-8.    Ibid. p. 73.
           Ibid, p.78.                       Tytler's History of Scotland, Vol. vi. p. 49.


