
284                        RENFREWSHIRE.

to the resolution adopted so early as August 1785; namely, to
"proportion the sum upon the heritors, householders, and tenants
in the parish, regulating the contribution to be paid by each indi-
vidual, by his property in the parish; his trade, his means, and
substance, and having regard to every circumstance that may ren-
der the contribution as equitable as possible." The stent-masters
are annually appointed at the general parochial meeting in the
month of June.
   Some years ago, the expediency of erecting an hospital or cha-
rity workhouse in the Abbey parish was seriously considered.
After due deliberation, it was finally resolved that the more advis-
able mode was that actually adopted, of supporting the poor in
their own houses or in the houses of their friends.  In a few spe-
cial cases, the overseers have obtained admission for their helpless
and lunatic paupers, to the Town Hospital of Paisley, on paying a
reasonable board.
   The following is the view given of "the duties of overseers" in
the parish minute of August 4, 1785.  It is well worthy of serious
attention.
   "Each of the overseers elected by the meeting shall take from
the poor's roll, a note of the poor that lie most convenient for his
inspection; but so that every poor person shall be under the in-
spection of some one of the overseers; and the overseer shall, be-
fore the ensuing meeting, inform himself minutely of the character,
the age, and circumstances of said poor; what relatives they have
to assist them; and what work they are able to do; so that the
overseer may know as accurately as possible, what sum may be ne-
cessary for their support, and that thus no more may be given than
what is absolutely so; and, as the prevention of any unnecessary
rise in the assessment will greatly depend upon the attention of
overseers to this part of their duty, it is unanimously agreed, that
every overseer shall, for every poor person whose circumstances he
has neglected to inquire into, forfeit the sum of five shillings Ster-
ling, to be applied to the use of the poor."
   Management of Poor in the Town Parishes by the Kirk-Sessions.
-The sessions of the three parishes within the bounds of the ori-
ginal burgh are distinct and independent in all matters of discipline,
but they form one general session for the care of the poor, by decreet
of the Court of Session 1782.  Under its exclusive management
are placed the collections at the three town's churches, sums aris-
ing from proclamation of banns, &c. &c.  The average of annual
collections at these churches for ten years prior to 1817 was


