
                        TIBEERMORE.                            1037

fi,ces are in good repair, and the acco mmodation ver ample. The
y
,stipend is 17 ebalder,.;, one-half barley and one-half meal.  There
are about 10 acres of grebe land, including the garden and the
ground occupied by the manse and offices.  The land is worth
about L. 2, 1 Os. per acre.
Education.-Tbere are two schools in the parish, viz. the p,-tro.
cbial school, in the neighbourhood of the church, and another at
Ruthven field.    The parochial school is taught by an assistant
teacher, who i-,-allowed a small sa-lary by the be-ritors, and rLI0 the
fee.q. The schoolmaster has retired, being allowed to retain the
schoolhouse, salary, and other emoluments.          The school is at-
tended, on an average, by about 40 children.  The school at Ruth-
ven field, with the exception of a free school-house, isentirely an
RdveDtUre school.  Mr Duncan, the master of the work, guatan-
tee,, L. 50 to the teacher, should the fees not amount to so much,
but the fees are supposed to be rather above than below that suryi.
This school is attended by about 60 cbildren through the day, and
nearly as many in the evening.      One great drawback to the edii'-
cation of this and many other parishes;, is the early Age at which
.Children are permitted to enter public works.       No one ought to
be permitted to receive into his service any young person without
,a certificate from his minister, testifying that fie can read the Serip-
tures with fluency, and write so as at least to be able to sign bis
own name.
Poor and Parochial Ftinds.-Tbere are about 20 regular pau.
pers on the r.oll, besides several occasional, who require tlssist-i
ance to pay their house rent and to procure coals in winter.  The
regular paupers receive from 4s.      ' to ]2s. per month, besides
house-re,nt and coal-money.  The fu-nds from which they are'rup-
plied are raised by assessment and chtirch-door collections.  The
assessment is levied only from the heritors and farmers, and
,amounts to about L.70, and the ehtirch-door collections aveirago
nearly L.50 annually.
Ale-houses.  '-There are 6 public-houses in the parish, which is
at least 4 more than there ought to be; but although it has been
triedi it has not hitherto been found practicable to lessen their
number.
Fuel.-Coal is the principal article employed for fuel, which
is brought to Perth in ships from Newcastle and the Fife collileries.

