
	194                    SUTHERLANDSHIRE.

        ries. which he describes is developed; and as his description is mi-
        nute and interesting, it is added in a note below.
    	About one-half of the whole stretch of sea coast in this parish, or
	from the west end of it to Port Gower, is a sandy beach, with the
	exception of low rocks covered during full tides, but forming nar-
	row promontories during low water, which, at irregular intervals,
	break the uniformity of the sandy beach; and, with the exception
	abso of occasional deposits of boulder stones of various rocks, pri-

<FOOTNOTE>After leaving Brora, the oolite strata are completely covered, until we arrive
	at Kintradwell, where a series is to be found dipping, in general north, at an angle
        of about 20&deg;. At a short distance from the House of Kintradwell, there is a beauti-
	ful example of what may be termed a false or pseudo-vein, which consists of a
	main of quartzose sandstone, 76 yards in length by two feet in breath, and
	traverses vertically slaty sandstone strata, inclined to the north northeast at
        20&deg;. Laying aside the species of rock which forms this veinous mass, every
	variety of form exhibited in the usual trap dikes, is to be found. It runs the
	same uninterrupted course, has the same definite lines of boundary, and in several
	places sends out lateral branches. Indeed, if we keep theory apart from facts, this is,
	as far as visible, as perfect a vein as any composed of a rock whose origin is consider.
	ed consonant with an eruptive and veinous form.  As a proof that the present posi-
	tion of this sandstone vein is not its original one, we may state that the remains of
	plants which occur in it are all arranged parallelly to the sides of the vein; where-
	as, if it had been quietly deposited in a previousli existing rent, they would all have
	had a more or les horizontal arrangement.
	  "Between Kintradwell and Helmadale, the oolite series, when visible over a consi-
	derable extent, affords marks of much derangement, and frequently dips within short
	spaces to various points at various angles. Associated vith the white lias sandstone
	near Fort Gower, one of the brownish red colour is to be met with, having the usual
	character of the red sandstone of the coal formation; shale also of green, purple,
	and brown shades, is found to alternate with it. On the shore at Helmsdale, at Loth,
	and several other points, the oolite sandstone occurs, containing beds of conglome-
	rate, composed of variously sized masses of the sandstones, shales, and limestones of
	the series; but this may easily be explained, by supposing, that, after the deposition
	of some of the strata, they were acted upon by destructive agents, and again reconso-
	lidated.  After leaving the junction at Clyne, no otber is discoverable until we ar-
	rive at the ravine of Alt Colle. Here the same conforrinability again appears, both
	series dipping in a disturbed manner. The quartz rock is the same as that already
	noticed, and in this and an adjoining glen, is found to afford numerous well-marked
	contortions. AtthebridgeofLoth-Beg,t)iequartzrockisreplacedbygranite,and
	an almost immediate junction of the oolite and the granite may be observed, the stra-
        ta of the former dipping, north north-east at an angle of 40&deg;. At Port Gower, this
	position is completely reversed, the lines of stratification, if prolonged, sinking un-
	der the granite.
	  "At tbe Green Table near the Ord of Caithness, and at several points along the
	shore, a conglomerate of the oolite series is found to rest immediately on the granite
        at angle of 40&deg;. Its apparently disturbed arrangement and mode of formation, have,
	by- Professor Sedgwick and Mr Murchison, been explained by referring them to the
	action of the granite; the fact of its not being indurated or traversed by veins, being
	considered as explicable by supposing that the-granite had been elevated in a solid
	state after its original fluid protrusion through the primitive strata. One reason for
	not adopting this tbeoretical view, exists in the fact, that the same conglomerate may be
	found, connected with the sandstones of the series, at points where there is no granite
	in the neighbourhood. To say that highly inclined and miineralogically unaltered
	strata, when in connection with granite, have assumed their angular position, by the
	granite belong upheaved in a solid state, is a doctrine which is completely unsupport-
	ed by all that is known in regard to volcanic dynamics, and exists only as a very un-
	warantable hypothesis. To imagine that all rocks inclined at high angles have been
	upreised subsiquintly to their formation, roust-lead to very false conclusions; and
	can never be adopted to its full extent, by any who have exannined the disposition of
	mountain debris, and high angle at which a talus may be accumulated."


