
        40                    ROSS AND CROMARTY.

	known in some seasons, though not with any degree of violence,
	to continue for a week, beginning at noon and ending at sunset.
	Any instances, however, of houses being struck by lightning or of
	loss of life thereby, whether of man or beast, the oldest persons living
	never saw or heard of.  In winter when loose and open, thunder
	storms have occurred but very seldom.  The polar lights are visible
	almost every night after the autumnal equinox, often before.  They
	were distinctly visible this year about the 1st of August, or even
	about the middle of July.  It has been ascertained by observa-
	tion, that when close to the verge of the horizon, they indicate
	loose stormy weather; when more elevated, fair but frosty weather.
	About four years ago, the aurora asummed here an unusually
	striking and magnificent appearance.  It was observed at midnight
	and about the middle of October, shooting along the whole extent
	of the upper region of the sky; and, after assuming various fantas-
	tic shapes, it formed itself into an immense arch resembling a rain-
	bow, diffusing over the heavens a pale but vivid light, and giving
	a most unearthly appearance.  The climate in general, however,
	is certainly salubrious.  The people are healthy, and many among
	them attain to a very advanced age.  The oldest man in the parish
	is now entering his 109th year.  Epidemic distempers are rare;
	and the Asiatic cholera, which, in 1832, so fatally visited the sur-
	rounding parishes of Avoch, Cromarty, and Kilmuir Wester, and
	Suddie, appeared in this parish only in the case of one man, who
	recovered after a comparatively short but severe illness.
	   Hydrography--Friths.--The only Frith or arm of the sea in
	this parish is, as already mentioned, the Frith of Cromarty, or per-
	haps, more property speaking, the estuary of the river Conon, a
	large and beautiful stream, which runs into the Frith 1 1/2 mile above
	Dingwall, and about 7 miles beyond the western boundary of this
	parish.  The extreme length of the Frith from the town of Ding-
	wall to the Sutors of Cromarty, may be about 23 1/2 miles.  Its
	depth varies, but does not exceed 20 fathoms.  Its water parti-
	cularly at the west end of the parish, are brackish, and during the
	winter floods, and at low water, almost fresh, and of a deep brown
	colour.  There are no quick-sands on this side of the Frith, with
	the exception of a single spot from which clay formerly had been
	dug immediately below the House of, Poyntzfield; but there are
	very dangerous ones on the opposite side, particularly in the bay
	of Nigg, where many lives have been lost.
	   Springs, Rivalets, &c.--The north side of the parish is totally


