
214    			DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

road, measuring three and a-halfmiles, divides it nearly into two
dqual parts. On these lines of road, there are two bridges, in good
repair, over the Water of Milk. The Glasgow and London mail,
and occassionally a heavy coach, run daily along this road.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The church, at the utmost extremity of
the parish, is situated most incoveniently for the people; it is
sufficiently large, and in toler`ble repair. * The sittings are 300.
The manse and offices were built in the year 1785, for the sum
of L.374. These have been repaired four times at the ex-
pense of L.457. Half of this sum laid out a great deal of money.
The last repair of the manse, executed only three years since, has
made it as comfortable a house as could be wished. The glebe,
measuring thirty-five acres Scotch, is valued at L.40 rent. The
whole teind is surrendered, amounting to L.174, 16s.0 4/12d. The
church is tolerably well attended. Its great distance from two,
thirds of the people affords an indifferent plea for non-attendance
to the nominal Christian, and a good one to the old and infirm.
The average number of communicants is 140. There is no dis-
senting place of worship. The individuals dissenting are, of Roman
Catholics 4; Episcopalians 4; Seceders 30.
	Education.--One parish school established in the year 1704,
and an occassional private one during the winter months, are the
only public seminaries of education. The school-house is situated
in the very centre of the parish, as conveniently as the church is
the very reverse. The branches of education taught, besides the
ordinary, are Latin, Greek, and French languages. The salary
is the maximum. The present master is burdened with a retired

<FOOTNOTE>It may be proper to state, that tradition has preserved the reason why the church
of this parish is so incoveniently situated. The people having resolved many cen-
turies since to build a church under the invocation of the far-famed St Kentigernus,
commenced their labours on the activity of Nutholm hill. This spot, it seems, did
not please the saint; for what the people built of the church during that day, the saint
pulled down during the night. After much consideration, it was resolved to untie
the horse of a widow, celebrated for her sanctity and devotion to our celestial patron,
and wherever this animal shoulf finally settle, the spot was to be considered as fixed by
the saint, on which hos fane should be erected. The animal settled on the rich pas-
tures of the Annan; the people were satisfied that their heavenly friend having now
fixed his sanctuary on this place, their work suffered no further interruption. Dur-
ing the measuring off of the church-yard, the spirit of the river (kelpie) perceiving
too penurious a disposition prevailing, ordered the boundaries to be enlarged, for in
one day it would be filled by the bodies of the slain. He also was obeyed, and the last
incumbent having got one rood inclored for the burial ground, very songly added an
acre and a-half of the best land in the parish to his glebe.


