
                           STAIR.                        647

mated at L. 1 per head. There are very few young horses bred
in the parish, probably not more than ten annually; 5 acres. of
orchard at L.9 per acre. Hay cultivated may yield about L. 1000.
	There are about 20 men employed at the coal works of Dron-
gan, but they have not constant work thoughout the year. The
output of coal is not allowed to exceed 20 creels, (which is some-
thing, short of three tons) per day.

                          V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Market-Town.--Ayr is the nearest market-town, and is about
eight miles from the centre of the parish. The post-office at Tarbol-
ton is the nearest; but, upon the whole, the eastern and western quar-
ters have readiest communication with Mauchline and Ayr. At the
coal-works of Drongan, there is a collection of houses, affording ac-
commodation for fifteen or sixteen families, and another in the mid-
quarter inhabited by six or seven families; but no village, properly so
called. The parish is intersected by two turnpike roads, which are
about six miles in extent. On that leading from Cumnock to Ayr, a
coach travels on Tuesdays and Fridays, the market days in Ayr.
There are three bridges over the Water of Ayr. The upper one is
very ancient, but in a complete state of repair; the lower, consisting
of two arches, was built in 1745 at a very considerable expense; that
in the middle was erected at the private cost of the late Sir Thomas
Miller, near his house of Barskimming. It consists of one arch,
which is more than 70 feet in the span, and about the same in
height above the medium depth of the river, and has often
tempted both the-professional and amateur artist to, exercise the
pencil.
       Ecclesiastical State.--The form of the parish is somewhat tri-
Angular. The church stands in the north corner near to Stair
House and is about three miles and a-half from the one extremity of
the parish, and nearly five from the other. A site more convenient,
upon the whole for the population could hardly have been chosen
The church is roofed over many years ago, and re-seated. Still
it is too small. It is known however, that the heritors are con
vinced of the propriety of builing a new one ere long. The
manse was built in 1807, and is in good repair. The glebe ex-
tends to about 30 acres, and would let perhaps for a little more
than L. 80. The stipend, by decreet of the Court of Teinds in
1816, amounts to 14 chalders, half meal, half barley together with
an allowance of L. 8, 6s. 8d. Sterling, for communion elements.
	The number of fanilies in the parish is 144, ten of which belong


