
48                        ROSS AND CROMARTY.

policies around the mansion-house were much improved by the first
proprietor of the name of Munro, upwards of half a century ago,
by trenching and planting. The trees have since attained to a
great size, and are a very great ornament. Major Munro, since
his accession to the estate, has very much added to those im-
provements. There is only one farm of an extent, occupied by a
tenant. The remaining part of the estate is in the hands of small
tenants and crofters. The other properties in the parish are those
of Braelangwell, belonging to Duncan Davidson, Esq. of Tulloch,
a small property once highly improved, but of late much ne-
glected ; Drimcudden, another small property lately improved, and
at present in the hands of the Trustees of the late Donald M'Ken-
zie, Esq. of Newhall, consisting principally of church lands, and
paying a heavy rent to the Crown; Kinbeachie, the property of
Thomas Urquhart, Esq. who has also much improved the lands,
and intends soon to build a handsome mansion-house upon them;
East Culbo, the property of Dr M'Kenzie, occupied until very
lately by small tenants but all of whom are now removed, and the
whole property thrown into a large farm, which Dr M'Kenzie has
highly and judiciously improved by trenching and planting; Wood-
head, a small farm occupied by a tenant and crofter, the property
of Lady M'Kenzie of Avoch; * West Culbo, a part of the estate
of Sir James W. M'Kenzie of Scatwell, Bart. on which no improve-
ments have been made; Gordon's Mills, a part originally of the es-
tate of Newhall, the property of John M'Leod, Esq. On all those
properties, the tenants are rack-rented, and the old rule of meliora-
tions, so great a bar to agricultural improvement, is rigidly adhered
to; by that rule, the incoming tenant at entry pays to the outgoing
tenant a sum of money, being the valuation of the dwelling-house
and farm-steading; and it not unfrequently happens that the houses
are valued at a very high rate when they are so ruinous as scarcely
to be habitable.
				III-POPULATION.
   The population of the united parish, about seventy years ago,
appears to have far exceeded its present amount. The reasons of
this are very obvious. Small farms and even crofts have been, since
that time, thrown into large ones. The present incumbent has been
in the practice of taking a list of the population annually, during

<FOOTNOTE>The late Sir Alexander M'Kenzie, her husband, began to improve this property
about fifteen years ago, but since his death nothing further has been done.


