
678			AYRSHIRE.

	The only other relics of antiquity worthy of notice are two old
encampments on the heights above the farm of Harpercroft. "The
largest of these," in the words of the former Statistical Account,
"contains within a circular embankment of loose stones and earth,
ten acres of ground, and there is an inner circle of the same kind,
and from the same centre, which incloses one of these acres. The
other encampment is about 200 yards distanl. No artificial work
has been raised on its north-east quarter, the steepness of the de-
clivity being a sufficient defence. But on the south and west,
the circular embankment is strong, and within is a platform
not exceeding an acre in extent." The construction of these
works is popularly ascribed to the Romans, though the absence
of the ditch or fosse may be considered by antiquarians as
conclusive against this opinion, and it is believed that all un-
doubted remains of Roman encampments are of a rectangular
form, as might be expected from the minute description given by
Polybius, Lib. i. On suggesting, however, to a gentleman con-
nected with the parish, of long military experience and considera-
ble antiquarian research, the possibility that the prevailing opinion
might be correct, he said, "That the same thought had often oc-
curred to himself--that he considered the Romans too wise a peo-
ple to adhere with mathematical strictness to any one form of en-
campment, and that this would naturally vary according to the na-
ture of the ground on which it was raised." This is the opinion
of an intelligent soldier, who knows what fighting means; and we
think it has at least common sense to support it. But whether
they are Roman or Scandinavian, we pretend not to decide. The
only way to settle the question satisfactorily, would be to send the
ploughshare through them in search of old coins, or fragments of
armour; a mode of investigation perhaps not quite to the taste of
the genuine antiquarian; but one which time may nevertheless ere
long bring to pass.
	Buildings.--Of these, there are none of a public kind, except
the churches, deserving of any notice. There are, however, se-
veral mansion-houses of plain, but handsome appearance. Fullar-
ton, Fairlie Shewalton, Newfield, Hillhouse, and Curreath, are
all comparatively modern buildidgs, suited to the extent of their
respective estates, and kept at present in very good repair. The
material of which they are built is chiefly whinstone--this being
most abundant; but freestone, of late years, has been principally
used, even in edifices of much humbler pretensions, where out-


