
     of Leochel.

   Eminent Men.-None have made any respectable figure, ei-
ther in learning or eminence, except the Forbes's of Corse.
Patrick Forbes, 5th laird of Corse, was elected Bishop of A-
berdeen in 1618, and died in 1635.  His son, Dr John For-
bes of Corse, a man of great learning and abilities, filled the
chair of Divinity Prosessor at King's College, Aberdeen, till
he was expelled by the Covenanters.  Of three younger bro-
thers of the Bishop, one having acquired a large fortune at
Dantzig, purchased the lands of Craigivar and Fintray, and
was ancestor of the present Sir William Forbes of Craigivar;
another died minister of Delft in Holland, and was father of
Patrick Forbes, Bishop of Aberdeen; and a third, having made
a considerable fortune in Ireland, was progenitor of the Earls
of Granard, in that kingdom.

<FOOTNOTE>

morning the battle or Alford, when he went and joined Montrose against the
Covenanters, who got a total defeat.
   In this parish there are nine large tumuli or cairns; without any broad flat
stones on the top, but some of them are hinged round with large stones; and
have the remains of Druidical temples hard by them.  Some of these temples
are composed of two and three circles of erect stones.  There have been more
cairns in the parish, which have been removed for building houses and sold-
dykes.  Where they stood, there still remain visible stone coffins, where urns
have no doubt been dug up.  A few years ago, human hones were found in
one of the largerst cairns upon the estate of Lenturk, a good way from the
bottom, without any stone coffin enclosing them.  The stones of all the cairns
are in general very small.-On the brow of the hill of Corse, nearly oppo-
site to the castle, there is in a rock a small natural cave, called the Laird's hul-
ing-bole; and said to be the place where Dr Forbes of Corse frequently conceal-
ed himself during the troublesome times of the Covenanters.
   On the top of the hill of Corse there are two or three long trenches, sup-
posed to be the camp or fortification of Malcolm or Macbeth; and near
this there are a great number of small tumuli, now overgrown with short heath,
which may be the repositories of those killed in battle at that time.  At a
small distance from these, and on the same hill, it is said Macduff killed Mac-
beth; where there is a large cairn, still called Macbeth's-cairn; and in which,
a great many years ago, some old arms were found.

