
			BLANTYRE.                         317

There are two seams, one about 20 inches thick, and a second 3
feet, or 3 1/2 feet thick. The space between these seams is filled
up with 18 or 20 inches of blaes or pullet, full of shells and other
organic remains. The upper seam is about 28 feet from the sur-
face. It is a dark brown limestone, excellent for the mason and agri-
culturist, but too coarse for plaster. Limestone has also been wrought
on a small scale at Calderside. Ironstone abounds in this parish.
At Blackcraig, near Calderwood, on the borders of the parish,
seventeen seams of ironstone may be counted, the one above the
other; a sight, it is believed, not to be met with anywhere else in
the world. Ironstone is wrought in the Basket mines, the mouths
of which are in Kilbride; but the beds of minerals run into the
parish of Blantyre. The upper seam, called No. 1, consists of
a small band about 6 inches thick. No. 2 is about 7 inches thick,
and, like all the other seams, lies in small bands or joints like flags
of pavement. Between this and the upper band the seams of
limestone above alluded to occur, and about 10 feet of blaes
(slate clay and bituminous shale,) full of ironstone balls. No. 3
is from 4 to 14 inches thick;--its average thickness may be
about 10 inches. There is a good seam of balls between this
seam and No. 2, and from 4 to 6 feet of blaes. Beneath
No. 3 there is a seam called the Lunker band, which consists of
great balls lying in no regular position. But the richest seam of
all is that called the Whitestone, 25 fathoms below No. 3; like it,
this seam lies in joints, and is of the same thickness. Clay dikes
intersect the mines in different directions, which always throw the
metals up or clown, in proportion to their thickness. A white sort
of substance, like cranreuch or hoar-frost, which almost melts
away when grasped in the hand, is also occasionally found adher-
ing to the roof and sides of the mines. This is an efflorescence of
alumina, and is found in various parts of Europe in aluminous schist.
The section of rocks seen at Calderside consists, first, of the upper
or anvil band of limestone, about 14 inches thick. It derives its
name from the lime rock being dislocated throughout, and appa-
rently weather worn, so as to form blocks resembling a blacksmith's
anvil, and some of them are not unlike the skeleton of a horse's
head. These are probably some of the figured stones alluded to
in the last Statistical Account. Below this band, there is a stratum
of 10 feet of blaes (slate clay and bituminous shale); this is suc-
ceeded byt the middle seam of limestone 2 feet thick, beneath which
is 3 feet of blaes, (slate clay and bituminous shale,) overlaying


