
			LUNDIE AND FOWLIS.                        457

various. For the most part, however, it is a deep, free, black soil,
capable of raising all kinds of crop, though, from the elevation,
wheat is sown but sparingly. On the higher grounds, it is thin
and sharp, and in the low grounds large tracts of marshy land,
formerly a nuisance, and now of great value, have lately been re-
claimed by draining. This has had the double effect of adding con-
siderably to the extent of cultivation, and of improving the surround-
ing district by its favourable influence on the climate, which is thus
rendered earlier, and less liable to mildew. Few parishes have made
more rapid progress than this during the last twenty years, and,
in point of draining, enclosing, `nd farm-steadings,-these great
essentials in agriculture,-it will compare advantageously with dis-
tricts more favoured by nature. At least 100 acres more will ere
long be put with profit under the plough.
        Mineralogy.-The district affords nothing particularly attrac-
tive to the mineralogist. In the lower part, the common gray
freestone prevails, and the surrounding hills are mostly trap,
resting on freestone, confirming the idea generally adopted,
that they have been thrown up from beneath by the action
of fire.-The zoologist will find all the animals common to such
a district, with one addition somewhat rare, namely, a beauti-
ful and powerful game hawk that frequents the Crag of Lundie,
and breeds there. This splendid bird, however, is not likely to
be long a denizen, as he is sadly out of favour with the game-
keepers.

                        II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
        Land-owners.-The whole parish belongs to the ancient family
of Duncan of Lundie, now the noble family of Camperdown, ex-
cept one small farm-Ledecrieff, lying to the north of the Sidlaw
hills, which belongs to Lord Douglas Gordon Hallyburton, M. P.
for the county, and brother of the present Marquis of Huntly. *
        Eminent Men.-Admiral Lord Viscount Duncan.-The name
of this eminent individual is familiar to every reader of British
History, and his connexion with the parish of Lundia is, that his
parents generally resided at Lundie Castle, in the parish that
during his life he was almost sole proprietor, and that he is buri-
ed in the family burying place in this church-yard. He was born
in Dundee on the 14th July 1731. His father was Alexander
Duncan Esq. of Lundie. His mother was the heiress of Glen-

<FOOTNOTE>1842. Now succeeded by his nephew, Lord John Frederick Gordon, third son of
the Marquis of Huntly.


