
		KIRKPATRICK-FLEMING.                            275

	Meteorology.--The temperature of the atmosphere in general,
and in some particular seasons, is remarkably mild. The thermo-
meter ranges from about 28&deg;1 in winter to 76&deg; in summer on Fahren-
heit's scale. In different seasons, it has been found to stand above
80&deg;1. The rains which prevail most, are towards the beginning of
August and the end of September; they are well known by the
names of the Lammas and equinoctial rains. Frequent and strong
gusts of wind, accompanied with heavy rains from the west and
south, are often experienced. In the winter months, too, continued
and heavy rains frequently fall. But the rain which falls in this
quarter is vastly different from the cold rains and hoar-fogs to which
the eastern coasts are exposed. The winds that prevail in summer
and harvest are from the west and south and in winter and spring
from the east and north. It has long been observed here, that
when the heavy and extensive clouds, which sometimes rest upon
the summit of Skiddaw, to the south of this parish, are borne on
the wind, and carried northwards; and when the clouds, which often
encircle the top of Criffel, which lies westward in East Galloway
are driven towards the land, rain soon follows.  Hence the old
rhyme,
		      When the mist takes the sea
		      Fair weather it will be;
		      But when the mist takes the land
		      We expect rain off the sand.
Snow, of which there are seldom heavy falls, does not lie long.
Though the climate is variable and uncertain, yet it cannot justly
be said to be unpropitious either to plants or animals. Many per-
sons are grievously afflicted with rheumatism in the spring, and to-
wards the end of autumn. But as the country around this is level
and open, and rarely infested with fogs, the air, upon the whole, is
pure; and as it lies at a short distance from the Solway Frith, a
considerable portion of it is low and warm. The farmers generally
begin to sow about the middle of March, and to reap towards the
middle of Augurt. Epidemic diseases and malignant fevers seldom
make their appearance.
	Hydrography.--This parish is abundantly supplied with peren-
nial springs of the purest water, which is generally, of a soft quality.
These springs flow from sandstone, in some places of a dark red,
in other places of a gray colour, and occasionally from limestone;
or they issue from gravel-be1ds or fissured rocks.  About a quarter
of a mile from the mansion-house of Springkell, there is a very re-


