
			PERTH,				67

   After the Reformation, James VI. in 1569, with the advice of
the Regent Murray, founded by charter an hospital, to be called
in all time coming King James's Hospital of Perth. The foun-
dation was confirmed by a new charter, which he granted when he
came to full age in 1587, * and both were confirmed by an act of
Parliament in 1587. By these charters and some subsequent acts
of Parliament, the minister and elders of Perth were made the go-
vernors of the hospital.  They were established as a civil corporation
in the name and on the behalf of thepoor members of Jesus Christ
residing and abidi7q in the burgh of Perth, with power to hold le-
gal courts with their dtes and ammerciaments, and to have tenan-
tries, and the service of free tenants." The masters of the hos-
pital, were to be annually chosen by the governors, were to
produce their accounts not only to the governors and to the super-
intendents of the county who were a kind of temporary bishops,
and thereby acted with a degree of civil power, but also when re-
quired in the Court of Exchequer.  For the support of the hospi-
tal, the King assigned all the lands, rents, and emoluments which
belonged to the monasteries, churches, chapels, and altars within
the liberty and privilege of the burgh of Perth, and also what was
paid out of the liberty and privilege thereof, to any other such re-
ligious places in the kingdom.  But this splendid endowment has
been much diminished, partly through mismanagement, partly
through the change in the value of the current coin, and partly
through the violent seizure of portions of the property by commu-
nities and influential individuals.
   This hospital has been the means of preserving ancient records.
more fully in Perth, than they are in most other places.  The acts,
and canons which were made by the annual assemblies or national
councils of the clergy of Scotland, and which are said to'have been

<FOOTNOTE>When James, having attained the age of twenty-one, passed the famous act of
the gener`l revocation of church lands, it became necessary that the rights of the hos-
pital should,be renewed; and more especially as the former gift of hospitality had been
granted during the King's minority, money, as well as interest at court, it might be
expected, would be requisite for that purpose, both because of the composition money
which the King might demand as the re-purchase of the gift, and because of the cus-
tomary expenses of employing lawyers, and of getting deeds expedited by the officers
of the crown.
   The commissioner from the burgh of Perth to the Parliament (held in Edin-
burgh 1587) was William Fleming, a man of great plainness and integrity, one of the
most popular and respectable citizens in his day.  He. was in great favour with, the
Chancellor Maitland, Lord Thirlestane cheifly through the Chancellor's lady, who was
Jane Fleming, daughter and sole heiress of James the fourth Lord Fleming, and to
whom William claimed kindred. The signals services done by this individual to the
hospital. and the manner in which the gift was obtained, appear in a curious letter,
which is preserved in an old hospital rent-book, sometime before 1655.


