
90                           PERTHSHIRE.

more openly daring, it will not be denied, on the other, that moral
characters have stood forward more openly and avowedly. The
religious character of the people may, in some measure, be inferred
from the fact that, exclusive of a Roman Catholic chapel, there are
nineteen places of public worship in the parish to a population of
20,016. I am not aware of how the matter stands with respect to
the other places of worship in the parish; but this I know, that
there is this year, in the establishment churches, a greater num-
ber of sittings taken than there was in any precdding year.
  There are persons among us who openly profess infidel prin-
ciples, and some, also, who openly disregard all religious ordinances,
and, what in this country is uniformly symptomatic of an abandon-
ment of all feeling of religious propriety, there are some tradesmen
who walk abroad on the Lord's day in their ordinary workhng
habiliments, as if to show a marked contempt of what the com-
munity in general hold to be sacred. With the exception of these
characters, who are generally held in the lowest estimation by their
fellow townsmen, the inhabitants of the parish are entitled to the
appellation of a moral and religious people.
  There is no "poaching in game or the salmon-fisheries." Smug
gling some years ago prevailed to a great extent, but it has now very
much decreased-whisky being obtained from legal distilleries of
a superior quality, and at as low a price as it can be obtained from
smugglers. Pawnbroking is carried on to a very small extent.
There are several brokers; almost all of them are of the lowest
order of Irish Roman Catholics.

                           IV.-INDUSTRY.
  Agriculture.-The number of acres in the parish of Perth, either
cultivated or occasionally in tillage, is 2606, standard imperial
measure, or about 2032 Scotch. It has been all, at one time or ano-
ther, cultivated. The two Inches have for a very long period been
in pasture. There is no undivided common. There are about
750 acres of wood; all planted. The kinds are almost entirely
Scotch pine and larch. The management is good.
  The average rent of arable land is L.3, 12s 5d. per acre. Some
fields are so high as L.5 per acre. There are no lands let for
grazing dxcept the Inches. The lessee is bound by his tack, which
is from year to year, not to charge more than L.2, 2s. for each
cow. Many, however, are admitted for less than that sum. Sheep
are not pastured on it for the year. That was prohibited  in 1697,
and the prohibition has continued in force ever since. The lessee
				4

