
334                        BERWICKSHIRE.

metic, including practical mathematics, navigation, and other
branches, 5s. for Latin, French, &c. 7s. 6d., and for Greek, 10s. 6d.:
when English grammar is added to any of the preceding, 6d. ex-
tra is charged quarterly. The amount of fees received by the
teacher of the parish school varies from L. 25 to L. 30 a-year.
In one of the private schools the same branches of education are
taught as in the parish school, and the fees, it is believed, are some-
what similar to those mentioned; in the other, English reading,
writing, and arithmetic only are taught. In the female schools,
sewing, reading, &c. are taught. Not above two or three indivi-
duals are known to the writer who are not able to read, and these
are persons somewhat advanced in life. Among the young such a
thing can now scarcely happen; as, independently of the moderate
sum charged for instruction, the heritors, for many years past, have
been in the habit of paying the fees of those who, from poverty or
other causes, are thought entitled to that accommodation. A re-
ligious society in the town also expends its funds in the education
of the children of poor fishermen. In general, it may be stated
that the people are anxious to obtain education for their children,
and that the facilities for that purpose now enjoyed have had their
usual effects in the improvement of the manners and general good
conduct of the parishioners. Two Sabbath schools are also taught
in the town; one in the church by the minister, parochial school-
master, and other assistants; the other by one of the private
teachers.
   At the examinations in March last, the number of scholars at-
tending all the schools in the parish was 191.
   Literature.-A parochial library, consisting chiefly of books of
divinity, history, biography, &c. was established by general sub-
scription in the year 1821. The funds were increased by a very
handsome donation of L. 10 from George Buchan, Esq. of Kelloe,
and since that period a collection has been made in church at least
once a-year for its benefit. From these causes it is now in a
prosperous condition. The yearly subscription is two shillings.
   Charitable Institutions.-A Friendly Society was established in
this parish in the year 1759; and, with varying prosperity, it has
existed ever since. Like many institutions of the same nature,
being founded on erroneous principles, it was, a few years ago,
brought to the brink of ruin. At that period, however, the an-
nual subscriptions of its members were increased, and the allow-
ances to sick were diminished, in accordance with the tables pub-
lished by the Highland Society; and it is now once more in a safe


