
     of Unst, in Shetland.

snipes, red-shanks, herons, tirricks, (such is the vulgar
name), black-heads, eagles, merlins, goshawks, ravens,
crows, allens, starlings, grey linnets, larks, sparrows, robins,
wrens, horse-gauks, corncraiks, land-larks, and stone-chat-
ters.  The birds of passage are swans, snow-flakes, and a
few owls.  The sea-fowls that haunt these shores are auks
or marrots, gulls, and these several varieties, cormorants,
kittiweaks, tomnorries, lyres, calloos, wild geese, and ember
geese.  The eagles, which are of the species commonly de-
nominated Eern, are very ravenous and destructive among
the lambs; and the ravens and crows are little less so, at
least in proportion to their size.  By the police of the coun-
try, a reward of 3 s. and 4 d. may be claimed by very
person who kills an eern; 3 d. for a corbie or raven, and 2 d-
for a crow.  These rewards are paid by the Commissioners
of the land-tax, at fight of the heads of the fowls that have
been killed.  The neighbourhood of Burra-firth, for 3 or 4
miles westward, is frequented by innumerable flocks of
migratory birds.  The Kittiweaks are, however, most
numerous.  Their nests are placed usually upon the
heights of rocks, and on the brink of precipieces, 60 or 100
fathoms high and in many places projecting awfully over
the depth below.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Although, in situations seemingly so inaccessible, yet these nests are
plundered by the inhabitants, in spring, of many of the eggs, and in Au-
gust, of the young fowls.  The danger attending this robbery of the nests,
does not deter the plunderers.  They sometimes fail boats to the bot-
tom of the precipices, and climb upwards; sometimes they approach the
brink above, and let each other down by hopes.  Even at night, so fearless
are these inflanders, they will wander among the rocks, to suprise the old
fowls upon the nests.  The female parent often exhibits, upon such occa-
sions, remarkable proofs of natural affection, beating the invader with her
wings, pecking him with her bill, and even suffering herself to be taken
upon the nest, rather than desert the protection of her young.  The eggs
and carcases of these fowls, form a considerable part of the food of the in-
habitants upon these coasts, in the season when they are to be obtained.
The feathers are also an article of considerable value.


