
     	590                       PERTHSHIRE.

	acres of turnips, 8 acres of potatoes, and 80 tons of hay, clover,

	and rye-grass.
    At Mr M'Isaac's distillery, the malt made from 10th October
	1835 to 10th October 1836 was 7098 bushels.  The whisky dis-
	tilled during the same period was 18,546 gallons; and the whisky
  sold and consumed within the parish, 1498 gallons.
     Manufactures.-The manuf`bture of cotton and woollen cloth
  is carried on in this parish.  The hand-loom cotton weavers are
	employed by houses in Glasgow and Perth.  Durinf the winter
  months, 136 hand-loom weavers are employed; and of these one-
	tenth are employed only during three months of winter.  The re-
  maining 120 may, on an average, earn 1s. per day, for 280 days in
  the year,-that is, deducting thirty days in harvest, and Sundays
	and other occasional vacant davs, sixty-five.   Of these there are
	about 50 heads of families who have each good gardens, and a
  patch of potatoes and a pig, which may add about L. 4, 10s. to
	each family's income.
	  The only woollen manufacture is carried on at the river Led-
	nock, in the village of Comrie.  Eleven men and eight children are
	employed at the mill, and five persons are employed out-of-doors.
    There are several streams in the parish, affording excellent
	water-power for manufactures, which might afford eligible in-
	vestments for capital, were the contemplated railroad brought to
	the neighbourhood.  But the distances from market, and commu-
	nication, and coals, will always form a heavy drawback.

                           V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
     The village of Comrie, with the adjoining villages of Dalginross
	and Ross, contains a population of 1469.  The chief trade is cot-
  tnn weaving. It is a burgh of barony.  The baron bailie appointed
  by the superior, Sir David Dundas, resides in Perth. There are
  a number of constables, and one is paid by the heritors, to peram-
	bulate the villages and keep away vagrants.  There is much need
	of an effective system of police for all the villages in this part of
  Perthshire.  The four villages of Comrie, Dalginross, Ross, and
	St Fillans have populations respectively of 978, 337, 154, 197.
	Crieff, in which is hold a weekly market, is six and a-half miles
	distant from Comrie.
     Means of Communication.-In Comrie, there is a sub-post office
	to Crieff; its annual revenue is about L. 120. The length of
	turnpike roads does not exceed twenty miles.  No public carriage
	travels upon them.  There is a weekly carrier to Edinburgh and


