
                             ERSKINE.                       501


the parish, towards the Clyde, Presents much the same appear-
ance, from its numerous diluvial rising grounds, as the neighbour-
ing parish of Inchiunan. Between the new mansion-house, at Ers-
kine, and the West Ferry, opposite Dumbarton rock, along the
banks of the Clyde, there is a considerable quantity of low-lying
alluvial land6 which has, evidently been grained, in fotmer times, from
the river, by successive depositions of loam and mud left by the
stream, and by means of dikes and jetties, which have been con-
structed for deepening and rendering navigable the Clyde,--a si-
milar formation of alluvial land is now slowly going on. At the
west end of the parish, however, there seems to have been little
alluvial soil gained, the ground rises rapidly from the banks of
he river until it joins that chain of hills which intersects the pa-
rishes of, Kilmalcolm and Lochwinnoch.
   The coup d'ceil presented to a passenger sailing down the
Clyde, between Erskine and Old Kilpatrick, has been very well
described by the Rev. Mr Barclay in his account of the latter
parish, to which the reader is referred. There are in this
parish two points on the old post-road between Greenock and
Glasgow, from which may be had most enchanting, views of the
far,famed lake and mountain scenery or the west of Scotland,
From Crosshill, above Bishopton House, there is a view westward,
down the Frith of Clyde, as far as the mouth of the Holy Loch,
which is bounded by the chain of hills called from their peculiar
shape, "the Farrel of, Cakes" rising beyond Donoon and Kilman,
towards Loch Echt. In the foreground, lies. Dumbarton Castle,
and further distant, on either side of, the river, the towns of Port-
Glasgow, Greenock, and Gourock, the village of Cardross, and
the town of Helensburgh the view in the direction of the letter
being, bounded by that high and, rugged chain of hills which rises,
abruptly from the shores of Loch Long and Loch Goil and ends
in Ben Ann on the "Cabbler," as it is most usually called. The
view from this spot northward is, however, the more intereting
of the two. The beautiful and classic vale of Leven lies straight
before the spectator, studded with the towns of Dumbarton, Alex-
andria, (where Smollet the historian. was born), and Benhill, and
with villas innumerable; at the upper end of it, the waters of
Lochlomoad, from which the Leven takes its rise, are visible on
a clear day, and the King of the Scottish hills, Benlemond,is
distinctly seen sorrounded by his humbler satellites. *

<FOOTNOTE>At the spot from which this beautiful panoramais seen, stoed formerly the inn.


