
     Statistical Account

mills.  It is to be observed, that the sirlot, both barley and
wheat, is a Scotch pint larger than the standard.  This may
be in some degree owing to a privilege possessed by the burgh
of Dundee, of taking a ladleful from every boll delivered in
the town or at the harbour.-About 80 young cattle are
reared annually, which are sold at the age of 2 or 3 years.
Very few are fed in the parish.  Eight or 10 young horses
are annually bred.  The number of horses is 86; of milk
cows 122; the cattle here are of a small breed, from 15 to
30 stone; there are now no sheep kept; within these 40
years, there were two considerable flocks, whose walks have
been converted into tillage, or occupied by black cattle, to
winch our coarse pasture is better adapted*.

   Manufactures, Wages, Prices, &c.-From the state of the
cultivation of the parish, it is evident, that numbers of
the people are employed in agriculture.  The manufacture
of coarse linen also employs a considerable proportion,
though the number of weavers is now greatly lessened,
the destruction of cottages having chiefly affected this class
of people.  The kinds manufactured here are coarse shirt-
ing and harn or packsheet.  This stuff sells from 3 1/2d. to
4 1/2d. the yard.  An ordinary weaver is able to manufacture

<FOOTNOTE>

*While the improvement of land in general has been pretty well at-
tended to, one branch of it, of importance both to the pleasure and healthy
subsistence of the artisan, has been almost entirely neglected, viz garden-
ing.  In the gardens even of the farmers, the only vegetables raised are
kail and potatoes, and sometimes a few cabbages.  In the cottager's yard,
the last is entirely omitted; though they are all fond of, and consume
great quantities of the onion tribe, they never think of cultivating a single
plant of them.  The kail used here is a coarse hardy red species, which
seems peculiar to the country.-No minerals have been discovered, nor
are there almost any stones fit for building; to which may be attributed,
in some degree, the miserable hovels in which the people live, and the few
inclosures that have yet been made.


