
482                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

   Education.-There are at present three schools in the parish,
besides one for girls, the parochial in Old Meldrum, and two others
in different districts of the country.  They are all unendowed,
except the parochial, and supported by the scholars' fees.  A
benevolent native of the parish bequeathed by his deed of set-
tlement in 1795, to the kirk-session, the sum of L. 600, the in-
terest of L. 200 of which he appointed to be paid annually to a
teacher, who should instruct, without any other remuneration, such
a number of the children of the poor inhabitants of the parish, as
the session should consider he might be able to educate for that
allowance.  The parochial schoolmaster has hitherto received this
sum, upon the condition, (which is rigidly fulfilled), that he shall
give education to all whom the session recommend.  Another in-
habitant of the parish left also, by his deed of settlement, to the
kirk-session, the sum of L.90, (legacy-duty deducted,) the interest
of which he appointed to be applied to the conducting of a Sabbath
school in Old Meldrum.  This school is now taught gratuitously,
and is in a very flourishing state ; and the interest of the sum of
L.90 alluded to, is laid out in the purchase of a religious library
for the use of the Sabbath school scholars.  The braches of edu-
cation taught in the parish school are, reading, writing, mathema-
tics, Latin, and Greek.  In the other schools, English, writing, and
arithmetic are taught.  The parochial schoolmaster's salary is
L. 28, and his fees for teaching are, per quarter, reading, 2s.;
writing, 2s. 6d.; arithmetic, 3s. 6d. ; Latin, 5s. ; Greek, 5s.
He has no dwelling-house from the heritors, but receives front
them in lieu of it L. 6 per annum.  The people are fully alive to
the benefits of education, as is shown by the number of schools
supported in the parish, without salaries from the heritors.  By
reason of the advantages which these schools afford, there is no
part of the parish where children may not have the benefits of
education; but the want of salary renders the continuance of these
seminaries uncertain.
   Friendly Societies.-There were until lately two or three Friendly
Societies in the parish ; but they have, been dissolved.
   Savings Bank.-A Savings Bank, however, was opened in the
spring of 1834, in which a considerable sum of money has already
been deposited. and it is hoped that the advantages of such an in-
stitution will be duly appciated by the labouring classes.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The number of persons receiving
parochial aid has varied considerably at different periods.  At


