
   228               INVERNESS-SHIRE.

   tenants, and equally Prejudicial to that of the landlord; it encou-
   rages and protects sheep-stealing and it is troublesome in the ex-
   treme to the neigbbours in its immediate vicinity. The difficul-
   ties which occur in other parts of the country for dividing a com-
   men in which different proprietors have an interest, some more
   and some less, and which require the interposition of the Supreme
   Court for allocating to each his due proportion, are not applicable
   to that here alluded to. It is altogether the property of one land-
   lord, and be might at once attach it to any farm he chose, or as
   best suited his interest. And, notwithstanding the facility for divid-
   ing this common, and the many disadvantages and evils resulting
   from its undivided state, it has been continued undivided from one ge-
   neration to another, from time immemorial, till this very moment.
	Wood.-In this parish there is no natural wood growing, with
   the exception of a small quantity in the Island of Rasay, and even
   this was almost annihilated in the years 1836 and 1837; those
   years of memorable destitution, when the people, from the wet-
   ness, of the season, were unable to secure their peats, and the wood
   was made use of as fuel. There is, however, a little still re-
   maining, which is of no other use than for building small houses
   for the poor people.
   	There is a considerable extent in Rasay of planted wood,
   and about a third of that extent around the village of Portree.
	The trees are, fir, ash, oak, birch, mountain-ash ; they are
   under good management as to thinning, pruning, and they ap-
   pear to be in a thriving state. Indeed, from all that can be seen
   a more profitable improvement of land in this parish cannot be
   adopted than planting wood in certain favourable situations.
   	Rent.-The arable and pasture lands are let together; the rent
   of the former, therefore, per acre, cannot be ascertained. For
   every sheep clipped, whether young or old, the grazier pays at the
   rate of 4s. each per annum; and for every cow L.2 Sterling; in
   both cases the expense of management is included.
	Wages.-The rate of payment to men-servants employed in
   agricultural pursuits is from L.5 to L.10 Sterling per annum,
   and to female-servants from L.3 to L.4 Sterling for the same
   period, together with bed, board, and washing. A mason and
   house-carpenter receive at the rate of from 2s. 6d. to 3s. per day.
   But them is so little mechanical work carried on in the parish,
   that persons bred to these occupations are often, and for a great


