
                           BANFF.                             21

as would be accepted could not be immediately raised, hostages
would inevitably be required-and who was to be thought worthy
of this distinction? This difficulty appqared to the court a mere
bagatelle. "The Provost"-was at once shouted from all quareters
to the chief-magistrate, as of right, the honour in question was
tendered by acclamation; but, by that dignitary, most resolutely
declined, and cordially offered to the bailie, out of whose proposal
the occasion for conferring it had originated. Luckily in the
course of the deliberations, or at least before the enemy had op-
portunity to secure any contributions, a means of deliverance more
effectual than any which burghal wisdom had succeeded in devis-
ing, arose in the shape of a severe storm, which compelled the
marauder to take his departure, leaving his anchors behind him
for a memorandum,-some of which, it is said, were lately found.
Subsequently to this the idea seems to have occurred, that a few
eighteen and twenty-four pound guns, planted on the heights above
the harbour, might facilitate any negociations, for which occasion
might chance to arise, with visitors of this description; and accord-
ingly the town expended the sum of L. 400 (for the interest of
which, by the way, we are assessed to this day,) in constructing a
battery, guns being furnished by government, and certain of the
citizens trained to work them.  The battery was dismounted of
its guns at the peace; and we have perhaps reason to reckon our-
selves as safe without an enemy as with our guns.
  Persons of note.-Only two persons of any note have been con-
pected with this parish; and their respective histories present some
curious points of contrast and resemblance.
James Sharp, the famous Archbishop of St Andrew, was
born in Banff Castle in May 1613. His father (son of David
Sharp, a merchant in Aberdeen,) was Sheriff-clerk of Banff-
shire; his mother a daughter of the laird of Kininvie. He studied
at Aberdeen, and gave early proofs of superior talents. He
afterwards visited the English universities, where he formed an
acquaintance with several eminent divines. After his education
was completed, be was, by the interest of the Earl of Rothes, to
whom he, was related, elected a Professor of Philosohy in St An-
drews. He was, at a subsequent period, appointed Professor of
Divinity in the same Vniversity; ans was also, at one time, mini-
ster of Craill, in Fifeshire, an office which he is said to have dis-
charged with diligence, fidelity, and kindness. In the course of


