
     Statistical Account

The salary was only 6 L. 13 s. 4 d.  Sterling, till this year
(1793) that the heritors have, of their own free motion,
raised it to 11 L. 2 s. 3 1/3 d.  This, with school-wages, session-
clerk's fees, etc. may amount in whole to 24 L.  There is a 
good school-house, schoolmaster's dwelling-house, and a small
garden*.-There are few poor in this parish, and they are,
for the most part, supported by their own industry, and occa-
sional supplies from the parish funds.  There are present

<FOOTNOTE>

a place about 20 feature miles from the church at Weem.  There is a good
chapel built there a few years ago, by the voluntary contributions of the inha-
bitants of that valley, and some small donations from a few of the neighbour-
ing gentlemen.  The inhabitants of Glenlyon, about a fourth of whom are in
this parish, have been remarkable for honestly, industry, and sobriety, for many
generations, before the surrounding countries were brought to the state of ci-
vilization they are in at present.  This must be attributed to two concurring
causes; lst.  The proprietors of this valley (the Campbells of Glenlyon) were
themselves, for many descents, men of great integrity, and encouraged such of
their retainers only as were of the same disposition, 2d, A spark of religion
was early kindled among them, which being, for a little time, confined to a few
families, has long ago diffused itself over the whole valley.  The religion of
these people is not of the speculative disputatious kind, but such as influences 
the whole of their conduct in their intercourse with mankind.
*There are likewise 3 other school supported from a fond of 6000 merks
Scots, mortified for that purpose by Mr. Arch bald Campbell, first Presbyterian
minister of this parish, who was admitted about the year 1703.  The interst
of that sum only, is employed according to the deed of morafication, for the
maintenance of 3 schools in the most remote parts of the parish, i. e. 5 L. 11 s.
1 1/3 d. to each of the 3.  This sum, at the time it was first given (about the
year 1740) was sufficient for supporting a lad to teach for 7 months in the year,
which at that time was all that was required, as the people dispersed through
the hills with their cattle in the month of May, and the schools did not com-
vene till after the harvest was finished.  Since sheep farming was introduced,
the people remain at home the whole year, confequently the schools would be
of the face consequence in summer as in winter.  The Society for Propagating
Christian Knowlege, allow one of these schools 5 L. a year (that at Roro in
Glenlyon) in addition to the former salary, which enables the schoolmaster to
teach through the greatest part of the year.  These 3 schoolmasters act like-
wise as catechists.


