
452                        LANARKSHIRE.

which, from time immemorial, has been called the Roman bridge,
by which that people entered the parish of Bothwell. It is about
12 feet broad, and consists of an arch, high, causewayed, and
without ledges.
	Roman Camps.--of these there were two in this parish. One
was situated on a steep bank of the Calder, near the above bridge,
and about seventy years ago was pretty entire. I made inquiry re-
specting it at an old man, now in his ninety-fourth year, with his
faculties in great vigour, and who all his life, till disabled, had
been in the service of tbe proprietor. He informed me that he
recollected it distinctly, and that he assisted in its demolition.
The other camp was in the centre of the parish, on the top of
a steep bank of the Clyde. Parts of the ditches are here still
traceable, in which, when they were cleared out, as stated in the
last Statistical Account, were found cinders of the Roman forg-
es. To perpetuate the memory of this camp, the proprietor,
about a century ago, built a summer-house with a bartizan on the
top of it, cleared the banks of the furze and briers, cut a number of
terrace walks along it, and wherever he found a sufficiency of soil,
planted forest or fruit-trees. From the bartizan on the summer-house
there is an extensive view of the surrounding country, so beauti-
fully diversified, as to form quite a panorama, well deserving the
attention of the landscape painter. The lofty ruins and oaks of
Cadzow,--the green pastures and gaudy pinnacles of Chatelherault,
--the Ross wood. on, the steep bank immediately opposite,--the
bridges, the town, the palace, and the policy of Hamilton,--the
windings Of the Clyde bedow, and for a considerable way up and
down the river, and, but for a few trees on the east and west of the
house, Strathclyde, from Tinto to Benlomond, with a rich variety
of hill and dale,--render the scene Perhaps one ofthe most gratify-
ing in Scotland.
	Sarcophagus.--In the foundation, of the west gable of the old
church, which was rebuilt in 1718, there was found a handsome
stone coffin, large enough to contain the body of a full-grown man,
but empty, and which is now placed against the, old churchyard
wall. In the inside, the upper part is hollowed out to suit the shape
of the head and neck, and, when fouud, there was hewn stone
cover for the face with a cinque-foil carved, upon it, but which has
not been preserved. The carving upon it is plain. It must have
been used for some distinguished person. but for whom, is unknown.


