
     of Kiltearn.

   Inhabitants; their Origin, and Progress in Civilization-It is
well known, that in many parts of Scotland, particularly in
the north, every district is inhabited chiefly by some one par-
ticular tribe or clan.  So i is in this country.  The name of
Ross prevails in the east, Mackenzie in the west, and Munro
in the middle district; i. e. in the two contigous parishes of
Kiltearn and Alnes, which district of country is commonly
called Ferindonald; which name appears to be of very an-
tient date.  Buchanan relates, that, about the beginning of
the 11th century, King Malcolm II, of Scotland sucd out
the lands in the country to the great families in it, on account
of their eminent services in assisting him to extirpate the
Danes out of his kingdom.  And, according to tradition, it
was on that occasion that the country between the borough
of Dingwall and the water of Alnes, in the shire of Ross,
was given to Donald Munro, the progenitor of the family of
Fowlis, from which all the Munros in this country are de-
scended:  And part of these lands were afterwards by the
King erected into a barony, called the Barony of Fowlis.  From
this Donald Munro is lineally descended the present Sir Hugh
Munro, Bart, who is the 29th baron of Fowlis, and proprie-
tor of about two-thirds of the lands in the parish of Kiltearn.
Under this head, we may observe, that in antient times,
those tribes or clans who inhabited different districts of the
country, looked upon themselves as a district people or na-
tion, united together under their respective chiets or leaders,
who exercised a sovereign, and at the same time a parental,
authority over them.  They looked up to the chief as to their
common father; he looked upon them as his children, whom
he protected as well as governed.  That there were constant
feuds and conflicts maintained between the neighbouring clans
or tribes, is a fact well known.  Many circumstances concur-
red to occasion these conflicts, and to support this warlike


