
                          ST ANDREWS.                     457

most remarkable.  These were so abundant, at a remote period,
in the district, that their name, as has been already remarked,
was incorporated with its designation.  At present there appears
to be nothing connected with the zoology of the parish of a pe-
culiar character, the animals, both wild and domestic, resembling
those which are to be found in the other districts of the country.
Within these few years, the small insect denominated the Ameri-
can bug has been very injurious to the apple trees in the city and
its vicinity, and no remedy that has hitherto been employed has
proved effectual for securing its destruction.
   The Eden, between the Guard Bridge and the sea, is during
the winter season the resort of a great variety of water-birds ;  and
during the recess of the tide, a great many species of marine ani-
mals are to be found among the rocks on the shore.  After cer-
tain storms also, not a few species of shells are cast on the west
sands.  But the bottom of the bay is generally sandy, and rather
unproductive of organic forms.  On comparing the number of spe-
cies which it yields with those of the Frith of Forth, it may be said
that it affords an illustration of the remark, that organized beings
are much more abundant in estuaries than in bays.
   The species of shell-fish which are of importance here, in an
economical point of view, are the cockle and mussel, which abound
in the estuary of the Eden, and the lobster and crab, which are
found on the rocky shore between the city and the eastern extre-
mity of the parish.
   Botany.--But few rare plants flourish in this district, and none
of them seem to be deserving of particular notice.  The close
plantations which exist in the parish are in general of the Scotch
fir, and are on the poorest of the soils, but they are of no great ex-
tent.  In the vicinity of some of the landed proprietor's houses, the
oak, the elm, the beech, the plane, the larch, and some other spe-
cies of trees have been introduced.  The ash is more generally
diffused over the district than any other species of tree, its timber
being very useful for the construction of agricultural implements.
   The landward part of the parish is not remarkable for its bota-
nical riches ;  but on the cliffs and banks which stretch towards the
east on the sea shore, several of the rarer flowering plants and many
interesting species of mosses and lichens occur.  The rocks be-
tween high and low water-mark are also covered with sea-weeds,
and furnish many species.  But here again it may be remarked, that
from the very friable nature of the sandstone, of which many of
these rocks are composed, the marine botany of the parish is pre-








































