
PARISH OF EASTWOOD OR POLLOCK.
PRESBYTERY OF PAISLEY, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.
THE REV. GEORGE LOGAN, MINISTER.
I-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
Name.-EASTWOOD is the name by which this parish has been
long known,-a name obviously derived from the woods that ex-
ist in it, one of which, of large extent, covering more than 200
acres, has within these twenty-five years been rooted out, and
the ground converted into arable land. The parish appears like-
wise to have had at one time the name of Pollock. This is ascer-
tained by many written documents, in which it is mentioned as for-
merly called Pollock, but then called Eastwood.  The ancestors of
Sir John Maxwell have for several centuries been the principal
heritors of the parish, and that family has been, celebrated for, at-
tachment and devotion to  the Church of Scotland in the cause of
which they suitered much during the reigns of Charles II, and
James VII. There can be no doubt, therefored, of its having got
the name of Pollock from that of the lands of which it is chiefly com-
posed; and by that name the family of Pollock wish the parish again
to be called.
Extent, Boundaries.--The greatest length of this parish from
north to sout is 4 miles, and its greatest breadth from cast to
west about 3 miles; but its form is very irregular, so that its di-
mensions vary greatly in different parts.  The medium may be 3
by 2 1/2 miles, comprehending about 7 1/2 square miles.  It is bound-
ed on the east by the parishes of Cathcart and Meares; on the
south by the parish of Mearns; on the west by the parish of Neil-
ston; and on the north by the Abbey parish of Paisley and the
parish of Govan; while it approaches on the north side within three
miles of the city of Glasgow.  On the west side, a considerable ex-
tent of land, held to be in the Abbey parish of Paisley, projects
into and is almost sorrounded by the parish of Eastwood.  It ap-
pears from the records of the Presbytery of Paisley, 24th January
1650, that this land was annexed to Eastwood by decreet of the
RENFREW.                      C


