
     of Inverness.

   Academy and Schools.-The magistrates and gentlemen
of the town and county of Inverness, and many of the gentle-
men of the neighbouring counties, have long considered an
establishment of a seminary of learning at Inverness, on a
liberal and extensive plan, of very great importance to this
part of the kingdom.  At length, in the year 1787, a com-
mittee was appointed to consider of the most proper mea-
sures for bringing their purpose into effect.  An extensive
correspondence was immediately commenced, and subscrip-
tions were opened in Scotland, England, France, America,
in the E. and W. Indies.  An inclosure of about 3 acres
was purchased, and an elegant house is built in the front of
it, consisting of a large hall, and six spacious apartments for
classes, library, and philosophical apparatus.  The subscrip-
tions at present amount to above L. 6277:5:3 Sterling,
and the magistrates, besides their private subscriptions, in-
cluded in the above, give out of the public revenue of the
town yearly to the institution about L. 70 Sterling.  The
house is provided with a rector and 4 masters.  In the
1st class is taught English grammatically; in the 2 d, Latin
and Greek; in the 3 d, writing, arithmetic and book-
keeping; in the 4th, Euclid's Elements, with their appli-
cation, plane and spherical trigonometry, mensuration of
solids and surfaces in all its parts, geography with the
use of the globes, navigation with lunar observations,
architecture, naval, civil and military, practical gunnery,
fortification, perspective and drawing; in the 5th, being
the rector's, are taught civil and natural history, natural
philosophy, chymistry and astronomy.  The salaries of the
masters are as follow: The rector, L. 50 and a house; the
teacher of mathematics, L. 40; the teacher of writing, a-
rithmetic and book-keeping, L. 30; the teacher of Latin
and Greek, L. 40; and the teacher of English, L. 30.  The
fees for each session, are, to the master of the 1st class, or


