
		KINCARDINE.                             407

Lieutenant-Colonel Strachan, who had hurried forward with a
party of horse, while General Leslie was pressing on with 3000
foot. It was resolved that the Earl should cross into Sutherland
to intercept Montrose's retreat to the north, while Strachan ad-
vanced with 230 horse, and 170 foot, in search of him. Under
cover of some broom, they succeeded in surprising him at disad-
vantage, on level ground, near a pass called Invereharron, on the
borders of this parish, on Saturday, 27th April 1650, having di-
verted his attention by the display of merely a small body of horse.
Montrose immediately endeavoured to reach a wood and craggy
hill at a short distance in his rear, with his infantry, but they were
overtaken; the Orkney men made but little resistance, and the
Germans surrendered, but the few Scottish soldiers fought bravely,
though in vain. Many gallant cavaliers were made prisoners: and
when the day was irretrievably lost, the Marquess threw off his
cloak bearing the star, and afterwards changed clothes with an
ordinary Highland kern, that he might endeavour to effect his es-
cape. Having swam across the Kyle, (an arm of the sea dividing
this parish from Sutherland), he directed his flight up Strath
Oikell, and lay for three days concealed amongst the wilds of
Assynt; but at length, exhausted with fatigue and hunger, he was
discovered and apprehended by a Ross-shire chief-Neil Macleod
of Assynt, who happened to be out with some of his tenants in
search of him. Montrose discovered himself to this man, think-
ing himself secure of protection, since Macleod had been once his
own follower. His subsequent fate is too well known to require
being mentioned here: and we shall conclude this article with the
following extract from a modern historian of celebrity: "James
Graham, Marquess of Montrose, died at the early age of 38, hav-
ing acquired, during a short career of military glory, greater repa-
tation than perhaps ever fell to the lot of any commander in an-
cient or modern times, within the same compass of time."
  The ground where the battle was fought, and which lies in this
parish, took its present name, Craigcaoineadhan, which may be,
translated the Rock of Lamentation,-from the event of that memo-
rable day. The ancient name of the place is now lost.
  Eminent Characters.-In a parish comparatively so remote as
Kincardine, eminent characters can scarcely be expected: yet
they are not entirely wanting.
  Mr Thomas Boss.-The historian Wodrow remarks, that sub-
sequent to the establishment of Episcopacy in 1662, there were


