
122			   LANARKSHIRE.

such persons as could not find employment. The distress war
such that 2040 heads of families were under the necessity of
pawning 7380 articles, on which they received L. 739, 5s. 6d.
Of the heads of families 1943 were Scotch, and 97 English,
Irish, or foreigners; 1372 had never applied for nor received
charity of any description; 474 received occasional aid from the
committee, and 194 were paupers. On the 30th August of that
year, James Wilson was hanged and beheaded for high treason.
	In August 1822, when George IV. visited Edinburgh, the cor-
poration of this city and the Merchants and Trades Houses sent de-
putations with splendid equipages, and presented loyal addresses
to his Majesty.
	Another period of mercantile distress occurred in 1826, and from
8th April of that year till 31st October 1827, about L. 9000 were
laid out for the amelioration of the working-classes, and from 12th
March till 20th October 1829, there was expended on work for
operatives the sum of L. 2950.
	 Bills of Mortality.--Bills of mortality are understood to contain
a list of births, marriages and deaths, from parochial registers, at
stated periods, in connection with the population.
	Glasgow Bills of Mortality.--As the Glasgow bills of mortali-
ty, from which the probability of human life in large towns, and
other important results may be deduced, have met with more than
ordinary approbation from political inquirers, we think it right to
give a detailed account of the manner in which those bills have
been prepared. The parochial register of births in Glasgow be-
ing so defective that no reliance could be placed on it, Dr Cle-
land, who had hither to taken the whole charge of the bills, obtained
the necessary information in the following manner: On the 6th of
December 1829, he addressed a letter to each of the seventy-five
clergymen and lay-pastors in the city and suburbs, who baptize
children, requesting to be favoured with returns of the numbers
they might baptize from the 14th of December 1829, to the 15th
of December 1830, both days inclusive, being the year previous to
the last Government census. The letter was accompanied by a
book in which the sexes and the particular parishes in which the
parents resided were to be inserted. He also requested the vari
ous societies of Baptists, the society of Friends, and Jews, and others
who do not dispense the ordinance of baptism to infants, to favour
him with the above particulars, relative to children born to mem-
bers of their societies; and in due time he had the satisfaction of re-


