
468                  EDINBURGHSHIRE.

David of Scotland, who were children of a knight called Sir James
Douglas."
   Did the Castle of Dalkeith then belong to the Earls of Dou-
glas previously to 1388? From the charter of Earl William
Douglas, already mentioned, it appears that he once did possess
a right to lands within the barony of Dalkeith; and it may even
be admitted that be resided in that castle during the minority of
the heiress Mary, and entertained there his illustrious guest. But
Froissart is assuredly mistaken in ascribing such right to his son
Earl James. The barony and Castle of Dalkeith were granted
by King David II., not to Earl James, but to James de Douglas,
at Montrose, on the 9th December 1369;* and whatever connec-
tion that noble family might subsequently have with the Castle of
Dalkeith in the way of social intercourse, there is no evidence to
show that these domains were ever again in possession of any
Earl of Douglas. That Froissart, however, notwithstanding his
high and peculiar excellencies as the historian of chivalry, was not
incapable of making such mistakes, is acknowledged by his biogra-
pher.+  "Froissart est souvent incorrect et surtout incomplet; les
dates, les noms-propres, la suite des evenemens, ne se trouvent pas
dans son livre aussi bien dtablis que dans un historien moderne."
Nor can we. omit noticing a statement which appears to have been
too hastily made and admitted by some recent writers,+ that Frois-
sart obtained from the Douglasses, at this very place, (Dalkeith),
the materials of his account of the battle of Otterburne, which was
fought some time before by their celebrated kinsman. There is
no statement in the writings of Froissart, by which it can be
proved that he was ever at Dalkeith, or even in Scotland, more
than once. According to his own account, this was when be was
a very young man, probably about the year 1361, and many years
before the battle of Otterburne. Had he obtained the materials
of his narrative at Dalkeith Castle subsequently to that battle, it
is evident that his knowledge of these families must have been
more accurate, and the strain of his observations totally different.
   William de Douglas, Lord of Liddesdale, was succeeded in

<FOOTNOTE>Regist. Magn. Sigill., page 70, 239.
     Biographie Universelle, art. Froissart, (Tome seizieme).
     Chambers's Gazetteer of Scotland, (1832), article Dalkeith. Parker Lawson's
Gazetteer of Scotland, (1841), article Dalkeith.
     Lord Hailes suspects that Froissart may have mistaken William Douglas of Dal-
keith, for the Earl William Douglas, who lived about the same time.-Annals of
Scotland, Vol. ii. page 275. The whole subject is fully discussed in the appendix to
Wood's Peerage, Vol. ii. page 744-748.


