
78                     LINLITHGOWSHIRE.

above the adjacent country. Many mineralogists, and mining
engineers in particular, think these rocks of igneous origin, be-
cause when they come in contact with bituminous coal, the com-
mon coal of Scotland, they deprive it of its bitumen, converting
it in some cases into glance coal (the blind coal of Scotland),
having neither smoke nor flame, on which account it is used for
drying malt, at other times it converts the coal into a black stone
of no use whatever.
   "Limestone.-None of this rock is found in the parish, but mi-
neralogists are of opinion it is to be found in the lower series of
the coal strata, and of that kind which is termed the mountain.
limestone.
   "Ironstone.-The ironstone found in this parish is of the common
argillaceous kind, and is found in beds from one inch to several
inches thick, or in balls or flat circular pieces. This ironstone
is similar to that found in all the coal-fields of Scotland, and used
for the making of pig-iron. It yields generally from twenty-seven
to thirty-three per cent. of pig-iron.
   "The same kind of organic remains are found in the strata here
as are common in all the all coal-fields of Scotland.
   "The alluvial covers are, 1. the old alluvial cover, composed of
clay, sand, and small stones, intimately blended together, and
very impervious to water. In this, large green stone boulders
abound. 2. Quick sands. 3. Clay mixed with small rounded
stones. 4. Peat-bog. This is of very considerable extent, and
very full of water.
   "The most valuable mineral which this parish contains, is what
is called the Crofthead, or slaty black band ironstone, of which a
very fine field has lately been discovered lying between Fauldhouse
beyond the village of Longridge. The change which this discovery
has made upon this district is very remarkable; what was, till
within the last three years a solitary moorland scene, has now be-
come one of enterprise and industry. Tall chimneys are seen
in all directions, and clouds of smoke rolling along from huge
burning masses, show the extensive nature of the operations which
are now carried on.
   "In regard to the position of this mineral, in relation to the
strata of the neighbouring districts, it is undoubtedly connected
with the great Western Coal-field, or Glasgow Field, as it is
usually termed, and lies at the bottom of the series to which it
belongs. At the south-western extremity of the parish, the Shotts,


