
242                 GENERAL OBSERVATIONS

cite, with, small portions of chlorite, and occasionally common gar-
net and pyrites.
   Urganic Remains.--Connected with the limestones and clay
ironstones there are various organic remains; but none except
those peculiar to similar fomations elsewhere. These are chief-
ly spirifors, productae, terebratulae, paludinae, &c.
   The,sand deposits in the south of the county also contain va-
rious beds of petrified shells, particularly at Dalmuir, so fully al-
luded to by Mr Thomas Thomson in the Records of General
Science. The geology of the eastern and detached portion of the
county will be found under the article Kirkintilloch.
   Meteorology.--As connected with the geology of the district,
we may also mention the science of meteorology. The climate of
a country depends much upon its alpine groups, its vales, and its
forests, and the whole are materially influenced by their vicinity to
the sea. There can be little doubt but that the broad stripe of
coal and lime abounding everywhere, with great masses of iron in
beds balls, or disseminated, which extends from the Atlantic be-
tween Arran and the mainland, including the Fritb of Forth, as
far asthe Bass and Fifeness, materially influences the climate of
this portion of the west of Scotland. It is universally admitted
that the winds blow from the Atlantic, or from a westerly direc-
tion, at least nine months in the year. This gives a sufficient
cause for the direction of the winds, with the course of which the
phenomena of rain is also intimately connected. The quantity of
rain which falls along the coast from Greenock to Ayr has long
been remarked to be much greater than in any corresponding dis-
trict in Scotland. But the difference is not so much in the quan-
tity of rain that falls, as in the number of days on which it actu-
ally rains. It is generally supposed that temperature, and rain,
which is the creature of temperature, are intimately connected
with those subtile and generally invisible agents, the magnetic or
electric fluids. It is to the presence of these in one form or other
that we owe the greater part of the phenomena of rain. If clouds
then be of magnetic or electric origin, it is very possible they may
have some connection with the attractive influences of the im-
mense iron deposits which stretch in a north-easterly direction
from Greenock to St Andrews, and from Ayr to Dunbar. The
iron in the above deposits no doubt attracts the magnetic clouds,
and these coming in contact with the high hills on the western
coast, there precipitate their contents. The cause of the same


