
     Statistical Account

of the hill.  Whether this fort was erected by the Earl of
Strathern, as tradition says, or whether it is of a more ancient
date, cannot be easily ascertained*.

   Eminent Men.-Colonel Dow, author of the History of
Hindostan, whole literary merits are well known, was a na-
tive of this parish.

   Advantages and Disadvantages.-The salubrity of the air,
the fine springs of water, the numerous rivulets, the goodness
of the roads, and a variety of other circumstances, render this

<FOOTNOTE>

*Near the western extremity of the parish, there are two Druidical temples.
Besides these remains of antiquity, many borrows, or heaps of stones, known, in
the ancient language of the country, by the name of cairns, and intended for se-
pulchral monuments, were to be seen a few years ago, near the banks of the
Erne, towards the eastern extremity of the parish but they have been lately
removed, for the purpose of building stone sences; and no memorial now re-
mains of the illustrious dead whom they once covered.  Some miles to the north-
ward of the church of Monivaird, there is a very large barrow, called earn
Chainichin of monumental heap of Kenneth.  From the name and situation,
we presume it was raised to the memory of that Kenneth, whose death is re-
corded in the following lines of our oldest historical chronicles:

     Duo truncatus erat, BARDORUM CAMPUS habetur,
     A nato KENNEDI, nomine MALCOLOMI.

This Kenneth was the IVth of that name.  He is usually mentioned in history,
by his epithet of GRIM, or GRIMUS; in the same manner as Odo has lost his
proper name for its adjunct DUFF, or DUFFUS.  The register of St. Andrews
informs us, that "Kenneth (Grim), son of Odo (Dubb-Odo), was slain by Malcolm
"the II. and son of Kenneth the III. at Moreghvard) in 100 L." About 200 yards
west from the church of Monivaird, a barrow was opened some years ago, in
which two urns were found, each containing a stone of a bluish colour, very hard,
about four inches long, and of a triangular shape, somewhat resembling the head
of an ax.  One of them is in the possession of PETER MURRAY, Esq. younger of
Ochtertyre.  I am told they are of the same kind of stone and shape, with those
which the inhabitants of the South Sea islands fasten to a shaft, and use as a
weapon in war.


