
                       KINNEFF.                              315

	"Four or five years ago, in digging a grave for Lady Ogilvie
of Barras, in the church of Kinneff, there was found buried in an
earthen pot about a pound and a half of old silver coins. They
were almost all of one size, about the breadth of a sixpence; a few
about half that size; and all bore either the impression of Edward
of England, or of Alexander of Scotland. The impression and
legend on the Scotch coins are much better executed than on the
English. It is likely this treasure might have been laid where it
was found about the year 1336, when the English garrison occu-
pied the Castle of Kinneff."
	"There was a tumulus or cairn upon St John's hill opened about
twenty years ago, in the bottom of which, a little under the sure.
face of the ground, were found three long flat stones, one of them
covering the other two, and having a shorter one at each end.  In
this was contained nearly a cart-load of rich black earth, having a
mixture of half-burnt bones and bits of oak charcoal, without any
kind of urn.  There are other tumuli in the parish." *
	The late Rev. A. Stewart, minister of this parish, presented, in
1834, to the Society of Antiquaries, a vase, with a number of
bronze rings of various sizes, two of them entire, the rest in frag-
ments, with a spear-head of bronze. The following interesting
description by Mr Stewart is preserved in the Society's minutes: +
	"These relics of antiquity were found on the 15th December
1831, by my workmen, while trenching a field on the top of a cliff
overhanging the German Ocean, and near the site of the old
Castle of Kinneff. The piece of metal resembling the point of a
spear, or part of a sword, was discovered about twelve inches be-
low the surface of the ground, lying across the mouth of the urn,
but separated from it by a layer of earth about two inches thick.
Round the mouth of the urn there was an outer edge or rim about
two inches in depth, and of the same material as the urn itself;
but it crumbled into dust on being handled. The urn was quite
full of earth, compactly pressed together. And on the surface of
this earth, were found the inner rings set upon their sides, and
which were broke into their present state by the workmen at-
tempting to pull them out of the earth. At the bottom of the,

<FOOTNOTE>proximity. Among the lands in which Sir Robert Arbuthnott is served heir to his
father in 1633, I find the Castle of Whistleberry described as a "manor-place"-
"cum manerei loco vocato Qwhissilberie." Inquiaitiones Speciales Kincardine, 62.
         Former Statistical Account.
         For this extract I am indebted to Joseph Robertson, Esq. Secretary to the So-
ciety.


