
               PORT OF MENTEITH.                          0097

   separate five or six feet, lean, one of them backward, and the other
   in the same proportion forward.
      In the Champaign district, there is a deposit of bluish-gtay sand-
   stone, of a  close texture, and of great use for pavements and stair-
   cases.  This, indeed, is part of a deposit which extends diagonally
   across Scotland many  miles.  It has the same dip as the strata
   of the Grampian range.
      The soils of this division of the parish are various.   Of the peat-
   mosses the principal is part of the extensive Moss-Flanders; another
   is the moss of Gartur; and a third, smaller than either, is Talla-moss.
   There are some tracts tilly and difficult to drain; others gravelly and
   ferruginous, and comparatively barren; others consisting of mea-
   dows and swaimps more or less fertile; others of a shallow loam,
   very fertile ; others of a shallow loam on rock, and considerably
   productive; and, along the Forth, which bounds,the greater part
   of the southern frontier, and intersects the parish on the south-
   west, so as to have the barony of Gartmore wholly on its southern
   bank, there is a rich carse, part of which has been acquired by float-
   ing off the incumbent peat.  Some fields include, each of them,
   several of the soils above-mentioned.
      The climate inclines to moisture, owing, as is supposed, to the
   proximity of the Grampians, to the profusion of peat-moss, and to
   the want of acclivity.
      Hydrology.-Of the lakes, namely,  Inchmahome, Rusky,
   Lochanballoch, Loch-lettir, and Loch-macanree, the first is by far
   the principal. A sixth lake,  Loch Drunky, principally in the parish
   of Aberfoyle, and three-quarters of a mile long, runs a, short way
   into the parish of Port, through which its rivulet finds its way into
   Loch Venachar.  The lake of Inchmahome is, for the most part,
   shallows but in some places abruptly deep.  Nigh shore, opposite
   the   porter's lodge of Rednock, the sounding is 46 feet; and be-
   tween Inchmahorne and the north sbore, 88.  Half-way from
   Inchmahorne to the old ferryman's house at  Gateside, it is 63;
   and in the large bay south of Talla, south-east of it, and more
   than  half-way to the old Ferrymans house at Gateside, it is 63
   freezes; and the ice, in even the deepest parts, is sometimes
   so strong as to bear loaded carts.  Its scenery is  of a tranquil
   character; as the epithet classic has been applied to it.  The
   island of St Columba, as Inch-ma-kome is supposed to signi-
   fy, constitutes the leading feature.   It consists of about five                               a forest of ancient trees
   acres, surmounted by  a forrest of ancient trees, of which the


