
			  AYR.				       37

fraternity that might explain the source of some revenues still de-
rived by the town. At the Reformation, the whole of what belong-
ed to the monastery was bestowed on the burgh of Ayr by a char-
ter of Queen Mary, for special purposes therein mentioned. * A
part of the property was only restored, as the town seems to have
been very liberal in its grants to it. The buildings belonging to
it were extensive; but it is somewhat surprising, that not only no
vestige of them remain, but that it is impossible to ascertain the
precise situation on which they stood. In all probability, they were
placed somewhere about the head of what is now called Mill Street,
extending from Wallace Tower down towards the river.
	Monastery of Franciscans.--A monastery of the Order of St
Francis or Grey Friars was also founded at Ayr by the inhabi-
tants, in the year 1472, as mentioned by writers on religious houses.
Not the smallest notice is taken of it, however, in any of the records
of the burgh that can be discovered, except in one instance, which
serves at the same time to determine its situation. In a commu-
nity meeting held in 1652, to deliberate on which of two sites pro-
posed for the new church to supply the place of St John's should
be adopted, that of the Grey Friars was preferred. Of the con-
vent and the buildings pertaining to it, there is no trace now re-
maining, excepting its well of excellent water behind the wall of the
old church burying-ground, close by the river which is still called
the Friar's Well. About a mile and a half to the south-west of the
town, stood a chapel dedicated to St Leonard, of which nothing can-
now be recognized. Neither is there anything known of its origin,
its monks, or its revenues. Its ruins, it is said, existed not many
years ago, but have now entirely disappeared. It stood in what is
now called "Chapel Park," near Shawfield, on the farm of Slap-
house. From these notices of the religious establishments of Ayr,
it would appear that the town had borne its full share in supporting
the superstition of the times, and that the people had been by
no means lukewarm in the cause of religion, according to the light
which they then enjoyed,

<FOOTNOTE>One of these purposes was the providing an endowment for a second minister
from the revenues of certain mills which formerly belonged to the Friars, with the
dues of thirlage or multures over the parish. These mills now yield an yearly rent
to the town of L. 351 10s. and the compounding with the landed proprietors for the
redemption of the multures must have produced, besides a considerable sum, amount-
ing probaly to several thousands. Mr Oswald's lands, for instances, were redeemed
for L. 600; Rozelle for L. 500, Castlehill for L. 300; Seasonfield for L. 75, and so
on in proportion. The town, from this, can have no cause to grudge any expense it
is put to for benefit of clergy.


