
98                           STIRLINGSHIRE.

at Inversnaid. It is most desirable that a missionary were esta
blished in that district,
   The manse was built in 1797, at a little distance from the
church. Previously the minister lived, at the distance of three
miles, in the original manse which was situated on the bank of
the lake opposite to Inchcaileocb. The grebe contains 35 acres, but
mostly bad ground, not worth more than. 10s. per acre. The sti-
pend consists of L. 126 of money, and 24 bolls of oatmeal, with a
small allowance from Government, to make up the annual value
of L. 158, 6s. 8d.
  Poor and Parochial Funds.-Tbe number of paupers is 24.
The ordinary funds for their maintenance are the collections at'
church, varying from L. 20 to L. 23 per annum, and the i ' nterest
of L. 400 of poor's stock. The family of Montrose are also very
liberal to the poorer parishioners, giving clothes, meal, money, and
sometimes grass for a cow.
  Education.-The parish school is attended by 50 scholars in win-
ter, and by 40 in summer. During the latter season, the peeling of
oak bark interferes with the attendance at school. The salary is
L. 31, with house and garden. There is a charity school at Sa-
loeby, in the upper part of the parish, attended by 40 scholars in
winter, but scarcely by the half in summer. The teacher has, be-
sides a house and cow's grass allowed by the proprietor, a salary
of L. 15 paid by the Society in Ediinburgb. A very few parents
pay school-fees for their children. A small school is opened at
Inversnaid. The teacher receives L. 8 from a lady in the neigh-
bourbood, atid is attended by 10 or 12 scholars. The best teacher
there could not collect 20. To do justice to the scattered popu-
lation, the school should be not fixed,, but ambulatory.
          MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   The population, though now only one-third of what it was a
hundred years ago, is still likely to decline. In the Highland dis-
trict, the people are straitened, and their numbers superabundant.
They have work enough in summer, during the time of woodTcut-
ting; but they are next to idle, during the rest of the year. To
give, them constant employment, it may be recommended, I. to
extend and improve the arable lond of the pastoral district, and,
by introducing turnip crops, to ameliorate the stock of both sheep
cattle to plant with larch, and with oak where practi-
cable, break and barren tracts not merely for the pur os
ter, but as a profitable- investment of capital, for it appears that


