
     of St Fergus.

would greatly exceed the limits of a statistical account to
notice, even briefly, the many illustrious characters in this

<FOOTNOTE>

ed the whole clan with a desire to revenge his death.  They continued vio-
lently to oppose BRUCE; but, by defeating the Earl of Buchan at Inverurie,
and 1308, he put an end to the greatness of this too powerful family.  BRUCE
pursued the Cumines to Fyvie, where they were entirely dispersed.  He en-
camped there, until the return of the parties which he had sent out to burn
the Earl of BUCHAN'S estate: The Earl was then forfeited and out-lawed^^.
   At what particular period the CHEYNES became proprietors of this parish,
is not certainly known; but it would appear, that they were in possession of
this estate before the Cumines succeeded to the Earldom of Buchan.  Sir
REGINOLD CHEYNE of Inverugie was the founder of the Carmelites house in
Aberdeen; and, besides other revenues, bestowed upon it 40 s.+ yearly out of
his lands of Blackwater, in this parish.  He had, by his wife, a daughter of
Cumine, Lord Badenoch, two sons; Sir REGINALD, who, in 1267, was pro-
moted to the office of Lord Chamberlain of Scotland++; HENRY CHEYNE, the
Chamberlain's brother, was elected Bishop of Aberdeen, anno 1281.  He was
one of those who swore fealty to Edward, anno 1296.  As he was nearly re-
lated to the CUMINES, he adhered to that party, and was obliged to leave
this country, and take refuge in England, where he remained in exile until
King ROBERT was pleased to recal him.  He was so happy in being allowed
to resume his functions, that he applied all the revenues of the fee, which,
during his absence, had increased to a very considerable sum, in building the
bridge over the Don at Aberdeen.  This bridge consists of one Gothic arch,
72 feet wide at the water, and the height, from the water to the top of the
arch, is 60 feet.  He died anno 1329 having been bishop of Aberdeen 48

<FOOTNOTE>

llA silver seal, used by this Earl in his father's, lifetime, was lately found at
the monastery of Tungland in Galloway.  It bears a shield embattled at top, and
containing three garbs or wheat sheaves: The Legend, S. JOUIS COMIN, Fel. Com.  de
Buchan.  An impression of this seal was sent to that most ingenious antiquary Captain
HENRY HUTTON of the Royal Regiment of Artillery, who it is hoped will soon
favour the Public with his valuable collection of Antiquities.

+Writes of King's College.

++Fordun, vol. 2 p. 106. and Lives of Officers of State.


