
40                      SUTHERLANDSHIRE.

similar conveyances, and for similar purposes, branch off,-the one
to Tongue, the other to Assynt. It is only about three years since
these latter conveyances began to run; and fifteen, since the mail-
coach commenced. Both the latter and the former owe their es-
tablishment, in a great measure, to the liberal and powerful support
of the noble proprietors of this parish,-rendered effective by the
ability and activity of their commissioner, James Loch, Esq. M. P.
The length of mail-coach road, in this parish, is eight miles. Over
Golspie burn there is a well-built substantial one-arched bridge.
     Earthen Mound.- Connecting this parish with the adjacent one
of Dornoch, at the head of the Little Ferry inlet, and across the
Fleet, there is a mound 995 yards in length, 60 yards in breadth
at the base, and 20 feet at the top, and about 18 feet perpendicular
in height; it terminates at the north end in a bridge 34 yards in
length, with four arches, each 12 feet span, fitted with valve gates.
The expense Of constructing this mound was L.9600, of which
sum the Duke of Sutherland defrayed L.1600, and the public and
the county the remainder, each a moiety. Along the mound the
mail-coach now passes; and thus a passage, formerly uncertain
and often dangerous, has been rendered safe, certain, and agreeable.
Besides the public benefit effected by this work, some good land
is preserved from the overflowing of the sea; and about 400 acres
of beach, which may in time become arable, are gradually assum-
ing a coating partly of herbage, and partly of alder trees. The
construction of the mound having been by many skilful engineers
deemed hazardous, and by some impracticable, there was much
difficulty in getting persons to undertake it, when Earl Gower, now
Marquis of Stafford, William Young, Esq. of Maryhill near Elgin,
and Patrick Sellar, Esq. of Westfield, came forward, and became
responsible for the completion of the work. To Mr Young, who
was commissioner on the estate of the noble proprietors of this
county, it is but doing justice to observe, that the mound, which
was finished in 1816, and is accounted one of the most complete
structures of the kind in Britain, in a great measure owes its exist-

<FOOTNOTE>On the middle of one of the parapets of this bridge stands a small obelisk, with
this Celtic inscription; "Morfhear chatt do cheann na droichle big gairn clann chat-
tich nam buadh."
     At "Ceann na droichte big," the end of the Little Bridge, the cattich were wont to
muster. Their " gathering" also, or rallying "Pisbarachd," which is accounted one
of the best, bears the name of "Ceann na droichte big." But this Pisbarachd has like-
wise long borne the name of "Ribingorm Mhorfhear Chatt," i.e. The Earl of Suther-
land's Blue or Green Ribband.



