
     of Bower.

and mill gault.  Besides these flesh duties, grass farms in the
Highlands paid veal, kid, butter, and cheese, etc.  And te-
nants on the sea coast paid teind and quatel fish, and oil, out
of each boat belonging to them, and carried sea-ware for
manuring the proprietor's farm.  Amongst other articles of
rent, the parsonage, or great teind, being the tenth sheaf of
the tenant's produce, was also till lately drawn in harvest by
the proprietor in some few places in the country.  They also,
in general, spun a certain quantity of lint for the landlady,
who likewise had from them a certain portion of wool annu-
ally.-All these different payments obtained generally in the
county of Caithness 30 or 40 years ago.  Of late, they have
been converted, in many places, by some proprietors in the
country, into money or victual, or not exacted.  The absence
of proprietors from their estates, which, in that case, were let
to great tacksmen, or to factors, in some instances, has pro-
moted the conversion; while others, from entertaining dif-
ferent views of their interest, whether present or absent, have
continued to exact the above payments, less or more, accor-
ding to use and wont.  In the country, in general, within
the last ten years, a different and more approved system of
farming has begun to be practised in many places; and men,
being convinced of the superior advantages of it, it will, no
doubt, in a few years universally prevail; in consequence of
which, the wages of servants, and the price of provisions,
have considerably risen in value, and will continue to do so.
At the period above mentioned, the wages of a man-servant
employed in farming were about 12 L Scotch, or 1 L Ster-
ling, per annum, with 5 1/2 bolls victual, half barley-meal, and
half oat-meal; of a woman or boy, half of the above.  At
present, the man-servant has about 3 L Sterling, with 6 or 7
bolls of victual; the others half of that.  A day-labourer's
wages may be estimated about 6 d. or 8 d. without meat;


