
        422                      INVERNESS-SHIRE.

	and Glentruim is purposing to do the same, havincf latel built
	a mansion-house upon his estate.
	   The Duke of Gordon was proprietor, nearly of two-thirds of
	this parish, till within the last ten years. Cluny. bought a part of
	it, contiguous to his property. Much about the same time, Glen-
	truim bought another part, for which he paid nearly L.20,000.
	In the year 1834, Mr Baillie purchased the rest of it.
	   Eminent Characters.-The late Mrs Grant, who was married to
	the Rev. James Grant, formerly minister of this parish, and was
	favourably known to the public as the authoress of several popular
	publications,-was the daughter of Mr Macvicar, an officer in
	the British army. She was born in Glasgow  in the year 1755,
	and descended by her mother's side from the Stewarts of Inver-
	nahyle, in Argyllshire. When an infant, she and her mother
	followed her father to America, whither he went along with his
	regiment. When four years of age, her mother taught her to
	read. A sergeant in a Scottish regiment gave her the only lessons
	in penmanship she ever received. About the year 1768, her father
	came to Scotland, and was appointed barrack-master at Fort-
	Augustus; the office of chaplain to the fort being then filled by the
	Rev. James Grant, a gentleman of accomplished mind and man-
	ners. In the year 1775, Mr Grant was settled as minister of the
	parish of Laggan; and in 1779, was united in marriage to Miss
	Macvicar. Mr Grant died in December 1801, and Mrs Grant left
	Laggan in 1803 and went to reside in the neighbourhood of Stir-
	ling. She had twelve children, four of whom, in infancy or early
	life, predeceased their parents; eight of them survived their father.
	The youngest, a writer to the Signet in Edinburgh, survives his
	mother, who died at Edinburgh on the 7th November 1838, in
        the 84th year of her age. *

        <FOOTNOTE>Mrs Grant's works are the following:-
           1.  "The Highlanders," and other poems on various subjects. In one volume,
        published in London in 1803.
           2.  "Letters from the Mountains," being a series of correspondence, addressed by
	Mrs Grant, when resident at Fort. Augustus and Laggan, to her friends in the south-
	ern parts of the kingdom. In three volumes, published in London in 1806. The
	friends to whom the letters were chiefly addressed, were Miss Isabella Reid, now
	Mrs Smith of Jordanhill; Miss Dunbar of Boath; Mrs Brown of Glasgow, and
	others.
           3.  "Memoirs of an American Lady," being an account of the author's residence
	in very early life in North America. before the American Revolution, containing
	descriptive  sketches of Colonial Society and manners in these primitive times, and par-
	ticularly of a lady of distinguished birth, and character, and accomplishments, who
	the desided in the province of New York. In two volumes, publimlied in London in
	1810.


