
                      KILBARCHAN.                                     365

<TABLE>
Mr William Erskine of West Overton,                   1916     0
Mr John Stevenson of W. Barnbeth,                      336     8
* Mr Robert Fyfe of Pamnlinn,                          386     8
Captain Duncan Graham, 6th Foot, Meadside, &c. J. P.   320     0
* William Graham, Esq. Glasgow, High Bruntchell,       326     8
* Mr Hugh Caldwell, Braes and Gowden Knowes,          4213     4
* Mr Robert Jamieron of Littleton,                    2913     4
Mr James Clarke, of Burnfoot,                          236     8
Mr James Lyle, Horsewood, &e.                          236     8

               Total valued rent per Cess-books,   L. 6277    15
</TABLE>

Antiquities.-- Nearly one mile and a-half north-west   of the vil-
lage, and about half a mile from Bridge of Weir, stand the ruins
of the Castle of Ranfurly or Ramphorlie, the seat of the ancient
family of Knocks or Knox. Mr George Crawford, an author
worthy of all credit, in his history of Renfrewshire in 1710, says,
" You find in the registers of the Abbey of Paisley, frequent men-
tion made of the Knoxes in the reigns of Alexander II. and III.,
as witnesses to the charters of that Abbey. They were promis-
cuously designed of Ranfurly and Craigends; for this I have seen
a grant of half the lands of Knock, by Uchter Knock of Ranfurly
to George Knox, his son, in the year 1503. Uchter Knox of
Craigends is one of the arbiters betwixt the Abbey of Paisley and
the burgh of Renfrew in 1488. And in our public records I have
seen a charter of confirmation by King James III. of a resignation
of the barony of Ranfurly and Grief Castle, by John Knox of
Craigends, in favour of Uchter Knox, his son, about the year 1474.
This family failed in the person of Uchter Knox of Ranfurly, who
left one daughter (by his wife Elizabeth, daughter of Sir William
Mure of Rowallan,) called Elizabeth; married to John Cuning-
ham of Caddell. The barony was alienated in 1665, by Uchter
Knox, last mentioned, to William, first Earl of Dundonald.".
A descendant of this family was the great and good John Knox
the distinguished instrument for effecting the Reformation in Scot-
land. Mr Andrew Knox, grand-uncle of the last named Uchter
Knox, was successively minister of Lochwinnoch and of Paisley,
continuing in the latter charge from about 1585 till 1606. He
was, on the re-establishment of Episcopacy appointed Bishop of
the Isles; and afterwards succeeded by his son Thomas Knox,
upon his own translation to the see of Raphoe (in Ireland,) where
he died in 1632. " He was," adds the historiographer for Scot-
land, " a person of considerable learning and moderate temper;
and averse from all manner of persecution for matters of church
government; and very much disposed to oblige his countrymen,
who had left Scotland for their aversion to the then established


