
70                      BERWICKSHIRE.

and the Continent, were continued till 1562, when he returned to
Scotland, determined to spend the remainder of his life on his pa-
trimonial estate at Bassendean. His works, written in Latin, con-
tain a laborious collection of the theories and observations of pre-
ceding astronomers and are monuments of his own extensive ac-
quirements; and, though believing in the mysteries of judicial astro-
logy, he certainly deserves to be ranked among the foremost of
those eminent men who ushered in the dawn of science and lite-
rature in Europe.
   John Veitch.-The name of Veitch, first Presbyterian minister
and an heritor in Westruther, is intimately connected with the civil
history of the parish. The fidelity of this excellent man, his un-
compromising principles,-his extensive influence and celebrity as
a preacher, procured him the distinction of being included in the
number of those Scottish ministers who were watched and marked
for proscription by the advisers of Charles II. An order was in
consequence issued for his removal from Westruther, and a curate
appointed to fill his place. About a year after, however, he return-
ed to this charge on the death of the curate, and upon a pressing
invitation from the people. Though his name does not appear in
the number of indulged ministers, and though he was menaced
by judicial proceedings, he continued to preach and to enjoy his
stipend, which was contrary to the law at that period, but was
in some instances winked at. This eminent man, who was a
great blessing not only to his parish, but to a widely extended dis-
trict, and second to none in that age but his more celebrated bro-
ther, died on his return from the Commission of the Assembly at
Dalkeith, in December 1703. *

<FOOTNOTE>It is proper to notice here, Mr Thomas Bell, a man the very opposite in character
to the preceding, and who deserves not to be dragged from the obscurity in which
his name is buried, but for his connection with, and influence over, the fate of Veitch.
These unworthy person was born at Spottiswoode, as the historian says, "of the meaner
sort of gentry," and was in his earlier years patronized by the minister of the parish,
who gave him his education, brought him up with a view to the ministry, and took
such an interest in his behalf as to procure money from Torwoodlee and other Christi-
ian gentlemen, to carry on his preparatory course of studies. The countenance of
these benefactors, however, was withdrawn on the recommendation of Mr Veitch, who
got notice that their liberality had been misapplied; and Bell, seeing no means of re-
gaining his respectability in Westruther, and reduced for a time to the greatest extre-
mities, fled to England, where he succeeded in obtaining the curacy of Allenton in
Northumberland. No sooner was he settled in that place, than, burning with revenge
for the affront that Veitch had put upon him, he omitted no means of injuring the
reputation, and ruining the comfort, of his former benefactor. It was through his
instigation, and by his calumnious reports, that Veitch first fell unter the suspicion
of the court, and that the mind of Lauderdale, otherwise disposed to befriend him,
was for a while poisoned against him. The life and wretched death of this Presby-
terian renegade may be found detailed in Hutchison's Northumberland.


