
<APPENDIX>

General Appendix [Vol. i.

its importance.  Every family uses coal; and are supplied from
a coal pit belonging to Mr. Smith of Drongan, in Stair par-
ish, at 3 1/2 d. per creel, twelve of which make a ton; or from
Mr. Vint.  There are coals sent to Ayr from each of these
works for the inhabitants, and for exportation to Ireland.
A lime quarry has been found in this parish, excellent in
its quality, and promises to be very great in quantity; the
property of Mr. Crawford of Auchinames, in his lands of
Drumsure.  This, if it answer, as it is hoped it will, must be
of great consequence to the proprietor, and to this whole
parish and neighbourhood, as formerly lime was brought at
a great expence, and of course in small quantities.  There
is abundance of coal to burn the lime; and the soil of this
parish needs it, as a considerable part of it is a clay surface,
sufficiently deep upon a till bottom; but this soil answers ex-
tremely well with lime; and I have the pleasure to inform
you, that the farmers in general, are extremely sober and in-
dustrious.  It appears from our register, that during the last
eight years, the births were 124, marriages 55, burials 129.
The climate is good, the inhabitants in general healthy, and
yet you will observe the burials exceed the births, which is
owing to a great many families in the neighbouring parishes
having burial places in Coylton church-yard.-No Seceders,
Episcopalians, or Roman catholics.-Heritors 9; 2 residing in
the parish.-Farmers 47; some pay 1300, 120, 60, 50 l. sterling,
and several from 40 to 20 l. sterling.-No murders or suicides;
nor any banished from the parish.  The produce of grain;
viz. barley, bear, oats, pease, beans, potatoes, and some wheat,
do more than supply the inhabitants; the surplus sold in Ayr
and the neighbouring towns and villages, particularly at Ca-
trine in Sorn parish, where there is a cotton mill; and at Muir-
kirk, where there are iron, and coal-tar manufactories.  There
is only one sheep farm in the parish.  Some are purchased by


