
244                    EDINBURGHSHIRE.

Scots. The number at present on the list of paupers is 38, while
the sum annually raised by assessment, collections, interest of the
funds and other sources, amounted in 1838 to L. 299, 15s.  Sterling.
   The bell of the church has the following inscription on it:-
"Sir James Forrester of Corstorphine gifted me to this kirk, an-
no 1577, and the heritors of Corstorphine renewed me anno 1728."
The weight of the old bell here referred to was 302 lbs., which
the Heritors sold for L. 136 Scots.  The present bell weighs 384
lbs., and the price of it, with the wheel and whole appendages,
was L.436 Scots.
   Fairs.-In 1662, James Lord Forrester obtained an act of
Parliament, authorizing four free fairs in the year to be held in
the burgh of Corstorphine, "as a fit place for ease of the leidges,
and for selling of horses, nolt, sheip, bestial, and other goods and
merchandize." The days fixed were as follows; 1. on the first
Tuesday after Easter; 2. on 24th July; 3. on 26th August; and
4. on 20th October.
   None of these fairs are now held; but there are two holidays
in summer, which have succeeded them, -the one is held on the
first Tuesday of June, and is called Corstorphine Fair.  The
other is the Carters' Play, and is held on the third Friday of June.

		MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   No parish has undergone more frequent and complete changes
on its surface than Corstorphine.  Notwithstanding its proximity
to Edinburgh, which ought to have secured its improvement at an
early period, it is only in comparatively recent times that it has
been brought generally into cultivation.,
   From the substratum of the western meadow, which consists of
live moss, composed of decayed trees, it is evident that this part
of the parish was at one time overgrown with wood.  This way
have been the case at the time the Romans were in Britain, for
the whole of this part of the country is described by Tacitus as
abounding in forests; but, at all events, this was the early state of
the western meadow, and probably also of other parts of the parish.
   When by accident or otherwise these trees were destroyed, the
meadow would in the course of nature become a bog or mire, and
water would collect and cover its surface during the rainy season
of the year.  We have abundant evidence that it was at one time
in this conditions, from the name Goyle Myre, by which it is still
known.
  The castle of the Forresters, which was situated between, the


