
108                        KINCARDINESHIRE.

queathed L. 100 at his death, to be added to said fund.  Collec-
tions for the poor in 1834, L. 90, 9s. 5 1/2d.--Donations received
during the last ten years from heritors and others, of from L. 1 to
L. 12, L. 185; legacies to the session within same period,
L. 190: in whole, L. 375, or L. 37, 10s. yearly.
	These include Mr Crombie's legacy of L. 100, and L. 50 from
the late Mrs Valentine Bogendollo, who was born, and resided
during the greater part of her lifetime, in the parish of Fordoun,
and L. 50 of legacy from the late Mrs Burnett of Monboddo,
recdived in April 1835.  The whole sum at the disposal of the
kirk-session, arising from donations, legacies, collections at church-
doors, feu-duties and interest of money, thus amounts to about
L. 170 yearly. The ordinary number of poor on the monthly roll
is 48: these receive an allowance from 2s. to 5s. according
to their necessities. The extraordinary poor amount to 40.
These get occasional relief as circumstances warrant. The annual
distribution to the poor amounts to about L. 160. The session
have had to pay, for the last three years, above L. 25 annually.
for the support of lunatics. Collection in 1834 for the general
Assembly's Mission to India L. 6, 7s.  Collection in 1833 for the
General Assembly's Schools in the Highlands, L. 7, 7s. 6d.
There is a public collection once a year for religious purposes,
and an annual collection for the Aberdeen Infirmary.  The
amount of this last averages L. 10 yearly, which secures to patients
from this parish admission on favourable terms.
	It is a matter of daily observation and regret, that the repug-
nance felt by the poor of Scotland, to receive charity in any shape,
is by no means so strong as formerly. It is still considered as
degrading to a certain extent, in this parish, and few, it may be
said none, ever apply for aid, who are not fit objects of charity.
	Prisons.--There are nn prisons or lock-up houses in the parish;
all prisoners, when apprehended by the constable, being either
carried to the nearest Justice of Peace, or before the Procurator-
fiscal in Stonehaven. To its credit, there have only, during the
last seven years, been apprehended in the parish, 2; committed
for trial, 2; convicted, 2; both were for assaults.  Neither of
the culprits were natives of the parish.
	Fairs, &c.--Paldy fair is the most considerable market; it is held
on a moor, about two miles north from Auchinblae, at the foot of
the Grampians, in the month of July, for the sale of cattle, sheep,
and horses. Of late, this market has been on the decline. Ano-


