
            COCKBURNSPATH AND OLD CAMBUS.                       309

necessary for burning it are all brought from a distance, it is not
cheap. Sea-ware is much used, and highly esteemed as a manure.
Bone-dust is also used to a very great extent,-a manure, the dis-
covery of which has been of immense use in reclaiming waste
ground not only in this parish, but generally throughout the coun-
try. In no part of Berwickshire is it used in such quantity as in
this parish. A very striking instance of the importance of this ma-
nure may be seen in the case of the farm of Bowshiel, in this pa-
rish, where, by means of it, large tracks of high ground have not
only been reclaimed, but are now producing immense crops.
   The leases of farms are from nineteen to twenty-one years;
a smaller duration being considered unfavourable to the occu-
pier.
   Notwithstanding the acknowledged high state of agriculture, we
fear that a great deal cannot be said in commendation of the state
of farm-buildings and enclosures in the parish. Compared with
many other districts of inferior importance, the former may be de-
scribed as possessed of very ordinary comforts; in most places of
Berwickshire, both the farm-houses and steadings being superior.
Throughout a considerable part of the parish, we may also state
that little has been done in the way of enclosing land,-a circum-
stance which forcibly strikes the traveller in passing, and for which
deficiency we have never heard any good reasons assigned. Among
the principal improvements which have taken place of late years
may be mentioned casually the new line of post road from Dun-
glass Bridge to Renton,-the recently constructed pier and har-
bour at the Cove, and universal drainage.
   There is hardly a necessity for a single remark on the quarries
and mines of the parish. The only quarry worth mentioning is
near the mouth of the pease burn. The rock is the old red sand-
stone, and principally valuable on account of its qualification of
standing heat.
   Fisheries.-There are no river fisheries; but the coast affords con-
siderable numbers and variety, giving employment to sixteen fami-
lies, fourteen at the Cove, and two in Old Cambus district. The
commond fishes are, cod, haddock, whiting, ling, skate, halibut, and
turbot. A great number of crabs and lobsters are taken at particu-
lar seasons, the latter being generally shipped for London from the
port of Dunbar. Shrimps and prawns are numerous, but they are
not taken. Herrings in former years used to frequent the coast, but
for about eight years past, with the exception of a few shoals in











