
			     KINNETTLES.                      209

Dean, then with the Isla, and finally with the Tay; and after fol-
lowing a most circuitous and somewhat elliptical course of seventy-
two mills, it falls into the German Ocean, about ten miles to the
southward of its source. It is a gentle flowing stream, about 20 feet
in breadth, 2 feet in depth, and flows with a velocity of one mile per
sixty-six minutes. lt drives a multitude of mills, abounds in large and
excellent trout, and affords luch sport to anglers, with whom its
winding banks are sometimes thickly planted, during the spring and
summer months. It is naturally pacific: but after a great fall of
rain, or an effectual thaw of a winter storm, when the melted snow
and ice run down in torrents from the hills, it swells to an almost
incredible extent, and lays hundreds of acres of arable and meadow
ground under water.
	Geology and Mineralogy.--The rocks, which enter into the com-
position of the hill and of the inclined planes of the parish, are
whinstone, sandstone, and slate. The whinstone rock makes its
appearance under the varieties of pure whinstone, trap, and basalt,
in three distinct parts of the parish. But although it thus appears
in a detached state, it is in all probability related to the Siedlaw
range, where a zone of whinstone str`ta seems to be formed, run-
ning, with occasional interruptions, from S. W. to N. E. Its ex-
tent is considerable, particularly in the hill of Kinnettles, where it
shows itself almost uninterruptedly from the one end of the hill
to the other, whose length is not less than three-fourths of a mile.
Although its depth is very considerable, varying from 40 to 100
feet, yet the thickness of its strata is not great. In consequence
of its numerous intersections, the blocks of which it is composed
are generally small, and very irregular. The three varieties of this
rock are worked in the parish. Two of these, situated in the north-
ern district, furnish stones of a dark blue colour; and the third,
situated in the southern district, furnishes stones of a paler colour
on the fracture, and externally muddy, resembling the colour of a
toad. In all the three the rock is very difficult to work, and the
stones which they furnish, being extremely bard in their texture,
of small size, and irregular in their shape, are useful only as road-
metal, and for filling drains. The sandstone or freestone rock,
whose colour is partly gray and partly tinged with red, is very con-
siderable in its extent. It not only forms the base of the hill which
rises in the centre of the parish, but traces, at a certain depth, its
unbroken connection with the extenshvd range of freestone which per-
vades the whole chain of the Siedlaw hills. This rock is stratified to


