
                             LIBERTON.                           19

ed is 4 feet 4 inches thick, with 8 inches of parrot coal above. Of
late, however, these operations have been suspended, partly owing
to the expiry of the lease of the late tenant, but chiefly owing to
the quantity of coal brought to the Edinburgh market by means
of the Dalkeith Railway, from mines which can be worked at less
expense. The mines at Gilmerton may remain dormant for a time,
till some of the neigbbouring collieries are exhausted to the same
depth, but there is at Gilmerton an immense supply of coal un-
worked.
   Iron.--Blackband ironstone of the best quality, and 14 inches
thick, has lately been discovered at Gilmerton, which may imme-
diately cause a great increase of population.
   Lime-works at Gilmerton.--The Gilmerton lime-work was per-
haps the oldest in Scotland, and had also been in operation from
time immemorial. It was at first worked by tirring, after-
wards by mining, according to the plan at present in use. Its
present waste, stretching from Moredun Mains along by Hyvot's
Mill, to Muirhouse, presents abundant evidence of former opera-
tions, there being a vast series of pillars with open areas, the rock
being 9 feet thick, and resting on a declivity of 45.* The stones
from the mine or quarry were formerly carried to the bank-head
by women with creels fastened on their backs, and when the works
were in full operation, probably fifty women were thus employed.
At length asses were with more propriety employed in this occu-
pation; a change suggested by a man of the name of Pidie, who
had been at the siege of Gibraltar, and had seen asses employed
there in carrying up sand to fortify the trenches. The east
part of the quarry was afterwards worked by means of a steam-
engine, but this was found unprofitable, and was consequently
abandoned. The working was, however, renewed, and carried on with
great vigour during the years 1825, 1826, and 1827, when the rock
was laid dry by the draining and working of the North Green coal,
which lies regularly above it. At this time there were upwards of
twenty quarrymen employed, and the quantity produced was about
15,000 bolls of six imperial bushels per annum. Nearly the same
quantity of small coals was consumed, and the rock was forced out
by means of blasting with gunpowder; a very difficult, operation.
   This limestone extends from the adjoining parish of Lasswade,
nearly across the entire breadth of this parish. It begihs near Loan-
head on the west, and runs nearly in a north-eastern direction to
Moredun, passing through Muirhouse, the property of Mr Trotter


