
     of Falkland.

of a manse and glebe, only a chalder of bear.  Mr Sandi-
lands of Nuthill is patron.-There is no house nor garden
for the schoolmaster, in hiring of which, his legal salary of
about L. 6, 10 s. is nearly exhausted.  The average number
of his scholars is about 80, of whom the small proportion
that read Latin and arithmetic, pay only 2 s. 6 d. the quar-
ter, and the English scholars 1 s. 6 d.  These, with the per-
quisites arising from the offices of session-clerk and precen-
tor, constitute the whole of his emolument, on which he de-
pends for his own and the subsistence of his family.  His
emoluments not admitting of an assistant, both limits the
number of his scholars, within what the populousness of the
parish might afford, and render it necessary to employ o-
ther teachers in different parts of the parish.  To those who
have any regard for the education and right principling of
the common people, it must appear evident, that no class
of men are of more importance to society, or more deser-
ving of patronage than schoolmasters.  The legal provision
made for them, was, at the time, adequate to the object in
view, and the happy effects of it soon were, and still are,
conspicuous in our country.  Education was universally 
diffused.  The lowest classes of the people were taught to
read the scriptures, instructed in the first principles of reli-
gion and morality, and thus prepared in schools for being
further enlightened and improved by the theological and mo-
ral lectures of churches.  Hence the distinguished superiority
of the common people of Scotland in knowledge and so-
briety.  Parish schools, have hitherto been the great nur-
series for the church, and many other learned professions.
There many men of usefulness and eminence in the dif-
ferent departments of society, have received those rudi-
ments of literature which they could not otherwise have
obtained, but to the great loss of society and of their coun-
try, must have continued blinded with the common mass,


