
                              KIRKMAHOE.                     61

meat. Tradesmen, such as masons, joiners, blacksmiths, and tai-
lors, well employed, live and dress in a very comfortable way.
Weavers of all kinds of home-made clothing, who were once a
numerous class here, but whose occupation is now almost
gone, owing to the introduction of the power loom, have, at least
many of them, been obliged to fall into the ranks of farm-labour-
rers, thus diminishing the comfort of both classes. Our people
are in general well-informed, sincerly religious, and morally cor-
rect. Few of them are ever guilty of gross offences against jus-
tice, charity, or temperance.

	                    IV.-INDUSTRY.

        Agriculture and Rural Economy.-This is properly an agricul-
tural parish, and perhaps produce more food for man, according
to its extent, than any other parish in the county. The lower part
of it has been called "the trough of Nith" (which may be freely
translated corn-chest or granary.) That river, as viewed from the
heights above Dalswinton village, present the form of an immence
corn sickle, with its handle stretching up towards Isle and Ellisland,
and may suggest to the imagination of the classical spectator the rich
harvest which are ydarly reaped on its fertile banks. A thousand
acres of arable land lie along the river, and about 10,000 acres of
the parish are occasionally under the plough. This was the case,
at least, not above five or six years ago; but some reckon that there
are not many more than 8000 acres now of that description, the
ground in some parts being considered as paying better in pasture
than in village. About 500, or perhaps near 600, acres in wood,
and 400 acres which have never been cultivated; of this, 200 at least
might, by the judicious "application of capital, be added to the
cultivated land of the parish." On the remainder, nature seems
to have pronounced her veto, and doomed it to continue under per-
petual servitude in her own hand. A considerable portion of ground
is occupied by single trees, and by trees standing together to the
number of two or three.
        Rent of Land.-The average rent is 19s. per acre; the average
rent of gracing is L.3 per ox, if fed in water with fodder; L.5
per cow; 12s per sheep, if winter fed; but a sheep may be pas-
tured for 5s per annum. The gross rental of the parish is from
L. 9000 TO L. 10,000 a year.



