
                        KILMANY.                           547

planted is not above 150 acres Scotch, or 190 imperial measure.
The trees which are planted are the Scotch fir, the larch, the
beech, with an intermixture of a few ash, plane, and oak.
   Rent- The average rent of the arable land is about L.2, 5s. to
L.2, 1Os. per acre; that of grazing is at the rate of L. 3 per ox,
or cow, and of 12s. per ewe, or full-grown sheep for the season.
   Wages- The wages of married farm-servants are from L.9 to
L. 12, with house and garden, 6 1/8 bolls of oatmeal, 9 bolls of po-
tatoes per annum, and 1 pint of sweet milk daily; of unmarried
servants living in bothies, L.10 to L. 11, with the same allowance
of oatmeal and milk; and potatoes for supper. Fuel and bed-
clothes are afforded by their masters. In winter the rate of com-
mon labourers is from 8s. to 9s. per week; in summer from 9s.
to 11s. Artisans vary from 10s. to 16s. per week. Women for
agricultural work 8d. without meat; do. for washing, Is. with meat,
but the hours are long.
   Grain-Varieties of seed used, and the quantity sown per
Scotch acre: Meat.-White do. now principally Hunter's; little
red do.; quantity sown per Scotch acre, 4 bushels. Barley Eng-
lish.- Chevalier do. much used, and approved of; the only objec-
tion against it, is its being ten days later of ripening than other
varieties; quantity sown per acre from 5 to 6 bushels. Outs.-Po-
tatoe do. early Angus, common, and lately introduced, and much
esteemed Hopetoun do. Quantity of seed per acre from 6 to 8
bushels. Potatoes.-The Devonshire red, and the Perthshire red,
the most popular in the London market. There were fewer failures
in the crop of Devonshire red, in this neighbourhood, than of
any other variety. A few blue Dons are planted, more of Glasgow
buffs, and almost no white species. When raised, they are for home
consumption. Quantity used for seed per acre, from 3 to 4 bolls.
Turnips.-For harry use, white globe and red, for standine dur-
ing the winter and spring, green top yellow, Aberdeenshire yellow,
hybrid and a few Swedes. Quantity used for seed per acres, 2
to 2 1/2 lbs. Grass.-Annual and perennial rye-grass, 1 to 2 bushels
per acre; red clover from 10 to 12 lbs. per do. Some farmers
sow along with it 2 lbs. of white. When laid down for pasture 4
lbs. of red; with 5 to 6 lbs. of white clover.
    Live-Stock.-The breeds of sheep which are raised, or bought
in to feed, are the Leicester, Cheviot, and Highland kinds. There
are about 1000 of the above varierties annually fed for the butcher
upon turnips.  The breed of cattle is the original Fife one, or as


