
                PARISH OF KIRKPATRICK-DURHAM. *

  	   PRESBYTERY OF DUMFRIES, SYNOD OF DUMFRIES.

		THE REV. GEORGE GREIG, MINISTER.


		I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	Name.--In Wodrow's History of the Sufferings of the Church
of Scotland, we find this parish to have been formerly distinguished
as Kirkpatrick on the Muir, but this name has long been laid aside.
Kirkpatrick is an appellation which it bears in common with seve-
ral parishes in the south of Scotland. "Durham is most probably
derived," says Dr Lamont, the author of the former Account of
this parish, "from the Saxon words durr, which signifies dry or
barren, and ham, which denotes a village or division of a manor.
If this derivation be just, Durham becomes descriptive of a coun-
try that is dry and barren, an apellation that is peculiarl appli-
cable to the situation, and soil, and surface of this particular dis-
trict."
	Extent, &c.--The parish stretches from north to south in a pretty
regular form to the extent of about 10 miles: its breadth seldom
exceeding 4, and nearly averaging 3 1/2. If we take nine miles as
the length, exclusive of extreme points, we shall have about 31 1/2
square miles as its extent of surface. It is bounded by the pa-
rishes of Urr and Crossmichael, on the south; by Parton and Bal-
maclellan, on the west; by Glencairn and Dunscore, on the north;
and by Holywood and Kirkpatrick-Irongray, on the east.
	Topographical Appearances. --Though the general elevation of
the parish is considerable, it contains no lofty mountains, and the
heights which diversify its surface consist chiefly of craggy hills,
which partake of the geological character of the surrounding dis-
trict. In many places these ranges have not as yet been cultivat-
ed to their summits and are now crowned with thriving planta-
tions.  Towards the north lies the Muir of Kirkpatrick, a high
bleak district, consisting chiefly of pasture for black-cattle and

<FOOTNOTE>Drawn up by the Rev. Geo. John Duncan, Kirkpatrick-Durham.


