
                         ORMISTON.                         133

   Lime rocks abound towards the southern extremity of the pa-
rish, running nearly from east to west, and dipping towards the
north. At what time it began to be wrought I have not been able to
ascertain. It appears, however, from an account of the parish in
1627, that at that time it was not known that there was either lime
or coal in the parish, or even in the neigbbourhood. *  Lime is
now, however, found in great abundance, all along the direction
from Salton to the western extremity of Crichton parish. In the
southern extremity of the parish of Ormiston, it has been wrought
for a great number of years, and is generally found in eight beds
in all about 15 feet thick. The bottom bed is usually found to
be of an inferior quality.
   There is abundance of freestone in the parish. Several quarries
of it had been wrought at different times. One was npened a great
many years ago, on the north bank of the glen, to the north of the
House of Ormiston Hall. The stone of this quarry was very
coarse and friable. From it, the manse and, several other buildings
were supplied with stones. Another quarry of post-freestone, at
the western extremity of the parish, was opened in 1808. The
rock of this quarry, which is composed of, several strata, is 13
feet thick, and is harder, and of a finer quality than the other.
From it, the proprietor is supplied with stones for carrying on his
buildings, and in particular, a great proportion of the stones em-
ployed in the addition lately made to the House of Ormiston Hall
were procured from this quarry.
   If we may judge from the quality of the springs, ironstone may
be found in different places; but no attempt has ever been made
to discover it.+
   Soil.-There is a considerable diversity of soils in the parish.
A small breadth on either side of the Tyne consists of a light
loam on a gravelly bottom. As you proceed from the river, it
changes into a stiff clay upon a till bottom. Part towards both
the northern and southern extremities of the parish is of a bleak
and obdurate quality, but is gradually improving by cultivation.
About the village the soil is a light loam upon gravel. In the same
tract, westward, boundedby the Tyne on the south, and a small stream
on the north, the middle and greater part of it is of a stiff clay,

<FOOTNOTE>"The truth is, there is no other lymestone, nor lymcoill within the paroche but
that quhilk with great travell they fetch coming and going eight myles."-Account
Of Ormiston 1627, sec. 15.
   + The author is indebted for much of the information contained in the article.
geology, to Mr Scott, factor to the proprietor.


