
                                 BIRNIE.                 85

   Botany.-Juncus balticus, Lapsana pusilla, Potamogeton he-
terophyllus, Hieracium denticulatum, Listeru cordata, Pyrola
media, Rhinanthus major, and Aspidium Filix foemina may be
enumerated amongthe rarer Scottish phaenogamous plants found
in this parish.  The water lily (Nymphoea alba) noticed in
the last Account, has disappeared, the lake having been drained
many years ago.  Until lately, there were no plantations of any
description within the parish, which could only shew a few strag-
gling alders and willows by the sides of the rivulets, or the still rarer
ashes which served to mark the narrow confines of what was once
the kail-yard. Within the last twenty years, 274 imperial acres
have been planted in separate lots, with larch and Scotch fir.  They
promise so well, that it is to be regretted this improvement has
not been carried on to a much greater extent, as there are exten-
sive tracts of land, lying waste, that could not be better appropri-
ated than for plantations of firs and even of harder woods.

                             II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Land-owners.-The Right Honourable the Earl of Seafield is
sole proprietor of Birnie. There are, in his Lordship's possession, a
plan of the whole parish in 1784, (five Scots chains to the inch,)
and detached surveys of most of it that have also been completed
since that date.
   Parochial Registers.-The parish registers do not reach beyond
last century. At the first meeting of the kirk-session after the battle
of Culloden, there is the following entry in the handwriting of the
incumbent, who had made himself so obnoxious to the Jacobites,
that he was obliged to go south to meet the Duke of Cumberland
for protection. " Birny, 16th June 1746.  The collections since
last distribution (December 1745) amounted to no more than
seven Ls. nine sh. (Scots,) occasioned by the rebels, their having
been so long in this country."
   Antiquities- The Bishop's Church was first at Birnie, afterwards
at Keneddar, then at Spynie, and last of all at Elgin. About forty
years ago, the foundations of an extensive building were, dug up in
the corner of a field, which bad formerly the name of Castlehill.*
On this site likely stood the ancient Episcopal residence.
   The present church is probably the oldest plane of worship now,
used in the country. Like those of the more dignified structures of
Roman Catholic times, the walls are built inside as well as on the

<FOOTNOTE>
The place now called Castlehill received its name from some families.who, remov-
ing from the old situation, carried the name along with them to tbeir now settlement.


