
                        LONGSIDE.                             867

mail-coach runs twice a-day; and on the lattera stage-coach runs
from Peterhead to Banff, and returns in the evening.  The other
roads are numerous and well-planned, but not, in general, kept in
good enough repair.  The bridges on the turnpikes are substan-
tial, but the two at Auchlee and Rora are old, dilapidated, and
much needing to be altered both in site and construction.  In the
north-east part, about forty years ago, a canal was partially exe-
cuted, and used chiefly for transporting shell-sand from the coast
of St Fergus, but has been long abandoned.
   Ecclesiastical State-Incumbents.-The first minister was Mr
Alexander Martin, from 1619 till about 1635; then Mr Alexander
Irving tili 1662, when be and other six members of the presbytery
of Deer chose rather to demit than to violate conscience by sub-
mission to impious and unconstitutional power.  The vacancy was
supplied by the appointment in 1662 * of Mr Thomas Robertson,
whose son, Mr Alexander Robertson, was instituted his assistant
and successor in 1687.  A few months after this, the father died,
and his son was permitted to continue in office after the Revolution
till 1716, when he and some other ministers in this district were
deposed for abetting the Rebellion in 1715.  The Presbyterian
ministers who succeeded were, Mr John Lumsden, in 1717; Mr
John Brown, in 1733; Mr William Greig, in 1790; Mr Thomas
Kidd, in 1829, who died only three days after his ordination; and
the present incumbent, who was ordained in 1830.
   The Church is situated in the village of Longside, as nearly as
possible in the centre of the parish.  The old church, which had,
continued without enlargement from 1620, having become insecure,
and by far too small for the greatly increased population, a plain
building for about 1000 sitters was founded in 1835, and opened
for public worship on the 7th August 1836.  The seats are
apportioned among the heritors, and occupied by their tenants
without charge for rent.  The manse, situated about 200 yards
south-west of the church, was built in 1825.  The glebe, including
garden and site of manse and offices, contains nearly eleven Scotch
acres.  Were the arable part let, it would probably rent for about
L25.  The stipend is the value of 16 chalders, half meal half

<FOOTNOTE>Though Episcopacy was established for nearly thirty years after this, no change
seems to have been made on the mode of worship or of discipline.  During that
period the parochial records contain no allusion to the use of a liturgy, to the keep-
ing of Christmas, Lent. Easter, or any other fast or festival, (except those occasionally
enjoined by authority), and the communion was regularly celebrated on two success-
sive Sabbaths, about midsummer.


