
                      KINNEFF.                               313

afterwards rewarded by the Government of Charles, but not cer-
tainly in the direct ratio of their services. Mrs Granger, to whose
presence of mind the merit was chiefly due, had 2000 merks voted
her by Parliament (January 11, 1661). Mr Ogilvie was made a
Baronet, but received no compensation for the fines and seques-
tratious to which his estate had been subjected. Sir John Keith,
thd nominal governor of the castle, was created Earl of Kintore,
partly in compliment to his mother, Margaret Erskine, Countess
Marischal, under whose authority Mrs Granger acted, and partly
on account of the imprisonment he suffered from taking on him-
self the fictitious responsibility of having carried abroad the rega-
lia, and delivered them to Charles II. A tombstone, erected in
the church of Kinneff to the memory of Mr Granger, bears the fol-
lowing inscription:-
	   Scotia Grangeri cui insignia regia debet
	     servata, hic cineres reliquiaeque jacent;
	   Abstulit obsesso pcene haec captiva Dunotro,
              Condidit et sacra qua tumulator * humo.
	   Praemia dant Superi, Patril servator honoris
	     Sceptra rotat superos inter athleta choros.
        Eminent Men.-"The famous Dr John Arbuthnott, intimate
friend of Pope and Swift, and physician to Queen Anne, lived for some
time in this parish. His father, the minister of Arbuthnott was,
at the Revolution, turned out of his living, by his chief and patron,
Lord Arbuthnott, who was then a very keen partizan; upon which
he retired to his own property of Kingorny, where he lived for
some time, having his son, the Doctor, a young man, along with
him."
        Land owners.-There are nine proprietors in the parish. The
lands of Kinneff, including nearly one-half of the valued rental,
are held by the Trustees of the late Lord Keith; the estate of
Barras, by the Trustees for Donaldson's Hospital in Edinburgh;
and the lands of Catterline, with Chapel of Barras, by Lord Ar-
buthnott. The remaining heritors are, the Heirs of the late C.
Abercrombie of Bellfield; T. G. Straiton of Castle of Fiddes;

<FOOTNOTE>Tumulatur? The poetical version of these lines here subjoined is by the Rev.
J. M. Mitchell, now of Bombay.
                    Reader, here Granger's sacred ashes lie,
                    Who, patriotic, every danger braved,
                    To whom for th' emblems of her royalty
                    Scotland indebted stands; for these he saved,
                    And from Dunnottar's leagured towers conveyed,
		    And in this sacred pile in secret laid.
                    Who but the Power Supreme could e'er bestow
                    Reward sufficient for desert like this?
                    He who his country's honour saved below,
                    Now wields a sceptre in the realms of bliss.


