
                           ALLOA.                                21                            21
                                                                                                                                 1
particularly near the line of junction with the recent alluvial de-
posit of the River Forth, are found large masses of greenstone
rock, which must have been brought by the waters, from the great
rocks of greenstone, which abound in the vicinity of Stirling, upon
the west, as no beds or dikes of this rock have been found in this
parish.
   The recent alluvial cover deposited by the River Forth con-
sists entirely of soft blue mud or silt in the lower part, and strong
tenacious clay at the surface, suitable for brick-making. No stones
of any kind are found in it, the deposit having been made from
still-water; but it rests sometimes on clay of the old alluvial cover,
and at the surface of this clay boulders of greenstone are found.
   This recent alluvial deposit of the river Forth is of various
thickness, from a few inches at the line of junction with the old
alluvial cover, to thirty yards. This depth was bored through,
ere the rock was reached at Longcarse farm-steading,west from
the harbour of Alloa.
   At the Rhind point, south from Longcarse farm-steading, there
is a ford known by the name of the Throsk Ford, which is the
most southerly part of this parish. The whole bed of the river,
as far as low water-mark, is laid over with an immense quantity of
boulders, chiefly of greenstone. This ford is four feet higher
than the pitch of low-water, or the lowest ebb at Alloa harbour,
and there is deep water beyond this ford to the westward. Hence
it is concluded, that this ford or collection of stones in the river is
altogether artificial, having been made by the Romans as a pass,
similar to the other fords up the river towards Stirling.
   In some places, there are found quantities of a brown ferrugi-
nous sand, overlaying the old alluvial cover, and in the narrow val-
leys, there are deposits of brown tenacious clay, with small stones
disseminated through it. These deposits appear to have been
formed by the deluge.
   The rocks in this parish being entirely of the coal formation,
consist only of a very few varieties, viz. lst, Sandstone of various
colours, but chiefly light red, yellowish, and grey, inclining to white.
2d, Sandstone combined with coal slate, in the form of clay, and
in very various proportions. 3d, Coal slate containing bands and
balls of common clay ironstone. 4th, Coal slates of a dark colour
found generally with a bed of coal resting upon them. 5th, Beds
of coal from one inch to nine feet thick. 6th, Limestone.


