
406                       STIRLINGSHIRE.

greater magnificence and show than had distinguished his own bap-
tism, and with a variety of childish but very costly pageants, that
threw into the shade, both in number and in pomp, the similar ex-
hibitions, which, in his own infancy, bad desecrated the divine or-
dinance.
  Before leaving the more ancient portion of the history of the
castle and town of Stirling, which, down to the date we have now
reached, were in a great measure identified, the latter deriving
from the former its chief importance, and usually following its for-
tunes, some places may be noticed, interesting from their asso-
ciation with the early times, when this intimate connection and de-
pendence subsisted.  There is, immediately under the castle on
the south-east, but still on the lofty ground of the castle-hill, a
level inclosure of about an acre in extent, called the Valley, where
jousts and tournaments and other sports and feats of chivalry used
to be exhibited for the entertainment of the royal family and court.
Immediately adjoining is a small rocky eminence on the very edge
of the hill, and not only commanding a view of the valley, but
looking down also upon what was the royal gardens close under
the castle-hill to the south, and a little farther off upon the slightly
elevated table-land of the King's Park, and gently rising emi-
nences by which it is girdled in from the fertile and magnificent
plain beyond.  From this spot, which is called the Ladies' Hill,
the ladies of the place enjoyed a bird's-eye view of the sports en-
gaged in by the court in the gardens, and might witness also the
occasional military arrays and encampments, and other spectacles
in the King's Park, which the royal residence and the natural im-
portance of Stirling Castle must have produced, and which, we
have reason to believe, did actually grace the scene.  Within the
space formerly occupied by the royal gardens, is a very remarkable
piece of antiquity, known by the name of the Kings Knot, con-
sisting of a central mound in the form of a table, surrounded at
the distance of a few feet by another in the form of a bench, of
nearly equal height, and again at a greater distance by a kind of
low esplanade, and this once more by what appear to have been
canals or ditches.  Here was the scene of various sports, one of
which, frequently practised, was that called the Knights of the
Round Table.  From the authority of authentic historians and
the best antiquaries, this singular structure is known to be of very

 <FOOTNOTE>See William of Worcester, Itinerary, p. 311; Barbour in his account of the
Battle of Bannockburn; Gough's edition of Camden, Vol. iii., and Caledonia, Vol. i.
pp. 244, 245.


