
400                    ROSS AND CROMARTY.

hand of nature, and penetrating for upwards of twenty miles into
a populous country, invite the merchant and manufacturer to settle
on their banks. The soil is as various as the general face of the
ground; but on the whole, is warm, dry, and productive. The
fields on the slopes of the rising-grounds are comparatively of a
richer soil than the low-ground, except a part of the estate of Lo-
vat, which once belonged to the priory of Beauly, and is a deep,
rich, carse ground. The plains abound with pebbler, from four
to six or eight pound weight, evidently rounded by friction, and
intermixed with beds of dry sand and gravel. Hence a consider-
able part of the low-ground is barren dry moor, producing only a
short heath; and the arable land, with a few exceptions, of infe-
rior quality to that on the high lands. On one estate there are
several small hollows surrounded by this dry barren soil, which
seem to have been once small lakes, but are now filled with peat
moss. On the bottom of several of them some strata of shell marl
have been found. *
  Rivers.-The Beauly empties itself into the Frith of that name
at the south-west point of the parish, and cannot be said to belong
to it. The Connon intersects the parish near. the north end, and
is composed of four great branches.t The Orrin, running from
S. W., falls into the Connon below Brahan Castle; a very irregular
stream, fordable in many places during summer, but sometimes
rising very suddenly to an alarming height, and proving a very
unwelcome and destructive visitant to all within its reach. Mr
MacKenzie of Seaforth generously defrayed the expense of a
wooden bridge thrown across it some years ago behind the manse
of Urray; but this was carried away by the flood of September
1839. It has been lately repaired at the expense of the county,
and promises defiance to the violence of the stream.
  About two miles west from Urray, the Garie falls in on the north
side, which running from W. N. W. rise on the confines of Loch-
broom. Thence, five miles farther west, is the junction of the other
two branches, the Meig and the Lichart. The former rises on the
barders of Lochcarron to the W. S. W.; and the source of the
latter is on the confines of Gairloch to the west.-The Connon

<FOOTNOTE> * Old Statistical Account.
  t Theme is a spring on the bank of the Connon, near the weat and of the parish,
strongly impregnated with sulphur. The water is as clear as any other spring, but
smells like the seourings of al a foul gun. It is said to partake of the nature of Har-
rowgate water, and to useful in scorbutic complaints and rheumatism. It is of the
same kind with much frequented spring of Strathfoffer, in the neighbourhood.


