
                            KELSO                         315

(that of Kirkwood) accepted, in preference to the chair of Hu-
manity in the University of St Andrews.
  The same fatality in reference to conflagrations, which so often
changed the face of the town in distracted times, seems to have
followed it to a more peaceful period.  A destructive fire broke
out in 1686, which consumed about half the town; in 1738,
it was wasted by a similar visitation; and there were fires of some
extent so recently as 1801 and 1815.  Of late years it has been
spared everv such calamity; and has shared largely, in common
with the whole of lower Tweedside, in the advancing civilization of
the nineteenth century.  It is now one of the most steadily pros-
perous of the small non-manufacturing towns in Scotland.; and
its inhabitants form a little community, which, in point of gene-
ral intelligence and polish of manners, may claim a place beside
that of the most favoured rural districts in the island.
  Accounts of the Town and Parish.--The most valuable of the
ancient documents relative to the parish is the chartulary of
Kelso with the rent-roll of the abbey, (Rotulus Redituum Monas-
terii de Kalkow,) in the Advocates' Library; but almost all the in-
formation furnished by it may be obtained in a pleasanter form, in
the Monastic Annals of Teviotdale, by the Rev.  James Morton,
one of the prebendaries of Lincoln, and a native of Kelso;--in
which elaborate work there is not only a history of the abbey, to-
gether with an account of its possessions and revenues, but copies
of the charter of its foundation by King David, the tax-roll of the
abbey, and other rare and valuable documents.  " Kirkwood's
Trial," a curious and rare work, published shortly after the union
of the kingdoms, throws considerable light, though coloured by the
Jacobite predilections of the author, on the ecclesiastical state of
the town and district, at the period immediately posterior to the
final re-establishment of the Presbyterian Church government.
"Haig's History of Kelso," published only a few years ago, may
also be consulted with advantage, by such as wish to see a con-
nected view of all the material circumstances in its past history or
present state; though unhappily, the value of this work is very
seriously abated by the number of errors in chronology, and in
minor points of detail by which it is deformed.  Among abridged
accounts, the most to be depended on for accuracy of statement
is that under the article "Kelso" in the Edinburh Encyclopae-
dia, conducted by Brewster.
  Eminent Characters.--The number of eminent persons who


