
	148	                           ORKNEY.

	in every respect well adapted for the accommodation of a nume-
	rous congregation.
	   Poor.--The parish funds for the poor proceed from the follow-
	ing sources: Ist, L.5, a yearly donation, from Mr Traill of Hob-
	bitter; 2dly, Marriage money, 2s. 6d. for each marriage, of which
	10d. goes to the clerk and officer, and Is. 8d. to the poor; 3dly,
	Is. 2d. for the use of the mortcloth in burying; 4thly and lastly,
	the collections on Sabbath.  On an average of three years, the
	total amount does not exceed L.9, 17s. yearly.  From this deduct
	fees to the clerk and officer, and there remains for distribution, L.7,
	3s.  The precentor, or reader, as he is generally termed, receives
	and has received, from time immemorial, nine meils of bear on the
	bear pundlar, four settings oatmeal, and twelve merks of butter.
	   Education.--There is in Sellibister, one of the districts of this
	parish, a school under the Society for Propagating Christian
	Knowledge; salary, L. 15 Sterling; reading, writing, arithmetic,
	and book-keeping are taught.  There is also a parochial school
	common to all the three parishes of Sanday, with a commodious
	house, and a salary of L. 46, 10s.  The school-house is large,
	well-aired, and well-lighted.  Besides reading, writing, arith-
	metic, and book-keeping, the elements of mathematics, land-
	measuring, and Latin, are taught.  The situation has hitherto been
	occupied by able and well-qualified teachers.
	   Light-house.--A lighthouse was erected on the Start, in the
	year 1802, and lighted in 1806.  It is 100 feet in height, and re-
	volves once in two minutes.
	   Since its erection, very few vessels have been either wrecked
	or stranded on our coast.  Formerly, three or four vessels were
	yearly wrecked.  Our coast is so low, that mariners are entangled,
	before aware of the danger.  But the same circumstance which
	is fatal to the vessel, proves, in general, the safety of the crew.

	   Julyl 1841.


