
     Statistical Account

ing and washing the yarn; and two pretty extensive commons
for bleaching, the one along the side of Lochleven, and the o-
ther west of the town, supplied with water from the above-
mentioned stream, and also abounding with plenty of springs.
   The cutlery business, for which this place has been famous
for a century past, has of late been much on the decline, ow-
ing to the general use of Sheffield wares.  About 40 years ago,
this branch employed between 20 and 30 hands; but the num-
ber is now reduced to 4*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*About a mile west from Kinross, on the lands of Mawhill, is s small cairn,
which, like many others in Scotland, is called the Leckar stones; another
near Carsgour, known by the name of the Toryknow, was last year razed to
the ground, but nothing discovered to gratify curiosity.  A tumutus or mound,
composed mostly of earth, with some stones intermixed, on the east of Anno-
freuch, was opened a few years ago, and a coffin found therein formed of rough
flat stones, set on edge at the sides and ends, and a large one above; within
which were some bones, and many pieces of burnt wood interspersed.  In the
memory of some old people, it was called the Elf-hillock, but it is now known
by the name of the Fairy know.
   The most remarkable piece of antiquity is the castle of Lochleven, said to
have been the antient seat of Congal, son of Dongart, King of the Picts, who
is said to have founded it.  It stands towards the N. W. part of the lake, on
an island about an acre and three-quarters in extent, and is encompassed with
a rampart of stone, nearly of a quadrangular form.  The principal tower, a
kind of square building, stands upon the N. wall, very near the N. W. corner,
and there is a lesser round one at the S. E.  The other apartments were ar-
ranged along the N. wall, between the great tower and the N. E corner.  A
kitchen, supposed to have been built later than the rest of the castle, stood on
the W. wall, near the S. W. corner; and another building, supposed to have
been the chapel, between that and the great tower fronting the S.  In the
lower part of the square tower is a dungeon with a well in it.  Above the
dungeon is a vaulted room, which, from the appearance of the effects of smoke
on the jambs of the chimney, seems to have been used as a kitchen.  Over
this had been three stories.  No date or inscription appears on any part of
the buildings, excepting only the letters R. D. and M. E. (probably the ini-
tials of Sir Robert Donglass and Margaret Erskine, his lady), on the face of


