
     Statistical Account

the register, has generally been only about 25.  The number of
marriages is ascertained, by the proclamation list, to be, at an
average, 15.  A register of deaths has never been attempted
her; and to attain any accuracy in it, would be still more
difficult than with respect to births, as not one half of the
people who die in this parish are buried within it, but are
carried to the neighbouring parish of Fetteresso, partly to the
church-yard there, and partly to the burying ground of an
old chapel within its bounds+.

   Produce.-With respect to produce, this parish is more
than sufficient to supply itself, affording considerable quantities
of bear, barley and meal, to the Aberdeen market, which
forms the standard price here, after deducing the expence of
carriage.  Since the late sale of the York Buildings Company's

<FOOTNOTE>

and recover a penalty: whereas it is only enacted, that every person craving a
registration, shall pay such a tax.  A new regulation to this purpose appears to
be a very proper improvement of our police.

+From the slightest observation, the deaths appear considerably to exceed
the births, on account of numbers of old people, and persons decayed, both
in health and circumstances, who retire to Stonehaven from the neighbouring
parishes, when unable to hold possessions in the country.  It is also observable,
that notwithstanding the decay of manufactures for several years, already men-
tioned, yet the population of Stonehaven not only continued nearly the same,
but also a considerable addition of buildings has spread out from it, into the neigh-
bouring parish of Fetteresso, which is separated from it only by the Carron.
This circumstance is to be explained from the state of the adjacent country.
Upon the sale of the York Building Company's lands in the parishes of Dun-
nottar and Fetteresso, a considerable revolution took place, by ejected cottagers
removing from the country to the town.  And from the progress of improve-
ment upon these estates, since that time, not only these persons find employment
as day-labourers, but a number of strangers from other places have been drawn
hither for the same purpose.  All these have sought residence in Stonehaven;
which has occasioned the increase of houses, and kept up the population without
the assistance of manufactures or trade.


