
4                          KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

names in their progress to the sea, and assumed that of their con-
fluent the Dee.*
	The Deugh, which rises in the mountains of Carsphairn, upon
the borders of Ayrshire, after a long course receives into its chan-
nel, at lowest point of the parish, the lesser stream of the Ken,
which rises in the mountains, on the confines of the three counties
of Dumfries, Ayr, and Kirkcudbright.  But, in return for this-
kindly reception, the Deugh is ungratefully robbed of its name, and
the united streams take the appellation of the Water of Ken, the
smaller of the two. This name is preserved until the river passes
Kenmure Castle in the parish of Kells, after which, expanding
into a beautifiil and romantic lake, it is called the Loch of Ken,
till at the point of Airds, in that parish, it receives the Dee, which,
issuing from Loch Dee, in the parish of Minnigaff, near the march
of Kells, debouches at that parish, and nearly at right angles into
the Loch of Ken. Here the Ken pays for its previous usurpa-
tion, for in its turn its title becomes extinct, and the Dee, a much
smaller river, carries its name into the confluent streams, which
are thence forward denominated the Water of Dee, until lost in the
waves of the Solway.
	The Dee runs along the western boundary of the parish of
Kirkcudbright from its north end at March-cleuch, about a mile-
above the old bridge of Tongland. Its course, down to the
new bridge, is beatifully romantic. It rushes over a rocky
bed of considerable width, and its banks are rocky, rugged,
and precipitous, but on both sides mantled with natural wood.
In summer, its margins are sweetly bedecked with wild flowers.
To saunter here and listen to the mournful sound of the passing
stream, is to visit nature in her loveliest and most interesting form.
But it is in its swollen state that the Dee appears to the greatest
advantage. Few objects can surpass in terrific grandeur this ma-
jestic river, when its torrent flood rushes along with appalling fury,
like rolling masses of snow, forming a series of foaming cataracts,
above which the sunbeams are reflected and refracted into mimic
rainbows in the hovering spray.  +

<FOOTNOTE>The Dee signifies the dark-coloured stream.
         + Here it is thought that Montgomery, who lived at Cumpston castle, at a mile's
     distance, laid the scene of his poem the " Cherry and the Slae, in which the follow,
     ing lines are admirably descriptive of the flooded river.
      		" But as I looked me alane
		  I saw a river rin
		  Out o'er a steepie rock of stane,
		  Sine lichted in a lin,


