
616                           PERTHSHIRE.

and the slaty rocks are classified according to their stratigraphical
and zoological characters.
     There has not been found any other specimen of a complete
fossil fish, as far as is known to the writer. Several interesting
fragments or portions, stbh as heads with the shoulders, and
tails with the fins, are possessed by different individuals; but there
is not any of these calculated to throw light on the character of
those fishes to which the otber scales I have discovered had
belonged. They are all of them clearly of the genus Ho-
loptychus. There is one specimen, however, in the possession of
Miss Craigie of Glendoick, consisting of the head and shoulders
of a fish, worthy of special notice,__for, though it be manifestly a
portion of one of the genus Holoptychus, it is marked by some ob-
vious characteristics of a distinctive species. If complete, it would
probably have been about a foot long, and three and a-half inches
broad. Its scales are proportionally smaller than those on the large
specimen already referred to, but instead of having ten rows of these
like that specimen, running from the neck towards the caudal fins,
it has only six. Organic remains of a different class have alro been
found in the old red sandstone. These are the more interesting,
that they appear not only to belong to a new species, but to be the
first, I believe, of the genus, that have as yet been discovered in
any of the members of the carboniferous system. The first frag-
ments of this class that were found are noticed in the Statistical
Account of Errol parish, (p. 376). They consisted of a bonsider-
able numberof pieces, of various,but principally of vandyked shapes,
of sizes from 2 to 10 inches long. They had every appearance
of organisms, being very distinct in their outlines, having the up-
per surface divided into rectangular compartments, and their edges
turned under like a scroll; but so strange was their aspect__so
utterly unlike any known appendages of organized creation__and
so,di&ult was it to conceive any purpose which they could have
served to a living creature, that the geologists who examined them
were completely non-plussed. Few, however, doubted that they
had belonged to some animal species of another age.  Two speci-
mens have since been obtained, which render it probable, that these
extraordinary org`nisms had been owned by creatures of the reptile
tribe. The first of these specimens to which I refer consists of a
slab of sandstone five feet by two, which was accidentally discover-
ed by the writerm having been bought as a cover for a drain. In
this are imbedded a great number of angulated organisms similar




