MID-CALDER      357

mity of the Cairn Hill, which forms the south-east boundary of the
parish, south of Harper-rig, there is a hollow slope or declivity,
known by the name of the Caldstane Slap, through which pass,
lies the drove road most commonly frequented by dealers in sheep
and cattle between the Scotch and English markets. This road
is passable also for travellers on horseback during the summer 
months.
The village of Mid-Calder is delightfully situated on the south
bank of the Almond, near its junction with Linhouse and Muries-
ton Waters.  On the east, is the extensive and romantic wood of
Calder; and, on the west, is Calder House, which stands on an
elevated lawn, surrounded by ornamental walks, and sheltered by
lofty trees and numerous plantations.  The town is twelve miles 
west of Edinburgh, twenty from Lanark, and thirty-two from Glas-
gow.  Calder was formerly the name of a district in the western
part of the county of Edinburgh, or Mid-Lothian, comprehending
the three parishes of Calder Comitis or Mid-Calder, Calder Clere
or East-Calder and that portion which now constitutes the parish
of West-Calder.  The first of these obtained its name from hav-
ing been in possession of the Earls of Fife, so early as the twelfth
century; and the second, Calder Clere or East Calder, from one one
Randulph de Clere, who held a grant of the manor from Malcolm
IV.  The parish of Clader Clere was united to that of Kirknew-
ton in 1750, and was, at the same time, detached from the presbytery
of Linlithgow, and united to the presbytery of Edinburgh.  This
extensive parish of Calder Comitis, in 1645, was again divided into
those of Mid and West-Calder, as appears from our presbytery re-
cords, in which it is stated that, on the 12th of June of that year,
Patrick Shields was translated from the parish of Livingstone to
West-Calder.  This threefold division of the original parish suffi-
ciently accounts for the scantiness of the teind, and, consequently, 
for the limited portion of stipend allotted to each of these be-
nefices.
Meteorology.-- The temperature of the atmosphere varies con-
siderably between the banks of the streams clothed with wood in
the lower districts of the parish, and the higher ground upon the
cold boggy land and barren heath.  In low, sheltered situations,
the thermometer generally ranges between 35 and 60; and the 
barometer from 28 1/2 to 30 1/2.
Hydrography.-- This parish is intersected by three considerable
rivulets, which run from west to east - the Almond, the Murieston,

