
98			KINCARDINESHIRE.

has had to contend for some years past, may have prevented the
application of so expensive a stimulant, and probably it may, in
some measure, be superseded by the application of bone manure.
Both are most favourable to the production of grass, but the bone
manure at the same time secures a crop of turnip, which lime
does not.
	Leases.--The general duration of leases is nineteen years, and,
to the credit of both landlord and tenant, they are generally re-
newed between the parties.
	*Farm-Buildings.--The farm-buildings may be considered as
substantial, and nearly sufficient for the accommodation of the
farms.  The farm-houses are generally two stories high, with a
kitchen attached; others are in the cottage style, and only one
storey: they are almost invariably well finished and slated, and
furnished in a style conducive to comfort. The steadings are
also slated, or partly so; and perhaps in no parish of the same ex-
tent, has the comfort and convenience of the tenants been more
attended to.
	Obstacles to Improvement.--The greatest obstacles to improvement
are the want of enclosures, and the want of shelter; and although
around the proprietors' residences, there is a considerable extent of
planting and of enclosed ground, still the parish may be considered
as deficient in this respect. Thorn hedges have not succeeded well;
perhaps the soil is not sufficiently strong to rear them, so as to form
complete fences, but it is to be apprehended that the mode of treat-
ment has been far from judicious. As a substitute for thorns,
whin hedges have been partially introduced. Several enclosures
have been formed by stone dikes; but these are very limited, as
there is a deficiency of field stones for erecting fences, and even
for tbe necessary purposes o drainage; and most of the freestone
quarries are on the sides of the different ridges that project out
from the Grampian range, and at a considerable distance from
many parts of the parish. Both stone dikes and thorn hedges
form very expensive fences, altogether beyond a tenant's means,
and often that of the landlord. Thorns require to be constantly
cleaned and pruned, and to be protected for a period of years by
paling. Whins form a cheap and a pretty effectual fence; but
objections are made to them, particularly on account of the ten-
dency they have to spread and overrun the grass-fields. Strong
belts and hedge-rows for the purpose of shelter are much wanted,


