

                           KIRKURD.                       133

keen discussions regarding church government, the minister of
Kirkurd, Mr John Bennet, was sent as one of the commissioners
from the Presbytery of Peebles to the famous assembly that con-
vened at Glasgow in 1638, where Henderson was moderator, and
where Episcopacy was abolished.
   There is only one place of worship in the parish, and those who
dissent from the Established church generally attend a Relief cha-
pel in the parish of Newlands.
   The average number of communicants for many years past may
be about 160. The sacrament is dispensed annually, and the
people are very regular in attending upon it.
   The manse was built in 1788, and has once or twice undergone
some trifling repairs. It is too small, and inferior to the generality
of manses. The extent of the glebe is about nineteen acres, nearly
all arable. When the present incumbent was settled in 1787, a
new glebe was given, and as part of the land was very indifferent,
this accounts for the glebe being larger than usual. It has been
much improved by manuring, draining, and by its being enclosed.
The present minister was once in the habit of letting it, and one
year received a rent of L. 30, with a cow's grass.
   The parish was valued at an early period, and was found to be
no more than L. 1108, 15s. 4d. Scotch money. The stipend from
the heritors is about L. 70, and as the teinds are exhausted, more
than double is received from the Exchequer to make it amount to
L. 150.
   Education.-There is one public school in the parish, attended
on an average by about forty scholars, but often by more, from its
vicinity to other parishes. Occasionally there are a few scholars
instructed in Latin and Greek, and practical mathematics. The
teacher has the maximum salary. The school-fees fixed by the
heritors and minister are 2s., 2s. 6d., and 3s. per quarter. These
may amount annually to L.12. The dwelling-house for the school-
master is very small, there being only a kitchen and one small room.
There is scarcely an individual upwards of twelve years of age in
the parish who cannot both read and write, and the people are alive
to the benefits of education.
   Library.-A parish library was instituted in 1810, and is upon
the whole in a flourishing state. A school library was likewise
founded in 1828.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The weekly collections in the
church are found more than sufficient to supply the ordinary poor


