
			KELTON.                          173

        The manse and offices were built in the year 1813-14. No
extensive repairs have yet been required; but such as had become
necessary were executed in the end of the year 1840. It is a sub-
stantial and comfortable house, containing the usual accomodation.
The glebe consist of 17 imperial acres, exclusive of the garden
and site of the manse and offices. The land is of good quality,
and might be let for nearly L.2 per acre. the present stipend is
17 chalders, half meal and half barley, with L.10 for communion
elements.
	The Reformed Presbyterians have a meeting-house in Castle
Douglas. The minister's stipend is L.90, and is raised from the
se`t rents and collections. The Relief body of Dissenters have
also a meeting-house in the immediate neighbourhood of Castle
Douglas, but within the parish of Crosrmichael. The minister's
stipend is nominally L.60, and is raised from the same sources.
Neither of the clergymen has any manse. *
	The parish church is generally well attended, although an un-
favourable day, owing to the distance of the church from Castle
Douglas, where the great bulk of the people resides, very seriously
affects the attendance. All the seats in the area which are not
required by the heritors and tennants are let, as are also the whole
of the seats in the galleries.
	The following is a correct abstract of the population and reli-
gious denominations, with the number of individuals belonging to
each in the parish of Kelton, as taken from a survey in the year
1840:-Belonging to the Established Church, 2117; other de-
nominations, 455; not connected with any denomination, i, e. not
in communion, nor in the habit of attending any place of worship,
318;-total, 2880. Of the 455 Dissenters, there belong to the
Reformed Presbyterians, 160; Relief, 112; United Associate
Synod, 35; Roman Catholics, 148;-total, 455.
	Neither the United Secession Dissenters, nor the Roman Ca-
tholics have any place of worship in the parish. The former at-
tend Divine servicd at the Haught of Urr, about four miles, and the
latter at Dalbeattie, about five miles from Castle Douglas.
	Of the 318 who are not in the habit of attending any places of
worship, almost all profess to belong to the Established Church,
and some of them do occasionally attend. the Dissenting places.

<FOOTNOTE>Since the above was written "the Free Church" has sprung into existence.
From the recent date of its origin, the number of its adherents cannot be exactly as-
certained. In this parish they are inconsiderable, but combining with those in Par-
ton, Crossmichael, and Euittle, they have called a minister, and built a chapel in
Castle Douglas.


