
			AIRILIE.			      673

locks, of different shapes, presenting a very irregular undulating
surface of swells and hollows. Many of the latter are landlocked,
and are usually filled up to some extent with peat-moss or earthy
marsh. Several contain depositions of shell-marl, under a surface
of peat. These deposits were at one time numerous, but several
of the smaller are now exhausted, having been dug out for manure.
   The largest deposits in this parish were in the mosses of Cook-
stone and Baikie, particularly in the latter, which is one of the
most extensive in Strathmore, and the most interesting in a geolo-
gical point of view. A very luminous and complete account of it
has been drawn up by C. Lyell, Esq. and published in the Tran-
sactions of the Geological Society, to which the scientific reader
is referred. One of the most remarkable features in this deposit
is the occurrence of portions of it, sometimes a foot in thickness,
in the form of solid compact limestone, the shells contained in
them remaining unaltered. The same peculiarity is observed at
Cookstone, but not so perfectly. The ddpnsit of marl at Baikie
extended at one time to forty acres, with a depth varying from one
to six or seven yards. Antlers of deer, sometimes of a very large
size, and horns of oxen, have been frequently found in the moss,
and, a few years ago, a human skeleton was discovered in it.
   Soil.--The soil varies in quality according to the nature of the
subsoil on which it rests. Where it lies immediately upon the
rock, it consists in general of fine brownish-red and black loams,
particularly suitable for the growth of turnips, grass, and barley.
On the till bottoms, where some permeable earthy matter is inter-
posed between the till  and the surface soil, as at Brydieston and
Cardean, there is a considerable extent of loams of fine quality,
and of a darker colour; but where this is absent, which is gene-
rally the case on the till bottoms in the northern part of the parish,
the soil is thin and barren, though susceptible of great improve-
ment by furrow-draining and subsoil ploughing. Part of the
Strathmore clays at the foot of the parish are also so impermeable
as to require furrow-draining, but where elevated on the swells
they are of a more mellow character, with a fine fertile soil. On
the gravels, particularly where they are intermixed with sharp
sand, there are also tracts of good black loam, but in many places,
especially where the bottom is of a soft dead nature, tbe soil is
bare and indifferent; and although the poorest land in the parish
is that which lies on the impervious till on the north-east, there is
also a considerable tract of inferior soil on the sands and gravels


