
                          DALSERF.                             723

latter probably imbibes its peculiar qualities from the sulphuric
acid which abounds in some voluminous or clayev soils.  Many of
the waters, when boiled, precipitate the oxide of iron, and the sul-
phate and carbonate of lime.  On December 3d, when the ther-
mometer was 47&deg;, the springs were 48&deg;, and the Clyde 44&deg;.  Dur-
ing a pretty hard frost the water at the surface of open wells was
about 42.&deg;
   Geology.-This parish constitutes part of the great coal basin
or Carboniferous formation which runs from Strathingo, near Glas-
gow, in the north, to the water of Douglas in the south, a stretch
of nearly thirty miles.  The same seams of coal are found in the
collieries at Glasgow in the west, and in the collieries of Garion-
Gill and Dalserf in the east; and throughout the whole of this ex-
tent the metals dip to the trough of the Clyde.  Within these few
years, coal was wrought on the banks of the Clyde, near the
church, at Woodside, Millburn, and Canderside, lying in a straigbt
line, extending from the Clyde to the water of Cander.  The
following collieries are of long standing and in present operation,
viz. Marlage on the above line, Raploch on the banks of the Avon,
and Skellyton towards the north end of the parish.  Within the
last two or three years coal has been sunk for, and found generally,
at short distances from the surface, and is now in course of being.
wrought at East Machan, close to the mansion-house, Swine-
hill, and Shawsburn, on the side of the road from Edinburgh to
Ayr, and on the farm of Netherburn, belonging to the Duke of
Hamilton.  Some additional trials have not yet been brought to a
result.  But besides the above going works, an excellent smithy
coal is wrought, in small quantities, at Birkensbaw, on the Avon,
and a similar seam, to a considerable extent, on the lands of East
Machan, near Hairlees. In fact, there are at present no fewer than
eight or nine going collieries, of more or less importance, in the
parish.  At Marlage the ell and splint coal are wrought in one
pit, about 30 fathoms deep.  The metals here dip at about 20&deg; to
west of north, and the dip is one foot in I0 or I2 feet.  The slips
or troubles seldom cross the metals, but run mostly in a north and
south direction.  The coal recently begun to be wrought at Ne-
therburn, within half a mile of Marlage, is the second Marlage
seam.  It is found at 12 fathoms, is of good quality, and commands
already an extensive sale.  At Skellyton an excellent seam of
splint and parrot coal, about 5 feet thick, is wrought at the depth
of from 20 to 25 fathoms.  The dip here is the same as at Marlage.


