
<TABLE=PETTIE>
                                              379

               	Sowing began and ended.
		1826, March 17, May 12.
		1835,       17, April 21.
		1835,       23, ----- 28.
		1836,       22, May   10.
		1837, April 6,  June   6 in the moss.
		1838        2,  May   12.
		1839, March 29, April 17.

   Dr James Tolmie of Campbeltown writes, " The medical to-
pography of Pettie presents few of those features which are pro-
ductive of insalubrity. A line of morass, extending with occa-
sional breaks through nearly the length of the parish, exhibits,
from the improved system of agriculture and draining, a continua-
tion of fertile fields, rather than a source of marsh miasmata.
Indeed, indigenous cases of intermittent fever are very rare.
The climate in summer and autumn is dry and bracing; but in
the winter months, the cold and humid south-west wind, to which,
from lying in the mouth of a mountain defile, the parish is much
exposed, is sharply felt. In common with the parishes around it,
it presents a fair proportion of the maladies of our climate, al-
though it is not distinguished by the prevalence of any particular
disease. Erysipelas and rheumatism may be said to be common.
In tracing the etiology of the former, (when it does not appear
in an epidemic form,) a morbid predisposition may with more
justice be attributable to exposure to cold and wet, and to other
causes, than to any insalubrious locality. As a therapeutic agent
in this exanthem, the peasantry place implicit confidence in the
virtues of the herb Geranium Robertianum, used internally in the
form of decoction, and externally as a stupe. I believe its efficacy
to be more traditional than real, and probably entitled to the
same praise as another curative process in this disease, often
adopted by the Highlanders, which is the application of a piece
of scarlet cloth to the inflamed skin. This latter is of great an-
tiquity, possibly a, Pictish relic. Whilst the matrons profess a
thorough knowledge of 'baleful weeds, and precious juiced flow-
ers,' they evince anything but discrimination in the use of them.
Thus the Glechoma hederacea, an useless herb, is administered in
almost every disease 'that flesh in heir to.' And, as showing the
remote antiquity of the use of some herbs, and their extensive ce-
lebrity, it may be mentioned, that the plantain leaf, Plantago
major, in Gaelic, slan-lus, which, upwards of two centuries and a-
half ago, was declared by our great English bard to be 'excellent
for your broken shin,' is here very generally known, and applied
to recent wounds and old ulcers. If instances of longevity con-


