
358			LANARKSHIRE.

cond, and so on, care being taken that not more than a single tier,
and that always the lowest, be removed in any one season. This
annual pruning goes on till about three-fifths of the whole height
of the tree are cleared of branches, when the process is complete.
It has been found that this method of pruning has the following
advantages over that in common use: It brings the tree to a great-
er height in a given time, enabling it, the author avers, to keep
pace with the fastest-growing resinous trees. It causes it to make
more timber in the trunk, instead of dissipating its strength among
useless branches. It is so gradual a process that it does not en-
feeble the growth,of the tree, but enables it to cicatrize its wounds,
and thus make finer wood. And finally, it enables it to afford
more shelter, from the numerous branchlets and leaves thrown out
by the lateral pruning.*
	Zoology.--Of quadrupeds, the hedgehog, rabbit, polecat, squir-
rel, and weasel are common. The ermine is rather scarce. The
badger and otter are seen, but very rarely. The following birds
are common:--the sparrow-hawk, merlin, long-eared, brown, and
barn owl, wild and teal duck, woodlark, fieldfare, goldfinch, bull-
finch, gray, green, and rose linnet, redpole, common titmouse,
gold-crested wren, lapwing, curlew, heron, common bunting, stone-
chat, stank hen, black and red grouse, pheasant, woodcock. The
black-cock has become abundant of late years. The water-crow
is in small numbers. The starling used to be scarce, but has built
for the last two years on the tower of the church. The king-
fisher, redstart, goat-sucker, snow-flight, long-tailed titmouse, and
coot are scarce. The quail has been seen, but not for many years.
A bittern was shot five years ago on Biggar moss, but none have
appeared since. The raven is occasionally seen passing to his
haunts on, Tinto. The moss-cheeper, muftin, and whitewing are
three birds so called in this parish, which cannot be identified with
any of acknowledged names.

			II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Historical Notices.--The battle of Biggar is celebrated by
Blind Harry, but not mentioned by any other historian. It is said
to have taken place between the English under Edward I. and the
Scot under Wallace, and to have ended in a great victory over
the invaders. Appearances still exist, and traditions float among

<FOOTNOTE>For notices and commendations of Mr Cree's system of pruning, see Quarterly
Journal of Agriculture, Vol. iii. p. 308; Sir Henry Stewart's Planters' Guide, second
edition; and particularly Professor Low's Elements of Agriculture p. 388.

        			1


