
     Statistical Account

recourse to the shop, and distribute the greatest part of their
income and earnings among the merchants, for fineries in
dress not known to their fathers*.
   The lands of the parish hold of the crown.  The district to
the east of Portmaholmack was of old called the forest of the
Earl of Ross, and continues to pay L. 40 Scotch of crown
rent; a sum which, though now a mere trifle, might, in those
times when the boll of corn was converted at half a merk
Scotch, be the real rent of a tract of ground which at present
yields the proprietor near L. 400 sterling yearly.
   There are lands in the parish which held of the bishop of
Ross and Abbot of Fearn.  Some of the lands most contigu-
ous to the parish of Fearn, are by the country people called by
the name of the Abbeachd, i.e.  Abbey lands, and it is proba-
ble, made a part of the revenue with which the abbacy was
endowed by its founder Ferchard Earl of Ross.  They are still
astricted to the mills of Fearn, and the people occupying
them obliged to carry their corns thither to be grinded.  One
gentleman, Mr. Macleod of Geanies, lately bought off that
vassalage, and has erected mills on his own property, to ac-
commodate himself and his people.
   The most material defects in the management of farms seem
to be, 1 st, suffering the grounds to run out by constant tillage,

<FOOTNOTE>

*Corn, the staple commodity of this part of the country, has risen conside-
rably within these 40 years, but not in an equal proportion with other things
Barley and oat-meal, which before I750 were often sold by contract at 8 s. and
9 s. the boll, bring now frequently from 12 s. to 14 s.  But cattle, great and
small, have advanced in their price, m the proportion of 3 to 1.  A sheep
which before the 1746 never went beyond 2 s. 6 d. fetches now from 6 s to
8 s. and if of a larger size, from 10 s. to 14 s. and a milch cow, or ox for a work,
for which 35 s. or 40 s. would have been then reckoned a high price, cannot
not be bought for less than L. 4 or L. 5 Sterling.


