
               14                        BANFFSHIRE.

               region," or " agricultural and upland zones," (as fixed by Hewett
               Watson;) for ndpart of it is sufficiently high for Carex rigida; and
               although Corylus avellana, which is found, in the lower grounds,
               ceases in the upper, Calluna vulgaris grows vigorously at the
               highest point.  Of the plants observed in the parish, the following
               are chiefly worth enumerating:-Adoxa moschatellina, Agrimonia
               Eupatorium, Arenaria rubra, Cardamine amara, Gymnadenia co-
               nopsea, Habenaria bifolia, Hyacinthus non-scriptus, Lepidium
               Smithii, five or six species of Hypericum, Polygonum viviparum,                                                               ygonum. viviparun4
               Trientalis Europwa, &c.    Upon the coast in the immediate
               neighbourhood of the town, we have ,Arenaria marina and peploi-
               des, Cochkaria officinalis, Glaux maritima, Plantago Coronopus,
               with the beautiful Lithospermum maritimum, and the rather rare
               Blysmus rufus.  To these may be added Pyrethrum maritimum
               for which, indeed, one of the oldest recorded British stations is
               "rocks at Doun, near Banff, in Scotland." The most interesting
               feature, however, in the Flora of the parish, is undoubtedly Scilla
               verna, spring squill, with its fine blue fragrant flowers, which was
               discovered in spring 1835, by Mr George Campbell Smith.  The
               species has long been known to be frequent in Orkney, Shetland,
               and the western parts of Britain, but it was considered very rare
               upon our eastern coasts, and, indeed, was not known to occur there
               until a few years ago.  Digitalis purpurea abounds in the parish,
               and is used for medical purposes.
               Planting.-Duff House park, extending along the river side for
               a stretch of above two Miles, and having many rides or paths
               branching out into the adjacent country, contains a considerable
               extent of ornamental planting; the south-eastern and western slopes
               of the Gallowbill are also partially wooded.  A few large ash trees
               mar the principal gate of Duff House park are supposed to have
               been in existence since the Airly family resided there. -The soil
               of the parish (though perhaps not in a high degree adapted for
               timber of any sort) permits the growth of every species of forest
               tree, particularly larch and Scotch fir.  Unfortunately, however,
               the greater part of its surface is directly exposed, to the fierce blasts
               that sweep over the north sea, so that planting only thrives in
               the few localities that afford a little shelter in that direction.  Trees
               exposed to the north are almost invariably bare on their northern
               side, and bend their branches towards the opposite quarter, as if
               turning away from the fury of their ruthless enemy
                                             4



