
                                 REDGORTON.                      187

      the dung, that it might not be dried before the morning.  The
      result was, that the potatoes planted upon the hot dung were a
      great failure, whiie those planted in the soil were a full crop.
         The statement of these causes will in a great measure suggest
      their proper remedy; and therefore a few words upon the subject
      will suffice.  It is obvious that the first or remote cause can only be
      remedied by having recourse to plants recently raised from seed,
      which is the method provided by nature for renewing or preserv-
      ing the vigour of every one of her productions.  Upon this point
      I cannot but refer to the experiment made by Mr Bishop at Meth-
      ven Castle, who has been successful in raising a very excellent
      potatoe from seed, which he has now cultivated to some extent.
         It must be a long while, however, before plants raised in this
      way can be diffused over the whole country, and therefore it is of
      importance to attend to the remedy of the secondary causes; and
      of these the first is the only one which does not itself suggest its
      own cure.  Upon the first cause also, it is necessary to say the less,
      that the farmer has practically fallen on a partial cure by bringing
      his seed, potatoes from the hill country.  Plants raised in a cold
      climate are slower in springing than those raised in a warmer la-
      titude; and if they be not only raised, but kept till about the season
      of planting, in the upland districts, they are often found not to have
      put forth a single shoot, whilst in the low country they have grown
      together like a mat, and perhaps are pushing through their cover-
      ing.  Where this remedy is not attainable its want may be in a
      great measure supplied by burying them deep im the pits, or put-
      ting a great thickness of earth over them, to prevent if possible the
      warmth of spring from reaching them, before the season of planting.
         Draining, &c.-Draining has been carried on to a good extent
      in the parish; and almost all the waste land has been improved,
      except in the barony of Mullion.  There is only one water-meadow
      in the parish, which has been irrigated within these few years, by
      Lord Lynedoeb.  But it is upon a very poor gravelly soil and al-
      though it be certainly an improvement, it has not been found to
      answer expectation.
         Produce. *-It has been seen above that there are 5780 acres
      in the parish under culture; and about 6OO in grass.  If from the
      latter be deducted what is occupied by manufactories,  &c. it will
      leave 500 available for pastures

      <FOOTNOTE>For Woods, see page 166.


