
     of Urray.

estate, the mosses are at such a distance, that only two
draughts can be got home in a summer's day.  The roads
are steep.  No part of a farmer's work exhausts his horses so
much as the leading of his peats, and that at the time his
horses ought to be at grass.  Were that impolitic and oppres-
sive duty at the Red-head taken off, it were cheaper for the
poorest tenant in this parish to burn coals, than to wear out
his horses leading peats.  The poorer part of the cottagers
must therefore satisfy themselves with sandy clods picked
from the adjacent moors with the breast spade.-The great
north road * leading to Sutherland and Caithness passes
through this parish, and is kept in excellent repair.  The
county road, leading to the west Highlands, was made about
30 years ago, and is kept in tolerable repair as far as the pa-
rish extends.  A road begins in this district leading to Fort-
rose, and another to Cromarty, both eastward, besides cross
roads.  The whole were made, and are kept in repair by the
statute labour.  The gentlemen of the county, availing them-
selves of the plenty of hands, are attentive to this branch of
police.-There are two bridges; one of stone over a branch
of the Orrin; another over the Orrin itself, of timber; both
built at the expence of the county.

<FOOTNOTE>

*There are some stones standing on end, about 5 feet above
the ground near Beauly, on the side of the great north road.  Se-
veral cairns or barrows have been lately opened, where human
bones were found; and the remains of offensive armour made
of copper, which the gentleman who found them sent to the
Society of Antiquaries at Edinburgh.  In a barrow opened at
Brahan Castle, an urn was found containing small pieces of
bones, but was unluckily broken by the inattention of the la-
bourers.  It was made of burnt clay, and beautifully varnished
over both within and without.  The tower of Fairburn reminds
one of that barbarous period, when every great man found it
necessary to live in a fortress.


