
     12                    WIGTONSHIRE.

     the subsoil of the same nature.  The low lands of Baldnon are
     an extensive tract of alluvial soil, evidently formed of substances
     carried down by the river, and thrown back by the tide, mixed
     with clay, shells, and sand. In winter, after a strong south-east-
     early wind, immense quantities of cockle shells are thrown up by
     the tide.  These are often used as manure by the farmers, and
     when burn: they furnish the only lime which the country affords. It
     in reckoned whiter for plaster, and also of a more binding nature for
     building and rough-cast than the common lime, which is imported
     from England.  There is not much moss in the parish, and it con-
     tains no mines whatever. Good stones for building are very scarce.
     The stratified rocks in this parish belong to the transition series:
     the only granite it contains is found in single stones, and these
     are now seldom to be met with.
        Zoology.- Many years ago. there were found in the moss of
     Airies, a pair of immense horns, the tips of which are said to have
     been six feet separate from each other.  These must have be-
     longed to some animal now unknown here.
        Salmon, trout, and spirlings are found in the Bladenoch. The
     loch of dowalton or Longeastle contains pike and perch, and foun-
     ders are sometimes caught along the shore of the bay of Wigton.
        Trees,- Most kinds of forest trees seem to thrive well.  The
     beech, the ash, the plane, and the Huntingdon willow attain to a
     great size.


                    II.- CIVIL HISTORY

        There is an ancient account of the parish in a work by Andrew
     Symson, minister of Kirkinner, 1684.  It is entitled " A large
     Description of Galloway.' A few copies have lately been printed
     from the manuscript in the Advocates' Library.--Mr Symson was
     Episcopal minister of this parish from 1663 to 1686, when the
     state of the times obliged him to leave it.  He afterwards became
     a printer in Edinburgh, and died in 1712. He was the author of
     several poetical works (Vide Life prefixed to his Large Descrip-
     tion of Galloway : also Murray's Literary History of Galloway,
     2d edit.  1832.)
        The family of Barnbarroch have given two bishops to Galloway.
     Alexander Vaux was consecrated Bishop of Galloway some time
     before the year 1426.  His name is mentioned by Rymer, and
     Boyce terms him a learned man, and of noble extration.  In 1429,
     be was appointed by James I. one of the preservers of the peace
     on the borders of Scotland; and he is said to have contributed.





