
138                              RENFREWSHIRE.

ley, are Eldersley, Stainley, Thornley, Collinsley, Relees, i.e. Rye-
lees, and a farm united to it, called Halylee."
   Mr Kerr's observations on the etymology, &c. of some other
names of places in the parish will be found in the subjoined note. *

<FOOTNOTE>" Names derived from the British, the Gaelic, and the Anglo Saxon, are found
within the parish.  Those derived from the most ancient of these, the British, are,
with one exception, names of streams and hills.  The rivers White and Black Cart
have probably received their name from Cardd, which signifies narrow, a name given,
perhaps, in contrasting these rivers with Clyde or Gryfe.  Lavern, according to
Chalmers, is from Laver, noisy, and an, stream.  Arkleston hill, probably from
Arcwl, prospect, and Dun, hill.  This hill, though rising only about 100 feet above
the level of the adjoining low ground, presents a most delightful and extensive pros-
pect, which may vie with the most celebrated in Scotland.  Every one who visits
this district, and wisbes to behold its beauty and richness, ought to make an excur-
sion to the summit of Arcwl Dun.  Rather more than a mile to the east of this hill,
is a similar elevation, called Keir hill, from an ancient British fort on its top, the ves-
tiges Of which still exist, and show the wall to have enclosed a circle of about seventy
yards in diameter.  Cardonald, an old mansion, which stands on level ground, on the
bank of the river White Cart, exhibits no indications of remote antiquity, except the
name.  Caer and Keir signify in British, castle or fort.
   " The Gaelic language is found, like the British, in the names of streams, and hills,
and likewise of several farms.  Alt-patrick is Patrick's burn.  Espedair burn is eas a
small stream descending rapidly from hills, and Peadar, Peter.  The highest eastern
point of the range of hills, celebrated by the muse of Tannahill as the ' Bracs o'
Gleniffer,' is called the Duchal-law, a name which seems to be a compound of the
Gaelic word Dhu, black or dark, and Choill‚ growing wood, and the Anglo-Saxon
Hleaw, a grassy hill.  The descent eastward, from this law, forms the extremity
of the range of hills, and being much higher than the surrounding country,
forms a kind of promontory, which receives the name of Ferneze, Ferineeze
or Fernyneeze.  In ancient documents, it occurs Fer‚nes, and Latinized Ferineisum.
Nese in Anglo-Saxon signifies nose.  Firrin is used by Gawin Douglas as the adjec-
tive of Fir ; and in the English parliamentary writs in the reign of Edward II., a
person of the name Ferendraught is likewise called Fernedraught, proving that Fe-
rem is identical with Fern‚.  Ferneeze and its modifications, therefore, mean the
Firnose, and imply that this declivity was in ancient times, as it is at present, cover-
ed with fir, which would probably be the dark wood, that, at an early period, gave
name to Duchal-law.  Of Gleniffer, no satisfactory etymology can be found in the
British or Gaelic.  It is probably a compound of the Anglo-Saxon yfer upper, * an
appellation to which it is well entitled, as from the low grounds it appears a cleft on
the top of the hilis. +
   " Names of dwellings derived from the Gaelic are few in number.  The great pro-
portion of names of mansions and farms are derived from the Anglo-Saxon. It is
probable, that in the eleventh century, or when the Gaelic ceased to be the lan-
guage of this part of the country, the names of many places would be translated into
the new language, and others would have names imposed, without anv regard to
their former meaning, so that from the number of places still bearing Gaelic names,
we cannot form any idea of the number of farms in the parish, while it was a Gaelic
district.  Mucb light may be thrown upon the languages which existed in this coun-
try, by a minute examination of the etymology of its different districts, and in the
absence of any written documents in the Gothic language called the Scoto-Saxon,
the names of places still exhibit some of the points of resemblance and of difference
from the Anglo-Saxon.
   " Sneddon, now forming part of the town, is probably the Anglo-Saxon Sniden, a
portion cut ofF, from the verb sneddan.  In more modern times, Clippens, in this
neighbourhood, received its name in the same way. ++

<FOOTNOTE>See Jamieson's supplement to his Scottish Dictionary, word Ever.
    Another derivative has been furnished to us, by a good Gaelic scholar, from the
Gaelic Gleum Glen, and Jubher(the bh in Gaelic sounding v) yew tree, which makes
it the Glen of yews.
    Sneddon has also been considered as a corruption at Snaudon, or Snowdon, and
as furnishing a title to the Prince of Wales, being Prince of Scotland.  " The


