
     of Lonforgan.

   There are also in this parish several other stone-quarries.
Upon the estates of Dron and Ballo, the stone is good, du-
rable, and excellent for every purpose of building.  At 
Millhill, the stone is soft, and of a bluish cast, which does
not stand the weather, but splits into small lamellae upon
being exposed.  However, it answers very well for inside
walls, and, if under cover, will last many years.  At Lau-
riston, the stone inclines to a dusky black, is much harder,
and, when polished, has the appearance of marble.  It is a 
real limestone, but not very strong; however, were coals,
of proper fuel near enough to bring the burning within a
reasonable expence, it might answer very well  Below the 
Bank of Forgan there are several rocky protuberances, all
of them a very hard bluish whin, very difficult to raise;
and although some of them have been used for village hou-
ses, yet, as there is no working them either with the ham-
mer of the chissel, they have been principally used for the
turnpike, and other public roads.  Castle-Huntly is built 
upon on of these rocky eminences.

     VOL.XIX. 3 N

<FOOTNOTE>

Although it does not properly belong to this paper to interfere with the
business of revenue or finance, yet as the subject is curious, it is worth while
to remark, that owing to the interpretation put upon the working of the late
act of Parliament, for imposing a duty upon stone sea borne, by the re-
venue-officers, the exportation of stone from this quarry, in all probability,
will soon be at an end.  For, although the whole revenue arriving to Go-
vernment, between the 5th day of July 1794 and the 5th day of July 1795,
from this duty, was only L.16:18:3 3/4, yet from the distance between
Kingoody and the ports of Perth and Dundee, such is the difficulty of pro-
curing coast-dispatches for a cargo of stone, worth only 17s.  and not ex-
ceeding 10 d per ton in value, as to prolong a voyage, performed, before
the commencement of this act, in twelve hours, to three days.  Whatever
reasons Government may have for continuing this act, as it is at present,
does not fall within our province to say; but although of very small im-
port to them, it is a very material concern to the proprietor, and his em-
ployers; for, in the year above mentioned, this duty alone occasioned a de-
lay of work equal to twenty times the value of the duty paid.


