
586                   EDINBURGHSHIRE.

paid, in 1834 and subsequent years, out of the funds above speci-
fied, in addition to the ordinary Expenditure, the sum of L.53, 7s.
   That there is here great room, in addition to all other consi-
derations, for endeavouring to redress the abuses of pauperism, is
evinced by the fact, that there is no disposition among the
poor to refrain from seeking parochial relief; neither do they con-
sider it as any way degrading; but, on the contrary, they seek
to obtain it avowedly that their relatives, however able, may be
spared from being burdened; white these last, though in circum-
stances to aid them, are unwilling to do anything to prevent their
being recipients of public charity.
   Inns, Alehouses, &c.-There were no fewer than fourteen pub-
lic houses when the writer's connection was formed with the parish,
and considering that intemperance is one of the crying vices af-
fecting the population, the reduction of their number necessarily
formed part of the remedial measures to be pursued. The prin-
cipal and only resident proprietor, Colonel Wauchope, entered
warmly into these, and while generally be lent his assistance in
every way it could be rendered available, in particular, he sup-
pressed all of them on, his property with one exception. This ex-
ample has been partially followed by the others, so that they are
now reduced by one-half. There are still too many, however, as
facilities of gratification undoubtedly tend to superinduce the in-
temperate habits that prevail. It became an object, however, of
nearly as much importance to regulate those that remained as to
get rid of the superfluity, and this also to a certain extent has been
accomplished. It was found that, besides being open for the re-
ception of company on the Sabbath, (except during divine service,)
spirits were retailed to all and sundry to be consumed in their
own houses, so that wben neighbours, accidentally congregated, or
friends came to visit on that day, scenes of debauchery ensued by
liquor being sent for and obtained in this way. In consequence,
the younger members of families were cornipted by the evil exam-
ple thus set before them, while the females were led to join in the
unhallowed revelry. On, a representation of this being made to
the proprietors by the kirk-session, Sir J. Hope, to whom the ma-
jority of the remainder belonged, bound his tenants, under the pe-
nalty of immediate dismissal,* (in the colliery a fortnight's warning

<FOOTNOTE>This has been acted upon, and one of these publicans having transgressed the
regulation, has been turned off, and the house is no longer occupied as a public-house.
Another that was apt to be disorderly has been also suppressed by him, so that the
number is now reduced to six in all, still too many by one-half.


