
                 KILLEAN AND KILCHENZIE.                       377

island upon the coast of Mull, called Kenneth's Isle, with a ruin-
ous chapel, where, it is said, he lies buried.  In this event, he
must have been one of those zealous missionaries who issued from
the celebrated monastery of Iona to propagate the gospel through
Scotland and its adjacent isles.
  Boundaries, Extent, &c.-The united parish lies on the west-
ern coast of the peninsula of Kintyre, and contains the most valu-
able and improvable proportion of the soil on the west side of the
district from Tarbert to the southern extremity of the parish.
  Its length, by the measurement of the only high road in the
parish, which leads from Tarbet to Campbelton, is 18 miles, and
its breadth may be safely computed at 41/2 miles.  The parish con-
tains an area of 81 square miles, or 51,840 acres, of which it is
calculated 5000 or 6000 acres are arable, and occasionally sub-
jected to the operations of the plough.
  The general aspect of the parish is rather tame and uninterest-
ing, with very little variety of scenery, destitute of woods and in-
closures, gradually rising from the level of the sea to the height
of 700 or 800 feet,-diversified and intersected by some heights
and hollows, three narrow glens, and various streams.  The lower
part of the hills sloping towards the shore, occasionally half-a-mile
in ascent, is uniformly cultivated, and produces plentiful crops
of oats, bear, potatoes, pease, and beans.  The higher ground
beyond the region of cultivation is naked, bleak, and sterile,
covered with stinted heath, generally interspersed with detach-
ed spots of coarse grass, sheep fescue sprits, rushes, and gall,
a species of alpine myrtle.  The hills range from north to
south, and are pretty uniform in height, with the exception of
Beinn-an-tuirc, or Wild Boar's Mountain, at the head of Glen
Barr, which elevates its heath-covered summit 2170 feet above
the level of the sea, being 306 feet lower than the Paps of Jora,
which lie to the north-west.  The gradual ascent of Beinn-an-tuirc
makes it appear, at a distance, less conspicuous, than other hills of
the same altitude, which rise abruptly from their base.
  In the northern extremity of the parish, Runahaorine point, a
narrow neck of mossy land, highly improvable, projects one mile
into the sea, immediately opposite to the north end of the Island
of Gigha, which, together with an adjacent promontory in the op-
posite parish of Kilberry, forms the entrance into West Loch Tar-
bet from the Atlantic Ocean.  As the coast gradually stretches


