
288                       BERWICKSHIRE.

   A chapel was erected at the distance of seven miles from the
parish church, on the estate of Renton, in 1794, by Sir John Stir-
ling, the proprietor of Renton; and the Rev. Mr Beaton was or-
dained to the charge by the Presbytery of Chirnside, Sir John
Stirling granting him a bond for L. 80 a-year. He was succeeded
by Mr Marshall, who afterwards was appointed to a parish in Shet-
land in the year 1810; from that time, till 1831, with the excep-
tion of an occasional sermon during the first few years after Mr
Marshall's departure, public worship ceased to be performed, and
the chapel became much dilapidated,-no successor to him was
appointed, as it was found impossible to procure a sufficient provi-
sion for the support of a clergyman.
   In the spring of 1831, the present incumbent raised a suffi-
cient sum among the inhabitants of the district in which the
chapel is situated, for its complete repair; and in the month of
November following, Mr Duncan, with the full approbation of all
concerned, was appointed to officiate, and the religious charge of
the people entrusted to him by the parish minister, and he has
since continued to reside and labour amongst them. His income
is derived from the seat rents, and a subscription received from Lord
Douglas, Mr Balfour of Whittingham, and the parish minister,-
which have hitherto averaged a little more than L. 60 per annum.
There is one Dissenting chapel in the village of Coldingham in
connection with the United Associate, Synod.
   Divine service, both at the church and chapel, is generally well
attended, and there are few parishes where the Sabbath-day is
more devoutly observed. The average number of communicants
at the parish church is 560. The number of families in connec-
tion with the chapel at Renton is upwards of 70, and the average
number of individuals who attend public worship there is 250, and
of communicants 140.
   Education.-There are eight schools in the parish, having 260
pupils; two of which schools are parochial, where the common
branches of education are taught, together with the Latin classics,
mathematics, and French; the other six are supported entirely by
school-fees, in two of which the classics are taught, and in the
other the ordinary branches of education. Both of the parochial
schoolmasters have the minimum salary; one of whom draws L. 60
a-year from other sources, and the school-fees are as under;
reading, 2s.; writing, 3s.; arithmetic, 4s.; Latin, 5s. per quarter.
The opportunity of education is so generally embraced by the
people, that there are few who cannot read, and the number of


