
                         METHLICK.                        971

enterprise and improvement, which is called the Methlick Agri-
cultural Association.
   Manufactures.-The knitting of stockings with wires was, at one
time, a common and lucrative employment for women, and also for
old and infirm men.  2s. and even 3s. were paid for spinning the
wool and knitting a pair of stockings, and now 3 1/2d. or 4d. is the
paltry sum which a poor old woman receives for knitting a pair of
them.  Formerly, the rents were, in a great measure, paid by the
money which was earned by spinning and knitting.

                       V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Market-Town.-There is no market-town within the parish.
The grain exported is delivered at Inverury, Newburgh, and Aber-
deen.  From the two places first named, each fully twelve miles
distant from Methlick, bones and English lime are imported for
manure.  Scotch lime here made use of by some farmers, more
especially to be applied to newly trenched ground, is brought
from the three following kilns, according to their nearness to the
diferent corners of the parish,-Udny, Aquhorthies, and Barrack.
   Means of Communication.-A mail-gig runs between Aberdeen
and Methlick daily,-a convenience which is highly appreciated
by all living in this neighbourhood.  Formerly, there was no post-
town nearer than Old Meldrum, which is more than seven miles
distant from Methlick.  No turnpike passes through this parish;
but there are good commutation roads to New Deer, Fyvie,
Ellon, Old Meldrum, and Tarves ; and, from the four places last
mentioned, there is a turnpike to Aberdeen.  A carrier leaves
Methlick at least every fortnight for Aberdeen ; but there is no
stage-coach nearer than Tarves.
   Ecclesiastical State.-Methlick was a prebendary in the cathe-
dral of Aberdeen, having been added to the bishop's chapter in
1362.  The rector or parson, who drew the great teinds, resided in
the canonry of Aberdeen, and officiated in the cathedral,-the
duties of the cure being discharged by a perpetual vicar who lived
at Methlick, and drew the vicarage or small teinds.
   The benefice does not seem to have been of great value, as in
Bagimont's Roll, which exhibits the amount of the tenth part of
each benefice in the reign of James V., it is rated at L.6, 13s. 4d.
In 1644, it was valued at L.4026.  Some of the rectors of Meth-
lick, before the Reformation, occupy prominent places in the re-
cords of the diocese of Aberdeen.  The last Romanist Principal
of King's College was parson of Methlick.  His name was Alex.


