
66			BUTESHIRE.

chalders, half meal, half barley, and averages L. 210. The far-
mers of the south and district, i. e. from Largybeg to Corriecravie,
give each of them annually a cart of peats to the clergyman.
	The patronage of Kilmorie belongs to the Duke of Hamilton,
and that of Lochranza to his Grace, and the two ministers of
Arran conjointly. That of Kilmorie, originally was in the Abbey
of Kilwinning, and in 1600 the parish was united to the Presby-
tery of Irvine. The names of the clergymen who have successively
been its ministers, are the Rev. Dugald Bannatyne, who was trans-
lated to Irvine; Charles Bannatyne, his son; James Stewart, tran-
slated to it from Kilbride; John Hamilton; Mr Smith; Neil
Macbride; Dugald Crawford; Angus Macmillan.
	In so extensive a parish, the attendance upon public worship
must necessarily be much affected by the weather. When that is
favourable, the church is sometimes insufficient to contain the
congregation that assembles; and when this is the case, which is
now much seldomer than it used to be, the minister preaches in a
tent. During the ministry of Mr Macbride, seldom or never was
it conducted in the church, and even in winter, when it was, crowds
stood outside the doors, that could not be accommodated within.
A spirit of indifference prevails among the rising generation, that
painfully contrasts with that which animated their fathers, in re-
gard to the means of grace. Still the attendance, though far from
what it once was, is a good as in most parishes of the same popu-
lation. The average number of communicants for the seven years
preceding 1881, was 1050. The number of individuals belonging
to Established Church, 8978; other religious denominations, 17.
	There are no religious associations in the parish, nor are collec-
tions regularly made for any, except the Assembly's schemes. The
average amount for each of them is L. 6.
	Education.--There are 12 schools in the parish, viz. four pa-
rochial, two on the Assembly's scheme, and in the remaining six,
the teachers are either salaried by the inhabitants of the district,
or paid by the fees of the scholars. The branches generally taught,
are, Gaelic and English reading, writing, and arithmetic. In the
parochial and Assembly's schools, in addition to these elemetary
branches, English grammar, book-keeping, navigation, geogra-
phy, and mathematics are taught. The salaries of the parochial
teenhers, are respectively, Kilmorie, L. 17, 10s.; Shisken. L. 15;
Imacher, L. 5, 16s.; Lochranza, L. 10, 10s. All, with the excep-
tion of Imacher, have also a dwelling-house, garden, and glebe-
			       3


