
424                         FORFARSHIRE.

scarcely exceeding three yards in breadth. Through this frightful
chasm the deep boiling flood forces itself with tremendous power,
and, in curling wreaths of foam, thunders down a steep broken
channel, of considerable length, into a gloomy but spacious ravine,
walled by rocks quite perpendicular and of great altitude. These
are surmounted by a profusion of trees, exceedingly rich and va-
ried in their foliage, which the hand of man never planted, and many
of which he will never dare to approach. Altogether, the scenery of
this remarkable spot, whether viewed from the head of the Slug,
or the summits of the lofty banks of the river, is extremely grand
and imposing.

	Geology.--The parish extends over a surface which takes in a
p`rt of the primitive, the whole of the transition rocks, and a por-
tion of the secondary or old red sandstone series. From its ex-
treme northern boundary south to below Mount Blair, the rocks
are gneiss and mica-slate, the latter being the most prevalent.
The strata dip very rapidly, chiefly towards the north-west. These
rocks are accompanied by large masses of quartz, and are thickly
studded with crystals of the common garnet, of considerable beau-
ty, but of no economic value. At the base of Mount Blair and in
its iieighbourhood, some beds of limestone also prevail, but in ra-
ther inconsiderable masses. It is of a bluish-gray colour, and is
wrought for burning. The kilns used for that purpose are gene-
rally small, ill-constructed, and inefficient. The lime is broken
in small pieces like road-metal, and burned with peats. This pro-
cess of calcination, although feeble and expensive, is now generally
adopted by the farmers of the district, and the manure thereby
obtained produces very powerful effects. The limestone itself
contains a considerable proportion of siliceous matter, with, how-
ever, very few other impurities. South of Mount Blair, the grey-
wacke series begins. Nearly opposite the manse, it first makes
its appearance in masses near the river. It is here a conglome-
rate, having a dirty ochrey hue, unless where frnst-broken. De-
scending the glen, about half-way to Lintrathen, the character of
this rock becomes totally changed. It here assumes the aspect of
fine-grained sandstone, and furnishes very perfect examples of
greywacke slate. Fine crystals of brown spar are found imbedded
in the rock. At Kilry is found a thin bed of transition clay-slate.
It is the same which cuts across Scotland from sea to sea, and fur-
nishes the slates of the Stormont, Newtyle, &c. The whole mass
of strata is here about 40 feet thick, and dips to the north-west at
                                4

