
         206                     INVERNESS-SHIRE.

         ern, Island, which might be a powerful reason with the Lord of
         the Isles for making them his allies. One of them in particular
         was remarkable for his activity and turbulence (called Resary an
         Tartair).or the noisy or troublesome Rodrich, who spared neither
         friend or foe, until at last the committed piracy on one of Queen Eli
         zabeth's ships, when a reward was offered for his apprehensions, which
         was at length accomplished with very great ingenuity by the tutor of
         Kintail, as may be seen more fully detailed in the former Statistical
         Account.  Martin relates, that "the inhabitants of this and the other
         islands belonging to Macneil make application to him for wives and
         husbands, he names the persons, and gives them a bottle of strong
         waters for the marriage feast. Their usual address to him is, that
         they want a wife or a husband to manage their affairs, and beget
         him followers; and he makes up the match without any long court-
         ship, for he takes what care he can that their circumstances may
         suit one another. The people preserve their sea-fowl by salting
         them with the ashes of sea-ware, by putting them up in cow hides."
             Parochial Register.-There is no parochial register kept in
         this parish, nor can we learn that any was ever kept. This may
         be accounted for by the parishioners having been, till of late, almost
         all Roman Catholics, over whom the minister could exercise no
         control.
             Antiquities.-There are several ruins of religious houses in
         Barray, some of which appear to be of ancient structure. The prin-
         cipal ones are at Killbar. Each of these has an altar of rough
         stones in one end, and the pedestal of a cross stands at a short
         distance from the buildings. These churches were dedicated
         to St Barr; and of old a wooden figure of the saint was stuck up
         for the adoration of the deluded people. This figure was dressed
         up in its best babiliments on the saint's anniversary, and we are
         credibly informed, that it was customary for persons proceed-
         ing on a journey to make some present to the saint, of clothes or
         linen, to insure prosperity to their undertakings. No trace of this
         figure is now to be seen.  Numerous watch-towers are over the
         whole of the islands of Barray,-as also Duns upon every lake in
         the place, supposed to be built by the Scandinavians, when in
         possession of these islands. There are likewise many Druidi-
         cal circles, as they are designated; but a Danish gentleman,
         who lately visited these parts as historiographer to the King of
         Denmark, maintains that they are of Scandinavian origin, and
         were intended by these people as places for their heathen wor-


