
			    ABERDEEN.                         99

directors have endeavoured to discourage, but it has not always
been in their power to discover it in time to prevent it.  A great
inconvenience had been felt from the number of depositors,
rendering it impossible to transact the weekly business without
causing a loss of time to the applicants and to the directors, that
could be ill spared from their other avocations; and to remedy this
a set of premises has recently been fitted up, (the office was pre-
viously in the office of the United Fund,) where attendance is
given at 9 A. M., and 7 P. M., on Thursday, Friday, and Saturday.
The expense of conducting the business will be thus considerably
increased; but the state of the auxiliary fund is such as to enable
the directors to meet it without difficulty, and, without any neces-
sity of reducing the interest to depositors.
   No savings bank on the national plan has yet been established
in Aberdeen.  It has been proposed to do so, but the advantages
possessed by the present one are so fully appreciated by the depo-
sitors, that there is no reason to suppose that it would be mate-
rially affected by this should it take place.
   Insurance Offices.-In the year 1801, a company was formed in
Aberdeen for insurance against damage by fire, which for a time
was carried on successfully, but after continuing for about thirteen
years, it was dissolved, it being found that the principal business
of this kind continued to be engrossed by the agencies, of various
companies, both English and Scotch.
   About 1803, a company for insuring lives and granting annuities
was formed, and seemed likely to prove profitable, but the part-
ners (probably imperfectly acquainted with the principles on which
such a concern should be based) became alarmed apparently with-
out sufficient grounds, and abandoned the speculation after it had
been continued about ten years.
   In 1817, a Marine Insurance Company was set on foot, but it
was unsuccessful, and was abandoned in a few years after the loss,
of the greater part or the whole of its capital.
   Notwithstanding the fate of all these companies, in 1826 the
" Aberdeen Fire and Life Insurance Company" was established
with a capital of L. 750,000, and it has met with great success and
patronage in every part of Scotland, insomuch, that they may now
boast of being " the most successful institution of the kind in the
kingdom," and the share for which originally L. 2 was paid may
now be sold for L. 5, 11s.  This success induced in 1836 the for-
mation of a rival establishment, the " North of Scotland Fire and


