
                         CAMERON.                   305

west part of the parish, which is composed of whinstone rock, with
generally at thin covering of soil; but in many places nothing but
the bare rugged rock is to be seen.
     Hydrography.--The parish is, for the most part, well supplied
with perennial, springs of excellent water, some of which issue from
whinstone or freestone rock, other from sand.
     Geology and Mineralogy.--In almost every part of the parish, either
coal, freestone, trap, whinstone, or limestone may be found.  There
is at present good coal got at Drumcarro.  Limestone is wrought
at Redernie and at Winthank.  The lime at hte former is of bet-
ter quality than that at the latter place.  from the great depth of
the covering now above the rock at both places, the limestone
is wrought under ground by boring the rock and blasting it with
powder, and the stone carried out in carts to the kilns; but at
Radernie a rail-road has been made last winter from the rock to
the kilns, upon which the limestone are drawn in waggons, which
is a great saving of labour.  The roof is found to stand well, and
to be altogether safe, notwithstanding the blasting.  The covering
above the rock is of the thickness of 35 feet, 30 feet of which is
composed for the most part od clay, and 5 feet of bad limestone.
The rock itself is of the thickness of 9 feet, and dips in a norther-
ly direction one foot nin three.  The trap or whinstone is of excellent
quality, and is finely adapted for making and keeping in repair the
roads in the district.  There is only freestone quarry wrought
for sale at present, in the parish at Hazzleden,--which is of pretty
good quality denerally; but there are a great many wrought by the
propreitors and tenants for building and making drains.  There is a
great difference of soil in the parish; some parts of it is composed of
clay, others of black earth, with a retentive substratum; some of it
is a poor moorish soil recumbent upon tenacious clay, or moor-
band; other parts are of a dry nature, recumbent upon gravel or
upon whinstone rock.  In general, the northern and lower part of
the parish is the best, though in the southern there is some good
land. The depth of soil varies from two inches to upwards of two feet.
     Botany.--There has been a good deal of the worst land in
the parish planted with larch, Scotch, and spruce firs, within the
last thirty years. which greatly improves the climate ans appear-
ance of the country.  In general they seem to do well where the
soil is of moderate depth, and not every wet; but where it is thin
and wet, they do not seem to thrive, and are short and stunted.
Beach seems to thrive wdll in this part of the country as a hedge,
     FIFE                        U




























































