
     110                         PERTHSHIRE.

     Session, (1758) against the town, for recovering that property to
     the hospital, and for count and reckoning with respect to bygone
     abstracted rents.  After a very keen litigation for more than two
     years, in the course of which the cause was carried to the House
     of Peers, Mr Boswell, one of the presbytery's counsel, craved
     that the hospital should be found entitled to the mails and duties
     of Blackfriars and Charterhouse lands since the commencement of
     the process, and passed from the other claim of bygone mails and
     duties, pro loco et tempore.  According, the Lords pronounced
     their final decree on the 25th of July that year, ordaining the town
     of Perth to cede the possession of the Blackfriars and Charterhouse
     lands to the hospital masterr, and the tenants to pay their rents in
     all time coming to the said hospital masters, &c.  One other illus-
     trative fact I shall mention, and which is immediately to the point.
     The parish church of St John the Baptist was specially gifted in
     the charter to the hospital, and for many years the kirk-session
     exercised the uncontrolled administration of its concerns.  They
     originated and appointed every alteration or repair that was made
     upon it, externally and internally.   All the seats in it were erected
     by them, or by others with their permission.  And both its walls
     and its roof were repeatedly repaired by them.  Nay, the steeple,
     and its clock, and its bells, were theirs, and they employed and paid
     persons for keeping them in proper order.   The extracts which I
     have given- (pp. 105, 6, 7.) from the session records make this ma-
     nifest.  Now the session have no acknowledged claim to the church,
     or to any thing pertaining to it.    It is in the possession of the city
     and other incorporations, and it does not appear that there has ever
     been a legal transference of the property from the hospital to any
     individual or body of men whatever.   The hospital has lost this
     with other property, through the incapacity of its managers to re-
     sist encroachments.
       From the year 1560 to the year 1595, the church was supplied
     by only one minister.  From 1595 to 1716, it was supplied by two.
     In 1715 the town-council took into consideration, that "the inha-
     bitants of the town and parish had considerably increased," and
     being, with zeal for the glory of God, concerned for the advance-
     ment of the work of the gospel, and in compassion to the souls of
     many hundreds of people, "agreed that a third minister should be
     called, and elected by the town-council and kirk -session, or present-
     ed by the council, if calling and election will not suffice," and un-
     animously agreed to assign the sum of 1000 merks Scots yearly,


