
                            DUTHIL.                              127

summoned his vassals to attend on a certain day on the banks of
the Findhorn, for the purpose of destroying this formidable enemy,
Their intentions were, however, anticipated by a daring fellow, that
lived in the eastern extremity of the parish, who, as he was on his
way to join the rest of his clansmen, was met by the very animal
in question, in an exceedingly narrow path in the face of a rock, cal.
led Creig a chrochdan, and overhanging the river. As it was impos-
sible for either party to recede, they boldly advanced, each bent up-
on his opponent's destruction; when the man, by a well-directed
stroke of his club, brought his foe to the ground. With his dirk
he cut off the animal's head, and carried it as a trophy of his vic-
tory to the place of meeting. On his arrival, the laird reproached
him for his tardiness; when tbe man with affected contempt re-
plied, that he believed he came sufficiently soon for all that was to do.
As the laird was about to reproach him in somewhat more bitter
terms, he drew the wolf's bleeding head from under his plaid, and
threw it at his chieftain's feet. Thus perished the last of the na-
tive inhabitants of the forest of Glencheardich.-The other ani.-
mals are such as are peculiar to the neighbouring districts, viz.
deer, roe, hares, rabbits, foxes, badgers, otters, wild-cats, and wea-
sels. The principal of our reptile tribe are the snake and li-
zards. The black snail is peculiar to a certain district of the parish.
Toads are entire strangers./f* 
   Salmon, river-trout, and eels are the only fish in the Dulnan.
The former come up to spawn in the months of October and No-
vember; and such as escape the poacher's leister return to the sea,
by the end of the last-mentioned month.
   Insects.-In the beginning of July 1815, during several days of
intense heat, all the birch in the parish was completely stripped of
its foliage, by a large blackish-coloured species of caterpillar. During
these few days, the thermometer was seldom under 90&deg;C in the
shade.
   Birds.-The feathered game consists of grouse, partridges,
plovers, snipe, lapwings, wild-ducks, and some ptarmigan. Of late
years, black game has been very abundant, but, as a natural conse-
quence, as the latter multiplied, the former have become less plen-
tiful.
   Forests.- In the tipper part of the northern district of the par-
rish, there is an extensive forest of natural Scotch fir. For the man-
nufacturing of the timber, there are two saw-mills of two saws each,

<FOOTNOTE>Since the above was written, rats have become very numerous.


