
1178                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

the counties of Kincardine, Aberdeen, Banff, Moray, and other
northern counties of Scotland, almost all of whom have received
university education, to those in the southern parts of the country,
many of whom have not attended any college.  The very low
state of education in England, among those of the same class in
society who benefit from, the Scottish schools, and the difficulty
experienced in the fnrler country of obtaining cheap and efficient
schoolmasters, may also be stated in favour of promoting the ex-
tencion of unversity instruction in Scotland.  The claim of the
Universities to encouragement in fulfilling this most important
part of their duty, is indirectly acknowledged by the same Com-
mission, when they state respecting the Universities of Aber-
deen, that "they have silently and unostentatiously raised the
intellectual state of Scotland." *
   College Buildings.-The original buildings of Marischal Col-
lege were those of the Franciscan convent on the same site.  Part
was appropriated for the residence of students, but no plan or
perspective view of them has been preserved.  It would appear
that even in the infancy of the establishment they had been insuf-
ficient, for in 1633 the magistrates ordered a house to be fitted up
with beds for the accommodation of students who formerly lodged
in the town house. +  In 1639, a part of the monastic edifice was
destroyed by fire, and was soon afterwards rebuilt, chiefly by the
munificence of Patrick Dun, M.D., then Principal of the College.
The buildings having become unsuitable or ruinous, the Principal
and Professors commenced in 1684, the erection of a new edifice,
which was carried on slowly for several years chiefly by voluntary
contributions, some aid from the citx funds, and some small pub-
lic grants of the vacant stipends of those parishes of which the
Earls Marischal were patrons.  The numerous Scottish merchants
who in that age resided in Poland were among the principal con-
tributors.  The highest part of the edifice, the north tower, rose
to the elevation of about 80 feet, and was erected in 1694-95 for
an observatory, partly at the expense of the town.  The whole
pile was for the time extensive and not inconvenient; but parts of
the interior remained long in an unfinished state, from the want of
funds, and a great economy appears to have been necessary, as the
vouchers of accounts, all of which have been preserved, abundant-
ly attest.  Several portions of the old monastery remained, and
were occupied as class-rooms and students' chambers.  Most of

<FOOTNOTE>General Report, p. 368.
          Registers of the Town-Council of Aberdeen, Vol. lii. p. 135.


