
290                         AYRSHIRE.

of Arran, with Ailsa Craig and the hills of Ireland, form the back-
ground of the scene.
	The temperature of Dunlop is somewhat colder than that of
the lower parts of the county. This is to be ascribed in part to
its height above the sea, but chiefly to the wetness of the soil in
many places, and the want of wood. If the land was thoroughly
drained, and properly sheltered by plantations, it is thought that
this evil might in a great measure be got rid of. Persons well
qualified to judge are of opinion, that the draining already effected
has done much good in this respect. It is supposed to be owing
to this, that early autumnal frosts, which were at one time common
and very hurtful, are now little known.
	The climate of Dunlop is justly considered very healthy. There
is no endemical disease in the parish, and it has seldom suffered
much from the epidemics which, from time to time, have prevailed
in neighbouring districts. The people in general enjoy excellent
health, and many of them live to a good old age. At present there
are nine persons upwards of eighty years of age. Two of these
are above ninety.
	Hydrography.--Dunlop abounds with springs of excellent water.
They are all perennial. None of them deserve particular notice,
on account either of the quantity or quality of their water.
	There is now no lake in the parish, Halket Loch, (extending
to about nine or ten acres,) which was the only one, having been
drained a few years ago, at the joint expense of the proprietors
whose lands border on it. It is now an excellent meadow. The
draining of this loch has had the effect of completely preventing
the mildew, from which the crops immediately around it formerly
suffered much.
	The principal stream connected with the parish is the Lugton.
It rises out of Loch Libo in Renfrewshire, and after a course of
about fifteen miles in a south west direction, joins the Garnock near
Kilwinning. It separates Dunlop from Beith. Corsehill burn
separates Dunlop from Stewarton. The Glazert, which is joined
by a few very small rivulets, drains the centre of the parish, divid-
ing it into two nearly equal parts. After a course of about ten or
eleven miles, it falls into the Annack, which is tributary to the
Irvine. It passes close to the church and village. All these
streams are very inconsiderable, affording scarcely water enough
to drive the corn-mills erected on them.
	Geology and Mineralogy.--The prevailing rocks are claystone,


