
    1240                     PERTHSHIRE.

                       V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
       Market-Town.-Stirling is the principal market for grain.  It
    is eight miles distant from Doune.
       Villages.-The only two considerable villages in the parish are
    Doune and Deanston.  Doune is a pleasant village, with three
    principal streets.  It contains a market cross, a handsome church,
    and several good houses.  It was formerly celebrated for three
    manufactures,-viz. skinning, Highland purses, and Highland
    pistols.  The houses are well built, mostly slated, and of ra-
    ther recent erection.  Deanston, the other considerable village,
    is mentioned in the Lady of the Lake, where it it spelt Deanstone.

                  Torry and lanvick now we past,
		  And Deanstone lies behind them cast.

    It is a very neat and clean-looking village, consisting of two
    rows of houses, which form one wide street, with a lane behind.
    The one row, which is small, is several feet below the level of
    the street; the other consists of four detached divisions of equal
    extent.  The houses are uniform (two stories high with attics) and
    white-washed, giving the village a very neat appearance.
       There are four hamlets or small villages besides, viz. Buchany,
    or Burn of Cambus, Drumvaicb, Delvoricb, and Bridge of Teith,
    sometimes called the Cotton Row, and formerly the new town of
    Doune,-a name which is now more applicable to Deanston.  Bu-
    chany and Burn of Cambus were formerly distinct villages, but
    three houses of the latter only remain.
       Means of Communication.-Doune is a post-town.  We have a
    mail-gig daily between Stirling and Callander, and two carriers
    twice a-week betwixt Doune and Stirling.  Though there is no
    great length of turnpike roads in the parish, a stage-coach runs
    between Callander land Stirling daily in summer, and twice a-
    week (Mondays and Fridays) in winter.  Last two summers, there
    were two coaches daily connecting with the Edinburgh and Glas-
    gow Railway.
       The former Account said, "There is no bridge over Teith below
    Callander, except one near Doune, called Bridge of Teith."
    This complaint continued to be well founded up till 1842, when
    a suspension bridge was erected at Lanrick on plans by Mr Smith
    of Deanston.


<FOOTNOTE>now given up, with the exception of what is required for the wants of the establish-
    ment, which has long been celebrated for the manufacture of the patent self-acting
    mule invented by Mr. Smith. This gentleman is well known as an eminent agricul-
    turist and engineer-ranking with not only the Wattses and Arkwrights for his me-
    chanical skill, but also with the Howards and Clarksons for his benevolence.


