
	1230 	                       PERTHSHIRE.

	retinue had slept at Doune Castle on the night previous to the
	chase; else

	        	"The deep mouthed blood bounds heavy bay,"
	had not
			"Resounded up the rocky way,
			When the sun his beason red
			Had kindled on Benvoirlich's head."

	   Bridge of Teith.--The Bridge of, Teith is a strong building
	Of two arches, situated half-way between, the castle and Dean-
        ston.  It was erected in 1535 * by Robert Spittel, tailor to
	King James IV. or rather to Queen Margaret.   Tradition
	ssigns to it a somewhat singular origin. Once on coming to
	the ferry, Mr Spittel found he had left his money behind-
	excepting, as it is sometimes added, a small coin, which he cut in
	two with his scissors, offering one-half as his fare.  The boatman
	refused to ferry him over, and the generous tailor built the bridge !
	Be this as it may, Mr Spittel must have been a man of noble
	mind and benevolent heart, and the hospital which he founded in
	Stirling for the relief of decayed, tradesmen is another and an ap-
	propriate monument of his patriotic virtue.   Inside the western
	parapet of the bridge, are the armorial bearings of England and of
        Scotland, in separate shields surmounted by crowns. +
	   At.some distance from these is the following inscription, in the
	centre of which is a shield with a device resembling a spread eagle,
	and in the base a pair of large scissors formed en saltier.--"IN.
	GOD. IS. AL. MY. TRUST. QUOD. ---TTTEL. THE. X. DA.
	OF. SEPTEMBER. IN. THE. ZEIR. OF. GOD. M.VCXXXV. ZEIRE.
	FUNDIT. WES THIS. BRIG. BE. ROBERT. SPITELL. TAILZER. TO.
	THE. MAIST. NORLE. PRECES. MARGARET. --NG. JAMES.
	THE. FEIRD.--OF. ALMIS."
	   The first of the Spittels was a younger son of Sir Maurice
	Buchanan of Buchanan, in the line of Alexander III. He had
	entered the order of the Knights Hospitalers, and hence in the

<FOOTNOTE>The former Account has it " about the year 1590."
          The triocentenary was celebrated under the suspices of Mr Smith of Deanston in
	1895.  A fascimile of the inscription was engraved on that occasion, copies of which
	are frequently to be met with in the parish. The following is added in the engrav.-
	ing as a translation; In God is all my trust quoth Spittel the 10th day of Sep-
	tember in the year of God 1535 years, founded was this bridge by Robert Spittel,
	tailor to the Most Noble Princess Margaret, Queen to James the Fotrth.--Of alms,
	The engraver has omitted the word "King" though the last two letters of it are
	skill legible on the bridge.  The version in Stirling edition of Nimmo's Stirling-
	shire, substitutes honourable for noble.  That authority says, " The line on the
	shield is perhaps a falcon, an the Spittesh are a branch of the Buchanane whose sup-
        porters are falcons."


