
			     KINNELL.                       399

Emperor (Imperator) by the army and senate; nineteen times
invested with the tribunitian power; and four times, with the con-
sulship." And consequently it refers to the year 156 of the
Christian era. This emperor fixed the northern boundary of the
Rolan empire to the Forth and Clyde; and though it does not
appear that any province was erected permanently farther north,
yet the transactions of commerce and war were sufficient to con-
vey the Roman coin beyond the frontiers; and we know, that, in
the beginning of the following century, the Emperor Severus lost
many thousands in pursuit of the natives along the whole line of
the eastern coast of Scotland.
   On the top of the Wuddy-law, the highest point in the parish,
there was a large tumulus or barrow, the diameter of which was
about 45 yards, and the height 4. It was composed of alternate
layers of stones and earth; and while the stones were removed,
during a course of several years for the filling of drains, earthen
vessels containing a black fattish mould were occasionally disco-
vered. And not far off, are the Gallow-law and Pit, where, if we
may believe tradition capital punishments were inflicted an-
cient times. Above fifty years ago, a tenant cut across the top -of
this law, in the hope of falling in with hidden treasure, but he
found nothing save some urns and half-burnt bones.
   In 1835, on Westfield of Hattonmill, at the removal of a cairn
about 15 yards in diameter, a grave was discovered, built of rude
stones, and about five feet in length, lying north and south, and
sunk two or three feet below the surface of the hillock on which
the cairn stood. The bones which the grave contained, seemed-
large, and the skull had best resisted the work of decay. But the
whole of them speedily crumbled down. Between the cairn and
the original surface of the hillock, there was a flooring or coating
of three or four inches of clay. The grave was not in the middle
of the cairn.--At the Glesterlaw and other places, also, urns and
bones have been discovered,
   In tbe Battle Drum Wood, on the north-west of the  parish,
there are many cairns or circular heaps of moor stones. They lie
chiefly in two lines which are parallel to the Drum or ridge of
the hill on the north, and to the Battle Burn on the south; and
they might be inclosed within two acres of ground. A little far
ther east, but not in this parish, there are also the Battle Cairn,
and the Battle Well, additional memorials of an event which has
now no other record than those names and appearances. Tradi-
   FORFAR.					D d


