
             PARISH OF KILMANY.

            PRESBYTERY OF CUPAR, SYNOD OF FIFE.

          THE REV. HENRY D. COOK, MINISTER.

           I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATVRAL HISTORY.
   Situation and Boundaries.-THE parish of Kilmany is situate
in the north-east district of the presbytery of Cupar, in the county
of Fife.  It is bounded on the east by Forgan; on the south by
Logie; on the west by Dairsie, Cupar, and Moonzie; and on the
north by Creech and Balmerino. The small village in which the
church is placed lies at nearly equal distance from Cupar, the
county town, and Newport, which is now the principal ferry to Dun-
dee, and the north, from Edinburgh and the south of Scotland.
The distance from each of these places is nearly five miles.
The parish constitutes a part of that rich and fertile valley which
commences at the low grounds of Forgan and Leuchars, on the
east, and runs (through the north of Fife) to the west, by Rathil.
let, Letham, and the new inn on the left hand; and to Newburgh
by Denbog, on the right.
   Name.-The origin of the name is Celtic; some supposing that
it means the Church of the Monks, although there are no remains
of such a building. Others think, that it signifies the church in
the valley,-which is characteristic of its situation.
  Extent.-The length of Kilmany, from east to west, is6miles; and
through the whole of it runs the high road from Newport to Edin-
burgh by Luthrie and Melville Gates, &c. It is narrow towards the
east, but it gradually widens to the west. The greatest breadth be-
twixt Hazleton walls, and the south boundary of Myre-Cairnie, is
four miles. The shape of the parish resembles that of a bottle, the
manse and church being placed at the neck of it. The hills
by,which the valley is formed are branches of the Ochils. Their
shape is peculiar, and almost uniform. From the east, they gra-
dually ascend to a considerable height, and suddenly falI towards
the west. This is not only the case with the large range which se-
parates Kilmany from the Tay; but also with the smaller ridges
which at different places divide the parish. The principal range,


