
                          ABERDOUR.                              259

sea coast; but it is more probable that, at the time the parish was
erected, they formed a separate estate, belonging to the then pro-
prietor of Aberdour, who would naturally wish to have all his land-
ed property in one parish.  At the rate of 640 imperial acres to
each, the whole extent of the parish contains about 24 square miles.
   Boundaries,&c.-The parish is bounded on the north by the
shores of the Moray Frith ; on the east, by the parishes of Pitsligo,
Tyrie, Fraserburgb, and Strichen; on the south, by New Pitsli-
go, (which forms part of the parish of Tyrie,) New Deer, and
King-Edward; and on the west, by the burn of Nethermill, which
separates it from Gamrie, and which forms the boundary between
the counties of Aberdeen and Banff.
   Topographical Appearances.-There are, properly speaking, no
high mountains in the parish, but the whole estate of Auchmedden,
which forms the west side of it, is elevated 200 or 300 feet above the
level of the sea; while the estate of Aberdour, or eastern divi-
sion, is comparatively flat and low, with little inequality of surface.
The mosses, moors, and barren land bear a very great proportion
to that which is under cultivation.  The soil of the farms along the
coast is, in many places, good, consisting of a strong loamy clay,
and producing, when properlv managed, excellent crops of grain.
It may be proper to remark, that the estate of Auchmedden is
intersected by several dens, or deep ravines, which have a roman-
tic appearance, and afford a rich field for the botanist.  There
are various eaves along the coast, having their entrance from the
sea.  The most remarkable is that called Cowshaven, on the farm
of Ironhill, at the north-east corner of the parish, and which served
as a hiding-place to the late Lord Pitsligo after the battle of Cul-
loden.  The interior of this dungeon is now of difficult access,
the mouth being cooked by the earth falling from above, or by
sand and pebbles thrown up by the sea.  In the centre of this
apartment is a well, cut out of the solid rock, by the hands of the
Noble Lord himself, during his confinement in this subterranean
cavern.  The mother of my informant, then a girl of sixteen years
of age, procured him tools for this purpose, and sapplied him with
food and other necessaries of life; but at last he was compelled
to quit his prison-house, his dreary abode having been discovered
by her footsteps in the snow.  The whole of the sea coast is bold,
picturesque, and rocky, particularly to the westward of the manse,
about a mile from which, upon the estate of Auchmedden, is Pit-
jossie, a stupendous natural arch, throukh which the tide flows at


