
			GLASGOW. 			211

pense of L. 18,500. It was let on lease for L. 1200 per annum;
but it was soon found that the taste for theatricals did not keep
pace with the sums laid out for accommodation and splendour. The
premises were then let at the reduced rent of L. 800 to others, who
also failed to implement their engagement, and even when the rent
was lowered to L. 400, it was paid with difficulty. The property
was then sold at a price, only equal to the outstanding debts and
ground rent, so that the shareholders got nothing. This splendid
edifice was burned to the ground on the forenoon of the 10th of
January 1829; a gas light having come in contact with the ceiling
of one of the lobbies, leading to the upper gallery. After this
catastrophe, the old theatre in Dunlop Street was enlarged and
embellished by Mr Alexander; and is found to be quite large
enough for the play-going people of Glasgow and neighbour-
bood.
	Cock-Fighting.--In former times cock-fighting was so prevalent
in this part of the country, that on certain holidays, school-boys pro-
vided cocks, and the fight was superintended by the master. But
as civilization advanced, this practice gradually disappeared, and
at length the amusement in the estimation of many came under
the denomination of cruelty to animals. During the latter part of the
last and the beginning of the present century, cock-fighting in this
city was conducted in a clandestine manner. In l8O7, our cock-fight-
ing amateurs, finding a vacant temporary building in Queen Street,
made preparations for fighting a main, but when the sport had
just commenced, a portion of the city and county magistrates made
their appearance and dismissed the meeting. Since that period
mains have occasionally been fought here without the interference
of the authorities. Of late, however, the desire for this amusement
has so much increased, that in this year (1835) a spacious build-
ing has been erected for a cock-pit in Hope Street, on the joint
stock principle. This building, which is seated for about 280 per-
sons, has suitable accommodation for the judges handlers, and feed-
ers, and is inferior in nothing to the Westminster pit, but in its
dimensions. The company who frequent the Glasgow cock-pit
do not belong to the "exelusives;" for here we have all grandes from
the sonator to the journeyman butcher.
	Corporation of Glasgow.--Glasgow was governed by a Provost
and Bailies so early as the year 1268. In 1603, the constitution
of the burgh was settled in three distinct bodies, viz. the town-


