
			      BLAIRGOWRIE.                 927

neighbouring parish of Rattray for their accommodation, or the
Seceder chapel, at Lethendy, three miles distant.
   A congregation in connection with the Scottish Episcopal
Church was formed in the year 1841, and the number of individuals
belonging to it is at present not more than 90,--the regular weekly
attendance in its present temporary place of meeting averaging
from 30 to 40. Its founder and pastor, the Rev. John Marshall, is
at present engaged in the erection, chiefly at his own expense, of a
handsome Gothic edifice, in the early English style of ecclesiasti-
cal architecture, to be named "St Catharine's Church," which
will afford accommodation for about 200. Being, intended as a
model of the style and form of ecclesiastical edifices previous to
the Reformation, it consists of a nave and chancel; the latter con-
taining a beautiful window of stained glass, ornamented with vari-
ous devices relating to church subjects. There is a vestry and
library attached to the building; and the latter is not intended
exclusively for the use of the congregation, but for pdrsons of all
denominations, and contains many works in science and general
literature.
   The number of families in the parish that attend the Esta-
blished Church, either in the parish church, Brown Street chapel,
or Percy chapel, is about 560; the number of individuals, about
2400. The number of persons attending the chapels of Dissent-
ers and Seceders is about 560. The number of individuals be-
longing to the Episcopalian church is about 90; and to the Ro-
man Catholic persuasion about 40.
   There is a Sabbath evening school held in the church, at which
the attendance is upwards of 400, and the good effects of the reli-
gious instruction there communicated are beginning to appear very
conspicuously in the evident and rapid improvement of the popula-
tion, and the sensible decline of vice and immorality of every de-
scription.
   The average number of communicants in the parish is 1100.
   The average amount of church collections yearly for religious
and charitable objects, exclusive of the regular weekly collections
for the poor, is L.18, 10s. 9d. Sterling; but there is a society in
the parish, called "the Juvenile Parochial Missionary Associa-
tion," whose average annual contributions for the last three years
amount to no less than L.87. The funds raised by this associa-
tion are devoted to the five schemes of the General Assembly,
and to female education in India.


