
376                          FIFESHIRE.

     1831, mean temperature.53\d.6      1834, mean temperature, 55\d 3
     1832,                  52.9        1835,                   54.5
     1833,                  53.1        1836,                   53.3

  Climate.-The climate is, on the whole, far from being unpro-
pitious. The atmosphere is, for the most part, mild and dry; the
harvests are earlier than the general average of the county ; and
the healthiness of the situation has been long noted and abtWdant-
ly experienced.
  Hydrography.-A few small rivulets or burns, some of which
intersect the parish in different directions, while others forin consi-
derable portions of its boundaries, are the only water scenery of
which it can boast. None of them are of any note:-but that which
entering the parish on the north, near BaInkirk, and following a.
circuitous course, till it meets another little stream on the south-
eastboundary, at thehamietof Kennoway-burns,-whence thus aug-
mented, it proceeds about a mile to the southward, to fall into the
Leven,-is worthy of special mention. It is so, from this circum-
stance, that, passing close to the village of Kennoway, its banks
there are high, winding, and beautifully diversified; in some places
steep and rocky, 'titting out into rugged points, which bring the
opposite sides into near contact; in other places,-more sloping, and
of course leaving a wider space between ; and everywhere, finely
covered with wood. The channel of the stream at this place, with
the enclosure formed by its elevated banks, receives the name of
the den, which, though not on a large scale, is certainly a piece
of scenery possessing many features of great beauty.
Mineralogy. -The south part of the parish is incumbent upon
freestone rock of a soft quality, which dips towards the southeast
Upon the high ground, on the north part of the parish, the soil is
incumbent on a ridge of whinstone, which lies in the direction
nearly east and west.
The soil is of various qualities, and mostly all arable. On the
south and east, it is principally light fertile land; in the centre, it
is loam and clay, upon a retentive subsoil; and on the north, upon
the rising ground, there is a small proportion of dry loam, incum-
bent upon the whinstone rock. -
This whinstone, at various points, has been quarried and used
for building; but more commonly for road--metal. Freestone to
a trifling extent is wrought in the den, also for the purposes of
building; but it is coarse and soft, and apt to moulder down, when
exposed tp the weather.
 There am some beds of red heel found in the don; and they
                                    4


