
900                           ABERDEENSHIRE.

extensive view of the German Ocean, stretching from the Girdle-
ness lighthouse in the south, to within a few miles of the point
of Rattray in the north.  A considerable radge of high ground
in the north side of the parish has not been brought under culti-
vation ; but it is the worthless soil of the district, rather than its ele-
vated situation, which has prevented the farmer from attempting its
improvement.
   The valley of the Ythan or Ituna bisects the parish from east
to west.  It presents no appearance worthy of particular notice.
Two smaller valleys open into the valley of the Ythan, within the
boundaries of the parish of Ellon, that of the Ebrie on the north,
having a range of upwards of twelve miles in a northerly direction,
and that of the Brony on the south, extending nearly an equal
distance towards the south-west.  Neither presents any object of
sufficient interest to attract the special notice of the traveller.
   Meteoroloqy.-The climate in the south side of the parish, along
the valley of the Ythan, is, on the whole, for this part of Scotland,
mild and temperate.  The soil, being for the most part dry and
gravelly, readily absorbs moisture, and is therefore a powerful cor-
rective of the impurities of the atmosphere.  The temperature in
the neighbourhood of the river is perceptibly moderated by the in-
fluence of the tide.  The spring tides flow on some particular oc-
casiohs almost as far up as the bridge of Ellon.  The climate in
the northern districts is of a less genial character, which arises in
part no doubt from the greater elevation of these districts, but
chiefly, it is believed, from the retentive qualities of the subsoil,
and from the circumstance that little has yet been done to correct
the evil thence resulting by an improved system of drainage. The
great inferiority of the climate of these districts was severely felt
by the inhabitants during the years 1838 and 1839, their crops
for these seasons, having stood long back, and suffered much from
the frost, while the harvest by the side of the Ythan was compa-
ratively both early and abundant.
   Hydrography.-There is no considerable stream in the parish
of Ellon except the Ythan.  This river takes its rise in the high-
ast part of the parish of Forgue, flows for about seven or eight
milesi toward the south, when it takes a south-east, rather east-
south-east direction, add after au additional course of upwards of
twenty miles, falls into, the German Ocean at the sands of Forvie.
It has it considerable volume of water, but, from the circumstance
that when near the sea it spread& out into a broad shallow basins,


