
                        ISLAND OF SKYE-STRATH.                       315

	and chieftains had full power over the life and death of their vas-
	sals, and their injunctions, however unreasonable and severe, were
        peremptory. The following is a striking instance of the remarka-
	able habits that prevailed even in times comparatively modern.
	   Until within the last ninety years, it was customary in this is-
	land when a tenant died, that the best horse in the possession of
	the widow was claimed by the laird, who sent his ground-officer or
        under factor to demand it inunediately after the interment. This
	barbarous custorm was tamely submitted to until it was checked by
        the following occurrence: A man of the name of Mackinnon in
	this parish, having died, the best horse in the possession of the
	poor widow was as usual claimed for the laird by the ground-officer,
	who, in executing his cruel order, experienced so much resistance
	from the poor widow, that he beat and bruised her to the effusion
	of her blood, when she told him that she hoped her son, then about
	a year old, would some day be revenged of him for the treatment
        she had that day received. Some years thereafter, the same
	ground-officer came upon a similar errand to a neigbbouring farm,
	when he behaved with his usual insolence to another poor wi-
        dow, whom he likewise deprived of her best horse. This having
	come to the knowledge of young Mackinnon, then in his eigh-
	teenth year, and considered the strongest man in the parish, he
	pursued the ground-officer, whom he overtook within three miles
	of the laird's house, and desired him immediately to deliver to him
	the widow's horse, at the same time putting him in mind of the treat-
        ment which his mother had received at his hands. The ground-
	officer refused to part with the horse, upon which battle was offered
	and accepted, but soon decided in favour of Mackinnon, who,
	with his dirk, cut off the head of his antagonist, washed it in a well
	by the road-side, which is still known by the name of Tobar
        a'chçnn, or the well of the head,-mounted the horse, and appeared
        at the laird's gate, having the head on the point of his dirk. Such
	an unusual spectacle attracted the notice of the servants, who in-
	formed the laird that Donnuchadh Mïr, alias Big Duncan, was at
	the gate with the ground-officer's head, very anxious to see him.
	The laird could not at first believe that such a diabolical deed
        could be perpetrated, not knowing the, causes which led to it. But,
	upon coming out, he was shocked to find the report correct;
        and, upon hearing Donnuchadh Mïr's account of the recent trans-
	action, as well as the inhuman treatment which the mother had
	received seventeen years previously, he granted him a free pardon


