
48                               EDINBURGSHIRE.

from an assessment on the real rent, imposed twice a-year, the
average yearly amount of which for the year 1838 was L. 160;
from mortcloth* dues, which, from being resisted by the Dissenters,
chiefly yield little; and from collections, which, from the great
number of Seceders who contribute mothing, do not bring more
than L. 30 per annum.  Total amount of contributions for the poor
upwards of L.200 a-year. The kirk-session made a strenuous at-
tempt vin the year 1831 to act on Dr Chalmer's views, as to doing
away the compulsory assessment, and supporting the ordinary poor
by voluntary contribution.  It was, however, unsuccessful, and ended
by the heritors imposing the assessment according to the real and
not, as hed previously been the case, by the valued rent. This
has involved them in a series of law pleas with the manufacturers
and feuars, occasioning great expense, and much heartburning.
The questions which have arisen are now (1839) all adjusted.
The poor are pressing on the funds, and often endevour to
make good their claims by having recouse to law. Pauperism is
not held so much in horror as it once was, and ought to be.  The
first regular assessment was imposed in the year 1800,--one of un-
exampled scarcity. Matters with respect to the poor are other-
wise, however, well managed. The parish is divivded into seven
districts, over each of which there is at least one resident elder
ando one deaxon, whose duty is to examine minutely into every
case of pauperism.  The deacons are generally farmers, or others
of business habits, and well acquainted with, and looked up to, by
their respective districts.  Their appointment, which took place
in 1834, has been productive of the happiest effects, and may be
recommended for adoption elsewhere. So large and effcient a
session seems to produce a most beneficial action and effect on
the religious and secular interests of the parish.

<FOOTNOTE>* In the year 1833 a number of persons associated themselves to deprive the poor 
of the profits of the mortcloth dues, though the kirk-session had reduced these to one-
fourth nearly of their former amount, in the hope of accommodating matters with-
out one.  The session were, accordingly, cnctrained to have recourse to legal mea-
sures, and obtained a dcreet in their favour in the year 1836, in which other 
party has acquiesced.


     Drawn up in 1836,
     Revised July 1839.

