
                       ABBEY ST BATHANS.                     109

the former is to be seen an arched door, now built up, which com-
municated with the residence of the nuns. The ancient Gothic
architecture of the east window is still in some measure preserved;
and in the wall near the altar was a stone font with a leaden
pipe in the bottom. The building was formerly large, measuring
58 feet by 26; but about the end of last century it was greatly
contracted by the removal of the west wall to a position nearer the
centre.
   Adjoining the church, and between it and the Whitadder, the
remains of the priory were visible a few years ago, but they have
now entirely disappeared,-the stones having been carried away
for various purposes. From the vestiges, however, which could
then be traced, the buildings seem to have been of considerable
extent. The house was supplied with water from a spring in the
rising ground to the south by means of leaden pipes, parts of which
have at different times been dug up. To the south and east of
the church lay the gardens of the priory, thence called the pre-
cincts yards, and round the whole was a walk composed of three
tiers of stones. On the east side of these gardens was another
walk of considerable breadth, bearing the name of the Bishop's
Loan.
   At some distance east from the church, in a woody nook, issues
a spring named St Bathan's well, which, according to the super-
stition of ancient times, had the power of healing diseases; and
which still, as is the belief in the neighbourhood, neither fogs nor
freezes, and even prevents a mill-lead into which it flows from being
locked up with ice in the winter.
   Farther east, and about a quarter of a mile from the church,
were to be seen some years ago the foundations of the chapel, and
of a wall enclosing a small space around it. This space bore no
marks of having been used as a place of interment. These foun-
dations have now been removed on account of the obstruction they
presented to the operations of agriculture, but the field that con-
tained them is still called Chapel-field.
   Like most of the other ancient buildings in the district, the re-
mains of the church of Strafontane, which was situated about a
mile west of St Bathans, on the south side of the Monyput, have
disappeared before the encroachments of the plough. It is, how-
ever, but a few years since the foundations of this church were ex-
tant, with the mouldering tombstones around it; and it is said that




