
		               MORVERN.	                      185

dom, in reducing Scotland to subjection.  The site of the spacious
apartment in which " the Parliament " met is still pointed out,
and in the face of the rock, overhanging the bay of Ardtornish, is
pointed out the precipice over which the transgressors of feudal
laws were thrown,-a doom not more enviable, than that of those
who suffered at the base of the Tarpeian rock.

              		III.-POPULATION.
   The population of the Highlands has undergone many fluctua-
tions.  No doubt, in ancient time, the country was populous.
While the power of the feudal chief was estimated or his posses-
sions secured by his vassals and retainers, efforts were made to
augment their numbers.  At a later period also, during the pre-
valence of war, and the prosperity of kelp manufacture, similar
efforts were resorted to ; and, accordingly, almost every spot was
occupied, not only along the sea coasts, but also in the inland
glens.  The introduction of sheep-farming, and the failure of kelp
manufacture, have introduced a different system.  The tenure of
land, as held by the poorer classes, is simple in the extreme, and
their bamlets removable with as great ease, and to others with as
little detriment, as a temporary encampment, and, accordingly,
humanity alone has obstructed, in causing the more general recourse,
to the depopulation system,-a system, let it be remembered, held
at no distant period in such dread, when emigration to America
seemed to offer to the people themselves so many inducements,-
Morvern participated to no small extent in these fluctuations.  It
is evident that the population was great, previous to 1755.  It
appears to have come, at and from that period, to the amount at
which it has, with no inconsiderable variations, continued down to
the present day, or, at least, to the period of the last census.

<TABLE>
         Amount of population in 1755,     .     1223
                                 1795,     .     1764
                                 1801,     .     2000
                                 1831,     .     2036
                                 1841,     .     1781

But while it appears that the population of 1831, which con-
siderabl exceeds that of the present period, is not much more
than, that of 1795, and is not greater than the extent and resour-
ces of the country are capable of supporting, it is necessary, In
drawing conclusions from these and the following numerical state-
ments, to advert to, the very different mode in which the inhabi-
tants of the country are now located.
   The fact is, the two opposite systems of depopulating and over-


