
     Of Kirkmichael.

tricts, called Davochs*.  Several antiquaries have mistaken
the etymon of Davoch; but the word is evidently derived
from Daimh, oxen, and Ach, field.  In its original accepta-
tion, it imports as much land as can be ploughed by 8 oxen.
In the Regiam Majestatem, it is clearly defined+.

     3 H 2

<FOOTNOTE>

Inveraven, quam Bricius tenuit, et cum omni parochia totius Strathaven, cum
decimis et oblationibus, in perpetuam Eleemosynam."  This gift was made in
the 13th century; and, upon the decline of the ancient family of Macduff, the
property was transferred to Alexander Stewart, Earl of Buchan, of the Royal
Family.  In 1482, Sir Walter Stewart, grandson of the Earl of Buchan, in
the illegitimate line, resigned it to King James the III.  By King James the
III., it is was given to the Earl of Huntly.  In 1492, this gift is confirmed by
King James the IV., in favour of Alexander, Lord Gordon, Master of Huntly.
This noble family have continued the proprietors of the parish of Kirkmichael
ever since.  So that during a period of near 500 years, the observation of a
Greek poet, justified by general experience, upon the fluctuations of property,
can scarcely be applied to this district.

<UNREADABLE>

     Aypos Ax

</UNREADABLE>

*One of these belongs to that respectable character, Sir James Grant; the
other 9 are the property of his Grace the Duke of Gordon, a nobleman not
more distinguished by his great and opulent fortune, than for the antiquity of
his family, his splendid hospitality, his patriotism and humanity.  What the
poet Buchanan applied to one of his ancestors, may, with equal propriety, sub-
stituting the past for the present, be applied to his Grace:

     Dives opum, luxuque carens, domus hospita cunctis,
     Pacis amans pectus, tortis ad arma manus.

   It is observed by an eminent historian, that Charles V., was not more con-
spicuous for his own good sense, than for that proof which he exhibited of it, in
the choice of his ministry.  This observation will apply to his Grace, in its full
latitude; as the gentlemen, to whom his Grace has intrusted the management
of his business, have acquired an esteem, to which candour, integrity, and af-
fability have justly entitled them.  In this character Mr. Tod is too well known
to require the feeble panegyric of the writer of this Statistical Account.
+"Davata," says that writer, "apud priscos Scotos, quod continet quatuor
aratra terrae, quorum unumquodque trahitur octo bobus.  Abi quatuor aratra du-


