
                       AVONDALE.                            303

	Horses and Cows.--The real breed of Clydesdale horses is
reared here in considerable numbers. Tradition states, that, at a
remote period, one of the Dukes of Hamilton sent a superior breed
of horses to Avondale. They were kept in the castle; and from
these and the common mares of the country have sprung the real
Lanarkshire or Clydesdale breed of horses. It has been alleged,
that of late this breed has been injured by being too much crossed
with lighter horses, intended more for coaches and the saddle. They
are, however, still to be found here in great perfection and beauty.
The cows kept here are of the Ayrshire kind. They are reared
in great numbers. Indeed, it is said that this race of cattle can
be obtained here as pure as in most places in Ayrshire. It has
been alleged that the Ayrshire farmer, when tempted by a price,
will part with the very best of his stock; while with us, the farmers
retain the best, and part with those which are accounted not so va-
luable.
	Strathaven veal has long been held in high estimation. It is rear-
ed here in great quantities, and sent both to Edinburgh and Glas-
gow; but chiefly to the Glasgow market. In preparing the animals for
market, they are kept in a dark place, and fed with great care. The
ordinary price of fed veal is from L. 3 to L. 5. But a much higher
sum has been obtained for those particularly large and well fed.
	Botany.--Hippuris vulgaris (rare) is found in Moss Malloch;
Utricularia vulgaris, in Lochgate Loch; Eriophorum vaginatum, in
the moors; Sherardia arvensis, in dry corn fields; Plantago ma-
ritima, near Drumelog; Parnassia palustris, in wet moors; Nas-
turtium terrestre, in the rivulet near the Relief manse; Ophioglos-
sum vulgatum, in high wet pastures; Lycopodium selaginoides, moors
in several places; Sphagnum cuspidatum, East Locbgate; Dicranum
flexuosum, moss east of Hawkwood-hill; Bryum attenuatum, near
the head of Unthankburn; Merulius crassipes, on the roots of de-
cayed trees; Helvella mitra, Bonnanhill.

			II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Antiquities.--A Roman road can be traced for a considerable
distance in the parish. It runs along the south side of the Avon,
and passes the farm of Walesley. On the farm of Gennerhill some
shoes or sandals of Roman manufacture have been found, and also
some small coins. A few years ago some coins were also discovered
on the lands of Torfoot, near to Loudoun-hill, and on the very
line by which the Romans when crossing the Caledonian forest,
must have marched towards the west coast.


