
                            CROMDALE.                          433

crops; but early frosts, frequently occur in the months of August
and September, and in one night blasts all the crops in several
parts of the parish.
   Climate.-The climate is allowed to be extremely healthy, but,
owing to the great elevation of the parish above the level of the
sea, probably 600 feet, rather cold and changeable.  Winter leaves
us reluctantly, continuing during the greater part of spring, and
it often arrives so early as the end of October. The most frequent
winds are the west and north-east.
  Geology.-Limestone (Primitive) of the best quality is found in
great abundance in some parts of the parish.  Large quantities of it
are prepared by the tenants for sale, and also for their own use in
agriculture and building.  There is scarcely a tenant in the parish,
occupying a L. 5 farm, who has not his lime-kiln.  There is also
great abundance of granite, presumed, by well qualified judges, to
be equal, both in appearance. and durability, to the famous Aberdeen
granite. Associated with the granites are various other rocks
of the primitive class of geologists.
  Zoology.-The only wild animals  now found in the parish are,
the fox, badger, polecat, and weasel.  Roe, partridges, black and
red grouse, with brown and white hares, still abound.  Ptarmigan
also, it is said, have been shot on the highest parts of Cromdale
hill.
   Hydrogrophy.-There are no springs in the parish worthy of
notice. There are several small lakes, but the most famous is that
of Lochindorb- which, with its castle, shall be afterwards noticed.
The Spey is the only river of note passing through the parish.
Notwithstanding all the precautions used in securing the fish at the
mouth of the river, the salmon contrive to pass, and force their
way this length, and even to the source of the stream, afrording
the angler many an hour's pleasant amusement.  There are several
pools in the parish inferior to none, for angling, in the whole
course of the river.
  Plantations.-There is not now a parish in Scotland, it is believed,
which contains an equal extent of plantations.  Upwards
of 2500 acres have been planted 'within the, Iast twenty-six years
and there is a fully larger extent of old plantations.  A vast number
of the old trees, larch and common fir, have grown to a very
large size.  Several trees measure 30 inches diameter at the root,
and 8 inches at 70 feet in height.  Many of the old trees from
these plantations, especially from the close, neighbourhood of


