
356			KINCARDINESHIRE.

        Fairs.-Six annual fairs are held here, one in each of the fol-
lowing months,-February, March, June, July, August, Decem-
ber. That in June, St Ternan's, the most ancient, is attended by
about 500 to 600 venders, who pay custom; the one in March,
by 300 to 400; the rest by only 100 to 200. The numbers fre-
quenting them are failing off, from other fairs having been esta-
blished in all parts of the neighbourhood.
        Roads.-The village, is distant from Aberdeen exactly eighteen
miles, with which it communicates by a direct central road passing
through it, and extending to Braemar. Parallel to this, and com-
municating with it near the church by a cross road from Raemoir,
is a turnpike running along the base of the Hill of Fare for five
miles, and connecting the northern parts of this and the neigh-
bouring parish of Kincardine with Aberdeen through Skene, &c.
Another turnpike leaves the village on the south, and passing
the Dee immediately below, and shortly afterwards the Feugh,
by the bridges already noticed, it occupies the south bank of the
river for about a mile, and then diverges across the Grampians to
the county town, Stonehaven, sixteen miles distant, while from the
point of divergence a new turnpike continues along the Dee to
Aberdeen. From the Bridge of Feugh a county road passes up the
side of that stream for two miles, and, crossing the Grampians at
the pass of Cairn o' Month, reaches Fettercairn, seventeen miles
distant. A considerable transit takes place on this route during
summer, in driving cattle from the fairs in Garioch and Buchan to
the southern markets. A mail-coach passes thrnufh the village
daily; and a stage-coach during one-half of the year leaves it for
Aberdeen every morning, and returns at night. There are also
eight carriers who leave the parish weekly for that place, most of
whom generally take with them a load of timber, and bring back
coal, lime and other goods in return. Wood, both in rafts and
in single pieces, are transmitted hence by the Dee in every fa-
vourable state of the flood; and large quantities are seen passing
this from the upper districts.
	The Church is conveniently situated for the majority of the pa-
rishioners. A few families, however, at the extreme limits, are
nearly five miles distant from it. It affords accommodation for
about 1300 persons. It has no free unappropriated sittings. Se-
veral of the heritors have more of the area allotted to them than
is required for their own tenantry; but it is fully occupied by the


