
                   PARISH OF ANSTRUTHER WESTER.

               PRESBYTERY OF ST ANDREWS, SYNOD OF FIFE.

                           PARISH VACANT.

                I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name, Boundaries, &c.-ANSTUTHER WESTER, a small parish
in the presbytery of St Andrews, is situated on the Frith of Forth,
about six miles to the westward of Fifeness. The origin, of the
name is uncertain.  It is not known whether the family of An-
struther, who are the superiors, gave their name to it, or took
derivedfrom the Celtic word Struther, signifying "a low marshy
place." and, as generally happens, somethidg in the situation is
found or fancied to correspond with the etymology for although
the site of the town and church, in hollow at the mouth of
small rivulet, is now tolerably dry, there are proofs that it must at
one time have merited such an appellation." We have our doubts-
as to this derivation; but are in want of any thing better: to offer.
The parish is bounded on the South by the sea, for about half
a mile; on the east, by Anstruther Easter; on tbe north, by Carn
bee and Kilvenny; and on the west, by  PittenweeaL. From the
narrow point of land by the town, church and church-
yard, the parish, which is of very irregular breadth and form, ex-
tends upwards of 2 miles to the north-west, and contains about
600 acres, the greater part of which is arable. There may be
about 10 acres of grass-lands, upon eight of which the burgesses
have the privilege of pasturage, and of cutting turf, upon payment
of a very small sum into the funds of the burgh.
   Isle of May,-The Isle of May, which lies about six miles
south, is generally supposed to belong to Anstruther Wester; but

<FOOTNOTE>Drawn up by the Rev. George Milligan, Elie, from notes, left by the Rev.
Dr Carstairs, late Minister of the parish, and from valuable information communi-
cated to him by Matthew F. Conolly, Esq. town-clerk of Anstruther; Mr. Thomas
Williamson, tenants, Grange. Muir; and Mr. George Taylor, schoolmaster of Anstru-
ther Wester, in their respective departments.



