
                                  HAWICK.                              403

  In 1826, a market for cattle and horses, at the recommenda-
tion of the club, was established at Hawick on the May fair day,
which promises to be of very considerable utility to the neighbour-
hood.
  In 1826, the club appointed a committee to take into considera-
tion the existing duty of 20s. per cwt. on all grass seeds imported
into Great Britain; to draw up resolutions on the subject of pe-
titioning  for its repeal; and, besides publishing these resolutions in
the newspapers, to transmit a copy of them to the Highland SO
ciety of Scotland.  The subject was taken up by the Highland
Society, and a good deal of correspondence took place betwixt
that society and the club, on the subject of an application to Par-
liament for a repeal or reduction of the duty, but unfortunately a
memorial to the Board of Trade was unsuccessful.  In 1834, the
club solicited the attention of Lord Althorpe to this duty, but still
without the desired effect.
  In 1826, the club paid   L.8 towards defraying the expense of
a young man attending Mr Dick's Veterinary Lectures in Edhn-
burgh, on condition of his settling as a farrier in Hawick.
  Many very interesting questions have been discussed by the
club; but for the first three years after its establishment, the
opinions of the club were not recorded; since July 1779, the
minutes have been chiefly occupied by the insertion of the ques-
tions submitted to the club, and the answers agreed to.
  These, as appears from the foregoing extracts, are a few of the
public matters to which the attention of this important association
has been directed, and in almost ever instance with complete
success.  But the utility of the association has not been limited
to these.  Advantages, of equal if not of greater importance. though
not so easily embodied in the details of a report, have unquestion-
ably arisen from the frequent and familiar intercourse of the mem-
bers with one another, and we believe that the circumstance of a
number of intelligent men meeting regularly together,   for the pur-
pose of imparting the results of their experience and observation
in regard to matters with which professionally they are most con-
versant, has contributed mainly and more than any other cause
to those agricultural improvements, which are manifest in every
part of the district, and which, whilst  they reflect credit on the
parties from whom they originate, are found to bear, as well on
the health as on the increased comfort and well being of the po-
pulation at large.


