
206                     ROXBURGHSHIRE.

this fair belong to the Duke of Roxburghe.  Capehope fair, which
in former times was a market of considerable resort, has for a num-
ber of years ceased to be held.
   Inns, Alehouses, &c.--There are two inns or public-houses in
Hounam village, besides one on the Oxnam side of Pennymuir, on
the very boundaries of this parish.  One-half of the number in
Hounam would be quite sufficient for the parish.
  Fuel.--The nearest coal field to which there is access by a road is
that of Etal, in the county of Northumberland, a distance of twenty
miles from the centre of the parish.  The fuel generally used by the
poorer classes in the upper districts of the parish is peat, of which the
high grounds afford an almost interminable supply.  It is of tolerable
quality, and the expense consists solely in cutting, winning, and
leading home.  The average labour and carriage may probably cost
about 1s. 6d. per cart load, when stacked up for use; or about L. 2
per annum for each householder.  The price of a cart load of coals
is from 13s. to 14s. per ton of 20 cwt. including carriage.

                  MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.

  It is stated in the former Statistical Report, that no fewer than nine
houses, with cottagers in them, at Mainside, all of whom the writer
visited on his admission in the year 1775, were thrown down to
make way for a single farmhouse and its appendages; and that
"the lands were formerly parcelled out into four times at least
the present number of farms, and there was also much of these
farms in tillage.  So late as the year 1756, there were no fewer
than seven tenants, with large families, on the farm of Hounam-
Mains, now all rented by one tenant, who employs one shepherd.
There were also several small, but proud lairds in the parish,
whose lands are now lost in the large farms, and of whose man-
sions there are now no remains."  That report states the num-
ber of inhabited houses to have been 66, and the number of
corn-mills and kilns to have been 3; the number of houses at
present is 49, and there is no corn-mill or kiln now in existence.
A great part of the lands have changed owners; and the number of
landholders has increased since the publication of the last Statistical
Account, from 8 to 10.  The land rents have risen from L. 2720,
to nearly L. 5000, and were a few years ago between L. 6000 and
L. 7000 per annum.  A large extent of stone fences has been erect-
ed, and many of the farms have been better enclosed and subdivided
with hedges aqd other fences.  The management of the land is more
judicious, and the mode of cultivation greatly improved, as evinced



