
     Statistical Account

   Coal.-The colliery of Alloa having been long established*,
there are still many ancient customs in it.  The colliers could
not leave their work; of course some recompence+ was ne-
cessary from the master.  As the colliers in this work gene-
rally bind themselves for a certain term of years, little al-
teration has taken place in this old custom, notwithstanding
the new collier law, which passed in 1775++.  The colliers, in
all countries, are generally an unruly set of labourers; and
those of this work were like their neighbours.  About 30
years ago, they were persuaded to give some little education
to their children; and a few years after (when in search of a
new shoolmaster for them), the proprietor of the colliery was

<FOOTNOTE>

   *This parish has been long famous for the fine coal mines in it.  How
long they have been wrought is uncertain.  There are accounts of the expence
of working them in 1623.  The price was then 6s. 8d. per chalder.  The same
measure has been sold at a considerably lower price within there 35 years.
   +The allowance given to the old collier, when past labour, was two pecks of
meal per week, each weighing 8 lb. Dutch, or 8 lb. 11 oz. avoirdupoise; and
he had his free boule and garden, and likewise his firing, continued to him, the
same as when working.  Every widow had one peck of meal per week, a free
house, etc. etc.; and if the had any sons grown up, who were able to carry on
their father's work at the coal wall, they continued at it, for behoof of the fa-
mily, as they did in their father's lifetime, until they were married.
   ++There were some parts of the old law which were barbarous, and which
undoubtedly required to be abolished; but it is questioned, whether the total
repeal of it has made the collier happier, or if it has had the effect of inducing
common laboureres to commence colliers, or to train up their children to the bu-
siness, as was said to be the expectations of the promoters of it; nor is the price
of working coal reduced, it is well known to all coalmasters, that a collier can
never earn so much in any work, as in that in which he was brought up.  The
present law has unhappily encouraged vagrancy amongst the colliers; and,
whenever they begin to wander, they generally bid farewel to industry.  On
going to a new place, they constantly, on some pretence or other, get money,
And as the collier has broken all ties of relationship and habits, his head is con-
tinually on the rack to contrive some method to shift his place,in hopes of getting
more money from a new master, without working for it.


