
350                   ROSS AND CROMARTY.

turbot, skate, flounders, cod, haddock, mackerel, whiting, cuddies,
and herrings in their season. For the taking of salmon, there are
also, here, several stake and bag-nets, in which they are caught
sometimes in considerable quantities, and in the highest perfection.
These nets are erected on both sides of Fortrose Point, which is
immediately opposite to the garrison of Fort-George; between
which and the said Point is the Ferry of Ardersier, with a good
landing pier on this side for the passage-boat. This Point is also
the termination of the links of Fortrose, above a mile in length,
and as smooth as a carpet.
   Geology.-There have been no minerals or ores of any kind
discovered here.  The prevailing rock along the north side of the pa-
rish is the old sandstone formation of geologists, which extends also
to the whole ridge of the Mulbuie, where several quarries have been
opened and wrought for many years past; the material being found
of excellent quality for buildings of every description. The bold
and rocky cliffs, overhanging the sea for more than half the length
of the parish, are composed of gneiss, traversed by veins of white
quartz. In some parts, these cliffs rise almost perpendicularly to
a very considerable height, and they abound in caverns, which add
much to the wildness of the scenery;  while some of them have
frequently been occupied as temporary dwellings by people of the
gipsy race.

			II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
The town of, Rosemarkie, though not large, is of considerable an-
tiquity. It was erected into a royal burgh by Alexander, King of
Scotland,- probably Alexander II. About a mile to the west of it
stands the town of Chanonry, so called from its being the Chanonry
of Ross, where the bishop formerly had his residence, and which is
now the Presbytery seat. It is beautifully situated on an elevated
plain, commanding an extensive prospect, particularly of the Moray
Frith. It was united to the burgh of Rosemarkie by a charter granted
by King James II., anno 1444, under the common name of For-
tross, now softened into Fortrose; which charter was ratified by King
James VI., anno 1592; and confirmed in a still more ample form
by the same monarch in the year 1612. These charters bear
that it was to be "entitled to all the privileges, liberties, and im-
muitities, granted to, the town of Inverness." Fortrose is then
spoken of as a town , flourish ing in the arts and sciences, being at
that time the seat of divinity, law and physic in this corner of the
kingdom.  The Bishop of Ross was originally styled Episcopus


