
     of Kelso.

spectators, it, at the same time, recalls the mortifying re-
membrance of that rudeness and barbarity, with which neigh-
bouring kingdoms carried on hostilities against each other.
The venerable appearance of this ruin is marred, by the ad-
dition of an aile built in the last century, for the accommo-
dation of the family of Roxburgh, when part of the building
was used for the parish church.  This uncouth modern ad-
dition entirely shuts up one very large arch, and the half of
another, besides 7 of a smaller size above; but from the va-
lue which the Duke of Roxburgh puts upon it as a ruin;
and from his desire to preserve it in its pristine state, there is
much cause to hope, that we shall soon see this modern build-
ing levelled with the ground, and the genuine antient re-
mains secured from injury by an inclosure.  It has not, like
most of the Gothic buildings, any minuteness of ornament,
but has a tendency, by its plainness and magnitude, to in-
spire the mind with the grand and the sublime, rather than
the pleasing and beautiful.
   ROXBURGH CASTLE* It stands upon an eminence of con-

<FOOTNOTE>

circumstances render it probable, that this church was burnt
clown in some of the border wars.
At a small distance from this church, stood a convent of
mendicants of the order of St Francis, on the north bank
of the river Tiviot, a little above its confluence with the Tweed.
Within these few years, a fine arch of their church remained,
and other parts of the building, which are now almost wholly
effaced.  This monastery was consecrated by William Bishop of
Glasgow, in the year 1235.-In the parish of Maxwell, south
of the Tiviot, and nearly opposite to Roxburgh Castle, stood
Maison Dieu, an asylum for pilgrims, the diseased, and the indigent.
The site of this house is well known; and upon the very spot
where it stood there still remains a village, bearing the antient
name.  The guardian of this house, NICHOL DE CHAPELYN,
did homage to EDWARD I. of England anno 1296.

*The many struggles, which the two kingdoms had, for the


