
	32                     ROSS AND CROMARTY.

	character superior, perhaps, to that of any other parish which can
	be named.  During the last twenty years, not an individual
	connected with the parish has been suspected of a felonious
	action.  The people generally read the Bible and have family
	worship; and few of them seem altogether indifferent about the
	ordinances of religion.  The parish became noted, betwixt the
	years 1740 and 1750, for an effusion of the Holy Spirit along with
	the preaching of the Word, under the ministry of Mr John Balfour.
	A chosen generation then appeared, men of God and of prayer.
	There were a Donald Roy and an Andrev Roy, a John Noble
	and a Nicholas Vass, and others, whose names may be forgotten
	on earth, but whose record is on high.  Vital godliness prevailed,
	--the day and house of the Lord were revered,--the command-
	ments of God were obeyed, and the character of the people afford-
	ed a wonderful contrast to the common abominations that charac-
	terized the preceding generation.  The records of the kirk-ses-
	sion for the thirty years succeeding 1705, while they afford abun-
	dant evidence of the zeal and faithfulness of ministers and elders
	in checking vice of every description, are disgusting in the extreme,
	as exhibiting a frequency and a grossness of vice among the peo-
	ple, which the succeeding generation would shudder to contem-
	plate.  And yet, be it added, the favourable change was produced
	by the blessing of the Holy Spirit upon the Heaven-appointed
	means, which an authoritative ministry and eldership were inde-
	fatigable in employing.  Be it added, further, with shame and
	sorrow, that many of the present descendants of the " chosen ge-
	neration" already mentioned, are busily employed in endeavouring
	to subvert those institutions which were the means of bringing
	their fathers from darkness to light, and from the power of Satan
	into the kingdom of God.
				IV.--INDUSTRY.
	   Agriculture.--There are about 2500 acres in tillage; 1000
	which might be profitably cultivated, but now lying waste; 100
	acres in undivided common, and 1000 under fir wood.  The full-
	grown wood is sawed and sold in the neighbourhood, or shipped to
	Caithness.  The thinnings are sent to Newcastle as coal props.
	The woods, however, are but of secondary consideration.
	   Rent of Land.--The average rent of arable land is about
	L. 1, 15s. per acre.  At Castlecraig, an ox may be grazed during
        five months of the summer and harvest, for L. 1.  A milch cow,
	however, is charged double.  A full-grown ewe may be grazed for


