
	             PARISH OF CATHCART.

        PRESBYTERY OF GLASGOW, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.

              THE REV. JAMES SMITH, MINISTER.

           I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name, Boundaries, &c.-The original name of this parish ap-
pears to have been Keth or Karthkert, and Carcart is still the
vulgar pronunciation. The word is of Celtic origin, denoting the
Castle of the Cart, or fertilizing stream. The parish is of great
antiquity ; the kirk of Kerthkert, with its pertinents, having been
appropriated by Walter Lord High Steward of Scotland in 1160,
to the monastery of Paisley. The larger portion of the parish is
situated in Renfrewshire, but the extensive estates of Aikenhead
and Dripps are in the county of Lanark. The lands of the latter
esrate, which lie about a mile apart from the rest of the parish,
were annexed quoad sacra to the parish of Carmunnock in 1725,
by an amicable arrangement among the parties interested, to which
the Lords Commissioners for Plantation of Kirks gave their sanc-
tion. The reason of this disjunction was the greater proximity of
Dripps to the parish church of Carmunnock, and a consequent
regard to the convenience of its inhabitants in t enjoyment of
church privileges. In the map of Renfrewshire, published by
Ainslie in 1796, the lands of Polmadie, which touch the Clyde
at a point opposite t1he Flesher's Haugh in the Green of Glasgow,
are included in the parish of Cathcart. There is no doubt in the
writer's mind, from many circumstances, that they originally be-
longed to it and do so still, although now annexed quoad sacra to
the parish of Gorbals, and paying their teind to the College of
Glasgow. If this be the case, tbe parish of Cathcart, qdoad civi-
lia, extends in length, from north to south, about five miles, while
its breadth from east to west averages little more than a mile.  It
is bounded on the east by Rutherglen and Carmunnock: on the
north, by Gorbals and Govan; on the west, by Eastwood; and on
the south, by Mearns and Eaglesham.
   Topographical Appearances.-The undulating surface is beauti-
   RENFREW.                                    K k

