
182                    LINLITHGOWSHIRE.

previous heads. It is governed by a council, consisting of twenty-
seven members, including provost, four bailies, dean-of-guild, and
treasurer. There is no local police, the public peace being suffi-
ciently preserved, in ordinary circumstances, by the town-officers.
Formerly the council appear to have exercised an authority which
would now be deemed despotic. In their minutes, various acts,
for example, occur in relation to the observance of the Sabbath.
One of these is as late as the year 1711, which enforces church at
dance, shutting of the shops of brewsters and tapsters under a pe-
nalty, and forbids walking on that day in the yards and yard-heads un-
der penalty of a fine,-holding parents answerable for their children,
and masters for their servants and apprentices; and in the follow-
ing year, the council, for the preservation of the peace of the town,
order a guard of fifteen burgesses to keep watch and ward nightly,
from ten o'clock till five o'clock in the morning. If any should be
absent when regularly calledin his turn, his house to be poinded next
day far payment, of a fine of L. 12 Scots. At an earlier period, a
similar act, calling upon the burgesses to march, on some public oc-
casion, is enforced under pain of death. The town is amply supplied
with the finest waters, brought from springs in the high grounds to
the south of the town, and distributed throughout the various public
wells. One of these in particular deserves notice, the cross well, re-
built in 1816 by a one-handed mason, in exact imitation of a previ-
ous structure which had gone to decay. It is of a hexagonal figure,
adorned with a variety of sculptural and grotesque figures, said to
have been originally designed in ridicule of the irregular habits of
the regular Romish clergy. It has thirteen very beautiful jets d'eau,
and the whole is crowned by a lion rampant, supporting the royal
arms of Scotland. The town is also lighted with gas. The revenue
of the town amounts to about L. 700, arising chiefly from property,
the borough mills, and the town and bridge-customs. Alexander II.
had, bestowed the mills of Linlithgow, with all their pertinents, on
the priory of Manuel, of which the remains are still to be seen on
the opposite side of the river. These, in 1586, were granted to the
town by Lady Jane Livingston, prioress of that convent, on condi-
tion of their paying annually 20 merks Scotch. That grant was
renewed after the Reformation by James VI., and other privileges
conferred, by a charter of novodamus in 1592. The bridge-custom
was exacted in terms of ancient charters, giving the town right of
custom from Avon Bridge to the sea. A claim has been made on


