
				ESKDALEMUIR.                   401

when at Branxholm, being disgusted with the spirit of the Beatties,
he proposed selling the Eskdalemuir part of the estate to Scott of
Branxholm, (the ancestor of the family of Buccleuch,) without,
however, promising to put him in possession. This Scott of Branx-
holm readily assented to; and being warden of the middle marches
between Scotland and England, be raised his friends, went to Esk-
dalemuir, and expelled all the clan Beattieson, except Roland Beat-
tie of Watcarrick, to whom Lord Maxwell, out of gratitude for his
preservation, had reserved a perpetual tenant-right to his posses-
sion, on condition of his paying a certain sum annually. Scott of
Branxholm having thus cleared the parish of the Beatties, gave, as
was the custom of the times, feu-rights to his relations and depen-
dents, to the greater part of it. I have been favoured with a copy of
the division which is said to have been made at the time alluded to,
and shall subjoin it, without, however, vouching for its accuracy.
Scott of Harden got Over Cassock; Scott of Davington, Upper
and Nether Davington, Fingland, and Pentland, Upper and Nether
Dumfedling, Nether Cassock, Wester Polclive, Wetwood Rigg,
and Burncleugh; Scott of Johnston got Johnston, and Johnston
Dinnings, Raeburnfoot, Craighaugh, and Saughhill; Scott of
Raeburn, Moodlaw, Raeburnhead, Harewoodhead, Yetbyre and
Yards; Scott of Rennelburn, Rennelburn, Aberlosh, Midraeburn,
Clerkbill, Greystonelee, Coatt, and Coatthope; Scott of Bailie-
lee, Moodlawknow, Grassyards, Kimmingsyke, Langshawburn,
and Crurie; and Scott of Branxholm reserved to himself the up-
per part of Thickside, Easter Polclive, Garwald Holm, Castle-
hill, and all Black Esk. It would be a curious inquiry, how far the
title-deeds of these several estates give confirmation of, or tend to
overthrow, the above tradition.
	Land-owners.--These at present are ten in number, the Duke
nf Buccleuch by far the largest,--his farms making two-thirds of
the parish.
	Parochial Registers.--The parochial registers reach back to,
1703, when Eskdalemuir, formerly a part of the parish of Wester-
kirk, was erected into a separate parish. They are not volumi-
nous; and have been regularly kept since that time.
	Antiquities.--In my former Account, I mentioned Castle O'er
or Overbie, as a supposed Roman camp, communicating with
Middlebie and Netherbie. I am now convinced it is of Saxou
origin, and that the true Roman camp of Overbie is on the farm


