
502 		      EDINBURGHSHIRE.

clining on a pedestal. It has long been unroofed, but it is worth
of careful preservation, as a venerable relic of the olden time.
   In November 1888, when some labourers were digging for sand
in a park a few yards to the west of New farm, and about the
same distance southward from the Musselburgh road, they came up-
on a n umber of graves at not more than two feet below the surface
of the ground. They were formed of rough stones loosely placed
together in the shape of a coffin, and each contained the remains of
a human body. There were many fragments of bones and skulls,
that generally crumbled to dust on exposure to the air,-but the
teeth were remarkably sound and entire. All the coffins were of
the ordinary size for full grown persons, and had the feet turned
to the east. Upwards of 50 were discovered; and as the digging
was not continued farther, there can be little doubt that many
more remain. The ground is right in the direction of the flight
towards Dalkeith at the Battle of Pinkie in 1547.*
   An elegant church of the early English Gothic style was built
in 1840, by his Grace the Duke of Buccleuch, on a commanding
site at the head of the town. It is in the form of a cross. The ex-
treme length from east to west is 90 feet; the width across the
body of the church is 50 feet; the width of the transepts is 75
feet; the height from the floor to the ceiling is 35 feet; and the
height of the steeple and spire to the top of the vane, is 167 feet.
The stone is from Fife. It is seated for 950 persons; it was in-
tended for the accommodation of members of the Established
Church; but the unsettled state of the Church for some years,
and recently the secession that has taken place in the Establish-
ment, both among ministers and members, has rendered an addi-
tional place of worship in this parish, connected with the Establish-
ment, unnecessary,-the dissentient members having erected for
themselves a humbler edifice at no great distance from the spot.
   A new Episcopal chapel, of Gothic architecture, and highly or-
namental, is at present building within the grounds of the Duke
of Buccleuch, near the gate at Dalkeith. It consists of a chapel
and chancel. The chapel is 70 feet by 30; the chancel is 25
feet by 17; So that, including the screen, the extreme length is
105 feet. The stone is from Cowden quarry. It is to be seated
for 250 persons.

<FOOTNOTE>A similar discovery was made at Edgebuckling Brae, near Pinkie, when the
new line of the post road was forming fiom the east end of Musselburgh Links to
Tranent.


