
<APPENDIX>

lxxiv

from agriculture, and all its natural productions, or manufactures, or com-
merce, interior and exterior, or mercantile navigation.  15. The revenues
of the state, and the manner of collecting and employing them.  16. The
state of the arts and sciences, of schools, universities, &c.  17. Its military
foces, and mode of management.  18. Its marine.  19. Its internal interests.
And, lastly, Its external interests, or the maxims it ought to observe, with
regard to its neighbours, allies, &c.
   Such is the wide field, into which the science of Statistics has been extend-
ed in Germany, and which the Germans have been cultivating for about
50 years, with all that painful research which belongs to the character of
that respectable nation.  It is unfortunate that German literature is so little
cultivated in England; hence the mass of Statistical information, collected
in that part of the Continent, would probably have been little known here,
had it not been for the Political Survey of the present State of Europe,
written by Professor Zimmerman*.  In that ingenious and interesting work,
we have an abstract of all the information which the Germans had accumu-
lated; from which, however, it does not appear, that any work has known
in that part of the world, which can at all rival, for extent of useful infor-
mation, the Statistical Account of Scotland.

   5. Denmark.-That respectable statesman, the late Count Bernstorff, sent
me a work in the German language, printed anno 1795, but never publish-
ed, which seemed to contain a great deal of Statistical information.  There
were tables in it of the finances of Denmark, of its debt and expenditure, of
the commerce of the kingdom, and statements of its army, navy, &c.
Some of the accounts were for the year 1778, but no material alteration
had since taken place; and on the whole, it was the best account that could
be obtained of the political state of that kingdom.  I wished much to have
had it translated into the English language, and recommended it for that
purpose to the attention of the British Government, as a knowledge of the
state of one nation, is extremely material to another; but the idea has not
hitherto been carried into execution.

   6. England.-It appears from Gough's British Topography, that inqui-
ries into antiquities, and natural history, have long occupied the attention
of the English.
   Some valuable county histories have been published; but of the 40
countries into which England is divided, nine have found no antiquary
hardy enough to attempt their general illustration; and the collections

<FOOTNOTE>

*Printed by C. Dilly, in London, anno 1787, in one volume, 8vo.


