
130                         STIRLINGSHIRE.


  Distilleries.-There are two distilleries in the parish; one,
is in the close vicinity of Denny, under the firm of Macpher-
son and Macnaughton. It consumes yearly 3500 quarters of
malt made from barley, which produces 53,500 gallons of proof
spirits. Two stills are used : contents of the wash still, 500
gallons; of the low-wines still, 400 gallons. Bear or big makes
the finest spirits: but this is not so profitable to the distiller.
The best season for distilling is in spring; and for fermenta-
tion, autumn. This distillery affords a ready market for the
barley of the farmers in the vicinity, and of others more dis-
tant. Such is the confidence of the farmers in the Company,
that it is a common practice to forward the grain at once to
the distillery, and, if received there, to leave the settlement of the
price to the Company, without previous bargain. The other dis-
tillery is at Bankier, in the southern division of the parish, on the
Bonny, and is much the same in respect of consumption of barley,
and of the quantity and kind of spirits produced.
   Brick-Work, &c.--A brick and tile-work has recently been set
agoing in this district of the parish, which will be a great accom-
modation to the parish and neighbourhood.
   About a mile and a half east, on the lands of Knowhead, a spade-
manufactory, famed for the excellence of the article manufactur-
ed, bas been erected. An adjoining morass furnishes water-
power for working the ponderous hammer by which the materials
for spades are consolidated, and afterwards beaten into plates.
The wooden handles for the spades are likewise prepared at the
mill; and the goods sent to the market, fit for immediate use.
   It remains only to notice, that there are two extensive ca-
lico-printing establishments in the immediate vicinity of the
town of Denny, although locally in the parish of Dunipace, of
whose labourers three-fourths and upwards have their habitations
and families in the town of Denny. The labourers, old and young,
employed at these printfields, amount, on an average, to 1000,
three-fourths of whose monthly wages amount, on an average, to
L.1200. On the whole, then, it appears, that there are about
1100 individuals of the parochial population who are workers at
manufactories, the average produce of whose monthly wages is
L.1,13s. to each individual, of whom some receive L.8 per month,
and others 8s. per month.
  The whole machinery of the mills enumerated, and of all the
manufactories west from the junction of Bonny with Carron, (which


