
				BEITH.                         581

estates were divided by a stream called Muirburn, which falls into
the loch of Lochwinnoch to the eastward of Kilbirnie loch. Crosses
were at an early period used in marking the boundaries of lord-
ships and parishes, or lands, given to monasteries. These were
sometimes framed of wood, but were more commonly of stone, as
being more durable, and less easy of being removed. Crosses for
landmarks are mentioned as early as 528, and afterwards became
common. Kings and lords used them as tokens of dominion, and
they were special landmarks of the templars and hospitalers.
The form of the cross was used that no man for conscience sake
should remove them. As already mentioned, the barony of Beith
was the property of the monastery of Kilwinning, and was the
largest and most valuable of their possessions; and as the north-
ern mark was not only the boundary of their property, but that of
the parish and county, the cross must have been a serviceable
landmark. Of its existence, there is now no trace, nor is its his-
tory or fate remembered in the floating annals of tradition.
	In the barony of Giffen we have antiquities of another kind.
One of the most powerful of the English families which settled
in Scotland during the reign of David I., was that of De Moreville.
The first of them was Hugh, to whom the King made a grant of
the whole lands of Cunninghame, and created him constable of
Scotland, which office remained with his descendants for some ger-
nerations. In the reign of William the Lion, the family of the
De Morevilles gave the lands or lordship of Giffeyn to Walter De
Mulcaster. This lordship comprehended the whole of that part
of the parish which lies to the south and westward of the stream
called the Powgree, and forms fully one-half in extent and value
of the' present parish. The rest of the parish consists of the ba-
rony of Beith, which, as before-mentioned, was given by the De
Morevilles to the monastery of Kilwinning. Giffen was given by
Walter De Mulcaster to Alexander De Nenham as his subvassal.
He granted to the monastery of Dryburgh a half; caracute or 50
acres of land in the lordship of Giffen, at which a chapel to St
Bridget had previously been founded by the monastery of Kilwini-
ning, the ruins of which still exist, situated on a hill which had
been used as a, burying-ground, with an uncommoly fine spring-
Well, calle St Bridgets Well, at the bottom. The chapel must
have fallen to ruins about ther Reformation. This grant was part
of the lands of Trearme, and was so minutely described, by its na-
tural boundaries, that the marches can still be traced. The more


