
				GORDON.                             37

Edinburgh crosses the parish at the broadest part; and another
road from Earlston to Greenlaw traverses its whole length.  Be-
sides these, there are a good many parish roads, leading from the
main ones to the several farm-houses; and these are kept in to-
lerably good order.
   Ecclesiastical State- The church stands nearly in the centre of
the parish, and is very conveniently placed for the greater part of
the population.  It was built in 1763, but has since undergone seve-
ral repairs.  At present it is in rather an indifferent state, particularly
as regards the seats. *  It is capable of containing about 400 sitters.
There are a few free seats, which may accommodate about 50,-
The manse was built in 1803.-The grebe consists of 12 acres of
arable land, and might be let at a rent of from L.25 to L.30 per
annum.-The stipend is payable partly in money and partly in
grain.  The money stipend amounts to L. 90 per annum.  The
grain stipend, which is paid by the fiars of the county once a-year,
consists of meal, 16 bolls, 2 firlots, 1 peck, 3 lippies; barley, 16
bolls, 2 firlots, I peck, 3 lippies; oats, 28 bolls, 3 firlots; bear, 25
bolls.
   There are no Dissenting, Seceding, Episcopalian, or Roman Ca-
tholic chapels in the parish.  The number of families attending
the Established church may amount to about 173.  Persons of all
ages attending it may be calculated at about 350 or 400.  The
number of Dissenters and Seceders cannot much exceed 50.  There
are neither Episcopalians nor Roman Catholics.  Divine service at
the Established church is tolerably well attended.
   There are no societies for religious purposes, but the average
amount of church collections yearly for religious and charitable ob-
jects may be about L. 17.
   Education.-The parochial school is the only one in the parish.
Besides the ordinary branches, practical mathematics, geography,
and Latin, are taught.  The salary is the maximum, and the school-
master has more than the legal accommodation.  His fees amount
annually to about L. 20.  There are few, if any, of the young be,
twixt six and fifteen who can neither read nor write, and none what-
ever upwards of fifteen.  All classes are alive to the advantages
of a good education; and parents in the humblest condition of
life exert themselves to the utmost to secure for their children as
much, education as possible.
   Library.-A parish library was established upwards of ten years

<FOOTNOTE>A contract has been made to renew the seating of the church.


