
174                      ABERDEENSHIRE.

   Inns.-There are at present two inns or alehouses, one of which
would suffice.  One of them has been lately erected, and is an
excellent and substantial building, with good accommodation-
possessing many attractions for such as prefer rural pleasures to
the gaieties of a town during the summer and autumnal months.
   Fuel.-The fuel hitherto most commonly used was peat and
turf, from a moss in the parish, but that moss being now in a great
measure exhausted, coals, brought from Aberdeen, beam to be
generally used,

		  MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   Northern Abbey of Lindores.-When the Abbacy of Lindores
was suppressed at the Reformation, it was erected into a temporal
lordship, in favour of Leslie, Lord Lindores, who acquired from
the Crown an heritable right to collect the feu-duties formerly
paid by the vassals of that Abbacy, and to account for the same
to the Crown.  That part of the Abbacy, rights which lay north
of the Tay was afterwards acquired from the Lindores family
by the family of Craigievar, who, as heritable collectors, have ever
since uplifted these feu-duties, accounted and paid them to the
Exchequer, and received for that trouble an annual allowance of
L.5 Sterling.  The sum thus paid to the Exchequer is L.73,
3s. 1 4/12d.
   Rents.-The highest rent paid for a farm in this parish at pre-
sent is L.400 per annum,-the lowest Is. Sterling.
   Cropping.-Some of the very deep haugh land has been worked,
for some time past, on a four years' shift, viz. oats, turnip, bear,
hay; but a five years shift (including one year of hay and another
of pasture grass,) is by most farmers deemed preferable.  On
the infield or medium laids, a six or seven years shift is gene-
rally adopted, and on the outfield or inforior soils, a shift of not less
than seven years,-three or more of which they are in grass.
   Rearing.-About the year 1810, William Anderson, a farmer
in Hatton of Fintray, began to cut down his crop with a scythe in-
stead of a sickle.  But this mode of reaping, which is now uni-
versally practised in Aberdeenshire, did not become general till
two or three years after.
   The process of reaping is more expeditiously carried on by four
scythes than by an other number, viz. four cutters, four gather-
ers, four binders, two stookers, and one raker, the binders mak-
ing the bandit.  These fifteen persons may be supposed to finish
about six acres per day.
   January 1840.


