
                         AUCHTERLESS.                      291

and that of the neighbourhood.  Upon the whole, few parishes in
the country are at the present moment in a higher state of culti-
vation.
   Rate Of Waqes.-The rate of labour has lately fallen much.
Labourers generally get 1s. a-day in summer, and 8d. in winter,
with victuals.  The wages of masons and carpenters from 2s. to
2s. 6d. in summer, and about 1s. 6d. in winter.  Labour, on ac-
count of the pressure of the times, is sometimes below the rates
mentioned above, and few labourers can get at all times full em-
ployment.

                  V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   There is no market-town in the parish.  Turriff, which is six
miles distant from the church, and is also the post-town, is the
nearest.  The turnpike-road leading from Aberdeen to Banff
runs along the eastern extremity of the parish for nearly three
miles.  Two stage-coaches pass every lawful day.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is nearly three miles
from the north-east extremity, and about five from the south-west,
and is conveniently situated for a large proportion of the inhabi-
tants.  It was built in 1780, and repaired in 1832.  The church
contains legal accommodation for 650.  An aisle was added in
1835,  capable of containing 180.  There are no free sittings.
The manse was built in 1769, and was put in complete repair in
1814.  The glebe measures about six acres, and at an average
may be valued at L.2 per acre.  The present stipend is 14 chal-
ders, half meal, half barley.  There is an allowance of L.8, 6s. 8d.
for communion elements, and of L.1, 13s. 4d. for grass money.
There is no chapel of ease, or other place of worship of any de-
scription in the parish.  Most of the families are regular in their
attendance at the parish church.  About twelve families frequent
the Scotch Episcopalian chapels in the neighbouring parishes;
and one family attends an Independent meeting in Culsalmond.
The number of communicants is generally about 830.  The ave-
rage amount of collections for charitable purposes is nearly L.45.
   Education.-There is one parish school, with fhve unendow-
ed schools.  In the parish school the usual branches are taught,
such as Greek, Latin, mathematics, arithmetic, English reading,
grammar, geography, and writing, &c.  In the other schools En-
lish reading, writing, and arithmetic are taught.  In one of the
unendowed schools Latin is taught, and in two others sewing.
The parish schoolmaster has the maximum salary, and the legal


