
240                    BERWICKSHIRE.

plough, harrows, and cart, exclusively of wheels and axletree.
Other work, as that connected with gates or machinery, is charg-
ed at 5d. per 1b. The shoe of a riding-horse costs 8d.
   Husbandry.-The arable farms are managed in five divisions,
(or breaks, as they are called,) viz. 1. oats; 2. turnips or fallow,
according to the nature of the soil; 3. barley or wheat.; 4 and 5.
grass for two years. This system is prescribed by all the leases
on the Langton estate. The turnips are generally eaten on the
ground by sheep confined by nets or hurdles. In sowing grain
some of the farmers use machines.-a practice which seems rapidly
extending.
   The kinds of grain commonly sown are wheat, barley, oats,
beans, and pease, of which the average produce is towards six bolls
per English acre; potatoes yield from 30 to 40 bolls; hay, from
150 to 250 stones, or a little more; turnips, when led off the land,
sell at from L. 6 to L. 9; when eaten on the ground, from L. 3,
10s. to L. 5 per acre.
   The quantity of grain of all kinds amounts to about 3500 bolls.
Two hundred and fifty acres of turnips, and about 150 of hay, are
usually grown.
   The rental of the parish is a little above L. 4000.
                   V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Village.-Gavinton is the only village in the parish, and Dunse,
which is two miles distant, is both our market and post-town.
   Ecclesiastical-State, &c.-The present church was erected in
1798 at the west end of the village of Gavinton. Till that time
the old church, which stood near Langton-House, had continued
to be used. It is impossible to ascertain when the latter was built.
It must, however, have been at a very remote period, for no notice
of its erection occurs in the books of the presbytery, and there
are tombstones in the churchyard bearing the date of 1620. It
seems to have required no repairs at the parochial visitation called
in 1684 by order of the Bishop of Edinburgh, while Mr Patrick
Walker was minister. At the next visitation in 1700, the pres-
bytery are said to have found "several things necessary to com-
pleat y same;" and the moderator, by their appointment, "re-
commended y persons concerned to see to y repair y of." At
a third visitation in 1721, they discovered that "the roof was in
ill condition," and in 1727 it fell to the ground. It then under-
went a thorough repair, and stood till the present church was
erected.
   At the visitation in 1684, the manse and offices were condemn-


