
10                        FIFESHIRE.

pearance of the highest cultivation. As a great many of the farms
are in the natural possession of the proprietors, and either ma-
naged by themselves or by skilful and experienced overseers, it
may be said, that nothing remains to be done in the way of im-
provement. There are no wastes to be reclaimed, no commons to
be divided, and no marshes to be drained.
   Rental, &c.-The total valued rent of the parish is L. 7237, 15s.
7d. Scots. Of this, L. 1912 Scots is assumed by the burgh as the
value of the burgh lands, and other property in the town; and in
this they allow themselves to be liable for repairs of church and
manse. This sum, however, holds no place in the cess books of
the county. The real rental, as taken in 1829 for a process of
augmentation before the Teind Court, was L. 9977, 11s. 9d. Ster-
ling. This rental was subsequently examined and generally ac-
quiesced in by all concerned, as a fair rule for laying on the cho-
lera assessment in 1832. This, therefore, may be taken as the
actual rental of the whole parish; and if the number of acres is
taken to be 5545, imperial measure, we have the average rental
per acre to be L.1,15s.11 3/4d. This includes what is under wood.
Making a deduction for what is under wood and inramble, perhaps
L. 2, 10s. per acre for what is under cultivation is as near an ap-
proximation to the truth as any that can be found. According to
its quality, or its distance from the town, the land varies from L. 5
to L.1, 1Os. Some small spots have let within these seven years
as high as L. 7.
   The average rent of grazing during the year, may be set down
at L. 6, 6s. per ox, and L.1, 5s. per ewe or full-grown sheep.
The rate of a mason's labour is 2s. 6d. and that of a carpenter's
2s. 3d. a day.
    Live-Stock.--The common breeds of oxen are the ancient Fife
breeds, which have gained the prizes at all the great cattle-shows
in Scotland, and so excel other breeds, that the leghland Socie-
ty have doubts about allowing them to enter for competition. Some
specimens of the Teeswater breed have been introduced, and do
very well ; but there seems to be a partiality for the old stock rather
than for the new. And this arises from the impression that the for-
mer are more hardy, equally profitable for feeding for the butcher,
and more useful for all the purposes of the dairy. As sheep are
little attended to except by those who feed their own mutton, no-
thing can-be said of this kind of stock.
  Husbandry--The mode of husbandry in the parish is much


