
142                     BERWICKSHIRE.

from potatoes, and to attempt the manufacture of aqua from them,
which they found to answer well. Besides using their own, they
bought all that were in their neighbourhood, and continued work-
ing from them for two months, during which time they consumed
upwards of 6000 cwt. By the present distillery law distillers can work
from potatoes at pleasure, but they must continue one month, or
rather they cannot work from any other thing till the expiry of the
month."
   Tannery.-There was lately attempted in the village of Ayton,
and with sufficient prospect of success, a small tannery. It be-
longs to, and is conducted by, a respectable shoemaker, who
commenced it at first for the supply of his own professional de-
mands, and now he is able to supply the trade to a considerable
extent. He manufactures annually about L. 200 worth of as good
leather as any that is made, and bids fair to form as good an es-
tablishment as any in the country.
   There has been occasionally a manufacture of kelp on the shore
at Burnmouth; but it is not very productive, else it would be more
regularly prosecuted.
   None of the manufactories of this parish have been complained
of, as injurious to the health or morals of the people employed,
and there is now less cause of such complaints, owing to the num-
ber of hands being reduced.
                  V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Village.-A fair has long been held twice a year in the vil-
lage of Ayton. But since regular merchants and shopkeepers
have established themselves in every town and village through-
out the country, these fairs have often dwindled into mere erec-
tions of a few hucksters' stalls. Where this is the case, they
yield little or no advantage to any one, are not frequented for pur-
poses of traffic, and ought to be discontinued, especially as they
not unfrequently lead to unnecessary or excessive drinking, and to
unprofitable and hurtful associations among the youth of both sexes.
There are no prevailing trades or handicrafts here, except such as
are necessary in all agricultural districts. Blacksmiths are in greater
demand than formerly, owing to farming implements being now
made chiefly of iron. Of late years there has been a greater
number than usual of wrights and masons, from the following
cause: Since the great London road which passes through this
parish was altered, the proprietor of Ayton estate has wisely
availed himself of the circumstance, to grant feus for building on
the new line of road. This arrangement has put it in his power to


