
                         PARISH OF INCHINNAN.

            PRESBYTERY OF PAISLEY, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.

                THE REV. LAURENCE LOCKHART, MINISTER.

                  I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-The name has been variously written, as Inchenan,
Inchanan, Inchynan, Inchechynane, &c. &c., but is now generally
spelt Inchinnan. The first syllable is obviously composed of the
Celtic word * signifying an island or a peninsula, while the ad-
junct, according to one conjecture, is the plural of a word + derived
from the same source, and signifying a river. Another conjecture
is, that the adjunct is the name of Saint-Inan, ++ to whom the church
is supposed to have been dedicated. In Bagimont's roll for Inch-
innan, there is the substitution of Killinan, and which, according to
the etymology that may be preferred, will mean either "the Church
upon the Rivers," or "the Church of Saint Inan." Chalmers affirms
that this parish acquired the name of Inchinnan, in consequence of
the proximity of a long narrow island in the river White Cart, where
it joins the Gryfe, opposite to the church. S  In as much, however, as
the parish is bounded by rivers on three sides, its peninsular cha-
racter may, with more probability, have given rise to the appella-
tion. It may also be stated, that, according to a tradition, which is

<FOOTNOTE>Yuys (Welsh), innis (Gaelic), an island, also a peninsula.
    Ainhainan (Gaelic) rivers, sounds oinon,
    We are told that St Inan was a confessor at Irvine in the ninth century; that he
wrote several theological works, whose title's are given; and that, after accomplishing
the pilgrimages of Rome and Jerusalem, he closed his life at Irvine, where multitudes
were wont to assemble to witness the miracles supposed to be performed at his tomb.
His festival was celebrated on the 18th of Au ust.-Dempsteri Hist.  Eccl. Gent.
Scot., &c. printed for the Banatyne Club. Edin. 1829,-also, Keith, 233. Editioa Of
1755.
   It may be added, that St Inan was tutelar saint of Beith.  On a hill in that parish
a seat and a well still bear his name, and a fair in held annually, not, however, on the
18th but on the 30th of August, which is called Tannanaday, by corruption for St
Inan's day.
   Here Chalmers is undoubtedly in error.	The only island in the White
Cart is in the parish of Renfrew, and of modern and artificial origin, being mere-
ly a section of land detached from the eastern bank of the river, by means of a
canal which was cut, in the memory of persons yet alive, for the purpose of removing
the obstructions created by Inchinnan Bridge, to navigation between the river Clyde
and the town of Paisley.  There is an island in the Gryfe which might once corre-
spond with the description of Chalmers; but, always insignificant, it has been gradual-
ly encroached upon by the water, and there is no longer any trace of it opposite to the
church.


