
302                    HADDINGTONSHIRE.

By about 140 children; three schools in the village of Tranent,
unendowed; one in Elphingstone; and one in Cockenzie, chiefly
supported by private subscription.
   The ordinary branches, English, writing, and geography, are
taught in all the schools; and in the parochial school such pupils
as desire it are also instructed in French, Latin, land-measuring
and architectural drawing. The salary of the parochial school-
master is the maxitrum, L. 34, 6s. 7d., and his school fees gene-
rally amount to about L. 80 per annum. The parish schoolmaster
is furnished with a good house and garden.
   Library.-There is a subscription library in Tranent.
   Charitable and other Institutions.-The only hospital in the
parish is that endowed by the late George Stiell, smith and builder
in Edinburgh, a native of Tranent, who left property yielding
about L. 900 per annum, for the education of a few boys and girls as
inmates, and a free day school, in which are educated about 140
children. The Lord Justice-Clerk, the Sheriff of the county, and
the minister of the parish, are governors and directors ex officiis;
and David Anderson, Esq. of St Germains, and John Gray, Esq.
solicitor-at-law, Edinburgh, trustees for life.
   This institution has been productive of much benefit to the pa-
rishb, as the directors have very wisely devoted their chief atten-
tion to the free school, their funds not being adequate to the re-
ception of many inmates. The children, in addition to an excel-
lent education at the school, are daily provided with bread and milk,
to prevent the necessity of their return home between school hours,
or being compelled to bring unequal shares of provision for their
support during the day.
   A handsome building was erected for this institution in 1821,
from a plan by Mr Burn, at the cost of about L. 3000: it is situated
a little to the south of the Meadow mill, in a very central position.
   Friendly Societies.-There are several Friendly Societies coll-
nected with the working population of Tranent and the fishermen
of Cockenzie; of these the principal is the Carters' Friendly So-
ciety of Tranent, which is in possession of considerable funds, and
has been in existence since 1795; but of late years, many of these
useful in situations have been broken up, in consequence of their re-
sources failing, they having been founded on erroneous calculations-
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of persons
receiving parochial aid is from 100 to 110, and the average sum
allotted to each per week from 1s. to 1s. 6d; but the mainte-


