
                            PAISLEY.                           269

siness to a very great extent: " These" (minimum tables for weav-
ing) " I think are prejudicial to the introduction of any thing new.
If a manufacturer has projected something which is entirely diffe-
rent from common, the case is immediately taken up by the Wea-
vers' Association, and a price fixed on before the maker can know
whether it is to succeed or not.  A very respectable manufacturer
told me, that last year he thought of trying something which he
considered entirely new; but rather than encounter the vexation
and turmoil of the Weavers' Association, he abandoned his pro-
ject."
   The social and friendly habits of the weavers of Paisley have,
from a spirit honourable to all who have cherished it, proved ini-
mical to the claims of individuals to the honour of exclusive in-
vention.  Unlike the operatives of some other places, the weavers
of this town have always displayed a warm and kind-hearted spirit
of reciprocal interchange.  When an ingenious improvement sug-
gests itself to any one, his first idea seems to be, not how he may
board it up, so as to make the best of it exclusively for himself,
but rather how he may render it as useful as possible to the ge-
neral interest.  And hence, it becomes the subject of immediate
conversation in the shop, and is very naturally laid hold of as the
common boon of all.  While this social disposition has been
unfavourable to individual interests and honours, it has not been
on the whole adverse to the general progress of manufacturing
skill.  The suggestions of one have led to the suggestions of others.
One mind has sharpened another; and ideas which may have float-
ed in an undefined form before the fancy of one man, have, by
mental collision, been moulded into the compact and tangible shape
of a substantial and well-accredited improvement.  Thus have the
trade and manufactures of Paisley been mightily benefited by the
application of different minds to a common object, while it might
so happen, that no one individual could exclusively lay claim to
the reputation of discovery.
   The system of the division of labour may be favourable to the
prosperity and wealth of nations; but it, is certainly not very fa-
vourable to the developement of original genius.  When a Pais-
ley weaver was the " vel Caesar aut nullus," of his favourite web,
he stood a much fairer chance of having his inventive genius called
into play, than in these " degenerate days," when thirteen, persons
interpose their services betwixt the cotton as it comes from the spin-
ning-jennies, or the silk as it leaves the throwsters mill, and the


