
                                         ALVES.                    105

      Parochial Registers- The parochial register of the kirk-session
   is preserved from the year 1649, down to the present time. The
   manuscript has been somewhat injured by damp and smoke. But
   the greater part can be read. The registers of marriages and bap-
   tisms is also preserved. In the session records, are found frequent
   intimations of days set apart for prayer, humiliation or thanksgiv-
   ing.*
      Antiquities-The old military road can still be traced about a
   quarter of a mile south of the present turnpike. Not many years
   ago, there was, near the old road, a very large heap of stones, (cal-
   led Moray's Cairn,) supposed to be commemorative of a battle.
   Not far from the same place were dug up some Loebaber and
   Danish axes. For many years, a superstitious fear prevented the
   neighbours from removing any of the stones from the heap; but
   at length, the workmen employed in making the new turnpike al-
   lowed present convenience to overcome all fears; and the stones of
   the cairn were thereafter employed in metalling the road. In the
   churchyard, was dug up several years since, a large stone coffin,
   such as might be supposed to have belonged to some personage of
   note. It was found in the ground which had formed the area of
   the old church.
     Ecclesiastical History.-It appears, from Shaw's History of Moray
   that the first Protestant minister in this parish was Mr Patrick Bal-
   four, in the year 1567; from which time down to 1646, there had
   been appointed five ministers,-tbe last of whom, George Hannay,
   was deposed in 1646 for opposing the Covenant. In 1649, the
   kirk-session Records commence with the ministry of Mr William
   Campbell. The first pages of the Record are filled with the Solemn
   League and Covenant, written out very carefully, and subscribed.
   by the minister and forty-two heritors and parishioners; to which
   signatures, are added in the handwriting of the clerk the names
   of above two hundred parishioners, who most likely'were not able
   to write their own names.  From that time to the present, there
   have been twelve ministers ordained.  One of them, named Be-
   roald Innes, was an Episcopal minister. He was ordained by the

   <FOOTNOTE>There is in the minute of kirk-session, dated June 22, 1746, the following notice:
   "The minister made intimation from the pulpit, that the General Assembly Of the
   Church of Scotland had appointed Thursday next the 26th, to be observed as a day
   of thanksgiving, on account of our deliverance from and suppression of the late re-
   bellion." Connected with the same period of Scottish history, there is a tradition
   among the older inhabitants, that the Duke of Cumberland on his way to Culloden
   rested one night at the old manse of the parish of Alves, of which Mr George Gor-
   don was then parish minister, and that part of the Duke's army remained for some
   time quartered on the inhabitants.


