
     Statistical Account

potatoes or yams are suffered to remain in the ground until
their seeds are fully ripe, they exhaust it exceedingly; and
hence, even on this account, a crop of potatoes, thus mana-
ged, is a very bad preparation for wheat.  They should be
taken up earlier, or they should be followed by some other
species of grain.  Yams and potatoes are by no means
meliorating crops*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*If possible, yams should be taken up in dry weather, free of earth, and be-
fore frost.  The floor of the house, in which they are meant to be stowed,
should be laid with straw, and all the sides next to the walls, and the whole
well covered; and if carefully managed in this manner, they will keep well
till midsummer or longer, and still be firm and juicy; this is much better
than any method whatever of preserving them out of doors.
   Horses are very found of them; but one half peck is quite enough to give
at a time in the beginning, and never more than one peck should be given
in the day; with these and straw alone, horses may be very well kept
through the winter, if not very hard worked; and if it should be judged
necessary to give them any corn, it should be bruised, or given in meal, and
very little at a time; for as the yams generally keep the belly open, if corn
be given at the same time, it will be found to pass perfectly whole and un-
digested.  Cattle may be indulged with more, if agreeable to them, as the ob-
ject with them is different; but with them, also, they should be given in
small quantities at first, and then to be regulated by the effect, as they are
very apt to scour and not to feed, if given in so large quantities, especially
at first.
   The yam does not boil as the common potatoes, but they soften a little;
and when boiled with chass or bran, they make a most excellent feed for
milch-cows in the winter, and if attended to, they will give butter equal,
or not much inferior, to what they give when fed on clover.  They may be
also given raw to cows with advantage, which some experienced farmers
prefer to boiling.
   If horses are to be fed with yams.  1st, It is of the utmost consequence
to clean them most perfectly, as any sand or earthy matter adhering to
them may be of the most dangerous consequences, from the particular
structure of the horse's bowels.  2nd, In winter particularly, (but it is at
all times a good practice), the yams should be washed this day, which
are to be used the day following.  Immediately after washing, they should
either be carried into the stable in wheel-barrows, or troughs, with holes in
the bottom, to draw off the moisture; or thrown into an empty stall for


