
630                       LANARKSHIRE.

sequence of the want of capital amongst the tenantry, and the ab-
sence of adequate encouragement on the part of the landlords, it
is to be feared that the heather-bell will bloom perennially in the
parish.  There are about five or six acres of undivided common.
There are at least 500 acres under wood.  Formerly the Scotch
fir was planted to the exclusion of all other trees, but now spruce
and larch are preferred, both of which thrive remarkably well.  It
is a pity that our landed proprietors seem to forget that he who,
plants a tree is a benefactor of his species.  Shelter is sadly de-
ficient, particularly in those districts where it is most required.
   Rent of Land.-The average rent of arable land is from 1Os. to
L, 1, 10s. per acre.
   Wages.-The wages of labourers range from 10s. to 12s. per
week all the year round.  Artisans, viz. masons and wrights, re-
ceive at an average from 18s. to L. 1, 4s. a week.
   Live-Stock.-For the fineness and symmetry of their cows, the
farmers here deserve much commendation.  Their draught horses
also are excellent, being the best Clydesdale breed.  Much suc-
cess has attended the rearing of horses in this parish.  A stimulus
has of late years been given to the improvement of farm stock by
the establishment of an agricultural society, whose shows are highly
creditable to the tenantry of this district.
   A very large portion of land has been reclaimed, during these
last twenty years, by means of draining and digging.  Two first
prizes for ameliorations were some time ago awarded by the High-
land Society of Scotland to two gentlemen in this parish; one to
Cosmo Falconer, Esq. of Hartwoodhill, and the other to William
Weir, Esq. of Shottsburn.
   Leases.-The general duration of leases is nineteen years.  Were
they longer it would be much more advantageous for the occu-
pier of the land, especially where a considerable part of the farm is
waste.
   The tenants here are not, generally speaking, well accommodated
with regard to dwelling-houses, but latterly an improvement in this
respect has taken place.
   As almost all the raw produce raised in this parish is consumed
by the farmers themselves, it is exceedingly difficult definitely to
ascertain it value.
   Manufactures.-There are two iron-works in Shotts,-one in the
south-east, and the other in the south-west part of the parish.
The former were established in 1802 by a few private individuals,


