
96                 CLACKMANNANSHIRE.

tablisbinent of a great seminary for education, made every effort
to defeat the scheme. But as the britors were not trustees, and
consequently bad no right to interfere in the management, the
Court of Chancery was disposed to give in to the views of the mi-
nister and elders. Accordingly, after certain modifications of the
scheme proposed, the court was inclined to sanction'tbe erection
of a poor's house. Sir William Grant, then Master of the Rolls,
had actually approved of the scheme of a poor's house ; but, be-
fore be issued his order, Mr Watson, the then minister, died, and
the writer of this account was presented to the living, by Mr Tait,
the patron. On becoming minister of the parisb, he immediately
put into the Court of Chancery, his claim to be heard on the
subject of the appropriation of the legacy, and, by the advice of
an eminent lawyer, Sir Islay Campbell, late President of the
Court of Session, he urged'tbis plea,-tbat, since the legacy was
left for beboof of persons residing in Scotland, the Court of Chan-
eery in England had no right to dictate or control the trustees in
the disposal of the funds; and since they had already found that
the ministers and elders of the parish were the trustees named in
the will, tbeysbould-at once put them in possession of the money
bequeathed,-leaving it to them to dispose of the legacy pursuant
to the will of the testator, but subject to the control of the courts
in Scotland. Lord Eldon, who -was Lord Chancellor at the time,
entered into these views, and pronounced a decretal order, that
the half-yearly dividends, accruing from the stock belonging to
the Dollar School, which bad been-vested in the funds in the name
of the Accountant-General of Chancery, should be paid over to
the minister and elders of the parish of Dollar, to be by them ap-
plied for the benefit of a charity or school for the poor of the said
parish of Dollar, pursuant to the will of the testator, John Macnab.
  We then urged a new plea, viz. that, since the Lord Chancellor
bad ordered the half-yearly dividends arising from the stock in the
funds belonging to the Dollar 'School at the deafh of the testator,
to be paid to the minister and elders of Dollar, he should also
order that the dividends which had been accumulating for more
than sixteen years since the death of the testator in January 1802,
shouldbepaidovertothesaidministerandelders. ThisLordEldon
admittedtobereasonable,andpronounced an orderaccordingly.
The legacy paid into Chancery, by Mr Macnab's executors, for be-
hoof of the Dollar School, when vested in the 3 per cents, amount-
ed to 9s. 2d. of that kind of stock; and on the 31st


