
                        LOCHWINNOCH.                            97

abbey of Paisley in 1525. The arch of the bridge is very fine, and
the mason-work far more elegant than is now employed about
bridges. Originally it was very narrow, and barely allowed one
cart to pass at once, but was repaired and widened 1814. We
have nothing but conjecture corcerning the origin of this bridge.
  In the former Statistical Account it is mentioned that a brass
cannon and various canoes were found in the lake,--which evidently
prove the large, forests that must have existed in this part of the
country. Many canoes have been found since that period. There
is a person still alive who saw twenty-one buried in the mud between
the old Peel and north side of the loch.A canoe taken out of the
loch is still preserved in the garden of Allan Pinkerton of Mossend. *
  Modern Buildings.--These require little description, for though
the village be large, it contains few houses worthy of particular no-
tice. The following general and accurate account of it is given by
Robertson. " Lochwinnoch is a very thriving village, built on a re-
gular plan of one main street (which is half a-mile long) with some
streets crossing it at right angles. The houses are generally of two
stories in height, and covered with slates. The situation is indeed
very pleasant, as it is exposed only to the south-east, being under
shelter in all other directions, either by rising grounds or thick
plantations." This description is strictly applicable to the new town;
the old, which is only a small portion of the village on the north, is
meaner and more irregular in its appearance. The churches and
mills will be noticed afterwards; and besides those, there are about
eleven superior houses belonging to the wealthier inhabitants, such
as professional men and the proprietors of cotton-mills.

                <TABLE=III.--POPULATION.>

       The population in 1695 was 290 families, and of course about 1450
                         1755                                       1580
                         1791                                       2613
                         1801                                       2955
                         1811                                       2614
                         1821                                       4190
                         1861                                       4515

  From the above statements it will be seen that the population
has increased rapidly since 1791. The chief reason of which was
the erection of cotton-mills about that times and the stimulus which
these gave to ovary other kind of business. I have found the in-
crease regular for the 1819 and 1820, when in consequence of distress and
disconstant, those was a considerable emigration to America.

  <FOOTNOTE>Some other minor antiquities and noticed in the M.S. consisting of gold and
silver coins, a ladle of Corithian brass, querns, &c. found in the parish.
    RENFREW.


