
			CADDER.                                413

house, as it was then called,--where the minister of Cadder preach-
ed every third Sabbath, at least since the Revolution in 1688,
There, every proprietor had his pew as well as in the parish kirk,
though it was chiefly for the accommodation of the eastern divi-
sion of the parish. This meeting-house was afterwards supersed-
ed by the erection of a chapel in the village of Chryston. The
proprietors and inhabitants in the east district, particularly, contri-
buted to its erection. The labourers quarried the stones gratui-
tously, and the farmers carted them and the lime. This chapel is
now erected into the church of Chryston quoad sacra. Mr Provan
was the first preacher in the chapel, at L. 50 per annum. The
Rev. John Dick, late minister of Rutherglen, was the first ordain-
ed minister, at the same stipend. In his time, a manse was erected
ed; but it is the property of the managers in trust. The pre-
sent legal stipend is L. 70,--which every person must admit to
be greatly too little. The chapel is seated to contain about 500
persons, but the sittings are a third more closely compacted than
in the parish church. The chapel is generally well attended. Di-
vine service is also well attended in the parish church. About
300 persons communicate in the church, and perhaps rather more,
in the chapel.
        Education.--There are seven schools in the parish. Three pa-
rochial, Cadder, Chryston and Auchenairn. One endowed, Auch-
enloch. Two unendowed, Mollenburn and Crofthead. One sup-
ported by Mrs Stirling at Bishop-bridge. The first parochial
schoolmaster at Cadder has a chalder and a half of salary, amount-
ing to L. 25, 13s. 4d. and about the same amount from school fees.
The other parochial schoolmaster in Auchenairn has half a chalder,
and about L. 38, of school wages. His school is also endowed with
the interest of 1000 merks, mortified by the late Rev. James
Warden. The school at Auchenloch is endowed with the interest.
of at least L. 300, left by the late Patrick Baird, merchant. The
parochial schoolmaster at Chryston has a chalder of salary, and
the school fees may average L. 50 annually. The unendowed
school at Mollanburn may produce from L. 20 to L. 30 annually
from school fees. The unendowed school at Gartinqueen may
produce about L. 20 from school fees. The infant and sewing school,
at Bishop-bridge, originated by the amiable widow of the late
Charles Stirling, Esq. is supported by her and her brother-in-law.
Mr Stirling of Cadder. They have built a good school-house, and
allow L. 30 annually to the mistress, with, the profits of the school.


