
                   SANDSTING AND AITHSTING.                   133

prattle of their bairns, and in them forget for a time the toils and
privations of a fisherman's calling.
    Cod-fishing.-The cod-fishing is prosecuted in sloops of from
18 to 40 toils burden, of which there are eight in the parish, mak-
ing, a tonnage of 224 tons.  They carry from nine to twelve men
each, who hire the sloop for the fishing season, which begins at
Whitsunday and ends at Lammas.  The owner of the sloop re-
ceives as hire, the half of all the fish caught, and oil made from
their livers, and is bound to put and keep the sloop in a sea-wor-
thy state.  He also cures the fish, and the men pay for the cur-
ing of their half, at the rate of 2s. Sterling per cwt., which is de-
ducted when accounts are settled at the end of the season. It is
always understood that the owner of the sloop is to have the pre-
ference, on equal terms, to the purchase of the men's share of fish
and oil.  Sometimes, a few men purchase a small sloop in partner-
ship, and fish with her, taking in the additional men required,
either as sharesmen, or giving them a fee, and sometimes giving
them half share and half fee.  All that is required to the prose-
cution of the cod-fishing in a sloop, are two lines, about 100 fa-
thoms, a lead of 3 or 4 lbs., with a scob, that is, an iron rod
bent, two feet and a half long, passing through the upper end of
the lead, to each end of which rod is affixed a short toam, and
hook, baited with the large muscle or yoag.  The weekly supply
of bait is from 1600 to 2200. The usual price paid to the per-
sons who dredge the bait is from 4d. to 6d. per 100, the expense
of which is divided between the owner and men.  The quantity
of cod caught in a season varies from 5 to 18 tons, and the price
paid in the country, for sometime, may be said to have been sta-
tionary at L. 10 per ton.
   The men, for provisions, have 8 lbs. of oatmeal baked into
cakes weekly, and two-thirds of a barrel of potatoes and a supply
of smoked pork or mutton for the season, and as much fresh fish
as they choose to make ready.  The fish heads and small fish are
carried home for the weekly-supply of their families.
   The men are bound to bend the rigging and sails, and ballast
the sloop before going to sea; and when the fishing is over, unrig
and dry ropes and sails, heave the ballast, clean the vessel, and
draw up and secure her for the winter.  The fish livers are now
melted into oil, and divided between owner and men.
    Herring-fishing.-The attention of the British Government
seems to have been directed, at an early period, to the fishing


