
390                    ROXBURGHSHIRE.

his sacred functions.  After the Revolution he became minister of
this parish,  an in 1701 he received a call to Kelso, which was
sustained first by the presbytery and afterwards by the synod; but
his translation being strongly opposed by the heritors, elders, and
parishioners in general, and the matter being carried ultimately to
the General Assembly, it was agreed, in compliance with Mr Or-
rock's desire, that his connection with this parish should not be
dissolved, and accordingly he continued to labour here faithfully
and with acceptance till the period of his death.  He left 9000
merks Scots for the endowment of a grammar school, 1600 merks
for the poor, four silver communion cups, and a baptismal basin
for the service of the church, with a very valuable and extensive
library to his successors in the parochial charge. *
   Nor can we forbear reference to the high character and useful-
ness of Dr John Young, minister of the Antiburgher congregation
in this place from 1767 to 1806.  Giving himself to the discharge
of his sacred duties with a mind at once stored with the treasures
of theology, and possessed of extensive acquirements in general
knowledge, he not only attained considerable celebrity as a preach-
er amongst the members of his own communion, but his published
writings, and especially his Essays on Government, for which he
obtained a pension, part of which is still enjoyed by his family, are
believed, by their sound views and force of argument to have ex-
erted a powerful influence in checking the progress of infidel and
revolutionary principles, and contributing, at the same time, to the
best interests of the community.

<FOOTNOTE>A moral tablet was erected to his memory, bearing the following inscription,
which is now in a great measure obliterated, but which it is hoped the heritors will
renew in the event of the church being repaired.
                                  Siste Viator.
                   Hic jacet corpus Domini Alexandri Orrock,
                  Verbi Divini in Ecclesia Havico fidelissimus.
                              Vir erat vere eximius.
                     In vitiosis reclamandis summe audax.
                 Ob multifariam eruditionem et vite innocentiam
                     Doctis piisq. viris admodum probatus.
              In discipline ecclesiastica aequalium nemini secundus.
             Qui annos XXII officio pastorali hac in Ecclesia functus,
                     In usum SchoLae Publicae novem mille,
               Et patperum indigentium mille et sexcentas marcas
                            Testamento designavit.
                         Tandem obdormivit in Domino
                          Annum agens sexagesimum
                      ???ae Christianee MDCCXI.  Kal.  Maii.
                                  Ps. CXII. 9.
                        Dispersit largiens pauperibus:
                        Semper ejus liberalitas stabit.


