
                        PARISH OF DUNDONALD. *

		PRESBYTERY OP AYR, SYNOD OP GLASGOW AND AYR.

	THE REV. ALEXANDER WILLISON,      }
        THE REV. JAMES FLEMING,--Troon,   }  Ministers
        THE REV. DAVID WILSON,--Fullarton,}


		I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	Name.--This parish derives its name from a small green hill
adjoining the village, on which stand the ruins of an ancient feu-
dal castle. The etymology of the word is so obvious as to require
no explanation. But who the Celtic chief was, that gave his
name to the hill or fortlet, cannot now be ascertained.
	Extent and Boundaries.--Dundonald is situated at the north-
west extremity of the district of Kyle, the middle division of the
county of Ayr. The parish, though still comparatively extensive,
was even more so, both before and after the Reformation, than it
is at present. At the time of the Reformation, in addition to the
chapelry of Crosby, it included also the parish of Riccarton. And
when the latter, after the downfall of Popery, was constituted a se-
parate parish, Dundonald comprehended the lands of Caprington till
they were united with Riccarton about the middle of last century.
According to the earliest ecclesiastical records, Dundonald with
its two chapelries was granted by the second Walter the Stewart
in 1229, to the Gilbertine Convent of Dalmullin, near Ayr. And
when this was given up in 1238, it passed to enrich the monastery
of Paisley, of which it continued an appendage till the time of the
Reformation. Crosby, which has still the remains of a church
and burying-ground, does not appear, as is generally supposed, to
have been erected into a separate parish, but has always been in-
cluded in Dundonald, except during the short interval betwixt the
years, 1651 and 1688, when it was annexed to the parish of Monk-
ton. It is said by Chalmers, that Riccarton at the Reformation was
joined to Craigie, and only became a separate parish in 1648.
Upon what authority he makes this statement, we do not know

<FOOTNOTE>Drawn up by the Rev. Alexander Willison.
			   6


