
     of St. Fergus.

to that of the statistical philosopher, we shall content ourselves
with giving in this place only a brief sketch of the character of
the great Field Marshal KEITH, brother to GEORGE, last Earl
of Marischal; and with throwing a few anecdotes of his most

<FOOTNOTE>

1540, he got charters ll on many lands lying in the counties, Caithness, Inver-
ness, Moray, Banff.  Aberdeen, Kincardine, Angus, Fife, Linlithgow, etc.
It is said, that after Queen MARY'S captivity, he took no concern in public
affairs, and by living a retired life in his castle of Dunottar, he got the name
of WILLIAM IN THE TOWER.  He so much improved his estate, that at his
death it was reckoned worth 270,000 merks Scots, or 14,208 L. 6 s. 8 d. Sterling.
This estate was so situated, that in travelling from the north point of Carth-
ness, to the border, of England, he could sleep every night on his own
ground+

   This noble Lord died in an advanced age in 1581, and was succeeded by
his grandson GEORGE, the 5th Earl Marischal, one of the most eminent men
of his time.  After having studied at Geneva, under the famous THEODORE
BEZA, he travelled through Italy and Germany, where he visited the Land-
grave of HESSE, Prince of the CAITI, who, understanding who he was, re-
ceived him kindly, and treated him with great magnificence, as a Scotch
descendant of the ancient CATTI.  In 1589 he was sent ambassador extraor-
dinary to the court of Denmark, to espouse the Princess ANNE in name of
JAMES VI. of Scotland, and I. of England.  Being possessed of a great estate,
he appeared with all the lustre and magnificence with which the wealth of
Scotland could adorn him, and that chiefly on his own expences.  In 1593,
he made a noble foundation of a college at Aberdeen, and obtained from the
Crown, for the support of it, the lands and houses belonging to some of the
religious at Aberdeen, which had not been sued off before the Reformation.

llPub. Records, and Haddington's Collections, page 92, 93, etc.

+This Earl was a zealous promoter of the Reformation, but opposed all violent
proceedings in that affair.  When the Confession of Faith was presented to Parliament,
in 1560, the Earl of Marischal stood up, and said, "It is long since I carried some
"favour to the truth, and was somewhat zealous for the Roman religion; but this
"day hath fully resolved me of the truth of the one and the falsehood of the other;
"for, seeing (my Lords) the bishops, who, by thee, learning, can, and for the zeal
"they should have for the truth, would, as I suppose, gainsay any thing repugnant to
"it, say nothing against the Confession we have heard, I cannot think but it is the
" TRUTH OF GOD, and the contrary of it is false detestable domaine".


