
                          HUTTON AND CORRIE.                      547

     Now, it is the unfortunate character of many of these merchants
     which constitutes a principal drawback to the prosperity of the far-
     mer. The writer must not be understood as insinuating, anything
     to the disadvantage of men, who, having begun business on a small
     capital, and  encountered bad fairs in the south, have not been
     able to implement their engagements. When they have made a
     fair surrender of their effects, nothing more can be required at
     their hands. But considering the great and repeated losses which
     farmers have experienced from the prevailing practice of giving
     credit, it surely deserves the consideration of the Highland So-
     ciety, and of the other associations for promoting the interests of
     husbandry, whether another system might not be devised, and such
     losses prevented. Wool-staplers appear at certain seasons, and it
     is not understood that there is much risk or loss in transacting with
     them. It is believed, that were due pains employed, a safe class
     of merchants might present themselves for other objects as well as
     wool. It may be thought that the evil will cure itself, and that
     such repeated losses witnessed will render the country more cauti-
     ous. But the evil does not appear to cure itself; and hence the
     interference of public-spirited individuals, or associations, is most
     desirable.
     	It is not meant, by what is here stated, to discountenance native
     dealers, even though in commencing trade their means should be
     humble. But it is suggested, that they should look, for support, to
     relatives or friends, who can attend to their proceedings, and ob-
     serve that they are of a prudent and safe description, and check
     that adventurous and reckless spirit, which is a common charac-
     teristic of the profession, when credit can be obtained.
       2. The burden of vagrant beggars contributes in no ordinary degree
     to depress a parish. It is difficult to compute the numbers of these
     over Scotland. Dunlop, in his Parochial Law, computes them,
     towards the end of the seventeenth century, at 200,000. And
     it appears that Government established manufactories, in order to
     compel them to work; and also ordered the burghs to build correc-
     tion houses for confining and punishing them. The numbers are
     probably at present much less; but they are still very great. It is well
     known, that vagrant begging has, for ages past, been a regular trade.
     There are what may be called breeding places of pauperism over
     the kingdom, which send forth fresh swarms of paupers every sea-
     son. Many marry and rear families without the smallest consi-
     deration how they are to be supported, except by the trade of beg-


