
480                         FIFESHIRE.

plan has been suggested of secluding a number of them from the
church by partitions, which would greatly improve it, with but lit-
tle detriment to any individual. And it has been also suggested,
that further curtailments should be made upon the church, and
that, to meet the wants of the population, an additional church
should be erected within the city, which might either be supplied
by the ministers alternately, or by one of them officiating regularly
to the new congregation. It seems to be not improbable, that
this suggestion may ere long be realized, as urgent applications are
frequently made for church accommodation, by persons who are
anxious to obtain it, but who are in general under the necessity
of waiting for a considerable period, before they can secure it in
an eligible situation. And numbers, who have been unable to
obtain such accommodation, have been induced to apply for it,
either in the church of St Leonards or in the dissenting chapels,
where it could be obtained.
   No manse has been erected for the use of either of the minis-
ters.It seems to be understood, however, that the first minister
would be found entitled to a manse and offices, were he to apply
for them in a regular form. He already possesses a glebe, con-
sisting of four acres, in the immediate vicinity of the city, which is
let to a tenant for a rent of L. 23 a year ; and connected with it he
has a small garden. The stipend of the first minister amounts to
22 chalders from the teinds of the parish, and he enjoys, besides,
the half of the emoluments of the archdeaconry, which add to it
about 6 1\2 chalders. He has also an allowance of L. 20 Sterling
for communion elements. The second charge was established in
1589. The incumbent has no manse nor glebe. His stipend
consisted, until within these few years, of L. 72, 4s. 5 1\2d. from the
city funds, and the half of the archdeaconry, which amounts to
about 107 bolls of grain, and L. 3 Sterling. He is also entitled
to the teind of the fish caught by the fishermen within the city.
But those who follow this profession are in general so much op-
ressed with poverty, that for the last twenty-years he has not
exacted from them one farthing. It was decided by the commis-
sioners of teinds, after an expensive litigation, that be has no claim
the teinds of the parish, so that when the late parliamentary
grant (5th Geo. IV. ch. 72.) was made in favours of the small
livings in Scotland, he found it advisable to make the necessary
application for the benefit of that endowment, and the income of
the office had an addition made to it of L. 33, 10s. 5d., to raise it
to the minimum rate, including an allowance for a mause and


