
                          CUPAR.                          3

various degrees of compactaess according to their depth, and dip-
ping on both sides towards the south.  Along the banks of the
Lady Burn, a sandstone conglomerate prevails, consisting of large
masses of quartz and other flinty ingredients, and resembling a
coarse puddingstone.  Surmounting this rock, and at irregular
and undulating distances from the Lady Burn, there runs a very
singular mound, composed (when examined) of fresh water gravel.
Beginning at the distance of nearly a quarter of a mile from the
point where the Eden and the Lady Burn meet, this mound runs
in a serpentine direction, till it terminates, as it rises, abruptly, in
what is now called the School, but anciently the Castle-hill. About
the middle, there is a peak of greater elevation than the rest, which
is called the Moot-hill, and on which, according to tradition, the
Earls of Fife used to hold their councils of war, and dispense the
awards of justice.  Were one to look to appearance, or to listen to
report without attending to the magnitude of this mound, he might
conclude, as has been sometimes supposed, that it is artificial. But,
looking to the size this supposition is instantly checked.  And ex-
tending the view across from the Castle or School-hill to the op-
posite side of the Eden, and remarking the same serpentine and
mound-like appearance continuing, there is left no room to doubt
that the mound is a natural deposit formed at some remote period,
and broken through, as it now is, by the action of the Eden.
Above this mound, and on the north and south sides of the Eden,
there is an immense bed of clay of a very excellent quality, and
peculiarly fitted for the making of brick and tiles, for which it has
long been used. Recently it has been employed for the making of
coarse earthen-ware, and is found to answer well. Higher up, and
behind this embankment, as it; must have been till it was worn
away by the water, lie what are called the Wards,-an extensive
and fertile plain, all now under the plough, but weanring decided
marks of having been at one time under water, and forming the
bottom of a large lake or basin, which has been emptied and laid
dry by the wearing down of the embankment.  The name of For-
ry still attaches to some of the places on the sides of this plain; and
even at the period of the Reforunation it was of such an impassable
nature, that, while the royal forms lay on the hill or Garley Bank on
the south side, and the Lords of the Congregation lay encamped
on a moor on the opposite, this marsh formed a barrier of separa-
tion betwixt them sufficieatly strong to preven them from advan-            
cing to or molesting each other.

