
908                          PERTHSHIRE.

young fry or smolt begin to leave the river on their way to the sea
in the end of April, and are all off before the end of May.
  Wood.-In the southern division of the parish, there are exten-
sive plantations of Scotch fir, formed, about forty or fifty years
ago, on ground which had been previously a barren moor or com-
mon, covered with heather and broom, and which was, about that
period, divided amongst the heritors and feuars. A great part of
this moor, as already mentioned, still remains in a waste and un-
productive state; but some parts of it have lately been planted
with Scotch fir and larch, to the growth of which the soil of the
parish seems to be most congenial.
  There are also a few detached plantations of hard wood in the
parish, but none of any considerable extent; and the face of the
country generally is embellished with clumps and belts of oak, elm,
ash, and beech trees, none of which, however, have attained any re-
markable size. The northern division of the parish is compara-
tively bare and destitute of trees, excepting the banks of the river,
which are richly clothed with wood, chiefly natural, such as birch,
hazel, mountain-ash, alder, and oak coppice. About Craighall,
especially, the oak coppice is of considerable value. It is cut pe-
riodically every eighteen or twenty years, and the proprietor rea-
lizes a considerable sum at each cutting from the sale of the bark
and of the wood for fuel, &c. But, although the parish does not now
contain any tracts of wood deserving the appellation of forests, there
is reason to believe, as well from the names still attached to certain
portions of the parish, as from the fossil remains (chiefly oak of great
size) which are frequently discovered in excavating the mosses for
fuel, that, in ancient times, the face of the country had been much
more densely wooded than it is at present. Thus there is an ex-
tensive tract of country, now barren and covered with heather,
which still bears the nanae of the Forest of Drimmie, and another
of the same description, in the north-west quarter of the parish,
called the Forest of Cluny; and the country people, in digging
for peats in these districts, have often undercovered huge logs of oak
as black as ebony (thence called "black oak,") and in as perfect
a state of preservation as if they had but yesterday fallen under
the axe of the woodmad. The writer has seen one of these
logs which measured upwards of three feet in diameter. Mr
Tytler, in the sebond volume of his History of Scotland, mentions
the Forests of Drimmie and Alyth as being royal forests, preserved
for the recreation of the kings of Scotland.


