
			    ELLON.	        		901

it is navigable only by the smallest craft.  And even were this
basin of greater depth, the fragments of rock and large boulders
which are to be found in the bed of the river where its channel
becomes more contracted, must afford serious obstructions to the
general purposes of navigation.  Lime, coals, &c. are, however,
brought up in flat-bottomed boats, called lighters, to the meadow
of Watertown, a landing place about a quarter of a mile below the
Village of Ellon.  Were the Ellon property in the hands of a
spirited and improving proprietor, there can be little doubt that
the channel of the river would soon be cleared and deepened to
such an extent as to make it available, at least as far up as the
lighters now reach, for the general export and import of this part
of the country.  Two or three thousand pounds judiciously ex-
pended would stuffice to effect this important object, and would
yield, it is confidently believed, a large and yearly increasing return.
Before the introduction of stake-nets along the coast, the value of
salmon caught in the Ythan was very considerable, the fishing hav-
ing yielded an annual rent of several hundred pounds.  The river
fishing has dwindled now almost to nothing.  Except for about
two months in summer, the only attention paid to it is to look after
the cruives.  The Ythan, and the burns of Ebrie and Brony,
which fall into it, are all capital trouting streams, containing sal-
mon trout, common burn trout, and finnock in great abundance.
Parties from Aberdeen often come out to this neighbourhood
during the summer months, to enjoy a day or two in rod-fishing on
the Ythan and its tributary streams.  The Earl of Aberdeen is
the present tacksman of the river fishings.
   The parish of Ellon is abundantly supplied with excellent spring
water, but it contains no spring known to possess medicinal qua-
lities.
   Geology and Mineralogy.-The rocks in this district of Scot-
land are all of the primitive class, lying in the direction of east
of north, and west of south, and dipping for the most part to the
south-east.  In the valley of Ythan, and throughout the adjacent
more fertile districts of the parish, they consist of varieties of the
gneiss species.  A bed of granite occupies the central Districts,
and the strata in the north side along the boundary of the parishes
of Ellon and Deer, approach nearly to a pure quartz.  The soil,
however, is mostly diluvial, resting generally in the more fertile
parts on a deep bed of yellowish open  gravel.  In a few instances
where the gneiss rises to the surface, the soil consists, of course,


