
200                           HADDINGTONSHIRE.

covered with black cloth, and no mort cloths are used. Those who
are not members may also obtain a coffin from the society, at a cheap
rate, by paying for it. This Society was instituted about two years
ago. Besides these, there is a yearly Society at Penston, the mew-
bers of which draw sick money in case of illness, and receive a sum
of money for the burial of their dead. Connected with the parish is
a Frame Society for the protection of the dead, to which the greater
part of the parish belong. The safes are of malleable iron, and
of a construction such as is usually employed. When used, they
are generally sunk about two or three feet below the surface of the
ground. A Savings' Bank was instituted some years ago, but it gra-
dually died away, and now no longer exists. A Curling Society was
begun in December last, but there having been very little frost, the
ice was never in a condition to be played upon, and the members
of course were deprived of an opportunity of displaying their skill.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of persons
upon the poors' roll is 41; and the average sum allowed to each per
week is 1s. 3d. The sum allowed varies according to circumstances.
Some get 1s., some 2s., some 3s, and One family gets 4s. per week.
In addition to which, most of them get a cart of coals, in the course
of the winter. A collection is made at the church for this purpose,
which comes far short of what is laid out for coals. Whatever is
deficient is taken from the poors' fund. Besides those who receive
a regular allowance, there are always some who receive occasional
aid, in cases of distress or unexpected misfortunes. Five, in addi-
tion to their weekly allowance, get their house rents paid.
   The average amount of annual contributions for their relief for
five years is L. 200, 9s. 3d. of which L. 167, 17s. arises from an
assessment which is laid on once a-year, at a meeting of heritors
called for the purpose. The collections at the church amount to
L. 16, 6s. 5d.; mortcloths L. 43, 18s. 2d.; putting in stones for
marking burial ground 17s. 5d.; seat rents, I 1s. 7d.; marriages,
&c. L. 1, 8s. 8d.;  interest of a bill for L. 170, L. 8, 10s. The
poor, with a very few exceptions, are all paid in money, and, there-
fore, in the present depressed state of the grain market, their allow-
ance is much greater than when provisions are dearer. The poor
in general have little reluctance to apply for parochial aid, when-
ever they think it can be obtained. Children also who are living
in comfortable circumstances, are very much disposed to leave their
aged parents to shift for themselves, or to get relief for them from
the parish. The collections at the church are very small, chiefly


