
				LARGS.			787

the parishes of Innerkip and Greenock; on the east, by Kilmal-
colm, Lochwinnoch and Kilbirnie; on the south, by Dalry and
West Kilbride; and on the west, by the Frith of Clyde. Its
breadth is not much more than four miles.
    Topographical Appearances.--We cannot give a better or more
accurate general account than that which is to be found in the se-
cond Statistical Account of this parish in the former work, Vol.
xvii. p. 503. "No parish in the west of Scotland, and few in the
Highlands, can afford such a variety of beautiful and romantic
scenes. The hills, which begin to rise in the neighbouring pa-
rishes of Greenock, Kilmalcolm, Lochwinnoch, Kilbirnie, and
Dalry, meet in a kind of general summit at the eastern boundary
of Largs, from which they gradually descend as they approach the
shore, till they terminate at last in a variety of abrupt declivities,
some of which are almost perpendicular, as if part of their base
had been torn away by force. Notwithstanding the vast height of
these hills, they are covered during the greater part of the year
with verdure, and afford such excellent pasture for sheep, and
some of them for larger cattle, as can hardly be found elsewhere
in similar situations.
    "The quantity of heath, even on the highest hills, is compara-
tively small; and, from indisputable marks, it appears that some
of them have once been cultivated."
    Along the coast from West Kilbride to Kellyburn, there is a
tract of rich land, the mean breadth of which is about a quarter of
a mile. The tract narrows towards the north. To the east the
ground rises abruptly to a very great height. The hill of Stake,
which is the extreme boundary on the east, is 1691 feet above the
lovel of the sea; and to the south of that mountain Irishlaw
stands 1576, and Knockside hill, 1419 feet above the same level.
The half of the whole land in the parish is hill pasture, and oc-
cupied as such. The temperature of the town of Largs, which is
protected from the east winds by a range of high ground, is consi-
dered mild and salubrious; and the situation has become a favourite
and fashionable watering-place. The high grounds above Largs
afford very delightful prospects. The admirers of nature need not
travel out of this district in search of fine scenery, as few scenes can
equal in rich variety what the enraptured eye of the beholder can
witness from the grounds above Kelburn. There may be enjoyed

                          the boundless store
               Of charms which nature to her votary, yields,


