
                          LARBERT.                          363

owners of Kinnaird and Stenhouse hold them by inheritance from
the owners who then possessed them. The rest of the lands
which the parish contains, have passed into the hands of other fa-
milies by sale.
  Square Towers.--At the periods which preceded 1550 or
1500, the residences of the land-owners or country chiefs were not
of the nature of country mansion-houses, which could not have
suited the disturbed Political state of the country. They were not
the dwellings of people in a state of peace, but were small for-
tresses constructed for defending the inhabitants from the attacks
of their neigbbours. The residence of a Scotch chief about 1300
or 1350, was prepared for defence. The state of the country
rendered this necessary. The chief would try sometimes to re-
pair or better his fortune, as the hero of the Odyssey proposed to
do, by carrying off his neighbour's cattle, and the residence of the
chief was formed into a kind of military position, and fortified for
defence against the attacks of his neigbbours, who were also plun-
derers. This station or stronghold of the Scotch chieftain con-
sisted of a square tower, which could only contain a small garrison,
and adjacent to the tower were probably a number of huts, in which
the family, the dependents, and followers of the chief had their
dwellings.
  There are some vestiges consisting of fragments of walls of
such fortalices, on the lower part of the southern slope of the Kil-
syth, hills, about ten miles west of Larbert, viz. at Colieum and
at Kilsyth, and on the Campsie hills, which are a part of the same
ridge. One of these square towers, called Plaine-mill tower, still ex-
ists, about four miles north of Larbert. The tower, which is placed
upon a sandstone rock very little raised above the adjacent flattish
country, is solidly built of stone, with thick walls. The corner-
stones and window jambs and sills well squared. The dimensions of
the interior are not more than about I8 feet by 14. There was

<FOOTNOTE>What sheep the waiting suitors did consume,
          I'll take so many as shall fill their room,
          The friendly Greeks the rest will soon provide,
          Till all my coats (i. e. cots,) and stalls are resupplied.
                  The Odysse, translated by John Ogilvy, Esq. Master of his
                              Majesty's Revels, &c. 1665.


