
     Statistical Account

it continues for 6 years*.-The rent a-acre has been as
low as 4 s. or 5 s.  Then the tenants were poorer than now,
when it, upon an average, is so high as L. 1, 2 s. or L. 1, 3 s.
Where leases have been granted within there 5 years past,
the rent is from L. 1, 10 s. to L. 1, 12 s.  In a particular
farm 74 acres of pasture land was let about a month ago,
for 2 years after Whitsunday 1794, at L. 124 Sterling, and
a number of acres in the same farm, for ploughing, 3 years,
at L. 5 and L. 5, 10 s. the acre; nor is there reason for
complaints, for that land yielded, on each acre, 10 or 12
bolls of corn; yet this very land, between 20 and 30 years
ago, was rented so low as 4 s. or 5 s. an acre, and after all
the tenant went a bankrupt out of it.  Little reason, then,
have our farmers to upbraid those gentlemen who have rai-
sed their rents, seeing they have also taught them how to
acquire even more than these rents.  There have been, and
there will always be some men in society, so stupid as not
to be sensible of their own interest, or so wicked as not
to be grateful when it is promoted; but the good and wise
will be open to conviction, ready to submit to instruction,
and to be governed by the judgment of others, whose 3

     3

<FOOTNOTE>

*Some attribute the introduction of this last mode to Mr Fairlie of
Fairlie, in the management of his own and the Earl of Eglinton's estates.
Some say the alteration originated from Mr Snodgrass of Cuningham-
head; others affirm, that Mr Ralston, factor for Lord Eglinton, is the
author of it, and that he first practised it in the culture of a large farm
which he possesses.  Any, nay all of these gentlemen, are well qualified
for making useful and important discoveries in the province of agricul-
ture.  Whoever of them has the merit of this, it is abundantly evident,
that the land by it must he still preserved in strength and vigour, especially
when this circumstance is considered, that the tenants are strictly prohibi-
ted from laying dung, upon ley, and bound to apply it only to the divi-
sion immediately in tillage.  In every tack granted by the leases of Lord
Eglinton's lands, the precise method of husbandry is described, and a
strict regard to it secured by an high penalty in case of forfeiture,
which in every instance has been demanded, and however reluctantly,
paid.


