
                               LONGFORGAN.                           415

     scription of bulls,  given by the Highland Society at Perth in 1829,
     was brdd at Monorgan, in this parish. The Carse part of it is not
     favourable for raising stock of any kind; but a good many cattle
     and some sheep are reared in the upper division of it.  A few
     horses also are bred, but the chief supply of them is obtained from
     other quarters.
       Draining, &c.-Furrow-draining was introduced into the Carse
     about eleven years ago. It has been carried here to a considerable
     extent, not only with stones, which are better for the purpose when
     they can be procured, but also with tile, and no doubt can be en-
     tertained of its advantages.  Owing, however, to the perfect flat-
     ness of the country, drains do not answer their end so well in time
     of high floods, when the water is necessarily obstructed in its course
     towards the leading drain into which it is received.  Cross or trans-
     verse draining has been long and successfully practised in the high-
     er grounds of the parish, and bogs and patches of wet land have been
     effectually dried, and rendered as v`luable as the fields that sur-
     round them.
        Leases are generally for nineteen years.  The extension of them
     to twenty-one years, so as to embrace three full rotations, would seem
     to be desirable.  Some of the farm-steadings have been lately re-
     built, and others nf them much enlarged and improved, and the
     dwelling-houses belonging to them, while they are commodious
     and comfortable in their interior arrangements, are remarkably
     neat and pleasing in their outward appearance.
       The fields in the upper part of the parish are subdivided chiefly
     by stone dikes which are kept in a proper state of repair.  A num-
     ber of hedges, however, has been very recently planted.  There are
     no enclosures in the lower part excepting those about Castle Hunt-
     ly and Mylnefield.  The clay lands and those immediately adjoin-
     ing them, are under a regular system of cropping, and when a few
     acres are occasionally pastured, they are surrounded with wooden,
     railings, which can be conveniently shifted from one spot to an-
     other.
        The prosperity of the agricultural interest is essentially connected
     with that of the country at large, and in no way is a landlord more
     likely to enhance the value of his property, than by giving every
     support, and holding out every encourangement, to an enterprising
     and respectable tenantry.
        Quarries.-The Kingoody quarries, which belong to Mr Mylae
     of Mylnefield, are in this parish, and close upon the banks of the



