
     of Aberdeen.

     CATALOGUE of some of the Works of GEORGE JAMIESON,
     Painter.

<TABLE>

              PICTURES.                          Persons to whom they belong.

                                                 Sir George Chalmers, painter.
Jamieson, his wife, and son.                       married to Jamieson's great. 
                                                   great-grand-doughter.
Jamieson in his printing-room, which is a dorn   Earl of Findlater, at Banff Castle.
  ed with pictures of Charles I. and his
  Queen; Jamieson's own wife; another
  head; two sea-views; Perseus and Andro-
  meda.

Jamieson, a single figure, with a miniature in   Alexander Carnegie, Esq; town-
  has hand, supposed his wife's picture.           clerk of Aberdeen, Jamieson's
                                                   great-great-grandson.

Sir Duncan Campbell.                             Earl of Breadalbane.
William Earl of Airth.
John Duke of Rothes.
James Marquis of Hamilton.
Archibald Lord Napier.
William Earl of Marischal.
Earl of Loudon, Lord High Chancellor.
Thomas Lord Binning.
John Earl of Mar.
Sir Robert Campbell.
Sir John Campbell.
Geneological picture of 20 heads of the fami-
  ly of Lochow.
Two of the Family of Argyle.                     Duke of Argyle.
Lord Glamis,                                     Earl of Strathmore.
George Herriot, jeweller.                        Herriot's Hospital-
Sir Alexander Erskine, Cambuskenneth.            Lord Alva.
Sir Charles Erskine of Alva,
Sir John Erskine of Otterstown.
Arthur Erskine, Scotscrag.
William Erskine, master of Charterhouse.
Mary Erskine, Countess of Marischal, and
                       of Panmure.
Margaret Countess of Rothes.
Martha Countess of Strathmore.
Anne Lady Binning.
Henry Prince of Wales.
Henry Erskine Lord of Dryburgh.
Sir Alexander Gibson, Lord of Session, Col.      Marray of Polmaise.
  lector of decisions.                           Countess of Rothes.
Same person.
James Erskine, Earl of Buchan.                   Earl of Buchan.
Henry Erskine, Lord of Dryburgh.
Alexander Erskine, fon of Mar, full length.

</TABLE>


