
			KILBRIDE.			     9

the porphyry winds itself round the fragments which'obstruct its
course. On the Lamlash shore, the sandstone strata are inter-
sected by an oblique vein of trap; and that again is traversed by
another vertical vein, of which the exterior surface consists of
pitch-stone.  A vertical vein decomposing into spheroidal forms is
also seen in this place, traversing the last mentioned veins, and the
secondary strata also. Dr MacCulloch, from whom this description
of them is taken, has given neat and accurate diagrams of these
two very interesting spots. In the various places where the trap
veins appear, they sometimes cross each other, without mixing
their substances. The veins themselves are not always uniform in
their texture, parts containing nodules of a darker-coloured trap
than the general body of the vein. There is often a mutual pe-
netration of the trap and sandstone.
	Useful Materials.--Coal is found a little south of the Cock. It
is of the kind called blind or glance coal, and is considered of ex-
cellent quality. About eighty years ago, an attempt was made to
work it, but the undertaking, for some reason, was not prosecuted
long. A slate quarry, in the same neighbourhood, was at one  time
wrought to a considerable extent; but its distance from the har-
bour at Lochranza, and the direction of its strata, which is con-
trary to the declivity of the mountain in which it is situated caus-
ed the work to be long ago discontinued. Among these strata,
ironstone is abundant; but no attempt has ever been made to turn it
to account. The most valuable mineral among them is the lime-
stone, which abounds in this parish, both to the north and south,
and is not less excellent than abundant.  There is a quarry of
limestone at Corrie, which has been wrought for a great number of
years, supplying the Island of Arran and many places in the main-
land. The stone is of a blue or purple colour, and contains nu-
merous shells, principally oysters and clams, which retain their na-
tural shape. When analysed, it was found to contain in one place,
98 1/2 parts of carbonate of lime to 1 1/2 of clay; and in another place,
97 of carbonate of lime to 3 of clay and iron. The  Accraploch
limestone, at the head of Benlester, near Lamlash, is not less va-
luable. Its proportions are 96 carbonate of lime, 3 iron, and l
clay. The Arran freestone is of  the best  quality, and in great
abundance. The only quarries of it which are regularly wrought
are near Corrie, whence it is exported in considerable quantities
to the Clyde,  Ireland, and in other directions. The rock-crystals
of Arran have long been celebrated. These are found in the gra-
nite mountains, in veins in the granite, or in cavities of the granite


