
76                       STIRLINGSHIRE.

different soils and situations. The Italian black poplar, the Hun-
tingdon willow, and the oak attain to a great size. A beautifully
shaped oak at Blairquboss, four feet from the ground, is eleven
feet in circumference. Another, near the same spot, forms an
uncommonly noble specimen of the gnarled and knotty oak.
Though it may be supposed to have seen seven centuries, it is still
healthy and thriving. Four feet from the ground, it is fifteen feet
eight inches round. The branches diverge at the height of nine
feet, and cover a circle of 281 feet. In the garden of Ballagan
stands a yew in full vigour; possessed of the finest figure ; and
supposed to be fro'm 500 to 600 years old. Its circumference is
ten feet. The Huntingdon willow grows most rapidly. One of
these trees in twenty-three years has risen to the height of 45 feet.
Two of these species, 70 feet high, at six feet from the ground,
measure.--one, twelve feet, and the other, thirteen feet and a-half,
                     II.--CIVIL, HISTORY.
  David Graham, great grandson of the first of the Grahams on
record, obtained from William the Lion certain lands near Mon-
trose. His son, David, acquired, under the succeeding reign, by
exchange of his lands in Galloway, from Patrick Earl of Dunbar,
the lands of Dundaff and Strathcarron, and from Maldwin Earl
of Lennox, the lands of Strathblane and Mugdock. The Castle
of Kincardine, in Stratbearn, having been demolished by the
Marquis of Argyle, March 16, 1646, Mugdock Castle became
the principal seat of the Noble family of Montrose. After the
Restoration, when the Earl of Middleton and his associates were
employed in subverting the civil and religious rights of their
country, Mugdock Castle was one of the scenes of their baccha-
nalian orgies. During the persecution which followed, the Pres-
byterians were encouraged and patronised by Edmonstone of
Duntreath, and the Episcopalian incumbent generously threw the
shield of his protection over his harassed and helpless parishioners.
  Land-owners.--The principal land-owners are, the Duke of
Montrose; Sir Archibald Edmonstone; Mr Graham of Ballagan;
Mr. Stirlink of Craigbarnet; Mr Graham of Ballewan; Mr Smith
of Craigend; Mr Graham of Craigallion; Mr Buchanan of Car-
beth; Mr Robison of Leddriegreen; Mr Smith of Carbeth.
The history of the Montrose family, in its most eventful eras,
is interwoven with the history of tho country. The following ac-
count of the Edmonstones of Duntreath has been obligingly fur-


