
                  ST ANDREWS.                              475

that would have been incurred, and the scheme was in consequence
abandoned. The agriculturists in the district seem to be fully
aware of the advantages attendant on draining, and considerable
sums have been expended bv them for securing its object, wherever
it was required.  Irrigation has never been practised in the dis-
trict.
    Leases, &c.-Nineteen years is the usual term of endurance of
leases.  This is regarded as a proper period both for the landlord
and tenant. The lands, however, which are in the vicinity of the
city, and which are let in small allotments chiefly to the citizens,
have generally a sborter term of lease, varying from nine to thirteen
years. The farm-buildings in general correspond with the size
of the farms, and are kept in a proper state of repair.  Almost
the whole of the parish is better adapted for tillage than for pas-
ture, and a large proportion of it is in consequence unenclosed.
And even where fences have been erected, they are in many
cases of a slight and a defective quality.  No remarkable improve-
ments in agriculture have lately been introduced into the district,
either by the agriculturists at large, or by any particular individu-
al, and no obstacles to improvement seem at present to exist.
    Quarries and Mines.--Quarries of excellent free or sandstone,
well adapted for building operations, are wrought at Nydia Hill,
and at Strathkinness, near the western extremity of the parish.
The stones of most of the buildings in St. Andrews and its vici-
nity have been supplied from this source; and the materials
which they furnish are held in so high estimation, that they are
conveyed to considerable distances, sometimes even beyond the
limits of the county.  From Nydie Hill quarry, blocks of a very
large size may be readily obtained.  Quarries of wbinstone have
also been opened in different places, chiefly for the purpose of
procuring materials for the public roads, and the streets of the
city. No mines are at present wrought, but it is understood that
coal, though of an inferior quality, might bd procured at Denhdad,
near the south-west extremity of the parish.
   Fisheries.-A salmon-fishery has long been established in the
Eden, as far as the tide extends, but the produce is inconsiderable
both in extent and value.  The town-council of the city- have, for
a number of years, disposed of their right to take, salmon on the
east and west sands, and stake-nets have in consequence been
erected ; but their success has failed to realize the expectations of
the tacksmen, and their eretions are liable to be demolished by
the tackstnen, and their erections: are Eable to be dmolislied by


