
				FLISK.			605

of laying it out, would be in wood.  A considerable part of the
low ground was reclaimed, only within the last forty years; and of
the high ground, within a much later date.
  The leases are for nineteen years, and seem fairly adjusted be-
tween the landlord and tenant.
  The farm-buildings are generally good, though still, susceptible
of improvement.  There is a considerable deficiency of enclosures,
especially on the low grounds.  They consist solely of stone dikes.
Some have of late been added.
  The introduction of bone-dust-for turnip has been of great ser-
vice, in the cultivation of the hill lands, rendering it so much more
easy to apply manure to them. About sixteen -bushels of bone-dust,
(2s. per bushel,) mixed with eight of theashes of burnt coal or turf,
will serve for an acre, and a cart-load, of this will cover about four
acres. Animalized carbon has also been used for manure. Instead
of eating off the turnip with sheep, it is found equally good to leave
and plough down the shaws.
  Quarries.-There is a quarry of red sandstone close by the ri-
ver under Flisk Wood, and two of good clinkstone in other parts of
the parish; but none are of any great importance.
  Fisheries.-There are five br six stations for salmon-fishing. At
some, the sweep-net is used, at, others (chiefly the lower) the tut-
net, with three or four men to a boat. Stake-nets would be more
favourable for fishing, but are for the present interdicted.
  The salmon are not caught in abundance, but are execellent qua-
lity. The best seasons are in July and August, when, the rains being
over, and the snow melted, the quantity of water in the river is dimi-
nished, and the boats get nearer the middle of the stream, and within
the run of the fish.  If there is much water in the river in the spawn-
ing season, the spawn is deposited too high on the banks; and if the there
follows a dry February, much of it is destroyed.  The salmon fry,
smoults as they are called, pass this from the beginning of March
about three inches long, and are caught on their return, two or
three months afterwards, as grilse, six inches or upwards in length,
four, five or six pounds in, weight.
 The  seals are sometimes Be audacious and cunning as to tumble
over the net, seize a salmon, and make off with it.
  There are two spirling stations, Flisk-point and Kincase, with

<FOOTNOTE>The following has been communicated on apparently good authority. A
was caught on its descent some miles up the river. A ring was inserted, and the
little animal restored to the water. The same fish, identified by the ring, was again
caught two months afterwards on its ascent, and weight no less than 8 lbs.



