
910                 SUPPLEMENT TO THE

ral counties.  A few years ago, some very important facts relative to
crime were brought before the town-council of the city by one of
their number, Hugh Tennent, Esq.  His care and intelligence are
indisputable, and yet he has supplied us with such information as the
following: The criminal establishments of Glasgow cost originally
L.95,000.  Their annual expense is L.28,385.  The increased
expense of crime during the last four years is L.1279 per annum.
Pauperism costs L.18,000 a year.  What a contrast to the days of
Dr Benyon, the friend of Matthew Henry, who sojourned in the
city in 1703, and of whom Henry pleasantly relates, that "he ob-
served tn his great satisfaction that all the while he was in Glas-
gow, though he lay in a public inn, he never saw any drunk, nor
heard any swear.  Nay, he observed, that in all the inns of the
road to that part of Scotland where he lay, though some of them
mean, they had family worship performed morning and evening;
from which, and other remarks made in that jourdey, he inferred,
that practical religion doth not depend on worldly wealth, for
where he had seen the marks of poverty, there he had seen withal
the marks of piety."  These were the days of a missionary spirit
and wide-spread church extension ;--days in which the parochial
system was yet in its entireness and strength.
   It is time to return to the Church-Building Society, and to re-
late what it has been able to accomplish in the way of meeting the
fearful destitution and accompanying immorality and crime which
have been unfolded.  It has been honoured to erect thirteen
churches, viz. St Stephen's, St Mark's, St Peter's, the Bridegate,
St Luke's, Bridgeton, Camlachie, Chalmers's Church, Wellpark,
Hutchesontown, Martyrs, St Matthew's, Brownfield.  Others, such
as Milton, Brownfield, Kingston, have been built by private par-
ties; but are placed under all the important regulations of the
churches of the Church-Building Society.  The last erection is in
token of respect to the Rev. Mr Gibson, for his valuable services
to the Church of Scotland in the recent Church Establishment
controversy.  Several additional churches are in the course of erec-
tion, and it is expected will ere long be opened.  These are Green-
head and Lauriston.  In addition to these, important steps have
been taken by the Society towards the crection of other churches.
In this account of new churches we do not include several in the
neighbourhood of Glasgow, which are already open, and promise
to be most useful, such as the new churches at Kirkintilloch, Par-
tick, and Rutherglen.  Banton, in the parish of Kilsyth, is now


