
172                   EDINBURGHSHIRE.

insurrection, and finally obliged to escape in the disguise of a page,
comes before us with that deep interest, which is excited by every
vicissitude of her melancholy story." In pacing through the so-
litude of this august room, the words of the plaintive ditty can
scarce be absent from the mind of the visitor:

	       "I feel like one who treads alone
		Some banquet hall deserted,
		Whose light's are fled, whose garland's dead,
		And all but me departed."

   There is one small room. in this castle, which is unique in its
position, and unlike the rest in its dimensions; but it has an inde-
scribable interest attached to it.   It goes by the name of the
Queen's Room.  Like all those celebrated in the history of Mary,
it is of diminutive size; but bears marks of having been hung with
tapestry. In most of the old castles, there was a room of this
kind, which went by the name of the Lady's Bower; and there
can be little doubt, that this was the identical room occupied by
Mary during the few last days in which- she could be considered
as her own mistress;--from that room she went to all her sorrows.
The roof of the upper hall shows striking symptoms of decay.
Should it fall into the hall beneath, the damage will be incalcula-
ble and the present state of the neighbouring Castle of Crichton,
one of the ancient towers of which now covers the court-yard with
a hideous ruin, may serve as a warning of what will ensue, if the
roof of Borthwick should in like manner be rent asunder.
   No part of the castle has been inhabited for more than a century.
Some of the ancient furniture, however, has been preserved, and is
at present, I believe, in the possession of the proprietor, viz. an old
oak chair, with low seat and arms, and a high back, covered with
coronets,--an extremely curious clock,--and, I believe, a lamp,
which last, however, I have not seen.
   The old church of Borthwick, the ruins of which still stand in
the churchyard, and which, from the style of its architecture, is
evidently of the same age, nearly, with the castle, is well deserving,
of notice.  It is beside what was formerly the place where the al-
tar stood, that the effigies of Lord and Lady Borthwick are lying.
When used as the parish church, it must have been an object of
much veneration to the parishioners, and have harmonized finely
with the other objects of antiquity in its neighbourhood. Indeed,it
was of itself fitted to have given a character to the surrounding
scenery. Its roof, like that of the castle, is covered with stone


