
	              SORN.                               133

nan, Esq. of Catrine Bank; Lieut.-Colonel Stewart of Catrine;
and four other small proprietors, are resident. The non-residing
heritors are, the Duke of Portland; the Marquis of Bute; Sir
James Boswell, Bart. of Actchinleck; William Campbell, Esq. of
Fairfield; Lieut.-Colonel M'Adam Cathcart of Craigengillan;
Claud Alexander, Esq. of Ballochmyle; William Campbell, Esq.
of Nether Place; Thomas Falconer, Esq. of Auchencloigh; Miss
Innes of Stow; and Alexander Murdoch, Esq. of Briggs.
	Antiquities.--There is nothing particularly worthy of being no-
ticed under this head, except Sorn Castle. This castle, which
stands upon a rock overhanging the river Ayr, and within a short
distance of the church and manse, is supposed to have been erect-
ed at a very early period, but by whom is unknown. There is,
however, a tradition, that the labourers who were engaged in build-
ing it had their option either of a peck of meal or 1 1/2d. per day.
The following short but well-authenticated narrative of its proprie-
tors was communicated to Dr Gordon, the eloquent and benevo-
lent writer of the last Statistical Account of the parish: " About
the year 1406, the lands of Sorn, with several others in the dis-
trict of Kyle, were acquired by Andrew Hamilton, third son of Sir
David Hamilton of Cadzow, ancestor to the Duke of Hamilton.
This Andrew Hamilton married Agnes, a daughter of Sir Hugh
Campbell, Sheriff of Ayr, and by him bad a son, Sir Robert Ha-
milton of Sorn and Sanquhar. Sir Robert married a daughter of
Sir William Crawfurd of Loch Norris; and Sir William Hamil-
ton of Sorn and Sanqubar, a son of this marriage, was one of the
Senators of the College of Justice, and Lord Treasurer to King
James V. This Lord Treasurer married a daughterof the fami-
ly of Cassillis, by whom he had an heiress, Isobel Hamilton, who
married George Lord Seaton, and by him was mother to Robert,
first Earl of Winton, to Alexander, first Earl of Dunfermline, and
Margaret, the wife of Claud Hamilton, Lord Paisley, ancestor to
the Earl of Abercorn. The lands of Sorn were sold by the sue-
ceeding Earl of Winton to the family of Loudon; and, after re-
maining in this family upwards of 150 years, they were sold to
Willham Tennent, Esq. of Poole, in 1782." Sorn Castle and
estate, after being a short time in the possession of Mr Tennent;
were sold by him to Mr Graham of Limekilns and Mr. Stevenson
of Dalgain, from whom they were purchased by the family of the
present proprietrix about forty years ago. Sorn Castle was one of
those places belonging to private individuals whieh Charles II., in


