
78                        LANARKSHIRE.

ridge to Cleugh-burn, where the limestone shows itself in great
abundance, the dip is to the south.  Troubles, as they are here
called, frequently show themselves in the limestone, and add greatly
to the expense of working it.  These troubles are from 4 to 6 feet in
thickness, imbedded in the limestone, and they frequently cut it off
altogether, but make no change in the coal or sandstone: and when
cut out, which is done with great labour and expense, the lime-
stone is found of equal quality with what was formerly obtained.
They are formed of a substance here called Sklut, which, though
unable to withstand the influence of the sun or the action of the
atmosphere, which soon crumbles it to pieces, resists the opera-
tion of fire: hence they are generally employed for building the
sides of the kilns in which the lime is burned.  To give some idea
of the disadvantage arising from these troubles, it may be mention-
ed, that the range of working at one of the most extensive lime-
works on the south side of the ridge is about forty yards, and in
that space one or more of these troubles are always met with.
   On the north side of the ridge above-mentioned, down to Cleugh-
burn, presenting an extent of ground greater than the south side,
the limestone is equally abundant, but, being unaccompanied with
coal, has probably from this cause never been wrought to the same
extent.
   On crossing Cleugh-burn, an immense field of coal presents itself,
and from thence to the northern boundary of the parish, it is be-
lieved that an inexhaustible store of this, as well as other minerals,
is laid up.  The coal has been wrought for time immemorial, but
only partially, till about fifty years ago, when two brothers of the
name of Wilson, Swedish Merchants in London, commenced an
iron foundry near a place called Forkens, and in a few years Wil-
sontown rose into existence.
   Wilsontown Iron-works.--In the year 1779 the Messrs Wilsons
commenced their preparatory operations for the iron-works, and,
in 1780-81, began the manufacture of pig iron.  The difficulties
they had to contend with were numerous and various.  The coal,
where previously wrought, was found not well adapted to their pur-
pose; and, though they had a sufficient supply at a greater depth
of the very best kind, yet, from the quantity of water in the pits
opened, and which (from the direction of the strata and the nature
of the surface rendering it impossible to obtain a level) could only
be cleared by means of horses, they were forced to give up the
attempt, and to return to the coal where they first started.  With
the supply which this field afforded, the work went on with varied


