
     Statistical Account

in these islands; frequently carrying off a fifth part of the in-
habitants.  Now, hardly any suffer by this disorder.  Inocu-
tion is successfully practised, even by the common people;
but in particular by a person, whose name is John Williamson,
who, from his various attainments, and superior talents, is

<FOOTNOTE>

"that your soul may rest at ease.  Meanwhile, I charge you, and,
"Messrs Lindsay and Laing, instantly to notify the first vacancy
"to me, that I may inform Sir Hew Dalrymple, who is going to
"winter at London.  Whether I write you frequently or not, you
"may believe, that no manh as your happiness more at heart," etc.
   After the presentation came to hand, I was in danger of losing
all, by the jure devoluto: the fix months since the decrease of my pre-
decessor being near elapsed, at the end of which, the right of pre-
sentation would have gone from the patron to the presbytery.  It
was now the depth of winter, and, at that season of the year, there
is usually no communication between Orkney and Shetland; when I
had therefore given up all for lost, a vessel came into Papa Sound,
in Orkney, very near tha manse, where I resided; and, on making
inquiry, I was told, it was the packet from Leith, on her way for
Shetland.  There again was another surrpizing and uncommon cir-
cumstance, for, it is very remarkable, that this same packet was ne-
ver known to put into the Orkneys, either before or since that pe-
riod.  Not to trouble you any longer, with a detail of uninteresting
circumstances, I hasten to conclude with one general remark.  Such
a combination of fortuitous incidents, or what you please to call
them, served to impress on my mind, the truth of Cicero's observ-
ation, more foreibly, and with a more powerful effect, than a whole
body of divinity, or 50,000 sermons, preached by the most celebrat-
ed doctors of the church.  "Nec vero universo generi humano solum,
"fed etiam SINGULIS, Deus consuli et provideri sole!*."
I am, etc.

*"Providence seems to watch over the happiness; not only of 
"the human race in general, but even of individuals."


