
     Statistical Account

vel, and sand; and in the Carlops Hill have been found
small quantities of lead and iron ore.  Some of the lime rocks
in the upper part of the parish are so hard and entire as to
answer the purposes of marble, of which, when polished, they
make very beautiful specimens.  There are also some strata
of rotten whinstone, and such as are sought after for mill-
stones.  Chalybeate springs are frequent, besides the mineral
and petrifying or encrusting springs already mentioned.  The
streams afford plenty of trout and some eels, and the lake is
full of perch and pike.  In the channel of Monksburn alone
are veins of freestone, mill-stone, coal, clay, sand, four veins
of ironstone, two of limestone, gravel, and granite In a bed
of clay, above the undermost lime rock, were found several
entire petrified shells, resembling the mytilus anatinus; and in
a stratum of limestone up the Esk at the How Lin, some
pieces of petrified wood with imperfect specimens of the mya
and helix of Linnaeus.  Several figured stones, such as those
described in the account of Blantyre, have presented them-
selves both in the common freestone and that like petuntse;
they are somewhat cylindrical, either with regular rows of
equidistant and alternate pits, or with net-work raised like
the coat of a melon: The surrounding case of stone is the same
in substance, and bears a similar impression reversed.  When
taken out of this mould many of them resemble in colour,
shape, and surface, a piece of dead pine tree after the leaves
have dropt.  One specimen of freestone, about a foot square,
was lately discovered on the banks of the river with irregu-
lar net-work, interspersed with round, oblong, and pointed
projections, all over one of its sides, on a general view, hav-
ing the appearance of coarse or blunted representations, in re-
lief, of branches with leaves and fruit upon them.  The
other side is flat and smooth, and it seems to have made a
part of a stratum of freestone.  It is about an inch thick; and


