
			STEVENSTON.                              469

tive fruit trees, and with a large assortment of rare and beautiful,
but very unproductive flowers and plants.*/f
   The stipend is 16 chalders, half oatmeal and half barley, with
L. 10 for communion elements; and L. 4, 3s. 4d., the interest
of mortified money, in the hands of one of the heritors; and these
sums being included, it has averaged these two years, since it was
augmented, L. 229, 7s. 4d.+ The stipend for the last three years,
including money for communion elements, and. L. 4, 3s. 4d., in-
terest of mortified money, averaged L. 257, 7s. 10d.
   The number of communicants connected with the Establish-
ment in the parish, is 980. The sacrament nf the Lord's sup-
per is dispensed twice in the season. The number who commu-
nicate at one time is about 520. About 30 more living in Salt-
coats attend, and communicate in the parish church of Ardrossan,
which is much nearer to them.
   In the Stevenston portion of Saltcoats, there is a United Seces-
sion, and also a Relief Meeting-house. The ministers who of-
ficiate in them are paid by public collections, and by the seat
rents. The United Secession meeting-house is seated for 556.
The Rev. Mr Ellis has informed us, that, besides occasional pre-
sents of considerable value, he has never received less than L. 130
of stipend, and four and sometimes five guineas, (exclusive of com-
munion elements,) for defraying additional expenses incurred on
these occasions.
   The Relief Meeting-house is seated for 650. The Rev. Mr
Giffen informs us, that besides sacramental and travelling ex-
penses, and his pulpit supplied in his absence at the expense, of
the congregation, (as Mr Ellis also has,) the stipend promised is

<FOOTNOTE> The Glebe being under the' legal size, a field, called the "Tinklers' Acre," was, with
vacant stipend, purchased nearly eighty years ago, as an addition to it; and this now
forms the garden; and what is called "the low-field" behind it. The adjoining field
of the glebe is called the Bell Acre; but why so, we leave future antiquarians to dis-
cover. A hell-man, who was in office more than a quarter of a century ago, firmly
believed that as it was called the Bell acre, it was intended that it should be a per-
quisite of the Bell man's
     About 1696, the stipend being small, and preachers scarce after a long season
of persecution, the inhabitants of Stevenston could not for some years get a minister.
As an inducement to a ministers to settle among them, we find th elders of the pa-
rish stating to the Presbytery, that if the heritors who had resolved to employ one
year's vacant stipend in repairing the manse, and the bridge, (for the old bridge was
old, it would appear, even then,) would condescend to mortify the said year's stipend
for a supplement, the tennants would repair the said manse and bridge at their own
changes. Two ministers having been appointed to speak to Gargunnock and the Lady
Grange, if they would condescend thereto, they gave in their report, that they were
willing to condescend thereto with a slight'reservation. Notwithstanding, they could
not get a minister till 1700, when Mr William Reid was ordained.


