
                            LINLITHGOW.                 187

proved within these last few years, under the inspection of the
Prison Board. The, number of prisoners confined during last
year, was 125. This, however, includes the county, and affords
no criterion by which to judge of the amount of crime in the pa-
rish. The prison is well secured, and every attention paid to the
health and even comforts of the prisoners; each cell is heated
with a stove and lighted with gas, regularly cleaned, and as well
ventilated as the situation of the prison will admit. Each pri-
soner, when brought in, is washed and clothed in a prison dress.
The diet is excellent, consisting of six ounce of oatmeal made in-
to porridge, for breakfast, with three-fourths of a pint of buttermilk.
Dinner, ox-head broth, four ounce barley, four ounce bread, and
a proportion of vegetables, each alternate day, pease-brose, fish,
and potatoes. Supper the same as breakfast. Provision is also
made for the religious instruction of the prisoners; in addition to
the services of a chaplain, each cell is provided with a Testament.
Mr Alison the governor instructs the male-prisoners, who cannot
read or write; and his wife, the female prisoners. Many of them
appear to value the instruction they receive, and some of them
make considerable progress. A new jail is to be immediately erect-
ed, in which greater facilities will exist for the exercise of the im-
proved prison discipline.
   Fairs.-There is a weekly market, and six annual fairs in Lin-
lithgow.
   Inns.-There are two inns in the town, one adjoining the Rail-
way station, of a superior class. There are a number of public-
houses. It would be well for the town, were they much reduced
in number; for many of them only serve to administer to the crav-
ings of intemperance.
   Fuel.-The only fuel used is coal, which is procured from the
Duke of Hamilton's and other coal pits to the west, and from
Borrowstownness.

                MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.

   Since the last Statistical Account was written, considerable
changes have taken place in the parish. Several branches of trade
then prosecuted in the town are now extinct, such as the trade in
wool, then a staple commodity, carpet-weaving, and. tambourine in
factories. But though various branches of trade have become ex-
tinct, there is no reason to imagine that any great decline has taken
place in the prosperity of the town; population has increased, and


