
434                      ABERDEENSHIRE.

Greek, or mathematics, 5s.  The parents are generally anxious to
give their offspring an education suitable to their station; so that
there are few young persons above six years who have not bad an
opportunity of learning to read, write, and cypher.  None are pre-
cluded by distance from attending the parochial school; but as it
was built thirty years ago, and for only eighty scholars, it
could not accommodate the number of youth who now apply to
education during the winter months, or from the close of harvest
to the seed-time, being above 200, or one-seventh of the popula-
tion: hence the success of the two unendowed schools in the villages,
each of them about two miles distant from the parish school, and
equally well filled with it.
   There is no parish library strictly so called; but a reading so-
ciety was formed abotit eight years ago by thirty members, which
affords the means of instructive and religious reading, at a very
trivial expense, to all who desire it; and may tend also to increase
the number of readers in the rising generation.
   Friendly Societies.-Of several Friendly Societies formed here,
only one remains, called The Freefield Ploughmen Lodge, which
remodelled its rules agreeably to the Act of Parliament, and seems
to flourish.
   Savings Bank.-A District Savings Bank, on the security of
the national funds, was opened in Inverury at Whitsunday last;
and the industrious classes in this and other surrounding parishes
have availed themselves of the means of providing for the wants of
age; the deposits in six months, chiefly by male and female ser-
vants, being about L.1500, and in two years amounting to nearly
L.6000.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-Of poor persons on the parish roll,
the average is 40, and the amount distributed quarterly in sums
from 8s. to 15s. according to their relative circumstances, is L.20
or L.80 per annum.  The yearly amount of church collections is
L.48, 10s.; rents drawn for seats of three galleries, L.14, 5s.;
interest of poor's funds lent, L.7, 10s. ; donations, legacies, and
other casual supplies, L.12; total, L.82, 5s.  There is one fund
for the poor of all the parishes in the county and synod,
(except those in Fordyce, and two others which have assessments,)
which deserves to be recorded, in memory of the benevolent do-
nor, the late John Burnett, of Dens, Esq. a citizen of Aberdeen,
who bequested a considerable part of his residuary estate for
this charitable purpose.  This having been realized and invested


