
          		DUNKELD AND DOWALLY.              977

whose tomb was and still is one of its attractions, and from whom
part of his power as laird had been acquired.
   At the Reformation of 1560, the revenue of the Dunkeld
church was upwards of L.1600, but the benefice afterwards be-
came so poor, that the king, as is understood, by an entry in the
secretary's books, of date 23d October 1685, had to make a gift
of L.100 Sterling yearly to the incumbent. It appears that the
Episcopalian bishops did nothing towards the repairing of the ca-
thedral, for, in 1600, Stewart of Ladywell repaired the choir, and
roofed it with slate at his private expense. Although Episco-
pacy was subsequently supplanted by Presbyterianism, yet there
is still a Bishop of Dunkeld who regulates the Episcopal worship
within the united diocese of Dunblane, Dunkeld, and Fife. The
bishop at present resides, in Aberdeenshire, and the Dean of Dun-
keld in Forfarshire.
   By the Acts of the General Assembly of 1586 and 1593, Dun-
keld was appointed as the seat of presbyterial meetings, which con-
tinues to be the place of meeting to the present day. *
   In 1647, Sir James Galloway, Master of Requests to James
VI. and to Charles I. was created Lord Dunkeld. + His grand-
son James was attainted at the Revolution of 1688, and dying
about tbe year 1700, the title became extinct.
   In 1689, Viscount Dundee endeavoured with a Highland army
to oppose the Revolution settlement of 1688 in the north of Scot-
land.  With that view, he marched to Perthshire, where he fought
and died at Killiecrankie. His troops, after the battle, marched
down and attacked tbe town of Dunkeld. It was garrisoned by
the Cameronians, now the 26th Regiment, then a body of raw
recruits. The battle began at seven o'clock in the morning of the
21st August 1689, and continued with intervals till eleven o'clock
at night. The fiercest struggle was made on the site of the pre-

<FOOTNOTE>During the period of Episcopacy, the following notice occurs anent the obse-
quies and btrials of the great:--Assembly of 7 July, Sessio 5. Avent the bur-
rial of the Earle of Atholl of good memorie, the kirk thoct meit to direct from the
Assembly Mrs John Row and John Durie to desyre of them that all seperstition be
avoyded thereat: quho reported that they had made information to their honours,
that the bruit was of same superstitious rites quhilk were prepared for the buriall, as
one qwhyte cross in the mortcloath, lang gownes with stroupes and torches: Quhais
answer was that it was not one crosse, and grantit the gownes and denyit the torche:
alwayes desyred the kirk to direct two to sie if sic things as was prepared were su-
perstitious, and they should be reformit: According qwhairto was immediately sent
to them David Fargysone, John Braid, and John Durie, to declare.  The kirk thocht
the crowe and stroupes superstitious and ethineque like, and to desire them to remove
the same; who returned with answer, that the Lords should cause cover the mort-
cloath with black velvet, and the stroupes should be removit."
        Guthrie's Memoirs, p. 155. Glasgow, 1748.

        PERTH.                        3 Q


