
18                     DUMBARTONSHIRE.

practised eye of the mountaineer, or of the enthusiastic geologist,
to overlook the brink without a shudder. It is these which form
the deep chasms in the hills, which give their romantic character
to these beautiful spots, and which cause the Kilpatrick braes to
impress the most untaught in the beauties of nature with feelings
of admiration. Any organic remains which have been discovered
are principally of the vegetable kind. There are also strata of
clay and iron-ore.
   It may be here mentioned, that lately, at Dalmuir, a bed of
shells was discovered in a section of the sand deposit, which is to
be found in many places in this district of country. This disco-
very was made in consequence of making some alteration in the
course of the Dalmuir Burn. A full account of the whole matter
is published in Vol. i. page 131, of the Records of General Sci-
ence. The communication is made by Mr Thomas Thomson,
son of Dr Thomson of Glasgow. He says, "The locality in
which the fossils are exposed is situated on the banks of the
Dalmuir Burn, about 100 yards above the bridge, by which the
road from Glasgow to Dumbarton crosses it, and about a mile
from the Clyde. The current of the stream is not very rapid, so
that the bed of shells is probably not more than 20 feet above
the level of the Clyde, which at that place is sensibly salt at high
water. The breadth of the channel of the stream is about 14
feet, and the depth of the banks about 2 1/2 feet. The sandy de-
posit appears to extend on both sides of the stream upwards and
downwards, without alteration, but the fossils are confined to a
circular, or rather elliptical space, the breadth of which (across
the stream) is about 25 feet, while its length is only about 15
feet. The deposit extends from each bank only about 6 feet, so
that more than one-half of the whole mass has been cut away
during the change of the course of the rivulet. The whole depth
of the bed, as it exists at presents is about 2 1/2 feet; but I am in-
formed by the overseer upon the estate, who superintended the
workmen during their operations, that after the soil bad been re-
moved, 10 or 12 feet of earth- full of sand was carried away, so
that the depth of the bed in its original state, must have been 12
or 14 feet."
   "The number of species which have been already collected
amount to about 30." The names are given in the Journal.
Mr Thomson again says, "The shells which have been found

                         3


