
     Statistical Account

we have every reason to believe, that some great men have
been buried in this place, and we are certain, that the fa-
mous Caledonian bard, OSSIAN, lies here.  His tomb is well
known, and often visited.  It is a coffin of 4 stones set on
edge, about 2 feet long, 2 feet deep, 1 1/2 feet broad, and
over it is laid a great stone, about 8 feet high, and 21 feet in
circumference.  General Wade's servant discovered it, when
making the King's high way.

   Character and Manners, etc.-The people of this parish
may be said to answer the general character of the Scotch;
for they are sober, honest, humane, industrious, and respect-
fuI to their superiors.  The have a reasonable measure of
the comforts and conveniences of life, are contented with
their lot, attend most regularly upon public worship, and
behave with a becoming decency in the house of God.  Not
one instance of suicide, or of any person belonging to this
parish being judicially convicted of any crime, has occurred
there 40 years.  In general, they dress better than formerly.
They meet together at times, and make merry.  Their chief
amusement at public meetings is dancing; and, upon these
occassions, there is a pleasing cheerfulness and innocence a-
mong them.  They are not however entirely free of super-
stition.  Lucky and unlucky days and feet are still attended to,
especially about the end and beginning of the year.  No per
son will be proclaimed for marriage in the end of one year,
or even quarter of the year, and be married in the beginning
of the next.  The power of an evil eye, too, is still believed,

<FOOTNOTE>

are told, that CONSTANTINE the son of CULLEN was killed by KENNETH,
the son of MALCOLM I. at Rathmore, in the year 992.  And it is probable
he is burried in one of those cairns.  HOLLINSHED tells us, that king Culen
was killed by EADHARD at METHVEN castle almost in the middle of his way
to Scone; and Methven signifies mid-way in the Gaelic, and it is situated be-
twixt Rathermore and Scone,


