
104                           DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

S. W. whose elevation is 2259 feet; and the summit whereof is
in latitude 55&deg; 17' 2" N.; and longitude 3/d1 34' 47" west.  The
heights of Saddleback and Lochcraig have not yet been correctly
ascertained.  The position of Queensberry was correctly laid
dowm and the precise elevations, in so far as above stated, have
been certified from the great Ordnance survey, and by the highest
authority.  * The Hartfell group of mountains includes Lochfell,
nearly equal in height to the rest; together with Bodsbech and some
others, whose elevation is not correctly known.  The Fells in the
south of Scotland and north of England are generally soft green hills
of considerable elevation, and easy curved outline.  If the word
"meaol" or veaol, as it is often pronounced, and which in Gaelic
is said to signify a lump or flattish hill, be the true etymon of
these fells, it seems not inappropriate to their description.  The
Hopes are not uncommon terms as parts of mountain scenery in
the pastoral regions of the south of Scotland, and they occur most
frequently where the bases of mountains meet each other without
leaving any level as a vale.  It is this line of meeting and ascent
from it that is commonly called a hope, and with the name of the
hill or farm superadded.
     Hartfell may be ascended nearly all the way on horseback; and
from its green flat summit may be seen, in fine weather, the Che-
viots in Northumberland, Skiddaw, and other mountains of Cum-
berland; Criffell in Galloway, Queensberry, and the other moun-
tains on the west; Corsoncone in Nithsdale, Blacklarg in Ayrshire,
and, at sunset, also Benlomond in Stirlingshire.
     Meteorology.--- The temperature of Moffat parish varies, of
course, very considerably over the vales and mountains.  But the
aspect is to the southward, and the soil is commonly either natu-
rally dry, or it has been drained where it was damp; and the com-
bined effect of these two causes has been felt to advantage in im-
proving the climate throughout the parish.  Snow is frequently
attracted in showers to the mountains, and is sden lying there,
white on the summits, when there is none below in the vales.

<FOOTNOTE>It may be interesting, for the purpose of comparison, to notice here the elevations
Of some higher mountains in England, on the south, and partly in sight of the above
group.  Skiddaw in Cumberland, above sea level,30022 feet; Helvellyn, in the same
county, 3055 feet; Cheviot, in Northumberland, 2665 feet.  The elevations of some
of the Scottish mountains in the north are as follows: Benmachie, in Aberdeenshire,
above sea level 2858 feet; Lochnagarr in the same, 3777 feet; Benmachie,in the
sam, 4905 feet; Cruachan in Argyleshire, 3654 feet; Bennevis, in Inverness-shire,
4368 feet.


