
220                     KIRKCUDERIGHTSHIRE.

record has been lost or mislaid. It has been regularly kept since
that time, and the present incumbent, who was inducted in 1809,
has acted as session-clerk, and saved to the poor the small sum
which was formerly allowed as a salary.
	Antiquities.--There are no antiquities in the parish that de-
serive to be particularly mentioned. Two ancient houses, now in
ruins, were formerly the seats of Lord Herries, who made a con-
spicuous figure in the reign of Queen Mary. The one is in the
middle of the parish, and the other at the southern extremity.
They have both been places of strength, and it is easy to trace
the moat which surrounded the castle of Corah. There is also
a rquare tower at Drumcoltran, which had also been a place of
strength. About thirty years ago, a matchlock was dug up in the
neighbourbood of the tower. On the farm of Glaisters, belong-
ing to Mr Maxwell, there was a very large cairn of stones, which
was carried away some years ago, for building dikes. The dike
built out nf the stones which composed the cairn, extended to
a mile in length; and in the bottom of the cairn, a number of
urns were found filled with ashes. They immediately crumbled
into dust when exposed to the air. This cairn was situated in a
low-lying and level moor. Adjacent to this mound there is still
a circle of large granite stones.
	Coins.--Some years ago, a beautiful gold bonnet piece of James
V. was found on the lands of Lochend. It was in a state of good
preservation, and is now in the possession of the proprietor. Two
years ago, a silver coin was found in the glebe, which appears to
have been struck on the dispersion of the Armada.
	Modern Buildings.--When the present incumbent came to the
parish, there were only three slated farmhouses in it. Now
there is an excellent onstead on almost every farm, and the tenants
are most comfortably lodged. Mr Maxwell of Terregles has
spared no expense in erecting most commodious houses of every
description. The buildings are most substantial, built of granite,
and well finished in every respect.

<TABLE=POPULATION>
			III.--POPULATION.
	Acoording to the former Statistical Account the population was      520
    In 1811,                                                          656
       1821,                                                          776
       1831,                                                          652
       1841,                                                          637

	It is easy to state the causes of the decrease of the population.
	As formerly stated, new farm onsteads were erected throughout


