
			FORDOUN.    			67

of his bones and other relics along with them. These were pro-
bably placed in a humble chest at first, but, as the fame of the
saint increased, and, consequently, also the pilgrimages to his
bh`pel, it was thought necessary to remove them from their first
humble resting-place to a silver shrine, a present from the Arch-
bishop of St Andrews.
	" Fordoun was a vicarage belonging to the Archbishop of St
Andrews, and was called a Mensal Church, the teinds of the parish
being allotted for the support of the archbishop's table. Forbes
or Tytler says, it was called ' The Mother Church of the Mearns.'
Although the period when St Palladius' Chapel was built cannot
now be ascertained, yet we are certain the chapel is of great an-
tiquity. * This is not only evident from the appearance of the
foundations, but also from the universal declaration of the early
Scotch historians, that Kenneth the Third, who was killed by Fi-
nella near Kincardine Castle or Palace in this parish, had come
to Kincardine, in order to make a pilgrimage to St Palladius'
Chapel. Kenneth ascended the throne in 970, and was murder-
ed in 994; and from the circumstance of his making a pilgrimage
to the chapel at Fordoun, it must have been a place of noted
sanctity before that period. There is a well in the minister's
ground, called St Palladius' Well, from whence the monks who
had charge of the shrine and the pilgrims were probably furnished
with water. An old house which stood at the entry into the
church-yard, and was pulled down within these few years, in order
to enlarge the burying-ground, went formerly by the name of the
Manse, and perhaps was the habitation of the monks. A market,
one of the largest in the Mearns, which at one time stood at no
great distance from the chapel, but which was afterwards removed
some miles in consequence of an exchange or sale of land, went
by the name of Palladius or Paldy-Fair, a name which it still re-
tains."
	Extent.--The mean length of the parish, extending from south-
west to north-east, or from Nether Craigniston to Mondynes, may
be about 8 miles; and its mean breadth, from south-east to north-
west, that is, from Pittarrow to the summit of the Grampians above

<FOOTNOTE> The very old church of Fordoun, which had stood two hundred or three hun-
dred years, and was 100 feet long over walls, and 24 feet in breadth at the widest,
and 16 at the narrowest, gave way in 1787, and was replaced by a new one in 1788.
In 1827, the roof of that new church also gave way, and was replaced in 1830 by a
large and most elegant structure, the admiration of all who visit it.--Note by Dr
Leslie.


