
                      APPLECROSS.                             99

              MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.

    In concluding this short Account of the parish, I must take
leave to say, that either the Parliamentary Commissioners for
Highland roads, or those whose duty it was to make application to,
them, were very remiss in overlooking this parish. When other
parishes received large grants for conducting public road's through
their whole length and breadth, this parish, though the public mails
pass twice through it every week, from Dingwall to Stomoway,
was completely neglected. It is almost unnecessary to add that,
without public roads, no regular improvement can be carried on in
any part of the Highlands. The first great improvemdnt required
in this way, is a public road from the east end of Lochmaree, along
its banks to the harbour of Poi5lewe,-and throwing an arch across
the river Ewe, near its confluence with the sea; a s ot which
seems formed by nattire for the purpose. The population is by
much too dense for the means of support which they enjoy. A
Government grant to convey one-third of the people to Upper. Ca-
nada would be most desirable; and, in order to promote the moml
and religious improvement of the people, two missionaries, and from
six to eig ' ht schools, on a proper footing, are absolutely necessary
and loudly called for.
September 1836.

                   PARISH OF APPLECROSS.
          PRESBYTERY OF LOCUCARRON, SYNOD OF GLENELG.

         THE REV. RODERICK MIRAE, MINISTER.

        I.-ToPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
  THE parish of Applecross, in Gaelic called Comaraich-, is divid-
ed into tbre'e large districts; 1. Applecross, strictly so called;
2.Lochs, consisting of Torridon, Shieldag, &c.; 3. Kishorn.
This parish formed a part of the parish of Lochearron, till 1726,
when it was erected into a separate charge. The Applecross dis-
trict was formerly occupied by a body of Roman Catholic priest,
whose residence afforded an asylum to such ' aq, from motives of
piety, or to escape from punishment for criminal actions, sought
such a place of protection. Hence the name Comaraich, a place
of safety.

