
			   ROTHESAY.                     113

to the managers, and by an endowment of L. 75 a-year granted
by the Marquis of Bute in 1838.
   North Bute church was erected after an elegant plan, in 1836, by
the Marquis of Bute, for the convenience of the inhabitants of the
northern part of the parish. It stands in the valley which stretches
between Kames bay and Ettrick, about 3 1/2 miles north of Rothesay,
and about a mile southof Port Bannatyne. It contains about 700
sitters; the seats are apportioned by his Lordship amoung the in-
habitants. It is at present a quad acra parish, comprehending
about 900 souls; but is about to be erected into a civil parish also
by a process of erection and disjuction. The stipend is L. 150,
with a manse and L. 10 a-year in name of glebe. This is one of
the finest instances in modern times of an enlightened and gene-
rous regard, on the part of a proprietor, to the best interest of the
comunity, over which Providence has placed him; and is worthy
of more general imitation. Before the whole plan is compldted,
it will have cost his Lorship a sunk capital of at least L. 800.
   There is a Gaelic chapel of ease, in the town of Rothesay, built in
1837, containing 600 sitters. It cost L. 600, which was raised by
subscription, and by a grant from the General Assembly's Church
Extension fund. The service are entirely in the Gaelic language
The minister's stipend is L. 70, which is paid from the seat rents,
and the collections at the church door.
   Of places of worship in the parish not connected with the Esta-
blished Church, there are a United Secession church; minister's
stipend, L. 100, paid from seat rents and collections: A Reform-
ed presbyterian church; minister's stipend L. 80, paid from seat
rents and collections; an Independent church, having no minister
and no means of supporting one; and a small Episcopal chapel.
   According to an accurate census of the whole parish made for
the Commisioners on Religious Instruction, the population in 1837
was 6089, of which there belonged to the Established Church,
5433; United Secession, 374; Reformed Presbyterian, 31; Re-
lief, 14; Independents, 28; Episcopalians, 35; Papist, 53
aptist, 30; Methodist, 2; Old Light Bargher, 6; no de-
nomination, 33. The number of communicants of the Establish-
ed Church in the whole parish is 1962; and the religious services
in the Established churches are remarkable well attended.
   Of socities for religious purposes in the parish, there are
1. Rothesay Parochial Association for promoting the Benevolt
and Religious Scheme of the General Assembly; collected last
     BUTE                         H


