
246                        FORFARSHIRE.

face of 6 1/2 square miles. Its figure bears some resemblance to
that of a battledore; the broader part of which forms a sort of
promontory between the river Southesk on the north, and the bay
of Lunan on the south; while the other extremity, resembling the
handle, runs straight towards the west, and intersects the adjoin-
ing parish of Marytown in its course. The river Southesk, which
flows through a basin about 9 miles in circumference, filled by
the tide at high water, separates the parish from the town and
harbour of Montrose on the north; while the whole of the eastern,
and part of the southern, boundary is washed by the German
Ocean.
   Topographical Appearances.--The greater part of the parish
towards the east forms a sort of table-land, gradually rising from
the north and east towards the south-west, till it reaches an eleva-
tion of 400 feet above the level of the sea. Dunninald is the highest
ground on the south coast; Govan hill, in the middle; Pitarris
hill and Mountboy towards the west.
   The extent of coast washed by the sea is not less than five miles.
The shore is very rocky; and towards the south is quite precipi-
tous. The bays and headlands are, Montrose bay and Montrose
ness on the north, and Lunan bay and Boddin point on the south.
   Climate, Diseases, &c.--The climate is more than usually healthy,
compared with the adjoining districts. The most common dis-
eases are rheumatism, fevers, consumption, dysenteries. " A sin-
gular distemper, called the louping ague, has sometimes made its
appearance in this parish. The patients, when seized, have all
the appearance of madness, and their bodies are variously dis-
torted. They run, when they find opportunity, with amazing
swiftness, and over dangerous passes; and, when confined to the
house, they jump and climb in an astonishing manner, till their
strength be exhausted. Cold bathing is found to be a most effec-
tual remedy." (Former Account.) One case of more recent date
was remarkably checked and cured by terror. A singular instance
of somnolency, or stupor, occurred at Dunninald in the year 1815,
--an account of which, drawn up at the time by the writer of this
article, is recorded in the Transactions of the Edinburgh Philoso-
phical Society, and entitled " Remarkable Case of Margaret Lyell."
    Spings.*/f--Many perennial springs of excellent water are found
in the parish, but only one little burn towards the west, which

<FOOTNOTE>The description of the river Southesk and its circular basin, which bound the
parish on the north, is considered as belonging to the account of Montrose.


