

			WESTRAY.			   119

itself into Saintear, the lower, and that again in the Bay of Picio-
wall.  There are trout in both these lakes, and their season of
spawning is in September and October.  In these months, they
are often caught in their way up the stream from the sea.
   Geology and Mineralogy.-Tbe strata of rock round this and
the other island consist of limestone of the mixed and impure kind,
and of the trap formation, twisted and scattered in all directions
on the coast.  There are also here two kinds of flagstone, distin-
guished by the colour, blue and grey.  The blue, like the rock of
that colour, is hard, and accounted the most durable of the two.
It is chiefly found by the sea shore, and considerably down from the
high-water mark.  The greystone flag is found in abundance all
over the Island of Westray, and of various thickness, from half an
inch to three or four inches.  Several quarries of it have, within
these six or eight years, been opened for the purpose of making
slate for houses.  But the common people roof their houses with
both kinds, just as they happen to be within their reach, and put
them on in the same state in which they  raise them, measuring
sometimes from eight to ten feet square.  This makes roofing
here as easy as building.  Pure limestone is also found in Westray.
About thirty-eight years ago, a good deal was quarried on one
estate, the estate of Cleat, and, being burnt, was found of good
quality.
  In this island, organic remains are found imbedded in peat-moss,
belonging both to the animal and vegetable kingdoms.  In one
large moss, great quantities of birch and birch-bark are annually
dug up, in the operation of cutting peats; and report says, that
horns of deer have frequently been discovered in different parts of
the moss.  These fossils would indicate that forest wood, at some
early period, existed in the island, and that deer had then been an
inhabitant of the place.  The wonder is, that no forest or growing
wood of any extent is now to be seen either in this or in any other
island in the country, though similar fossils abound.  And it is a
matter no less surprising, that every attempt to raise forest wood
in the open fields, even in the most sheltered spots, has hitherto
proved abortive.
   The only ore discovered in this island is manganese. The dark-
brown colour on the scum of water springs, to many places, plainly
shows its plentiful existence.
  The alluvial deposits which cover sandstone and limestone consist,


