
68			WIGTONSHIRE.

years their number has considerably decreased. For the three
last seasons, the river of Luce has been preserved for rod-fishing
only, with a view to increase the number of salmon,--which will
probably have that effect.
	In Pooltanton, scarcely any salmon are now caught; but in the
earlier part of the season, sea-trout, weighing from one to twelve
pounds each, are taken with nets. The fishery of greatest import-
ance is at the mouth or entrance of the river of Luce, where the
flowing of the tide, and enclose salmon, &c. when it recedes.  The
whole rental of the fishery on the coast and on these rivers may
annually amount to L. 70 or L. 80. Shell-fish of various kinds,
flounders, and cod fish, are also taken within the Bay of Luce.
	Plantations.--A few plantations of no great extent, and consist-
ing chiefly of oak, ash, pine, and the more common sorts of tim-
ber, lie on the southern part of the parish.

			II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Some brief notices of this parish will be found in Chalmers's
Caledonia, and Murray's Literary History of Galloway; but we
are not aware of the existence of any important historical accounts
of it, either ancient or modern.
	Proprietors of Land.--The chief land-owners are, the Earl of
Stair; Sir James Dalrymple Hay, Bart; Robert Cathcart, Esq.
of Genoch; John Adair, Esq. Balkail; James Johnstone, Esq.
Gillespie; John Carrisk Moore, Esq. of Corsewall; William
Gifford, Esq.; and A. J. Hannay, M. D., Esq. Glasgow.
	Parochial Register.--A session record has been kept in this
parish since the year 1791, containing a registration of births,
marriages, &c. from that time till the present.
	Antiquities--Abbey.--The Abbey of Luce (the only antiquity
of importance) stood on the side of the river, and in the middle of
the valley which intersects the parish form north to south, about
one mile and a quarter from Glenluce. It was founded in the year
1190, and was afterwards inhabited by monks of the Cistertian
order. From the ruins, which cover a whole acre of ground, and
from some of its walls, which are still standing, it appears to have
been a very magnificent and extensive building. Nearly a cen-
tury after other monasteries had been destroyed in Scotland, the
Abbey of Luce remained almost in an entire state; for so late as
1646, it is mentioned in the Records of the Presbytery of Stran-
raer as having sustained little injury. The Chapter-House, as it


