
                            CRAIG.                        247

forms a part of the boundary with the parishes of Marytown and
Lunan, in that direction.
   Soil and Rocks.--Towards the eastern extremity of the parish the
soil is of a sandy description; towards the west, rather moorish;
and in the middle, which is by far the largest portion, it is a strong
rich loam. The whole rests upon a mountain-mass of amygda-
loidal trap rock, in which is imbedded a great variety of beautiful
agates or pebbles. In many parts of the precipitous rocks along
the southern boundary, little streams of water issue out and trickle
down the face of the rocks, and which are found to be strongly im-
pregnated with the carbonate of lime.
   The rocks in this parish are old red sandstone and limestone,
intermingled with various trap rocks, as amygdaloid, greenstone,
&c.
   Zoology.--Besides the ordinary wild animals of the country,
such as the fox, weazel, hedgehog, &c. there are occasionally
found in the parish the roebuck the polecat, and the ermine.
Seals are frequently seen among the rocks on the eastern coast;
and the otter regularly breeds in a cave at St Skay rock.
   Many birds of prey are natives and visitors of the parish. The
osprey or sea-eagle, common buzzard-hawk, moor buzzard-hawk,
goshawk, sparrowhawk, merlin, or kestril; which last builds in
the tower of the parish church. The long-eared, short-eared, and
tawny owls build in Mountboy wood, and the white owl at the
rock of St Skay. The great ash-coloured butcher-bird is found
at Mountboy wood; the raven and jackdaw at St Skay; the car-
rion-crow, hooded-crow, and rook at Rossie. The magpie, jay,
starling, blackbird, fieldfare, redwing, throstle thrush, and cuckoo.
The great-spotted woodpecker, and thd creeper; the greenfinch,
bulfinch, bunting, yellow bunting, black-headed bunting, and
snow-bunting. The house-sparrow, chaffinch, mountain-finch,
goldfinch, siskin, canary-finch, gray linnet, red linnet; the sky-
lark, pippit-lark, woodlark, titlark; the pied wagtail, yellow and
gray wagtail; the pied fly-catcher; the redbreast, blackcap, white-
throat, yellow wren, willow wren, least willow wren, gold-crested
wren, common kitty-wren, white-rump, whin-chat, and stone-chat;
the greater, blue, cole and long-tailed titmouse, all in Mountboy
wood; the chimney-swallow, window-swallow, sand martin, swift
or black-martin, nightjar or goatsucker, in Mountboy wood; the
wood-pigeon, and turtle-dove; the pheasant, black grouse, par-
tridge, quail, and land-rail; the pee-wit, and golden plover, which


