
552                      ABERDEENSHIRE.

able additions to the arable land of their farms.  The facility in
the command of lime is of material benefit in this respect.  Ge-
nerally each farm has its own lime-kiln, to which limestone is
driven during summer to be burned the ensuing spring, and laid
hot upon the land.  Occasionally the old system is practised of
spreading, it over the turnip field, and hoeing it in with the second
hoeing of the turnips, but this is rapidly falling into disuse.  It
has already been stated, that, upon the principal farms, the most
approved husbandry system has been introduced.  It is still, how-
ever, a prevalent error to keep too many beasts; and, in some
cases, the old prejudice exists of considering it waste to give straw
for litter.  The economy of expense of labour, compared with
what it was fortyv years ago, is illustrated by the fact, that, within
that period the farm of Buchaam was worked by 6 ploughs, 18
horses, and 4 yokes of cattle of 10 or 12 each.  The present
enterprizing, tenant works the same farm (with a great additional
extent of arable land which he has reclaimed) in a manner not
to be surpassed, with 3 ploughs, 4 horses, and a pair, or occa-
sionally two pairs of work oxen.
   The rotation followed, and which the terms of lease commonly
stipulate, is the seven-shift, viz. 1. oats ; 2. oats ; 3. green crop;
4. bear or bigg ; 5. hay ; 6. and 7. pasture.  No wheat is ever
grown, and very rarely English barley ; bear or chester being
found much more suitable for the climate.  The favourite oats,
and, unquestionably, the best fitted for the climate, are, the early
Angus and Scotch birley.  The soil is well adapted for turnip,
of which excellent crops are raised.  A few globes are sown for
early consumption, but the principal crop consists of green and
red-top,yellow.  Swedes grow well, but they have given place to
the red-top yellow turnip, which is found to keep as long good in
spring, and yield a more abundant crop.  Few potatoes are raised;
the soil suits them well, but they run great hazard of being ruined
by early frosts.
   Leases.-The general duration of leases is nineteen years.
The farm-buildings are generally of a superior description.  The
dwelling-houses are comfortable and commodious, and the offices
neat squares of substantial stone and lime, with slated roofs.
There are nine thrashing-mills in the parish driven by water, and
one by horse power.  There are four meal-mills, which on an ave-
rage grind from, 1600 to 2000 bolls per annum.
   Distance from market, and uncertainty of climate, are the great


