
                         GLASSARY.                         681

white or dun Highland cows to breed with him, be has left many
with the characters of the wild race. These, however, have not
the whole ear black as the Hamilton, or red as the Chillingham
cattle, but only edged with black hairs.
   "I tried two or three pairs of alpacas and llamas; but the former
died, and the latter met with accidents, and I gave them up. I
do not think them suited to our climate, or likely to be profitable.
Mr Stevenson at Oban had the llama far many years, and they
did well with him; but their fleece is not to be compared with
that of the alpaca, which, I fear, is a much more tender animal,
and which certainly has no more disposition to fatten than a goat."
  Fishes.-"Lobsters have lately been caught, and some lobster
pots have been introduced from Guernsey and elsewhere. Pearls
are often found in the oysters and mussels, but small and of no
value. If the oysters and mussels could be, protected, they might
become valuable."
   Botany-Trees.-"The ash grows very fast when young, but
the trees are apt to decline, or even canker and die, when twenty-
five or thirty years old. The Scotch fir, too, often fails when it
has become a laroe tree. The Balm of Gilead fir invariably does
so. The silver fir succeeds better than my other tree; but the
larch and all hard-woods, except the ash in some cases, thrive
well and grow rapidly. Larch may be removed and transplanted
after ten years' growth, with a loss of no more than I in 100, and
at an expense of about L.11, 1Os. per acre." *
   We know of no rare plants found in this parish. Its bills are
not sufficiently lofty for the habitats of the rarer alpine plants, and
the plains do not afford a variety. The botanist may form an es-
timate of what is generally met with, when it is stated that the
heaths abound with Azalea procumbens, Epilobium montanum,
Tormentilla officinalis, Parnassia palustris, Thymus Serpyllum,
Empetrum nigrum, Hypericum montanum, &c.; the bogs with,
Pinguicula vulgaris, Eriophorum vaginatum, Scirpi, Junci, &c.;
the sides of the rills with Saxifraga stellaris, Chrysosplenium alter-
nifolium, Nasturtium officinale, &c.; the lakes with Potamogeton
natans, Nymphcaea alba, Nuphar lutea, Ranunculus aquatilis, &c.;
the woods with Primula vulgaris, Lonicera Periclymenum, Ribes
alpinum, Allium ursinum, Oxalis acetosella, Prunus spinosa, Ru-
bus fruticosus, Geum urbanum, G. rivale, Trollius Europaeus, Ajuga
reptans, Geranium phaeum, Hypericum calycinum, &c.; the gra-

<FOOTNOTE>Communication from Sir John Orde, Bart.

StAS.2.7.682.P.Argyle.Glassary

682                       ARGYLESHIRE.

velly fields and shores with Erythraea centaurium, Eryngium mari-
timum, Statice Armeria, Arenaria peploides, Sedum anglicum, &c.;
and the meadows with Lychnis dioica, L. Flos Cuculi, Ranunculi,
Caltha palustris, Centaurea nigra, Orchis maculata, O. albida, &c.
The plague of the cultivated fields is various species of Rumex
or dock, which grow everywhere as if the seeds had been sown
with care.
   There are plantations of oak, fir, &c., of various extent, through-
out the parish, though it cannot by any means be said to be wood-
ed.  On the estates of Camlodden and Minard, Kilmory and
Auchandaroch, and. with few exceptions throughout the whole
district, they are well fenced, are kept clean, and thrive well.
There is also a considerable portion of natural wood, as oak, hazel,
birch, &c., along Lochaweside.
                     II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
   There is no written account of the history of the, parish known
to us, by which we can learn any thing of its ancient condi-
tion.  Neither are there documents, papers, or pictures known
to be in the possession of any one, illustrative of its past his-
tory. Much must, therefore, be left to conjecture; but it is
probable that the southwest portion of the parish must have
been of importance, when the Scots held their seat of govern-
ment in Argylesbire, and when the frequent feuds between the
two branches of the regal family, living the one in Kintyre and
the other in Lorne, rendered this their pathway in their mutual
incursions, and probably their battle-field. *
   In the eleventh, twelfth, and early portion of the thirteenth cen-
tury, it is probable that the inhabitants of this district were kept
in continual alarm by the near proximity of the Danes, who had
possession of all the western coast, and bad settled in great nurn-
bers in the neighbouring parish of North Knapdale. The remains
of ancient buildings, intended, as their form and sites evidently in-
dicate, as watch-towers, built in order to convey the most rapid
intelligence of the movements of any p`rty on the coast to the in-
ternal parts of the country, give countenance to this opinion.
These are still three in number. One is called Tor a Bhlarain,
on the top of a hill called Barnafuar, near Kilmichael, and it

<FOOTNOTE>Early in the eighth century, a division was made of lands lying between Lorne
and Kintyre, whereby the portion of the King of Dal-ruadh was separated from
that of Lorne. There is in this parish a farm called Ruadh-dal, contracted Ru-dal.
Can it be the limit of the part of Ruadh, the Reuda of Bede, according to the above
division?
                                        4


