
                                    WICK.                              123

        The burns of Slickly, Stanstill, and Kilminster contribute to
      supply the Loch of Wester, which lies within three-quarters of a
      mile of the shore of Keiss Bay. This loch is about a mile long and
      a third of a mile broad. Its outlet forms the River or Water of
      Wester, which, after a winding course, flows into the Bay of Keiss.
      On the very highest ground of Noss-Head is the Loch of Noss,
      which, notwithstanding its elevated situation, and though no stream-
      lets fall into it, is seldom if ever dry. The Loch of Kilminster lies
      in the middle of the moss of that name, and does not exceed
      three-fourths of a mile in breadth. The Loch of Winless is to
      the south of the Loch of Kilminster. The waters of both fall into
      the River of Wick.
         The River of Wick, by far the largest stream in the parish, is
      the outlet of the beautiful Loch of Wattin, in the parish of that
      name. It lazily flows in a south-easterly direction through the
      rich and loamy strath of Stirkoke, till, after a winding course of
      eleven or twelve miles, about nine of which are within the parish
      of Wick, which it divides into two parts of almost equal extent,
      it disembogues itself into Wick Bay. Its average breadth is about
      thirty feet; but in rainy seasons, it overflows its banks, and over-
      floods the strath through which it winds. The principal stream-
      lets which it receives within the parish of Wick from the north, are
      the Burn of Winless, which issues from the loch of that name,
      the streamlet which flows from the Loch of Kilminster and Alti-
      marlach, close on the west side of the upper glebe.
         On the south side, the Burn of Bilbster is the first considerable
      streamlet which the River of Wick receives within the parish. The
      Burn of Hauster collects the greater part of its waters on the north
      and east of Camster, a townland belonging partly to Wick and
      partly to Latheron, (one of its sources being the little moss-fed
      Loch of Carnlia); and after a sweeping course of eight miles around,
      the south side of Stirkoke falls into the same river upwards of
      three miles below the Burn of Bilbster. In the north end of the
      Moss of Tannach is Loch Dhu, three-quarters of a mile in cir-
      cumference. Its outlet falls into the Burn of Hauster. Half a
      mile to the south of Loch Dhu, lies the Loch of Hempriggs, about
      a mile in length from north to south, and more than half a mile
      in breadth. The natural outlet of this loch is the, Burn of New-
      ton, which falls into the River of Wick, below the Burn of Haus-
      ter: but a lade, which has been cut from it, carries a runnel of


