
     of Stirling.

preventing vice is charity indeed.  That which is employed
in correcting it is often mere selfishness.
   The manners of the inferior ranks are also much hurt and
debased every where, by the great number of tippling houses,
and the low price of ardent spirits.  Of these, the number in
Stirling has been considerably diminished for some years past,
but ought to be still more so.  In 1782, there were 94 licens-
ed ale houses in Stirling.  In 1790, there were only 68.  The
difference has arisen probably from the additional tax.  In
1782, a licence cost 1 L. 1 s., In 1790, a licence cost 1 L. 11 s.
6 d.  If the legislature would increase the tax upon the retail of ar-
dent spirits, it is probable such a step would contribute much
to prevent the growing depravity of the people.  It would
diminish the number of those nests of vitiation.  It would
lessen their accessibility, especially to the weaker sex, who,
from many circumstances, are too easily led to haunt them.
One of these must be particularly mentioned, though not pe-
culiar to Stifling.  While females are servants in families of
superior rank, or even in the houses of the better kind of
tradesmen, instead of receiving abundance of plain and whose-
some food, which is their due, they are foolishly indulged
with luxuries, which they can taste no more the moment they
become the wives of honest labourers.  Feeling this change
of situation, which occasions disagreeable reflections, and sub-
jected to the uneasinesses unavoidably connected with their
change of state, they betake themselves to ardent spirits to kill
their griefs, and are thus insensibly led into habits of intoxi-
cation, which ruin themselves, their interests, and their fa-
milies in every respect.  There is no cause of increasing im-
morality, among the lower ranks of the people, more abun-
dant than this.  There is none, which the care of magistrates
and rulers ought to be more employed to prevent.  If the
mothers of families are corrupted, virtue must be gone.
Masters should have regard to the future interests of their ser-


