
492                       EDINBURGHSHIRE.

promoting the improvement of his estates and the comfort of his
tenantry; and the magnificent works which he has undertaken,
will transmit his name to posterity, as one of the most enterprising
and public-spirited noblemen of the age. *\f
     When Her Gracious Majesty Queen Victoria visited Scotland
on the 1st September 1842, Dalkeith Palace was honoured with
her residence; and, assuredly, at no former period of its history
did a brighter assemblage of the nobility, the beauty, the fashion,
and the worth of this ancient kingdom throng the halls of the pa-
lace and the streets of Dalkeith than on Monday the 5th Septem-
ber, the day of the celebrated reception.  Her Majesty visited the
seats of the nobility in the neighbourhood; and, after a brief so-
journ of tow weeks in this country, Her Majesty, on the 15th,
left Dalkeith Palace, and embarked at Granton Pier for her south-
ern capital.
     There is a ground plan of the town of Dalkeith on a scale of
one inch to 132 feet, which was published in 1822 by Mr J. Wood.
     Eminent Characters.--1. John Rolland.  Nothing whatever is
known of the parentage or personal history of this individual. + He
is the author of two poems, one of which is calle ".The Court of
Venus," and the other," The Seavin Sages."  The title of the
former is as follows: "Ane Treatise, callit ther Court of Venus,
dividit into four Buikes, newly compylit be Johne Roland in Dal-
keith.  [Impre]ntit at Endinburgh by [Jo]hne Ros, MDLXXV.
Cum privilegio Regali."  This work is of such extraordinary rarity,
that the copy in the British Museum is the only one known to be
extant.  It is said to be a prolix and uninteresting allegory, and
an evident imitation of "The Palace of Honour," by Gawin
Douglas.
     The title-page of the second poem runs thus, "The Seuin
Seages, translatit out of Prois into Scottis Meter, be Johne Rol-
land, in Dalkeith; with ane Moralitie efter euerie Doctouris Tale,
and sicklike efter the Emprice Tale; to gidder with ane louing
and laude to euerie Doctour eftir his awin Tale, and ane Excla-
mation and Outcrying upon the Empreouris Wife eftir hir fals
contrusit Tale.  (Motto) Tandem veritas vincet.  Imprentit at
Edinburgh be Johne Ros for Henrie Charteris, MDLXXVII. Cum

     <FOOTNOTE> His Grace was married, on the 13th August 1829. to lady Charlotte Anne
Thyrnne, daughter of Thomas, second Marquis of Bath.  They have four surviving
sons, and one deccased.
     We may infer, however, from various parish of his poem, that was attached to
the principles of the Reformation.


