
730                     LANARKSHIRE.

men of the name.  James de Hamilton, son and heir apparent of
James de Hamilton, Dominus de Hamilton, had a charter dated
18th April 1426, "to the lands of Dalserf, in the barony of Ma-
chane," which had escheated to the crown, on account of the said
James having conveyed these lands to his brother David de Ha-
milton, by a charter under his seal, and made him personally in-
feft in the same, without the consent of the king, or governor, in
absence of the king at the time.  The descendants of the above
David have been proprietors of the estate of Dalserf, properly so
called, ever since the time of King Robert III.  John Hamilton,
son of James Lord Hamilton, became proprietor of Broomhill and
Machane Muir, 16th February 1473.  James Hamilton, a de-
scendant of the Hamilton family, was infeft in the estate of Rap-
loch in 1440.
   In the fourteenth century, this district was made a barony, and
was afterwards called the barony of Machane or Machanshire.
At what period it obtained the name of Dalserf is uncertain.  In
1545, however, David Hamilton of Broomhill had a tack of "the
teinds of Machan Muir;" and so far down as 7th April 1681,
James Hamilton has a charter to the lands of Broomhill, Fleurs,
&c. described as lying within "the barony of Machanshire."  This
would seem to indicate, that the old designation prevailed, till ra-
ther a recent period.  The present church bears date 1665, on a
small stone in the southern wall.  It is probable, that as early as
the Reformation, if not sooner, the church was removed from Dal-
patrick or Chapelburn, and that the village of Dalserf, near to
which it was built, soon gave name to the whole parish.
   The gentlemen of this parish and their retainers, as vassals of
the Hamilton family, were of course involved in many of the trou-
bles and adventures of their feudal superiors, which form matter
of Scottish history.  In 1516, John Hamilton of Broomhill, a stout,
hardy, and bold man, though lame, attended the Earl of Arran,
at the taking of the castle of Glasgow, against the Duke of Al-
bany.  In 1537, David Hamilton of Broomhill was in France
with the Earl of Arran, at the marriage of Queen Magdalen to
James V.; and on 10th September 1547, beand Cuthbert Hamil-
ton of Cander, a gentleman of this parish, were slain at the battle
of Pinkie, in attempting to rescue Lord Semple, who had been taken
prisoner.  The wars of the Reformation, and the interest which
the Hamilton family took in the fate of Queen Mary, involved the
inhabitants of Machanshire in many troubles and misfortunes.


