
172                            AYRSHIRE.

upon a cold bottom, and not so improveable. Very little of either
is adapted to the different kinds of drill husbandry.

			II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	At what period the union of the parishes of Monkton and Prest-
wick took place is not known; but in all probability it was about
the time of the Reformation, or shortly after it. The original pa-
rish churches of both parishes are still standing, and up to May
1837 were used for the purposes of public worship. The inhabi-
tants of Prestwick were entitled to have public worship performed
in their own church, by the minister of the parish, every third Sab-
bath. These churches are both very old. In the records of the
burgh of Prestwick, mention is made of a Justice Aire being held
in the burgh church, so far back as the year 1440. The church
of Monkton is thought to be at least a old as that of Prestwick.
Tradition says, that it is the same fabric in which Sir William
Wallace attended divine service on the occasion of his having the
remarkable dream mentioned in the seventh book of Blind Harry's
poem.
	The parish formerly extended to the river Ayr, and compre-
hended the present parish of Newton. In 1777, the inhabitants
of Newton, in consequence of the defective accommodation in the
parish churches, erected 'a Chapel of Ease for themselves. In
1779, having purchased from Sir William Maxwell, at that time
patron of the united parish, the right of electing their own minis-
ter, and the consent of the heritors being obtained, Newton was
erected into a separate parish quoad sacra; the burgh of New-
ton still continuing to bear their proportion of the stipend payable
to the minister of Monkton, and of the expense of keeping the
church of Monkton and Prestwick in repair.
	The burgh of Prestwick is very ancient, as appears from its pre-
sent charter. This charter was renewed by James VI. as admini-
strator for his son, "Henry, Duke of Rothsay, Earl of Kyle,
Carrick, and Cunningham, Lord of the Isles," &c. at Holyrood-
honse, 19th June 1600, and bears, that Prestwick was known to
have been a free burgh of barony for the space of 617 years pre-
vious to this renewal of its charter. Kyle, one of the three divi-
sions of the county of Ayr, was itself subdivided into Kyle Stewart,
and King's Kyle: the latter, extending from the river Ayr to the
river Doon, had Ayr for its head burgh; the former, extending
from the river Ayr to the river Irvine, had Prestwick for its head
burgh. Their charter allows those to choose a provost, bailies,


