
                  TULLYNESSLE AND FORBES.                            445

situated.  In the hills are to be found, grouse, black-game,
where the hills have been planted, hare, plover, and during
the breeding-season, some wild-ducks near the mouths of the
springs, and upon the banks of the streamlets issuing from them.
There is likewise a superabundance of the enemies of game, viz.
the fox, raven, and hawk.  The most destructive of this last men-
tioned enemy is what is here called blue-sleeves. It is
much larger than the sparrow-hawk, and considerably smaller than
the buzzard.  The Alpine or white hare, is sometimes met with.
There are plenty of roe-deer in the woods; and during a severe
winter they do much injury to the trees by stripping them of their
bark.  A red-deer is sometimes seen, but only as a bird of pas-
sage.
   Owing to the obstructions to their passage up the river, occa-
sioned by the stake-nets near its entrance into the sea, the cruives
and cruive-dikes, at some distance above, and the abstraction of a
great portion of its waters for driving the machinery of a large ma-
nufactory in the vicinity of Aberdeen, the number of salmon in
this part of the Don is very small.  There is, however, an abun-
dance of very fine trout, some of them of very large size.  The
writer has more than once killed them of the weight of nearly five
pounds, and has heard of instances where they weighed conside-
rably more.  It is, however, but very seldom that the angler meets
with such prizes; but, in favourable weather, during the season, if
possessed of the requisite knowledge of his craft and patience, he
will find no difficulty in filling his basket with some dozens of a
smaller size, from one-half to one and a-half pounds weight.  The
flesh of the larger sized ones, when in good condition, is of a co-
lour betwixt that of salmon and the smaller trout.  The par and
small-trout are very plentiful in the Esset, as well as in the river,
October and November are the months in which the salmon gene-
rally ascend the river for spawning; but some of them make their
appearance for this purpose much later.  They return in Decem-
ber, and the beginning of January.  Several of them, however,
remain so late as the beginning of the month of March.

                       II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Estates.-A short notice of the estates in  this parish, and their
present proprietors, will in a great measure supply what has
to be said on this head of its statistics.  They are, 1. The-lands
of Forbes, which belong to the Noble family of the same name.  A
small portion of these lands were, about twenty years ago, sold to the


