
220                           ARGYLESHIRE.

of his support.  There is another station where public worship is,
performed every alternate Sabbath.  In the parish church the
number may be estimated at 400 in summer, and from 150 to
200 in winter; at the other station 300 in summer, and 200 in
winter.  The average number of communicants at the parish
church is about 600, and in Coll near 300. In Coll there are no
disrenting preachers, and all the families generally attend the Es-
tablisbed Church.
   Education.-There was formerly but one parochial school in
Tiree; but this being found quite insufficient, another was
established about the year 1804 : and it would be wrong
not to mention that the Noble proprietor, father to the present
Duke of Argyle, with the liberality becoming his rank and cha-
racter, allowed to each of the teachers the maximum salary, toge.
ther with the accommodation of house and lands, which has
been since continued.  The salary is L.22, 4s., and the amount
of school fees from L.4 to L.5 per annum to each.  A consider-
able time ago, a school was appointed by the Gaelic School So-
ciety, in which nothing but the reading of the Gaelic Scriptures
is taught, with a salary to the master of L.25 and no fees.  And
more lately a school was granted by the Committee of  General
Assembly, with a salary of L.20, fees amounting to about L.10
10s.  In addition to the above, there are five schools supported
by the people themselves, with salaries varying from L.10 to
L.18.  From some of these much benefit cannot be expected,
and they might almost as well be suppressed, the teachers be-
ing inexperienced country lads, some of them very indifferently
qualified.  Some parts of the island, with a large population, are
three or four miles distant from the parochial schools; and whe-
ther the distance or the numbers are considered, there is certainly
field enough still for two, if not three, respectable additional
schools.
   In Coll, there is a school supported by the Committee of the Ge-
neral Assembly, with a salary of L.25, amount of fees being L.2,
10s.; a school supported by the Sochety for Propagating Christian
Knowledge, with a salary of L.16. and fees about L.2 ; and an-
other supported by the Glasgow Auxiliary Society, salary L.l2
and amount of fees L.6.  There was also a Gaelic school in Coll,
which has been discontinued since May last.  Part of the popu-
lation.  probably 120, are distant from three to five  miles from
any school, and an additional one would be very desirable.


