
	1144                       PERTHSHIRE.

	as we learn from Keith, were great benefactors to this abbey.
	" William de Haya grants thereto the lands of Liderpole or Ed-
	derpole," in the Carse of Gnwrie.  David de Haya, his son,
	grants also, " pro anima Wilhelmi patris sui et Elenae sposae suae
	cum consensu Guilberti heredis sui unum rete super aquam de
	Thei; with three acres of arable ground,-" Guilbert de Haya
	miles, dominus de Errol," grants to the monks of this place, " li-
	berum transitum sine impedimento cum bobus suis super terras
	suas per omnes vias et semitas."  And Guilbert Hay, Constable
	of Scotland, grants to this monastery, " in quo progenitores, sui
	sepulti erant et ipse etiam elegerat sepeliri jus patronatus ecelesie
	de Errol et capellae du Inchmartin cum earum juribus et pertinen-
	tiis." This gift is confirmed by Pope Clement.
	   Donald Campbell, the last Abbot, had five sons, for whom he
	made handsome provision out of the estates belonging to the ab-
	bey, assigning to them the properties of Balgersho, Keithick,
	Denhead, Crouan, and Arthurstone.  Two of them lie buried in
	the churchyard of Bendochy.  Leonard Leslie, cornmendator of
	the abbey, was also buried in the same church.  His tomb is very
	enthre.  He died in 1605, aged 81.
	  The extent of the abbey buildings may be guessed at, but can-
	not be accurately defined.  The only fragment now remaining is
	in the south-west corner of the churchyard, on the side of the
	turnpike road leadidg to Dundee.    In 1780, a part of the abbey,
	cnnsisting of an arch, of beautiful architecture, situate near the
	centre of the present churchyard, was demolished for the purpose
	of furnishing stones for building the present church ! Till within
	these few years, the base of a pillar was to be seen to the eastward
	of the present church.  The northern wall of the oldest part of
	the present church rests on part of the foundation of what appears
	to have been the northern part of the abbey.

				III.-POPULATION.
	The population of the parish in 1831 was 2615 ; in 1841,
	2532. of whom 1173 are males, and 1359 females.  The de-
	crease during the last ten years may be ascribed principally to
	emigration. This statement in regard to the population does not
	include the estate of Kinloch, which, though in Coupar quoad
        civilia, has always been taken up with the census of the parish of
	Meigle.
	   The average number of births and deaths cannot be accurately
	ascertained, from the unwillingness of many to register their chil-


