
               LOGIE-BUCHAN.                                    801

threading of which is rather a dangerous amusement for young
people.  The shelving rocks lie in the direction of W.10&deg; N. in-
clined to the horizon in an angle of 35&deg;.
   Hydrograpky.-The most remarkable feature in this parish
is the river Ythan, the Ituna of the ancient geographers. *
Taking its rise in the parish of Auchterless, after a pretty di-
rect course of about thirty miles, it discharges about 55,000 +
cubic yards of water per hour into the sea, about three miles be-
low the church of Logie-Buchan.  There, according to the sea-
son of the year, and the age of the moon, the ordinary tide rises
from two to six feet, and occasionally, when aided by a land flood,
seven or seven and a half feet above extreme low-water mark, at
which time it is perceptible at the village of Ellon, two miles above
the church of Logie-Buchan. "In the year 1642," says Spalding,
"the tide rose so high as to extinguish the fires in some houses
both in Newburgh and in Ellon."  No such tide is now heard of at
Ellon; but whether the sea, as is alleged, ++ be receding on this part
of the east coast of Scotland, as it undoubtedly has done on some
others, S appears to be doubtful.  That it has made, if any, a very
slow and almost imperceptible retreat of late years in this quarter,
is very certain.  For in a very accurate plan of the estate of
Tarty, drawn in the year 1762, the contents of a small island,
called Inch-Geck, situated about a mile and a half from the sea,
are 3 acres, 1 rood, 11 falls, and now but 3 acres, 2 roods, 1O falls,
the addition of 39 falls being off the river side, where, from the
increased cultivation on its banks of late years, it is not wonderful
that some additional soil should be deposited.  I have measured

<FOOTNOTE>See Ptolemy's at and Richard of Cirencester's maps of Britain, and General Roy's
corrected map of Scotland accommodated to ancient times.  richard says, "Oceani
littus ultra horum fines accolebant Taixali.  His urbium princess Devana; fluvii
autem Deva et Ituna."  No mention is made here of the intermediate river Don;
nor is any such river delineated in the maps of Ptolemy	or Richard, or even men-
tioned in their tables; while the Deva or Diva and the Ituna, in the district of the
Taixali, are particularly laid down.  There is reason, therefore, to believe, that, so
late as the period when Richard wrote, (the thirteenth century,) the Don formed a
junction with the Dee, a short way before it flowed into the bay of Aberdeen.  In
the earliest records of that burgh the Don is merely named "Aqua Borealis," i. e.
"The North Water."  See Kennedy's Annals of Aberdeen.
     It is difficult to specify the exact quantity, it difflers so much at different times
and seasons.  The above is the mean of two measurements.
     See Thom's History of Aberdeen.
     Ubi exiguus sinus est "Strathbeg" (twenty-four miles north of the Ythan)
ilim portus nobilis nune arenis pene obrutus.  Manent hic oppidi Rattray vestigis
quaenunc portus fortunam sequntur.  See Gordon of Straloch's Dissertations.
     Dr Anderson, in his report, before quoted states that he had observed the Sleek
of, Tarty (a glossy space of 92 acres, on the south side of the Ythan, surrounding
Inch Geck On three sides, and overflowed every tide by the sea,) to have risen some
feet during the thirty years he resided at Monkshill, in the neighbouring parish of
     ABERDEEN.						 3 E


