
142                        AYRSHIRE.

had been seduced from an establishment, where they had uni-
formly been treated with all the kindness and consideration con-
sistent with its proper management, returned after the lapse of a
few months, and solicited admission to their former situations. Ex-
cept in the cases of those who took a leading part in this union,
the applications of all were listened to, and the same harmony and
good feeling which formerly prevailed in this establishment seem
again to prevail, and, it is hoped, will long continue. The works
at Catrine, as well as the workers, have uniformly excited the ad-
miration of strangers; and from the books of the General Frhendly
Society at Catrine, with which many of the persons employed at
the Catrine works are connected, it is evident there is less sick-
ness among the people employed at the works than among any
other description of workmen in the village. The success of this
establishment, and the comfortable circumstances of the indivi-
duals employed at it, are mainly owing to the able and judicious
management of Archibald Buchanan, Esq. the resident partner of
Messrs James Finlay and Company, who has managed the works
at Catrine almost from the time they passed into the hands of the
present proprietors. Besides the weaving of cotton cloth by power-
looms at Catrine works, there is in this, as in most of the parishes
of Ayrshire where there is a village population, a number of hand-
loom weavers. The employment afforded to this class of workmen is
very precarious, and the remuneration when trade is at its best so
very small, that whenever an opportunity occurs many individuals
who follow this profession abandon it. In 1826 the number of
hand-loom weavers in the parish was about 220, now it is only
about 120.
	There is a grain-mill in the parish, which has attached to it a
saw-mill, where at a reasonable rate, a great quantity of wood is
sawn. There iss also a carding-mill, a brewery, and two licensed
private brewers in the parish. Several of the farmers have thrash-
ing-mhlls attached to their farm-yards, which are chiefly driven by
horses.
	Quarries.--There are at present three lime-quarries wrought in
the parish;--one on the estate of Sorn Castle, a second on the
estate of Dalgain, and a third on the estate of Gilmillscroft. That
on Sorn Castle has only been opened up this year, although it was
formerly wrought a considerable time ago. Indeed, there is a well
authenticated tradition, that the lime with which the old bridge at
Ayr was built was: taken from that quarry. The quarries on Dal-
                              4


