
94      			DUMFRlES-SHIRE.

believed, by a Norman chief of the name of De Moreville, whose
family settled in Scotland in the tenth century, became connected
with some of the chief families of the kingdom, and rose to great
power, wealth, and eminence. He obtained extensive grants of
territory in this and other parts of the country, and was appoint-
ed hereditary Lord High Constable of Scotland. His grandson,
Hugo De Moreville, appears a witness to various royal charters
granted in the reigns of Alexander and David I. In the year 1140,
he founded the monastery of Kilwinning in Ayrshire, and in 1144,
the Abbey of Dryburgh in Teviotdale. A short time afterwards he
gave a portion of land called the Park to the Abbey of Melrose,
which, with the church of Morton, was afterwards bestowed on the
monks of Kelso. When these monks formed an estimate of their
property in the fourteenth century, they stated that they possessed
the church of Morton in rectorial, which used to render by the
year L. 10. He was succeeded by his son Richard De Moreville,
who also appears as a witness to various royal charters in the reigns
of David and Malcolm IV. Richard was succeeded by his son Wil-
liam De Moreville, who died without issue; and Rolland Lord of
Galloway, who had married Emma, daughter of Richard, and the
sister of William De Moreville, succeeded to the office of Lord
High Constable of Scotland, the castle of Morton, and all the pos-
sessions and wealth of the family. Allan, Rolland's son, married Mar-
garet, the eldest daughter of David Earl of Huntington, by whom
he had three daughters, the eldest of whom married John Baliol,
the father of John Baliol, who for seven years was king of Scotland.
After the Baliol and English party were overthrown, and Robert
Bruce firmly seated on the Scottish throne, the lands and fortunes
of the former and their adherents were bestowed as rewards of ser-
vice on the friends of Bruce; and of these Randolph, the king's ne-
phew, obtained extensive grants of lands in Annandale, and the
lands and castle of Morton, which he held when Regent, during the
minority of David Bruce. By a secret article of the treaty for the
restoration of David II. it is said, the Scots agreed to dismantle
the castles of Dumfries, Dalswinton, Morton, and Durrisdeer. In
the reign of Robert II. the king bestowed his daughter Egidia, the
loveliest woman of the age, on William Douglas, natural son of
Archibald Douglas Lord of Galloway, then the most distinguished
of the Scottish youth for dignified and graceful appearance, for mo-
desty, bravery, and every mental and corporeal endowment,--and
with her, the castle of Morton and county of Nithsdale next to Gal-


