
                        INCHTURE.                        829

used to be taken.  They have not, however, been fished for of
late, owing to various causes.
   Botany.-The uncultivated spots in the parish being so few in
number, it cannot be expected that the botanist in search of va-
rieties will be very much gr`tified.  The following, however, may
be noted, furnished me by Mr Kidd of Rossie Priory garden:
   In the ponds or edges thereof are to be found Lemna gibba, or
duckweed, and Epilobium hirsutum, or codlins and cream.  In the
ditches, Lythrum salicaria, or common lythrum.  On the road-
sides, Malva-moschata, or marsh-mallow; Rosa rubiginosa, or
sweet-briar; Festuca loliacea, or spiked fescue grass.  In the corn
fields, Bartsia odontites, or red bartsia, and which, though com-
mon here, is rare in many parts of Scotland.  Also Melilotus offi-
cinalis, or common melilot, and Galeopsis Ladanum, or red hemp-
nettle.  The pastures present us with Anthemis arvensis, or corn
chamomile, and the old pastures with the rare Botrychium lunaria,
or moonwort.  The dens again abound with Chrysosplenium op-
positifolium and alternffolium, or golden saxifrage; Primula ela-
tior, or oxlip primrose, and P. vulgaris, or common primrose, of
which there is every variety, and of all shades and colours; Ge-
ranium lucidum, or shining cranesbill.  In the parks is to be
found Acinos vulgaris, or basil-leaved acinos.  And in the hills,
Potentilla arqentea, or cinquefoil silvery; Symphytum officinale,
or common comfrey, &c. &c.
   There are many thriving woods and plantations in the upper
part of the parish.  The parks of Rossie are ornamented with
many fine patches of wood, and numerous very splendid trees.
The hills of Baledgarno and Rossie are likewise beautifully wood-
ed.  On Rossie hill, among many others deserving notice, may
be remarked several very large and splendid silver firs, and its
summit is capped by a clump of the Pinus sylvestris, the native
Scots fir, apparently that described by the late talented botanist,
Mr George Don of Forfar, in the second volume of the Caledo-
nian Horticultural Society's Memoirs.
   There are also many fine trees within the enclosures of Ballin-
dean.  One larch is said to be the same with the famous larches
of Athole.
   The predominating kinds are, oak ash, elm, beech, birch, larch
spruce and Scots fir, lime, alder, &c. &c.

                      II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
MAPS, &C.-There are several maps and surveys of the parish,


