
	                PARISH OF ST ANDREWS.

               PRESBYTERY OF ST ANDREWS, SYNOD OF FIFE.

            THE REV. R. HALDANE, D.D.        MINISTERS.
            THE REV. GEORGE BUIST, D.D.

        I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-PRIOR to the period of the introduction of Christ.-
ianity into Scotland, the district of the country by which St An-
drews is surrounded wore the aspect of a forest, in which a few
patches of cultivated ground seem to have been interspersed. In
this forest, the hog or swine in its wild state abounded; and from
this circumstance, it was denominated by the Picts, who at that
period occupied the east coast of Scotland, Mucros, muc in their
language, which was the Celtic or Gaelic, signifying a sow or boar,
and ros, a peninsula or promontory. The correctness of this deri-
vation is confirmed by the fact, that near the eastern extremity of
the parish, the village of Boarhills still retains the original name
of the district, but translated into the modern language. The Picts
at this period were a rude people, and their religious opinions and
observances were regulated by the Druids. The early Scottish
historians inform us, that, towards the close of the fourth cen-
tury of the Christian era, a Greek monk named Regulus, from
the province of Achaia, was directed in a vision to leave his native
country in a ship, attended by a number of religious devotees, and
carrying along with him certain of the bones or relies of the apostle
Andrew. With this mandate he complied; and, after a long and
dangerous navigation, he and his associates were shipwrecked near
the spot where the city of St Andrews now stands, with the loss
of every thing but their lives and the sacred relics. The appear-
ance of men so different in their aspect from what they had been
accustomed to witness, arrested the attention of the native, inha-
bitants of the district, and information of the event was communi-
cated to the sovereign of the country, then resident at Abernethy,
his capital, in the vicinity of the junction of the Earne and Tay-
The curiosity of the monarch was aroused at the intelligence, and
   FIFE.


