
                        DALKEITH.             491

public measures that were underataken for the good of the country.
During the protracted war with France, he raised a regiment of
fencibles, chiefly from the inhabitants on his own estates; and by
the condescension and kindness of his manners, and his close ap-
plication to his military duties. he secured the affection Duchess less
eminent for her virtues within her appropriate sphere. Seldom
has forture bestowed her favours upon one who possessed a heart
more generous and kind, and whose hand, guided by a sound dis-
cretion, was more readily stretched out to relieve the distressed.
Many anecdotes are told of her charity and her name is never
mentiondd here but in terms of the very highest respect. Duke
Henry died on the 11th January 1812, and was buried on the 17th,
in the aisle of Dalkeith church. The Duchess-Dowager Elizabeth
survived him for fifteen years; she died at Richmond on the
21st November 1827, and was buried in the family vault at Bough-
ton in Northamptonshire.
  Charles William, fourth Duke of Buccleuch, was born on the
24th May 1772, and succeeded his father, Duke Henry, on the
11th January 1812. He was educated at Eton College. Having
been repeately elected Member of Parliament, he was summoned
to the House of Lords by the title of Baron Tynedale on the 11th
April 1807. He married his cousin, the Hon. Lady Catherine
Townshend, on the 23d March 1795, by whom he had three sons
and five daughters. This amiable lady died on the 24th of Au-
gust 1814, and was buried in the family vault at Boughton.
Duke Charles having gone to Lisbon for the recovery of his health,
died there on the 20th of April 1819, and his remains, being con-
veyed to England, were deposited in the cemetery at Boughton,
beside those of his lamented Duchess.
  Dalkeith Palace was honoured with the residence of King
George IV. during his visit to Scotland in 1822. He came to
Dalkeith on Thursday the 15th August, and departed on Thursday
the 29th.
  Walter Francis Montague Scott Douglas, fifth Duke of Buc-
cleuch, was born on the 25th November 1806, and succeeded his
father in 1819. He was educated at Eton College and St John's
College, Cambridge, where he took his degree of A. M. Having
visited several of the countries of Europe, he retured in 1828,
and entered on the possession of his extensive domains. Nothing
can exceed the generosity which his Grace has always evinced in


