
				AVOCH.                       385

fields and rocky frontlets of Brahan.   On the north, the Milbuy
range subsides by several parallel but lower sandstone ridges, in-
to the Dingwall or Cromarty Frith, and on the south it is sepa-
rated from the third ridge above described, by the moss of Auch-
terflow, the cultivated grounds below Belmaduthy, and the flat or
boggy land which separates the property of Tore from that of
Redcastle.
   The structure of the third and fourth ridges may now be consi-
dered together, and although between them and the first and second
ridges above-mentioned, we have discovered no beds of tbe, true
mountain limestone of the coal measures, nor yet of the biturmi-
nous shales of Ferrindonald and Strathpeffer, * which  seem to re-
present them, yet we have little hesitation in assigning the geolo-
gical place of these two ridges to the new red or variegated sandstone
formation.  Mr Miller's recent fossil discoveries at Cromarty may,
however, perhaps determine these ridges to be the upper beds of the
old red sandstone deposit. Their strata are softer and finer in tex-
ture than those of the old red sandstone ridges. They have much
fewer imbedded masses of conglomerate;  they are more argillaceous,
and abound in steatite and chlorite or green earth. No organic re-
mains have as yet been seen in these strata, but in very many places
they present the striped or variegated aspect whence the formation
has acquired its name ; some of the quarries, as on the estate of
Rosehaugh and Suddy, exhibiting layers  of alternate yellow,
brown, and red colours, disposed in parallel streaks or ribbons,
Several of the superior beds are also entirely yellow, or of a dusky
white colour, whence it is suspected that they might perhaps be
the outgoings in this direction of some of the oolitic deposits, which
at one time seem to have been extensively spread around the shores
of the adjoining frith. The unusual fertility, and deepness soil
however, on these ridges prevent the rocks from being frequently
seen ; and the prolific nature of the materials into which they are
decomposed hence affords a farther indication of their belonging
to the new red sandstone series, which abounds more largely  with
unctuous and clayish substances  than such as occur in the older
sandstone deposit.
   As already stated, the sandstone ridges now enumerated have
been affected at their eastern termination by a great granitic erup-
tion or ridge which first appears in the cliffs of the Craigwood be-
ween Avoch and Fortrose, behind which it is covered with sand-

<FOOTNOTE>These beds usually intervene between the old and the new red sandstone formations.


