
                        MOREBATTLE AND MOW.                      453

ly the extent that it is.  In the higher district, the sheep are of the
Cheviot breed; in the lower the Leicester, and in some places a
cross between the two.  The cattle are almost all of the short-
horned or Teesdale breed.
      Rents.--The rents, of course, are very various.  The average
of the arable lands may be from L. 1 to L. 1, 5s. per acre, and of
the pasture lands from 8s. to 10s.  The valued rent of the parish
is L. 16,081, 14s. 8d. Scotch.  The real rent between L. 11,000
and L.12,000 Sterling.
      Rate of Wages.--Day labourers, men, 1s. 6d. and 2s.; women,
10d. and 1s.; carpenters, 2s. 6d.; and masons, 3s.; tailors, 1s. 6d.
with meat; shearers, men, 13s.; women, 12s. a week and their meat.
The yearly wages of hinds, or, as they are called, the conditions
of hinds, are the following, 10 bolls or 100 stones of oatmeal;
15 bushels barley; 6 bushels pease; 1200 yards of potatoes
planted; a peck of lint sown, in lieu of which L. 1 is now generally
allowed; L. 3 under the name of sheep siller; a cow's grass,
or in lieu of it, L. 5, 10s. or L. 6; the privilege of keeping
hens, or, instead of them, 10s. or 12s.; and the carriage of four
two-horse carts of coals.  It is customary to give them their meat
during one month in harvest.  They commonly keep a pig, which
they feed at their Own expense.  Their wives shear for their
houses and yards.  The hinds are bound to keep a servant woman
called a bondager, at least during the summer half-year, for work-
ing on the farm at day's wages, commonlx 10d.  They gene-
rally complain of this as a hardship, alleging that what they
receive for their servant's work will not do more than pay
their half-year's wages, and that they have to give them victuals
for nothing.

                           V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

     Villages and Markets.--There were formerly several consider-
able villages, of which scarcely any vestiges remain.  Morebattle
is now the only village in the parish, containing about 300 inhabi-
tants.  The ground on which it is built is held of the Marquis of
Tweeddale, the superior, on leases of nineteen times nineteen years.
In the former Statistical Account, the houses are stated to have
been then "mostly of one storey, and covered with thatch."  A
great proportion of them are now of two stories, and covered with
slates.  The appearance of the village is greatly injured by the
slovenly custom of laying down ashes, fire-wood, and rubbish of
different kinds, in front of the houses, along the sides of the street,



