
	158			GENERAL OBSERVATlONSON THE

	ty of food.  Fish, flesh, fowl, milk, vegetables they have within their
        reach; but if the are not perseveringly industrious to gain, they
        are as little frugal to keep; and hence the extremes of plenty and
	want too frequently touch each other.  The common position of a
	Shetland tenant may be stated thus: He pays L.5 or L.6 annually
	to his landlord.   For this he has a cottage, in the construction of
	which there is room for improvement; a cow-house, corn and cab-
	bage yards; 10 or 12 acres of good ground, partly arable, and
	partly grass and meadow; the right to cut as much peat for fuel,
	and turf for compost, &c. on the common as he can consume; and
	pasture as many animals as he pleases on it.  Such a farm may
	produce twenty bolls of bear and oatmeal, and five tons of potatoes;
	graze, in summer, three to six milk cows, and fodder, in winter,
	from seven to ten cattle of all ages.  He may have as much poul-
	try, and as many geese and pigs, as he can manage; the sea is
	always near to supply him with fish for food, and sea-weed for manure;
	the produce of his summer fishing is generally sufficient to pay
	his rent.  The wages of day labour are high, when its effici-
	ency and a comparison with the circumstances of other countries
	are considered, and an active and faithful workman always has
	employment.  How happens it, then, that he has frequently
	been brought to the verge of famine, of late years especially?
	Partly from bad seasons ; partly because his desultory habits
	indispose him to regular and vigorous exertion on his farm;
	partly because much of his industry is injudiciously applied ;
	and partly because a taste for luxuries, to which his means
	are not competent, is indulged.  An example of this last point
	may be found in the fact, that about 40,000 lbs. of tea are con-
	sumed annually, the value of which would, perhaps, exceed the
	whole gross rental of the islands.  He is too much habituated to
	imagine, that six months labour in the year should keep him com-
	paratively idle for the remaining six; and, in the direction of his
	agricultural industry, he has gradually-fallen into the practice of
	trusting to potatoes instead of corn, for his chief food, without pro-
	viding an extra supply of manure to keep the land in heart; this
	leads to the relinquishment of the culture of bear, which ripens
	sooner than oats,--is more productive, and less exposed to da-
	mage from the autumnal gales; the land being impoverished yields
	little fodder and grass ; his cattle are reduced in number and
	plight; he and his family are imperfectly nourished for energetic
	exertion ; and a failure of the potato crop, which, in so variable a
					4


