242			KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE

of Carsethorn; while vessels bound for Dumfries lie here, until
they are enabled to proceed by the spring-tides.
		     V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Market-Town.--The market-town for Kirkbean is Dumfries,
twelve miles distant from the church, and fourteen,from tbe cen-
tre of the parish. There are four small villages. That of Kirk-
bean is one of the most beautiful and interesting anywhere to be
seen. Its situation most in a simple rural valley, surrounded by small,
well-wooded knolls, is altogether delightful,--an apt representa-
tion of Goldsmith's
		"Sweet Auburn, loveliest village of the plain."
The beauty of this village is much owing to the liberality of the
late occupier of Cavens, Lady Mary Oswald, who gave prizes an-
nually to those villagers who kept their cottages in good order
and also to the present proprietors, who continue this system.
	Means of Communication.--There is a daily post excepting
Sunday, and a turnpike road to Dumfries.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The church is five miles distant from the
remotest farm-house, and four from the village of Saturness. Still
it is well placed for the accommodation of the principal part of the
population. There is abundance of room in the church for all
cHurch going people. The manse was built in 1798. The
glebe, comprehending, garden and the site of manse and offices,
does not exceed ten acres. They are all in good order. The
stipend is as nearly as possible, L.I80 per annum. The teinds
are exhaused. About L.160 are paid in money, the remainder in
bear ore oatmeal at the fiars prices. There are not above four fa-
milies of old Dissenters, in the parish, besides two Catholic fami-
lies. To this number may now be added about fifteen families
who have lately joined in the Free Kirk, though some of their mem-
bers still adhere to the Establishment. The church is very well
attended. The average number of communicants, 240. Average
amount of church collections per annum, L.30. Probable ave-
rage of coolections annually for religious and charitable purposes,
L.10.
	Education.--There are two regularly kept schools. One pa-
rochial, with two chalders of salary, and the interest of L.608, 4s.,
mortified for a free school or schools, with a good dwelling-house
garden. At this, school thirty children of the poorer order are
taught gratis. At this school is distant from the parochial school
three miles. The teacher in it has the interest of L.400, morti-


