
                           JURA.                             537

as of the Pentland Firth; and if greater, they may still be avoid-
ed, with similar precautions.  But as this passage is seldom used
by boats, and never by vessels, it has received, in addition to the
exaggeration, the further ill character which attends all untried
dangers.  Had it been as necessary a channel as the Kyle Rich
or Hoy Mouth, we should have heard far less of its horrors.  Like
those of the Mahlstr"m they shrink before the boldness of a fair
examination.  The leading cause of the turbulence of the sea
here, is the narrowness of this passage, with the constraint thus
produced in the tide-wave. To this must be added a pyramidal rock,
rising with a rapid acclivity from the bottom, which is about a
hundred fathoms deep, to within fifteen of the surface.  The
Mahlstr"m is indebted for its whirlpools, to a rock precisely simi-
lar, at twenty fathoms.  The course of the tide-stream is thus di-
verted, so as to assume numerous intricate directions, as in the
Pentland Firth; while a counter-current or eddy being also pro-
duced, chiefly on the Scarba side, the return of this into the main
stream, produces those gyrations, resembling the wells of Swona
and Stroma, which romance has magnified into a whirlpool capa-
ble of swallowing ships.  One of these appears more conspicuous
than the others; but, in s mooth water, the whole stream is full of
those whirling eddies so common in all similar tide-straits.
  " When there are wind and sea both, and more particularly
when the former is opposed to the swell, or to the tide, or to both,
the danger then becomes real, as the water then breaks high and
short in every direction, and with frightful violence. It is this
short, breaking sea which might swallow up a vessel, unless every
thing were well secured on deck; not the whirlpools, which only
impede the steerage.  One vessel only, a foreigner, is remem-
bered to have passed inadvertently through it at an improper time.
From the alarm of the crew, she lost steerage, and became un-
manageable; but was thrown out into the eddy, and carried away,
unharmed along the Jura shore.  I have seen both Hoy Mouth
and Coryvrechan in gales of wind of equal violence: and, if I
mistake not, the former was fully as terrific an object as the latter.
The flood-tide runs through this gulph from the eastward; and
though the rapidity cannot be twelve miles in an hour, as it has
been computed it must be very considerable.  The violence of
the sea is also greatest with the flood, because of the general op-
position of the western swell.  In neap-tides, there is an hour or
more of repose at the change; and, in springs about half as much.


