
                         UNITED PARISHES OF

                         HUTTON AND CORRIE.

              PRESBYTERY OF LOCHMABEN, SYNOD OF DUMFRIES.

                   THE REV.  JACOB WRIGHT, MINISTER.


		I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	Name.--It is observed in Hutchinson's History of the County of
Cumberland, that the name Hutton, which is the name of a parish
also in that county, is probably derived from the principal village
being originally a town of huts. It appears not improbable that
this parish derived its name from the same circumstance; and it
strengthens this supposition, that there is a farm near the church
of the name of Newton, where the principal inn of the parish has
been long kept. It is natural to suppose that Newton was so cal-
led on its erection, in contradistinction to the old fragile tenements
formerly on the spot. The rivulet Corrie gives name to, the other
part of the parish. The word is Gaelic, signifying a narrow glen.
The rivulet accordingly issues from a glen where this parish joins
Eskdalemuir. Dryfe, another rivulet, which rises in the upper
part of the Hutton division of the parish, and flows through it for
six or seven miles, derives its name from its fury during floods, and
driving all before it. In rainy seasons it is frequently shifting its
bed, disfiguring fields, and destroying, ferries and mill-dams.
	Extent, Boundaries.--The united parishes extend from N. W.
to S. E. about twelve miles in length. The breadth is unequal,
but may average three miles. They are bounded on the N. E.
by the ridge of hills and waterfall which divides Annandale from
Eskdale; on the S. E. by the water of Milk, which separates the
the parish of Corrie from Tundergarth; and on the N. and W. by
the parishes of Wamphray, Applegarth, and Dryfesdale.
	Topographical Appearances, &c.--The view is very different
from different positions. Within sight of the rivulet Dryfe, till near
its source, the hills are of a fine verdure, and the banks much co-
vered with wood. In sight of the Milk, the view is less hilly, less
        DUMFRIES.                                M m


