
                       ANSTRUTHER WESTER.             615

tage. Here be might observe the progressive development and
changes which took place in the animal and vegetable economy,
during the carboniferous era. The following is a list of a few of
the more remarkable fossil organisms, animal and vegetable.

                        Animal.
Fish scales, teeth, and coprolites.
Fioles of the Ganoida and Placoids race have been discovered.
Shells of the Unio, Mytihus, Anodonta, &c.
Eseriniter, and various corallines.
Shells and other marine axuviss, not yet described.

                        Vegetable.
Stigmarine, numerous, very fine varieties.
Sigillaries, plantiful, do. do.
Cycadease, several,     do. do.
Cactease,
Epiphylla,         These, or species resembling these more than the Stigmaris.
Euphorbis,
Lepidodandra, numerous.
Ulodendra, frequest.
Calamites, numerous gigantle specimens,
Equisets, exceeding plenteful.
Sphenopoteres, do. do.
Cyllopteres, very beautiful and rase varicties.
Meuropteres, do.  do.  do.
Sphenophylls, plentiful.
Lyconpodites, do.
Carpothylites, several have been discovered.
Cannonphyllites, exceedingly abundant.
Graminis, do. do.

 Many other species occur, and all in excellent preservations,
swing to the ferruginous indurated nature of the rocka. They are
easily freed from the matrix, and are every way worthy of the at-
tention of the fossil collector.
 The only ore worthy of notice is that of iron. It occurs im-
bedded in the shale and slate-clay in the form of thin bands and
septaria. This ore is an argillaceous carbonate of iron, yielding
from 30 to 60 per cent, of iron. The septaria are in general the
purest, though sometimes containing carbonate of lime, iron py-
rites, coprolites, and other impurities. It has never been mined,
but is frequently gathered by the shore, as washed out from the dis-
integrated strats, and sells at from 9s. to 12s. for 24 cwt. It is car-
ried to Newcastle at little expense, in ballast bottomed vessels.
Immediately on the confines of the parish, at Pittenweam, iron
ore is quarried from the shale to a considerable extent during low
water.
 The rocks which compose the distinct being wholly sedimentary,
the parish presents no field for the mineralogist. The simple in-
gredients of sandstone, shale, fire-clay and coal are too well knows
to require individuals descriptions.



