
142                          ORKNEY.

at one built on the ruins of the burah of Coliness.  This chapel
has been built at the southeast corner of the ruins of the burg
Its length was 12 feet; breadth little more than 8.  A stone, 2
feet long, 10 inchei in thickness, and as many in breadth, was
found in this chapel.  One side of this stone was covered with small
circular holes, about one inch in depth, and straight lines were
cut from one hole to another; the holes were not arranoed in any
regular order.- The use of this stone must remain unknown.
   "At a very short distance from the west end of the chapel, a
number of graves were discovered ; all were lined with fla-stones.
None of them were above two feet under the surface of the
ground.  They were close together in rows, formino, the divisions
between the graves.  Many of the skeletons were pretty entire;
they were lying with their heads to the west.  All were on their
right sides, with the knees a good deal bent.  One of the sculls
had a long wound on the upper part of it.  A gold ring, rather
larger than a finger ring, was found in one of the graves; but the
boy who found it, broke it, to ascertain its composition.    I saw
only a small fragment of it.  On the flag which formed the south
or right side of one of these graves, there was a very rude attempt
at carving a cross Calvary.  The upright portion was 13 inches
long ; the cross beam, 9 inches.  More curious discoveries might
bave been made here; but the search was discontinued."

<TABLE=III.POPULATION>          III.-POPULATION.

                   Amount of population in 1801,   -   830
                                           1811,   -   862
                                           1821,   -   880
                                           1831,   -   858
   Customs.-Formerly, it was customary for companies of men,
on new year's morning, to go to the houses of the rich., and awake
the family, by singing the New Year's song, in full chorus.  When
the song was concluded, the family entertained the musicians
with ale and bread, and gave them a smoked goose or a piece of
beef.
   Language- Our language is rather a dialect of the English than.
the Scotcb, and the pronunciation also resembles the EDCI]jSll-
But several words are evidently borrowed from the French, for
example, Vilipend, to abuse by oppro6fious or railing language.
This word is frequently used by Brantome, who wrote in the age
of Mary Queen of Scots.  The country people term the black

<FOOTNOTE>A copy of this song, set to music, is inserted in the M S.
                                3


