
230                       BERWICKSHIRE.

the old allowance of L. 8, 6s. 8d for communion elements, and
there is still a considerable surplus of free teind.
   About two-thirds of the families belong to the church, and are
in general punctual in their attendance; and one-third are dissen-
ters of the United Secession or Relief. These go to Dunse or
Greenlaw, in the first of which there are three, and in the last,
two congregations.
   The average number of church communicants is from 140 to 150.
The church collections for the poor are trifling,-not more than
L. 4 or L. 5 per annum. The tenants give little, as they are as-
sessed, and the working-classes can afford and give still less. Col-
lections for other purposes are rare. There have been only three
or four within these twenty years, for extra-parochial objects.
   Education.-The only school in the parish is the parochial,-in
which are taught, besides the ordinary branches, mensuration and
Latin. The teacher has the minimum salary, being by conversion
L. 25, 13s. 3 1/2d., also about L. 8 as heritors' clerk and as precentor:
and the whole emoluments, with school fees and other perquisites,
may average L. 45 per annum, besides a house and garden.
   All children in the parish are early taught to read, and there
are no persons of any age above six, unable to read.
   The average number of persons receiving parochial aid for the
last seven years is 10; they have received from 1s. to 3s. per week.
The average assessment for the same period, paid by the heritors
and tenants, each one-half, was L. 54,-giving L. 6, 8s. to each
pauper per annum. Paupers are at first reluctant to apply for as-
sistance, but, when once enrolled, they become less so.
                      MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   It will appear from the above facts, that, since the time of the
last Statistical Account, a considerable extent of waste land
(1200 acres) has been enclosed and planted, or brought under
cultivation; that the land has been much improved by draining;
and that the roads are in good repair, as a proof of which, it may
be mentioned, that grain, and even lime and coals, which it for-
merly required six horses to carry, may now be easily carted by a
single horse. There is not a farm in the parish but has a thrash-
ing-machine. And, except a little occasional draining, it does not
appear that much more can be done in this parish in the way of
improvement.

   August 1834.



