
                           TORTHORWALD.                      37

ment, for which they have no substitute; and they are thus made
much more dependent upon the bounty of others.
	Inns, &c.--There are no fewer than five ale, or rather whisky
houses, in this parish, while there is really no use for one in a place
so near Dumfries; and nothing is more pernicious to the industry
and morals of the people.
	FueL.--The parish is well supplied with fuel, consisting chiefly
of peats, from Lochar Moss. But an abundant supply of coals also
is brought by sea from the opposite English coast to Dumfries, and
sold there for about 13s. or 14s. the ton.

                   MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.

	Lochar Moss.--The most obvious and important improvements
which are wanted in this parish are, 1st, the draining and dressing
the moss and meadows along Lochar, which, as before-mentioned,
are very extensive. There is enough of declivity in this moss
to admit of its being sufficiently drained for culture, if a straight
wide course were cut for the water of Lochar, and a mill-dam re-
moved, which is near the southern end of it in the parish of Car-
laverock, and which at present stops up the water, and raises it to
the height of six or seven feet. This great interruption to the
drainage is all for the sake of a small trifling mill, which yields
very little rent to the proprietor, and is hardly of any consequence
to the tenants. If this mill-dam were removed, and a proper course
cut for the main water all along the moss, with the necessary late-
ral drains,--improvements which could be done at a very moderate
expense, it is not easy to calculate the vast quantity of ground now
useless that might be formed into valuable meadows. The prin-
cipal proprietors of this great moss are the Marquis of Queenber-
ry, Sir Robert Grierson, Bart., Mr Paterson, the Earl of Mans-
field, Mr Maxwell of Nithsdale, Mr Douglas of Craigs, Mr Heron,
and Mr Johnston nf Carnsalloch. Where so many proprietors are
concerned, it is not easy to induce them to agree and cooperate
heartily in any one plan. But the draining and improving of this
vast moss, which lies in a low country, in a healthy warin climate,
and on the edge of the sea, is evidently so much for the advantage
of all concerned, is so plain and simple an operation, and might be
completed at so small an expense, in comparison with the return
it would make to the prorietors, that it is most wonderful, and
much to be regretted, that it has been neglected so long, although
it has been in contemplation for seventy or eighty years. About


