

108                    BERWICKSHIRE.

   The history of the parish of Strafontane commences in the
reign of David II., in which reign an hospital was founded here;
but the name of the founder is forgotten. This house seems at
one time to have been dependent on the abbey of Alnwick. It
was in 1437 transferred by the abbot of that place to the monas-
tery of Dryburgh;* and it came ultimately into the possession of
the collegiate church of Dunglass, and gave a title to one of the
prebends. Its original destination as an hospital was changed to
that of a church; but public worship ceased to be performed
in it at the Reformation. Its cure was then united to that of St
Bathans. +
   Eminent Men.-As a remarkable person connected with this
parish, David Hume of Godscroft may be mentioned. This ac-
complished gentleman, who was the son of Sir David Hume of
Wedderburn, held a conspicuous place among the miscellaneous
writers of the seventeenth century, and was one of the early and
most intimate friends of the celebrated Andrew Melville. He
was extensively acquainted with the ancient and modern languages,
theology, politics, and history; and among those who at that pe-
riod were distinguished for their skill in the composition of Latin
poetry, which was then enthusiastically cultivated, there were
few who showed a mind more deeply imbued with its genuine
spirit. ++
   Antiquities.-The church of St Bathans is a very ancient build-
ing. The north an east walls still bear marks of antiquity. In

<FOOTNOTE> Chalmers' Caledonia, ii. 348.
     Report to Commission of Teinds preserved in Register House, Edinburgh.
     The works of David Hume of Godscroft consist of, (1.) Latin Poems, several
of which were printed in a separate form, and were collected and published under the
title "Poemata Omnia, &c." at Paris, 1639. 8vo.-(2.) Tractatus de Unione Insulae
Britannicae. Lond. 1605. 4to. And reprinted at the end of the "Poemata" 1639.
-(3.) Camdenea, sive Vindiciae Buchanani contra Camdenum. M.S. 4to.-(4.)
History of the House of Douglas and Angus. Edinburgh, 1743. 2 vols. 12mo.
N. B.-There was a David Hume, minister of one of the Protestant churches
abroad, the author of one or two works in French and Latin, which have been usually
attributed to David Hume of Godscroft. Whether he was any relation does not cer-
tainly appear.
   James Hume, doctor of medicine, son of David Hume of Godscroft, was the au-
thor of the following works:-(1.) Pataleonis Vaticinia Satyra ad Dom. Rob. Kerum,
&c. Rothemagi, 1633. 18mo.-(2.) Traite de la Trigonometrie, &c. Paris, 1636.
small 8vo.-(3.) Algebre de Franqois Viete d'une Methode Nouvelle, par Jacques
Hume, Escuyer. Paris, 1636. 8vo-(4.) Latin Poems, &c. subjoined to the vo-
lume "Poemata, &c." of his father, David Hume of Godscroft, printed at Paris 1639.
8vo. James Hume appears to have been editor of the volume.-(5.)Methode Uni-
verselle pour faire et descrire toutes sortes des Quadrans et d'Horiloges, avec Nou-
velle Demonstratione fort belle et Curieuse. Paris, 1640. 8vo.
   Anna Hume, daughter of David Hume of Godscroft. She published in English
verse, "The Triumphs of Love-Chastity-Death. Translated out of Petrarch
by Mrs Anna Hume." Edinburgh, 1644. Small 8vo.
                                 3



