
                439                            RENFREWSHIRE.


                Before concluding this article, we must not omit mentioning the
                fulfillment of the original object of Mr Thom's survey, namely, the
                providing a suffibient supply of pure water for domestic purposes,
                and for public works in the town of Greenock. The water for these
                purposes is procured from springs, and from a surface water reser-
                voir distinct from those which have been already mentioned. It is
                conducted to immediately above the town by a stone aque-
                duct fifteen inches square, perfectly water tight, and sufficiently
                deep in the earth to avoid the frost of winter, and the heat of
                summer. Cess pools are formed in the aqueduct for the deposit of
                sediment before, the water enters the filters, or rather a basin ad-
                joining the filters large enough to contain rather more than a day's
                supply of water. There are three filters each 50 feet long, 12
                feet wide, and 8 feet deep. They have this peculiarity, that they
                are self-cleansing. We shall describe them in Mr Thom's own
                words, taken from a letter to Sir M. S. Stewart in, the Appendix
                to the "Brief Account," p. 86.
                  "I cannot now enter into a particular or detailed account of the
                construction of these filters. In the meantime, I may state that
                the water is made to pass through a body of very fine, clean,
                sharp sand, of about five feet deep, and by a very simple contri-
                vance the water ir made to enter either at the top, that it may per-                                                                                          I Y
                colate downwards, or at the bottom, that it may percolate upwards,
                as we please; and when in filtering it percolates downwards, then,
                whenever the quantity of pure water falls short by the lodgement of
                sediment among the sand, the water is made to enter for a little
                at the bottom, and passing upwards with considerable force, carries
                the sediment out at and over the top, after which the filter goes
                on as before, producing the full quantity of pure water. In the
                same way, if the water usually percolates upwards in filtering, the
                sediment is removed by making the water for a few minutes enter
                at the top, and carry the sediment downwards into the waste drain.
                  "To say that these filters must continue for ever to produce
                the same quantity of pure water, would be going too far; but,
                from the experience we have had there appears no reason to
                doubt of their continuing to do so for a very long time."
                  Manufactures.-The chief branches of manufactures prose-
                cuted in Greenock are, ship and boat-building, iron-founding and
                forging, sugar-refining, rope-making, sail-cloth manufacturing,
                and sail-making, paper-making, straw-hat making, tanning, and
                currying of leather, earthen-ware manufacturing, woollen-cloth,




