
24                             RENFREWSHIRE.

childhood, virtually shuts tip the boys to the single occupation of
weaving, in after life.  They pass with ease and at little expense,
from the employment of drawing to that of weaving.  The trade
is thus kept overstocked with hands, and wages continue, on this
as wellas on other accounts, depressed, so that the very poverty
of the weaver perpetuates some of the causes of his distress.  But
the employment of children in drawing is morally objectionable.
Listening, as they do, to all that is said, often by the irreligious
and profane, and placed as they are under the authority of these
very masters, it is not wonderful that their own language and after
conduct should, in many cases, be tainted with what is unbecom-
ing.  We recollect being told by a gentleman holding a high and
responsible situation in one of the large manufacturing towns, that
he had himself been a draw-boy; and that he now almost shudder-
ed to look back on what he recollected of his situation.
   Next to the weaving and its kindred branches is the bleaching.
There is only one bleachfield in the parish, which is in the burgh,
and employs 12 men and 90 women and girls.  The men earn
from 9s. to 16s. per week, the women and girls from 3s. to 7s.
Their employment, however, is not constant, and they have to
work in apartments too much heated to be very healthy.  It may
be proper here to mention a very laudable and advantageous prac-
tice common among females, usually employed with manufac-
tures during the greater part of the year: in summer and au-
tumn, a considerable number lay aside their, needles and other im-
plements of manufactures, and hire themselves to the farmers in
the neighbourhood, at potato planting, hay-making, hoeing and
weeding, and latterly at reaping, digging potatoes and raising tur-
nips.  This change of employment is beneficial to health, profi
table to the labourers, and convenient to the farmers; and ought
farther to be encouraged, as productive of intercourse and kindly
feelings between different classes of the community.
   There is a manufactory of starch in the burgh; but it employs
only two or three men.  The starch itself is chiefly used in the
bleachfields.
   A tile-work was set agoing two or three years ago, about a mile
south of the burgh.  The tiles made are for draining land, and
are of various sizes, according to the kind of drain they are to oc-
cupy.  They consist of soles and covers; the former being flat,
like flooring tile, and the latter formed archwise, the rounded
side being kept up.  This work employs about half a dozen men,
and nearly the same number of children.


