
	594                         PERTHSHIRE.

  lemma, the directors of the Comrie Bank obtained upon their bond

	L. 300 from the Commercial Bank, in order to pay off the most
	clamant of the depositors, and to carry on operations until a settle-
	ment could be procured with the Leith Bank.  This has not yet
  been obtained; and consequently, althnugh the savings bank is still
	doing business, it is comparatively on a limited scale.  The amount
  deposited since 1823 is above L. 1200, being an average of L.90
	per annum ; the number of depositors 250, consisting of all
  classes of laborers, but especially of servant girls.  The sum ac-
	tually deposited at present is about L. 600.  About L. 300 of the
  sum invested, previous to the failure in 1823, have been paid up
	from the funds of the bank, or from the pockets of individual di-
	rectors.
    Poor.-The average number of paupers is 55, of whom 45 re-
  ceive an average monthly aliment of4s. 2d.; and 10 are occasion-
	ally aided.  There are three lunatics in Perth asylum, who cost
  the heritors L. 60 a-year.  The annual expense of the poor is
  thus about L. 180.  The practical management of the poor funds
	is in the hands of deacons, who hold a monthly meeting, and their
	proceedings are reviewed at an annual meeting of the heritors and
  kirk-session.  The ordinary church collections average L. 90 per
	annum: about L. 12 accrue from marriages and funerals; and
	during the last twdnty years, one legacy of L. 180, and another of
  L.50 have been received.
    Since 1816, there has been a voluntary assessment paid by the
  heritors, amounting to L. 40 ; a good deal is given in private charity
  by heritors and other individuals.  There is little disposition among
	the poor to refrain from seeking parochial relief, and it is not con-
	sidered so degrading as before the commencement of the village
	system, and of friendly societies.
     There is a small lock-up-house in the village of Comrie, erected
	About three years ago, but it has been scarcely, if at all, used.
	The great distance of this parish from the county town makes it
	necessary to have a place of security to lodge vagrants and disor-
	derly characters for a single night, or at least that they should be
	aware that such a place is at hand.  The village constable, paid
	by the heritors, keeps the key.
	  Fairs.--There are five annual fairs held in Comrie, in the
	months of March, May, July, November, and December.  The
	principal of these are, St Kessack's on the third Wednesday of
                                    3



