                
438                  ROXBURGSHIRE.

young people attending Denholm Sabbath school, and contains
about 1000 volumes.*
   The Caerlanrig Chapel or Teviothead Library was instituted a
considerable number of years ago , and consists of a pretty large col-
lection of well selected books. The Juvenile Library at the same
place is, as the name implies, principally intented for the benefit
of the young, but free to all.+
   Poor and Parochial Funds.- The poor are provided for by as-
sessment conducted in the usual manner; the annual average
number of persons receiving parochial aid, as regular paupers, dur
ing the same period is 53, and the average sum allotted to each is
L.5,3s. oer annum. The assesment for the current half-year is
L.132, and there being 49 paupers on the roll, the average sum al-
lotted each is 2s. 0 1/2d. per week.
   The money raised by means of the weekly collections made at
the church, amounting to about L.9 a-year, is left to the sole ma-
nagement of the kirk-session, and is distributed in small sums
among such poor of the parish as require only a temporary relief.
   As the system of giving parochial aid, above described, has ob-
tained for many years, the certainly which it gives of relief being
afforded, generally includes a readiness to take advantage of it on  
the part of the necessitous.
   Saving Banks.-The nearest of these is at Hawick; and there
is another at Jedburgh : both are in a flourishimg condition. The
one at Hawick was instituted January 7, 1815. At the 30th May
last, the number of depositors was 473, from all classes of the com-
munity, but especially those for whose benefit such institutions are
chiefly intended.++

<FOOTNOTE>* This library is not confined to this parish. About ten years ago, Mr Douglas
adopted the scheme of Mr Samuel Brown of Haddington, in regard to "Itinerating
Libraries," which was to send fifty volumes to a convenient station, where they
should reamin, in order to be read by the inhabitants of the place, for a twelvemonth,
and then be returned, when another box, containing fifty other volumes, should be
forwarded,and so on.
+ As this library is altogether free, a quarterly lecture is about to be instituted,
the collections arising from which are to be applied partly to the repairing of the old
books, and partly to the purchasing of new ones.
++ The following shows the state of this Bank, as ascertained by official documents
submitted tot the last general meeting of managers, on the 1st of August 1839.
Amount due to the Savings Bank by the British Linen Company, L.6894   12   5
Gross sum of deposits made during the year ending 30th May last, in-
 cluding interest on Bank account,                                       1761   0   0

Amount paid to depositors during same period,                            1933  10   0
Received from 114 depositors, L.814  17  0  Paid L. 124.acct. in full,   1378   8   0
Added to accounts still open,   946   3  0  Paid from accts. still open   555   0   0
Received from British Linen Co. 833   0  0  Paid to British Linen Co.     662   0   0








