
	1234                       PERTHSHIRE.

	in the house with him.  Shr Richard was an old bachelor, and was
	so intent on his schemes and calculations, that young Buchanan
	and he often sat for weeks together, on opposite sides of the fire,
	without exchanging a syllable.  The old man, however, was in his
	other moods extremely kind and familiar, and recollected his pupil
	in after life.
	   " The powerful fall and supply of water in the Teith having sug-
	gested to the elder of the Buchanans the idea of placing a cotton-
	spinning establishment at this spot, where it now stands, the scheme
	was soon ripened into action.  There was a lint mill with a dam
	upon the property, and the owner disposed of the mill to him, and
	gave him a feu of six acres along the margin of the stream.
	Carding and roving for jenny-spinning were then the only proces-
	ses which were driven by power (as it is termed), and for this pur-
	pose the old lint mill was appropriated, a building being erected
	close by for the reception of the jennies.  At first, the Highland-
	ers were shy of entering this tower of Babel, with its unknown
	sounds and sights: they considered it a sort of prison.  From the
	respectable manner in which the works were conducted, they were
	gradually reconciled to the employment, and were quite willing
	that both themselves and children should be engaged.  Archi-
	bald Buchanan was then a fine athletic young man of eighteen
	or nineteen, of a social generous disposition ; he mingled with the
	people; and thus a number of active young men of the district, of
	the better classes, were led to work at Deanston ; and so expert
	did they become, that as fine yarn was then spun at Deanston as
	has subsequently been made by the best spinners in Manchester.
	Some of these young men afterwards made fortunes in business,
	and the firm of the Macpbails in Glasgow (extensive spinners and
	power weavers) had its origin in one of the family repairing from
	Ross-shire to work at Deanston.
	   " In the year 1793, the works at Deanston passed into the hands
	of a Yorkshire Quaker, a benevolent old gentleman named Floun-
	ders; and in 1808 they became the property of James Finlay and
	Co. from Glasgow, with whom Mr Archibald Buchanan had be-
	come connected.  The establishment was at this time remodelled
	under the charge of the present manager, Mr Smith (a nephew
	of Mr Buchanan), who is well known for his mechanical as well
	as his agricultural inventions and improvements.  In 1822, the
	company made arrangements with the neighbouring proprietors for


