
188                        RENFREWSHIRE.

This establishment comprises at present a superintendent, two ser-
jeants, one corporal, and four watchmen.
   This system of police has been of high importance to the good
government and comfort of the inhabitants.  At its commence-
ment, there were many violent struggles between the more irre-
gular.  part of the community and the police officers; but fines
and imprisonments made them more submissive to the laws.
When we take into view the small number of police officers hither-
to employed, to perform duty both day and night, and the great
population, consisting chiefly of mechanics and labourers, we must
acknowledge, that the establishment is justly entitled to high ap-
probation.
   A good many years previous to the passing of the police bill
an establishment of special constables was organized in this place,
with a view to preserve the peace of the community, and to pro-
mote good order, in opposition to the attempts of the disaffected and
seditious, who aimed at nothing short of the destruction of all law,
government, and religion.  The plan was reviewed and approved of
by William Macdowall, Esq. of Garthland, the Lord Lieutenant
of the county, and by the sheriff and other magistrates; and was
adopted to a considerable extent, and with due effect.  The es-
tablishment was organized in 1794 or 1795, a short period before
the volunteering system commenced.  After that event, this insti-
tution still subsisted; but the parade, the dress, and the music of
the military associations threw the peace officers into the back
ground.  However, after it was found from experience, that the
constables were the only efficient body that could effectually com-
mand peace without military execution, it was again had recourse
to.  Regulations were published by the magistrates of the place,
and the sheriff-substitute of the county,-accompanied with a state-
ment of the powers vested in constables by the laws of their country.
   Since that time the establishment has been kept up at a trifling
expense.  The furnishing each constable with a baton, as a badge
of office, was all the expense incurred.  The body consists of re-
spectable citizens, scattered through the whole extent of the place.
Of course, they are generally acquainted with their neighbours,
and consequently, in case of any seditious movement or public dis-
turbance, the leaders can hardly escape detection.   Another fa-
vourable circunstance is, that this body of men may be brought to
act with the utmost promptitude.  The town and suburbs are divid-
ed into four wards, according to the number of parishes.  Each


