
80			KINCARDINESHIRE.

ed with a spear. The dress and the horses of the first and third
mark them to be of inferior rank. The one in the middle is placed
in a separate square, his horse is covered with a cloth, and his dress
far superior to that of the others. At his feet, lies what may be con-
sidered as a sceptre, or at any rate an ornamented spear. To-
wards one side of the stone is the figure of a hound, and at the
other that of a boar, an animal said to have abounded at that time
in the Scotch forests. Now, connecting this stone and the
figurer with the traditions respecting the murder of Kenneth, it is
surely not improbable that it was intended to commemorate that
event. It was natural to place such a commemorative stone in St
Palladius' Chapel, the place to which Kenneth had either lately
made, or was about to make a pilgrimage, when he was assassinat-
ed ; and when the chapel was about to be stript of its furniture at
the time of the Reformation, it was not improbable that it was then
pushed under the pulpit of the church for preservation. In the
chapel there still remains a bollow stone in the wall, which proba-
bly held the holy-water; the niche within which the statue of St
Palladius was placed, and before which incense was burned, and a
square place in the wall near to it, which probably enclosed the silver
shrine with the supposed relies of the saint. In Vol. ii., Part 2, of the
Transactions of the Society of Antiquaries of Scotland, there is a
particular account of the stone above alluded to, drawn up by the
late Professor Stuart of Marischal College, Aberdeen, who was
well acquainted with the antiquities of the north of Scotland; and
a most accurate drawing of the stone taken by the Rev. Mr Spen-
cer, schoolmaster, Fordoun. The monks, who had the charge of
the chapel, bad probably been buried in it, as lately, when open-
ing up a part of the floor, it was found to be filled with bones
placed under regular arches. There is, besides, a vault at some
depth under ground."
	Maps.--A most accurate delineation of this parish is contained in
a map of the county, made from actual survey, by the late Mr Gar-
den, in 1774, on which are exhibited not only the natural features
of the county, the position and direction of roads, rivers, and the
boundaries of parishes, but with the most minute detail, the out-
line of the different estates and commons, and likewise the extent
of the arable, pasture, and wood land. It is by far the most ac-
curate and best executed county map yet published. Most, if no,
all the estates have been more recently surveyed and mapped, to
which reference has been made in drawing up this Report.


