
26                      SUTHERLANDSHIRE.

rish, are copied from an original manuscript, at Dunrobin Castle,
written by the late eminent Sir Humphry Davy, President of the
Royal Society:-- "The primary hills, in the. neighbourhood of
Dunrobin, are composed of felspar, quartz, mica, and hornblende,
forming different arrangements of porphyry, porpbyritic granite,
gneiss, sienite, and mica slate.  There are very few veins in the
rocks.  The only veins I have seen are quartz, and in them there
are no indications of metallic formations.  The decomposed rocks
have left no fragments of quartz, which are usually found in abun-
dance in metalliferous, districts.
   "The highest secondary bills, in this district, extend in a line
from Loch-Brora to Strathfleet," that is, through the northern
part of this parish, 11 and are composed of hard silicious sandstone
and puddingstone, containing large fragments-some rounded,
some sharp-of the primary rocks, particularly of the porphyritic
granite, gneiss, and sienite.
   "The secondary rocks are more interesting.  The mechanical
deposits in them are evidently derived from the ruins of primary
rocks; and most of the fragments are such as may have been de-
tached from rocks in the neighbourhood.  The vegetable remains
in the sandstone and the shells in the limestone are those common
to, such formations.  The cement of the secondary rocks is gene-
rally silicious; but in. one stratum near Golspie, and extending
along the coast, it is calcareous; and the decomposition of the
rocks forms an excellent marl.  In this marl there is a blue sub-
stance, having some of the external characters of phosphate of iron."
   In another manuscript,- Sir Humphry writes thus:-- The
soils of the coast side lands, between the Little Ferr and Helms-
dale, seem to be formed principally from the decomposition of
sandstone-rock, which in some parts approaches in its nature to
shale.  The soils in Strathfleet," --the lower parts of which
partly lie in this parish,-- "appear to have been produced by the
decomposition of transition-sandstone and breccias.
   "The transition rocks of Sutherland are not numerous, and be-
long, as far as I have been able to learn and examine, only to a
small extent of country.  Some of the high bills, in the immediate
neighbourhood of Dunrobin and Strathfleet, must be regarded- as
belonging to this order of rocks.  Beinn a Bhragidh, rising imme-
diately above (near) the castle, is composed of red transition sand-
stone and -breccia. Beinn Horn, the Silver Hill, and all the moun-
tains immediately above Loch-Brora, are similar in their nature;


