
				CARLUKE. 			   565

towards the east, until it at last terminates in a track of wild moor-
land.
	To one travelling along the Lanark and Glasgow road, on the
opposite side of the Clyde, the lower part of our parish presents
an aspect highly picturesque. The banks of the river, richly clothed
with fruit and forest trees, and studded with comfortable cottages
and farm-houses, or, here and there, with the more aspiring edi-
fices of the rich, form, altogether, a prospect that is perhaps not
surpassed by many others in Scotland. None, however, can form
a proper idea of the extreme beauty of the district, but those who
have explored the numerous romantic glens or gills, through which
the streamlets, rising in the higher quarters of the parish, find
their way to the Clyde.
	Mountains, Caves.--The hills in the parish of any great height
are four in number; Kilcadzow Law, Lee law, King's law, and
Law of Mauldslie. Of these, Kilcadzow Law, which is the most
elevated, is about 150 feet higher than the gate of Cleghorn ave-
nue; which, again, is stated in Telford's railway survey, to be 743
feet above the level of high water at the Broomielaw. The only
caverns in the parish are some, shelving recesses in the banks of
Garrion and other gills, to which the country people are said to
have scrambled for concealment, dragging their horses after them,
during the commotions in the reigns of the Charleses; as also, when
the Highlanders were traversing the country in 1745-6.
	Climate.--As the whole of the parish, with the exception of
the small portion of it situated in the trough of the Clyde, is ex-
posed to the full sweep of the west and south-west winds, which
prevail here, often with great violence, for nearly three-fourths of
the year, the climate is, in consequence, both cold and damp. It
is far, however, from being unhealthy. The prevalent distempers
are inflammatory affections; such as pneumonia, pleuritis, in-
flammatory affections of the windpipe, terminating frequently in
phthisis during the upward portion of life; rheumatism is common
during the advanced period of life. On the Clyde, fever, when
it occurs, is of a lower type,--assuming a typhoid character, more
frequently than in the middle and higher portions of the parish.
	Hydrography.--Springs are numerous, so much so, indeed, as
sometimes almost to constitute a nuisance. Some of them stand
high in repute for their medicinal qualities as the Physic Well, a
ferruginous spring near Carluke town; Duds' Well, a spring of the

	LANARK.                          O o


