
			CRAWFORDJOHN.                            5ll

fordjohn formed an association for the exhibition of stock. Most
of the farmers joined it, and several of the heritors sent subscrip-
tions: and the various kinds of stock produced both years were
highly commended, as well by the judges, who determined the com-
parative excellences of each lot, as by the many experienced agri-
culturists, who assembled from the adjacent counties.
	Above a dozen of tenants and subtenants, besides labouring
their respective lands, employ their horses in driving coals to Mof-
fat, Leadhills, and Wanlockhead.

			V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

	Market-Towns, &c.--At Douglas, distant six miles through the
moor, and eight by the road, a little business is occasionally trans-
acted; but Biggar, distant fourteen miles, and Lanark sixteen miles
from Crawfordjohn, must be reckoned our nearest market-towns.
Letters come both by Douglas and Leadhills every day, and to
the latter place we enjoy almost daily access by the coal carts.
There are five miles of the Glasgow and Carlisle road in this pa-
rish, and nearly the same of the Biggar and Leadhills. Along the
one, the Edinburgh aod Dumfries coach passes, and along the other,
the Glasgow and Carlisle mail, up and down every day. Only
one bridge is entirely in the parish, over Duneaton, and on the
Glasgow road: The parish, however, is connected with the parishes
of Crawford and Roberton by two bridges,--one over Duneaton,
and another over Glengonner. The parochial roads are 33 miles
long, which have been kept in repair during the last ten years at an
yearly average rate of L. 80, l8s. 9d. There are 29 1/2 ploughgates,
as fixed in 1807; and L. 2, 2s. for each of them, lOs. 6d. for every
supernumerary horse, and 3s. from every householder, make up the
above sum. In the upper quarters of the parish, and more than
four miles from the manse, there are no made roads.
	Ecclesiastical State.--"At John's-town," Chalmers says, "a cha-
pel was erected, which was for some time dependent on the parish
church of Wicestoun. This grant was confirmed by William the
Lion, and the monks afterwards obtained from Walter the Bishop
of Glasgow, in 1232, a confirmation of the church of Wicestoun
with the two chapels of John's-town and Robertoun. "Again he
says, "an account of the property of the monastery of Kelso, made
up by the monks between 1309 and 1316, states that they had  the
church of Crawfordjohn in rectoria, which used to be worth L. 6,
l3s. 4d. yearly. The monks of Kelso appear to have relinquished
this church some time before 1450, when it appears to have been
an independent rectory. In Bagimont's Roll, as it stood in the


