
980                      ABERDEENSHIRE.

   The dwelling-houses and accommodation of the tenants have
been much improved.  They are all commodiously situated, and
the farmers and people in general live very comfortably.  Great
improvements have been made by draining, and the general-state
of husbandry is in a respectable condition.
   Quarries.-The quarries of red granite, which some years ago
were worked to a great extent, and which contributed to the solidity
and beauty of some of the fine bridges on the Thames at London,
are now completely deserted and given up.

                     V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   We have two markets in the year, one in April, and the other
in May, none of them of much consideration.  There is a post-
office half-way between Ellon and Peterhead, on the turnpike
road, the length of which in that direction is about seven miles.
The harbour at the Ward can only be used in good weather.  But
a safe and useful one could be made close by.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church, which was built in the
year 1776, stands in the middle of the parish.  The heritors lately
came forward in the most handsome manner and enlarged it, so as
to make the extent of church accommodation equal to the wants
of the congregation.  It is now one of the most commodious and
elegant churches in the synod.  The number of communicants
last year was 840.  The glebe and toft contains about 7 acres.
There is one Scotch Episcopal chapel, and divine service is well
attended there and in the Established Church.  The amount of
church collections yearly, for religious and charitable purposes, is
above L.70.
   Education.-There is only one parochial school.  The salary
of the schoolmaster is L.25.  There are four other unendowed
schools in convenient situations, as the parish school, being in the
centre of the parish and near the church, is at too great a distance
from many places.  The parochial teacher shares in the Dick Be-
quest.  A parish library was established several years ago under
the patronage of the Earl of Errol.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The number of poor on the roll
who receive parochial relief is above 70.  There are now no funds
for their support but the weekly collections, donations from heri-
tors, fines, and casual benefactions.
   Alehouses.-There are about 10 alehouses.
   Fuel.-The fuel which the parish supplies is peat, the mosses
of which were once thought, to be inexhaustible, but are now fast
                              3


