
352                      INVERNESS-SHIRE.

ple know of the unfavourable effects of water on their crops, that
many of them when cultivating slopes, or deelivities, draw the fur-
rows right across the face of the slopes, instead of drawing them
up and down, so as to carry off the water. The raising of clover,
rye-grass, or turnip, is utterly unknown among them.
  It may be noticed, that the grain which is sent to the mill is ge-
nerally dried in an iron pot over a common fire. The meal thus
made is called min uraraidh, and is preferred both by the com-
mon people and gentry to the meal dried on the ordinary kilns.
It is also worthy of remark, that the grain is carried to the mill,
not in sacks of the common description, but hn sacks made of bent
or rushes, or some other kind of grass. These are used as keep-
ing places for grain and for meal. Indeed, they are the only sacks
in use among the people, and are universally known by the name
of platacham. It was customary, not very many years ago, to per-
form the processes of thrashing and of kiln-drying the grain simul-
taneously, by passing the sheaf of corn through a fire made of
straw. The filaments that attach the grain to the stalk were rea-
dily consumed, the grain fell down into the fire, which was so re-
gulated as to scorch but not to consume it, and the remainder of
the straw was thrown aside as useless litter. When the burning
process was over, the grain was separated from the ashes and dust
in which it bad been buried, and ground by the quern or hand-
mill. The meal thus made was called min ghradain, and was
very highly prized by all classes. It is not more than thirty years
since this expensive and tedious mode of niaking meal was in al-
most any instance departed from. So necessary to be followed
was this method thought, that many intelligent farmers allowed
their cattle to starve for want of provender during spring, while
in order to have min ghradain, they daily burnt more straw than
would keep the cattle alive. I have it on undoubted authority,
that a tacksman who died only a few years ago, a man of wealth
and information, who used to quote the Georgics, and passages of
Horace, over his bottle of wine, allowed, just thirty years ago, ten
milch cows to die of starvation, while he had six stacks of corn in
tbe barn-yard,all reserved for min ghradain. Such are tbe effects
of old habits.
  The general duration of leases is fifteen years. The farm-
buildings are generally good, and the fences quite sufficient. There
has been great advancement made within the last forty years in
regard to draining, rotation of crops introducing good seed, new


