
     Statistical Account

of long sheep, in point of carcase, should bring as much mo-
ney as that of 50 score of short sheep.
   It may be observed that the skins of sheep slaughtered at
or after Michaelmas, are of considerable value, and principal-
ly from the wool upon them.  But it has been already shown,
that the wool of long sheep is 1 s. 3 d. the sleece preferable
to the generality of the wool of this place.  Suppose, then,
40 score of long sheep cart off annually for sale, fat wedders
and ewes, and parking ewes 10 score, 1 s. 3 d. each skin, 12 L.
10 S.; call it 1 s. each skin preferable to those of the short
sheep, 10 score of skins, at this rate, will bring 10 L., which,
together with the 80 l. formerly mentioned as the price of the
wool shorn from off the long sheep, makes, in whole, 90 L.
Therefore a farm holding 50 score short sheep, and able to
keep 40 score long, will advance the wool by means of the
Cheviot breed, from 37 L. 10 s. to 90 L.; and the foregoing
observations being just, will, in other respects, be equally ad-
vantageous.  Suppose such a farm brings of gross produce
from 50 score of short sheep 150 L. annually, the same farm,
by means of the Cheviot breed, keeping 40 score, will, of
gross produce, bring 200 L.
   The writer of the above remarks has seen and examined the
state in which the long sheep in this parish are.  He had an
opportunity of seeing the wool, also the produce of the Che-
viot hogs last season, he has certain information of the price
that wool brought; and he believes, both from the general
character of the Galloway fine wool, and from information,
that he has not undervalued it; that it is not higher, if so high
as the price stated*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*If the above profit is so great, calculating the wool at 15 s. the stone, how
much more would it not be, if the wool had fetched its real value of 20 s. the
stone?  And it is hoped that the Cheviot breed will soon be improved, so as to
produce wool worth even 30 s. the stone.


