
356                    ROXBURGHSHIRE.

low and close situations. In this neighbourhood there are a few
fatuous persons; and this state, it may not be unworthy of re-
mark, would appear to be connected with the lymphatic tempera-
ment.
   Geology.-Though of small extent, this parish is not altogether
without geological interdst, from itr occupying the position where,
in the valley of the Teviot, the transition rocks first disappear, and
are replaced by others of a subsequent formation. At the western
boundary, there is still a continuation of that great deposit of grey-
wacke which stretches downward from Dumfries-shire in an east-
erly direction, and in vertical or highly inclined strata. It skirts
the whole of the north side of the parish, but on the south is seen
terminating in the bed of the Teviot, the last indications of it be-
ing exactly opposite to teviotbank House. It occurs in the form
of greywacke slate, where the lamina are thin, soft, or a white and
sometimes greenish hue, interspersed with small specks of mica;
and likewise in beds a foot or two thick, of a bluish-gray colour,
in which cases it has the appearance of a sandstone, and forms a
good building material. In some places, it is extensively pene-
trated by veins of calcareous spar, and the mass itself has occa-
sionally so much lime disseminated through it as to effervesce
freely with an acid. In the bed of the Teviot, under Hassendean-
burn House, and to the east of it, in the glen through which Has-
sendean-burn flows, sections are exposed of a coarse red conglo-
merate, alternating with thin beds of sandstone; and near the site
of the old peel at Hassendean, these nearly horizontal strata of grey-
wacke. These rocks are also seen in contact in a hollow formed
by the small rill which marks the western boundary of the parish;
while another line of junction, less acted on by the weather, has
been laid open to the north-east, near Standhill. This conglome-
rate consist of a red argillaceous basis, containing imbedded por-
tions of quartz, red porphyry, agate, greywacke, and flinty slate,
all more or less rounded by attrition. In size the fragments vary
from one to several inches, the most abundant are of a quartzose
nature, having frequently a reddish or brown colour, with a conchoi-
dal fracture. Thir deposit wotld therefore seem not only to have
succeeded the older transition rocks, but also to be composed of
the materials these afforded, after they had undergone the action
of water; the softer parts forming the cement in which the harder
are imbedded along with some other foreign substances. That the


