
                           ABERDOUR.                            267

most heinous sins, their maxim is, "to fear God, honour the King,
and not meddle with those that are given to change."
   There is little scope for poaching in the parish, as game is very
strictly preserved, and the only persons accused of violating the game
laws are the fishermen, almost all of whom are possessed of guns,
ostensibly for the purpose of killing sea-fowl, for the sake of the
oil and feathers, and who may, perhaps, occasionally take a shot at
a hare or a partridge.  Smuggling, at one period was carried on
here to a great extent; the almost inacessible rocks and caves on
the shores of the Moray Frith affording peculiar facilities for this
species of traffic.  Since the establishment of the Preventive Coast
Guard, however, it has been completely suppressed, there being no
such thing as an attempt ever made to land a single anker of
brandy, a keg of gin, a box of tea, or a bale of tobacco.

                          IV.-INDUSTRY.

<TABLE>
The number of imperial acres cultivated is	.	.	.        5873
                      which never have been cultivated is	.        9105
                      that might be cultivated perhaps with profit,  2000
No undivided common.
Number of acres under wood, all planted,	.	.	.                87
                occupied by houses and roads,	.	.	.         101

   The wood generally planted consists of Scotch fir, spruce,
larch, alder, ash, elm, plane-tree, and mountain-ash.  In the hol-
lows and sheltered situations, it is in a very thriving state, but upon
the high grounds, where it is more exposed to the sea blast, the
plants are extremely stunted, and making little or no progress.  It
is much to be regretted that due attention is not paid to thinning,
pruning, and filling up the vacant spaces with fresh plants.  It is
only by patient perseverance, and supplying the deficiencies as
they occur, that wood can ever be raised in a country so bare and
exposed, as is the greater part of Buchan.  The average rate of
grazing for an ox or cow may be stated at L.2, and for a full-
grown sheep per annum at 15s.
   Rate of Wages.-Servants are almost universally engaged for
six months, and the rate of wages for a first-rate man servant is
about L.6; for a second rate servant, L.5; and for a third rate,
L.3.  The wages of the women vary from L.1 to L.3, according
to their qualifications.  Artisans are chiefly paid by the piece.
Masons, when employed by the day, receive about 2s.; and carpen-
ters much the same, without victuals.  Smiths are always paid by
the piece.
   Husbandry.-There is nothing very peculiar in the style of hus-
bandry pursued in this parish.  The best land in it yields a yearly


