
			ST. MUNGO.                            205

water, had doubtless elevated the water which thus fell so far in-
land. An account of the phenomena was published in one of the
earlier volumes of Blackwood's Edinburgh Magazine.
	Hydrography.-The River Annan takes its course through this
parish in a south-eastern direction, separating it from the parishes of
Dalton and Cummertrees for three miles. Many fine springs of water
are found here, flowing generally from under secondary trap rock
or sandstone, on which the trap rocks rest. The Saint's Well, close
by the church, is a powerful spring flowing from the amygdaloid
of Nutholmhill at a great depth: for its temperature (48&deg;1) is nearly
the same in summer as in winter. The Vater of Milk divides the
parish nearly in the middle, running in a south-eastern direction for
nearly three miles.
	Geology and Mineralogy.--The geognostic appearance of this
parish being nf the most interesting nature, will apologize for the
length of the following remarks. The valley of Annan or Annandale
commences above the village of Moffat, in the tremendous hollow
of Errickstane, and terminates near the manse of this parish,-a
distance of fully twenty-three miles. Several lateral vales termi-
nate in this vale. The lateral vale of the Milk terminates with-
out it, a little way above the confluence of the Milk and the Annan
on the north-east part of this parish. The sides of these vales are
generally smooth and covered with vegetation. The bottom, though
sometimes rocky, is generally covered with alluvial soil, forming the
best land in the county. The valley of the Annan was probably at
some former period a hollow in the transition rocks, in which a great
river (vastly greater than that which now exists) flowed; but by the
formation of the floetz or secondary trap rocks across its commu-
nication with the ocean, it appears to have been converted into a
take. The water of the lake, after the retiring of the ocean, ap-
pears to have worn a passage through the opposing rocks, and at
length has passed from the state of a lakd to that of a river. This
river has gradually deepened its channel, and left its original out-
let by the house of Dormont, and flows out by the deeper and more
circuitous channel, through which it now reaches the sea. The
great height of the original banks of the Annan, and the great dis-
tance at which they are situated, prove the former magnitude of the
stream; whilst the banks and masses of water-borne gravel, form-
ing the lands of Edge and Hardgrave in Dalton, and Newfield
in Ruthwell parishes, declares the magnittde of the body of water
from which they derived their origin.


