
			PARISH OF CRAILING.

	PRESBYTERY OF JEDBURGH, SYNOD OF MERSE AND TIVIOTDALE.

		THE REV.  ANDREW MILROY, MINISTER.


		I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
    Extent, Boundaries.-THE parish of Crailing (comprehend-
ing, under this name, the ancient parishes of Nisbet and Spittal
annexed to it,) may be described as occupying about 4 square
miles in length and breadth. It is bounded on the north by a por-
tion of the parish of Roxburgh, which extends in that direction;
on the south by Jedburgh; on the west by Ancrum; and on the
east by Eckford.
    Topographical Appearances.-In its general aspect, it presents
the appearance of a wide valley with sloping banks On either side,
the Tiviot flowing eastward through the centre, and dividing the
parish into two nearly equal portions.
    Name.-Although the name Crailing is the general designation
of the whole parish, the two sides of the river still retain their dis-
tinctive appellations. Nisbet constitutes the division on the north
of the Tiviot, and Crailing the southern half. Of the origin of
these names I cannot pretend to give any authoritative account.
Crailing has been supposed to derive its designation from being si-
tuated on the banks of the Oxnam water,-Crai-lyn (according to
Chalmers in his Caledonia) signifies the brisk-pool, and tbis name
he imagines to have been given by the British settlers on the Ox-
nam, from the occasional ebullitions of this mountain stream. *
This rivulet intersects the Crailing or south side of the parish, de-
scending northward till it join the Tiviot about half a mile below
the village. It has its source in the border hills, but derives its
name from the parish of Oxnam, through which it flows. In the
bed of this stream, which in summer is exceedingly small, but in
winter swells rapidly, and comes down in powerful torrents, there

<FOOTNOTE>That the name may have some connection with its situation on the banks of the
Oxnam, is rendered more probable from the circumstance of two places being desig-
nated by the same term. About two miles farther up the stream, stood the parish of
Upper Crailing, now called Crailing Hall, and included in the parish of Jedburgh.
    ROXBURGH.                        M


