
306                       HADDINGTONSHIRE.

in graceful beauty, and then in all the hurry and din of pursuit after
the small fry, shoals of which people the water on the outside of the
rocks. Of divers, besides speckled, we have the northern and the
merganser (Mergus serrator). Of the duck tribe, the most un-
common is the scaup (Nyroca marila), of which some beautiful
specimens were shot during the severities of last year's storm. All
the other species which are met with in the Frith generally occur
here also. We have also the shag (Phalacrocorax graculus), the
cormorant (Carbo cormoranus), the oyster-catcher (Hamatopus
ostralegus), the curlew (Numenius arquata), the whimbrel (Nume-
nius phaeopus), the redshank, godwit, furnstone, common sander-
ling, grey, green, golden, and ring-necked plovers, the sea-lark, and
the water-rail. In addition to the more common birds of the finch,
bunting, and chat species, the stone chat and the mountain finch
are sometimes found. A yellow variety of the common bunting is
in the possession of Mr George Hay junior, who, by most exem-
plary diligence, has added great knowledge and taste in the prepa,
ratiou of specimens to no little natural talent for this most charm-
ing study. The cuckoo is an annual visitant; the goat-sucker has
been observed; the red-tailed and spotted flycatchers, and the gold-
crested wren are not uncommon. Not fewer than one hundred spe-
cies reside in or visit the parish in their proper seasons. Indeed,
it is believed that there is no district in the whole country of so li-
mited a nature, and at the same time so abundantly adorned with
the winged tribes.
   Ichthyology.-It is to be regretted, that, in some of those dis-
tricts in which the most ample fields of natural history are pre-
sented to the inquirer, the means of exploring them are unfortu-
nately denied to him. Notwithstandin the writer's most anxious
exertion to procure the rare specimens (which the sea occasionally
yields up to dredge, net, and line,) from the fishermen under his
owm pastoral superintendence, he has almost entirely failed in at-
taining his purpose, through their utter apathy to every thing like
a love of the "unsaleable" creatures that "swim the ocean's
stream"
   Perhaps the most rare species in this department of natural
science, of which the parish can boast, is the ten-spined stickle-
back (Gasterosteus pungitius,) which has been once met with by
Dr Richard Parnell, in a small burn to the west of the village.
This locality is mentioned by him in his admirable treatise on the


