

                             PORT Of MENTEITH.                    1107

       teith, at the south end, stands the Nun's hill, as it is called,
       though for what reason cannot be conjectured, for the name is
       the only symptom of a nunnery in the island.
         Westward of this island, and distant about a stone's throw, is
       another, but much smaller, island, named Talla, signifying "hall"
       or "mansion," and containing the ruins of ond of the seats of the
       Earls of Monteith.
         At the nort-west extremity of Moss Flanders is a Roman cas-
       tellum, about fifty paces in diameter, and irregularly square.
       There seems to have been in this direction a Roman iter from the
       great Roman causeway which ran along Scotland from south to
       north, from the wall of Antoriine at Camelon, by Stirling, Dun.
       blane, &c- to Brechin.   This iter is supposed to have crossed the
       river Forth at the ford of Drip, and next to have crossed the stream
       of Guidie, near where the Forth receives this minor and tributary
       body of water.  Here, as is supposed, the iter branched off towards
       Garfarran, adotber Roman castellum, which is situate south of the
       Forth, which the iter recrossed, and south of the Kelty, a short
       way from the influx of the strean into the Forth.   In the moss of
       Kincardine, a Roman way has been discovered, twelve feet broad,
       and formed by trees crossing each other in two distinct strata of
       beams; and in Moss Flanders, another from south-east to north-
       west.  Several logs of wood lying across each other, in the form
       of a raft, and squared by the axe, as appeared from the marks of
       this implement, were, several years since, found in this moss.  In
       the banks of the Guidie, several large oaks, about twenty feet un-
       der the surface, appear projecting; and, at the union of this
       stream with the Forth, one tree, nearly six feet in diameter, ap-
       pears equally deep, and extending nearly twenty feet.  Again,
       south of the Forth, and west of the place above mentioned, a
       road has been discovered about twelve feet broad, and formed of
       trees laid across each other.   These noticds connected with the
       Roman Castella at Garfarran, below Gartmore, and in the an-
       cient Lennox and modern Stirlingshire, and at Flanders Hill,
       seem conclusive of the Roman footsteps in the vale of Monteith.
         A house in the barony of Rusky, about a mile north-east of the
       castellum of Flanders Hill, is named Keirhead.  It is situate on
       an eminence resembling some others in Monteith, which are called
       Keirs, and seems to have anciently been a military post overlook-
       ing the plain on the south, and to have been, partly at least, form-
       ed by the hands of man.


