
2 			  LANARKSHIRE.

either side of this valley, where they rise to the highest elevation
at Lee moor on the north, and Lanark moor on the south, are pretty
nearly of the same height,--being about 670 feet above the level
of the sea. The same valley present two very remarkable chasms.
The river Mouss shortly after it enters the parish, near Cleghorn,
plunges into a deep ravine, which it seems to have formed through
the solid rock as a channel for its waters. Lower down, and
at little more than a mile from its junction with the Clyde, the
river, abruptly leaving its direct course, although the comparative
lowness of the ground seems favourable for its continuing in it,
again, by a sudden bend, seeks its way in a deep chasm through the
hill of Cartlane. This tremendous ravine is about half a mile in
length. It is composed of two faces of irregular, precipitous and
lofty rocks, and describes in its course a zigzag line. Where-
ever the cliffs come prominently forward upon the one side, there
is a corresponding recession on the other. The north bank is
about 400 feet high, the south is at least 100 feet lower. Va-
rious conjectures have been proposed as to the manner in which
this remarkable chasm was formed, but these it is unnecessary to
discuss or to notice in this place.
	Meteorology--Climate.--Owing to the elevated situation of the
parish, there is at times very intense frost. A gardener in the
neighbourhood during several severe winters, comparing the cold
here with simultaneous observations made at Edinburgh and Glas-
gow, generally found it to be 10 more intense than at either of
these places. This applies, however, only to the uplands; for in
the lower situations, the frosts are less severe, and the snow dis-
appears much sooner than in most of the surrounding districts;
and it is no uncommon thing to see the plough going on the banks
of the Clyde, while the ground cannot be broken in the adjacent
parishes. The seasons formerly varied with the soil along the banks
of the river. Where the subsoil is a hard rock, and the soil itself
lhght and gravelly, they were always remarkably early. But along
the north and east sides of the parish they used once to be prover-
bially late; and there are persons still alive who have been known
to engage themselves to do the harvest work consecutively in both
situations in the same year. Since fencing, draining, and a better
mode of cultivation, however, ahve been introduced, this variation
has almost entirely disappeared.
	Its central situation saves the parish alike from the fogs of
the eastern, as from the superabundant rains of the western coast.


