
             20                  ROSS AND CROMARTY.

                The Sands of Nigg (a name given to a large bay of the Cro-
             marty Frith) belong partly to the parish of Nigg and partly to the
             parish of Logie Easter, a small rivulet (named the Pot) being the
             boundary. They are about one mile in breadth at the east end,
             and two at the west. During high water, and more especially at
             spring tides, they are covered by the sea to the depth of from 4
             to 8 feet; but at low water they are dry, and eminently useful.
             Here are to be found in abundance, in their respective seasons,
             cockles and mussels, and flounders and sand-eels; and it is here,
             likewise, where the fishers of Nigg, Fearn, Cromarty, and many of
             those of Banffshire find the bait wherewith they catch cod and had-
             dock and whiting. On the Nigg side of the sands, vessels of light
             tonnage discharge cargoes of coals, lime, and slates, and take in tim-
             ber, potatoes, &c. There is no harbour excepting the level sand;
             and it is only by following the channel of the Pot, that vessels can
             get, even at high water, a sufficient depth for their purposes. Pre-
             viously to the importation of lime from the south, the only lime
             used for building in this country was made of shells dug out of the
             sands of Nigg. The pits caused by this operation gradually be-
             came dangerous quicksands, and various individuals have lost their
             lives in them. But now quicksands are unknown; and there is no
             danger to the traveller who keeps to the eastward of a line drawn
             betwixt Tarbat House and the church of Nigg. To the westward
             of this line, however, there are several deep pits in the Pot, in
             which several strangers have been drowned within the last few
             years. There is one, in particular, named P•ll nan Ron (the Seal's
             Pool,) fatal to every one that touches its waters.
                Climate.-In the more inhabited and fruitful parts of the parish,
             the climate is comparatively mild and warm, though damp. The
             insularity of the situation, and innumerable spring wells, and the
             shelter afforded by the hill from the east wind, have a considerable
             effect on the temperature of the atmosphere. It is no uncommon
             thing to find, in winter and spring, the roads quite soft in the parish
             of Nigg in the morning, while the roads are frozen and slippery
             in the neighbouring parishes, not many miles distant.
                Diseases.-Nervous disorders, and cough and asthma, are the
             prevailing complaints, and seem occasioned, in a great measure, by
             the damp of the houses, and the poor quality of the food.  It is
             observable, that cough and asthma prevail most on the north-west
             face of the hill, where there is no morning sun, and where the damp
             oozing out of the ground is great. There are no instances, now


