
            586                        PERTHSHIRE.

            ing more so, i t is difficult to give their yearly averages. There
            being 446 children in the parish under seven years of age, 65 may
            be the yearly average of births.  The average of marriages is 15
            for each of the last seven years.
             There are nine proprietors of land of the yearly value of L. 50 and
            upwards; and of these only three are resident, and one other re-
            sides during the summer months in the parish.
              The parish maintains three lunatics at the Perth Asylum; be-
            sides whom, there are at least ten fatuous persons at present, one
            blind man, and five deaf and dumb, three of whom have received
            instruction in the Edinburfh Asylum, ebiefly through the liberali-
            ty of the Dunira family.
             The English language is gencrally spoken, and has gained
            ground greatly within the last forty year& At present, scarcely a
            fourth part of the congregation attend on the afternoon Gaelic ser-
            vice, whereas forty years ago, the attendance on English was very li-
            mited.  An annual meeting for the encouragement and exhibition of
            Highland games and dress was, some years ago, instituted under
            high patronage at St Fillans.  It is now kept up with very great
            difficulty, and probably will soon be discontinued.  A great im-
            provement has taken place in the habits of the people, in re-
            spect of cleanliness in their persons and houses; about three-
            fourths of their houses being slated, and plastered, and their dress
            being in general bought, not homespun, as formerly.  Their ordi-
            nary food is potatoes, milk, and oatmeal.  The use of wheat
            bread is becoming general, though no wheat is ever raised in the
            parish.  There are three butchers, two brewers, three bakers,
            and more than twelve grocers; and there are annually consuni-
            ed in the parish upwards of 1567 lbs. of tobacco, 1749 lbs.
            of snuff, at 4s. per lb., and 2000 gallons of spirits at 9s. 6d.;
            3000 lbs. of tea at 5s., and 16,000 lbs. of sugar at Sd; making
            for these items a sum total of L. 3000, or of L. 1, 3s. for each in-
            dividual to spend upon therd articles of luxury.  While the high
            duties were on spirits, there was much smtggling in this parisb,
            which experience proved to be most detrimental not only tO the
            morals, but to the temporal interests of all engaged in it; now,
            however, it scarcely, if at all, exists.  There is a good deal of
            poaching, although the game and fish are carefully watched.
              Upon the whole, it is believed that the advantages of edu-
            cation which this parish has so long enjoyed, and of ample
            church accommodation, and above all the preaching of the


