
                       UNST.                                  49

Zetland. Many a vessel tossed on the north sea, and in dark and
stormy nights ready to be dashed against our rocks, would hail
with joy the appearance of a light, by which they might be guid-
ed to a safe place of refuge-and many valuable lives, and many
a valuable cargo would thus be saved. There are two places where
such an erection might be made, for the benefit of all vessels coming
from the north and east, viz. Lambaness, a long projecting head-
land which forms the north side of the bay of Norwick in Unst, and
Strandiburgh in the Island of Fetlar.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is as nearly as possi-
ble in the middle of the island, distant six miles from the northern
and southern extremities, and one and a-half from the eastern and
western. It was built from the foundation, at a small distance
from the old church of Balliasta in 1825. It is a handsome,
substantial, well-finished, and commodious place of worship,
and does great honour to the heritors who erected it, at the ex-
pense of about L. 2000 Sterling. It has accommodation for
1200 souls, with a sufficient number of free sittings for the poor.
There is at present no manse in the parish. The incumbent
lives in a house of his own, and receives an allowance from the he-
ritors in lieu of a manse, and with this arrangement all concerned
are well satisfied.
   The glebe is at Norwick, about four miles to the northward of
the church. It consists of 14 imperial acres of very good land,
and, although let to a tenant considerably lower, is worth L.9 Ster-
ling per annum.
   The tithes are valued, and the stipend, which is paid by the he-
ritors, including communion elements, amounts to L.249 Sterling.
   A small chapel was lately built by a few Independents, and
another by the Wesleyan Methodists near Norwick. They have
no stated ministers, but are occasionally visited by some preachers
of their own persuasion, who are paid by their respective Societies.
About 487 families, comprehending an examinable population
of nearly 1900 souls, attend the Established Church, two-thirds
ot which it is found to accommodate sufficiently, on all ordinary
occasions. The people, in general, attend well. When the wea-
tber is favourable, the church is full. The number of communi-
cants is generally from 1150 to 1200. The number of Indepen-
dents in this parish, is 15; of Wesleyan Methodists, 25.
   Church collections average about L. 30 per annum.
   Education.-There are only, two schools in this parish,-a pa-
   SHETLAND.


