
158			   WIGTONSHIRE.

presbytery in 1835, and exhibiting nearly the average of the last
seven years. There is one parochial and seven private schools,
the teachers of which, with one exception, belong to the Establish-
ed Church. The branches taught are, English reading, writing,
arithmetic, book-keeping, mensuration and navigation; and the
school fees vary from 2s. to 3s. per quarter. The parochial school-
master has a salary of L. 30, besides the school fees. The year-
ly average number of scholars attending these schools is 225.
	At present there are four schools in the town, and three in the
country. Of those in the town, one with six scholars has, for a
year past, been under a teacher employed by the gentlemen of the
parish, at the rate L. 12, 12s. per annum for each scholar; and
another, with about 70 scholars, at the ordinary rate, has, for the
same time, been under a teacher, appointed by a committee of the
inhabitants, who secure to him either 60 scholars, or the wages
for that number. Both of these schools are well taught.
	The present parochial teacher was the first who enjoyed a re-
gular salary from the heritors. He was appointed in 1804. For
about eight or ten years he taught in a room of the old barracks,
above a lodging-house, whence all sorts of noise, and language of
the worst description, might often be heard in the school. For
about a year after this time he taught in his own dwelling-house,
which had been erected from him about three years after his ap-
pointment. He was then accomodate with the presented school-
house. The school-house and schoolmaster's house afford the
legal accomodations; but they are in indifferent repair. The
number of the young between six and fifteen who cannot read, is
103, who cannot write, 210. The number of persons upwards of
fifteen who cannnt read 83, who cannot write, 383.
	The Bible and the Assembly's Shorter Cathechism have always
been used as ordinary class-books in the schools of this parish;
but it does not appear that the daily exercises have commenced
with prayer. The superintendence of the presbytery has never
amounted to more than simple inspection annually by a committee
of two or three ministers.
	The standard of education is very low in the parish generally;
but there seems to be an increasing desire of improvement in this
respect. There is no part of the parish so distant from a school
as to prevent attendance. The great evil here is the desire to
have schools in every quarter, rather than to secure the services of
two or at the most three good teachers, which would be a sufficient




