
490			FIFESHIRE.

siderably curtailed. Instead of two principals and ten professors
which formed the previous establishment of the two colleges, the
United College was to have but one principal and eight profes-
sors.
     No change in the constitution of the colleges has taken place
since that period, and the United College has now a principal,
who superintends the whole establishment, but who has hitherto
been required to take no active share in conducting any of the
particular departments of literature or science; and Professors of
Greek, Humanity or Latin, of Logic and Rhetoric, of Moral Philo-
sophy, of Natural Philosophy, of Civil History, and Medicine; the
Professor of Moral Philosophy having also a class for political eco-
nomy, and the Professor of Medicine a class for chemistry and
chemical pharmacy. A few years ago, the college resolved ro al-
low a salary of L. 26, 5s. aanually from their revenue to a lectur-
er on natural history. A gentleman well qualified for the under-
taking was selected for the office, and for several seasons fulfilled
its duties with much credit to himself, and advantage to his pupils.
But it was found, in the issue, that the number of students who
were disposed to avail themselves of this new institution, was too
limited to afford an adequate remuneration, and the labours of the
lecturer were in consequence discontinued. In St Mary's Col-
lege, there is a principal, who is also Primarius Professor of Theo-
logy, and who is actively employed in conducting the department
of systematic theology, a Professor of Divinity, who confines him-
self chiefly to biblical criticism, and Professors of Ecclesiastical
History, and the Oriental Languages.
     The Senatus Academicus of the University is composed of the
principals and professors of the colleges, and the rector of the
University presides at its meetings. By it alone, degrees are con-
ferred, the other faculties only exercising the privilege of recom-
mending to its notice such individuals as they may deem qualified
for receiving the distinction. This aggregate body superinrtends
the arrangements connected with the University library; it nomi-
nates the Chancellor of the University when a vacancy occurs, and
it possesses and exercises the right of electing the Professor of
Medicine, the librarian and the archbeadle. An appeal to it is com-
petent in certain cases, it is understood, from a judgment pro-
nounced by either of the colleges.
     The Restor of the university is elected annually on the first
Monday of March, at a meeting of the comitia of the whole uni-


