
                   BANFF.                                23

   1700. A claim was put in on behalf of the Laird of Grant for re-
   pledging the two Browns, as being his vassals, and subject to; his
   jurisdiction ; and, on this claim, and on some preliminary objec-
   tions urged by the prisoners' counsel, an argument ensued of con-
   siderable length, and apparently by no means wanting - in legal
   knowledge or acuteness. In an interlocutor, the Sheriff " sustains
   himself judge, notwithstanding the offer to repledge, in respect to
   the answer thereto, as being knoune habit and repute wagabonds,
   soroners, and Egiptians; and repells all, the rest of the defences and
   replyes, in respect of the answer, (except that of robberies which
   be does not sustain himself judge in;) and finds the libel relevant
   as to the rest of the articles, of being knoune habit and repute
   to be Egyptians and wagabonds, and keeping, ye mercats in yr
   ordinarie manner of thieving and purse-cutting, or guiltie of the
   rest of the crimes of theft, and masterfull, bangstree and oppres-
   sion, to infer the punishment lybelled) and admitts the same to the
   knowledge of ane assyze." After the jury were impannelled the
   Sheriff' (so it is in the record) 11 ordains the pannels for the sa-
   tisfaction of the assizers to rehearse the Lord's prayer," &c.-but
   it is not stated how far the prisoners either did or could afford this
   "satisfaction." Twenty-one witnesses were then examined four-
   teen of whom were able to sign their de depositions. Most. of them
   depone, that the pannels were habit and repute Egyptians, and that
   these Egyptians went about armed in bands; some adding, that
   they spoke a language which the deponents did not understand,
   and 11 which was not Irish." But otherwise few well-defined or
   very serious charges appear in evidence against 'the accused indi-.
   vidually.\f* The evidence being heard, the jury, of which James

   <FOOTNOTE>As presenting a curious picture of the manners of the time and district, I have
   thought it worth while to transcribe all the material parts of the evidence. : 41 The
   assisers Fraving Mr John Seat, minister at Diple, to be examined upon what wee con-
   tained the fibell, and that yr were payt offered him for what skaith sustained
   in manner libelled, deponed, that at St Auflus fair 40 libs stolne
   from him, and he going in pursuit of the taken of extent, be we
   interrupted by Peter Brown, who took him by the breast, while the woman who tooke
   the money threw herself on her face on the Roor, and (as he hard)delivered to the
   proven. But immediately yr after Peter Broune, knowing the money was convoyed
   of same civilie and craved pardon, and offered the woman should be dackered, and
   made a sham kind of dackering after the money was gone. and yr this day james
   Grant of Elcheis offered repayt of the 40 libs if he should not appear agt Peter Broune
   at this tyme; and this truth as he shall ansr. to God (Signed) John Scott.
   and interrogat, deponed, that at St. Ruffus fair was nyne years, yr came three women
   and took possne of his kill, and be being at work sent word to his wife to put ym


