
                                PERTH.                          107

     some years ago, when it was broken and destroyed; and then the
     bell No. 1 was tolled, and has continued to be so to the present time.
       Since the inspection in 1652, there have been three bells pur-
     chased for the city.  One in 1769, measuring between the lips 3
     feet 1 inch, with this inscription, " I was made for the town of
     Perth in the reign of George III., in the year 1769-Congregate
     -Lister, Pack, and Chapman of London, fecit."   While ringing
     for the afternoon service on Sabbath, 11th September of the present
     year 1836, it cracked, and has become unfit for use.
       Another bell was purchased in 1785, measuring, between the
     lips 3 feet 9 inches, with the inscription, "Thomas Mears and Son,
     London."  And the third in 1805, measuring between the lips 4
     feet 4 inches, with this inscription " William Mears of London." *
       From the raggle on the west side of the steeple, it is manifest,
     that the western portion of the edifice had been very lofty; and the
     elegance and grandeur of it may be easily conceived, by those who
     have in their recollection the two stately and beautiful arched win-
     dows, in the deserted and solitary wall in the north side of the now
     West Church, with the adjoining Hackerstein's tower-a wall which
     corresponded with the height ofthe roof, pointed out by the raggle
     now referred to.  But this last remnant of ancient grandeur was
     thrown down in 1828, when a re-edification of this part of St John's
     Church was commenced, according to a plan drawn by Mr Gil-
     lespie, architect.  It must be lamented by every one who sees what
     of Mr Gillespie's plan has been executed-that the city authori-
     ties have not found it expedient to carry it into full execution.
       It appears from various minutes in the kirk-session records, that
     not only the spiritualia but the temporalia of the church of Perth
     were, at and for a long time after 1569, entirely under the jurisdic-
     tion and management of the minister and elders; in virtue of the
     charter of James VI, giving them as governors of the hospit`l, and
     for purposes specified, inter alia "churches, burying-places, cha-
     pels," &c.  Thus, "May 4, 1579, the session ordains the master
     of the hospital to repair the walls of the burying-ground," (the
     burial, ground was then around the church.) "October 28, 1587,

<FOOTNOTE> In the session record for July 10, 1560, there is the following entry: "The
     session, after the appointment of the order of communicating, ordain, that the first
     bell should be rung at four in the morning; the second bell at half five o'clock ; the
     third at five.  The second ministration, the first bell to be rung at half nine o.clock;
     the second at nine; the third at half ten."
        In the record for July 6,1703, there is the following entry. "The session ap-
      points that the church doors be opened at seven of the clock in the morning, and not
      till then: as also that the first bell be rung at eight of the clock, the second bell at
      half nine, and the third at nine."


