
368                  GENERAL OBSERVATIONS

rest, as they must look for employment in their different vocations
almost exclusively to the agriculturists, and their servants and de-
pendents.  Perhaps no county in Scotland is more entirely of an
agricultural character, or more interested in this great branch of
national and productive industry.  The artisan, the Labourer, and
the hind, have all a deep concern in its success, as well as the ac-
tual cultivator of the soil, and the proprietor.   They share in its
depression and participate in its prosperity, and the various fluc-
tuations to which it is exposed are felt, either for good or evil, by
all classes of the community. To this art great attention has
been paid.  The march of agricultural improvements commen-
ced at a comparatively early period in the Merse. So far back as
in the year 1730, the judicious, spirited, and well-directed exer-
tions of a few landed proprietors, gave a new character to the hus-
bandry of the county.  Among those patriotic and public-spirited
individuals, who led the way in this good work, the names of Mr
Swinton of Swinton, father of the late Lord Swinton; Mr Hume
of Eccles; and at a later period, Lord Kames,-deserve to be ho-
nourably mentioned, as having contributed by their example to give
a stimulus to rural improvement, which has been productive of the
best effects, and which has raised Berwickshire to a high rank in
the scale of agriculture.  This spirit quickly spread to tenants of
skill, enterprise, and capital. Their success stimulated others to
follow their footsteps.  Encouragement was given by proprietors to
tenants, by granting them leases on liberal terms, and of a proper
duration.  Lands were enclosed, moorish tracts improved, lime and
manure liberally applied, the turnip husbandry extensively pur-
sued, and by the general use of thrashing-machines, and a thorough
improvement of turnpike and parish roads, facilities were afforded
for marketing grain on a scale commensurate with the improved
productiveness of the soil, and the increasing capabilities of the
county.  Notwithstanding the severe depression under which this
interest has laboured for some years past, and which at no period
was more felt than at present, this county still retains its agricul-
tural pre-eminence.  Improvements are still proceeding to a cer-
tain extent, and perhaps there is no district of Scotland where agri-
cuture is conducted with more of the precision and exactness of a
science. The average size of farms in this county may be stated
at from 300 to 400 English acres.  The duration of leases is gene-
rally nineteen years.  Of all agricultural improvements of modern
times, perhaps the most valuable is the perfection to which drain-


