
				MINTO.   				355

places projects, as if suspended in air, threatening to fall. Those
fragments are rendered more picturesque from being partially over-
grown with patches of ivy, and having their cavities filled with va-
rieties of the fern, with foxglove, dianthus, and other flowering
plants. With the characteristic form of the trap rocks, the crags
rise into different points, presenting a succession of platforms, one of
which tradition has long celebrated as Barnhill's bed, the retreat
of a noted border outlaw of that name, mentioned in the "Lay of
the Last Minstrel." The ruin od an old tower or peel, which for-
merly belonged to the same person, crowns one of the heights, to
which, and to the other eminences, easy paths conduct, shaded, by
thriving trees.  The view from summit it higly diversified
and beautiful.  The windings of the "silver Teviot," through a
pleasing vale, sometimes contracted and again expanding, can be
traced above and below for many a mile, the prospect o the one
hand being terminated by the fine outline of the Liddesdale hills,
along with those on the confines of Dumfries-shire, and in the op-
posite direction by the smoother and more rounded forms of the
Cheviots.  Ruberslaw, the highest hill in this vicinity, rises imme-
diately in front, with Denholm dean, celebrated by Leyden, on the
right, and the narrow bed of the Rule on the left; while behind,
to the north, are distinctly seen the Eildon-hills, the Black-hilt,
Cowden-Knowes, and more remotely Smailholm Tower, Hume
Castle, and the low dark sky-line of the lammermoors.
	Meteorology.-The hills and trap rocks just described occasion-
ally attract and detain the clouds which sweep along the vale of
the Teviot, so that in summer thunder storms are rather frequent,
and have been known to be severe.  Probably from the same cause,
heavy falls of rain have taken place, giving rise to local inundations.
These would appear formerly to have been more common than
they have been of late years.  One took place in 1793, and another
in 1789, by both of which the pond-head, a strong mass of build-
ing near Minto House, was carreid down.  But the most remark-
able which is remembered, happened on the 9th of August 1806,
when it rained in torrents nearly three hours, accompanied by in-
cessant thunder and lightning.  Formerly, afue was so cnmmon a
complaint that few in any condition of life escape it, but now it
has entirely disappeared, owing to the draining and other improve-
ments of the land.  Typhus and scarlet fevers, though not fre-
quent, occasionally visit us in autumn, and are most prevalent in

<FOOTNOTE>"On Minto-crags the moon-beams glint,
	Where Barnhill bewed his bed of flint,"-Lay of the Last Minatrel.


