
        			KINGUSSIE.                              79

			MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   Within the last forty years, the parish has undergone many im-
portant alterations in its physical as well as its moral character.
Great part of the bleak and barren land, formerly supposed fit to
be only the abode of wild beasts, has been brought under cultivation.
Although the parish, as before noticed, must always be more a pas-
toral than an agricultural one, and though the utmost extent of im-
provable soil is and must always be far exceeded by the extent of
mountain and other land incapable of cultivation, still were the
part of the parish, which can be cultivated, to be brought under a
system of regular rotation, it might be nearly, if not entirely
adequate to the supply of the wants of the population, a good
which has never yet been accomplished.  Nothing has proved
more ruinous to this parish than the necessity of bringing meal
from other districts, with the additional expense of a long land-
carriage. Since the date of the last Statistical Account, regular
carriers have been established, and roads made in various direc-
tions, by which intercourse can be carried on with ease between
the several parts of the district, as also between this and the neigh-
bouring countries; indeed, there is now no district in the High-
lands better accommodated with roads.  The coach before men-
tioned as running through the parish, has been established, too,
within the same period.  Forty years ago, "there was not a vil-
lage in the parish or in the whole district;"  * there are now two
in this parish alone; of a combined population of upwards of 700.
One of these villages contains thirteen or fourteen merchants, who
deal in almost every necessary commodity, and there are several
others throughout the parish; circumstances which present a strik-
ing difference from the state of things when there was but one or at
most two merchants in the whole district.  The village above mention-
ed contains, besides,a number of mechanics and tradesmen.  Near-
ly half a century has witnessed a great change likewise in the in-
habitants themselves.  The melioration discernible in their moral
character has been noticed.  The Highland garb will soon entire-
ly disappear.  The Gaelic language, too, besides having materially
lost ground, has suffered considerably from the intermixture with
English words and phrases,-as the latter language is now gene-
rally understood by the rising generation.  But the difference
between the state of matters now, and that which existed at the

<FOOTNOTE>Old Statistical Account.


