
134                     ROXBURGHSHIRE.

parish,-the one, leading from Kelso to Jedburgh on the south side
of the Tiviot, extends about three miles; the other, leading from
Kelso to Melrose, &c. in the immediate vicinity of the south bank
of the Tweed, and at every point commanding a view of this noble
river, and of a rich and beautiful country, extends about four miles.
Tiviot Bridge is on this road, and unites this parish to Kelso.
This bridge is of excellent structure, and durable material.
    Ecclesiastical State.- The parish church is situated in the village
of Roxburgh, and its situation is nearly centrical, but not very con-
venient for a considerable part of the population, because of the Ti-
viot which flows near it, and which when flooded cuts off about one-
third of the population lying on the south side of the river. The
distance from the western extremity of the parish is five miles, and
from the eastern, three. The church was built in the year
1752, was repaired in 1828, and is in a good state at present. It
affords accommodation for about 500 sitters. The manse was
built in the year 1820. The extent of the glebe is ten imperial
acres, of value L. 20. The amount of the stipend is 15 chalders,
the one-half of which is oat-meal, and the other barley, with L. 8,
6s. 8d. for communion elements. It may also, be stated, that there
belongs to the minister a servitude for turf from His Grace the
Duke of Roxburghe, which has been commuted into the sum of
L. 1, 10s. yearly.
    The number of families attending the Established church is
about 130, and the average number of communicants 240. The
yearly amount of church collections is about L. 7. The smallness
of the amount may be accounted for by the circumstance, that there
has been a regular assessment for the poor of the parish for the
last ninety-seven years.
    Education.-There are two schools in the parish; both of these
are parochial. The branches taught in both are, reading, writing,
arithmetic, English grammar, and occasionally practical geometry;
book-keeping, surveying, and Latin. The salary of the school-
master of Roxburgh is L. 34, 4s. 4 1/2d., and of Hieton L. 17, 2s. 2 1/2d.
The amount of school-fees received by each is from L. 12 to
L. 15 yearly, and each of the schoolmasters has the accommoda-
tion of school-room, school-house, and garden.
    So far as is known, there are none between the ages of six and
fifteen or upwards in the parish who cannot read and write. The
people are in general alive to the benefits of getting their children
properly educated. There is a part of the parish, viz. Fairnington,


