

884                           FIFESHIRE.

and partly in grain, convertible at the fiars' prices either Mid-Lo-
thian or Fife, but now chiefly the latter.
   In the immediate vicinity, and on the south side of.the town,
the rent of grazing for a milk-cow is about L.5, and sometimes as
high as L.5, 10s.; and of an ox, about L.3, 10s. To the north of
the town, the rent for a milk-cow is about L.3; and for an ox
about L.2; for a ewe and lamb, from 12s. to L.1; and for a full-
grown sheep, from 10s. to 15s.
   Rate of Waqes.__The wages of plougbmen, when young lads,
are from L.9 to L.12; when grown or married men, fit for all
kinds of farm-work, from L.3 to L.16; and when they have
charge of the farm, are sometimes even L. 20 per annum, with an
allowance for provisions. The young lads generally receive 6 1/2
bolls of oatmeal, and either milk or 1s. per week instead of it, with
occasionally 1 boll of potatoes. Grown or married men, and per-
sons in charge, have the same quantity of meal and 6 bolls of po-
tatoes. Sometimes, too, they receive a certain quantity of sweet-
milk per day from the dairy, or have the use of a cow, and, in the
upland districts, even of two or tbree cows, in which case, if they
have at the same time meal and potatoes, their wages are propor-
tionally less. Married men have a free house and garden, with
coals driven for them; and unmarried men generally live in bo-
thies, with fire and bedding provided by their masters.
   Female bouse-servants in the country have from L.4 to L.7,
generally L.6 per annum.
   Male labourers have ls. 6d. per day in winter, and Is. 8d. in
summer.
   Female labourers have at the rate of a penny per hour, both
summer and winter, or, on an average, 8d. per day.
Country masons and wrights have 2s. per day in winter, and
2s. 6d. in summer.
   The wages of harvest labourers, wbo are for the most part fe-
males, are, of course, variable, generally from 1s. 3d. to 1s. 6d. per
day, with dinner. They work, according to the practice of this
part of the country, from nine in the morning till six in the even-
ing, with an interval for dinner. The men who are employed as
bandsters receive from 1s. 8d. to 1s. 10d., with dinner.
   Manure.__House and asb dung sells at 2s. 6d., and stable or
byre dung at from 4s. to 5s. per double-cart; slacked lime at
5 1/2d. or 6d. per bushel; bone-dust at 2s. 10d. per bushel; and
rape-dust at L.5, 59. per ton. Lime is now by some not so much


