
	312                     ROSS AND CROMARTY.

	tlers in villages-whether by establishing some branch of manu-
	facture, or by urging and encouraging able-bodied men to fish re-
	gularly in the Frith of Cromarty, or by allocating certain small por-
	tions of ground to stances for houses, as an inducement to build, and
	to permanent residence in the parish; these expedients, or any one of
	them, if vigorously prosecuted, might increase indefinitely the com-
	fort and happiness of the lower classes.  The great evil which re-
	quires to be remedied in some way or other, is the fluctuating state
	of the population, in consequence of the arable land being in the
	possession ofa few,--which, however much it may tend to the agricul-
	tural improvement ofthe parish, certainly is not calculated to improve
	the state of the population. In consequence of this, many of the
	people are always on the wing, and shifting from one parish to an-
	other, in quest of a better place or of more congenial employment;
	thus rendering in a great measure nugatory the instruction which
	they receive, whether in the way of catechizing, or of private pas-
	toral admonition and reproof.
	   It is expected that a saving's bank will be soon established in
	this district with a government security, and the sooner this is set
	agoing the better.
	   We may observe, as an instructive fact in the philosophy of
	education, that the greatly more intelligent character of the people
	of this parish now, than it was forty years ago, is owing in no small
	degree to their having been taught to read Gaelic as well as
	English, in the school established by the Society.  It was this
	which first excited a desire for more information, and roused with-
	in them the lateDt principal of curiosity, proving that the only ef-
	fectual way to instruct the ignorant is to address them first in the
	language which is most familiar to them, whether our object be
	to win their attention, or to engage their affections.
	   If a village or parochial library were established by voluntary
	contributions, consisting of interesting and instructive books in
	Gaelic and English, to which the poor might have free access, it
	might prove an incalculable benefit to many.  It would be the
	means of creating a relish for reading, and for intellectual enjoy-
	ment among those who are still destitute of it, and of filling up
	the void of idle hours with profitable and amusing pastime.

	   December 1838.


