
                          CARSPHAIRN.                       279

established in the village, in August 1838. A two-horse coach
from Dumfries to Ayr and from Ayr to Dumfries, on alternate
days, passes through the village during the summer season. The
roads throughout the parish are kept in tolerable repair, princi-
pally at the expense of the parish. The nearest market-towns
are, Ayr and Castle-Douglas, each about twenty-six miles distant.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The church is situate nearly in the cen-
tre of the parish, and  in, the most convenient place for by far
the greater portion of the inhabitants. There are many fami-
lies about five miles distant, however,--some seven, and some
even ten miles. The church is a very neat building, comfort-
able, and amply sufficient to contain the present, population, be-
ing able to accommodate about 400 people. It was built about
1815, and was repaired at considerable expence in 1837. The
manse consists of an old house, with a recent addition of two rooms.
The rooms are but small, and the ceillings low; but, altogether, the
manse is comfortable, and in tolerable repair. The glebe con-
sists of about 13 acres, which may be valued at about L,2 per acre.
The stipend is 15 chalders, half barley, half, oatmeal, with L. 8,
6s. 8d. for communion elements.
	There are three families in the parish connected with the Re.
formed Presbytery, and one or two individuals who do not attend
church, of whom it would be difficult to say to what sect they be-
long. Considering the distance at which many of the inhabitants
are from the church, and the utter impossibility of either the
young or very old of such families coming out during winter, the
church may be said to be well attended.
	Education.--There is only one endowed school in the parish.
The schoolmaster has the maximum salary, and the legal al-
lowance for house and garden. He likewise receives the interest
of L. 500, left by Mr M'Adam, late of Castle Dykes. Families
at a distance from the parochial school sometimes unite to-
gether, to employ a young man, during winter, to teach their
children. This is an expense which some of the poor people
cannot well afford; but they manage in such a manner, that there
are none in the parish who have attained to ten years of age without
being able to read.
	Poor and Parochial Funds.--The number of poor on the ses-
sion roll is 13; and there are some others who occasionally re.
ceive assistance. The highest allowance is about L. 10, and the
Lowest about L. 1, 10s. The funds from which the poor are sup-


