
     Statistical Account

or as a place of strength and observation, occasioned by
their hostile visits*.

   Population.-According to Dr. Webster's report, the
number of souls in 1755, was 822.  Since 1789, no ex-
act account of the parish has been taken.  The minister's
roll of that year contains 494 of all ages.  The decrease
of population must be accounted for, from the enlarge-
ment of farms, from diminishing the cottages, from the
non-residence of the principal heritors.

   Agriculture.-The farmers of this parish practise the
same modes of labouring the fields, and cultivate the same
kinds of crops, which have been repeatedly described in

<FOOTNOTE>

* Near the village at Lindores, are pointed out the supposed remains of
castle, said to have belonged to the celebrated M Duff, Thane of Fife.
Tradition adds, that in the view of its being demolished, much of the plate
and wealth of it were cast into an adjoining lake, still known by the name
of the Sillar Lake.  Attempts have been made to connect these traditions
with scenes immortalized by Shakespeare, in his tragedy of Macbeth.  But
M'Duff, like Wallace, and other favourite characters, has had too many
places of residence assigned him by the fond admiration of his countrymen.
At no great distance from the church, and on the way to it from the Ab-
bey of Lindores, there are a few stones called the Licker-Stones: Anti-
quaries have conjectured licker to be a corruption and contraction of lec-
turer, and with much show of probability have observed, that formerly,
when Bibles were scarce, and the capacity of reading them was confined
to a few, the people might assemble at such stones to hear the scriptures
read to them.  Not many yards N. W. of the Licker Stones, and nearer
to the abbey, is a rising ground called the Teind Know; at which, tra
dition represents the ecclesiasticks belonging to the abbey, collecting the
teinds, or tithes.  A little farther N. on the grounds of Den Mill, and in
full view of the mansion house, appears the Witch Tree, a large Spreading
plane, of more than one century, which, had it fallen under the observa-
tion of a late traveller, might have saved the county of File from one of
his hasty misrepresentation.


