
     of Dunfermline.

   Springs, Lakes, Coasts, etc.-Some springs are mineral.
and supposed to be medicinals.  The springs from which 
the water is conveyed to the town, in lead pipes, are ra-
ther inferior to some others, and insufficient for supplying 
the inhabitants; but it is believed, that endeavours will
soon be used for meliorating the quality, and increasing
the quantity of this necessary article.  The Lyne is the 
only brook deserving attention in the parish.  Its source
is near the eastern extremity of it.  Having received va-
rious accessions, it becomes considerable below the town,
frequently overflows its banks, and lays the rich fields of
Pittencriess, Loggie, Cavil, and Pitliver under water.  Af-
ter running towards the western extremity of the parish,
it unites with another small brook, and takes a southern
direction towards the frith of Forth.  There are several
lakes of considerable depth and extent, in which perch,
pike, and eel are found.  Two of them may be drained at
no great expense.-The southern extremity of parish 
extends about a mile and a half along the coast of the frith

the world by thy death, Oh! deliver me."  While pronouncing deliver
me, she expired*.

<FOOTNOTE>

* She died 16th November 1093, and was buried at Dumfermline.
In the 1250 or 1251, her bones were removed, and placed in a more bo-
nourable place in the Church of the Trinity of Dunfermline, Hailes's
Ann.  "Alexander III.  caused her bones to be put into a chest of silver,
enriched with precious stones, after many prayers and solemn processions,
and placed it in the noblest part of the church.  During the troubles of 
the Reformation, the coffer wherein her head and hair were inclosed,
was carried to the castle of Edinburgh, and from thence transported to
the manor-bouse of the Loird of Dury, who was a Reverend Father, Priest
and Monk of Dunfermline.  After he had kept this religious pledge
some years, it was in 1597 delivered into the hands of the  mis
sionaries in Scotland, who seeing it was in danger to be lost or proba-
ned, transported it to Antwerp.  Her relics are kept in the Scots College
at Dowry in a bust of silver.  "Hay's Scotia Sacra.


