
362                               AYRSHIRE.

seen, that Sir W. Scott, in his prefatory notice to the tragedy of
Auchendrane, relates the circumstances more favourably to the
Earl of Cassilis.
	Out of the events of this bloody action arose the series of dark
and tragical deeds on which Sir Walter founded his tragedy.
Auchendrane, to revenge the death of Bargany and his own wound,
on being apprized by Sir Thomas Kennedy of Cullayne of his in-
tention to visit Edinburgh, instigated a party of his followers to
waylay him at the place he bad appointed for a friendly meethng,
where they accordingly found and murdered him. Auchendrane
was strongly suspected of being the instigator of this crime, but he
boldly denied all knowledge of Cullayne's journey, and saw that
no evidence of his guilt could be produced, if he could only keep
out of the way the messenger who had given him notice of the
place of meeting. It so happened, that the person who brought
the message of Cullayne to Maybole transmitted it from thence to
Mure by the hands of a poor student of the name of Dalrymple,
who in consequence became the object of his fears. Notwithstand-
ing various places of confinement at Auchendrane and the Isle of
Arran, and even his removal to the low countries, where he served
in Buccleuch's regiment for five or six years, Dalrymple still re-
turned to the country, and Mure determined to trust no longer to
temporary expedients, resolved upon his death. He was abcord-
ingly enticed by a vassal of Mure's, James Bannatyne, to his house
at Chapeldonan, a solitary spot on the sea shore, and there, at
midnight, by the elder and younger Mures, was murdered and
buried in the sand. The hasty and imperfect sepulture was
immediately undone by the advancing tide, and they had re-
course to the expedient of carrying the body out to sea, in the hope
that the wind, which blew strongly from the shore, would remove
for ever from their coasts the evidence of their crime. But Pro-
vidence ere long brought it, back to the very spot of the murder,
and the public indignation was soon directed towards Mure, whose
tampering with Dalrymple had formerly been noticed. His fears
were in consequence transferred to Bannatyne whom, in his turn,
be and his son attempted to murder; but Bannatyne being pat
upon his guard, eluded their stratagems. He soon, however, found
his life so miserable, at once from the persecution of the Mures
and the power of his own conscience, that he, confessed his crime,
and revealed all the circumstances of the foul transaction in which
he had been an accomplice. The Mures, against whom the King


