
22                       BERWICKSHIRE.

three, but there are at least eight proprietors of land of the year-
ly value of L. 50 and upwards.

                         IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture and Rural Economy.-The number of acres stand-
ard imperial measure, either cultivated, or occasionally in tillage,
is 5600; and the number either constantly waste or in pasture is
2118. But there is no encouragement to add to the cultivated
land, since the improvement of the waste has for the most part
turned out not to the advantage, but to the loss of the cultivators.
No part of the parish is in a state of undivided common. The
number of acres in wood is 915; and on the Mellerstain estate,
where there is a regular felling of timber for sale, a great extent
of waste land has been planted chiefly with Scotch fir.
   The management of plantations is on the whole good; and on
the estate of Cowdenknows much improvement has been made
by plantations laid out with great taste, forming an ornament both
to the scenery of the Leader, and to the village of Earlston.
   Rent of Land.-The average rent of arable land, per acre, is
about 18s.: but in the immediate vicinity of the village, where the
soil is uncommonly rich, some land rents so high as from L. 3 to
upwards of L. 5. The common grazing allowance for a cow is
L. 3; that for a full-grown sheep, 15s.
   Rate of Wages.-The wages of married farm-labourers vary
from L. 25 to L. 30 per annum. An unmarried male-servant,
within the house, has from L. 9 to L. 11, while unmarried wo-
men receive about L. 7. The current wages of women labour-
ing in the field are 10d. per day in summer, and 8d. in winter;
and 1s. 8d. in summer, and 1s. 6d. in winter, are the ordinary al-
lowance for men. Masons, when employed by the day, receive
from 2s. 2d. to 2s. 4d. Blacksmiths, contracting by the draught
or pair of horses, have from L. 2 10s. to L. 3. The ordinary
wages of carpenters are from 2s. to 2s. 6d. per day, but they have
stated prices for the various implements of husbandry. Weavers
are at present in poor circumstances, as they are unable, with all
diligence, to gain more than 9s. per week.
   Husbandry.-The prevailing kinds of stock in the parish are the
Leicester breed of sheep, and the short-horned breed of cattle, to
both of which considerable attention is paid. The five-shift hus-
bandry, as it is usually denominated, is the system generally fol-
lowed, where the land, after being two years in grass, is cropped
with oats, next with turnips; then with oats or barley and grass,


