
             214                GENERAL OBSERVATIONS

             and inequalities of its surface, and for a great number of rocky
             eminences, and of second-rate lakes, which characterize its
             scenery.   Along the north coast, the same description of sce-
             nery continues but in a more modified form, and softened by an
             open track of arable land, at Durness; by tber picturesque beauty
             of Tongue, and its improved policies; by the extensive and beau-
             tiful valley of Strathnaver; and the more tame but rather fertile
             strath of Hallodale.  The sea coast of these two districts, also,
             presents headlands, and numerous cliffs of the boldest description.
             The eastern and southern parts of the county, again, are mark-
             ed by several extensive and pleasant valleys, surrounded by high
             hills, by rich pasture grounds and by extensive tracks of well-cul-
             tivated arable land, in the parishes of Criech, Dornoch, Golspie,
             Clyne, and Loth.  The sea coast in this direction is flat, with
             sandy shores, except at the eastern extremity of the county, where
             the majestic headland of the Ord stands erect out of the German
             Ocean.
                Mountains.-The mountains of Sutherland are very remarkable
             features of the county,-in their number,-theirbeight,-their sin-
             gular and varied outlines.-and the detached position of a few of
             thein.  The altitude of the highest of these mountains has been
             ascertained to be as follows:-

	     <TABLE>

             Ben More of Assynt, 3431 feet high. Ben Uarie,           1923 feet high.
             Ben Klibreck.       3164            Ben Vealich,         1838
             Ben Hope,           3061            Ben Horn,            1712
             Fionaven,           3015            Ben Smorale,         1667
             Ben Hee,            2858            Ben Lundie,          1467
             Ben Spionnue,       2566            Ben Hutic,           1345
             Ben Armin,          2306            Ben Bhraggie,        1282
             Ben Griam-more,     1935

                Rivers.-The Sutherland rivers are very numerous; but as all
             of them have their source in the interior parts of this county, and
             do not receive any tributary streams or supplies from other coun-
             ties, except two rivers that join the Oykill from Ross-shire, they
             are not remarkable for size, or the volume of their waters.  The
             larger rivers are all valuable for their salmon-fishings; but none
             of them are navigable, except the estuaries of the Oykill and of
             the Fleet, for short distances.  The largest of these rivers is the
             Oykill, which has its rise in Loch-Aish,-a wild mountain-lake
             near the eastern limb of Ben-More of Assynt.  This stream forms
             ihe boundary between the counties of Ross and Sutherland, and
             is augmented in its course by a number of burns, by the rivers of


