
 348                         BANFFSHIRE.

   of ordinary church collections, L.29. The collections, by consent
   of Lord Seafield, go to the benefit of the chapel funds, until the debt
   is liquidated, subject to a deduction of an annual payment to the
   parochial funds for behoof of the poor, to make up the deficiency
   in the latter caused by the new erection.  Since the church was
   opened, 16th October 1839, divine service has been performed in it
   every Lord's day by the minister of Cullen, aided occasionally by
   the members of presbytery, and the resident probationers;  and
   there is a fair prospect of soon procuring the services of a stated
   pastor for the charge.
      Education.-The parish is abundantly supplied with the means
   of education, there being altogether in Cullen proper, seven schools,
   of which four are endowed.  The salary of the parochial teacher,
   which is the medium, aided by an old bequest, is L.36; the aver-
   age yearly amount of school fees is L. 40; and, as the school en-
   joys the benefit of the Dick bequest, his official emoluments may
   be estimated at upwards of L. 100 per annum.  The parochial
   school-house is suitable and commodious; and the teacher is pro-
   vided with an excellent dwelling-house and garden.  The average
   daily attendance of scholars throughout the year, is 78.
      A boarding and day school, for the instruction of young ladies
   in the plain and ornamental branches of education, is under the
   direction of an accomplished teacher; the branches taught and
   terms charged, being the sam, e wine those in similar provincial esta-
   blishments. The teacher is accommodated with an excellent dwel-
   ling-bouse and small garden, rent free, provided by the Earl of
   Seafield ; and in addition to the fees, she receives a salary of fifteen
   guineas, of which his Lordship contributes ten, and the town-coun-
   oil five.
      An infant school, patronised and endowed b the noble faini1v
   of Seafield, was instituted in 1839,   It is efficiently taught by a
   femald, and is usually attended by from 70 to 80 scholars, froin
   the age of two and a-half to that of seven years.    The school fee
   is one penny per week, in addition to which, the teacher recei
   a salary of fourteen guineas, and is, moreover provided with a free
   school-room and dwelling-house.
      An uneudowed schoob for the ordinary branches of education,
  has, for many years, been successfully taught by the individu-
  al who holds the office of session-clerk, at which the average daily
  attendance is in summer 60, and in winter 120-the latter includ-


