
552                    EDINBURGHSHIRE.

the most flourishing condition, circulating a considerable sum of
money amongst the shopkeepers in the villages of Currie and
Balerno. Above the latter place there is an extensive yarn and
sail-cloth manufactory on the Bavelaw,-the property of a small
joint-stock company, and well conducted by one of the partners.
There are besides one snuff and several flour mills.

                 V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Market-Town.-There is no weekly market in Currie. Its
vicinity to Edinburgh invites the farmers to carry their produce
to the capital; and, accordingly, duly as Wednesday returns,
masters and servants, with their various commodities, may be seen
wending their way eastward in such numbers, as to convey an im-
pression that the parish is emptying its population into the city.
For all articles of household consumption, the numerous shops
and stores in Currie and Balerno afford every facility.
   The establishment of the rural police has been of essential ser-
vice to the tranquillity and order of the parish. In consequence
of its vicinity to Edinburgh, a number of idle and disorderly per-
sons frequently invade it to commit depredations; and, besides,
the great abundance of game both on the cultivated fields and on
the adjoining moors of the Pentlands, present temptations often too
strong for the young and the profligate to resist. Poaching is
consequently no uncommon crime; and, were it not for the sur-
veillance of an efficidnt constabulary, offences of this description,
as wells as petty thefts, would be perpetrated to an extent that
would materially affect the security of property and the comfort of
society in the neighbourhood.
   There are three villages, distant about a mile and a half from,
each other, and in these collectively there are seven dram-shops
and public-houses, which comprise the whole of that description
of houses in the parish.
   Means of Communication.-The means of communication are
ample and excellent,-the parish roads in all directions being kept
in an exceedingly good state, and indeed are in a state of progres-
sive improvement every year.  The same remark is not applicable
to the bridges, which, with the exception of, one near Hermiston,
and that, too, only recently widened, are genuine specimens of an-
tiquity. The turnpike road to Lanark, to and from which there
is a coach every day, passes along the Currie road; while that to
Glasgow, Ayr, and Hamilton goes through the village of Her-
miston. The line of the Caledonian Railway, which is in con-


