
712			AYRSHIRE.

	Rate of Wages.--An unmarried male-servant within the house
receives from L. 8 to L. 10, and female servants, from L. 3, 10s.
to L. 4, 10s. per half year. The current wages of women labour-
ing in the field are 1s. per day in summer, and 10d. in winter;
and 2s. in summer, and 1s. 6d. in winter, are the ordinary allowan-
ces for men. During harvest, female reapers' wages are 10s. a
week with victuals, and men's, 12s. Masons, last year, when em-
ployed by the day, received from 3s. 6d. to 4s., or for common build-
ing, as high, in some instances, as L. 2, 5s. per rood, and 4 1/2d. for
the foot of hewing. The ordinary wages of wrights are from 2s.
6d. to 3s. a day; but they have stated prices for the various im-
plements of husbandry, as well as for every piece of work of which
it is possible to estimate the value.
	Live-Stock.--The dairy cows in the parish are mostly of the
Cunninghame breed, to the selection and rearing of which, as well
as to the general management of the dairy, considerable attention
is paid. The greater part of the cattle fattened for the butcher
are likewise varieties of the Ayrshire species. The sheep pastured
on the muirlands are the common black-faced kind of the country,
and those kept on the arable farms are crosses of various English
breeds. The farm-horses are chiefly of the Clydesdale breed,--
a race distinguished for strong, powers, and of an activity adequate
to every purpose of husbandry.
	The different species of live-stock are at present as follows;
horses of all descriptions, 140; milk cows, 536; rearing and other
varieties of cattle, 679; black-faced sheep, 1903; sheep of the
English breed, 194; swine, 134.
	Husbandry.--Agriculture has, for many years, been as well un-
derstood and as successfully practised here, as in any part of the
country. In the lower and more fertile section of the parish, the
usual rotation of cropping adopted is, 1st, oats; 2d, green crop;
3d, wheat, barley, or oats; 4th, clover and ryegrass; 5th, pasture
during three years. On the lore upland farms, the rotation still
followed is two white crops, one of hay and four or five years pas-
ture. This system, though not approved of by modern agricultu-
rists, does not want its supporters, where the dairy is a primary ob-
ject of consideration.
	The following is a tabular view of the extent of crop sown in
1839, and of the annual average produce per acre, in Winchesters
bolls:


