
210                     ROXBURGHSHIRE.

all originating within the parish.  The south-western corner, how-
ever, includes a small portion of Langburn, the principal feeder of
the Slitterick, which flows northward, and joins the Teviot at
Hawick, seven miles above the confluence of the Rule.
   Geology and Mineralogy.--The parish may geologically be di-
vided into two districts.  The rocks, from the northern extremity
to a mile and a half above the church, are mostly sandstone; thence,
southward and westward, the greywacke predominates.  On the
south, occur likewise extensive masses of limestone, and red sand-
stone of a different species from that above noticed.  The lime-
stone is found at Limekilnedge, south of Windbrugh, where it has
long been burnt for use.  Here also are symptoms of a coal forma-
tion, which is not likely to prove beneficial.  Windbrugh itself shows
a gritty sandstone, more akin to the Northumberland formation.
That in the north end of the parish has sometimes a red, and some-
times a white colour; and both kinds are employed for building.
In fact, the upper strata generally consist of the white, which, ac-
cordingly, crops out three miles before the red.   Both kinds are
extensively wrought for public use in the adjoining parish of Ca-
vers, at Denholm-hill quarry.  The dip of the sandstone is to the
north or north-east.    The greywacke has generally a westerly
course, varying somewhat to the south, and stands nearly vertical,
with a slight overhanging to the north.  The limestone, (suppos-
ed to be mountain limestone,) dips to the east like the Northum-
berland rocks, and probably the sandstone found in this upper dis-
trict maintains the same Position.
   Besides the rocks above-mentioned, there appear on the top of
Bonchester, Rubberslaw, and Windbrugh, caps of trap, greenstone,
or probably a species of basalt, though not, unless in this latter
site, assuming the basaltic form.  A singular dike, varying from
two to six yards wide, crosses the lower part of the parish from east
to west, and continues its course through the greywacke as well
as through the sandstone.  Its material is greenstone, or some-
thing analogous, with a considerable proportion of iron, which is
oxidized whenever it lies in contact with the air or penetrable soil.
This dike is clearly shown at Hallrule mill ; thence it extends in a
westerly direction to Hawick,--making its appearance at the Glen,
at Kirkton, Miller's Knowe, and other places on the line, where
it is wrought for metalling the roads.  It may also be traced east-
wards across the Jed near Edgerston.  Other troubles of lesser


