
212			LANARKSHIRE.

council, the merchants' and the trades' houses. The town-coun-
cil consisted of certain persons from the rank of merchants and
trades. In 1801, some alternation was made on the constitution;
and from the pariod till 1833, the corporation consisted of a
Provost, five Bailies, twelve Councillors from the merchants, and
eleven from the trades rank, a master of work, and a treasurer.
The Gorbals and water bailies were chosen from the council, who
elected themselves. One-third went out of the council every year,
and could not return for three years. The merchants' house sent
a list of three persons to the council, from which they elected one
to be Dean of Guild; and in like manner the trade's house, when
one of the three was elected convener.
	Since 1833, when the Burgh Reform Act passed, the Town-
Council has been chosen by the Parliamentary constituency, con-
sisting of upwards of 7000 persons, who pay a yearly rent of at
least L. 10. The city is divided into five wards, each ward elect-
ing six Councillors. The Dean of Guild and Convener of the
Trades are elected by their respective houses. When added to
the Councillors, they elect a Provost, five Bailies, a Treasurer, and
Master of Work; one-third of the Councillors go out of office every
year, but may be immediately re-elected. The revenue of the city
varies from L. 15000 to L. 16000.
	Previously to tha passing of the Reform Act, the burghs of
Glasgow, Rutherglen, Renfrew, and Dumbarton, elected one in-
dividual to represent them in Parliament; but since that act has
been in operation, the above-mentioned constituency for Glasgow
return two Members to Parliament. The first Members under
the Reform Act were Mr James Ewing of Levenside, and Mr
James Oswald of Shieldhall, both merchants in Glasgow.
	In thus giving a brief account of the former and present
constitution of the corporation of Glasgow, it has been shewn
that the Burgh Reform Act has placed the management of the
corporation affairs in the hands of Councilors elected by those
who enjoy the ten pound franchise. That the time had arrived
when a salutary Reform in the Scotch burghs became necessary
is admitted by all who had the good of their country at heart;
abuses in the lapse of ages having crept into the management of
many of them.
	It is, however, gratifying to know, that, for more than a century
bypast, the managers of the corporation of Glasgow have been


