

                            COUNTY OF ORKNEY.                      209

     nite and gneiss, about six miles long and one broad, the south
     extremity of which is in the island of Graemsay, from which it
     passes in a northerly direction, through the town and parish of
     Stromness; and the other end is seen in a precipice, on the south-
     west coast of Sandwick.  Its range, however, is not continuous.
     In one place, it passes into mica slate, containing garnets; and
     in the road above Edinburgh Park, hornblende rock is found.
        The other rocks of which Orkney is principally composed, are
     classed by geologists as of the old red sandstone formation, which
     embraces the conglomerate, certain greywacke slates, bituminous
     claystones, yellow and red sandstones, &c.
        The conglomerate forms a belt around the gneiss, from 50 to
     100 yards thick,-which contains portions of the primitive rock of
     various sizes imbedded; and the farther from the primitive rock the
     strata are, they have less of these portions or coarse slate till they
     gradually pass into the scbist, which occupies more space than all
     the other rocks together.  It is argillaceous, siliceous, or calcareous;
     but the first prevails most.  The strata generally dip westward, at an
     angle about 20, particularly in the west mainland, and the nearest
     islands; but in some places, there seem to have been so many forces
     at work, elevating and distorting the strata, that, in a short space,
     they dip in all directions.  What is in immediate contact with the
     east side of the conglomerate, in some places, dips slightly eastward.
        In two places, this is quarried as an inferior roofing slate, and
     is of than same formation as the paving stone of Caithness.  Al-
     most all the houses and dikes in Orkney are built of it.  When
     much weathered, as on the precipices at the west coast, the har-
     der portions protrude, and form the figured stones much noticed
     by the older writers.
        In a few places, the calcareous strata are burnt for lime, but
     not to a great extent.  In others, the strata are bituminous on the
     surface, or have small cavities filled with soft bitumen, and occa-
     sionally glance-coal; or there are numerous nodules, and veins of
     Lydian stone or chert.  In the West Mainland, these strata are
     frequently intersected by whin dikes, the thickest of which is ten
     feet wide, and which run due west.  These, and veins of py-
     rites, crumble and destroy the strata near to them, thus giving
     rise to fissures of various kinds in the precipices.  It is in these
     strata that fossil organic remains so frequently occur, general-
     ly of fish, more rarely of vegetables, and both may be seen on
       ORKNEY.


