
114                     BERWICKSHIRE.

   Education.-The parish school, which is the only place of edu-
cation in the parish, is situated at a convenient distance from the
several farm-steadings. The outskirts of the surrounding parishes
also furnish some scholars. All the usual branches of instruction
are taught at the following rates: Reading, 2s. per quarter; read-
ing and writing, 3s per do.; reading, writing, and arithmetic, 4s 6d.
per do.; Latin and Greek languages, 7s. per quarter; mathema-
tics, 7s. 6d. per do. The salary of the schoolmaster (including
a mortification) is L. 30 yearly; and the amount of the school
fees may be about L. 10 more.
   The people in general appear to be sufficiently alive to the be-
nefits of education, but the progress of the children at school is
much impeded during the summer and autumn, by their being so
frequently called out to work in the fields.
   Friendly Society.-The only friendly society that exists in the
parish is one instituted in the year 1828, and having for its ob-
ject the procuring of medical assistance for the members and their
families in case of sickness. Each member pays a small sum
quarterly into the hands of the treasurer, and thus a fund is form-
ed, out of which, when sickness occurs, the expense of calling in a
medical practitioner and of procuring medicines is defrayed. There
are at present forty-three members; and the amount of disburse-
ments made by the treasurer during the four years that the so-
clety has existed is about L. 15.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-There are at present only two in-
dividuals who receive parochial aid; the one a widow advanced in
years, the other a woman of middle age. The annual contribu-
tions for their relief amount to L. 7, 18s., of which sum about
L. 3 arise from church collections; the remainder is raised by legal
assessment.
   It is to be regretted that the poor in this neighbourhood, so
far from regarding it as degrading to receive parochial aid, apply
for it without hesitation, and consider it as a legal provision made for
them, to which they have as good a title as to the wages of labour.
   Fuel.-The fuel commonly used in the parish is turf and peat,
but more generally the former. Coals cannot be obtained for less
than 20s. per ton, on account of the distance from which they
must be brought.
   Inns.-There is no alehouse in the parish, but there is one in
the immediate neighbourhood. It does not appear, however, that
anv bad effects on the morals of the inhabitants arise from this
cause.

   July 1834.



