
550	                        LANARKSHIRE.

to have consolidated into a sward, capable of being cut by the
scythe-the mower, to ensure a better footing, fastening flat boards
to his feet, after the fashion of the Esquimaux snow-shoe, while
in others it still remains limpid and deep, forming pools for the
pike, and a quiet retreat for wild ducks and other aquatic birds.
While the Clyde, in winter, aids the farmer by the deposition of
its rich slimy mud, it at other seasons becomes his dread, by burst-
ing with rapid inundations on his holms when in crop, and leaving
desolation in the place of luxuriant fertility.
        Geology-Soil.-The soil varies with the situation. Along the
banks of the Clyde, it is alluvial, arising from depositions of the
river, and the holms thus formed bear crops of the most luxuriant
quality, not to be surpassed in the richest parts of the county.
But as these lands are liable to inundations of the river, and if
under crop to extensive damage, they are usually laid out in pas-
ture. Between the alluvial soil on the banks of the Clyde and the
River Mouse, there intervenes a region of sand, thrown up, as al-
ready noticed, into a multitude of sand-knolls. These internally
are composed of strata of sand and pebbles, and the superincum-
bent soil is artificial to a great extent. Between the heights,
patches of moss intervene, which might be made more available
than it is to the improvement of the soil generally. Good level
roads are made by turning the heights into the hollows, and so
here, by turning the knoll into the moss, which could be done with-
out much labour, many a sterile patch might be reclaimed. The
moss is thus made available in some degree, and while it supplies
the parishioner with a considerable portion of fuel, and is reckon-
ed preferable to coal for the purposes of the dairy, it affords inex-
haustible means of manure, the return and uses of which have been
most satisfactorily ascertained. Beyond the River Mouse, the soil
changes. In the western portion of the parish, it is of a clayish qua-
lity; in the eastern, almost wholly mors, and very flat. This is the
dreariest and most uninviting portion,of the parish. At Brownrig
Cottage, the banks of the Mouse begin to be rocky and precipitous,
The rock is a greyish sandstone, very friable. Limestone has been
found, and whinstone,-the later in some abundance; but there is
no great quarry in the parish. Coal has not been discovered. The
clay, in the north-west of the Mouse is of a very fine quality. This
circumstance induced the proprietor to erect a tile-work, where
tiles for draining are, now made to a great extent. It is needless
almost to notice that the class of vegetables varies with the varia-


