
756				AYRSHIRE.

Hence the adage,
		"Kyle for a man, Carrick for a cow,
		Cunningham for butter and cheese, and Galloway for woo."
	Peden.--The Rev. Alexander Peden, whose memory is much
revered in the west of Scotland, held the office of schoolmaster in
Torbolton. After he became a minister, and durinG the time of
the Persecution, he frequently preached at a secluded spot in the
Coilhome wood, called Peden's Pulpit. A short way up the river
there is a hollow place in the face of a cliff, to which he used to
retire after preaching, called Peden's Cove. The pulpit is a jut-
ting out mass of red sandstone overlooking a level piece of ground
bounded by the Ayr, and hid from view by precipitous cliffs and
lofty banks covered with copsewood. It is remembered that m`ny
of his admiring bearers used to assemble before the pulpit with
their loaded firelocks in their hands-a precaution not unnecessary,
as is abundantly testified by the subjoined inscription on a tomb-
stone in Torbolton church-yard. *
	Woodhill is on the banks of the Ayr, about two miles up the
river from Peden's Pulpit.
	The Rev. Dr William Ritchie.--Torbolton was the earliest pas-
toral charge of the late Dr William Ritchie, one of the ministers
of the High Church of Edinburgh, and for about twenty years
Professor of Divinity in the Univetsity of Edinburgh. He was an
accomplished scholar, an eloquent preacher, and a profound theo-
logian. During the period of his filling the Divinity Chair, the
number of theological students at Edinburgh greatly increased,
and a large proportion of the present clergy of the Church of
Scotland were educated under him. In consequence of advanced
age and repeated attacks of dangerous illness, he, in 1827, re-
signed his professorship. When he was unable longer to labour
in word and doctrine, he had the consolation to know that his for-
mei pupils were now the faithful preachers of those precious truths
which it had been the business of his life to teach to others, and
which proved his own support in the prospect of death. He pas-
sed the remainder of his days at Torbolton manse, where he died
in January 1829. He was interred hn the church-yard of this pa-
rish, in the very spot on which he was ordained to the office of the,
holy ministry.

<FOOTNOTE>Here Lys William Shillilaw, who was shot, at Woodhead by Lieut. Lauder for
his adherence to the Word of God and Scotland's covenanted work of reformation.
1685.


