
                         PAISLEY.                          285

L. 754, 15s.  In 1823 the amount was L. 745, 11s. and since that
time the average has been about L. 700.  The sessional income
from other sources averages about L. 60 additional; and, by means
of these funds, all the regular and occasional poor on the com-
munion rolls of the Established Church and Gaelic Chapel are
supported.  The number of regular pensioners, at present is 200,
who receive from 6d. to 2s. 6d. weekly, according to circumstan-
ces ; the average being a fraction above 1s.  To some hundreds of
occasional poor and poor householders, donations of money, coals,
clothes, and provisions, are from time to time given according to
circumstances.  The business of the general session is managed
by a standing committee, consisting of four elders from each ses-
sion, who meet monthly for enrolling paupers, inquiring into cases,
and paying the elders for any outlays during the preceding month
for occasional poor,-a discretion to this extent being granted to
the elders in their respective quarters, subject to monthly review.
Each elder is understood to visit the regular poor in his propor-
tion monthly, and to pay them their aliment.  They are also ex-
pected to inquire into their general character, attendance on or-
dinances, state of the children of the poor as to education, &c.
Prior to 1828 the general session had the entire charge of the
whole poor in the three parishes, and their funds were aided by a
portion of the hospital assessment, varying from L.50 in 1809, up
to L.500 in 1827.  But the burden thus laid on the elders was
excessive ; and an agreement was entered into in 1828 by all par-
ties having interest, to the effect that the sessions, retaining their
own funds, should take charge of all the poor, regular and occa-
sional, on the communion rolls of the Established Churches and
Gaelic Chapel; and that all others should be placed, by a civil ar-
rangement, under the superintendence and control of the managers
of the Town's Hospital.  This species of voluntary agreement has
on the whole wrought well.  A prodigious refief has been granted
to the elders, while their avocations as elders, partake far more of
the character of a spiritual agency.
   On the first Sabbath of each year, an extraordinary collection
is regularly made in the three parish churches of the burgh, which
is devoted as a new-year's gift to the relief of respectable members
of the church who, generally speaking, receive no other assistance
during the year.  As a specimen of the readiness ofthe congre-
gations, to contribute to the aid of this interesting class, we notice
the amount of last new-year's day collection, L. 134, 12s. 8d.  This


