
60                          EDINBURGHSHIRE.

come very near the troth with respect, to the gross amount of raw
produce in a parish.  As nearly as the writer of these observations
has been able to ascertain it, it may be stated as under:--

<TABLE>
         Grain of different kinds,  .   .   .      L. 5660
         Potatoes and turnips about   .   .   .       1990
         Hay about   .   .   .  .   .   .   .   .     1800
                                                     ______
						                L.9360

                     V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
Village,&c.-Patlihead is the principal village in the parish,
made up for the most part of feus from the property of Crichton.
The great road to the south, leading by Lauder, passes through
the village, at the foot of which, a most magnificent bridge over the
Tyne has lately been erected upon the Ford property, under the di-
rection of Sir John Dalrymple, the present spirited convener for this
district of roads. The bridge consists of five arches 80 feet high, by
50 feet span, and crossing the beautiful valley, between Ford and
the finely wooded grounds of Prestonhall and Oxenford, presents
a truly picturesque and commanding appearance.
   Means of Communication.-There is a post-office at Pathhead,
where are two arrivals and dispatches daily; and four coaches
run on this line of road between Edinburgh and the south. The
convenient distance from Dalkeith opens tip a most ready market
for the agricultural produce of the parish, so that altogether the
means, of communication which it enjoys are of a very superior na-
ture.
   Ecclesiastical State.-It is to be regretted that the situation of
the church is inconvenient for almost the whole population, stand-
ing as it does at the western extremity of the parish, distant from
its most populous village two miles, and fully four from its eastern
boundary. It is a fine old building in the form of a cross, and
was founded in 1449 for a provost, nine prebendaries, and two
singing-boys, out of the rents of Chricton and Locherwart. Within
the last twenty years, the church has undergone a thorough repair,
and is now perhaps one of the most handsome and comfortable in
all the country. The church is seated for 600, but its distant
situation excludes the hope of way such number attending regu-
larly. The average number of communicants may be stated at 290.
   Manse, &c.-The manse was built in 1758, and is in very good
repair. There are between 6 and 7 acres of glebe, which is ex-
cellent land, and worth L.3 per acre. The stipend is paid in oat-
meal and barley; of the former there are nearly 169 cwt., and of
the latter 792 bushels Imperial measure; besides L.8, 6s.8d. in


