
              COCKBURNSPATH AND OLD CAMBUS.                       297

to those theoretical speculations, which, however probable, had never
till now been directly authenticated by the testimony of the senses.
We often said to ourselves, what clearer evidence could we have
had of the different formation of these rocks, had we actually seen
them emerging from the bosom of the deep? We felt ourselves
necessarily carried back to the time when the schistus on which
we stood was yet at the bottom of the sea, and when the sand-
stone before us was only beginning to be deposited in the shape of
sand or mud, from the waters of a superincumbent ocean. An
epocha still more remote presented itself, when even the most
ancient of these rocks, instead of standing upright in vertical beds,
lay in horizontal planes at the bottom of the sea, and was not yet dis-
turbed by that immeasurable force which has burst asunder the solid
pavement of the globe. Revolutions still more remote appeared in
the distance of this extraordinary perspective. The mind seemed
to grow giddy by looking so far into the abyss of time; and, while
we listened with earnestness and admiration to the philosopher who
was now unfolding to us the order and series of these wonderful
events, we became sensible how much farther reason may some-
times go than imagination can venture to follow. As for the rest,
we were truly fortunate in the course we had pursued in this ex-
cursion; a great number of other curious and important facts pre-
sented themselves, and we returned, having collected in one, day
more ample materials for future speculation, than have sometimes
resulted from years of diligent and laborious research." *
   In addition to this description, we have only to remark, that the
old red sandstone at the Siccar Point dips to the N. N. W. at a
considerable angle, 28ø, a dip and inclination which it maintains on
either side, for about a mile with little variation. At the termina-
tion of this mile, on the eastern side of the Siccar, the sandstone
ceases altogether on the farm of Redheugh, a little beyond the
Coast Guard station. Here it occurs very low in situation, being,
nearly covered at high water. But to the west of the Siccar it con-
tinues considerably farther, gradually becoming more horizontal, till
it reaches the vicinity of the Cove harbour (about three miles from
Siccar Point,) where the altered character of the rock itself; its
different inclination, and accompanying strata, lead us to conclude
that the old red sandstone has now ceased, and that it is succeed-
ed by the lower measures of the coal formation. From the Coast
Guard station already alluded to, to this latter point, a distance of

<FOOTNOTE>Works of John Playfair, Esq. Vol. iv. p. 79-81. Svo. Edinburgh, 1822.


