
                            DUNSE.                          249

phyry and granite, with occasional beds of greenstone. The gra-
nite forms the highest part of the hill, porphyry being situated
lower down. The granite appears to be the same as that which
occurs at Fasney Water, at some distance to the westward, and
which has been the subject of such keen discussion between the
Wernerians and Huttonians. The former have called it tran-
sition sienite, but this on Cockburn-Law has all the component
parts of granite, and these disposed in the usual way. The hill is
detached in this manner from all the surrounding hills,-being com-
posed of rocks totally dissimilar and unstratified, and surrounded
at the base by regularly stratified rocks, which, from their present
appearance and position in many places, seem to have suffered great
violence. The same formations cross the Whitadder eastward into
the parish of Bunkle. Between Cockburn-Law and Dunse a nar-
row stripe may be traced of old red sandstone, the first and oldest
rock of the secondary series. This formation of old red sandstone
appears to rest immediately on the transition rocks. The rocks in
the lower part of the parish appear to belong partly to the coal,
and partly to the new red sandstone formation, but the sandstone
of the coal formation seems to be the predominant rock. This
sandstone frequently abounds with vegetable impressions, and casts
of palms and other monocotyledonous plants. These are found in
abundance in a sandstone quarry at the southern boundary of the
parish.
   Immediately to the southward of the town, there is a bog ex-
tending a considerable distance eastward and westward, which was
formerly impassable, except in one place, and seems in ancient
times to have formed one of its principal defences from its southern
enemies. There is now a small detached part of the town on the
south side of it, named the Bridge-end, and opposite, on the north
side, a small field named Barniken, probably a corruption of Bar-
bican. The bog is now drained, and is excellent cow-pasture.
   The northern part of the parish is in general a sharp gravelly
dry soil; the southern part is a very rich light deep loam, and
all (except some very small detached spots of clay,) of that sort
which agriculturists denominate a good turnip soil. Close to the
town is a dark deep sandy loam, formed from the debris of the
sandstone.
   On the banks of the Whitadder, mines have been repeatedly
dug, and copper has been found, but not in sufficient quantity to



