
			GLASGOW.                          219

The bridge had seven arches, was 30 feet wide within the parapets,
and 500 feet in length. The design was given by Mr William
Mylne, architect in Edinburgh, and executed by Mr John Adam.
	The foundation stone of Hutcheson's Bridge was laid in 1794,
by Provost Gilbert Hamilton, near the foot of Salt Market Street,
to connect the lands of Hutchesontown with the city. It had five
arches, was 406 feet long, and 26 feet wide within the parapets.
On the 18th of November 1795, during an uncommonly high
flood in the river, it was unfortunately swept away, after the pa-
rapets were nearly completed.
	The foundation stone of a new bridge for Hutchestown was laid
on the 18th of August 1829, by the Right Worshipful Robert
Dalglish, substitute grand master mason for Glasgow, and precep-
tor of the hospital. This bridge is built on the site of the for-
mer one, from a design by Mr Robert Stevenson, civil-engineer;
it is 36 feet wide within the parapets, 406 feet long, and has five
arches. Mr John Stedman, contractor.
	The Timber Bridge at Portland Street, erected in 1832, is 30
feet wide within the railing, has a carriage way and two side pave-
ments. It was designed by Mr Robert Stevenson, civil-engineer.
Mr William Robertson, contractor.
	The increase of trade and population in the city and adjacent
districts having been such as to render the Jamaica Street or
Broomielaw Bridge unfit for its purposes, the trustees resolved to
remove it, and to erect in its stead a bridge which would afford
more suitable accommodation, such as the increasing population of
the neighbouring districts required. Having obtained an act of
Parliament, they procured a design from Mr Thomas Telford, ci-
vil-engineer, and contracted with Messrs John Gibb and Son, for
building the bridge. It is faced with Aberdeen granite, and has
a very gentle acclivity. It is 560 feet long over the newals, and
60 feet wide over the parapets; it has seven arches, and is wider
than any river bridge in the kingdom.
	To commemorate the rebuilding of this bridge it was resolved
that the foundation stone should be laid with masonic honours.
Dr Cleland having been requested to act as grand director of the
ceremonial, preparations were made on a magnificent scale.  Ha-
ving procured a commission for the Lord Provost to lay the foun-
dation stone, from the Right Worshipful Henry Monteith of Car-
stairs, provincial grand-master for Glasgow, the directors request-
ed the very Reverend Principal Macfarlan to preach the sermon


