
                     MONIFIETH.                            543

fice of the Popish church here, and that it had underonne a dis-
mantling similar to that which overthrew more stately fabrics; for
the second entry is to this effect: "Ye quhylk day it is thoicht
necesser be as yat he hous of prayer be mendit in haist, yat God
may be glorafeit yair,-ye expensis to br tayn uquolie of ye assem-
blie." Two circumstances seem to account for the people of this
parish embracing the Reformation so heartily and so early; 1st,
The proximity of Monifieth to Dundee, in and around which
George Wishart preached much and successfully; 2d, Durbam
of Grange, the most influential individual in the district, and living
on the spot, was a zealous Protestant, and a near relation of the
celebrated superintendent of Angus,-John Erskine of Dun.
Erskine, indeed, lived frequently at Grange; and, according to
tadition, had, at one time, a narrow escape there from Govern-
ment emissaries sent to capture him. We may infer, therefore,
that, during these visits, this zealous reformer organized the con-
gregation of Monifieth, and that Durham was his hearty assistant
in the work. And we know farther, that John Knox lived much
with Erskine at this period, visiting and confirming with him those
who were favourably inclined to Protestantism; so that it is not
unreasonable to suppose, that Papacy was overthrown in Moni-
fieth by the master hand of the Reformer himself.
	Though some leaves are wanting near the beginning of the re-
cord, we find that a Protestant minister officiated statedly here be-
fore the end of the year 1562; nor was the parish vacant for any
length of time (as many others were) from that date this. Thd
present incumbent is the fifteenth in regular succession from the
Reformation. It is recorded, that, on the 13th of November
1715," Mr Jo. Ballantyne, minr. here, was violently thrust from
his charge by the persecution of the rebels." An Episcopalian
was intruded: but Mr Ballantyne was restored in February of the
following year. In 1701, also, the presbytery and synod suspend-
ed Mr John Dempster for nonconformity; but, in 1702, he was
reponed by the commission of the General Assembly.
	Many curious extracts might be made from the old record.
The following are esteemed important, as showing the ancient dis-
cipline of the church: February 1563, a culprit copriated of "ye
presumful abus and vyc of drunkinness," was sentenced by the session
to be "brankit, stockit, dukit, and banisit ye heile paris."-" 15th
Octr. 1561, Andro Fyndlay and Elspit Hardye ratefeit ye cotract
of mariag, and te sayd Audro proisit to hail ye beleive befor ye
   FORFAR.                     N n


