
     of Avoch.

the Hon. Board of Trustees for fisheries, manufactures, and
improvements in Scotland, would, over and above the boun-
ties now allowed by Government, grant some premiums to
actual fishermen for a few years at the different herring sta-
tions in the North; to three or four, at least, of the herring
boats at each station, whole crew, consisting of a fixed num-
ber, and within a limited time of every season, should catch
and deliver the greatest quantities of good herrings to the cu-
rers;-this, it is believed, would excite much emulation a-
mong the hands, and be attended with many beneficial con-
fequences.  A pier, sufficient for boats and small sloops,
would render this station much more commodious and safe
than at present, and could be built for a moderate sum: And,
if the bounds of the Seatown were extended, by throwing a

<FOOTNOTE>

rations now living in the place.  Their women are, in general, hardy and
robust, and can bear immense burdens.  Some of them will carry a hundred
weight of wet fish a good many miles up the country.  As the bay is flat, and
no pier has yet been build, so that the boats must often take ground a good
way off from the shore, these poissardes have a peculiar custom of carrying
out and in their husbands on their backs, "to keep their men's feet dry," as
they say.  They bring out, in like manner, all the fish and fishing tackles,
and at these operations, they never repine to wade, in all weathers, a consi-
derable distance into the water.  Hard as this usage must appear, yet there are
few other women so cleanly, healthy, or so long livers in the country.
   During the last war, 13 Avoch men were pressed into the Royal Navy.
and though most of these served in Admiral Parker's own ship in his dread-
ful engagement with the Dutch off the Dogger Bank, as well as in other ac-
tions, not one of them was hurt by the enemy.  Their regular and good be-
haviour was acknowledged by all their officers, and eleven of the number
returned home m 1783, with a good many gumeas each of saved money.  Mr
Dunda's late regulations for the punctual pay of seaman, will be very bene-
ficial in this respect and will encourage them to enter much more readily
than before.  The greatest hardships now, is leaving their families; as they
commonly marry at such an early period of life; and are all happy and
contented with their situation and circumstances at home


