
                        MOREBATTLE AND MOW.                     455

the work being very ill executed, it has already required consider-
able repairs.  The stipend, as modified at the last augmentation, in
1820, is 16 chalders, half barley, half oatmeal, with L. 8, 6s. 8d.
for communion elements.  The glebe consists of about 11 acres
of very good land.  The minister had also a right to a number
of carriages of coals from the tenants, the greater part of which
have fallen into disuse.  He had also the right of castina turfs on
the farm of Morebattle Braes.  But the ground being brought
under tillage, he agreed to take in lieu of this privilege the carriage
of 14 bolls of coals yearly, which, however, for a long time past, be
has never received.   There is one Dissenting-meeting house in the
parisb, which belongs to the United Secession.  It stood originally at
Gateshaw, which was the first settlement of the Secession in the
south of Scotland.  Their first minister, Mr Hunter, was ordained
in 1739.  It was some years before a placd of worship was built,
during which time the congregation assembled summer and winter
on Gateshaw Brae, and the minister preached to them from a tent.
About sixty years ago, the meeting-house and manse were removed
to Morebattle, where they still continue.  The minister has a good
house and garden, a yearly stipend, I believe, of L. 110, and an al-
lowance for sacramental expenses.
     Education--There are two parochial schools--the first in
Morebattle, attended on an average by 100 scholars.  The school-
master has the maximum salary, L.8 as heritors' clerk, and a
trifle as session-clerk.  The amount of his fees may be about
L. 30.  A new school-house has lately been built, without excep-
tion, the finest in the country.  The schoolmaster's house is of
two storeys, containing four rooms, kitchen, and back kitchen, be-
sides garret apartments.  The second-scbool is at Mowhaugh, on
Beaumont Water.  It was established about fifteen years ago.
The teacher has a house and garden, and L. 17 of salary, with
the school fees.  The branches taught at both schools are, En-
glih grammar, writing, arithmetic, geography, mathematics, La-
tin.  There is also in the village of Morebattle a private school,
attended by about 30 scholars.  There are no persons above
fifteen years of age who cannot read, and few, if any, who cannot
write.
     Literature.--A library was established in the parish about forty
years ago, which now contains between 600 and 700 volumes.
The price of a share is L. 1, 1s. and the yearly contribution is



