
            132                    CAITHNESS-SHIRE.

            also the prevalence of Norwegian colonization within the district
            now forming the parish of Wick.
              The clan Gun are said to have originated in the twelfth cen-
            tury within the parish of Wick, where they once were very power-
            ful, and still are very numerous.  About the year 1100, Olaf, a
            man of great bravery, dwelt in the isle of Graemsay, one of the
            Orkneys.  He had three sons, Waltheof, Gun, and Swen.
            From the second of these, traditionally called the Great Gun of
            Ulbster, where he dwelt, the clan Gun deduce their descent.
              About 1140, Ronald, Earl of Orkney, whose name was canon-
            ized at Rome in 1192, " was entertained at a town called Wick,
            by Roald, who had a son that was come to maturity, called Swen,
            who was one of those that waited at table."  Margad, who ma-
            naged the possessions at Dungaldsbay, now Duncansbay, of Swen
            Olafson, who followed the profession of a pirate, went some time
            afterwards to Wick, and twenty men with him, to transact some
            business and before his return slew Roald in his own house, and
            some others with him.  Earl Ronald was urged by Swen, the son
            of Roald, to avenge the murder of his father; but the Romish
            saint, after some feeble attempts to seize the person of Margad,
            who was successfully protected by Swen, his master, was, after still
            more horrible atrocities had been perpetrated, reconciled at last to
            both the murderer and the pirate.  Some time thereafter, whilst
            Ronald was on a pilgrimage to Jerusalem, Harrold the Wicked,
            Earl of Orkney, spent the winter at Wick and was robbed of the
            rents of his estates in Zetland by Swen the pirate, whose strong-
            hold was at Lambsburgh, hodiernally Buchollie's Castle in Canis-
            bay, near the, northern boundary of the parish of Wick.
              Caithness continued subject to Oreadian earls of Scandinavian
            extraction till about 1330, when, owing to the failure of the male
            line, this earldom went into other families, and the power and in-
            fluence of the Norwegians passed away.
              At, and for some time previously to this era, more than a third
            part of Caithness, including the district which now forms the pa-
            rish of Wick, was possessed by, a family surnamed De Cheyne.
            The last of the male line, Sir Reginald, is yet under the designation
            of Morar na Shien, famous in the Highland districts as a mighty
            hunter. Be was most anxious for a son to heir his vast estates;
            and when his wife, Mary, brought him a daughter, he order-
            ed in a paroxysm of fury, the child to be destroyed it was,

            <FOOTNOTE>Pope's Torfaeus.     Ib.       Ib.       Ib.






