

                       PARISH OF THURSO.*
      PRESBYTERY OF CAITHNESS, SYNOD OF SOUTHERLAND AND
                           CAITHNESS.

               THE REV. W. R. TAYLOR, MINISTER.

               I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
     Name.--THE name of this parish is taken from that of the river
which runs through it.  It is made up of the words   Thor, the
name of one of the great northen deities, and aa, which, in the
Icelandic dialect, signifies a river; and so means thor's river.
     Extent and Boundaries.--The mean length of the parish is
about 7 miles, and the breadth about 4 3/4, and the area about 34
square miles.  It is bounded on the north, by the sea; on the
west, south, and east, by the parishes of Reay, Halkirk, and Ol-
rig respectively.  Its form is that of an irregular quadrilateral
figure.
     Toporgraphical Appearances.--It rises by a gentle acclivity from
the sea shore, and in no part attains to any very great elevation.
It presents various irregularities and undulation  on its surface;
but, speaking generally, the land is flat.  The coast, which ex-
tends about eight miles, is in general rocky, though, in some parts,
especially near the town of Thurso, it is flat and sandy.  The bay
of Thurso, which forms the coast of the pavish of Olrig and part
of that of Dunnet, forms about five miles of the coast this pa-
rish; and, as seen from the town  and neighbourhood, present a
very beautiful and striking appearance.  It is included within the
promontories of Dunnet-head, (the most northerly land in Scot-
land), situated in the parish of Dunnet on the east, and of Hol-
burn-head situated in his parish, on the west.  Holburn-head, the
only head-land in this parish, is about two miles to the north-west
of the   town of Thurso.  At the extremity of this headland, there

<FOOTNOTE=Compilled by the Rev. W. R. Taylor, Minister, assisted by Hugh Davison,
Esg.  Chief Magistrate of Thurso, who furnished the chief part of Head IV.
   CAITHNESS.                                          A






