
         104                    INVERNESS-SHIRE.

         half.  There are also some very thriving plantations on the pro-
         perties of Corrybrough (H. Macqueen Esq.) and of Dalmigavie
         (Campbell Mackintosh, Esq.)  Larch is now coming into general
         use, and in every plantation it forms the one-half at least.  There
         are some fine old plane and ash trees in the island of Loch Moy,
         which must have stood there several centuries; and there are still
         to be traced there the remains of a garden, in some cherry and gean
         trees, which surround part of the old castle.

                                II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
            Any account which can be obtained of the ancient history of the
         parish must be derived from tradition, as there are few if any writ-
         ten records.  There is, however, one manuscript kept in Moy Hall,
         written by Lady Ann Duff, giving an account of the Rebellion in
         1715, with a very interesting account of many other events, which
         took place prior to that period.  This lady was the wife of Lach-
         lan Mackintosh, Esq. of Mackintosh, and acted a conspicuous part
         during the Rebellion.  The Presbytery records carry the history
         back as far as 1680 ; but part of the session records were destroyed
         several years ago, from the school-house taking fire.  We learn
         from the former, that Episcopal jurisdiction continued till about
         the year 1727, when the first Presbyterian minister (Mr Leslie)
         was settled.  It is related in proof of the barbarous state of the
         country, that the first time Mr Leslie went to preach in Dalarros-
         sie, he found a great multitude of people putting the stone, and
         amusing themselves otherwise about the church.  He found it
         impossible to gain a hearing, until he agreed to try his strength
         in putting the stone, on condition that they would agree to join him af-
         terwards in the church, if he should be found to surpass them.  Mr
         Leslie being a powerful man distanced them all,-which so attract-
         ed the respect of the people, that he soon brought them round to
         regularity and order.  The traditional history is principally taken
         up with the feuds of the Mackintoshs and the Cummings; and many
         tumuli are pointed out as the graves of the slain.  Some of these
         have been opened and bones found; and stone arrow-heads and
         dirks have also been discovered on the battle fields, several of which
         are now deposited in the Inverness museum.  There is one extra-
         ordinary coup du main, related of a Mackintosh during these wars,
         which has been referred to in a very correct work, lately published, by
         the Messrs Anderson, Solicitors, of Inverness.  The circumstances
         of the case were as follows:-During a long war between these two


