
682                           FIFESHIRE.

be given to confirm the impression. Church accommodation, too,
was, unrighteously straitened; for a place of worship built for a popu-
lation of 2000 or 3000, left many among 5000 or 6000 unprovided
for. Neither had there been any Dissenting place of worship erected
here, previous to 1834, owing, no doubt, to the popular settlements
that bad so long prevailed. In that year, a chapel in connection
with the United Secession body, and seated for 380, was opened,
though so placed as to afford little aid for unaccommodated
parishioners in the remote villages ; for it was put down in
close neighbourhood to the parish church, while several consedera-
ble villages, at from twn to four miles distance, were overlooked.
  It was then, however, the Church Extension scheme came into
action, and here it was speedily and efficiently applied, first at
Thornton, a village four miles off, with more than 500 inhabitants;
and next at Milton of Balgonie, having nearly 600 indwellers, be-
sides a populous district lying beyond it. The church at Thorn-
ton is seated for upwards of 400, and that at Milton for 650;
while a new erection at Methill, on the border of Weymss parish,
has supplied accommodation for a large village of 400 inhabitants,
situated on the coast, and more than six miles distant from the
church at Markinch. In the latter village laverleven, a small
Dissenting chapel had long existed, and nearby one-half the inha-
bitants, who adhered to the Established Church, were obliged to
cross the Leven to attend public worship at the church of Scoonie,
the minister of which, indeed, had taken the virtual charge of them
for many years.
  The church at Thornton was built by general subscription, that
of Milton solely by the heritors and people of the district to be
benefited by the erection ;* and it is due to the respectable heritors
of the parish to record their liberality on that occasion, in grateful
terms. Both churches have now ordained pastors; and seats
being furnished at a low rate, Sabbath privileges are accessible to
all. But after these erections have so greatly relieved the pres-
sure on the parish minister, a bod of about 3500 remain, among
which to exert his still inadequate pastoral superintendence, though
be has done what be could to remedy the deficiency, by calling a
qualified assistant to aid him in the work. It were much to be de-
sired that his unendowed fellow-labourers in the new parishes
were on an, equal footing as to stipendiary compensations.

<FOOTNOTE>In both is included the aid given in such cases by the Church Extension Com-
mittee in Edinburgh.
The Rev.Mr Murray, the first minister of Mikon, was after six months, trans-


