
           14                         PERTHSHIRE.

           obscured the light of day; while liquors of various kinds were

           completely frozen, in situations where it might have been supposed
           they were beyond the reach of frost.  Had the cold been of long-
           er duration, or less interrupted by occasional remissions of severity,
           its physiological effects would have been more fatal to animal and
           vegetable life than it actually proved.  During, the short time it
           continued, several instances occurred in the vicinity of Perth, of per-
           sons perishing by its intensity; domestic animals were found frozen
           to death, in attitudes which proved the sudden cessation of their
           vital functions; and in some instances, the trunks of the largest
           trees were reft from top to bottom, by the congelation of their juices,
           as if they had been shivered by lightning.  Among the peculiari-
           ties of this remarkable cold, it is deserving of notice, that on the
           morning of the 22d, when the thaw commenced, the thermometer
           rose from- 1/d to 51/d in the course of three hours, being a transition
           nearly as great, as if we had passed in that short interval from the
           ordinary cold of winter to the extreme heat of summer.  A change
           of temperature, not quite so abrupt, but more injurious in its conse-
           qtences, and scarcely less remarkable in degree, considering, the
           season of the year in which it occurred, was experienced at the end
           of October, of the present year, 1836.  On the evening of the
           28th of the month, a fall of snow commenced, which covered the
           ground to the depth of several inches.  The wind blowing violent-
           ly from the north, a keen frost set in, and continued with increasing
           severity during the whole of the 29th and 30th, till on the night
           of the last of these days, the thermometer sunk to 12/d, being
           below the average of the greatest winter cold for a period of
           several years.  The potatoes, owing, to the coldness and lateness
           of the season, being-still in the ground, were in many places great-
           ly injured; and in the high districts, many fields of oats were com-
           pletely covered with snow.
              3. The Humidity of the Atmosphere.-In a large proportion
           of meteorological observatinns, the pressure and temperature of
           the atmosphere are given with greater precision than its hygrome-
           tric condition.  This is to be ascribed, partly to the want of a suit-
           able instrument for determining the quantity of moisture contain-
           ed, at diffdrent times, in the atmosphere; but still more to the ab-
           struse and intricate nature of the subject itself, which requires for
           its due elucidation, not only the greatest accuracy of observation,
           but thesubsequent application of tedious an difficult calculations,                                           and, difficult calculations
           for the purpose of deducing the requisite results.  These results


