
                           INNERLEITHEN.                       27

though these effects are no doubt partly attributable to the pure
air and dry climate of the situation.
     There is another well known spring this parish, which proba-
bly was famous long before that of Innerleitben was even known.
It is situated among the hills near the boundary of Mid-Lothian.
Before roads were made through the interior of the country, the
ancient road from Ettrick forest, Eskdale, and Teviotdale, towards
Edinburgh, was carried up the Leithen, entering the parish of
Heriot moor, by a deep and narrow defie called the Dewar-Gill.
The spring now referred to bursts from the foot of the mountain,
and affords a supply of the purest water in extraordinary profusion.
     As there are few bogs * along the foot of our hills to serve as
reservoirs for the rain, the water of our rivulets is of the most trans-
parent purity.
     Geology.--The great range of mountains formerly alluded to,
of which Innerleithen forms a part, belongs to the greywacke for-
mation.  The strata, which are of greywvacke, greywacke-slate, and
clay-slate, range from S. W. to N. E., or nearly so. The dip is
at various angles.  Red and grey porphyries accompany the grey-
wacke.  They are of great thickness in some places; and these at-
tending rocks are found in different places, all the way from about
a mile west of the village to Hollylee, four miles to the eastward.
     At Grieston, on the Traquair side of the Tweed, where a slate-
quarry has been long wrought, beautiful red porphyry is found
restiiig upon the slate.  The mountain of Windlestrae-Law is found
by a glen on its south face called Priesthope, and the rock is laid
bare for a considerable way.  Here alternating strata nf red and
grey porphyry, gneiss, and granite, and flinty slate, are observed.+
The grey porphyry is of a beautiful pure colour, mixed with many
Crystals of felspar, and of great hardness.  The red porphyry is of
all shades, from a brownish-yellow to a dark blood-red.  The latter
has often been sent to Edinburgh for curling-stones, as it is both
extremely hard, and does not splinter, and takes a very fine polish.
     Querns, or ancient land-mills, have been found; and one, or

     * By this word is meant those tracts of moist clay and peaty soil formerly cover
with Carices and Juncus articulatus, that skirt the green hills of Dumfries and Selkirk-
shires, and which, before they were begun to be drained with care and attention, re-
tained the rain water, and from which it gradually flowed into the burns and rivulets,
supplying them with water, holding in solution much decayed animal and vege-
table matter.  The draining of these bogs has neither benefited the sheep nor the
salmon fishery.

     + This stratified granite is mentioned by Professor Playfair in his illustrations of
Hutton, as having been found by Sir James Hall and himself Fasnet water, in the
eastern declivity of the Lammermoor ridge; nd he mentions also that it was found
at Loch-Ken in Galloway.  Windlestrae-law lies in the direction of the strata be-
tween these two places.--Vide Edinburgh Encycl.  Article Selkirkshire.


