
524                        AYRSHIRE.

Alan, Constable of Scotland, and Lord of Galloway and Cun-
nhnghame, had a daughter, Helen, who, about the year 1233, mar-
ried Roger de Quincy, Earl of Winchester, who, in her right, be-
came Constable of Scotland, and proprietor of the De Morville
estates. He died in 1264, leaving by this marriage three daughters,
one of whom, Margaret, was married to William de Ferrars, and
another Ela, to Alan de la Zuche, who received by them very ex-
tensive and valuable possessions in Cunninghame, of which the
lands of the parish of Dregborn formed a part, and which they
held pro indiviso. The present Marquis of Townshend is the
lineal descendant of William de Ferrars, and Alan de la Zuche
was the ancestor of the Lords Ashby of Ashby de la Zuche, in
Leicestershire. The property of William de Ferrars and Alan de
la Zuche was forfeited by Robert the Bruce, in consequence of their
adherence to the party of John Baliol, their kinsman. The barony
of Dreghorn was conferred by him on one of the Bonkill family,
Sir Alan Stewart, who fell at the battle of Hallidown Hill in 1333,
in the hands of whose descendants, who were afterwards Earls of
Darnley and Lennox, it continued till 1520, when it became the
property of Hugh, first Earl of Eglinton, in whose family it still
continues.
	The barony of Peirceton became the property of Sir James
Stewart, brother of Alan, and ancestor of the Stewarts of Lorn,
Innermeath, Athole, and Grantully. His son-having died without
male issue, the estate of Peirceton passed by his daughter into the
hands of Sir William Douglas, whose youngest daughter married,
in 1390, Robert Barclay, member of a family of great power and
influence at that time, in the west of Scotland, who became in her
right Baron of Peirceton and Warrick-hill. This family, now re-
presented by Sir Robert Barclay of Ivy Cottage Middlesex, lived
at Peirceton in considerable splendour for 300 years. They alie-
nated the property in 1720, to Mr M'Credie, whose great-grand-
daughter, married to Mr P. B. Mure, Advocate, now possesses it. *
	The manner in which the other lands in the parish passed down
to the present proprietors is not so easily traced.
	Mansion-Houses.-- Some of the proprietors in this parish have

<FOOTNOTE>The account of the ancient state of the parish is drawn from the work of the late
Mr George Robertson, entitled Topographical Description of Ayrshire. In corrobo-
ration of his statement, that the parish formerly belonged to the De Morvilles, there is
a large mound of earth, apparently artificial, on the north side of the river, near the
ford in the water of Irvine, on the line of from Dreghorn to Dundonald, which
is called Maid Morville's Mount, and which is said by tradition to be the place where
a lady of the house of De Morville, who was drowned in passing the ford, w`s buried.


