
304                      STIRLINGSHIRE.

which of the two the parish was named, or when and by whom the
change of name was effected. One thing is certain, that, long after
the parish was called St Ninians, the village in the parish regis-
ter is styled Kirktown ; and it is only since 1724 that this name was
entirely dropped.
   Boundaries and Extent.--St Ninians,it is said, once comprehend-
ed the whole district between the Forth and Carron. With the ex-
ception of the small space occupied by the parish of Stirling, the
Forth is still its northern boundary for many miles; by which, it is se-
parated from the parishes of Kincardine, Lecropt, Logie, and Alloa.
On the east, it is bounded by Airth; on the west, by Gargunnock and
Fintry. The Carron on the south, for nearly six miles, separates
it from Kilsyth and Denny, the parishes of Dunipace and Larbert
forming the remainder of its southern boundary.
  From the Church to Randieford, on the west, is a distance of more
than eleven miles; to Powbridge, on the east, about seven, though in
a direct line, the distance between these extreme points may not be
above 15 or 16 miles. The greatest breadth is 7 miles; but, owing
to the windings of the Forth and other causes, it is very irregular,
and at both extremities is not more than three miles. A paral-
lelogram of ten miles by six is more than the parish would fill up.
Eleven miles by five is nearer the truth ; fifty-five square miles-
certainly, not under this, and probably very little above it.
   Topographical Appearances.-There are three distinct regions,as
to climate, soil, and appearance, into which the parish is naturally
divided-the mooflands, dryfield, and carses.
   The moorlands form the eastern extremity of that range of hills,
which runs across nearly the whole of the narrow isthmus which
separates the Clyde from the Forth. Some of these rise to a consi-
derable height, and have particular names given to them ; but, as a
whole, they are denominated the Lennox hills. In this parish, we have
the Dundaff hills and the Earl's hills. The highest does not rise
morethan 1000 feet above the level of the sea. On the north, there
is a large track covered with heath; but, as you descend to the
South, the pasture is much improved, and along the banks of the
Carron, there is a narrow strip of well-cultivated land. The
moorlands contain more than one-third of the whole parish.
   Descending from the moorlands to the dryfield, you meet with
a bold range of basaltic columns, stretching from the south-west
to the north-east; and by means of the King's Park, the Castle
of Stirling, and the Abbey craig, appearing to form a connection


