
8                       ROXBURGHSHIRE.

to Crailing, and is generally thought to have received his education
at the grammar-school of Jedburgh.-- Andrew Young, Regent of
Philosophy in the University of Edinburgh, under whom Ruther-
ford studied, was born of poor parents near Jedburgh.-- Andrew
Rutherford, master of the grammar-school of Jedburgh, was pro-
moted to the rectorship of the High School of Edinburgh in 1669.--
Here Gabriel Semple found a resting-place after the many troubles
which he sustained during the Episcopal persecution.-- At the
grammar-school of Jedburgh, the poet Thomson, whose father was
minister of Southdean, received the rudiments of his education.--
This parish enjoyed for three years the ministrations of the cele-
brated Dr Macknight; and the long incumbency of the venerable
Dr Somerville, historian of Queen Anne, &c. who had attained the
ninetieth year of his age, and the sixty-third of his ministry, ter-
minated in the year 1830.  He was admitted minister of Jedburgh
in 1773, and when he died, was father of the church of Scotland.--
Jedburgh was the native place, and long the residence of the dis-
tinguished land-surveyor John Ainslie; and it has had the honour
of giving birth to one of the most illustrious of living philosophers,
Sir David Brewster.
  Chief Land-owners.-- The chief land-owners are the Marquis of
Lothian, Mr Rutherfurd of Edgerston, Mr Miller of Stewartfield,
the Earl of Minto, Mr Jerdon of Bonjedward, Mr Ormiston of
Glenburnhall, Mr Fair of Langlee, &c.
  Parochial Reigsters.-- The date of the earliest entry in the pa-
rochial registers is February 14,1639.  They are not voluminous,
and it is to be regretted that they have been somewhat carelessly
kept.
  Antiquities.-- At Old Jedworth, about four miles above the pre-
sent town, are the ruins of a chapel which was founded by Ecgred,
bishop of Lindisfarn, who died A. D. 845.  It is situate amidst a
clump of trees, in a level field at the side of the river.  Its walls
have crumbled into mounds, and the tombstones in its church-yard
are scarcely visible above the grass.  Interesting as is this sacred
spot, it has attracted little attention in comparison of the more pro-
minent and magnificent remains of the abbey of Jedburgh.  This
venerable structure stands on the south side of the town, on the
declining bank of the river, which winds past it in front, washing
some remnants of its outworks.  The chapter-house, cloisters, and
other appendages have perished, and nothing remains but the
church, which, in the form of a cross, extends from east to west
                                 4


