
                         KIRKCUDBRIGHT.            33

emption from all local assessments, such being paid from the
burgh revenue.*
   Education.-Kirkcudbright is well provided with the means of
education. There are no fewer than eleven schools, six of them
endowed, and five unendowed. Three of the endowed, namely,
the Grammar, the Commercial, and the English schools, are united,
and form the Academy of Kirkcudbright. This institution is under
the patronage of the magistrates and town-council, and the sala-
ries of the masters are paid by the burgh. There are nearly 200 pu-
pils constantly attending the academy, and the fees for one branch
of education vary from 2s. to 7s. 6d. per quarter. In the classsical
departments are taught Latin, Greek, and French, with ancient
geography, &c. Attached to the grammar school is a library con-
sisting of between 300 and 400 volumes of useful literature. It
was instituted by the present master in 1837. The teacher of the
grammar school is allowed a yearly salary of L.50; and he realizes
by fees about L.60. In the commercial department are taught
mathematics, navigation, geography, book-keeping, arithmetic,
writing, &c. The teacher receives a salary of L.50; and his an-
nual fees amount to about L.90. The master of the English
school has a yearly salary of L.40; and his fees on an average
amount to L.60. In this class are taught history, geography, com-
position, and the principles of the English language. The Aca-
demy of Kirkcudbright has long maintained a high reputation. It
can boast among its teachers of Dr Cririe, afterwards one of the
masters of the High School of Edinburgh; Mr Thomas M'Mil-
Ian of Bellerigg, long a zealous, efficient, and celebrated instruc-
tor; and Mr Robert Mitchell, subsequently one of the masters of
the New Academy, Edinburgh.
   There is one other endowed school in the town, namely, a fe-
males' school, where needle-work and some other branches are
taught. The mistress of the Ladies school receives from the
funds of the burgh a salary of L.20. The master of another
school is allowed an anntal gratuity of L.10, one-half of which is
paid by the burgh, and the other by the Countess of Selkirk.
Seventy scholars attend this school, and the fees, which vary from
2s. to 2s. 6d. per quarter, amount annually to L.30: no school-
room is provided. There are three other unendowed schools in the
town, namely, one containing 109, another 50, and the third 40

<FOOTNOTE>Revenue of the burgh during the last, years L.1131; the debts amounted to
L.5587, namely, L. 1803 mortified money. and L.3784 borrowed money.

   KIRKCUDBRIGHT.                                   C



