
212			EDINBURGHSHIRE.

fice.  He died on 23d April 1651, leaving five daughters.  He
entailed his estates of Corstorphine, &c. on James Baillie, young-
er of TOrwoodHead, who married Joanna, his fourth daughter,
and their heirs, whom failing, on William Baillie of the same fa-
mily, who married Lillias, his fifth daughter, and their heirs, and
the patent of his peerage was granted to the same series of heirs.
   IN virtue of these destinations, James Baillie became Lord For-
rester of Corstorphine.  He was an ardent royalist, and was ac-
tively engaged with his party during the time of the Common-
wealth.  Nicol, in his Diary, mentions that, on one occasion, while
Cromwell's soldiers were in Edinburgh, Lord Forrester issued a
proclamation, which was affixed to the most considerable close
heidis, and upon all the public places in Edinburgh, calling on all
persons residing in Mid-Lothian. to put forth horse according to
their rents for the King's army.  He was fined by Cromwell
L. 2500 Sterling, and his estate was overrun and destroyed by the
English troops.  In consequence of these proceedings his affairs
became involved, and, being unable to pay the provisions left to
his mother and sisters, and the debts of the first Lord, the rents
of his estate of Corstorphine were attached by numerous creditors.
He became very dissipated and abandoned in his character,-fre-
quently spending days drinking in an alehouse in the village of
Corstorphine.  On one of these occasions, be was sent for by
Christian Hamilton, daughter of James Hamilton of Grange, and
wife of an Edinburgh merchant, named Andrew Nimmo, with
whom he had carried on an intrigue, and who had come out to vi-
sit him at Corstotphine Castle. He was unwilling to obey the
summons, and she being a person of a violent and ungovernable
temper, was in her way to the alehouse to enforce his attention,
when they met near the Pigeon House, to the east of the castle, and
a quarrel ensued, when she murdered him with his own sword.This
happened on 26th August 1679.* There being no issue alive of
his marriage with Joanna Forrester, his brother,

<FOOTNOTE>See a full account of this tragical event in a note at the foot of page 182 of Kirk.
ton's History of the Church of Scotland, edited by C. K. Sharpe. In this note, it
it said that Lord Forrester was a Presbyterian zealot, and had erected a meeting-
house near Edinburgh, after the indulgence granted in 1679.  This is obviously a
mistake, for James Lord Forrester is represented in the parish register as an Episco-
palian, who, at one time, set at defiance the orders of the presbytery, and, at another,
urged the clergyman of the parish to obtain lists of the con-conformists, with the view
oif enforcing the laws against them. The story of his erecting a meetin house must
have arisen from what stated by Lord Fountainhall regarding William Lord For-
rester, who, having quarrelled with Mr Henry, the minister of the parish, prevented
his tenanants from attending the church, and advised them to go to the meeting-houses,
but not because he approved of the non-conformists ; "for," says Lord Fountainhall,
" the discord was Mr. Henry lent him money, whereof he was seeking payment."


