
                             DUMFRIES.                                3

mit of the mountain Criffel, and the flight of sea-birds towards the
interior, are severally regarded as sure indications of approaching
foul weather.
	The climate is variable, and rather moist; but the dryness of the
soil, and the high winds which prevail, obviate in a great measure
the evil effects which might otherwise be produced. Typhus fe-
ver frequently appears in the autumn and spring. Sibbens, a dis-
ease almost peculiar to Dumfries-shire, Galloway, and the west
coast of Scotland, is of frequent occurrence here amongst the dis-
sipated and squalid; and one case resembling yaws occurred within
the last few years.
	Hydroqraphy.--There are in the parish a few mineral springs,
of which we may here notice one called Crichton's Well, situate
in the middle of Lochar Moss, and possessing a pretty strong
impregnation of steel; and another, which was discovered about
twenty years ago on the farm of Fountainbleau. It is a strong
chalybeate, situate like the former in a moss soil. It has been long
resorted to, and held in great repute by invalids. The benevolent
proprietor has enclosed it within a stone trough, and liberally per-
mits free access to it through his grounds.
	There are several small lakes in this parish; in particular the
Black, and the Sand Lochs, which are favourite resorts of our
curlers during the season of the " roaring play."
	The parish is watered by the rivers Nith and Lochar. The
Nith rises in the parish of New Cumnock, in Ayrshire, and, after
a south-east course of about fifty miles in a direct line, and about
100 including its winding, discharges itself into the Solway Firth,
about nine miles below the town of Dumfries. It receives in its
course the tributary waters of the Scaur, the Carron, the Cam-
ple, and the Cluden. The Lochar rises in Tinwald parish, and
falls into the Solway Firth a few miles east of the mouth of the
Nith,--the distance from its source to its mouth being about thir-
teen miles.
	Geology and Mineraloyy.--The rocks in the parish are prin-
cipally red freestone.
	The soil in the north and north-east, and partly in the south
and south-west, consists of a light reddish sandy earth, upon a
freestone bottom ; but the flat lands south-west of the town, and
adjacent to the river, are, generally speaking, composed of clay,
upon gravel; the soil in the south-west is a pretty strong clay.


