
     Statistical Account

at Dunglass*, is still discernible in many parts of the pa-
rish; as are also several Roman camps in the neighbourhood
of it, particularly one upon a hill at Duntocher+.-At
Sandyford, near the village of Kilpatrick, before the road
was repaired, and before a bridge for horses and carriages
was built over the burn there, a large stone, supposed to have
been an obelisk, intended to commemorate some remarkable
event, had been taken from near the Roman wall, where,
it is said, it had stood, and was used by the country people
as a bridge for foot passengers.  It is now in the possession

<FOOTNOTE>

*Dunglass was once a site of the Romans, and, in Oliver Cromwell's
time, a castle and a place of some strength, but was blown up by the trea-
chery of an English boy.  The ruins of some of the buildings are still to
be seen.  It was formerly the property of the Colquhouns of I uss, who
likewise enjoyed the whole tract of country from that to Dumbarton, and
it at present retains their name, being called the Barony of Colquhoun.
This castle, however, and the barony have, for many years, been in the
possession of Sir Archibald Edmonstone's family, and his vassals.  But
though the family of Luis have now no property in the parish, they have
still very large estates in the county.  The massacre of the Colquhouns by
the Macgregors in 1602, is an instance, among many, of the barbarous state
of this country at that time, and occasioned acts of Parliament prohibiting
any person from using the name of Macgregor.  These acts are now very
properly repealed.

+In 1775, a country man in digging a trench upon the declivity of
this hill, turned up several very uncommon tyles.  The tyles are of 7 dif-
ferent sizes, the smallest being 7 inches, and the largest 21 inches square.
They are from 2 to 3 inches in thickness, of a reddish colour, and in a con-
dition perfectly found.  The lesser ones composed several rows of pillars,
which formed a labyrinth of passages of about 18 inches square, and the
larger tyles being laid over the whole, formed a floor; above which, when
it was discovered, there lay about two feet deep of earth.  The building
was surrounded by a wall of hewn stone.  Various conjectures have been
made with regard to the nature of these remains of antiquity.  The most
probable is, that it was used as a fudorium, or hot bath, for the use of the
neighbouring garrifon.-Near this, there is a Roman bridge, over the
Duntocher burn; which, though it has been often repaired, still retains
strong marks of antiquity.


