
126                      EDINBURGHSHIRE.

post-office at Colinton, and another at Slateford, at which there are
arrival and departures twice a-day.  Two branches of then turnpike
road interesct the parish,- the one on the north going on the Lanark,
the other, on the south, joining the Biggar road at Fair-mile-head.
Their whole length within the parish is nearly eight miles.  Pa-
rochial roads, well kept through the judicious application of the
Statue labour money, perfect the means of communication in
the parish.  There are no toll within the parish. The Lanark
coach, and a noddy from Currie, pass through that portion of it
traversed by the Lanark road.  There are four bridges within the
bounds;   One on the Biggar road at Bow Bridge; a very roman-
tic one over Braid-burn, at the gate entering into the Dreghorn
grounds; one over the Leigth at Colinton; and the fourth over
the same stream at Slateford.  This last was rebuilt in 1833; it
is flat, broad in the roadway,light and handsome in its appear-
ance, doing great credit to the gentlemen of te trust under whose
care it was erected.  The Union Canal, completing the connex-
ion between Edinburgh and Glasglow, was opened in 1822.  It
enters the parish at Slateford, being carried over the valley of the
water of Leigth at that place, by a lofty aqueduct of eight arches,
and it passes along the lower side of it for about two miles and
a half. The parish by means of the Canal is supplied with coals
from the west.
  Ecclesiastical State.- A young friend has furnished me with the
following statement cocerning the antiquity if the church here:
" The church of Hailes is very ancient. The lands of Hailes were
granted to the Monks at Dunfermline by Ethelred, one the sons of
Malcolm Canmore, and confirmed to them by his brother, David I.
and by Pope Gregory in 1234. The vicarage of Hailes, (for, not be-
ing held by the occupying incumbent, but by a bishop, it was never
a rectory,) was taken from these monks, and given first to the Ca-
nons at Holyrood and then to the Canons of St Anthony at Leith,
and confirmed by the famous Bishop Kennedy of St Andrews in
1445.   This piece of prelatical revenge, as the story goes, was
occasioned by these monks not having fornished the  Bishop's table
with wine when he sojourned with them at te Abbey.  The sup-
periority of the lands of Wester Hailes reamined with the canons
till the Reformation: that of Easter Hailes remained with the
monks of Dunfermline till the same period.   The lands seem to
have been the property of Lord Crichtos, and to have been for-


