
			 BLAIRGOWIRIE.                    907

their rocky habitations, unmolested. The Stormont Loch is, in
summer, frequented by immense flocks of sea-mews or gulls,
which build innumerable nests amongst the reeds and rushes, by
which a considerable part of the surface of the lake is covered.
Their eggs are highly prized, and are annually gathered and sold
for the benefit of the proprietor or his tenants. These birds ar-
rive from the sea-coast about the beginning of March, when they
may be seen in thousands fluttering, about the surface of the wa-
ter. For the first week after they make their appearance, they go
back to the sea every night and return the following morning;
but after this reconnoisance is over, they finally take up their resi-
dence on the loch, and commence building their nests with great
assiduity. These nests are formed merely of a few rushes laid on
the surface of the water, amongst the reeds and grass with which
the loch is covered. After bringing tip their young, and when
they are strong enough to fly, they take their departure again for
the sea in the end of autumn, to return to this, their favourite
haunt, again with the mild weather in the following spring. All
the lakes in the parish are well stocked with pike, perch, and eels.
In the Stormont loch, especially, both perch and pike are occa-
sionally caught of a very large size,-the nature of the bottom be-
ing peculiarly favourable for their growth and subsistence. The
Ardle, Blackwater, Lunan, and Lornty abound with trout, and
the Ericht, below the Keath, with both salmon and trout. Sal-
mon generally begin to appear in the Ericht, from the sea, early
in April, and sometimes sooner, if the weather is mild, and they
continue running, when the water is in flood, until the month of
June. In the months of July And August grilse make their
appearance in the river, and occasionally a few of these are found
newly run, until the 14th of September, when the fishing closes
in this river. In the end of September, salmon and grilse be-
gin to ascend the river for the purpose of spawning, and commence
spawning in the fords and shallows about the middle of October,
and sometimes earlier, when the weather is cold. They continue
spawning until about the end of December or beginning of Janu-
ary, when they retire to the deep pools, in which they remain un-
til they have somewhat recruited their exhausted strength, when
the male fish make for the sea; but the female fish often remain
in the river until the month of March and beginning of April.
It is supposed by some, that the female fish do not leave the river,
until the young fry are able to accompany them to the sea. The


