
60                     SUTHERLANDSHIRE.

and was succeeded by his son, the Rev. Thomas Mackay, who
laboured fifty years in the parish with great success. The names
of both father and son are still remembered with affectionate reve-
rence. Mr T. Mackay left three sons, of whom the two youngest,
Hugh and William, distinguished themselves in their respective
professions.
   Hugh Mackay entered the service of the East India Company
in 1784, and served in the Madras Native Cavalry during all the
wars in which the Madras army was engaged. He held an im-
portant and lucrative staff appointment, that of agent for draught
and carriage cattle to the army under General Wellesley, now
the Duke of Wellington, whose favour and confidence he en-
joyed to a large degree. His staff situation exempted him from
regimental duty; yet such was his high military spirit, that, rather
than remain idle in the rear, when his brother officers were engaged,
be solicited permission to join his regiment in the battle of Assaye,
and obtained from the General a reluctant assent. He was killed at
the muzzle of the enemy's guns; in that desperate charge of the
cavalry which decided the fate of the day; and on the spot where
he fell, the officers of his regiment have erected a monument to
his memory. Besides many acts of beneficence at home and
abroad, he bequeathed at his death L. 500 to the kirk-session of
this parish, for the use of the poor.
   William, third son of the Rev. Thomas Mackay, was educated
at the school of this parish, and went to sea at the age of sixteen.
He made several voyages to the East and West Indies, during the
intervals between which, he studied the theory of navigation and
practical astronomy under able teachers in London, and became
such a proficient in both, as to be esteemed'one of the most skil-
ful navigators in the Indian seas. In 1795, being second officer
of the ship Juno of Calcutta, he was sent to the coast of Pegu for
a cargo of teak-wood, and in his return was wrecked on the coast
of Arracan. The ship sprang a leak, and filled so fast with water,
in spite of the exertions of her crew, that, but for the nature of her
cargo, she must inevitably have gone- to the bottom. She conti-
nued, however, to sink till her hull was under water, and then settled
down, leaving her masts to stand eret. To lighten her burthen
the main mast was cut away, and the unfortunate crew, seventy-two
in number, scrambled up the rigging of the two remaining masts to
escape immediate destruction. In this situation, without food or
water, but what the rain from Heaven supplied, fourteen individuals,
including the captain's wife and her maid, lived twenty-three days.


