
                             UNITED PARISHES OF
                            WISTON AND ROBERTON.

               PRESBYTERY OF LANARK, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.

                     THE REV. CHARLES WOOD, MINISTER.

                    I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name, Boundaries, &c.--THE parishes of Wiston and Rober-
ton were united in the year 1772.  Roberton was probably so cal-
led from some eminent person of the name of Robert, or, from some
opulent family having conferred it as a portion upon a son of that
name.  Two derivations are given of the name of Wiston.  By
some it is supposed to have been originally Woolstown, or rather,
in the Scotch language, Woostown, in course of time corrupted
into Wiston, and to have been so called from its having been in
former times a great market for wool.  It is certain that there is
still, about the middle of the village, a mound or small rising
ground, pointed out by the old inhabitants as the cross or place
where that market was held.  By others, again, it is supposed to
have been originally Wisetown, thence easily contracted into Wis-
ton, and to have been so called from its having been the property
of a man of the name of Wise.  The Place, the name of a farm
close upon the village, seems to indicate that it was at one time
the seat of the proprietor.  Neither derivation is unnatural, though
which is the correct one it may not be easy to determine.
   The united parish extends about 6 miles in length, and 4 in
breadth, exhibiting very nearly the form of a parallelogram.  It
is bounded on the east by the parish of Symington; on the north
by the hill of Tinto; on the west by the parish of Douglas; and
on the south by the parish of Crawfordjohn and the river Clyde.
   Topographical Appearances.--Tinto, the Hill of Fire, which
forms the northern boundary of the parish, is upwards of 2000 feet
above the level of the sea, and commands in every direction a most
extensive view.  The principal points seen from it are Hartfell,
Queensberry Hill, Cairntable, Goatfell, Isle of Arran, the Bass,
the hills in the north of England, and even in the north of Ireland.
Directly opposite, and almost in the centre of the parish, is Dun-
gavel, a hill with two tops, presenting in its appearance a perfect

