
                         KIRKMABRECK.                       329

died about eighteen months after he was born; but his mother
survived her husband nearly forty years, and had the happiness of
seeing her son attain to honour and favour. She did not leave
the manse till about a year after her widowhood, when she re-
moved with her family to Edinburgh, where she continued to re-
side. Thomas here remained for some years under the cbarge
of his widowed mother, a person of great worth. By her he was
taught the elements of learning at a singularly early age, acquir-
ing the whole alphabets it is said, at one lesson, and every thing
else to which his attention was directed with the same amazing
facility. Whdn between four and five years of age, he was able
to read the Scriptures, and also, it would appear, partly to under-
stand them. One day at that period of his life, he was found
sitting on the floor of his mother's parlour, with a large family
Bible on his knee, which be was dividing into different parts with
his hand. Being asked jocularly if he intended to preach, and
was now choosing, a text, he said, "No, I am only wishing to see
what the Evangelists differ in, for they do not all give the same
account of Christ." From the kindly tutelage of his mother he
was removed in the seventh year of his age, and placed by his
maternal uncle, Captain Smith, in a school at Camberwell, from
which, in a short time, be was transferred to one at Cheswick,
where he continued for some years. In these and two other aca-
demies he spent the years between seven and fourteen, and ac-
quired an elegant classical education. In 1792, be returned to
his maternal roof at Edinburgh, and commenced a course of at-
tendance at the university. At this early period of his life he
was deeply read in the English classics, and had even collected a
considerable library, which unfortunately was lost at sea in its
passage from England to Scotland. At the university he was a
mort distinguished student, especially in ethics. Dr Welsh, the
accomplished biographer of Dr Brown, informs us, that the varied
and profound acquirements of this extraordinary young man soon
attracted to him the attention and friendship of many other per-
sonages distinguished by academic rank and literary reputation,
especially Professors Robison, Playfair, and Black, and Messrs
Horner, Leyden, Reddie, and Erskine. Ere he had completed
his twentieth year, he wrote "Observations upon Dr Darwin's
Zoonomia," which obtained for him the highest praise. Dr Welsh
justly characterizes it as one of the most remarkable exemplifica-
tions of premature intellect which has ever been exhibited, and



