
980                             PERTHSHIRE.

Dunkeld House. A state room in that castle is still shown as
Queen Anne's bed-chamber. At a former period, the High Com-
missioner of Scotland made a formal visit, and was royally enter-
tained. Many of the present monarchs of Europe have visited
Dunkeld, and edjoyed not only the Highland hospitality of the
Atholl family, but have been liberally indulged in all the sports which
the locality so amply affords. The last royal visit to Dunkeld
was paid by Queen Victoria and Prince Albert in September
1812. Her Majesty was received on the boundary of the Dun-
keld property by a guard of the Atholl men, and conducted to
the park, where Lord Glenlyon, the heir apparent Of the Atholl
title, received her Majesty at the head of several hundred High-
landers, and conducted her to the Royal tent. *
   Bishops of Dunkeld.--As they are identified with the civil his-
tory of the locality, it has been considered proper to subjoin a ca-
talogue of them so far as they can, be collected, from historical
writers. +

<FOOTNOTE>The royal tent stood on the lawn to the north of the cathedral, which command-
ed a view ot the  wild alpine scenery to the west, north, and south of Dunkeld.  This
view is bold, but it is softened when combined with the mellowed beauties of the
lawn, and the grey walls of the cathedral. Nature and art here harmonize.
The tent was appropriately situated for the gratification of royalty, and the lieges
present. Her Majesty first reviewed the Highlanders, and then walked along the
line formed by the members of the local Societies, inquiring into the provident ob-
jects of each body, with which she expressed herself much interested and delighted.
The Queen, with a select party, afterwards retired to the tent, where a princely lunch
was served up on gold and silver, with the most choice liqueurs, and Atholl brose.
Her Majesty tasted a little of the brose out of Neil Gow's glass. After lunch, the
officerr of the Atholl clan were formally introduced to the Queen, and kissed hands
in the tent. Several of them at her request danced a set of the Highland reels; the
sword dance, which is very intricate from the gradual rapidity of its movements, was
also gracefully performed. Her Majesty, after enjoying a few hours at Dunkeld, depart-
ed for Breadalbane. The Honourable Captain Murray, his Lordship's brother, rode
beside the carriage to the boundary ofthe Atholl property, in Strathtay, a distanceof
13 miles, giving the names of the places, which Her Majesty carefully noted down.
The Royal salutes on her arrival and retiring from Dunkeld were fired from Stan-
ley hill. +
     1. Cormac, who came out conspicuously in this stage of life.--Chalmers's Caled.
Vol. i. p. 429.  He was witness to twoo charters of David I. to the monastery of Dun-
farmline, along with Robert. Bishop of St Andrews, consecrated 1128. See Keith's
preface to his Catalogue of Bishops, p. 9.
     2. Gregory is found after Cormac, attesting, between the years 1147 and 1162,
with Ronbert, Bishop of St Andrews, several charters of King David I. and his
grandson Malcolm. Gregory died 1169.--Chron. Melrose and Fordun.
     3. Richard de Prebenda.  Fordun, lib. viii. c. 13, calls him "Capellanus Regis
Willelmi." He was one of the Commissioners for Scotland in negociating with
Henry II. in 1174 for the release of King William, at that time a prisoner in Eng-
land, (Federa Anglim, t. I, p. 39,) and in 1176 he attended William to a council
held at Northampton by Cardinal Huguccio Petrileonis, the Pope's Legate--Ho-
veden, 550.  Mill and Keith think he died in 1173 or 1174; but the facts mention-
ed prove this to be a mistake. Fordun, lib. viii. c. 13, says he died in 1178.
   A difficulty occurs as to Richard's successor. Dean Mill says it was Cormac who
died in 1174.  Keith adds nothing in confirmation of such an election, and Dal-

					4


