
			    LIBERTON.                         5

standing in the parish, and perhaps now the oldest family in Mid-
Lothian,) was a member of the Scottish Parliament in 1560,
when Popery was abolished and the Protestant religion set up; and
we find another member of the same family, Sir John Wauchope
of Niddry, a zealous Covenanter, (See Guthrie's Memoirs,) and
a member of the General Assembly in 1648. The late proprie-
tor was also for many years a representative of the Presbytery of
Edinburgh in the General Assembly. Sir James Stewart of Good-
trees, who was Lord Advocate of Scotland, from 1692 till 1713,
may be mentioned as one of the distinguished persons connected
with this parish. The lady of Little of Liberton was one of the
martyrs during the persecution. She was imprisoned in 1685 for
harbouring conventicklers, and was only set at liberty in conse-
quence of her husband agreeing to be confined as her substitute.
(Fountainhall, i. 363.)-The Rev. Samuel Semple, chosen by, the
heritors and elders, under the Revolution settlement, ordained on
the 31st of August 1697, and minister of Liberton for upwards of
forty-four years, seems to have been a man of some note. From
the records it appears that he conducted the business of the pa-
rish with much vigour, and the General Assembly appear to have
looked to him for a History of the Church of Scotland, which,
however, he did not live to finish. His monument, lately renewed,
is placed on the tower of the church. The Rev. Thomas Whyte,
who wrote the account, to which we have already referred, must
have been a man of learning and research. And in more distant
times the Rev. John Davidson, minister of this parish in 1582, a
man of great zeal and talent, discharged, by appointment, the task
of excommunicating Montgomery, minister of Sterling, who takes
such a figure in the, annals of our Presbyterian Church, as having
endeavoured to thrust himself into the office of Archbishop of
Glasgow, in defiance of the General Assembly.
   Civil Antiquities, &c.-In the neighbourhood of Mortonhall
there are several tumuli, which are supposed to have originated
with the Romans. Right west, also from Mortonhall, there is a
hill, called Galachlaw, which became famous as the encampment
of Oliver Cromwell in 1659, with no less than 16,000 men, before
the battle of Dunbar, (Hume's Hist. Vol. ii. p. 24.)
   At St Catherine's there is the famous well, before alluded to,
anciently called the Balm Well. Black oily substances constantly
float on the surface of the water. However many you remove they
still appear as numerous as before. In ancient times a sovereign


