
354                     ABERDEENSHIRE.

the Marischall family, and in general embraced their views; and, In
consequence, they on that occasion espoused the claims of the
house of Stuart.
   There have been six Presbyterian ministers since the Revolu-
tion, viz. Mr Guthrie, Mr Brown, Mr Farquhar, Mr Walker, Dr
George Moir, and the present incumbent, Mr Donald,  Two of
them, Mr Brown and Mr Farquhar, left Peterhead, and were set-
tled, the former at Belhelvie, and the other at Chapel of Garioch.
   Land-owners.-The present heritors of the parish are, the Go-
vernors of the Merchant Maiden Hospital of Edinburgh; Mrs
Gordon of Boddam and Sandford; George Skelton of Invernet-
tie Lodge; George Arbuthnot of Invernettie; William Arbuth.
not of Dens and Downie-hills; Dr Cruickshank of Little Cock-
law; George Mudie of Meethill; Thomas Arbuthnot of part of
Meethill; James Sangster, part of Invernettie; Kenneth M'ln=
tosh, part of Invernettie; Charles Brand, part of Invernettie;
William Donaldson of Cowhills; William Gamack, part of Inver-
nettie; Robert Arbuthnot of Mount Pleasant and Blackhouse;
George Walker of Balmoor; Mrs Walker's Trustees, part of Bal-
moor; Robert Walker, Senior, Grange; Robert Walker, Junior,
Richmond; Alexander Stuart, Coplandshill; the Heirs of James
Hutchison of Richmond; the Trust-Disponees of Mrs Hay Mu-
die of Meikle Cocklaw; the Trustees of the late Peter Hay of
Hayfield; James Shirras of Berryhill; Robert Mavor of Windy-
hills; the Heirs of James Reid of Ellishill; and Roderick Gray,
part of Blackhill.
   Antiquities.-There are two old castles in the parish, Ravens-
crag and Boddam.  Ravenscrag, in the barony of Torterston,
is said to have belonged to the family of Keith, who afterwards
acquired the lands of Inverugie by marriage.  It is a fine ruin
and specimen of an old baronial castle.  The walls are in some
places eleven feet thick.  It is supposed to have been built in the
eleventh or twelfth century.  Boddam Castle was the residence of
a branch of the Marischall family: but it is not so ancient as Ra-
venscrag.  Within the last twenty years various antiquities have
been discovered within the parish of Peterhead and its immdediate
neighbourhood.  On the estate of Cairngall, in the adjoining pa-
rish of Longside, two oak coffins or chests were discovered on re-
moving a tumulus of moss.  One of them was entire, the other was
not.  They had been hollowed out of solid trees, and measured
each seven feet by two feet.  The sides were parallel, and the


