
82                        STIRLINGSHIRE.

but perished through the negligence of those to whose care they
had been entrusted.
   Antiquities.-The castles of Mugdock and Duntreath are the only
baronial residences of the feudal ages that remain. The build.
ings were large and capacious; and btave been long in ruins. A
pastle belonging to the Earl of Lennox stood at Ballagan, but
every trace of it was removed fifty years ago, when the stones
were employed to build the garden wall.
   An erect stone, on the north of the, turnpike road to Campsie,
marks the spot where, two centuries ago, Mr Stirling of Balla-
gan was killed by a miller of the name of Abernethy.
  At a little distance from the south-east of the hill of Dungoy-
ach, stand six stones.One rises six feet, and another five, above
the surface of the soil. The rest are lower. They are placed ir-
regularly, and seem intended to commemorate some important
victory which our ancestors had achieved on the spot; but of which
no tradition has reached modern times.
   In 1800, a small enclosure, composed of stakes of oak and birch,
was discovered under the surface of a moss at Craigend. The
enclosure measured three feet nine inches in length, by twenty-tWO
inches in breadth. The stakes were above five feet in length, driven
closely together, and front the bruises on their sharpened ends,
appeared to have been cut by a stone hatchet. There seemed to
have been originally an entrance from the west; and a few pieces
of wood indicated that the enclosure bad originally been roofed.
The enclosure must have been formed, before the moss covered
the soil. It may have been intended as a place of shelter; but
its diminutive size gives it rather the appearance of a prison,
though the frail nature of the materials shows that it was very un-
fit for such a purpose.
   Modern Buildings.-The church is a beautiful building Of mo-
dern Gothic, reared in 1803. Carbeth, the property of Mr Smith,
is an elegant building, finished 1810. Craigend, the residence of
James Smith, Esq. completed 1812, is a magnificent edifice. There
is one mill for grain of every description, furnished with a complete
set of machinery of the most approved construction, and kept in
good order. Calico-printing is carried on at Blanefield, according
to the most recent improvements. At Dumbroch bleacbfield, two
spider wheels are employed, each thirty feet in diameter, and the
company are masters of a process, which at once reduces the ex-
pense of. bleaching, and improves the fabric and appearance of the


