
14                        LANARKSHIRE.

plored by Mr Lockhart, who has given a description of it in the
former Statistical Account. He there argues, from the absence of all
traces of lime, that it must have been of a date anterior to the in-
troduction of the use of mortar by the Romans. Another person
to whom it was shown was of a different opinion, and says, that the
arch appeared to him more like the work of some cow-herd boy
than anything else.
	Old Church.--About a quarter of a mile to the south-east of the
town, and seen from all the country around, rise the beautiful ruins
of the old parish church. There still remain traces to show that
it must have been a building of great elegance. Six fine Gothic
arches, supporting a wall which seems to have separated the body
of the church from a side aisle, along its whole length, are at pre-
sent standing. It is altogether unknown by whom, and at what
exact period this fabric was erected; but Chalmers, in his Cale-
donia, has collected some interesting particulars with respect to it
which had previously fallen into oblivion. It appears to have been
in existence at the beginning of the twelfth century, before the
re-establishment of the bishoprick of Glasgow by Prince David,
and war, dedicated to Kentigern, the patron saint of that city, and
founder of the episcopate. In 1150, David I. granted it, with
its tithes and pertinents, to the monastery of Dryborough,--a grant
which subsequent monarchs successively confirmed, and which was
afterwards extended to a chapel at Cleghorn. In 1297, Blind
Harry alludes to it, making his hero pass
	" On from the kirk that was without the town."
The canons of Dryborough continued in possession of it, drew the
revenues, and served the cure by establishing a vicarage until the
period of the Reformation. In 1589-90, the presbytery passed a
resolution "that the kirk of Lanerk should be removed from the
auld place to a situation within the town."--" Notwithstanding of
this resolution," says Chalmers, "the kirk still remains in the old
place, and continued to be the parish church until 1777, when a
new one was built in the middle of the town." Long before this
period, however, it had fallen into a ruinous state, and had ceas-
ed to be used for public worship. The inhabitants of the town
attended Divine service in the chapel of St Nicholas, which de-
volved to the burgh at the Reformation, and in which the lofts
and galleries were set apart for the magistrates and corporations.
It seems impossible to ascertain at what precise period the old
church was abandoned as a place public worship. In former
			      4


