
            ON THE COUNTY OF DUMBARTON                      243


phenomena not happening along the iron-bound coast on the east,
arises from the wind more seldom blowing from the east; but
nine monts of the year, as has already been stated, the winds
are in a westerly direction, which accounts for the, greater access
of rain on the western coast.
   Agriculture.--The north of the county is very narrow and
mountainous; indeed, from Tarbet on Loch Lomond side, to Ar-
rochar on Loch Long side there, is only a small isthmus of about
two miles long, having great altitudes to the north and south.
The shores of Loch Lomond are mostly sandy and flat, and towards
the north occasionally rocky. The soil on the mountainous part
of the parish is mostly light, and composed of the detrital parts
of the mica-slate on which it rests, In the south-east of the pa-
rish, of Luss, there is some flat land, especially along the lake,
from the southern boundary of the above parish to Ross-dhu.
Among the hills to the north there are also some beautiful straths,
such as Glenfruin. The banks of Loch Long are mostly hill pas-
ture, but on the Gareloch, cultivation has extended a considerable
way up tbe sides of the hills which skirt it. Much arable flat
land is also to be found at Ardincaple, and on the barony. of Mil-
lig. The parishes to the south and south-east of The county con-
tain much fertile and valuable land, especially along the, Leven,
and throughout Kilpatrick Old and New. The soil, I generally
speaking, near to the streams of fresh water, along the Clyde, the
Leven, the Endrick, and such like waters is the best. In the
north, gravel with sand or gravelly loam mostly prevail; in the
more fertile parts of the district, fine black loam is a prevailing
soil. The soil and surface of Dumbartonshire may be stated as
follows:-

<TABLE>

			                English acres.
        Deep black loam, -   -  -             6,050
        Clay on a subsoil of till,           30,970
        Gravel or gravelly loam.             25,220
        Green hill pasture                    3,750
        Mountains and moors,                 99,400
        Bog.                                    720
        lslands in Loch Lomond,                 930
        	              Total English acres, 167,040

  The landed properties in this shire, not large in itself, fre-
quently occupy a large surface, white they yield but a small re-
turn in produce. The proprietors are few, not exceeding 150,
exclusive of feuars and portioners in towns, whose number does
not exceed 400. The rental of the highest heritor is only about


