
			DUNDONALD.     			      681

swered, "Na, na, Sir, when a farmer thinks shame o'his midden, and
a beggar o' his meal-pocks, its time they were quitting the trade."
The highest rent paid by one individual is L.1000 a-year; but
with this exception, and one or two more, of from L.400 to L.500,
the farms are generally small, averaging from L. 100 to L. 200 a-
year. The tenants, however, may all be considered as thriving in
their way, and we have no doubt of their continuing to do so if
steadiness and industry contribute to success. The common length
of leases is nineteen years, on a stated money rental. In one or
two cases only, it is paid by the fiars.
	Improvemets on Land.--These may be divided into two kinds
--such as have been made upon land formerly under cultivation,
and such as have tended to the reclaiming of that lying waste. In
reference to the former, tile-draining has been the main cause of
melioration. This was introduced into the parish, and, indeed,
into Scotland generally, by the Duke of Portland, in 1826. Since
this, date, 272 acres upon His Grace's estate alone have been
thoroughly drained, and principally at his own expense. The
system adopted here, and, we believe, over all his extensive estates,
is, to drain the land at the application of the tenant, with the ex-
ception of carting the tiles, on the condition of an annual payment
in proportion to the distances betwixt the drains. At 18 feet
apart, the rent is 5s. and at 15 feet, 7s. per acre. These terms
we consider very equitable for both parties; and their advantages
for the tenant especially, may be estimated by the fact, as stated
to me by one of themselves, that he had drained land at his own
expense, on a lease of three year, and considered that he reaped
a safe remuneration. Though His Grace's system is not gene-
rally followed, yet almost all the proprietors give more or less en-
couragement, which is visible in the extensive operations at present
going on; and, if they continue to proceed as they are doing, the
time is not distant when the whole parish will be as dry as a
garden. There is one singular fact well-ascertained, in regard to
tile-draining, that it is unfavourable to the growth of beans. The
cause is unknown, but it is at present under close investigation.
	In regard to the reclaiming of waste lands, of which more than
2500 acres are still untouched, much has also been done. In the
sandy districts along the shore, the hilly nature of the surface is
the main obstacle. The levelling process is carried on by a ma-
chine in the form of a scoop, drawn by horses over the hillocks,
and forcing the sand before it into the hollows, which is found to


