
572                        PERTHSHIRE.

rows, and the traces of the spade, are still to be seen in many spots
which are now covered with heather, and have returned to their
natural state. And in the higher districts, much even at present
under crops, would yield a larger and more certain return under
permanent pasture. In such elevated situations, the soil is deep,
and mossy, and naturally late, which, with the want of climate, ren-
ders the cultivation of the land in spring an arduous labour, and
its produce in harvest extremely precarious. In the strath of the
country, and upon the sloping banks of the Garry, the arable land
is either a light loam, or a gravelly soil. The rotation now pur-
sued is a four or five-shift. The soil is particularly well adapted
for the growth of turnips. This valuable crop, however, is raised
in small quantities only, and as a food for the cattle of the court-
yard. The consumption of turnips by sheep, though the soil be
dry and gravelly, has been hitherto on a very limited scale. Leases
are generally given for nineteen years. The enclosures are dry
stone walls; and, though the old thatched tenements are in general
the habitations of our peasantry, many of the tenants have good
dwelling-houses and steadings, built of stone and lime, and cover-
ed with slates.
     Fuel.---Tbe greatest obstacle to improvement is the scarcity of
fuel. Coals are driven by many from Perth, a distance of thirty-
five miles. Our mosses are abundant, but, generally speaking, they
are distant. The difficulty of bringing peats home by bad hill
roads renders them a troublesome and expensive fuel, and the
months of July and August are necessarily devoted to this haras-
sing work. Lime would be more extensively used, and made to
contribute to the quantity of manure, if fuel to burn it could be
more easily procured.
     The proprietors of the country, by their influence and example,
encourage its agriculture, and the different breeds of stock; and
as constituent members of the Atholl Club, which meets once a
year, they stimulalte, by a distribution of prizes, a spirit of laudable
emulation among the tenantry.
     The average gross amount and value of raw produce raised
yearly in the parish, as nearly as can be ascertained, is as follows:

     3000 acres, arable, produce at L 5 per acre.,          L. 15,000
    30,000 sheep, at 5s. per sheep,                             7,500
     1200 milch cows, at L. 3 per cow,                          3,600
      100 goats at 3s.                                             15
      100 hill horses, at L. 5                                    500
     Wood and timber,                                             500
                                                            ______________
                                                            L  27,115

                                   3


