
80                           FIFESHIRE.

arising from these fertile sources of corruption would be lessened.
With one or two well-trained public officers, the whole, in a place
of this magnitude, could regularly and with facility be inspected,
and the refractory punished according to law.
     Fuel.-English and Scotch coal are solely used for this purpose,
the former obtained at the rate of 7d. a bushel, and the latter at
4s. 6d. per boll of 40 stones. The English coal are conveyed by
sea, chiefly from Newcastle and Sunderland; the Scotch are brought
in coasting vessels from Dysart, Wemyss, and Alloa; considerable
quantities are likewise conveyed in carts from Lochgelly, Balgonie,
and Balbirnie. Newburgh lies on the northern limit of the great
independent coal formation, no portion of it stretching beyond the
Ochil range from the one extremity to the other. Many fanciful
conjectures have, from time to time, been formed of the existence
of this useful mineral in different localities in the basin of the Tay
and the adjoining valley of the Earn, and expensive speculations
have been actually engaged in. But the principles of geology are
now too well established to admit, even of a doubt, in the mind of
one acquainted with the science, of its non-existence in this quarter;
and henceforth our proprietors of their otherwise highly gifted do-
mains will be more profitably employed in devising means for faci-
litating its conveyance along the surface, than fruitlessly expending
their money in making excavations for it beneath.

                    MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
     The agricultural district of the parish being of very limited ex-
tent, and the lands being all in the highest state of cultivation, little
alteration has, for many years, taken place, or can be henceforth ex-
pected to take place, either in its population or amount of produce.
The wealth, energy, and resources of the parish are concentrated
in the town of Newburgh, and certainly, few places are more ad-
vantageously situated for an increase and extension of them all.
Lying midway between Perth and Dundee, with the fertile district
of the Carse of Gowrie on the north, a rich and well cultivated coun-
try on the east and west, the easiest means of access to the south,
a good harbour and excellent shipping station in the immediate vi-
cinity, together with an abundant supply of water from the adjoin-
ing high grounds, Newburgh seems to have been expressly destined
by nature as a place of trade. It is admirably adapted for the pur-
poses either of an outlet or depot in distributing the commerce of
the surrounding country; and should the recommendations of the
engineer be followed in the formation of a railway, it may be con-

