
     Statistical Account

Forth, have been discovered in several places.  This seems to
justify the opinion, that the carse has, at some distant period,
been gained from the sea.  In later times, it was covered
with what has been called the Caledonian forest; at least it
is certain, that when the Romans were in this neighbourhood,
the carse was filled with trees of a large size, which they cut
down, to dislodge the Scottish army that took refuge there.
   The carse property of Mr Graham, an heritor of this pa-
rish, still goes by the name of Micklewood, which evidently re-
fers to a former period of its history: For although there are
some uncommonly fine trees, chiefly oaks, near his house,
which must have been there for some centuries, Micklewood
undoubtedly signifies a wood much more extensive, than can
now be discerned in this country.  The probability is, that not
only the whole carse of this and the neighbouring parishes,
but the dry-fields also were a forest; as large roots of trees,
which are manifestly of very ancient date, are every where
found, especially on the sides of the glens.
   It appears that after the forest was cut down, what is now
called carse, became moss.  Not long ago, about two acres
still remained in this situation, in the carse of Boquhan, to
shew what the whole once was; and at the present day, there
are upwards of 1000 acres of moss, in the carse of Blair-
drummond, in the parish of Kinkardine, directly north of
the lands of Micklewood.  This moss, as has been mentioned
above, is daily diminishing.  Trees of extraordinary bulk are
found in it.  The trunk separated from the root, and lying
at a little distance, with the marks of the ax upon it, proves
not only the existence, but the cutting down of the forest.
Upon this the moss gradually grew; scarcely any part of it is
deeper than another.  The cleared grounds are on a level with
the fields in culture around them, and so fertile is the land thus
won from the moss, that after burning the surface, it bears


