
                      DALKEITH.                        473


heritably belonged to Janet, Dowager-Lady Dalkeith, and her
son, William de Douglas,-but from the lands of Morton, in the
territory of Calder-clear.*  He married Johanna, daughter of
King James I., and Countess-Dowager of Angus, by whom he
had a son and two daughters.
   John Douglas, second Earl of Morton,+ being the only son of
the first Earl, succeeded his father. He married Janet Crichton,
daughter of Crichton of Cranston Riddel, by whom he had two
sons and two daughters.
   The Princess Margaret, eldest daughter of Henry VII. of Eng-
land, having been for some time affianced to King James IV.,
(1488-1513), the royal bride set out for the Scottish capital in
1503, with a splendid retinue. Passing through England, she was
met at Lamberton Kirk, on the borders, by the Archbishop of
Glasgow and a great company Of Scottish nobles, among whom
was the Earl of Morton,-and was there solemnly delivered over
to the commissioners of the Scottish King. The procession ad-
vanced to Fast Castle on the German Ocean, where they spent
the night. Next day, passing through Dunhar, they reached the
Abbey of Haddington; and on the third day, the King, accom-
panied by some of his nobles, having met her at New battle,+ the
cavalcade proceeded to the Castle of Dalkeith. Here she was ho-
nourably received by the Earl of Morton, who, meeting her at
the gates, with great ceremony presented her with the keys of the
castle. Some joyful days were spent at Dalkeith. The King,
anxious to show every attention to his youthful bride, graced the
company with his presence, and enlivened the occasion with vari-
ous exhibitions of chivalry. On the seventh day, the procession
advanced with increasing magnificence to Edinburgh, where their

<FOOTNOTE> Acts of Scot. Parl., Vol. ii. p. 78. His name frequently occurs in the sederunts
of the Parliaments of James III.
     This Earl of Morton was present in the Parliament in which James IV. made
his settlement upon his Queen, Margaret, in the year 1503. Acts of Scot. Parl. Vol.
ii. p. 273.
     She seems to have come by what is called the "Salter's Road" and the Maidem
Bridge:-a very old bridge over the South Esk near Dalkeith,-now in the grounds.
of the Marquis of Lothian.
     The whole of this pageant has been minutely and graphically described by John
Young, the Somerset Herald, an eye-witness, and is given at length in Leland's Col-
lections, Vol. iv. p. 282, &c.
  The following curious entries have been found in the chamberlain's books,
August 6th 1503:-Item, to Auchlek, for gilting of the Queue's bukkilles, and
boses of the Quene's bridill and, harnesing, that was, brynt in Dalkeyth, iij Ii. ij a.
  August 10th; -Item, to Maister James Henrisounis man, of bridil silver of anc-
hors given for the Quene, for hir hors were brynt in Dalkeith, xiiij s.
  Item, to the carturis of Leith brocht the Quene's gere (baggage) to Edin. fra
Dalketh, xxij cartis, ilk cart vi s., vi li. xij s. Pitcairn's Criminal Trials, Vol. i.
page 118.


