
                       KIRKNEWTON.                      441

a monument bears, that he was "an eminent judge, an elegant
scholar, and an accomplished gentleman."
   Allan Maconochie, Esq., equally distinguished as a man of
scienc/e1 and general accomplishment, and as an able and acute
lawyer, was proprietor of Meadowbank in this parish, from which
he took his official title when raised to the bench. At a very early
age, he, with five other fellow-students, founded the Speculative
Society, in which so many eminent men have since given the first
displays of those powers which have afterwards adorned every walk
of intellectual distinction. After visiting the continent, he entered
at Lincoln's Inn, and had the benefit of studying under the great
Lord Mansfield. He was admitted to the, Scotch Bar in 1770;
and, having been appointed successively Professor of Public Law
in the University of Edinburgh and Sheriff of Renfrew, he was,
in 1796, advanced to the bench, of which he continued for twenty
years to be a distinguished ornament, having been appointed a
Lord Commissioner of Justiciary, and also one of the first Lords
Commissioners of the Jury Court when originally erected. He
was born in 1748, and died in 1816. His remains are deposited
in a private burying ground, selected by himself, in the grounds
of Meadowbank.
   The Rev. William Cameron, minister of this parish from 1786
to 1811, had a principal share in the preparation of the "Para-
phrases," two of which, the 14th and 17th, are entirely his own
composition. He was also the author of a volume of poems, pub-
lished after his death.
   Mr James Hamilton, schoolmaster at East Calder, published
at Edinburgh, in 1742, a very respectable translation of the
Georgics of Virgil, accompanied with notes on the subject of
agriculture, of which he seems to have had more knowledge and
experience than are generally found accessible by men of his
profession.
   The chief Land-owners.-The Earl of Morton; Earl of Buchan;
Stuart Bayley Hare, Esq. of Calderball; Archibald Wilkie, Esq. of
Ormiston Hill; Earl of Rosebery; A. Davidson, Esq. of Hatton;
Alexander Maconochie, Esq. of Meadowbank; Alexander Croil,
Esq. of Linnburn; heirs of Major Davidson of Causeyend; William
Swanston, Esq. of Little-Vantage; Humphrey Graham, Esq. of
Stewart Hill; James Gillespie, Esq. of Burnhouse; George Glen-
dinning Esq. of Millrigg; George Glendianing, Esq. of Overshiell;
Alexander Johnston, Esq. of Hillhouse; Proprietors of East Camps.
   The Earl of Morton takes his title of dignity from the lands of


