
                                 CULLEN.                         343

       fish from the sea, on the other, with the command of abundance
       of the various sorts of fuel.
          Means of Communication.-Cullen enjoys the advantage of a
       local post-office, which, previous to the introduction of the penny
       postage, yielded an average revenue of L.165; present revenue,
       L.95. There are daily mails to and from Aberdeen and the south,
       and to and from Inverness and the north.  The turnpike road, from
       Banff to Fochabers, traverses the parish for a distance of one mile
       and a half, and passes through the town.  A new line of excellent
       turnpike frnm Cullen to Keith, was opened in 1836.  A stage-
       coach between Elgin and Banff passes and repasses the burgh
       daily; and there is a weekly communication with Aberdeen and
       Inverness, by means of carriers' waggons.  Steam-boats plying be-
       tween Inverness and London, and between Leith and Inverness,
       pass tbrougb the bay of Cullen.  The Cullen toll-bar, for the
       Banff and Keith turnpikes, is situated at the distance of two fur-
       longs to the southward of the town, and yields an average reve-
       nue of L. 150.
         Municipal State.-Cullen is a royal burgh of considerable anti-
       quity, as appears from a charter of James I., 6th March 1455, ra-
       tifying another of Robert I., by wbich were granted to the burgb,
       the usual liberties, privileges, and advantages.  There is reason
       to believe, however, that Cullen possessed the privileges of royal-
       ty previous to the time of Robert I. and that the act of that sove-
       reign was but a confirmation or ratification of burghal privileges,
       conferred previously either by William the Lion, * or, according
       to tradition, by Malcolm Caumore.  Similar to Banff, it was at
       one time a constabulary, of which the Earl of Findlater was here-
       ditary constable, by virtue of an ancient right.  He ultimately be-
       came heredhtary chief magistrate, with the title of Preses.  Under
       the old constitution of the burgh, the council consisted of the
       preses, three bailies, dean of guild, treasurer, and thirteen coun-
       cillors,-in all, nineteen; the jurisdiction extending over a dis-
       trict of about three miles from east to west, and two from north to
       south.  Here, corporations have never existed, every one being
       entitled to buy, sell, and manufacture as be chose; and burgess-
       ship was constituted simply by giving a "burgess-act." Merchant
       councillors were chosen from the sellers of goods, trades council-

        <FOOTNOTE>The oldest notice of Cullen on record, so far as is known to the writer, is a deed
       in the chartulary of Moray, in which William the Lion grants to Richard, Bishop
       of Moray, "unum toftum in Burgo de Banef, unum in Inverculan, &c."


