
                          KILBARCHAN.                         375

or in view of the proprietor's mansion-house, and where the farms
to which they belong are larger, they are usually one storey in
height; though not unfrequently with what are sometimes called
storm windows, i. e. windows set upright in the roof,-an arrange-
ment which admits of comfortable apartments in the upper division
of them. They are generally slated.  The enclosures vary in ex-
tent from three or four, to seven, eight, or ten acres; and are, for
the most part, well fenced.  In the lower districts of the parish,
there are thorn hedges, ditches, or sunk fences, faced with stone;
and a thorn hedge either planted along the top, or growing out from
the face of the stone building, but pretty near the top,-which is
conducive to keeping them clear.  The fences in the upper dis-
trict are usually a dry stone dike, built double and coped with turf.
These make a sufficient fence from the day they are erected; but
come by and by to require repairs.  The thorn hedge comes for-
ward slowly, but if duly cared for and protected from injury when
young, it continues a substantial fence, and turns even biped strag-
glers.
  The usual duration of leases in this parish is nineteen years.
The reason for fixing on that precise number of years is not very
obvious; unless on the supposition, that a cycle of that extent may
bring round a similar course of seasons.  A farmer in the neigh-
bourhood, remarked to me, that, exactly twenty years ago, in
1816, he entered on a new lease, as he did again in a different
farm last year, and in both instances felt himself in the very
same situation in regard to the seasons, i. e. in both years, he
finished the potato harvest before he was able to make out the
corn harvest.  In the olden time, it was not unusual to grant leases for
three nineteen years.  Before the period when the farming interest
began to be so far aware of their own interest, as to commence in
good earnest substantial improvements, and so better their own
circumstances, there was a sort of indifference, it is said, as to thd
occupancy of land, which made the proprietor rather solicitous to
retain a tenant, than otherwise.  An instance occurs to recollec-
tion, of the kirk-session being called to account for having
granted a lease for three nineteen years, of a farm of which
they are administrators for behoof of the poor, an enter-
prising tacksman enriching himself in consequence ; but the
Court of Session found, that the transaction had been quite
in the usual mode in which prudent men acted in managing


