
                            CAWDOR.                              19

   ancient skill, has attained a degree of improvement equal to what
   is exhibited by the most improved parts of the country. New roads
   have been made, the old so thoroughly altered for the better, and
   the means of communication thus so much increased, that the
   whole parish has of late risen greatly in improvement and. value.
   The rental is nearly doubled, Perhaps the most obvious improve-
   ment that could be introduced -is some species of manufacture to
   give employment to the oor. But, though the parish affords
   abundant facilities for this, its distance from the nearest available
   harbour may be mentioned as the greatest hindrance to any such
   speculation. It is questionable, however, whether the introduction
   of manufactures would improve the morals of the people, whose
   religious character is very observable. The population of the pa-
   rish, according to the statement given above, has since 1797 been
   of varied amount. That of the village has considerably increas-
   ed. The diminution of the number of public-houses in the vil-
   lage, and the allocation of seats in the parish church to its inbabi-
   tants, would add materially to their comfort, and under the Divine
   blessing would prove the means of their social and religious im-
   provement.
     March 1842.

                          PARISH OF CAWDOR.
                 PRESBYTERY OF NAIRN, SYNOD OF MORAY.
               THE REV. SIMON F. MCLAUCHLAN, MINISTER.

               I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
      Name.-THE first name, at least the fireit recorded Dame, of this
   parish appears to have been 11 Barewen" or 11 Barivan Ewd:h
   being the saint to whose tutelar protection it was entrusted, anil
   Bar, probably a corruption of Brae, as the old church the'walls
   of which are still extant, is sittiated in the upper and hilly part of
   the parish. For several hundred years, however, the parish, as
   such, has been known by the name of C`lder or Cawdor
   former is the mode of pronouncing the word, common among the
   Gaelic part of the population now and apparently from remove


