
     Statistical Account

one of the same kind at a place called Hart-shaw, which
belonged originally to the Stewarts of Rosyth; from which
family Oliver Cromwell, by the female line, is said to
have been descended.  It was probably the hunting seat of
that family, as the name denotes.  Very few vestiges,

<FOOTNOTE>

drimmie; 4. and 5. Thomas and Alexander, taken in Calloway: These
three were basely murdered by King Edward Long Shanks.  His first
daughter Christian was married first to Sir Andrew Murray, Lord Both
well.  After his death (he being killed at Stirling 1297), she was married
to Donald Earl of Mar.  Second daughter Euseme, married to Sir Tho-
mas Randolph, sheriff of Roxbrugh, and great Chamberlain of Scotland
Third, Marjory, married Sir Neill Campbell of Loch.  The fourth
married to Sir Christopher Seaton of Seaton.  This Robert is he
who contended with Baliol for the crown, and being persidiously used
by King Edward Long Shanks (who made use of his power and friends
to conquer Scotland, under presence of maintaining his title), at length
perceaveing the treachery, and labouring in vain to get his son, the
Lord Robert Bruce, in his own power, whom King Edwards caused
to be keept in Cailis as a pledge to bind his father to his service,
and so to withdraw himself into Scotland, brocken with grief and in-
dignation.  As he returned from Hert to Annandale, he deceased in
the way, about Pasche 1304, and was buried in the monastery of Holm
Coultran.  Observe, here the reader is admonished of some mistakes in
writers of history; some placing another Robert betwixt this Earl of
Carrick and Robert the Noble, who married one of the heirs of Hunt-
ingtoun; some asserting that Robert the Noble himself was Baliol's com-
petitor; some writing that Robert Earl of Carrick, who contended with
Baliol, was the same which afterwards so happily came to the crown;
whereas indeed Robert the Noble was father to the Earl of Carrick, and
dyed before Alexander the III. King Robert also was but a child of ten
or twelve years in the time of contention, his father being still alive, who
(as said is) dyed anno 1304.
   VIII. King Robert Bruce, married, first Isabell, daughter to Gratney
Karl of Mar, by whom he had one daughter Mariorie, whoe bare to her
husbands the Lord Walter-Stewart of Renfrew, Robert King of Scot-
land; and secondly, he married Isabell de Bourk, daughter to Haymer
Earl of Ulster in Ireland, who was another to King David and to Mar-


