
			ISLAND OF SKYE-KILMUIR.                          255

   height, they invariably wither. None are therefore found in it,
   with the exception of a little brush-wood in two or three places.
   With the view of making a fair experiment, as to the growth of
   wood, the late noble proprietor planted, in 1831, about ten acres
   of enclosed ground, with the following kinds of trees, viz. larch,
   ash, spruce, mountain-ash, silver-fir, elm, beech, and Huntingdon
   willow; but all of them have long ago decayed. Buslies for small
   fruit thrive well, provided they be enclosed, and sheltered in fen-
   ced gardens.
      The rocks and rugged recesses abound with garlic and other
   strongly scented herbs, which frequently, in consequence of their
   being cropped by cattle, give a disagreeable taste to milk and but-
   ter. There seem to be no uncommon plants in the parish. The
   following list embraces a few of such as are met with in more
   or less abundance.

   Lobelia Dortmanna	   Cotyledon umbilicus	     Valeriana officinalis
   Digitalis purpurea      Geranium robertianum	     Lamium album
   Carlina vulgaris	   Ranunculus repens	     ------ purpureum
   Bellis perenni	   Stellaria holostea	     Leontodon taraxacum au-
   Convolvulus Soldanella  Mentha gentiles	        tumnale
   Drosera rotundifolia    Lithospermurn maritimum.  Epilobium.
   Thymus serpyllum,       ------------ officinale   Tussilago
   Scolopendrium vulgare   Tormentilla officinalis   Lycopodium selago
   Lathyrus pratensis      Euphrasia, officinalis    Cicuta virosa.

      The very rare plant, the Eriocaulon, though not found in this
   parish, is in great abundance in the parish of Strath.

                        II-CIVIL HISTORY. *
      The early history of the parish is involved in impenetrable ob-
   scurity. The aborigines of this and the surrounding isles, ac-
   cording to the best historical traditions, were a mixture of the
   ancient Caledonians or Picts, and the Albanaich, or first settlers,
   in what is now known by the kingdom of Scotland. The general
   character of the original population, it is said, was considerably
   changed by an influx of the cognate Celtic race of Scots, imme-
   diately after the Scottish conquest; but this change was, in rea-
   lity, small, in comparison with that effected by the Vikingr, or pi-
   ratical kings from Denmark, Norway, and Sweden. These Scan-
   dinavian rovers appeared on the east coast of England about
   A.D. 785, and a century, at least before the obtained a footing in
   any of the north Hebrides. The accession of the bloody King,
   Harold Harfager, to the entire kingdom of Norway, A. D. 880,
   urged many of his opponents and powerful subjects to escape his

   <FOOTNOTE>Vide, Buchanan's History, of Scotland; Chalmers's Caledonia; Gordon's His-
   tory of Sutherland; Gregory's History of the Isles.


