

526                           AYRSHIRE.

been ameliorated by draining, which has been much resorted to
by the farmer, who employs for this purpose tiles made at tile-
works in the parish.
	Agriculture.--The rotation of crops upon this species of land,
is based on the old system of husbandry: 1st and 2d year, oats;
3d ryegrass, followed by five years pasture. Where this system
is pursued, the farmers have large dairies, and make the kind of
cheese generally known by the name of Dunlop cheese.
	Husbandry.--The portion of the land in the parish that is con-
tiguous to the sea is a free light soil resting upon an open gravelly
subsoil. The general rotation of crops in this part, is a six-course
shift, 1st year, oats; 2d, potatoes or turnips; 3d, wheat or barley;
4th, clover and ryegrass; 5th and 6th, pasture. The turnips raised
on the farms here are used for fattening cattle and sheep. The far-
mers have large dairies. Butter is made bx them, and milk dis-
posed of in the neighbouring town of Irvine. The farms vary in
extent from 100 to 200 acres, and are laid out in fields enclosed
with beech and thorn-hedges. The fields differ in size from 10
to 20 acres. The farm-houses are remarkably good in the south
part of the parish; some of them of two stories, and extremely
comfortable and commodious. The spirit of agricultural improve-
ment, which is so manifest throughout Scotland, has extended to
this parish.
	Rent of Land.--The land is in value from L. 1, 10s. to L. 3
per acre, and is held on leases of nineteen years.
	Live Stock.--Tbe cows on the farms are of the Ayrshire breed.
The sheep black-faced and Cheviots, with a few Southdowns.
	Mines.--Coal is supposed to be abundant in this district towards
the sea, but has not been extensively wrought. Twelve thousand
tons were formerly put out yearly, from mines which were shut up
from want of capital in the lessee. A new pit has just been open-
ed under better auspices, and promises well. Freestone of excel-
lent quality is found, and lime is quarried at the north-east extre-
mity of the parish.
                          V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Village.--The village of Dreghorn, which lies on the road
from Kilmarnock to Irvine, and two miles distant from the last
mentioned town, is pleasantly situate on the first gentle acclivity
toward the se`, and the climate is very salubrious, the prevailing
winds being from the west and south-west, and no marshes or
source of miasmata in the neighbourhood. The houses are old,
                      4


