
32                    STIRLINGSHIRE.

every day for Edinburgh, two for Glasgow, two for Stirling, one
for Alloa, and one for Dunfermline and Kirkaldy.
   Roads.--There may be about ten miles of turnpike roads in the
parish; besides wbicb, it is intersected in all directions by other
public roads maintained from the Statute Labour funds.
   Bridges.--The parish is connected with Larbert by two bridges
over the Carron; with Denny by one over the water of Bonny;
with Polmont by several bridges, and with Bothkennar by a draw-
bridge over the Carron, of thirty feet wide, to allow vessels to pass
on the river. There are also bridges over different streamlets, and
all are generally in good condition. The line of thd Forth and
Clyde Canal, in passing through the parish, is crossed by five
drawbridges. Several highways are carried over the Union Canal
by arches of stone.
   Fences.--These in the upland parts consist chiefly of tborn hed-
ges and stone dikes. In some of the subdivision hedges, oak, elm,
and beech trees have been planted. This occurs particularly on
the grounds of Mr Forbes of Callendar. In the Carse, ditches
prevail in a great degree, which serve not only for the division
of fields, but also for the draining off the superabundant moisture.
Here also, there are hedgerows of tborn; and the willow tree
abounds, attaining a considerable size.
   Canals.--The Forth and Clyde Canal was begun in 1768,-
opened to a certain extent in 1775, and completed in 1790.  It
commences at Grangemouth, and, passing westward through the
whole length of the parish, leaves it half a mile to the west of Cas-
tlecary drawbridge, where it enters the parish of Cumbernauld.
For the first three miles, it runs through a dead level of carse
ground, but the rise then becomes so rapid as to require an ele-
vation of twelve locks within the space of little more than a mile.
The turnpike road formerly passed under the Canal, about a mile
west from Falkirk, but, by a recent alteration of that road, the
Canal is now crossed by a drawbridge.
  The Union Canal, begun in 1818, and finished in 1822, runs
through this parish to its termination at Lock 16 of the Forth
and Clyde Canal, a distance of three miles. Here it falls 110
feet by means of eleven locks, within the compass of half-a-mile.
At the same distance south from Falkirk, it passes through a tun-
nel cut out of the solid rock, nearly 1000 yards in lengtb. This
canal is used for the conveyance of passengers and of goods, coal,
manure, &c.


