
80                       EDINBURGHSHIRE.

nipss,"which are raised to a considerable extent,-the potatoes be-
ing sent to the Edinburgh market, and the turnips consumed with
cattle in the farm-yard during winter.

  Zoology--The game, which is not very abundant, except in the
Dalinahoy preserves, consists of hares, partridges, pheasants, rab-
bits, and a very small proportion of grouse and black game on the
south. Foxes are not uncommnn, there being a considerable
quantity of cover about Norton and Dalmahoy Hill, which form
occasionally places of rendezvous for the Edinburgh lovers of the
chase. The Gogar Burn contains some good trout. The Canal
abounds in eels and perches. Nn angler needs come here in the
expectation of good sport.
   Botany.-There is no natural wood in the parish, but a conside-
rable quantity has been planted for the sake of shelter or ornament
in distant or later times. All the gentlemen's seats in the neigh-
bourhood are adorned in this way with a considerable extent of
plantation. That about Milburn is perhaps the largest of very
modern growth. The greatest extent of wood, however, and of
the greatest maturity, is that which beautifies the residence of the
Earl of Morton. Trees, to the amount of many thousand pounds
in value, were cut in the pleasure grounds before the accession of
the present nobleman, but, notwithstanding, the woods still present
to the eye of the spectator an outline of very dense and luxuriant
foliage. Every variety of the common species of trees is to be
found here and in other parts of the parish, as beech, oak, plane,
asb, elm, lime, and fir. The trees, however, of which there is the
greatest abundance, and which seem, from the luxuri     I ance of their
vegetation, to be best adapted to the soil, are beech and elm.
Around Hatton there was at one time a very large quantity
of old timber, but it is now, for the most part, destroyed, much to
the disadvantage of the stately edifice which reposed in its shade.
.A. few very fine specimens of the cedar of Lebanon, of ordinary
dimensioos, btt healthy and vigorous, are to be seen at Ratbo
House. Perhaps nine of the finest trees now standing in the
parish, and consisting of planes, elms, and -ashes, are those which
surround the church and burying-ground, imparting to the resting-
place of the dead a solemn gloom, not unsuitable to serious feel-
ing.
  The following a list of rare botanical plants found by David
falconer, Esq. of Carlowrie, in Dalmahoy Moss, near the old


