
     of Portmoak.

   Eminent Men.-Under this article may be mentioned
Andrew Wintan, who was prior of Lochleven in the reign
of James I.  He wrote what is called the Lochleven Chronicle,
or, 'A history of the world, from its creation to the capti-
'vity of James I. in Scotch metre.'  There is a copy of it
still in the Advocate's library, which is frequently appeal-
     VOL. V. Y

<FOOTNOTE>

wealth of a society, are bound to support its poor, there is no doubt; but to
proportion this burden to the ability of individuals, and without encou-
raging indolence, to assign the necessaries of life to those who are unable
to earn then, seems to be extremely difficult.  All the methods which
law hath established for this purpose, are liable to great abuses.  There is
one, which though it never had the countenance of law, has produced
good effects.  Many incorporations in towns, and some districts of the
country also, have raised funds for the support of their poor, by subscrip-
tion.  Each subscriber, by contributing a small sum annually, while in
health and strength, is entitled, when deprived of these, to a weekly or
monthly allowance.  These funds have been the means of preventing re-
gular assessments upon the heritors in many parishes.  To extend them
to the whole country, would perhaps be the best method of providing for
the poor.  A law establishing one or more funds of this kind in every
parish, and obliging every person, of whatever station, to become a subscri-
ber at a certain age, would raise a sum equal to all the wants of the poor.
In most of the parishes in this neighbourhood an assessment of 1 s. upon eacg
person above 20 years of age, tohether with the produce of their present
funds, would raise a sum equal to their present distributions.  This burden
could not be much felt by any class of men.  It would be lighter still, if
proportioned to the circumstance of the contributors; such as 6 d. from
servants and day-labourers annually, 1 s. from manufacturers, 2 s. from
farmers, and more from proprietors, of a certain extent, or some such pro-
portion.  In some parishes, where there are large or populous towns, the
assessment must be higher.  But from the number of poor, and the sums
distributed to them, mentioned in this work, an exact estimate of the
sum wanted in each parish, could easily be calculated.  The advantage
of such ascheme to the landed interest is evident.  Their subscriptions
would amount to an inconsiderable sum, compared to that which they
must contribute, if the poor are to be supported by assessments; a plan
which is already adopted in the south of Scotland, and is likely to be
extended over the whole country.  With regard to the lower classes of
  

