
202                               ORKNEY.

len cloth. There coins were chiefly sixpences, billings, and half-
crowns of the reigns of Elizabeth, James I., and Charles I., with
a very few Scotch. It is not unlikely they may have been depo-
sited in this concealment, during the usurpation of Cromwell.
They were,sold, and the landlord generously allowed his poor te-
nant to reap the whole benefit of this unexpected treasure.
    Mr Gordon has erected a moderate-sized mansion-house at
Burgar, wberohe resides. A central church for both parishes,
and a parochial school and schoolmaster's house, have been built
since the publication, of the last Statistical Account.


                  <TABLE=III.POPULATION>

        Amount of population in 1780,   1564
				1811.	1227
				1821,	1329
				1831,	14.50-males, 617; fem. 893.

      The great decrease from 1789 to 1811 most probably arose
from so many men engaging in the army, and especially the navy,
during the war. At a later period, in several instances, four, five,
or six small farms were thrown into one, which also tended to di-
minish the population; and I incline to the. opinion, that, a bun-
Ared years ago, the population must have considerably exceeded
what it was even in 1789, as the registered baptisms were nearly
one-third more numerous.
     There being neither town nor villages, the people are all dis-
persed over the country.
     For the last seven years, the yearly average of registered births
has been 21 but a good many parents forget or decline to re-
gister; of deaths, 1475; of marriages, 74
     Mr Gordon Outer Evie is the only person of independent
fortune residing in the parishes.
     There are 10 proprietors of land of the yearly value of L.50
and upwards.
     There are 2 persons insane, and 4 more or less fatuous; 3 fe-
males are blind.
     Languages.-In the language of-tbe people, there is an inter-
mixture of Norse words with Scotch and English; but, on the whole,
they speak more correctly than the peasantry do in other parts of

<FOOTNOTE>Only when the worteloth is used, have the deaths been registered. The whole
deaths during the last six years have been about 100; and it deserves to be noticed,
as an extraordinary division from the usual rate of mortality, that the deaths under
ten years of age, during that time, are only 15.


