
                                  KIRKCLOM.                               103

abled them to be cultivated to their summits. The greater
part of the land slopes gradually towards the west. For more
than three miles from the southern boundary of the parish, the
coast of Loch Ryan is a sandy beach ; there is next a rocky pro-
montory, Clachan Heugh : to the north of it is the Bay of Port-
more, affording good anchorage for large vessels : from this bay,
round corswall Point and along the Irish channel, the land is
bounded by a ridge of rocks, presenting bold and striking features.
Towards the mouth of Loch Ryan there are several caves and fis-
sures in the rocks ; one of which affords an entrance to the extent
of 145 feet, as ascertained by measurement.
     Meteorology.-- It appears from the returns of observations made
at corswall Lighthouse, and kindly furnished for this work by Mr
Stevenson, the engineer, that for the ten years ending with 1834,
the mean height of the barometer at 9 A. M. is 29.806 in., and at 9
P. M. 29.806. : that the mean height of the thermometer at the
same time is 49&deg; 942 and 49d1 189 : and that the quantity of rain
indicated by the guage is 34.19 inches.
     The prevailing winds are from the north-west to the south-west
which blow over the whole western part of the parish with great
violence, especially during the winter months; but where the hills
or the few plantations that exist, break the force of these winds,
the climate may be ranked among the mildest in Scotland, and
the proximity to the sea on all sides prevents the continuance of
frost or snow. Less rain falls here than on the opposite coast of
Ayrshire, where the hills are much higher.
     The most frequent maladies are consumption, rheumatism, and
inflammatory disorders caused by exposure to cold, epilepsy, and
paralysis.
     Hydrography.-- Springs of pure water abound in almost every
part of the parish. There is only one stream of any consequence :
it serves to turn the mill of corswall, where nearly half of the
grain of the parish is ground. A mile from the Bay of Lochryan,
towards the center of the parish, there is a lake called Loch Con-
nel, fed by several streams flowing from the adjoining marshy
lands : it is about a mile in circumference : there is nothing strik-
ing in the scenery around it. A stream issues from it, which,
joined by some small rivulets, enters the parish of Leswalt, where
it turns two mills above two miles distant from each other ; but
both close to the southern boundary of Kirkcolom, at which the
grain of the adjacent parts of Kirkcolom is ground.


