
			    FORFAR.                             695
 
ê3∏ê3
äciation by the Prior of Restennet, Maister George Fletcher, Advocat
to the King, 29th April 1624, it appears that the Chapel of Dun-
nynald and the Kirk of Aberlemno, with their fruits, profits, and
emoluments, were dependencies on Restennet. From the Prior
of Restennet, the magistrates and town-council of Forfar pur-
chased the right of patronage to Forfar Restennet in 1652, for
the sum of 2250 marks Scotts. *
	On the north side of the Loch of Forfar, there is a peninsula
called the Inch. It has obviously been artificially formed, and
some of the oak piles on which it rests are to be seen. It is said
that Margaret Queen of Malcolm Canmore, had a residence upon
it. The ruins of walls of considerable thickness were recently to
be traced upon it. In a south-west direction from the Inch, there
runs in the loch a paved road or causeway, which extends for some-
length, and may be seen from the margin when the water is low.
	The Castle of Forfar stood on a round hill to the north of the
town and must have been surrounded with water. The castle
was destroyed in 1307. In that year King Robert Bruce pro-
ceeded from Aberdeen to Angus, and here new success awaited
him in the capture, of the Castle of Forfar, at this time strongly
garrisoned by the English. It was taken by escalade during the
night by a soldier named Philip the Forester of Platen, who put
all the English to the sword, and the King, according to his usual
policy, instantly commanded the fortifications to be destroyed.
	Many of those unhappy individuals who were charged with witch-
craft were brought to trial in Forfar, by a special commission ap-
pointed by the Crown in 1661. The record of these trials was
preserved, and contained many curious statements; but it has re-
cently been amissing. The following fact is duly entered in the
council minutes: that John Ford, a witch-pricker, was sent for to
prick witches at Forfar, and was admitted as a burgess, on the same
day with Lord Kinghorn. The bridle which was placed in the
mouths of the witches condemned to be burned, and with which
they were fastened to the stake, is preserved in the burgh.
	It has already been mated, that the date of the original sharter
of the burgh is unknown, but it was a burgh before, the reign of
Robert Bruce, as the authorities of Forfar gave evidence during
his reign that Dundee was a royal burgh, and had right of guildry
and trade. The original charter of the burgh was lost in 1657.

<FOOTNOTE>The spire of the priory, and part of the walls of the priory and of the chapel are
still standing.


