
198                        ARGYLESHIRE.

a firm hard consistence, and very pleasant for walking or for taking
equestrian exercise.  The chief of these partly surrounds the bay
of Kirkapol, already noticed, and forms a semicircle of about three
miles.  The beach of Travay, further to the west, which bounds
the plain of Reef on the south side, is about a mile and a-half
long.  There are several others of the same description, but of
inferior length, which it would be tedious to specify.
   Round the coast, especially on the west and south-west, there
lie a number of rocks or ledges of foul ground, some of which ex-
tend to a distance of several miles from the land, and are extremely
dangerous, sometimes fatal, to shipping.  The most noted of these
is Sceir-mhor, commonly written Skerry-vore by those unacquainted
with Gaelic orthography, a large flat rock about twelve miles dis-
tant from the southwest extremity of Tirie.  From the circumstance
of anchors, cables, and other ponderous fragments of wreck being
occasionally found on this rock, it is conjectured, with much pro-
bability, that several vessels have been shipwrecked upon it, of
which no intelligence was ever received.  Here the Commissioners
for Northern Lights resolved, a few years ago, to erect a light-
house; and preparations for the work have been going on for some
time on a large scale, under the direction of Mr Stevenson, civil-
engineer.  It is likely to prove an arduous and laborious under-
taking, from the distance and difficulty of access to the rock; but
it is to be hoped it will be finally successful, and fully answer the
patriotic purpose intended.
   Coll.-The island of Coll, of the etymology of which name I am
unable to trace any account, was of old a separate parish, but an-
nexed to Tiree in the year 1618.  It is situated east-north-east from
the latter, and separated from it by a channel about two miles wide.
In this channel, but considerably nearer the Coll shore, lies Gunna,
a low uninhabited island, capable of grazing fifty head of cattle
during the year.  A very rapid tide runs through this channel,
rendering the passage cross often disagreeable, and at times im-
practicable.  The shore or beach on each side is seldom without
a violent surf, which makes it no easy task to effect a dry landing;
and, not far from Gunna, there are some sandy banks or shoals,
always under water, which sometimes shift their situations in tem-
pestuous weather, and add still further to the difficulty and danger
of the ferry.  The only other islands belonging to Coll are, Ei-
lean-mor, placed at its north-eastern, and Soay, near its southern


