
44                          SELKIRKSHIRE.

In those extant, the date of the earliest entry is 1691; but from
the beginning till nearly the middle of last century, with the ex-
ception of a few years between, there is a perfect blank.  Since
1741, however, the registers have been more regularly and care-
fully kept.
     Historical Events.-This parish formed a principal part of the
sheriffdom of Ettrick Forest.  It was recovered, with the surround-
ing districts, from the English by Sir James Douglas, and as a
reward of this services conferred on him by a grant from his sove-
reign and friend Robert Bruce, who erected them into a free re-
gality.  These lands were again forfeited to the Crown, on the
attainder of the family of Douglas in 1455, when a part of them
was bestowed on Sir Walter Scott, ancestor of the Bucclench fa-
mily, who had exerted himself in suppressing the rebellion of the
Douglasses.  In 1503, James IV. endowed his queen, the Lady
Margaret of England, with the Fnrest of Ettrick and Tower of
Newark, which had formerly been the dowry of Mary of Guelders.
Hence, probably, our two farms of Deloraine (de la reine) receiv-
ed their name, or afterwards perhaps from Mary of Lorraine.  It
would also appear that about this time the wood began to be clear-
ed away.  We learn from Pitscottie, that James V. had "10,000
sheep going in the forest under the keeping of Andrew Bell, who
made the king as good an account of them as if they had gone in
the bounds of Fife."  This royal demesno was his frequent resort
to enjoy the pleasures of the chase.

                        "Of such proud huntings many tales
                        Yet linger in our lonely dales;
                        Up pathless Ettricke and on Yarrow.
                        Where erst the outlaw drew his arrow."

     A pass between the two valleys preserves the traces of one of

these expeditions.  It retains the significant name of the llart's
leap; the distance of the leap, being distinctly visible at the time
when the ground was covered with snow, is still marked by two
grey whinstones, twenty-eight feet apart, which are said to have
been raised by the king and his followers.  Under the Crown, the
proprietors of the forest held their lands as rentallers, or king's
kindly tenants, as they had done under the Lords of Douglas.
Very few of them received charters until the year 1587, when
James VI, came of age.  The quit rents paid to the Crown by
the kindly tenants continue burderns on the estates to the present
day, and are collected by the chamberlain of Ettrick Forest.  There


