
     of Kilmartin.

   Proprietors and Rent.-There are 12 heritors; only 3 re-
side in the parish, whereby above 2000 L. of the rent is spent
out of it.

<TABLE>

The valued rent is about         L. 3643   3   0     Scotch;
The real rent about                 3453   0   0   Sterling.

</TABLE>

One gentleman's property in the south extremity, upon the
bay of Crinan, consisting of 3822 acres, of which 1026 are
arable, is valued at 1089 L. 7 s. Scotch; the real rent is about
750 L. Sterling.  This is the principal property in the parish,
and may be greatly improved by cultivating the moss above
mentioned.  Another gentleman's property, on the north
end of the parish, consists of extensive hill land.  The whole
estate was surveyed; but 1 farm of it being in the neighbour-
ing parish, makes the exact number of acres belonging to this
district uncertain, but it is believed by the proprietor to be
about 7000.  The valued rent is 410 L. 1 3 s. Scotch; the real

<FOOTNOTE>

with the wages there, must have something near it, though there are neither
improvements nor manufactures to afford it.

There are 42 ploughs, 1 to every farm, though there may be 6 more farms,
and extensive as to hill, they can hardly be laid to have a plough, as their sowing
will not consist of above a boll or two, of a kind of small black bearded corn, or
oats, for feeding cattle in winter.  There are about 10 or 12 of the above num-
ber, who plough little more than what serves the cattle in revere winters.-
About 15 years ago, there was a plough-maker almost in every other farm.
Any person, who considered himself possessed of greater sagacity than his neigh-
bour, went to the wood, and took such sticks as had a natural cast for his pur-
pose, which being joined in a most clumsy manner, without the least knowledge
of mechanical principles, formed what was called a plough.  It tore up the
land, indeed, but with great labour both to man and horse.  There is now
a regular bred plough-maker, who has been settled in the parish these 6 years.
The kind used, is the common plough, drawn by four horses a-breast, the driver,
with his face to the horses, going backwards.  There are only 12 carts, these 
implements of husbandry not being as yet much used by the tenants.


