
  			AULDEARN.          		17

   Boghole, connected with the United Associate Secession. The
   charge is at present vacant, The clergyman is paid partly from
   the seat-rents, and partly from tbe collections or other contribu-
   tions of the congregation. The amount of his stipend is about
   L.80. The parish contains no Episcopalians, and but one, Roman
   Catholic.
   	The number of families attending the Established Church is
   about 260; the number of persons of all ages about 950. Divine
   service is generally well attended. The number of Dissenters, or
   of those who attend the Dissenting chapel, is 275. About one
   third of these are not Dissenters, but attend merely from their
   proximity to that place of worship. The average number of com-
   municants at the Established Church is 164.
	There are no societies for religious objects exclusively paro-
   chial ; but there is a branch of the Nairnshire Bible Society, and
   a branch of the Presbytery of Nairn Missionary  Society auxiliary
   to the schemes of the church, The amount annually contributed
   by the parish for these and other religious objects is about L.25,
   The average annual amount of church collections for the parochial
   poor is also L.25.
  	Education.-There are two schools in the parish, one parochial,
   and one unendowed.  The parochial schoolmaster has a good
   house, and a salary of L.36, 7s. 2d., including the allowance for a
   garden. The branches taught by him are, reading, English
   grammar, writing, arithmetic, book-keeping, geography, land-sur-
   veying, and the other branches of mathematics, Latin, Greek, and
   French. All these, except the last three, are likewise taught at
   the unendowed school.
   	There is scarcely a child in the parish between six and fifteen
   years of a e that cannot read. There may be from twelve to
   fourteen persons  above fifteen who cannot read. All are desirous
   to have their children educated, and there is no part of the parish
   so distant from a school that the benefits of education, is much wanted
   obtained. A school for the instruction  of infants and of girls in
   those branches which belong to female education, is  much wanted
   The school-house, already mentioned as in the course of erection,
   is intended for this purpose;  but there is, as yet, sko adequate pro-
   vision for a teacher.
        There is a Sabbath school library, and  about 300  religious
  tracts distributed on loan.
        Charitable and other Institutions.-There have  been two Friend
          NAIRN.


