
                                KILMORIE.                           61

         called a "bone," where the stones, weeds,and other rubbish ga-
         thered soft the land were accumulated. These stripes generally
         changed possessors every second or third year, according to ar-
         rangement of parties. The milch cows grazed in common upon
         the pasture lands, which lay betweew the arable and the hill com
         mon; but when the crops were secured at the end of autumn,
         sheep, cattle, horses, and swine, ranged at large over the whole
         farm. It is obvious that this associated form of occupany preclu-
         ded all draining, enclosing, laying down in grass, &c.; in short,
         presented an insuperable barrier to all improvements either of
         stock or of land.  These large farms have in most instances been
         divided into a number of smaller ones, which have been let to one
         person, on leases varying from seven to nineteen years. An op-
         portunity and impetus have thus been given to individual industry
         and enterprise, which has not been lost. On each of these lots,
         comfortable dwellings and commodious offices have been built. A
         great quantity of waste land has been reclaimed partly by the
         spade, and partly by the plough; the whole, in most cases,
         thoroughly drained, and subdivided into fields of suitable size by
         quickset ditches.
           The arable land, under the former system, was divided into in-
         field and outfield. The latter was exclusively devoted to white
         crop, which was taken off in succession, as long as it would return
         more than the seed, and then suffered to lie lea for six or seven
         years, when it again underwent the same,exhausting process. The
         infield rotation was, 1. potatoes; 2. oats or bear, with manure
         3. mashlam, or oats, or beans and peas mixed; 4. bear with ma-
         nure; 5. peas; 6. oats; 7. bear, with manure; then potatoes
         as before. This rotation was by no means uniform, but varried
         with the quality of the soil, and the quantity of the manure they
         had to use. The bear was generally sown in beds, and the seeds,
         instead of being harrowed in, was covered over with earth from a
         trench. The present  rotation is, L. oaths; 2. green-crops; 3.
         bear, or oats; a few sow barley or wheat; 4.rye-grass; 5.two
         or three years in pasture.
             The Duke of Hamilton, to whose, property alone the improve-
         ments, apply affords the greatest facilities, and helds out the ut-
         most encouragements to improvement, by sharing the expenses,
         directing the operations, and rewarding their proper execution.
             The implements of husbandry were formerly of their own making;
         and of the simplest and rudest description. The plough was all of


