
     Statistical Account

   Near the house of Mavisbank, built by the late Sir John
Clerk, is a mount of earth of considerable height, which is

<FOOTNOTE>

was intended to have been built.  Within the chapel is a vault,
the burying place of the family of Roslin, the soil of which
is so dry that bodies have been found entire 80 years alter
their interment.  They were formerly buried in armour, and
without a coffin.  'The late Roslin,' says father Hay, in his
M.S. Memoirs, 'was the first that was buried in a coffin, con-
trary to the sentiments of James VII. who was then in Scot-
land;' and he adds, 'that the great expence my mother was at
in burying her husband occasioned the sumptuary acts that
were made in the next parliament.'  The village of Roslin was
a place of considerable consequence.  James II. erected it into
burgh of barony at Stirling in 1456, with a weekly market, and
a yearly fair.
   Near to Roslin is the scene of a battle that was fought be-
twixt the English and Scotch, on the 24th February 1303.  The
English and Scotch writers differ much in their accounts of this
action: Of which we have from our own historians the fol-
lowing particulars.  During a truce, Ralf Confrey, treasurer to
Edward I. invaded Scotland at the head of 30000 men, well
armed, and mostly mounted on horseback.  With a view to
plunder, he divided his forces into three bodies; and, having
reached the neighbourhood of Roslin, encamped them in as
many different stations.  On hearing of this invasion, Sir Sy-
mon Frazer and Sir John Cuming, the Scotch generals, drew
together such an army as they could muster in haste, amount-
ing to 8000, or at most to 10,000 men.  With these they marched
from Biggar; and fell unexpectedly on the first division of the ene-
my, whom they totally routed, and drove those who escaped
back on the second camp.  Here, on the alarm being given,
the English took to their arms, and sallied forth on the Scots,
while they were dividing the spoil.  The conflict was again re-
newed; and the Scotch were a second time victorious.  Scarce
had they begun to refresh themselves, after this bloody engage-
ment, when a third army appeared in view.  It is not to be
wondered at that their courage began now to fail them, already
faint and fatigued with the service they had gone through; and
accordingly it was with difficulty that their commanders could
prevail on them to stand their ground.  Animated, how, ever,
by their harangues and the hope of plunder, they, a third time,
and on the same day, received and routed a fresh body of troops,
and superior in number to themselves.  This engagement was
much spoken of at the time both at home and abroad.


