
                             INVERNESS.                          15

within the confines of the parish of Croy, the most singular and ex-
tensive series of stone circles and cairns in the north, situate on the
plain of Clava, on the southern bank of the river Nairn. 8th, On
the ridge of the Leys, also within the parish of Croy, two and a-
half miles south of Inverness, is a large and very entire series of
concentric circles, forming a beautiful Duidical temple; and
many similar stuctures, now partly destroyed, exist in the pa-
rish of Inverness, as, for instance, on the plain of Culloden and at
Stoneyfield, a farm so called from having two of them on its sur-
face. 9th, The estates of Culloden, Castlehill, Inches, Castle
Leathers, and Dunain, were each anciently provided with its own
keep or tower, besides the castle of Inverness already mentioned,
which, for size and general importance, took precedence of them
all. 10th, Oliver Cromwell (in 1652-7,) erected a citadel and
fort on the north side of the town of Inverness, near the mouth of
the river. In cost L.80,000 Sterling, was of a pentagonal form,
surrounded by ramparts and a ditch still existing, the latter ca-
pable at full tide of floating a small bark. It could accomodate
1000 men, but the garrison, though strongly fitted up, was aban-
doned and destroyed soon after the restoration of Charles II. to
propitiate the Highland chiefs, who were jealous of its existence so
near their own domains. 11th, Almost all the ecclesiastical build-
ings in Inverness existing in the time of cromwell, as well as the
Priory of Beauty, the Abbey of Kinloss, and the Bishop's Castle
and Cathedral at Fortrose, were thrown down by the Protector's
orders, and the stones of them employed in the erection of his
citadel. Hence no remains of old religious houses are to be seen
in Inverness, although it is known the Dominicans or Black Friars
had an establishment here as far back as the reign of Alexander
II., and tradition says the Franciscans or Gray Friars had also a
convent in Inverness. The large burying-ground called the chappel
yard belonged to the monastery of the former, and, before the pre-
sent entrance to it was made, it had a neat arched gateway crowned
with ornaments, and bearing, this inscription, "concordia parvae
res crescent." 12th, Near the conflux of the River Ness with
the sea, there is a lareg cairn of stones of great antiquity, and now
marked by a post pointing out to vessels the mouth of the former.
It is called Cairn Arc, and is only of importance in commection
with cairns similarly situated in the Beauty Frith, as indicative of
the apparent encroachment of the sea on the coast since these
erections were made. Besides a uniform traditions, facts are not


