
8                       SUTHERLANDSHIRE.

cularly in that of the young of both sexes. This also they have
learned from those who came from other parts to reside in the
parish.
   Potatoes have become the principal article of food here, as, in-
deed, they are throughout all the Highlands. They serve as the
chief subsistence of the people duridg one-half of the year, and
with some even for two-thirds. Many of the people come from
a considerable distance for cockles, of which abundance may be
had in their season on the sands of Dornoch. They go also for
haddocks to the fishing town of Embo; and since the herring-fish-
ing was established at Helmsdale, many go there, purchase and
cure herrings, and carry them home in casks in their own small
carts: they thus provide themselves with wholesome food.
   The people here are rather above the middle size. They are
in general well-made and handsome, and the women, comely.
On the whole, they are a moral and religious people; industri-
ous, peaceable, and respectful to their superiors. With very few
exceptions they regularly attend public worship; and their decent
appearance on Sabbath days indicates their comfortable circum-
stances.
   Poaching and illicit distillation are now scarcely known among
them.
   During the last three years there were 4 illegitimate births:
but in three of the cases the parties were afterwards married.

                          IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture and Rural Economy.-During the last fifteen or
twenty years agricultural improvements have been carried on with
wonderful activity, and to a great extent, in this parish, especially
on the Sutherland estate. On that estate, there are 4000 acres of
arable land under the plough, besides 2000 acres of waste ground
improved, and carrying crops.
   Improvements.-Among the improvements on waste-land it may
be mentioned that the fresh-water lake, at a place called Balvraid,
near the county road, has been thoroughly drained and prepared,
and is now laid down in crop. The highly improved appearance
of the spot holds out a prospect of remunerating the expense in a
few years. It may be observed also, that, by the erection of the
earthen mound across the estuary of the Little Ferry, from thirty
to forty acres of valuable carse ground, over which the tide for-
merly used to flow, have been brought under the plough, and are


