
290                   EDINBURGHSHIRE.

ness fishing, from which they return, towards the middle of Sep-
tember.  For a month after they return, few or no fish are to
he got.  They then haul down their small boats to fish off North
Berwick and Gullan till the herrings come into the Frith, which
is generally in December; when they go with their large boats
to deep sea fishing, about 25 to 30 miles east of the Isle of May.
A boat makes in good weather two trips in a week.  In April fish
are scarce; about the end of May they- are more plentiful, and
continue so till July, when the Caithness fishing commences.  In
favourable seasons the average amount of each boat's fishing is
about 250 crans at 9s. per cran.  Some of the owners of boats
are in very comfortable circumstances-; and although somewhat
rough and unpolished in their manners, they are, nevertheless,
distinguished for much warmth and kindliness of feeling, for frank-
ness, blunt honesty, and strong affections.  Their wives and daugh-
ters are occupied in procuring bait'. in baiting the lines, and dis-
posing of the fish.  Their character, habits, and personal appear-
ance are so peculiar, that it has been supposed they were a distinct
race, descended probably from foreign settlers, whose manners
they still retain.  It is obvious, however, that their character and
manners, as is the case with other classes, are modified by circum-
stances, the chief of which are, their always marrying amongst their
own caste, and their laborious occupation, which imparts to them
an uncommonly robust and masculine aspect.*
   Gardens.--This parish has long been distinguished for the ex-
cellence of its gardens.  Besides those belonging to private fa-
milies, there is a considerable extent of ground in the immediate
vicinity of the town, occupied as mail-gardens, as they are' called,
the produce of which is sold in the Edinburgh and Glasgow mar-
kets. It may afford some idea of the value and extent of these, to
state that one tenant of a garden pays L. 100 per annum of rent
Musselburgh continues to enjoy a high reputation for leek seed.
Formerly, small fortunes were realized by the market-gardeners
here, chiefly by the sale of flowers; at present, many most respect-
table individuals prosper in the same profession, edibles being, how-
ever, their chief source of profit.
   Produce.--The annual value of agriculture produce may be con-
jectured to be as follows:

<FOOTNOTE>For some remarks on this peculiar class of people of a more general character
than would be admissible in a statistical work, the reader is referred to Chambers's
Edinburgh Journal, Vol. vi. p.258.



