
			DUNDEE.                                 35


`ny very formidable opposition. The only thing likely to inter-
fere with a monopoly, of which there is no complaint on the part
of the public, will be an attempt to establish a conveyance by steam
betwixt Dundee and London, which the present company will pro-
bably anticipate. The smacks belonging to Dundee are not ex-
celled by any of their class anywhere, nor can vessels be better
found, or more skilfully navigated; yet such, is the preference
given to the steam-packets, that many who were wont to go to Lon-
don by the Dundee smacks now find their way thither by Leith
or Aberdeen. *
	In 1830, the Dundee, Perth, and London shipping company
purchased the vessels in the trade between Dundee and Leith, and
added that to their other business. At present they employ alto-
gether twenty-five vessels; and sail one or more of them twice
a-week regularly to London, Leith, and Glasgow, and every alter-
nate day to Perth. The smacks in the London trade are from 150
to 200 tons burden; the others of different sizes, are adapted to the
trade in which they are employed. Those intended for the accom-
modation of passengers are elegantly fitted up.
	In describing the state of our navigation, the passage-boats on
the river betwixt Dundee and Newport must not be overlooked.
Prior to the establishment of steam-boats on this passage, the
small railing-boats were both unpleasant and often dangerous.
Since the establishment of the present conveyance, the public have
reaped the greatest benefit from it. There are two steam vessels,
consisting of twin boats of sufficient size, and worked each of them
by two sufficiently powerful engines. The thoroughfare is great,
and would be much increased, provided the Pettycur passage was
better. As it is, more than 90,000 persons have passed this ferry
in twelve months, besides horses, carriages, and many cattle.
Owing to causes which are not generally understood, the funds of
this ferry are said to be not in the most prosperous state,-an evil

<FOOTNOTE>Since the above was written, two steamships have been launched by the ship-
ping-company here, and are in a state of forwardness for the London trade. These
ships measure, on deck, 180 feet long, by 50 feet broad over paddles; and each
of them will be propelled by engines of 280 horse-power. Their cabins will be
fitted up both elegantly and commodiously; and their stowage for goods will exceed
that of any two smacks in the trade; while they will afford every facility for the con-
veyance of horses, carriages, black cattle, sheep, &c. These vessels are expected to
commence plying early in the spring of 1834; and will not only add to our present
means of conveyance for the ordinary merchandise of this district of the kingdom,
but will probably open up a new channel for agricultural and commercial enterprise.


