
                           GLENCAIRN.                       333

and the general course of improvement pursued, is to lime it for
one or two years before, at the rate of fifty measures or six carts
per acre, or by laying the same quantity upon it when it is ploughed
up. If the first plan be followed, a crop is generally taken the year
in which it is ploughed; if the second, not till the ensuing year; next,
a green crop, when the ground is sufficiently broken to admit of its
being taken,-otherwise, a second crop of oats; after the green crop,
another crop of oats, and sown out with two bushels of rye-grass seed
and six pound of rib-grass per acre, or the same quantity of clover
seed.
   Draining used formerly to be done in a very insufficient manner;
but of late years, there has been a very great improvement in this
respect, as the drains both upon the sheep pasture and on the
low lands, are now generally made in a more scientific manner.
   Irrigation has only been tried on a small scale, but with the us-
ual beneficial results. Embanking the river Cairn has been car-
ried to a very considerable extent, and most judiciously, both on
the estates of Maxwellton and Crawfordton. Leases are generally
for fifteen years.
   Many of the principal heritors have expended large sums, of late,
in improving their estates,-particularly Sir Robert Lawrie, who
has erected excellent new farm-steadings upon all the farms of his
estate; and his whinstone dikes are surpassed by none. He has also
been most successful in improving moss, which must have repaid
him well by the immense crops of oats, carrots, and hay, which the
improvement has yielded.
   Robert C. Ferguson, Esq. of Craigdarroch, has planted to a
greater extent than any proprietor in the parish; and the plantations
are laid out so as to ornament the estate. They are well managed,
and are in a very thriving condition.
   We may safely state, that improvement has not been obstructed
in this parish by the want of capital: during the last fifty years,
the arable land has been more than quadrupled.
   A large proportion of the land is in the hands of resident pro-
prietors; and where let, the leases are generally on liberal terms.
The farms are well enclosed and subdivided with stone dikes, and
the steadings are, in general, sufficient
   Quarries and Mines.-There is a slate-quarry at Benbuie, which
the proprietor, Mr Barber, wrought for some years with considerable
spirit, but which he afterwards abandoned, in consequence of the
slates proving of an inferior quality.



