
80                          SHETLAND.

neral are very poor, and all that can be collected on Sundays in
the year is not sufficient for the maintenance and support of those
upon the poor's roll. There are no Societies established for reli-
gious purposes.
   Education.-At present, there are five schools in the parish
one parochial school, one Society school, and three supported by
individual subscriptions only, for three or four months in the win-
ter season. The branches of education generally taught in each,
are, reading writing, grammar, arithmetic, book-keeping, and
navigation.
   The salary of the parochial schoolmaster is L.25, 3s. 4d., but lie
has not as yet obtained the legal accommodations; and the amount
of school-fees is very small, about L. 4, The salary of the So-
ciety schoolmaster is L. 15, and the fees and perquisites amount
to L. 1. The salaries of the other schoolmasters are from L. 1,
I Os. to L. 9. a quarter; and they lodge with the parents of the
children.
   It is believed that there are none from six to fifteen years of age,
who cannot read tolerably well. There are many, however, who
cannot write, particularly among the females, although some of
these also are able to produce very good specimens.
   Three additional and permanent schools are absolutely neces-
sary to give the scattered population of this parish even the ele-
ments of education. Those schools which are open in the winter
season for three or four months, are attended with very little bene-
fit to the children, a* they commonly lose in the Summer what is
gained in the winter. And there are three situations in this pa-
.risb, distant each six and ten miles from the parochial school,
where, if qualified and respectable teachers were obtained, they
would be attended by sixty or seventy scholars. And as the
people themselves, being so very poor, are'unable to provide pro-
per accommodations for a qualified teacher, or give him a suitable
provisio . n, they must wait patiently till the eye of the charitable
and benevolent is bent towards them, and the hand opened to their
relief.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-There are, at present, 60 persons
receiving parochial aid, and the sum allotted to each per year is
from 3s. to LOs. according to age, poverty, and other circumstances.
The money thus given is to provide clothing only, as the poor, for
the most part, have a certain quarter or district of the parish as-
signed them to Obtain a livelihood and t hey usually go from


