
                           DULL.                             763

 their size and symmetry, and all of which greatly add to the beauty
 of the general landscape. The largest of these known to the
 writer hereof are to be seen in the vicinity of Grandtully Castle,
 Moness House, and in the plain of Appin. In the lawn at Moness
 House, we meet with trees of the following girths at two feet from
 the ground : ash, 15 feet ; cedar of Lebanon, 13 feet; larch, 11
 feet ; poplar, 9 feet.  Some of these splendid trees may be seen
 towering above their less noted, but still magnificent, compeers of
 the forest, and raising their lofty heads to the height of 100 feet.
 Towards the east of Camserny Bridge, in Appin, there are three
 elms whose circumferences at two feet from the ground measure
 respectively 14 feet, 13 feet, and 11 feet. These trees are planted
 upon the south side of the road, in a line with the hedge, and, if
 co‰val with it, cannot greatly exceed 100 years of age, as a person,
 who only died last year, recollected wben the hedge was quite
 young, and guarded by a fence on either side. And last, though
 not least worthy of being noticed, are two golden willows in the
 manse garden. These beautiful willows were brought from Bol-
 fracks, as a riding switch, by the late incumbent, about thirty-six
 years ago; and their respective girths at the same height with the
 above now measure 8 feet and 7 feet. The elms and willows are
 planted in soils equally congenial to the nature of both,and,if the age
 of the former be accurately ascertained, the mean annual growth of
 the willow will be found to correspond with that of the elm as 2 1/2 to
 1 1/2 nearly. The only kind of wood hitherto planted which seems
 not to thrive in this parish, excepting in low and very favourable
 situations, is the Scotch fir. The rock of Dull is almost exclu-
 sively covered with it, which gives it a rombre and uninteresting
 aspect in summer; but in winter, again, it has quite the appear-
 ance of an oasis amidst the bleak and leafless forests by which it
 is surrounded.
                           II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Land-owners.-There is no district, perhaps, in the Highlands
 of Perthshire where the tenure of property is so fluctuating as in
 this parish. In corroboration of this, it is sufficient to observe,
 that no fewer than thirteen estates, belonging thereto either in
 whole or in part, have passed by purchase into the hands of diffe-
 rent proprietors during the last fifty years. The following list com-
 prehends the names of the present land-owners connected with
 the parish, and the valuations of their respective properties situat-
 ed within the same:


