
     Statistical Account

from potatoes, of which a great quantity is planted, mostly
in lazy beds.  Drilling potatoes is now introduced.  The
increase is from 8 to 20 seeds, and the incumbent has seen
it at 32.  They tell of far superior increase in grain, when
the land was in good condition.  There were then scarcely
tenants sufficient to occupy the lands, though now they are
so numerous, that the ground is set in too small portions to
accommodate perhaps 12 or 24 of them in one farm, each
paying from 1 L. to 4 L. 4 s. of yearly rent.  The consequence
is, they plough as much as they can; and their lands are
impoverished, as they seldom get rest.  Above two-thirds of
the manure are sea-weed.  The great quantity of salt they
contain is, indeed, poison to many weeds; but as they soon
putrify and dissolve, and, as a stimulus, produce their effect,
they cannot last long, nor add much to the soil, having but
little earth.  Till the middle of June, the cattle are suffered
to pasture on the corn, which also very much prevents a bet-
ter return.  Such practices, with the unfavourable climate
make the crop precarious.  The soil of Coll, though broken
with rocks, is preferable, and the returns are in proportion.
Repeated trials have been made of sowing great white oats.
The ground was either poor, too dry or too wet.  They did
riot ripen as early as the native oats, and could not withstand
the storms.  Often they did not return even their feed,
though they might answer well in some spots, if inclosed,
drained, and sown early.  The parish is under a great dis-
advantage in not getting a more frequent change of different
seeds; and that is never enjoyed unless by a few gentlemen,
at a very high expence, with many disappointments.  In-
troducing pease, turnips, and other roots, and green crops in
general, would be a great improvement, especially in this
soil and climate.  The native flax is scarcely 18 inches long;
and there are no ways of dressing it expeditiously, whereby


