
518	  LANARKSHIRE.

divides it from Douglas on the west; and Douglas Water is the
boundary between it and Lesmahagow on the northwest. The
Clyde, from its confluence with Douglas water to Millhill, divides
it from the parish of Lanark on the north. It is bounded by the
parishes of Pettinain and Covington on the east. The boundary
line by which the parish is surrounded, as exhibited on the map is
very irregular.
	The surface of the parish presents a very unequal and diversi-
fied aspect, the mountain range of Tinto looking down from a
commanding elevation upon the several hills and valleys which lie
at its base, and sending from its rocky caverns many tributary
streams, to the Clyde and Douglas-Water. Tinto, it has often
been said, signifies the hill of fire; but whether it was so called
frnm the fires which were kindled upon it at Beltane, or in the be-
ginning of May, in honour of some tutelary deity, or on whatever
other occasion, I do not presume to determine. The hills of a
secondary order are Carmichael, Drumalbin, Whitecastle, Cross-
ridge, and Stonehill, some of them rising to a considerable heights
though of a diminutive size, compared with Tinto. Very different
elevations have been assigned to Tinto. The difference may be
easily traced to the different points where the measurement com-
mences. The highest point of the cairn or heap of stones on the
summit is 1740 feet above the Clyde at Thankerton, and 2351
above the Clyde at the old bridge of Glasgow. Colonel Roy's ba-
rometrical measurement gave 2432 feet. As the lowest parts of
the parish are washed by the Clyde, the average elevation of the
whole must, be considerably above 600 feet.
	Topographical Appearances.--The general aspect of the parish
is rather hilly than mountainous. The intervening valleys and ac-
clivities have very different soils. The southern acclivities are ge-
nerally the most fertile. The land towards the Clyde is of a thin
sandy soil. In some parts of the parish, it is a pretty deep loam;
but the greater proportion of the arable land is a clayey and wet
soil, resting on a substratum of cold impervious till, or ferruginous
clay, mixed with water-rolled stones of almost every description
Unless a considerable depth of this subsoil be exposed to the me-
liorating influence of the sun and air, no beneficial improvements
can be made upon the surface. When it is turned up, lime
or some other earth should be mixed with it, in order to lessen
its adhesive quality. It is probable it may, some years hence, by
operation of a subsoil plough, or means, be com-

			3


