
                             LUSS.                              167

Education.--There is one parish school and two others in the pa-
rish; one for the ordinary branches, the other for educating girls,
supported partly by the family of Luss, and partly by the payments
of the scholars. For many years, a salary was received from the
Society for Propagating Christian Knowledge, by the teacher of
the former of these two schools; but the regulations having been
departed from, the salary was withdrawn. The salary paid to
the teacher of the parochial school, which is situated at the vil-
lage, is the maximum: that paid to the teacher of the other school
for common education, is L. 15 yearly, and be has school fees be-
sides. This school is situated at Moorland, four miles south from
Luss. A comfortable dwelling-house has recently been built for
the teacher, at the expense of Sir James Colquhoun, and the te-
nantry in the neighbourhood of the school. The mistress of the
girls' school is paid L. 15 annually, but no fees. The branches
taught in the parish school are, English, writing, accounts, Latin,
French, &c. The teacher accommodates boys for board and edu-
cation. In Moorland school, the same branches are taught, Latin
and French being excepted. The girls in the third school,
which is located nearly half-way between the other two, learn sew-
ing, reading, and writing. The parish teacher has the legal ac-
commodations: and his school fees amount to L. 15 a year. The
people in general are alive to the importance of education. The
inhabitants of the upper part of Glenduglas are too far from any
of the schools of the parish to send their children to them. The
number of families so situated is four,--the nearest of them being
five miles and a-half from the parish school.
  Library.--A library has existed in this parish for many years, and
seems to have been established for the sole benefit of the incumbents
of the parish, as the books (upwards of 100 in number,) are all old,
and chiefly in Greek or Latin. A small circulating library (up-
wards of 80 volumes) was set on foot also some years ago, by the
present incumbent, consisting chiefly of practical divinity.
  Savings Bank.--A savings bank was established nine yearsago,and
although those for whose benefit it was intended, have not great-
ly profited by it,--yet it has been very useful to the respectable
servants in the parish.  Nearly L. 300 have been accumulated.
  Poor and Parochial Funds.--The averace number of poor re-
ceiving aid from the parish fund is 24; many of these receive
small sums half yearly; the average sum allotted to each weekly
pauper being 1s. 9d. The annual amount of contributes for


