
                              STOW.                         431

number of them this year is not mentioned, but next year it was
9.  This number added to 96 gives 105 as the whole souls in the
"toun."  The amount of poll-tax paid by the 96 was L. 45, 2s.
2d. Scots.  The largest sum paid by an individual, "Thomas
Scott, nottar publick," was L. 4, 6s., his wife and daughter, 12s.
The next highest, paid by "Mr James Douglas, minister of Stow,"
L. 3, 6s.  There are only four cases besides in which the tax
amounts to L. 1 Scots, but these include whole families.  A wife,
an apprentice, a cottar, and a single woman, without regard to
rank, were all rated at 6s. each.  Thus we have seen that the
"nottar publick's" wife and daughter pay between them only 12s.
Nay, in another place, we find a considerable proprietor, John
Inglis of Mannerhead, then living at Cortleferry, pays L. 12, 6s.,
and "Elspeth Mitchelson, his lady," pays but 6s.  What an out-
cry in these times would a poll-tax in any form have raised, but
especially this glaring inequality in levying it.
   This curious list enables us to ascertain the following facts re-
garding the village of Stow at that time.  There were in it 1 no-
tary public, 1 baxter (baker), 3 coopers, including an apprentice,
4 tailors, 2 wrights, 1 maltsman, 8 weavers, 2 smiths, including an
apprentice.  At present, with more than three times the popula-
tion, there are 1 cooper, 1 wrigbt or carpenter, besides 2 or more
men, 3 tailors, 2 smiths, with 2 journeymen apprentices, 2 weav-
ers, not fully employed, no notary public or writer, and what is
most surprising, seeing the people live almost exclusively on loaf
bread there, it is only lately (1838) there was a baker in the village,
while there is but one more in the parish.
   From this curious document we incidentally learn the rate of
servants' wages at that period; for it was this which fixed the
amount of the tax, and so rendered it an income tax, descending
to the humblest occupation in the community.  A man-servant's
wages, called his "fie and bounteth," varied in Stow from L. 20
to L. 25, 4s. = L. 2, 2s.  Sterling.  This last was the wages of the
minister's servant.  The highest "fie and bounteth" I find any-
where is at "Cortilferrie," (occupied by John Inglis of Manner-
head) L. 27, = L. 2, 5s. Sterling.  This seems to have been a
person of trust and responsibility, as the "fie and bounteth" of the
very next person on the list is L. 19.  Others (boys it would seem
from the amount) have, one L. 11, another L. 5, another L. 3.
The average for men would seem to be about L. 20, = L. 1, 13.
Ad. Sterling.  On the same establishment I find 3 women servants,


