
2			WIGTONSHIRE.

tions  of land, called borough-acres, most of whom reside in the
town or neighourhood.
	Parochial Registers.--The earliest bears date 1701, and is
brought down to 1740. After this period, it has been irregularly
kept, and much neglected until 1800.
	Antiquities.--One of the most remarkable monuments of antiquity
in the parish is the Standing Stones of Torhouse. It is one of those
circles of large stones supposed by some to be the remains of Druidic
temples, by others courts of justice, and reckoned by not a few to
mark the spot where a battle has been fought, and where the chiefs
have been slain and buried. The stones are nineteen in number,
and of unpolished granite. "In the highway betwixt Wigton and
Port-Patrick," says Symson in his Description of Galloway, writ-
ten in 1684, "about three miles westward of Wigton, is a plaine,
called the 'Moor of Standing Stones of Torhouse,' in which there
is a monument of three large whinstones, (called King Galdus's
Tomb,) surrounded, at about twelve feet distance, with nineteen
considerable stones, (but none of them so great as the three
first mentioned) erected in a circumference." This opinion, which
has obtained the sanction of the celebrated antiquarian, Sir Ro-
bert Sibbald, of Timothy Pont, seems the most probable, if not al-
togdther certain, (See his "Galloway Typographized,") and other
writers. As these Standing Stones are supposed to constitute a
monument to the memory of Galdus, King of the Scots, who con-
quered the province from the Romans, so there are several heaps
of small, stones in the neighbourhood, called Cairns, alleged to
mark the burial-place of the common soldiers. There are also
several single stones of considerable size erected at different spots
in the vicinity, which are regarded as indicating the, tombs of the
commanders and persons of note that fell in the engagement.
(Sibbald's MSS. Adv. Lib. Jac. 5th 1. 4.)
	Of the Castle of Wigton, which was built as early at least as
the middle 6f the thirteenth century, scarcely any traces can now
be found. It is understnod to have been situated on the banks of
the Bladenoch, south of the town, at a place where in ancient
times that river fdll into the bay. The fosse is quite discernible;
and though the foundation of the walls cannot be traced, mortar
and other remains, indicative of an ancient building, are still to be
observed. So important was this castle, that it was delivered in
1291 into the hands of Edward H., till the claims of the different
competitors for the crown were decided. He entrusted it to the


