
                        DALKEITH.                            519

the same subject,-the writings of Pierius, which were com-
piled from a profound investigation of the sacred mysteries of the
Egyptian priests, being a favourite study with the Chancellor,
In his declining years, he was on intimate terms with Thomas,
Earl of Melrose, * who also patronised his studies, and of whom he
speaks in the most laudatory terms.  He was the author of Phi-
lomela Dalkethensis,-a congratulatory poem addressed to King
James VI. on his visit to Dalkeitb, in 1617, as has been already
mentioned.  Being a zealous supporter of the purity and simpli-
city of the Presbyterian worship, lie was banished to Aberdeen for
six months, for his opposition to the innovations of King Jewes
and his hostility to the Episcopal ceremonies.  He died at Dal-
keith in December 1628.
  Deeply imbued with the love of revealed truth, his tenti-
ments were highly ofthodox, and his piety fervent and practical.
He possessed considerable genius; his imagination was rich and
lively; his learning extensive and varied; and his style, both Eng-
lish and Latin, is fluent, and not unfrequently elegant, though
occasionally disfigured by a coarseness of ideas not unusual at that
period.  But the value of his writings is greatly reduc6d by his
excessive fondness for allegorical exposition,-an unfortunate ten-
dency, which is at all times unfavourable to the interests of truth,
but especially so in an age when irreligion and scepticism                                Would
consider the refutation of such puerilities as the overthrow of reli-
gion itself. +

<FOOTNOTE>This title, derived from the Abbey of Melrose, wag suppressed in 1627, and the
title of Earl of Haddington substituted in its place.-Wood's Peerage, Vol. i. 678.
    He is the author of the following works, viz:-_
    1. Christ's seven words upon the 10ross.
    2. Reptameron, The seven Dayes,_That is, Meditations and Prayers upon the
work of the Lord's creation. To&ther with other certaine  prayers and meditations,
most comfortable for all estates, &c.  By M. A. Symson, Minister at Dalkeith.  Sainct
Andreus.  Pritxted by Edward Raban, Printer to the Universitie. 1621.
    3. Samson's seaven lockes of Haire ; Allegorically expounded and compared to the
seaven spirituall. vertues, whereby we are able to overcome our spirituals Philistine%
By M. A. Syrnson, Minister of the Ettangell at Dalkeith. Printed-at Saiuct Andrews,
by Edward 'Raban, Printer to the Universitie. 1621.
    4. A sacred Septenarie, or a Godly and Fruitful Exposition on the seaven Psalms of
repentance.  Serving especially for the direction and comfort of an such who are either
troubled in mind, diseased in body, or persecuted by the wicked. By Mr A. Symsozi,
Pastor of the Church at Dalkeith in Scotland.  London, 1623.
    5. Hieroglyphuca Animalium, Terrestrium, Volatilium. Natatilitim, Reptilium In-
sectorum, Vegetirorum, Metallorum, lapidum, &c.-quse in Scriptaris sacris inveni-
untur, et plurimorum aliorum, cum eorum interpritatonibus, ob Theologiae studiosos.
Opus contexture per Archibaldum Simsont, Dalkethemsis Ecclesiai Pastorem.-
Edinburgi, Excudebat Thomas Finalson, Augustissimae Regiae Majest. Typographus,
1622, cum Privilegiis.- This first part contains only the "Hieroglyphica Terrestrium."
The second part, containing "Hieroglyphica Volatilium," and the third part, contain-
ing "Hieroglyphics Natatilium," were printed at Edinburgh in 1623.


