
     of Kirkconnel.

   Mineral Waters.-The most remarkable mineral springs
here are, one on the top of the Rig-hill, and another at the
Rig-burn.  The first is not wide, but very deep, and of the
same quality as the Merkland Spaw in Galloway; and has
been used with much advantage for stomachic complaints.
The other, called Rig-burn Spaw, is well known.  By a che-
mical analysis, it has been ascertained to be the same in quali-
ty with the Hart-field spring, near Moffat, but almost twice
as strong.  It has been found very powerful in scorbutic cases,
and very beneficial in some stomachic ailments.  Certain it is,
it exhilarates the spirits, gives an edge to the appetite, and
promotes digestion.  It is collected into two large stone cis-
terns; the one nearest the fountain is covered with an arched
roof, and kept locked; the other is likewise covered with
strong stone flags, and open at the under end, where any that
come may be served.  This was done about 8 or 9 years ago,
at the expence of the principal people in this neighbourhood.
Nothing is charged for the water, which has been sent
for, from very distant parts of the country, even from Edin-
burgh and Glasgow; but it is used with most advantage on the
spot*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*A singular proof of this, and of the efficacy of the waters
as an antiscorbutic, occurred several years ago in the case of an
Englishman, who had been dismissed from Carlisle infirmary, as
incurable.  He came in the winter time, was very poor, depen-
ded chiefly on the humanity of the people around, and was but
indifferently accommodated, considering what his case required.
For, to say nothing of other effects of the scorbutic habit he la-
boured under, he was quite emaciated, bowed down, feeble,
and dispirited.  But after the regular use of this water, taken
from the spring twice or thrice a day, he gradually recruited,
till in about 8 weeks time he became quite well, and went away
stout, lively, and joyous, because of his unexpected and remark-
able recovery.


