
     Statistical Account

<UNREADABLE>

in an equal and charitable spirit.  The dissenters from the
established Church attend occasionally upon it, and live with
the minister and people as if there was no difference in their
views.  Splendid acts of beneficence do not fall within their
lot.  But the poor in the several quarters of the parish, in
such severe seasons as this, in point of fuel, find themselves
cared for by their neighbours, when even the good ailment
from the session funds could not command the carriage of
that essential article.  In the year 1783, to destressful to
Scotland, the farmers in the body of this parish had a better
crop, and more safely got in, than in almost any part of the
country.  Several of them manifested their good dispositions,
by sending meal to be disposed of by a proper person in a
centrical spot, to such householders as were recommended by
the kirk-session, considerably below the market price.  The
people here are, in general, extremely contented with their
condition; and they have no small cause to be so, as even
the poorest of them, both men and women, who enjoy
health, have abundance of work, and good encouragement.
Even the cottars, subtenants, tradesmen, and labourers, who
have families, have their children sought after almost as soon
as they are able to do any thing; and the education of the
young folks is often helped forward by those with whom
they reside, in order to attach them more strongly as ser-
vants.  The people here have no propensity to emigration
and adventure.  Not above one or two are in the army, and
none in the navy.  A considerable number of the present
inhabitants were born in other parishes, but all are natives of
Scotland.  To this contented, quiet spirit, it is probably ow-
ing that fragrant crimes do not occur.  It is beyond a doubt,
that the people are much improved since last century, both in
morals and in manners.  In the old records, there are in-
stances of persons subjected to discipline for dragging nets on

</UNREADABLE>


