
                            PENNINGHAME.                 189

for by the heritors, and preparations are now maling for building
it.
	The present church affords accommodation for about 700 sit-
ters; it was calculated to bold 750, but too, little room was allow-
ed. There are about 25 free sittings. The rents of the let seats
are low; some of them ls. a year only.
	The manse is a house that was built by the present incumbent
in 1828; and it was purchased, and made a manse by the heri-
tors, with concurrence of the presbytery, in March last. The
glebe contains nearly 12 acres (Scotch,) and when let was rent-
ed at L. 22, 17s. 2d. The stipend is 16 chaiders, half meal, half
barley, with L. 10 communion element money.
	There is a church or chapel built lately in the parish of Min-
nigraff, which will accommodate a portion of the northern end of
this parish. A district has not yet been regularly assigned to it.
The church was built by subscription, and arrangements are in
progress for building a manse in the same way. The preacher
(for there is regular public worship) is paid by the heritors and
people. The greater part of his salary of L. 50 is paid by the Earl
of Galloway, and James Blair, Esq. of Penninnghame.
	There is a church belonging to the Relief, and another to the
Reformed Presbytery in NewtonstewarL But I am not informed
how the ministers are paid, nor what is the amount of their stipends.
	There is also in the parish a Roman Catholic Chapel, and the
bishop resides in Glasgow.
	The number of persons professedly belonging to the Establish-
ed Church is 2723: families about 530. The number of Dissent-
ers of all denominations, including Roman Catholics, is 833. The
discrepancy between the sum of those and the census 1831, arises
from a colony of above twenty families, established in the parish,
on the small allotment system, since that date. Number of Dis-
senters and Seceders, 640; professed Episcopalians, 9; Roman
Catholics, 184.
	Divine service in the Established Church, considering the cir-
cumstances of the parish, is well attended.
	The average number of communicants at the Established Church
is rather above 700.
	There is a Society for religious purposes managed by Dissenters,
of the funds of which I have no knowledge. There is also a Society
for the distribution of tracts (religious,) supported by subscrip-
tion, and a collection in church when necessary. Under the
management of the kirk-session, there is a Sunday school, and also


