
654                     EDINBURGHSHIRE.

The palace is of a quadrangular form, with a court in the centre,
surrounded by piazzas. The grand front consists of two large
circular turreted towers at each end. A lower gallery, with a flat
roof, extends from each of these, in the middle of which is the
entrance gate, supported by four pillars, and bearing, the royal
arms; above which rises a cupola, supporting an imperial crown.
The front walls of the interior quadrangles are ornamented with
numerous Doric pillasters; and the whole square presents a very
noble aspect. In the corner of the north quadrangle are Queen
Mary's apartments, preserved in nearly the original state in which
she left them. Her bed of crimson damask, chairs, tapestry, and
other furniture, are still preserved; and the little supper-room, where
the conspirators entered by a private stair, and dragged out the un-
fortunate Rizzio to be barbarously murdered, still remains. This
apartment, about 12 feet square, is immediately adjoining and
communicates with her bed-room. On the same side of the pa-
lace is a large hall, called the picture gallery, disfigured by a num-
ber of wretched daubs, purporting to be a series of the Scottish
kings. On the south side is another large apartment, where
Cleorge IV. held his levees in 1822. The only ornament here
is an excellent full length portrait of that monarch in the High-
land costume, by Sir David Wilkie.
   The Duke of Hamilton, who is hereditary keeper of the palace,
has partments here. Prince Charles Edward took up his tempo-
rary abode in Holyrood in 1745, and for a brief space made the
palace the gay scene of mimic royalty. For a long time it re-
mained deserted, till in 1793 the French revolution drove the
counts De Artois to seek an asylum in it. He again returned in
1830 as the deposed Charles X., and lived here with his exiled
court for about twelve months. The Earl of Haddington, who
was hereditary keeper of the adjoining King's Park, has now ceded
his rivilege to her Majesty, and measures are in progress for far.
ther improving this royal demesne.
   Calton Hill.-This conical, eminence bounds the New Town on
the east. In the year, 1816, when, in consequence of the depres-
sed state of trade, and the high price of provisions, a great propor-
tion of the labouring poor were in distressed circumstances, a sub-
acription was raised for their relief, and the able bodied were em-
ployed in forming walks around this hill, and around Salisbury
Crags. The view from the Calton Hill of the Firth of Forth and
of the opposite shores of the Fife coast is exceedingly beautiful.


