
                      ABERDEEN.                          87

commodations, both for fevers and other complaints, resolved on
erecting a new building on an enlarged scale, and with the various
improvements in its construction, which have been suggested by
experience and the judgment of those conversant with the requi-
sites of hospitals; and in the course of the next year, the west
wing of the new house was erected, at an expense of L. 5300.
Sixty beds were thus obtained for the reception of fever cases.  In
pursuance of the plan, a contract was entered into in the latter part
of the year 1835 for the completion of the building, at an expense
of L. 8500.  The principal part of this erection is now finished,
and has been occupied for several months.  The arrangements
cannot be completely carried out until certain buildings be erected
in the rear of the house, on the site of the old building; but when
this is accomplished, the whole number of patients that may be
received into the house will be 210.  The wards are of large size,
lofty and well aired, in number twenty, with eleven smaller apart-
ments for the reception of cases requiring to be treated separately,
and with every convenience that is to be found in the most ap-
proved hospitals in the island.
   When, by the liberality of the public, and by means of nume-
rous donations and bequests, the managers of the Infirmary found
themselves not merely possessed of the funds necessary for carry-
ing on the institution from year to year, but able to accumulate a
surplus to meet future exigencies, it became of importance that
this property should be secured by giving a permanent character
to the body in which it was vested.  Accordingly, in 1773, a
Crown charter was obtained, by which certain of the magistrates,
the Professor of Medicine in Marischal College, and the Modera-
tor of the Synod of Aberdeen, (all for the time being,) together
with individual donors to the extent of L. 50, and persons named
by those bequeathing a like sum, were appointed to be the direc-
tors, to whom were added, as annual directors, donors to the ex-
tent of L. 5, and fourteen persons to be chosen out of the various
bodies and classes of inhabitants in Aberdeen, according to a
scheme laid down in the charter.
   The details of the management of this institution are, in accord-
ance with a resolution of date 28th November 1821, entrusted to a
committee of sixteen chosen annually, which divides itself into four
sub-committees, each of which takes the duties for three months
in rotation.  These sub-committees hold weekly meetings, and re-
port monthly to the committee whose proceedings are laid before
the general body of managers at their quarterly meetings.  Spe-


