
                          LONGSIDE.                         871

employments, and consequently dependent, in some measure, on
the public bounty.  Notwithstanding, therefore, the increased
collections at the new church, the session have been obliged to
uplift a considerable part of the sum which had been laid up twenty
or thirty years ago; and thus, unless the heritors make timely and
regular contributions, this barrier in the way of a legal assessment
may speedily be removed.
   Fairs.-Of these, eleven are held in the course of the year, viz.
two at Longside, in May and November; three at Lenabo, in
March, June, and November; and six at Mintlaw, in February,
April, June, August, October, and December, all for cattle, sheep,
and horses.  The two at Longside are also for feeing servants.
Farmers attend the weekly grain-market in Peterhead.
   Inns.-There are three inns; that at Mintlaw, being convenient
for travellers, is most frequented.  Of spirit-shops, there are not
many; and truly desirable it is, that such temptations were more
withheld from the community than they are.
   Fuel.-This consists chiefly of peat, dug in the parish, and car-
ried home generally before harvest, costing about 2s. 6d. a cart-
load.  What with casting, setting, and bringing home, it cannot
be reckoned cheap, except to those who reside near the moss.
Wood thinnings are partially used.  Coals are also brought from
Peterhead, the nearest sea-port, and must, at no very distant pe-
riod, prove almost the only fuel that can be procured.

   MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS. In all that respects the profitable cultivation of land and rearing
of cattle, the efficiency of implements and commodiousness of
dwellings, an incredible advance has been made in the course of
the last fifty years.  Superstitious notions and usages have mostly
fled, prejudices have given way, and sympathies have been ex-
tended to a wider range.  Business is transacted in a more liberal
spirit, and credit is placed on a more solid foundation.  Other
improvements have been already noticed in the course of this ac-
count.  Happy would the writer be, if, with equal certainty, he
could record a corresponding advance in all that relates to vital
Christianity, and to the infinitely higher interests of the life to
Come.

   Drawn up November 1841.
     Revised July 1842.


