
     Statistical Account

Sterling; and the rent of the houses in the town 475 L. 16 s.
The Earl of Eglintoune is proprietor of more than a third
part of the lands of the parish.  There are 8 other consider-
able proprietors; 4 of whom reside in it; and 60 small pro-
prietors, called feuers, 15 of whom are non-residing.  There
have been

<TABLE>

New houses built, within these 10 years,                                           16
Houses, pulled down, and rebuilt on a much neater and more commodious
 plan than formerly.                                                               16
Weavers shops new built,                                                            6
The number of farms is                                                            132
The size of the farms is reckoned to be from 15 to upwards of 100 acres.
Number of houses in the town,                                                     183
Average rent yearly,                                                       2 l. 12 s.
Uninhabited houses*,                                                                3

</TABLE>

   Rivers and Fish, etc.-There are 2 rivers in the parish,
Garnock and Lugton.  The last of these rises in the parish of
Neilston in Renfrewshire.  It runs through a great part of
this parish, and falls into the Garnock, about an English mile
below Englintoune Castle.  There is plenty of very fine trouts
in it.  Garnock, by far the most considerable of these 2 rivers,
has its source in the high hills in the parish of Kilbirney,
about the distance of 10 English miles from the town of
Kilwinning.  After running for some miles through this pa-
rish, it falls into the Irish Sea at the harbour of Irvine.  It is
well stored with salmon, and with different kinds of excellent
trouts.  The salmon fishing, in this river, is at the best in the
month of July; and is the exclusive property of Lord Englin-
toune, from about one fourth of a mile above the town, to
where the river falls into the sea.  Like all rivers which
have their sources in very elevated situations, it is liable to

<FOOTNOTE>

*These a houses are in the parish.  In the town, the houses are all inhabited.


