
536                     DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

make the whole population of the parish about 1000. Last sum-
mer, a neat and commodious dwelling-house was erected in the
for the minister, but is scarcely yet finished.
	The stipend or income of the present minister is derived from the
seat rents, or voluntary pecuniary aid of the benevolent proprietor
of Mount Annan or Brydekirk estates, within which the greatest
part of the parish is placed; but it is to be hoped, that, ere long,
his station and labours in the church will be rewarded according
to his merits. The church is well attended by a devout and se-
rious congregation, much attached to their minister. The poor-
rates and other parochial affairs are conducted on much the same
principles as those adopted in the landward parts of the parish of
Annan.
	The schoolmaster, very recently appointed to the situation, has
not yet been accommodated with any school-house properly fitted
up, nor dwelling-house. His salary consists of L. 10 yearly, be-
ing a commutation of a victual stipend, assigned, while the school
formed a branch school of the parish of Annan in 1828. The
number of scholars attending the school here may vary from 60 to
80 in summer and winter. There is likewise an infant school es-
tablished here, and a school for teaching girls reading and sewing,
both taught by females. A Sabbath evening school has also
been established by the minister of the parish, which is now at-
tended by 100 young people.
	There is a corn mill in the village, constructed on the best prin-
ciples, fot grinding corn and dressing flour. A substantial stone
bridge, consisting of three arches, was thrown over the Annan,
here, upwards of twenty years ago, at a very considerable expense
to the public. At the east end of the bridge a large building was
erected for the manufacturing of wool, much about the same pe-
riod when the bridge was built, and to which, machinery for saw-
ing timber has been attached. The intersecting roads here are
kept in good repair.

	December 1837.


