
16                                LANARKSHIRE.

	In the mansion-house at Bonington are preserved a few inte-
resting relies of Sir William Wallace, of whose family the Rosses
claim to be the representatives in the female line. These were
brought from the old castle of Lamington. A portrait there
shows the chieftain in look and features much as he is repre-
sented in the common pictures. There is also a broad oaken
seat, which has borne from time immemorial the name of Wallace's
Chair. The four large posts which compose its frame-work, and
of which the two at the back are considerably higher than those
in front, are the only parts which have any claim to antiquity, and
certainly are sufficiently rude for the fourteenth century. All the
rest together, with the bear skin with which it has been covered,
are modern additions. A third object is a small oaken cup, called
Wallace's quaigh, evidently of very great antiquity. *
	Lee-penny.--The most celebrated antiquity, however, which we
have to mention is the Lee-penny. This is a small triangular stone,
of what kind, a lapidary, to whom it was shown, confessed himself
unable to determine. In size, it is about half an inch on each side,
and is set in a piece of silver coin, which, from the traces of a cross
still discernible, is supposed to be a shilling of Edward the First.
The traditional history of this gem is as follows:--King Robert
Bruce had ordered, that after his death his heart should be carried
to the Holy Land, and one of those who joined the expedition, ap-
pointed to carry the royal wish into effect, was Sir Simon Lockard
of Lee. To defray his expenses, he borrowed a sum of money
from Sir William de Lindsay, prior of Ayre, to whom he granted
a bond of annuity for L. 10 upon his estate of Lee. This bond,
bearing date 1323, is still preserved amongst the family papers.
As a memorial of his services upon this occasion, the family name
of locard was changed into Lock-heart or Lockhart and he ob-

	Among the minor antiquities may be mentioned the church bell. It was removed
from the old to the present parish church, and has been several times refounded. It
bears the date of these. The first is so early as 1110, the second 1659; and the last
1740.

<FOOTNOTE>Its history is thus recorded in verse upon the silver hoop which encircles the
edge:--
			At Torwood I was cut from that known tres,
			Where Wallace from warres toyls took sanotaric.
			For Mars's onnes I'm now made fitt,
			When with the sonnes of Bacchus they shall sitt.

Sir Walter Scott, in the Tales of a Grandfather, mentions his having forty years ago
examined the roots of the oak here alluded to, which at that time were all that remain-
ed of it.


