
                         LISMORE AND APPIN.                        255

be given yearly, so long as the legacy lasts.  This money is in the
hands of Mr Downie of Appin, who implements regularly the
testator's will, and, as drafts are made upon the capital, the money
is now more than half expended.  Besides these there is no other
mode of providing funds for the benefit of the poor.  There is no
prison in the parish, and there is but little use for any such erec-
tion, for although many of the people are poor, yet they are honest,
and otherwise well behaved, so that the police is a sinecure and
the constable only a name.
   Fairs.-There is only one fair held annually in Lismore, on
the last Tuesday of October, but few strangers resort to it.  It
is held for the purpose of selling off any cattle that may remain
unsold to the drovers who come to the island during the year to
purchase stock for the south country markets.  Such remains of
stock as may be exhibited at this fair are generally either not sold
at all, or exchanged among the people themselves, so that the
Lismore market is but of little consequence.  There are two fairs
held yearly at Duror, in Appin: the one takes place in April, and
the other in October.  There are also cattle markets held in that
locality in order that the cattle from the neighbouring districts
may be brought there to meet the drovers, on their way from the
north to the south country markets.
   Inns.-The public-houses in the parish are numerous, and more
so than they ought to be.  There is an excellent inn at the ferry
of Bailechelish, on the north; and there are also inns at Shian
ferry, on the south; at the ferry of Port Appin.; and at the ferry
of Crigan, on Lochcreran.  A few miles north of these, is the inn
at Portnacroish; and still farther north, and within five miles of
the inn of Bailechelish, there is the Duror inn: and there is also
a small public-house at the farm of Clachaig, in Glencoe, which
is very useful to people passing through the glen.  These seem
to be necessary, as the most of them are at the ferries; but there
are, besides these, several other little, dram-sbops, which are by no
means necessary.
   Fuel.-The fuel generally used in this parish is peats, and " the
process of making them in Lismore is very difficult, as they are
first tramped and wrought whth men's feet, and then formed by
women's hands, all which is necessary, as the moss or stuff from
which they are made, contains no fibres to make them cohere or
stick together.  This tedious operation consumes much of the
farmer's time, which, in a grain country, might be employed to


