
     106                  ROSS AND CROMARTY.

     verty of the Highlanders, and the great distance of the people
     here from the parish church, the Sunday collections rarely amount
     to 2s. and often not to ls.  The Shieldag church being more cen-
     trically situated for the attendance of the people, the collections
     are larger.  Some small sum is also collected at Kishorn.  These
     collections, with the interest of L. 40 for the Applecross district,
     and of L. 20 for the Kisborn district, with fines for delinquencies,
     are the only funds for the poor in this parish.  And out of these
     the precentor's salary is paid, and the poor only get a pittance of
     from 5s. to 7s. each in the year.   They, however, generally plant
     some potatoes, and get a little fish without expense.  The tenants
     also help them from the produce of their farms.   There is little
     temptation to be put upon the poor's roll; and not many of them
     are desirous of it without great necessity.
        Fairs.-There are no fairs in the parish.
        Inns.-There are 4 inns, at Applecross, Kishorn, Shieldag, and
     Torridon.
        Prices of Provisions.-No fixed prices for provisions can be
     stated.  Low country meal sells this year at 14s. and 15s. a boll,
     potatoes at 2s. a barrel.  There are no butchers to sell meat in
     small quantities; but, from the prices usually paid for cows and
     sheep, beef and mutton may be had from 2d. to 3d. a pound.
     Hens sell at 6d. a piece, eggs at 2d. per dozen, and sometimes 3d.
        Fuel.-The ordinary fuel is peat, which, in some places, is car-
     ried from a great distance, either by sea or land, and is very ex-
     pensive.  When sold, 2d. a creel is paid for it.

                          MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
        The new Parliamentary roads are a great advantage to this pa-
     rish.  A bridge on the river of Applecross would be a most im-
     portant improvement, not only for the benefit of the inhabitants,
     but also of travellers from various quarters.  And it is to be bop-
     ed, that, through friendly assistance, this most desirable measure
     will soon be accomplished.  Additional schoolmasters and cate-
     chists would be a great advantage.  Agricultural improvements
     might be carried on to a considerable extent.  Manufactures can-
     not be easily introduced, nor is it likely they would answer.  There
     are too many of them in other places already.  The improvement
     of the soil is what chiefly demands attention.

        September 1836.


