
                               ANNAN.                               517

	The parish is extremely irregular in shape.  It extends upwards
of 3 miles along the north shore of the Solway Frith; whence, to
its most northern boundary, being the extreme length, it is 8 miles.
In breadth it varies from about 4 to 2 1/2 miles. It is bounded on
the north by the parishes, of Hoddam and, 1 Middlebie; on the
north-east, by Kirkpatrick Fleming; on the east, by Dornock; on
the south, by the Solway Frith; and on the west by Cummer-
trees. Within the boundaries thus described, there is contained
an area of 17 1/2 square miles, or 11,100 imperial acres.
	Topographical Appearances.--The surface of the parish is
comparatively flat, having a gentle inclination towards the south.
Three parallel ridges of moderate height run through it in a north-
east and south-west direction. Between the middle and western
ridges, the Annan wends its way through scenery highly beautiful
and picturesque. At the north termination of the western ridge,
is situated the obtuse conical bill of Woodcock-air, * rising to an
elevation of about 320 feet above the level of the sea. Above the
same level, Annan hill, close upon the shore of the Frith, is 256
feet. Barnkirk hill, apparently about 120 feet above the level of
the tide which washes its base, seems to have been the south-east
termination of a range of little eminences, from thence extending
into the parish of Tinwald; but which, along the coast, has, with
the exception of the one mentioned, probably through the opera-
tion of the waters of the frith, which at one time rose to a much
greater height than they do at present, so far disappeared, that
now its lineaments can little more than be traced.
With the exception of the two last-mentioned hills, neither of
which would be entitled to be so named, did they not possess a
somewhat prominent appearance from the levelness of the adjacent
country, the coast is flat and uninteresting. To the west of the An-
nan, the shore is gravelly, to the east, one part is wholly sandy,
while the other consists of a mixture of sand and gravel. The

<FOOTNOTE>of this supposition hihhly probable. In the parish of Kirkmichael, there are at a
short distance from the Annan, a Ross, signifying in the Gaelic a promowtory; and a
Camrue or Cumrue, signifying in the same tongue, the crooked promontory-terms,
never applied to place exept when bordering on a sea or lake.  There is, moreover
laid down in Ptolemy's map of this country, a lake answering to the course of
Annan, and adjoining the position of the places alluded to; from which facts it would
appear, that the situations of Ross and Cummue must at one time have been appro-
priately designated by the names which they continue to bear.
          This hill, the property of Lient.-- General Sharpe of Hoddam, is completely co-
vered with wood, and was formerly a part of a forest of the same name, of which
Edward III., in 1334, appointed John de la Forest the bailiff. This office was
heritably enjoyed by the  Maxwell family in the reign of James VI.--Inquisit.
Special. 20.


