
                    MOY AND DALARROSSIE.                     101

lybeate springs (one in particular) throw up an immense quantity
of slimy red matter, which very soon chokes up the fountain, if not
cleared away.  From the quantity thrown up, the mineral body
which impregnates the water must exist in great abundance.
   There is but one river of importance which flows through the pa-
rish; that, as mentioned already, is the Findhorn.  It rises in the
Monadh-lia hills, and, after a very rapid course of sixty miles, falls
into the Moray Frith at Findhorn, near Forres.  Its Gaelic name
is Eire, or, as pronounced, Eur.  It is remarkable for the rapidity
with which it rises and falls.  It has been known to rise within
such ` short space of time, that persons crossing it, where it was
quite low, have been overtaken in a moment, and carried away by
the irresistible torrent.  Its course is so rapid that it never me-
anders, and often carries away great portions of the soil, in forming
a straight course for itself.  The stream is, however, easily forded
in summer. It is crossed by two bridges within the parish; and.
when practicable, the people cross it in other parts upon stilts.
One of the bridges is entirely built of wood ; and a temporary sub-
stitute for the stone one was carried off by the great flood in 1829.
The other is a fine new building with stone pillars and a wooden
frame-work, built by Messrs Gibb of Aberdeen, at the cost of
L.2600 Sterling.
   It is unnecessary here to give an account of the losses occa-
sioned by the flood in 1829, as there is such an accurate one af-
forded by Sir Thomas Dick Lauder, and likewise because the loss
in this district, though great, was not so great as in many others,
if we except that of bridges, all of which, we believe, with the ex-
ception of two, were carried off by the force of the streams.  These
are now replaced, and, except in one place, where the river changed
its course entirely, and destroyed one of the richest flats of land
in the parish, the country is in the same state as it was in, before
that awful visitation.
   Geologx.-There is little interesting in the geological formation
of this parish.  The primitive rocks are granite and gneiss, which
are rarely if ever covered with secondary strata.  The action of
great bodies of water is everywhere evident from the nature of the
surfaces of the hills.  In the upper part, where the fall is greatest,
the hills rise almost perpendicularly from the river; lower down,
the nature of the soil admitted of a greater excavation,-whence the
strath widens, and at the lower extremity there seems to have been
the bed of a lake, which was drained by the water cutting through


