
              KILFINCHEN AND XILIVICEUEN.                   299

ward, he sees the whole alpine country of Argyleshire, (the an-
cient Albion,) with its thousand hills ; together with Scarba,
Islay, and Jura, with the smaller isles of the Argyleshire coast;
and, in the extreme distance, Ireland.
   The bold headland of Burg rises to a considerable height from
the sea.  All the mountains and hills in the parish are covered
with heath.  Basaltic columns, similar to those of Staffa, but not
so large, regular, nor elegant, are to be found in the headland of
Burcg, in the farm of Ardtun, in Ross, and in many parts of Bro-
las, and more particularly in Inimore, facing the south channel.
In this last place, the rocks rise almost perpendicular from the sea,
and to a great height; and in the face of these rocks the columns
in some parts of four ranges, and in others of five, present them-
selves with strata of rock between each range ; but the pillars are
small and the ranges irregular, and seams of coal appear in some
places.  As a whole, the appearances are very picturesque, par-
ticularly in storms, when the sea rages beneath, and numberless
cascades tumble down the precipices and broken rocks above.
   Caves-Caverns.-Among the many caves in Airdmeanach.
there are two deserving of particular notice.  One is called the
Ladder Cave, to which there is a passage of about 80 feet, open
at the top, and affording space for two men to walk a breast.  At
the entrance of the cave, there is a small breastwork, by way of
defense, and to this was placed a ladder for the people to get over;
and hence its name.  Within, there is a space for about eighty
armed men.  Here is a large flagstone, said to have been used as
a table, and some other conveniences ; and tradition says the
country people took shelter here in troblous times.  The other
cave is in Gribun, in Airdmeanach, and much more capacious than
the Ladder Cave.  It is called Mackinnon's Cave, from a tradi-
tion that a gentleman of that name, whose curiosity had been ex-
cited by various reports of its amazing extent, went in to explore
it, and was never again heard of.  As the place has been investi-
gated with better success in latter times, the conclusion is, that he
nust have been killed by persons who had taken shelter there, and
who considered him as a spy or intruder.  In the autumn of 1773,
Dr Johnson, accompanied by his faithful Boswell, visited this cave.
The great lexicographer on that occasion seemed not to be in so
snarling a humour as was his wont, with Scots and Scotland.
This cave is considered by the people to extend across the coun-
try, and it is said that Mackinnon, before alluded to, when


