
    156                       ROXBURGHSHIRE.

    These, besides improving the aspect of the country, by giving to
    it a finely wooded appearance, are attended with other advantages
    previously stated, which amply compensate for the failure of vege-
    tation in their neighbourhood.
	Ecclesiastical State.-A more delightful and sequestered situa-
    tion than that which is occupied by the church and manse can
    scarcely be conceived;-tbe church crowning the summit of a cir-
    cular little hill; the manse about 100 yards distant from it, embo-
    somed amid fine old fruit trees, and agreeably sheltered and ap-
    proached by an avenue lined with tall trees,-present a scene whose
    peculiar charms uniformly arrest the attention of the spectator. As
    the church is placed nearly at the western extremity of the parish, a
    distance of almost six miles intervenes between it and the remotest
    part of the eastern district. To the inhabitants of the latter,
    therefore, its situation is inconvenient. As it is easily accessible,
    however, to by far the most populous part of the parish, its pre-
    sent position, which, as regards climate, soil, and the cultivation
    of the land contiguous to it, has superior advantages, is upon the
    whole the best and most eligible; and few, if any, have expres-
    sed a serious desire for its removal.
	From the thickness and strength of its walls, and the depth to
    which they have sunk in the soil, the church exhibits marks of con-
    siderable antiquity. It was repaired about forty-five years ago,
    and contracted within its original dimensions. It affords accom-
    modation for 180 persons, and is sufficient for the inhabitants of
    the parish. The above number rather exceeds that of the average
    attendance; but on ordinary Sabbaths it is still well attended.
    The average number of communicants of late years has been 170.
    There are no Dissenting chapels in the parish; they abound,
    however, in the neighbourhood, and are attended by twelve fa-
    milies in this parish, who chiefly belong to the Seceders of the
    United Associate Synod. The manse was built about fifty years
    ago; it has since received scarcely any repair; and both it and
    the office-houses are in a good condition. The grebe contains ten
    acres of arable land of the best quality, and the stipend consists
    of sixteen chalders of grain. In the manse garden, there are two
    fine old pear trees, the price of one year's produce of which amount-
    ed to L. 10.
	Education.-The parochial school is the only seminary in the
    parish; the branches of education taught at which are reading,
    writing, arithmetic algebra, and mathematics. For instruction in
    reading, writing, and arithmetic, the average sum paid for each



