
242                          FORFARSHIRE.

<TABLE>

The average number of persons under 15 years of age,                   605
                            betwixt 15 and 30                          442
                                    30 and 50                          362
                                    50 and 70                          193
                                  upwards of 70                         53
The number of families in the parish,                                  375
                       chiefly employed in auriculture,                130
                               in trade, manufactures, or handicraft,  114

                               IV.--INDUSTRY.
    Agriculture and Rural Economy.--There are about 6000 Scotch
acres in cultivation, and about 100 acres in waste and pasture, very
little fit for cultivation, but not unsuitable for planting. About 112
Scotch acres are under wood, of which about 12 are in hard-wood,
such as plane, beech, oak, elm, and birch; and the remaining 100
acres are planted with Scotch fir and larch, to which the soil seems
most congenial.
    Rent of Land.--The average rent of the arable land is rather
above L. 1, 15s. per Scotch acre; but in some very old leases it is
much lower. The average rent of grazing for the grass season is
generally at the rate of L.1, 10s. per ox or cow grazed, and at
the rate of.5s. per ewe or full-grown sheep.
    Husbandry.--The cattle reared are the Angus breed, generally
black, and without horns. Most of them are bought up for the
English markets when three or four years old, where they are much
approved of; others are fed either for home use, or to be driven to
the Glasgow market. This being a fertile corn part of the country,
a considerable number of the cattle are bought at markets from
inland situations, instead of being reared in the parish. Some few
enterprising individuals have of late introduced the Teeswater or
short-horned breed of cattle, which come sooner to a much greater
weight. The sheep are in general the black-faced breed from the
Highlands, and the ewes are crossed with a Leicestershire tup, to
make the lambs heavier. Black-faced wethers and some of the Che-
viot kind are fed by being flaked in turnips through the winter.
Husbandry is carried on in this parish in the most approved style.
The mode of cropping in general is, that no two grain crops shall
succeed each other, without a clean fallow or a drilled green crop
intervening, with one, and in many cases of late with two, years
grass.--before being taken up. The grain is in general among the
best in the county, and brings the highest price in the market.
    The general duration of leases is nineteen years. The farm-
steadings are generally very good, and many of the farms are en-
closed with stone fences.
    Fishing.--There is a small fishing village called Ethie-haven


