
	64                             ORKNEY.

            The stipend is the minimum of L. 150, with L. 8, 6s. 8d. for
	communion elements,-L. 6, 5s. 6d. of the stipend being paid from
	Exchequer.
	  There are two Dissenting chapels in the parish, one belonging
	to the United Secession church, and the other to the Indepen-
      dents. The former was erected in 1828, and the minister is pro-
	vided with a house, a piece of land, and fuel, and receives L. 76
	of stipend, the whole of which is, derived to him from the congre-
	gation; but, according to the usual practice of the Secession
	Church, so long as the congregation are unable, by their own ef-
	forts, to support the regular dispensation of religious ordinances,
	they annually receive pecuniary aid from the United Associate
	Synod, and also from the two neigbbouring congregations of Kirk-
	wall and Stromness. The number of communicants on the roll of
	that congregation is 105, but only 68 of them belong to this parish.
	The whole population attending the chapel, including members,
	their children, and others, is about 230, and if the above propor-
	tion holds good, about 150 of them belong to this parish. The
	Independent chapel was built about 1824, but is not occupied
	every Sabbath, as the preacher resides in Harray, I cannot state
	his income, and perhaps I should not, as he is not resident here,
	but what he derives from this parish must be extremely little. I
	am told there are seven members connected with this chapel, and
	not so many additional bearers, resident in Sandwick. Making
	these deductions from the population, there remain 900 belonging
	to the Established Church, where worship is generally well attend-
	ed, considering its distance from the east extremity of the parish,
	for the people of that district are five miles from the church of
	their own parish, and only one from that of Harray, where, it is
	to be supposed, they will frequently attend. The average num-
	ber of communicants for the last six years, counting those
	who used tokens, is 496, and counting the official persons al-
	so, who used none, I may state it to be about 500. We yearly
	take a collection in church for one, of the General Assembly's
	schemes; but we cannot raise above L, 1 in this way  for though
	we sent above L, 7 to one of them, and above L. 3 to another dur-
	ing the last two years, the greater part of these sums was raised
	by subscription.
	   Education.-The total number of schools is nine; but some of
	these are kept only for a short period, by persons who happen to

	<FOOTNOTE>This Gentleman has politely furnished the Information concerning his own cha-
	pel, which is given, as far as consistent with the heads of inquiry, in his own words.


