
210                        LANARKSHIRE.

	Monuments and Statues.--Amongst others may be enumerated
an equestrian statue of William III. erected at the cross; an obe-
lisk in honour of Lord Nelson, in the Green; a pedestrian statue
of Sir John Moore, in bronze, on a granite pedestal, by Flaxman,
in George Square; a pedestrian statue of William Pitt, in marble,
by Flaxman, in the Town-Hall; a trophy monument in honour of
Lieutenant-Colonel Cadogan, (71st, or Glasgow Regiment,) in
marble, by Hamilton, in the nave of the cathedral; a pillar sur-
mounted by a statue in honour of John Knox, by Forrest, in the
Necropolis; a pedestrian statue of James Watt, in bronze, on a
granite pedestal, in George Square, by Chantry; also a pedes-
trian statue of James Watt, in marble, by Chantry, in the Hun-
terian Museum; and an architectural monument, with a statue of
William M'Gavin, by Forrest, in the Necropolis. It has not yet
been determined in what part of the town the monumental column
in honour of Sir Walter Scott is to be placed.
	Theatre.--Previously to the Reformation, and for some time af-
terwards, pantomime representations of the history of our Saviour,
his miracles, and passion, were exhibited in this city. It does not
appear that any theatrical representation was allowed in this city
from the Reformation in 1560 till 1750. At the latter period, Mr
Burrell's dancing-hall in the High Street was used for that pur-
pose,--being four years after the theatre in the Canongate of Edin-
burgh was opened, which was the first regular theatre in Scotland
after the Reformation. In 1752, a booth or temporary theatre was
fitted up adjoining the wall of the archbishop's palace, in which
Digges, Love, Stampier, and Mrs Ward performed. Messrs Jack-
son, Love, and Beate, comedians, built a regular theatre in the
Grahamston suburb, which was opened in the spring of 1764 by
Mrs Bellamy, and other respectable performers. On the first night
of performance, the machinery and scenery were set on fire by some
disorderly persons. When the stage was refitted, the theatre was
occasionally kept open, but with very indifferent success; and at
one o'clock on the morning of the 16th April 1782, it was burnt
to the ground. There was no theatre in Glasgow from this period
till January 1785, when the Dunlop Street Theatre, erected by Mr
Jackson, was opened by Mrs Siddons, Mrs Jourdan, and other per-
formers. From this period the taste for theatricals increased so
much, that a subscription was set on foot for a theatre upon a large
scale; and on the 24th of April 1805, the most magnificent provin-
cial theatre in the empire was opened in Queen Street, at an ex-


