
10			AYRSHIRE.

ly seen in the horizon peering above the wide expanse of ocean
which surrounds it. Nearer in the same direction, the view is also
relieved by the very prominent Craig of Ailsa, by far the most re-
markable object on the coast of Ayrshire. It rises to the height of
about a thousand feet above the level of the sea, and is two
miles in circumference at its base. To a great distance, both at
sea and on land, it is seen towering its majestic conical peak in so-
litary grandeur, being nearly perpendicular on all sides, and con-
sisting of a stupendous bare rock of the trap  formation, on which
there is hardly any vegetation, and no signs of life, with the ex-
ception of numerous flocks of gannets or solan geese, and other
sea fowls. The beholder is struck with awe at its prominent and
precipitous appearance, and wonders how such an object could
have been produced in so solitary a situation, amid the deep wa-
ters of the open sea, without anything to correspond with it in any
direction. It generally appears to the eye from afar shrouded in
light blue mist, unless when it assumes a more sombre veil amid
fogs, and rain, and tempest.
	On one side, the bay is bounded by the coast of Ayrshire, com-
mencing at the promontory of Carrick hill, and inclining inwards in
a concave form, like a bow upon the stretch. At its termination to-
wards the north, are seen the islands of Cumbraes and the Bute
hills, which appear almost contiguous, the inlet of Clyde being
hardly perceptible from a distance, and behind these are the pro-
minent mountains of Argyleshire. There is also to be seen in the
distance towards the north the majestic summit of Benlomond, re-
calling to mind the beautiful lake at its base; and the country of
the Macgregor, abounding in savage grandeur,- scenes rendered
deeply interesting by the magic pen of Sir Walter Scott. But its
most marked boundary by far is the island of Arran, with its lofty
mountains stretching along nearly the whole of its coast to the
north and west, with the projection from behind of the Mull of
Cantyre. These mountains communicate to it its principal in-
terest and grandeur, and, according to the state of the weather, it
derives from them an endless succession of noble appearances, with
which the view of the beholder is constantly relieved and capti-
vated. Sometimes they are bright with sunshine and gladsome se-
renity, at others dark and frowning amid clouds and storms. In
summer, they are seen with hazy shadows flitting across their
ridges, or are beat upon with an incessant glare of solar heat and
radiance; while in winter they seem grand and imposing in the ex-


