
310                          LANARKSHIRE.

which occasions not a little inconvenience both to masters and ser-
vants, as they have to travel either to Douglas or Glasgow, and
thus incur both much expense and fatigue.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The parish church was erected in 1772,
and stands on the west side of the town of Strathaven. It for-
merly stood in the church-yard, a little to the east of the castle,
one of the most beautiful situations in the place. It says little
for the taste of the heritors of formers days, that they permitted it
to be moved to its present site. Even when first built, it was far
too small for the inhabitants; and that no attention was paid to the
application of the people of Strathaven to have it enlarged, which
they offered to do in part at their own expense, evinced a very
improper spirit on the part of the heritors. After it was built,
it remained unseated for considerably more than twenty years;
and after it was seated, more than one law-suit before the Su-
preme Court took place respecting the division of the seats. It
is seated to contain about 800 sitters, so that there is here
a grievous deficiency of church accommodation. The 4000 in-
habitants of the town have a legal title to only 24 sittings in
the parish church. About two-thirds of the country population,
and a great number in the town, profess to belong to the Esta-
blished Church; but of course there must be among these many
who do not attend public worship; and on inquiring the cause
of absence, they meet us daily with the unanswerable reply, "we have
no seat." In consequence of the deficiency of accommodation in
the present church, and the unkind manner in which they had been
used by the then heritors, the inhabitants erected the present Re-
lief meeting-house, to contain about 900. There is also a place
of worship here connected with the United Secession body seated
for fully 600. The usual attendance at the first of these places
is said to be 1000, and at the latter 350. The parish church is
well attended. Many of the country people come from the distance
of 6, 7, 8, and some of them nearly 9 miles. Those who are most
distant are very seldom absent, and scarcely have I ever heard a
complaint seriously made on account of their distance from church.
	Parochial Visitations.--Ever since the Reformation, the mini-
sters of Avondale have been in the habit of visiting and catechis-
ing the people every year. That good practice is still kept up.
The diets of examination in the country are remarkably well at-
tended; those in the town not so well; and here also the visits
must be less frequent.


