
                        KIRKMICHAEL AND CULLICUDDEN.                   43

        creek below Poyntzfield, on the sands at low water, and at Spring-
	tides.
	    Trees.- There is no natural wood in this parish, with the ex-
	ception of a few patches of birch, quakinLr-ash, and hazel, grow-
	ing on the banks of the rivulets, running through the estates of
	Poyntzfield and Braelangwell. The surface of the parish where
	it has not been planted is generally bare and Moorish, yielding
	only furze, and a stunted kind of heather. Very extensive plan-
	tations of Scotch fir have been cut down on the estates of New-
	hall and Braelangwell. The larch fir in small patches, or mixed
	with the Scotch pine, has been lately introduced bx such of the
	proprietors as have considerably improved their estates. It is
	much to be regretted that the larch is not more universally culti-
	vated, not only on account of the rapidity of its growth and the
	Value of its bark and timber, (excellent for ship and boat building,)
	but also, as it is a well established fact, that plantations of larch,
	which will grow equally well on any kind of soil, instead of im-
	poverishing, as the Scotch pine always does, actually improve
	it by the fall of the leaf at the end of autumn. Hard wood does
	not altogether thrive in this parish. The climate and soil are against
	it. At the policies of Newhall and Poynttfield, it is true, there
	are fine old trees of ash, beech, and elm, nearly one hundred years
	old, (and which a few years ago made a very narrow escape from
	the axe,) but in most other parts of the parish where hard wood
	has been planted, it is stunted in its growth, and bark-bound.
	Comparatively young trees of ash are covered with seed, an almost
	infallible sign that their natural growth is checked. The leaves,
	too, fall off about the beginning of September.
	    Botany.-Of plants, either rare or medicinal,there are searce any
	in the parish worthy of notice. On the banks of the rivulets, and
	among the patcher of natural wood, the Oxalis Acetosella, the Pri
        mula veris, the Anemone nemorosa, and the wild hyacinth, so com-
	mon to the Highlands of Scotland, grow luxuriantly. The Orchis
	mascula, very rarely, and the Orchis Morio, rather abundantly, are
	found in the woods of Poyntzfield. The Saxifraqa oppositifolia is
	found in the west end of the parish. The rag-weed, as in most
	parishes in the lowlands of Ross-shire, is the great nuisance of the
	pasture field, about the close of summer.

                                II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
	    There are no records, either printed or in manuscript, of the his,-
	tory of this parish. Even the scanty, and often not very agreeble


