
244                           PERTHSHIRE.

	ned, and the produce sold for fuel to the people in the neighbour-
	hood.  Alobg the sides of the Ericht, the timber raised is copse-
	wood or small oak, which is cut down at a certain age, chiefly for
	the sake of the bark, and yields a very profitable return.
	   There is a commonty in the higher part of the parish, of near-
	ly 300 acres, called the Broad Moss, which is become almost a
	waste, for want of being divided.  The only use made of it is in
	individuals at pleasure casting turf for fuel, and the neighbouring
	tenants sending their cattle to brouse on it.  Though called a
	moss, it is more properly a muir, being a high-lying barren sub-
	ject, but under proper management, might have become a planta-
	tion of some value.
	   The farmers have their grounds laid out in such proportions,
	that, in addition to grain, they raise potatoes, turnips, and artifi-
	cial grasses.  When potatoes bring good prices, besides their use
	for the benefit of the family, they are sent in large quantities to
	Perth and Dundee; when the demand is low, they are consumed
	at home in feeding cattle.  The turnips and grasses are solely for
	the support of the bestial on the farm. The occupiers of land rear
	or purchase annually as much stock as they can maintain, which
	they feed when two or three years old, and sell to butchers or
	dealers, who send a great proportion of them to the Glasgow mar-
	ket.  The Strathmore and Angus breed, which have a mixture
	of the Teeswater, red and white, are much esteemed for their size
	and keeping; and for some time past have been the principal ar-
	ticle that have put money into the hands of the farmer.  The
	wages of farm servants are from L.10 to L.12 a year with their
	board; day-labourers in summer get 1s. 6d. or 1s. 8d.; in winter
	1s. 2d. without victuals.
	   Fishings.-The principal fishing station in this parish is the
	Keith, where the waters of the Bricht rush over a rock, and fall
	into a pool below, whence the salmon are taken.  The fishing is the
	property of Lord Wharncliffe; and during the season, when there
	is plenty of water in the river, salmon of the size of from eight to
	twelve pounds are caught in abundance.  I shall transcribe the
	account of this fishin given by my predecessor, as it is more mi-
	nute and exact than any which I can pretend to give. "There is, at
	a little distance from Rattray, a cascade or fall of water, about ten
	feet high,. over a rugged rock, which forms a pool below, where sal-
	mon are caught. It goes by the name of the Keith fishing, and
	rents at L.30 a year. The mode of fishing is curious. They


