
                     KILMARNOCK.                               549

some cases the tenant pays 5 or 6 per cent. on the sum laid out;
but in a greater number of instances, the proprietor provides every
requisite accommodation without exacting any thing except the in-
dispensable obligation to keep the houses and offices in proper re-
pair. Cottages are universally neater than they used to be, and
cottar vies with cottar in keeping his little house and garden in
seemly order.
	Ploughs.--Various kinds of ploughs have been introduced. That
generally used, and which has been found to work best, is the well
known iron plough of Mr Wilkie of Uddingstone; it has gone for
many years among our fields. Various instruments, the production of
the same enterprising mechanic, have a preference given them, such
as those used for green-cropping and cleaning the ground. Many of
the smiths and wrights in the parish are making the same kinds of
implements, and, in not a few cases, are suggesting improvements
on the originals, Such as the harrow, the roller, the cleaner, the
grabber, &c.
	The subsoil or deepening plough has been tried with great suc-
cess. The furrow, being ten or twelve inches deep, is much liked for
opening and mixing the under stratum with the ordinary surface
soil. The instruments used for the drilling, cleaning, and hoeing
of the green crops, beans, potatoes, and turnips, are various, and
the best used in the country. They are made of iron and oak, and
are neat and substantial. Farm carts, which are all drawn by a
single horse, are not very large, the box containing rather more
than a cubic yard. Thrashing-mills may be mentioned among the
general improvements; every farm of even sixty acres, has one.
Horse power is used in working them, and the number is regulated
by the size of the mill. Would not steam power be better? The
horses would be fitter for out-door work, and in many cases a horse
or two fewer would suffice for the farm. Along with thrashing,
have been introduced grinding-mills. In the east end of tbe pa-
rish, we have the Milton and Crooksmills; in the middle, the New
Mill and Rowallan; and in the west end, Cambuskethan Mill. The
Milton, New, and Cambuskethan, grind flour, the other two grind
oats chiefly; they are situated on and worked by the Irvine and
Kilmarnock waters. Another general improvement is the constant
supply of water for the mills and manufactories in the town, obtain-
ed from extensive reservoirs formed of the, Kilmarnock water in the
high lands of the adjoining parish of Fenwick.


