
                            LAURENCEKIRK.                         149

in general shew a desire to avail themselves of this advantage.
The proportion, however, of children attending schools to the whole
population is not above one to seven and a half or eight. It is the
practice in not a few cases that children of a numerous family get
a quarter or two at school in rotation,--sometimes even that two
of them go alternately each day or meeting,--an imperfect system,
to which it may be said, that poverty consents rather than their will.
Frequently the children are sent to herding or to service in the sum-
mer half-year, the winter months being reserved for farther educa-
tion, if thought necessary, or found convenient. When they are sent
to the loom, as is the case with a very large proportion of the
children of the village, they are generally taken from school about
the age of eleven or twelve, and seldom return to it at all; and they
too often enter on a life of busy care, with nearly as imperfect
furniture in their minds, as their early marriages too frequently
allow them to gather for their dwellings, before they are invnlv-
ed in the expenses of a house and family. The chief advantage
of education is derived from the encouragement of right principles,
and the infusion of religious knowledge, and not from the mere
acquisition of the faculty of reading, which may readily be turn-
ed to an improper and unprofitable use. But it is to be feared, that
young persons are often supposed to have received sufficient educa-
tion, before they have reached an age when those impressions can
be rightly made, which alone will preserve them against the influ-
ence of the varied temptations among which they are to be speedily
thrown.
	There are two foundations connected with the parochial school
on which children receive education gratis. By a deed executed
in 1716, Sir Alexander Falconer of Glenfarquhar (whose repre-
sentative is now the Earl of Kintore) mortified the sum of L. 140
Scots annually, of which L. 40 should be paid to the schoolmaster
for teaching poor children, and the remaining L. 100 (or 24 bolls
of meal, in the option of his representative,) should be divided
among four boys of the name of Falconer, or born in the parish,
who were also to be taught gratis. The same benevolent individual
mortified (by deeds of date 1712 and 1717) L. 500 Scots annual-
ly, for the education of seven bursars, at the King's College Of
Aberdeen, of the names of Falcnndr, or Ramsay, or born in the
parishes of Conveth or Fordoun, of whom three should receive
L. 60 each, and the others L. 80 each; the presentation now be-
longing to his heir (Lord Kintore,) and Sir Alexander Ramsay,


