
                                         DUFFUS.                           37

              others accounted Danish, but very probably occupied by both na-
              tions.  General Roy, in his learned and elaborate work upon the
              Roman Antiquities of Britain, makes Burghead the most northerly
              regular station of that illustrious people, the "Ptoroton" of Richard
              of Cirencester, and the "Alata Castra" of Ptolemy of Alexandria;
              and supports his statements by correct references fo its distance re-
              spectively from Jussis (Spey river,) And Barris (Forres;) and by seve-
              ral plausible arguments, he places Ptoroton at the end of the ninth,
              and commencement of the tenth iter of Richard; and mentions it
              as the chief town of the Vacomagi, and enjoying the privileges and
              immunities of Roman citizenship.  A deep well, built with a regu-
              larity and elegance seemingly beyond the attainment of a rude
              people like the Danes, has been recently discovered, and adds an-
              other argument to these in favour of General Roy's position, which
              one is ready enough to admit, upon even slenderer grounds; because
              one would wish to believe that the spot he daily treads had been
              familiar to the footsteps of that imperial race, and would gladly
              confer upon a place preventing few natural attractions the charm
              of a reflected classical fame.  It seems probable that the Danes
              who invaded Scotland about 1008, seized this promontory and oc-
              cupied it as a stronghold until they were driven from the country;
              bestowing on it the name of Burgus, which it still retains, but slight-
              ly changed. being at present called "the brough" by the com-
              mon people.  These old works were divided into two parts, a higher
              and a lower; and presented no less than four strong ramparts (built
              with oaken logs) towards the small isthmus upon which the village
              of Burghead now stands; in the gradual extension of which these
              interesting remains have been much defaced.  The trench which
              insulated the promontory has in the course of time been filled up,
              and the rectangular platform at its summit lowered and partially
              covered with buildings
                Land-owners.-The principal land-owners in the parish are,
              Sir Archibald Dunbar of Northfield, Baronet, and his eldest son
              Archibald Dunbar, Esq.-to which family half the parish belongs;
              Sir William Gordon Cumming of Altyre and Gordonstoun, Bart;
              Charles L. Cumming Bruce, Esq. of Roseisle and Kinnaird;
              William Stuart, Esq. of Inverugie; Thomas Brander, Esq. of
              Roseislehaugh; and William Young Esq. of Burhead.
			         III.-POPULATION
		The whole resident population of the parish of Duffus in the
	      year 1662, inferred from the average number of baptisms in that


