
		         HUTTON.                            153

   Land-owners.-The chief land-owners of this parish are, John
Joseph Macbraire, Esq. of Broadmeadows and Fishwick; William
Foreman Home, Esq. of Billie and Paxton; John Maclean Mac-
kenzie Grieve, Esq. of Hutton Hall; the Rev. William Stow Lun -
die of Spittal and Clarabad; Captain Jeffreys of Sunwick; Hugh
Scott, Esq. of Harden; and Henry Trotter, Esq. of Morton-
Hall.
   Parochial Registers.-The earliest date of the parochial re-
cords is 1649.  They consist of five volumes, and with a chasm
of twenty-eight years, viz. from 1672 to 1700, they have been re-
gularly kept.
   Antiquities.-There are no antiquities in the parish deserving of
much notice. From the ruins of the church of Fishwick which
still remain, it appears to have been a very plain building, long
and narrow, and of small dimensions. The mansion-house of
Hutton Hall is rather a curious specimen of an ancient border
keep, and almost the only one which is still inhabited in this dis-
trict.  It seems evidently to have been constructed as a place of
strength, and for purposes of defense; and to have been built
at several different periods. The date of its erection, how-
ever, cannot be ascertained. The original building appears to
have been a square tower, to which at different times a long nar-
row,dwelling-house has been added. It is situated on the brink
of an eminence not far distant from the Whitadder, and overlook-
ing that stream.  The site is striking and uncommon, and the
tout ensemble of the building, as well as its internal arrangements,
forcibly recall to the mind the days when it was necessary, in the
constriction of houses, especially on the borders, to consult strength
and security, rather than the graces of ornament, or the decora-
tions of art.
   Modern Buildings-There are several large and excellent man-
sion-houses in the parish.  Of these Paxton and Broadmeadows
are the most remarkable. The former was built upwards of sixty
years ago, after a design of the celebrated Adams. The material
employed is dark freestone; and the front is remarkably handsome
and massive, though perhaps rather heavy. lt is a very substantial
building, and contains several spacious and elegant apartments.
In one of them, which is uncommonly large, and which was added

<FOOTNOTE>cacy was frequently hurt by the intrusion of curious individuals; and with an ex-
treme but excusable sensitiveness, he shrunk from the idea of being considered as
a spectacle.  Not with standing the apparent vigour of his frame, Providence bad
not blessed him with a robust constitution. He died at an early period of life, and
his remains were interred in the church-yard here.


