
                             KINROSS.                 29

about a mile to the north of the centre of Kinross, at an equal dis-
tance from it and Milnathort, serving as a reservoir to each, both
for houses and shops. The streets of Kinross and its immediate
vicinity are lighted with gas by public voluntary subscription.
  The profits of the Gas Company must very much depend on the
price of coals, and still more on the prosperous state of trade at
Kinross and Milnathort. The dividend to shareholders has not yet
exceeded 2 1/2 per cent., but is expected soon to be much higher. The
charge for 1000 cubic feet of gas is about 11s. The coal for the
work is got at Capeldrae, about seven miles south-east from Kinrnss,
and is of the kind called parrot or cannel, and is sold at about 14s.per
ton at the pit, and costs about L.1 when laid down at the gas-works.
  The parish of Kinross, as stated in the title of this Account, is with-
in the bounds of the presbytery of Dunfermline; and from the town
of Dunfermline, by the best carriage road, it is nearly fifteen miles
distant. Much convenience and many advantages, both of a tempo-
ral and spiritual kind, would arise to the minister and parish of Kin-
ross, as well as to several ministers and parishes around, were Kin-
ross made the seat of a new presbytery, comprehending within its ju-
risdiction the parishes of Arngask, Orwell, Muckhart, Fossaway,
and Tullibole, Cleish, Beath, Ballingry, Portmoak, and Strathmi-
glo. Such a new arrangement has not only been seriously thought
of, but has been submitted to the consideration of all the ministers
of the parishes above-mentioned, and to two of their respective pres-
byteries. Objections not anticipated, and some of them of a pri-
vate and personal, and therefore not of a permanent nature, have
hitherto opposed themselves to an object for many reasons most de-
sirable. The presbytery of Dunfermline, in order to lessen the in-
conveniences and other evils of their Kinross-shire members being
sa far removed from their presbytery seat, came to a resolution,
inserted in their minutes, of having two meetings at Kinross every
year. This is so far well, but it is not a sufficient remedy for what
the northern brethen complaint of. This remedy the present in-
cumbent of the parish of Kinross may never experience, but another
will, when the views and feelings of individuals shall no longer be
unfriendly, or allowed by the General Assembly to be so, to a new
arrangement of public and general advantage.

  April 1839.


