
     of Kirkoswald.

straighted, and they began to be inclosed and subdivided with
ditch and hedge.  Almost in the course of ten years, the
farms in the whole parish, were thus inclosed and divided.
The sheep were entirely banished; and instead of five or six
mean looking horses, every farmer got four horses, each of
them equal in strength and value to two of their former ones,
with a cart horse to each.  Sir Thomas Kennedy, afterwards Earl
of Cassillis, took the lead in this improved mode of agricul-
ture.  He enlarged, to a great extent, the farm and policy
about Cullean Castle, and placed the direction of the whole
under the deceased Mr Foulis, who lived near Elintone.
About the same time, Sir Adam Fergusson brought into this
parish some farmers of great skill in husbandry.  Both these
proprietors, and all the other heritors, in their new tacks,
took the tenants bound to such wife regulations, and such a
proper rotation of crops, as have contributed greatly to the
improved state of agriculture in this parish.  The tenants first
of all laid down their croft lands with rye grass and clover,
took one crop of hay, sometimes two, and rested them four
years in pasture.  Then they began to their out-field.  The
whole system of folding was given up.  They were bound in
their tacks not to break up any of their out-field, without
lime or dung, to take two crops of oats, and lay down with
the third; or to take the third crop in pease, and lay down
with the fourth.  Such, in general, were the stipulations in
the tack.  But when the tenant had a great quantity of coarse,
stiff, out-field land, he was indulged by his master in taking
three crops of oats, and in laying down with the fourth.
Some farms have been so situated with respect to their stiff
out-field, as to find it necessary to take their fourth crop of
pease and lay down with new dung with the fifth.  In the
south part of the parish, by far the most extensive, as con-
taining about 6000 acres of ground, there is some out-field


