
	               MAYBOLE.                           375

made at convenient intervals at the church door, and may alto-
gether amount to about L. 40 per annum.
	A tract society has been in vigorous operation for nearly two
years, and its publications, which have always been favourably re-
ceived, promise to be useful to the community.
	I must here notice an association, not strictly parochial, but con-
nected in the same manner with all the parishes in Carrick, the
Carrick Class, composed of the clergy of the district, and the duty
of giving some account of which has been assigned to me. This
association has existed since the establishment of Presbytery in
Scotland. The meetings of the clergy upon church matters ap-
pear ruccessively to have been called congregations and classes,
before they were regularly constituted into presbyteries: and the
Carrick Class, though it has frequently been proposed, having never
been erected into a presbytery, has yet retained the old name, and
kept up its meetings, with occasional periods of interruption, down
to the present day.
	Our proceedings have of course lost their business character, al-
though something of the original purposes of the meeting may
sometimes be discerned, in the members asking advice in difficul-
ties, taking into their own hands business more immediately con-
nected with the district, and even occasionally arranging little
matters, which, when afterwards brought out in the presbytery,
will draw forth a good humoured notice of our clannish propensi-
ties, and attempts at establishing, if not our original independence,
at least an "imperium in imperio."
	The great purposes of our meeting, however, are the mainte-
nance and promotion of literary and professional attainments, good
fellowship, and Christian harmony. With the exception of the
months in which the sacrament is dispensed in the different pa-
rishes, the members, according to a fixed rotation, meet in each
other's manses, on the second Tuesday of every alternate month,
at one o'clock P. M. The minister in whose manse the meeting
is held, opens it with prayer, and reads an essay on any literary,
theological or ecclesiastical subject, which his own tarte may have
led him to choose. The members, according to seniority, then
express their opinion of the essay, and their own views of the
points treated of; and after any reply which the author way make,
the meeting is closed with prayer, agreeably to the same rotation.
The afternoon is spent with the family in social enjoyment, and
members from a distance generally remain all night.


