
                          RATHVEN.                           269

from dues of proclamation, L.2, 12s. 6d. Total, L.74, 4s. 53/4d.
Last year, however, the sum of L.96, 14s. 5d. was disbursed,
which included expenses of every kind; but, in order to make up
this amount, the session were under the necessity of taking up the
remainder of the money lodged with Earl Seafield.* The poor,
according to their necessities receive from 5s. to 7s. per quarter.
In addition to this, Lord Seafield gives annually a certain quanti-
ty of meal to those on the poor's roll who reside upon the lands of
Findochtie and Porteasy.
  This part of the country was wont to be greatly infested with
vagrants; but the establishment of the rural police in this and the
neighbouring counties has completely suppressed promiscuous
begging, and conferred a great boon on the district.
  In a poor and populous parish such as this, we have much plea-
sure in stating, that the poor, in most cases, manifest no particu-
lar disposition to seek parochial relief, unless forced by necessity
alone, or unexpected bereavement; many melancholy and heart-
rending cases of which too frequently occur among the fishermen.
  Inns or Alehouses.-In the village of Buckie there are ten li-
censed houses for retailing ardent spirits; in Porteasy two; in
Findochtie, four; in Portnockie, four; in Portgordon, six; two
by the turnpike road; two in the village of Rathven; making in
whole 30,-a number by far too great, and which must tend,
and that in no ordinary degree, both to impoverish and demoralize
the people, particularly the fishermen.
  Fuel.-The principal fuel used is peat, or dried turf. It is
procured at a great distance from the different villages, conse-
quently it is very expensive. A small cart-load costs from 1s. to
ls. 6d. According to the last report of this parish, it is stated,
"that, when the load is sold at Is., the consumer pays at the rate
of a halfpenny for four peats and one turf." Coals are sold at
Buckie, and Portgordon, about Is. 6d. per imperial b`rrel, ten
of which make a good cart-load, weighing nearly 18 cwt.
               MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   The valued rental of this parish in 1792, was from L.4000 to
L.5000 Sterling; in 1813, it was assessed at L.7336. Since the

<FOOTNOTE>
 * Since the above was written the whole funds have been exhausted, so that the
kirk-session found themselves under the necessity of calling a meeting of heritors, to
take immediate steps to provide for the wants of the poor. They met accordingly,
and assessed themselves for the ensuing year to the amount of L.95 Sterling.


