
172                         FIFESHIRE.

          	  MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
  I mentioned in my last report, that a turnpike road, running from
east to west through this district, had been projected, and even
at that time had obtained the sanction of Parliament; but it has
never been executed. It was to run from the Plasterers' Inn on the
Leven to Kirk of Beath. It was to give a shorter and better line
of travelling towards St Andrews, Dundee, Cupar, on the one
hand, and towards Queensferry, Dunfermline, Edinburgh, Glas-
gow, on the other. Several roads have since been made here with
various views, but none directly or properly laying open this great
thoroughfare. Were the lines now referred to adopted, the other
roads would fall into country bye roads. It is surprising how slow-
ly even in this mercantile country improved lines of communica-
tion are adopted. But this direction of road will, from its obvious
benefits, still force itself upon the public attention.
  Another turnpike still more universally important, running from
south to north, and crossing the above at right angles, is projected,
and engrosses much attention. It is proposed to carry this road
from Burntisland to the Inn of Farg in Stratheam, there to join
the great Queensferry and Perth road. From Burntisland the
line runs on to Auchtertool, from Auchtertool to Auchterderran,
from Auchterderran to Portmoak, passing the east end of Loch-
leven near to Scotland Well. From this, the line runs through
part of Strathmiglo parish, near to Edenhead and  to the old castle
of Balvaird, and then joins the Queensferry and Perth road near
the Inn of Farg. Whoever casts his eye upon a map  will per-
ceive how much space is cut off by this line, compared to that
round by Queensferry. The district is also much more level.
  From the day when it was first ascertained that steam-vessels
could with advantage ply the Frith of Forth, this road might
have been expected to commence. But it was immediately found
that, to have the benefit of such a road, a low water pier would be
necessary at Burntisland, and this became a preliminary obstruc-
tion which has not yet been surmounted. If we compare the outlay
that would be necessary for this plan of road to the inn of Farg, with
outlays made upon other great roads and works, it appears compa-
ratively trifling. The new road from Glasgow to Carlisle, for in-
stance, is said, to have cost upwards of L. 60,000. This Fife road
could be executed for less than a third of that sum: yet the city of
Glasgow alone derives almost all the benefit from that conveyance,
whereas here-all Scotland north of Forth would be essentially be-


