
214                   HADDINGTONSHIRE.

Dirleton, have been supplanted by roses and evergreens. In some
of the lately built cottages, there are two rooms,-an example well
worthy of imitation, as eminently conducive to the morality, Do
less than to the comfort and health, of the people.
   With a few exceptions, they are all in tolerably comfortable cir-
cumstances, possessing enough, by prudent and careful manage-
ment, to support, and clothe, and educate their families.

			IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.-This parish contains 7500 Scotch acres, of which
5325 are arable, 300 under plantation, and the remainder is com-
posed of links and bent hills.
   With a very small exception, the whole is let on lease for either
nineteen or twenty-one years; a period considered advantageous
alike for proprietor and tenant. There are 10 farms above 300
acres in extent; 5 above 200; two between 70 and 80; and two
between 20 and 30. These are all enclosed chiefly with thorn
hedges and ditches, where the subsoil is of a retentive character.
The general size of the enclosures is about 20 acres; the fences
and farm roads are thought to occupy nearly 1 1/2 per cent. of the
entire surface. By a recent county regulation, sanctioned by Par-
liament, every 60 acres of arable land is deemed a ploughgate,
for which the tenant pays annually L. 1, 16s. as road-money.
  Some of the smaller properties are understood to be let at a
money rent of from L. 2 to L. 5 per Scotch acre; the rest of the
parish, at a grain rent of from 5 to 12 bushels per acre, payable
by the second fiars, or general average of the county. Gulane
common forms nearly one-half of the links, but pays rent only for
the rabbits which it supports; the other links are stocked with cat-
tle, and a few sheep occasionally, and yield about L. 400 a-year,
besides the value of the rabbits, which fluctuates considerably;
it amounts in some years, for the whole parish, to upwards of L. 800.
   At Gulane there are two establishments for training race-horses,
the ground in that neighbourhood being favourable for this. The
average number kept during the summer is about thirty. Whatever
advantages these establishments may confer on the parish in other
respects, it is to be feared that they do serious injury to the
morals of the neighbourhood.
  The plantations are chiefly on weak sandy soil; the thinnings
produce a small sum annually, but are probably of more value to
the neighbouring farmers, to be converted into palings, than of di-
rect profit to the proprietor.


