
22                    SUTHERLANDSHIRE.

   The manse was built in 1780, and has undergone many repairs.
The grebe is about five acres in extent, and would be valued at
L 7.   The stipend is fourteen chalders of victual, half barley,
and half oatmeal, paid in money betwixt Yule and Candlemas,
by the fiar prices; there are also L. 10 of money allowed for com-
munion elements.
   There is a mission at Rosehall in the west end of the parish,
connected with the Royal Bounty.  There is also a catechist paid
by the Royal Bounty the sum of L.7, 1 Os. with a small gratuity from
the people.
   There are no Dissenters or Seceders of any description in this
parish. 400 families attend the church, and from these about 700
persons.  Divine service is generally well attended by all ranks.
The number of communicants attending the parish and mission-
churches may average about 90.
   The average amount of collections yearly made in the parish
and mission-churches for religious societies is from L. 9 to
L. 12.
   Education.-There are three schools, viz. the parochial school
in Criech, taught by Mr Patrick Murray and his son, Mr David
Murray, student of philosophy.  There are also two Assembly
schools, one at Inverchaslie, and another at Whiteface.  Both the
Assembly schools are well attended and very successful, as may be
seen by the Reports.  The branches taught there are English
and Gaelic reading and spelling; writing, arithmetic, and book-
keeping, and Latin, &c.
   The salary of the parish schoolmaster is L. 30 ; and the school-
fees are from Is. to 3s. per quarter, according to the branches of
education taught, but do not yield above L. 10 a year. The pa-
rochial teacher had hardly any accommodation for upwards of twen-
ty years back, being obliged to live in a house that was falling over
his head; and, for the safety of his own life and that of his family,
was obliged to quit that ruin and live in a hired house. The heri-
tors promise to build one, but -it is not yet begun. The ex-
pense of education is various,-from 5s. to 14s. per annumn. The
people in general are very much alive to the benefits of education;
so much so, that the families who are at a distance from school club
together to support a teacber that goes from house to house once a-
week.  Inveran and Linside in the mission are seven miles distant
from any school, and at present employ a teachers, who has generally


