
128                        STIRLINGSHIRE.


the manufacture of writing-paper. They employ upwards of 20
men and 50 women. The wages are paid monthly; on an average,
15s. per week for the men, and 5s. for the women : besides these,
2 men and 4 horses are constantly employed carting rags and
coals, and carting the paper to Grangemouth for shipment to
London. The workers principally reside in Denny and Fanker.
ton, a small village in the parish up the Carron, and in the neigh-
bourhood. The following is an account of the process of pa-
per-making at Herbertshire Mill: As soon as the rags are cut
by women across a scythe blade fixed into a table covered with
wire-cloth, for the purpose of getting rid of the dust and sand,
they are passed into the boiling-house, where they are boil-
ed for twelve hours; afterwards, they are washed, and broke
into a pulp, by an iron cistern, called a paper-engine, capable of
holding one hundred weight of rags, which are beat by a roller
with tbirty-six steel bars, which turn on a plate in the bottom of
the cistern. Five of these engines, of twenty steel bars, are kept
constantly going night and day, requiring upwards of forty horse
power to drive them and the other requisite machinery. After
the rags are broke in and bleached for twenty-four hours, they
are beat into pulp or stuff ready for passing on to the paper-
machine, perhaps one of the most complete pieces of machinery
ever invented in this country; as, in one room of 60 feet in length
by 25 feet wide, one may see the stuff much resembling churned
milk, passing by means of a fine web of wire-cloth fifteen feet
long into a series of rolls used in pressing out the water, and form-
ing the paper into a firm body. It then passes into a set of cy-
linders heated by steam, from which it is reeled into rolls in a
perfectly finished state, quite dry and pressed, ready for use. Six
of the rolls are then gut on to the cutting-machine, which cuts
them into the sizes required. The cutting-machine is the inven-
tion of Messrs Foudrinier of Hanley, Staffordsbire, and patent.
It is capable of cutting 144 sheets per minute of post or writing-
paper. On an average, 26 cwt. of rags are cut per day in the,
rag-house, and 21 cwt. of them beat into stuff, yielding an average
of from 1600 to 1700 lbs. per day of twenty-four hours, as all the
machinery is kept & going night and day. The duty paid every six
weeks averages L.320 ; the wages every  month, L100; carting                  ; carting,
and other carriages, L. 40.  The water-wheel for driving the pa-
per engines is 24 feet diameter, and fully 12 feet wide, all iron,
and weighs 33 ton. Another small wheel is used for driving the



