
     Of Nairn.

riod, however, the sea has made great encroachments, and 
the course of the river is greatly altered.  Where the castle 
then stood, is entirely covered with water, and the river which 
then run hard by the castle, now flows into the Moray Frith 
nearly half an English mile to the E. of that place.  Never-
theless, there are some persons still alive, who at stream or 
spring tides, remember to have seen some vestiges of the foun-
dation of the ancient castle*. 

   Agriculture, Heritors, Rents, &c.-Improvements in hus-
bandry are heare as yet very little known.  The sowing of 
clover and rye-grass seeds, though introduced many years 
ago, yet for want of enclosures, turns out to little account. 
The field around the town, comprehending something more 
than 400 acres, is so remarkably pleasant, that perhaps 
there is nothing like it in the north of Scotland.  The lands 
of which this field is composed, and which are all contiguous, 
were formerly runridge, or acre and acre alternately;  but 
owing to an excambion which took place about 4 years ago, 
the different proprietors will now have it in their power, is
they please, to enclose their lands, which heretofore, conve-
niently, they could not have done.  The grounds of 2 or 3 
of the proprietors are now enclosed with stone and seal fences 
or sunk fences; and 1 has subdivided part of his lands in the 
neighbourhood.  The ordinary crops raised about the town, 

<FOOTNOTE>

*In the town there are a very good inns, commodiously sitted up, and well 
kept.  The one is of a long standing, and the other, which is a very large 
house, was lately built by Mr. Davidson of Cantray, at his own expense; so
that persons travelling through this country, may, at this stage, expect to be 
well accommodated.  There are, besides these inns, so many alehouses and 
whisky shops in the town, that to mention the number, might, to strangers, 
perhaps appear incredible.  It were sincerely to be wished, that these tippling
houses were entirely abolished, as they are a nuisance in any place, and highly 
detsimental to the health and morals of the people. 


