
30                       PEEBLES-SHIRE.

  Parochial Registers.-- The registers of the parish have been pre-
served, and are legible from the year 1660.
  Antiquities.--The names of rivers and mountains, of slopes,
burns, cleughs, and tower steads, in this parish are allowed to show
that the inhabitants whom the present Gothic race drove out, spoke
a dialect of the Celtic language, intermediate between that of the
North Highlands and the Welsh, and that their successors retain-
ed many of their names of remarkable objects. *
  Porras-hill, or Purves-hill, is a farm-steading placed on a rising
ground, where a number of remarkable terraces descend to near
the level of the river, about 200 yards long.  The present road
occupies the line of the lowest but one of these; three rise above
it, all about eighteen feet broad.  There is then a larger interval
between the terraces, as if the upper series of them had been in-
tended to be separated from the lower, but this space is not regu-
lar, for it is much wider at the one end than the other.  Above
this there are other three terraces approaching towards the brow
of the declivity on which they have been formed, but none of them
so parallel as those below.  We abstain from offering any conjec-
ture as to the purposes of these works.
  Modern Buildings.--Several new houses have lately been built
in the village for the accommodation of those who resort to the
place for the benefit of the waters.  The mansion-houses most
worthy of notice in the parish are those of Mr Stewart of Glen
Ormistone, and Mr Ballantyne of Hollylee.  A beautiful wooden
bridge was some time ago erected under the superintendence, and
according to a plan, of Mr Jardine civil-engineer.  It displays
much scientific art in the design and execution.

                         III.-POPULATION.
  There are no documents by which we could form any estimate
of the population before Dr Webster's report in 1755.  The ear-
liest parish registers give merely an account of marriages, and pro-
bably only a part of these.

<TABLE>

       The population in 1755, according to Dr Webster, was     559
       By the last Statistical Account,     -     -     -       560
                       In 1801,       -     -     -     -       609
                          1811,       -     -     -     -       677
                          1821,       -     -     -     -       705
                          1831,       -     -     -     -       810

  The increasing celebrity of the mineral spring may account for
the progressive increase of the population; and this might be sup-
posed to be the chief cause, had not the increase in the village been

<FOOTNOTE>Notices of several hill-forts, and towers, &c. in the parish will be found in the
original MS.



