
                              ST MADOES.                               631

engine and moulding sheds, and kilns, for the purpose of manu-
facturing drain tiles by machinery, they are now within easy reach
of the tenantry, who are beginning to employ them to a consider-
able extent. It cannot be doubted that much benefit will accrue
to the surrounding district, as well as to Sir John's own property,
from this manufactory. An article admirably adapted for drain-
ing will thus be brought within the reach of many, who, from the
expenre incurred by the purchase and carriage of wood and stones,
which are with difficulty procured here, have hitherto been de-
terred from draining to any extent. Such, indeed, has been the
demand for tiles since last spring, when their manufacture com-
mdnced, that Sir John has resolved to double the size of his sheds,
&c, and to work the machinery by a steam-engine. Such too is
the feeling towards him among the agriculturists not only in the
Carse of Gowrie, but also in Stratbearn and the Stormont, on
account of his spirited conduct in setthng agoing, solely at his own
risk, this tile manufactory, that, while I am now writing, he is un-
der an invitation by some three hundred of them to a public din-
ner, in which, I may be permitted to add, they are joined by a
number of the inhabitants of Perth, from a sense of the obliga-
tions under which they lie to him for his attention to their com-
mercial interests.
  Embankments.-About 68 Scots acres of land have been here
at different times reclaimed from the Tay by embankments. In
1826, in consequence of an arrangement between the proprietor
and Mr R. W. Rannie, tenant Pitfour Mains, by which the latter
agreed to raise an embankment at his own expense, and after being
allowed to take the first crop rent free, to pay L. 4, 10s. annually
per Scots acre for the reclaimed land during a lease of nineteen
Years, operations were commenced which resulted in the complete
reclamation of fifty acres during the autumn of that year. The
hole expense of embankment, sluices, levelling, water-cuts, and
rene-hing amounted to L. 1530.  So productivd, however, did the
new soil turn out, that Mr Rannie has been amply rewarded for his
enterprise.  According to his own account, he has had, before lim-
ing and manuring, on some parts of a field about 60 bolls of pota-
toes per acre, the average produce being from 40 to 50 bolls.
After limhng and manuriny he has had on some parts of a field
Dutch to the boll. He has had of oats, before liming and manur-
ing,from 10 to 11, after liming and manuring from 12 to 13 quar-


