
562			DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

trict,--a failure in the seed, soon after planting, which has oc-
curred every season for these four years past, and for the preven-
tion of which no remedy has yet been discovered. The potato
raised from the plum has shared the same fate. On the glebe this
year, not one cut in forty of Potatoes, in the fourth year from seed,
vegetated. A simple process might be tried, and will, in this pa-
rish, be adopted next season. Let the dungsteads be turned over,
at least twice in the season; and, if the weather permit, let the
potatoes be planted not later than the first week in April.
	Turnip.--This species of crop is in extensive operation. Bone
manure is used at from 20 to 25 imperial bushels to the acre. The
turnips are eat off by sheep, and pay at from L. 3 to L. 3, 10s.
per acre.
	The parish is all subdivided, and now nearly all drained. The
farm-houses are good, and, for the most part, all slated. The ro-
tation of cropping is what is termed a fifth shift, though there are
not wanting instances of a fourth shift, a system of rotation that is
ill adapted to the capabilities of the soil, and, on a fifteen years'
lease, unprofitable to the tenant. If farmers only knew, and were
willing to follow, Lord Bacon's remark, "That nature is not
conquered but by obeying," it would essentially advance their in-
terests and those of the landlords.
	Improvements.--In 1827, Francis Maxwell, Esq. purchased the
estate of Gribton, containing 550 Scotch acres. On surveying
the lands, he found that in many fields it was difficult for the
plough to enter sufficiently deep into the soil, because obstructed
by stones imbedded, especially on the top of the subsoil. To de-
vise means effectually to remove this obstruction, be devoted his
energetic attention. Nor did he long deliberate.
	In 1828, he commenced operations. The plan adopted was to
draw a fur by the plough, on each side of the ridges. From the
bottom of the fur so drawn, a man with a crow-bar raised the stones.
He was followed by another, who removed them, even to 2lbs. lay-
ing them on the unploughed part of the ridge. By so laying them,
they were more easily carted off than they would have been, from
the part which had been ploughed. The opened up furs thus
cleared of stones, the plough took its course with another set of
furs; and thus, in succession, proceeded till the furs met at the
crown of the ridges. By this process, all stones, from a pound
weight to three tons, have been removed. The soil, now free, is
in depth from twelve to fifteen inches. At present, 235 Scotch
				   3


