
482			AYRSHIRE.

hung up in chains on the gallows; but, at the earnest intercession
of the Countess of Dumfries, and the Lady Affleck, the Earl of
Dumfries interfered, and told Murray that he had erected the gib-
bet for murderers and malefactors, and not for such men as Peden.
The body was therefore reinterred at Cumnock gallows' foot, be-
side other martyrs.
   Antiquities.--The ruins of Terringzean Castle stand on a small
rising ground, near to the banks of the Lugar, and within the
pleasure grounds of Dumfries House. This castle once belong-
ed to the family of Loudoun, and the present Countess is still
styled Baroness of Terringzean. There are no traditions connect-
ed with it. Some traces of an ancient ruin, called Boreland Castle,
are also to be seen on the south side of the parish, and not very
far from this castle, the vestiges of a small Popish chapel, are still
extant. The small farm on which it stands is called Chapel House;
and has been occupied by the same family as tenants, in regular
succession, for several hundred of years.
   There are several resting-places of the martyred dead in the pa-
rish. Some lie around Peden's grave, and mingle their dust with
his. One of the name of MacGeahan, lies in the farm of Stone-
park, on the estate of Logan; and there are three others whose
dust reposes out in the moor, that forms the south-west boundary
of the parish. New monuments have lately been erected over both
of these; as the former ones had become very much dilapidated.
   Land-Owners.--There are six heritors in the parish, namely,
the Marquis of Bute; James Allason, Esq. of Glasnock; W. A.
Cunninghame, Esq. of Logan; Mrs Boswell of Garallan; Robert
Campbell, Esq. of Skerrington; and Lieutenant-Colonel Camp-
bell of Avisyard. Two of these reside permanently on their estates,
two are occasionally resident, and the other two non-resident.
   Mansion-Houses.--Dumfries House, the seat of the Marquis of
Bute, is finely situated on the banks of the Lugar, over which a
very elegant bridge is thrown, near to the house, in order to con-
nect the beautiful pleasure groands that stretch to a considerable
extent along both sides of the river. The house is built with the
fine blue freestone already sooken of, and is about eighty years old.
The walls of the drawing-room are hung with very fine old tapes-
try, in a state of beautiful preservation, and said to have been pre-
sented by Louis the Fourteenth to one of the Earls of Dumfries.
The other mansion-houses are, Logan, Garrallan, and Glasnock.
The last of these is a very elegant house, lately built, on the banks


