
                           STRONSAY AND EDAY.

     Propagating Christian Knowledge.  This school was established
     by the Society in the year 1782.  And it may be worthy of being
     noticed, that since that time it has continued in the same family,
     being taught first by the father and afterwards by the present
     teacher, his son, who is also an elder in the parish church.  The
     school in the parish of Eday is supported by the Committee
     of the General Assembly for Promoting of Education in the
     Highlands and Islands of Scotland.  It was established in the
     year 1827.  Previous to this time, there was no regular school in
     the parish of Eday.  Although the people in Eday were thus so
     long without any public school, it should be observed that the
     children were not altogether neglected.  They were for the most
     part taught to read the Scriptures by their parents or some of the
     neighbours.  The Assembly's school, however, has been of great
     benefit to the parish, as it has spread education among all the fa-
     milies; taught the young to read with more accuracy than former-
     ly, as well as taught them branches to which they could not have
     access before.
       The parish schoolmaster in Stronsay receives a salary of L. 25,
     13s. 3 3/8d.; add to which the fees of scholars, L.3; total, L.28,
     13s. 3 3/8d.  The teacher of the Society's school in Stronsay receives
     a salary of L. 15; add to which, the fees of scholars, L. 1, 10s.;
     total, L. 16, 10s.  The teacher of the General Assembly's school
     in Eday receives a salary of L.25; add to which, the fees of
     scholars, L.5; total, L.30.
       The average number of children attending these schools in Stron-
     say, during the summer, are 48; during the winter, 65.  The ave-
     rage number attending the Assembly's school in Eday,' during
     summer, are 24; during winter, 36.  The fees are from 1s. 6d.
     to 3s. per quarter.
       Besides these schools, there are other casual schools, in more
     remote parts of the islands, taught by persons who earn their liveli-
     hood, partly from the fees of the children, and partly from follow-
     ing some other occupation.
       Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of persons
     receiving parochial aid in these parishes, is about 27.  They re-
     ceive from 1s. to 15s. during the year.  The only fund for relief
     of the poor is that which is procured by weekly collections in the
     parish churches on Sabbath, with the exception of a donation of
     L.2, 2s., per annum, from Mr Balfour of Trenaby for the poor
     of Stronsay.  The collections amount to about L. 8, 5s.  Sterling,


