

          146                        PERTHSHIRE.

           shoots.  The Epipactis qrandiflora, latifolia, and ensifolia are
           also found in the same wood, as also are the Listera nidus-avis,
           Paris quadrifolia, Chrysoplenium alternifolium, and Convallaria
           majalis, the latter in great abundance; the Erigeron alpinus, on
           a rock by the side of the Almond, near to the house of Lynedoch,
           -and in a morass near the south boundary of the parish and close
           by the turnpike road from Perth to Crieff, the Scheuchzeria pa-
           lustris, this being its only habitat as yet known in Scotland.
              Woods and Plantations.-The natural woods occupy about 260
           imperial acres, and are contiguous to the banks of the Almond.
           They consist chiefly of oak, Quercus pedunculata, with a mix-
           ture of birch, ash, alder, and hazel.  The Quercus sessiliflora is not
           indigenous here.  These woods have bden treated as coppice
           for some hundreds of years, and they are still, periodically cut
           as such, at a proper age.  Some of the aged reserves are oc-
           cassionally taken away, and, some of the best seedling growths left
           to supply their place.  There are `bout 1500 acres under planted
           trees of intermediate ages, from 150 years old and downwards; and
           to these, annual additions are making, not only of species which
           are indigenous, or which have long been naturalized, but also of
           others recently imported.  The soil in general appears to be
           most congenial to the oak, producing timber of great durability.
           Beech also succeeds well on all the hard-bottomed land that has
           been previously under cultivation; and on moor soils the larch
           thrives uncommonly well, of which there are several hundred acres,
           which for quality cannot be surpassed.
              Remarkable Trees.-A noble and venerable ash, known by the
           name of the Bell Tree, supposed to be coeval with the first religi-
           ous establishment in this parish, stands in the west corner of the
           churchyard.  At 3 1/2 feet above the surface of the ground, this tree
           measures 20 feet in circumference; and it contains hn all 380 cubic
           feet of timber.  Forty years ago it exhibited a magnificent top,
           but, wearied, as it were, of its former pliancy, it now chooses ra-
           ther to break than bow, and yearly it does homage to the soil which
           nourishes it, by surrendering a pnrtion of its withered branches.
              The Pepper Well oak at Methven Castle is a tree of great pic-
           turesque beauty, and contains 700 cubic feet of wood; the trunk
           measures 17 1/2 feet in circumference at 3 feet above the ground,
           and, its branches cover a space of 98 feet in diameter.  In has at-
           tained an increase in girth of 3 feet since the year 1796.  In the
           year 1722, 100 merks Scots were offered for this tree, and tradi-


