

82                           ROSS AND CROMARTY.

ioner.  The ruffian had, a few years before, come to the minister for
baptism to a child, which, as he was grossly ignorant, was inflexibly
refused. The fellow after repeated refusals, till he should exhibit
some suitable qualification, resolved to extort by force, what be
could not obtain by solicitation, prevailed on a neighbour of his,
another rude and athletic Highlander, to accompany and assist him
in this unprincipled attempt. They found the minister at some
distance from the manse, when Donald renewed his suit for baptism
to his child.  But after a short examination, he was found
as unqualified as ever, and positively refused. Upon which, the
two fellows laid violent hands on the minister, swearing that they
would never let him go till he would comply with the request. A
desperate struggle ensued, and Donald, perceiving that the minis-
ter was stronger than himself and his neigbbour, drew his dirk,
and inflicted a deep wound on Mr Robertson's right arm, notwith-
standing which, he beat the two, and sent Donald home again to
study his catechism.
   The day of retribution for the violence of the dirk was come,
and Mr Robertson, in the true spirit of his holy calling, lost no
time in employing all his influence, in favour of the desponding
criminal. His exertions were attended with success. Poor Donald
received a free pardon, returned home to his native country,
and lived for many years, the most attached and grateful parishioner
of his reverend benefactor. It may be added, that Mr Robertson
returned to his parish, and to the most grateful and admiring
affections of his people of all ranks, among whom he lived
for nearly thirty years after, in the zealous, diligent, and successful
discharge of his ministerial duties.
   Soon after the battle of Culloden, a squadron of King's vessels,
under the command of one Ferguson, appeared off the coast
of this parish, and dropped anchor in Loch Ceannard. A strong
party landed there, and proceeded up the strath, as far as the residence
of Mr M'Kenzie of Langwell, who was married to a near
relative of Earl George of Cromarty. Mr M'Kenzie got out of
the way; but the lady was obliged to attend some of her children,
who were confined by small-pox. The house was ransacked, a
trunk containing valuable papers, and among them a wadset of
Langwell, and Inchvennie, from the Earl of Cromarty, was burnt
before her eyes; and about fifty head of black-cattle were
mangled by their swords, and driven away to the ships.  Simi-
lar depredations were committed in the neighbourbood, without


