
                         ASSYNT.                        113

     Character of the People.-The character of the people may be
said to be good.  They are kind, civil, and extremely hospitible;
patient of Tabour, and capable of enduring much bodily.fatigue.
In general they prefer making immense exertions at times, to more
moderate but constant labour.  They live sparingly.  Their chief
articles of food are herrings and potatoes.  Some attention has, of
late, been paid to cleanliness and neatness about their dwellings,
but very much remains to be done.  Upon the whole, they may
be said to be contented with their situations.   They are naturally
shrewd and intelligent, and regular in their attendance on public
worship.  Poaching and smuggling, particularly the latter, were
carried.on to an alarming extent, and proved extremely prejudi-
cial to the morals of the people . Now, the narrator is happy to be
able to say, that, through the judicious and determined exertions
of the Noble proprietor, aided by the gentlemen who have the
management, such irregularities are almost unknown amongst us.
                      IV.-INDUSTRY.
   From situation and climate, the greater part of Assynt, particu-
larly the interior, is peculiarly adapted for pasturage.  According.
ly a large portion of it is laid out in sheep-walks, viz.  Ledbeg,
Filin, &c. at a rent of L. 540 ; Achumore, L. 338 ; Ardvar
L.220; Stronchrubie, L. 205; and Ledmore, L. 80.
   It will thus be seen that sbeep farming is carried on to a con-
siderable extent.  It is also prosecuted systematically.
   The great bulk, however, of the population dwell along the
shores, where they have the benefit of fishing.  They occupy lots
of land at rents ranging from L. 2 to L. 5. The land is not high
rented, but the occupants, in general, are in straitened circum-
stances.  This arises from the over-crowded state of the popula--
tion.  On the lot of land which, according to the rental book, is
Assigned to only one family, two are frequently. found residing;
This is the true cause of our poverty, and, unless emigration on a
large scale takes place, matters must soon come to apainful crisis:
At the same time, from want of climate, a great part of Assynt is
unfit for cultivation.
   Rents.-Of old, the valued rent of the parish was L. 1000 Scots.
In the year 1794, it was L. 1000 Sterling. ln the year 1012,
when there was a general setting of -the farms through the parish
it was about L. 5000     now it is reduced to something less than
L.3000.
   Quarries,-From Ledbeg to Achumore the soil, is, limestone.


