
		ISLAND OF SKYE-KILMVIR.                        245

	other by the Gairloch Channel, each being about twenty miles
	in average breadth.  The water of these channels is exceedingly
	salt.  The currents, although regular, are very strong and rapid.
 	The bottom of these channels must be very rugged, as the depths,
	which are generally great, vary in almost every place.  The pa-
	rish is supplied with numerous excellent perennial fresh water
	springs, some of which have a copious discharge.  There are also
	a few of the chalybeate nature, but not very much impregnated.
	The temperature of these springs varies but little at any season of
	the year, as they seem to issue immediately from a great depth.
	  On the farm of Steinscholl, there is a spring which was disco-
	vered, only a few years ago, whose water is supposed by some to
	be similar to that of Strathpeffer; but such is not the case, as it
	is saline, and exhibits no trace of sulphuretted hydrogen.  Six
	ounces of this water were analyzed by a celebrated chemist in the
	south, who found them to contain, muriates of lime and potash,
	sulpbates of soda, lime, and magnesia, carbonate of lime, and a
	trace of peroxide of iron and organic matter.
	  At a certain place in the parish, there is an accidental conflux
	of pure fresh-water springs, which form a small elliptical pond of
	considerable depth.  The bottom consists of whitish sand, which,
	by being visible through the transparent water, gives a beautiful
	greenish tinge to the whole.  This small lake is surrounded by a
	little brushwood, and the rivulet which flows from it into tbe sea
	is pleasantly hemmed and edged with a few shrubs and bushes.
	The pond was anciently called Loch Sianta or Seunta, which
	means the sacred lake, and it retains the name to this day.  The
	hallowed appearance of the situation did not escape the fancy of
	the ancient Highlanders, whose veneration for such places was
	carried to a ridiculous excess.  Owing to the crystalline purity
	of the water, its copiousness, and the sequestered situation of this
	little Hebridean Siloam, they conceived it to be favoured with its
	divinity, to whom, in the early ages of darkness and ignorance, they
	were extremely punctual in making offerings of various kinds. In-
	valids always resorted thither, and imagined that they were bene-
	fited by drinking of its water, and by thoroughly washing them-
	selves in a bath erected for the purpose.  These superstitions
	have, however, long ago ceased, and Loch Sianta, though beauti-
	ful as ever, has lost its ancient charms in this more enlightened
	age.
	On the sea-shore, where the rivulet which issues from Loch


