
  36                                 PERTHSHIRE.
                                   
    In 1608, the plague again appeared in Scotland. Vigorous
  measures were promptly adopted by the magistrates and council of
  Perth to prevent its entrance into the city.  All communication
  with those places where it was known to exist was prohibited.
  Watchmen were placed at the different ports of the town, to pre-
  vent the entrance of any one without the sanction of a magistrate.
  But every means used was unavailing.  Many of the inhabitants
  were seized with the pestilence and died. Of the number who
  died no correct account appears to have been kept; but it must
  have been considerable, as the interments were at the public ex-
  pense, and places of burial specially appointed.  The infected who
  were sent out of the city to St Leonards, a place in the neighbour-
  hood, and died there, were ordered to be buried at that place; as
  also all the infected who died in the Watergate, Southgate, and
  beneath the Cross. Those who were sent out to the "Lone" of
  Balhousie, also in the neighbourhood, and died there, were order-
  ed to be buried in the adjoining grave-yard of the Blackfriars; as
  Highgate. Those who conducted the interments received for each
  12s., and the grave-maker, 6s. Men, designated cleansers, were
  employed in examining the suspected tenements, and received for
  each that they cleansed 13s. 4d. Duncan Macqueen and others
  were imprisoned for speaking with David Hunter in Dundee,-the

  and this extreme need, which otherwise cannot be helped ; and therefore desires both
  all the congregation, and also all them that shall come after us in our rooms to judge
  charitably of this our ordinance, and rightly to ponder and weigh the causes that
  moved us, viz. the falling of the lives of our poor bretheren and sisters, and could find
  no other help at the present to relieve them withall, and therefore have received for
  that effect, the promulctual sums from the persons under-written, and also discharges
  the persons underwritten from all other satisfaction to the kirk-they are to say,
  George Johnston Bailie, Catharine Heron, James Gibson, John Robertson."-
  "Oct. 11, 1585.  Two parties (for gross impurity) ordered to be carted backward
  through the town, with paper hats on their heads, at 2 of the clock in the afternoon;
  thereafter to be locked fast in the irons on the cross, and there to stand till 3 in the
  afternoon; then to be put in prison, and on Sunday to be brought forth with their
  paper hats on their heads to the stool of repentance. They had been persons former-
  ly suspected of the plague, and put forth to the lodges (the pest-houses,) and hav-
  ing escaped with life, tendered this unsuitable return, when there was fasting and
  humiliation that the plague might be removed from the town and other towns in the
  country."-" Nov. 7th 1587. Appoints an fast to begin on Saturday night, and to
  pertinue while Sunday 8 days thereof at even, with great humiliation and prayer to
  God that it would please him to remove the plague of the pest from the towns of
  Edinburgh, Leith, &c. and to preserve us therefrom; as also to preserve us from the
  pest of the soul," which is Papistrie's ignorance, maintained presently by thir jesuits
  and Papists new come in, who press to bring men under the thraldom of idolatry and
  ignorance and from the true knowledge of Christ our Saviour, revealed to us in his
  Word, and to embrace the superstitious rites and ceremonies, from which the good
  Lord preserve us,-and ordain them to be notified from the pulpit on Thursday next,
  that none remain ignorant hereof,-that every one may address them to fasting, to
  prayer, to humiliation, at the time appointed."


