
752                        LANARKSHIRE.

tors in refusing any alteration, and to exempt them from the obli-
gation of building a new church-a circumstance of which they
have not failed to avail themselves, when applied to on the subject.
In 1834, a meeting of heritors was convened at the instance of the
feuars and other inhabitants of Larkhall and neighbourbood, and
a memorial presented, praying for a new and sufficient church in a
centrical situation, so as to afford accommodation for the whole
parish.  These persons at the same time offered a large sum by
way of subscription in aid of the heritors, upon being allowed a
right to a certain number Of sittingr.  Only two or three heritors
attended, who were averse to the proposal ; no encouragement
was given by those who were absent, and the matter came to
nought.  In consequence of this failure, a subscription was forth-
with entered into for building a chapel at Larkhall.  It will shew
the necessity of something being done, to state, in contrast with
the preceding population returns, the simple fact, that the church
only contains about 550 sittings, and, before the erection of Lark-
hall into a separate parish, was not more than sufficient to contain
the actual communicants.  For several years previous to 1835,
tent-preaching in the church-yard had to be resorted to for a good
many weeks in the summer.  It may easily be supposed that this
want of accommodation drove a number of persons, not disposed
to have left the church on any other ground, to seek accommoda-
tion in Dissenting meeting-houses.  Yet the seats, in so far as they
went, might be said to be all common.  The church-has never
been divided; at least no legal division is known to exist, and the
people were accustomed to take seats wherever they could find them.
The writer of this article felt it his duty to discourage any new and
formal division of seat-room among the heritors, which would forth-
with have dissevered a large portion of his flock from the Esta-
blisbment.  There has always been a sort of use and wont occupa-
tion by the heritors and their principal tenants, whose seats and
pews were in general, though not always, safe from intrusion.
From the state of things now alluded to, the crowded state of
the church, and the want of division, much bad temper at times
prevailed amongst the parishioners, and some unseemly quarrels
took place even in the church.  Since the division of the parish,
things, of course, are in a much better state in this respect.
  The manse formerly stood in the village of Dalserf, close to the
church-yard wall.  At what time the change of site took place


