
	                    CROSSMICHAEL.                      191

	Extent and Boundaries.--The length of the parish from north
to south, is about four miles and a-half, and its breadth about
mile less. On the west, it is bounded by the Dee, which sepa-
rates it from the parish of Balmaghie; on the north, by Parton;
on the east, by the river Urr, which separates it from Kirkpatrick,
Durham, and Urr; and on the south, by the parishes of Buittle
and Kelton. Its Figure is rectangular. When, under David I.,
the Episcopate of Galloway was re-established it eastern boun-
dary was the Urr and its western the Cree. The eastern division
of the Stewartry formed a portion of the Bishoprick of Glagow,
and was included in the Deanery of Nith. At the Reformation,
the parishes in the eastern division of the Stewartry were made to
form part of the Presbytery of Dumfries, while the others formed
the Presbytery of Kirkcudbright, with the exception of Kirkma-
breck and Minnigaff, which, on account of their locality, were
annexed to the Presbytery of Wigton. The river Urr, therefore,
which was formerly the boundary between the Bishopricks of Gal-
loway and Glasgow, is now the boundary between the Synods of
Dumfries and Galloway, and between the Presbyteries of Dum-
fries and Kirkcudbright. Along the banks of the Urr and the
Dee, the land is very fertile; and in other parts of the parish
there are small, rich, and beautiful valleys. The general appear-
ance of the parish, however, is hilly, and, up to a not very remote
date, it may have been regarded as a district in a middle state
between pastoral and agricultural. In the north-east district
of the parish, there are a number of hills fit only for pasture,
and which yield but little grass. They are rocky, and some
of them have lately been planted with larch. In the immediate
vicinity of the shore, there are hills rising to the height of 100 or
200 feet, and the interior of the country for several miles is nearly
at the same elevation, and of a very unequal surface. The coun-
try is thus divided into a succession of hills more or less abrupt.
The surface of the hills is very frequently broken by abrupt pro-
tuberances, steep banks, and rocky knolls of every shape. In
many instances, however, these hills are cultivated to their sum-
mits, and yield excellent crops. The soil is extremely various,
consisting chiefly of sand, till, loam, or holm, and the crops in
general are good where justice has been done to the land.
	Hydrography.--There are three lakes in this parish. The first
is Erncrags loch, on two small islands of which sea-gulls formerly
built their nests. Were the water it contains not necessary for


