
78                            SHETLAND.

easily. And the consequence is, that at the bottom of every plot
of ground or ridge, the earth, and always the best, has accumu-
lated to a considerable depth. Ploughing is, at present, very little
used, and perhaps, as the farms are divided into smaller portions,
may get into disuse, almost altogether. When the former Statis-
tical Account was written, there were twenty-six ploughs in the
parish; at present, there are only twelve, and these are drawn by
oxen or horses, or both, as the people can get them for hire, or
are able to rear them and keep them for themselves.
   Live-stock.-The sheep and cattle reared or bred are, for the
most part, of the pure Zetland breed; but little or no attention
whatever is paid to their improvement. Some of the Scotch kinds
have occasionally been introduced, but were found not to answer well,
as they are too tender or soft for the climate. The hardier the
breed, the better for Zetland. The breed of horses, it is said, has
fallen off very much, for some years past; and the reason is, that
the best of the horses are always sold, and only those of an infe-
rior description kept for breeding; and things will never improve
till the proprietors interfere and enact a law, which they can
very easily do, that the best horses shall always be kept; and this
would, ultimately, be greatly for the interest of both landlord and
tenant.
   Fishing.-Fishing is the chief occupation of the people, during
the summer season, and almost all depend on this, and not on the
produce of the soil, for the payment of rent and other burdens.
And various kinds of fishing are carried on, in this parish. Cod fish-
ing is, at present, almost given up, as it has been a complete failure
fore some years. Herring-fishing has commenced, but it has not hi-
therto been attended with much success; but, perhaps, this may
arise from not having boats of a proper size and construction, and
nets of the proper dimensions and depth. Ling-fishing has been
carried on for a great many years, with the most complete success,
and much wealth has been obtained by it. The boats, however,
are now very much reduced in number from what they were once;
and this is to be attributed to the scarcity of fish, the lowness of
the price, and the great expense with which the fishing is attended.
   In this parish, there are a great number of excellent stations for
pursuing the ling-fishing.-Stennes, Hamnavoe, Uyea, and Fe-
theland. At these stations, the crews and boats assemble about
the end of May, if the weather is favourable, and remain till the
beginning of August. In former times, the boats fished near the
                           3


