
                 DUNOON AND KILMUN.                         621

of Dunoon and Kilmun are pretty centrically situated, as to ter-
ritorial bounds, respectively; but the distance of each from the
further extremity of each parish, is too great to admit of the
attendance from those parochial districts being regular or general;
the distance of the church of Dunoon from the further boundary
of the parish to the westwards being upwards of ten miles; and
that of Kilmun fully eight miles from the boundary of that parish,
to the northward. In each of these districts, the nearest of them
situated beyond four miles from the parish church, is a population
of upwards considerably of three hundred and two hundred re-
spectively. The present church of Dunoon was built, as already
stated, in 1816, and is a very handsome edifice in the modern
Gothic style, with a tower, and is strikingly situated on the
highest ground in the village, the castle-hill excepted. It is at
present in a very thorough state of repair, comfortable, and hand-
somely finished within. There are no important benefactions on
record; but by the judicious management of small benefactions,
and from other sources, an accumulation of poor's funds took place,
during the incumbency of the last minister of the parish, Dr John
Campbell, amounting to upwards of L.700. At the date of its
erection, the church was considered to afford ample accommodation
to the parishioners, being seated for 500. The rapid increase of the
village of Dunoon, and the accession to the population, especially
in the summer months, rendered it insufficient to accommodate
the resident population ; and to obviate this inconvenience, while
the state of the law prevented  additional accommodation being
demanded or granted in the circumstances, it was judged, as the
most, expedient and safe plan, that the accumulated poor's fund
should be invested in building an addition to the church, and that
seat-rents should be levied on those additional sittings, to replace
the capital thus invested, and its interest while so invested. It
was further considered, that the additional amount of weekly col-
lections arising from increased accommodation, would in the
meanwhile more materially benefit the parochial poor, than any
interest which could be expected from any safe investment of this
accumulated fund. The accumulated fund, amounting at that
time (1834), to L.607, 5s. 6d., was accordingly lent by tbe heri-
tors and kirk-session to two of the heritors on their personal secu-
rity,-the late Kirkman Finlay Esq., of Castle Toward, and
James Hunter Esq., of Hafton,-they voluntarily and gene-
rously agreeing to take the risk of repayment; and that the


