
142                    EDINBURGHSHIRE.

period, such as two or three nineteens. In these agreements the
only stipulations were-tbe payment of the rent (a large propor-
tion in kind,) the furnishing of carriages and capons, thirlage to
a corn-mill, some improvement in the enclosing of the land, or
the payment of a small grassum at the commencement of the
lease. As to the course of cropping, the only requirement was,
that the land should be farmed according to the rules of good
husbandry.  About this period the agriculture of this parish was
greatly improved by the example of Mr John Allan, tenant in
Loanhead, a farmer in tbe immediate vicinity of the village of Kirk-
liston. He was decidedly the best corn farmer in his day, and
was the first to introduce a regular rotation of cropping, viz. naked
fallow, wheat or oats, beans, barley, grass, oats, the rotation best
adapted to strong soils, yet known.  The use of foreign manure
was introduced by him into the parish.  At a later period, Mr
Wilkie of Ormiston Hill, who rented two farms in the parish, the
property of the Earl of Hopetoun, contributed eminently to the
furtherance of improvement, by extensive drainage, and a judici-
ous mode of cultivation.  His maxim in farming was, "dry land be-
fore cropping it,"-he introduced the four and five-sbift rotation,
always resting the land in pasture when in a clean state.
   Rent of Land.-Tbe average rent of land may be stated at
L.2, 5s. per Scots acre.  The real rent of the parish is about
L.14,000 per annum.
   Price of Labour.-The great proportion of farm labour is paid
for by half yearly or weekly wages; drainage and work on fences,
only, is let by contract. The wages of farm-servants are on an
average, all things included, L.26 or L.27 per annum.  Able-
bodied day-labourers earn from 9s. to 11s. per week; wrights, 2s. 6d.
per day; masons, 3s.; staters, 3s. or 3s. 6d. Smithy work is fre-
quently contracted for, and often also charged at a price per article.
   Breeds of Cattle.-The land is generally so valuable in quality
that tbe farmers do not find it for their interest to breed cattle;
of late, however, they are turning their attention more than for-
merly to this branch of farming.  Anothe reason which may have
rendered them less anxious about breeding, is the vicinity to Fal-
kirk market, where the fields and stalls are supplied with bullocks
from the shires of Aberdeen, Inverness, and Argyle. Ayrshire
cows are generally used for the dairy. The breed of cattle is a
cross between Teswater and Ayrshire. The breed of sheep is
confined to the black-faced, Cheviot, and Leicester, with crosses



