
60                  LINLITHGOWSHIRE.

fortunately, only a small fragment of the interesting relic was
recovered. Ironstone appears to have been wrought in former
times to some extent to the west of the church.
   The alluvial deposits in the west part of the parish, near the
shore, consist of sea sand and shells resting on blue clay and mud,
the clay resting on the coal formation; and in the south-west,
there is found yellow brick clay, and yellow clay with sand and
gravel. The soil is of all varieties, from that of a light sandy
texture to the richest loam and heavy clay. The subsoil is also
very various, in some places being free and open, in others of a
rocky description, and in others tilly and retentive. The boul-
ders that have been met with, are trap, but different from that of
the neigbbourhood, and must have come from a distance, their
weight varying from three or four cwt. to four or five tons.
   Botany.-There is but a small portion of the parish covered
with wood, and that chiefly ornamental, planted for the most part
on declivities and other parts of the surface, inapplicable to the
usual purposes of husbandry. The prevalent sorts of trees are
the plane, the ash, the elm, the beech, the larch, the oak, and
the lime, which are all promiscuously intermixed, and seem all
equally adopted to the soil. The full-grown trees, which are but
few in number, are chiefly in the neighbourhood of the old man-
sion-houses; and as a proof of the geniality of the climate and
vigour of the soil, it may be stated, that, within a few feet apart
from high water mark, immediately below Carriden House, several
trees of respectable size and appearance stand strong and healthy
in growth, stretching their branches and foliage over the flood at
full tide.

                      II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Accounts of the Parish.-Several incidental notices of it are to
be met with in the works of antiquarian writers, from its being the
eastern termination of Antoninus's wall, and the site of other an-
cient Roman works; but the only detailed accounts, besides the
former Statistical Account, with which the writer is acquainted,
are to be found in Sir Robert Sibbald's History of Linlithgowshire,
Chalmers's Caledonia, and Penney's Topographical and Histo-
rical Account of Linlithgowshire.
   Historical Events.-The only events of any note on record
have a reference to the history of Blackness Castle, an ancient
royal fortress, which never appears to have been considered of
much importance as a military station, though, by the Act of Union,
                                    3



