
414                        ABERDEENSHIRE.

article itself on the shore: and even if sent for by private carfs,
the loss of time and labour, together with expenses for men and
horses, raises the price of this best description of all fuel, to a very
heavy amount.

                 MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   The most prominent variation between the present state of
these united parishes, and their condition at the date of the former
Statistical Report, arises from the improved state of husbandry;
the tillage of waste land the superior style of cultivation; and
the adoption of many of those advantageous changes, both in
cropping and in the implements of husbandry, which have been
equally recommended by the precept and example of eminent agri-
culturist.
   Next in order may be mentioned the less essential, but cer-
tainly not the unimportant improvements in cleanliness, dress, and
modes of living.  The becoming regularity, decency, and atten-
tion of, the attendants in the parish church of Auchindoir could
not have been, improved; it has always been noticeable, praise-
worthy, and exemplary.
   The most crying evil here was the overwhelming concourse of
travelling beggars, to whom a mistaken liberality afforded the temp-
tation to come among us, but whose visitations were in many ways
prejudicial to the parishioners.  This burden was considerably les-
sened about two years ago, by a general resolution not to give alms
of any sort to stranger beggars, but to confine our parochial chari-
ty to our parochial poor; and the, recent institution of a rural po-
lice has added to our security and protection.
   The mischiefs of absenteeism are luckily little felt in these pa-
rashes.  The presence of certain heritors for the greater part of
the year affords, in the first place, the facilities of the magistracy,
and what is of not less moment, it sets an example in the way of
improvements;  it leads to the employment of tradesmen, to the
extension of charities, and to the reciprocities of kindness and
confidence between dissimilar ranks.

  October 1840.


