
                     PARISH OF INVERAVEN.

            PRESBYTERY OF ABERLOUR, SYNOD OF MORAY.

               THE REV. WILLIAM ASHER, MINISTER.

                I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
          Name, Extent, and Boundaries.-THIS parish takes its name
from the situation of its church, which stands on the south bank
of the Spey, about a mile below the junction of the Aven with
that river. Stretching back into the Grampians towards the
sources of the Don for about 20 miles, with a breadth varying
from 3 1/2 to 8 or 9, and lying partly in the county of Moray, but
chiefly in the county of Banff,-it is bounded on the north by the
parish of Knockando; on the west by Cromdale and Kirkmichael;
on the south by Strathdon, and that part of Tarland which is at-
tached thereto quoad sacra; and on the east by Glenbucket, Ca-
brach, Mortlach, and Aberlour,-with masses of lofty mountains
intervening betwixt it and all these parishes except Knockando,
in the direction of which the Spey forms the boundary.
   Topographical Appearances- Consisting, in by much the larger
proportion, of moorland and mountain, this extensive parish has
upon the whole a bleak and barren appearance, particularly when
entering the lower end of the parish (by the toll-road) from the
east; but along the rivers, near the banks of which both the arable
land and natural wood chiefly lie, the prospect is in general pleas-
ing, and occasionally highly picturesque and attractive. About
three miles back from, and nearly parallel to, the Spey, Cairnocay,
a lofty range of mountains extending from Benrinnes, to the Aven,
divides the lower part, or what may be termed Inveraven proper,
from Glenlivet, a country well known to most Scotchmen by name,
-while some six or eight miles further on, Glenlivet is itself di-
vided into nearly equal parts by the Bochle, a high hill rising up
in the Centre of the valley, flanked on either hand by projecting
masses of the neighbouring mountains. These three districts,
thus divided by natural boundaries, are pretty equal in point of
extent, and have an average population of about 900. The one


