
736                    EDINBURGHSHIRE.

out into districts, a thorough cleaning out and purifying of the
worst parts of the old town was effected, and hospitals were esta-
blished for the reception of the affected. The first cases com-
menced in a close in the High Street, and these could be traced
to a direct communication with relatives who had died of the dis-
ease in Musselburgh.
   From the great destitution of the numerous poor in Edinburgh,
and from the intemperate and irregular habits of many of those
who are employed in labour of various kinds,-from the crowded
state of their houses already mentioned, and from want of habits
of cleanliness, fevers and other diseases are at all times very pre-
valent. The general health of the middle and higher classes, on
the other hand, may be reckoned as fully equal to that of the
average of towns in Britain, and perhaps above that of towns of
equal or superior size, especially the large and crowded manufac-
turing towns.
   House of Refuge.-In the year 1832, during the prevalence of
cholera in the city, when unusual exertions on the part of the
community were called forth for the relief of the destitute, a tem-
porary institution was established for the reception of poor, hungry,
and houseless wanderers. The cheap and efficacious manner in
which a number of wretched poor, of various ages, could be fed
and enabled to work or receive education and religious instruction
for a time till some permanent means of employment could be
provided for them, soon attracted the attention of the charitable
public, and this temporary institution was at last put upon a per-
manent footing. A large house was obtained in one of the closes
of the High Street and converted into a house of refuge for
the destitute. Subsequently this institution was established in
Queensferry House, where the accommodation is more ample.
The Lord Provost is president, and a number of noblemen and
gentlemen of the county and city are directors. The active duties
are performed by a committee of management, a secretary, house-
governer and treasurer, matron, chaplain, and surgeons. The
funds are entirely derived from public subscriptions and donations,
from the profits arising from work done by the inmates, and from
small boards paid by a proportion of the inmates. In the year
1839-40 the total receipts from all these sources were L. 2620.
The total of individuals received into the house during same year
1570. In 1840-1, total receipts, L. 2918. Total of individuals
received into the house, 1151. There is also a night-asylum at-
			     4


