
                               EDINBURGH.                    637

this party, and twelve men were killed and several morvi wounded.
This made them for the present retreat; but they soon return-
ed with a warrant from one of the lords of the privy council, and
headed by the magistrates and council with armed guards. The
captain of the other party was now summoned to surrender, but
on his refusal another skirmish took place, in which he and his
men were defeated and forced to surrender. The royal chapel
was then plundered of its ornaments, as well as some of the houses
of the Catholics, amongst others, the house of the Earl of Perth.
A convention of estates was held at Edinburgh in March 1689,
which, being converted into a parliament, Prelacy was abolished,
and the Presbyterian form of church government again established
in its place.
The new government entertained such a Jealousy of the College
of Justice as to disarm all its members, commanding them, under
the highest penalties, to deliver up their whole arms, with the ex-
ception of their wearing swords, to the lord provost and several of
James's adherents were sent to prison.
The union of the two kingdoms, which took place in 1707, was
so unpopular, that all parties joined in deprecating it. The ar-
ticles had been industriously concealed from the people, but ou
their being printed a universal clamour ensued. The Parliament
Square, in which the parliament at thattime was sitting, was filled
with an immense multitude of people, who, with bootings and ex-
ecrations, attacked the Duke of Queensberry, the Commissioner,
and every-partizan of the Union, while those who, headed the op-
position were followed with the loudest acclarnations. The mob
next proceeded lo attack the house of the Lord Provost, Sir Pa-
trick Johnston, who was an active promoter of the Union, but he
saved himself by Right. By nine at night the moh.were in pos-
session of the whole, city, and a report prevailed that. they were
going to shut up the ports. To prevent this the commissioner
ordered, a party of soldiers to take possession of the Nether Bow,
and afterwards, with consent of the provost, sent a party of foot
guards who posted themselves in the Parliament 8quare. and the
various streets of the city by which means the tumult was sub-
dued.  Three regiments of foot were also quartered in the city to
preserve tranquility.
The discontent at the Union, and the Appointment of numerous
English officials to public offices in Scotland had no small sharp
in encouraging the Rebellion of 1715. Edinburgh, however, re-


