
584                        LANARKSHIRE.

was allocated for the minister's stipend, the original lay improria-
tor had been altogether lost sight of. About 1822, however, dur-
ing the prosecution of a process for augmentation of stipend, an
inquiry into the matter was instituted; it was their found that the
heritors had been just upon the eve of becoming absolute proprie-
tors of their own teinds; for not only had the Calderwood lease
expired, but nearly forty years in addition, when, of course, all
rights of the actual impropriator would have been prescribed. The
Roxburgh family, having their attention tbus called to the sub-
ject, of course took immediate steps to confirm their almost obsolete
rights.
	When the abbacy of Kelso was conferred upon Lord Roxburgh
in 1607, the patronage (not the teinds, as Chalmers supposes,) of
Carluke, was reserved to the Crown. About the middle of the
seventeenth century, Lockhart, Laird of Lee, Cromwell's Lieu-
tenant and nephew-in-law, obtained from Charles I. a gift of the
patronage of Lanark and Carluke. In 1751, the patronage of
Lanark was, by a decision of the law courts, reassumed by the
Crown, on the ground that the grant had been made whilst the
King was under coercion, and was, consequently, null and void.
The Lee family have continued to present to the living of Car-
luke, under protest by the Crown officers.
	The following is a list of the ministers of Carluke subsequent
to the Reformation, as far as any records of them remain in the
parirish. The dates attached to their names are the earliest pe-
riods at which they are mentioned, either in the parish records or
in secular deeds, as wills, inventories, &c.-1636. John Lindsay.
Baillie, in his letters, mentions that on his refusal to preach be-
fore the synod on the last Thursday of September 1837, Mr
Lindsay was ordered by the Bishop of Glasgow to do so. An in-
timation was whispered to him, whilst ascending the pulpits to be-
ware of touching on the service-book in his sermon. He took the
hint, and thus escaped the vengeance which was inflicted by the
women with neaves, staves, and peats, but no stones,' on Mr
Annan, who had preached the previous day and defended the li-
turgy. Being drowned in debt, he had to leave his parish, and
seek refuse in lreland.-(Stevenson's History of Church and
State.)-1641. John Weir. A Mr Weir, (supposed to be the
Carluke minister, as no other of the name is mentioned at
that time,) is stated by Guthrie as sent to Ireland in the sum-
				3


