
122                        FIFESHIRE.

siding in this. Under the denomination of parish poor and month-
ly distribution, come the weekly and monthly poor. The hires and
fees are paid for session, presbytery, and synod clerks' fees, the of-
ficer's salary, and some clothes for the poor.
   It is truly grievous to observe a growing disposition to take every
advantage possible of the poors' funds, and to come upon the pa-
rish for aid; and children willing to free themselves from every bur-
den when their parents advance in years.
  Fairs.-There are two fairs in the parish,-tbe spring fair, held
on the first Thursday of April, O. S. for Milch cows, and the shew
of horses that are to travel the county during the season. The
spring fair is always well attended. The autumn one is held on
the l0th of October. This of late years has fallen very much off.
At this fair, lean stock are brought forward.
  Inns and Alehouses.-There are 4 inns in the parish and about
16 alehouses. The inns are necessary, and at present remark-
ably well conducted. But with regard to the alehouses, or rather
they, should be called whisky shops, a great Dumber of them are a
perfect nuisance and the hot-beds of vice. It is no unusual thing
for many of the whisky shops to entertain company till three or four
o'clock on a Sabbath morning.
  Fuel.-The fuel mostly made use of is coal. There is coal in
the parish and immediate neighbourhood; but on account of its be-
ing dearer than at some short distance farther away, the most of
the coal used in the houses and public works is driven about five
miles and a-half. The price of the coal in the neighbourhood is
14d. per load of sixteen stones, while at a distance of five miles
it is only 10d. the load of twenty-two stones.

                   MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
  When the last account was given of the parish, the population
was about 1212; at the present time it is 2749. At that time,
there was not a spinning-mill in the parish, there are now six and
three large bleachfields. At that time, there were six houses where
ale was sold, but that not one person or family was supported by
the profits of a public-house,-all having some other employment.
Now there -are 20 alehouses, and several of those who keep them
have no other employment. The Sabbath with many of them is
the busiest day,-not that the allow those who come to drink in
the public-houses, but the liquor is taken to private houses, and
the debauch carried on before wives, sons, and daughters. The
effects of this are most demoralizing.
                                  4


