
                           KILSYTH                           167

   Temperance Societies.--The writer of this article, after much
deliberation, saw it to be his duty to form one of these associa-
tions in 1829, at the same time with the savings bank, to, which
it was fitted to be, and to which it has been, a useful auxili-
ary. Much good has been done. But the lamentable fact, that
and spirits, to a population of less than 3000, shows that the vice
of intemperance still prevails to a woful extet. The quarriers
and colliers, with a few very honourable exceptions, continue fear-
fully addicted to drinking spirits, especially on pay-nights, and when
there is any cessation from working. Females as well as men are
much addicted to this ruinous vice.
   Poor and Parochial Provision.--Until the year 1811, the interest
of a fund of nearly L.300, and the weekly collections and small
dues, as mortcloth, &c. were found, in ordinary times, sufficient to
supply the necessities of the poor; but since that period, it has
been found necessary to combine the system of partial assessment
with weekly collections. The landed proprietors meet regularly
twice a year with the session, and, after examining the lists of the
poor, and correcting the lists as circumstances required, agree to
stent themselves for such suna as may be necessary to meet the
expenditure of the coming season. The tenants and householders
are not assessed, but are encouraged to give their contributions
at the church door. Besides this systematic plan of supplying
the weekly and occasional poor, private beneficence is exercised,
and it is pleasant to notice, that, in cases of extreme and unex-
pected distress, it is usual for kind neighbours to go round, and
to collect for the relief of the sufferers.
   The weekly list of poor contains about 60, chiefly aged widows;
the occasional poor are about the same number. The heritors
very liberally allow surgical and in certain cases; and this is re-
gular item of their annual accounts. This parish has been more
than usually burdened with cases of poor lunatics, deaf and dumb,
and orphans. An accumulation of such cases in 1811, with the
low state of trade, caused the introduction of the mode of partial
assessment: nor does there seem any possibility of avoiding it.
Were all the proprietors residing constantly, and attending the ordi-
nances of religion in the Established Church, the assessment could
at once be dispensed with; but otherwise, the thing is quite out of
the question. Neither do we find that the mode we follow, has the
effect of bringing into desuetude private benevolence. Had we


