
414                      FORFARSHIRE.

lin, Fountainblow, Barberswells, and even Dryloch, indicate no
want of water. There is a bridge of two arches over the Isla, on
the road from Blairgowrie to Kirriemuir. The date of its erec-
tion is not known; but from its narrowness, its being originally
without parapets, as well as its large central pier, it is supposed
to bd very ancient. After passing the bridge, the river runs over
several ledges of broken rock, and then falls into a deep and
broad pool, which, becoming more shallow towards the south, di-
vides into two streams, forming a small island of about six acres.

	The Isla is well stocked with small trout and par, but salmon
seldom make their appearance till the month of September, when
they come up to spawn. In this state, the fish frequent the shal-
lows for the purpose of depositing their roe, and, from being in a
languid and unhealthy state, are easily killed by night with spears
and torch light. Fortunately, the recent enactments with regard
salmon-fishing are so well enforced, that the barbarous sport of
killing fish in this state is completely put a stop to. I may here
mention, that the oldest people in the neighbourhood are of opi-
nion, that the Isla shrinks much more now during the summer
months, than it did many years ago. Perhaps the drainage and
superior cultivation of the glens and higher districts of country
through which the river runs, may account for this.

	Zoology.--The wild animals found in this parish are the roe-
deer, fox, badger, otter, polecat, weasel, squirrel, hare, and rabbit.
Besides the birds common to the district, the kingfisher is found
on the river; and, at particular seasons, in the woods, the crors,
bill and siskin. The pheasant has, of late years, been added to
the number of game birds.

	I know not whether it is worthy of notice, as an ornithological
fact, that a pure white swallow was seen here, some summers ago;
or as an entomological fact, that the glow-worm has been found
in the parish.

	Botany.--The parish of Ruthven is rich in botany. Amongst
the rarer or more interesting plants found on the glebe may be
mentioned the Convallaria majalis, undoubted indigenous, Py-
rola media and minor, Trientalis Europa, Epilobium angustifolium,
Campanula latifolia, the beautiful Echium vulgare and curious
and elegant Parnassia. It may be added that the Cerastium ar-
vense, the Scrophularia vernalis, the Cichorium Intybus, and the
Melampyrum arvense,--plants having apparently a very local dis-
tribution, are found in the parish; and the Alchemilla alpina is to
				4


