
     of Duffus.

gether with the illiberal prejudices respecting Highlander and
Lowlander, have greatly ceased amongst the people.  They
became Presbyterians more from accident than from temper.
During the alternations of Presbytery and Episcopacy, which
took place after the Reformation, they did not at all discover
that decided preference to Presbytery, which marked the wes-
tern and southern counties.  Had not their sentiments been
keener than ours on this point, our island would probably at
present have had but one national church.  At the Revolu-
tion, few of the clergy of this province conformed to Presby-
tery, but availed themselves of the indulgence which the go-
vernment gave, of allowing them to remain in their benefices
for life, upon qualifying to the civil government.  And in
order to cherish Presbytery, it was necessary, from time to
time, to send clergy from the south country to serve the cure.
That horror at the name of holidays, which was once a cha-
racteristic of the Puritans, and true blue Presbyterians, never
took possession of our common people here:  and they still ce-
lebrate (perhaps without ever thinking of the origin of the
practice), St. John's day, St. Stephen's day, Christmas day,
&c. by assembling in large companies to play at foot-ball, and
to dance and make merry.  It is among the marks of an im-
proving country, to find all the different ranks of society en-
larging their sphere of motion.  The higher ranks roam chief-
ly for amusement, and from curiosity; the lower move princi-
pally with a view to business and gain.  In both cases, the con-
sequences are beneficial to the district to which they belong,
by giving rise to a wider comparison of objects and usages.
The common people resident in Scotland every where, at pre-
sent, move more from their native spot than formerly.  In the
time of our grand-fathers, fewer of the commonality crossed
the Spey or the Findhorn, (the two rivers bounding the coun-
try), than now visit distant counties and towns, and even fo-


