
                           KILSYTH.                               159

Glasgow, and is nearly equidistant from Glasgow, Stirling, (by the
hill road), Falkirk, and Hamilton.  It does not seem to be very
ancient, yet it has been a post-town ever since the institution
of the post establishment. About half a century ago, it was the
great thoroughfare betwixt the metropolis and Glasgow.  Now,
it is rare to see any vehicle on the streets, superior to a cart or the
post gig. There is not even one post-chaise, but very comfortable
accommodation in the chief inn, for families travelling in their own
vehicles.
   There are two villages in the East Barony, Banton and Auchin-
mully, (or Banton Lower,) containing 600 inhabitants, Miners,
colliers, sickle-makers, &c.
   The town of Kilsyth, holding of Sir Archibald Edmonstone, Bart.
was erected into a burgh of barony about twelve years ago, having
a bailie and four councillors, elected annually, who bold monthly
courts for small debts, and petty offences. All the inhabitants
and proprietors of houses,to the extent of L. 5 rental, who chose
to furnish themselves with a burgess-ticket, have a vote in the elec-
tion.
   The trade of Kilsyth is almost entirely hand-loom-weaving, to the
order of the Glasgow manufacturers. Two factories have lately been
commenced; in the new town of Kilsytb, by Messrs Wilson, and
at Quinzie mill, in the West Barony, by Messrs Ross.  The
latter is a waulking factory ; the articles made are whip and
lappets, the former used in weaving, the latter for the foreign
market. The number of hands at present 23; 16 looms going;
the quantity of cloth thrown off about 160 pieces, ten yards
in each piece. The work is now enlarged, and eleven more
looms fitted up. For six months past, the company have em-
ployed a young man, although there is an excellent school at
Chapel Green, to teach the children connected with this work, and
a few others who choose to avail themselves of the benefit. They
employ about 50 hands in town also. Messrs Wilson's factory
employs at present 50 weavers, all working coarse lappets, with
the exception of nine who are working umbrella-cloth and checked
ginghams.  Out-door weavers in the town are working fine lap-
pets ; they are 66 in number. There are six out-of-door pollicot
weavers, which makes in all 122 in this parish. These two com-
panies, though small compared with those in Glasgow, Airdrie,
&c. are yet of some importance here; as before their erection, no-
thing of the kind had been, at least for a long time, attempted,


