
266                       STIRLINGSHIRE.

shrubs, by the fall and putrefaction of which the moss was in due
time formed. Accordingly, oaks of a great size are still found in
the soil from which the moss is removed. On some of these oaks,
the marks of an axe or hatchet are seen, which serve to show that
they were cut down by the hand of man. And it is highly pro-
bable, that they were cut down chiefly by the Roman legions em-
ployed in clearing away the forests in which the Britons and Ca-
ledonians concealed themselves from their enemies, and from
which, as they had opportunity, they sallied forth against them.
   The carse ground is a rich clay, and is, in general, well culti-
vated; and, in favourable seasons, produces excellent crops of
wheat, and beans, and oats. There is along the banks of the
Forth, a narrow haugb or holm which is very fertile, and better
adapted to the growth of potato and turnip than the strong clay
soil. From the carse the land rises at first abruptly, and then
very gradually for about a mile, and in some places considerably
more. This elevated part of the parish is called the dryfield, and
forms the largest portion of the cultivated ground. The soil is
in some places loamy and sandy, and in others gravelly. It
is generally well cultivated and enclosed, and in many places
produces excellent crops. The land toward the summit of the
rising ground, and on its southern declivity, is lighter and less fer-
tile; and it has been considered more advantageous to lay a num-
ber of acres of it in pasture. Along the summit of the gently ris-
ng hill, on the northern declivity of which the largest portion of
the cultivated land is situated, there is a heathy moor, which runs
almost the whole length of the parish, and extends into the pa-
rish of Balfron. From those higher grounds, and, indeed, from
many parts of the parish, an extensive and beautiful prospect is
presented to the view of the spectator, of fertile fields, and orna-
niented seats of the proprietors, encompassed with a rugged range
of the Grampian mountains, reaching from Benlomond to the
Ocbil Hills, and forming the northern boundar of the widely ex-
tended plain.
   Botany.--There are some extensive and thriving plantations in
this parish, especially on the estates of Mr Campbell of Boquhan,
Mr Stirling of Garden, and Mr Erskine of Cardross. The wood,
on the higher grounds, is chiefly larch land Scotch fir. A consider-
able, part of the eastern extremity of the moor has been planted
with these, and similar sorts of trees, which are thriving well; and
more of the moor is likely to be planted soon. Oaks, ash, and


