
                         LADY.                              141

be seen at.  Northwall, Newark, Cleatt, Tressness, Overbist6r,
Coliness, and other places.  It is likely they would all have been
dedicated to some saint or other holy person; but tradition, which
is very scanty here, has only preserved the names of three of them
Peter Kirk, or St Peter's Chapel, (which has been of rather lar-
ger dimensions than the others), on the banks of Otterswick, near
Newark; the Chapel of Arstas, close by the round tower lately
discovered at Newark; and St Magdalen's Chapel in Overbister.
Founts, or holy water basins, have been found at several of
them.  These founts are all formed alike, from rounded pieces
of red sandstone, roughly bollowed out on one side.
11 On examining the small.portions left of the walls of the eba-
pels, they are found to be cemented with clay; some of them
have been plastered inside with lime.
In the spring of 1826, while removing some large stones
which impeded the operations of the plough, near the foundations
of a ebapel in Overbister,- a long subterraneous passage was dis-
covered, which terminated in a circular cavity.  The bottom and
sides of this passage were formed of the solid rock, as well as the
cavity at its extremity, which has likely been intended for a well ;
the top or roof of the passage was carefully covered with flagstones,
and above was the natural soil.  The entrance to the passage was
by two steps cut in the rock.  The length ofthe passage was
191 feet; height, 3 feet ; width, about 1 foot 9 inches ; diameter 
of the well, 3 feet ; from the roof to the bottom of the well, 3 feet
6 inches.  Several small pieces of decayed oak were found in the
passage. The well contained a very little water and mud. "
   "At a few feet distance from the entrance to this passage, a
causeway was discovered, formed of rounded stones from the
beach, and laid With great care, the stones in the centre being
set upright, those on each side sloping towards the centre.  The
causeway was 4 feet broad; it commenced at the chapel, and run
in a straight line to tb-e westward for 30 or 40 yards ; it then,
ttirned to the soqtb, and was traced in that direction for about 60
yards.  It most probably, at one time, led to a small locli, which
is about 200 yards distant from the site' of the cbapel.
   " Tradition gives -no name to this chapel.  The small hillock
was known to the old peo le by the name of the Carse of Henzie
Hunt. St Magdalen's Chapel stood about 200 yards north of
this.
   "No graves are to be found near any of these chapels, unless


