
        PARISH OF SMALL ISLES.

      PRESBYTERY OF SKYE, SYNOD OF GLENELG.

     THE REV. DONALD MACLEAN, MINISTER.


      I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
  Name of the parish.-THIS parish derives its name from the
islands of which it consists. The chief of these are four in number.
They form a part of the western Hebrides, and are surrounded by
the Atlantic. Their names are Eigg, Muck, Rum and Canna.
To three of them, three lesser islands are respectively attached,
or nearly so :-To Eigg, Ellain Chaistal, or Castle Island; to
Muck, Ellain no'n Each, or Horse Island; and to Canna, Ellain
Gainmhich or Sandy Island. These lesser islands, with the excep-
tion of the last mentioned, are uninhabited.
  Eigg.-The island of Eigg is supposed to derive its name from
the Gaelic word Ec, signifying a niche, nick, or hollow. This ap-
pellation is descriptive of the appearance of the island, which is
intersected in the middle by a glen, running across from sea to
sea.  On each side of this glen, the land rises to a considerable
elevatin, terminating towards the south-west in Scur Eigg, or the
lofty rock of Eigg, and towards the north-east in Bein vui, or the
yellow mountain. Viewing it from a distance, it appears as if it
were two islands separated by an arm of the sea.
  Extent of Eigg.-Eigg is about 5 or 6 miles in length, and about
3 in breadth, containing about 5580 acres, exclusive of the glebe.
  Topographical Appearances of Eigg.- The land upon the south
side of this island rises gradually from the shore to a considerable
elevation.  The lower ground is alternately covered with fine grass
and heath; and arable and fertile spots are intermingled with those
of a less fertile description. The soil being thin and gravelly, is well
adapted for the culture of potatoes and turnips; but, more especi-
ally, the land is fitted for the rearing both, of black-cattle and sheep.
There are about 3649 acres of moor land in the middle of the island,
which are covered with heather and coarse grass, interspersed in
some places with a few small fresh water lakes, in which no fish is
  INVERNESS.                                 K


