
     Of Corstorphine.

Fingoban steps.  The termination Fin, may have come
from Fionsi, wells or fountains.-Its greatest length is 4
English miles, and its greatest breadth 2 1/4 miles; its form
is regular.-The surface is in general level, rising to few
eminences, and these inconsiderable; over a great part of
its extent, it spreads into a smooth plain.  The grounds
of greatest elevation, are those which go by the name of
Corstorphine-hills, an appellation they hardly could have
gained, unless from being in a manner insulated in the
midst of rich vallies, where they form a diversity highly
conducive to the beauty of the country:  on the S. and
W. sides, they rise from the plain by an easy gradual as-
sent; on the E. side, they are more precipitate, and run
N. in an indented cristated form, into the boundaries of
the parish of Cramond.  Their appearance on the S. side
is remarkable for its beauty.  They are decorated with
the beutiful seats of Belmont* and Beechwood; the lat-
ter of which is remarkable for that pleasing and elegant
neatness with which it hath been embellished by its pre-
sent possessor.  Almost the whole of the grounds being  
arable, and of the greatest value when converted to this
use, there is less occupied with plantations than is ne-
cessary for the embellishment of the country, and even,
perhaps, than what might actually be conducive to its
interests, from affording that shelter which is so friendly
to vegetation+.  Every diversity of soil, in its several mo-

<FOOTNOTE>

*In 1745, the Duke of Cumberland, when passing by Belmont, observed,
that in his march through Scotland, this villa was the handsomest he had seen,
and the most in appearance like those in England.
+There is growing near the village, in a close belonging to Sir William
Dick, a sycamore tree of a considerable size, and the largest in Scotland,
which, in the end of May and beginning of June, exhibits an appearance of
the most striking beauty.  That side which is exposed to the sun, in the co-


