
                           GLADSMUIR. 195

   Ecclesiastical State.-The church is situate nearly in the centre
of the parish, and is accessible to all the inhabitants. None are
farther distant from it than two and a half or three miles;
and they do not seem to think the distance of much consequence,
for the most distant are as regular in their attendance as these
who are nearest. It stands upon the highest point of the ridge be-
twixt Tranent and Haddington, about 350 feet above the level of
the sea, and 240 to north of the great road. The situation is
one of the finest in Scotland. On the north, it commands an ex-
tensive view of the Frith of Forth, with the country of Fife stretch-
ing beyond: to the east, all those objects that are most picturesque,
the Byres hills, North Berwick Law, with the rich country around,
the Bass and Traprane Law. On the south, the vale of the Tyne,
with the Lammermuirs in the back ground, and to the west the
Ochils, and some of the distant hills of Dumbarton and Perthshire,
with Leith, Edinburgh, the Pentlands, and the rich country inter-
vening. But, though beautiful in point of situation, its appearance
is mean and ruinous. It is small, cold, damp, and in bad repair.
The churchyard is sufficiently large for the parish, but it is very
wet. The greater part of it is surrounded by a wall, which is much
broken down; the remaining part is protected by an hedge, which
also is in a state of great decay. The church affords accommo-
dation for 535 sitters, being at least 200 less, than would be re-
quired for the accommodation of the parish. The heritors grant-
ed to the kirk-session sixty-two sittings, chiefly those set apart
for the communion tables, to be let for a small price to the peo-
ple when required. These seats are let at 1s. each, and when not
let, are occupied by those who cannot be accommodated other-
wise. The rest of the sittings as usual are allotted to the heritors,
according to their respective properties in the parish. The church
was built by Baillie of Larnington in 1695.
   The present manse was built in 1725, previous to which the mi-
nisters lived in what is still called the old manse, about a mile to the
south-west of the church. The late incumbent finding the manse
too small for his family, got a considerable addition made to it in
1803, consisting of a large room below, and two smaller rooms above.
When the present incumbent came to the parish in 1833, consi-
derable improvements were made upon the offices and they are
now in a state of pretty good repair. About twenty years ago, the
garden was inclosed with a good stone wall, which was built by the
heritors, the tenants having agreed to drive the carriage. But,


