
     Statistical Account

College Library at Glasgow, and three pair of solid jambs
in Mr Dundas's new built house at Duddingstoun*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Dichmount hill, *seems to have been anciently a place of strength
or defence.  There are appearance of a sort of earthen rampart, which
encompassed it a little below the summit; and on the very summit, there
are still plain vestiges of buildings.  The ruins of these buildings were
considerable about 10 years ago; but since that time, the stones and rub-
bish have been removed for making dikes, and repairing roads.  The
present possessor, when digging a few years ago on the summit of the hill,
discovered the foundation of a circular building, about 24 feet in dia-
meter.  The stones had been carefully joined together, but no signs of
mortar could be observed.  They were freestone; and must have been
carried with much labour, from a distance, as the stones, which are found
in great abundance upon the hill, are all whin.  From the figure of
this building, and the place where it stood, it is conjectured to have
been a turris speculatoria, or watch-tower: and for such an edifice,
a better situation could not have been chosen.  From it one could
see and be seen almost in all directions, more than 15 miles; and in
some, more than 50.  About a mile E. from the kirk, there is a small
ridge terminated on the W. by a circular mount, level on the top, about
20 feet in height, and 140 feet in diameter.  This mount, from its regu-
larity, is plainly the work of art, and resembles those artificial mounts,
on which the Britons and Saxons built their fortresses+.  When the
south of Scotland was possessed by the Britons and Saxons, it is probable
that one of their fortresses might stand on this mount; but however this
may be, it is certain, that the castle of Drumsargard++ stood upon it.  A
great barony was annexed to this castle; which must have been a place
of considerable strength, as it was surrounded by wet and marshy ground

   *Dichmount, or rather Dichmound, in the Saxon or Teutonic language,
signifies a rampart of protection or of peace.

   +The Britons and Saxons built their fortresses on artificial mounts.  The
Normans built on the firm and natural soil or rock; but often made use of
these mounts, which they found to have been the site of a British or Saxon
castle.  Pen. Tour in Wales, 1770, p. 252.

   ++Drumsargard, or Druim-searg-aird, in Gaelic, signifies the ridge of dry
or parched height; a name which is descriptive, either of the particular
spot where the castle stood, or of a long ridge, at a little distance from it.


