
334                       STIRLINGSHIRE.

of dry stone dikes,--a small part of the higher moors are unen-
closed.
   Ecclesiastical State.--The following report was given in by the
kirk session to the Religious Instruction Commissioners in 1837:
--"The parish church was built in 1750. It contains upwards
of 1500 sittings, and has never been either altered or enlarged.
The whole church, with the exception of a seat for the minister,
and another for the elders, is divided among the heritors; and no
seats are allotted, either for the poor, or for the inhabitants of the
villages. More than 200 seats are behind the pulpit, in which it
is difficult either to see or hear; while several of the best, belong-
ing to non-resident heritors, are seldom if ever occupied. The
real value of the church is thus greatly lessened to the parishion-
ers; many of whom have to pay for their seats, and more would
willingly do so, could they find suitable accommodation for them-
selves and families."
   From an early period it was found that one church and one mi-
nister were altogether inadequate for a parish so populous and ex-
tensive. An assistant minister, a place of worship at Buckieburn,
and an abortive attempt for a new erection at Sauclienford,--so
far as appears from the records,--were the only exertions made to
remedy the evil, during the whole of the eighteenth eentury.
There was a chapel at Buckieburn in 1697, which seems after-
wards to have been pulled down. A contention arose among the
people in the muirlands, whether their place of worship should be
erected at Buckieburn or at Kirk o' Muir; and, during this time,
the minister and assistant preached in the open air. At last,
Buckieburn was fixed upon, and the present chapel was erected
about the middle of the last century. It was thoroughly repaired
and reseated about ten years ago. Much obscurity hangs over the
institution of the assistant. A regular agreement for the support
of one is entered into in Mr Gibson's time; but, instead of a new
institution, they speak of an assistant as having been of old esta-
blished in the parish. In 1746, Mr Mackie raised a considerable
sum in London, as a fund from w6ich the assistant should be paid.
The heritors got possession of this as poor's money in 1780; and,
in 1785, the assistant was put upon the teinds of the parish.
   A new church, containing 900 sittings, has been recently erect-
ed in Bannockburn, to which a minister has been ordained, and a
territory or quoad sacra parish, containing 3176 inhabitants, has
been set apart. He has a bond for L.80; but it is understood


