
54                       KINROSS-SHIRE.

   Hydrography.-The North Queich is the only stream of any
size that flows through the parish. There are several others,
which, however, are of a trifling nature, except during spears oc-
casioned by heavy rains. Almost all of these streams terminate
in Loch Leven. The Queich, from its source to its mouth, is from
five to six miles long, and its greatest breadth about twenty feet.
It forms no cascades of any consequence; although, among the
hills in the earlier part of its course, there are several very pretty
waterfalls.
    The Queich is a clear stream, and only remarkable as being
one of the principal sources from which Loch Leven is replenish-
ed with trout,-this being the chief breeding stream, although
much less so now than formerly, few trouts comparatively ascending
from the lake as they did forty years ago. This may be accounted
for, either from the straightening and sloping of the banks, which
modern improvements have suggested,-thus destroying the shel-
ter of the fish, and giving them a dislike to their former haunts,
-or from the over-fishing of the lake, which lessens the number
of emigrants; moreover, poaching is still carried on during close-
time; and in a late examination into the cause of the deteriora-
tion of the fishings, consequent upon the drainage of the lake, it
appeared, from the evidence of some noted poachers, that, after
a September or October flood, many hundreds were killed during
the night by spearing parties. These parties consist of three or
four individuals; and their operations are carried on much in the
same manner as those by salmon-poachers. One or two with
spears take the middle of the stream; one on the bank carries a
dark lanthorn, and the third and fourth the fish: the light is thrown
upon the ford or shallow, and the fish, being in the act of spawning,
are easily killed. Many fish are also caught at the dam-dikes be-
longing to the small mills high up the stream; indeed, whole sacks-
full are taken out at some of these places in a single night.
   There are abundance of springs in the parish, and water may
be obtained by sinking wells at very small depths.
   Geology and Mineralogy.-This parish is situated on the south-
ern side of the Ochil-hills, and near the middle of the chain. The
stratified rock is the same as the old red sandstone on the north
border of the Fife coal-field, having its general dip south-east
upon Loch Leven; though of course contorted in various places
by the intrusion of igneous rocks, of which there is abundance.
Near the lake, deposits of lacustrine silt are said to have been ob-


