
     Statistical Account

able coppice wood, extending above a mile along the
banks of the Tay, consisting mostly of oak, and in which
there are several groves of beech and oak, which may now
be reckoned tolerable timber *.

<FOOTNOTE>

*The abbey-church, wherein Queen Emergarda is said to be buried,
cute magnum altere, served as the parish-church till the year 1595, when
It was removed to the east side of the Den, it stands upon a little emi-
nence.  The manse was likewise in or near the abbey, till some time af-
ter the year 1618, when a house, built of that date by T. and J. Chrich-
ton, whose names and arms are still to be seen on stones that stood on the
storm-windows, was given in lieu of it.  This abbey belonged to the Ci-
stertian or Bernardine Monks, was dedicated to St Edward, and, as all
the other houses of this order were, to the Virgin Mary also.  It seems to
have been well endowed.  David de Lindsay gave to it an annuity out of
his mill in Kirkbuet, in the year 1233; Simon de Kinnear gave to it Lit
tle or Wester Kinnear, in the 22nd year of Alexander's reign; and Cor-
beck, signifying a den with birks, or Birk-hill, as it is now called, was gi-
ven to it by Laurentius de Abernethy.  The preceptory of Gadvan, in
the parish of Dunbog, also belonged to it.-After the Reformation, King
James VI. erected Balmerino into a temporal lordship, in favour of Sir
James Elphinston of Barnton, then Principal Secretary of State, on the
20th of April 1604.-There are also two places in the parish, one of them
called the Battle-law to this day, where the Scots are supposed to have
given battle to the Danes, after their retreat from Luncarty, where they
again defeated, and forced them to fly with precipitation on board their
ships, then lying in the mouth of the Tay.  One of the places was dug
up a few years ago, at the desire of two gentlemen, where they found
some stone coffins and arms, or pieces of broken swords; but no further
discoveries have since been made -The dates of the abbey, and the gifts
made to it, are taken from Sibbald's History of Fife, and Hope's Minor
Practies.

     1

