
                                 CAVERS.                   431

careful observer, together with a number of what may have been
whin head-stones kything around, but whose tops are now level with
the green sward above.  Sheepfolds now occupy the place where
the church is said to have stood.
     Land-owners.--The principal land-owners are, His Grace the
Duke of Buccleuch; Sir William F. Eliott of Stobbs and Wells,
Bart.; and James Douglas, Esq. of Cavers, the patron of the parish.
     Eminent Men.--Of eminent characters connected with the pa-
rish, George Augustus Eliott, Lord Heathfield, may be mention-
ed first.  He was the ninth son of Sir Gilbert Eliott of Stobbs and
Wells, Bart., the lineal descendant of the far-famed "Gibbie an'
the Gouden Garters," who, under peculiar circumstances, mar-
ried Mary Scott, a flower of Yarrow, and received along with her
as dowery, in faithful fulfilment of her father's promise, "the half
o' a Michelmas moon." * Lord Heathfield was born at the pater-
nal estate of Stobbs in 1718.  He discovered, in early youth, a
predeliction for a military life, and entered upon his brilliant ca-
reer as an officer in the 23d Regiment of Foot or Royal Welsh
Fusilders.  He rose step by step to a high status in the army
and in his country's estimation.  Serving in Germany, he was
wounded at the battles of Dettingen and Fontenoy.  Having been
appointed to the 15th Regiment of Light Dragoons in March 1759,
he headed, in the August following, the second line of horse, un-
der the Marquis of Granby, at the battle of Minden.  After hav-
ing been constituted a Lieutenant-General, he was called from
Germany for the purpose of assisting as second in command at
the reduction of the Havannah.  In 1774, he was appointed Com-
mander-in-chief in Ireland, but feeling on his arrival dissatisfied
with the appointment, he requested to be recalled, which request
was complied with; and on the demise of Lord Cornwallis, he was
made Governor of Gibraltar, which place he defended during the
siege in the years 1779-80-81 and 82, with such skill and bra-
very as merited the highest praise.  In acknowledgement of the
services done to his country here and elsewhere, a pension of L. 2000
a year was awarded to him in 1783, when he was created a Knight
of the Bath.  In 1787, he was raised to the dignity of a Peer of
Great Britain, but, dying in 1790, he did not long enjoy these
honours, so nobly won and worthily conferred.

<FOOTNOTE>This means what he could plunder from his enemies on the English Border dur-
ing the period implied.  Her father was Adam Scott of Kirkhope, in the parish of
Yarrow.



