
			PENNINGHAME.                  177

About three mile north from Newtonstewart are the ruins of
Castle Stewart, which was the residence of the Stewarts of Castle
Stewart. The youngest brother of the Earl of Galloway, about
the end of the seventeenth century, married the heiress of Castle
Stewart, grand-daughter.of Colonel William Stewart.
	The property was, for some time, in the posession of the Earl Of
Galloway. But about thirteen years ago, it was purchased by James
Blair, Esq. whose residence, Penninghame House, is about half a
mile frnm the ruins of the old castle, near to the River Cree,
beautifully situated at the southern extremity of the Loch of Cree.
	Coins have been found at different times (and on one occasion
the quantity was considerable) on the west side of the parish,-
near to Killiemore, already mentioned as the place on which there
are traces, of a battle having been fought. The coins are old,
but I have never been able to procure any on which the inscrip-
tion was legible, or on which any distinct traces of their precise
age could be observed.
	In Killiemore there are many graves about which nnthing is
known. It is not a burying-ground, nor was it at any period, so
far as can be ascertained. I am not aware that any of the graves.
have been opened or carefull examined.
	The following notices have been obligingly Contributed by Jo-
seph,Train, Esq. Castle Douglas.
	"The head of a Roman spear, nine inches in length, was dug up
in the year 1813, at Merton Hall, in Penninghame parish, where
the military road passes from Newtonstewart to Glenluce. This
ancient weapon is now in the possession of Dr Black of Bolton,
formerly of Newtonstewart.
	"A Roman battle-`xe was found in the moss of Cree in 1818,
resembling exactly that represented in Gough's Camden, Vol. iv.
Plate 7, Fig. 9. I presented this relic to Sir Walter Scott, and
afterwards saw it in the museum at Abbotsford.
	"A granite celt was dug up in the moor of, Knockbrax, at least
eight feet below the surface of the ground. I supposed it at first
to be of freestone of fine quality, although its weight, which is
7 lbs. 9 oz., might have convinced me that this was a mistake.
However, on perforating the side with a chissel, thereat, quality of
the stone gradually became more evident, as the point of the in-
strument receded from the surface, till at last I found it to be of
the hardest granite. This leads me to suppose that the exterior
texture of this ancient weapon of war has been changed by the

	WIGTON.                       M


