                          PARISH OF KINELLAR.

               PRESBYTERY OF ABERDEEN, SYNOD OF ABERDEEN.

                THE REV. DAVID SMITH,        }
                THE REV. R. FIDDES, A. & S.  } Ministers.

                 I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   KINELLAR is situated in that division of the county called Mar.
Mar is considered as consisting of four divisions, Braemar, Cro-
mar, Midmar, and Mar the most easterly portion.  It is in this
last part where Kinellar is situated, at the distance of nine miles
from Aberdeen, and ten from the German Ocean.
   Boundaries and Extent.-The parish has Dyce and Newhills
on the east; Skene on the south; Skene and Kintore on the west;
and Fintray (from which it is separated by the Don) on the north.
Its length from south to north is rather more than four miles, and
its breadth from east to west nowhere much exceeds two.  It con-
tains about 4000 acres, on an undulating surface, no part of which
rises very high, or sinks very considerably.  The greater part of
the parish is much exposed to wind and storms, not having any
shelter from woods or neighbouring hills, except a little from
Tyrebagger on the east.
                    II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Antiquities.-There is an extensive heathy common between
Kinellar and Kintore, in which are a great number of tumuli,
which indicate it to have been, at some distant period, the princi-
pal scene of a most sanguinary conflict; but at what time, and be-
tween whom, tradition is silent.  It seems very probable that the bat-
tle had taken place between the Scots and a party of Danes, who
may have landed about Don mouth, and met with the first opposition
here; but at what period it is difficult to conjecture, as they made fre-
quent landings on both the north and east coasts.  Such of the bar-
rows as have been examined contained no urns, fragments of wea-
pons, nor marks of burning, but bones and skulls in good preser-
vation.  Some barrows which have been found in the northern
quarter included urns of baked clay, containing ashes and calcin-


