
     The Statistical Account.

by apposite examples.  In a-word, general principles, which
enable the scholar to think and observe for himself, to pro-
ceed in his former studies, or to strike out new paths, are en-
tirely forgotten: and that mind, which excels the common
herd, which learns the use of its own powers, and ventures
to employ them, has no small degree of merit, for the obsta-
cles which it encounters, and the difficulties which it over-
comes.  Those who affect to think meanly of the under-
standings of the vulgar, and who believe, or wish to make
others believe, that the principles of science are mystical and
abstruse, will smile with contempt at the visionary and absurd
idea of a race of rustic philosophers, issuing from parish schools,
to put in practice their maxims, on the threshing floor, or at the
plough-tail.  What!  say they, attempt to infuse into child-
ren and peasants that which men of genius spend the prime
of their days in acquiring, and what genius alone can ac-
quire!  But, such observations breathe more the spirit of a
monkish college, than the liberality of an enlightened age.
That the mens sana in corpore sano is oftener to be found in
the cottage than in the palace, will, I believe, be universally
admitted by those who know mankind best: nay, the inhabi-
tants of the former are possessed of even superior advantages,
from their familiar acquaintance with the works of nature,
and the face of creation.  Besides, were facts, and the natu-
ral observations that thence arise, (which constitute the whole
of science,) released from the recondite terms in which they
have been too long enveloped, science would no more ap-
pear abstruse: nor would it, on that account, lose any of it,
inviting charms; but, like beauty, as described by the poet,
appear 'when unadorned adorned the most.'
   Let then that wretched system, which at present obtains,
and daily grows more wretched, be banished from our schools.
Let the scholars be arranged in proper classes, and supplied
     VOL. XXI. S s


