
952                         ABERDEENSHIRE.

cluding coping, per Aberdeen ell of 37.06 inches, 5d. to 7d. ;
building a faced dike, 5d. to 7d., viz. stone facing, 1 1/2 foot wide
at bottom, and 4 feet high, per Aberdeen ell, 2 1/2d. to 3 1/2d. ; earth,
back or sunk, 2 1/2d. to 3 1/2d.; cutting or embanking, per cubic yard,
including barrowing, not more than 50 yards, 3d. to 4d. ; spade-
trenching, 10 inches deep, per acre, L.6 to L.12.
   Live-Stock.-The sheep in the parish altogether scarcely exceed
600 ; about a score are large Leicestershire, kept principally for
the sake of their wool for domestic purposes; a few are four-horned,
the rest are black-faced Highland.  The cattle generally preferred
are the native horned Aberdeenshire, in many instances crossed
by the Galloway, but sufficient attention even yet is not paid to
breed.  About 1150 of all ages are kept; 300 are cows and grown
beasts, and 260 are calves annually reared, of which about 40
are sold at one year old, 60 at two, and the rest at three, except
20 or 30 kept to replace old cows, &c.  The work-horses are
good, worth from L.20 to L.30 and L. 40, and principally home-
bred, not including 26 colts and poneys, there are 108 in the pa-
rish.  The small tenants who keep only one, sometimes club two to-
gether in ploughing, and sometimes yoke an ox with the horse; with
this exception, there was lately only one pair of work oxen used.
   The short-horned breed and first crosses from these and Aber-
deenshire cows, are now becoming very common in this and the
neighbouring parishes, and farmers now find it more profitable to
feed fully more cattle, and send them to the London market since
steam navigation has been extended.
   The system of tillage is that common to the interior parts of
Aberdeenshire, the tenants being usually bound with some modi-
fications to the following seven-course shift : 1. a green crop,
such as turnips, potatoes, &c. for which the ground is well pre-
pared and manured; 2. a white crop of oats, bear, &c. with clover
and grass-seeds; 3. hay; 4. and 5. pasture; 6. and 7. white crops,
then a green crop as before.  When practicable, therefore, each
farm is laid off in seven equal divisions, which the tenant is re-
quired in most of the leases lately granted to inclose, except in
particular situations, with such stone fences as have been described,
for which he is reimbursed at the termination of his lease.  Paling
is used for temporary subdivisions for pasture ground fences, and
where stone would be unsuitable.  No turnips or potatoes are
raised for sale, markets being too distant.  Some wheat is occa-
sionally cultivated; it is sown in August or September after a


