
82                    PEEBLES-SHIRE.

boundary of Glenholm; as it has frequently changed its course, it
sometimes happens, that a part of Drummelzier is on this, and a
portion of Glenholm on the other, side of the stream.
  The streams besides those already mentioned are Logan and
Hollows burns, the one a tributary ro Broughton burn, and the
other to the Tweed.
  Springs.--Few parishes are more highly favoured than this in
regard to salubrious springs.  Bede's or Bees well, as it is common-
ly callled, was an open draw-well built round with stone, from which
issued a plentiful current.  The proprietor of the glebe of Kilbucho
has covered it over with flags or flat stones and earth, so as to ren-
der the spot arable, and the water, by means of a conduit, spouts
in abundance from the banks into the channel of the burn.
   On the old glebe of Broughton, is a well with a large stone in
the middle of it.  The water which springs from one side of the
stone is sweet, that which rises at the other side is brackish and
medicinal.
   Among the hills there are wells of which the water is so very
cold, that in the heat of summer a person cannot hold his hand in
it for more thatn a minute without suffering the pain of extreme
cold.  One spring is remarkable for reducing spirits without tinging
them.
   Mineralogy.--There is not much to engage the attention of the
mineralogist in this quarter.  The prevailing rock is greywacke
(whinstone); some of the beds lie in a horizontal position; but
they in general dip towards the centre of the hills.  In some places
where a deep cut has been made for the improvement of the high
road, the section offers to the view a variety of strate, consisting of
dingstone, intermixed with narrow beds of sand, but with few or no
crystls of quartz.  Brick-clay is rare, and no sandstone is to be
found.  On the farm of Wrae in Glenholm are a limestone and
slate quarry, whhch, owing to the great distance from coal, and the
immediate neighbourhood of the Stobo slate quarry, would scarcely
repay the expense of manufacturing the minerals.  Slates are also
found on Rachan hill, but, for the same reason, it has not been
deemed advisable to work the mine.  A bed of fine sand on the
farm of Stirkfield in Broughton is admirably adapted to the in-
termixing with lime for building, and gravel-pits are numerous.
  In the vale Kilbucho lies an extensive moss, obviously form-
ed by the decomposition of wood and other vegetable matter.  The




