
634                         FORFARSHIRE.

and stacking peats; ploughing, harrowing, &c.; cutting and lead-
ing the laird's corn and hay; giving so many days' work when re-
quired, and various others.
   A letter of the time (1753) states that the rents had not been
raised for forty years past, and that they might be doubled without
distressing the tenants.
   Rental of Auldbar in 1766.-Bear-57 bolls, 3 firlots. Meal
-127 bolls. Money, L.2866, 5s. 2d. Scots. 12 capons, 290
hens. Yarn-60 1/2 hasps. 1 swine, 1 wether.
   The multures of two mills are not included in either rental, and
thehr value is unknown. The laird upheld nearly all the machi-
nery of the mills.

                       V. - PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Market-Towns.-The nearest market-towns are Forfar and
Brechin, from each of which the manse is distant six miles.
These are also the nearest post-towns; and the want of one near-
er, or of a more regular transmission of letters than exists, is felt
to be a great inconvenience.
   Means of Communication.-A good turnpike-road passes through
the parish, called the Auldbar road, joining the railway station of
that name with Brechin, and which was designed and carried
through, at a very considerable expense, by Patrick Chalmers,
Esq. of Auldbar. About two miles of the turnpike-road from
Forfar to Montrose pass through the south side of the parish.
A road, maintained at the parochial expense, from Forfar to Bre-
chin, passes through the extreme length of the parish, in a north-
eaterly direction.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The situation of the church is not cen-
tral, but could not be improved, without opening up new and ex-
tensive lines of road, and planting it in a bleak and barren moor.
The nave of the church stands on the original, and, no doubt,
Roman Catholic, foundation; but the walls, from about three feet
above the ground, and an isle, in the north centre, were built in
1722. It is capable of cont`ining about 450 sitters; and is di-
vided among the heritors for the use of their tenants. It is incon-
veniently low in the roof, and very uncomfortably seated. The
manse was built in 1782, and has this year, 1842, received consi-
derable additions, with partial repairs.
   The glebe has been valued at L.15, and the stipend is rather
more, in all, than 15 chalders, and is paid in equal parts of oat-
meal and barley, with a small proportion there of in money.
   There is no Dissenting meeting-house in the parish. Two fa-


