
150                        FORFARSHIRE.

monly applied in compost with earth and dunf to turnips or to
wheat when sown upon naked fallow, or upon hay-stubble.
	The ploughmen here are very expert, and some of them have been
carried to Ireland, and other distant places. Some of them are mar-
ried, and live in cottages annexed to the farm-house. But most of
them are unmarried, and live in what are called bothies, contiguous
to the farm-house. Each receives a certain allowance of meal and
milk, potatoes and other articles, besides wages, which vary from
L. 10 to L. 15 or L. 20, according to circumstances. The reap-
ing is mostly performed by threaving, but partly by the scythe.
Much of the estate of Dunnichen is but one step removed from
the runrig, or rig and rennel system, which still prevails in some
parts of the Highlands. However, as leases fall, it is now in the
course of being lotting into separate farms, and commodious farm-
offices are building.
	The two-horse plough, of Small's construction, is universally in use.
The cattle, and sometimes also the horses, are fed on turnips during
winter, along with straw or other fodder. Sometimes, also, they
get a feed of yams or other potatoes; but the surplus of potatoes
generally goes to feed pigs.
	There are two corn-mills upon the estate of Dunnichen, at Craichy
and Letham; the latter also fabricates pot-barley. There is
also a corn-mill at Dumbarrow. There are fotr thrashing-ma-
chines at Dumbarrow, two of which are moved by water, one by
horses, and one by wind. There are two on the estate of Tulloes,
one moved by horses, the other by water. On the estate of Dun-
nichen there are seven thrashing-machines, one moved by water,
the rest by horses,--in all thirteen in the parish.
	Breeds of Live Stock.--There are no sheep kept in the parish.
The kind of cattle which most generally prevails is the Galloway
breed, sometimes here called humlies, because they have no horns.
Although this breed has been much cultivated in Galloway, it does
not seem to be peculiar to that district; for I have seen individuals
without horns among the middle-horned breeds in various parts of
the Highlands and Isles. There are also a very few of the middle-
horned breed of Fife extraction, and still fewer of the short-horned
or Tees-water breed. The milch cows here, during the best of the
season, yield from twelve to fourteen Scotch pints of milk a-day. The
milk is generally skimmed, the cream made into butter, and the milk
into skimmed-milk cheese. The cattle that are put to pasture in


