
92                     INVERNESS-SHIRE.

pursued by their rude ancestors from time immemorial is still con-
tinued by the tenants who have but small holdings, to the preju-
dice of their own interest, as well as to the deterioration of the
small petidieles of land which they occupy. The little manure
they collect, they lay on the patches of ground nearest to their
dwelling-houses, which they keep in perpetual rotation of potatoes,
barley, and oats, without ever resting them, till the ground is very
greatly reduced. The distant parts of the farm, which they call
out-fields, never receive a single load of manure, but are allowed
to lie waste for three years, and cropped again for three years
alternately,-the last crop scarcelx returning the seed. They
seldom or never think of removing a stone out of their way, or of
draining away the redundant moisture that ebills tbe ground, and
renders it unfitfor bearing. The tenants occupying small pendi-
cles have neitherskill nor capital for carrying on an improved sys-
tom of farmingbut if they bad both, it cannot be denied that
very little encouragement has been hitherto given by the propn'e-
tors of land, to -improving tenants. On a lease of from seven to ele-
ven years, the longest given till of late in the parish, without any
security to an improving tenant for payment of his outlays, in case
of being removed from his farm at the expiration of a short lease
no expensive improvement will ever be attempted. Another in-
surmountable obstacle in the way of agricultural improvement is
the absurd division of the land among the small tenants. It is not
uncommon to see a piece of land, not half an acre in extent, di-
vided into five or six lots, called run-rigq; which makes it impossi-
ble for any one of the six to improve his small lot, unless the other
five concur with him. With the exception of two or three farms,
there are no farm enclosures ofany description in the parish; and
the farm-buildings of the common tenants are most wretched ho-
vels, consisting of a few wooden couples, joined together with cross
spars, and covered with a turf roof, that requires to be renewed al-
most every second year.
   Becent improvements.-Considerable improvements in agricul.
ture have been made of late by a few individuals, whose example,
it is to be hop4 others will be induced to follow. Mr Mac-
Pherson of Belleville made very extensive improvements on that
part of his property which he himself farmed. By embankments,
draining, paring, grubbing, &c. he reclaimed upwards of 300
Scotch acres of meadow ground, naturally fertile, but rendered
comparatively urfproductive by the overflowing of the river Spey,
                                3


