
     Statistical Account

to exceed their summer's.  They have upon their coast a fine
oyster scalp, from which they take large rich oysters.  Hence
they are, in general, in easy circumstances.  Nor have the
rents of their lands been raised for some centuries.  The
people of Quarff are frequently employed in transporting
goods from the one side of the country to the other, which
brings them in considerable sums.
   To better the circumstances of the people, it is necessary
to give them larger farms, long leases, and liberty to dispose
of their produce to the best advantage.  To employ those
who have no farms, and are in a great measure idle, manu-
factories of woollen cloth and fishing-lines should be esta-
blished.  They should be taught to turn their raw hides to
account, by tanning them.  The women should learn to spin
flax, by which they might probably earn 5 d. or 6 d. a day,
instead of 1 d. or 1 1/2 d. which they now earn by knitting
stockings.  A linen manufactory might afterwards be erected
with great advantage*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*There are several ruins of Pictish castles in this ministry,
but too inconsiderable to merit a description here.  There are
also several perpendicular stones, about 9 feet high, erected, no
doubt, for the purpose of commemorating some great event,
but of which we have no account.  One of them, however, in
the island of Bressay, makes an excellent land-mark to ships
coming into Bressay Sound.  Near the island of Noss, there is a
rock or holm, perpendicular on all sides, and about 150 feet
high.  The opposite rock on the island is nearly of equal height,
and distant from the other about 240 feet.  This holm, which
is quite level on the top, produces excellent grass, which
maintains sheep during the summer season.  Although it ap-
peared inaccessible on all sides, the apparent richness of the
grass, or, as some say, the vast quantities of sea-sowl which
breed on it, induced the proprietor, many years ago, to endea-
vour to full upon some means of passing between the island and
it.  Accordingly, a daring islander attempted to climb up, and
succeeded.  He fixed posts in the ground, about two feet and a
half from each other, corresponding posts being fixed on the


