
	912                         PERTHSHIRE.

	and read causes of a solemne fast, appointed by ye General] As-
	semblie to be kept throughout all the congregations of the king-
	dom upon ye last Sabbath of this instant;" the causes wbereo,
	were, inter alia, the following: " 1. We are to mourne for the
	continuance and increase of sinne and profanitie, especallie of the
	abominable sinne of witchcraft, which abounds in ye land, as ap-
	pears from ye frequent discoveries thairof in all corners and quar-
	ters of the countrie.   2. We are to afflict our souls before ye
	Lord for ye sad interruption of the Lord's work in England and
	Ireland, and for the sore oppressions of his people, and such as
	ar stedfast in his cause in these kingdoms, by a prevailing partie
	of sectaries in ye one, and of malignants in the other.  3. It is
	matter of humiliatione to us, that our King hath not as yet granted
	the just and necessarie desires of this kirk and kingdome for serv-
	ing of religion, and that he hath made peace with the Hrish rebells,
	who have shed so much blood of ye Lord's people, and hath
	graunted unto them the full libertie of Poperie," &c.  And again,
	on the 14th November following, another fast was intimated, one
	of the causes of which was stated to be " ye pregnant scandall of
	witchcraft and charming within this part of ye land;" and on 26tb
	May 1650, solemn thanksgiving is intimated " to be keeppit upon
	the 2d of June, the next Lord's day, for that wonderfull victorie
	over James Grahame and his associates of late in the north."  On
	the 28th of July following, " ther was read from the pulpit a de-
	claratione of the Generall Assemblie, in answer to a declaratione
	of the armie of England, upon their march into Scotland, and in-
	timatione given of a fast for the sinnes of ye land, and for the
	great danger the cause and the work of God are into by the inva-
	sione of sectaries."  On the 10th October 1652, intimation is
	given of a collection " for the sadd condition of the toune of Glas-
	gow, being half brunt."  Under the date of 12th December 1653,
	it is intimated, that there was " na sessione, in respect the elders
	were withdrawin in attending some of Glencairne's souldiers, who
	were ranging throw the paroch."
	  There are still farther in this ancient manuscript several curi-
	ous entries respecting parochial matters and discipline, and of a
	miscellaneous nature, which we cannot resist the temptation of
	transcribing, even at the risk, of being charged with tediousness.
	The following are a few of the most remarkable of these: " Decem-
	per 24. 1648," (a schoolmaster being required for the parisb school,
	a person of the name of Fittie had presented himself to the session


