
                              DAVIOT.                         827

the full benefit of such judicious expenditure as he may make for
the improvement of his farm in the early part of his lease. The
stipulated rents have, till lately, been principally in money. A
change, however, has taken place on the property of the principal
heritor. He now receives a half-money and half-corn rent for
every possession above the size of a croft,-the corn rent payable
by the fiars of the year ranging, however, between a certain maxi-
mum and minimum per quarter. This mode of payment, when
the minimum and maximum are judiciously and fairly fixed, must
be alike advantageous to landlord and tenant.
   The farm-houses are in general substantial, convenient, and
comfortable, and the steadings sufficiently large and commodious.
   There may be from 800 to 1000 acres enclosed with stone,
fences, several of which have been erected within the last few
years. The advantages of enclosures seem now to be fully appre-.
ciated, and stones are being, laid down for the erection of a good
many more.
   Produce.-The average gross amount of raw produce raised in
the parish may be nearly as follows :-

<TABLE>
Produce of grain of all kinds,	                                      L.7155	0	0
	straw of do.	                                                    2385	0	0
	potatoes, turnips,and other vegetables raised in the fields,          3000	0	0
	hay cultivated,                 	                                   500	0	0
	land in pasture,	                                                    3250	0	0
	gardens and orchards, say                                              100	0	0
	the annual thinning and periodical sales of wood,	                  50	0	0

	                                                                  L.16,440	0	0

   Manufactures.-A manufactory for carding and spinning wool
was, some time ago, established in the parish by a spirited indivi-
dual, the machinery of which cost him L.270. There are com-
monly four hands employed, who work ten hours a-day. In the
year 1831, the Board for the Encouragement of Manufactures, in
consequence of a representation of the manufacturer's enterprise,
granted him a premium of L.35, 10s.

                     V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Means of Communication.-The parish enjoys neither market-
town nor post-office. There are, however, very good commutation
roads through a considerable part of it. That which passes the
church from north to south divides itself into two branches about half:
a mile south of it,-the one leading to Old Meldrum, and the other
to Inverury, both markets and post towns; the former distant about
four and the latter, about five miles from the parish church. In
1835, a turnpike road was made to connect the east and west


