
272                     ABERDEENSHIRE.

ver and his household, almost every family in the parish attends
the Established Church.  The only sectarians are about half-a-
dozen of Seceders, two Scotch Episcopalians, and one Roman
Catholic.  In short, the population may be said to be wholly Pres-
byterian.  Divine service at the Established Church is well attend-
ed, and the average number of communicants is about 600.  The
probable average amount of church collections for religious and
charitable purposes is about L.39 per annum.
   Education.-In addition to the parochial school, there is a school
on the lands of Auchmedden, chiefly for the accommodation of the
children of the fishermen in the sea-town of Pennan.  The teacher
receives from the church-session the sum of L.2, 1s. 8d. Sterling,
out of the interest of money mortified for that purpose, by a Lady
Jane Hay, a daughter of the Earl of Kinnoul, of which mortifica-
tion the church-session are constituted trustees.  There are seve-
ral other elementary schools in the parish, some of them taught
bv unmarried females, and which are very useful for preparing
children for the parish school; but none of these schools are en-
dowed, and the teachers depend solely upon the trifling fees paid
by the scholars.  Reading, writing, arithmetic, book-keeping, na-
vigation, English grammar, and Latin are taught at the parochial
school, and also at the school of Auchmedden.  The salary of the
parochial schoolmaster is L.32 Sterling, and the fees may amount
to L.15 yearly.  He has, besides, an excellent house and garden.
The fees per month are, reading and writing, 1s.; arithmetic, 1s.
4d.; reading only, 10d. ; Latin, 1s. 6d.; book-keeping, L.1 for
a whole set. All betwixt six and fifteen years of age can read, and
a considerable proportion can also write.  All above fifteen years
of age can read, and the greater part can also write. The people
in general are very much alive to the benefits of education, and
send their children regularly to school.  There are several fami-
lies at the distance of five or six miles from the parochial school,
but their children attend schools in the adjoining parishes, which
they can do without much inconvenience.  It would be of much
advantage if the school of Auchmedden were regularly endowed,
and an adequate salary provided for the teacher, as the children
of the fishermen depend upon it alone for education.  For the pre-
sent salary, (L.2, 1s. 8d.), together with an annual gratuity of
L.5 Sterling from Sir Charles Forbes, no person, duly qualified,
can be found to teach.
   Friendly Society.-There is one Friendly Society in the parish,
                                  3


