
			GLASGOW.                      239

	Edward Davies, son of Mr Edward Davies, optician, was the
first that was circumcised in Glasgow. The rite was performed by
Mr Michael on 18th July 1824. The Jews resident in Glasgow
in 1831 were 47 in number, viz. males, 28, females, 19. Above
twenty years of age, 28; below ditto, 19; born in the following
countries, viz. in Prussian Poland, 11; in various parts of Ger-
many, 12; in Holland, 3; in London, 5; in Sheerness, 10; in
Glasgow, 6. The increase since 1831 is but trifling.
	A burial ground has been made for the seed of Abraham at the
north-west corner of the Necropolis. It is separated from the
Christians' burying-ground by an ornamental screen, on which are
inscribed the beautiful and appropriate words from Byron's Hebrew
Melody, beginning, "Oh! weep for those that wept by Babel's
stream."
	The community are greatly indebted to Mr James Ewing, LL.D.
one of the Members of Parliament for the city, for having project-
ed the Necropolis, and to Mr Laurence Hill, LL. B. collector to
the Merchants' House, for his unwearied exertions in promoting
the interests of this beautiful and romantic cemetery.
	Tides in the Clyde.--The following is taken from the valuable
Tide Tables prepared by the late Dr Heron, Professor of Natural
Philosophy in Anderson's University. The tide at Greenock is
two hours earlier than at Glasgow. At places situated near the
ocean, the tide flows nearly as long as it ebbs. At Greenock it
generally flows rather above six hours--but at Glasgow it flows
only for five hours, and ebbs about seven; this, however, is modifi-
ed by the winds.
	The tide produced by the moon is nearly three times greater
than that occasioned by the sun, and the former thus predominat-
ing, the interval between the consecutive combined tides is found
almost to coincide with the moon's progress in her periodic course.
This interval, however, is modified by the distance of the lumi-
naries from the earth, their declinations, and other incidental cir-
cumstances.
	At new and full moon, the influence of the sun and moon unit-
ed produces the elevation which is called spring tide. From these
periods, the tides gradually decrease, until the moon arrives at the
quadratures, when the high water is only the difference between
the lunar and solar tides, and is termed the neap tide. The tides
now increase daily, till the following spring tide, when the sequence
already notice recurs. Spring tides, however, do not happen on


