
                           ERSKINE.                           519

also some farms let on a lease of seven years. A lease of fifteen
or nineteen years must, in general, be reckoned favourable to the
occupier, except where the farm has been taken at too high a rate.
and where there is a deficiency of capital on the part of the tenant;
but, in such cases, it is neither the interest nor inclination 'of land-
lords to keep a tenant against his will. A lease is beneficial both
to landlord and tenant,-the, former is not exposed to the risk of
losing a good tenant on every occasion, and the tenant has a some-
what permanent interest in this farm which stimulates his exertions
to improve it, and certainly, without leases, one-half of the im-
provements lately effected would not have been undertaken.
  The farm houses are, for the most part, commodious and good
and the few uncomfortable old-fashioned structures which still re-
main, are gradually giving place to neat and comfortable dwellings
The enclosures are generally formed by hedges of hawthorn, pri-
vet, or beech, or by dry-stone walls of five feet in height.
   Live-Stoch.-There are not many horses reared in the parish,
and those employed in agricultural labour are generally of  the
Clydesdale breed. The average number of farm-horse; is 135,
The cows are generally of the Ayrshire breed, though some of the
farmers prefer a cross breed between the Guernsey and the Ayr-
shire, as securing the good qualities of both. The average num-
ber of milk cows usually kept in the parish is 355, in addition to
which there are of young cows and black-faced cattle about 445.
   Produce.-The produce of the parish may be estimated annual-
ly as follows:

<TABLE>

                  Grain of all kinds,                 L.7596   0 0
                  Potatoes, turnips, &c.                6862   0 0
                  Hay,                                  3165   0 0
                  Dairy produce,                        6074   0 0
                  Pasturage,                            2500   0 0
                  Tile manufacture,                     1000   0 0
                  Thinnings of wood,                     500   0 0
                  Peats,                                 100   0 0
					     ----------------------
                                                    L.27,797   0 0

  If this estimate of produce is compared with that which is given
by Mr Lockhart in his `ccount of Inchinnan, it will be found, that
there is a considerable difference in the proportion of grain to
green crop and pasture in these contiguous districts  but it must
be remembered, that Inchinnan is much more a corn-growing pa-
rish than Erskine, the latter being chiefly devoted to green crops
and pasture.
   Quarries.-There are two freestone quarries about a mile east


