
     Statistical Account

prudent in their conduct.  There are a few families of Se-
ceders, no Episcopals or Papists.  A great change has of
late taken place with respect to dress.  The coarse garb of
the lower classes of the people, which satisfied their plain
and homely predecessors, is exchanged for showy and ex-
pensive garments.  On every public occasion they exhibit
an appearance of neatness and elegance, which a few years
ago would have been considered as highly extravagant.
As this is an agreeable object in itself, when kept within
proper bounds; so it affords a proof of the increasing riches
of the country, and the growing taste of the people.  The
better sort of farmers possess good houses and comfortable
accommodation for their families; live in a style of wealth
and plenty; and notwithstanding high rents and great wages
to servants and labourers, are able to vie with many pro-
prietors themselves, in point of dress, furniture and table:
A plain proof of their superior skill, and great improve-
ments in agriculture*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Language.-The language spoken here is Scotch, with a provincial
accent or tone; the pronunciation rather slow and drawling, and apt to
strike the ear of a stranger as disagreeable.  The Language of all ranks,
however, is improving by a more liberal education, and a more extensive
intercourse with society.  No Gaelic is spoken here at present, or under-
stood by the inhabitants; but it is said to have been the common lan-
guage, not only here in the neighbourhood of the Grampians.'  but even
through the whole county of Fife, not above two or three generations
back.  An anecdote, communicated by a gentleman to the writer of this
paper, gives countenance to this report: "By a letter," says he, "which
I had from Sir James Foulis of Colington, Baronet, a number of years
ago, be informed me, that when young he had it from an old man, who
spoke Gaelie, that even in his time it was almost the universal language
of Fife."  Be this as it may, it appears from the names of several places
here that they are of Gaelic extraction: for instance, Balmanno,' The
Town of the Monk;' Kilknochie,' A Cell or holy Ground, or Burial
place on the Hill;' Mundie, 'The Hill or Moss-of God;" Tildse, 'The
Residence of the Bard of God, etc.  These names seem to have a refer-


