
     of Kilwinning.

   Leases.-The leases are commonly of 19 or 21 years endur-
ance.  These short leases are a very great discouragement to
the industry of the farmer, and consequently highly injurious to
the interest both of the proprietor and the tenant.  With such
a short lease he will make no new experiments; he will not
even proceed with spirit and animation, in the common beaten
tract of husbandry practised by his neighbours, or imposed on
him by the terms of his lease.  Or should he, at the com-
mencement of it, make any uncommon exertions, he very
soon becomes dispirited, if not careless and remiss.  The
thought of the shortness of his lease forces itself upon his
mind, almost incessantly; and he is scarcely entered on posses-
sion, when he thinks he sees the end of it.  He has a young
increasing family of children.  They are unable to assist him:
He is necessarily obliged to hire servants, at very high wages.
The education of his children, the board and wages of his
servants, and other unavoidable expences, embarass him to
such a degree, that, with all his industry and attention, he
can with the utmost difficulty pay his rent.  After 12 or 14
years, his prospects begin to brighten.  The oldest of his
children are now of some use to him, in the cultivation of his
farm.  He knows, from experience, the different soils that
are in his farm, and the different kinds of grain that are best
adapted to these soils.  In a very few years he will have it in
his power to dismiss all his servants, and to work his farm

<FOOTNOTE>

was seldom used by the farmers, except in feed-time and harvest; and very lit-
tle of it, at any time, by tradesmen and day labourers.  About the beginning
of November, a few small Highland cows were brought from the islands of
Arran and Bute, and sold at from 13 s. 4 d. to 20 s.  One of these was divided
among three or more families.  Such farmers as were reckoned in very opulent
circumstances, sometimes killed a cow in November, which had given milk till
the beginning of August.  There were only 4 tea kettles in the parish in 1742.
There was not one in it before 1709.


