
     of Cockburnspath.

grow upon all the rocks which are never left bare by the
side, and whose depth, below the surface of low-water, does
not exceed twenty fathoms; it thus occupies a space along
the shore, of about half a mile in breadth, in which it grows
like a forest, rising eight or ten feet from the bottom; the
flat blade of the plant being visible when the sea is at its
lowest ebb.  This belt of sea-ware may be distinguished in
a boat by the colour of the water, and is well known to the
fishermen, from whose report the above account is chiefly
taken.  In violent storms, the sea tears the plant from the
rocks, and drives it on shore; it is then eagerly carried off
by the farmers, who spread it directly upon the ground
where it is to be used, and plough it in as fast as possible.
It is the opinion of many good farmers, that a cart-load of
good ware is at any season of the year equivalent to an
equal load of dung; but at the time of sowing barley, it
is considered as at least of double value; partly owing to
its being, as they say, ripe at that season, having the
strongest manuring quality, and partly to its efficacy in
producing fine crops of barley, both in quantity and qua-
lity.  When the ground is very dry, the ware is often
spread upon the ground after the corn is sown, or even
sprung; and when applied in this manner, it is supposed to
produce the best and the surest effects.  Ware-barley is
much esteemed by the brewers, and is in great request for
seed; particularly by the upland farmers, as it is said to
ripen at least a week earlier than any other; so that it sells
for a shilling the boll higher than the current price.-The
parish contains between 7000 and 8000 acres:  There are
nearly 200 acres in wheat sown yearly in the parish, and
about 400 in turnip.-The rent for the strong land upon
the coast is L. 2 the acre Scots; from 10 s. to L. 1, 10 s.
for the light land of the lower division:  The upland farms
are not considered as let by the acre.-There are 57 ploughs,
126 horses, about 500 cattle, and between 4000 and 5000 sheep.
     VOL. XIII. F f

