
18                  KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

John Maclellan, who wrote, in 1665, a description of Galloway
in Latin for Blaeu's Atlas, which gained him some celebrity, was
minister of Kirkcudbright.
	Dr Thomas Blacklock, who bad been blind almost from in-
fancy, was ordained to the pastoral charge of the parish of Kirk-
cudbright in 1762. He was both an elegant writer and in amiable
man. His settlement being strenuously opposed, he at length
felt himself compelled to resign his living and retire to Edin-
burgh.
	Basil William Lord Daer was the eldest surviving son of Dun-
bar, Earl of Selkirk. About the year 1786, his father's advanced
age prevented him from engaging, personally in the improvement
of his estates; and, by a generous and merited act of confidence,
be devolved the management of his property on his talented son.
Lord Daer turned his attention to the study of rural economy in
its various branches, and displayed much ability in the formation,
and diligence in the execution, of its admirable plans. His ex-
ertions, however, were not confined to the improvement of his fa-
ther's estates; they extended to the promotion of every measure
of public utility. By his liberality, judgment, influence, and ex-
ample, he induced the proprietors of the district to form proper
roads, to erect suitable bridges, to lay out ornamental plantations
to build better farm-houses, and construct convenient offices.
This celebrated nobleman died on the 5th of November 1794, at
the early age of thirty-two years. Of Lord Daer, the History of
Galloway thus speaks:--" We cannot name this amiable and
youthful nobleman without remarking, that his genuine distinction
did not arise from the accidents of rank, influence, and fortune.
He belonged to the aristocracy of nature--to the peerage of in-
tellect; for, if his useful and valuable life had been spared, the
magnitude and buoyancy of his talents would have raised him to
eminence, and the south of Scotland to unexampled prosperity.
We do not remember this truly great and good man, who, during
his short and philanthropic career, gained the esteem, commanded
the admiration, and riveted to himself the hearts of all by whom
he was surrounded; but well we remember, that in our boyhood,
his name was never mentioned in the town of Kirkcudbright, with-
out emotions of the liveliest enthusiasm and veneration. He set
an example that has been widely followed, and the district in
which he resided will long reap the fruits of his disinterested la-
bours."


