
     Statistical Account

a single manufacture, by which such a number of people
might be supposed to be able to acquire a subsistence.  The
Duke of Gordon leaves them at full liberty, each to pursue
the occupation most agreeable to them.  No monopolies are
established here; no restraints upon the industry of the com-
munity.  All of them fell whisky, and all of them drink it.
When disengaged from this business, the women spin yarn,
kiss their inamoratos, or dance to the discordant sounds of an
old fiddle.  The men, when not participating in the amuse-
ments of the women, sell small articles of merchandise, or
let themselves occasionally for days labour, and by these means
earn a scanty subsistence for themselves and families.  In
moulding human nature, the effects of habit are wonderful.
This village, to them, has more than the charms of a Thessa-
lian Tempe.  Absent from it, they are seized with the mal
de pais; and never did a Laplander long more ardently for his
snow-clad mountains, than they sicken to revisit the barren
moor of their turf-thatched hovels.  Here the Roman Ca-
tholic priest has got an elegant meeting-house, and the Pro-
testant clergyman, the reverse of it; yet, to an expiring mode
of worship, it would be illiberal to envy this transient supe-
riority, in a country where a succession of ages has witnessed
its absurdities.  A school is stationed at this village, attended
by 40 or 50 little recreants, all promising to be very like their
parents*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*In personal respect and fortune, at the head of the inhabitants, must be
ranked, Mrs. M'Kenzie, of the best inn, at the sign of the horns.  This he-
roine began her career of celebrity, in the accommodating disposition of an easy
virtue, at the age of 14, in the year 1745.  That year saw her in a regiment
in Flanders, caressing and caressed.  Superior to the little prejudices of her sex,
the relinguished the first object of her affection, and attached herself to a no-
ble personage high in the military department.  After a campaign or two spent
in acquiring a knowledge of man; and the world, Scotland saw her again; but


