
    162                        PEEBLES-SHIRE.

    of the people he ascribes to the situation of the village upon
    the banks of the Lyne, whose course, through a glen-like conea-
    vity, keeps up an incessant current of air, keen, bracing, and invi-
    gorating, and thus counteracts the ordinary causes of pestilential
    distemper; whilst, at the same time, a fine exposure to the south,
    and a double range of bills to the north, affords considerable shel-
    ter during the greatest inclemency of the season."
	Formerly six families occupied the site of the village of Carlops,
    now consisting of 36 houses, and containing 177 inhabitants. They
    are mostly cotton-weavers.
	Means of Communication.- The old road from Edinburgh being
    very ill directed, the approach to the village, both from the west
    and the east, was extremely difficult for a carriage of any descrip-
    tion; but by a new line lately made and opened last year, various
    dangerous acclivities were avoided, and, bringing into view the vil-
    lage, which was formerly quite hid from the traveller, it has already
    been considerably improved in its appearance by new houses being
    erected, whilst two inns also have been built on this road, one at Lin-
    ton, and another at Rutherford, with post-horses and every accom-
    modation which the public could wish. A new line of road from
    Carlops to Ingraston, to the south of the old road, was not long ago
    formed. The trustees of Lanarkshire and Mid-Lothian gave every
    encouragement to this undertaking, but the majority of those in the
    county of Peebles gave every opposition to it. At length, after
    much opposition and delay, an act of Parliament was obtained, au-
    thorizing the new line under the direction of Mr Jardine, civil-en-
    gineer, in which there is not a rise of more than one foot in thirty-
    seven; and six heritors of Linton undertook at their own risk, upon
    getting an assignation of the tolls, to make this road, which has been
    made accordingly, and was opened more than twelve months ago,-
    traversing the parish for six miles, and giving universal satisfaction
    to the public. There is perhaps no trust in the county at present
    whose revenue affords a better prospect of providing a fund at once
    for reducing the debt, and for keeping the roads under it in the
    best state of repair.
	It may be added, that it would be of no small importance to the
    public that a road in continuation of that lately made to Badens-
    gill, towards the Caldstane slap, should be executed, so as to open
    a proper communication with the other side of the hill, and to
    the north by Falkirk, Stirling, and Queensferry. It is obvious
    that such a measure appears to be equally beneficial to the other
    side of the slap, the county of Mid and West-Lothian open-


