
                      LATHERON.                            85

ing. The caves are numerous, and some of them from 50 to 60
fathoms long. Very fine massive specimens of crystallized lime
have been taken from the tops and sides of them, and are still
preserved. But they are chiefly celebrated for tbe,great numbers
of seals that frequent them at all seasons, which renders them not'
merely convenient but often lucrative. The caves are usually vi-
sited in November, and entered by means of a boat during the
night when the seals are at rest. The boat is well manned with
experienced bands, having each a large piece of wood, and a torch
or candle. They require to use great caution in approaching the
cave, as the seals are always on the alert, and upon hearin-- the least
noise rush forward with astonishing rapidity towards the sea, in
which they immediately disappear, putting the water into great agi-
tation. When the boat is perceived before taking the ground,
most of them escape in this way. As soon as the boat has ground-
ed, the men leap out with great agility, and, intercepting the'seals
in their progress downwards, strike them on the bead, when they
instantly fall. On any other part the blow has no effect. In this
manner, several scores have been captured at a time; but of late
from twenty to thirty is considered a good taking.
The principal headlands are the Ord, Berriedale-head, and Clythness
   Climate.-The climate, generally speaking, is dry,- and, for or-
dinary constitutions, extremely healthy; to which the elevation of
the land and the consequent rarity of the atmosphere much cOn-
tribute. These circumstances, however, seem to favour heavy
gales of wind, which are frequently experienced, particularly from
the we,.qt and north-west. The temperature of the atmosphere
may be about 561 Fahrenheit.
   Considering the extraordinary density of the population . disease
es are by no means frequent. Fever and rheunmtism are certain-
ly most prevalent. It has been observed that the former is very,
commonly carried by infection from the lower parts of the county,
and the latter appears to be much occasioned by the want of
warltri clothing suited to  the laborious habits of the people. For-
inerl; all the small tenantry were in possession of a few sheep, axid
by,this: means provided themselves with suitable clothing; but of
late, owing to the great  in crease of population, and the eome-
quent demand for land, their farms have- been so reduded in ex-
tent by division, and subdivision from year to year, that comparative-



