
                           BORROWSTOWNNESS.                   147

<TABLE>
                               Receipts.
                                                           Kinneil.            Bo'ness
Collections at church doors,                           L. 16  17   9      L. 45   2   6
Rent of landed property,                                   0   0   0         32   8   0
Interest of bond, legacy, mortcloth dues, proclamations,  12   7   5         37  18   7
Average annual deficiency paid by the Duke of Hamilton,    0   0   0        109  11   0
                                                       -------------     --------------
                                                       L. 29   5   2     L. 225   0   1
</TABLE>

   The Kinneil funds, which are occasionally augmented by vo-
luntary contributions from a Hearse Society connected with the
barony, are always more than sufficient for supplying the poor in
the barony. Indeed, the greatest part of the Kinneil funds is
given to the poor of the town in occasional relief; and this ac-
counts for the great number of occasional poor in the Kinneil list,
The large deficiency in the Bo'ness funds is made up by the Duke
of Hamilton.
   Education.-For several years past there have been about ten
schools in the parish. There is but one parochial school, which
is very ably conducted by Mr John Stephens, who has been pa-
rochial schoolmaster here upwards of forty years. He has the
maximum salary, L. 34, 4s. 4<UNREADABLE>d</UNREADABLE>. His house, which was the first
in this Presbytery built under the act 1803, contains more than
the legal accommodations; but the garden ground is rather defi-
cient in size, for which he receives an equivalent in money. The
schoolmaster is also session-clerk, the fees of which office are about
L. 14 per annum. The average of school-fees is at present under
L. 40 per annum. The average of scholars, for upwards of thirty
years, was considerably above 100; these last three years it has
scarcely exceeded the half of that number.
   There is a school at Upper Kinneil, supported by the tenantry,
for the convenience of children in the barony. That the school-
fees may be moderate, the Duke of Hamilton allows the teacher
a small salary.
   The Dissenters, for three or four years past, have supported a
school, which is numerously attended. This and the other schools
in the town are not endowed, and most of them are taught by fe-
males.
   Library.-A subscription library has existed in the parish above
thirty years. It contains about 1250 volumes, many of them va-
luable works.
                 MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   A great part of Kinneil Carse has evidently been, reclaimed
from the Frith, and, being under high-water-mark, is preserved
from its encroachments by strong embankments. It is uncertain


