
			ARTICLE GLASGOW.			921

subscription, charity, and society schools, in other words, schools
wholly or partially endowed, is to the mere private schools as
72 to 74.  And there is no reason to think, supposing the whole
schools of the city had been examined, that the proportion would
have very seriously differed.  The Report of the General Assem-
bly's Education Committee of 1837, (page 31,) gives an account of
the examination of schools in fifty-six presbyteries, and these not in-
cluding the schools in the large towns, nor many of the gram-
mar-schools in landward parishes; and yet out of 2246 schools
examined, the parochial are 687, the not parochial endowed
schools 632, the private schools 927.  Thus the parochial and
endowed are 1319 ; but though each of them separately is less
in number than the private schools, yet the education which they
dispense to the community is much more extensive.  The pa-
rochial scholars at present are 35,668.  The scholars belonging to
endowed schools are 33,330, amounting together to 68,998, while
the scholars in private schools are 38,000.  The reader need not
be reminded how generally, almost universally, not only the pa-
rochial but endowed schools may be said to have originated with
and been supported by the Church.  The Society in Scotland for
Propagating Christian Knowledge, and the General Assembly's
Education Scheme, which are both strictly connected with the Esta-
blishment, have themselves 342 schools, and teach 20,000 children.
The Sessional schools, infant and juvenile, of Glasgow, which
belong to the same denomination of school, and which are sup-
ported by the Church, teach, we have seen, not less than 5000.
   And even as to the private schools, are they to be rated as Dis-
senting schools, and pleaded against the parochial and endow-
ed ?  No idea can be more unwarranted.  Whence has origi-
nated, in a great degree, that taste for education which has cre-
ated private schools, but the previous wide-spread parochial sys
tem; and who are generally their teachers, but men who were
educated for the national church, and but for whose professional
education the quality of private teaching would not be half so
good as it is ?  It is an important fact, which appears from the re-
turn of the examination of schools last year, that even in Glasgow,
where those not of the Establishment are strong, out of 146 schools
examined, only 32 of the teachers were Dissenters.  The remain-
der belonged to the Established Church.  It is pleasing to add,
that in very few cases were the presbytery denied admission.
   If such a large proportion of the teachers of private schools


