

                             SALTON.                             109

ent and powerful family of the De Morvilles, who were at this period
the Constables of the kingdom. The lands of Herdmanston lay
within this manor of Salton, and were granted about the year 1190
by Richard de Morville to Henry de St Clair, who then served
the Morville family as their Sheriff. * From him, the present noble
proprietor of the estate of Herdmanston is descended, in the pos-
session of whose family the property has thus been for upwards of six
hundred years. On the accession of Robert de Bruce, the descen-
dants of the De Morvilles were forfeited, they having, with the Eng-
lish monarch, espoused the interests of Balliol; and the St Clairs
from that period became tenants in chief. During the reign of
Alexander III. (about 1260) the greater part of the manor of Sal-
ton proper appears to have been possessed by William de Aber-
nethy, son of Sir Patrick Abernethy of that ilk. His descendants
acquired, in 1445 or 1455, the title of Lords of Salton, being then
in possession of very extensive territorial grants. In this family the
manor of Salton continued till 1643,-a period of nearly four hun-
dred years from the date of their first occupancy, when Sir An-
drew Fletcher, better known as Lord Innerpeffer, purchased from
Lord Abernethy of Salton, the present estate,-of which his lineal
descendant, Andrew Fletcher, Esq. is now proprietor.
   Eminent Characters.-With the parish of Salton many charac-
ters of distinguished eminence have been connected. Of those
to whom she had the honour of giving birth, William Dunbar,
the celebrated poet, was long supposed to have been one. This
opinion, first maintained by Allan Ramsay, and subsequently
by Lord Hailes, has been adopted by the author of the former
Statistical Account, naturally misled by the error of such eminent
authorities. Subsequent and more accurate investigation, how-
ever, has proved the opinion to be erroneous. It appears to have
originated with Ramsay in a misprint of the words "Saltone Mount"
for "Falcone Mount," in the well known lines of the "Flyting of
Dunbar and Kennedy," in which the residence of the former is sup-
posed to be pointed at by his poetical adversary. ++ These words

<FOOTNOTE> Diplomata Scootise, pl. 75. Chart. Glasgu. 163-5, referred to by Chalmers.
     The present Lord Saltoun derives his title from this family, Upon the death of
Alexander Lord Abernethy of Salton in 1669, without issue, his title, &c. descended
to his cousin, Alexander Fraser of Philorth, son of Margaret Abernethy, the only
daughter of George Lord of Saltoun.-See Crawford's Peerage.
     The following are the lines in question: Kennedy, after having expatiated on his
own wealth, contrasted with Dunbar's poverty, is supposed thus to address him:

              "Thy geir and substance is a widdy touch,
              On Falcone Mount about thy craig to rax.




