
432                           ROSS AND CROMARTY.

Easter Ross." The minister of Kincardine is one of the managers.
The lowest deposit is. fixed at 2s. 6d., and the highest in one
year at L. 30 ; the rate of i Interest being L. 3, 6s. 8d. per cent.
per annum.  It is impossible as yet to say bow this useful institution
will succeed.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The number of individuals who receive
Parochial aid is 75, and the average sum allotted to each
per annum is 5s. 6d. The amount of contributions for their relief,
arising from church collections, for the year ending 24th November
1839, was L. 20, 2s. 21d.  There is a sum of L. 5 Sterling,
given annually for the poor of this parish by Lady Mary
Ross of Balnagown.  Sir Charles Ross of BaInagown, Mr Mackenzie
of Cromartie, and the Sutherland family are also mindful
of the poor. To the daily and constant liberality and sympathy
ministered to the needy by the benevolent families at
Invercarron and Gladefield, this extensive parish is under the
deepest obligations, as well as to other resident farmers and neighbours;
altbough the evils of non-residence are at the same time
deeply felt in many of its districts.
   Fair.-There is one public fair held in this parish, which is called
" Feille-Edeichan;" or the market of the quartz-stone.  It takes
place in the last week of November, and sometimes on the first
week of December; and continues for three days.  There is commonly
a fine show of Highland cattle; and quantities of cheese
and butter, as well as merchandise, are to be had at it. *
   Inn.-The only licensed inn in the parish is situated at Ardgay,
and is conducted in an exceedingly orderly and respectable manner.
Fuel.-The principal fuel used by the lower classes is peats,
turf, and brushwood.  English coals are always used by the more
wealthy portion of the inhabitants.  They come by sea to Bonar,
and are sold at 17s. per ton.
                     MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
  The more Striking variations betwixt the present state of the
parish and that which existed at the time of the last Statistical Account,
consist chiefly in the improved state of agriculture, and the


<FOOTNOTE>
   In the -"Scottish Acts of Parliament," folio edit. 1820, (Vol. viii. p. 629, A. D.
1686,) there the following - Ratification in favours of David Ross of Balnagown,
of the lands and barony of Balnagown erecting the village of Ardgay into a burgh
of barony, to be called Bonarness ;  and to make burgesses, and to build a market
cross and ane Tolbooth ; and nominate and appoint baillies yearly, and to keep and
hold Courts of Justice ; and hold, A weekly market on Friday, and two yearly fairs.
It is a very eurious descriptive local act, and is deserving of attention.   It was never
acted upon.


