
		        CUMMERTREES.                          25l


ed in trade, manufactures, or handicraft, 63; of professional and
other educated persons, 14.
	Habits and Character of the People.--About fifty years ago cock-
fighting used to be a favourite amusement among the lower orders;
but that barbarous and brutalizing sport is now completely laid
aside. The habits of the people in cleanliness have been improv-
ed much of late years; and the cottages, with the exception of
those inhabited by Irish, are in general as neatly kept as the same
style of houses are in England.
	The ordinary food of the peasantry for breakfast is oatmeal
porridge, with milk, or with beer made from treable; but coffee
and tea are daily becoming more general among all classes.  At
dinner, Scotch broth and potatoes are used, with butcher-meat,
when it can be afforded, or, when this cannot be had, herrings or
flounders. Oatmeal porridge is the standing dish for supper. In
seasons of scarcity, the poorer classes have sometimes nothing but
potatoes to keep them from starvation. The earnings of the la-
bourers are usually very small, but, from their general sobriety and
prudent and moral habits, they enjoy far more real comfort than
those on the English side of the Frith with nearly double their
wages. It is much to be regretted, however, that the demoraliz-
ing habit of poaching in game has increased much of late years,
nor can it be hoped that the habit will diminish so long as the law
continues as it now is. It may be remarked, that many of the
farmers, whose crops are injured by game, look on poaching not
as a moral delinquency, but as a mere disobedience to arbitrary
statutes, which tends to the protection of their own crops.

			IV.--INDUSTRY.

	Agriculture and Rural Economy.--About 6000 imperial acres
are occasionally under tillage, and about 800 acres, chiefly moss,
have never been cultivated, of which about 300 might be profitably
brought into tillage. There is almost no ground in the parish
that could be kept in permanent pasture; and the same may be
raid of nearly two-thirds of all the land in the lower district of An-
nandale, where the soil is so thin, sandy, and gravelly, that it
would require top-dressing every two years; and where the soil is
damp, it is a thin, mossy, and spongy substance, lying over a hard,
and dripping till, which, if not ploughed, in a few years becomes
covered with rushes.  About 1000 acres are under wood chiefly
planted, and the management of the plantations is in general good.


