
				PERTH.                         59

	for the present year;" the election being not ad vitam aut mulpam,
  butannual.  In the minutes there occur instances of interference with
  the affairs of the inhabitants, cognizable only by authority pure-
  ly civil.  Thus, in January 20, 1617, " for as meikle as the session,
	understanding that Gilbert Robertson is tenant of an laigh house
  locate in the tenement of land pertaining to the hospital, whilk
	wants an chimney, and yet has daily ingill therein, to the perilling
  of the bail tenement to be set on fire ; and therefore ordains that no
	ingill be kindled nor used in the said house hereafter, and the bai-
	lies are requested to interpone their authority for that effect." They
	imposed and levied fines on persons guilty of certain offences, and
	sent some whose offences they judged to be peculiarly aggravated
  to Halkerston's Tower, which stood over the north entry of the
	(now) West Church, there to be confined during the pleasure of the
	courl The Episcopalian ecclesiastical dignitaries gave their full
	countenance to ,ucb a constitution of the session, and the conse-
	quent exercise of arbitrary power.  Thus the following stands on
	record:-" Monday penult day of Dec. 1616, present Mr John
  Malcolm, minister.  Itern, the baill elders were present except Da-
	vid Sibbald.  In the New (now West) Kirk, with the bishops and
	council, the persons present, Archbishop of St Andrews, James,
	Archbishop of Glasgow, Alexander, Bishop of Dunkeld, William,
	Bishop of Galloway, and Adam, Bishop of Dunblane; William
	Lord Crichton of Sanquhar, and David lord Scone, Mr Jobn
	Malcolm minister, the bailies, bouncil, and deacons of cmfts, and
	elders thereof., Whilk dav it is agreed, for better ordering of all
	matters in the kirk and session, that the provost and bailies hereof
	shall always be elected and chosen members of the session, and that
	for this present year James Adamson and Constanthne Malice be
	added to the present session, and give their assistance and concur-
	retice to the minister and rest of the, elders.  As likewise that the
	wasters of the hospital, present and to come, shall distributeratid
	dispense nothing but (i. e. without) advice of the ministers andma-
  gistrates, and that they make yearly account to them and other
  three or four of the most discreet of the counbil and session that shall
	be named by the minister and magstrates."  This entry is desig-
	nated on the margin, sederunt of the, Lords Spiritual and Tempo-
	ral." Agreeably to such a state of matters, the sederunt of the ses-
	sion frequently commenced "whilk day, council and session being
  convened," &c.


