
     of Swinton and Simprin.

ing man's supremacy in the globe; such a hero became the
founder of Swinton family, by rescuing there fields from des-
tructive animals, and enabling his dismayed country men to eat in-
stead of being eaten by them; he had these fields assigned him,
and has transmitted them to a very long series of descendants.
This fact does not rest merely in tradition, for it is certain
that swine make a great figure in the arms of the family; that
there are several persons who still retain the name of swine
without the additional syllable; and that the animal itself, no
longer an object either of terror or of superstition, is now be-
come a favourite source both of commerce and food to the in-
habitants.-The appearance of the parish is in general neither
uniformly flat, nor is it mountainous or rocky; it exhibits a
set of gentle elevations in long ridges, generally from E. to W.
with alternate flats betwixt them.  The soil for the most part
is fertile, and to a very high degree productive of grass, na-
tural or artificial, and grain of all sorts; except some of the flats,
a few of which arc too marshy for corn, and even rather un-
manageable as to grass, it the season be not uncommonly dry.
The soil in general is deep; below what has been already
mellowed by frequent tillage, by manure, and change of crops,
a strong tenacious clay prevails to a very great depth.  Of
course, the roads arc deep, miry, and often almost impassa-
ble in winter; when new made, they seldom continue good
for any time; gravel is distant and often scarce; and the clay
soon swallows up such hard materials as are employed.  It ap-
pears that the art of road-making still wants much of that perfec-
tion which it formerly had, and may perhaps attain.  The same
soil, which is miry and dirty in winter, is devoid of moisture and
parched in dry summers, exposing the inhabitants at one time
to all the inconveniencies of excessive moisture, and at other
times to all the hardships of excessive drought.  Cattle have
been driven from the N. side of the parish to Blackadder, and

     S s 3


