
			  GLASGOW.                      115

same to be intimated through the town by sound drum that no
person may plead ignorance."
	On 3d November, the town-council, understanding that a great
number of people will convene within this burgh at the ensuing
assembly, they statuted and ordained, that there be a guard of
men kept through the day, and a watch at night, under the direc-
tion of the provost and bailies. On the 18th, the treasurer was
directed to purchase for the town's use 100 muskets with "stalfis
and bandeleiris," 30 pikes, 4 cwt. of powder, and 4 cwt. of match.
	On 21st November this famous assembly met in the nave of the
Cathedral. During the preceding year, Laud, Archbishop of Can-
terbury, had ordered a service-book to be read in the Scotch
churches, which the people thought savoured of the mass. This
innovation afforded a fit opportunity for the friends of the Presby-
terian form to exert themselves in the cause; they therefore with
great assiduity procured a numerous attendance at this assembly.
The celebrated Marquis of Hamilton was Lord High Commis-
sioner. The venerable Mr John Bell, minister of the Tron Church
of Glasgow, preached, after which Mr Alexander Henderson was
elected Moderator. The assembly was attended by a great propor-
tion of the nobility and other persons of rank and consideration in
Scotland. The Presbyterian party carried everything their own way.
The Commissioner protested and dissolved the assembly. After
his Grace had departed, the assembly held twenty-six diets, when
they decreed, 1st The abjuration of Episcopacy; 2d, The abo-
lishing of the service-books and the high commission; 3d, The
proceedings of the six preceding assemblies during Episcopacy
were declared null and void; 4th, They deposed and excommuni-
cated the Archbishops of St Andrews and Glasgow, and the Bi-
shops of Galloway, Brechin, Edinburgh, Aberdeen, Ross, Argyle,
and Dunblane, and a number of other clergymen; 5th, The Co-
venant being approved of, was ordered to be signed, by all ranks,
under pain of excommunication; and, 6th, Churchmen were in-
capacitated from holding any place in Parliament.
	On 9th  March 1640, intimation was made by the session, that
all masters of families should give an account of those in their fa-
milies who have not the Ten Commandments, the Lord's Prayer,
Creed, &c. and that every family should have prayers and psalms
morning and evening; some of the fittest men to assist the elders
in promoting this work. On 8th January in the following year, the
kirk-session, in pursuance of an act  of Assembly held at Aberdeen,
enacted that the magistrates should cause all monuments of ide-


