
                  CROSS AND BURNESS.                             89

be called, is that of the bottle-nosed or ca'-ing whales, the Del-
phinus deductor of zoologists. Large shoals of these animals,
varying from 50 to 500 in number, and from 5 to 25 feet each in
length, get occasionally embayed ; and upon this happening, all,
boats are launched, all hands active, every tool which can be con-
verted into a weapon of offence to the strangers, from the roasting
spit of the principal tenant, to the ware-fork of the cottar, is put
into requisition. The shoal is surrounded, driven like a fioo,-kof
timid sheep to . shallow water oil a sandy shore, and then the at-
tack is made in earnest. The boats push in,stabbhng and wound-
ing in all directions. The tails of the wounded fish lash the sea,
which is dyed red with tbeit- blood, sometimes dashing a boat to
pieces. The whitles in dying emit shrill and plaintive cries, ac-
companied with loti.d snorting, and a humming -noise easily mis-
taken at a-distance for fi fes and drums; so that the whole scene
has been not inaptly compared to a battle-field.

                       II.-CIVIL HI[STORY.
   Parochial Register-There are or rather were two Parochial
registers,-a register of births and baptisms, and a register of mar-
riages commencing in 171 1, and kept, apparently with great regu-
larity, until 1793, since which time a great majority of the births
have not been registered, and no register of marriages has been
kept. There have been no illegitimate births in either of the pa-
rishes, during the last three years.
   Rents of Land and Proprietors.- It may be curious to observe the
difference in the yearly value of the lands in Orkney, since the va-
luation made for assessing the land tax in 1653. The names of the
then proprietors of Cross and Burness were, Magnus Fea-of Grin-
dilia; James Fea of Stove; John Scollay of Leta; John Smith
of Seater; John Elpbinstone; John Miller of Skelbuster; John
Irvine of Isgairth; John Henryson; James Traill of Houbister;
John Groat of Elsness; Malcolm Sinclair of Papness; James
Cock of Westove; Thomas Abercrombie; Richard Fothering-
bame; Brandy Thurland; Walter Th omson; John Above-the-
Riggs; John Scott of Langskeal; Edward Cock; Robert Stew-
art of Brotigh and the Earl of Morton; and the whole land's are
rated in the same Valuation at L. 1690, Os. 5d. Scots, or L.140,
16s 8d. Sterling; to which add feu and scat'and teind-:dutiospay-
able to the Earl of Morton as Donatory of the Crown, viz. 71 bar-
rel butter at 20; 76 lispunds butter at L. 2 ; 650 moils., I set-
ting, and 6 marks of bear at L. 1, 13s. 4d; 13 meils, 5 settings,
20 2/3 marks of meal at L. 4; and L. 127, 10s. 6d. Scots money, gives.



