
180                             AYRSHIRE.

parts, the most prevalent soil consists of different varieties of clay.
In the eastern parts, which are generally covered with heath, there
are found many trunks of trees of considerable magnitude. One
of these was lately dug up from a piece of mossy ground, which
appears formerly to have been a small lake about 500 feet above
the level of the sea. It proved to be a magnificent oak with a
straight trunk, which had once been upwards of 48 feet long, and
is still about 3 1/2 feet in diameter at the upper extremity. Two
large pieces in good preservation are now kept at Lanfine garden.
Whether this tree and its fellows already mentioned, are to be re-
garded as the remains of the Caledonian Forest mentioned in the
Classics, or to be referred to a still more ancient epoch in the his-
tory of our globe, must be left for the decision, of more competent
authorities than the writer of this account.
	Along the south bank of the Irvine, there are from 400 to 500
imperial acres of rich holm land, which appear evidently to have
been formed by successive deposits from the river. It is certain,
at least, that the river has at some former period traversed almost
every part of this rich tract; and it may be remarked, to the same
purpose, that the uniformity of the soil and subsoil throughout its
whole extent, as well as the considerable difference of level at the
two extremities, preclude the supposition of its having been depo-
sited at the bottom of an ancient lake.
	Climate.--The climate of Galston partakes of the general cha-
racter belonging to that of Ayrshire, being "rather moist but not
unhealthy." From two rain guages kept at Lanfine, it appears
that the quantity of rain in 1831, was 53.8 inches, and in 1832,
46.12. It is proper to state, however, that the situation of Lan-
fine is high, and the fall of rain considerably greater than about
the village of Galston.
	Bruntwood Loch, with all its winged inhabitants, has disappeared
under the grasping hand of modern agriculture, and although
Loch Gait does not appear to have suffered from similar encroach-
ments, it must now be described as an insignificant marsh. There
is nothing worthy of notice in the zoology or botany of Galston.

 		           II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Antiquities.--Neither is this parish celebrated by the occurrence
of any important event mentioned in history, unless the successful
rencontre of the patriot Wallace with the English officer Fen-
wick is to be regarded in that light. The cairn which is said to
mark the locality of this battle, is still in existence in the vicinity


