
98                            AYRSHIRE.

<TABLE=Produce>
	Produce.--The average gross amount of raw produce yearly
raised in the parish is as follows.

Produce of grain of all kinds, cultivated for the food of man or the domdstic
	animals,						L. 488
Of potatoes and turnips,	 				   202
Of hay,							     	    55
Of land in pasture,	                                           471
Of fisheries, estimated at	 			          1050
Freestone quarry,						   400
                                                                  ____
 	        Total yearly value of raw produce raised,      L. 2666
	Manufactures.--The most important of these are ship-building,
rope and sail-making, iron and brass-founding, and smith-work.
	Ship-building has for a long period been carried on at this har-
bour. About thirty years ago, there were not less than 200 men
employed; but it afterwards gradually declined till within the last
ten years. It has of late been carried on to a considerable extent
in the wood-yard of Messrs Cowan and Sloan. In 1831, a pa-
tdnt slip was erected by Mr Morton, the patentee: and since that
time 111 vessels have been taken on and repaired, and nine new
ones have been built, registering from 47 to 433 tons each. Some
of these have been construbted by orders from shipowners in
Greenock, and one for the East India trade. Betwixt 40 and
50 hands are constantly employed, who work eight hours in winter
and ten in summer, and earn from 18s. to L. 1, per week. In the
rope and sail-work, 10 hands are at present employed, whose
weekly wages are from 12s. to 15s. It is worthy of remark, that
after great fluctuations of prosperity and depression in the interval,
both of these branches of trade are, as nearly as may be, in the
same state in which they were at the date of, the last Statistical
Account (1791)--there being then 50 men employed in shipbuild-
ing, and 10 in manufacturing ropes.
	There are four foundries in which machinery of all kinds is ma-
nufactured, and smith-work executed: but none of them are on
an extensive scale. The working hours are ten per day; 34
men and 14 boys are at present employed; and the average
weekly wages are, for men, 16s. and for boys 5s. There is also a
salt-work, containing two pans, in which salt is made chiefly from
the rock imported from  Liverpool. Five men are employed in
it, whose wages are 10s. 6d. a-week.
	An interesting enumeration was given in the l`st Statistical Ac-
count of Newton, of all the occupations of the inhabitants, and
the number employed in each. Nothing so minute can now be
attempted. But it may be mentioned, as the result of a careful


