
288                         PERTHSHIRE.

suffered severely, as shown by the subjoined interesting document,
the original of which is to be found in the possession of the So-
ciety of Antiquaries. *
  It is almost needless to add, that the indemnification on that
occasion proffered by the Pretender was never forthcoming; whilst,
on the other side, the reigning family did make compensation for
the losses sustained by those who bad neither personally nor by
their friends been implicated in the rebellion. "Burning money,"
as it is called, was received by many.
  The family of Perth, to whom Auchterarder belonged, having
forfeited their possessions, the Commission appointed to take
charge of the annexed estates appears to have devoted much at-
tention to Auchterarder.  In 1778, a survey was made of the ba-
rony by Mr Wigh, acting for the commissioners, and published by
their `uthority.  In this report, the inhabitants are described as
" idle and poor.-farmers not thinking it necessary to thin their
turnip while small, allowing them to grow until they be the size
of large kail plants, and then it is thought a great loss to take
them up, unless in small quantities, to give to the cow.  A few
tenants excepted, no family had oat-meal in their houses, nor
could they get any.  The oat nothing better than bear-meal and

<FOOTNOTE>BY THR KING, A DECLARATION.
  "JAMES R.-Whereas itwas absolutely necessary for our service and the public safe-
ty, that the villages of Anchterarder and Blackford should be burnt and destroyed, to
prevent the far greater inconveniences and hardships which must have ensued to our
subjects, had Our elemency and tenderness prevailed upon us to preserve these places.
We were, therefore, at last, induced by the strongest motives, though with the greatest
reluctancy and unwillingness, to give our orders for the effect above-mentioned, which
we understand since have been put into executhon.  And in regard we came into
this our ancient kingdom with a sincere and first intention to ease and relieve all our
subjects in general of the hardships and calamities which they have laboured. under
for these several years past; and being, therefore, most sensibly affected with the
losses and sufferhng of our good subjects, by the devastation of these villages, which
justly moves our compassion and tenderness towards them; and being, therefore, re-
solved to make them suitable reparation for the damages they have sustained on this
occasion, so as in the end they may be no losers thereby, It is therefore our will
and pleasure, that all and sundry the persons concerned do immediately prepare esti-
mates of their several losses and sufferings, and that they deliver the same in writ-
ings to their several masters, so as we may order relief and reparation to be made to
them for what losses and damages they have sustained in their houses, goods, furni-
ture. and corns, or any other manner of way whatsoever.  This we hope will be suf-
ficientto convince them and all the world, of the tender regard we have for our sub-
jects, and of, the part we bear in all their sufferings.  And we hereby charge and
command the ministers of the several paroch churches of Auchterarder and Black-
ford publickly to read this our declaration to their sevdral congregations, immediate-
ly after divine service the two Sundays next after the date here of, and copies hereof
to be affixed on the church doors, so all the people concerned may have due notice
of this our intention towards them, and may, accordingly, reap the benefit thereof-
Given at our Court at Rcoon, this 26th day of Junuary 1716, and in the fifteenth
yea of our reign, by his Majesty's command.-(Signed) MAR."
  Printed by Mr Robert Freebairn, Printer to the King's Most Excellent Majesty,
MDCCXVI.



