
380                ARGYLESHIRE.

  Hydrography.- The moors abound with lochs or lakes, but
none of any extent or celebrity ; and the few rivers in the pa-
rish, which collect in the hills, and issue from ravines and tribu-
tary streams, ought properly to be denominated rivulets.  The
largest, which runs through Glenbarr for a course of three miles,
and falls into the Atlantic, abounds with small salmon and grilse.
  Mineralogy.-No mines of any description have hitherto been
discovered in the parish ; but it is supposed, from the appearance
of the soil, that it contains coal.  A discovery of this nature
would prove a great blessing to the natives, as peats or turf, the
only fuel, are scarce, and at a great distance.
  Veins of limestone frequently occur both in the hills and along
the shore, of a bluish granular texture, sometimes reposing upon
a bed of granite.
  Zoology.-It cannot be said that the parish of Killean is re-
markable for breeding any species of cattle of peculiar quality,
size, or value.  The black-cattle uniformly consist of an ill-shap-
ed, small-boned breed of the Highland species, always housed at
night, and of course not in such repute for the market as those
outliers reared in the upper districts of the county.  They are,
however, easily supported, and, when well fed, very profitable for
the dairy.
The small breed of the old white-faced Highland sheep, whose
flesh was considered so tender and delicate, and wool so superior
in quality, is now extinct, and the prevailing stock consists of a
black-faced breed, said to be originally imported from Moffat.
 Very few hogs are reared in the parish, and such as the far-
mers fatten for the use of their families seem to have been origi-
nally imported from Ireland, and are more distinguished for size
than any peculiar shape or quality.
  The farmers have been, within the last twenty years, very inde-
fatigable in improving their breed of horses, by introducing into
the parish heavy low country stallions, and have succeeded well ill
rearing powerful and large draught horses well adapted for farming
operations.
  The wild quadrupeds of the parish are, hares, badgers, wild-
cats, martens, polecats, otters, weasels, small white ermine similar
to the weasel in shape and habits, but of a lesser size.
  The mole has not as yet made its appearance in the parish ; but
having, several years ago, passed the narrow isthmus of Tarbet, it
                                    4

