
                                      DUFFUS.                               35

             The wind blows almost three-fourths of the year from the west or
             south-west; the east wind, however, is very keen and severe at the
             spring season alluded to, and occasional storms come from the north
             and north-west, but they are rare and of short continuance.  It is-
             difficiult to say whether the existing state of the weather greatly
             affects the health of the inhabitants, though necessarily from their
             pursuits much exposed to the "skyey influences." Fever is the ma-
             lady which seems most prevalent amongst them; pulmnnary com-
             plaints are not uncommon among the agricultural part of the com-
             munity, but of rare occurrence among the seafaring portion of it.
             " It is a truth," says the former Statistical Account of Duffus,
             " which no mere Englishman will readily believe, that in this com-
             paratively rude part of Britain, the itch is less frequent in propor-
             tion to its population than in the British capital." It is a still more
             gratifying fact, that this loathsome disorder is now all but extinct.
               The Moray Frith bounds this parish on the north, and is about
             thirty miles in breadth betwixt it and the opposite coast of Suther-
             land.  Its usual colour is a rather deep blue, varied by green where
             the bottom is rocky; it often exhibits a luminous phosphorescent
             appearance at the approach of storms; but its tides do not rise high,
             fortunately, else the plains of Duffus, Drainie, Leuchars, and Innes,
             which lie but a few feet above its ordinary level, would be subject to
             frequent and disastrous inundations.
               Hydrography.-There are few springs throughout this parish,
             and none of what are called "mineral waters," though the water is
             in several places impregnated with iron.  One sainted spring situ-
             ated near the shore, and welling deliciously out of the pure sand,
             deserves mention, as a former resort of pilgrinis, and still an ob-
             ject of superstitious curiosity to the peasantry of the county.  No
             river, indeed scarcely a rivulet, takes its course through the parish,
             owing to the flatness of the country; this is'both very inconvenient,
             and extremely disadvantageous to the people.
               There is now no lake properly speaking in this parish,though
             the loch of Spynie when full used to extend into it for a mile or
             two.  Indeed, it formerly lay within so short a distance of the, castle
             of Duffus, that its moat was thence supplied; but in its present re-
             duced dimensions from draining, it is entirely without the bounds.
             of the parish of Duffus.
                                    II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
                Amhquities-Several interesting  monuments of former times
             remain.  Upon a gentle eminence, or rather mound, which bears



