
62                      CLACKMANNANSHIRE.

of the present coal company. He teaches a Sabbath school, the
scholars attending which vary from upwards of 50 to 80.
   Lord Abercromby gives a school-house, dwelling-house, and
garden, with an acre of land, and a salary of about L. 6 per annum,
to the schoolmaster of Tullibody. In the town, there are two charity
schools, at which 140 children are taught English reading gratui-
tously, and writing on paying a penny a week. One of them is
supported entirely by public subscription ; the other by the same
means, and by the interest of L.300, be queathed for that purpose,
by the late Lady Charlotte Erskine. There is a boarding-school
for young ladies in the town; and three other day-schools con-
ducted by females, where the usual branches are taught, besides
plain and ornamental needle-work. The number of pupils attend-
ing all the day-schools in the parish in March last was 1004;
at, evening schools 120; and at ten Sabbath schools, the number
now attending is 766. An Infant School on a large scale is about
to be erected in the town, the greater part of the money necessary
for the purpose being already subscribed.
   The number of the young between six and fifteen years of age
who cannot read or write, it is impossible to ascertain ; but it is
not supposed, that there are any persons natives of this parish up-
wards of fifteen years of age, who cannot read, and probably not
a great number, except old people, who cannot also write. The
people, in general, appear alive to the benefits of education; and
it is believed that they are improving in morals and religion.
   Literature.--The Clackmannanshire Library was founded at
Alloa in the year 1797, and, now contains upwards of 1500 vo-
lumes, which have been judiciously selected. Its only source of
increase is an annual subscription of 10s. from each subscriber.
There are two libraries in connection with the United Secession
Congregations, and one in connection with the Established Church,
lately founded by the Countess of Mar and Kellie, one in connec-
tion with the East Church parish, founded by Mr Wright some
years ago; the books in all of which are chiefly ofa religious nature.
A library of suitable books was established several years ago, and
is supported solely by the present teacher of the parish school,
without any contribution even from his scholars.
   There are two public reading rooms in the town, both frequent-

<FOOTNOTE>There is a library in connection with the New Jerusalem Church Society, con-
tnining all the theological works of Emanuel Swedenborg, and several other books
explaning and recommending the doctrines held by that body of Christians.


