
276			AYRSHIRE.

land, have been exposed; and in jutting out among the trees and
copse-wood, by which they are generally covered, present striking
and picturesque appearances. Here are observed beds of limestone,
old red sandstone, and conglomerate, which dip at an inclination of
between twenty and thirty degrees towards the north-east, under the
coal fields of Coylton and Patna; and these are obviously to be
classed under the same series of rocks, which in the neighbour-
ing parishes of Maybole and Kirkmichael are surmounted by the
coal measures. The limestone is generally found in masses, with
clayey matter intervening, and is seldom more than a foot in thick-
ness. It is extremely hard, and presents only occasionally the traces
of small shells. It has in several places been dug out, and found,
after burning, to yield a good lime for agricultural purposes. Trap
penetrating the strata, and presenting the usual appearances, is
also found in several districts; and boulders, both of trap and
granite, are scattered over the fields.
	Soils.--The soil is of various kinds. The greatest part, how-
ever, is the clay; the rest consists of gravel, sand, and loam. In
some places, the clay soil is very poor and barren, scarcely repay-
ing the expense of cultivation; in others, when properly managed,
and sheltered from the wintry winds, by plantations or the adja-
cent elevated grounds, it produces excellent crops. The clay soil
is in some places red, in others blue, and a bluish-white. The
gravelly and the sandy soils yield the best pasture, and are best
adapted for potatoes and turnips. The loam is mostly on the
banks of the river, lochs, and rivulets, to which it has evidently
been carried down from the higher grounds by the floods in winter.
There is very little moss land in the parish.
	Botany.--The following list of plants of the rarer kind found in
this parish, was furnished by Mr Smith of Monkwood Grove, an
enthusiastic botanist. The writer has here arranged Mr Smith's
list according to the Linnaean system, and accompanied it with an
English translation:
		III. TRIANDURIA.		2. Pimpinella saxifraga, Common burnet
1. Valeriana officinalis, Great wild vale-	    saxifrage.
    rian.					6. Drosera rotundifolia, Round-leaved
1. Scirpus lacustris, Bulrush.			    sun-dew.
2. Aira canescens, Gray hair-grass.
2. Briza media, Common quaking-grass.			VI. HEXANDRIA
2. Arundo phragmites, Common reed.		1. Allium ursinum, Broad-leaved garlic.
						1. Narthecium ossifragum, Lancashire
		V. PENTANDRIA.			     asphodel.
1. Menyanthes trifoliata, Com. buckbean		1. Peplis portula, Water purslane,
2. Sium verticillatum, Whorled water		5. Alisma plantago, Greater water plan-
    parsnep.					    tain.


