
264                    DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

from the shore, and becomes more unequal in its surface, the soil
also varies, and partakes more of a gravelly and clayey substance,
resting upon hills of sand of great dimensions.
	Peat-moss is found in several detached portions, in which the
remains of oak trees of considerable growth are deposited. In
one or two of them were discovered also several coins of silver, on
which can be deciphered Canterbury and London, but no date,
though they apparently belonged to the reign of one of the Edwards.
	Fisheries, &c.--There are excellent salmon fisheries on the
coast, and sturgeon, cod, and herrings, are caught occasionally,
though none of them, perhaps, in such abundance as formerly.
S`lmon ascend the rivers for spawning in the beginning of Octo-
ber, and return again early in March.
	In this parish there are no woods of large extent, though its
eastern division has the appearance of one continued forest, from
the circumstance, that the hedge-rows, which are kept in good or-
der, are thickly interspersed with ash, oak, and plane trees; among
these the ash is predominant, and seems most congenial to the soil.
Laburnum is also common, and thrives well. There are many trees
of considerable age and size near the church and manse, and many
small plantations in places very tastefully selected, which give the
scene a sylvan appearance, and contribute much to the warmth of
the climate and the fertility of the soil.

			II.--CIVIL HISTORY.

	Historical Notices.--Situated on the frontier of Scotland, this
parish was undoubtedly the scene of many battles, and many a bor-
der feud and foray. The debateable lands, lying between the rivers
Sark and Esk, now forming the parish of Kirkandrews, were of
course for many ages considered common to England and Scotland,
and so long as these remained separate kingdoms, gave birth, as
might be expected, to prodigious disorders. These lands extended
eight miles in length and four in breadth, and were long possessed
by a race who acknowledged the laws of neither country. With a
vidw to remedy these evils, in the ydar 1552, a partition was agreed
upon by the sovereigns of the respective domains, and the Scotch
dike, a line of plantation drawn between the two rivers, was thence-
forward to be the boundary; the eastern division to belong'to Scot-
land, the western to England, such being the inclinations of the
inhabitants. The habits of the people, however, continued nearly
the same till the union of the kingdoms under James VI., when


