
716                             LANARKSHIRE.

   I. The Macfarlane School.-The late Mrs Waddell of Stone-
field, whose own name was Elizabeth Macfarlane, bequeathed
L.2000 Sterling, in trust, for building and endowing this school.
The school-house, with a house for the teacher, was built in 1833.
Sixty girls are educated in this school gratis.  The management
is vested in the magistrates, minister, and three elders of the kirk-
session of Gorbals.
   2. Gorbals Poor's School.-More than 130 children receive in-
struction in this school, which is supported chiefly by the benevo-
lence of the Gorbals congregation, and an annual donation from
the magistrates.
   3. The Gorbals Juvenile and Infant School.-This commodious
edifice, which has two play-grounds attached to it, was built in 1836,
by private subscriptions, and a grant from Government.  Upwards
of 300 children, who pay a small fee, are educated in it by two
teachers.  The direction is in the hands of a committee of the
subscribers.  In 1837, a Juvenile and Infant School was likewise
erected in Partick.  The ground on which this handsome struc-
ture stands, together with the two play-grounds, was the gift of
Mr Bogle of Gilmonehill, who, with similar liberality, had pre-
viously given the ground on which the church of Partick is built.
Each of the two school-rooms is 42 feet long and 24 feet wide;
and one of the private class-rooms is 15 feet long and 11 feet wide,
and the other 11 feet long and 10 feet wide.  The whole erection,
to which Government contributed L. 350, cost upwards of L.1000.
There is another school-house in Partick, and also one in Govan,
and one at Strathbungo, which were built by private subscriptions,
and to which there are attached dwelling-houses for the teachers.
   Gorbals Popular Institution.-The object of this institution,
which had its origin in 1833, is the diffusion of science by means
of public lectures, and a library, which now consists of 1100 vo-
lumes.  The management is committed to the magistrates, coun-
cillors, and clergymen of the Barony of Gorbals, and twenty direc-
tors, who are chosen annually from the subscribers, and the per-
sons who hold class tickets.  Since the commencement of the in-
stitution, comprehending a period of six years, 324 lectures have
been delivered to 3735 students, chiefly operatives, on natural
philosophy, chemistry, geology, astronomy, political economy, po-
pular anatomy, physiology, &c.  The subscriptions which have
been received in the course of that time amount to L. 264, 8s.
8 1/2d., and the money arising from the sale of tickets to L. 368,
5s. 2d.


