
554                        PERTHSHIRE.

corresponding pasture for a horse, two covs, and one or two young
cattle, with some dozen sheep, L.14 to L.l7.
   The average expense of grazing a sheep, of which there are
about 62,000 in the parish, is from 3s. to 3s. 6d. per annum. The
summer grazing of a cow, of which there are about 1200 in the pa-
rish, is L.1; of young cattld, of which there are about 3000,
from 5s. 6d. to 8s. 6d.; horses, of which there are about 360, from
L.1, 5s. to L.1, 10s. on low ground, and L.1 for hill grass.
   Wages.-A farm-labourer receives in winter about 1s. per day
with victuals; in harvest from 1s. 6d. to 2s. A woman, during the
same seasons, respectively, from 3d. and 9d. to 1s., with victuals
also. A farm-servant's wages run from L.10 to L.l3, with vic-
tuals in his master's family. A servant-maid's wages are from
L.4 to L.5, 10s.
  Live-Stock.- Our sheep are mostly of the black-faced kind, and
our black-cattle of the West Highland breed. Great attention is
paid to the improvement of both among all classes of graziers; and
consequently, when a public sale happens by one of our principal
graziers, it is not uncommon to see a bull knocked down for L.50,
a cow for L.40, and queys at L.35.
   Some of our best sheep stocks, when sold by apprizement, bring
L. 26 per clad score.
   Leases generally run for five, seven, eleven, fifteen, and nineteen
years. Seven is the most general tdrm. Leases are considered fa-
vourable to the occupiers, as affording them confidence in carry-
ing on improvements on their farms. The improvements on the
old mode of farming have been very great. In my younger days.
hardly any plough went without four horses, and two athletic men
to lead `nd drive. But that mode of agriculture is now done by.
   The improvements in farm-buildings and inclosures are equally
remarkable and progressive. When a new lease is obtained, the
heritor or proprietor meets the farmer's wishes, with a liberality
that does him credit. Splendid and elegant accommodations are
furnished for the tenant; and the steadings and houses for the cat-
tle, &c. are excellent.

			V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
  Market-Town.-It can hardly be said that there is any market-
town or village in the parish. The nearest market-towns are Crieff
and Perth, distant respectively thirty and forty miles.
   Means of Communication.-The means of communication en-
joyed by the parish are but indifferent.  There are several carriers


