
   174                 SUTHERLANDSHIRE.

   pointed, who, being of a weak and sickly constitution, was unable
   to labour efficiently in the parish, and only lived in the charge for
   six years.  In 1769, he was succeeded by Mr William Mackenzie.
   As his incumbency forms an era in the history of this parish, his
   name deserves special notice in such an account as this.  A native of
   Ross-shire, soon after his license, he came to officiate as missionary
   in the neighbouring parish of Farr; and though possessing highly
   popular talents, a liberal education, and prospects of advancement
   elsewhere through influential friends, yet, having formed a strong
   attachment to his adopted country, he accepted a call to this pa-
   rish when vacant by the death of Mr Mackay.  He found it in a
   deplorable state of religious ignorance.  Scarce could one be found
   to repeat the Shorter Catechism.  There was only one elder with-
   in the bounds, and it was impossible to fix on others, bearing the
   necessary religious character, who could be ordained to this office
   so as to constitute a session.  The sanctity of the Lord's day was
   grossly violated by persons forming bargains, going and coming to
   the house of God.  A general apathy to the means of grace was
   manifest; and several gross practices, the relics of a barbarous
   age, were common at funerals and festivals.
     With these evils to contend against, he entered on his charge
   with zeal and energy, and an untiring devotedness to the interests
   of his flock.  But, for three years, he seemed to labour in vain, and
   the feeling of his heart was, " Woe is me that I sojourn in Mesech."
   At last, the time to visit this portion of Zion was come.  One day
   he took occasion from the pulpit to remonstrate plainly and faith-
   fully with the people, for their several sins; declared his own ar-
   dent hopes of being instrumental in reforming them, when he en-
   tered the parish; the bitterness of his feelings in his disappoint-
   ment hitherto, and his prayer to God, that were this to continue
   He would remove him from amongst them.  Overpowered by his
   feelings, be could proceed no lonaer.  For the first time, the con-
   gregation were seen bathed in tears, and overwhelmed with a feel-
   ing of shame and from that day there was the most marked change;
   a truly fruitful revival was the consequence.  The people showed
   all docility in receiving the instructions of their pastor; the house
   of God was thronged by persons from the most distant corners of
   the parish; respect and attention were shown to the ordinances
   and duties of religion; barbarous usages were gradually laid aside;
   and under his affectionate, glowing, and faithful ministry, there
   sprang up a race of intelligent Christians,so that he was soon en-


