
              		 PAISLEY.                           195

having by its proprietor been taken off, to be regarded as one of
the ruins in the parish.  It may be remarked, as affording a speci-
men of the confined and homely accommodation, as respected the
dwellings of families of rank and consequence little more than a
century ago.  It is on the banks of the Cart, south-east of Paisley,
but in its immediate vicinity, and is a strongly built, old pile, still
belongingto the Shaw Stewart family. It was to an ancestor of
this family, Sir Archibald Stewart, the lands of Blackball were
granted by King Robert III. in 1396. *  All the fair plantations
and gardens, which, in Crawfurd's time, grew in its neighbourhood,
are gone.  A minute description of the house itself is in the
Gentleman's Magazine for 1819 or 1820.
   Cardonald, an old mansion in the castellated style, large
and commodious, is about three miles east of Paisley, on the
banks of the White Cart. +  This venerable-looking struc-
ture, now let to various tenants, is embowered in wood of large
growth.  It is spoken of by crawfurd as one of the seats of the
Right Honourable Walter Lord Blantyre, a family to whom the
property still belongs.  The same author farther says, "an an-
cient family of the Stewarts did possess the lands of Cardonald,"
adding, that the first of these proprietors, Al. Stewart" and
Marion Semple, his spouse, obtained them in the year 1487." ++
In the reign of King James VI. they passed, to Walter Stewart,
Prior?? of Blantyre.
   Of the ancient manor place of the Cochranes, a family of great
antiquity in Renfrewshire, and whose house and barony lay on
the western side of the parish, no remains are to be seen.  This
was the principal manor of the Cochranes, whose ancestors had,
in Crawfurd's time, (1710,) possessed the lands "well nigh five
hundred years." The greater part of this ancient barony is now
the property of Ludovic Houstoun, Esq. of Johnston.
   Near the west end of the village of Elderslie; and on the south
side of the turnpike road passing through it, a tenement of rather
ancient appearance is pointed out as the house in which the renown-
ed hero Sir William Wallace was born.  But if this brave de-
fender of his country was born,, as is generally Allowed, on the
spot, it must have been in a habitation, of older date.  Adjoining
0 Robertson's Cmwfurd, P. 5&;

<FOOTNOTE>Robertson Crawfrud, p. 58
    This river is called the White Cart, to distingusih it from another river in this
country, which, from its appearance, probaly occationed by the mossy ground around
its source and along its banks has received the name of the Black Cart.
    Semple's Crawfurd, p. 229.  Commendator.


