
100                 CLACKMANNANSHIRE.

and though the sentiments, even of those who were hostile to the
trustees, are now much changed, yet the injury done by this rash
step is scarcely retrievable; and although the jealousies and dis-
putes which had been excited, have now much subsided, they have
necessarily operated to the prejudice of the school. Notwithstand-
ing these unpleasant occurrences; and although in as far as con-
cerns the trustees, and more especially the minister, Macnab's
legacy has not added to their comfort;--at the same time, there can
be no doubt, considerable good has been done. Many of the
children-of the poor have received a liberal education, which, had
it not been for the legacy, they had little chance of obtaining.
Many of them, it is but right to state, have been the most distin-
guished scholars in all the different classes, and have regularly
carried off the most valuable prizes; and although, as is to be ex-
pected, many of them lose the advantages of such an education, by
entering into professions where it is not required, and in some in-
stances contract bad habits, which render their superior education
a curse, rather than a blessing, by increasing their powers and
means of doing mischief; yet many of the children of the poor,
in consequence of the superior education they have received at
Macnab's school, have risen to respectable situations in life.
Some of them have become distinguished parochial schoolmasters,
and tutors in gentlemen's families. Others of them have got si-
tuations as clerks in mercantile houses; and not a few have be-
come merchants themselves in different lines, and have been highly
successful in business. A great number of pupils from the academy,
after finishing their education, have been sent out as gardeners,
and have got into very respectable situations in the gardens of the
nobility and gentry in various parts of the country. We omitted
to mention, that, besides an extensive lawn around the public
building, the grounds on the north of the academy park, consisting
of several acres, have been formed into a garden and nursery, where
every kind of culinary and horticultural produce, besides shrubs,
trees, and flowers, are raised. A certain number of the pupils of
the academy, who have finished their general education, are al-
lowed to enter the garden as apprentices, where, under tbe super-
intendence of an experienced and scientific gardener, they are in-
structed in all the branches of gardening. They also attend a
class for drawing in the evening; and with some other pupils, both
male and female, receive lessons in botanv from the master gar-
dener. In this way they become qualified for places in gentle-


