
                       HAMILTON.                              257

	The soil superincumbent on the above strata is of various sorts.
The extensive valleys along the Clyde are of a deep fertile loam
on a sandy or loose gravelly subsoil. A remarkable tract of sandy
soil, several miles in length, and about a mile and a half in breadth,
commences at Cunningar, runs through the farm of Merryton, and
southwards by Raploch in Dalserf, and Kittimuir in Stonehouse.
On this soil it is observed that potatoes do not in general thrive
well after the application of lime. In the middle of the parish
the subsoil is mostly a yellow clay, (the Argilla communis of Lin-
naeus.) In the upper and bleaker parts, a bluish or grayish clay
prevails, more or less impregnated with gravel and other siliceous
substances. This last is the very worst description of soil. There
is little or no peat in the parish. The surface on the whole "not
being broken by any great irregularities, the land is all arable, ex-
cept some steep banks by the sides of the river and brooks, a few
swampy meadows in the upper part of the parish, and such parts
as are covered with planting or natural wood, the extent of which
is considerable." The haughs on the Clyde are all of transport-
ed soil, and seem at some former period to have formed the bot-
toms of lakes; for there is no haugh without its dam at the lower
part of it, by which the water was no doubt once retained. Thus,
the dam of the Hamilton haughs was a little below Bothwell Bridge;
that of the Ross, Allanton, and Merryton haughs, at the camp of
Dalzel. Dalserf, Dalpatrick, and Dalbeg haughs were dammed
up at Garion Mill; and the haughs of Overton and Thrippet, at
Milton Bridge. At what period the waters forced a passage through
these several barriers, it is impossible now to ascertain. The bottoms,
of all our rivers and burns are imbedded with gravel, consisting of
the debris of granite, basalt, quartz, and various other descriptions
of rocks. In the bed of Cadzow burn, at the flesh-market, there
are water-worn blocks of granite, and boulders of highly indurated
red sandstone of two or three feet diameter, imbedded in the solid
rock. In Barncluith burn, there are also large blocks of granite
several feet in diameter, lying upon a bed of shale. It is well-known
that there are no granite rocks nearer than forty miles and up-
wards, and the course of these burns is not more than six miles
The question, therefore, comes to be,--whence do these strangers
come? Large water-worm-worn masses of pure basalt rare also found in the
bed of every torrent, and wherever the soil is dug into.
	Coal, lime, and ironstone, are found in various places. Coal is
chiefly wrought at Quarter, about three miles south of the town of.


