
418			DUMPRIES-SHIRE.

Langholm bridge and Byreburn, the sandstone is of a grayish white
and yellowish gray colour, and contains many vegetable moulds.
The limestone, which lies upon the transition rocks and below the
coal formation, is bluish gray, and contains petrifactions. The
slate-clay is grayish black, and contains beds of globular clay iron-
stone. Below Byreburn, the brownish red-coloured sandstone
continues without any alternation to the Solway Frith. Amygda-
loid is also found.
	Zoology.--Among the more rare birds, it may be noticed that
the bittern (Ardea stellaris,) the butcher-bird (Lanius collurio,)
and the king-fisher (Alcedo ispida,) have been seen in this parish.
All the species of our singing birds are to be met with.
	Of Destructive Insects.--The most common are the Aphis bras-
sicae, or cabbage plant-louse, which commences its ravages about
the end of May, and the Aphis pomi, the apple-leaf plant-louse,
which is found on the young leaves and shoots of apple trees, from
the time they bud till the middle of June. The bean plant-louse,
the Aphis fabae, is in some seasons very hurtful to the bean crop.
It is found on the tops of all the varieties of beans. The glow-
worm (Lampyris splendidula) is common in this parish, and is ge-
nerally seen at the roots of hedges and on road sides.
	Botany.--There are no rare plants in this parish; but-all the
common kinds are found. There is a species of willow known by
the name of the gray saugh, which grows to a great size, and is
much sought after by cabinet makers, on account of its beautiful
red colour, and the polish it takes when applied for making house-
hold furniture. Much valuable wood is in this parish,--such as
large oaks, ash, beech, plane tree, and forest trees of every kind.

             		II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Historical Notices.-Langholm was erected into a burgh of ba-
rony in the year 1610, and designed in the charter Arkinholm.
The grant was given by the head of the Nithsdale family (Douglas),
who at the time was Lord of the Regality of Eskdale. The same
lord, in 1622, granted a now charter of erection to ten cadets of
the family, upon condition that each of them should build a house
in the town,--in which charter, for the first time, it is designed
Langholm; and along with the houses, four of which were only
built, he granted to each of them a merk land. Five and a half
of these work lands are still in the possession of Mr Maxwell of
Broomholm.
	The town of Langholm is built in the bosom of a beautiful wood-


