
     of Eckford.

lords interest for such sums of money as may be necessary for
inclosing.  Every farm has several upon it, generally in a
thriving condition.  The rent is from 10 s. to 20 s. per acre.
The numbers of tenants has of late years diminished by the
union of several small possessions into one.  But to carry on
the business in these large farms, a greater number of servants
is required; so that this has not had so much influence in de-
populating the parish as might have been expected.  Accord-
ing to the report of the most judicious farmers, one half of
their land is laid out in tillage, one four h in turnips, and the
rest in pasture.  Such fields as are sown with red or broad
clover, and rye-grass, for hay, continue in that state for one
year, and then are plowed for other crops.

   Manure.-Two seams of marl, deeply impregnated with
shells, were opened, about the year 1777, at Eckford Wester
Moss, upon the Duke of Buccleugh's estate, the upper one
of about 8 feet thick, covered with 9 feet of moss; the seam
below it 7 feet at an average, separated from the other with a
stratum of clay of 4 feet, without any other intermixture.
The marl is found to suit a light soil, when well spread
on the surface, in proportion of 60 or 70 bolls to the
English acre: a strong loam requires a larger quantity.
All green crops, such as pease, grass, clover, etc. receive be-
nefit from it; and when spread on pasture ground, in the be-
ginning of winter, and allowed to mellow by frost, it proves
of very great advantage to the ensuing crop.  The measure
for the boll is a cube, containing 8 cubic feet: it is sold to
the Duke's tenants for 3 d., and to others for 4 d.; at the dis-
tance of 3 miles for 2 1/2 d.; at 5 miles, and all above that, for 2 d.
the boll.  Its excellent quality increases the demand; for it
fully gratifies the most sanguine expectations of the farmer
and improver of land.  Lime is also much used, and with
great advantage, although transported from Northumberland,

     VOL. VIII.   D


