
450                   ROSS AND CROMARTY.

moral, and religious; and while the duty of family visitation has
been observed at stated periods, that of catechising the whole pa-
rish is performed annually. There is an efficient kirk-session of
pious and active elders, and the neglect of family worship is
scarcely known in the parish. That instances of immorality occa-
sionally occur, does not detract from the general character of the
people, or sanction the imputation of that which is the very oppo-
site, though such methods of generalizing have been frequently
adopted, to the prejudice both of truth and of reputation ; how
unjust and illogical, for instance, to brand the religion of a whole
district, as favouring fanciful and perverse views of the holy Scrip-
tures and sacraments, because certain individuals were justly or
unjustly charged with such principles and conduct. Or supposing
cases of petty theft to occur, or instances be known of persons ad-
mitting the possibility of chasms or superstitious observances hav-
ing some good or evil effect,-tbe former, a crime rarely known
among, true Highlanders, and the latter now rapidly disappearing,-
would it not be gross injustice to distinguish the one people as
thieves, and the other as grossly superstitious?
   Perhaps in no part of Scotland have the ministrations of the
Gospel been continued in greater purity and faithfulness for the
last century and a half, than in the county of Ross, and especial-
ly in the district of East Ross.  Still, however, as might be ex-
pected, the power of vital godliness has. not been uniform among
its inhabitants, either in extent or degree; moral conduct and the
decencies of religious habits were always observed, but Christians
of talent, piety, and influence were becoming gradually few. This
was for some time past a matter of deep concern to ministers and
people, when they reflected on the number and eminence of the
witnesses removed by death, and the comparative fewness of those
raised up to fill their places. Various means, and especially that
of prayer-meetings, in parishes and among ministers, were em-
ployed, andd increasing attention and seriousness were observable,
particularly. on occasions of the celebration of the communion
sacraments for the last two or three years; but nothing remark-
able occurred till under the evening address of the excellent
Mr Macdonald of Urquhart, on the communion Sabbath, at
Tarbat, 5th July. 1840, and again on Monday following, when
there was an unusual impression, and awakening over the whole
congregation. The same pervading influence. has rapidIly ex-
tended over the neighbouring parishes of Tain, Eddertoun, Lo-


