
     of Auchtermuchty.

useless.  Some spots have been cultivated within these few
years; and there is a large plantation of firs, interspersed with
some larix, in a very flourishing state, the property of Mr Gour-
lay of Kilmarron, a gentlemen well known in this country, not
only for his enterprising spirit, but also for his judicious and ex-
tensive improvements.

   Soil, Climate, etc.-Around the town the ground is rather
light, loose, and black, somewhat gravelly and stony.  To-
wards the S. and S. E. there is a mixture of black clay, loam
and mellow earth, so exceedingly fertile, that there is perhaps
not a richer spot in Scotland.  Some inclosures lying towards
the N. W. of the parish have been particularly remarked for
the production of excellent pasture, singularly calculated for
feeding cattle, and consequently have rented very high to gra-
ziers for some years past*.
   There is plenty of free stones and other sorts commonly used
in building.-There are four remarkable echoes in the pa-
rish+.

     U u 2

<FOOTNOTE>

*The air is good and healthy.  Comsumptions are the most prevalent dis-
temper, particularly among young women, which perhaps may be attributed
to their slaying at home, spinning at two-handed wheels, and not enjoying that
comfortable diet, and moderate exercise, the result of being in service.

   +The migratory birds are the wild goose, the lap-wing and the fieldfare.-
The wild geese make their apperance about the first of November, and leave
this place about the first of April.  The lap-wing is as it were the harbinger
of spring.-When that is early, they appear in February, but if the weather
is severe, they come not till March; they go for England or Ireland about the
end of September.  They are much deminished in numbers within these few
years, because the gentlemen in this neighbourhood are now draining their
mosses and cultivating their muir grounds, the usual haunts of this beautiful
though gloomy bird.  The fieldfare comes from the northern countries in
the month of December; but when the winter is mild it makes a very short stay.


