
     Statistical Account

able sums of money might be made of this fishing, and many
hands might be employed, with great benefit to the country,
and advantage to the inhabitants; especially in the winter
and spring seasons, when fresh fish of every kind, must bring
a great price in these populous towns.  It must be confessed,
that this field of industry has been much neglected; and it
was not till of late, after some people from Nairn began to 
fish in these lochs, that the inhabitants of the country were
sensible of the plenty, which Providence has placed within
their reach.  They are now beginning, and only beginning,
to bestow more attention on this kind of fishing, but not
such as its importance deserves.  In the end of spring, and in
summer, there are several salmon fisheries, on the coasts of
the three lochs so often mentioned; but the quantity of sal-
mon killed is very inconsiderable.  A few shoals of mackerel,
usually come in to Loch-goil, and Lonch long, in the months
of June and July.  What fish is killed is sent to Glasgow,
Greenock, etc.  Before the middle of May the salmon give:
from 10 d. to 8 d. the pound, and after that 6 d.  Mackerel,
being a fish which is only got occasionally, never fails to
bring a great price; a mackerel generally bring from 1 1/2 d.
to 2 d.  But the fish which is of the greatest general good,
in this country, and in every country where it is found in
abundance, is herring.  There is frequently a good herring
fishing, in some one of the three lochs connected with this
parish.  The Loch-fine herrings are well known; and the her-
rings killed in the two other lochs, are nearly of the same size
and quality.  The herrings generally make their appearance
in the months of June and July, and sometimes remain till
December or January; and as the lochs in this country are
seldom more than a mile broad, and have no swell of sea,
nor rapid currents, the boats can go out in the stormiest sea-
sons.  The alacrity with which the people prepare for this,


