
166                       ARGYLESHIRE.

ploughing by the commencement of the storm, found, on resum-
ing his field operations, that a small bird had snugly nestled in the
folds of a horse collar, which, with a degree of carelessness more
common than creditable, he had suspended from an adjoining tree.
In sheep and other stock, heavy losses were sustained ; but, not-
withstanding the lateness of the seed-time, the crop is said to have
been abundant and productive.  But the climate, though moist, is
not unhealthy.  Frequent instances of longevity occur, and many
have never, in the course of a protracted lifetime, been known to
require medical aid.  No doubt, under the influence of a climate
so moist and variable, rheumatism and pulmonary diseases are fre-
quent ; but the frequency of those, as also of dyspeptic complaints,
(to which latter the inhabitants are more particularly subject,) is
to be attributed to the nature of their food and clothing and modes
of life, more than to the influence of climate.
   Hydrography.-The principal lakes are those of Airi-Innis,
Daoire-nam-Mart, and Tearnate.  That of Airi-Innis is the larg-
est.  in length it is about two miles, by half a mile in breadth.
   The country throughout abounds with streams and torrents,
which present, in their rambling course, many interesting features.
There tire many cascades worthy of notice.  Those of Ardtornish
and Kenloch, as also that on the water of Achleck, in other re-
spects a very uninteresting stream, are specially referred to, as
abounding in all these features that render similar objects so very
attractive.  The falls of Ardtornish occasionally present a very sin-
gular appearance, sufficient to account satisfactorily for the descrip-
ive appellation given to their interesting and picturesque locality,
Ard-Thor-n'eass, or the high cliff of waterfalls.  These cliffs over-
hang the Bay of Ardtornish, which is formed on the one side by the
low green point, on the extremity of which the ruins of the castle
are situated.  They are of great height, wooded underneath, to-
wards the south broken and precipitous, interspersed throughout
by very curious trap formations, and, in some places, crested by
basalt of great regularity.  Several streams descend from them;
but, in ordinary weather, the body of water is not sufficiently great,
especially from the bold character of the surrounding scenery, to
produce any very imposing effect.  To be seen to advantage, these
falls must be viewed during the prevalence of south-westerly gale,
and their usual accompaniment, heavy rains.  They then, indeed,
present a most striking and singular appearance,-the two ele-
ments, as, if in envious contest, vying for superiority.  From the
impending enminence, the several streams descend with great rapi-


