
308                     ABERDEENSHIRE.

their part of not less, it is considered, than L.12,000.  These
seem to have been begun by tenants taking advantage of the march
ditches formed by the proprietors, by directing division ditches,
&c. into them, and which, giving good promise of utility if car-
ried to a larger extent, the people began generally to adopt the
practice, and have certainly, without much encouragement other-
wise, evinced very considerable industry and judgment in carrying
forward, in almost all cases at their own expense, the work of im-
provemet, and with undoubted benefit both to themselves and the
proprietors. By one farmer alone there have been 150 acres im-
proved, for which the Highland Society awarded him their gold
medal some years ago,-and by another there have been improved
about 100 acres.
   In 1817, another gold medal was awarded by the Society of
Arts and Manufactures, to a proprietor in this parish, for planting
forest trees (to the extent of 235 acres, on a property consisting al-
together of 571 acres.)  This gentleman deserves credit also for
other improvements, and for the enlightened encouragement he
gave to his tenants at a time when such stimulus was much want-
ed.  He began by casting drains with the view of improving his
property; for those on the boundaries he charged his tenants
nothing, but for the drains through the fields he charged them 5
per cent., by which they were considerable gainers, and were en-
abled to pay their rents more easily, while the property at the same
time was much improved.  The drains proving effectual, the ad-
vantage of liming soon became apparent, but the times being then
very backward for tenants in general, he advanced money for the
purpose to those having leases, at 5 per cent.; and to those just
entering he agreed to furnish a certain quantity, taking the value
likely to be received into consideration, and charging it according-
ly, all which proved most beneficial to proprietor and tenant.
The improvement of a property in some such way as this, and the
dealing with tenants on fair and reasonable terms, where especially
any difficulties on their part are experienced, is in many respects
preferable, one, may easily suppose, to the plan adopted sometimes
by other proprietors, from a principle equally laudable, of giving
discounts in less favourable seasons, and serves more effectually to
keep up that proper spirit of independence which is so important
and praise worthy in every condition of life.
   Produce.-The average gross amount of grain now raised in the
parish, as nearly as can be ascertained, may be put down at 10,000


