
                           GLADSMUIR.                          189

upon the coast, with the cross and parish roads, employ in winter
30, and in summer about 20 men. These men and day-labourers
receive from 1s. 6d. to 1s. 8d. per day. There are 7 carpenters
who employ, upon an average, 10 men as journeymen or appren-
tices; last year their wages were 2s, 6d. per day. There are 2
masons, wages 3s. per day; 9 blacksmiths, wages from 2s. 6d. to
3s. per day; 2 bakers, wages from 1s. to 1s. 6d. per day, with vic-
tuals; 4 tailors, who are generally paid by the piece, and whose wa-
ges have not risen lately, in proportion to the rise in some other
professions; 2 weavers, one of whom is an old man, and able to do
very little work.
   There are employed at the Penston coal-works 50 colliers,
30 women putters, and 26 boys; and at the St Germains col-
liery, residing in this parish, 12 colliers, besides women putters
and children. A collier and his putter throw out, at an ave-
rage, fifteen load of coals per day, which is equal to 4s. 4 1/2d. But
as there are frequent interruptions, their income can hardly be
rated so high for any length of time. The general income of
a man and his putter may be stated at from L. 1, 1s. to L. 1, 5s.
per week; a load of coal weighs 200 pounds, for which they re-
ceive 3 1/2d. Men-servants living in the house have from L. 4 to
L. 6 half yearly; women-servants from L. 2, 1 Os. to L. 3.
   Agriculture.-The parish of Gladsmuir contains very nearly
5080 Scotch, or 6386 imperial acres, arable. Some parts of it,
particularly the lands upon the north, to the extent of about one
mile and a-half from the coast, and running east towards the Byres
hills, were very early cultivated, and about the beginning of the se-
venteenth century bore a very high valuation; as may be seen from
an account of some of the parishes of East Lothian, lately printed,
by Mr Mc'Donald of the Register-Office. Other parts, particular-
ly the lands in the centre, intersected by the great London road,
are of recent cultivation, and of an inferior soil. Here, however,
improvements are rapidy going on; lands that long lay waste
have been reclaimed, and are now under the most improved sys-
tem of husbandry. And notwithstanding the very low prices of
grain, and the many discouragements from that circumstances in,
the way of both landlords and tenants, the spirit, of improvement
seeras to surmount every obstacle. As a proof of this steam en-
gines for thrashing the crops have been erected on many of the
farms, and there are at present in the parish no less, than ten em-
Ployed for that purpose. It is in contemplations to erect more,
  HADDINGTON.                          N


