
                              NEW DEER.                        177

inhabitants are a primitive race of people, and in many respects as
far advanced in civilization as their neighbours.  They have but
small encouragement for improvement, as there are no resident heri-
tors to set them an example.  Dr Mavor, a celebrated compiler of
voyages, travels, &c. was a native of this parish, being born in the
land of Culsh.
   Heritors.-There are nine heritors; of these only two have
houses in the parish, and reside there occasionally.  The heritors
are, The Earl of Aberdeen; Mr D. Dingwall of Brucklaw; Mr Gor-
don of Cairnbanne and New Deer; Mr Gordon of Nethermuir,
Mr Dingwall Fordyce of Culsh; Captain Ferguson of Pitfour;
Mr Forbes Irvine of Schivas; the Trustees of Mr Gordon of
Murtle; and the Trustees of the late Mr Simpson of Colleyhill.
The proprietors of Brucklaw and Nethermuir have residences in
the parish.
   Parochial Registers.-The session records commence 1705.  A
portion of them, from 1727 to 1734, is lost.  Since that period they
have been regularly kept; and the old practice is still continued
of entering each Sunday the text and the name of the minister
wbo preaches.
   Antiquities.-There are, or rather there were, many remains of
Druidical temples and funeral monuments, to be seen in the parish.
One of them, about a mile north of the village, still retains the name
of the Standing Stones of Culsb, though the stones stand there no
longer, having been taken away, about seventy years ago, to build the
old manse.  There are occasionally found many tumuli, which, when
opened, contain urns of baked clay, filled with human bones and
ashes.  Not long ago, a farmer in the neighbourhood of the vil-
lage, in improving a piece of ground, dug up six of these.  These
urns had neither top nor bottom.  They were like chimney cans
of baked clay, rudely formed, about 15 inches long, and, filled with
bones and ashes.
   Two miles north of the village, stands the old Castle of Fedde-
rate, now a complete ruin.  Nearly all the best stones have been
taken away by the farmers for building.  It appears to have been
once a place of considerable strength.  It stands now in the mid-
dle of a field.  A morass, now drained and improved, surrounded
it, and the only access to it war by a causeway and a draw-bridge.
Water, it seems, had been conveyed to it by means of pipes, for
pieces of theme have, at different times, been torn up by the plough.
There is no tradition as to when it was built.  The floors are all
  ABERDEEN                                M


