
466                      ABERDEENSHIRE.

present Bishop Skinner of Aberdeen, who was for some time as-
sistant schoolmaster at Monymusk, and afterwards Episcopal mi-
nister at Longside, and who, from his great poetical genius, clas-
sical knowledge, and literary productions, is not unworthy of a place
among the eminent persons connected with the parish.
   Habits of the People.-The people are of cleanly habits, and
dress genteelly, both men and women, on Sundays, and on other
particular occasions.  The ordinary food of the peasantry consists
chiefly, as throughout this part of the country in general, of the va-
rious preparations from grain, with cabbage, greens, and potatoes,
but little of butcber-meat being used by them in common.  They
are, upon the whole, a decent and industrious set of people, and
are very regular in their attendance on the ordinances of re-
ligion.  Their situation and circumstances are, as is common, more
or less easy with different persons, but as comfortable, upon the
whole, as in the country around, the chief cause of complaint or
dissatisfaction among them being the heavy tax on malt, which
puts that necessary and wholesome beverage, a drink of good beer,
almost entirely beyond the reach of the labourer and poor artisan.
Neither poaching nor smuggling prevails among them, or is
practised in the parish.

                        IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.-The number of acres, standard imperial measure,
in the parish, which are either cultivated or occasionally in tillage,
is about 5370 ; and of those which remain constantly waste, or
in pasture, about 3080.  A considerable quantity of waste land,
probably about 300 acres, might still be profitably brought under
the plough; and the occupiers of farms with such land attached
are generally bound to improve the whole, or a certain portion of
of it, during the currency of their leases.
   The number of acres under wood, almost all planted, and great
part full-grown, may be estimated about 4150.  There have also
been planted within the last twelve years about 930,000 firs along
the sides of the hills, and about 160,000 oaks and elms in other
situations favourable to the growth of these trees.  The thinning,
felling, and pruning are well attended to, under the care and ma-
nagement of an experienced forester.
   Rent.-The average rent of arable land on the larger farms
may be stated at L.1 per acre.  Some of the smaller possessions
or crofts are higher, averaging about L.1, 12s.  The average rent
of the whole land in tillage is about 15s. per acre.
                               3


