
518                      RENFREWSHIRE.

of the air to deposit moisture from the clouds, is in some measure
counteracted by the absorbing nature of the soil, and the porous.
ness of the subsoil.
  Zoology.-As to the quadrupeds or mammalia race of animals,
none are to be found here except such as are common and univer-
sally known in the west of Scotland.  The same remark is appli-
cable to the birds, with the exception of one or two of the hawk
species mentioned in the account of Eaglesham.  There is scarcely
a doubt, however, that, by careful research, many discoveries or
novelties might be found among the molluscous tribe of animals,
particularly in the department Pulmonifera, including both the
Terricola and Aquatica.  The warm grassy slopes, moist mea-
dows, ditches, and pools seem to swarm with these animals.  The
Arion and Limax of both sorts are well-conditioned and active here,
considering the family to which they belong.  The Helix erice-
torum in fine weather comforts itself on many a sunny bank; and
on turning up a stone, or along with a handful of moss, we often
meet with H. rufescens.  To these there might be added the ni-
tida, rotundata, costata, and also nemoralis and hortensis.  The
beautiful Vitrina pellucida is also common, and also several species
of Pupa.  In the waters, lakes, and stagnant pools we noticed se-
veral species of Limnea.  The Physafontinalis may also frequently
be seen slowly moving on the face of the waters, with the surface
of its shell delicately folded up in its transparent robe.
  Botany.--In the higher and moister places of the parish we
have lVarthecium ossifragum, some species of Polygonum, the Erio-
phorum, and Various Carices, but very little of the blue or star-
grass (Carez panicea), so common in the higher clay lands of
Clydesdale.  The common varieties and species of Scirpus, Jun-
cus, and of the Sphagnums, &c. occur abundantly.  There are,
however, no species of plants so rare as to attract the attention of
the curious in these matters; and to repeat the names of common
species, is only to retail the most unfavourable and least attractive
portion of the science of botany,--xi ts harsh and unmusical nomen-
elature.
  The soil here is well adapted for the Scots fir and spruce, and
particularly for the larch.
                        II-CIVIL HISTORY.
  The old chronologers, Crawford and others, generally carry back
the history of this parish, and of the principal persons who have
figured, in it,to the time of Alexander II. or about 1214.  Chal-
                                 3


