
28                        RENFREWSHIRE.

Now that it has been fenced, drained, and improved, the whole
is probably worth about L. 50 a-year.  The stipend is 18 chal-
ders, half meal and half barley.
   The former ministers of this parish whose names we have as-
certained, were the following:-Mr Andrew Hay, inducted in 1576;
Mr John Hay, in 1602.  Mr John Hay appears to have been suc-
ceeded by a son of the same name, who is described as Parson of
Renfrew, in 1632.  The Hays possessed property in the parish,
and were Episcopalians.  Mr John Hay Jun., appears to have been
removed from his charge, and was succeeded in 1650, by Mr John
Maule, who was a Presbyterian.  And he was succeeded by Mr
Patrick Simpson in 1653, who was outdd in 1662, when Mr John
Hay was readmitted.  He was succeeded by Mr Francis Ross
and be again by Mr Robert Douglas, the dates of the admission
of the two latter being unknown.  These two latter, as well as
Mr Hay, were probably Episcopalians, and made but little im-
pression on the parish ; for after the indulgence, Mr Simpson,
the outed minister, and his people met, in what he calls a " meet-
ing-house, and carried on the discipline of the parish, much in
the same way as before.  In 1690 Mr Simpson was readmitted,
and died in 1715.  In 1716, Mr Neil Campbell was translated
from Roseneath, and in 1728, was again translated to be Prinei-
pal of the University of Glasgow.  Mr M'Diarmid of Ayr was
now presented by the Crown, but rejected by a majority of quali-
fied parishioners.  This case went the round of the church courts,
and at last, after a vacancy of nearly two years, the Crown present-
ed Mr Robert Paton, minister of HaddiDgton.  In 1731, he was
translated thither from Haddington, and died in 1768.  In 1769,
Mr Colin Campbell, son of the above Mr, Neil Campbell, was
translated from Kilmarnock, and died in 1788.  In 1790, Mr
Thomas Burns was translated from Inchinan, and died in May
1830 ; and the compiler of this account was translated from An-
derston Chapel, Glasgow, and inducted here on the 30th of No-
vember 1830.  There is no regular place of worship in the parish,
except the Established church, to which the great body of the pa-
rishioners, profess to adhere.
   Religious Societies &c.-There are not many religious and philan-
thropic societies in the parish ; but the ends which these usually
contemplate are not wholly neglected.  As we have no assess-
ment for the poor, considerable exertions have to be made on their
behalf.  There is also a Female Benevolent Society, the mem-
bers of which endeavour to aid speicial cases of distress.  A Bible


