
890                          PERTHSHIRE.

milies; whereas, for the space of nearly half-a century, the only
dwelling-house on the farm has been occupied exclusively by the
tenant. Lustielaw, during the same period, exhibited the appear-
ance of a village, and contained upwards of twenty families, many
of whom, along with their cottages and gardens, rented small pen-
dicles; but these cottages, with the exception of half a dozen,
which still remain, have long since been demolished. The in-
crease which has taken place during the present century has been
occasioned by the erection of hnuses along the side of the new
turnpike road.
   The people are in general intelligent, steady, sober, and indus-
trious. The bothy system has, of late years, been partially intro-
duced; but the effects which have hitherto resulted from its ope-
ration prevent us from bearing our testimony in its favour. The
demoralizing practice of smuggling has, for a period of more than
twenty years, been completely suppressed.  Poaching in game, it
is to be regretted, prevails to some extent.

                          IV.-INDUSTRY.
      Agricultiture.-There are 6116 acres standard imperial measure
in the parish. Of this number 4590 are arable, 1291 uncultivat-
ed, and 235 under wood, planted chiefly within the last thirty years.
   Rent and Leases.-The valued rent, according to the cess-books
of the three counties in which the parish is situated, is L.2614,
4s. 4d. Scots. The real rent is about L.5217 Sterling. Some
of the lands being occupied by the proprietors themselvds, can
only be reported at an estimated value; but, from information col-
lected by the writer, the above sum, it is believed, must be ex-
ceedingly near the present yearly rental. The average rent of the
whole, exclusive of the portion under wood, is upwards of 17s. per
imperial acre. A considerable portion of the arable land is let at
L.2; and some fields, when let for pasture during the season, oc-
casionally bring L.4 an acre. The average rent o the arable
land per acre may be reckoned at L.1, 1s. 9d.; whereas that of
the permanent pasture, or uncultivated ground, does not exceed
3s. 5d. Leases are generally granted for nineteen years, but not
a few are of shorter duration.
   Husbandry.-A very considerable portion of the parish is, ge-
nerally speaking, under a regular system of tillage, the rotation of
crops varying to suit the different qualities of the soil. In the
more fertile districts, the rotation is usually five or six years, viz.


