
                            CONTIN.                             235
    farmer, as rendering the feeding of stock, for which this has open-
    ed up the market, to which little attention has been hitherto paid
    here, an object of the first importance.
      With all these changes, the condition of the people has been
    improving. Habits of cleanliness and comfort now more generally
    prevail, and the bulk of the people have been advancing in intelli-
    gence and information ; towards which the facilities of education,
    especially the institution of the Sabbath and Infant Schools, have
    contributed; and which the establishment of libraries accessible
    to the lower classes would still further promote. A savings bank
    is also very desirable for the encouragement of right management
    and economy. But many of the people are extremely poor, and
    in want of regular employments want which can only be sup-
    plied by the introduction of manufactures, for which the place is
    well situated. There is abundance of people who would be glad
    of employment. Living is comparatively moderate. The home
    market for several kinds of manufactures would be considerable,
    and conveyance to the foreign markets would always be easy and
    open.

      March 1837.

                      PARISH OF CONTIN.

                PRESBYTERY OF DINGWALL, SYNOD OF ROSS.

               THE REV. CHARLES DOWNIE, MINISTER.

                 I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
      Name.-THE parish of Contin is situate in the centre of the
    county of Ross. Its etymology is not easily determined, and there
    are various opinions concerning it. In the former Statistical Ac-
    count, the name is supposed to be derived from the Gaelic words
    Con-tuinn, i. e. the meeting of the waves or waters, with reference
    to the branches of the river Rasay, which form a small island, that
    has been, for time immemorial, the clergyman's possession and
    place of residence. It is also observable that rivers of a consider-
    able size meet at other two points in the parish. This derivation
    is not quite satisfactory ; but we adopt it, in the absence of a
    better.


