
			RUTHERGLEN.                           387

cuous for the extent of its trade. At an early period, there was
a considerable traffic in salmon for the French market; returns
were made in brandy. The quay at the south-west corner of the
public green seems to have been built for shipping coals. In 1813,
a judicial examination of very old persons took place with, refe-
rence to the upper navigation, from which it appeared, that about
the year 1745, craft went up the Clyde as far as West-thorn, and
even so late as 1786, small craft went up to Rutherglen, and it is
pretty evident, that but for the creation of a wear at the Glasgow
bridge, the trade might not only have continued, but increased.
A few years ago, the Messrs Wilson of Thornlie began to bring
coals down the river, from their pits at Dalmarnock, in punts
propelled by a steam tug, to their quay a little above Hutchison's
bridge, but with this exception there is no craft plying above Glas-
gow bridge. About ten years ago, a small steamer, the Marion,
during a flood in the river, made an experimental trip through the
arches of the bridges, and moored off the quay at Rutherglen.
	Fifty years ago, there were no manufactories in the parish.
About 1790, two printfields were made, one in the burgh of Ru-
therglen by Mr Cumming, and the other in Shawfield by Mr Dal-
glish. These works, which then employed about 200 persons,
have been enlarged, and now belong to Messrs Reid and White-
man, and Stewart and M'Aulay.
	About 1796, Mr Peter Ferguson made a bleachfield at Shaw-
field Bank. After occupying it for some time he was succeeded by
Messrs Gowdie, who introduced Turke-red dyeing on the pre-
mises. It was subsequently converted into a chemical work by
Messrs Downie and White, and is now the property of, and occu-
pied by Messrs John and James White, manufacturing chemists.
	About 1800, Mr M'Taggart built a small cotton-mill in the
parish, which, after passing through several hands, has been en-
larged, and is now the property of Mr M'Naughton; and in 1833,
Mr Mathieson fitted up an extensive Turkey-red dye-work, on the
lands of Farme. These are the only manufactories in the parish,
but there are nearly 500 hand-loom muslin weavers in it, who all
work for Glasgow manufacturers.
	Agriculture.--The agriculture of the parish has been greatly
improved of late  years. Inclosing, draining, and limeing has now
become general in the parish. Ure, in giving great credit to Ma-
jor Spens of Stonelaw, for his improvements in 1790, mentions,
that to improve the soil, besides limeing and dunging, he purchased


