
                             PAISLEY.                        137

Saxon inhabitants.  Legh and Ley, which were pronounced as
they are spelled, are in fact the Anglo-Saxon words for lea or fal-
low ground, * and there can scarcely be a doubt, that the last syl-
lable Leht, Leth, Let, and Ley of the Scottish Paisley, are the
same words modified by a slight difference of dialect.
   " The words in the same language which resemble the first syl-
lable are pais peace, and pisa peas.  The last of these, in the pro-
gress of language towards old Scotch, became Pese, which agrees
with the modern pronunciation of Paisley.  Paislet or Paisley,
would be the lea of Peace, and Peselet, or Pesley the Peas-lea.
The only argument against the first of these being the true
etymology, is, that history is silent respecting the conclusion of a
peace at this place.  With regard to the second supposition, peas
undoubtedly gave names to places at very early periods, such names
being found in the ancient records already referred to, as early as
the reign of Henry III.  In these records, the names of different
kinds of crops are found in combination with leghe or lay, such
as corn, oats, wheat, bear, or barley, and beans, and afford a cu-
rious illustration of the vegetables cultivated in early times. +  On
the supposition of Paisley receiving its name from peas, it would
originally signify lea ground which had carried peas. ++
   " There are two places in the Abbey parish, which, probably like
Paisley, terminated indifferently in let or ley, but which have re-
tained the termination let, viz. the village of Hurlet, and the farm
of Caplet hill.  In the ancient records already quoted, there is
mentioned a place in Berkshire, sometimes spelled Hurlegh, and
at other times Hurl‚.  The first syllable Hur seems to be the
word Hare, which in old names, changes to Har, Hor, and Hur.
Hurlet is consequently Harelea, the Lea frequented by hares. ??
Illustrative of the termination let, may be mentioned Horselet-hill,
in the parish of Govan, the etymology of which, agreeably to the
foregoing conclusions, is quite easy; but, on the supposition of
Let being British or Gaelic is involved in difficulties.
   " Besides Paisley, the places in the Abbey parish, terminating in

<FOOTNOTE>Legh and Ley are translated in Lye's Anglo Saxon Dictionary terra inculta,
Novale, Campus, Pasarum.
    See Tytler's History of Scotland, Vol. ii. p. 216.
    In Shakspeare, there is an instance of lea applied to ground bearing crops.

		  " Ceres most bounteous lady, thy rich leas
		  Of wheat, rye, barley, fitches, oats, and peas."

    In two retours of the seventeenth century, this place is spelled Holzet and Hal-
rett; the first of which may be translated the Wood-lea.  The name at present is
universally pronounced Hurlet.


