
     Statistical Account

   Disadvantages.-A local disadvantage, which the western di-
vision of the parish labours under, is, that, as much of the arable
land and meadows lie along the sides of the Kyle, and the other ri-
vers, they are subject to inundations every season of the year.  The
want of manufactures is a disadvantage, under which this parish
formerly laboured, in common with the most of this country;
though now, by the exertions of a respectable proprietor in the
parish, a new scene is beginning to open itself to our view.
To that circumstance it was in a great measure owing, that the
people were not so industrious, as otherwise they would have
been.  Young lads, in the spring and summer, usually went in
great numbers to the south, in search of employment.  There, they
got high wages, and returned in winter to their parents, or re-
lations, somewhat in the stile of gentlemen, and were a bur-
den on their friends the whole winter, until they set out
again in spring.  Some of them married in the south; others
died, or were picked up by recruiting parties.  Unmarried
girls went to the south also for service, especially before har-
vest.  It is not unreasonable to conclude, that these have been
among the causes, of diminishing the number of inhabitants.
   The only species of manufactory in there bounds, previous
to the erecting the cotton mill, by Mr. Dempster and his part-
ners, was the spinning linen yarn:  This is but a very scanty
earning.  There are 4 or 5 persons in the parish, who give
lint out to spin:  one of these gets 10,000 spindles spun in a
year; the others not near so much:  But it is to be observed,
that they give out lint to spin, to the people in the neighbour-
ing parishes, as well as to the people of the parish itself:  4 d,
or 5 d. is the most that a woman can earn in a day, and few
earn so much by spinning.

   Modern Improvements.-We shall conclude this paper with
the observations of a distinguished British patriot, and a real
friend to the happiness of society, (GEORGE DEMPSTER, Esq.


