
592                           FIFESHIRE.

are drawn across the spawn-beds;-that the stake-nets do not
interrupt or interfere with the river fishings, as it has been proved
that the quantity caught in the river, since the stake-nets were
abolished, does not exceed the quantity caught when these were
in use;-that, in short, the effeef of the prohibition has been to
secure a monopoly price to the river-fishers, while the myriads of
salmon which escape from the rivers and find their way to the sea,
and which might become a valuable article of commerce, and be
made available as a rich and nutritious article of food to the pub-
lic, at a moderate price, are totally lost, or only abandoned as a
prey to the monsters of the deep.
   The extent of the loss in the Tay generally, in consequence
of the suppression of these nets, has been estimated at from
200 to 300 tons, or from 20,000 to 30,000 head of salmon
annually,The whole estuary does uot now produce above
3000 fish. (Evidence before a Committee of the House of
Commons,1827.) In this parish alone the loss may be estimated
in rent at L.1000 to L.1200 annually to the different proprietors;
and about L.1000 in the shape of wages. Other evils also have
resulted. The aged females and others have been deprived of
an excellent and healthy employment in the working of nets, while
a hardy and expert race of seamen were regularly trained through
means of their connection with the fishery. Let us hope that an
enlightened and paternal legislature, under whose revision the
fishery laws are again to be brought, will speedily remove the
present oppressive restrictions upon this lucrative branch of in-
dustry, by which not individual proprietors alone, but the com-
munity at large, must be so extensively benefited, and in the de-
cision of which question they have so deep an interest.
   Manufactures.-Since the destruction of the stake-net fishery,
many of the, individulls employed in that amphibious kind of oc-
cupation have betaken themselves entirely to the trade of weavers,
None of them, however, have as yet risen to the dignity and profes-
sional importance of manufacturers, but derive their webs, at se-
cond band from those of this class in Dundee. About 150 men
and, women are engaged at the loom with materials supplied from
this quarterly The linens which they weave are called Dowlas
and Osnaburg, and, as has been elsewhere stated, an expert weav-
er will earn about 2s. per day. Some of the young men thus em-
ployed in the winter months, are engaged in the Greenland whale-


