

770                              FIFESHIRE.

the poor more liberally provided for, and are the wants of the
destitute more promptly attended to and relieved ?
   Prison.-The Kirkcaldy jail is the best in the county of Fife.
Under the New Prison Act, its management has been much im-
proved. The prisoners are constantly employed, and great care
is taken that proper attention be paid to their health, their diet,
their education, and religious instruction. It is now a place more
for the reformation than the punishment of prisoners.
   Inns and Ale-houses.-In the parish 54 houses are licensed to
sell ardent spirits. Vigorous and successful efforts have been made
of late to detect the irregularity of some of the houses, and to
bring their possessors to punishment; and it is to be hoped that
this system of vigilant superintendence will be kept up, and that
it will succeed in checking and preventing that noise and rioting,
especially on Saturday nights and Sabbath mornings, of which
there has been good reason to complain.

   February 1843.


                              PARISH OF DAIRSIE.

                     PRESBYTERY OF CUPAR, SYNOD OF FIFE.

                    THE REV. ANGUS MACGILLIVRAY, MINISTER.


     I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Situation and Surface.-This parish is of an irregular form,
extending from the south-east to the north-west, two Scots miles,
and from the south-west to the north-east, nearly as much. Its
general appearance is that of a gently rising ground. The soil
is for the most part fertile, and in many places rich and deep.
The air is generally dry and healthy. There are no considerable
rivers in this district, except the Eden, which forms its boundary
to the south and southeast.
   Craigfoodie Hill is the highest point of land in the parish, and
may be about 500 feet above the level of the sea. It pre-
sents a fine precipitous mural and somewhat columnar front to
the south-west. Another height towards the west is Foodie Hill,
planted, on which a whinstone quarry has been opened. The lower
parts of the parish, near the river Eden, exhibit freestone in
abundance.


