
                             FORGUE.  	                   599

dulating, now rising into heights and knolls, now sinking into
straths and holms.  The plantations are tasteful, judicious, and
extensive, covering a considerable part of the parish.  The sce-
nery on the whole is varied and beautiful, if we except the bleak,
flat, cold, and uninteresting hills of Foudland, which furnish the
parishioners with peats and turf for firing, either in part or in whole,
according to circumstances.  These hills rise from Ury, at the
south extremity of the parish, but to no great height, are covered,
generally, with a short stunted heath, and breed a few covies of
grouse for the sportsmen.  There is no other eminence in the pa-
rish that deserves the name of a hill, if we except the Foreman,
which rises from the Deveron, at the northern extremity of the
parish, to the height of 1000 feet.  This is a beautiful hill, some-
what of a conical shape, finely wooded for a good way up its sides,
and affords from its top an extensive and varied prospect.  It is
said to have got the name Foreman, or Fourman, from the circum-
stance, that the four neighbouring heritors, who divided the hill
between them, could confer together on the top, or apex of the
cone, each sitting on his own ground.  The unfortunate Queen
Mary, in her journey to the north, passed over this hill on her way
to Rothiemay House, by what goes still by the name of the
Queen's road.
   Meteorology.-From the inland situation of the parish, being
about fourteen miles from the nearest sea, the comparative absence
of marshy ground, the great extent of dry and well-cultivated land,
the many springs and pure rills of water, the shelter and fragrance
of the numerous plantations, and other circumstances, the air is
pure, healthy, and bracing, though in winter it is, occasionally, par-
ticularly keen.
   Hydrography.-The parish is well watered.  Besides the Ury,
bounding, it on the south, and the Deveron, terminating it on the
north, there are numerous brooks and burns, and purling rills,
whicli gladden the straths and glens with their refreshing presence.
In this parish the river Ythan takes its rise, and runs through it
in a clear and healthy stream for some distance.  In the interior
of the parish, there are two burns, or rivulets, into which several of
the others fall, of considerable magnitude, especially after their
union a little below the church.  They are called before their
Union, the burn of Frendraught, and the burn of Forgue, and after
it they go by the name of burn of Forgue.  This burn empties
itself into the Dever¢on near Inverkeithnie manse.  All the streams


