
                     ATHELSTANEFORD.                        51

Bart. of Hawthornden, 11 ditto; Sir Alexander Hope, 6 ditto;
Lord Elibank, 3 ditto; Miss Grant of Congalton, 2 ditto.
                       IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.-This parish consists of somewhat more than 4000
acres, 3750 of which are arable.  The remainder is planted with
wood, except 40 acres of hill pasturage.  The writer of this account
has not been able to ascertain the value of the whole agricultural
produce of this parish; but he can state that the quantity of wheat
produced in it annually is about 4000 quarters.
                   V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The old church of Athelstaneford was
built about the middle of the twelfth century by Ada, daughter of
the Earl of Warenne and Surrey, and wife of Henry Prince of
Scotland.  She built and endowed an Abbey in the neighbour-
hood of Haddington, and gave-the church of Athelstaneford to that
religious establishment, to be served by its monks.  She survived
her husband twenty-six years, and like her father-in-law, King
David I., left various proofs of her attachment to the church.
She died, according to Lord Hailes, A.D. 1178, and in the 13th
year of the reign of her son William, surnamed the Lion. * The
church she built here, part of which is still standing, continued the
parish church until the year 1780, when a more suitable one was
built.  It is not inconveniently situated, for the inhabitants, and con-
tains about 500 sittings.
   The manse was built about the same time, and affords sufficient
accommodation for the minister's family.
   The glebe land consists of five acres, and is worth L.15 per
annum.
   The stipend is fifteen chalders of victual, consisting of 116 bolls
of barley, 116 bolls of oats, and 8 bolls of wheat, Linlithgow mea-
sure, payable according to the highest fiar prices of this county.
When the present minister obtained an augmentation of his sti-
pend a number of years ago, he asked of the Court a larger pro-
portion of wheat, that being the kind of grain chiefly raised in this
parish, and as there is a considerable portion of tithe wheat still
unappropriated; but the Judges, with the exception of the late Lord
Meadowbank, refused to grant the request.  The minister receives
also an annuity of L.1, 8s. left by the late Mrs Hepburn of Monk
Rig, who died about 180 years ago.
   When the last Statistical Account of this parish was published,

<FOOTNOTE>The barony of Athelstaneford was part of Ada's dowery lands.


