
                      KILDALTON.                      663

  Antiquities.-There are two crosses near the ruins of the
church of Kildalton; one of them very handsome, with a va-
riety of ornamental figures carved upon it. They are both
formed of gray granite, and fixed in plain blocks of the same
stone. The ruins of four places of worship are still to be seen.
The walls of three of them are still quite entire, though they
have been unroofed for many years. They were evidently built by
Roman Catholics. The font, and the remains of the altar,are still
to be seen in each of them. There are also the ruins of three forts;
one at the Mull of Oa, one above Portellen, and another at the
north-east side of the bay of Lagamhulin. The fort at the Mull of
Oa is said to have been built by the Danes. It was erected up-
on a high rock, separated by a broad deep chasm from the adjoin-
ing land, and was inaccessible on all sides, except by means of a
draw-bridge. From the apparent strength and solidity of the
building, it might have stood for ages yet to come, had not Camp-
bell of Calder, who had been sent by Argyle to take the command
in the island after the M'Donalds were dispossessed of it, found
it necessary to rase it nearly to the ground, as some of the M'Do-
nalds who were disaffected towards him fled to this fort, and kept
possession of it for some time, from whence they made frequent
incursions, and harassed the inhabitants in their neighbourhood.
Calderat last succeeded in dislodging them, and demolished the walls
and filled up the chasm. The only tradition regarding the ruins
above Portellen is, that, it was a fort built by the Danes. It was
erected upon one of the highest bills in that neighbourhood, and
appears to have been very strongly built. The fort at the bay of
Lagamhulin is called Dun-naombaig, and is supposed to have been
built by the M'Donalds. It was the last stronghold that power-
ful clan possessed in Islay. It was so well fortified that the Camp-
bells were never able to dislodge them from it, until the leaden
pipe which supplied them with water was cut. The onlv modern
buildings of any note in the parish, are, a cottage built by Mr
Campbell of Islay, a Parliamentary church and manse, which
were insufficiently executed, and a handsome light tower, eighty feet
high, erected also by Mr Campbell, to the memory of his much
lamented, and most amiable and respected lady.
   There is a public road in the parish.

                           III.-POPULATION.
   The population of the parish-has increased considerably. This
is caused partly by the gradual improvement of the land, by which


