
                            RATHO.                          91

the Norwegians; and this rising-ground may not improbably have
been seized by them as a place of some strength, on their advance
into the country after these engagements.  This supposition is ren-
dered all the more likely as the-coffins found in Gogar Camp and on
the Platt hill were of similar construction, and in both cases resem-
bled those found at Large, in Ayrshire, where it is historically
known that the Norsemen buried their dead, slain in an unsuccess-
ful engagement with the Scots under Alexander III.  The quan-
tity of black earth found on the hill, which must either have been
the result of the decomposition of many dead bodies, or, what is
perhaps as probable, the remains of the ashes of their camp-fires,
as well as the substantial way in which the enclosures to the east
and west of the camp were executed, apparently for increasing the
strength of the works, show that the position had been occupied
for a considerable time.
   Kaimes' Hill.-The Kaimes' Hill, which is in view of this post,
is the site of another encampment of similar construction, and ap-
parently of the same era.  Of this encampment the remains are
visible.  The space occupied by it is about three acres in extent, and
includes the summit, with a considerable part of the eastern declivity.
The area of the camp is surrounded by a double fosse and rampart,
founded in one place with stones and black earth, except on the
north side where the rock is so precipitous as to form of itself a
sufficient defense.  The access to the camp is from the east, two
large stones still marking what was the place of entrance.  On the
very summit of the hill there is a cairn of stones, concave in the
centre, which is covered with turf greener than the ground around
it.  Toward the north-east, in a small valley immediately under
the brow of the hill, there are to be seen, at least, ten circles form-,
ed with stones, indented or laid in the ground.  These, which are
all within the line of the defenses, and in the most sheltered place
of the encampment, are not improbably the remains huts raised
for the purpose of accommodating the sick and wounded, during-
the period of the hill's occupation.  At their extremity, is still a
spring, which was, no doubt, of use to the army generally, and
might, in conjunction with the shelteredness of the-position, afford
a strong motive for such erections, in this particular spot.  The ap-
pearance of the ground in some of the circles, a few of the stones
being covered with a rich moss, and bearing some stalks of stunt-
ed nettles, render it possible that some bodies may be here inter-
red.  It might contribute to the advancement of antiquarian lore,


