

                                  WICK.                           121

        ter in the memory of the oldest inhabitants. Snow seldom falls
        for more than a day, or lies above two days, at a time.  Thunder
        is very rare. It generally occurs at a great distance; and light-
        ning seldom strikes or does any injury.
           In 1784, a halo, "superbly bright and luminous, consisting of
        two bows, concentric, with an apparent interval of from three to
        four feet between them, and extending over a great part of the
        hemisphere, was distinctly seen."*  What are usually called fall-
        ing stars are frequently seen shooting across the nocturnal sky.
        The polar lights are visible almost every night, and generally pre-
        vent it froth ever being very dark.
        Diseases.-Fevers, rheumatism, pleuritic catarrh, cough, inflam-
        mation of the throat, are amongst the most numerous of the diseases.
        Pulmonary consumption is not frequent amongst adults; but in-
        fants,with any weakness about the chest are generally carried off in
        childhood by hooping-cough, which is often very general and fatal,
        or by different pectoral affections.  Rheumatism was not common
        till about the beginning of the present century, when the homely
        warm woollen clothing of olden times began to give place to the
        flimsier though gayer cotton dresses, which are now very generally
        worn.  Itch is exceedingly prevalent among the children.  The
        kind of food on which the lower orders chiefly subsist, the state of
        their habitations, the scantiness of their clothing, and their indif-
        ference to cleanliness, along with the, contagious nature of the-
        complaint, sufficiently account for this.  Fever of a typhoid type
        is seldom absent from one lane or other in the burgh of Wick,
        Louisburgh, and Pulteneytown, whence it breaks out, and becomes
        epidemic in the neighbouring country.  It is generally most acute
        soon after the close of the fishing-season. Nor is it difficult to
        account for its severity at that period.  During the fishing there
        are not fewer than 10,000 persons added to the ordinary popula-
        tion of the Place; and these are necessarily crowded together,
        sometimes to the number of ten or twelve, in one small room.
        This circumstance, taken in connection with the great consump-
        tion of spirits, And the very filthy state of the houses, shores, and
        streets, with putrescent effluvia steaming up from the fish-offials
        lying everywhere about, render it a wonder that  umhoiddiseases,
        are not much more prevalent.  The shortness. off the fishing-sea-

<FOOTNOTE> statistical Amount, Vol. X. p. 31.


