204                        FORFARSHIRE.

of these, one has a beautiful cottage, and well kept garden, some
bolls of meal yearly, and a supply of milk daily, all from the gene-
rosity of Lady Airly. The reading of English, the various uses of
the needle, French, and music, are taught in this female seminary,
where boarders are kept. The two first branches only are taught
in the other schools, and the mistresses have no sources of support
except the fees. About 200 children receive instruction in the
elementary and higher branches of education. There are also two
Sabbath schools, and of them taught gratuitously by some mem-
bers of the minister's family, and other well-disposed individuals.
	All persons in the parish above seven years of age can read, and
there are but very few who have not made some additional lite-
rary attainments.
	Libraries.--We have two parochial libraries, viz. one in the vil-
lage, kept by the parochial rchoolmaster; the other in Glen Ogle,
kept by the schoolmaster in that district. The latter consists prin-
cipally of moral and religious books and tracts, with a few historical
works; the former consists of all these, with not a few fictitious
compositions.
	Poor and Parochial Funds.--Nearly a century ago, there ap-
pears to have been, during several years, a parochial assessment
for the support of the poor, which was found to be not only trouble-
some and expensive, but also demoralizing. There being a small
sum, or parochial fund, belonging to the poor, it was raised by
donations and collections, until in the year 1796 it amounted to
L.210 Sterling. This stock, though reduced by the four very se-
vere seasons of l799, 1800, 1816, and 1822, amounts at present
to L.318 Sterling, bearing four per cent. interest on good security.
The interest, with the weekly collections made in the church, mort-
cloth money, and occasional donations, amounts in all, according to
the annual balance-sheets of the three last years, to from L.75 to
L.78 annually. This sum is distributed amongst four families and
eight individuals, whose allowances range from 2s. 6d. to 10s.
monthly; besides house rent, fuel, shoes, &c. But there are many
who receive privately donations in money, meal, flannel, &c.--
they eking out, by their own industry or the aid nf others, what
farther is necessary for their support. In this way, they are either
not known, or not considered, as paupers.
	Savings Bank.--A savings bank, on a sure foundation, has existed
twenty years in the parish, in which there are deposited upwards of
L.300, greatly to the benefit of both male and female shareholders.



