
   126                   ROSS AND CROMARTY.

Stewart McKenzie, Esq. of Seafortb, M. P.; he is married to the
eldest daughter of the late Lord Seaforth, by whom he has a large
family.
   Registers.-The earliest entry in the parochial register is dated
1780; the record was discontinued in 1791. Since 1825, the re-
gisters have been regularly kept, and weekly entries are made by
the session-clerk.
   Antiquities.-The religious houses or chapels now in ruins are,
St Collums in Ui; St Cowstans in Garrabost; and St Aula in
Gress, formerly mentioned. The chapel at Ui has strong walls
still standing. The south-west end of it is roofed and slated; the
minister of Stornoway used to preach there, once in, six weeks, be-
fore the Government church was erected. Part of the walls of St
Aula remain; but the chapel near Garrabost is levelled. There
is a large cairn in the moor, above Gress House,-under which,
report says, the bones of a Norwegian warrior rest. On the nose
of the bay which gives name to the town, there is remaining a frag-
ment of a wall, 12 feet high and 4 feet thick,-the wall of a
castle built for the protection of the place by the Macleods, the
ancient possessors of the island; and at a short distance from this
castle, Oliver Cromwell is said to have built a tower to awe the in
habitants, no vestige of which now remains. One of the streets
is named Cromwell Street.
   Modern Buildings.-The modern buildings are Seafortb Lodge,
the church, St John's Lodge or Masons' Hall, neat and spacious;
a female school jointly endowed by Mrs S. McKenzie and Miss
Mary McKenzie Cam, who gave L, 300 Sterling; three mills, one
for grinding corn, with a saw-mill and excellent kiln appended
to it,-the other for carding wool,-all built by the proprietors at
a considerable expense, and perfectly complete in their kind. Few
mills in Scotland can surpass them in machinery or in utility; a
premium was awarded for the carding-mill. There is also a dis-
tillery on a grand scale, with coppers of large diameter, furnaces,
vats, coolers, flake-stands under a running stream; also a very large
malt-barn and will. The grain can be received from ships, at the
barn door.  Vessels can be either loaded or unloaded with the
greatest convenience and expedition.  The whole premises and
apparatus are constructed upon the most improved plans.  It must
have cost thousands of pounds to complete such a perfect model.
No expense had been spared by the spirited proprietor to make it
complete; but it is not yet in operation. A light-house is being built
  		                     4


