
     of Oldhamstocks.

for this, the hynd is obliged to furnish a reaper during the
harvest, besides his own work.  Upon the above yearly in-
come, with the industry of their wives and children, their
families are supported in a comfortable and decent manner.

   Fishing.-The fish caught on this coast are turbot, cod,
skate, herring, haddocks, whitings, flounders, lobsters, and
crabs.  The usual time of the herring fishing is betwixt the
20th of July and the 12th of September.  Great numbers
are bought up by the country people, for present use; and
when they can be sold so low as 1 s. or 15 d. per hundred,
they then become an object for the merchants, by whom they
are cured into white or red herrings.  The lobster fishing
begins about the end of October, and continues till the end
of April.  The fishers are bound by a contract, for a certain
number of years, to send them to Dunbar, for the London
market, at 5 s.  Sterling for sizable lobsters, and half that sum
for the undersized ones, per score.-The fishers on this coast
use two kinds of boats; the largest, called cobles, are different
from the fishing boats generally used, being remarkably flat
in the bottom, and of a great length, measuring about 30
feet in keel, and 33 or 34 feet aloft from stem to stern; ex-
treme breadth, 7 1/2 feet, and depth, from floor to the top of
the gunwale, 4 feet.  These are used only in the herring
fishing, each carrying 4 men and a skipper, with 8 nets, each
net being 60 yards long, and 13 yards in depth.

<TABLE>

Prime cost of a coble, with anchors, masts, and fails,
                                                         L. 28   0   0
Prime cost of 480 yards of nets, about                      50   0   0
                                                           ------------   
Total cost of a coble, fully furnished,                  L. 78   0   0

</TABLE>

The other boat is much smaller, measuring commonly, in
length at the keel, 15 feet, from stem to stern aloft 20 feet, and


