
468                         LANARKSHIRE.

doubled, the farms have been made larger, and are now only the
half of what they were formerly, in regard to number. The land has
been improved, and some wastelands have been brought into cultiva-
tion, or planted with wood. It must, however, be admitted that there
is great room for farther improvement. Draining in many places
is much wanted, the hedges require more attention than they have
hitherto received. The plan adopted by Sir James Steuart of
Coltness, of the landlord employing persons for that purpose, seems
the only one likely to ensure good fences.
	Lime is much wanted for the land in this parish. It is at such
a distance, (the best, eight and ten miles,) that there is not much
of it driven. But should the Wishaw and Coltness railway be car-
ried forward, of which there is now a fair prospect, lime and ma-
nure of all kinds will be rendered more accessible, or rather more
easily obtained.
	June 1836.

			      PARISH OF STONEHOUSE.
		PRESBYTERY OF HAMILTON, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.
			THE REV. HUGH DEWAR, MINISTER.

			I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	Name and Boundaries.--THE name of the parish is of doubtful
origin,--some deriving it from the mansion-house, of the laird of
Stonehouse, which, in former times, stood at no great distance
from the site of the present village, and in those days was the only
house in the parish which was built with stone and lime; the rest
being only mud cottages, or at best but built of layers of stone
and turf alternately. I find, in some very old records, the parish
is called the Stannaus; and by many people in the neighbouring
parishes it is still called the Stanis or Stenis.
	The extreme length of the parish may be about 6 English miles,
its breadth 3 miles at an average. It is bounded on the south, by
the water of Kype, which separates it from the parish of Avondale;
and for a considerable way on the west side, it is washed by the river
Avon, which separates it partly from the parish of Avondale, and
partly from the parish of Glasford; and which river intersects the
parish near the centre, where it is narrowest, and then continues to


