
952			      PERTHSHIRE.

height, on which there has evidently been a castle or fortification
of great extent. The description given of this hill and fortifica-
tion in the former Statistical Account, is very accurate, and is
still strictly applicable. "Somewhat more than a mile," or more
nearly two miles south of the village of Fogandenny, is a place cal-
led Castle-Law. It is situated upon the summit of a high hill,
which resembles a low cone. The circumference of its area is about
500 yards. This spot is defended on all sides by a stone wall, the
vestiges of which are yet to be seen. These vestiges are of a form
nearly circular, and the walls seem to have taken their form from
the top of the hill on which they were built. Besides this wall,
there are also several outworks, which seem to have been formed
for defence; particularly on the south side, where the hill is less
steep, and the ground below higher, there are three distinct
mounds of eartb parallel to the wall and to each other. Within
the area of this castle or fortification are the vestiges of buildings,
which vestiges cannot now be easily traced; and there was erect-
ed by a former Lord Ruthven on this spot a sort of half tower,
part of which is still standing. The top of this hill commands a
prospect of the county to the mouth of the Tay or the German
Ocean nn the east; all Strathearn to the Grampian mountains on
the west; a great part of Perthshire and Angus-shire on the north
and north-east; and the summit of the Lomond hills on the south.
The general opinion concerning Castle-Law is, that it had been
a Danish fortification." Another opinion, however, which has been
much entertained of late, is, that it must have been a vitrified fort.
I believe some pieces of vitrified stone have been found among the
immense mass of rubbish which it contains. At all events, both
the hill itself, and the remains of the fortification, bear a very close
resemblance to the Castle-Law, in the parish of Abernethy, which
is allowed on all bands to have been a vitrified fort.
   On the estate of Ardargie, belonging to Mrs Fechney, and
lying about a mile and a-half south-west of Castle-Law, there is
a beautifully preserved small Roman, camp, which has been so cal-
led from time immemorial. Its walls and ditches are quite dis-
tinct, and almost entire. The proprietors have all along prevented
them from being altered in any way. This ancient encampment
is situated upon a high sloping bank looking towards the west, im-
mediately above the May, and commanding a wide prospect, of that
part of the Ochils, and also a view of the great Roman road which
passed from the Tay to the great encampment at Ardoch. From


