
510                            EDINBURGHSHIRE.

water,-and of paving, cleaning, and lighting the streets. The
revenue from which these expenses are defrayed, arises from the
water-duty,-the sale of the manure of the town,-the impost on
ale, beer, and porter, brewed or vended in the town and parish,-
the rent of the brick-field and washing-green, &c.,-and a beneficial
lease of the fair and market customs, for which they are indebted
to the liberality of His Grace the Duke of Buccleuch;-the annual
amount of which revenue may average about L. 600. The trus-
tees are appointed for life, and vacancies, by death or resignation,
are filled up by the votes of the remaining members. The office
has always been accounted honourable,-and its duties have been
discharged with fidelity and judgment, and much to the satisfac-
tion of the inhabitants.
   There are few other matters of interest connected with Dalkeith.
Cromwell's orderly house, situate in Chapelwell Close, is still
shown;-Major's knows, or the open space of ground on the east
of the church-yard, is said to have been for some time the resi-
dence of the infamous Major Weir;-Spalding* and Christian
Wilsone+ are famous in the annals of superstition and witchcraft;-
Old Geordie Syme, the piper, and Beety Dick, the town-crier, of
more recent times, are immortalized in the portraits of John
Kay;+-and bittling Kate, the last lingering remnant of a super-
stitious age, is said even still to be occasionally heard at the dead
of the night plying her mysterious labours.
   The population of Dalkeith town is about 4650; Lugton and
Bridgend have about 280 souls; and Whitehill, in 1839, nearly
101. It is now nearly 300,-almost entirely colliers.
   There is a, post-office in the town, from which there is a de-

<FOOTNOTE>He was hanged for murder at Dalkeith in 1638. His story is told at length
by Professor Sinclair in his "Satan's Invisible World Displayed."-Edinburgh,
1814, page 126-8.
     Pitcairn's Criminal Trials, Vol. iii. page 194-5, also 601. Notice is taken of
several other persons connected with Dalkeith dilated of witchcraft, page 600-2.
     From a manuscript belonging to a gentleman of this town, we learn that, in the
year 1648-9, no fewer than six persons were executed here;-one man for murder,
-and one man and four women for witchcraft. Being condemned by the assize
court, they were "led to the place of execution, wire it at one stake, and brynt to
asebes." So numerous, indeed, were cases of that kind that, in 1661, Sir George
Mackenzie, justice-depute, and his colleagues were, in Parliament, "ordained to re-
pair, once in the week at least, to Musselburgh and Dalkeith, and to try and judge
such persons "are ther or therabout dilate of witchcraft." Sir George himself
declares that "the minister of Dalkeith (Calderwood) having reproved a witch, im-
mediately distracted." In addition to the above cases, we not aware of any per-
son having been executed here, with the exception of William Thomson, labourer,
who, on the 1st March 1827, was hanged in front of the goal for assault and high-
way robbery.
     Kay's Original Portraits, No. 48 and No. 121.
                                4


