
                               PARISH OF WHITHORN.



                   PRESBYTERY  OF WIGTON,  SYNOD OF GALLOWAY.

                     THE REV.  CHRISTOPHER NICHOLSON, MINISTER.

		I.-- TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	Name, Boundaries, &c.--THE ancient names of Candida Ca-
sa, Leueophibia, or Leueopibia, by which this town and parish were
formerly described, and the name Whithern or Whithorn, by which
it is now known, seem to have had the same origin. In Bede's
history, mention is made of a church built of stone and lime in this
place, which is genarally admitted to have been the first that was
erected in Scotland of these materials, and which, of course, was
denominated in the Roman language Candida Casa. Leucophibia
or Leucopibia, seems to be a corruption of Asux-oixioia, the Greek
for a white house; and Hwitaern, which transcribers have changed
into Whirthern, and nov into Whithon, is compounded of two
Saxon words, both signifying the same thing, as the Greek word.
	This parish is upwards of 8 miles in its extreme length from
north to soutn and 5 in its extrtne breadth from east to West.  It
is so irregular as a whole, that there is no mathematical figure by
which it can be described. It is bounded on the north and east
by the parish of Sorbie; on the south-east by Wigton Bay; on the
south by the Irish Sea; and on the west by the parish of Glasser-
ton: and contains about 10,000 imperial acres.
	Topographical Appearances.--In point of scenery, this parish has
nothing to boast of; the surface is almost level, and has neither
mountain nor glen, hill nor dale, wood nor forest, to interrupt its
uniformity. At the same time, it is abundantly diversfied by a
great variety of knolls of all shapes and sizes, generally consisting
of gravel or rock, covered with a thin layer of earth sufficient to
nourish whins, sloe-bushes, and briers, with which they are usually
covered,--the only shrubs that seem to grow spontaneously,--and
which, viewed at a distance, give the most fertile parts of the parish
a very barren appearance.
	Hydrography,--There is nothing in this parish deserving the


