
752                        ABERDEENSHIRE.

Culloch's Highlands and Islands of Scotland, give a sufficiently
accurate description of it.
   " The hill of Dunnideer, having an elevation of about 600 feet
from the irregular plain on which it stands, with a steep acclivity
all around, has a flat oval summit, which is entirely occupied by
the enclosure, so as to form a strong military position.  Though
much ruined, and consequently obscured, having apparently been
used as a quarry for building a more modern castle in the same
spot (the square tower alluded to), it is not difficult to trace
either the dimensions or the disposition of the original work.  The
form is a parallelogram, of which one extremity is curved, so as
to be nearly semicircular, and its longest side is about 58 yards,
the shortest being about 24.  The thickness of the wall seems
originally to have been 18 or 20 feet, (more likely 12), although,
from the state and nature of the ruin, it is impossible to be very
accurate in this particular.  The highest remaining portion is about
six feet above the present surface, and if one foot be added for
the increase of the soil, and two for the loss which it has sustained
at the summit, we shall have nine feet as the probable original
altitude.  At a certain stage down the hill are the well-marked
traces of a work, which once seems to have encircled the whole.
It is a kind of fortification, well known to antiquaries as occur-
ring frequently in the ancient British hill forts, and consists of a
single ditch and wall.  The materials in the vitrified wall are
partly roasted without adhesion, and partly vitrified or glazed.  It
is easy to see that dark granite forms the vitrified or scorified sub-
stances.  Wherever stones not capable of vitrification themselves
have undergone any thing like a similar change, it has been pro-
duced by the alkali of the wood used in the process.  The mate-
rials of the hill are chiefly grey granite, a fusible rock; but there
are scattered, in tlie surrounding plain, blocks of a black variety,
which, from containing hornblende, is very fusible."
   It will be seen that the above writer adopts Mr Williams's theory
as to the formation of the singular species of structure, of which
this is a specimen, viz. that a mound of earth had probably been
raised on each side of the intended wall, and the space between
filled with stones of a fusible nature, along with large quantities of
wood, which, being set fire to, a sufficient degree of heat had been
produced to dissolve partially or wholly most of the stones and
thus to convert the pile into a solid mass.  There are, however,
other theories upon the subject,-one, that the vitrification had


