
     of Dundee.

tion, to have begun his exploits, with the death of the son to
the English governor.  Of the 4 boroughs, Edinburgh, Perth,
Dundee and Aberdeen, which were of such consequence, in
all the reigns, after that of Robert Bruce, as to give security
for the observation of national treaties, it was the third in
rank:  Its share, in the reign of James VI. of the whole pub-
lic taxes, was a 25th part, and of those laid upon the boroughs,
sometimes a tenth part, but more frequently a 5th; and of
the 1200 merks imposed upon the towns of Dundee, Forfar,
Arbroath and Perth, for sitting out the yacht, Mary-gallant,
to fetch home the king and queen from Denmark, the pro-
portion paid by Dundee was 700.  At the storm by Monk,
Gumble speaks of it as a very rich and thriving place; he
tells us, in particular, of 60 ships taken in the harbour, and,
sent away loaded with booty, consisting chiefly of plate and
money; and, disapproving of the rapacity of the plunderers,
mentions, with apparent satisfaction, the loss of the whole
sleet, in crossing the bar of the river.
   A calamity, probably no less fatal to the town of Dundee,
than the siege and storm by Monk, was the severe 7 years
dearth in the end of the last century.  The annual average of
marriages for 5 years, was at that time reduced to 54; and from
the effects of this calamity, we never recovered till several years
after the rebellion in 1745.  Though the union of the kingdoms
put an end to the arbitrary and tyrannical proceedings of the
government in Scotland, it produced a new cause of depression
to this particular district.  Our staple manufacture was the
spinning and weaving the coarse woollens, called Plaiding.
These were sent to the Dutch market, and there thickened
and dyed, for clothing to the troops in various parts of Ger-
many.  This branch of trade, we have, by the loss of our
Dutch and French privileges, lost so completely since the Uni-
on, that now no remainder of it is to be found.  The annual


