
                	ANDNAMURCHAN.				159

tendance.  The assistant receives, by virtue of a decreat aug-
mentation, from the parish minister, L.55, 11s. 1d., and L.30 from
the Committee on the Royal Bounty, with L.5 for communion
elements.  Population-Protestants, 200 ; Roman Catholics,
1334; total, 1534.
   In all districts, public worship is attended by the whole adult
population, with exception chiefly of the old or infirm of several
remote hamlets; but the amount of attendance is considerably af-
fected by the weather, particularly where there are neither roads
nor bridges.  The average number of communicants throughout
the parish is 736.
   Catechists.-A beneficial increase of the means of religious in-
struction has been, of late years, obtained in the appointment of
three catechists,-one who receives L.8 per annum from the So-
ciety for Propagating Christian Knowledge in Sunart ; another
paid a like sum by the Synod of Argyle in Ardnamurchan; and
a third, to whom the Synod gives L.1O per annum, labours among
the widely scattered Protestants of the Inverness-shire districts.
These catechists are all crofters or small tenants in the parish,
who, by means of their small salaries, are enabled to perambulate
their respective districts during the summer and winter seasons ;
and, being men of sense and piety, are doing much good.
   The manse was built above fifty years ago by some private ar-
rangement betwixt the heritors and the incumbent ; but was not
accepted by the presbytery until 1829, when it was thoroughly
repaired, and such additions made to it and offices attached as
rendered it a Commodious residence.
   The extent of the glebe is probably 27 English acres, of which
about 6 now are arable.  The yearly value will be about L.10 or
L.12.
   In 1822, the Court augmented the stipend to 304 bolls, half
meal half bear, L.20 communion elements, and L.55, 11s. 1d. to
pay an assistant.  The heritors prefer paying the whole teinds,
which amount to 112 bolls 2 firlots meal, and L.196, 5s. 1d. Ster-
ling.  Deducting from this L.155, 11s. 1d., paid annually to the
assistant, the minister receives 112 bolls 2 firlots meal, and L.140,
14s. money.  The victual stipend has hitherto been paid by the
Linlithgo boll and the fiar prices; but it is not yet ascertained
whether the minister is not entitled to the measure of the parish,
a boll of ten stone, the point to be established being whether that
was the measure by which the teinds were valued.


