
				ALVAH.				  175

   The parish is also intersected in different directions, by the fol-
   lowing commutation roads, viz. road from, Portsoy to Turriff, two
   miles and a half: road from Banff to Turriff, by Saddlaw, Au.
   chinbadie, &c. four miles and three-quarters; branch to the Hen-
   ford, three-quarters of a mile; road from Banff to Turriff passing
   through Inverichny and Dunlugas, four miles; besides several
   others of smaller extent, amounting in all to nearly seventeen
   miles of commutation roads. The whole of these roads, with the
   exception of about four miles and a half, have been made within
   the last forty years, and are at present in good repair. No public
   carriages travel at present in the parish, although both a coach and
   a car have been tried at different times, on the road leading to
   Huntly. On the above-mentioned roads, no fewer than sixteen
   bridges have been erected within the last forty years, at an ex-
   pense of about L.730. When the last Statistical Account was
   written, the only bridges connected with the parish, were those at
   Blacktown, Alvah, and Denmill. The first only stands wholly
   within the parish; the other two unite Alvah with King-Ed,
   ward.
     Ecclesiastical State.--The church, a plain, substantial edifice,
   at present in good repair, and containing free sittings for 600 per-
   sons, was erected in 1792, and is somewhat inconveniently situat-
   ed near the northern angle of the parish, at a distance varying
   from nearly four to six miles, from the extreme points in the
   south-west, south, and southeast. The more remote portions of
   the population however, are conveniently accommodated in the
   neighbouring churches of King-Edward, Turriff, Forglen, and the
   Ord chapel of Base, recently erected in the parish of Banff, near
   the confine of the parish of Alvah.
     The manse was built in 1764, and repaired in 1815. The
   glebe is between six and seven acres in extent, and may be valued
   at from L.20 to L.30 per annum. The amount of the minister's
   stipend is 1.5 chalders, the one half meal, and the other half bar,
   ley, payable in money according to fiars prices.
     The Established Church is the only place of public worship in the,
   parish. The people are, in general, regular in their attendance,
   and about 400 communicate annually. There are only 5 Episco-
   palians, 1 Seceder, 2 Baptists, and 4 Catholics within the parish.
   No Society for religious purposes has yet been established. The
   probable average amount of  church collections yearly for religious
   and charitable objects is about L.38.
     BANFF.                                       M


