
360	       GENERAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE

ing corn with advantage; besides, their general steepness, and the
rugged, and barren nature of the soil, render cultivation for the
most part out of the question. At Fassney water, there is a very
interesting display of neptunian and plutonian transition rocks,
which are described in the Memoirs of the Wernerian Natural His-
tory Society, and in Mr Cunningham's prize essay, published in the
seventh volume of the Wernerian Society's Memoirs. Pasturage
is the natural purpose to which they are fitted, and to which they
are found admirably adapted, as shown by the healthy stock of
sheep that are annually sold, to be fed in more genial climates. In
the glens and hollows, the soil composed of the debris washed from
the bills is found generally dry and fertile, and produces oats, tur-
nips, and potatoes of excellent quality.
  It is perhaps impossible to determine whether or not the Lam-
mermoor range of bills had attained their present elevation, when
the adjoining low country to the north was immersed in the depths
of the ocean. But the probability is, that the then formed a por-
tion of an extensive continent, comparatively little elevated above
the level of the sea, and which yielded that luxuriant vegetation
that now,forms the rich coal-fields on the western part of the
county; and, that when the present arable district was lifted up
to its present position, these hills, too, felt the effects of the move-
ment, and had their foundations elevated in the general convulsion,
by a pressure from below, and laterally, with a force of that tre-
mendous magnitude which the human faculties can never fairly
comprehend.
  Adly, There appears to be no difference of opinion among geo-
logists, regarding the real character of the low lands of the county,
or of what, strictly speaking, is denominated East Lothian, as these
are allowed on all hands to be of the secondary formation. The
old red sandstone, which may be considered the basis of that
formation, rests on the transition strata. The rock is distinct-
ly seen at different places on the sea coast, and is known to
flank, the Lammermoor-hills from the west to the eastern ex-
tremity of the county. It is considered the lowest of the car-
boniferous formation, and on which, throughout the district, rest
various of the strata of the series consisting of limestone, coal,
fire-clay, with ironstones clay, shales, and all their alternating
sandstones peculiar to the period. The only exception, if such it
is, to the district being entirely of secondary strata, arises from the
				 3


