
                      OLD DEER.                             151

increasing ratio.  The only other collection of inhabited houses
entitled to the name of a village is that of Old Deer, contiguous
to the parish church.  This village contained, at the time the
census of the other two was last taken, 211 persons of all ages,
and has received little increase or alteration for a long time.
   In the year 1787 or 1788, a careful census was taken of the
people, distinguishing the different religious denominations, with
a view to ascertain what accommodation it would be expedient to
provide for those belonging to the Establishment in a new church,
which was then about to be built.  The gross population at that
time is reported to have been 3267, of whom 962 are set down
as being Episcopalians, Papists, or Seceders, amounting together
to considerably more than one-fourth of the whole people. Ac-
cording to the census made by order of Government in 1831, the
number of inhabitants had grown to 4110, and in 1836, it would
appear, from a careful investigation of the matter, to have then
increased to no fewer than 4428 individuals.  The number of
religious sects or persuasions is much greater than it was in 1788,
and, if the investigation alluded to be correct, the proportions among
such sects as then existed have been greatly altered; but the ratio
which the various Dissenting bodies  now bear to the Establish-
ment, seems to remain much the same, since the total number of
full-grown persons presently in full communion with the Esta-
blished Church appears to be 1708, and of those in the same state
belonging to all other denominations of Christians, 645.
   As no register of burials is kept, and parents, particularly those
belonging to Dissenting communions, are far from being punc-
tual in getting their children's baptisms or ages recorded, an ac-
count to be depended on cannot be given of the number of births
and burials that happen annually.  But the average number of
marriages for the last seven years, counting a marriage only when
the female belongs to the parish, is 26.  There are 259 families
in the three villages, and 725 in rural situations, thus giving on
an average in the former case nearly 4, and in the latter somewhat
less than 5 individuals to a family.  Of these families, reckoning-
by the religious persuasion of the person who is at the head of
each, there are 714 belonging to the Established Church ; 83
Episcopalian; 157 of the Original or United Secession; and 30
of different Dissenting bodies, chiefly Congregationalists.
   Only one person, a boy, is known to be altogether deaf and
dumb; but there are 4 totally blind.  No fewer than 10 persons


