
		     WEST KILBRIDE.			  255

ception of some portions previously alienated in a variety of
lots, as it still remains. *
	5. Carlung and Drummiling both church lands. Carlung,
which is a ten pund land, and very valuable, belonged to the col-
legiate kirk of Kilmawrs, and at the Reformation fell to the share
of Alexander Earl of Glencairn; the other, of far inferior extent
and value, which probably belonged to the monastery of Kilwin-
ning, was given to Lord Boyd, a man to the opposite sentiments
to those of the "good" Earl; but something conciliatory, no doubt,
then, as now, was necessary to be observed in matters of state policy.
Both properties lie in the immediate vicinity of the village, and have
long since been alienated and parcelled out. Carlung, which was
for several generations the seat of a cadet of the family of Glen-
cairn, is now separated into four distinct properties, Carlung, Wood-
side, Kirktonhall, and Overtoun.
	6. Ardneil or Portincross. From the ancient fortalice of
Portincross, the chief messuage of this estate, the proprietors ap-
pear invariably to have been designed. About the time of Robert
II. Ardneill became the patrimony of a third son of the Boyd fa-
mily, and it continued with his descendants, the Boyds of Portin-
cross, to the year 1737, when it was alienated to the ancestor of
the present proprietor, John Crawfurd of Auchnames, who has a
neat cottage residence close by the old castle. The castle of Por-
tincross, the walls of which are yet pretty entire, though long ruin-
ous, is perhaps the most ancient structure of the kind now remain-
ing in this place. It stands on a ledge of rock projecting into the
sea under the bold promontory to which it gives name, a singular-
ly wild and romantic situation. Several royal charters of the two
first Stewart Kings bear to have received the sign-manual at "Ar-
nele," which that Portincross had been at that seems no evidence
whatever to conclude it ever was such in the proper sense of the

<FOOTNOTE>One of the original purchasers, a Mr Alexander Fairy, who had acquired a di-
vision of rather indifferent land, which he named Springside, soon after began a re-
gular system of improvement on it, enclosing, draining, and planting, which he very
successfully completed; and was one of the earliest improvers here. Mr Boyd of Car-
lung, who had spent his early life at New York, in North America, was contemporary
with Mr. Fairy, and equally energetic in enclosing and improving his lands, which
of his succession he found in the most barbarous condition. There had been consi-
derably earlier of this nature on the estates of Crosby and Mr Ardneill; but these
had not been followed up, and by this time were wholly neglected, the lands having
been turned into grazings. Springside is now the property of Mr John Blair Hynd-
man, whose style of improvements is hardly equal to that of his spirited predecessor.


