
                           HOLME AND PAPLAY.                    221

     never thought of,-nay, the worst of the grain produced on the
     farm was selected as the most proper to be sown.  The produce
     accordingly was just what might be expected from such husban-
     dry,-the average produce being three times the quantity of seed
     sown for oats, and five times the quantity for bear.  The fields
     were everywhere overrun with weeds, both annual and perennial.
        But since 1828, two occurrences have taken place, and that
     almost simultaneously, which promise to effect in due time a ma-
     terial alteration for the better in the agricultural industry of this
     parish.  In the above year, Mr Graeme's property was surveyed,
     cleared of run-rig, and laid out into a considerable number of
     farms of various sizes ; and whereas hitherto, the tenants had, with
     only one or two exceptions, been all tenants at will, they were now
     admitted to leases of fifteen years.  For the first five years, they
     were to hold at nearly the old tent, and then a small rise was to
     take place, but with liberty then to quit; another small rise at
     the end of the tenth year, with liberty then also to quit.  They
     were restricted from flaying the surface of the hill-ground,-a cus-
     tom which had long prevailed among them for making up their
     compost dunghills.  They were bound to a strict observance of
     winter herding, and to bave a certain proportion of their farms re-
     gularly under green crop and grass. A plan of the estate was made
     out, which shows that there are 2850 imperial acres divided into
     farms, and 4767 acres of undivided common.
        The other occurrence alluded to, was the introduction of steam
     navigation, which will prove an effectual remedy for what has hi-
     therto been a principal obstacle to agricultural improvement in Ork-
     ney-distance from the best markets for the ready and profitable
     disposal of stock.  Since 1836, a powerful steam vessel has plied
     weekly for eight months of the year betwixt Leith and Kirkwall.
     In consequence of this accommodation, the farmer in this quarter,
     who formerly depended on the casual visits of drovers from the
     south, for the sale of their cattle at an inferior price, can now ship
     them on board the steamer, on the morning she sails from Kirk-
     wall, and after a run of thirty-six hours, have them ready to be
     shown in the Edinburgh market.
        The average rent of land in the parish is 1Os. per acre. The an-
     nual quantity of bear grown in the parish may be averaged at 785
     bolls of 16 stones Dutch.  Annual quantity of oats, 585 bolls same
     weight.


