
     Statistical Account

   Employments, Wages, etc.-As this parish is surrounded with
many thriving and populous villages, very few mechanics re-
side in it.  There are only 2 or 3 joiners, and about as many
weavers, blacksmiths, and tailors.  There are no writers,
surgeons, nor shoemakers in the parish.  There is but one
alehouse, situated on the turnpike road from Glasgow to Car-
lisle.  The number of farmers, great and small, amounts to
about 50; and of those who occupy cottages, the number may
be nearly the same.  The farmers cultivate their lands them-
selves, with the help of their families, servants, and cotta-
gers. The wages of a man by the day have lately increased
to 1 s. 4 d. or 1 s. 6 d. in summer, and to 10 d. or 1 s. in winter;
and of a woman to 1 s. in summer, and, 8 d. in winter.  Servants
hired by the half-year, and maintained in the house, are paid
at the same rate,

   Ecclesiasticsl State, etc.-All the inhabitants are of the
Established Church, except 22.  Of these 2 attend the English
Chapel, 2 the Kirk of Relief, 2 the Burgher, and 16 the An-
tiburgher Meeting-Houses in the neighbourhood.  The church
and manse are situated in the very extremity of the parish to
the S. W. on the bank of the river Annan, where the lands,
which rise by a very gradual ascent, to the distance of half a
mile, in every direction, have formed by nature a most de-

<FOOTNOTE>

*The cause of the decrease, between 1763 and 1784, is imputed to a division
of the commons in the parish, which took place about the year 1770.  The
poorer fort of the people, being thus deprived of rome of their former privileges,
removed to the neighbouring towns of Lockerbie and Ecclesfechan.  Another
circumstance might have contributed to diminish the number of inhabitants.
Sometime ago, a plan was adopted by some of the heritors, of rouping their
muir farms annually; whereby they were more thinly inhabited, and frequently
possessed by the proprietors themselves.  Fortunately this cause of depopulation


