
                    ON THE COUNTY OF LANARK.                    951

distinguished by the name of the blind-coal, from its burning with in-
tense heat without flame.  This must no doubt have been deprived
of the fixed air by means of subterraneous fire.  It is used for the
same purposes as coke, and even preferred to coke artificially
made, its effluvia being still less offensive.  The blind-coal is al-
ways found under a covering of horizontal whin; and where the
same seam is traced till it comes under the freestone rock, its qua-
lities are entirely changed, and it becomes in every respect the
common pit-coal.  Another species of coal the qualities of which
are directly opposite to those of the last, is found in, different parts,
of the county.  It is here called the candle (cannel) or light coal,
and is said to be the parrot or jet coal of the third seam in the
above enumeration, divested of the other kinds which accompany
it when the seam is complete.  But when this is found alone it
seems to be still more exquisitely inflammable: it takes flame the
moment it is brought in contact with the fire, and a small fragment
of it may be carried about in the hand like a flambeau, and will
continue for a long time to give a vivid light."  At Auchinheath,
and other two places in the parish of Lesmahago, the finest coal
of this kind to be met with in Scotland, is wrought.  It supplies
Glasgow and other places with gas, for which it is peculiarly
adapted; and is in such demand, that it is sold at the coal-hill for
8s. a ton.
   To enable our readers to form some estimate of the importance
of the coal-fields of Clydesdale, we may mention, that it has been
computed to contain 55,000 acres, or about 110 square miles.
Taking the medium thickness of the whole field at 5 yards, there
will be in each mile 15,448,000 cubic yards, and in the whole
field 1,703,680,000 cubic yards of coal.
   Through the whole range of the coal district limestone abounds.
It is generally found beneath the seventh seam of coal, about 78
fathoms below the upper coal.  It is found near the surface only in
places which are somewhat elevated, after the freestone coal and ac-
companying strata have skirted out, and are no longer, to be found.
It is most frequent on the north and west of the Clyde, particularly
in the parishes of Kilbride, Avondale, Glassford, Stonehaven,
Lesmahago, Douglas, and the higher parts of Hamilton and Blan-
tyre.  On the east, it is found in Carluke and Carnwath.  The
strata of limestone are, in general, nearly horizontal.
   In 1829, and for some succesive years, the gas issuing from
the fissures ofthe limestone rock, on the property of Holms, in


