
                        EASTWOOD.                   37


Mary, 1559; a letter from Lord Morton, and others, anent. the
murder of the King, 1567 ; a letter from Queen Mary before
the battle of, langside; a letter from King James VL for a
hackney to the Queen, 1590 another for provision , to the
Prince's baptism, 1594; land the-Original, with the subsciptions;
of the first Solemn League signed, by the King and Council, 1587.
The letter fronx King James for provision for the Prince's baptism
is a great curiosity, and deserves to be made public as affording a
singular picture of the times. The original of the Solemn League
is written with great distinctness and beauty, in a character re-
sembling Italic print, and can be read with as great facility as the
most modern writings.
   There have been in this parish since the Revolution seven mi-
nisters, including the present incumbent. It is singular that two
of these, viz. Messrs Crawford and Wodrow have written histories
of the Church of Scotland. The latter was born in Glasgow about
the year 1680, and died in 17,34.
    Eminent Men.--Mr Wodrow was a man not only of great worth
and usefulness as a minister, but of extraordinary industry and ap-
plication to researches connected with the antiquities of Scotland.
He wrote a great deal,and employed himself, particularly during the
last years of his life, in writing the lives of the principal learned men
of Scotland who lived previous to the restoration, of. the Stewarts.
Some of his manuscripts are preserved in the Library of the Fa-
culty of Advocates; some, in the repositories of the Church; and
some are still in the hands of his descendants. His great work is
the History of the Church during the period of the Persecution
It commences with the Restoration and ends with the glorious Re-
volution, and the accession of William and Mary to the throne of
these realms. For many years it lay in a great measure negleot-
ed; but Mr Fox having given a high character of it in his history,
it was brought into public notice. All the copies were quickly
bought up, and new and elegant edition, in four volumes octavo,
has been edited by Dr Burns of Paisley.
    Mr Crawford's church hisiory has never been published, but the
manuscript is among the record of the church. It consists of two
volumes folio, and contains upwards of 1400 pages.  It commences
with, the introduction of Christianity into Scotland, and seds at the
year 1680.
 Walter Stewavt of Pardovan, Esq., the well known author of


