
94                       STIRLINGSHIRE.

familiar to all, from the ample account of them given by Sir Wal-
ter Scott in his introduction to Rob Roy. It may be remarked '
that their predatory and es-en.sanguinary practises are characteris-
tic rather of a state of society than of a peculiar family, and will
occur wherever, under a feeble government, a rude tribe is settled
in the vicinity of an industrious civilized population. Black mail
was levied on the English border, as well as on the skirts of the
Grampians; and the exaction of that anomalous tribute by the
Armstrongs of the south, was the same in kind, though inferior in
degree and duration, with that of the Maegregors in the north.
This sept occupied the upper part of Buchanan. Their noted
chieftain, Robert Macgregor, better known as Rob Roy, (Red
Rob,) was proprietor of Inversnaid in Glenarklet. A cave, bear-
ing his name, is still shown in that neighbourbood ; but it has no
other claim to notoriety, being merely the interstices between huge
loose rocks, and well adapted for temporary concealment to an
outlaw. In the beginnin of last century, Rob Roy was a trou-
blesome neigbbour to the family of Montrose. Laws were passed
against the whole clan, and, to overawe them, a fort was erected -at
Inversnaid, and garrisoned by a company of soldiers. All these
measures were of little avail. ;he Macgregors removed a few miles
farther into the Highlands, and continued the exaction of black-
mail, till the suppression of the Rebellion of 1745, when an ef-
fectual remedy was applied, by opening up roads to inaccessible
districts, by abolishing the heritable jurisdiction of the larger pro-
prietors, and substituting, for the feeble baronial courts, an effi-
cient national administration of justice. Relinquishing tbeir-law-
less habits, the Macgregors soon learnt to emulate their country-
men in arts and arms. They are still, after being doomed to re-
peated proscriptions, and being engaged in successive rebellions, a
numerous race, and are found everywhere, not only under their
proper name, but also under the slight alterations of Gregor,
Gregory, Gregorson, and Grierson. Their chief, in formertimes,
was often elective. In 1798, Sir John Macgregor Murray, Bart.
was raised to that dignity, by the choice of 826 clansmen, able
to bear arms.

                    III.-POPULATION.
  From the middle of last centdiy, the population has constantly
declined. It appears from the parish register, that, on an ave-
rage of ten years from 1715, the number of baptisms was 49,
.which is four tirnes more than the present amount.


