
     Statistical Account

7 feet long.  Last season a part of it was laid down with large
glossy black oats, from a farm in Aberdeenshire*; and though
the seed happened to arrive rather too late, it produce a good
return.  This species of black oats is a new grain in this coun-
try, but they are said to meal remarkably well, and a few
bolls of them have been circulated to give them a fair trial.
It is hoped the length of this article will be excused, as it
may incite others to make the like useful experiments.

   Population.-An exact enumeration of the inhabitants of
the parish was made out last spring.  From the loss of some of
the old registers, and the negligence of the people in register-
ing the births of their children, the baptisms cannot be stated
with perfect accuracy.  No register of burials has been kept
in the parish; but as its situation is uncommonly healthy+, these
rather fall below the ordinary proportion.  In most years, the
births of males and females are nearly equal; but upon the
whole, the males are most numerous.  All the inhabitants are
of the Established Church, excepting one or two families in
the town of Chanonry, who are of the Episcopal persuasion.

<TABLE>

The statement, therefore, for 1793, stands thus:
Number of examinable persons+,          1069
   souls at and below 7 years of age,    193
                                       ------
   Total number of inhabitants,         1262
The return to Dr Webster, 1755, was     1140
                                       ------
                      Increase,          122

The town of Chanonry contains,    445
The town of Rosemarkie,           296   1262
The country part of the parish,   521

</TABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

*Viz. MONKSHILL., a farm belonging to Dr. ANDERSON, Editor of the BEE,
who, in an essay on the different species of oats, strongly recommends these
black oats as of excellent quality, which was the reason of sending for them.

+In the memory of the present minister, within little more than 20 years, 10


