
<APPENDIX>

lxxii

phus, was too great a King, and too wise a Statesmen, to confine his atten-
tion, on such an occasion, to those objects merely, but farther extended it,
to every thing that could promote "the praise-worthy improvement of his
"native country."  What a Sovereign! who could thus unite, to the most
splendid military achievements, such an attention to the arts of peace, and
the pursuits of literature, on which, he knew well, that the happiness and
prosperity of his subjects so materially depended.
   It is quite uncertain, with what success this attempt was attended,
though it is rather improbable, that any great progress was effected, other-
wise some notice would have been taken of it in the histories of those times.
Indeed, as Gustavus commenced his war in Germany, in June 1630, it is
rather improbable, that such an undertaking could be carried on in his ab-
sence, with sufficient zeal and energy.
   In modern times, a very intelligent political account has been published
of Sweden, by Monsieur Canzler, a native of Saxony, who had resided at
the Court of Stockholm in a diplomatic line, and had collected together a
number of curious and interesting public accounts, respecting the state of
the Swedish monarchy.  It was originally published in the German, but
was afterwards translated into French*.

   3. France.-The next investigation of the sort, seems to have taken place
anno 1698, by directions of Lewis XIV. of France, who ordered the
Intendants of his different provinces, to draw up a particular account of
each province, for the instruction of the Duke of Burgundy.  It is believed,

<FOOTNOTE>

ception, are apt to conceal; that you communicate your researches to his
Majesty's antiquaries, sent through the kingdom on this laudable errand,
in order that they may, at once, have at hand, the useful information above
mentioned, for forwarding this important business, so that his Majesty's
royal will may be gratified, the work be attended with success, and finally
carried into full execution.
   And that all this may be truly and faithfully accomplished on your part,
I earnestly and zealously exhort you

<TABLE>

                          Feliciter Valetc.       Datum Ubsala, 27. Fulii,
    1631.
   ------
   V.H.S.
                                                PETRUS KENRICIUS UPSALIENSIS.

</TABLE>

*See Memoires pour Servir a la Connoissance des Affaires Politiques
et Oeconomiques de Suede a Londres, (Dresden), par Canzler, 1776.


