
     of Bedrule.

in the parish, viz. both patronage and vicarage, having per-
tained, pleno jure, to the kirk or parson.  And this was the
case, not only before, but also a considerable time after the
Reformation, as well when Presbyterian church government
prevailed, as while Episcopacy was the established religion of
this country.  But, during the civil wars, a considerable
change seems to have taken place, by no means favourable to
the living.  Yet, notwithstanding, the minister, till lately,
had right by a decreet of locality of stipend, passed 19th Feb-
ruary 1662, to 400 L. Scotch money, and 35 merks for fur-
nishing communion-elements, with 3 chalders, 5 bolls and
odds victual, and the whole vicarage teinds, ipsa corpora, of
the baronies of Bedrule, Rewcastle, and Knowsouth, in lieu
of a small additional sum of money, also allowed for furnish-
ing elements, and an additional quantity of victual, contain-
ed in a decreet of modification of stipend, dated 13th Feb-
ruary 1650, on which said decreet of locality was founded.
But by a late modification, the stipend is considerably altered,
of which the writer is, as yet, unable to give a full account.
Joseph Hume, Esq; of Ninewells, in Berwickshire, is patron
of the parish.
   The glebe*, in an instrument taken by Mr Henry Ellot,
minister of Bedrule, as far back as 3 d June 1640, in the lan-
     4 D 2

<FOOTNOTE>

*Each landward minister, by act 118, Parliament 12. James VI, 5th June
1592, (besides his stipend, etc.) is entitled to 4 acres Scotch, equal to 5 acres
English, of the best arable or infield kirk-land in the parish, contiguous or
nearest to the church, over and above what is occupied by his manse, offices,
garden, and stack-yard, for which there is usually assigned half an acre; and
by Act 7th, Parliament 18th, James VI. 9th July 1606, if there be no kirk
lands of that description in the parish, near to the church, as from said act
appears to have been the case in a number of parishes in the kingdom at
that time, particularly on the borders, and in the Highlands, to have the
whole or whatever was rendered, thereby deficient, made up of kirk land


