
490                        PERTHSHIRE.

gathered home in both places at nearly the same time.  The snow
seldom lies long, and it is the opinion of intelligent English
gentleman, who has resided for some years in this quarter, that
though our spring months are colder, our winters are almost as mild
as they are in the south of England.
   Winds.-The directions of the winds are very irregular,-owing,
in a great measure, to the different directions of the gleas which
form the channels of their currents; but the north and west winds
are certainly the most boinderess.  In sever frost, the south-west
wind is the harbinger of a decided change, and it is regarded here
as an established fact, that the thaws which sometimes commence,
when the wind is in a different direction, are not of long continu-
ance.
   Colds, eatarrhs, influenzas, and other complaints that are usu-
ally found in the train of variable weather, are not uncommon in
winter.  Consumption may be termed the principal disease of this
country, and unfortunately it is not of rare occurrence in this pa-
rish; typhus fever is also prevalent among the lowest orders, more
prevalent than might have been anticipated, and much more so
than it would actually have been, if ordinary attention were always
paid to ventilation and cleanliness.  There are many old people
in Crieff at the present time; and within the last few years, while
we could enumerate several individuals who had outlived a century,
there was one in particular who had reached the advanced age of
110 or 111 years before she died.  It is worthy of remark, that the
cholers was never known in Crieff.
   Hydrography.--The springs in this quarter are all perennial,
and the water is of the very finest and purest quality.   At the
north-west end of the town, rises the ever-flowing fountain of
Coldwells,---overbuilt by a substantial stone edifice.  From this
spring an abundant supply of water is conveyed in a large pipe to
St. James' Square, in the middle of which stands a plain but hand-
some structure, enblosing a erstern where the water discharges
itself.   This building, which forms the centre both of the square
and of the town, and which is shaded by som very fine lime trees,
is an object of considerable local beauty; and most of the wells
that are distributed over the weak and south quarters of the town,
are supplied by pipes that communicate with this reservoir.  The
north and east parts of Crieff are supplied from another, and al-
most equality abundant source; and the memory of St. Thomas,
the tutelary saint of Crieff, has been rescued from oblivion by a


