
432                  DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

ported by fluted columns of the Doric order, and highly ornament-
ed with a richly carved frieze.
	Eminent Men.--This parish is very remarkable as being the birth-
place of men who have signalized themselves, in every department
of literature and science.--Mr. Pulteney, who married the Boun-
tess of Bath, and the keen opposer of the administration of Sir Ro-
bert Walpole; Governor Johnston, who was celebrated as an offi-
cer and a senator; Sir James Johnstone, who represented in many
Parliaments, the Dumfries-shire burghs; Sir John Malcolm, well
known as an officer, a stateswan, and an author, to whose memory
a monument is now erecting on Langholm hill, the foundation-stone
of which was laid with masonic honours in September last by Sir
James Graham, Bart. of Netherbie; and Thomas Telford, Esq. an
eminent civil-engineer, and the constructor of many public works,
the unperishable monuments of his genius, who was born of hum-
ble parentage in this parish, in the year 1755. The last named
individual began life as a common mason in his native parish,
and for years had no professional fame except the neatness with
which he lettered tombstones. In the churchyard, there is a sim-
ple stone, erected to his father's memory, the inscription upon
which was amongst the first of his attempts in this line. It would
occupy too much space in a work of this kind, to give a lengthened
sketch of his rising merit. We may state, however, that in Lon-
don, his first employer was Sir William Chambers while building
Somerset House,--who soon discovered his talents, and brought
him into notice. The Menai and Conway bridges, the Caledonian
Canal, the St Katharine Docks, will ever remain monuments of his
architectural genius. He died at his house in Abingdon Street,
Westminster, in the seventy-ninth year of his age. He was buried
in Westminster Abbey.
	Antiquities.--On a neck of land between the Esk and the Meg-
get, and part of the farm of Westerker, there are several whin-
stones placed erect in the ground, which have every appearance
of the remains of a Druidical temple. There are many vestiges
of Roman encampments on the tops of the hills in the north-west
end of the parish, which seem to have out-stations of the Ro-
man camp of Castle O'er in the south end of Eskdalemuir. Seve-
ral others can be traced along the banks of the Esk, which in all
probability formed the chain of communication between the camp
of Castle O'er and the one at Netherbie, near Longtown.--A great
number of burians are in this parish, of a circular form, and mea-


