
                             FALKIRK.                          11

 Land-owners.-The chief land-owners are, William Forbes of
Callendar; the Earl of Zetland; Sir Thomas Livingstone, Bart ;
Henry, Stainton,  Esq. London; Carron Company; The Union Ca-
nal Company; Heir's of Joseph Stainton, Esq.; John B. Ralston
of Ellrig, John Strachan of Thornton, Yorkshire; John Callan-
der of Woodburn; Alexander Macfarlane of Thornhill; Robert
Russell of Dalnair, Thomas C. Hagart of Bantaskine; Andrew
Speirs of Lochgreen; Thomas Marshall of Broomhill; General
Straiton of Underwood; John Baird of Camelon; Henry Salmon
of Bonnyside; and the Rev. Thomas Sworde, Rector of Thetford.
   Parochial Registers.-The date of the earliest entry is 4th Ja-
nuary 1594. They are voluminous, and have been regularly kept
until the present time.
    Antiquities.-Under this head, may be noticed the ruins of the
praesidia or forts which were built by Agricola in the 80th year of
the Christian era, for securing his conquests on the south. These
forts appear to have been erected in the same track where Anto-
ninus afterwards formed the wall now called Graham's Dyke. At
Castlecary,the remains of one of these forts is still to be seen.
They cover six acres of ground, now forming a grass field, being
vaulted underneath. Part of the foundation of the fort still con-
tinues, and many of the square stones of which it was built are
used in the enclosure of the field. At Roughcastle, two miles
eastward, another of these forts was placed, but of which no ves-
tiges can be discovered; and its situation is only marked by a slight
elevation of the ground. About half a mile north-west of the  mo-
dern village of Camelon, there are said to have been the ruins of
a fortification or camp; but, as the around has long been under til-
lage, no remains of it are visible. What is commonly called the
wall, consisted of a ditch or vallum, having a wall on the south,
which was formed of the earth thrown out in digging the ditch.
Stones with inscriptions have been dug up in various parts of it,
which throv light on its history, several of which are in the Col-
lege of Glasgow. Traces, of the ditch are to be seen in various
places eastward from Castlecary, and also in the grounds of Mr
Forbes, and of Mr Hagart. It is particularly conspicuous in Cal-
lendar Park, and at Laurieston. About a mile east of that village,
it enters the parish of Polmont. A Roman  highway entered the
parish at Castlecary fort,and ran along the south side, of Graham's
Dyke. Half a mile east of Roughcastle, it crossed the wall
of Antoninus, and came to the ancient station at Camelon, from
which it held on to the river Carron, where it entered the pa-


