
     of Swinton and Simprin.

is most productive of grass, and even sometimes of corn in a
very dry summer.  If the large and expensive canal, made by
William Hall, Esq; to secure a spacious bed for the Leet while
passing through his grounds, were continued westward through
Lord Swinton's lands to Swinton mill, it would contribute much
to the fertility of the soil and the health of the inhabitants*.

   Ecclesiastical State.-The Crown is patron of this united parish.
The stipend consists of 100 bolls of oats, Linlithgow measure,
106 bolls of barley; L. 12: 12: 8 vicarage teinds, all which,
exclusive of house and garden, and including the 2 glebes, a-
long with servitudes of 2 horses and 2 cows, may amount to
L. 136 sterling, per annum+.
   The manse was built in 1771.  At the annexation it was on
good grounds believed, that the old church of Swinton would
hold all the inhabitants of both parishes; but the village of
Swinton increasing very rapidly, the new comers felt them-
selves crowded, and therefore applied for an enlargement of
the church.  They asked the consent of the heritors to build an
aile for themselves, the seats to descend with their houses and

     T t 2

<FOOTNOTE>

*The family of Swinton by their extreme antiquity constitutes the great-
est curiosity of the parish.  Sir Isaac Newton in his Chronology calculates, that
in no series of Kings the average duration of each of their reigns exceeds 21
years; now it would appear that 22 barons, including the present proprietor, have
occupied the lands of Swinton during the long period of 731 years, which suppo-
ses that in a most turbulent aristocracy, amidst feudal broils and foreign wars,
a series of border chieftains enjoyed their estates at an average each more than
33 years.

+56 bolts of the victual stipend are paid out of Paxton in the parish of
Hutton; a chalder of barky is paid out of the lands of Eymouth; and L. 26:
55 of vicarage out of the lands of Horndean in the parish of Lady-kirk.  These
irregularities probably arose from the dependance of this parish on the abbacy
of Coldingham; the abbot drawing the belt victual out of this district, and
paying his dependent clergy from places where the grain was worse in quality.


