
430                        FIFESHIRE.

depends upon the sobriety of the husband, and the good econo-
my of the wife, and the good health which a kind Providence is
pleased to bestow. The young unmarried servants are not in so
comfortable a state. Their only food is oatmeal, milk, and some po-
tatoes. They are lodged in an apartment called a bothy, by them-
selves, quite detached from their master's house, and in general
entirely neglected by him as to moral inspection or religious in-
struction. The fatal consequence is, that too many of our youth
in that rank of life have, for many years past, grown up in igno-
rance and vice; and the instruction which they may receive from
clergymen is very inefficient, as a great prnportion of them change
masters every year.
                         IV.-INDUSTRY.
  The parish contains about 3343 acres imperial measure. Of
these 2770 are arable, 307 unarable, 266 in wood. At an ave-
rage 302 acres are annually in wheat, 465 in barley, 785 in oats,
128 in pease and beans, 149 in potatoes, 239 in turnips, 249
in grass, cut green and for hay, 660 in pasture, 42 in fallow.
The average annual produce per acre is, of wheat, 3 quarters 4
bushels; of barley, 4 quarters 4 bushels; of oats, 4 quarters 6
bushels; of pease, 3 quarters 2 bushels; of potatoes, 25 bolls,
value about L. 10; of turnips, value about L. 7; of hay, 150
stones. Since the cultivation of potatoes became so extensive, a
small proportion of land is in fallow.
  Rent of Land.-The average rent per acre is about L. 1, 18s.,
paid, in general, partly in money, and partly in grain, by the fiars
of the county.
  Husbandry.-The system of husbandry, as in the adjoining
parishes, or rather throughout the county, is upon the most im-
proved plan, and conducted with great skill and industry. The
mode of cropping is generally what is called a six years' rotation,
alternating as regularly as possible green and corn crops. There
is, however, an occasional deviation from this course, barley being
sometimes sown after wheat in good soils. The practice of sowing
turnip with bone manure has become very general; and on some
farms, where the soil is light and dry, they are eaten down with
sheep, which is a great improvement. It would also prove very
beneficial to such soils, to allow them to lie in grass for pasture for
several years. This would recruit them when exhausted by long-
continued corn cropping. The want of inclosures, however, is
unfavourable to this improvement.


