
604                       PERTHSHIRE.

town, and although the northern district of the parish is rather dis
tant from it, it is well situate for the population, the great propor-
tion of whnm reside in the town.  The church being part of the
ancient monastery, the time of its erection is the same with that of
the monastery.  It had fallen, like most other old churches in the
country, into a state of great disrepair; but about fifteen years ago,
it received a most complete and jtdicious repair, and is now one
of the most comfortable places of worship in the country;-while,
from its structure and the ancient tower attached, it has all the
venerable appearance which one expects to find in a building that
dates so far back.  It is seated for nearly 700.  The communicants
are above 400 in number.
   From a date upon it, it is probable the manse was built about 200
years ago.  Like the church, it bad fallen into great disrepair, and
it,was substantially repaired, at the same time receiving a consi-
derable addition, soon after the church was put in order.
   This parish is a collegiate charge.  The second charge was
founded about 200 years ago, when the town was in its most flou-
rishing state, and when it and the parish were most populous.
The first minister has a manse with a small garden, a glebe of four
acres, value L. II or L.12 yearly rent, and about three-fourths of
an acre of garden ground arising from private donation. There
is no grass glebe, but the heritors have for some years back allow-
ed a small sum of loney in lieu of grass.  Owing to the great fall
in the price of grain, the average stipend drawn for some years
back has only been about L. 150.  The second minister has no
house, but receives a sum of money from the Exchequer in lieu
thereof, owing to an extension of the Small Stipend Act, leant
to apply to the cases of second ministers in burghs, whose stipends
are below L. 200.  This stipend has also of late years, and owing
to the same cause, amounted only to about L. 150. There are
no vacant teinds, but it is believed that some small portions of
land in the parish are unvalued.
   The number of families in the parish connected with the Esta-
blished Church, is 333, of Dissenting or Seceding familier, 16,
and one Episcopalian family.
   Education.-This parish is well provided with the means of
public instruction,to the young.  Besides the burgh and parish
school, there is an endowed school for boys and girls, and two fe-
male private schools.  The salary of the parish teacher is the
maximum, L.34, 4s. 4 1/2d. with house and garden; besides which,


