
                        CROMARTY.                           15

turers of Sheffield and Birmingham have discharged its smith;
the taste for fashionable furniture, to which the improved dwel-
lings of our agriculturists naturally led, has shut up the workshop
of its carpenter; and the love of dress, so universally diffused in the
present age, has levelled the domicile of its tailor, and the stall of
its maker of Highland shoes. The town of Cromarty is pleasant-
ly situated in the eastern part of the parish, on a low alluvial pro-
montory, washed on tow of its sides by the sea. It is irregularly
built, exhibiting in its more ancient streets and lanes, that home-
ly Flemish style of architecture characteristic of all our older towns
of the north; and displaying throughout that total disregard of
general plan, which is said most to obtain in the cities and villages
of a free country. The place is so surrounded by friths ans arms
of the sea, that its communications with neighbouring districts are
frequently interrupted. Much, however, has been done to facili-
tate the necessary intercourse. In the summer months, an omni-
bus plies every day, except Sundays, between the town and Inver-
ness, passing in its route through the towns of Chanonry, Rose-
markie, and Avoch; a steam-boat from Leith touches at it once
a-week; and a splended vessel of this description, intended to trade
between London and the upper towns of the Moray Frith, (Cro-
marty among the rest,) is now in course of building. The town
has its post-office, from which letters are sent once a-day to join
the mail at Inverness; and there has lately been established in it a
branch of the Commercial Bank of Scotland, which promises to
be of much advantage to the trading interests of the district.
   Ecclesiastical State.-Prior to the Reformation there were no
fewer than six chapels in the parish, but a low broken wall and an
few green mounds now form their only remains,-even the very
names of three of the number have perished. Two of the others
were dedicated to St Duthac and St Bennet, and two fine springs
on which even time himself has been unable to effect any change,
come bubbling out in the vicinity of the ruins, and bear the names
of their respective saints. Of the last and most entire, which is
still known as the chapel of St Regulus, it is said that there once
belonged to it a valuable historical record,-the work, probably,
of some literary monk or hermit,-which at the Reformation was
carried away to France by the priest. The parish chuch, a true
Presbyterian edifice, is situated in the eastern part of the town.
Its first minister was a Mr Robert Williamson, whose initials may
still be seen on a flat triangular stone, which bears date 1593, and












