
			  BIGGAR.                         367

1835: 2608 gallons British spirits, 80 gallons brandy, 136 gal-
lons ginger wine and other shrubs, 88 dozen foreign wine, 2528
lbs. tea, 1876 lbs. tobacco and snuff. Biggar has increased in
population, and improved very much in appearance of late years.
Four very handsome houses have been built in it this summer, and
only one of them on the site of an old one. There are 95 pro-
prietors of houses, and the rental of the whole houses, as estimated
for the laying on of the poors' rate, is L. 1350.
	Means of Communication.--There is a post-office in Biggar. The
revenue arising from letters delivered has averaged L. 231, 10s. 3d.
for the last four years, while for the four preceding years it only
averaged L. 163, 3s. 8d. A coach. from Edinburgh to Dumfries
passes through the town every alternate day, and one from Glas-
gow to Peebles daily during summer and autumn. The Edinburgh
and Dumfries mail also passes daily within four miles of the town.
There are three weekly carriers to Edinburgh, and one to Glas-
gow. Carriers frost Hawick to Glasgow, and from Dumfries and
Sanquhar to Edinburgh, pass through Biggar once a-week, as also
one from Wigton to Edinburgh once a fortnight. The turnpike
road from Dumfries to Edinburgh by Thornhill, Linton, and Morn-
ingside, intersects this parish nearly at its greatest length, while
another turnpike branches off from it about the middle of the pa-
rish, and joins the Dumfries road to Edinburgh by Moffat, Noble-
house, and Libberton. The whole length of turnpike within the
parish is seven miles. During last year L.1500 have been spent
in rendering it more level.--There are fourteen miles of parish
roads, which are kept in excellent repair. The expense of keep-
ing them up has averaged for the last three years L. 39, 13s. 3d. a
year. A new road from Biggar to Broughton is very much needed.
This would not only be a great convenience to the district, but were
it continued round Dreva, Craig-end, and close by the Tweed, to the
Crown ford, as has often been projected, the Glasgow and Peebles
road might then abandon the rugged hilly tract by Ellsrighill, and
Corsincon, and travelling down the banks of Biggar water and the
Tweed reach Peebles by a route as short and infinitely more le-
vel and agreeable than the present.--The road from Biggar to
Carnwath stands much in need of improvement. It ought to be
diverted so as to avoid the long ascents on both sides of Carwood
burn,--an object which might be accomplished by embanking it over
the hollow of the burn above the present ford where two steep,
banks approaching each other, and narrowing the intervening space,
invite the operation.


