
                       WATTEN.                             53

appearing to have been at all times destitute of wood, as the places
of Druidical worship were, and situated in the midst of moors, once
the site of seemingly boundless forests. There exist many tradi-
tions in the parish relative to the incursions of the Danes, and con-
flicts of the clans, but altogether so vague, and unauthenticated
by positive evidence, as to be wholly unworthy of notice.

                    III-POPULATION.
   The only existing data from which an estimate can be formed
of the ancient state of the population of the parish are the regis-
ters of births and marriages. The average amount which tbe regis-
ter of somewhat more than a century back gave is about 3000
inhabitants, or nearly triple the present number. The amount
of population by the census of 1811 was-1109; by that of 1821,
1158; and by that of 1831, 1234. It is believed that since 1831
the population has decreased, chiefly from the great size. of some
of the farms, the introduction of sheep, &c. There is no
town or village in the parish. The yearly average of births
for the last seven years is 32, of marriages, 8. There are no re-
sident heritors in tbe parish. The number of proprietors of land
of the yearly value of L. 50 and upwards is 7. The number of fa-
milies, 241; of houses inhabited, 241; of houses uninhabited, 9;
number of blind, 1.
  Habits of the People, &c.-In the language generally spoken, in
the habits of the people as to cleanliness, and in the style and man-
ner of their dress, a remarkable improvement has taken place
within the last forty years. They appear on the whole to enjoy a
reasonable degree of comfort and contentment, are distinguished
for industry and economy, and their general character may
be inferred from the fact, that crimes requiring the cognizance of
the civil power are so rare as to be almost unheard of.

                        IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.-As nearly as can be estimated the number ofacres
standard imperial measure in the parish, which are either cultivated
or occasionally in tillage, is about 5500. Supposing the, contents
of the parish to be sixty square miles, or 38,400 acres, the num-
ber of acres constantly waste, or it pasture, will be about 33,OOO,
composed in many parts of deep flow-moss, and, with the ex-
ception of some small green patches along the banks of the streams,
generally of little use as pasture. It is unsound for sheep, of
which stock very few indeed have of late years been kept, by the


