
                        MOY AND DALARROSSIE.                        113

     and, with the exception of the little they get from the poors' fund,
     the poor are entirely supported by the benevolence of the parishion-
     ers.  There is, however, generally about L. 12 Sterling per annum,
     collected chiefly for the General Assembly's India Mission, the
     Inverness Education Society, and the Northern Infirmary.  This
     may appear small; but when the situation of the people is consider-
     ed, the sum will appear very considerable.  These collections are al-
     most all made either in the church, or by sending some persons round
     as collectors.  This is generally done by the district schoolmasters,
     who know the situation and circumstances of most of the people.
       Education.-There is perhaps not a parish in Scotland where
     education is carried on to a greater extent than here.  There is a
     school in almost every nook, and there is at present one individual
     out of every 3 3/4 under education.  This is what can be said of no
     other parish in Scotland, although we have lately seen the number
     at school in a good many of them stated at 1 in 4, or 1 in 5. The
     schools are as follows: Parochial school, 1; aid schools by Societies,
     6; school for girls by the Society for Propagating Christian Know-
     ledge, 1. The branches taught are, reading (English and Gaelic,)
     English grammar, writing and arithmetic, with Latin and book-keep-
     ing in some instances.  The pupils are carefully instructed in the
     SborterCatechism in both languages, and religious instruction forms
     a great part of the course of education.  They are also habituated
     to writing original letters, bills, receipts, &c. and this has been found
     to be of great advantage.  The parish schoolmaster has a salary of
     L. 30, with a good house and garden; and, including fees, the
     yearly income will amount to about L. 40 Sterling.  The fees are
     the same in all the schools, and amount to Is. 6d. per quarter for,
     reading and writing, and 2s. 6d. for the higher branches, as arith-
     metic, book-keeping, &c.  The other schools are upon the aid
     scheme, and supported partly by the people, and partly by the In,
     verness Education Society.  Some of the best informed country
     lads are employed during the winter half-year, by the people who
     have the choice of the schoolmaster; and each gets Is. per quarter for
     each scholar from the Society.  This system has answered uncom-
     monly well; and, were it introduced more generally in the Highlands,
     would be productive of the most beneficial consequences, and the ex-
     pense of supporting it is a mere trifle.  The six schools in the parish
     were sustained last year at an expense of only L. 12 to the Society,
     and of little beyond the living of the schoolmaster to the people.
     Indeed, the, masters have little above L. 5 each in the half-year for

       INVERNESS.                             H


