
                UNITED PARISHES OF

               WHITSOME AND HILTON.

PRESBYTERY OF CHIRNSIDE, SYNOD OF MERSE AND TIVIOTDALE.

         THE REV. ADAM LANDELS, MINISTER.*

I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name, Boundaries, &c.-THE ancient name of Whitsome is va-
riously written,-Mytshoom, Whitsum, Quitsum, and Huitsum. It
is derived from White or Huite, and Ham or Home. Huite appears
as one of the witnesses in Edgar's charter granting the adjoining
Swinton to the monks of St Cuthbert. When the charter was
confirmed in 1392, the chancery clerk of Robert III. wrote Qhuite
for Huite. The circumstantial evidence is therefore pretty strong,
that the parish is indebted for its present designation to the resi-
dence of White; and thus its origin may be traced to a period an-
terior to the conquest. The etymology of Hilton, indicating a
town on or near an eminence, is obvious. The two parishes were
united in 1735. Of course, whenever the term "parish" or "Whit-
some" occurs in the sequel, it will be understood to include Hil-
ton, except when differently explained.
   The extent of the parish in length from east to west is about
4 1/2 miles, and in medial breadth 1 3/4. The whole contains 7 3/4 square
miles. It presents the figure of an irregular parallelogram, bound-
ed on the east by Hutton; on the south by Ladykirk and Swinton;
and on the west and north by Edrom.
   The easterly and northerly parts of the parish are generally
flat; a belt of low land also stretches along the course of the
Leet, while an undulating surface diversifies the remainder. The
exact elevation of the highest ground above the level of the sea has
not been ascertained, but it is conjectured not to exceed 350 feet.
   Geology.-The direction of the strata in this part of the coun-
try is always found to be east and south-east, the angle of their
dip varying from 15 to 25 degrees. Sandstone is everywhere

<FOOTNOTE>This Account has been drawn up by the Rev. Mr Rennison, Assistant-Minister,
with the assistance of Mr Scott of the parochial school.


