
                            DOLLAR.                           109

sited the old Earl (as he calls him,) and preached for some days
in his house of Castle-Campbell. The aged Earl seems to have
received durable impressions from his instructions, and was, there-
fore, anxious that Knox should remain with him for some time:
but, having received letters from the English congregation at Ge-
neva, stating that they had made choice of him as one of their
pastors, and urging him to come and take the inspection of them,
Knox had made up his mind to comply with their request and to
leave Scotland. Among those who listened to his discourses in
Castle-Campbell, was the laird of Glenorchy, one of the ancestors
of the present family of Breadalbane, who was much edified by
what he heard from Knox, and, therefore, he joined Argyle in
his endeavours to prevail upon him, to abandon the thought of go-
ing to Geneva, and to remain in Scotland. But as the congregation
at Geneva was a favourite flock-and as he regarded the invitation
sent to him, a call in Providence to go there-he considered it his
duty to obey the call: and, therefore, no entreaties could prevail
upon him to remain longer. On parting with them, he said, "If
God so blessed their small beginnings, that they continued in god-
liness, whensover they pleased to command him, they would find
him obedient; but, once he must needs visit that little flock, which
the wickedness of men had compelled him to leave."
  It is generally believed that Castle-Campbell was the place
where the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper was first dispensed
after the Reformation began. * This is extremely probable, for Knox,
as we have already seen, preached there for several days, in the
year 1556, and it is likely he would dispense the sacrament at the
same time. Some go the length of pointing out the precise spot
on the green sward, in front of the castle, where the ordinance was
celebrated. But this is certainly going too far; for field-preach-
ing and dispensing ordinances in the open air, though common af-
terwards, was then quite unknown.
   Modern Buildings.-There is a new parish church building this
year (1841), upon a plan by Mr Tite, architect, London, which
promises to be a very handsome structure. Its site is peculiarly
well chosen, being a piece of rising ground immediately south of
the present church, and gradually sloping to the south and west.
The old church is but of recent date, having been built in the year
1775; but, owing to bad materials and insufficient workmanship, the

<FOOTNOTE>The sacrament of the Lord's supper was dispensed by Knox for the first time
After the Reformation in the castle at St Andrews.



