
130                   DUMBARTONSHIRE.


from the funds. The amount of poverty is not so great as such a
number in so small a parish might seem to indicate, for assistance
is rendered to the needy long before they reach that extremity of des-
titution, which in some districts seems to be held as an indispensable
antecedent to the bestowal of public alms. The allowance varies from
15s. to L.5 in the year. The mean amount of collections at the
church amounts to about L.35: there is also interest on L.170, and
a donation of L.10 from the Duke of Argyle. At present, there are
three lunatics in different asylums chargeable upon the parish.
To meet this extraordinary outlay, the heritors, by a judicious ar-
rangement, subscribed, in proportion to their respebtive interests in
the parish, the greater portion of the necessary funds; and for the
reversion the kirk-session are responsible.
   One of the lunatic cases is of peculiar interest. Formerly the
individual had been confined for more than a twelvemonth, and
was dismissed perfectly cured. For five years he continued sane;
and, during that time, he liquidated, from the proceeds of his spade
labour, at the rate of L.5 per annum, the whole of the outlay which
the session had incurred. A Bible was given him as a memorial
of God's goodness to him, and the integrity of his conduct,--which
he had not in his possession more than two or three months, be-
fore a relapse ensued; and although, convalescent, he is still in
confinement.
   When any case of more than ordinary distress occurs, the people
are in the habit of raising contributions throughout the parish ;
and nothing can be more conclusive of their sympathy with each
other, than the amount which in this way is often raised. It can-
not, perhaps, be stated that there exists any general disinclination
in the poor to receive assistance from the session,-although in-
stances do occur of extraordinary exertions made by the kindred
of the parties, rather than they should apply for it. One widow,
with several children, not long ago entreated the minister to give
her allowance to some other person, on the plea, that her father
was able to assist her; and another individual, about the same
time, prevented a subscription in behalf of his brother's family,
who had died prematurely, on the ground that they should always
have a share of what he himself possessed. Another example of
no ordinary interest ought not to be omitted. One day, the mi-
nister met two labouring men on the Gareloch sbore, and, upon in-
quiry, discovered, ratber with difficulty, that they were raising money
to assist a poor parishioner, who had been long a bed-rid invalid.


