
                     CHAPEL OF GARIOCH.                        561

are two ridges of rising ground to the north and south of the Ury,
which stretch from west to east, in a direction nearly parallel to it,
and which are either planted or cultivated up to their summits.
On the ridge to the south of the Ury the church is built; by
which the old road from Aberdeen to the upper part of the Ga-
rioch and Cabrach went, previously to the present turnpike road
being made.  About half a mile to the east of the church, there
is an eminence which commands an extensive view of the Garioch,
and from which nine parochial churches, with as many manses,
may be seen ; all of which, with the exception of Kinneller, are
in the Presbytery of Garioch.
   Soil, Climate, &c.-The soil is of various characters.  In some
parts of the parish, it consists of a rich black loam, and in other
parts, it has a considerable mixture of clay on a tilly bottom.
On the banks of the rivers, it is generally of a strong gravel, in-
termixed with vegetable mould.  These soils produce fine grain,
and earl crops, considering their elevated situation ; and as an
instance of the fertility of this district, it may be mentioned, that
the Garioch has been considered and called the granary of Aber-
deenshire.  The climate is reckoned temperate and salubrious.
There are no diseases peculiar to the inhabitants of this parish,
who are in general remarkably healthy, and instances of longevity
are numerous.  Many persons in the.parish have attained to the
age of seventy, eighty, and even ninety years and upwards; which
may in a great measure be attributed to the dry and bracing cli-
mate, and to the temperate habits of, the parishioners.
   Hydrography.-This parish is well supplied with excellent
springs of water, which issue from gravelly soils.  The only two
rivers of any consequence connected with it are the Ury and the
Don.  The river Ury takes its rise in Strathbogie, and, after a
course of about sixteen miles following its windings, it enters this
parish, and runs through it for about five or six miles.  After
leaving the confines of the parish, it moves onwards in, its course
for a mile and a half farther, dividing a part of the parish of Keith-
hall from that of Inverury and then falls into the Don, imme-
diately below the said burgh.  It is one of the finest trouting
streams in the north of Scotland, and trouts have been caught in
it weighing from one to five pounds.
   The river Don, which rises in the mountains between Aber-
deen and Banffshire, about three mile above Corgarff, and empties
itself into the German Ocean about a mile from Aberdeen, forms
   ABERDEEN.                            N n


