
232                            DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

gious character of the people is such as generally prevails over the
agricultural districts of Scotland, and honourably distinguishes the
peasantry of this country from the same class of inhabitants in any
other country of the world. The day-labourers, especially those
who have families, suffer numerous privations with exemplary pa-
tience. They are in general sober, active, and industrious; but
the want of constant employment prevents them from acquiring
many of the comforts and conveniences of life, and not unfrequently
reduces them to severe distress.
	About half a century ago, when the Isle of Man was a separate
principality, many temptations were held out for smuggling, which
some of the inhabitants of this parish, as well as of the neighbour-
ing district, had not sufficient virtue to resist; but this irregularity
has long ceased. Poaching in game, however, still continues to be a
source of animosity between the lower and higher ranks of society.*
	There is no insane person in the parish, nor any who, in the
strict sense of the word, can be called fatuous, though there are
two or three individuals obviously deficient in their intellectual
powers. One of these was till lately exceedingly remarkable for
the extent of his memory, and his powers of mental calculation,-
faculties which have been much impaired by frequent epileptic at-
tacks, to which he is subject. There is one poor woman blind,
and another who was born deaf and dumb, besides whom there is
one man who lost his hearing by disease.

<TABLE>
			  IV.--INDUSTRY.
	Agriculture and Rural Economy.
The number of acres standard imperial measure in the parish which are either culti-
  vated or occasionally in tillage, is                                        5500+
The number of acres of moss which never have been cultivated, and which re-
  main constantly waste, or in pasture, or are used for peats,                1400
The number of acres at present subject to be overflowed by the tide which
  might be made good arable land by embanking                                 1000
The number of acres in a state of undivided common,                           none
The number of acres under wood,                                               520++
                                                                              ------
      Acres in the parish,                                                   8420
Of the above 1400 aerc s of moss, perhaps one-half might be profitably improv-
  ed, amounting to 700,                                                       700

<FOOTNOTE> When the present incumbent was settled in the parish upwards of thirty years
ago, cock-fighting was a favourite amusement among the less rdspectable class of the
people. He used every effort to put an end to this demoralizing practice, and hap-
pily succeeded.
	  174 of these acres have been brought into cultivation since 1825.
	  203 acres of these have been planted since 1812.


