
     of Tiry.

farm takes many hands and horses, and labouring must prove
dear.  A change of method is indeed required; and fishing
with manufactures to employ so many superfluous hands.
Though the people be naturally attached to their ancient
modes, yet whenever they see new methods pursued to per-
fection in inclosed farms, and work carried on much more
profitably, expeditiously, and cheaply, they will readily com-
ply*.

   Character and Customs of the People.-The common people
are not very attentive to the ordinances of religion, but are
now reforming, as the gentlemen shew them a good example.
They still retain some Roman Catholic sayings, prayers, and
oaths, as expletives; such as 'Dias Muire let,' i. e. God and
Mary be with you.  'Air Muire,' swearing by Mary, etc.
They are free of superstition, and make a considerable progress
in knowledge.  There is no schism from the established
church; and none of any other persuasion, except now and
then a few Roman Catholic servants from Barra.  It is a
great advantage to their morals that there are only three li-
censed small stills, and four public houses at the ferries and
harbours in both isles.  For generations back, there has been

<FOOTNOTE>

*About 4 years ago, the yearly wages and gratuities of a labour-
er amounted only to 2 L. 12 s. and of a female servant to 1 L. but
they are now increased near a third, owing mostly to the ser-
vants frequenting the low country.  Small tenants give them
much more.  Another cause of the increase of wages is the en-
listing so many men for the army, particularly the fencible corps,
with promises of possessions to their friends or to themselves at
their return.  Hence partly so many small divisions of lands
and the poverty of the tenants.  Workmen with their families
are engaged for a fourth or fifth of the whole crop and grass.
In some countries they can more easily triple these wages; their
possessions, their soil, their markets, and plans of labouring, can
better afford it.  Tradesmen have from 7 d. to 1 s. 2 d. per day,
besides victuals.


