
                        KINCARDINE IN MONTEITH.              1251

      of various species of rocks have been found in great abundance,
      and removed for draining the fields, making roads, and building
      fences.  In the latter, many specimens have been preserved of
      granite, gneiss, mica and common slate, conglognerate, sandstone,
      and grit, and of various kinds of trap rock.  The mica slate is
      frequently studded with garnets of a coarse quality.
        Zooloqy.-Roe deer are frequently found, and, nccasionally, red
      deer in the young plantations in the higher parts of the Parish;
      and the former frequently visit the woods of the level country.
      Foxes, polecats, stoats, weasels, and hedgebogs, are numerous,
      but less so of late years, in consequence of the constant, and suc-
      cessful exertions of the gamekeepers in the district.  Otters fre-
      quent the banks of the Teith, Fortb, and Goodie.  They have
      been traced by their foot-prints in the snow to their hiding-places;
      and on one occasion, four were killed at one place by terriers of
      sufficient strength and courage.  They are very destructive to the
      salmon and other kinds of fish.
         The badger used to be seen, but has now disappeared.  The
      black rat of Scotland, which till lately abounded in this parish,
      has also disappeared, but has been succeeded by great numbers
      of the brown rat, which are very destructive to the farm-houses,
      barn-yards, and ben-roosts of the fariners.  Althaugh the common
      squirrel was unknown in this parish till about twenty years ago,
      yet it now abounds in almost all our plantations.  Hares, rabbits,
      common and ring-necked pheasants, and partridges, are very nu-
      merous.  Pheasants, were not seen here till about twenty-five years
      ago, btt rince that time the common kinds have multiplied greatly,
      and the white kind occasionally appear in the plantations.  The
      curlew was formerly plentiful, and is still to be seen; and the
      woodcock is an an-nual visitors Snipes are nowscarce, in conse-
      quence of draining and other improvements.  Black and red grouse
      used to be numerous, but are now seldom seen, and in small num-
      bers, since tbe moss Blair-Drummond has been improved.  For
      the same reason, adders are more seldomseen.
         Various birds of prey belong to this district, or frequently
      resort to it, such as the kestril (Falco tinunculus,) the spar-
      row-hawk (Aocipiter fringillarius,) and the merlin (Falco eas--
      lon.)  These are tbe most common, but there are also frequently
      seen here the peregrine falcon (Falco peregriaus,) the common
      buzzard (Buteo vulgaris,) and the ben-harrier (Circus cyaneus,)



