
                           ALVA.                            187

L.275. About one acre is annually planted with woad for dyeing
woollens blue, and is said to bring L.20 per acre, but it greatly
impoverishes the land. The annual thinning and periodical fell-
ing of woods, plantations, and copse, yields about L.160.
   The three Alva hills have been divided into two separate farms for
sheep,-one comprehending the Westhill, the other the Middle-
hill, together with part of the Woodbill. The former is capable
of maintaining 70 score of sheep, and the latter will maintain from
60 to 65 score. On the higher and back-lying ground, the soil is
mossy, and produces abundance of heath, together with a strong
and coarse grass. This, however, is resorted to by the older part
of the flocks, and the shepherds keep them there for the purpose
of preserving the fore-ground against the winter season. It is now
the practice with the sheep-farmers to breed a few young sheep; but
these bear no proportion to the number of the stock. They have al-
ways a proportion of ewes on their farms, and the lambs are chiefly
sold to the butcher. The farmers go every year about Midsum-
mer to Linton markets, and purchase sheep of a year old, which,
according to the custom of the sheep-farmers in the south, are
smeared with tar, and after being shorn twice white, as they ex-
press it, are sold in August and September to the butcher. Snow
seldom covers these pasture-bills longer than a few days together,
and even then the sheep browse on the young furze and thrive
well. The hills and plantations afford excellent shelter to the
flocks, which have never greatly suffered, compared with those in
other places from heavy snow storms.
   Manufactures.-Perhaps the most important feature of this pa-
rish, is the state of its woollen manufactures. For upwards of a
century and a-half, these have been carried on in the village of
Alva. In the early history of the district, the staple trade consist-
ed chiefly of serges. There is no doubt that this species of ma-
nufacture also flourished long ago in the neighbouring village of
Tillicoultry; and to this day it is known among the shopkeepers
of the Lawnmarket of Edinburgh by the name of Tillicoultry
serges. These were soon superseded by the more useful article
of plaidings and blanketings, which became the principal commo-
dity after the first woollen factory was built, in the year 1798.
Since 1826, however, tartan shawls have been introduced, and
become the most general article manufactured. In 1832, chequer-
ed cassimeres began to be made, and they now form a considerable
branch of business. These manufactures find a market in Stir-
ling, Perth, Edinburgh, but especially in Glasgow. There are


