
76                       RENFREWSHIRE.

luxuriant crops of oats and hay, which would not disgrace a more
genial clime and southern latitude.
  Robertson's description of the appearance of the parish is as
follows: "Lochwinnoch is greatly diversified in its general aspect.
Part of it consists of high and bleak hills in the back ground; part
of it is a low winding valley, in general of a very fertile soil; and
in the heart of it, is the largest loch or lake in the county. This
valley, with the shelving country towards it on both sides, contains
nearly the whole population. It is also ornamented with plan-
tations, whilst the houses of its numerous small proprietors are
each set down under the shade of a few old trees in the midst of
well cultivated spots of ground. The whole strath has a warm and
cheerful appearance. It is the very vale of Tempe of Renfrew-
shire."
  This "vale of Tempe," however, merits a more particular de-
scription. If you view it from the west at any elevated spot on
the road to Kilbirnie, the prospect is varied and beautiful. You
have the well-cultivated lands around you, and the rising ground
on each side, particularly on the west, where the hills rise gradu-
ally above one another till they terminate in the Misty Law and hill
of Staik. Immediately in front, are seen the remains of Barr
Castle, long the residence of the successive families who possessed
the neighbouring lands, and near it Barr House, the residence of
William Macdowall of Garthland, Esq. the present proprietor,
surrounded by thriving plantations and well-cultivated fields. Be-
yond both of these, is the large and regular, sheltered and flour-
ishing village of Lochwinnoch. But by far the most remarkable
feature of the prospect is Castle- Semple Loch, the ruins of the Peel,
and the adjacent scenery. On the south side of the Loch are seen.
Lochside, Beltrees, and, in the distance, Bowfield, with a shelving
country, bestudded with houses, and ornamented with plantations.
On the north side of the Loch, appears the whole policy of Castle-
Semple, the most beautiful and extensive in this part of the coun-
try. But from this int the view of it is imperfect. You have a
general prospect of the woods and grounds of Castle-Semple, and
of the hill of Kenmure in the back ground, surmounted by the
Temple, like an observatory, erected on an eminence which rises
abruptly out of the valley. In order to see the scenery of Castle-
Sample to advantage, it must be viewed from the rising ground on
the south of the loch. There you have another and striking
view of Castle- Semple and Barr lochs, the village, and Barr Castle,


