
                            MONIFIETH.                    553

are neither paved nor Macadamized, so that the blowing of the
fine snd on which the village is built, is very disagreeable in dry
weather. This place is much resorted to in the summer months
as bathing-quarters; indeed, the population, during three months
in the year, is greatly increased from this cause; and many of the
inhabitants, who have rooms or fiats to let, mainly depend on this
for their support. Dundee is chiefly supplied with white fish from
Broughty Ferry. Thirteen boats, having each at an average six
men for a crew, are statedly employed in this branch of industry;
but during summer, the number of boats employed is considerably
greater. Upwards of fifty families depend for support on the white-
fishing. Haddock, cod, ling, founders, soles, whiting, plaice,
skate, and turbot, are the fish commonly or occasionally caught;
but for two months in summer, most of the fisherman, in larger
boats for the purpose, are engaged in the herring fishery on the
northern coasts of Scotland. In the Dundee Police Act, there is
a provision for a police to Broughty Ferry; but as yet it has never
been acted on, though there is a good reason for some establishment
of the kind. For instance, steam-boats, during the summer months,
bring down an inundation of the worst population of Dundee on
the Sabbath day. Hence drunkenness and riot, in spite of all
moral exertions to put a stop to the evil, are too common on a
day set apart for holy rest; and that, too in a locality where the
inhabitants, in general, respect and prize Divine ordinances. There
is a penny-post from Dundee to Broughty Ferry. It is carried by
a foot-runner, who goes twice a-day, the distance being four miles.
	The turnpike road from Dundee to Arboath transects the pa-
rish towards its southern extremity. On this road one mail passes
south and another north every day. Three other coaches used
to run on this road, but the opening of the railway some years
since has put a stop to them all. The public road from Dundee to
Brechin skirts the north-western boundary of the parish; and about
twenty miles of the parish roads (some of which are very indifferently
kept) facilitate communication throughout the district. As already
alluded to, the railway from Dundee to Arboath passes through
this parish coastwise for nearly three miles. On account of the
level nature of the line, the facilities granted by the extensive
proprietor, through whose estate it chiefly passes, and for other
reasons unnecessary to be detailed, it is supposed this is the
cheapest railway in Britain, as assuredly it is of the utmost


