
170			KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

passes through the north part of the parish for nearly four miles,
The road from Castle Douglas to Palnackie, a sea-port on the on the
mouth of the river Urr, from which coal, wood, slate lime, bone
manures, &c. are brought, passes along the east border of the pa-
rish for five miles. The old road from Dumfries to Kirkcud-
bright by Castle Douglas and Rhonehouse, and another by Dal-
beattie, pass though Kelton, the former from north to south about
five miles, the latter from north-east to south-west about three
and a half miles. There are also two other roads which in-
tersect the parish; one from the Castle Douglas through Rhonehouse,
and the very centre of the parish to Greenlane, on the line from
Dumfries to Kirkcudbright by Dalbeattie, and another from Castle
Douglas by Kelton Kirk to the village of Auchencairn in the pa-
rish of Rerwick. All these roads are kept in excellent repair, the
metal of the parish, whether the hard primary schitus, or the por-
phyry, being admirably adapted for road making. The roads are
Macadamized, and a little elevated in tbe centre; and the water-
tables being kept clean, the rain speedily runs off, or is absorbed
by the porous soil.
        Bridges.-A very handsome bridge, consisting of three arches,
was built across tbe river Dee in the year 1825. It is composed
of granite, and unites the parishes of Kelton and Balmaghie. Be-
low it about 200 yards, stands the old bridge consisting of four
arches, from its venerable appearance, and still contrast to its modern
neighbour.
        Ecclesiastical State.-Kelton is composed of the three united
parishes of Kelton, Gelston, and Kirkcormack. At each of the
two last mentioned places, there exist the remians of a church,
with its adjoining cemetery, which is still occasionally used by the
families in the neighbourhood, and the descendants of those whose
ashes are there ddposited. There is also on the south-dast
boundary of the parish the vestige of an ancient chapel and
church-yard, called Kirkmirren, now entirely neglected, and of
which nothing is known but the localhty and the name. In ancient
times, it probably formed a distinct parish, though it is said to have
been designed for a chapel of ease. The local situation of Gel-
ston countenances the opinion of those who refer the name to gill
or gell, a ravine through which runs a brook, and the common af-
fix tun, but its ancient name appears to have been Galston, Gauls-
ton, or, as in the grant of land to James Boyd by David II.


