
118                             PERTHSHIRE.

the Gaelic population, which is limited, and not for the inhabitants
generally.  In the East, West, Middle, and St Paul's, there are
about 200 sittings so inconveniently placed in respect of seeing
or hearing, or of both, that none would occupy them except from
necessity.  St Leonard's was opened last year.  By the judicious
arrangement of the proprietors, the great proportion of the sittings
was let at low prices.  This naturally drew to it many who, in
the other churches, were paying high prices, and who on that ac-
count could not get their families accommodated.
  The unconstitutional and unjust exactions, by the city corpora-
tions, of high seat rents, and thus shutting the pews against many
of the industrious poor, has had, and continues to have, a most
pernicious effect on the religious and moral habits of the popula-
tion.  The churches are for the accommodation of the people, and
not for the raising of money by any corporation, or for any secular
purpose whatever.  The rights of the people in this matter are a
subject which demands special and immediate investigation.  On
these rights it is a manifest infringement.  Were the town and
other incorporations of Perth to act in letting their sittings, as the
proprietors of St Leonard's did in letting those of that church, they
would promote the substantial interests of the community, much
more effectually than by any distribution of the profits accruing
from such a holding.  Were it not for the extra Sabbath evening
services, many of the poor would be entirely deprived of the be-
nefit and comforts of public worship.
  The amount of population, according to a census recently made,
is 19,601, which is 415 less than what it was according to the Go-
vernment census in 1831.  Of this number 11,683 belong to the
Establishment, 7101 belong to other denominations, and of the
remainder, some make no religious profession whatever, while
others are attached to no particular religious body.  The number
of Roman Catholics is 228.
  In the Established churches the average number of communi-
cants is 3536. *
  With respect to societies for religious purposes, I may observe,
that they were more numerous, prosperous, and active, lately, than
they are at present.  There is still a Missionary Society, two Bible
Societies, and a Tract Society.  There are also Societies for gene-
ral charitable purposes,-for relieving the destitute sick, supporting
aged and indigent women, clothing indigent old men, clothing in-

<FOOTNOTE>The particular statistics of the other parishes of Perth I have not ascertained.  Of
those of my own parish (the Middle) I leave transmitted the following to the Church
Extension Committee; Population 4726; belonging to the Establishment 2804; belong-
ing to other denominations 1675.; belonging to none 247.  Communicants in the pa-
rish 2011; of these 1234 belong to the Establishment, and 777 other denominations.


