
			PARISH OF CARMICHAEL.

		PRESBYTERY OF LANARK, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.

                     THE REV. WILLIAM LAMB, MINISTER.


                        I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
        Name.-This parish has retained the same name for time imme-
morial. It was probably placed under the tutelar of Saint Michael
when ht was only of a very limited extent, perhaps a chapelry found-
ed by some ancestor of the family of Carmichael; and it afterwards
retained the same name, and claimed the patronage of the same
saint, when its dimensions were enlarged by the annexation of a
part of the contiguous parish of Douglas. The probability is, that
it was so named from the saint under whose protection it was placed,
and that some ancestor of the principal, perhaps then sole, proprietor
of the parish assumed the same name. There are several places
in the parish which still retain the names of saints in the Romish
calendar, such as St Michael's Well and Bog, now happily drained
and very productive: and Bride's Close--evidently consecrated to
St Bride or Bridget.
	Extent and Boundaries.--The extreme length of the parish in
a South-west and north-east direction, from, near Mount Stuart,
in the parish of Douglas, to Millhill, in the parish of Pettinain, is
6 miles, and its extreme breadth, from the top of Tinto to the con-
fluence of the Clyde and Douglas Water, is very nearly 5 miles. Its
mean length and breadth may be reckoned 5 by 3 1/2 miles; and it
contains at least an area of 18 square miles. In Forest's map
of the county of Lanark, the area is stated to be 18 1/2 square
miles. But, according to the measurement of the lands belong-
ing to the different proprietors, and which has been put into my
hands, the area does not much exceed 18 square miles. A line
drawn from the top of Tinto along the summit of its western
ridge, until it reaches the parish of Douglas, forms the boundary be-
tween it and Wiston parish on the south. A line drawn nearly at
right angles with the preceding from the south-west point of the
parish, and terminating at Douglas Water below the coal-work,

	LANARK                       L l


