
578                  EDINBURGHSHIRE.

cure till Mr John Aird, the first minister, who was admitted 4th
January 1614, and translated to Newbattle 28th September 1615.
He was succeeded by Mr John Melville 1616, who died 25th
October 1638. Mr Robert Carsane was ordained 24th Septem-
ber 1640, and collated to the benefice on a presentation from
King Charles, 4th June 1641. His demise seems to have taken
place in the beginning of 1673, and on 4th September of that
year, the presbytery record bears that "Mr Archibald Douglas,
minister at Cavers, Teviotdale, did show the presbytery that
he had received a presentation from the Duke of Lauderdale
to the church of Newton, and that upon his exhibiting of that
presentation to the Bishop, he had granted him an edict, which
edict Mr Malcom is ordained to serve and return endorsit."
Institution followed on the 24th September, and on the 7th July
1681, he was once more translated to Newbattle. He was suc-
ceeded by Mr Robert Bannerman, who, in Nesbit's Peerage, is
stated to have been younger brother to Mr G. Bannerman of
Dunboig, second son of Elsick, solicitor to King Charles II. He
was deprived at the Revolution, after which there was a long va-
candy till 21st April 1696, when Mr John Shaw was admitted;
but not finding himself comfortable, on account, it would seem, of
the heritors withholding their countenance, he accepted a call to the
parish of Leslie, and was transported thither in the end of 1698.
Mr Thomas Moffat was ordained 24th September 1700, and met
with a more encouraging reception, for the session record of 27th
October following bears, that "the Session met, and being con-
stituted by prayer, thereafter my Lord Edmonstown and the
Laird of Woollmet being then present, told that this being the
first day of the session's meetings since Mr Thomas Moffat's
admission to be minister in this parish, they were come to wait
upon the session for the said Mr Moffat's encouragement, and
the rest of the elders, to show that they were readie to strengthen
their hands and to encourage them, and to concur with them in
punishing of vice, and that the should do what was competent
to them as heritors for the session's encouragement." Mr Moffat
died 14th January 1743, and was succeeded by Mr David Gilchrist
19th July of the same year, On his death Dr Mein was trans-
ported from Athelstaneford, 12th October 1770, and served the
cure till his death, 1795. He was a person of great worth, and has
left a volume of sermons for the instruction of posterity. His
literary acquirements procured his election to be Fellow of the.


