
460                             LANARKSHIRE.

	It has been justly remarked, that apples and pears, particularly
the former, after a certain time, degenerate. This has been veri-
fied here, and particularly in regard to what used to be the best
Scotch apple for winter eating, the grey Liddington, which, fifty
years ago, were produced here in great quantities, of great size
and excellence.
	Made of Planting.--Some of the old orchards, particularly on
sloping banks, have been planted without much regard to regula-
rity, and consequently the trees are in many places too close to
each other. But the method which has been generally adopted
for nearly a century is the following: When a piece of ground is
designed for an orchard, the distance between the rows is marked
off, viz. 22 feet. Then a small border, about 4 feet broad, is dug
deep, but not trenched, when the trees are intended to be planted,
(with water runs on each side of it, and which are kept clear) and
which is enlarged as they increase in size, till the intervening space
is equally divided between the rows. The trees are planted as
near the surface as practicable, to keep the roots up and dry.
About two inches are pared off the top of the delf, where the tree
is to be planted. It is then placed in the centre of that spot, the
roots being carefully spread out with the hands,--and unhealthy
ones, or those likely to interfere with others, being previously cut
off. A person holds the tree steadily in its position, while another
puts the earth around it, treading it with his foot. After the roots
have been sufficiently covered with earth, a quantity of dung, not
too old, is placed around the tree, and which is covered with earth.
The use of this is to prevent the drought from injuring the roots,
to keep them moist; and when rain falls, it acts most favourably
towards the growth of the plant.
	The trees are planted from 18 to 22 feet wide in the row. When
the latter distance is adopted, early bearers, or gooseberries, are
planted between those trees which are intended to stand, and
which are taken out as they expand. A decided preference is giv-
en to plants of one year's growth, provided the graft be well sprung;
those older than two years are not approved of. If of one year, the tree
is cut over the first year it is planted, but if of two, it is not done

<FOOTNOTE>codlin, Early and winter strawberry, Red cluster.--Early pears, Crawford, Green pear
of Pinkie, Green ichisel, Lady Lmnon.--Harvest pears: Brown beyry, Fair maid of
Taunton, Ear]y Auchen, Grey honey. Autumn bergamot,&c.--Winter pears: Auchen,
Moorfowl egg, Winter bergamot--Grafted plumbs: Magnum bonum, Orleans, green
gage, Red imperial, Precox de Tour.--Common plumbs: Burnet, Whitcorn, Horse-
jag, Common damson, &c. These are a few of the best kinds, and best bearers.
There are probably 200 different kinds. Bad sometimes bear when others fail.


