
                           ABERDEEN.                        31

will to displease the King; and 3d, Clergy, of whom the chief were
the ddoctors of Aberdeen."  He goes on to say that the town, be-
ing much under the influence of the Marquis of Huntly and the
Doctors, (viz. Dr John Forbes, Dr Robert Barron, Dr William
Leslie, Dr Alexander Scrogie, Dr James Sibbald, and Dr Alex-
ander Ross,) refused to subscribe the Covenant, which, with a view
to their concurrence, had been sent to them in April 1638, by the
hands of a commission from the Tables, consisting of the Lairds
of Dun, Morphy, Balmain, and Leyes, Mr Alexander Wedder-
burn, Clerk of Dundee, and Mr Robert Barclay, Provost of Ir-
vine. *  A short time before this, Aberdeen had been appointed
as the place of residence or exile of Samuel Rutherfurd, when he
was ejected from his parish of Anwoth, and Dr Barron undertook
the task of conferring with him, and bringing him to alter his views
on the question which then agitated the church and the nation.
The result of these conferences is stated by Rutherfurd in one of
his letters, in his usual homely but expressive manner, "Twa
yokings laid him by."  On the 20th of July 1638, another com-
mission, consisting of the Earls of Montrose and Kinghorn, the
Lord Cowper, the Master of Forbes, the Lairds of Leyes and
Morphie, with Messrs Alexander Henderson, David Dickson, and
Andrew Cant, ministers, came to Aberdeen, and though at first
some difficulty occurred with the magistrates, and the covenanting
ministers were refused access to the town's pulpits, yet about 500
subscribed after public worship in Earl Marischal's Close, of whom
several were persons of the best quality in the place. + But though
considerable progress had been made among the citizens, the doe-
tors continued adverse to the Covenant, and were both active and
successful in their efforts to gain others to their opinions, and to
repress the zeal of their covenanting fellow-citizens; in conse-
quence of which proofs of their "good affectioune to his service,"
they received from Charles I. various communiCations Expressive of
his "hartie thanks," and assurances that "when anie thing that
may concerne `your good shall occurr we shall not be unmyndful
of the same." This promise the monarch performed not long after,

<FOOTNOTE>Spalding in his History of the Troubles in Scotland, (4to ed. Vol. i. p. 54,)
gives only the Lairds of Dun, Morphy, and Leyes, and Carnegie of-as forming
this first Commission.
          An evidence of the effect produced by this second visit is furnished by the fol-
lowing extract from a minute of Council, of date 25th December 1639.  "The
quhilk day, the Provest, Baillies, and Council agries all in ane voice that Mr Alexan-
der Henderson be delt with to accept the chairge of the ministrie within this burgh
in the vacant roume of umquhile Doctor Alexander Ross, and that the magistrates
writt to him, and use all fair and poosible means for his transplantation."

