
                           STIRLING.                             429

years. This is ascribed by the very intelligent and talented agri-
culturist, * from whom I have received rn information, to the in-
reased confidence with which the tenant may look for a fair ave-
rage crop, in consequence of the introduction of tile-draining andother late improvements. The rent of carse land of good uality
is from L.3, 15s. to L.4 per acre ; that of dry-field land from
L.1, 15s. to L.2 per acre. In the Cow-parks of Stirling cows
are admitted to pasture about Whitsunday , and leave about Martin-
mas; of which the rent in the lower one to the north of the town
is L. 4, 4s., and in the upper one near the King's Park, L.4. In
the King's Park the rent is L.3, 5s. per acre.
    Wages.--The wages of carpenters throughout the year, are
2s. 6d. per day; those of masons 3s. per day in summer, and 2s.
6d. in winter. The wages of farm-servants are L.9 to L.15 per
annum for men, and L.4 to L.7 for women; of day labourers
about 9s. per week; in harvest 1Os. to 15s. per week for men, and
9s. to 12s. for women, without victuals. In respect of the price of
raw produce, &c. required for rural and domestic economy; the
breeds and improvement of sheep and cattle ; and the nature and
duration of leases; the landward part of this parish is precisely
in the circumstances of the immediately adjoining portions of the
parishes of St Ninians, Logie, Lecropt and Kineardine. With the
exception of the Constabulary farm, which extends to 348 acres,
the farms are very small; only two exceeding 100 acres. The
dwelling-houses are suitable to the size of the, farms; and, along
with the other buildings, are in pretty good repair; and seem for the
most part to be attended to, when they stand in need of renovation,
or improvement. On the Carse lands, which constitute a very large
proportion of the whole in cultivation, the crops chiefly depended
upon for remunerating the tenant are of course wheat, beans, and
barley; on the dry field lands, oats and barley; with a proportion
in each of turnips, hays and grass, for preserving the suitable ro-
tation, of crops, feeding and rearing sheep and cattle, and main-
taining,the necessary Complement of horses for labour. Draining,
liming, manuring, excellent ploughing, fencing, and all other, arts
of husbandry adapted to the soil and climate are: practised; and
have kept pace with those, which characterize the system of agri-
culture in the beat farmed districts in this part of Scotland.
   Quarries and Mines.--There are no mines, in the Parish. Un-

<FOOTNOTE>Mr James Carmichael, who, along with his brother, has very lately taken a new
lease of their farm of Raploch.


