
434                  EDINBURGHSHIRE.

to the bridge at Mid-Calder. In figure, it approaches to square,
extending from east to west towards 4 miles, and somewhat more
from north to south. On the north it is bounded by the river
Almond, and on this side it marches with the parishes of Uphall
and Kirkliston on the east and north-east, it is bounded by
small streams or burns, separating it from Ratho; on the south,
it is bordered by the Water of Leith, which divides it from Currie;
and on the west, the Linhouse water flows between it and Mid-
Calder.
   There is a farm called Liston-shields, in a very anomalous
situation. It lies at the point of junction of four parishes, viz.
Currie, Penicuik, Linton, and Mid-Calder, towards the foot of
the Pentlands, and about two miles south from the Water of Leith.
It is held to belong, quoad civilia, to Kirkliston; and the ten-
ants have been in the habit of receiving religious ordinances at
Kirknewton. The exact connection of these lands with the lat-
ter parish does not appear. In the Statistical Account of Kirk-
liston, already published, it is stated, that it "was annexed,
quoad sacra, many years ago, to the parish of Kirknewton." On
reading this, the minister of Kirknewton, whose researches had
not been able to discover any evidences to this effect, ap-
plied for information, and learned that "it was not thought that
there ever was any formal annexation, but that the statement
referred to had been made on general supposition," arising out of
the fact that religious ordinances were received at Kirknewton, the
author of it adding, that, 1, in this respect, there is an inaccuracy in
the, Statistical Account of Kirkliston." There is no doubt that
this kind of connection has subsisted practically for a very long
period. In the "Reports of the state of certain parishes in Scot-
land, &c. dated April 12, 1627," it is said that "the indwal-
laris of the roume of Listonsheills has been thir sundrie yearis by-
gane servit at the paroche kirk of Kirknewton."
   Topographical Appearances.-The surface of the parochial
district falls from the south, where is its greatest elevation, to
the north, where it reaches its lowest level; and the difference
between these is considerable. The descent proceeds, not in a
regular or uniform sweep, but by successive steps, sloping off
into each other, the whole track dividing itself into three paral-
lel terraces or stretches. The first or highest lies along the Lanark
road by Little Vantage and Causeyend the second runs on the
same elevation with the church and the village of Kirknewton; and
                              4


