
                     ST ANDREWS.                           463

maining part of the parish they amount to nearly 60. Three of
them, viz. John Whyte Melville, Esq.; James Home Rigg, Esq.;
and the United College, have each a valued rent exceeding
L. 1200 Scots. Mrs Cheape of Strathtyrum; Alexander Meldrum,
Esq. of Kincaple; General Ramsay of Kinkell; and John A. Thom-
son of Charleton, have each a valued rent between L. 600 and
L. 1200. The valuation of nine other heritors exceeds L. 300
each, and of twenty-four the valuation is from L. 100 to L. 300.
   Parochial Registers.-The oldest volume of the kirk-session records
commences with the year 1559, and comprehends the transactions of
that body down to the year 1600. It presents many curious and in-
teresting details relative to the administration of church discipline,
and other parochial arrangements, at the early period of the history 
of the Reformed Church. The volume containing the proceedings
from 1600 to 1638 has been lost, but from the latter of these
dates, down to the present time, the minutes have been preserved.
The existing register of births and baptisms begins with the year
1626, and has been continued to the present time, with the excep-
tion of the entries from 1738 to 1742, which have been lost. The
register of contracts, proclamations, and marriages, begins with
the year 1770, and that of deaths with 1740, and both have been
continued to the present day. The keeper of these records, how-
ever, states, that they are defective to a very considerable extent,
as, notwithstanding all the means that are employed by him to en-
sure the registration of the births, many of the parents neglect
this part of their duty. And when the dead are buried in other
cemeteries, there is no return of the interment made to him, and
no entry in his books.
   It is much to be regretted that the keepers of the ecclesiastical
records in Scotland have been so negligent, that in many of the
parishes they are not to be found of an older date than a century,
or a century and a-half. It is probable that many of the volumes
of these records, which are supposed to be lost or destroyed, might
still be recovered, were the ministers of the parishes to institute a
diligent inquiry respecting them. A number of years ago, the
writer of this article discovered, in the course of an investigation,
the minutes of the Diocaesan Synod of St Andrews, commen-
cing with the year 1611, and containing the proceedings of that
court for above twenty years, which he was enabled to place in
the custody of the clerk of the synod of Fife. And within these
few years, he accidentally discovered than volume containing the
proceedings of the presbytery of St Andrews from October 1586

