
              UNIVERSITY AND KING'S COLLEGE.            1147

the Dr John Gregory above-mentioned.  He lectures on chemis-
try, the other branches of medicine being taught by the lecturers.
He also conducts the examinations for medical degrees, with the
aid of three assessors, appointed by the Senatus from among the
medical lecturers attached to the University.
   Professor of Divinity.-This Professorship, as already stated,
was not in the original foundation, which entrusted the teaching
of theology to the Principal and six students.  When these lat-
ter were converted into three Regents in Philosophy, the Senatus,
aided by contributions from the Bishop and clergy of the diocese,
founded this chair, the patronage of which was vested, by royal
charter, dated 1642, in the Synod of Aberdeen, with the Princi-
pal and two other members of the University.  The fund sub-
scribed was invested in lands, which were afterwards feued by the
synod to the college for the benefit of the professor.
   The salary of this chair is now the largest in the university,
being composed of L. 265 from various royal grauts; of the inte-
rest of two sums of L. 106 and L. 300, the former originally be-
longing to the chair, the latter bequeathed by Miss Teresa Lums-
den; of a fixed money salary from the College of L.21, 15s.; of
a victual salary, about L. 60; and of his share of the procuration
and superiority balances.  In 1836, the whole amounted to L.425.
It is to be observed, however, that this includes a royal grant of
L. 150, given to the present incumbent at his appointment, and
not secured to the chair beyond his life.  There are no fees at-
tached to this chair.  The professor has a house and garden.
   This chair has been filled by many distinguished men, among
whom may be mentioned Mr William Douglas (1644,) author of
several works; Mr Henry Scougall, son of Bishop Scougall, well
known by his theological writings, who was made Professor as soon
as he had completed his studies at the University, and who died
at twenty-eight; Dr Alexander Gerard, and Dr Gilbert Gerard,
both men of high eminence in the literary world.
   The present incumbent is the Rev. Dr Duncan Mearns, at one
time Moderator of the General Assembly.
   Professor of Oriental Lanquages.-This chair was founded about
1674, at the request of Bishop Scougall.  The salary is the small-
est in the college.  It is chiefly made up of royal grants, with the
balances of the college accounts.  In 1836, it amounted to about
L.195, and the class-fees in that year to about L.45.  No house
is attached to this chair.


