
     Statistical Account

perpect tense seems to be the root of the verb; the perfect
and future age regular, or found in the verb itself; the pre-

<FOOTNOTE>

field of some extent, and is a very common name given to places in the High-
lands.
   Dun-craggan, the mount of the rock.  Dun literally signifies a heap, and
is applied indiscriminately to a heap of earth, or of houses, collected together.
Hence the names of our most ancient towns; such as Dun-barton, Dun-dee,
Dun-edin, or the dun on the face of hill, (Edinburgh, etc.)  This is the only
name of that city in the ancient language of Scotland.
   Offerans, in Gaelic, Oir-roin, the side of the point.  This name is generally
given to places at the side of a river, where it either runs into the head of a
lake, or falls into another river; and the inclosed land between the two rivers
is called Ross, which is a very common word.  Ross-shire is so called from
its being bounded by the two rivers, which fall into the Moray Frith, and that
of Dornoch.  Fife was anciently called Ross for a similar reason, as well as
Kinross, Roslyn, Rosdui, and the Ross at Lochlomin, etc. etc.
   Len-rick, in Gaelic La-rig, contracted for Lav-risg, or Lav-ri-uisg, a place
near water.  The Lenricks are always situated by running or stagnant water,
but generally by the former, because uisg was a name for a small river.
   N.B.  Ness signifies the same thing in the Norse language; as Inverness, Bu-
channess, Blackness, etc.
   Port-an-eilean, the harbour of the island.  In an island of Lochvennachoir,
opposite to this farm, there has been a castle, a place of strength, and consequent-
ly the inhabitants came ashore from their strong hold, on this farm.  Port is
evidently the same word with the Latin portus, and has the same signification.
   Tar-an-duin, the groin of the hill.  Immediately above this place, there is a
conical dun or hill, which hangs over it, and on the top of the dun there has
been a fortification.
   Bo-chastle, or Mo-chaster:  The first name signifies the town of the castle, the
second the plain of the castle or fortification; alluding to the dun mentioned in
the former article, and the extensive plain, on which the farm town is situated.
The Aborigines of this country had no other name for a place of strength, except
caistal or caster, which is evidently synonymous with the castellum and castra of
the Romans.  There are also many compounded names of places in England,
of which cester makes a part.  It is however probable, that these places had
such names before the invasion of JULIUS CAESAR, because the island was well
peopled, and because the inhabitants, but more especially the Caledonians, had
not such respect for these plunderers of the world, or such knowledge of their
language, as to borrow the names of places from them.


