
444                     ROSS AND CROMARTY.

suffered considerably for non-conformity during the period be-
twixt the Restoration and Revolution, as related in Wodrow's
History. At Mr Sutherland's admission to Golspie, in 1731,
there was a considerable number of devout Christians in the place,
some of them being the posterity of these refugees; but during
the period betwixt the years 1731 and 1744, nothing remarkable
occurred under his ministrations, till in November of the latter
year, when there was a considerable awakening and revival of re-
ligion, which extended through the parish. There is a full ac-
count of it given in a letter from Mr Sutherland, dated "Golspy,
August 8, 1745," and addressed to Mr Robe of Kilsytb, by whom
it was published in his "Monthly History" for 1745, (No. 5, p.
130,) and also in "Gillies's Collections," (Vol. ii. p. 387.) After a
ministry of twenty-one years in Golspie, Mr Sutherland was
translated to the town and parish of Tain, and admitted there 29th
July 1752. He died at Tain on the 25th November 1769, in
the thirty-ninth year of his ministry. Mr Sutherland, who was
twice married, left a numerous family. His eldest son, William,
born 27th January 1738, was minister of the parish of Wick, in
Caithness, for a period of fifty years, (1765-1815.)
  Alexander Ross Oag.-At the period of Mr Robertson's admis-
sion to this parish in 1730, there lived an aged Christian, named
Alexander Ross Oag, (or Young, a very common patronymic when
the father and son were of the same name;) a man in indigent cir-
cumstances, and without the advantages of education, but of such
uncommon natural talents, combined with fervent piety and Christ-
ian simplicity, that numerous anecdotes, well authenticated, il-
lustrative of his eminent character, and the estimation in which he
was held, especially by the religious public, are still related
throughout the northern counties. *

<FOOTNOTE>One instance may he recorded exemplifying his confidence in the providential
government of God. A sturdy beggar, one of a class very numerous at that period,
came to his house late one evenmg, and asked for a night's lodging. Alexander met
the man at the door, and expressed his willingness to receive him, excepting for his
ignorance of the man's character for honesty, stating that he was a weaver by trade,
and must be careful of the property belonging to other people which was under his
charge. The "gaberlunzie-man" protested in the most solemn manner as to his
honesty and principles, appealing at the same time to the Divine Omniscience as his
witness and surety! "Your surety is accepted, and you are welcome to such enter-
tainment as I can afford," was the reply. Here the "gudewife," who was of quite, a
different stamp,-being a bold, irreligious, worldly woman,-interfered, upbraid-
ing her husband for his simplicity, and neglect of his temporal interests, in admitting
a perfect stranger on such pretences. Here the beggar again protested, to quiet the
fears and sispicious of his hostess, and the worthy master of the house repeated his
entire satisfaction with the assurances given.
  The beggar, discovering the character of his host, endeavoured to the bebt of his


