
                         MONYMUSK.                           461

measure from 10 to 11 feet in circumference at the lower part of
the trunk, and were found, from actual measurement in 1826, to
be from 90 to 103 feet of extreme height, and to contain from 170
ta 190 cubic feet of timber.  The highest and largest of these is
a larch.  One of the trees, a spruce, which separates into two
equal stems at five feet from the root, where it is 11 feet 2 inches
in circumference, each rising to 92 feet in height, measures, 212 1/2
cubic feet.

                        II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Land-owner.-The whole parish is the property of one heritor, Sir
James Grant of Monymusk, Bart., lineal descendant of Sir Francis
Grant of Cullen, who was knighted by Queen Anne in 1705, and
afterwards appointed one of the Senators of the College of Justice
by the title of Lord Cullen.  That gentleman sold the estates of
Cullen, Eden, Down, and fisheries in Banffshire, and purchased
the whole lands of Monymusk in 1712, for L. 116,000 Scots, from
Sir William Forbes, Bart., ancestor of the present Sir John Stu-
art Forbes of Pitsligo.
   Eminent Men.-Among the eminent characters connected with the
parish, Lord Cullen deservedly holds a distinguished place, us having
been a gentleman of the highest respectability, both in private life
and in his professional capacity.  The most profound erudition, un-
remitting application, and the most inflexible integrity are known
to have adorned his character, both as an advocate and a judge.
He manifested through life a deep and lively sense of religion
the only true foundation of all real excellence in character ; and
the fruit of his pious benevolence and parental care for the best
interest rests of the successively rising generations on his estate of
Monymusk, are enjoyed by the parish to this day, in the perma-
nent provision which he made for facilitating the education of the
poor, and of those at an inconvenient distance from the parish
school.
   His eldest son, Sir Archibald Grant, was the first proprietor
in the north of Scotland who planted upon an extensive scale, and
introduced turnip husbandry in Aberdeenshire.  He also exerted
himself greatly for the improvement of the public roads throughout
the district, and took a deep interest in the welfare, both temporal
and spiritual, of his tenants, as appears, (among other things related
of him,) particularly from an address which be had printed and
circulated among them, entitled " Memorandum to the, Tenants
of Monymusk, January 1756," which contains most excellent ad-


