
446                    ABERDEENSHIRE.

Honourable the Master of Forbes, in consequence of their conti-
guity to his property of Brux, and, more especially, to the roman-
tic situation upon which be has, since that time, built a comforta-
ble house.  All the rest belongs to the head of the family, James
Ochonchar, Lord Forbes, who is Premier Baron of Scotland, a
General in the army, and Knight of the Royal Sicilian Order of
St Januarius.  By far the greater part of the life of this amiable
and distinguished nobleman has been spent from home in the ser-
vice of his country; and his conduct in the various important situa-
tions he has filled, as well as the deep interest he has uniformly
evinced in the welfare and prosperity of his tenantry, clearly pro-
nounce him to be a worthy descendant of one of the oldest and
most distinguished families in Scottish history.
   2. The estate of Terperse or Dalpersie formerly belonged to
a cadet of the house of Gordon.  The fate of the last of this fa-
mily who inherited the lands, may be mentioned as one of the nu-
merous acts of barbarous severity which were exercised upon the
unfortunate rebels of 1745.  Having escaped death in the bloody
field, Mr Gordon had contrived to elude detection for a conside-
rable time, by concealing himself in the hills close to his house.
But anxious, as it would appear, to obtain for one night a more
comfortable repose than could be afforded by his mountain-cave,
he imprudently repaired to his mansion for this purpose, and, in
consequence, no doubt, of information, was apprehended by a party
of the King's troops.  There being some doubt regarding the iden-
tity of their prisoner, the party endeavoured, but in vain, to have
it solved, by carrying him before.tlie minister of the parish; but
they were more fortunate, upon repairing to a farm upon the other
side of the hills, which was rented by Mr Gordon, and where his
wife and family then resided.  For his children, on seeing their
father, came running towards him, exclaiming, " Dady, dady,"
and, unwittingly to themselves, became aiding in consigning their
parent to the block.  His property was forfeited, and cawne into
the possession of the York Company. It was purchased from them
by a gentleman of the same name with the late proprietor, and
connected, it is believed, with the same family. The present pro-
prietor is James Adam Gordon, Esq.
   There is upon the property an old mansion-house, inhabited by
the farmer who rents the surrounding grounds.  It is in the old
castle style, but of small dimensions, and there is nothing about it
worthy of particular notice.


