
     of Dundee.

ticular, the place and yards belonging to the Grey Cordelier
friars, for this special reason, "that the former burying ground
"in St. Clements church-yard was in the middyies of the town,
"and by burying in it, pest and other contagious sickness might
"be ingenerit, and made to perfeveir." All these former grants
are also mentioned at length, and confirmed with additions, by
the charter of James VI. dated at Holywoodhouse, January
16. 1701, and finally confirmed by Charles I.  His charter is
called the great charter, and bears, that all its articles were ra-
tified in Parliament, Sept. 14. 1641.
   Ample, however, as these privileges were, they appear to
have been continually disputed by the Scrymseours of Dud-
hope, who, for signal services done under the illustrious
WALLACE, had been by him created Constables of the castle,
and continued to enjoy that, hereditary dignity.  The bounds
between the powers of the Constable, and the privileges of
the citizens, seem never to have been accurately determined,
and consequently have become the subjects of frequent con-
troversy, and occassions of dangerous riot.  The Constable's
powers especially appear, to have excited the greatest jealou-
sies, when, as often happened, they were united to any of the
offices of the magistracy.  About the year 1604, Sir James
Scrymseour having made an attempt to render himself perpe-
tual Provost, to change the election of the council into a mere
nomination, and to subject all causes, civil and criminal, to
his own authority, the greatest commotions were excited, and
the peace of the town was for many years disturbed.  The citi-
zens, however, under the direction chiefly of the Fletcher fa-
mily, at lair prevailed; and the Scrymseours lost all their in-.
fluence in the council, and appear to have been expelled.  Re-
sentment for this assront seems to have increased the usual a-
nimosity, and it arose, at one time, to such extravagance, that
the constable obtained a writ of Law-burroes against the coun-

     VOL. VII. F f


