
     Statistical Account

num; the hire of the mortcloths to L. 3: 10; and the inte-
rest of principal sums belonging to the parish to L. 25, mak-

<FOOTNOTE>

meliorated, the decline of learning will follow.  This must insallibly be the case
in any state, where there is not a rank which requires a considerable degree of
learning, where there is not room for a considerable number of the learned to be
employed in it, and where that employment does not entitle them to a decent
degree both of profit and of respect.  Suppose the stipends of Scotland to fall as
much in their value for half a century to come, as for half a century past, how
few clergymen, who are enabled to give their sons such an expensive educati-
on, as a minister should have, would breed them to a profession where they
cannot gain so comfortable a subsistence as many mechanics can earn?  With
what kind of young men would gentlemen be supplied as tutors in their fami-
lies, and who are now so well supplied, by preachers and students in divinity?
Though a Dionysius might make it worth the while of a Pythagoras, to come
from Greece to Syracuse, to instruct himself and his courtiers, I suspect, that
when Scottish lairds must send to Oxford and Cambridge for tutors to their
children, few will be sent for, and fewer come to a country, where they can
look for no farther preferment.  England, I think, will continue to be the
seat of learning; till such time as the livings of the dignified clergy of the
church there, shall be reduced to as low an ebb, as at present are the livings
of the dignified clergy in France.
   I have ever been of opinion, that the downfall of the church will bury learn-
ing in its ruins; and this seems to be warranted by the history of all nations.
That body of men, who are now sneeringly called Priests, their office Priest-
hood, and their employment, Priestcraft, and which I shall call, the Clerical
order established by law, have been in all ages and nations of the world, the
repositories of learning.  In our own country, at the first appointment of the
Court of Session, there was such a penury of the learned laity, that they were
obliged to the church for one half of the judges.  Wherever the clerical order
has been creditable and respectable, light and learning have shone forth.
Whence proceeded the first birth of learning, but from the priests of Egypt?
Whither did the Grecian sages travel but into Egypt and the East?  Were not
the Brahmins, the Gentoo clergy, who were, and still are, of high esteem,
those whom Pythagoras wished, and travelled to learn from?  Were there not at
Rome a Caius Julius Caesar Pontifex Maximus, and a Marcus Tullius Cicero
at the head of the college of Augurs?  Was ever virtue, and piety, and learn-
ing more nobly supported than in the writings of the divines of the church of


