			PETTIE.                           389

Hugh was, by means of perjury, cheated out of part of his pro-
perty by the Bishop.
  We close our civil history of the parish by noticing that, in the
session records of November 1649, we have, on the 4tb, this
entry, " That day the minister made intimation to the elders to be
prepared again the next day to give their oaths whether ilk ane of
them did know of others anent the engagement and insurrection at
Inverness. On the 5th, the elders underwritten being present, and
being all sworn, deponed they knew nothing, but that they went
to Moray and Inverness with my Lord of Moray, their maister."
They were desired to appear before the Presbytery at Inverness.
The Presbytery, we regret to say, has no records earlier than 1702.
And we have bad no opportunity of consulting those of the town-
council, to ascertain the cause or character of this insurrection,
which is probably noticed in the records of the burgh. In the
continuation of Sir R. Gordon's history, among other instances of
anarchy which followed the death of Charles I., this year, it is record-
ed, that, in February, Sir Thomas Urquhart of Cromarty, Colonel
H. Fraser, and others, assaulted and took the town of Inverness,
expelled the garrison, razed and demolished the walls and fortifi-
cations of the town, pretending that the Parliament had sent pri-
vate commissions to apprehend them; whereupon Lieutenant-Ge-
neral D. Leslie was directed, with his forces, to apprehend them.
The Kilravock manuscript says, " the Mackenzies, Frasers, &e.
take arms for the king, surprise and demolish the fortifications about
Inverness; but are defeated and dispersed by Colonel Ker and
Major Straban, at Balvonie. Our session records show, that the
Earl of Moray was in the north at the end of the year, his pre-
sence being probably required by the' commotions which bad
arisen; but what part he took in the local affairs of this neighbour-
hood, at that period, we have not been able to ascertain.*
  Eminent Characters.-The only individual of eminence con-
nected with this parirh by birth was Dr James Fraser, the liberal
benefactor of King's College, Aberdeen. He was the son of Mr
Alexander Fraser, minister of this parish from 1633 till 1683. By
a note in Kennedy's History of Aberdeen, we learn that he, enter-
ed as a student in King's College, Aberdeen, about the time of the

<FOOTNOTE>
  The records of the Inverness kirk-session may throw light on this rising. We
have been told, that there are among the papers of Mr Robertson of Inches, Letters
written by the Earl of Moray, from Castlestewart to the Laird of Inches. The date
has not been told us. They might throw light on the events of this period, or of
1626, if examined.


