
                          BATHGATE.                             163

cording to the ordinary method of procedure, the sittings, with the
exception of the communion seats, which are free to every once,
and the minister's seat, were divided among the heritors in pro-
portion to the valued rent of their lands, and by them allotted to
their tenants. From this arrangement it results, that the whole
inhabitants of the town can have right to sittings only in the seats
pertaining to the Bathgate property, on which the town is built
and even these must be shared with the rural population on that
property, so that the provision for 2664 persons is just 100 sit-
tings. Though this is much the worst case, it is not a solitary in-
stance of inadequate supply. In 1836, when these calculations
were made, the estate of Barbauchlaw had dwelling on it 217 per-
sons, while its proportion of sittings is only 33; that of Couston
145 persons, and 36 sittings; that of Boghead, 86 persons and
27 sittings. One or two other estates, it should at the same time
be stated, have more than a needful amount of sittings. The utter
inadequacy of the accommodation has occasioned a number of dis-
putes about seats, and has compelled some persons to join Dis-
senting congregations, who otherwise would not have left the Esta-
blished Church.
   The manse was built in 1828. The glebe is about 11 acres in
extent, and worth, on an average, about L. 19. The stipend con-
sists of L. 76, 18s. 2 1/4 d., 45 bolls, 1 firlot, 1 peck, 2 lippies of
meal, and 19 bolls, 1 peck of barley.
   There are three Dissenting chapels in the parish. Two belong
to the Relief and the Associate Synod, and the third is at present
in connection with no religious body. The ministers of all are
paid by their congregations.
   With the Established Church are connected 2185 persons;*
with the Relief, 674; with the Associate Synod,. 193; and with
the other congregation, 267. With congregations out of the pa-
rish are connected 78 persons, (of whom 14 belong to the Esta-
blished Church, 5 are Episcopalians, and 7 Roman Catholics,)
leaving 353 not belonging to any congregation, or whose religious
profession was not ascertained at the time of making the census.+
In none of the places of worship is the attendance on divine ordi-
nances what it should be. In the Established Church it varies from

<FOOTNOTE>All the statements here made refer to August 1836, when they were given in
evidence before the Religious Instruction Commissioners.
   + This number is much larger than that returned by the writer, many having re-
presented themselves to him as Dissenters, whom the Dissenting ministers did not
acknowledge as belonging to their congregations.


