
736                          ABERDEENSHIRE.

formed another on its northern side.  All kinds of game knows
in this country abound in the hill of Fare.  Several chalybeate
springs are found there which have been reckoned beneficial in
scrofulous, scorbutic, and gravellish complaints.  In the north-
west corner of the parish stands the Barmekin, a conical hill, now
entirely planted with wood.  Its height is scarcely two-thirds of
that of the hill of Fare.  On its top is an ancient fortification,
hereafter to be taken notice of.
   The soil of the best lands in this parish is mostly a light loam,
incumbent on a substratum of clay.  Part is of a light sandy soil,
and the low grounds for the most part mossy.  The climate is
mild, the harvests early, and the air salubrious.

                         II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   The chief historical event relating to this district is the battle
of Corrichie, which was fought on the 28th October 1562, in a
vale of the same name, by the forces commanded by the Marquis
of Huntly and the Earl of Murray, the brother and general of Mary
Queen of Scots.  This battle is taken notice of by most of the
Scottish historians.  It appears that the Marquis was offended at
the Queen for bestowing the earldom of Murray on her brother
the Earl of Mar, and for her intention of giving him a great part
of those large and valuable norther estate which belonged to
the earldom, several of which had been seized by the Marquis.
His son, Sir John Gordon, had escaped from the prison to which
the Queen had sentenced him for some feudal outrage; and had
placed himself at the head of the vassals of his house,--soon after
which, the Marquis assumed arms in person, and advanced towards
Aberdeen.  Murray drew up his men on the hill of Fare, and
awaited the approach of Huntly with only a few troops from the
midland countries on which he could depend, and some troops be-
longing to the northern Barons, whose intentions were doubtful
Huntly encountered first the northern troops, who fled towards
Murray's main body, pursued by the Gordons, sword in hand.
The Gordon were repulsed by Murray's firm battalion, and his
victory was completed by the clans that had fled, who turned upon
the Gordons as soon as they began to lose the day.  Huntly, a
bulky man, and heavily armed, fell from his horse and was trod-
den to death.  Other accounts say that he fled nearly a mile, and
there is a spot in the south-west corner of this parish, on the bor-
ders of the estate of Cullerley, yet denominated "Gordon's moss"
-where it is thought he was killed.  Sir Walter Scott affirm


