
     1274                       PERTHSHIRE.

      stream with moss as it returned to the Forth, near the point
      whence it had been raised.
        The engine raised the water at the rate of five tons per minute
      to the height of 38 feet from the surface of the river to the re-
      servoir at the top of the moss, conveying it in long wooden pipes
      to the distance of 400 yards.  The operation began in May 1828,
      and the ground was all bearing a crop in 1832.  There was paid
      to the contractor for clearing 100 acres, averaging ten feet deep,
      L. 2095; for coals, L. 816; wages of engine and furnace man,
      L.223, 4s.; tallow, oil, leather, &c., L.156. In all for clearing
      100 acres, L3290, 4s.
        The ardour, liberality, and perseverance of Colonel Graham in
      this operation excited the attention and the unqualified praise of
      the whole proprietors and farmers of this district.  But, as will
      appear hereafter, he  is also entitled to the highest praise for
      other improvements.
        Another system of moss improvement has been resorted to on
      the estate of David Dundas, Esq. of Ochtertyre, M. P. for Su-
      therlandshire.
        When, at the death of Mr Ramsay, the family of the late James
      Dundas, Esq., succeeded to this estate, there were about 243
      acres of it under moss, exactly similar to the moss of Blair- Drum-
      mond, to which it is united.  Of these, 38 acres have been re-
      claimed and bear crops, and 20, being low moss, are under a
      thriving plantation.  These 38 acres were improved by the
      late William Dundas, Esq., who had recently returned from In-
      dia, and, during a short residence here, was most deservedly and
      universally esteemed.  He died in the prime of life while visiting
      the Falls of Niagara.
        As he had, not a sufficient command of water at Ochtertyre, for
      conveniently reclaiming his deep moss, he improved that which is
      commonly called spreadfield, by trenching.  This operation was
      performed by burying the moss under about sixteen inches of clay,
      which, by spade-labour, was thrown upon the surface, drains being
      at the same time made in it at proper distances.
         The land  thus treated bears abundance of some kinds of crops
      to repay the expense of improving.  The spreadfield moss is that
      from which the peat from generation to generation has been dug,
      and is generally about two or two-and-a-half feet deep above the
      clay.  The twenty acres of fine thriving young plantation are up-


