
     of Buittle.

lowing is little known, grass being valuables, and the fields
abundantly clean, since the corns were dressed with sons*,
a practice equally profitable and universal.  From the ine-
quality of the surface of the ground, the watering of land,
by the numerous wells and rivulets, is easy, but of late
the practice is not much followed, where other manures can
easily be had, as it is believed to render the soil thin and gra-
velly, and to exhaust it so, that hardly any other improve-
ment is an effectual restorative-Of commons we have not
one foot.  Ring fences (stone dykes) around every farm,
have been erected long ago, and even sub-divisions; but the
latter are quite too large, especially for the turnip husbandry.
Indeed of late, potatoes, which are exported in great quan-
tities to England, to Glasgow, etc. have superseded almost
every other fallow or green crop.  The price is from 1 s. to
1 s. 6 d. per cwt. as the season is plenteous.-The imple-
ments of agriculture are in every respect the same with those
in the north of England; and as the intercourse with

<FOOTNOTE>

*To the credit of this country, this simple and most useful
machine was, a few years ago, brought to perpection, by two
natives of this neighbourhood.  Without this aid, farmers
might still have been obliged to place their barns in the most
aukward and inconvenient situation, from the view of obtain-
ing wind for winnowing.  Even then the corn often rotted in
the barn; and fields remained unsown, because the air was calm,
or the wind unsuitable, or accompanied with rain or snow.  Ser-
vants are now set to winnow the corns, in the fore part of the
winter night, when they were usually straggling, or unprofit-
ably employed.  Their health is no longer exposed in this part
of their duty; and, in a word, the date of the corn trade, in
this country, seems to coincide with the period when the fan
was introduced.  It is with no bad intention, that we mention
the names of the inventors, to whom the world has been more
indebted than to thousands of renowned empyrics in politics,
law, divinity, physic, etc.  The said ingenious mechanics were
Mr MUIR, joiner in Dumfries, -and Mr KINGHORN, miller of the
towns mills; both dead several years ago.


