
			   STONEHOUSE.                      469

bound it on the other side, from the parish of Dalserf, to its ut-
most extremity on the north. On the east, it is divided from the
parishes of Dalserf and Lesmahagow, by the Cander water, which
joins the Avon at the point where that river intersects the parish.
	Topographical Appearances.--The whole parish presents an
uniform appearance. There are no hills in it, but from its utmost
extremity on the south, there is a gentle and gradual descent to-
wards the centre.--from whence it again gradually ascends towards
the north; but the rise is not so great as to the south. The land
is all arable, and the soil in general good, and in many places not
yielding in richness and fertility to the best land in the county;
particularly the land in the vicinity of the town, which is let upon
a lease of twelve years, from L.4 to L.6 and L.7, and upwards,
per acre. The general appearance of the parish, within these
twenty or thirty years, has undergone an entire change. Before that
period there were few plantations to beautify and shelter the land;
now, there are everywhere springing up fine thriving planta-
tions of Scotch fir, larch, elm, ash, and other forest trees; chiefly
upon the lands of Robert Lockhart, Esq. of Castlehill, the princi-
pal heritor; and also upon the lands of many of the smaller pro-
prietors. However, before the period alluded to, there existed
upon the estate of Spittal, some belts of very fine Scotch fir, very
tall and full-grown, and fit for almost all the purposes of the car-
penter; but most of them, previous to, and since that time, have
been cut down; and only a remnant of them remains,--together with
some beautiful oaks, elms, limes, and ashes of considerable magni-
tude and age, on the avenue leading to the Spittal House, and about
the garden. The village of Stonehouse, also, was formerly adorn-
ed with plane trees of immense size, which towered aloft on all
sides of it; but these too have shared the fate of all sublunary ob-
jects,--the last remnant of them, so late as last summer, falling be-
fore the axe, to make room for the habitations of man. There are
still, around the manse and church-yards a few planes of great mag-
nitude and beauty.
	Draining has lately been introduced into the parish, and has
contributed not a little to change the aspect of the country, free-
ing it entirely from those unsightly woods of rushes, and other
aquatic plants, that thrive so luxuriantly in wet marshy, soils, and
neglected fields; so that, where the eye formerly wandered over al-
most a desolate wilderness, it is now charmed and delighted, with
the view of green verdant fields, and waving crops of yellow grain.

	LANARK.                   H h


