
                             KINROSS.                              13

ful queen were forcibly laid hold upon in this place, and carried off
to Stirling. In Balfour's Annals, we have mention made of Sir John
Cornyn in 130 1 raising the siege of Lochleven, then besieged by the
English. In 1335, as has been related by Buchanan, Abercromby,
Sir David Dalrymple, (and for a particular account of which
transaction see Forduni Scotichronicon, Vol. ii. p. 313, Edinburgh,
1759, folio,) Sir John Strevelyn invested Loebleven, at that time
held by Alan Vypont, in the interest of David II. and was compel-
led to raise the siege with great loss. In 1429, Archibald Earl
of Douglas, on account of some inconsiderate speeches against
his sovereign Jales 1, was committed a prisoner to the same
castle; and in 1477, Patrick Graham, an eminent dignitary of the
Scottish Church, and Archbishop of St Andrews, was, by a sen-
tence of deprivation and imprisonment pronounced by Pope Sextus
VI. (1484), and a college of cardinals, committed first to a cell in
Inchcolm, removed thence to the monastery of Dunfermline, and
lastly, for greater security, to Lochleven, where be died, and whence
his mortal remains were carried to the island of St Serf. The
Earl of Northumberland, who had taken refuge in Scotland to
avoid the effects of Queen Elizabeth's displeasure, was also con-
signed to Loebleven Castle in 1569. The then ruling party placed
and kept him there for three years, when he was removed to Eng-
land, and there put to death by his sovereign.
  But all these are unimportant events in comparison of these that
befel a Queen of Scotland, the most illustrious and most interest-
ing, perhaps, that ever swayed a sceptre, by her beauty and per-
sonal qualities, as well as the lengthened train of calamities to
which she was subjected, and the termination of a captivity of
twenty years, on a scaffold, by the hands of the public executioner.
It appears from a deed printed in Laing's "Dissertation on the
Murder of Darnley," and entitled 14 Act for se'questrating the
Quenis Majesties person, and detening the same in the hous and
place of Lochleven, 16 June 1567; " that the unfortunate Mary
was in Locbleven on the 16th June 1567. None acquainted
with her eventful and tragical story can be ignorant of the man-
ner of her escape, on Sunday I the 2d of May 1568. We are
informed, in the history of Mary's escape from Lochleven, that
when her deliverer had opened the gates of the castle and shut
them again, he threw the keys into the lake. Now, it is
not undeserving of record, that, at the close of the very dry
autumn of 1805, when the lake was uncommonly low, a boy, who


