
                      ECCLESMACHAN.                     113                                                                                                       113

imperial acres. On many of the farms, the most improved sys-
tem of husbandry has been introduced; much, however, remains
to be done in the way of draining. In the western district of the
parish, where, on account of the elevation, wheat is seldom or
never grown, the usual rotation of crop is the following: oats
green crop or fallow; barley or oats; hay; pasture for one or
two years. In the lower district, on heavy land, the crops are
usually arranged thus: fallow, wheat, beans, barley, hay or pas-
ture, oats; and, on the drier soils, thus, oats, turnip, barley,
hay or pasture. In general, the tenant is restricted only to the
extent that he is not permitted to take two green crops in succes-
sion without manuring each of them. Throughout the whole of
this country, there is an inclination to diminish the green crop,
and to return to the old fallow system.
   With the exception of two or three, the farms are all under
150 imperial acres. They are all let on leases of nineteen years.
The maximum rent is about L. 2 the Scotch acre, and the mini-
mum, L. 1, 5s. The average rent is about L. 1, 10s. the Scotch
acre. On the Earl of Hopetoun's property, the rent is paid
chiefly by the value of grain, ascertained from the annual fiars of
Linlithgowshire. The gross average rental of the parish is about
L. 2845. It may be worth while to add, that the annual value of
real property, as assessed by Government in 1815, was L. 3051.
   Live-Stock.-The rearing of cattle is not pursued to any great
extent; but a few short-horned bulls have been introduced, and
between them and the Ayrshire breed, a valuable cross has been
obtained, which is likely to be cultivated with success. Most of
the grass is depastured, and the green crop consumed by Highland
or Angus-shire oxen, purchased at the northern fairs, or by black-
faced sheep procured from the same quarter.
   Produce.-The following may be taken as an estimate of the
gross value of products from land in ordinary years:

<TABLE>
                 Grain,                        L. 5225
                 Green crop, including beans,     1100
                 Hay,                              765
                 Pasture,                          870
                                                 _____
                                               L. 7960

   Plantations.-There are about 130 imperial acres of growing
wood. It is mostly young, and little or none of it has ever been
brought to the market. A considerable part of it was planted by
the late Robert Warden, Esq., who thereby greatly improved and
adorned his estate of Blackcraig. Shelter is still wanted in some
quarters of the parish.
   LINLITHGOW.                                 H



