
                                     CULLEN.                         353

          The Noble family of Seafield distribute annually, in voluntary
       charity, forty-one bolls of meal, among twenty indigent and aged
       females, residenters in the parish of Cullen; and, in other respects,
       attend to the wants of the poor, with a beneficence and liberality
       worthy of their honoured name.  There is an annual subscription
       among the inhabitants, for the support of a coal fund, from which
       the poor are liberally supplied, during the winter months, with
       that important article of the necessaries of life.
          It thus appears, that the wants of the poor of thhs parish are
       most amply provided for; in proof of which, it deserves to be
       mentioned, that there is scarcely ever such a thing as regular beg-
       ging on the part of the inhabitants.  The people evince much of
       the ancient spirit of independence, in their landable efforts to
       maintain themselves by the labour of honest industry, so long as
       the power of doing so remains, and show much reluctance in ap-
       plying for parochial relief.
          Banks.-A branch of the Aberdeen Bank was established in
       the burgh in 1837.  It has experienced very considerable success,
       and has proved an important boon to the community of Cullen
       and the surrounding districts.  A savings' bank was established in
       1816, and has been productive of the most beneficial effects.
       The institution is open to the inhabitants of the adjacent parishes.
       The following is a statement of its affairs, 1st April 1842: num-
       ber of depositors, 480; amount of principal sums due, L.7069,
       15s. 7 1/2d.: amount of interest due, L.260, 13s. 4 6/7d.; total amount
       due to depositors, L.7330, 9s.; average sum of each deposit,
       L.15, 5s. 5 1/6d.
          Courts.-The following courts are statedly held in Cullen, viz.
       Sheriff Small-debt Court, for sums not exceeding L.8, 6s. 8d., on
       the second Thursday of February, June, and October; Justice
       of Peace Court, on the first Tuesday of every month, for sums not
       exceeding L.5; Registration Court, for the enrolment of Parlia-
       mentary electors under the Reform Act, in August annually.  The
       ordinary meetings of the Reverend the Presbytery of Fordyce are
       held at Cullen.
         Prison.-The only place of confinement in the hurgh is a look-
       up-house, for the purpose of punishing petty delinquents by a short
       imprisonment, and to be used, in case of need, for the, safe cus-
       tody of prisoners on their way    to the county jail.  It consists of
       three apartments or cells of moderate dimensions, vaulted, paved,
       lighted, and ventilated.


