
756                 FIFESHIRE.

with France is still carried on.  The yarns annually exported for
the previous two years, from Kirkcaldy, may be estimated at about
700 tons, the value of which will be upwards of L.60,000.
   The progress and prosperity of flax-spinning called for en-
gineers and machine-makers, consequently a large and import-
ant branch of this trade has recently sprung up.  There are
in tbe parish three works, engaged chiefly in making steam-en-
gines, and flax-spinning machines, in executing mill-wright work,
and in founding iron and brass.  In these three works 200 men, at
an average wage of 15s. per week, are employed.  The mills in the
district have not furnished sufficient employment for these esta-
blishments, especially during the depression oflate years; but ex-
tensive orders have been executed in them for Ireland, the conti-
nent of Europe, and the British colonies.  The capital invested in
these works will amount to L.21,000; and steam-engines, equal
to twenty horses power, are constantly employed in them.
   Navigation.-The port of Kirkcaldy, including the sub-port of
Anstruther, extends from Aberdour, in the Frith of Forth, to
Guard Bridge, in the upper part of St Andrews Bay, being about
fifty-two miles of coast.  The registered shipping consists of 160
vessels, with a tonnage of 12,077.  There belong to the head port
91 vessels-8911 of tonnage.  Two smacks ply regularly between
London and Kirkcaldy; and there are regular traders from Kirk-
caldy to Leith and Glasgow.  Two vessels are engaged in whale-
fishing; the rest in trading to North and South America, the
Mediterranean, France, the Baltic, and occasionally beyond the
Cape of Good Hope.  The foreign ships which usually trade
to this port are Norwegian, Danish, Hanseatic, Hanoverian,
Prussian.  On an average of years there have been 92 vessels
from foreign parts.  The principal articles of import are flax and
timber; of export, coals and linen yarns.  Nearly thirty years ago
vessels began to sail from Kirkcaldy to the whale-fisbing in Davis'
Straits.  For a number of years this trade increased, and was
very, profitable.  In 1828, nine Vessels belonging to this port, with
a tonnage of 3008, were engaged in this fishing.  A few prospe-
rous years succeeded, and large profits were realized.  In 1833,
the Kirkcaldy ships brought home 900 tons of oil, and 60 tons
of bone, the value of which was not less than L.30,ooo.  The
fishing trade has declined since 1835; and, but for the partial
success of last year, the fishing would very probably have been
this year entirely abandoned.
   Agricultural Society.-The only association iii the parish pro-


