
108                     DUMBARTONSHIRE.

population. The evil alluded to, and from which the parish occa-
sionally suffers, is of the following kind: There are a great num
ber of young women from this parish employed as domestic ser-
vants in the continuous towns, more especially in Glasgow. As
may be expected, not a few of these are from time to time seized
with fevers and other infectious disorders: and though they are
well known to be both faithful and active domestics, yet, no sooner
are they unfit for their labour, than they are often hurried
away from the families in whose services they have caught the in-
fection, without any attendant, sometimes without any arrange-
ment for their safety or comfort having ever been attempted. In
this diseased and distressed condition they are left to find their
way home as they best can: though symptoms of their malady are
thus highly aggravated by undue exertion and exposure; and with
a diminished likelihood of recovery to themselves, they are made
the vehicles of conveying disease, in its most virulent forms, to
the small, and damp, and often crowded cottages of their native
parishes.
   Within the last twenty years, there have been several fatal cases
both of palsy, scrofula, and cancer; and during, the late visitation
of Asiatic cholera, there were two cases of the disease, both of
which terminated fatally.
   Many remarkable forms of disease have appeared among us;
and not a few very peculiar cases of insanity. In regard to these
no minute details can be given here; but in closing this section,
it may be stated, that two very singular recoveries from disease
have occurred within the last fifteen years. The one was the
case of an epileptic youth, whose mind and body were fast decaying
under his severe malady. It so happened that his parents had on
one occasion left within his reach more than a pint of ardent
spirits, for which, unhappily, he bad contracted a liking. On their
return home they found the bottle empty, and their epileptic son
stretched senseless on the floor. He slept continuously for upwards
of forty hours, and awoke in comparative health both of body and
mind. He lived for several years, and during all that period he
had no return of his malady, and no desire for violent stimulants.
The other was the case of a poor woman, the mother of a large
family, who, for a considerable period, had been in a state of vio-
lent and seemingly confirmed derangement. Her husband was so
arrested and exercised with her distressing situation, that at length
his mind became unhinged also; and one night, in a fit of impetu-


