
KENNOWAY.

tants. The distance of the church from the most remote extre-
mities of the parish is between two and three miles.
The age of the church must, from its structure, and the height
t6 which the surrounding burying-ground has accumulated above
its foundation, be very great; but there are Po means of ascer-
taining the exact period at which it was built. The lintel of a
door, which is supposed to be of the same date with an addition
that bad been made to the original edifice, has 1619 inscribed on
it. The present state of repair of the church, however, notwith-
standing its great age, is exceedingly good. Perhaps it is to be
regretted, considering its size, as compared with the population,
that it is so good; and that such a sum as nearly L. 200 was ex-
pended in putting it into its present comfortable state, so lately
as in the summer of 1832. The number of sittings in it is 463;
while the number of families belonging to the Establishment in the
parish is 238; and that of individuals of all ages 1027. The
number of names on the communion roll at present is 507, from
which, if 28 be deducted for the old and infirm, who cannot attend
church, there is left still the number 479. This exceeds the nuin-
her of sittings in the church by 16. There are no free sittings.
An excellent and commodious new manse, with offices and gar-
den wall, was built in 1833, on a new and very eligible site, about
five minutes walk from the church. The grebe consists of about
7 acres, and may be valued at L, 20 yearly. The stipend, which
was augmented in 1832, amounts to 16 chalders, with L. 10 for
communion elements.
There are two Secedingcongregations in the parish, the places
of worship of which are both also in the village of KennoWay.
An unpopular settlement about the middle of last century gave
occasion to the erection of the elder of these two congregations,
which is connected with the United Associate Secession Synod.
The present minister of this congregation, who was ordained to his
charge upwards of forty-two years ago, is the learned and pious
Rev. Donald Fraser, D. D., well known as the biographer of the
Erskines, two of the fathers of the Secession, and -as the author
ofother popular works. In his congregation, by particulars which
he kindly furnished for this account, tbe'number of members is
428; besides whom, there are of the young with a few other hear-
ersabout290. Itistobanoticed,ht)wever,-thataboutone-third
Of the whole reside within the bounds of other parishes. The


