
     Statistical Account

   Tides.-The current in Pentland Frith is exceedingly strong
during spring tides, so that no vessel can stem it.  The flood tide
runs, from W. to E., at the rate of 10 miles an hour, with new
and full moon.  It is then high water at Scarfskerry (whence
the ferry boat crosses from Dunnet for Orkney), at 9 o'clock.
Immediately as the water begins to fall upon the shore, the
current turns to the W.:  But the strength of the flood is so
great in the middle of the frith, that it continues to run E.
till about twelve.  These contiguous currents, running with
amazing velocity, in opposite directions, have a strange ap-
pearance from the land, in a day favourable for observing
them.  With a gentle breeze of westerly wind, about 8 o'clock
in the morning, the whole frith seems as smooth as a sheet of
glass, from Dunnet Head to Hoy Head, in Orkney.  About
9 the sea begins to be in a rage, for about 100 yards, to appear-
ance, off the Head, while all without that continues smooth as
before.  This appearance gradually advances towards the frith,
and along the shore to the E, though the effects of it are not
much felt upon the shore, till it reach Scarfskerry Head, which
is about 3 miles distant from Dunnet Head, as the land be-
tween these two points forms a considerable bay.  By 2 o'clock,
the whole frith seems to be in a rage.  About 3 in the after-
noon, it is low water on the shore, when all the former pheno-
mena are reversed; the smooth water beginning to appear on
the land, and advancing gradually till it reaches the middle of
the frith.  From the strength of the tides, and the surprising
velocity of there contiguous currents, in opposite directions,
Pentland Frith is a very dangerous navigation to strangers,
especially if they approach near the land.  But the pratives,
along the coast, are so well acquainted with the direction of
the tides, that they can take advantage of every one of these
currents, to carry them safe to one harbour or another.  Hence
very few accidents happen, but from want of skill or know-


