
                            INVERESK.                           279

History, Book First (A. D. 1534,) as evidencing the mental agonies
of Cardinal Beaton, after that prelate had condemned many of the
Reformers to the flames; and also by Pitscottie, as being one of
the four to whom the Governor of Scotland communicated the
overtures of the Duke of Somerset, immediately previous to the
battle of Pinkie.*
   The House of Carberry--like those of Elphinstone and Fal-
side, immediately adjoining--had been originally built as much for
defence as accommodation; but about twenty years ago, it under-
went a thorough repair, and an adaptation to the peaceable com-
forts of modern times. The bartizan is characterized by the an-
tique quaintness of its mouldings, and its garniture of "winged
cherubs;" and in the garden, immediately behind the south side
of the building, "a dial stone, aged and green," bears the date of
1579. Carberry is beautifully situated on the northern slope of
the hill, embosomed amid its orchards, and venerable groves of
oak, chestnut, and beech, commanding a noble prospect to the
westward, and also of the Frith of Forth. Immediately above is
the peak of the hill from which Queen Mary witnessed the ap-
proach of the congregated Barons; and the stone is, still point-
ed out on which she rested, while holding a conference with Kirk-
aldy of Grange, immediately after she had parted with Bothwell
for the last time. The spot is still called the "Queen's Seat,"
and is marked out by a coppice, planted by the late John Fullar-
ton, Esq.
   By several entries in the "Inquisitiones Speciales," we find that
the property of Carberry remained for a long time in the family
of Riggt,+ which was succeeded by that of Dickson, and then by
that of Fullarton. It is now in the possession of J. F. Elphin-
stone, Esq., who succeeded in right of his grandmother.
   Nor of the origin of Pinkie House have we any authentic

<FOOTNOTE>The words of Pitscottie are these:--"These letters coming to the Governor, he
revealed the same only to his brother John, Archbishop of St Andrews, George Dun,
Abbot of Dunfermling, Archibald Beaton. and Mr Hugh Rigg of Carbary, by whose
advice be concealed the Protector's letters and reasonable offersfrom the nobility, for
fear lest they embraced them." P. 353.
   It is not a little singular that the battle-fields of Carberry, Roslin, Pinkie, and
Prestonpans, are each witbin eight of miles other,--and that the extremities of the
whole are not more than eight miles distant, as the crow flies.
    On the 29th January 1600, we find "Magister Quintigernus Rig, haeres Jaco-
bi Rig de Carbarry, patris, in tenemento in burgo de Edinburgh. E. L. 20." And
in the account of the parish given by the Rev. Adam Colt, minister in 1627, pub-
lished in the Maitland Club books, we find the following statement: "Thir landis
pertenis to James Rig of Carbarrie, and ar in maynsing as he hes tak of the teindis
of the same, and ar possest be himselfe."


