
340                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

to the north of the church.  It was improved and enlarged a few
years ago, and, with the schoolmaster's accommodations, is now
in good repair.  The branches taught are, reading, writing,
arithmetic, Latin, English grammar, geography, with the ele-
ments of mathematics and Greek, and the principles of reli-
gion.  The schoolmaster's salary is the maximum.  The school
fees may amount to L.25 per annum.  He is also session-clerk, and
enjoys the benefit of the Dick Bequest.  Four bursaries be-
long to this school, bequeathed by the late Mr John Mather of
Madras, by deed of testament, February 18th 1807.  The va-
lue of the bursaries is L.6, 5s. per annum during, attendance at
College; and L.2, 10s. per annum at school.  The magistrates
of Aberdeen are trustees of the fund, and the selection of the
young men is committed to the ministers of the parish.  Several
individuals, now filling with credit respectable stations in society,
have enjoyed the benefit of this fund, and when its resources are
fully developed, which is dependent on the death of a certain party,
it will prove a valuable boon to this parish, and should tend not a
little, to give the school a footing as a classical seminary, and
to promote its efficiency in other branches of parochial educa-
tion.  The unendowed schools are generally taught by individuals
in humble circumstances, but assiduous and pains-taking.  These
schools labour under many disadvantages; but of late years,
there has been an improvement in the manner in which they
are conducted.  In a large parish like this, they are absolutely
necessary, and a great advantage to the community.  The branches
usually taught in them are, reading, writing, arithmetic, mensura-
tion, and the catechisms of the Church.  One of them is a girl's
school, where, along with the other elementary branches, needle-work
also is taught.  A small  endowment is very much wanted for these
schools, so as to give the teachers some measure of that com-
fort to which the important duties which they fulfil to society en-
title them.
   The subjoined table shows the number of children who were
receiving education at the diferrent schools in the month of March
of the respective years to which it refers, with the principal branches
they were acquiring:

<TABLE>
                Total.     Reading.    Writing.   Arithmetic.  Latin.
     1836,  -    393         393         225          125        8
     1837,  -    321         321         176           95        5
     1838,  -    315         315         180          100        3
     1839,  -    312         312         169           97        4

All the youth of this parish between the age of five and fifteen are


