
		KIRKPATRICK-DURHAM.                       263

they have resided with little intermission ever since. This inno-
cent but enthusiastic society have always possessed a community
of goods, and now that their numbers are so small their worldly
circumstances are more than comfortable. Among other sin-
gularities, they refuse to acknowledge the band of marriage;
but the most striking peculiarity by which their opinions were
at first distinguished, consisted in the belief that the members
of their sect should never die, and that, under the guidance
of their female seer, they were to be translated in a body to
the New Jerusalem. This expectation having been disappointed,
notwithrtanding the severe and lengthened fasts which thdy un-
derwent in order to facilitate their flight,--and death having inter-
posed his unquestionable negative to their doctrine by summon-
ing their leader to her last account, they found it necessary to re-
linquish the most fanatical of their opinions, and, though with se-
veral exceptions, among whom is to be reckoned the clerical
member already noticed, they continued to preserve their seclu-
sion from the world,--their manners, which had always been in-
offensive and peaceable, became gradually assimilated to those
of, their neighbourbood,--and they are now to be distinguished
only by the simplicity of their demeanour, and a few religious pe-
culiarities of the most unobtrusive description. The old man,
who still survives, possesses a large fund of intelligence and
amuses himself by writing many a dissertation on points connected
with his peculiar creed, which, though not theologically orthodox,
evince a mind much above the ordinary standard.
        A "Free Church" has been lately erected in the village, which
is attended by a large proportion of the people.
	Education.--Of the three public schools in the parish, two are
on the Establishment. The expense of education is the same here
as in, the neighbouring parishes. The principal schoolmaster,whose
place of instruction is situated at the village, is entitled to the largest
rate of salary, (subject to a small deduction for the support of a
school at Crocketford,) besides a considerable annual sum derived
from money mortified many years ago for his benefit. The inha-
bitants seem, in general, fully alive to the blessings of education,
and the whole population, with hardly a single exception, are
taught to read and write. There are a few poor families resident
in the upper end of the parish, whose  places of abode are situate
at so great a distance from any of the schools as to preclude their
deriving from them any benefit. A teacher is therefore generally


