
272                     KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

ceive, in school fees, together, about L.30. There are none be-
tween six and fifteen years of age, or upwards, who can neither
read nor write.
	Literature.--A parish library was instituted about two years
ago, is managed by a committee annually chosen, the minister
being ex-officio president, and contains upwards of 200 volumes,
--novels, romances and plays being excluded, and every precau-
tion taken to ensure a proper selection of books.
	Poor and Parochial Funds.--There are eighteen persons re-
ceiving parochial aid. The average yearly allowance to each per-
son, is L.5, 10s.--in all, L.99. The funds are produced as fol-
lnws: collections, L.15; proclamations, L.1, 1s.; interest of
money, L.15, 4s.; poor's holm, L7, 15s.; and voluntary assess-
ment of the heritors, L.60; total, L.99.
	The only alehouse in the parish is a very, small one in the vil-
lage of Shawhead.
	Fuel.--The parish furnishes no fuel except peats, which may
cost, independently of carriage, about 2s; 6d. per cart-load.  Of
course, they are cheaper when the purchaser can spare hands to
cast them at the proper season. Search was lately made for coal
an the farm of Midtown; but, as might have been expected from
the mineral structure of the ground, without success. After bor-
ing a considerable depth, they came upon what they considered a
stratum of this mineral. It proved, however, to be a hard slaty
subomnce, of a dark gray colour, something like manganese, which
emitted, when ignited, a strong sulphureous smell.
		MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
	Since the last Account was written, various and important
changes have taken plaza. A considerable proportion of the waste
land has been reclaimed; small farms have merged into larger
ones  old, half-ruinous, and supernumerary cothouses, which
often prove haunts for vagrants, and nurseries of vice, are being
removed.  Farm-buildings, enclosures, road and bridges are in a
very superior state to what they then were. The character and
condition, too, of the people have been freatly ameliorated.

	Revised by the present Inctmbent, March 1844.


