
406                      ROXBURGHSHIRE.

ing, that it is not a little singular, that in a district such as this
these manufactures should have been carried on with such spirit,
and to so great an extent.  The expense of fuel, the distance of
any sea-port town, and the want of railroads, canals, or navigable
rivers, must have operated, it is to be supposed, very strongly
against the introduction or prosperity of this branch of industry.
Yet in spite of these formidable obstacles the trade has been pro-
secuted with a degree of activity, enterprise, and success, which,
whilst highly creditable to the mantfacturers themselves, has
added not a little to the value of property in the town, given a fresh
stimulus to every other department of trade, and afforded, more-
over, a readier market to the produce of the agricultural districts.

                  V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
  Market-Town.-Hawick is a market-town, and also a burgh of
barony and regality.  The public functionaries consist of two
bailies elected annually by the burgesses, fourteen deacons or re-
presentatives of the incorporated trades, and fifteen councilors
who hold office for life.  The senior magistrate is a justice of
peace ex officio.  The landed property of the burgh amounts to
1090 acres, and the gross revenue to upwards of L.470 per an-
num.  In the town there are two printing-presses, three public
reading-rooms, and three banks.  The subscription rooms used
ocbasionally for public meetings, the town-hall, the parish church,
and four Dissenting chapels, are the principal public buildings.
The general appearance of the town has been very much altered
of late years. New streets have been built in all directions for the
accommodation of the increasing population, whilst many of the
older tenements with their thatched roofs have been entirely re-
moved to make way for buildings more accordant with the taste of
modern times.  By means of these alterations the dwelling-houses
in general have not only been rendered better in point of comfort
and accommodation, but the shops also, both as respects their ap-
pearance and the quality of the various commodities they supply,
have undergone the most obvious and important improvements.
 The town is well supplied with water, and is lighted with gas,
whilst the inhabitants are almost entirely free from the burden of
local taxation.
 Post-office.-It appears from Wilson's History that, "previous to
the establishment of the post-office in Hawick about seventy or
eighty years ago, the letters, which were brought from Jedburgh
by a common hawker, once a month, were exposed on a stall in
                           4


