
46                    EDINBURGHSHIRE.

Grecçan architecture, and is in good repair; it bears the date 1771.
As, however, it cannot accommodate more than 500, not one-
fourth of the population, it is greatly too small. Plans, are, how-
ever being made out, with the view of adding 300 sittings; and
it is to be hoped, that another year will not pass without seeing
them completed.* At present there are upwards of 100 free sittings.
The manse, which was built about forty years since, is large and
commodious, but is a very insufficient building. The contractor,
who had undertaken its erection on too low an estimate, failed be-
fore he had Completed it, and the work was carried on by his cre-
ditors, who run it up in the slightest manner. The glebe contains
from 6 to 7 acres of good ground, which let with the farm offices
for L. 26 per annum on lease. The stipend amounts to L. 78,
all in money, and the tends are exhausted. It comes, of course,
under the benefit of the Act for Augmenting Poor Livings.
   There is a meeting house of the Secession denomination at How-
gate, built in the year 1750, which may accommodate about 400.
The stipend is raised wholly by seat rent. Of the population,
1434 reckon themselves adherents of the Established Church;
852 are Dissenters, chiefly of the Secession body, There are not
10 Roman Catholics in the parish. Divine service is well attend-
ed in the church. At the last summer communion, there were
540 Communicants; but there are upwards of that number on the
roll. The roll of heads of families entitled to exercise the veto con-
tains 190 names. The church is lighted by gas. The collections
for the poor average about L.30; an extraordinary contribution way
amount to from L.6 to L.8, although L,18 has been obtained.
There is an association in connection with the Established Church
for religious purposes both at home and abroad. Its receipts by
subscriptions and otherwise have, for the first six months, amounted
to upward of L. 20. The is sum has been mainly raised by very
small individual contribution.
   Education.-There are eight daily, and four Sabbath schools.
of these, two infants schools,-one maintained by the Misses
Cowan, and the other much aided by the grant of a house, &c.
by the proprietor of Eskmills. The number of pupils constantly

<FOOTNOTE>These plans were fully carried out in the year 1837, at an expense nearly
L. 600 Sterling, including a heating apparatus. Of this sum, about L. 400 was raised
by subscription, the remainder was borrowed, and the debts so contracted is being li-
quidated by a very small pew rent on the new sittings. These are all secur-
ed and fully occupied; and no experiment of the kind could have been more success-
ful or gratifying to the kirk-session, by whom it was carried through.


