
376                      RENFREWSHIRE.

their private affairs; and held them free from all challenge on
that subject.
  Since the date of the former Statistical Account in 1794, one
of the most striking improvements within this parish has been un-
doubtedly the reclaiming by William Napier, Esq. of Blackstoun,
of some seventy acres, by floating away the peat moss from the
surface, and converting into land fit for any crop.  While the cli-
mate is unquestionably ameliorated by laying dry the closely ad-
jOining land, every acre so acquired is purchased at a very reduced
price, (say from L. 20 to L. 25, or even L. 30,) and that, too, in a
very advantageous locality.
  Quarries.-There are in this parish quarries both of freestone
and whinstone.  The latter is found in great abundance, and
used chiefly as metal for the construction and repairing of
roads.  It is not unfrequently used, besides, for building; the
walls formed of such materials being quite impervious to the
beating storm.  For this purpose, however, the freestone is
principally employed, admitting, as it does, of being more easily
dressed.
  Domestic Manufactures.-The first of any importance was that
of strong linen; for which a factory was built in the year 1739.
Three years after, Mr A. Speirs made trial of fine fabrics, lawns,
cambries, &c. which he carried to the Dublin market, and dispos-
ed of to great advantage.  This succeeded so well as to become
a steady trade for a long period.  With bleachfields for whitening
their goods, and preparing them for market,-an object for which
the pure stream that sweeps through the vale on which the village
stands, is peculiarly well adapted, the trade continued to flourish,
till, by pushing it to an extreme, the proprietors became involved
in embarrassments, the issue of which was the breaking up of their
establishments in Dublin; and for a considerable length of time,
the fabrics manufactured here have been almost exclusively on ac-
count of houses in Glasgow and Paisley.  Silk fabrics are now chiefly
made, although there is produced a considerable proportion of fine
cotton goods.  A candle-work, which had once flourished here, and
a brewery, have been long discontinued.
  A printfield on Locher, a mile to northward, has existed from forty
to fifty years, which employed formerly from twenty-four to thirty
tables, with the usual complement of copper-plate engravers, block-
cutters, bleachers, &c. to prepare the cloth and finish it afterwards.


