
888                     PERTHSHIRE.

September 1783. He died on the 1Oth of January 1827. 9.
The present incumbent, a native of the parish, was ordained as-
sistant and successor to Mr Lang, 14th October 1819.
   Parochial Registers.-These consist of several volumes, and,
upon the whole, have been regularly kept. They extend back
to 1688, and the date of their earliest entry is the 18th December
of that year.
   Land-owners.-The heritors of the parish at present are 28
in number, and, with the exception of five of the non-resh-
dent, are proprietors of land of the yearly value of L.50 and up-
wards. The chief of these, in the order of their valued rents,
are, W. Murray, Esq. of Conland; J. Hay, Esq. of Paris; A.
Coventry, Esq. of Pittillock; Mrs Captain Wardlaw, and R. Low,
Esq. of Fordlels ; J. Burt, Esq. portioner of part of DLInerivie and
Deuglie; J. Whyte, Esq. of Arngask; Colonel G. Miller of
Eastertown Rev. A. Burt, of Wester Douglie; Mrs Barclay, of
Glendymill; J. Murray, Esq. of Forresterseat; W. Hay, Esq.
of Haysmill; W. Henderson, Esq.. of Blairstruic; C, G. Sidey,
Esq. of Letham; J. Bogie, Esq. of Oldfargie; W. Simpson, Esq.
of Hayfield, &c. Ten of the heritors are resident, and some of
them farm their own lands.
   Antiquities.-The parish scarcely affords any materials for the
exercise of antiquarian skill. We may state, however, that on
the farm of Newfargie, near the turnpike road which passes
through Glenfarg, there is a large block of mica-slate weighing
several tons, which, until a recent period, was so nicely balanced
on a rock, that it moved by a slight pressure of the band. This
was long regarded as a singular curiosity; but the equilibrium
by some means unknown, has been completely destroyed. The
stone must have reached its present position by human ingcnuity;
but in what way, or for what purpose, remains to be discovered.
   We are equally incompetent to furnish a satisfactory account
of the origin of Cairn Geddes, a small artificial mound in the
north-west district of the parish. It was formerly covered with a
considerable quantity of stones, but these have been recently re-
moved for the purpose of filling drains. No account or tradition
concerning this cairn has come down to us. It was partially
opened in the centre some years ago, and a rude stone coffin was
discovered about three feet from the surface. Had the work of
excavation been more extensive, it would probably have led to


