
         358                      PERTHSHIRE.

           Ecclesiastical State.-The church is situated in the centre of the
         village, and is a neat building, with a spire and bell.  It was built
         about the year 1773, and seated to contain 800.  The seats are
         divided among the different heritors, according to their valued rents,
         and by them portioned out among their tenants.  The manse was
         built in the same year.  An addition was given to the present in-
         cumbent in 1810 ; and the former manse repaired at the same time
         It is a comfortable, convenient house, delightfully situated on the
         banks of the Teath.  The grebe contains about 11 acres of very good
         land.  There are no free teinds in the parish.  The present stipend,
         as fixed by a scheme of locality in 1817, is 97 bolls, 1 peck, 1 lip-
         py of meal, 48 bolls, 2 firlots, 2 lippies barley, and L. 72, 14s. 2 1/2d.
         of money.  Divine service in the church is generally well attend-
         ed; but the extent of the parish renders it necessary that it should
         be performed at other stations as well as in the parish church.
         Hence it is customary for the minister to preach occasionally at
         Bridge of Turk, about six miles from this-and also upon the side
         of Loch Catharine, at a greater distance.  The number of com-
         municants may be about 700.  Number of Episcopalians, 2; Se-
         ceders, 4; Independents about 16; Roman Catholics, 6. The
         people are attached to the Church of Scotland.  The average
         amount of collections at the church is in summer L. 1, 10s, and
         in winter L. 1, which collections are distributed among the poor
         of the parish.
           Eduication.- There are a parochial school, and two others upon
         the establishment of the Society in Scotland for Propagating Christ-
         ian Knowledge. -In the parochial school, the following branches
         are taught: Latin, Greek, mathematics, arithmetic, book-keeping,
         mensuration, English, Gaelic, and writing.  In the school at Bridge
         of Turk, there are taught, Latin, English, Gaelic, arithmetic, writing;
         and the other school is for sewing, reading, writing, arithmetic, and
         English grammar.  The parochial schoolmaster's salary is the
         maximum, and the school fees may average from L. 30 to L. 40 per
         annum. The salary paid by the Society to the teacher at Bridge of
         Turk is L. 15; the school fees may be about L. 1, 10s.  The teacher
         of the sewing and reading school has a salary of L. 6.  Much praise
         is due to the excellent Society for Propagating Christian Know-
         ledge; but for it, thousands in the Highland's would have been de-
         prived of the means of instructions. The people are alive to the
         benefit of education. All in this parish have the means of instruc-
         tion, and all from six years and upwards can read. A very visible


