
     Statistical Account

   The other anecdote regards a second son of Pitlurg, who
got the lands of Cairnborrow.  The day before the battle
of Glenlivet, the Marquis of Huntly came to Cairnborrow,
and applied to his lady, who was supposed to rule the roast,
for her assistance.  She said, she had got short warning;
but that her old man, wit his eight sons, with a jackman
and a footman to each, should attend him immediately.
Huntly thanked her; and after some more conversation
with her, desired Cairnborrow, who had never spoke a word,
to stay at home, telling him, that at his advanced years it
was not proper to take him along, especially as he had so
many of his sons.  The old man heard him out, and shrug-
ging up his shoulders, said, " Na, na, my Lord, I'll blead
" the whelps mysell; they'll bite the better."  This was at
once the reply of a sportsman and soldier; and the whole
family went to battle with the laird at their head.  They
defeated Argyle, and returned all safe to Cairnborrow*.
In mountainous districts, sentiments of liberty, and of per-
sonal bravery, are very prevalent.

   Advantages of the Parish of Rhynie.-These are, good
soil in general, and shelter from the high hills, which ren-
ders the greater part of the cultivated lands very warm and
fertile.

<FOOTNOTE>

*The writer of this account has been favoured with a curious manu-
script, in which the names of the father, mother, and eight sons, are all
mentioned:  "John Gorden of Cairnborbe married Bessie Gordon, daughter
" to the Laird of Buckie, with whom he begat eight sons and three daugh-
" ters.  His sons were, 1st, John, laird of Cairnborne, afterwards of Eden
" glassie; 2. George Gorden of Sorbach; 3. James Gorden of Ferrnaghtie;
" 4. William, who cost (bought) Cairnborrow; 5. Mr Arthur Gorden;
" 6. Thomas Gorden of Aitloch; 7. Robert Gorden of Gollachie; 8. Pa-
" trick Gorden of Craigston in Sutherland.  All these, with their father, and
" nine jackmen and as many footmen, went to Glenhvet battle."


