
28   	                 WIGTONSHIRE.

pointed out, the one at Culnoag, on the north-west, and the other
at Gilfillan, near the middle of the parish, and on these we think
they must have been built.
	The ancient parish of Kirkmadrine forms the eastern district
of the present parish of Sorbie. The church of this parish be-
longed to the prior and canons of St Mary's Isle, and the cure
was served by a vicar. About the year 1562, the vicarage was
reported to be worth only L. 10 yearly. * The church appears
to have been rather small, exceedingly plain and without windows.
Its ruins are still to be seen on the farm of Penkiln, surrounded
by a clump of trees, which also incloses the church-yard. Here
some families in the parish still bury; and it may be noticed that
some of the bones, occasionally dug up at the opening of a grave,
are remarkably large.
	The ancient parish of Cruggleton forms the south-eastern district
of the present parish. Its church belonged to the priory of Whit-
horn, and the cure was served by a vicar. In 1562, the vicarage
Of Cruggleton was said to be worth L. 16. After the Reformation,
the Bishops of Galloway received the patronage of this and the
Other two parishes; and after Kirkmadrine and Cruggleton were
joined to Sorbie, they held the patronage of the United parish, till
the abolition of Episcopacy in 1689, when it was vested in the,
crown.+ The church of Cruggleton appears to have been larger,
and better built than that of Kirkmadrine. The greater part of
the walls is still extant; and the interior of it is occasionally used
as burying ground.
	Antiquities.--The Castle of Cruggleton, which gave name to the
parish in which it stood, was built on the verge of a precipitous part
of the sea coast. Nothing now remains of it, save part of an arch,
and the foundations of some of the walls; but there is enough to
show that in ancient times, it must have been a place of great size
and strength. The spot on which it stood is a kind of promon-
tory, formed by a small bay on each side, and is elevated about 200
feet perpendicular above the level of the sea. The fosse encloses
upwards of an acre of ground, and is still quite distinct. It is
183 yards long and about 12 yards wide. We have not been
able to ascertain the precise period at which the castle was built,
but we are told by Chalmers that it certainly existed in the thir-
teenth century, and that it was the property and domicile of John

<FOOTNOTE>Caledonie, Vol. III. p. 429   Ibid. p. 428-9.


