
                          KIRKNEWTON.                        443

   There are in the parish below this age, 64 children; 33 males,
81 females."
   In the Account of East Calder by the committee of presbytery
in 1750, the statement relative to the population is as follows:
"There are about 620 examinable persons in the parish, of which
number there are 416 within a mile of the church."
   Customs, Character, &c. of the People.-There is nothing very
peculiar in the customs, games or amusements of the parish.
Quoiting in summer and curling in winter are favourite pastimes,
   The food used by the peasantry is chiefly farinaceous and ve-
getable,-butcher-meat not forming an article of ordinary diet,
though more common than formerly.
   The people, on the whole, enjoy, in a reasonable degree, the
comforts and advantages of society, and, as a general feature of
character, the praise is fully merited by them of contentment with
their lot. The diffusion of knowledge by which the present age
is so eminently distinguished, rendered still more available to this
parish by its vicinity to the metropolis, is an advantage which has
been duly improved; and the population, as a body, are entitled
to be designated as an informed, intelligent, and well-disposed
community. In their intercourse with each other they are kind
and neighbourly, and, in their general demeanor and conduct,
civil and obliging.
                       IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.-Of the whole lands, about two-thirds are under
tillage, the remainder being in permanent pasture. Generally
speaking, the former description lies chiefly on the north, and the
latter on the south. There are from 500 to 600 acres under
wood.
   The northern half of the parish consists generally of a light free
soil; but there is hardly a farm, rarely even a field, in which a
portion of the subsoil is not found to consist of a stiff retentive
clay. The southern half is very generally of this description.
   The operations of agriculture are conducted according to the
most approved principles; and discoveries and improvements find
their way into the parish all the more readily, that several of the
proprietors retain their lands, or a part of them, in their own hands.
   As may be supposed, where the nature of the surface, the means
of the occupant, and other circumstances, are considerably differ-
ent, there is no absolutely uniform system of management or
rotation of cropping. The following may be stated as what is,
most generally followed:-first year, oats from lea; second, po-


