
11                                  ALLOA.                                        11

the destruction of them by poachers, there being few parishes where they have more
abundant shelter than here.
  (3.) The sturling has become, plentiful here of late bring known to breed in the
steeple of the old church.
  (4.) This beautiful bird is an irregular winter visitant. Specimens of it have been
shot in this parish, at long intervals; the last in 1823.
  (5.) There were few herons that bred here when the last Account was written. It
is still a scarce bird, only a few of them now breeding in the old trees of Alloa wood,
and sometimes a pair or two in the firs of the island in the Gartmorn Dam. The con-
gener of the heron, the bittern, which had then become very scarce, has totally dis-
appeared from the parish, as has also the whimbril.
  (6.) Considerable numbers of these "solitary wanderers of the deep" have been seen
on the Forth at Alloa, at different times, but their appearance of such a distance
from the sea is of rare occurrence, as was observed by the writers of the Old Statisti-
cal Account. It is generally believed that they leave the sea only on acoount of very
tempestuous weather, A storm from the eastward was experienced here in the be-
ginning of November 1840, when several petrels were shot near the Alloa ferry, and
when some of them were seen at Cambus, two miles farther up the river. One of
these little creatures, the smallest of web-footed birds, has been preserved, and is in the
possession of the writer of this account.

   All the song-birds common in Scotland are abundant here, as
are the swallow and pie tribes, with all the cawing genus. In the
Old Statistical Account, it is stated that only the Royston or hood-
ed crow, bred in the parish; and that magpies, ravens, crows, and
jack-daws were often seen, but did not breed there. A colony, of
the last now find an asylum in the roof of Alloa Tower, and a few
have taken possession of the upper part of the new church steeple.
The intelligent farmers here, in general, seem convinced that
ronks are beneficial, not hurtful to their crops; and it has often
been observed that, when the ploughman and sower are at work in
the same field, the former is followed by a train of rooks, the lat-
ter being unattended, his grain remains untouched. They will
indeed, sometimes steal a little corn, but that only when the ground
is so hard and dry as to prevent them from digging up insects and
grubs, which  are their natural food. -See an able pamphlet under
the title of "Farmers versus Rooks," by J. S. Menteath, Esq.
younger of Closeburn, published at Ayr in 1838. The object of
the author is to show that rooks, so far from being injurious to the
farmer by eating his newly sown corn, render him the most essential
service by devouring grubs, which destroy not only corn, but the
roots of grass and growing plants of every description. A pleasing                                                      siog
poem on this subject, entitled the "Farmer's Vision," has been
privately printed and circulated among his friends, by its noble
author, Lord Erskine, in whose distinguished life, one of the most
pleasing features is, his long exerted zeal in the cause of the suf-
fering animal creation.


