
112,                       LANARKSHIRE.

manifold blasphemies and evil words spoken by sundry women,
direct the master of works to erect jugs, three or four steps up,
that they may not be torn down. The town-council enacted that
no market be kept on Sundays, and that persons blaspheming and
swearing shall be punished according to law. Walter Prior of
Blantyre, tacksman of the teinds of the parsonage of Glasgow,
provided the elements for the communion, he was spoken to, to pro-
vide a hogshead of good wine. The time of convening on the Sun-
days of the communion was four o'clock in the morning. The
collectors assembled on these occasions in the Hie Kirk, at three
o'clock in the morning. At that period the town-council enacted
that wine shall not be sold dearer than 18 pennies Scots, for a
Scotch pint, and ale not to exceed 4 pennies Scotch, = ond,third
of a penny Sterling for two imperial quarts."
	" On 7th October 1589, there were six lepers in the Lepers'
House at the Gorbals end of the bridge, viz. Andrew Lawson,
merchant; Steven Gilmour, cordiner; Robert Bogle, son of Pa-
trick Bogle; Patrick Brittal, tailor; John Thomson, tailor; and
Daniel Cunningham, tinker."
	For a considerable time previous to 1604, very serious differen-
ces had arisen between the merchants and trades' ranks, regarding
precedency; to put an end to which, and to restore peace in the
burgh, a submission was entered into on 10th November 1604,
which led to the letter of guildry. On 16th February 1605, at a
meeting in the Council-House, Sir George Elphinston of Blyths-
wood, provost, informed the meeting that the provost, bailies,
and council being ripely advised, understanding the same first to
redound to the honour of God, common weal of this burgh, have
accepted, received, and admitted the said letter of guildry, and in
token thereof have subscribed the same.
	On 3d March 1608, the kirk-session gave intimation, that the
Laird of Minto, a late provost, was accused of a breach of chastity.
The session considering his age and the station he held in the town
pass him with a reprimand.
	At this period the funds of the corporation must have been very
low. At a meeting of the town-council, on 9th April 1609, the pro-
vost informed the council, that the magistrates had been charged
the sum of 100 punds, by the clerk register, for the book called the
"Regium Majestatem," that they were in danger of horning for the
same, and that, as the town was not stented, and as the council,
could not advance the money, (L. 8, 6s. 8d. Sterling,) he had bor-
rowed it from William, Burn, merchant burgess.


