
     of St Andrew's, Lhanbryd.

with each other, and all covered with corn or grass, or
with plantations of wood.  The soil in general is sandy,
yet fertile where it is low and damp.  The air is healthful
and dry; not productive of any prevalent distemper; al-
though the inhabitants are not distinguished for longevity.
There is one mineral spring in the Teindland, of a strong
chalybeate kind, as yet of no celebrity; though it has gi-
ven relief to all who have made proper trial of its effects.
There are three lakes on the confines of the parish; the
largest, that of Spynie from 4 to 6 feet of water on a deep
rich mould, inviting its proprietors to drain off its shallow
water.  Several years ago, one of them carried on this ope-
ration at a considerable expense, and with the most encou-
raging prospects; but when he had nearly completed the im-
provement of the old canal, he was retarded by a litigation
before the Court of Session, with his neighbour on the o-
ther side of the lake, who wished to retain all the water.
This opposition being at last unsuccessful, the undertaking
was completed; by which, although not effectual, many
acres were regained, where the course of ridges, the forma-
tion of artificial roads, and every token of ancient and un-
known cultivation, most evidently and unexpectedly appear-
ed.  The neighbouring loch of Cots, originally a part of
that of Spynie, at first a strait of the ocean, described in the
chartulary of Moray as a bay, in the 13th century, is on
the same level, and offers equal encouragement to drain off
its water, in proportion to its extent; and being supported
by two considerable rivulets, the mouth of the canal would
afford a profitable salmon-fishing.  Lochnabee, in the S. E.
corner of the parish, is about 3 miles in circumference, and
has an island covered with wood.  There is a forest round
this lake planted by the Earl of Fife, so extensive and thri-
ving, as to have already induced a score or two of red deer
to make their residence in its cover.  These lakes abound


