
     Statistical Account

   Labouring Cattle, Sheep, &c.-Horses only are used
for the plough.  These differ in size and value with the
size of the farm, and the circumstances of the farm-
ers.  The highest priced sell, at present, from 8 l. to 9 l.;
the smaller from 3 l. 10 s. to 4 l. 10 s., when young.  A
great proportion of the horses is brought from Strath-
naver, when rising 2 years old, and sold at high prices.
Many of the best are gain sold when 4 or 5 years old,
to the Caithness people, at the Lammas market.  Most
of the farmers in Stenness, and few in Firth, keep each
a cart ox for carrying out the manure.  These oxen sell
from 2 l. 10 s. to 3 l.  Sheep are far from being numerous,
and probably not a tenth part of what they were 30 years
ago; nor a twentieth of what, with proper care and ma-
nagement, might be kept in the extensive ranges of hills
dividing these from the neighbouring parishes.  Consider-
ing the present management, it is only surprising, that
the breed is not utterly exterminated.  They are never
herded, and seldom looked after, except for shearing, for
marking the lambs, or for the butcher, when they are
hunted down by dogs, and often sadly torn.  In the winter
season, many of them are carried off by the sea, or high
tides, from the skerries, to which they report to fees on
sea-weed.  The ewes very frequently produce twins,
but a great proportion of the lambs is devoured by
dogs, ravens and eagles.  After the bear feed is laid

<FOOTNOTE>

bear-meal from 11 s. to 16 s. the meil, (11 l/2 stone); cows from 1 l. 10 s. to
2 l. 10 s; sheep from 4 s. to 5 s; twine from 5 s. to 6 s; geese 1 s; hens 4 d;
butter from 5 d. to 6 d. the mark, (1 1/2 d. l b.English; eggs 1 1 1/2 d. the dozen;
hay and straw from 6 d. to 8 d. the horse load; potatoes 3 s. the meil.  The
vicinity of Kirkwall and Stenness gives a ready market for every article
the farmers have to dispose of. At the latter place, those in the neigh-
bourhood often get far higher prices than the above, when there is much
shipping in its harbour.


