
210                 EDINBURGHSHIRE.

Homildon Hill, and having been taken prisoner, was, along
with several of the most illustrious prisoners, presented to King
Henry IV. in full Parliament, where be acted as spokesman for
the others.* During the last year of his life, he was Depute-
Chamberlain, of the southern division of the kingdom, under the
Earl of Buchan.+ His first wife was Agnes, daughter of John
Dundas of Fingask; and he was afterwards married to a lady whose
Christian name was Margaret, who survived him about twenty years.
He died in 1404, and was buried in the chapel of St. John the
Baptist at Corstorphine.  The stone which originally covered his
remains is built into the west wall of the session-house, and has
on it an inscription, now almost defaced, commencing " Hic jacet
Adam Forstar."
   Sir John Forrester, his oldest son, was brought up at Court,
and succeeded his father in the situation of Depute-Chamberlain
of the southern division of the kingdom.++ He obtained a charter
to the estate of Corstorpbine from William More of Abercorne,
then the superior, on 22d March 1392, which was probably on the
occasion of his marriage.  After 1408, be acted as Depute-Cham-
berlain of the whole' kingdom, under the Earl of Buchan, who
seems to have devolved upon him all the duties of the office of
High Chamberlain.  In this situation be continued down to the
year 1425, but in that interval he held also several other appoint-
ments.  In 1416, he was named one of the Commissioners to treat
with England for the King's liberty, and in 1421, he was made
Lord Privy Seal.  His crown charter to the estates of Corstor-
phine, Drylaw, Nether Liberton, Meadowfield, and Clerkington,
erecting, them into the Barony of Corstorphine, is dated 10th July
1424; and in the same year be was one of the hostages given for
the Kings ransom. As a remuneration for his numerous services,
on the Kings return to Scotland, a new office was created for him
under the name of Magister Hospitii, Master of the Horse, and in
the following year be was made Lord High Chamberlain.  It was
at this period of his life, that be founded and endowed the Colle-
giate Church of Corstorphine.
   Sir John Forrester was three times married.  The surname of
his first wife, Margaret, is unknown, but the second was Lady Jean
St Clair, daughter of the first Earl of Orkney, and his third was
Marian Stewart, daughter of Sir Walter Stewart of Garlies, and

<FOOTNOTE>Parliamentary History, Vol. ii. p. 71.
           See Chamberlain's Account, Vol. ii.       Ibid. Vol. ii. and iii.


