
374                       EDINBURGSHIRE.

Among the nobility who have property in this parish, are Lord
Torphichen, the principal heritor, and the Earls of Morton,
Buchan, and Rosebery. The number of persons who have land-
ed property within the parish is twenty; and of these all except
three have land of the yearly value of upwards of L.50.

                        IV.-INDUSTRY.
 Agriculture.-Mr James Knox, who, some years ago, pub-
lished an excellent map of the country of Mid-Lothian, has
obligingly favoured the writer with an accurate statement of
the number of imperial acres which the parish contains. He cal-
culates that, on the north of a line due east and west, passing
through Westfield, there are 4815 imperial acres; and on the
south of said line, 7524; making in all, 12,339 imperial acres.
The proportion of arable to pasture lands, may be nearly as one
to two. The farmers and proprietors are yearly reducing the
quantity of uncultivated and mossy land; and, by this means, are
profitably increasing both their tillage and their pasture fields.
There is no undivided common belonging to this parish, although
the sheep farms have but few subdivisions, being mostly surrounded
only with a ring fence. Excepting Calderwood, there is no copse
or natural wood, but the whole extent of land under planting is
considerably above 200 acres. The trees are chiefly of the fir
tribe, including also a mixture of ash, plane, elm, beech, and oak,
&c. as already noticed: and, in the management of these planta-
tions, the proprietors generally err, by not thinning and pruning
them in proper time; but this is no doubt of less importance in
strips, which are intended chiefly for ornament and shelter.
  The best arable land in the lower districts lets at from L.2 to
L.2, 10s. per acre; the outfield in the higher grounds, if arable,
from 10s. to 15S.
  The attention of agriculturists in this district has been chiefly di-
rected to the dairy system. The dairy culture has been peculiarly ad-
vantageous, both for a quick return of ready money for rent, and
for enriching the land by means of an abundant supply of valua-
able manure for such green crops as are necessary for winter food.
It has been doubted by some practical farmers in this country, whe-
ther keeping mile-cows, fattening cattle, or fattening sheep be the
most profitable. In favoure of inch-cows it may be observed, that, as
the produce of the dairy is never equal to the demand, the market is
less fluctuating. The dairy farmer has more leisure also to attend to
his farm, and has no occasion to spend his money and his time at the


