
                               LUSS.                      163

the soil generally, occasioned by the agricultural improvements,
which have to some extent found their way hither also, render a
scarcity of provisions a rarer occurrence now than in former times.
They are generally a contented people; yet it is believed, that a
somewhat more general diffusion of capital would tend not only to
increase their comfort and improve their condition, but to pro-
mote the improvement and productiveness of the land. They are
remarkably kind and hospitable, and as there has -been less shift-
ing of population here than elsewhere, they continue much at-
tached to their native soil, in which generally their forefathers
have dwelt from time immemorial. The retain much of the
manners, customs, virtues, and prejudices of the olden times.
The great body of them are regular in attending on religious or-
dinances. Since the reduction of the duty on distilled spirits, il-
licit distillation has almost ceased to exist. Poaching is also in a
great measure kept down.

                      IV.-INDUSTRY.

  Agriculture.-Several hundred acres of the best arable land in
the parish, being adjacent to the family residence of the proprie-
tor, Sir James Colquboun, have been laid out as pleasure-ground,
and are either occupied with plantation, or used for pasture. As
there has been no actual survey taken of the land for a long time,
and from reluctance on the part of the parties who can give in-
formation, it would be next to impossible to ascertain the number
of acres and the actual produce of the land, whether in cultivation
or not.There can be no doubt that, by a judicious application of
capital, a large portion of the marshy and mossy land in the flat
district might become productive, and yield an ample return.
  Rent.-The average rent of good arable land per acre may be
stated at L. 2, the average rate of grazing per ox or cow, grazed at
L.2, 10s., and for each full-grown sheep for the year, supposed
to be about 3s. 6d. on the hill pasture.
  Wages, &c.-The ordinary labour of cultivation is generally per-
formed by the farmer's own family and servants, who live at his house,
and are hired half-yearly. The average hire of a full-grown man is
L.7, and of a woman, L. 3, 1Os. per half year.  Persons hired for
harvest-labour receive, men, 2s. and  women, 1s. 6d. per day, with
victuals. Occasional labourers receive 2s. per day.  The price of
the various kinds of produce is regulated by the state of the
Greenock and Glasgow markets. The expense.of carriage reg-
ders coals very dear, as this commodity must be conveyed from,


