
536                          AYRSHIRE.

ous vapours, and might be expected to influence accordingly the
health of the population.
	Distempers.--It does not appear, however, that any disease has
become located here as an endemic; neither can, it be said that
the inhabitants are more liable to be attacked by epidemics; nor,
when they are attacked, do these prove more fatal than in other
districts. In the case of cholera, with which the town was visited
in common with many others in 1832, the proportion of deaths to
the amount of population proved nearly the same as in towns of
equal magnitude in other parts of Britain, and on the continent;
and so also may it be stated of other epidemics when such have oc-
curred. There is every reason to believe, that the average mor-
tality is not greater than in the same amount of population in
other manufacturing districts: and that the health of the parish
is as good as can be looked for amidst a population of so mixed a
character.
	Geology.--Our information regarding the geology and mine-
ralogy of the parish is very vague. The minerals are but few,
being principally confined to the carboniferous or coal system; but
their value renders this an important mineralogical district, for,
valuable as its surface produce is, the subterranean treasures are
equally great. We need not expatiate on the acknowledged im-
portance of coal in spreading manufactures and increasing nation-
al wealth. The town, which is situated in the south-west end
of the parish, is the point towards which all the strata dip; from it
they rise at an angle of about 6 or 7 degrees, and only two dikes of
any consequence have been discovered; one at the very south-west
point, of greenstone, about 30 yards broad; the other, which is
much larger, is visible in the Kilmarnock water to the east of the
town, and forms an excellent dam dike to the extensive woollen
manufactories of Messrs Blackwood. Proceeding up Polbeath
burn, the eastern boundary of the parish, several beds of excellent
limestone are met with, which have been wrought to considerable
advantage for many years, in the neighbouring parish.  A little
farther up, several veins of ironstone are seen; these run eastward,
and are met with in the estate of Grougar in great abundance and
variety: so much so, that, on this estate, iron-works on an extensive
scale are expected to be soon begun. A mass of greenstone forms
the bed of the burn for nearly half a-mile; over which it falls, at
a spot where the banks are nearly 100 feet high, about 60
feet in six or seven sweeps, separate from each other about ten
				6


