
			    ECCLES.			                    53

quartz nodules.  The inferior part of the rock has a wacke basis
approaching to clay, and stilbite occurs sparingly in it.
   In the sandstone which is exposed near Kennetside head, the
silicious particles predominate to such an extent as to constitute
almost a quartz rock.  The same marly sandstone which is seen
at the Tweed appears on the banks of the small river Leet, and
contains thin beds of gypsum.
   From these facts it appears that the whole of the parish is situ-
ated in the new red sandstone formation.  A bluish inarl contain-
ing 30 per cent. of carbonate of lime occurs at Harlaw and Over-
mains, which was used as a manure, but it seems now to be near-
ly exhausted.  There is considerable variety of soil in the parish,
that on the banks of the Tweed being light, while to the south-
east there is some moor land; in the middle and northern parts, clay
and loam predominate.
   Zoology- The banks of the Tweed and the plantations at May-
field, harbour a number of foxes, weasels, and rabbits.  The otter
frequents Ferneyrig bog.
   Besides about eighty common birds, the parish is occasionally
visited by some rarer species.  Of these may be mentioned the
Columba turtur (turtle dove); Aquila albicilla (sea eagle); Turdus
vescivorus (missel-thrush,) which was very uncommon till within
the last three years; Corythus enucleator (hawkfinch); Alcedo is-
pida (king's fisher); Ardea nycticorax (night heron or bull of the
bog); Mergus merganser (goosander); Lanius excubitor, Linn.
(greater butcher bird.)
   On the Tweed, the salmon fishery, the property of the Earl of
Home, had very much declined, but during the last two years it has
in some measure revived.  Pike occurs in the Leet, Ferneyrig and
Harlaw bogs.
   Botany.-Notwithstanding the high state of cultivation of the
parish, above 360 Phenogamous or flowering plants grow within
its bounds.  They may all be classed under three soils, but the
rarer plants alone deserve notice; 1. marshy; 2. light and moor;
and 3. clay soils.
   1. Fernyrig marsh furnishes a Considerable variety of the first,
viz.  Hippuris vulyaris, Utricularia vulgaris, Potamogeton heterophyl-
lus natans v*ar. Samolus valerandi, (Enanthe phellandrium, Par-
nassia palustris, Spergula nodosa, Ranunculus linqua, which occur on
the borders of the marsh, while the water is overgrown with the
Arundo phragmites, the stems of which are used for thatching


