
			KILMARNOCK.                        559

Church, ex officiis; 4. subscribers of L. 20 and upwards; 5 five
directors chosen annually from subscribers of; L. 5, and under
L. 20; 6. the preses of the Marchant's Society, as representing
L. 5o subscribed by them. These directors are authorized to choose
the teachers as vacancies occur, and to fix the rate of fees.
	There are two branches of the parish school, ones in Rowallan,
and the other in Grougar barony. They have each a house for
school and master, half a chalder of victual, and a small garden.
The half chalder is meanwhile paid voluntarily by the heritors to
the teacher at Rowallan, because he has not yet been appointed
according to the terms of the schoolmaster's, act; but the payment
to the teacher in Grougar is now regularly assessed for, as he was
lately chosen in the manner prescribed by law. The heritors act-
ed on the occasion in the most liberal manner, having subscribed a
handsome sum to aid the inhabitants,of the district, the lord of the
manor, and other contributors, in erecting a commodious house,
	Upwards of 2000 pupils attend the other schools of the town
and parish, at which, taken collectively, the above-mentioned
branches are taught, with the addition of sewing and music.
Two of the schools in town were erected for the reception of
the children of the poor, whose education would otherwise have
been neglected, and are supported by a subscription `mong
the inhabitants generally. The first is the female school of
industry, patronised by the ladies, in which about twenty-five
girls are taught English reading, needle-work, and knitting of
stockings. The teacher, who is also a female, has a salary of L. 20
per annum. The second is the free school, patronized by the
gentlemen. In this school, there are two departments, viz. the day-
school and the evening class. Into the day-school orphans and
neglected boys and girls are admitted indiscriminately, on the pro-
duction of a certificate from one of the managers, that they are not
under five and a half years of age. In this department, English
reading and writing are taught without any expense whatever, and
the average number of scholars is about 1190. Into the evening
class, boys and girls more advanced in age who are employed du-
ring the day on some of the public works, admitted, and the
average number of scholars is about 90. The teacher is allowed
a salary of L. 50 annum. In all the schools the Shorter Ca-
techism is taught, and the Bible is one of the school-books.
	There aren in the town and landward parish 21 Sabbath evening


