
202			LANARKSHIRE.

steam-vessels is about one-third more. All the new boats either
for the out-sea or river trade, are of greater engine power, and are
much more splendidly fitted up for the accommodation of passen-
gers than heretofore. The speed is also greatly improved. The
Liverpool boats in 1831 were thought to have made good passages,
when they performed the run from Liverpool to Greenock, a dis-
tance of 220 miles, in twenty-four to twenty-six hours. It is now
done much sooner. On Wednesday, 24th June 1835, the steam-
packet City of Glasgow, belonging to Messrs Thomson and Mac-
connell. left Greenock, and arrived in Liverpool in the unprece-
dentedly short period of seventeen hours and fifty-five minutes; and the
steam-packet Manchester, belonging to Messrs James Martin, and
James and George Burns and Company of this city, left the Clarence
dock, Liverpool, on Monday evening the 15th December 1834, and
arrived in Glasgow, a distance of 240 miles, discharged and loaded
her cargoes, and was back again in the same dock within the short
period of sixty hours. This was done in the dead of winter, and shows
what may be accompished by steam navigation, from studying the
tides in the Mersey and Clyde. The cabin fares for the river boats
are rather less than one penn per mile, and for out-sea boats rather
more. To Liverpool the fare is L.1, 5s.
	While locomotive engines have succeeded on our rail-roads to
admiration, the steam carriages on the common road from Glas-
gow to Paisley have been abandoned.
	The Forth and Clyde Navigation.--In 1768, an act of Parlia-
ment was obtained for making a canal from the river Forth, at or
near the mouth of the river Carron, in the county of Stirling, to
the river Clyde, at or near Dalmuir Burnfoot, in the county of Dum-
barton, with a collateral cut to the city of Glasgow. On the 10th
of June in that year, Sir Lawrence Dundas dug out the first spade-
ful of earth fo the formation of the canal, and it was opened from
the eastern to the western sea on the 28th of July 1790. On the
11th of November in the same year, the basin at Port Dundas was
finished. The length iof the navigation frol the Forth to the
Clyde is 35 miles, and the cut to Glasgow, 2 1/2 miles. There are
39 locks on the canal, namely, 20 from the Forth to Glasgow, and
19 between the great aqueduct and the Clyde. The length of
the locks between the gates is 74 feet, the width 20 feet, and the
fall 10 feet.- The medium width of the surface of the canal is 56
feet, at bottom 27 feet; and the depth nearly 10 feet. The rise
from the east sea to the summit level of the canal at Wineford


