
444                        PERTHSHIRE.

(not exceeding six score of communicants,) " were within a short
mile of any of the two said kirks, without any stop or impediment
of kirk-way."  This matter was referred by the presbytery to the
provincial synod of Perth and Stirling, which met at Stirling on
the 14th April 1647, when in all probability they were put in the
way of being again united, although I cannot state that such was
the case, as the document, whence the above facts are taken, breaks
c ff abruptly.  The hardships of Mr Alexander Anderson, one of
the ministers, are strongly insisted on in the petition of the heritors.
" He was forced," they say, " to live these sixteen years in great
distress, being burdened with wife, children, and family." This
man's tombstone is still in the churchyard of Auchtergaven, on
which his virtues are recorded.  Divine service used to be per-
formed at Logiebride for many years after the union, but not
within the memory of any one now living.  An old man, upwards
of eighty years of age, who died lately, remembered the church
of Logiebride standing.
   Manse, Glebe, Stipend.- The manse was built ten years ago, and
is a good plain house, situated a quarter of a mile westward from
the church.  The stipend consists of L. 73 monex, 40 bolls of
barley, and 81 bolls of meal.  There are two glebes, one at Auch-
tergaven, and one at Logiebride; and the two together will mea-
sure fully ten imperial acres; they would let for about L. 20 ; the
one is rather more than a mile distant from the other.  A portion
of the " Muir of Thorn,"* and also of another muir near Tully-
belton, are said to belong to the minister of Auchtergaven.  But
as during the last thirty years the parish has been served by four
assistants and successors to the late incumbent, who all that time
lived at a distance from the parish, this land has not been claim-
ed. The two first assistants and successors were soon removed to
other parishes; the third died in 1830; and the present incumbent
has not hitherto deemed it prudent to attempt the establishment of
his right to these " muirs," although he has not abandoned the inten-
tion of doing so.  There is no grass glebe unless it be these muirs.
   Stanley Chapel.-Soon after the erection of the cotton-mills at
Staniey, the company employed a preacher, with the approbation
of the parishes in which  the village is situated, to do duty there on
Sundays in a school-house.  In 1828, the present proprietors of
the works petitioned the presbytery of Dunkeld, praying to have

<FOOTNOTE> This tnuir extends over a portion of the surface of this parish `r well as that of
the parihes of Little Dunkeld and Kinclaven.


