
660                    EDINBURGHSHIRE.

abolished during the protectorate. On the restoration, it was again
introduced, but finally abolished at the revolution.
   The ancient royalty is now divided into ten parishes, viz.
1. Tolbooth Parish. 2. High Church Parish. 3. Trinity Col-
lege Parish. 4. Old Church Parish. 5. Tron Church Parish.
6. New North Parish. 7. St John's Parish. 8. Wester, or New
Greyfriars Parish. 9. Easter, or Old Greyfriars Pariah. 10.
Lady Yester's Parish.
   The extended royalty contains five parishes. 1. St Andrew's
Parish. 2. St George's Parish. 3. St Mary's Parish. 4. St
Stephen Parish. 5. Greenside Parish. There is also St Cuth-
bert's Parish and Canongate Parish.
   The Quoad Sacra Churches are, St Bernard's, Buccleuch, St
David's, the Dean, Lady Glenorchy's, Morningside, Newington,
St Paul's, and Roxburgh, all originally part of St Cuthbert's
parish, St Luke's and the Gaelic Chapel. The Leith Wynd
Church and New Street Churches are within the parish of Canon-
gate.
   Holyrood Abbey.-This abbey was founded in 1128 by David I.
According to the traditionary legend, the king, in hunting in
tho forest of Drumselch, near Edinburgh, was attacked by a large
hart. While in the act of defending himself from the furious attacks
of the animal, a miraculous cross slipped into his hand, which so
frightened the stag that be immediately fled. That same night,
while asleep in the Castle of Edinburgh, David was instructed in
a dream to found an establishment for the canons regular of St
Augustine on the spot where his life was saved. Accordingly
the abbey was built, and liberally endowed by a royal charter,
which stilt exists in the archives of the town-council. By this
charter were bestowed on the abbey the church of Edinburgh
Castle, these of St Cuthbert's, Cortorphine, Liberton, and Airth
in Stirlingshire; the priories of St Mary's Isle in Galloway,-of
Blantyre in Clydesdale, of Rowadill in Ross, and of Crusay,
Oronsay in Clydesdale, in the Western Islands. The charter also
granted to the canons the privilege of erecting a borough between
Holyrood and the town of Edinburgh, forming the Canongate,
with, a right to hold markets in it. They had also grants of lands
in other places, with a most extensive jurisdictions, and a right of
trial by duel and fire and water ordeal. They had also certain
revenues payable out of Exchequer and other funds, with the fish-
ings, amd the privilege of erecting mills the Water of Leith


