
16                   EDINBURGHSHIRE.

splendid horse, which also received several premiums, was reared
at the same time by Mr Jamieson of Straiton.
  Modern Improvements.-One of the most important agricultural
improvements introduced into this district has been the steam
thrashing-mill. By its use time and labour are equally saved, and
one of the farm-servants can soon be trained to act as engineer.
One has been erected at Niddry, and another at Straiton, with
engines of six horse-power, made by Douglas of Edinburgh. They
thrash easily 60 bushels of grain an hour, requiring, however, the aid
of nine women, six men, and two carts and horses, in feeding the
mill, and clearing away the grain and straw. Thus 600 bushels can
easily be thrashed in a day. There are besides in the parish seven
water thrashing-mills, and one windmill. The rest of the grain is
thrashed by horse-power. Flails are unknown. The refuse of
saltpeter has lately been applied to grass as a manure, with great
success. It is sown upon the grass in February or March, the
worth of L. 1 being applied to an acre. It acts as a powerful
stimulant, and sends up a dark green luxuriant bulky crop. Soot
produces nearly the same result. Amongst the most important
improvements may be reckoned sowing machines, which are of two
kinds, 1. The drilling-machine, by which oats and other grain can
be sown with the utmost regularity and precision. The effect be-
sides is to save seed, and to enable the farmer thoroughly to clear
out weeds between the drills, by means of the Dutch hoe: 2. The
broad-cast machine made by Scholar of Haddington is an immense
improvement. It sows at once a breadth of 18 feet as fast as a horse
can walk, or 4 acres an hour, holding as much seed at once as will
sow an acre, and only requiring one man and one woman to manage
it, but requiring eight horses to harrow in the seed. It cost L. 10,
but is so profitable in the way of saving seed, and insuring good sow-
ing, that, in the opinion of the most skilful farmers here, a farmer of
any extent had better borrow the money required than be without
one, as it will amply save the value of itself in one year. It is pe-
culiarly valuable in sowing grass seeds, a most difficult operation,
especially when they are mixed with clover seed, which being
heavy, requires to be continually stirred up amongst the grass seeds,
and thrown out with a considerable impulse. It is difficult to get a
servant who will take the trouble; but the sowing machine secures
this object most effectually, by stirring the seed continually, and
sowing it with such power, that in the face of a tempest, (a sad
enemy to the ordinary sower) its operations are unimpeded. In a


