
804                   RENFREWSHIRE.

  When we look at Paisley in a moral and religious view, we have
our hopes mingled with many fears.  Since the last Statistical Ac-
count was published, the religious character of the place has much
deteriorated.  French infidelity and Sunday drilling, combined
with other catses to poison the principles, and relax the ha-
bits of the rising generation ; while the rage for political reading
and speculation abstracted the minds of the operatives from the
more profitable, but less exciting matters of religion and the Bible.
In the meantime, our educational and religious means did not keep
pace either with the advancing population or the growing dege-
neracy.  Indeed, education amongst us has all along been, and
even at present is, in a very low state; and so long as a decent
pecuniary encouragement is wanting to that most useful class
of citizens, the teachers of youth in elementary branches, we
can scarcely expect any rapid change to the better.  The in-
come of many private teachers in this place and neighbourhood
does not exceed L.30 a-year.  The means of public, religion
and of pastoral superintendence have not been adequate to the
exigencies of a growing population ; and that beautiful paro-
chial economy, which the fathers of the Scottish Reformation
handed down as a most precious boon to their successors, has
become in this, as in all our large communities, little more than
a shadow.  The moral influence of the ministers of religion is at-
tenuated just in proportion to the extent of surface over which it
is diffused; while divisions among Christian professors, partly poli-
tical, and partly rdligious, are not favourable to an harmonious,
well-concentrated, and persevering assault on the strongholds of
the common enemy. *
  And yet we are not without our " lights" amid the " shadows."
Even in a religious point of view, for intelligence and accuracy of
sentiment, for zeal in benevolent and religious enterprise, and
for general decency and sobriety of deportment, Paisley, with all
its faults, will stand a comparison with any city of the s`me extent
in the kingdom.  From her pulpits, of every denomination, the

<FOOTNOTE>Dissent in Paisley is of comparatively modern growth, and it has been occasion-
ed chiefly by mismanagement on the part of the guardians of the Established Church.
The two Relief churches, which are the largest of the dissenting meeting-houses in
Paisley, are flagrant proofs of this.  The West Relief was built in consequence of
the refusal of the town-council to erect a church in the western district in 1781 ; and
the East Relief was occasioned by a similar refusal in 1807, to abandon the plan of
rouping seats, and to build an additional church.  Early in that year, the general
session had memorialised the council for a fourth church, but no measures whatever
were adopted for its erection.


