
     Statistical Account

   Ecclesiastical State, Ancient and Modern.-About the time of
the Reformation, there were five parish kirks in this district.
Three in the island of Stronsay, dedicated to the Virgin Ma-
ry, to St. Peter and St. Nicholas; the fourth in the island
of Eday, dedicated also to the Virgin Mary; and the fifth
in the isle of Fairy, to what saint dedicated, tradition gives
no information.
   There were also, in the island of Stronsay, at least four
chapels, one of which is called St. Margaret's kirk; two
chaples in the small isle of Papa, dedicated to St. Nicholas
and to St. Bride respectively.  St. Nichola's chapel was al-
most entire twelve years ago; the dimensions within walls
15; feet by 12; the quire, 7 feet by 9; this quire is covered
with a complete stone arch, but the chapel hath been lately
demolished by the tenant, in order that he with the stones
of it might build a new barn.  St. Bride's chapel and Quire,
now in ruins, are nearly of the same dimensions as those of
St. Nicholas.  About half way between these chapels, there
is, on a rising ground, called the Earl's-know, the appearance
of old ruins and graves; one of which graves, evidently
defined by two stones, one at the head, the other at the feet,
is eight feet and a half long; this grave was dug up to the
deepness of about six feet, in the month of July 1792; the
stones at the head and feet, which appeared about a foot

<FOOTNOTE>

This spring is at the distance of about half a mile from the minister's manse,
in a pleasant healthy situation.  There is a large commodious house in the
neighbourhood, built about forty years ago, for the accommodation of a gent-
leman with a large family, one of the heritors, and at that time minister of
this parish; but his heirs have removed from this island.  This house, there-
fore, might be easily fitted up, and would be found very commodious for sea-
bathing or water drinking quarters, for those whole constitutions or inclina-
tions require the application of such harmless, safe, and useful remedies.


