
			PARISH OF GLENELG.

             PRESBYTERY OF LOCHCAnRON, SYNOD OF GLENELG.

                 THE REV. ALEXANDER BEITH, MINISTER.
                          _______________

		I.-- TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-GLENELG is the ancient and modern name, derived from
or compounded of Gleann and seilg, or gleann and elid; in the for-
mer case signifying the valley of hunting, in the latter the valley of
the roe,-both equally appropriate, whether meant to be descriptive
of the regular and extensive sweep of the mountains, or of the rich
verdure and covert by which they are distinguished.
   Extent, Boundaries.-The, parish is about 20 miles in length,
and the same nearly in breadth, bounded on the N. E. and E. by the
parish of Glensheal, county of Ross; on the S. E. and S. by Glen-
garry and Lochaber; on the S. W. by lake Morar, separating it
from Ardnamurchan; and on the W. and N. W. by the sound of
Sleat, separating it from the Isle of Skye.  The coast runs nearly
from N. to S. and, excepting in the bay of Glenelg, and within the
lochs or arms of the sea hereafter to be mentioned, where good
anchoring ground is to be met with, is generally high and rocky.
   Climate, &c.-In common with other parts of the north-west
coast of Scotland, Glenelg is remarkable for the quantity of rain
which falls at all seasons of the year.  The prevailing winds are
the west and south-west, which convey the clouds from the Atlantic
heavily laden with treasures, which are most plentifully dispensed by
them as they travel along and come in contact with the summits of
our lofty mountains.  Our severest gales are from those quarters,
and are in winter, especially at night, accompanied by frequent peals
of terrific thunder.  North-east, east and south-east winds bring
dry weather, particularly the two latter; but they are of rare oc-
currence.  Our storms usually commence with a strong, gusty, but
dry, gale from the south-east, which after a time almost instantan-
eously veers to the south-west ; from which quarter it rages with
fury, accompanied with torrents of incessant rain.  The usual prog-
nostic of those storms is the low and sullen flight of the sea birds


