
               406                     ARGYLESUIRE.

               quay is greatly needed at both ends of the island, and also at Tay.
               inloan on the Kintyre side.
                Ecclesiantical State.-The parish church is well situated as to
               distance from the different parts of the parish.  With the excep.
               tion of the family in Cara, there are only three funnies in the pa.
               risb three miles from the church.  It was built upwards of sixty
               years ago, accommodates 260, and is in a tolerable state of repair;
               but, as the floor of it is considerably lower than the ground out.
               side, it is damp and uncomfortable in winter, and at all seasons in
               wet weather. The sittings are all free.
                 The manse was built in 1816, was repaired in 1828, and is in
               a habitable state at present.
                 The glebe contains nine acres (Scotch measure), six of which
               are arable, the rest good hill pasture.  The present incumbent
               has increased the value of the glebe considerably by draining, blast-
               ing, and removing rocks, and improving, the fences.   It is worth
               L.20 of annual rent.  There is a money stipend of L.247, 4s. 9d.
               and about 18 bolls of grain.  The stipend for crop 1838 was
               L.267, 8s.  The teinds are exhausted.
                 All the families in the parish attend the parish church.  There
               is only one Dissenter in the parish, a Baptist, who came to it froin
               a neighbouring parish three years ago.  His wife and children be-
               long to the Established Church, and they are regular attendants
               of the church.
                 In good weather the church is well attended.      The average
               number of communicants is 145.  The average amount of church
               collections for charitable purposes is LS.
                 Education.-The parochial is the only school in the parish.
               The branches taught are Gaelic and English reading, writing
               arithmetic, book-keeping, geography, and Latin.  The salary is
               the minimum, and the school fees amount to about L.12. The
               schoolmaster has the legal accommodations.  The school fees are,
               for reading, Is. 6d. ; reading and writing, 2s. ; arithmetic, 2s. 6d.;
               Latin, 59. per quarters There are 'several in the parish between
               six and eight years of age who cannot read, because Many of the
               children in this parish, and- particularly those who are at some dis-
               tance from school, do not go to school till they are about eight
               years of age ; but there are none between nine and fifteen who
               cannot read, though there are some girls between those ages who
               cannot write. Tbe number of persons above fifteen, years ople.
               can neither read nor write is between 20 and 30, chiefly old people.


