
     of Symington.

<TABLE>

Number of swine,                7   Acres sown with turnips,        32
          carts,               44   Houses built within the last 8
          ploughs,             14            years,                  7
          harrows,             44          rebuilt,                  9
Acres planted with timber,     80   Cattle fed on turnips,          35
      sown with grass seeds,   66   Sheep fed on ditto,            100

</TABLE>

   Character.-The virtues of sobriety and industry, and a re-
gular attendance on divine institutions, are no where more
strictly observed.  The people live comfortably, are contented
with their situation, and well affected to the established con-
stitution, in church and state*.-An attempt was made, at the
beginning of the Secession, to settle a dissenting congregation
in Symington, and many violent harrangues were delivered,
on the spots and blemishes of the backsliding generation, and
on the errors and corruptions of the church +.-The dissenters

<FOOTNOTE>

*The only grievance winch they complain of, is the trifling tax on BIRTHS,
Every country parish has its philosophers, politicians and divines.  These leaders
of the people make their observations on every thing that passes; and their re-
marks are sometimes shrewd and sensible.  They apprehend, that, instead of
paying a duty on the birth of a child, the parents should receive a reward, and
have privileges and immunities granted to them, according to the number of
their children.  But their chief objection is on the score of religion.  Con-
necting births with baptism, it is considered as a tax on that ordinance.  View-
ing it in this light, the idea, of paying for the sacrament, is, of all others, the most
impious and profane.  It is supposed to imply a contempt of all the blood that
has been shed in the protestant cause, and as giving freedom to the beast, with the
seven heads  and ten horns, to trample the memory of the old covenanters under his
feet.
   +As a specimen of the spirit and eloquence of those times, the following
part of a prayer, for the established minister of the place, is kept in remembrance,
as uttered by one of the preachers on the green, after a discourse, in which he
and his brethren ware represented in the blackest colours:-"Thou knowest
"that the silly snivelling body is not worthy even to keep a door in thy house.

     1


