
                         PARISH OF KINNAIRD.

              PRESBYTERY OF DUNDEE, SYNOD OF ANGUS AND MEARNS.

                     THE REV.  JOHN SPENCE, MINISTER.


                      I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
             Name.-The name of the parish (as observed in the, former
          Statistical Account) is of Celtic origin, and is compounded of two
          words signifying" high end or bead." This is descriptive enough,
          whether it refers to the parish or to the estate of Kinnaird, both of
          which are higher at the one end than the other.  An old castle or
          manor house, belonging to the latter, stands on the upper part of it.
            Situation, Boundaries.-The parish lies about half-way between
          Perth and Dundee, and has a beautiful southern exposure, looking
          down on the Carse of Gowrie, part of which is contained within
          its bounds.  It is bnunded on the south by Errol; on the north by
          Collace ; on the west by Kilspindie ; and on the east by Abernyte
          and Inchture.  The extent is about 2 miles in one way, and near-
          ly 3 in theother.  Several points command an extensive view in
          all directions, particularly of the Highland mountains. We have
          nothing here to attract naturalists ; the productions of the earth, so
          far as yet discovered, being all of the more common kinds.

                                 II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
             Antiquities.-This part of the world has not been the scene of
          any remarkable events, nor has any individual distinguished in the
          history of his country ever belonged to it; the only thing in any
          respect curious is Kibnaird Castle, an old and stately ruin, but
          of which there is little on record.  It presents an excellent spe-
          cimen of the sort of dwelling-places in use, when safety was
          more considered than comfort,having walls of an ennrmous
          thickness and the different storeys floored by stone arches.  We
          find that the Noble family of Kinnaird, whose present seat is
          Rossie, in the neighbourmig parish of Incliture, were once connect-
          ed with this property, though they have long ceased to be so. "In
          the reign of.  King William, 11710, Randolph Rufus obtained from
          that prince the lands of Kinnaird, in the county of Perth, which



