
                          DRYMEN.                         109

black-faced kind. For the improvement of the stock, Linton and
Lammermoor rams are occasionally introduced. On the better
farms, a few of the finer species, such as the Leicester,are kept, but
chiefly for supplying the "gude-wife" with some better wool for
her domestic purposes.
 Within the  last twenty years, there has been a very great im-
provement on the stock of this part of the country. This  has
been mainly owing to the exertions of the Strath-Endrick Club.
By instituting an annual competition, and offering high premiums.
for the introduction of superior animals,-the former breed, which
was a mixture of all kinds of inferior stock, has in a great measure
disappeared. And the district can now challenge a comparison
with any part of the country. This club was instituted in 1816,
and holds its annual meeting in Drymen in the month of August.
Its funds are raised by yearly subscription of the members, con-
sisting of the principal proprietors, clergy, and respectable farmers
in the district. His Grace the Duke of Montrose is patron of the
Club. The late Duke, whose memory will be long cherished in
this quarter, as an enlightened improver, and a kind and generous
landlord, contributed greatly, by his influence and exertions, to its
success.
   Husbandry.-The improvement in agriculture, in this parish,
has been keeping pace with the improvement in the stock. There
is, with many of the farmers, a laudable desire of adopting the new
and approved processes in farming. We have still, however, in
the remote  quarters of the parish,  an obstinate adherence, on the
part of many, to the old system of "their fathers before them!"
They are contented to "dodge on" in the antique fashion, with-
out troubling themselves with the modern novelties.
  In the more fertile districts, the five-shift rotation of crops is
adopted. On many farms, a great deal is now going on in furrow
or parallel draining; one of the greatest improvements for a
country lhke this, in farming. The expense, however, is so great,
that, without the landlord's bearing a large proportion of the out-
lay, the tenant cannot carry it on to any great extent. Not a few
of our landlords, aware of this, are encouraging their tenants to
drain to any extent, paying the half of the expense.
   On the estate of Finnich Malice, the late George Buchanan,
Esq. drained in this way to the extent of 60 acres. * The present

<FOOTNOTE>The present proprietor, John Todd, Esq. is carrying on similar farming
operations to a very great extent.-1841.


