
                           DUNSYRE.                              69

end of the parish, stood one of considerable strength, with a fosse
around it.  There were castles of the same construction at Westhall
Hills, Auston; and about 300 yards from the church stood the castle
of Dunsyre.  It had a vault on the ground story, with two apart-
ments above, which were approached by a circular staircase at one
of the corners.  About eighty or a hundred years ago, the Baron
baillie held his courts in this tower, and in the vault were kept the
thumbkins and the boots for torture.  On the death of the last
baron, who is represented to have exercised a tyrannical sway, the
people of the village met, and destroyed these odious engines.
   Many Roman reliques have been found here.  The line by
which the army of Agricola reached the camp at Cleghom lies
through the parish of Dunsyre, and the route can be traced up the
county of Tweeddale.  The entrance to the glen or valley where
Dunsyre is situate is called the Garvald or Garrel; it forms the
most natural and easy communication betwixt the east and west of
the plain.  Through this rugged pass lies the Roman line, mark-
ed out by a dike of earth.  Several cairns occur here and in the
neigbbourbood; in some of which urns have been found.  One of
these is about 6 inches in diameter.  It is composed of burnt
clay, and rudely carved over.  Its under part is narrow, of the
shape of the human heart, and projects from the depth of 7 inches
about 2 1/2 towards the mouth. *
   Among the many places to which the champions of the Refor-
mation fled for safety, Dunsyre was one of the chief.  On the con-
fines of this parish, where it borders with Lothian and Tweeddale,
is a deep ravine, in the centre of which there is a large collection
of stones.  This deep rugged spot bears the name of Roger's Kirke,
which, in all probability, it received from one of the covenanting
ministers.
   Covenanters.-One of the most celebrated preachers, Mr Wil-
liam Veitch, was tenant in Westhills, which he was forced to aban-
don after the battle of Pentlands in 1667.  He was the person, de-
puted by the council of the covenanting army, while they were lying
at Colinton, to go to Edinburgh to learn some intelligence of im-
portance.  He accomplished this mission with great difficulty, but
without securing the slightest advantage.  On returning, he was ac-
cidentally surrounded by a troop of the enemy's cavalry, from which
be escaped with difficulty, and fled to Dunsyre.  Mr Veitch after-

<FOOTNOTE>Several other cairns and urns are noticed in the original MS.


