
     of Abernyte.

the parish.  It should be observed, that the whole of the
fund cannot he laid out upon the poor; every session must
give some salary, however small, to their clerk, beadle,
&c.  It is much to be wished, that sessions could afford to give
more than they usually do to their clerk, who, in all country
parishes, is also the schoolmaster, as the landed proprietors
in Scotland seem determined to oppose the just claims of
this most useful body of men to some increase of sala-
ry*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*In 1782-3, this parish shared with the rest of the country, in the late-
ness and scantriness of the crops.  But the session's fund was found suffi-
cient for the additional claims then made upon them, and this parish de-
clined accepting any of the Government bounty given to the North of
Scotland; though some of the more opulent parishes in the neighbour-
hood claimed their share.  The year 1740 L seems, from all tradition to
have been more distrelling to the poor than 1782-3.  The country itself
produced a much smaller quantity of grain.  That most useful vegetable,
potato, was unknown; manufactures were in a much less flourishing
state; and cattle, the staple commodity of this country, at that time bore no
price; a cow or young ox, now worth L. 5 Sterling, selling then for L. 10
or L. 12 Scots.  It appears, from tradition, and our session record, that
much of the peoples distress here, arose from want of employment; which
disabled them from purchasing meal, though sold at a lower price than
in 1783.  The heritors of this parish according to a general order of the
county met twice, to consider the state of the poor, and of the fund
for their support.  The session's fund was found adequate to the relief of
the necessitous, during the whole of that severe season.  This fund they
expended in purchasing oat-meal, which they distributed according to the
wants of families, allowing 8 pound the week to young persons, and those
unable to work. "They appointed also lint to be bought, and given un-
"to those women that are capable of spinning, that they may partly work
"for their own livelihood." I have quoted these words of the record,
because they evince, either that the art of spinning was not universally prac-
tised, or that some number had been disabled from working.  The first is
most likely.  This extract shows also the low state of the manufacture at
that time.  A woman is now able not only to earn her subsistence by
spinning, but to lave money.  The flax was then bought, that they might
partly work for their livelihood.  Yarn then sold for less than the spin-


