
                         INCHINNAN.                               117

paving and macadatnizing purposes.  The simple minerals are too
insignificant to call for any particular remarks, being confined to a
few crystals of cale-spar, which are occasionally found in the strata
above referred to.
   Soils.-The soil consists chiefly of strong productive clay.  On
the banks of the rivers, it is of a rich loamy description.-In the
higher parts, it is gravelly, approaching more or less to what is cal-
led dry field.
   Zoology.-The weasel, hedgehog, and mole, abound here.  The
country people complain of the number of foxes; but it may be
doubted whether they would resign the enlivening spectacle of
the hunt passing through their borders, for the sake of the few
barn-door fowls that the fox now and then appropriates.  Hares
find good cover in this parish, and are plentiful, especially in Lord
Blantyre's grounds, where they are preserved.  The sportsman
finds abundance of snipes, and occasionally a wild duck and water-
hen on the boggy banks of the Gryfe, Cart, and Clyde.  Pheasants
and partridges are tolerably abundant, and grouse are occasion-
ally met with in the moss of Southbarr.-The thrush, blackbird,
and other warblers, exist in great abundance.  The cuckoo pays an
annual visit, also the land-rail.  Great flocks of lapwings or pee-
wits are continually flying about flapping the air with their wings.
The halcyon or kingfisher builds in Colin's isle.  There are nests
of common herons on some high fir trees in Park wood, adjacent
to the Newshot isle in the Clyde, where they are sometimes seen
in considerable numbers catching their prey.  Owls and other
doleful creatures occasionally haunt the tower of the parish church,
whilst the space between the ceiling and the roof shelters a pro-
fusion of bats.
   Botany.-On this head the place affords but scanty materials for
description.  The writer has not remarked any species of indige-
nous plants within the parish, not noticed in Hopkirk's Flora Glot-
tiana.  In the pleasure grounds of Park, the horse-chesnut and
walnut trees produce ripe fruit in abundance, and thd laurels have
in the lapse of an unusually short period reached the height of
thirty feet.  The rarer herbaceous plants are also cultivated with
great success.  At Southbarr, there is an extensive range of hot-
houses, containing a valuable assortment of green-house plants,
vines, &c.  In the lawn, the fir, oak, beech elm, &c. have found
a congenial soil, and although principally planted within the last
fifty years, have reached dimensions rarely attained in so limited a


