
     Statistical Account

their attention to the ordinances of religion.  For these many
years, no crimes of a public nature have been committed.  The
interposition of the civil power has of course been unneces-
sary.  They possess several advantages beyond most of their

<FOOTNOTE>

much credit and ability, till 1674, when the political jealousies
of the times, obliged him to relinquish his chair and his country.
This temporary inconvenience was abundantly compensated on
the accession of King William: and, under the patronage of this
Prince, his genius and merit obtained their due reward.  He
attained a high place in the esteem of his Sovereign, and filled
a very dignified station in the church.
This parish was the birth place of Andrew Fletcher of Sal-
ton the famous patriot, who was for some years the pupil of
Burnet.  From this great man, he seems to have imbibed much
of that liberal and independent character, which he displayed
through life.  His political principles, which were truly repub-
lican, disgusted him completely at the despotic reigns of Charles
and James, and made him engage keenly in every project, for the
recovery, of the constitution and liberties of his country.  He
was in the secret councils of Lord Russel, and was a principal
leader in Monmouth's expedition.  His abilities as a statesman
were unrivalled in his time.
   Lord Milton, nephew to this great man, and not inferior to
him in patriotism, was also a native of Salton.  He was born
in the year 1692, educated to the profession of the bar, admit-
ted an advocate, appointed a Lord of Session, and at length raised,
to the distinguished office of Lord Justice Clerk.  It was in this
high station, that he did his country essential services during the
unhappy rebellion in 1745.  The conduct of almost the whole
public affairs of Scotland fell upon him, and these he managed,
with such an uncommon degree of discretion, temper, and mo-
deration, that the impetuosity of wanton punishment was res-
trained, and lenient measures adopted in favour of those, whom
indiscertion or ignorance had betrayed into hostility.  He over-
looked many of the informations, which were brought to his of-
fice; and it is stated here from the best authority, that after his
death, many sealed letters, containing such information, were
found unopened among his other papers.  With the same patrio-
tic views, he engaged zealously in the abolition of heritable
jurisdictions, which had long been inimical to order and to jus-
tice: With unremitting ardour, he pursued every scheme that,
could promote the trade, manufactures, agriculture and reform-
ing of his country.


