
76                      HADDINGTONSHIRE.

by Mary Queen of Scots, dated 18th June 1555,-and another
charter by the same Queen, dated 31st March 1567; and defined
the boundaries of the burgh according to a decision of the Court
of Session, dated the 21st June 1569.
   A representative from Dunbar was admitted into the Scottish
Parliament; but since the Union, it unites with Haddington, North-
Berwick, Jedburgh, and Lauder, in sending one member to Par-
liament. The town was entirely burned in 1548, by the English
army which Henry VIII. sent to punish the Scots for refusing to
allow the marriage of their young Queen with his son. It is go-
verned by a Provost, three Bailies, a Treasurer, and fifteen Coun-
cillors. Its annual revenue is upwards of L. 1300 Sterling, derived
from property and imposts.
   Eminent Characters.-Columba Dunbar was Dean of the Church
of Dunbar in 1411, when he was promoted to the see of Moray.
   Thomas Hay, Dean of Dunbar, was, in 1532, appointed a Sena-
tor of the College of Justice.
   Andrew Wood, Rector of Dunbar, was in 1676, promoted to
the Bishopric of the Isles, and continued to hold it by dispensa-
tion. He was translated to the see of Caithness, which he held
till his episcopate was abolished at the Revolution. He died at
Dunbar at the venerable age of seventy-six.
   George Home of Manderston, Lord High Treasurer of Scot-
land under James VI., by whom he was, in 1605, created Earl of
Dunbar, died at Whitehall the 29th January 1611, and was bu-
ried in the Old Church of Dunbar. A splendid marble monument,
superior, it is said, in sculpture to any thing of the kind in Scotland,
was erected to his memory: it is still preserved in the present
church, and is 12 feet broad and 26 feet high. It is alleged that
the Earl was attached to the prelatic form of worship; and ac-
cordingly, he is represented at full length, clad in armour, kneel-
ing on a cushion, with his prayer book open before him. His sup-
porters are two knights in armour; and above, on the one side stands
Justice, and on the other, Wisdom. There are other appropriate
figures and devices, and the whole is crowned with the arms of
Home.
   James Kirkwood, Rector of Astwick, in Bedfordshire, was born
in the parish, and educated at the schools of Dunbar. He be-
queathed in 1708, curiosities, books, and papers to the Presbytery
of Dunbar, giving an account of his endeavours, in conjunction with
                            3


