
234                         AYRSHIRE.

were only six houses of two storeys in the village, the population
not exceeding 100. At the date of the last Statistical Accout,
the number of persons was 800; while at present the population
is about 2000. The town consists of five streets, three of which,
meeting nearly in its centre, form a small square. It contains a
considerable number of well-built houses, and can boast of several
excellent shops. There are three haberdashers, eight grocers, four
bakers, and fourinns, which afford every accommodation to travellers,
besides five public-houses. A gas company was formed, and gas
works erected in 1834. Like those of the majority of places which
possess no system of police, the streets are generally in a very
miry condition. They have lately been lighted with gas, the ex-
pense of which has been defrayed by subscription among the in-
habitants. The chief employment of the population is weaving
for the Glasgow and Paisley manufacturers.
   Means of Communication.-The parish enjoys ample means of
communication. There is a daily post, and a stage-coach from
Saltcoats to Glasgow, which passes every morning, and returns in the
evening. Two carriers travel twice a week to Paisley and Glas-
gow, while intercourse is maintained almost daily with the sur-
rounding towns and villages, by the bread-carts which leave Dal-
ry. The turnpike roads extend 22 miles in length; and the
parish roads 26 1/2 miles. There are five toll-bars in the pa-
rish. The rates are moderates,-2d. being charged for a cart, and
1d. for a horse, with the exception of the bar on the Largs road,
the charge at which trebles that of the other tolls. The roads in
general are in good order, though many of them are steep and ill-
directed. About eighty years ago, there was nothing deserving the
name of a road in the parish, the intercourse being chiefly carried
on on horseback, or on cars destitute of wheels. The roads were
consequently mere horse-paths, and, from the boggy nature of the
low grounds, the more hilly paths were preferred. As intercourse
increased, these gradually underwent repair, until they assumed
their present appearance. Wherever practicable, the acclivities
have been cut, or new roads formed to avoid them.
  Bridges.-The Garnock is crossed by two stone bridges, one of
two, and another of three arches. Both of these were origi-
nally steep and narrow, but at the formation of the new road to
Beith the steepness was remedied, although they still continue as
narrow as ever. A new bridge has been erected over the Rye,
and another over the Caaf; both of them single arched. From
                                4









