
380                         LANARKSHIRE.

spiracy.) The tumults at Ruglen at this period were so great that
it was thought meet that the minister should urge his transporta-
tion. James Riddell sat at the communion table, though his mi-
nister had ordered him to rise, and, in contempt of the minister and
session, he cut the grass on the kirk-yard on the Sabbath day. At
this period Sir William Hamilton, Elistoun, came from France, to
reside in Ruglen, and being suspected of favouring papists, gave
great uneasiness to the presbytery.
	During the troubles in the reign of Charles I. the presbytery
of Glasgow, on 17th May 1648, declared that thev were not sa-
tisfied with the lawfulness, necessity, and manner of prosecuting
the war, and desired that the levy might be stopped, and that re-
ligion, loyalty, and the King, might be kept in their proper place.
Mr Baillie, Professor of Divinity in Glasgow, and Mr Gillespie,
minister of the Outer Kirk there, were appointed to draw up a re-
monstrance to Parliament. The commissioners transmitted their
declarature, in opposition to the Parliament's wish, and in defi-
ance of the privy-council, and ordered the declarature to be read
in all the kirks, as the ministers will be answerable to God and
the kirk. Mr Robert Young, minister of Ruglen, was opposed to
the reading of it, and the town-clerk of that burgh, who was a mem-
ber of Parliament, forbade the magistrates to hear it. The laird
of Minto, the magistrates, and the town-clerk, went out of the
church, and desired the people to dismiss. The communion was to
have been celebrated on the Sunday following, but the presbyter
prohibited it till the scandal was tried and censured. The session
of Ruglen, in opposition to the minister, sent a letter to the com-
mittee of war at Hamilton, informing them that they were not sa-
tisfied with the lawfulness of the war, and desired that it might
be put an end to.
	The birth-day and restoration of Charles II. was celebrated at
Ruglen, with bonfires and other marks of rejoicing, on 29th May
1679. On that occasion a body of men, about eighty in number,
who were incensed at government on account of the persecutions
against the covenanters, to which it gave its sanction, assembled at
the cross of Ruglen, with a fixed resolution to execute a plan of
retaliation they had previously concerted. Having chosen a leader,
they sung psalms, and prayed. The acts of Parliament against
conventicles were then committed to the flames of the bonfire.
This was the first public appearance of the Bothwell Bridge as-


