
                         KNOCKANDO.                                        63

its banks,) the burn of Aldarder, the burn of Knockando, and the
burn of Ballintomb. Trouts are found in these streams.
   All these rivulets rise amongst the hills, and descend during rain
with surprising velocity, overflowing their banks, and doing consi-
derable mischief. During the great Moray floods of August 1829,
all these mountain streams rushed down with tremendous force
from their native hills, swollen to the size of rivers, carrying bridges,
mills, trees, &c. before them to the Spey. *
   There are several, pretty little waterfalls over some of the burns,
especially those of Knockando, Aldyoulie, Aldarder, and Ballin-
tomb. One romantic fall is caused by the junction of two burns
beside the glebe, the view of which, as seen from the rustic bridge
of Poolflasgan in the immediate vicinity, is very picturesque.
   The Spey is the only river in the parish and is the most rapid
as well as one of the largest in Scotland. It flows through the
whole length of the parish, from the Cromdale boundary on the
west, to the Rothes boundary on the east, a little beneath Craig
Elachie Bridge. The velocity of the Spey may be stated at four
to four and a-half miles per hour. A number of rafts of timber
pass down the river during the floating season, from the forests of
Rothiemurchus and Abernethy. In this parish is the rock of Tom-
dow, the most dangerous place for floats in the course of the river.
During the flood of 1829, this rapid and powerful river occassion-
ed great damage in this as well as in many other parishes along its
banks. On the lands of Kirdals, belonging to Mr Grant of Bal-

<FOOTNOTE>The following interesting description of the Knockando Burn is given by Sir
Thomas Dick Lauder of Fountainhall and Relugas, Bart., in his "Account of the
Great Floods of August 1829, in the Province of Moray and adjoining Districts."
   "The Knockande Burn, entering from the left, is extremely small, but it was swollen
by the flood to a size equal to that of the Spey in its ordinary state. The high pro-
montory, an the neck of which the manse of Knockando stands shoots forwards to-
wards the steep opposite banks of the burn, interrupting the continuity of its haughs
by a narrow pass, leaving room only at the base of the precipice for two cottages, a
small garden, and a road. Where the glen opens, a little way above, there stood a
carding-mill, a meal-mill, and the houses of their occupants. Of the two cottages at
the bottom of the promontory, one was inhabited by the old bellman, his wife, and
daughter, and a blind beggar woman, who had that night sought quarters with them;
the other was tenanted by a poor lame woman, who kept a school for girl's and young
children. After the flood the prospect here was melancholy; the burn that formerly
wound through the beautiful haugh above the promontory, had cut a channel as
broad as that of the Spey, from one end of it to the other. The whole wood was
gone, the carding mill had disappeared, the miller's house was in ruins, and the banks
below were strewed with pales, gates, bridges, rafts, engines. wool, yarn, and half-
woven webs, all utterly destroyed. A new road was recently made in this parish,
and all the burns were substantially hridged, but, with the exception of one arch all
yielded to the pressure of the flood. Mr Grant of Wester Elchies damage is cati-
mated at L. 820. The parish of Knockando returned twelve cases of families ren-
dered destitute by this calamity."


