
 		  COUNTY OF HADDINGTON.			    375

considered as something like the average rent of the wheat lands
of the district.  The valued rent of the county is L. 168,878 5s.
10d.  Scotch, and the real rent, valuing the wheat at L.1, 6s. per
boll, will be found very near the same sum in Sterling money.
The gross annual produce per acre over the arable land is
nearly L. 6 Sterling, or for the whole, county L. 493,104, which
the annual cost of stock, viz. sheep and wool, from the Lammer-
muir-hills, will raise to about half a million Sterling.

REMARKS ON THE PAST AND PRESENT STATE OF THE COUNTY.
   Roads.-In 1750 the first turnpike bill for Scotland was an act
of Parliawent obtained by the land proprietors of this county, for
repairing, the great post road from Dunglass to Ravenshaugh.
But long after that period, a single mile of continuous hard, road
was scarcely anywhere else to be seen in the disstrict. Travelling
in carriages was consequently tedious even in summer, and in
winter it was almost out of the question.  Ridin on horseback
was therefore common, and when ladies left home they were ge-
nerally mounted behind a servant on a pad, an article of furniture
then to be found in the possession of every family who bad a horse
to ride on.  Grain was then also carried to market on horseback
even to the distance of Edinburgh.  Coals were brouglit home in
summer by carts of a very frail construction, with hardly a bit of
iron about them, the axletree being of wood, and the wheels slighty
shod with iron in place of being ringed as at present.  On farmas
of the larger size, there were carriages of higher preenusions, and
dignified with the naw of wain.  When the roads became, pass-
able in spring or summer, the clumsy machine used to be put in
motion, and drawn by four oxen and two horses, and conducted by
the hind and his goadman, it would transport loads of from 42
to 48 bushess of oats or barley, to the great self-satisfaction and
importance of the individual intrusted with so weighty a charge.
After the accession of his late Majesty George II. greater atten-
tion began to paid to the internal improvement of the county,
and numerous acts of Parliament for improving and managing the
above-mentioned quantities of grain to wherever it may be found
necessary.   The tornpike and parish roads of the country ectend
to 350 miles or thereby.


