
     of Cross, Burness, etc.

<TABLE>

                            Brought over,  L. 3   12   0
  Say then 5 1/2 bolls bear, at 7 s.
  4 d. per boll, is                        L.  2   0   4   
2 1/2 Bolls oat-meal, at 9 s. per boll, is     1   2   6
                                              ----------     3   2  10
                                                            ----------
                      Total earnings for a year,          L. 6  14  10

</TABLE>

   He is allowed to keep a few sheep, of which some have half
a dozen, some a dozen, or more.  From these he has a little
wool, which his wife in winter makes into stockings and
coarse cloths for the family.  Some few will kill for their
family's use a sheep or two yearly.  He sometimes can spare
a few hours for fishing, which is often of great use to his
family.  His wife prepares the cow dung for fire, and gathers
the sea weed for the same purpose.  He cuts divots on the
common, and also peats in the isle of Eday; and the cot-
tagers assist each other in bringing them home.  So that
their fuel, bad and little as it is, costs them a great deal of
labour, though not much money; but it prevents them from
being otherwise employed during the time.  They can afford
to brew no beer, unless at Christmas, and then only 2 or 3
stone weight of malt.  They usually keep a milk cow, and
pay for her grazing a lispund, that is, 32 pound Dutch of
butter, which is nearly as much as is made from the cow;
so that they have only the butter-milk for their trouble in
making the butter.  They sometimes rear a calf once in two
years, or so.  I am informed by the farmers, that the wages
of servants in husbandry varies somewhat in the different
parts of these islands; and, that it consists of other small
perquisites besides money; and that, putting a value on these,
the wages of a plowman is from 1 l. 10 s. to 2 l. 2 s. yearly,
besides his maintenance.  A man who can make or repair
ploughs or other instruments of husbandry, will get 10 s. or


