
80                     RENFREWSHIRE.

rain,-the north wind bringing less rain than fell in either the pre-
ceding or following year.
  In 1830, which might be emphatically called the wet year, the
wind was remarkably variable, but it secured for us a large quan-
tity of rain, by blowing from the south five Months, from the west
two, south-west one, north-west two, north one, and north-east one,
and there fell 55.51 inches of rain.
  After what has been said, it is scarcely necessary to remark, that
the climate here is moist, but it does not seem to affect materially
the health of the inhabitants. It is a curious fact, that they were
remarkably healthy during the wet year, 1830. There werd only
60 deaths in the course of that year out of a population of 4500,
which was considerably less than had occurred for many years;
but they habitually enjoy good health. The water gathered in
the high-land is fully impregnated with moss, which is strongly an-
tiseptic, and destroys the marsh miasmata which rise out of the
loch and neighbouring valley. This is supposed to be our secu-
rity against agues and other diseases, which elsewbere prevail in
similar situations, and the reason why our people enjoy so much
health, The inhabitants of the  high-lands enjoy sunshine and
fresh air when the valley is often covered with a dense fog. But,
on the other hand, those of the valley sustain little injury from a
fog which is not loaded with marsh miasmata,--are protected on
all hands by the neighbouring hills,--and usually enjoy a remark-
able  climate. So much is this the case, that Lochwinnoch has
offen been resorted to the advantage by delicate persons during
summer, for whom the sea air was too keen. Many instances of
longevity occur here. *
   I have been furnished with an account of the patients and dis-
eases which came under the care of the surgeon here, who had the
greater part of the practice in the place. It extended from the
beginning of January 1817 to the 22d October 1819. It must be

<Footnote>In the former Statistical Account, the following case is lentioned: "Margaret
Paten, who was born in the parish, is mentioned by Lynch on Health as a remark-
able instance of longevity. Her picture, and a print from it, which the writer of this
account has seen, were done from the life by J. Cooper in 1739, with the following
which the writer Of thisdiscription: Margaret Peths, born in the parish of Loghnugh, near Paisley, in Scot-
land, living in the workhouse of St. Margaret's, Westminster, aged 188 years.''
   Margaret was born in the Cottar Raw at Risk, and it may be noticed, that John
king died at Risk, about twelve years ago aged ninety-three years. His brothers
James died at beltrees a few years after, about the same age; and Robert Sempill,
the last of the Sempills of Beltrees, died in 1789, aged 108 years. Elizabeth Jami-
son, who died about the end of 1890 at Hurthills was almost ninety-nine years of age;
and one Ruthven, an old soldier, died at Glasshill in 1812, aged 111.


