
                         FINTRY.                       39

  Hydrography.-Two rivers of considerable name and import-
ance take their rise in this parish. One of them, the Carron, flows
into the Frith of Forth at Grangemouth, on the east coast, and tbe;
other, the Endrick, after a course of upwards of twenty miles, falls
into Lochlomond near Balmaha. From this, it will be understood,
that Fintry lies on the highest ground in the district of country
betwixt the friths of Clyde and Forth. The Carron, famous in Scot-
tish history, rises on the bill in this parish due south from the church
of Fintry, and washes the skirts of the Campsie hills, forming the
boundary, for upwards of two miles, betwixt the parishes of Fintry
and Campsie. It then divides the southern valley of Fintry, men-
tioned above, on the north side of the Meikle Binn, and, after a
course of between two and three miles, it leaves the parish of Fin-
try, and forms the boundary between Kilsyth and St Ninians, pas-
sing Denny, &c. towards the Forth.
   The Endrick takes its rise on the north range, or on what we
have termed the Fintry hills. It is a very small stream, running
east, till it reaches the parish of Gargunnock. It then takes a
southerly course, and, gaining strength by the accession of tributary
streams from that parish, it separates it and St Ninians from the
parish of Fintry, till it reaches the high road from Fintry to Denny.
It then flows due west, through the northern valley of Fintry, or
through what may be called Fintry Proper, about four miles, till
it becomes the boundary betwixt the parishes of Killearn and Bal-
fron, fourteen miles from Lochlomond.
   The Endrick is a bold and rapid stream till it reaches the vale
of Fintry, and wants only wood on its banks in the upper part of
the parish, to vie with the most beautiful and sublime of our se-
condary Scottish rivers. It comes down with a deafening noise,
over its rocky channel; and, about two miles and a half to the
east of the church, it pours its waters, over a precipitous rock,
90 feet high, vulgarly denominated the "Loup of Fintry." The
grand appearance of this waterfall in dry seasons has been much
injured by one of those circumstances, which, if they have added,
to the wealth ot the country, have not increased its beauty.
More than a mile above this fall, a great proportion of the river
is carried off to supply a large reservoir, formed, by the pro-
prietors of two cotton-mills erected on the stream. When the
river is much swollen, nothing can exceed the grandeur of the
scene. In its usual state there are three breaks in this fall
but in a flood, it dashes over the rock upwards of thirty yards


