
76                          FIFESHIRE.

duals employed in the trade, for the most part, wove their own yarn,
and disposed of their webs to others of their own number, who
again sold them at Perth, Dundee, Cupar, Auchtermuchty, and
Glasgow, to persons who purchased them, either on their own
account or upon commission for the English market. The trade
is now limited to thirteen individuals, who not only employ all
the weavers in Newburgh, but furnish work for considerable num-
bers in Cupar, Springfield, Pitlessie, Kettle, Markinch, Falkland,
Freuchie, Dunshelt, Auchtermuchty, Strathmiglo, Abernethy,
Aberargie, Kintillo, &c. The finest of the material wrought here
does not exceed what are termed fourteen hundred linens, and from
1 yard to 3 yards wide. Each web of the former sort contains
about 140 yards and averages from L. 5, 10s. to L. 6 in price.
The latter is sold at 3s. 6d. per yard.
   The following are the particulars of the manufacturing trade
of Newburgh for 1833:-In the single article of winding bob-
bins, there are employed, boys, 10; aged men, 3; women above
fifty, 80; women below fifty, 249; total, 342. The number of looms
employed in town, 564; webs manufactured, 23,600; spindles of
yarn contained in do. 826,000; cost of these, including weaving
and bleaching, L. 128,325.
   Besides the manufacturing of linens, there is likewise a conside-
rable trade in corn, carried on by the merchants of Newburgh. A
weekly stock market was established in 1830, which, while it brings
advantage to the town, must, from its local conveniences, operate
greatly to the benefit of the surrounding country. Dealers from
Kirkaldy and other places regularly frequent it; and, from the ex-
perience of its past operations, there can be little doubt of its per-
manent prosperity. Barley is the grain which is principally sought
after; but wheat, oats, beans, and potatoes also find a ready sale.
To the spirit and intelligence of John Burton, M. D. practitioner
in Haddington, but then residing in Newburgh, the public owe a
debt of gratitude for the establishment of this market, which has
proved so beneficial to Newburgh, and the agricultural interests of
an extensive district in the three counties of Fife, Kinross, and
Perthshire.
   Malting was at one period carried to a very considerable extent
at Newburgh, but has for some time past been entirely disconti-
nued.
   Navigation. -This is by no means on a scale of proportionate
magnitude to the advantages of the place. Only 10 vessels, from


