
1160                    ABERDEENSHIRE.

   The Library of King's College is very extensive and valuable
but sadly cooped for want of space.  As one of the four univer-
sities of Scotland, King's College enjoyed, till lately, the Station-
er's Hall privilege, and now receives, by Act of Parliament, the
compensation granted in lieu of that privilege.  By a decision of
the Court of Session, in the exercise of their nobile officium or le-
gislative power, the Marischal College has long been entitled to
the use of the books derived from Stationer's Hall.  But the cus-
tody of these books, as well as the choice of those to be purchased
with the compensation fund, remain with the University of King's
College.
   The library possesses some other funds, partly derived from be-
quests, partly from martriculation, and other fees paid by students.
It is managed by a librarian with two bursars as assistants. The
students attending College have the use of the books on deposit of
L.1 for each volume, to be returned when the book is restored.
The Masters have the use of a certain number of volumes without
deposit one of them is annually named curator, and is aided by
a Library Committee.
   A very neat room in the newest part of the College was fitted
up, in 1842, very beautifully for a Museum of Natural History.
It is expected it will be opened in summer.  There are no funds
yet provided for the Museum.  It has been fitted up by subscrip-
tion.
   The Natural Philosophy Class has a tolerable cabinet of appa-
ratus, which the Professor is annually improving and extending,
by means of a small fund set apart for the purpose.  The class
of Chemistry possesses a moderate stock of apparatus, the property
of the College, and an excellent lecture room.  The Professor has
a considerable amount of apparatus of his own; but, there is no fund
worth mentioning for the purchase of apparatus, materials, or speci-
mens, for this class.  It may here be mentioned, that in summer
be gives a course of Practical Chemistry ; average number of
students, 10.  There has for some years existed in the Natural
Philosophy Class, an excellent class library, purchased chiefly by
subscriptions from the students, aided by the Professors.  A simi-
lar library has this session been instituted in the Chelistry Class.
There are a few astronomical instruments belonging to the
College, but no regular Observatory.
   The College Chapel is a very handsome building, being the
quire of the old College Church, the nave of which is now


