
 		         OATHLAW OR FINAVON.                  293

small rivulet called the Lemno, which takes its rise on the south
side of Finhaven Hill, in the parish of Aberlemno. This small
stream, having made a circuit of twelve or thirteen miles round
the Hill of Finhaven, empties itself into the Esk, about a mile
due north from its source. It runs beneath the walls of the
Castle of Finhaven, and joins the Esk at the point of land
where the foundations of the old church are still visible. There
is a very powerful spring of excellent water at the east end of
the parish, which comes up through the borings madd rome years
ago by the late proprietor of Finhaven, Mr Ford, when in search
of coal. These borings were carried down about 160 feet, and no
coal having been found at that depth, the work was abandoned.
The borings still remain, and, from their great depth, the water
rushes up with considerable force, and in great abundance. This
spring, however, is not now visible. Being in the midst of a corn-
field, and the tenant being much annoyed by people coming from
curiosity to view it, the water has been conducted into a drain, and
the whole closed up from sight.
        Geology and Mineralogy.-The parish may be said to be flat,
and as there are few rocks or cliffs in it, it presents no very strik-
ing or interesting feature to the geologist or mineralogist. The
Hill of Finhaven is the only eminence worthy of notice. It skirts
the southern boundary of the parish, and runs in a direction from
east to west about ten miles. It consists of a kind of sandstone,
very thickly imbedded with water-worn pebbles, presenting the
appearance of conglomerate. On the north side, which belongs to
the parish, it rises with a gentle sweep to the height of about 1500
feet above the level of the surrounding country. On this side the
rock is very little exposed, as the soil covers the whole. It is cul
tivated almost to the summit, which is covered with a thrhving plan-
tation of larch and Scotch fir. On the south side, which belongs
to the parishes of Aberlemno and Rescobie, there are some steep
cliffs, covered with a kind of grayish moss. Near the top, there
is very good pasture for cattle.
	The soil of the parish is in general of a clayey retaining nature,
having what is commonly termed a "pan" bottom. Marl, which
is obtained from the neighbouring parish of Rescobie, has been
used, but is not found equal to lime. The distance from the latter
article forms a considerable drawback to cultivation here. Much
of the surface-water has been removed by draining, and the soil is



