
224                         ROXBURGHSHIRE.

the fury of the assailants.  Shortly after this, it appears to have been
rebuilt; but it was again destroyed in 1570, by the Earl of Sussex,
who, in the course of a few days, laid waste in this quarter a very
extensive tract of country.  Within these fifty years, the massive ruins
of this ancient structure were unceremoniously pulled down, and that
with a view of affording an easy access to materials for rearing the
farm-offices which now stand near its site.  The lands of Moss-
tower anciently belonged to the laird of Buccleuch, so celebrated
in Border history, and is now the property of his descendant, His
Grace the Duke of Buccleuch.
 But the most famous fortress in this parish was Cessford Castle,/f*
which stands on its southern extremity, and which was the ancient
manorial residence of Sir Robert Ker, commonly known by the
name of Hobbie Ker, warden of the Scottish middle marches, from
whom the Dukes of Roxburghe are descended./f+  This is, at pre-
sent, a mere ruin; but from what remains of it, some conjecture may
be formed of its pristine greatness.  The main building is about 67
feet long, 60 feet broad, and 65 feet high, and the walls in.
point of thickness amount at an average to about 13 feet broad.
The dungeon, which is situated nearly in the centre of the for-
tress, is still open to inspection : it consists of a damp gloomy
apartment 20 feet in length, 10 in breadth, and 13 in height, with
a slanting, air-hole looking toward the east.   At the west end of
this apartment, is a subterraneous vault, which was anciently known
by the name of the dungeon peel, and which was probably chiefly

<FOOTNOTE>Here towards the close of the sixteenth century, one of the Judges of the Court of
Session, is reported by tradition to have been for a time confined.  While riding in
the vicinity of Edinburgh, he was seized by a moss-trooper, who, Wrapping a cloak
around him, mounted him on his steed, and carried him off to this fortress.  Here
he was detained till a law-suit, which was then pending before the Supreme Court,
and in reference to which he was held to entertain opinions hostile to one of the par-
ties, was decided.  After this, he was conveyed, after a like fashion, to the spot
where he had been taken up; and  being set at liberty, he shortly after appeared
to their great surprise  and joy, in the midst his family, who had long since con-
ceived he had been assassinated.   Some time thereafter, being on a visit at Cessford
Castle, he was startled at hearing, in the act of calling for his dog, the well known
voice of a shepherd, which had sounded every morning in his ear during the time of
his imprisonment, and which convinced him that this was actually the very spot of
it. Upon subsequent investigation he found that his opinion was correct.
Andrew Ker of Attonburn, in 1446, was probably the first of the noble family
of Ker, who occupied this castle.  In that year he obtained, as is mentioned by the
writer of the last Account, a charter of the barony of Cessford, from Archibald Earl
Douglas, who was afterwards known by the name of Duke of Turenne or Longui-
ville.   The most illustrious of his descendants, appears to have been the above-men-
tioned Sir Robtert Ker, who was born 1570, and who is here still spoken of as one
of the most powerful men of his times.  In 1606, he was raised to the Peerage by
the title of Lord Roxburghe, and in 1616 he was elevated to the rank of Earl of Rox-
burghe, and Lord Ker of Cessford, and Caverton.  He died 1650.  His descendant,
John the third Earl of Roxburghe, was created a Duke in 1707.


