
                           CREICH.                               649

in the parish is 70, and the number of cattle of all ages, iticludin
cows, is 346. The cattle are generally sold when fat, about three
years of age. No particular attention is paid to the breed of horses.
The number of horses of all ages is about 106.  There are  at pre-
sent in the parish 13 scores of sheep. No decided preference is
given to any particular breed. They are generally bought when
young in the month of August, and sold when fat in the month of
June of the following year.
   Husbandry.-The most improved mode of husbandry is prac-
tised. A rotation of six is in general observed in cropping, viz.
1. summer fallow, potatoes, or turnips well manured ; 2. wheat, the
land half-manured; 3. barley, sown with perennial rye-grass ; 4.
grass; 5. grass; 6. oats. On very rich land there is frequently
a rotation of four or five having one year's grass . On inferior land
wheat is seldom sown; barley, with grass seeds, follows the turnips
and potatoes. The turnips are manured with bone dust and one-
half is eaten on the field by sheep. Three crops of grass are fre-
quently taken. In mossy ground, oats are sown with grass seeds
in preference to barley. Where the green crop has been pota-
toes in one rotation, it is turnips in the next, so that the land may
produce the same kind of crop as seldom as possible. When the
half of the turnips is to be eaten on the field by sheep, all the two
alternate rows are previously carted home for feeding cattle, and
the remainder left for the sheep. When the turnips are not eaten
on the field by sheep, another method has been practised within
these few years of cutting off the shaws (leaves), and immediately
ploughing them down in the ground. The good effects of adopt-
ing this method have been full shewn by the excellence of the suc-
ceeding crop. The turnips which are usually raised in the parish
are globe, to be used first, yellow next, and Swedes which are
least apt to be injured by the frost, last. The potatoes which are
most generally raised are the Perth red. Many of them are ex-
ported for the London market, where this kind is in the great-
est demand. The price given here, which is very much regulat-
ed by the price in London varies from 5s. to 14s. per boll of five
cwt.
   It may be worth of notice, that when, in the autumn of 1836, a
severe frost, which set in ealy, and continued long, prevented the
potato crop from being taken up in safety, George Tod, Esq.
of Luthrie in this parish, allowed most of his potatoes to remain
in the ground all winter, and took them up in the spring com-



