
                            NEWTON.                              587

is sufficient for this at any time), not only to desist from thus re-
tailing liquor on the Sabbath, but to keep their premises closed
altogether. As proprietor he had undoubted right to do this, al-
though the license authorises their being open except during di-
vine service, and thus the evils complained of bid fair to be greatly
mitigated, if not altogether prevented. His Grace the Duke of
Buccleuch likewise acted a noble part in this matter, worthy
of his character; for there being a feu on his property converted
into a public-house, where the occupier refused to be laid under
restrictions, on this being represented to him, he gave directions
for its being purchased at whatever pecuniary sacrifice, that it
might be subjected to salutary regulations; which has been done.
	        MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   The march of improvement has visited this parish since last
Statistical Account was written, in many respects, both as to its
agriculture and mining operations, which it is unnecessary more
particularly to specify.
   If there was no other school than the parochial at that time,
and there is no other alluded to, the state of education must have
been very unsatisfactory indeed, since it is there stated that the
average attendance for ten years had only been 48 out of a popu-
lation of 1135. Such being the case, it is not to be wondered at
that ignorance should have begun extensively to prevail, and that
the population generally should have sunk down into a state of
the utmost indifference as to the benefits of education, out of
which, though matters are no longer in such an unsatisfactory
state as to school attendance, they are still but very imperfectly re-
covered. The contrast is equally great as to the amount of the
emoluments-for it is stated that for the same period, the whole
income of the schoolmaster, "including salary, (then only 100
merks Scots), school dues, and the emoluments of the session
clerk's,office," averaged no more than L.24 per annum. Now
while the number of scholars at the parish school is three times
as great, the emoluments are nearly six times their amount at
that period.
   We now advert to the changes that have occurred since the
sketch of the foregoing account was drawn up in 1838. Un-
fortunately these, as regards the parochial economy, have been
alike great and disastrous. Various circumstances contributed at
once to increase the expenditure and diminish the income for the
relief of the poor; so that it was found impossible to make these


