

380                        ROXBURGHSHIRE.

and Tirioden,"--a phrase which, being retained from the age of the
Saxons, or borrowed from the Danes of the neighbouring district
of Northumberland, who have left many words on the border, is al-
lied, as Dr Jamieson supposes, to the Anglo.Saxon, Tir or Tyr,
which denotes one of the Teutonic deities, and according to some
the son of Odin; and bence,.the first word may be understood as
making tolerably good Anglo-Saxon, Tyr haebbe us, may Tyr have
us in his keeping whilst the other conjoins the names of Tyr and
Odin, whose united aid is supposed to be invoked.
  Extent, Boundaries.-The parish extends upwards of 15 1/2 miles
in length, somewhat more on an average than 1 1/2 in breadth, and
contains about 24 square miles, or 15,1360 imperial acres.  It is
bounded on the north, by the parishes of Roberton and Wilton; on
the east, by the parish of Cavers;' on the south, by Cavers and
Kirktoun ; and on the west, by Eskdalemuir and Westerkirk, in the
county of Dumfries.
   Topographical Appearances.-The scenery, especially when
viewed from the lower grounds, if not distinguished by much
variety or magnificence, is nevertheless singularly interesting
and beautiful.   A sinuous valley passes downwards through
the whole extent of the parish, contracted for the most part
within narrow limits, and bordered on either side by a range
of hills, which rise in some places to a considerable height, co-
vered to their summits with the finest verdure, and presenting an
outline more remarkable for its gracefulness than for the wild and
rugged features which are usually characteristic of mountain sce-
nery.  This vale is beautified and enlivened with the windings of
the " sweet and silver Teviot," which, taking its rise at the western
extremity of the parish, meanders for a few miles through a dis-
trict of green pasture,'untouched apparently by the hand of art,
and lying in all the beautiful simplicity of nature.  Joined by the
Allan and other tributary streams, it then enters into a richer dis-
trict, passing over ground celebrated in story and in song, gliding
with a solemn melodv between the once festive balls of Braxholm
and the massive peel of Goldielands; then, meeting the impetuous
waters of the Borthwick, it skirts the town of Hawick, and, flowing
onwards to the distance of about two miles beyond it, leaves the
parish at its eastern extremity.
  In a direction somewhat angular to the course of the Teviot,
there is another vale  not less interesting than the other, though.
characterized by an air of greater wilderness and  seclusion.  This
forms the bed of the river  Slitridge, which crosses the parish in a


