
18               ROSS AND CROMARTY.

a man could learn to think. His mind became the subject of some,
serious impression; he applied earnestly to his Bible and the stand-
ards of the church; and in the contemplation of the most import-
ant of all concerns his newly awakened faculties received their first
exercise. And hence the peculiar tone of his politics, and the exclu-
sive character of the liberty for which he deemed it his duty to con-
tend. Hence, too, the nature of his influence in the humble sphere in
which be moved; an influence which the constitution of his church,
from her admission of lay members to deliberate in her courts,
and to direct her discipline, tended powerfully to increase; it was
not more intellectual than moral, nor moral than intellectual. He
was respected not only as one of the best, but also as one of the
most intelligent men of the parish, and impressed the tone of his
own character on that of his contemporaries. But a thorough,
though noiseless revolution has taken place,-new sources of intel-
ligence have been opened up,-it is the newspaper and the maga-
zine, not the Catechism and the Confession of Faith, that are now
stereotyped on the public mind; and the older and better source,
under the influence of causes which it might prove a melancholy,
but no uninstructive task to trace, seems to have lost much of its
efficacy. But on questions so open to prejudice, there must ob-
tain an immense variety of opinion; almost every one would hold
the balance after his own fashion, and decide differently regarding
the result; nor is the subject one of those which can be discussed
in a single paragraph, nor by a common pen.
   September 1836.


            PARISH OF NIGG.

     PRESBYTERY OF TAIN, SYNOD OF ROSS.*

      I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
Name.-THE derivation of the name of this parish from Neuk or
Nook (a corner) seems improbable. In some old records of the
parish, the name is spelled Wig and Wigg. It is probably, there-
fore, of the same origin as the names of the parishes of Uig and
Wick. Bailey, in his Etymological Dictionary says, that Wick or
Vich is a Saxon word for bay or harbour.

<FOOTNOTE>Drawn up by the late incumbent, the Rev. Lewis Rose, now minister of Duke
Street Church, Glasgow.


