
                             AYTON.                             147

supported chiefly by the older people, but not very flourishing, as
the younger generation are losing the spirit of independence, be-
coming less saving in their habits, and relying more, on parochial
aid for supplying the wants of old age.-There is also a tempe-
rance society lately established here, consisting almost exclusively
of people who were previously sober in their habits. There is no
evidence as yet of its having had the effect of converting a single
drunkard. But it must not be denied, that it may have given a
further improvement to the sober habits of the former class; and
possibly, it may have prevented some of them from acquiring con-
trary habits.-A savings' bank was established some years ago in
Eyemouth, of which it was expected that many in the neighbour-
ing parishes would have availed themselves; but the same cause
has prevented the success of this establishment, which has already
been assigned for the falling off of the friendly society.-There is
no Dispensary here, but the poor receive medical advice at home,
at the expense of the parish.
  Poor and Parochial Funds.-The number of persons receiving
parochial aid is between 50 and 60. The average weekly al-
lowance to each is 2s. 6d. The parish, including heritors and their
tenants, is regularly assessed for the support of the poor. The
average amount of yearly assessments is L. 400. The heritors have
long allowed the whole of the church collections, together with the
money arising from the use of the mortcloth, and from proclama-
tions of marriage, to be laid out by the kirk-session in giving tem-
porary aid to poor not upon the roll, and in paying a small fee to
the clerks and officers of synod, presbyter, and kirk-session. If
any money remains at the end of the year, it is laid out in
coals to the poor, generally after new year; and sometimes,
when there is a deficit for this latter purpose, an extraordinary col-
lection is appointed in the church to make it up. The farmers
and others are occasionally so kind as to drive the coals. There
is no mortified or endowed money in this parish for the benefit of
the poor; but occasionally small donations have been given or be-
queathed for distribution.
   This parish labours under a singular disadvantage, owing to the
village of Ayton being the first town in Scotland on the great Lon-
don road. Crowds of poor families and individuals, originally belong-
ing to Scotland, having acquired no parish settlement in England, are
daily sent down through the English parishes, in cart loads, many
of them unable to walk, and thrown into Ayton, as though it were
the limit of their destination. When they happen to have regular


