
662			AYRSHIRE.

and the value of the estates in the upper part of Coylton would
unquestionably be enhanced, if these and the private roads to the
farm-steads were made a little more after the modern fashion.
	The chief village in the parish is Joppa. It contains 173 in-
habitants; Coylton village, 40, Knockshoggle, 109, Gadgirth-
holm, 50, Craighall, 100.
	Ecclesiastical State.--Little is known of the early history of the
church of Coylton. It belonged originally to the Bishopric of
Glasgow. Chalmers in his Caledonia has given the most correct
account of what has been discovered since the beginning of the
sixteenth century. "At that time," he tells us, "when James
IV. refounded and enlarged the establishment of Chapel Royal
at Stirling, he founded two of the prebends from the revenues of
the Church of Coylton, in equal divisions. These prebends
were sometimes called Ayr prima, and Ayr secunda, and some-
times Coyltoun prima and Coyltoun secunda, the patronage
whereof belonged to the King. At the Reformation, these pre-
bends were held by John Ross and William Angus, two of the
canons of the Chapel Royal of Stirling. The whole of the tithes
and revenues of the church of Coyltoun were let on lease by them
for L. 80 yearly, which they shared equally; and out of which,
each of them paid L. 6 to the chaplain or vicar, who served the
cure of the parish of Coyltoun." So far Chalmers. For some
time after the Papal Faith ceased to be the established religion of
the nation, the Church of Coylton appears to have been connect-
ed with the see of Dumblane. And when Episcopacy was abo-
lished in the reign of Charles I., that king executed a charter up-
on the 3d November 1647, by which he transferred the revenues
of several parishes in Ayrshire (and Coylton seems to have been
one of them,) to their respective Presbyterian ministers.
	At this time, a Mr William Scott was minister. He is the first
after the Reformation who is noticed in the earliest existing re-
cords of the presbytery of Ayr. He was settled in 1642, and de-
posed in 1651. From that date till the year 1687, there is a
blank in the records of presbytery. From 1689 downwards, the
following were ministers: Mr John Mair, inducted 1689; John
Hunter, 1692; William Boyd, 1700; John Key, 1723; David
Shaw, D.D., 1749; John Black, LL.D., 1810; Alexander Dun-
can, 1826.
	The present church was built in 1836. It is a handsome little
edifice, in the Gothic style: and in point of conveniency and


