
     Statistical Account

   Miscellaneous Remarks.-The imports are meal, whisky, li-
nen, tanned leather, fir-planks, and shelly land for manure.
The exports are, black-cattle, horses, furs, kelp, tallow, but-
ter, and cheese.-There are 20 tons of kelp manufactured
every second year; exclusive of the privilege given to the te-
nants, to use such quantities of sea-weed as are sufficient to lay
down their barley and potatoes.
   The dearth and scarcity of 1782, was not perceptible by the
inhabitants.  Since 1740, famine did not shew its face so
much as in summer 1791, when 440 bolls of meal were im-
ported, and sold in the parish at 18 s. 6 d. per boll.  The wound,
however, was soon healed by the uncommon take of herring
in Lochduich, the ensuing season.
   Men-servants generally receive from 30 s. to 40 s.  The dai-
ry maid gets 5 merks; besides one-half of the skins of all the
calves that are killed as a perquisite.  Many, however, depart
from this mode, from conviction that the spirit of it is fatal to
the young store.

<FOOTNOTE>

This is a web which catches many a silly fly.-3d, It is to be regretted that
the people are subject to low and melancholy fits, which (as is conjectured)
arises from too much hazy and damp weather; on these occasions a priest,
with whom the art of exorcism is supposed to be found, attends for relief to
the distressed.  If it happens that a kind providence thereafter removes the
malady, the glory of the cure redounds to human frailty, and the pretended
miracle becomes the ground and oftensible reason of conversion.-Lastly, The
people in the district of Glenelchaig, where Popery prevails most, are ex-
tremely ignorant, and easily become the dupes of trafficking priests.  In the
last century, there were no established schools in the place; as yet few, if any
at all, of the tenants in this glen, read or understand the holy scriptures.
There are however grounds to believe, that the Society for propagating Chris-
tian Knowledge will soon appoint a school, whereby the blessings of know-
ledge may be more liberally dissused through this valley, which is in the near
neighbourhood of a Popish district.


