
826                      ABERDEENSHIRE.

tion with two grain crops after two grasses.  But both these rota-
tions, it is believed, are injurious to the interest of the landlord,
and over a nineteen years no less injurious to the tenant.  Where
the land has been previously well managed, and of good quality,
they may prove advantageous to the tenant during the first years
of his lease; but, towards the end of it, he may discover his error,
and that his loss exceeds his gain.
   Wheat is seldom attempted to be raised in the parish, as nei-
ther the soil nor the climate appears to be adapted to its growth.
Barley and bear are raised but in small quantities.  The grain
chiefly sown is oats, and considerable attention has been paid to
have the seed frequently changed and of good quality, and the ad-
vantage of the change is now universally admitted.  The species
of oats which appear to suit both the soil and climate best is that of
those denominated Scotch barley and early Angus; although no
backwardness is shown to introduce other kinds which promise to
be more productive.  Accordingly, potato oats, Hopetoun oats, and
sandy oats have been sown in the parish. The potato and Hope-
toun oats do not bear much hardship, and begin to be discontinued.
The sandy oat is rather in greater favour.
   The land in the parish seems well adapted for producing green
crops; in proof of which it may be stated, that the turnips which
grew on a Scotch acre of second-rate infield in 1835, weighed,
with the tops, 33 tons, 6 cwt. 8 lb., and without the tops 28 tons,
cwt. 1 qr. 4 lb. They were, however, the old Scotch yellow, and
sown in drills only 22 1-2 inches apart,-the common width being
from 26 to 28 inches.  In the same year, and on land of the same
quality, the weight of the potatoes raised on a Scotch acre was
found to be 14 tons, 5 cwt. 2 qr. 24 lb.
   A good deal has been done lately, and is still doing, in reclaim-
ing the low and marshy waste land in the parish. Several lead-
ing ditches for carrying off the water have been cut at the proprie-
tors' expense, while the tenants have cut and filled the necessary
drains, and the work has in general been efficiently executed, the
tenants are already reaping the fruits of the proprietors' liberality
and their own industry, and so manifest is the advantage resulting
from, this operation, that it is not doubted, that, in a few years, the
whole of the waste land susceptible of cultivation will be under
profitable tillage.
   The leases are now almost uniformly of nineteen years dura-
tion,-a period apparently sufficient to allow the tenant to derive


