

38                     ROXBURGHSHIRE.

a portion of the court wall standing on the south side, but it is
now in a ruinous state, and appears to have decayed much since
1795, when, according to the former Account, there were about
160 feet of it perfectly entire.  However, the fragment that re-
mains is sufficient to give a clear idea of the former strength and
magnificence of the place, and to make us regret deeply the de-
molition of a building that was so stately and ornamental, and also
so venerable for its antiquity.  A stone, to which we have already
alluded, preserved from the ruins, and now a lintel to the door of
the old farm-house at Holydean, has in the middle a unicorn's
head and three stars, with this inscription on either side; " Feer
God.  Flee from sin.  Mak for the lyfe everlasting to the end.
Dem Isobel Ker, 1530."
  A few yards to the north-east of the portion of the wall alreadv
mentioned, is the ancient well belonging to the house.  It is still
in good order, and affords to the family, now living at Holydean, an
abundant supply of excellent water.  This well was built in the
eastern wall of the court, and was about ten feet from the door of
the eastern tower.
  About 140 yards north-west from the principal house, on the
top of a precipice overhanging a deep dell or dean, called Ringan's
Dean, there was a chapel or place of worship, with a burying-
ground, as clearly ;appears, not only from traditionary report, but
also from the foundations of the building, which have been traced,
and from grave-stones, handles of coffins, and human bones, which
have been dug up in that place; and hence has probably arisen
the name Holydean or Haliedean.
   The greatest curiosity of its kind in this quarter, and perhaps
of a similar nature anywhere else, is a stone dike or wall built
without lime or cement of any kind, which encloses about 500 acres
of the farm of Holydean, and has stood upwards of 300 years, and
is still a tolerably good fence.  It bad, at first, been six or seven
feet high, with cope stones.  In an old tack or lease this enclosure
is called "the Great Deer, Park of Haliedean."
   Beneath the east end of the parish church is a vault, the bury-
ing-place of the noble family of Roxburghe. It contains twenty-one
coffins ranged along the sides of the apartment.  In that number
are included the coffins of the five previous dukes.
   The remains of a military road, with circular stations or camps,
at the distance of from two to three miles from each other, supposed
to be Roman, can be traced across the centre of the parish, in a
                               4




