
          722                           PERTHSHIRE.

          whinstone, and in the beds of the streams are found boulders and
          pieces of quartz.
             Manufactures.- This parish contains three corn-mills, one
          flour-mill, a saw-mill, and a wool-mill, at which a considerable
          woollen mantifactory is carried on, two malt-mills, a distillery, and
          a brewery.  A great proportion of the inhabitants are weavers,
          and are supplied with work from Glasgow.

                             V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
              The village of Dunning contains many substantial houses, and
          is held in fen from the Right Hon. Lord Rollo.  It is placed
          under the superintendence of a baron-bailie, and enjoys the ad-
          vantages of a post-office and a reading-room for newspapers.  Of
          the latter there are 110 delivered weekly at the post-office.  So
          lately as the year 1764, there was only one newspaper read in the
          whole parish.  It was received by the family of Lord Rollo, who
          are still in possession of the first number ordered, and is entitled
          "The Craftsman, or Say's Weekly Journal."  It sold at 2 1/2d. in-
          cluding a halfpenny for duty.  There is no jail, but in lieu of it
          there is that old-fashioned instrument of punishment called the
          jougs.  The only other village in the parish is the new town of
          Pitcairns.
             Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church stands in the village,
          find affords accommodation for 1000 persons,-the sittings all free,
          It was rebuilt and enlarged in 1810, is in a state of proper repair,
          and convenient for the greater part of the population, being situat-
          ed at the distance of one mile from the east boundary of the pa-
          rish, two from the north, three from the west, and five from the
          mouth.  The patron is Lord Kinnoull.
             The extent of the grebe is eight acres and a quarter; its annual
          value, L.20 Sterling.  The amount of the stipend is 16 chalders,
          half meal and half barley, with L.8, 6s. 8d. for communion ele-
          ments.
             There are four Dissenting chapels in the parish, two belonging
          to the United Associate Synod, one to the Associate Synod of
          Original Seceders and one to the Relief.  Divine service at the
          Established Church is generally well attended, as it also is at the
          several chapels, with the exception of the Relief, which has had
          no stated minister for the last nine years.
             Education.-There are five schools in the parish, the paro-
          chial and four unendowed schools.  The branches of education
          generally, taught, are English, writing, arithmetic, and Latin.  The


