
            40                         PERTHSHIRE.


            black wool and butter. That she got a shot star at the burn side,
            and sent it in with black wool, and that after the cure was used, the
            child was healed.  That Duncan Tawis and Isabell Haldane came
            to her at her house in Black Ruthven, and Duncan told her, that
            he thought his bairn was taken away, it being stiff as an aik tree,
            and unable to move. That having heard this, she promised to
            come in and see the bairn.  That when she came in, she took the
            bairn upon her knee before the fire, and drew the fingers of its
            hands and every toe of its feet, mumbling all the while some
            words that could not be heard, and immediately the bairn was
            cured.
              " Being asked where she learned her skill, she deponed as fol,

            lows, to wit : When I was lying in child-bed lair, I was drawn forth
            from my bed to a dub near my house door in Dunning, and was
            there puddled and troubled.  Being asked by whom this was done,
            she answered by the fairy folks, who appeared some of them red,
            some of them gray, and riding upon horses.  The principal of them
            that spake to me, was like a bonny white man, riding upon a gray
            horse.  He desired me to speak of God, and to do good to poor
            folks ; and he showed me the means how I might do this, which
            was by washing, bathing, speaking words, putting sick persons
            through hasps of yarn, and the like."  The above are excerpts of
            depositions, and confessions, taken by the session, as formally en-
            grossed in the records.
              " Georgä Robertson, post, was sent with the depositions of the
            witches, to purchase a commission to put them to an inquest.  The
            clerk was ordained to direct a missive to Andrew Conqueror, com-
            missioner to Parliament from the town ; wid another to Charles
            Rollock, baillie, who were both at the time in Edinburgh ; and
            another to Mr John Guthrie, minister there, that they all three
            might concur for obtaining the commission.
              " The commission having been obtained, directed to the civil
            magistrates, to try Margaret Hormseleuch, Isabell Haldane, and
            Janet Trall, accused of witchcraft ; they were put to an assize, and
            being condemned, suffered the ordinary punishment by being
            strangled at the stake, and afterwards burned, on Friday, July the
            18th 1623.
              " The session thereafter proceeded to censure the persons who
            had sought cures, from them, and caused them, to make their pub-
            lic repentance on a Sunday before noon, clothed in black cloth,
            and standing under the bell strings (ropes.)"


