
500	                  AYRSHIRE.

   The earliest mention of the lands of Cassillis is contained in a
writ-given by King David II. to Sir John Kennedy about the year
1360, in which that monarch confirms to the knight the donations,
grants, and venditions made to him by Marjory Montgomery, and
her daughter, of the lands of Castlys, in the county of Ayr. Soon
after, the wealth and influence of the family were greatly advan-
ced by the marriage of Sir James Kennedy to the daughter of King
Robert III. Gilbert, the second Earl of Cassillis, was a man of
splendid talents, and was employed in several offices of high trust,
He was assassinated at Prestwick, by Hugh Campbell, sheriff of
the county. His son, Quintin, abbot of Crossraguel, is famous for
the dispute which, for three days, he maintained with Knox at
Maybole. His zeal and learning in behalf of his faith so much
gratified the Romish clergy, tbat on his death he was publicly ca-
nonized.
  Gilbert, the third Earl, was the pupil and intimate friend of the
celebrated George Buchanan. The bitter satire that Buchanan
wrote aginst the Franciscan friars, was composed during his resi-
dence at Cassillis.
  John, the sixth Earl, was an ardent friend of the Protestant cause
in general, and of the Church of Scotland in particular. He was
one of the three ruling elders sent to the Assembly of Divines at
Westminster in 1643, to ratify the solemn league aud covenant.
His wife was the ill-starred lady who figures in the matter with
Sir John Faa. His daughter, a lady of distinguished piety and ex-
cellence, was married to Bishop Burnet.
  His son, tbe seventh Earl, was the single person who lifted up his
voice against the act for punishing conventicles. This indepen-
dent line of conduct was so offensive to the ministry, that he was
denounced an outlaw, and forced to flee from the country.
  Under the act of abolishing heritable jurisdictions in 1747, John,
the eighth Earl, was allowed L. 1800 for the regality of Carrick,
in full of his claim of L. 13,000.
  Modern Mansions--Cloncaird Castle, the residence of Henry
Ritchie, Esq. of Busbie, was originally in the style of feudal mans-
sions of the sixteenth century, having a huge square tower, narrow
spiral staircase, &c. In 1814, an entire new front was built, which
now renders it, both from site and exterior, one of the handsomest
seats in Ayrshire. There is a large stretch of lawn in front, and
plenty of fine old trees adjoining.
  Kirkmichael House, the property of Colonel Shaw Kennedy,


