
     of Laswade.

which ought always to be avoided, if possible, as it never fails
to increase the number of claimants.  There is a laudable spi-
rit in the common people of this country, which keeps them
from applying for aid out of the poors funds, so long as they
can do any thing for themselves.  This arises from the ap-
prehension, that these funds depend for their supply solely
on the voluntary contributions at the church doors.  Where-
as, no sooner do they find that there is a legal establishment
in their favour, than they apply for aid without reserve, and
before they stand in need of it*.

   Ecclesiastical State and School.-Sir John Clerk of Penny-
cuick is patron.  The stipend consists of 70 L. 16 s 5 1/4 d. Ster-
ling; 44 bolls 2 lippies of oats, and 26 bolls, 1 firlot, 2 lip-
pies of barley.  The glebe contains upwards of 5 acres ara-
ble, besides pasture.  The manse, one of the best in the
country, was built in 1789, and cost 500 L. If the sum ex-
pended in building the manse is a proof of the liberality of
the heritors, they deserve no less credit from the church
just now erecting, which, in point of accommodation, and
magnificence of structure, will far exceed any modern coun-
try church in Scotland.  The number of dissenters of all de-
nominations is considerable.  The Cameronians and Burgher
seceders have each of them a meeting-house within the pa-

<FOOTNOTE>

*This parish is connected with several charitable societies.
The nature of these associations is this; the paper makers, car-
ters, and colliers, belonging to different adjacent parishes, have
a fund belonging to each profession.  Every person, who chooses
to enter, pays so much quarterly into this common stock, and,
in return, is entitled to a weekly allowance when disabled from
working, by sickness or any accident.  These societies are useful
not only for the purposes of charity, but also for preserving good
morals among their members, since it is one of their established
rules, that no person, who lies under the imputation of any
crime, can receive aid from their fund.


