
200                              FIFESHIRE.

mills attached; three of these are propelled by water, and one by
steam. This last, seven horse power, has been in operation two
years.
  Iron ploughs are almost universally used. The mode of hus-
bandry varies according to circumstances. Some farmers apportion
their land in the following ratio: two-sevenths, oats; one-seventh
wheat and barley; one-seventh green crop and summer fallow;
three-sevenths grass pastured, sometimes for three years. One
boll is the usual quantity ofoats and wheat allotted to the Scots acre,
from which the return is often tenfold. Three firlots constitute the
ordinary measure of barley sown on the acre, which not seldom issue
in the production of ten bolls. The rearing of flax, which for a
series of years had been very much given up, has of late become
more frequent and remunerative. Three mills are employed in
manufacturing this article.
  Rate of Wages.-A male farm-servant who is married usually
receives as his anual payment L. 11 or L. 12 in money, 6 1/2
bolls of meal, and about a Scots pint of milk daily, together
with the use of a dwelling house and a small garden plot.  The
additional privilege of twenty-four falls of potatoe ground is, in
most cases, enjoyed. Full-grown young men are often hired on
nearly the same pecuniary terms as the former, and receive their
victuals in their master's house. The ordinary wages of a domes-
tic female servant are L. 5, 1Os. Harvest reapers are almost al-
ways engaged in the course of the preceding winter, and become
bound to remain with their respective employers twenty-four law-
ful days, or until the labours peculiar to autumn shall be complet-
ed. The rate at which a man is hired for that season is commonly
L.2, 10s., and a woman L. 1, 10s. or L. 1, 15s. with lodging and
victuals. Shearers whose houses are at hand receive a little more
money. The highest pay given to a male is L 3, and to a female
L. 2. A hay-cutter earns 2s. 6d. daily. The summer hire of an
ordinary labourer is 1s. 8d.; women employed in field labour usu-
ally gain 9d.

<TABLE>
   Produced.--
Grain of all kinds,    .          .         .                        L.14970   0   0
Potatoes, turnips, &c.     .    .     .         .                       4080   0   0
Hay, whether meadow or cultivated,  .             .                     2500   0   0
Flax      .        .         .           .      .                        270   0   0
Land in pasture, rating it at L.3, 10s per cow or full-grown ox, graz.
  ed, or that may be grased for season;-at L.1, 6s. per ewe or
  full-grown sheep, pastured, or that may be pastured for the year, .   2032  10   0
Gardens and orchards      .     .      .      .      .      .      .     180   0   0
Annual and periodical thinning of woods, plantations, and copse    .     536   0   0
                                                                        --------------
      Total yearly value of raw produce raised      .         .      L 24568   10   0


