
                          ABERDEEN.                            21

twenty-nine successive years, from 1547 to 1576.  These abuses
continued till 1591, when the matter having been challenged, and
coming under the notice of King James, his Majesty issued one of
the most singular rescripts, perhaps, that ever passed the privy seal,
in which he ascribes the flourishing state of Aberdeen to the council
continuing in office "unalterit or changeit be the space of forty or fifty
years;"-save the town would become a monopoly instead of an open
burgh, if they were changed annually according to act of Parlia-
ment ;-and therefore directs the council then in office to continue
during life, re-electing themselses annually; " renunceand and
dischargeand all actioun and persute competent to us or our suc-
cessors twitching the contraventioun of our said act of Parliament."
This, however, did not give satisfaction as indeed it could not be
expected to do ; and next year the matter was referred to certain
umpires, who pronounced a decree-arbitral naming the magistrates
and couch for that year, and " enjoining the acts of Parliament
concerning the election of magistrates, council and office-men
within boroughs, to be precisely observed in all time coming."
   In 1594, three Popish priests having been apprehended by the
magistrates, as abettors of the Popish Lords Huntly, Errol, and
Angus, who were then in a state of rebellion, these barons forci-
bly rescued the prisoners, and denounced fire and sword against
the town; a threat which would probably have been executed, had
they not been soon after subdued, or rather starved into subjection.
   James VI. paid several visits to Aberdeen, viz. in 1582, 1589,
1592 1 594, and 1600, and, generally speaking, these royal visits were
expensive affairs to the citizens, both in entertainments, and in pre-
sents of money given to his Majesty, according to the custom of the
time.  About this time, the crime of witchcraft was supposed to be
prevalent in Aberdeen as well as in other parts of the kingdom, and
many poor old women were sacrificed to appease the terrors which
the belief in it was calculated to excite.  Few of the individuals
who were suspected were allowed to escape from the hands of their,
persecutors; several died in prison in consequence of the tortures
inflicted on them, and, during the years 1596-97, no fewer than
22 were burnt at the Castlehill.
   In 1689, the town having, at the, instigation bf the Marquis of
Huntly, taken part with the Kirig, Montrose and General Leslie
came north, and after harassing  the citizens for a time, and re-
ducing Huntly to the necessity of dispersing his troops, returned


