
1040                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

come from trade, there are about forty individuals or families, chief-
ly in the town, of independent means, varying from L.50 to L.500
or L.600 per annum. The people are a shrewd and intelli-
gent race, some of them indeed exhibiting intellectual powers of a
very high order. They are in general peaceable and well-be-
haved, and free from many of the grosser vices. Poaching
exists ie a small degree, and drunkenness in a greater. The
illegitimate births in the parish may amount to about 12 per
annum.

                          IV.--INDUSTRY.
       	Agriculture, &c.--The writer has not been able to ascertain
the proportion of land which is cultivated or not; but it may
be mentioned, that very little could be brought under culti-
tion which is not already so. Several thousand acres have
been recently planted with fir, larch, Birch, elm, and oak in this
and the neighbouring parish of Cairnie, which in a few years
will greatly improve the face of the country. The average rent
of land per acre is about 16s.; but for "the Huntly acres" it is
L.2 per acre, and the rental of the parish, which is partly paid in
kind for 1841, is as follows:--

<TABLE>
                  Kinoir,                L.1204  0 0
                  Dumbennan,               2280  0 0
                  Huntly acres,            1050  0 0
                  Feu duties of Huntly,     122  0 0
                  Avochy, about,            400  0 0

                                 Total,  L.5056  0 0

       	This is not a sheep country; but the farmers on the high lands
of the parish have a few flocks which range the hills. Cattle,
however, are reared in considerable numbers on all the farms, and
exported to the markets in the south; though, whether this will
be continued to the same extent is doubtful. The only grains
cultivated in this parish are oats and bear, chiefly the former.
Wheat does not grow here.
       	Improvements, Leases, &c.--The greatest agricultural improve-
ments needed in this parish are thorough draining and enclosures,
and these are prosecuted every year with great vigour, the latter
with tiles as well as loose stones. The leases almost uniformly ex-
tend to nineteen years; but at the last letting, in 1841, the sys-
tem was adopted of throwing many of the smaller farms into one.
      	There is a Farmer's Club in this parish, for the improvement
of agriculture, with the Duke of Richmond as patron, the pro-
ceedings of which are conducted with some vigour; and there are


