
            ADDENDUM TO LOCHGOIL-HEAD.                    713

  Parochial Registers.--The parochial registers commenced in
1692, and for a considerable time were diligently kept.  After-
wards the entries, excepting for marriages and baptisms, became
more irregular.
  Modern Buildings.--The mansion-house of Ardkinglas was
unfortunately destroyed by fire a few years ago, as the tradesmen
were just finishing extensive repairs it had undergone. The other
mansion-houses are that of Drimsynie, near the head of Lochgoil,
and that of Ardgartan, on the west side of Lochlong.

                         INDUSTRY.
  The sides of the lochs are much skirted with oak coppices,
adding greatly to the beauty, as well as the value of the land.
There is a plantation of some miles around the lodge at Ardking-
las, and Mr Douglas of Glenfinnert has lately planted a good deal
along the south side of Lochgoil. The trees indigenous or plant-
ea are, oak, chestnut, ash, lime, beech, pine, larch, spruce, moun-
tain ash, &c. The coppices are cut down in succession every
twenty-first year, and are inclosed for the space of seven years.
They are twice thinned to admit the free circulation of air, and
to encourage the growth of the best shoots. Farm-servants are
generally hired for the year, and at least for the half year. The
average wages of men servants is L.12, of women servants L.6.
Day labourers have 1s. 6d.; artisans, 1s. 6d. and their victuals.
Wool is the principal article of raw produce used for the purposes
of domestic economy. It is generally sent to a mill to be carded,
and blankets and plaidings are in principal request. Stuffs in-
tended for men's clothing are sent to the waulk-mill to be dressed.
Tartans are seldom made, and the lint-wheel is almost driven off
the field by the cheapness of the cotton manufacture.
   Cattle.--The Argyleshire breed of black-cattle is considered
very handsome, though not large. They are much valued in the
market for the fine quality of the beef. They are generally sold
off in the third year of their age; and a large proportion of them
are sent to England, where they acquire a great increase in size
and weight on richer pastures.  Much attention is paid by the
graziers as to what breed they admit into their stock, and high
prices are given for bulls of the proper description.  It is however,
upon the sheep stock the grazier places his principal dependence
for his annual returns, and the proportion of black-cattle has been
greatly diminished of late, to make room for these useful creatures,
which all furnish a yearly fleece, and so many of them a lamb,


