
     Statistical Account

bourhood are chiefly supplied with various kinds of fish, such
as cod, skait, flounders, and particularly haddocks.  Tain,
20 or 30 years ago, was reckoned an exceeding good fish-
market; but for some years past, there has been an scarcity of
fish on the coast.  This occassions a rise in the price, so that,
instead of 20 haddocks, (as was the case about 20 years
ago), for 1 d. only one can now be got; and of other kinds
in proportion.  The present haddocks are much larger than
the old ones.  It is a great disadvantage to the fishing, that,
with an easterly or northerly wind, there is a swelling on the
shore at the Inver, which prevents the boats going to the sea.  There
is a sand bank, called the Gizzin Briggs, about 3 miles be-
low the town, extending from the Ross to the Sutherland
side.  On it there is a violent surge, with a loud noise, when
the north or east winds blow, and sometimes during a calm
in frosty weather, or the approach of the frost.  This bank is
wholly covered at high water, during neap as well as spring
tides; but is exposed when the sea is out.  There is a chan-
nel near the middle, through which vessels can, in moderate
weather, be conducted safe, by persons acquainted with the
ground; but strangers dread it, and it hath been fatal to
vessels, particularly about 7 years ago, to a Swedish ship,
loaded with wood.  This bank, and the shallowness of the
water between it and the shore, prevent the fishing boats
from coming nearer the town than Inver, which is 4 miles
distant.  And in consequence of the badness of the naviga-
tion, merchant goods for Tain are often landed at Cromar-
ty, which occasions a land carriage of 7 miles. At the
Meikle Ferry, (the western extremity of the parish), where the
passage boat between Ross and Sutherland lies, there is, at
high water, depth sufficient for ships to come close to the
land.  When the sea ebbs, it leaves below the town, and to
the east, a large tract of land exposed, in some places a mile,


