
     Statistical Account

quities, to be the grinder of a Roman stone-mill, the
trenches upon the Chester-knows can hardly be doubted
to be the remains of an encampment, or temporary sta-
tion of Roman troops; and from this being ascertained,
a probability arises of their having marched through
this part of the country, in the lines, and with the mi-
litary conduct above supposed*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*There are three springs or wells of water, which have curiosity; one
of them upon the S. extremity of the East Mains estate, has its copiuos is-
sue in a bed of marl., Its taste, and the ochre colour of its slime, prove it
to be a pretty strong chalybeate, or mineral water; but being impregna-
ted with marly particles, it is glutinous upon the palate, and therefore
not so light upon the stomach.  It has been formerly, and is still re-
sorted to, by some of the common people, affected with scorbutic
eruptions; but with what benefit is not, to my knowledge, well as-
certained.  Some old book is said to report its medicinal virtues and
vogue.  The other two springs that rise in the place called Spence's
Mains, a little west of the church-yard, deserve notice, not from
any singular quality in either, but from the one being soft water, and the
other hard, when their distance from each other is not above 6 or 7 steps.
-The old plane tree at Ninewell which, in the grove a litle E. of the
house, rears its straight them, and losty top, is an object that attracts the
eye, to such a production in the vegetable system.  It measures, by the
girth, 17 feet of solid wood, below the boughs; which, although general-
ly strong, and spreading, have at their top a fading, which marks their
suffering by the endorance of the  blasts of many winters, which cannot
be reckoned sewer than 150, in revolution:  For the oldest people of the
last generation, when asked about its appearance, in their memory, said,
that they never remembered it but in full growth, and with some marks
of its being at the age of declining-A species of the gypsum, if not
the best kind, but of which some planet has been made for ceilings of
rooms, little inferior to that of Paris, or very good stucco, shows itself
on the side of Whittadder banks, opposite to this, where yet there is the
same appearance of that substance.  Its quantities, such as it is, here.
and in the neighbourhood, are vast, and if tried in powder, to ferti-
lize land, to the degree alledged of the gypsum, large supplies of it can
be furnished.


