
                            COCKPEN.                       609

tail shop-keeping; 300 at least in manufactures; and 12 trades-
men. There are only 4 male household servants, and 36 female
ones. The parish is all arable and under tillage, excepting the
immediate banks of the rivers and burns, and the policy around
Dalhousie Castle, &c. Deducting these and plantations, and the
steadings of houses, &c., it is computed that there is about one-
eighth of the parish not under tillage. The number of arable
acres therefore, is about 2200. Some of the farms are above
400 acres in extent; but most of them not half so large; and
some of the rents are L. 3, 5s. per acre, others not half that
sum.
   Leases.-The duration of leases is usually nineteen years. The
farms are all enclosed by thorn hedges; and the usual course of
tillage is summer-fallow; then a crop of wheat; then peas, some-
times turnips or potatoes; then a crop of oats or barley, along
with which the ground is sown down with grass and clover for a
year or two. It is then ploughed again and sown with oats, and
afterwards put into fallow. There is, no doubt, far more grain
produced in the parish than is consumed in it. Dalkeith market,
held weekly throughout the year, affords a convenient place of
sale. The rental is about L. 4000.
   Manufactures.-There are two kinds of manufacture carried
on, flax-yarn and paper. The first is at Prestonholm, where 214
men, women, and children above ten years of age are employed.
At the paper-mill at St Leonard's 18 men and 35 women are em-
ployed. Three-fourths of the paper made is sent to London, and
the remainder is sold in Edinburgh and Glasgow.

                        V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   The nearest market-town is Dalkeith, at the distance of two
miles and a quarter from the centre of the parish; and there are
three villages Prestonholm, Bonnyrigg, and Westmill or St
Leonard's.
   Abundant means of communication are enjoyed. A turnpike
road from Edinburgh towards Carlisle passes through the midlle
of the parish; one from Dalkeith towards Peebles; and another
from the same place towards Noblehouse. There are three toll
bars in the parish; and three bridges over the South Esk, all in
good order.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is in a convenient situ,
ation for the people, none of whose houses are more than two
miles distant from it. It was built in 1820, and is in excellent


