
                            MAXTON.                     125

LI, 1s. as session-clerk. He teaches English grammatically,
writing, arithmetic, book-keeping, practical mathematics, Latin,
Greek, &c.
   There is no public library in the parish; but several families are
connected with one in the neighbouring village of Lessudden.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.- The poor are maintained by regu-
lar half-yearly assessments. The average number on the roll dur-
ing the last four years is ten; and the average yearly sum allotted
to each is L. 5, 15s. 10 1/2d.,-making in all L. 57, 19s. 9d., raised
by assessment. There is, besides, a small sum from church col-
lections, &c. after paying precentor and kirk officers' fees,-the
account of which may stand thus: from church collections, L. 4,
6s. 10d.; alms or legacies, L. 6, 19s. 7 3/4d.; proclamations, fines,
&c. 12s. 7 1/2d. ; interest of mortified money, L. 2, 18s. 21/2d. = L. 14,
17s. 5 3/4d. The deductions from this sum for precentor, beadle,
&c. may amount to L. 6, 5s. 6d. The honourable pride of the
Scotch peasantry, which so long made them shrink from any appeal
to public charity till compelled by stern necessity, is fast wearing
out as legal assessments gain ground. An application for aid is no
longer a sure indication of want on the part of the applicant.
   Fuel.-One of the greatest evils with which the poor have to
struggle in this place is the expense of fuel. Except a few sticks
from the young plantations, coals are the only material used for
this purpose; and these are brought for the most part from Nor-
thumberland, burdened with a land-carriage of between twenty and
thirty miles. They cost at present about 10d. per cwt. which, in
consequence of the improvements in roads, &c. is not more than
half their price twenty years ago.

                 MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.

   In 1794 the Kelso turnpike road was made, which laid the foun-
dation for all the subsequent improvements of this place. So late,
however, as 1807 or 1808, there were very few enclosures in the pa-
rish. By much the greater part of it was a bleak open waste,-in
many places, covered with heath and large stones, with scarcely a
tree to be seen,-and the tracks called roads, scarcely passable in
wet weather. Now it is all inclosed with substantial and thriving
hedges; the stones that deformed its surface have been blown with
gunpowder, and buried in drains or broken into road-metal; the
fields are all under the plough, and adorned and sheltered with
clumps and broad stripes of thriving plantations in spots judicously
selected for the purpose, and communications opened up in every


