
236                      BANFFSHIRE.

influence to the present day in the improvement of the parish,
through the instrumentality of the wealth which it enabled the fa-
milies who have been long in possession to acquire. The Noble
family who now inherit the estates also pursue an encouraging and
judicious system of letting, exacting at suitable rent, but never
ejecting an industrious tenant who makes a fair offer, or agrees to
pay the rent fixed by a competent valuator.
  Fisheries.-The herring-fishing is prosecuted at Whitehills from
the beginning or middle of July to the beginning or middle of Sep-
tember. From nineteen to twenty-seven boats, each containing
four men, have fished here since 1830. They have caught, on an
average, during these years, only ninety-six cranes per boat, and
have been paid on an average, 11s. per crane. A boat equipped
for sea costs L.66; and a fleet of nets, L.75. The former will
run twelve years; the latter only six. Salt is brought chiefly from
Liverpool; barrel-wood from Norway. The herrings when cured
are exported to Germany and Ireland. The West India market
is now lost, but as a compensation the prohibitory duty in Russia
has lately been reduced to a moderate amount. One cooper and
three women wait on shore for each herring-boat. Coopers' wages
are 12s. per week; in the fishing season, 14s. and 15s. Women
receive for gutting and packing a full barrel, 7s. At this rate, with
a sufficient supply of work, they might earn 5s. by a day's work.
The expense of curing a barrel of herrings is about 8s. besides the
price of the fish, The abolition of the bounty is supposed to have
had no bad effect,-the trade being still under the regulation of
Government inspectors, who withhold their mark from an inferior
article.
   Sixteen boats, each carrying four men, during the remainder of
the season, fish for haddocks, &c. They go to sea at least 120
days in the year, and average not less  than twelve dozen haddocks
per boat each day, which will amount to about 23,000 dozen had-
docks per annum besides about 10,000 cod, ling, and skate.  Had-
docks will bring 1Od. per dozen, and the other fish from 4d. to 5d.
each. Tho above is a moderate calculation. The fishermen re-
ceive about two bolls meal annually for their refuse, and about an
equal value for black oil manufactured by themselves. The fish
are usually sold within the district, but, in consequence of the great
abundance caught last season, most of the boats carried a cargo to
the south, as it was customary to do annually before the introduc-
tion of the herring-fishing.


