
                         ST ANDREWS.                         477

make from 50 to 60 a-week. Nearly one-half of the product is re-
quired for the use of the cultivators of the amusement in St An-
drews. A market for the remainder is found in other places.
Some have been sent as far as Calcutta and Madras. When trade
is flourishing, the several branches afford a fair remuneration, to
such as are employed in them; but there have been times of de-
pression, when even with the strictest economy, the craftsmen
could scarcely secure, from the fruits of their industry, the neces-
saries of life for themselves and their families; and vohen it was
necessary for the more favoured classes to come forward to their
assistance.
    Navigation.--There is but one sea port in the parish, viz. that
of St Andrews. The number of vessels at present connected with
the port is fourteen. They are all of a small size, as the harbour
does not admit vessels of a large burden. Their whole amount of
tonnage does not exceed 680 tons register of old measure. The
only foreign vessels which visit the harbour are from Norway or
the Baltic, freighted with timber. But these, when they exceed
100 tons in burden, or draw more than 14 feet of water, are
under the necessity of discharging a part of their cargo before they
can attempt to enter the harbour; and even this can be done with
safety, only at stream-tides. The estuary of the Eden, when the
tide is nearly full, is navigable to about two miles from its entrance.
And an extensive distillery being situated on its margin at this dis-
tance from the sea, vessels may frequently be seen navigating the
estuary, loaded with coals and grain for its use, and conveving its
produce to a distant market.
                   V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   City.-According to Martine, Robert, Bishop of St Andrews, ob-
tained for the city the liberties of a burgh royal, by consent of David
I. about the year 1140. Malcolm IV., the grandson and successor
of David, confirmed this erection, and the original charter granted
by this monarch is still preserved in the city charter chest. It is
in Latin, written in a neat small hand, on a slip of parchment, some-
what smaller in dimensions than a common playing card. It is ex-.
pressed so briefly, that it consists only of fifty-two words, exclusive
of the names and designations of five witnesses. A fac-simile of
this charter is here presented.
    Prior to the Reformation, the city must have been much more
important and populous, than it afterwards became. But no docu-
ment has been discovered, by which the amount of its inhabitants,
at that period can be ascertained.


