
320                      INVERNESS-SHIRE.

are also mismanaged. They keep nearly a double stock on their
hill pastures; hence the animals are stinted in their growth, and
are generally worth little. Were a moderate stock kept, and their
arable lands properly tilled, I have no doubt the people's comfort
would be materially improved.
   Leases.-The five tacksmen in the parish alone possess leases,
the duration of which is generally fifteen years. The others are
all tenants at will.
   Improvements.-Extensive improvements have been made on
Lord Macdonald's farm of Armadale. Much land has been re-
claimed, and the fields are regularly divided by ditches and hedges.
Planting has been carried on there also on an extensive scale, and the
parish has now the advantage of being able, from thinnings of wood,
to supply itself with such timber as is required for boat-building
and agricultural purposes,-an advantage it possesses over the other
parishes in the island. Among some who have made improve-
ments in the parish, Mr Elder of Knock, and late of Isleornsay,
is conspicuous. The extensive fields of luxuriant and healthy
pasture, both at Isleornsay and Knock, bear ample testimony
to his industry, judgment, and enterprise, and form a strong
contrast to the poor crops and bare pastures on the farms around
him.
                    V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   There are no towns or villages in the parish.
   Means of Communication.-A parliamentary road runs through
the parish, opening the communication from Armadale to Broad-
ford, a distance of sixteen miles. There are also district roads
connecting different parts of the parish. A steam-boat from
Glasgow to Portree calls once a week in summer, and once in
three weeks in winter. Thus an easy access is opened by sea and
land to other parts.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The church is situated at Kilmore about
the middle of the parish. It is an old building, and has the date
1631 marked on it. It has been lately repaired, and is seated for
nearly 500.
   Manse, &c.-The manse was built about thirty years ago, and is
a handsome building, near to the church. The glebe is arable, and
may be of the yearly value of L.6. The teinds amount to L.62,
7s. 4d. per annum. The balance of stipend is made up from the
Exchequer allowance. There are 5 families Dissenters, viz. 3 Ro-
man Catholics, and 2 Baptists. The people, for the most part,


