
                                 BARRAY                                211

         artisans, such as tailors, shoemakers, weavers, charge according
         to the quality of the article wrought, or the labour bestowed upon
         it. The black-cattle of Barray are very good. The stock reared by
         the proprietor himself was considered as one of the best in the
         Highlands. The small horses readred by the crofters are much
         esteemed, both for their symmetry and hardiness; of these they keep
         too many, to the detriment of their black-cattle, at the same time
         that they find them exceedingly useful for the manufacturer of
         their kelp, and for leading sea-weed from their shores for manure,
         although a much fewer number might serve them introduced into
         this parish until last year, and those who are the best judges are
         of opinion, that no place in the Highlands is better adapted for
         the rearing of sheep than Barray. The prices of black-cattle have
         been, for a few years back, less than they formerly were, and
         have varied so much every that it is hardly possible to state
         an average price.  Corn, meal, and potatoes, are all sold here by
         measure ; never by weight. The boll of meal consists of twenty
         pecks ; the peck contains 5 1\2 pints English liquid measure ; the
         country people, however, have a measure among themselves, used
         nowhere else, which they call an omer, containing two pecks. Po-
         tatoes are sold by barrel measure, containing 35 English gallons.
         Meal sells at 1s. per peck, and potaoes at an average of 2s. per
         barrel. The imperial measure has not as yet been introduced into
         this parish, except in the case of spirit or other liqiuds.
            Husbandry.--As the parish is better adapted for grazing than agri-
         culture, it cannot be supposed that the latter has made much pro-
         gress. There are but few farms fit for a regular system of agricul-
         ture, and these are now let to graziers, who seldom crop much of
         their ground. The chief part of the lands is let to small tenants
         in crofts, from year to year ; and it cannot be supposed that much
         improvement can be carried on in clearing or inclosing land, under
         such a precarious holding, Notwithstanding all the disadvantages
         under which they labour, they now turn their small patches of
         ground to much better purpose than they formerly did ; for every
         crofter has his own small plough and couple of ponies, with which
         he turns up his ground with much more ease and in a better style
         than under the old system with the machine called crom-na-gadd,
         which required the labour of four men and three horses. By sim-
         plifying their agriculture, the people are now enabled to raise a



