
          204                        INVERNESS-SHIRE.

          that these islands were once clothed with woods, from the in-
          numerable trunks of large trees still found under ground, even
          some of them below high water-mark. Certain it is, however, that
          young plantings will not thrive very close to the west shores, exposed
          to the sea spray; but there are many sheltered spots in every island,
          where there is hardly a doubt that trees would thrive. As a
          proof of this, Colonel Macneil, the late proprietor of Barray, had
          a spot on the east side ot the island planted with various kinds of
          trees which grew in a few years as well as could be expected any-
          where; but the proprietor transplanted them to the ground about his
          mansion house, where they had not the same shelter, and where
          the soil was light sand; in consequence of which, they pined away;
          whereas, had they been left where they were originally planted,
          they might in a few years have been large trees. This limited
          trial proves that it is not impossible to rear trees in Barray, by
          proper care.
            Fruit trees when lined to garden walls, thrive well, and yield ex-
          cellent fruit, but not otherwise

                                 II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
            As this parish was only disjoined from that of South Uist in 1733
          -34, there can be no historical account of it previous to that date,
          but as connected with South Uist.
            Dean Munro, however, who wrote his history of the Western
          Isles in 1540-49, thus describes Barray : " Not far from the Isles
          Watersay, (one of the islets belonging to Barray,) towards the
          north by twa myle of sea, Iyes the Isle of Barray, being seven myle
          in lengthe from the south-west to the northeast, and be north, and
          foure in breadthe from the south-eist to the north-west, ane fer-
          till and fruitful ile in cornes, abounding in the fishing of kielling,
          ling, and all uther quhite fish, with ane paroche kirk namit Kill-
          bare.  Within the southwest, end of this ile, there enters a salt
          water loche, verey narrow in the entrey, and round and braid with-
          to. Into the middis of this loche ther is ane castle in an ile, up-
          on an strengthey craige, callit Kilelerin, (now -called Kisamul) per-
          taining to Mr Mark Neil of Barray. In the north end of this ile
          of Barray, there is ane rough heigh know, mayne grasse and greine
          round about it to the head, on the top of quhilk ther is ane spring
          and fresh water well. This well truely spring up certain little
          round white things, less nor the quantity of confeit corne, lykest
          to the shape and figure of an little cokill, as it appeared to me.
          Out of this well runs ther an little strype downwith to the sea, and


