
                                DYKE AND MOY.                         217

   streams run through the parish, of which the largest is the Muckle
   Burn: all of them fall into the Findhorn.
        Geology.\f*-The most remarkable feature in the geology of the
   parish, is the sand-hills of Culbin. About the beginning of the
   thirteenth century, a section of the unost fertile land in Moray,
   stretching along the sea-coast for several miles, was overblown and
   devastated by an irruption of sand from the westward. The im-
   mediate cause of this catastrophe is supposed to have been that
   partial upraising of the coast out of the bed of the ocean now as.
   certained to have taken place within the present geological era,
   which, by exposing to the action of the atmosphere the accumu.
   lated silicious detritus of ages, furnished the magazine froni which
   this fearful inundation was derived. The estate of Culbin, once
   a valuable patrimony, is now an and waste of shifting sand, desti.
   tute of any herbage except bent (Carex arenaria, or Ammophila
   arundinacea). Many of the sand-hills rise, to the beight of 100
   feet above the level of the sea; and, when sections are exposed;
   they exhibit a species of stratification similar to a series of super-
   imposed beds in a sandstone quarry.
	Proceeding upwards from the sea, along the course of the river
   Findhorn, the first rock exposed is at the suspension-bridge over
   the river, on the great post road.  It is a coarse concretionary
   limestone, containing schist, iron pyrites, and occasionally crys.
   tals of galena or lead-ore. This bed in Moray forms the upo-
   permost section of the old red sandstone.  Between Fiadhorn
   bridge and the sea no rocky strata are exposed, the whole district
   being covered over by a mass of diluvium of great thickness. but
   should strata he detected between this point and the sea, they will
   be found to belong to newer formations than the old red sand-
   stone. From the bridge up to the promontory of Sluie, a suc-
   cession of magnificent sections of old red sandstone is exposed.
   These deposits belong to the middle or gray beds of the system,
   and are characterized by containing organic retuains in conside.
   rable variety and abundance, of which teeth and scales of fossil
   fish of the genus Holoptychius havebeen determined. At Sluie
   the sandstone beds terminate abruptly, and are met by an almost
   vertical cliff of gneiss and granite, belonging to the primary series
   of rocks. At this junction, there is no upheavement of the newer
   or sandstone beds from the general. inclination ofaboot 14o, while
   the primary rocks are nearly vertical. From this absence of dis-

   <FOOTNOTE>Communicated by Arthur.Duff, Esq. Elgin.


