
                                 KIRKMICHAEL.                          307

   spirit of the beritors on this principal portion of the line, aided by
   Government and all others concerned, will surmount every obstacle,
   and speedily open up this great and important line of communication
   between the north and the south of Scotland.
     Ecclesiastical State.-The church was built in the year 1807.
   It contains sufficient room for 350 persons. It is situated about
   four miles from the northern extremity of the parish, and fourteen
   from the southern. Since the erection of Tomintoul into a pa-
   rish quoad sarra, its situation, (as regards the congregation now
   attending it,) is the most convenient that could be chosen. It is
   a plain building, in tolerable repair. It has no gallery, but is of
   sufficient size for the congregation allocated to it. The sittings
   are all free. The glebe is about nine acres. The stipend is 15
   chalders, at the fiars prices of the county of Banff, one-half in
   oatmeal, and the other half in barley, with L.8, 6s. 8d. for communion
   elements. The manse and offices were rebuilt on a new
   site on the glebe in 1825, and are in good repair. The manse
   is an elegant and commodious dwelling, situated on the top of
   a romantic knoll, 200 or 300 feet above the level of the Avon,
   and commanding an extensive view of the picturesque valley
   of the Avon to the south, with the summits of the Grampian
   Hills in the distance. The good taste and liberality of the
   Rev.  Mr Tulloch, the present incumbent, have done much in
   adding to the elegance of the manse, by his improvements in
   planting and inclosing around it, and in opening up approaches
   to it.
     There is a Government church and manse in the village of
   Tomintoul. It was built by Government in 1826, at an expense
   of L.750 for the church, and L.738 for the manse. It is situated
   five miles from the parish church. The district allocated to it
   was erected into a parish quoad sacr` by the Generai Assembly
   of 1833. The stipend is L.120, including communion elements,
   and is paid by Government. There is a glebe of half an acre,
   with another half acre and two roods for a garden and site of the
   church, manse, and the church-yard. The church affords accommodation
   for 336 sitters, and is built to admit of a gallery to contain
   about 200 more. Two-thirds of the area are let at from 6d.
   to 9d. each sitting, annually; the proceeds to be applied in keeping
   the church and manse in repair; but the collection of the
   seat rents has been discontinued for some years. The other tbird


