
                 STRATHDON.                            537

monedula) are very abundant.  It is not many years since the
rook (C. frugilegus) became established in rookeries with us: many
attempt (whether wisely or not) have been made again to banish
them, but without success.  The jay (C. glandarius) is not known
here.  The goat-sucker (Caprimulgus Europaeus) is an occasional
visitant for a short time in the midst of summer.  The wood-
pigeon is common.  The common thrush; the missel-thrush (T.
viscivorus) ; the blackbird ; the ring-ouzel (T. torquatus), and
the water-ouzel (Cinclus aquaticus), all regularly breed here.  The
fieldfare (T. pilaris), and the red-wing (T. iliacus) appear in
great numbers in the beginning of winter, but speedily migrate
further south.  The snow-flake or bunting (Emberiza nivalis) con-
tinues all winter chaffinch congreagated in immense flocks, and when they
descend low down are regarded as the harbingers of severe wea-
ther.  The most common permanent small birds are the house-
sparrow (Pyrqita domestica) ; the yellow-hammer (Emberiza
citrinella), and the chaffinch (Fringilla Coelebs), two white speci-
mens of which were seen for a considerable time in Candacraig
woods; also the red-breast (Sylvia rubecula) ; the blue titmouse
(Parus caeruleus): the bullfinch (Pyrhula vul.), and the creeper
(Certhia fam.).  The goldfinch (F. carduelis) is not found here.
The principal sumrner birds are the pied wagtail (Motacilla alba),
here called the seed-bird, which comes regularly, as its local name
bears, at seed-time.  The yellow wagtail (M. flava) is an occa-
sional but rare visitor.  The Motacilla boarula rare.  The common
wren (Troglodytes vul.), and the golden-crested wren (Regu-
lus cristatus) both build in this parish.  The wheat-ear, or fallow-
chat, provincially called the chackhert (Saxicola cenanthe), is com-
mon.  The whin-chat (S. rubetra) rare.  The white-throat (Cur-
ruca Sylvia), and the whin-sparrow (Accentor modularis) are seen
in summer.  The black-cap (Sylvia atricapilla), very rare.  The
skylark (Alauda arvensis) is rather rare.  The meadow-pipit
(Anthus pratensis) common.  The swallow (H. rustica) ; the
sand-martin (H. riparia), and the martin (H. urbica), make their
appearance about the first of May.  The swift (Cypselus apus)
was observed here by the writer for the first time last season.
The cuckoo pays his annual visit two or three weeks later than to
the south of the Grampians ; but he continues longer, not ceasing
his song sometimes till the first week of August.
   Of the game birds may be mentioned the red-grouse (Lagopus


