
772			AYRSHIRE.

Rev. Hugh Cochran, 1723; the Rev. Samuel Ferguson, 1734;
the Rev. William Coats, 1739; the Rev. Alexander Gillies, 1778;
the Rev. Alexander Millar, 1788; the Rev. John Roxburgh,
1806; the Rev. William Sinclair, 1840.
	The late Rev. John Roxburgh, who died in April 1840, will
long be remembered with much respect in this parish. He was a
man of great worth, talent, and piety, and warmth of affection. Hav-
ing a powerful mind, be could take a vigorous grasp of his subject
and set it before his hearer in lucid order, and in a style in which
there was a pleasing mixture of energy and tenderness. He was
of very active habits, and unremitting in his endeavours to be ser-
viceable to his people, visiting them regularly, reaching from house
to house; so that he was thoroughly acquainted with the state of his
parishioners. Indeed, there was not a family, and scarcely an in-
dividual in his populous parish, that he did not know. He was re-
markably well-fitted to be their counsellor; and Dissenters as well
as those of his own congregation, came to him in their difficulties,
as they bad complete confidence in the kindness of his heart, and
the soundness of his judgement. But as the spiritual counsellor
of his people, he was still more valued. There was not a sick-bed
that be did not visit; and not a bereaved family which he sought
not to console. The effect of his care and assiduity was evident
in the,change produced on his parish. He found it as a dry and
parched land, and he left it as a well-watered garden. He found
a scattered, wandering people, whose souls had not been cared for;
and by'the blessing of God on his labours, and watchfulness, and
prayers, he left a collected, steady church-going people, to lament
the loss of a faithful ministerr whom they loved. Such is the fruit
of a gospel ministry when conducted for a course of years, by a
person of fluent tongue, a clear head, a pious and kind heart.
        There is a Dissenting congregation in Kilmaurs connected with
the United Secession Church. The Rev. William Coats having
been ordained as minister of the parish in the palmy days of pa-
tronage in 1739, a dissenting congregation was formed in 1740,
under the Rev. D. Smytane. This was the first Dissenting con-
gregation in Ayrshire, and it consisted of those who were dissatis-
fied with the ministry of Mr Coats, and of members from various

which he was bound. The blacksmith stood aghast; and thinking his customer
uo camnik,. be gave him the shoes on very reasonable terms, and was right glad to see
his back turned


