
170                       FORFARSHIRE.

and commence laying their eggs. In the years 1827, 1828, and
1829, in shedding aside the wheat at the flowering season, the flies
were to be seen in myriads. In stormy and windy weather, they
are so slender that they are not able to rise and sit upon the ear
to lay their eggs; but in calm weather, at this critical season,
they accomplish this with ease. The effect is the almost total
ruin of the crop; for, from the moment the eggs are thus laid,
vegetation ceases, the anthers do not expand, and the filaments
that support them are glued to the chaff. The stigma continues
to appear fresh, and the anthers retain their fresh colour till with-
in nine days from the eggs being laid; when the caterpill`rs ap-
pear fully formed, and of a white colour, which ultimately turns to a
bright sulphur; they thus devour the embryo grain. The flies do
not live more than three days after they have laid their eggs. I know
of no effectual remedy to arrest the progress of this destructive
insect. It is in vain to expect that it can be extirpated by ex-
posure to frost. Mr Gorrie is of opinion, however, that, having
succeeded in burying other caterpillars of large growth, the
wheat-fly maggot might be also kept under. This, says he,
could be easily performed, if, in ploughing the wheat stubbles, a
scarifier or skimmer were fixed on the beam before the coulter, of
such construction as would cut and lay about an inch of the sur-
face in the bottom of the furrow. If this were done correctly, and
the subsequent ploughing kept so shallow as not to touch the bu-
ried surface, it is not likely that the maggots could seek their way
up through the superincumbent soil. It is plain that, in this case
grass seeds are not to be sown with the wheat; but some other crop
must in the meantime be substituted. If this plan do not succeed,
farmers for a few years ought to abandon the raising of wheat, and
turn their attention to some other crop not liable to be injured. *
	Botany--Forests and Plantations.--The forest of Plater or Pla-
tane lies in the eastern part of the parish; and the tradition is, that,
from the hill of Kirremuir to the hill of Finhaven, the wood atone time
was so thick that the wild cat could leap from one tree to another
between the two places. This wood consisted of oak, birch, and
other trees, which no doubt had witnessed the rites of the Druids;

<FOOTNOTE>In the original MS. preserved among the Archives of the Church, there is added
a list of a small number of new or rare insects, which have been taken at Kinnordy,
or in some part of the parish of Kirremuir within the last four years. They have
been attentively examined by Mr Curtis, and some of them are described in his Bri-
tish Entomology. There is also an elaborate article on the botany of the parish.
			             3


