
18                        ARGYLESHIRE.

mingling generosity with implacability of temper, and superstition
with piety.
   It was not till the fourteenth century that the family of Argyle
settled in this parish, and since then it has been principally dis-
tinguished as their residence.  By what right, whether of purchase
or the sword, or by grant front the sovereign, they first obtained
their possessions here, is uncertain ; but it was not till a recent
date that the whole parish became their property, by that gradual
and natural process by which talent, intelligence, and power extend
their influence.
   As the names of the early possessors of the soil may soon sink
into oblivion, it may not be improper to record them here in so far
as they can be traced.
   The Maclvers held part of the lawn on which the castle is built,
and a large stone standind erect there is said to have been in part
the boundary between them and the MacVicars, who held the
other portion of the lawn, with Kilmilieu, Stronmagachan, Upper
Kenchreggan, Leachd-nam-ban, Kilmun, Salachary, Achnabreck,
Dalchenna, and Achnagol.
   The MacNaughtens held all the east side of Glenshira, con-
sisting of Kilblane, Ellerig, and Benbhui; also Tullich in Glen-
aray.  They sold Kilblane, or granted it to the MacKellars.
   The MacNicols held Elerig Mor and Elerig Beag.
   The Clerks possessed Braleckan, Craleckan, Claonary, and, it
is supposed, Kenmore, and Pennymor.
   The MacKellars,-Maam, Lower Kenchreggan, and Kilblaan
and Stuchdasgardan.
   The Munros,-Stuchdaghavi.
   The Turners,-Drimlee.
   The Fletchers,-Drimfearn.
Of the above families, the M'Naughtens, who were by much
the most powerful, with the Fletchers and M'lvors, have now no
descendants in the parish.  The Turners, MacNicols, MacKel-
lars, and Clerks possessed their lands till towards the middle or
end of the last century.
   Little is known of the history of this parish during the four-
teenth, fifteenth, and sixteenth centuries; but we may suppose
that the feuds by which many other, portions, of the Highlands
were torn could not exist here along with the unrivalled power of
the family of Argyle; and, as the practice of that family was to
extend their authority by policy rather than by violence, their in-


