
                            FYVIE.                          315

have a servitude, or right of casting, peats over some part, of the
extensive moss of Foudlin, in the parish of Forgue, where they
have an abundant supply.  English coal carted from the port of
Banff or Macduff is also a good deal used.

                MISCELLANEOUS OBSERATIONS.
   Looking to this parish as a whole, and marking the many
changes which have taken place in it since the date of the
former Statistical Account, it may safely be said, that it has
not been behind others in the march of general improvement.
Agriculture, in particular, has made wonderful progress, and
that, not more, perhaps, in the greater extent of ground culti-
vated, than in the superior management and direction, exhibit-
ed in every department of farming details.  Many bars to hus-
bandry have been removed-new roads have been cut-mill mul-
tures, at one time very heavy, amounting to one-seventeenth part
when work was done, and to one-twenty-first independent of any
work, have now for the most part been extinguished.  The standard
of comfort among the people has become elevated, their ideas less
contracted, their knowledge and information more extensive, and
their manners and habits more refined; and it is hoped that, in
matters still more important and sacred, improvements also have
taken place.

   January 1840.

                            PARISH OF FYVIE.

                  PRESBYTERY OF TURRIFF, SYNOD OF ABERDEEN.

                       THE REV. JOHN MANSON, MINISTER.

                    I.-TOPOGPGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name, Boundaries, &c.-Fyvyn is the name given to this parish
in most of the old charters and public writings connected with it.
It is of Gaelic etymology, and derived from Fia Chein, signifying
Deer-hill.  There is a hill in the parish which still goes by the name                                          oes
of Deer Hill, and the names of several of the estates and farms have
also been clearly traced to Gaelic original.  Fyvie is one of the
largest parishes in Aberdeenshire.  Its extreme	lenght from  north-
east to south-west is 13 miles; and its extreme breadth 8 miles;


