
		1014	PERTHSHIRE.

        Gaelic words, Laqan and adhlaic; or it may be connected with
	Aulachy, a traditionary saint.  This church is in Strathbran,
	about three miles from Dunkeld, and near the celebrated Rum-
	bling Bridge.  It contains from 400 to 500 people, Service is
	performed here once every month, and wholly in Gaelic.
		There is no Episcopalian nor Catholic chapel in the parish, if
	we except a small old and decayed chapel attached to Murthly
	Castle, and lately fitted up for service by the present proprietor.
	It is believed that there is not one other Roman Catholic in the
	parish.  There are a very few families in the eastern division of the
        parish who belong to the Secession, and attend a meeting-house
	on the confines of the parish of Kinclaven.  These appear to be
	diminishing in number.
		The attendance in the principal church of Little Dunkeld va-
	ries from 400 to 700; the average number of communicants, 740.
		There is a parochial association for religious purposes, which
	distributes annually about L.20 for the spread of the Gospel at
	home and abroad, and for support of the Assembly's schools.  Be-
	sides this, there are occasional collections for other charitable
	purposes, to which the people very readily contribute.
		Education.-The number of schools is seven, of which two are
	parochial, three on the establishment of the Society for Propa-
	gating Christian Knowledge, and of great benefit to the parish.
	The remaining two are private schools.  The number of children
	attending these schools during winter may be about 400.  The sa-
	lary of the first parish schoolmaster is L.29, 18s.  11 3/4d., of the,
	other L.10, along with the fees, which are not considerable.
	The salaries of the Society teachers average L.15; but, their
	scbools being situated in populous districts, their fees are consi-
	derable.  In all these the expense of education is low.  Some
	are taught gratis ; and the schools are so judiciously distributed,
	that the children have easy access to them.
                Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number on the poor
	list is 34.  The lowest allowance, 5d. and 6d. weekly, the high-
	est, 2s. 6d. and 3s.  The amount annually contributed for their
	relief is about L.100; of which L.24, 10s. arises from church col-
	lections; L.12, 16s. of interest of money in hands of the heritors,
	and belonging to the poor.  The rest is raised by voluntary as-
	sessment.
		It may be mentioned, that, " towards the beginning of last
	century,  John Stewart, Esq, of Grandtully, mortified the sum of


