
     Statistical Account

   Character.-The people in general ate sober, industrious,
and attentive; they follow their several employments with
affiduity and care, and earn a comfortable livelihood for
themselves arid families.  They seem to be contented and hap-
py with their situation in life.  The better sort are kind and
hospitable, diligent and active in prosecuting their business
and pursuits, and are much given to company and entertain-
ments in each others houses, but it is to be remarked, that
the parties, who associate much, are united in the same politi-
cal sentiments and views.  Burgh politics, and the election
of members of parliament, have an unhappy influence upon
the morals of the people.  They carry on these contests with
the greatest animosity and keenness, and exert their utmost
endeavours to promote the interest and cause of the favourite

<FOOTNOTE>

M. *N. anno 1639.  Upon the south side, near the door, is this
inscription, pretty entire and legible,

IN DEV TIME DRAV YIS CORD YE BEL TO CLINK
QVHAIS MERY VOCE VARNIS TO MEAT & DRINK.

This castle was the ancient seat of the Stuarts of Rosyth, lineal-
ly descended from James Stuart, brother german to Walter the
great Stuart of Scotland, and father to King Robert.  The last
laird of that name, having no near relations, disposed of the
estate to a stranger; it afterwards became the possession of Lord
Roseberry; and is now the property of the Earl of Hopeton.
There is a tradition, however unfounded it may be, that Oli-
ver Cromwell's mother, bring a daughter of the family of Stu-
art of Rosyth, was born in this custle, and that the protector
visited it, during the time he commanded the army in Scotland.
It is said, there is a record in the Advocate's Library at Edin-
burgh, which gives an account of the struggle, the ancient
Culdees maintained for their rights, lands, etc. which contains
also the censure pronounced against them by the Romish clergy,
in these words: Acta in ecclesia parochiali de Innerkethyn, an-
no secundo regni regis Alexandri, gratiae anno 1250, etc. and
mentions the probability that this severe procedure and sentence
obliged them to submit to the bishop of St. Andrew's, who by
degrees suppressed their order, and established the Popish Clergy
in their place.


