
                           DALKEITH.                        471

with his brothers, James and William.*  On that occasion, the Earl
of Douglas himself fell into the hands of the enemy, and was kept
in captivity till the year 1407, when a ransom and thirteen host-
ages of the noblest families were demanded by the English King,
(Henry IV.) for his release, of which number was Sir James
Douglas, at that time Master of Dalkeith.+ In 1424, he was one
of the splendid company of barons who went to Durham, to meet
James I., after his release from his long captivity in England:+ on
which occasion, his eldest son, William who had formerly (1408
-13) been a hostage for the Earl of Douglas, and kept in the Tower
of London, where King James I. was at that time,-was again
(1424) made one of the hostages for the return of James I.; and
it is remarked that the amount of his annual revenue was higher
than that of any of the other hostages, except that of Duncan, Lord
of Argyll, which was equal. William died before 1440, in the
lifetime of his father.
   In 1426, Sir James Douglas, second lord of Dalkeith, was one
of the assize before whom Murdoch, Duke of Albany, and his two
sons, were tried and condemned to be beheaded. At the same
time Malcolm Fleming of Cummernauld, and Thomas Boyd of
Kilmarnock were arrested and committed to ward in Dalkeith, on
a charge of taking goods wrongfully, but were shortly after pardon-
ed and set at liberty. By his first wife, Lady Elizabeth Stewart,
daughter of King Robert III,, be had three sons, William, James,
and Archibald. He was next married to Janet, daughter of Sir
William Borthwick of Borthwick, by whom he had a son, Sir
William Douglas, who was the first of the Douglasses of Whit-
tingham, some of whose descendants became distinguished in the
armies of Sweden, under Gustavus Adolphus and Charles X11.
Sir James Douglas, the second lord, died about the year 1450.
   James Douglas, the third Lord of Dalkeith, the eldest surviving
son of the preceding, succeeded his father in 1450. He married,
first, Lady Margaret Douglas, eldest daughter of James, seventh
Earl of liouglas, by whom he had one daughter. He afterwards

<FOOTNOTE>Sir James Balfour's Annals, sub anno.-Fordun a Goodall, Vol. ii. p. 434-5.
    Rymer's Foedera. ix.
    Rymer's Foedera, x. 307-309. Tytler's History of Scotland, Vol. iii. 197; also
notes, p. 394-5.
     The statement of his yearly income is given as follows: "Jacobus Dominus de
Dalketh, vel filius ejus primogenitus ad xv C marc."-See Tytler's Hist. Vol. iii.
P. 395.
     Sir. James Balfour's Annals, anno 1426.
     Drummond of Hawthornden's History, James 1. p. 3, (Ed. Edin. 1711.)


