
     of Urquhart.

   Proposed Bridge.-This account ought not to be conclud-
ed, without mentioning the satisfaction entertained in this pa-
rish, and the rest of the country, at the late prospect there
was of a BRIDGE across the Spey.  At present the ferry is
extremely troublesome, attended with some danger, and ne-
cessarily very expensive to travellers.  If there were a bridge
thrown across that river, the commerce and intercourse of the
country would be very much increased; travelling would be
rendered much more easy and comfortable; and, above all,
it would be singularly useful for the march of the King's
troops; this, in the winter, being the only road by which
they can pass either South or North.  For these reasons it is
universally hoped, that measures for a bridge across the Spey,
which have been begun, and generously promoted, by a most
illustrious family++ in the neighbourhood, will be taken up
by government, and aided by the subscription of every per-

<FOOTNOTE>

day be nearly adequate to a moderate rent.  The priory was situated a little
to the east of the present church, in the midst of a morass, and probably went
to ruin soon after its union with Pluscardene.  In the year 1654, the greater
part of the materials were carried off to build a granary near the shore at
Garmouth; the remainder, soon after that period, was employed in repairing
the manse, and inclosing the church-yard.

<UNREADABLE>

In the year 116, the Moravienses, or inhabitants of Moray, (for what
cause is not now known) took up arms; they were met in the moors
of Urquhart by the King's army, which was sent to quell the insurrection.
and, as we learn from some of our historians, were, after an obstinate re-
sistance, defeated there with great slaughter.  As the inhabitants of Moray
were at that period, according to Buchannan, of a restless and turbulent dis-
position, all the families engaged in this rebellion were dispersed through
the different provinces of Scotland.  It is said that those who were then re-
moved into the Northern Counties, received the name of SUTHERLAND, which
their descendents still retain, and that those who were sent to the South,
assumed the sirname of MURRAY, which they likewise have transmitted to
their posterity.

</UNREADABLE>

++ The family of GORDON.


