
				CARLUKE.                    573

much hesitation we would say, that some remarkable animals have
been found in the millstone grit series.
	Plants.--From the freestones twelve species have been selected.
A very perfect tree of the coniferous class, with its minute branches,
was a short time since laid bare at Harestanes quarry. It mea-
sured about 40 feet in length, and was proportionably thick: the
minuter branches were so perfect that an onlooker found some diffi-
culty in believing them to be anything but recent branches of the
Scotch fir. It was broken up and removed, but some good speci-
mens have been preserved.
	Animals.--Several specimens of what appears to have been
lizards, and also vast quantities of eel-like creatures have been
found on Milton-Lockhart estate near Hallcraig Bridge. The
forms are very perfect, but the animal structure is by no means
so; indeed they are mere casts. Some hope is entertained that
specimens may yet be found which may retain traces of the struc-
ture. The ripple mark on the laminated freestones is very common.
	All the limestones and the shales in connection are charged with
animal remains: from thousands of specimens, 120 species and
upwards have already been procured, among which are the follow-
ing. Madrepora, 4; Encrinoida, 25; Univalves, 34, consisting
of Ammonites, Nautilites, Orthoceratites, Euomphalus, Belemnites,
Cirrus, Helix, &c.; Bivalves, 54, consisting of Producti, Spirifer,
Cardium, Modiola, Mya, Terebratula, &c.; also Trilobites and
teeth of the shark tribe, &c. One of the Orthoceratites measures
12 inches circumference. A very beautiful encrinal marble, which
receives a fine polish, has lately been found on Braidwood estate
about 20 inches thick: it is literally a mass of encrinites.
	Among the ironstones, five are shelly bands, as they are called.
In the old red sandstone here, no organic remains have as yet
been found.
        Trap.-A ridge of trap extends from Hillhead eastwards as far
as Bashaw (about a mile) both on the north-east. Whether it
extends farther we have no means of judging, as a hill of consi-
derable elevation rises over its north-east apparent limit, which
consists of freestone. It is very probable that this hill, called Kings
Law, owes its origin to the eruption of the trap. Be this as it may,
the trap exists in the line of an extensive derangement of the strata,
but it is not evident throughout, we admit, how far, in producing
this, it is concerned. On the east of the trap, a new basin of


