
128                      HADDINGTONSHIRE.

relief is nearly the same as that already mentioned. Since Janu-
ary 1827, when this association was instituted, till the present year,
the number of its members has increased from 45 to 146.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The number of persons at present
receiving regular parochial aid is 15, being at the rate of about 1 in
53 of the whole population. The average weekly allowance to each
of these paupers is 1s. 9d. For some years past there has been a re-
gular assessment, the amount of which at present is L. 60, exclusive
of L. 20 for the guardianship and support of a lunatic. The amount
of church door collections and mortcloth dues for the year end-
ing April 1835, was L. 18, 11s. 11 1/2d., and when to this is added
the sum of L. 10 from Bishop Burnett's bequest, the whole an-
nual expenditure for parochial purposes will be L. 88, 11s. 11 1/2d.
There does not appear to be, I regret to say, any reluctance or
indisposition on the part of the poor to seek parochial aid. For-
merly, I am informed, it was not so. At one time, it was difficult
to get parents to solicit for their children the benefits of the Bur-
nett fund, but now the number of applications in general exceeds
that of vacancies; and, with few exceptions, the same change has
taken place in regard to the application for general parochial relief.
The existence of a legally claimable provision will, it is to be fear-
ed, tend everywhere more or less to produce its usual pernicious
effects on the natural benevolence and moral independence of the
people.
   Inns.-There are three persons in the parish licensed to retail
spirits; but there are only two public-houses, neither of which, I am
happy to say, have for some time been much frequented.
   Fuel.-The inhabitants are well supplied with this important
necessary of life. Coals are cheap, and easily procured from the
adjoining collieries, chiefly of Pencaitland. They cost, including
carriage, 5s. 6d. per cart of 12 cwt. Wood is also not unfrequent-
ly used for fuel. Mr Fletcher, with considerate kindness, per-
mits the inhabitants of the parish who choose,-to gather fuel, at
different times in the year, from the thinnings of the great Salton
wood; a permission which often serves to cheer the poor man's
hearth during the inclemency of winter.
                       MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   The chief improvements in the agricultural condition of the pa-
rish which have been effected since the date of last Statistical Ac-
count (1792) are,-the introduction of the new manures, by which
a much greater amount, as well as a superior quality, of produce


