
       734                        PERTHSHIRE.

       told him, that, when this fatal disease was raging in the parish, our
       gentlemen caused many huts to be built, and ordered all who per-
       ceived that they were infected, immediately to repair unto them.
       That particularly, the family of Ochtertyre caused observation be
       made every morning whether the wind blew from the east or west.
       That they sent provisions of all kinds to them, but gave their ser-
       vants strict orders, if the wind blew from the east, to lay them
       down a good way to the cast of them; and to the west, if it blew
       from the west; and that, some time after they were gone, the
       cleansers took them up, and carried them to the diseased."  The
       graves of those who then died of the pestilence were still visible
       to the west of the Loch of Monivaird when this account was
       compiled.
          According to Chalmers, * who deriver his authority from Fordun
       and others, Kenneth IV., King of Scotland, was slain in battle in
       1003 in the plain of Monivaird, now forming, part of the park of
       Ochtertyre.   In the former Statistical Account it is stated that
       the register of St Andrews informs us, "that Kenneth was slain at
       Moieghvard, in 1001;" and that the spot where he died is point-
       ed at in the line of our oldest chronicles:
                    "Quo truncetus cras Bardorum campus habetur."
          The highest neighbouring mountain, which overlooks the plain
       of Monivaird, is called Cairn-chainachan, or "Kenneth's cairn,"
       -a name probably derived from this event.
          The residence of a princely family, long highly distinguished
       in the annals of early Scottish history, the Malises or Grahams,
       Earls of Strathearn, was situated in the parish of Monivaird.
       Their castle was raised on the summit of Tom-a-chastel, or castle-
       hill,-a position at once commanding the most romantic prospects,
       and presenting the greatest capabilities of defence, in ages when
       the use of fire-arms was unknown.  The foundations of this castle
       were still visible in 1832, when they were removed to make way
       for the erection of a monument to General Sir David Baird, to be
       afterwards noticed.  According to tradition, this stronghold of the
       Earls of Strathearn was burnt down, and some noble ladies con-
       fined in it perished amid the flames.  The burning of the castle
       seems certain, but who these sufferers were is a question of more
       difficult-solution.  There appears some ground to believe that one
       of them may have been Joanna, the daughter of Malise, Earl of
       Strathearn  and of the Princess of the Orkneys, and the wife of

       <FOOTNOTE>Caledonia Vol. i. P. 397, note i.


