
52                       SELKIRKSHIRE.

only nine years.  His farms are never advertised, and the occupiers
rarely removed; so that this cannot be considered any great draw-
back in a district chiefly pastoral.  Some of the other land-owners
grant leases of nineteen years.  On Lord Napier's property, the
rents are paid according to the price of the three leading articles,-
wool, top wether lambs, and draft ewes,--having a reference to the
sales of a particular farm.  There are restrictions, however, in many
of the leases, which more than their shortness form an obstacle to
improvement.  Such is tile clause that prohibits moor-burning, with
a view of protecting the game.  It is only in its young state that
heath is loaded with a profusion of palatable shoots, suited for the
feeding of sheep.  This is the kind, too, which grouse uniformly
prefer in the morning and evening twilight, when they eat with the
greatest avidity, requiring the strong bushy parts merely for cover
and breeding.  Let the old heath then be burnt in successive
patches, and the common interest of landlord and tenant would be
enhanced by a provision both for the feathered and woolly tribes.
In many leases also, there is an obligation to catch the moles.  Se-
veral of the store-masters and most of the shepherds are opposed
to the practice, especially on strong, grassy land.  Since the long
prescription thus instituted, the ground, it is said, has been over-
grown with harsher grasses or insipid fog, and the pining in con-
sequence introduced.  But the mole, by raising its hillocks, which
are spread either by the sheep or manual labour, and thus supply-
ing an annual top-dressing, imparts a richness and variety to the
pasture.  As the practice of extermination is, to say the least of it,
of doubtful utility, the farmer should be left to thd exercise of his
own self-interest and discretion.
   Agriculture suffers in some measure from the want of well-timed
embanking.  More march fences between different farms are requir-
ed; and in some upland places, a few enclosures, with better pas-
ture than the rest for such of the stock as are not thriving, would
be a decided advantage.  So would enclosed clumps of plantation
generally, upon the hills; they would beautify the country, ame-
liorate the climate, furnish fuel from their thinnings, and give ad-
ditional shelter and value to the sheep-walks.  The greatest ob-
stacle to improvement is the distance from coal, lime, some kinds
of manure, and markets.
   While too little encouragement has been given by proprietors,
the influence of a local institution has been considerable and ex-
tensive. The Pastoral Society of Selkirkshire was established in


