
216                       DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

the sessional funds, except to the diseased and aged, has always been
avoided. The trustees on the parish roads, by an agreement with
the session, have engaged to repair the parish roads only during the
winter and early spring months; and to employ only such indivi-
duals to labour on the roads as, but for this work, would require
aid from the session; also, to apply the conversion money in the
payment of horse and cart labour on the roads. The heritors and
farmers also agree to furnish horse and cart labour for the public
use under certain regulations, and free of all expense, to the trus-
tees. The labourers employed on these roads are paid 2d. per
day below the ordinary rate of wages, to make the scanty fund last
longer, and to prevent all who can get work elsewhere and better
wages, from burdening the fund. Poor women are also by the trus-
tees employed in gathering stones and filling carts on the roads,
at a fixed rate. In order to give efficacy to this parochial ma-
chinery, the minister was empowered by the whole of the heritors
many years since, to object to any individual or family acquiring
a residence in the parish whom he might judge likely to become a
burden upon it; and, in case any heritor should refuse to rea-
move the individual or families, against whose residence in the
parish the minister objected, the heritor so refusing was bound by
a solemn deed, jointly executed by the whole heritors, to free
the session and other heritors of all expense, in the event of stch
a person ever at any future time requiring to be supported. Act-
ing under these few and simple regulations, this session during the
incumbency of the present minister has not only comfortably sup-
ported the poor without any aid from the heritors, but laid up a
sum, which, under judicious management, will render any assess-
ment for the poor unnecessary. The poor, it is to be regretted,
are not now so shy in asking sessional aid as they used to be.
	Alehouses.--There is but one pubblic-house in the parish; and
though kept with as great regularhty as possible, still it is a source
of much evil.
		     MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
	The annual rent of this parish by a valuation made under the
authority of the late Lord Minto in the year 1746, was L.373,
1s. 5 4/12d.; in the year 1794, when the last report was drawn up, it
amounted to L.1800; and now it is estimated at L.4000. The
population at last report was 640, and then there were 8 paupers
and 22 dissenters; now the population is 791, and there are 12


