
                             KINGHORN.                       815

	only three miles distant, which opens a most extensive market
	for both home and foreign productions.
	   Harbours.-The old harbour of Kinghorn is of little use, save
	for the accommodation of fishing-boats. The harbour at Petty-
	cur is in good condition, and affords a convenient landing place for
	passengers, goods, and cattle, when the vessels, by the state of the
	tide, are able to get along-side of the quay.  The harbour and
	shore dues, with anchorages, have hitherto yielded not less than
	L.140 annually to the burgh funds.
	   Ecclesiastical State.-The church and burial-ground are close
	upon the sea shore, near to the old harbour.  The situation is very
	inconvenient, even for the town's-people; the street that leads
	down to it from the main or high street is long, narrow, and
	steep.  It is, besides, very frequently wet and dirty.  For the in-
	habitants of the landward parish the site is as bad as could be
	chosen.  It is nearly seventy years since the church was rebuilt.
	The walls are still tolerably good, but the seats are old and rickety,
	and from the church-yard standing above the level of the floor,
	(in some places nearly five feet) the pavement and walls are
	damp, and the atmosphere is often close and heavy.  This latter
	evil has been greatly removed by the erection of two stoves.  It
	can accommodate about 700.  One half of the sittings are ap-
	propriated to the landward parishioners, and the other half to the
	town's people.  There have been very few seat rents drawn by the
	burgh, and none by the landward heritors.  A number of old seats
	under the sailors' gallery (this aisle is of a more ancient date than
	the rest of the church) were for a long period set apart for the
	school children, and have been latterly occupied by the scholars
	enjoying the benefit of Mr Philp's charity.
	   The manse is hard by the church, and is in good repair, having
	been built in 1817.  The glebe is below the legal measurement,
	but it was an excambion for the old glebe near  Vicarsgrange, and
	was considered at the time an advantageous exchange for the in-
	cumbent.  Its value is about L.18 yearly.  The stipend is 17,
	chalders, half meal, half barley, paid according to the Fife fiars.	
	There is a poor grass glebe along the shore, which is rented at
	L.1, 1Os. annually.
	   There is a quoad sacra church built on the eastern boundary
	of this parish, in the village of Invertiel, or Westbridge.  It is
	seated for 800.  A portion of this parish, containing a population
	of 760, and a part of the adjoining parish of Abbotshall, were al-

