
                       LEWIS--BARVAS.                       149

ly sufficient, and sometines not adequate, to supply the necessi-
ties of the tenantry.
               V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   There are no towns in this parish, nor any market in the count-
try, by which the people may be benefited, but that annually held
at Stornoway in July. In severe seasons, the cattle are not, then,
in a condition to be disposed of to advantage; and a loss is thus
created, which could be remedied, did the markets occur more fre-
quently. The parish has the benefit of two roads,-one along the
coast, and another now much out of repair, to Stornoway, the only
trading town in the island. The communication thither is some-
times interrupted from want of bridges, when the rivers are im-
passable during floods.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The church occupies a central situation
in the village, from which the parish derives its name, and is dis-
tant from the inhabited parts of the parish, five miles from one
extremity, and seven miles from the other. It was built about
forty years age, and has been lately well repaired. It is a long
narrow building without gallery, and affords accomodation for 300
persons, all of whom have their sittings free. The manse was
built about sixty years ago, and has been also frequently repaired.
The minister possesses 2 legal grass glebe, designed in 1815,
which may, as an accommodation in so remote a situation, be worth
L. 20 per annum. The stipend is L. 158, 6s. 8d. Sterling, includ-
ing L. 8, 6s. 8d. for commucion elements, of whichi L. 119, 16s. is
paid by the heritor as parochial teind, and the balance, L. 38, 10s.
8d. is paid from the King's Exchequer. There are no dissenters
in the parish, nor any other chapels or churches. About 180 fami-
lies, and from 400 to 500 individuals, are in the habit of attending
public worship, when the weather permits.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The church collections, includ-
ing fines for petty delicts, do not exceed L. 3 annually, which are
distributed among 30 paupers. Exclusive of this little aid, the
maintenance of the poor depends upon the liberality of the te-
nantry, who are ready to supply them out of their own scanty means.
To this may be added the generous aid furnished by the proprie-
tor's lady, the Honourable Mrs Stewart Mackenzie, who is always
benevolent in ministering to their necessities as oftern as made
known, by supplying them with food and clothing. The late
Mr Angus Nicolson, merchant in Stornoway, has bequeathed
L. 100, of which the interest is to be given to the poorest of those




