
776                          ABERDEENSHIRE.

it is shallow, in the middle from three to four fathoms deep; and
its tempemure is much warmer than either that of Loch Dhuloch
or Loch Muick.
   Rivers.-The principal river is the Dee, which divides these
parishes through their whole length.  Its source is in the mountains
of Braemar, in the head of the county.  It receives many tributary-
streams, and runs in an easterly direction, till it falls into the Ger-
man Ocean at Aberdeen.  Its length, following the windings of
its course, is from 90 to 100 miles; its mean annual breadth at
Glenmuick, about 70 yards; its mean depth, about 4 feet; its
mean velocity, about 3 miles an hour; and its mean temperature,
between 40&deg; and 42&deg; of Fahrenheit.
   Besides the Dee, there are two smaller rivers or waters, the
Gairn and the Muick.  The Gairn has its source from springs
in the east end of Benavon, a high mountain in the parish of Brae-
mar.  The length of its winding course is about 20 miles; its
mean breadth, about 10 yards; its mean depth, about 18 inches;
its mean velocity somewhat greater than of the Dee; its mean tem-
perature lower.  It runs in a direction from north-west to south-
east, and, after intersecting the parish of Glengairn, it falls into
the north side of the Dee, about a mile and a-half north-west
from the church.
   The Muick takes its rise from Lochmuick, before noticed, and
runs through a considerable part of Glenmuick, in a direction from
south-west to north-east.  The length of its winding course is
about ten miles, and it falls into the south side of the Dee, at the
manse, or about half a-mile west from the church.  Its breadth,
depth, and temperature, are nearly the same as those of the Gairn,
but its velocity is less.  About the middle of its course, there is
cascade, called the Lynn of Muick, where the water falls from
a height of thirty-six feet over a perpendicular rock, and in floods,
after rain or thaw, it makes a thundering deafening noise, and
dashes its spray in every direction above and around it.
   Geology, &c.-The direction and dip of the strata, and the veins
that cut across them, have not yet been well ascertained.  The
most prevalent rocks are, gneiss, trap, and primitive limestone.  The
two former, particularly the gneiss, are here and there cut across by
veins of quartz, porphyry, &c., containing fluor-spar and galena.
Some serpentine has been found, also some amianthus, and plenty
of, common asbestos.  There is an abundance of granite, not in
solid rocks, but in boulders and isolated masses; hog-iron and


