

                   CROSS AND BURNESS.                         97

feu-duties formerly payable in grain, and butter, and meal, to the
Earl of Zetland, (though made at far too higb a price,) has set
them at liberty to occupy their lands in the raising of cattle and
sheep, to which, in this mild but variable climate, with a low
mean temperature, they are more suited than to the production
of grain. And farther, by the landlords fixing a money rent with
the tenants, neither are exposed to the uncertainty and fluctuation
of grain fiars, and the postponement of regular termly settlements.
It is not the fault of the soil nor of the climate, however unfavour-
able, nor of the industry, intelligence, or enterprise of the inha-
bitants, that this country is so far behind the rest of Scotland.
The excessive fetu.duties, most grossly unjust in their origin,
which were payable in kind to the donatory of the Crown, cramp-
ed the energies of both landlord and tenant. These duties went
out of the country like a tax making no return, and from their na-
ture, could not even induce the great man, who received them, to
take a patrimonial interest in it. It has often been a matter of
wonder how little of favour or encouragement these islands have
received at any time from the Government, when it is considered
that the population of Orkney and Zetland exceeds that of Ber-
wickshire, East Lothian, Roxburghshire, Dumfries-shire, and
other counties of note and consideration; and that there are only
thirteen counties in Scotland which exceed these islands in popu-
lation, and only eight which exceed them in extent of surface.
But to return to rents in kind, they keep back improvement, and
yet well-informed landlords are still found giving in to them, just
to meet the scruples and prejudices of tenants. Under this sys-
tem, the tenant will hardly ever progress; he must remain sta-
tionary, and can derive nothing from his farm, beyond a subsist-
ence. In good years, his surplus payments in kind, inferior in
quality, because he forces all his land to carry grain, do not leave
him a remunerating price for his labour, and in bad years he is
charged a high price for what the overwrought soil did not pro-
duce to him.
     The middleman system of letting farms, with a multitude of
cottars or small tenants placed at the mercy of the principal te-
nant, is fast breaking up.  Mr Laing of Papdale gave the first
blow to this cottar system on his farm of Stove. When he began
the improvement of this farm, he allotted to the  cottars, in a dis-
trict by themselves, three Scotch acres of arable laud each, with
about an equal quantity grass ground;-for this posession,with
  ORKNEY.                          G


