
	102                       ELGINSHIRE.

	of the parish Of Kinloss; on the west, it joins the parishes of Kin-
	loss and Rafford.
	  Topoqraphical Appearances.-The face of the country within
	the parish presents to the eye an agreeable variety of hill and dale,
	-in the spring and summer, covered with a fresh green, and in the
	autumn with yellow corn.  Admirers of scenery would not call it
	beautiful, on account of the scanty appearance both of wood and
	water, and of the large tract of stunted heath, which appears in se-
	veral parts, especially toward the south and west, close by rich
	fields of corn or pasture-causing the stranger to ask why the one
	portion has been so much cared for, and the other so much ne-
	glected?  The answer is, that the property of the uncultivated
	parts (called common or undivided liberty) is claimed by the three
	heritors whose lands adjoin.  Their respective claims have been
	under arbitration for upwards of forty years, but are not yet ad-
	justed; in consequence of which, several thousands of acres lie
	waste, some parts of which are said to be fit for tillage, and the
	greater part well adapted to the growth of fir.  The whole of the
	common has lately been measured, and, it is expected, will be di-
	vided ere long.  At the east end of the parish, there is a small
	conical bill covered with wood, called the Knock of Alves.  Like
	several other places in the neigbbourbood, it has been rendered fa-
	mous by the tradition of a meeting of Macbeth and the Witches on
	the spot.  Several years ago, the proprietor, Alexander Forteath,
	Esq. of Newton, erected, on the top of the Knock, a handsome
	tower, called York Tower.  It is a pleasing object amidst the same-
	ness of the surrounding country; and from the top of it, may be
	obtained an extensive view of the Moray Frith.
	  Climate.-The air in this parish, as throughout the county of
	Moray, is dry and salubrious.  During the cold season of the year,
	the prevailing winds are the N. and N. W.; and in the summer
	months the W. and S. W. It has been said that, on an average,
	the county of Moray has in the year about forty less of rainy days
	than the neighbouring counties.  In a very dry season, the far-
	mer feels the effects of this in the diminished quantity of straw.
	The soil, however, in this parish, which is under culture, is for the
	most part very fertile,-being a deep loam on a clayey bottom.
	The inhabitants are healthy and active, and instances of a vigor-
	ous old age are not rare.
	Geology.-There are, in several places within the parish, large
	beds of freestone, some Of which have been partly quarried.  It


