
                                       ALVAH.                 147

       urges its winding way for nearly a mile, when it becomes the east-
       ern boundary \f* of the parish of Banff, at the distance of about two
       miles from the sea.  From the bridge of Alvah, downwards, art has
       everywhere been successfully exerted to add beauty to the gran-
       deur of nature.  The summits of the rocks and steep banks of the
       river are clothed  with a striking variety of forest trees, either
       tastefully disposed for effect, or studiously adapted to their conge-
       nial soils, while, from the rocky crevices below, springs a rich pro-
       fusion of wild flowers and shrubs, that dip their pensile branches in
       the stream.   But this scene, at all times beautiful and romantic,
       assumes only its character of horrible grandeur when the river is
       swollen in a flood.  On such an occasion, the narrow chasm, at the
       bridge of Alvah, being insufficient to admit the augmented stream,
       the waters are repelled by the opposing crags, and flow backwards
       for nearly two miles along the stream, and, in many places, ex-
       tend for more than a quarter of a mile over the adjacent fields.
       When this mighty lake and the roused-up river, pour their waters
       over the opposing rocks at the entrance of the gorge above the
       bridge, and when the tortured stream is thence thrown down with
       resistless force into the narrow gap beneath the arch, where " it
       boils, and wheels, and foams, and thunders through," a scene is
       presented of such mingled beauty and horror, that, to convey an
       adequate conception of it, might require the combined powers of
       a Claude and a Salvator.
          Hydrography.-This parish abounds with perennial springs of the
       purest soft water, and contains also several excellent chalybeates.
       The most remarkable fountain of the first class is called Comes-well
       -a name which occurs in a charter dated more than 500 years
       ago.  This fountain rises on the farm of Tipperty, at the northern
       base of the hill of Alvah, and is as remarkable for its magnitude
       as for the excellence of its water.  It throws out twenty-seven im-
       perial gallons in a minute, and when tried by the hydrometer ap-
       pears only a shade heavier than water distilled.   It has long been
       envied by the people of Banff, but has never yet been conducted
       thither, although such a scheme has been frequently contemplated.
       Many other fountains, of similar quality, spring from the base of
       the same hill, but none of them rise far up its sides.  The tem-
       perature of the numerous springs within the parish ranges from

       <FOOTNOTE>By some, the parish is said to extend downwards, along the course of the river
       until within a very short distance of the cruive dyke ; others are of opinion that its
       northern boundary is only a few hundred yards below the bridge.


