
592                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

a manure, and is still profitably employed on newly reclaimed land.
It is of a very hot nature, and must be used with much caution.
Many vestiges of its injudicious application are to be seen on dif-
ferent farms, where it has been laid on in such quantities as to
have burned up the soil, and rendered it incapable of bearing a
crop.  Fortunately, however, the scorched places are only in small
patches, here and there,-the surrounding land having had strength
enough to resist its influence.  This sand varies in colour and size.
It is chiefly of a grayish hue, and from the different strata visible
throughout, it is evidently of marine production, as the strata con-
sist of pulverized shells.  Every kind of soil, from the heaviest clay
to the lightest sand, is to be found here, but the chief character is
clay.  There is a tract of land, at the average breadth of a mile,
extending across almost the whole of the parish, of a deep loamy
soil, and most superior description, and, but for the climate, it
would vie with the most fertile parts of Scotland.  This lies on the
estate of Colonel J. Gordon of Cluny Castle.
   Zoology.-The Ythan produces salmon, grilse, salmon trout,
burn-trout, eels, flat-fish of several descriptions, and also cole-fish,
sand-eels, and herridg-fry, which latter, in some months of sum-
mer, are caught in great abundance.  In an economical point of
view, the mussels found in this river are of the greatest importance,
supplying bait not only to Colliston, but many other fishing vil-
leges on the east coast of Scotland.  The rent for these was once
L.500 per annum, but is now reduced to L.300.  This reduction
is owing to the great floods, of late years, washing away the beds,
and rendering the mussels so scarce as to do little more than sup-
ply the fishing villages in the neighbourhood, while formerly they
were transported along the whole line of the east coast.  This
river, especially in the winter season, opens a wide and interesting
field to the student of ornithology.  It is frequented by a greater
variety of birds than most rivers in Great Britain.
   Trees, 8c.-There is not a single tree in the whole bounds, ex-
cept on the estate of Leask, belonging to Mr Gordon of Parkhill,
and these are by no means large or of a thriving appearance.  I
planted a few forest trees, such as birch and mountain-ash, in the
garden, about ten years ago.  The birch has gradually withered
away, while the mountain-ash is very little thicker and no higher
than when planted.  The cultivation of gooseberries has also
completely failed, though tried on the sunniest and most sheltered
spots in the garden; and, after an experiment of twelve years, the


