
     of Pencaitland.

do not exist here, are encountered, and happily over-
come*.

   Ecclesiastical State.-Mrs HAMILTON of Belhaven is pa-
troness.-The value of the living is 90 L.-The glebe is small,
but of excellent soil.  The church is in good repair, and fit-
ted up in a decent manner.  No where are the people more
regular in their attendance upon public worship; and, as the
example of superiors is never without its effect, this is to
be ascribed, in a great measure, to the attention which the
residing heritors have paid to the public institutions of reli-
gion.  Their conduct, in this respect, is richly entitled to
much praise, both in a political and moral view.  The higher
classes may act from a principle of honour; the lower never
did, nor ever will.  If these, therefore, are set free from the
influence of a religious principle, no regulations which this
age, enlightened as it is, may be pleased to substitute in its
room, will command that subordination, without which there
is an end of all order and happiness in society.  Without the
consolations to be derived from their prospects of future hap-

     VOL. XVII. F

<FOOTNOTE>

*An attempt was made, indeed, a few years ago, to establish
a woollen manufacture in this country, and many gentlemen
and farmers became subscribers, and were to be in the direction
of it;-two circumstances, either of which will always be fatal
to any similar undertaking.  The nature of manufacture will
not admit of speculation, nor accord with associations or
extensive beginnings.  Success is only to be expected, in any
branch of manufacture, from persons completely bred in
that line, and invited, by favourable circumstances, to com-
mence it: And the more numerous, though small, the begin-
nings, the better.  An extensive project, when it fails, and it
frequently will, for obvious reasons, impresses the public mind
with the idea of the impossibility of carrying on any such ma-
nufacture to advantage; whereas, in fact, nothing might have
been more easy, if it had been conducted solely by a skilful in-
dividual, at his own risk, and with a view to a moderate liveli-
hood.


