
334                      EDINBURGHSHIRE.

This increase of the population has been chiefly owing to the in-
crease of manufactures.
		       IV.--INDUSTRY.
   Manufactures.--The two principal articles manufactured are
paper and carpets. We shall notice them separately.
   Paper.--There are three paper-mills in the parish. In all of
these, machines are at work day and night, and the quantity of
paper  made is immense. The paper which is made is intended
either for writing or for printing on. The number of hands em-
ployed, including both sexes and all ages, amounts to several hun-
dreds. In order to show the progressive increase of the paper
trade, we shall quote part of a letter received from a respectable
proprietor of one of the mills. "At present," he says, "we em-
ploy about the work above 150 men, women, boys, and girls, pay-
ing them above L.2600 a year of wages; but, including other
tradesmen occasionally employed, our wages' bill will not be under
L.3000 a year. Our consumption of coals is upwards of 2000 tons
yearly. Our excise duty, which, in 1813, was L.800 a year, has
risen to about L.5500; and, as the duty is now only one-half what it
was then, being now, 1 1/2d. per pound, instead of 3d., our duties at
the old rate would be L.11000 a year. I have no doubt our
neighbours have increased in the same proportion.".
   Carpets.--The work at St Anne's, to which our attention is now
to be directed, is one of the most ingenious in the country. In
general it is a manufactory of the finer sorts of carpets, and da-
masks for furniture, and in which; about 100 people are employed.
It has been established at Lasswade only since 1834; but in that
short time, it has become known pretty generally through the
country, from the peculiarity of some of the fabrics which are
made. Besides carpets on the principle of the Tournay and Ax-
minster kind, made to fit all sizes and shapes of rooms Without
seam, and which are made at only a few other places in this coun-
try, Richard Whytock & Co., the proprietors, manufacture a new
sort of Brussels carpet, of great beauty, which resembles tapestry
in its general effect, and which they call Tapestry Brussels; also
a fabric in velvet pile, quite novel in its appearance. These two
fabrics are produced by a now process of their own invention, which
is applicable also to other fabrics, to which they purpose to apply it.
As the principle is patented, it is not kept secret. It consist of a
combination of the two hitherto rival methods of producing figures
on cloth, namely, the arts of weaving and printing; and, at the
                            4


