
94                         LANARKSHIRE.

contrast to its neighbour of Tinto; the one being mild, green, and
beautiful; the other, craggy, bold, and frowning.
There is no disease peculiar to the parish, and, from the recent
improvements in agriculture, and the increasing attention to the
accommodation of the people, counteracting to a certain extent
the natural influence of the climate, even the distempers which
formerly prevailed are now very much decreased.
   Geology.--The soil is very different in different districts of
the parish; it may be described as principally gravelly and black
loam; great part of it, however, is exceedingly marshy.  It is ge-
nerally supposed that there is coal in the parish.  Some years ago
an attempt was made for it, which was suddenly and unaccounta-
bly abandoned, and has not since been repeated.  At present, and
for several years past, there have been lime-works in full opera-
tion.  The direction of the strata is from south to north; the dip
14 feet; the inclination 1 in 7.  One principal dike of whinstone
runs in a slanting direction along the west side of the layer.  In
breadth it is 20 feet.  There are also several clay dikes running
in irregular directions.  Corals, branches of trees, nuts, shells of
various kinds, are frequently met with among the limestone strata.
A deer's horn, not petrified, was lately found in the alluvium; and
a year or two ago, a fossil tree, found in these limestone quarries,
was sent to Edinburgh, and, on inspection, it appeared that none of
the kind had been seen before.
   The hill of Tinto in this parish, according to the accurate and
comprehensive description of the Rev. Dr Macknight, published in
the Second volume of the Memoirs of the Wernerian Natural His-
tory Society, rises in a district where greywacke and superimposed
old red sandstone occur.  The mountain itself in its lower part
presents rocks of old red sandstone conglomerate, but the predo-
minant rocks are of plutonian origin, chiefly claystone and felspar
porphyries, with subordinate masses of greenstone.

                      II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Land-owners.--There are seven heritors, all of them proprie-
tors, of land upwards of the yearly value of L.50.  The two prin-
cipal are Lord Douglas, and Lockhart of Cleghorn.  The only
resident heritor at present is Thomas Gibson, Esq. of Eastfield.
Mcqueen, late Lord Justice-Clerk, bought the estate of Har-
dington or Bagbie, as it was then called, which he very much im-
proved and where he occasionally resided.  Hardington House is
at present ocoupied by his grandson, Robert Macqueen, Esq.
Younger of Braxfield.



