
<TABLE=ORWELL.>                                                          57

Epilobium hirsutum	   Subularia aquatica	      Senecio viscosus
Polygonum minus 	   Nasturtium terrestre	      Chrysanthemum segetum
Spergula subulata	   Fumaria capreolata	      Gymnadenia conopsea
Rubus idaeu     	   ------- media	      Platanthera bifolia
----- saxatilis, (and no   Genista Anglica	      ----------- chlorantha
  others)	           Ornithopus perpusillus     Carex curta
Helianthemum vulgare	   Hypericum humifusum	      ----- dioica
Ranunculus reptans	   ------- quadrangulum	      ----- flava
Mentha piperita 	   ------- perforatum	      ----- CEderi
------ hirsuta	           ------- pulchrum	      ----- ampullacea
------ arvensis (and no	     (and no others)	      Littorella lacustris
  others)	           Apargia hispida	      Myriophyllum spicatum
Origanum vulgare	   Bidens (both species)      Pilularia globulifera.
Galeopsis versicolor	   Gnaphalium (all but mar-
Acinos vulgaris	             garitaceum and luteo-al.
Lepidium campestre	     bum)
-------- Smithii	   Filago garmanica

  The ferns are very few, and, with the exception of Polypodium
phegopteris, are of the most common kind.  Of the rarer mosses
may be mentioned, Orthotrichum Lyellii and pulchellum; Hypnum
dendroides, as well as Bartramia recurvata, occasionally are found
in fructification.  Jungermannia exsecta occurs abundantly in the
neighbouring parish of Portmoak, a few yards from the boundary.
There are no rare Algae or Lichens: Cetraria islandica is abun-
dant in some moors, but never with apothecia.  Of the larger
fungi, Amanita muscaria may be mentioned as abundant, while the
common mushroom (Agaricus campestris) is rare; and of the smal-
ler, Puccinia buxi has been detected in profusion, but only in one
locality.
  To complete this account, it is necessary to indicate some of
those genera common in many places, but not found in this parish:
thus there are no species of Erythrae; Hyoscyamus; Solanum; Sa-
molus; Jasione; Cuscuta; Pyrola; Saxifraga, (except S. granu-
lata); Thalictum; Scutellaria; Stachys, (except S.pallustris);
Orobanche; Coronopus; Draba, (except D. Verna); Corydalis;
Lathyrus, (except L. pratensis); Vicia, (except V. cracca and se-
pium); Astragalus; Oxytropis; Lactuca; Crepis; Carduus (and
only the most common species of Cnicus); Erigeron; Cineraria;
Inula; Pulicaria; Anthemis; Listera; Epipactis; Malaxis; Pe-
ristylus; Euphorbia, (except E. holioscopia and Peplus); Salix,
(except S.fusca, aurita, and aquatica); Myrica, or Atriplex, (ex-
cept A. patula): Chrysanthemum Leucanthemum, although now in
the greatest profusion throughout the parish, was unknown in the
district until it was introduced along with the seed-corn, from a
distance, forty or fifty years ago.
  Within these last thirty years, there have been a great many
plantations formed both on the low grounds, and on the southern


