
                                DAILLY.                                393

a neighbour to milk her cow, as Brown had expressed a desire for milk. A third
went by the same way to acquaint their master with Brown's being alive, and to pro-
cure assistance for bringing him to the ground. The rest lay in succession with their
naked backs to his, to produce something like natural heat, in his almost ice-cold
body. The news quickly spread of his having been found alive, and visitors innu-
merable crowded to the cottage where he was. By 9 o'clock, when the writer of
these pages saw him, he was comfortably laid on the bed which he had been accus-
tomed to occupy. There was then an agreeable warmth on his skin, and although
he spoke slowly and little, yet he was perfectly collected. His appearance was very
striking, from the length of his black and glossy beard, the hollowness of his eyes,
and their extreme brightness, as if they had been glazed. The odour of his breath
was particularly offensive. After answering some questions, it was his own request
that prayer should be offered up for him. When the prayer was finished, he grasped
his minister's hand, and expressed his thanks. A medical man attended him repeat-
edly. Instructions were given to those about him, as to the mode in which he should
be treated; and for a day or two, it seemed as if there was a possibility of his re-
gaining strength. But on November 2d, he began to sink, and on the evening of
the 3d he quietly expired. Much interest was excited abnut "Brown."--The She-
riff of the county was ordered to inquire into the circumstances, which led him to
be so long immured, and also into the state of his body after death. But nothing
was elicited to attach blame, either on account of the length of his imprisonment, or
on account of the treatment which he received while under medical care. A copy
of the report on the post mortem examination has been obligingly furnished for in-
sertion in this work, and is subjoined to this statement. To many, it may be inte-
resting to have a correct description of the bodily state of a person who was so long
buried alive,
	He had a lamp with him in the pit, and a portion of oil to feed it. But he was
in total darkness during almost the whole time of his imprisonment. The oil he ne-
ver thought of tasting, and he had no food of any kind. As long as he was able to
walk, he drank of the strongly impregnated water which flowed through the room in
which he worked. It was from thirst alone he said that he suffered. For about a
fortnight he was able to walk to and fro. After that he had not strength to reach
the stream which served to allay his thirst. He never lost the hope of being taken
out. His mind therefore was calm. There was no exciting to were out his
existence. He had some notion of the progress of time, from hearing the colliers at
work; and he always conceived that they were attempting to reach him. "Boys," he
said to them after be was able to speak, "Oh, but you were long of coming."  Of
his thoughts and feelings he could give no account; and owing to his enfeebled state,
it was impossible to press him with questions on the subject. That he was sensible
of the wonderful care which had been exercised over him, and of his very precarious
state, may, it is hoped, be inferred from his asking to be commended to God in prayer.
	"Post mortem examination and Medical Report on John Brown. Dailly, 13th
November 1835.
	By virtue of a warrant from the Sheriff Substitute of Ayr, dated 12th November 1835,
we, the undersigned, have inspected the body of John Brown, and report as follows.
	Brain rather paler and firmer than usual; ventricles nearly empty; choroid plexus
pale.
	Omentum nearly altogether absorbed, rests merely upon the colon; capable of
being extended about two inches.
	Heart small and flabby.
	Stomach of medium size, empty at the cardial extremity; inflammation of the
mucous coat extended about two inches in one direction, by one inch and a-half in
the other.
	Mucous coat abraded in two places about one quarter of an inch.
	Liver healthy; gall-bladder very much distended; no mechanical obstruction.
	Spleen very black--easily ruptured.
	Intestines healthy; mucous coat dyed by a dark-coloured fluid.
	Bladder, structure healthy--about half a pint of urine.
	Kidneys healthy.
	Lungs healthy; lobes loaded with black matter.
	The body was extremely emaciated.
	We have no reason to believe that improper medical treatment contributed to the
man's death. This we state upon soul and conscience.
	(Signed) JOHN WILSON, M. D., C. F. SLOAN, M. D., J. BLANE, Surgeon,
A. Vass, Surgeon."


