
			   TONGLAND.                    91

He died in 1611. He was thus, not only contemporary, but
very nearly coeval with Shakespeare.* The "Cherry and the
Slae" is an allegory, consisting of 114 lyrical stanzas, of 14 lines
each. The measure is the same as that which Burns has adopted
in some of his happiest effusions: and, although censured by fas-
tidious critics as trivial and jingling, the example of these poets is
sufficient to show, that, in the hands of masterly writers, it is ca-
pable of expressing every variety of poetical excellence, the descrip-
tive, the tender, the humorous, the familiar, and the sublime.
The great number of cheap editions of different dates proves that
the poem has always been very popular. No other, perhaps, of
the same length in the Scottish language has continued to be so
generally read. The poems of Burns are all very short; the
"Gentle Shepherd" is descriptive of pastoral scenes and local
manners, owing its success to the fidelity with which it displays
them; but it is no mean evidence of the vigour and vivacity of
Montgomery's genius, that, by connecting the scenery of an ob-
scure river with the broad aspects of nature, and the history of
individual passion with the universal feelings and interests of hu-
manity, he has constructed an elaborate poem, which has been
read for nearly three hundred years, not by the inhabitants of
Galloway alone, but by every description of persons who under-
stand the Scottish language. The two principal foundations of
its popularity seem to be, the exquisite beauty and literal truth of
the descriptions, and the shrewd acquaintance with human charac-
ter and life, which is displayed in many single lines and stanzas
under the most condensed forms of expression. These two qua-
lities, which assuredly have no necessary affinity, often appear
mingled together in this work in a singularly interesting manner,
and contribute very much to its variety and animation. The sen-
tentious sayings and practical maxims acquire grace and impres-
siveness by being set, as it were, in beautiful description; and the
descriptive passages are relieved from tediousness and ideality by
the traits of character and rules of life which interrupt and che-
quer them. While Montgomery worships nature as a poet, he
knows and sympathizes with the world as a man who is living in
it; and the metrical results to which this combination, or rather
fusion of sensibility and sagacity conducts him, frequently remind
us even of Shakespeare himself. It is much to be regretted, that,
in all the editions of this work, the old spelling is retained,--a
piece of paltry antiquarian affectation, by which many have been

<FOOTNOTE>Shakespeare was born in 1564, and died in 1616 on his birth day.


