
248                        ROXBURGHSHIRE.

the latter to Mr Ogilvie of Chesters, and both of these stones being
of superior quality, there is a large demand for them throughout
the surrounding district.

                        V.--PAROCHIAL ECOMOMY.
     Markets--Means of Communication, &c.--Though the parish
has no market-town within its own bounds, it is very favourably si-
tuated in thir respect, there being no fewer than five markets in
the neighbourhood for the sale of grain, and to all of which there
is good and easy access.  Jedburgh, however, which is about six
miles from the centre of the parish, may be reckoned the market
to which the parishioners principally resort.  It is also the post-
town.  The principal village in the parish is that of Ancrum, the
inhabitants of which are almost all earning their livelihood in the
usual agricultural or other employments of a country population.
Some of them, however, are more independent than others, from
the possession of a few patrimonial acres of land, and which in va-
rious instances have descended from father to son, for several ge-
nerations.  Throughout the whole parish, the means of communi-
cation enjoyed by the inhabitants is remarkably good, it being in-
tersected in all directions by roads leading to the neighbouring dis-
tricts: and along its eastern extremity for several miles, runs the
turnpike road from Edinburgh to Newcastle, along which, summer
and winter, stage-coaches are passing and repassing twice a day.
     Ecclesiastical State.--Although the Church is only about a mile
from the eastern extremity of the parish, it is conveniently situat-
ed for the great proportion of the population; and even of the pa-
rishioners in the western district, there are few who are above three,
and none above four miles distant from it.  It was built in 1762,
was thoroughly repaired about five years ago, is a comfortable place
of worship, and affords accommodation to about 520.  The sittings
belong exclusively to the heritors.
     The manse was built in 1751, since which period it has receiv-
ed two additions, the last of which was made in 1833.  It is now
a comfortable and commodious house, and being delightfully situ-
ated on one of the steep banks of the Ale, and surrounded on all
sides by magnificent woods, and every variety of hill and dale, is
perhaps not surpassed, in respect of local beauty, by any manse in
Scotland.  The grebe contains about 10 acres of arable land, be-
sides a considerable quantity of natural and other wood, and is
worth L. 30 per annum.


