
     Statistical Account

   Poor*.-Since the year 1781, the poor of this parish
have been pensioned in their own houses.  Their number

<FOOTNOTE>

*Soon after the present incumbent was settled in this parish, the heri-
tors and other principal inhabitants, with the laudable design of providing 
better for their poor, especially aged perfoms and children, elected and 
furnished a poors-house, or work-house, at very considerable expence, which 
was ready for the reception of the poor at Whitsunday 1752.  The best
rules of management that could be devised or collected were ordained, and 
the house went on for many years, to the comfort of the poor, and the fa-
tisfaction of all concerned.  An additional expence, as was expected, be-
sides the building, was incurred for the maintenance of the poor, and an 
assessment was laid on the heritors that year for the first time.  The object
then being not the most parfimomous plan f pravision for the poor, 
but their comfortable subsistence, and the preservation of the young 
among them, from idlenels and prosligacy: The arguments among from 
the danger, by means of such institutions, of erassing the sense of flame of 
dependence on the poors funds from the minds of the indigent, or of 
blunting the feelings of compussion in the hearts of their relations, did not 
occurs; or if they had, would have been considered as the suggestions of 
avarice, in no respect applicable to the state of this parish The assess-
ment was continued; and as the towns were populous, it was thought no 
more than justice that they should contribute then share.  They accordingly
were assessed of a certain sum by the annual meeting of heritors and elders, 
which was proportioned among them by a large committee of the inhabi-
tants appointed by the meeting.  By this means those who frequented any
of the meeting-houses, or ablented altogether from public worship, were 
made to contribute their share, as well as those who regularly attended 
the Established Church, and paid both by their collections and by assess-
ment.

   At the end of 30 years, many difficulties having occurred from the back-
wardness of some to pay their affessments, and a constant intrigue among 
the inhabitants about furnishing necessaries, or employing the poor, the 
most disinterested among the managers became heartily tired of the busi-
ness.  Add to this, that the house and furniture came now to need a tho-
rough repair, which could not have cost less than L. 300 Sterling; all
which, together with an opinion, that the poor could be maintained cheaper 
in their own houses than in the poors house, induced the heritors, and all 
concerned, after two years deliberation, to fell the house, and add the price 
to the poor's funds, which was accordingly done in the year 1751.


