
                   PARISH OF FORTINGAL.

                 PRESBYTERY OF WEEM, SYXOD OF PERTEI.

            THE REV.  ROBERT MACDONALD, MINISTER.


                 I.- TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
        Name.-This parish is said, at one period, to have had the name
     of "Cille-Bhrain," i. e. the burial place of Bran, a reputed saint in
     hisday,-of whom little, however, is now known, excepting, that a few
     places in the parish, as also, in other districts, bear, his name;
     "Ath-Bhrain" i.e. St Bran's Ford, upon the river Lyon near
     the east end of Fortingal,-"Breanamh" i.e. Bran-naomh" Holy
     Bran's," i.e. burying-ground or cell
        The modern name is "Feart-a-chill" i.e. FortingaU, the
     derivation and etymology of which is involved in considerable ob.
     scurity.  The English term would lead us to conclude that the
     name is derived from "Feart Fhionngliail," Fingal's stronghold.
     And the many circular  "Forts" (of which afterwards) in the vici-
     nity, which the uniform tradition of the natives ascribes to the Fin
     galians, called "Caistealan-nam Fiann"-the castles  or strong-
     holds- of the Fingalians, support this conclusion. Others resolve
     the name into "Feart-nan-Gael," the stronghold of the Gael or
     Caledonians, and they fix the date of this name to the period
     when the Romans invaded the country. Situated, however, as
     the parish is, in the south-west corner of the ancient Caledonian
     Forest, it might, not inaptly, have obtained its Gaelic name, from
     "Feart Choille," "the stronghold of the Forest."
       The derivation of the name, as given by the predecessor, Mr
     M'Ara in his report of the parish, from Feart-nan-gall, "the
     works or exploits of strangers," is one to which I am not inclined
     to accede.
       Extent, Boundaries.-The extreme length of the parish from east
     to west is about 40 miles, and extreme breadth from 30 to 35 miles.
     But taking the mean length at 35 miles, and mean breadth at 20,
     the parish will be found to contain 448,000 imperial acres, including
     about 25,6000 acres of lakes, &c. It is bounded on the east by


