
     Statistical Account

habitants have suffered a great hardship from the want of
a proper public teacher for their children*.  The salary is
only 100 merks Scots.  And here I cannot help remarking
again, that a proper provision for the education of youth
in the country parishes of Scotland, so as to give them
an opportunity of acquiring at home the principles of
grammar and a considerable knowledge of arithmetick,
book-keeping, and mensuration, is a national object of
much greater magnitude than is generally supposed:  It is
certainly essentially necessary to general improvement in
the art of agriculture, and art upon the advancement of
which the happiness of individuals, and the prosperity of
the nation, in a great measure, depend.  At present, the
salaries and perquisites of established schoolmasters in
the country, are, in general, so exceedingly small, that
they do not exceed, and often hardly equal, the wages
of an ordinary mechanick; and it can scarcely be expect-
ed, that a person, properly qualified for communicating
the necessary branches of education, will devote himself
for such an income to the most laborious of all proses-
sions.

   Heritors, Poors, Funds, &c.-There are in this parish,

<FOOTNOTE>

*The person who supplied the charge, though a man of blameless
character and inoffensive manners, wea not qualified for instructing
youth in any single branch of education.  The bad effects of spending
in vain the few years that should have been devoted to the acquirement
of useful knowledge, may easily be conceived, and will be felt for many
years to come.  About a twelvemonth ago, the heritors generously a-
greed to give the old schoolmaster an annuity of XXi. 10s.  Sterling, du-
ring life, and his wife an annuity of 4 L. Sterling during her life, after
her husband's death; upon condition of his resigning his office, which
these annuities enabled him to do, without loss either to himself or fa-
mily.  He accepted the offer, and his place is now supplied by a student
of divinity, a very deserving young mean, and an excellent teacher.


