
     The Statistical Account.

his description of it, has he not betrayed Iris trust?  has he
not subjected himself to the censure of every honest man?
nay, is he not cognizable by law, and liable to be prosecuted
for damages?  As it is with individuals so it is with nations.
The British government once had 900 schools in Scotland,
which they offered as situations for the acceptance of young
men of learning and virtue.  The emoluments of these schools
afforded a moderate subsistence; and as the institution was
declared perpetual, it was reasonably expected that they would
still continue to afford the same.  Many, therefore, were edu-
cated with a view to conduct those seminaries, and several are
still prepared for that employment.  But one half of the pla-
ces are now nearly nominal, and scarcely produce so comfort-
able a livelihood as the most common manual labour, which
requires no previous education.  Have not those youths, then,
who for such disappointed hopes, not only relinquished their
probable destination, but also unfitted themselves for any
other; have not they a claim, not on the generosity, but on
the good faith and justice of the nation?  Have they not a
right to demand provision?  And how can they be provided
for more naturally, more eligibly, or more advantageously,
than by augmenting the salaries of the decayed seminaries,
and thus again laying open to them their original employ-
ment?  Were it for nought but their situation alone, we are
warranted to pronounce the present state of schools illiberal
and unjust.
   A third consideration occurs, which ought to have much
weight with a generous legislature, and which seems intimate-
ly connected with distributive justice.  Hardship and misery
should always be regarded in a comparative view; their real
influence can be ascertained, only by examining the relations
of those objects, on which they operate.  Hunger and cold,
sleepless nights and toilsome days, seem but trifles to the har-
     VOL. XXI. R r


