
338                         ARGYLESHIRE.

ruptionslof Rome had diffused themselves like a leprosy over the
surrounding countries; and while under the Culdees, she vigorous.
ly opposed the errors,, and resisted the encroachments of the Ro.
mish interest.
              III.-POPULATION.
In 1688, Sacheverell found the number of families in Iona to
be about 80. In 1755, there was a return made to Dr Webster
of 277 souls. In 1791, the census taken by the then minister of
Ross gave 323. In 1808, according to Macdonald, they amounted
to 386. In 1824, MacCulloch found them to be 450. In the
present year, 1842, the population of the island has advanced to
500.
The population of those parts of Ross Mull, joined quoad sacra
to Iona, give 620, which, added to that of the island, makes the
whole population of the parish to be 1120 souls. q'bis popular
tion consists of agriculturists and fishers. The whole belong to
the Established Church, with the exception of 4, two of which are
Rotnan Catholics and the other two Baptists.
Kelp was manufactured here, but discontinued for the same
causes which, as described in the quond civilia parish, compelled
its being given up there, much to the loss of the population.
The village consists of about 40 houses, none of them slated.
The remaining part of the population is scattered over the island
on the creft system. When Pennant visited Iona, he found this
village or town to consist of about 50 houses ; but -the whole po-
-ptilation of t e island, at that time, was clustered there.
           IV.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
As already mentioned, there is a Government church and
manse. -The minister's stipend, including allowance for commu-
nion elements, is L, 120. There is a glebe, whibh is valued at
L. 1, I Os. yearly ;and he has a privilege of cutting peats. The
     upon the roll are about 200. A Government
school -has been built by- the present Duke of Argyle, who take,, a.
Iiv;ely interest in all things connected with this island and district
There are likewise, in this quoadqacra parish, a charity school, a
'Gaelic school, and two female schools. The teachers keep Sab-
schools.
There is no peat in Iona, but the inhabitants obtain their fuel
pw peat-mosses set apart for them on his Grace's property in
-Mull,:Dpposite to -Iona
Thepoor are supported bv the charity of their neigbbours, and


