
592                  EDINBURGHSHIRE.

cord of a species of whale being stranded on the large tract of
sand regularly exposed by the ebbing tide.  In December 1769,
a spermaceti whale (Catadon macrocephalus)* 54 feet long, was
left by the tide at Cramond Island, and another of the same spe-
cies and size at Hunter's Craig+ in the preceding spring.
   The rocky islet called Inch Mickery is chiefly tenanted by
sea-fowl.  The common tern or pictarnie (Sterna hirundo) resorts
hither in such numbers during the summer months, that, in the
breeding season, they in some measure fully occupy the island.
   The fishing of the Almond, once plentiful in salmon (Salmo
salar), was at one time of much importance, and even gave rise to
a long litigation; but, being now almost entirely destroyed, it is
to no one of any interest.
   Another object of Roman esteem, the oyster of Britain (Ostrea
edulis),+ is found in beds within the limits of the parish. The low
sledgy rocks also are covered abundantly with muscles (Mytilus
edulis), and the shells of the common cockle (Cardium edule) are
thrown out in such profusion on the sandy shore at the mouth of
the rivulet forming the western boundary that it has been descrip-
tively called the Cockle-Burn.
   Geology.-The chief geological interest of this parish, like that
of its botany, is along the shore and bed of the Almond. The
series of strata here exposed belong to the coal formation, and con-
sists of the usual sandstone, limestone in small quantity, shale, clay
ironstone, and coal. These strata, however, are traversed at inter-
vals by trap. Their usual dip along the shore and bed of the
Almond is from 25\d to 30\d to the east, but both dip and direction
depart from this in particular localities. In the flattened or mantle-
shaped strata at the influx of Wardie burn the coal crops out, and on
lately forming the foundation of the embankment of the railway,
both the coal-seam and traces of former working were fully brought

<FOOTNOTE>This whale is figured and described under the name of the blunt-headed cacha-
lot or Physeter Catadon, in Vol. lx. Phil. Trans. for the year 1770.
          In a niche out in the face of this rock, the Roman eagle, in bold antique relief,
can still be distinctly traced.
         The partiality of the Romans for such shell-fish and others common to our
shores is well known. So extravagant, indeed, was their fondness for pearls, that
even the first invasion of Britain is said by Suetonius to have been undertaken by
Caesar with this object.-"Britanniam petisse spe margaritarium." The British pearls to
however, from the Mya margaritifera, seem eventually not to have been very highly
valued. Pliny refers to their defects in Caesar's votive shield of these pearls to
Venus: and Tacitus, while stating the British mines as the real rewards of conquest
quaintly says of the pearls-" ego facilius crediderim, naturam margaritis deesse,
quam nobis avaritiam." Tacit. Agric. cap. xii-Sueton. C. Jul. Cas. cap. xlviii.-
Plin. Nat. Hist. Lib. ix., cap. xxxv.


