
138                            ORKNEY.

cumference, about 36 feet. None of them are to be found above
a few yards from the beach. The finest specimens are at a creek.
which forms an excellent Harbour called Kettletoft. On each
side of this creek, are two circles; the first two are close by the
beach, the other two at the upper extremity of the creek.  The
only tumuli outqide the line of forts are three or four, at a short
distance from Augmund's Howe.  All the rest, burghs, tumuli,
and circles, are on the west side, that is, within the fortified wall.
11 The ruins here differ in several particulars from those at
Toftsnes.  At that place, the forts or watchtowers are of an ob-
]on- shape; here, they appear to have been circular. At Tofts-
ness I never heard of any cramp having been seen ; here, it abounds.
Fewer graves'bave appeared here than at Toftsness, and none
within circles of stones.     Notwithstanding these circumstances,
they both appear to_ be the work of the same race of people.  The
apparent-differences, for they are not real, may be easily account-
ed for;   May not the taste or style of one architect (builder, at
least,) have differed from that of anotber in the formation of the
watch-towers ? Or may'not the forts or watch-towers at Elsness
have originally been of the ,ame shape with those'of Toftsne,-s,
and may they not have attained their present circular form, from
being reduced to ruins and overgrown with grass-?  The sand
blowing off Toftsness, which has 'buried most of the ruins there,
has preserved the watchtowers in a comparatively perfect state.
The absence of cramp at Toftsness may be accounted for by the
different kind of fuel which may have been used.  In that place,
there is a thin layer of turf or peat under the sand, which, no doubt,
would be preferred to the sea-weed; and we -are informed, that
one of the Earls, Torf Einar, taught the inhabitants the use of turf
or peat some centuries before Christianity was introduced into
Orkney. (Vide Torfieus and Ork.  Saga).  There is no peat at
Elsness, nor, indeed, in any part of Sanday, but Toftsuess.
None of the circles at Elsness have been opened, or graves
might1ave been found in them, aa well as within the circles at
Toftsness.
11 At Newark, in the centre of Lady parish, there were lately
discovered under land, which bad been cultivated for generations,
the ruins of a large circular building.  It was built of large flat
stones, admirably fitted together, but without cement of any kind.
The wall curved slightly inwards, from the foundation to the height
of 8 or 9 feet, and then outward, as it rose in height, for about 4


