
650                          FORFARSHIRE.

power of two corn-mills and one yarn washing-mill. The nume-
rous springs, which rise in all parts of the parish, afford, in ordi-
nary seasons, an adequate provision of excellent water for all do-
mestic and agricultural purposes.
   Climate.-The climate of this parish is particularly healthy,
On the low grounds, it has of late years been greatly improved,
by extensive and judicious draining, which has purified the air of
miasma and milldews; and, on the high grounds, though sharp,
it is generally dry and cool, and bracing. The temperature is
moderate and equable, the thermometer in the house seldom rising
in summer above 80&deg;, or falling in winter below 45&deg;. The baro-
meter, at an elevation of 800 feet, generally ranges from 28 1/2 to
30&deg;.

                         II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Parochial Registers.-The parish registers are, 1st, a very old
one, recording texts and acts of church discipline, commencing
with May 1645, and closing with May 1692, much mutilated,
and almost illegible; 2d, a cash-book, in good preservation, ex-
tending from December 1722 to December 1740; 3d, a cash-
book and records from December 1740 to August 1804; 4th,
baptismal registers from 1707 to the present time; 5th, a cash-
book, with some minutes of session from 1804 to thd present time;
6th, a sessional record from 1818 to the present time.
   Manor-Houses and Antiquities.-The House of Auchterhouse
is the only manor-house in this parish. It is an old building, the
property of the Earl of Airlie, and inhabited by Lady Helen
Weederburn and family; and, with its orchards almost close to it,
is the best specimen now in this part of the country, of an old ba-
ronial residence. Near it is a ruin, from which, it is the opinion
of some people, that the parish takes its name. It is a square
tower, of great thickness of wall, part of a strong building, which,
when entire, had occupied a much larger space than the present
house. It is called Wallace Tower, and that name had perhaps
been given it, on purpose to perpetuate the remembrance of a visit
paid by the great Scottish patriot to his contemporary and particular
friend, Sir John Ramsay, the proprietor at that time of the barony
of Auchterhouse. That Sir William Wallace did visit Sir John
Ramsay at Auchterhouse, there can be no  doubt; for it is parti-
cularly recorded, that, on landing at Montrose with his French
auxiliaries, for the recovery of his native country from the English,
				4


