
	202                      BANFFSHIRE.

					IV.-INDUSTRY.

	   Agriculture.-It has not been possible to ascertain the number
	of acres, standard imperial measure, in the parish, which are either
	cultivated or occasionally in tillage, nor the number of acres which
	never have been cultivated, and which remain constantly waste or
	in pasture. There are somewhat more than 5000 imperial acres
	in the parish, inclusive both of cultivated, waste, pasture, moss,
	and woods.
	   The most profitable way of applying capital to the improvement
	of the waste land would be, by planting, with the exception of the
	moss, the bottom of which, after being completely dug out, would
	make excellent cultivated land. There is no part of the parish in
	a state of undivided common.
	   The plantations are very extensive, and none of them natural.
	The average rent of cultivated land per acre is about L. I Sterling.
	The real rent of the parish appears to be from L.4000 to L.5000
	Sterling.
	   The more recent agricultural improvements consist of draining,
	diking hedging, and the improving of waste land.
	   There is a small woollen manufactory in the parish.

				V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

	   Since the old Account was published, fifteen miles of commu-
	tation roads have been made in the parish, and that part of the
	Huntly, Banff, and Portsoy turnpike which passes through the pa-
	rish. Were the line of turnpike from Inverury to Bognie Brae,
	extended to the Keith and Banff turnpike, past the Milltown of
	Rothiemay, and a bridge built over the Doveran at this village,
	these would add much to the improvement of the district, and
	to the convenience, comfort, and safety of the lives of the parish-
	ioners of Rothiemay on the south side of the Doveran, and of
	others who have occasion to cross the river in this quarter.
	   Ecclesiastical State.-The number of families in the parish be-
	longing to the Established Church is 259. The number of Dis-
	senting or Seceding [families, 6. The number of Episcopalian
	families, 6. The. number of Roman Catholic families, 5. The
	amount of stipend is 15 chalders of victual, the one-half meal, and
	the other half barley, at fiars prices, and L.8, 6s. 8d. communion
	elements. The annual value of the glebe may be L. 10, 10s., and
	the extent nearly eight acres, including the site of manse and gar-
	den. The inanse, was finished in 1825, and is in good condition.
 	   Education.-There are two schools in the parish, viz. the pa-


