
48                        ELGINSHIRE.

sales, partly of decayed trees for fuel, but chiefly of young trees
for hurdles, and full grown ones for rafters and deals. Of late
years, there have been planted annually in the parish from 20 to
30,000 hardwood trees, but very few Scotch firs. The woods ap-
pear to be all in a thriving state.
   Husbandry.- The soil is light and sandy, generally of a kindly na-
ture, and well adapted for producing turnips, potatoes, barley, grass,
and oats, to which crops the cultivator till within these few years chiefly
confined himself; but his great object now is to raise as much wheat
as possible; and, accordingly, an eighth, and in some instances, a
fifth part of the farm is sown with wheat; whether to the advantage
of the farmer upon the whole may admit of a doubt; his inducement
to adopt this management appears to be, that wheat is the grain
most easily and readily converted into money to meet the rent and
expenses.
   The rotation of cropping most common in this parish is, 1st,
turnips and potatoes; 2d, wheat and oats; 3d, grass, (of which
but a small proportion is made into hay); 4th, grass (pastured) ;
5th, wheat and oats; 6th, oats. When barley is wanted, it is
sown in a part of the fifth or sixth lots, in place of oats; seldom
in the second. The average quantity of grain obtained from an acre
is probably not equal to what it is in some other parts of Moray-
shire; but the quality of it will bear a comparison with that of any
grain in the kingdom. The average produce of a Scotch acre
may be estimated at from three to four quarters.
   The improvement of waste lands in this part of the country
would be attended with no advantage to the farmer. Most of
these lands are overrun with furze and broom, which it would
cost a very considerable expense to root out, and carry off; and
the soil when turned up by the plough, would produce nothing if
not richly dunged, which, obviously it could not be, without oblig-
ing the farmer to his great loss, to stint his fields already in culti-
vation of their usual allowance of manure. The improvement
most likely to be profitable, it is apprehended would be, to lay
plenty of lime on the land already under the plough, and to use
bones as a manure for raising turnips. These substances have
been tried in this quarter, and have answered remarkably well;
but the cost (from 3s. 6d. to 4s. for a boll, (128 Scotch pints) of
unslaked lime and 3s. per bushel of ground bones,) rather exceeds
the ability of the smaller farmers to procure them in any consider-
able quantity.


