
                                      WESTRAY.                          115

          Caverns.-Here, besides many curious excavations in the appa-
       rently solid rock are, are to be seen subterraneous caverns, formed by
       the influx and reflux of the sea. In some of these, the water at
       high tide, and in tempestuous weather, is forced up through nar-
       row crevices of the rock to the distance of nearly a quarter of a
       mile landward, and bursting out at the surface from orifices of its
       own formation, springs up in the air to a surprizing height.
          Among the natural curiosities of the kind here to be met with,
       that called the Fort, evidently formed by the action of the sea,
       may not be deemed unworthy of notice. This remarkable place
       is situated in the northern boundary of that part of the island
       called Akerness, the property of De George Traill of Skail.
       Here, standing upon a lofty precipice, you see, underneath, an
       immense caldron in perpetual agitation, from which a hideous
       and gorging noise ever and anon ascends, stunning the ear.  You
       can walk nearly half-way round this mighty caldron, on high
       pillars of solid rock, arched over with the same solid material.
       One or two broken or separated columns, standing out furthest in
       the circle, from which the arches seem to have been swept away_
       by the agitated element, heightens very much the grandeur of the
       scene, and gives to it an appearance truly picturesque. It is said
       to bear a strong resemblance to the Bullers of Buchan, on the
       Aberdeen coast.
          Bays.-Besides numerous small creeks and inlets, which indent
       the shores of Westray, there are at least three or four which come
       under the description of bays, namely, the Bay of Tookquoy, Pi-
       crowall, Noop, and Rapness. The Bay of Tookquoy is broad
       and long, the distance between the headlands being between
       four and five miles,-and long, penetrating about five miles into
       the bosom of the island, and gradually narrowing as it ascends,
       until it terminates in a sbore of about one mile, or three-quarters
       of a mile broad. It is all over a sandy bottom, and is esteemed
       good anchoring ground; but the depth of water is too shallow for
       admitting, to the safe and proper station, vessels of a large size.
       It is, moreover, quite unsafe for a road-stead, as it lies expos-
       ed to gales from the south and south-west, which cause a heavy
       sea over the whole bay to, its inmost extremity. Only boats and
       craft of the smallest size can harbour safely here, and that too,
       not until they get round at the head ofthe bay in  a small basin,
       called by the inhabitants the Use, and defended from the sea beach
       by a bank of sand and stones.


