
                       FORGAN.                             505

years, so that now there is a corresponding defalcation in the
amount of the stipend.
   Education.-No parochial school has at any period existed in
this parish.  The young persons residing in those districts which
are in the vicinity of the city receive their education at the city
schools; and those residing in the distant district, at the school of
Boarhills, from which the are distant about one mile only.
   Poor and Poor's Funds.-The average number of persons re-
ceiving parochial aid is 15, and the weekly allowance made to
them is L. 1, 2s., being at an average nearly 1s. 6d. each. In ad-
dition to this regular payment, amounting to L. 57 4s. annually,
occasional demands, to the amount of about L. 20 annually, have
been supplied, so that the average amount of expenditure during
the last five years is L. 78. To meet this the receipts have been;
average annual collection at church door, L. 47, 15s. 8d.; ave-
rage annual rent of three acres of land, L. 8, 7s.; interest of a
sum in the Bank of Scotland, 17s. 5d.; part of said sum drawn
from bank annually, L. 21; total L. 78, 0s. 1d.
   In 1831, the money in the bank amounted to L. 105, but it is
now totally expended; and unless means can be devised, either
for diminishing the rate of expenditure, or for increasing the an-
nual amount of the funds, it will be necessary to have recourse
to an assessment, either voluntary or legal, to enable the kirk-ses-
sion to meet the demands against them.

    December 1837, revised February 1838.

                   PARISH OF FORGAN.

            PRESBYTERY OF ST ANDREWS, SYNOD OF FIFE.

                 THE REV. CHARLES NAIRN, MINISTER.

		I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-THIS parish is named Forgan or St Phillans. The
former of these, which in earlier periods was written Forgun, For-
gon, and Forgund, is supposed to be a Saxon word signifying fore-
ground.  The conjecture is, to a certain extent, justified by the ap-
pearance of the ground which, from a considerable elovation along
the banks of the Tay, falls with beautifully sloping banks toward


