
	306                    INVERNESS-SHIRE.

	also Tobar Chliamen, or St Clement's Well.  The principal place
	of worship was at Kilchrist, evidently Cella Christi,-a burying-
	ground consecrated to Christ.  This is in the centre of the pa-
	rish ; but, being found inconvenient on account of its remoteness
	from the more populous part of it, the new and handsome church,
	now building, is situated at Broadford.
	  On the west side of the parish are the ruins of seven Danish
	forts or duns.  They are situated on high rocks or lofty head-
	lands, and were built without mortar.  One of them was always
	built in view of one or more of the rest, so that the first alarm of
	an approaching foe was almost instantaneously communicated to
	the whole country by the Crois-taraidh or fiery-cross; being a rude
	process of telegraphing by fire the intelligence of an enemy's ap-
	proach.
	  This watch-fire was lighted on the tower from which the
	danger was first discerned.  The process was repeated by the next
	tower in view, and so on until the intimation was transmitted with
	Inconceivable celerity throughout the whole chain of towers with
	which the country was surrounded.
	  On the east side are a number of tumuli, and in all of them
	which have been opened stone-coffins, containing human bones or
	urns full of ashes, have been found.  In these urns, small copper
	coins have generally been discovered.  An urn, containing ashes
	and bones partially burnt, and a very thin copper coin, was found
	when digging the foundation of the minister's house.
	  It is very probable that those whose remains were thus disturb-
	ed were strangers, and that the coins were deposited for the pur-
	pose of purchasing a right to the burying-ground.  This opinion is
	greatly corroborated by the fact, that, in many parts of the High-
	lands still, when the remains of a stranger are committed to the
	dust, a coin is usually thrown into the grave, so that he may, by
	purchase, acquire an undisputed right to his resting-place.
	  A great variety of coins have been dug up at different times and
	places; but, owing to their being much defaced, it could not be as-
	certained to what period they belonged.  A coin of the reign of
	Henry VIII., in a state of high preservation, was recently turned
	vp on the glebe, and is now in the possession of the incumbent.
	  Near the village of Broadford there is a cairn or barrow, in
	which a very remarkable vault has been discovered.  It is arched
	in with a concave roof, having its top covered with a flag.  This
	curious little chamber is securely although rudely built with stone,
	without any lime or mortar, and is of sufficient dimensions to permit


