
176			         WIGTONSHIRE.

funds, with the names of the persons who have received parish aid
since 1696, excepting during the period already mentioned.
        Antiquities,-About five miles north of Newtonstewart are the
ruins of a chapel, which was built in 1508, by John Kennedy of
Blairquhan, who dedicated it to St Ninian, and endowed a chap-
lainry for the celebration of divine service in it, with an annual rent
of L. 8, 10s. from the barony of Alloway. This was confirmed by
the King's charter, 20th June 1508.-(See Caledonia, Vol. iii.
page 435.)
	About three miles farther north, along the right bank of the
river Cree, was the more ancient Kery or Keir chapel, of which
I have not been able to find any ruins. But there is a place very
near the spot on which that chapel stood, named. Kirkhoble, or,
as pronounced, Kirkhapel, or Kirkhapple; and there is another
place not distant, named Glenhapple, or, as almost uniformly pro-
nounced Glenhapples,-which circumstances lead me to suppose,
that the chapel distinctly mentioned by Chalmers, at the head of
the Loch of Cree, may have been dedicated in honour of Saint
Hippolytus. There are two saints of that name in the Calendar,
one of them the tutor of Origen.
	The ruins of the old parish church, and a burying-ground, are
about three miles south of Newtonstewart, at the Clauchan of
Penninghame, which contains now but few houses. The old
church was dedicated in honour of Saint Ninian. When Symson
wrote his "Large Description," &c. there was at the church of
Penninghame, a bell with the following inscription, in Saxon let-
ters, "Campana Sancti Niniani de Penigham, M." from which
he supposes that it had been dedicated in honour of the saint
A. D. 1000.
	When James IV. passed through Penninghame on the 7th
March 1506-7, on a pilgrimage a-foot to Whithorn, he gave at
the Clauchan of Penninghame a donation of 9s. to a man that
bore St Ninian's bell. From that circumstance, the author of
Caledonia concludes that it was an hand-bell. That conjecture
is almost confirmed by another circumstance. Very near to the
ruins of the old church is a small knoll, still denominated the "bell
knowe." On that eminence, it seems most probable the man stood,
and rang the bell at the fixed hours.
	There are still some remains of fhe house of Clary, anciently
called Clachary; and the garden, at least the fruit-trees in it, still
continue to produce crops.


