
                GLENURCHY AND INISHAIL.                          95


rents were in very humble circumstances. This fact, coupled
with the great distance of their place of residence from the parish
school, accounts for his utter ignorance, of letters. He passed his
early youth in agricultural and pastoral pursuits. Fowling and
fishing, sports in which he excelled, challenged no inconsiderable
portion of his time. It is clear, from his own writings, that he
worked as a common farm-servant, and, according to his own ac-
count, be excelled in this capacity. He bore arms in the year
1745 in the Argyle Militia. He was ardently attached to the cause
and fortunes of the chivalrous and unfortunate Prince Charles
Edward,--and a staunch supporter of the principle of legitimacy.
He was present and fought at the battle of Falkirk, of which he has
given a graphic and somewhat humorous account, and in which,
he, like some other sons of song, left his sword and shield, behind
him. His poem on occasion of this battle is said to have been his
first essay at poetry. On the suppression of the Rebellion, and
consequent reduction of the corps in which he served, he returned
to his native parish, and resumed the more congenial pursuits of
the arts of peace. At that time, as now, a wide range of country,
including a considerable part of Glenurchy, and of Glenurchy in,
the parish of Killin, were under deer. Our poet became one of
the sub-foresters. While thus employed, he produced. the, no-
blest fruits of his genius,--his immortal songs of Beindourain,
Co¢recheathaich, and Mairi bh/a5n /o5g. He afterwards served in the
Breadalbane Fencibles from the year 1793 to the period of its re-
duction in the year 1799. He attained to the great age of eighty-
nine years. His remains lie interred, without any memorial, in
the Canongate church-yard. He died in Edinburgh in the year
1812.
  Land-owners.--The Marquis of Breadalbane is sole proprietor
of the parish of Glenurchy. The parish of Inishail is divided
among six proprietors, viz. the Duke of Argyle; Campbell of Mon-
zie, as proprietor of Inverawe; Campbell of Lochnell; Campbell
of Rockhill; Campbell of New Inverawe; and MacAlister of In-
ebdrynich.
  Parochial Registers.--There are two registers kept in the parish,
one in each division, in which the births and marriages the distri-
bution of the poor's fund, and cases of discipline are reoorded The
oldest is a fragment of the register of baptisms, which has been em-
bodied in that which constitutes the first volume of the Glenurchy
register. The earliest entry is dated 1753. On the admission of


