
844				PERTHSHIRE.

monastery of Arbroath; to enrol Abernethy among the prebendal
churches of the diocese; and to instal the abbot fo Arbroath, as
a prebendary or canon, with a manse and privileges similar to
those of the other conons.
	At last, the fate which sooner or later overtook all the Culdee
institutions, came upon Abernethy also in 1273, when the ancient
monastery became a priory of canons regular, and cell of Inch-
affray, from which place came the new order of priests. *
	It would appear, that, in process of time, the priory of Canons
regular became a provostry or college of secular priests. Forbes
says, that a provostry was founded at Abernethy by the Earl of
Angus; and Sir James Balfour speaks of Abernethy as a colle-
giate church with eight prebends, founded by Henry LOrd Aber-
nethy, the nobleman, perhaps, who is mentioned in 1455, in the
Parliamentary forfeiture of the Douglases. It might haven been
expected that the provostry had been the work of an Earl of
Angus, probably of the Earl George, who, receiving a great part
of the forfeited estates of the Earl of Gouglas in 1457, was one
of the first subjects in Scotland, both in power and popularity,
and reudered the Douglases of Angus formidable to the throne
as well as to civil liberty.  But, be that as it may, we hear no
more of Canons regular in this district; and there is every reason
to believe that, for a very considerable period before the Re-
formation, Abernethy was a collegiate church, at the head of
which was a provost.+  In a charter of privileges given to the
town of Abernethy, of date 23d August 1476, and by which
charter the government of Abernethy was and continues to be
vested in two bailies and fifteen councillors, one of the witnesses
is John Frizzel or Frazer, who is designated provost of the colle-
giate church of Abernethy.
	The common seal of the collegiate church or establishment at
Abernethy, of which a fac simile or plate is given in Jameison's
History of the Culdens, was as follows: Obverse, a shield of arms
in a shield gule; a lion rampant, surmounted with bend dexter
argent; Legend, " Sig. commune Collegii de Abernethe."
Reverse, an abbess, probably representing St Bridget (the sup-
posed tutelar saint, concerning whom there are traditions,) in a
veil, holding a crosier in her right hand, and at her right hand is


<FOOTNOTE> Regist. Aberbroth, in Jameison's Culdees, App. No 1,2,3,4. Fordun's
Scotichron. lib. x. 39.
           Forbes on Tithes, page 99.  Jamieson's Culdee, page 115.  Pinkerton's His-
tory of Scotland, Vol. i. p. 490, 298.


