
162                 EDINBURGHSHIRE.

                    II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
  Family of Borthwick.-The name Borthwick, which is one of
the few that are used to designate at once a family and a posses-
sion, does not bear on it the marks of pure British origin, and there
seems, therefore, to be reason for adopting & opinion very gene-
rally expressed by antiquaries, that it had come into this island
with some of the families, that are known to have migrated from
the continent during the earlier periods of our history.
  It is certain, that the particular district of which we are now
treating did not give its name to the family, but received its terri-
torial designation from them, for it was anciently called Locher-
wart, and took the name of Borthwick only after it became the
property of the family of that name.
  There are the ruins of a very ancient castle on the estate of
Harvieston, which are traditionally assigned as the seat of the fa-
mily before it became possessed of the domain of Locherwart, to
which it afterwards gave the name of Borthwick. These ruins go,
by the name of the old Castle of Catcune, and it is certain that the
family were promiscuously designed by the titles of Catcune, Le-
gertwood, and Herriot-Muir, before they assumed the title of
Borthwick of that Ilk.
  The family of Hay, which afterwards became possessors of the
domain of Yesterday, and finally Marquisses of Tweeddale, were at
that time occupiers of the domain of Locherwart, and are accord-
ingly designated in all the writings of that period, Hays of Locher-
wart. The Borthwicks and the Hays appear to have been thus

<FOOTNOTE>thick worm of a dingy and by no means inviting appearance. No person would sup-
pose from its daylight aspect, that its brilliancy during the later hours of evening
could be so beautiful. The light, which the worm has the power to extinguish at
pleasure, proceeds from three whitish-coloured rings towards the extremity of the
body-the luminous matter is a yellow substance contained in vesicles,-when these
vesicle are removed entire, they shine for some time-but when lacerated they are
speedily extinguished. The worm can at any time extinguish its light, when it is
handled or put into a state of fear.
  These worms begin to shine in the month of June, and may be seen till September.
I have remarked that they are seen in greatest numbers on misty and warm evenings.
They put out their lights between eleven and twelve at night. If they are put un-
der a glass, cover they give light, within doors, for several weeks-they gradually de-
posit the luminous matter and die.
  The male is a dingly coloured scarabeous, and may be seen on every stalk of grass
on which the light of the female is shinning. The light, besides its extreme beauty, is
a remarkable provision of Nature afforded to so unlikely a creature-and so far as we
understand for such a purpose.
  I have occasionally met in the same glen in which the glow-worms are found, with
that curious appearance, sometimes called by the country people the fallen star.-It
is a clear gelatinous substance, resembling the medusa which is found along the sea
shore, It has no definite shape-and I have never been able to satisfy myself as to
its origin. It is only seen after broken weather-and my impression is, that it is a
production of the atmosphere. Of this, however, I am not certain.


