
28                  DUMBARTONSHIRE.

  Soda works, at Dalmuir Shore, possessed by Messrs Charles Todd
and Co.--The soda works were first established here by the fatber
of the present Lord Dundas, under the superintendence of the
late Earl of Dundonald, who, much to his own honour and his
country's advantage, passed a considerable time at this place in
scientific pursuits. His Lordship was the first who introduced
the making of soda on a large scale, by using soap-makers' leys,
which formerly used to be run off as waste.  At the same time,
the extended demand interested the scientific world, and induced
the adoption of other modes for the production of this article.
   At these works, are made weekly about 30 tons sulphuric acid,
which is wholly employed in decomposing common salt towards
the manufacture of bleaching powder, or the chloride of lime.
The residuum of the operation is converted into the well known
soda of commerce, used in great quantities for domestic purposes,
and by soap-makers, bleachers, dyers, potters, &c.
   The number of hands employed is from 80 to 100, all male
adults, who work from six o'clock till six o'clock, and, as the ope-
rations go on night and day, one part relieves the other. The
average wages are about 11s. per week.
   As the works have not been established a sufficient length of
time, it is impossible to speak decisively of the effects on the
health or longevity of the workmen employed.
   Bleaching and Calico-Printing Works at Milton Field, possessed
by Patrick Mitchell, Esq.--The number of hands employed, when
the works are in full operation, is from 400 to 500. They work six
days in the week, 10 hours a-day, with the exception of Saturday.
On that day, all the children and mechanics, which include more
than three-fourths of the whole, work only eight hours. The re-
maining fourth continue the usual time.
   The men, when fully employed, can earn from L. 1, 5s. to
L.1, 10s. a-week; the women about 6s.; and the girls and boys
from 3s. 6d. to 5s. 6d.
   Dye-works at Cockney Field, possessed by Messrs Macdonald
and Mackay.--The manufacture carried on here is dyeing Turkey
red on cotton cloth, and printing the cloth which has been dyed.
   The hands employed are about 70; say 32 men, 18 women, 8
girls from twelve to sixteen years of age, and 12 boys about the
same age. Hours of work from six in the morning till seven in
the evening, allowing an hour for breakfast, and an hour for dinner.


