
     138                     INVERNIESS-SHIRE.

     and enjoying the facilities which they do in the more remote dis-
     tricts, it is not be wondered that smuggling should prevail to some
     extent, in the pursuit of which their ingenuity and activity are so
     much called into exercise.
       Amidst all their disadvantages they are contented, and upon the
     whole comparatively comfortable,-there being nothing in their
     circumstances to prevent their possessing that happiness which is
     the fruit of, and can exist only in connection with, the influence of
     the blessings of the gospel.
                             IV.-INDUSTRY.
       Agriculture.-The climate of the north-west coast of Scotland
     generally unfits it for the purposes of agriculture. In Glenelg such
     quantities of rain fall, and at all seasons, that an agriculturist might
     calculate on losing almost every fourth crop.  This, and the small
     comparative amount of arable land, plainly point it out as adapted
     for pasture,-the farmer having in this line only the prospect of
     success,-sbeep pasture, too, principally; as the arable land could
     not afford sufficient supply of winter provender for any other de-
     scription of stock.  Yet few districts of this coast, if any, equal
     Glenelg as to the quantity of arable land and the richness of soil.
     We cannot be wrong in estimating the number of acres in the whole
     parish that are occasionally in tillage, or might be, at about 1000.
     There are probably about 2000 acres under wood. The wealth
     of the country, however, consists in the luxuriance of its pasture.
     This remark applies to Knodyart and Morar, in common with
     Genelg Proper, but especially to the last.  Good rents are con-
     sequently paid; the average rent of graziDg for a cow or ox being
     L.2 Sterling for the season, and of pasture for a ewe or full-grown
     sheep, 3s.  The black-cattle are generally of the pure Highland
     breed, kept free of all southern taint with extreme care. The old
     black-faced sheep stocks are rapidly disappearing before the white-
     faced or Cheviot, which are found uniformly more hardy, and, from
     the superior quality of their wool, vastly more profitable than the
     other description.  Much attention is paid to the improvement of
     sheep stock, which soon finds its reward in the increased prices ob-
     tained for the various sorts disposed of, as well as for the wool.
     From the character of the climate, smearing with tar and butter is
     universally practised, so that white wool is not at all known among
     us.  Every advantage, as might be naturally expected, is afforded
     the sheep-farmer as to the duration of his lease, which is seldom,
     if ever, under nineteen years.  The requisite fences and buildings


