
         		PETERCULTER.                         107

         Geology, Mineralogy, &c.-In many places large projecting
rocks, and immense blocks of irregular, hard, irony stone are to
be met with on the surface. These are considered fit for nothing
but far building fences. In the south-west mad west divisions,
granite is found, both on the surface and in quarries. In the latter
division, there is a quarry of consideraw extent, from which for-
merly stones were driven to Aberdeen. This trade is now discon-
tinued.
	In the mosses, the traces and remains of forests are met with.
         Wood, &c-Large tracts of the parishare under wood. The
late Colonel Duff of Culter, and the late Mr Gammel of Countess-
wells, planted a grdat extent of surface on their respective estates.
These plantations are very thriving, and consist chiefly of the
larch and Scotch fir, to which the soil Seems most congenial.
Around Culter House there is a cluster of beech, chestnut, oak,
ash, plane, and pine trees,-perhaps the oldest, largest, and most
beautiful that is anywhere to be met with in this or in any of the
neighbouring counties. One of the beeches measures round its
trunk 14 feet, rises between 80 and 90 feet high, and spreads its
branches 75 feet. A few of these trees have been lately out
down.
	Along the avenue to Countesewells, here is likewise a double
row of remarkably fine old spruce trees. In the garden of Murtle
there is a line of Athenian poplars, and one of Arbor vitae worthy
of notice for their unusual size; being planted about thirty-five
years ago. The old and large trees around the mansion-houses
are principally hard-wood: the later and more extensive plantations
consist chiefly of the fir tribes; the former are in general remark-
ably large; the latter are very thriving and promising-so it may
be concluded that the soil is well adapted for both.

                           II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
         Parochial Registers.-Regular registers of the baptisms, mar-
riages, and deaths are kept, the earliest of which commences in
the year 1674.
         Proprietors.-The parish is now held by eight proprietors. For-
merly about two-thirds of it belonged to Col. R. W. Duff of Culter.
Part of the Culter estate, called Cantlaw, comprising searly 1000
acres, is now held by the heirs of the late Mr Symmers of Cults. The
remainder of this estate, (being still more than a-half of the parish,)
belongs now to Mr Robert Duff, son and heir to the late Colonel
R. W. Duff. The estate of Countesswells, now possessed by Mr



