
132                      BERWICKSHIRE.

tinguished by a remarkable elevation, called the Kip-rock. A very
little way above this spot, there is a beautiful haugh or valley, of
late years planted, through which the Ale has a serpentine courre.
This valley must formerly have been the bed of a lake, whose lower
barrier has been cut down by the stream. As the opening or exit
of the stream from the bed of the lake is narrow, the barrier might
again be restored at a small expense. This would not only em-
bellish the scenery in a very high degree, but might even indem-
nify for the loss of the land, (which here being gravelly, is not very
valuable,) by raising the surface of the lake to a sufficient elevation
to admit a canal from it to assist the work of the paper-mill. This
mill has been injudiciously set down above rather than below the
confluence, of the streams, and would be greatly profited by this
accession of water, of which it stands much in need.
   Geology and Mineralogy.-Having already noticed the form
and infinitely diversified stratification of the rocks, it is here only
necessary to remark that, along the whole range of the coast
within the parish, they consist of greywacke and greywacke
slate, commencing at the northern extremity, after having been
interrupted by an extraordinary mass of conglomerate immedi-
ately to the north of Eyemouth bax. This greywacke again ter-
minates, or rather disappears for a little at the southern extre-
mity, being there covered with a superincumbent formation of
sandstone. Probably the estate of Greystonlees, comprehending
the commencement of this formation of sandstone, owes its name
to this peculiarity,-being the only land in the parish where
freestone is to be found. It is a little remarkable, that both
the northern and southern extremities of the coast within the
parish should happen to coincide with the points at which the
greywacke rock becomes invisible, as if the parochial division had
been regulated by the geological. The same coincidence of
limit, however, does not take place to any distance inland, for the
sandstone on the south, and the conglomerate on the north, are
both of very limited extent.  The rocks within the parish where-
ever quarried partake of the same whinstone quality as those
upon the shore, and form excellent materials both for build-
ing and road purposes. Just where the sandstone commences at
Burnmouth, it has been occasionally quarried, and very lately to
a considerable extent, for the erection of a harbour to the fisher-
men. Lately also, masses of coarse alabaster or gypsum, of a
reddish colour, have been dug out of the same banks, by the pro-
prietor of Greystonlees, but it has not as yet been converted into


