
     Statistical Account

so flight, indeed, that owing to the very high winds which
occasionally prevail here, many of the slates of both are dri-
ven or fallen off, and the rain gets in, particularly into the
manse, and the glass windows of both kirk and manse are
greatly injured.  At same time that kirk and manse were
repaired, there was a very decent parochial school-house
built; the windows now require a repair of glass, and the
roof that of a little thatch.  Winds occasionally blow ex-
tremely high here.  There are two preaching places, one
at Achnahiglash, otherwise called Kirktown; the other
preaching place at Torbreck, one English mile distant from
Loch-Inver.  The distance betwixt Archnahiglash and
Torbreck is eight long computed miles.
   The minister's stipend was, a few years ago, augmented.
It amounts to L. 87: 4: 4 2/3 Sterling, and L. 3 Sterling to
furnish communion-elements; in all, L. 90: 4: 4 2/3.  There
is no victual-stipend; and to say truth, no such could
at the present period and slate of agriculture be expected.
But the providing of victual must be of great expence to
every minister here.  The glebe is half an oxgate of land;
the grass part of it is distinct by itself; partly rocky and
mountainous; the lower part, or fields, is what is here
called run-rig*.  The glebe goes by the name, The half
oxgate of Ca-more.  The present incumbent caused build
a very litttle Highland mill, of the simplest construction,
on the north side of Fraligal river, and on a particular part
of the glebe there.  The victual of whatever kind is car-
ried at a vast expence, and grounded here, and saves the
expence of a servant.

<FOOTNOTE>

*That is, half of every little field.  The glebe halfs are for most part
next the grass of the glebe.  It would be desirable that these low grounds
or fields were divided into two equal halves, and not run-rig, as it
would have a tendency towards improvement.  The present minister has
launched too much on reducing and improving the surface of his farm and
glebe.


