
352                AGLESHIRE.

ing a series of ribs not unlike an inside view of the timbers of
ship; the opposite wall is formed by the ends of columns bearing
a general resemblance to the surface of a honeycomb. This cave
is 130 feet loug, 30 feet high, at the entrance 18 feet broad, and
the lateral dimensions gradually contracting to its termination.
The noted rock Buacbaille, or the herdsman, is a conoidal pile
of columns, about 80 feet high, lying on a bed of curved horizon.
tal. ones, visible only at low water. The average diameter of the
jointed columns here, and in Fingal's cave, is about two feet, but
sometimes they attain to four; hexagonal and pentagonal are pre.
dominant, although they are intermixed with figurer of three, four,
and more sides, extending even to eight or nine, but rarely reach-
ing ten.
The Cormorant, or Mackinnon's Cave, is easy of access, and
terminates in a gravelly beach, where a boat can be drawn up.
The height of the entrance is 50 feet, the breadth 48, and the
length, 224 feet.
The Boat Cave is accessible only by sea. Its height, about 16
feet; breadth, 12 feet; and ledgtb, 150.
Fingal's Cave is perpendicular at the sides, and terminates in a
contracted arch. The height from the top of the arch to that of
the cliff above is 30 feet; and from the top of the arch to the sur-
face of the water at low tide, 66 feet. The pillars by which it is
bounded on the western side are 36 feet high; while at the east-
em, they are only 18. Towards the west, the height of the co-
lumns gradually increases, as they recede from the cave to the
altitude of 54 feet. The breadth of the cave at the entrance is
42 feet, and this continues to within a small distance of the inner
extremity, when it is reduced to 22. The total length is 227
feet.
With the, morningsun only can the great face of Staffa be seen
imperfection.  Instead of the short space of one hour, which the
steam-boats can afford to the crowds of strangers who come to
visit it, many hours and days would be required. And even after
the. accomplished traveller, has surveyed it to satiety, he may rID,
tum  gun and, again ; and, at every new visit, this extraordinary
scenery will rise in his estimation, thus presenting the strongest
ppqof of, merit which can exist, either in the works of art or nature,
To make up for the short time steam-boats give travellers, an op,
portunity is affidrded thqm.of remaining behind, and, after hiring


