
     Of Markinch.

birnie of that ilk, but which, for some generations back,
hath been in the possession of a family of the name of Bal-
four.  A considerable part of the old house still remains, and 
is kept in good repair; on the south side of which, and con-
nected with it, the present proprietor hath built a neat com-
modious modern house.  The situation is rather low and con-
cealed; but delightfully romantick.  In front, there is a 
pretty extensive lawn thinly and irregularly planted with dif-
ferent kinds of trees.  The surrounding eminences, as well 
as all the low marshy ground near it, are covered with fine 
thriving plantations of barren wood.  Besides the attention 
paid to the pleasure ground around the house, the present 
proprietor has of late greatly beautified, as well as meliorated 
his estate in the neighbourhood, by enclosing regular fields 
with belts of plantation; and by placing clumps of trees on 
the higher grounds, arranged and disposed in such a manner, 
as at once to please the eye, and to afford shelter to the ad- 
jacent fields.
   The steeple of Markinch is another ancient building, and
from the similarity of the workmanship, is probably of the 
same age with Balgonie castle.  It is about 15 feet square,
and preserves its thickness till it rises to 80 feet high.  From
that to the top, it is about 24 feet, drawing to a point, in a 
pyramidical form.  From its elevated situation, it is seen at 
a considerable distance in several directions; and forms the 
termination of a beautiful view from the house of Leslie, the 
seat of the Countess of Rothes, which stands about 3 miles 
to the westward of Markinch.  Markinch hill is a beautiful 
object.  It lies on the north side of the village, and is of an 
oblong oval form, and 200 yards in length.  On the northern 
declivity, there are 6 terraces of about 20 feet broad, and 
which extend the whole length of the hill, winding round 
the east end of it.  They are evidently artificial;  but nothing


