
86                        EDINBURGHSHIRE.

most poets he was poor, land often in a state of extreme indigence
occasioned by his imprudence and extravagance. After a course
marked by vicissitude, he died on the 6th of July 1738.
  Besides several dramas published in his name, he, printed by
subscription, in 1724, two large octavo volumes of miscellaneous
poetry. They embrace a variety of subjectsi lost of which are
Areated in the humorous strain, and display considerable abilities,
though not by any means of the highest order. Not a few of them
are representations of the poees necessities, and are indeed peti-
lions to the Minister of State for a ' place, if not for a pension.
One of them is a petition addressed to the King, setting forth
with considerable humour the former splendour of Ratho, with its
present state of insignificance and decay, and soliciting the royal
assistance to raise it to its former ideal dignity. The following
lines, descriptive of the desolation of Ratho, may be interesting
to the parishioners, as a specimdn of the poem:

"Of ancient Ratho, reared with cost and pain,
How few and wretched monuments remain!
Sometimes the plough from fields adjacent tears,
The limbs of men, and armour, broke with yeam
Sometimes a medal ' all effaced, is found,
And mouldering urns are gathered from the ground.
But who, ab! who can decent bonour pay,
Or separate vulgar fiom imperhal clay? S
time and:tbe devouring frave,
Alike confound the coward and the brave!
Distinction's lost! no marks of state adorn!
And Ratho looks like Troy a field ofcorn.'
  The poet in prospect sees the place of his nativity restored, and
although his wishes have not all been gratified, nor his prophetic
anticipations realized, the two familiar lines with which he concludds
one of his visions are not now inapplicable.

" Bridges and boats for pleasure crown the scene,
And ne'ar was Ratho known so sweet and clean.

  William Wilkie.-Of William Wilkie, " the Scottish Home,"
for some time miaister of Ratho, a memoir has been written, with
criticis upon his works, by Dr Robert Anderson, and is en-
grossed in his edition of the British  Poets. From this authority,,
it appears that Wilkie, who was a descendant of the family of
Ratho Byres, was born on the 5th of October 1721, at Ecklin, a
farm ia the paris of Dalmeny, which was rented by his father.
Discovering at an early age, a taste for literature and fnr poetry in
particular, was sent to the University of Edinburgh, where be
distinguished himself in the various department of study, and be-
came acquainted with many of those who afterwards filled a pro-


