
		           GLASGOW.                          133

with Harvie is preserved among the University papers. Two years
afterwards, " Donald Govane, younger, merchant in Glasgow, and
printer," was appointed to the same office for seven years, but his
name appears at few books.
	James Duncan, who printed M'Ure's History of Glasgow, con-
tinued to print here till about the year 1750. Robert Urie and
Company were printers in the Gallowgate in 1740; and, during
the following year, executed several works for Robert Faulls, (im-
properly termed Fowlis.) Urie is entitled to the credit of adding
to the respectability of the Glasgow press. Amongst the finest
specimens of his work, are his editions of the Greek New Testa-
ment, and of the Spectator. But the art of printing was carried
to great perfection by the Messrs Faulls, who introduced into
Glasgow a style of printing which, for beauty and correctness, has-
never been surpassed in any country. A brief account of these
distinguished persons cannot fail to be interesting.
	Robert Faulls, the eldestson of Andrew Faulls, maltster, was born
in or near Glasgow, on the 20th of April 1707, and his brother
Andrew on the 22d of November 1712. Robert was sent at an early
period as an apprentice to a barber, and seems to have practised the
art of shaving for some time on his own account. While in, this
situation, Dr Francis Hutcheson, then Professor of Moral Philoso-
phy in the University, discovered in him the talent which was after-
wards cultivated with so much success encouraged his desire of
knowledge, and suggested to him the idea of becoming a booksel-
ler and printer. Although Robert Faulls did not receive a com-
plete University education, he continued to attend for several years
the lectures of his patron; but Andrew received a more regular
education, and for some years taught the Latin, Greek, and French
languages. Having thus acquired a pretty accurate knowledge of
books, Robert began business in Glasgow as a bookseller in 1741,
and in the following year the first production of his press appear-
ed. He was assisted in the correction of his press by George
Rosse, then Professor of Humanity in the University, and by James
Moor, at that time a tutor about the college, and afterwards Pro-
fessor of greek. To these advantages may be added the appoint-
ment, on 31st March 1743, of the elder brother as printer to the
University. In the same year he produced Demetrius Phalerius
de Elocutioue, apparently the first Greek book printed in Glas-
gow, though George Anderson's printing-house had been nearly a
century before supplied with Greek and Hebrew types. In 1744,
	LANARK. 		 K


