
198	    		JIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

dered, and easily deposited in places to which common manure
could be driven with difficulty. The appearance of many parts
of the country has, in consequence, been entirely changed, and,
from this cause, the agriculture of Galloway has received a
greater impulse than from any other that could be assigned. The
quantity bone-dust usually given to an acre is from 18 to 30
bushels, while, in other parts of Scotland, where that manure has
been longer in use, not more than 12 or 15 bushels are frequently
allowed. In Galloway, the whole  of the turnips are generally
consumed on the ground, while, in Perthshire and Forfarshire, a-
half or two-thirds are given to cattle in the feeding byre. The
hew manure called guano has now been repeatedly tried and found
to answer in almost every instance beyond expectation. Many
of the farm-buildings are insufficient. The fences are often in-
securely built, which must often be the source of great annoyance.
Thorns are often planted in the dikes, which, in many instances,
protect and perpetuate the fences.
        Rent of Land.-The average rent of arable land in this parish
is about 18s., and bog and hill land 5s. per acre.
	The duration of leases is generally for fifteen years. In many
instances, the farms are let at too high rent, and which seldom
fail to injure both landlords and tenants.

                        V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
        Villages-There are two villages in the parish, Crossmichael
and Clarebrand,-the former containing about 240, and the lat-
ter about 50 inhabitants.
        Post-Office.-There is a penny post in the village of Cross-
michael.
        Means of Communication.-The greatest length of turnpike
roads is about five miles.
        Ecclesiastical State.-Our church is at the west side of the pa-
rish, about a mile from where it joins with Parton on the north,
and about three miles and half from where it meets with Kelton
on the south. It is seated for about 650, and there are 18 free
sittinp in it. Originally, the glebe consisted of five acres and a-
half, to which other 10 have been added. In 0755, the living,
on an average, was L.67, 4s. 4d. In 1798, it amounted to L.174,
16s. 1d., being the meet valuable in tbe stewartry. In 1814, the
stipend-was fixed the teinds being exhausted at L.269, 15s. l0 3/12d.
payable in money in equal proportional, at Whitsunday and Mar-
tiemas. The glebe is worth about L.28 annually. At the south-


