
                                         REDGORTON,                             167

                ed to the choice of their plants, or acorns, that they may not ob-
                tain an indifferent, instead of a very valuable wood. The
                mination is easily made, especially in collecting acorns for seed.
                In the inferior kind the acorn sits close upon the branch, whereas
                it hangs upon a longish foot.-stalk in the true.  Quercus robur. *
                  Botany.-This parish consisting of open fields of all kinds of
                soil sheltered with hedges; and of deep and shady woods, in some
                places dry, in others wet and marshy, running here and there into
                petty lakes or pools; having within its bounds the banks of two
                larger rivers, and two smaller streams; and consisting in the barony
                of Mullion of lake, and moor, and mountain, offers an extensive
                aDd varied field of botany.  Accordingly, almost all the more com-
                mon, and a good many of the rarer plants are to be found within
                it. It would be more than useless to attempt to give an account
                of the former.       But we give the following list of those that are
                more uncommon, giving the habitat of the rarer species, with what
                notes occur, at the foot of the page.

<TABLE>
                Hippuris vulfaris             Carnpanula glomerata (2)         Adoxa Mbscliatellina
                Scirpus sylvaticus            Solarium dulcamara. et var.      Polveonum fagopyrurn (5)
                Festuca elatior (1)              flore albo                     Epilobiuni angustifolium
                Phalaris arundinacea          Scilla verna                     Pyrola media (6)
                Galiurn boreale               Convallaria majalis (3)          Saxifraga aizoides (7)
                       aquaticum.                          multiflora          Rubus frtRicosus (8)
                Drosera rotundifolia          Peplis portula (4)                       suberectus
                Lithospermum arvense          Trientalis Europea                       emsius

         <Footnote>I do not think that it has yet been experimentally ascertained, whether the bark
        of Sessilflorus be as much inferior to that of Robur as its wood; but I think the pre-
        sumption is that the bark ofthe hardest wood contains the greatest quantity of tanin.
           (1) Wood on Redgorton hill.  It is surprising that this plant has not come into cul-
        tivation,wherever lands are laid down in permanent pasture.  Its creeping roots dis-
        qualify it, in some measure, from being sown where the lands are speedily to be broken
        up. But this is the reverse ofan objection where they are to remain foralength oftime
        in pasture; and its faculty of pushing its roots deep into the clay, would prevent its
        being thrown out in coldlands, while its fine soft herbage forms excelJentfood either for
        sheep or cattle: I observe that some curious cultivators in this neighbourhood give
        the name elatior to the true gigantea, which latter, though a much stronger, is a much
        coarser plant.
           (2) Banks of the Tay.
           (3) Lily of the valley.-Banks of the Almond.  There is a quarter of an acre of
        ground, at the back of Methven wood, in the parish of Methven, literally covered
        with fragrant favourite.  There is a variety of multi flora of very diminutive size,
        found which has retained its proportions when cultivated in the garden for a
        long time.
           (4) Gravel pit, in Pitcairn green.
           (5) Woods.-Not indigenous, having been spread to feed pheasants.
           (6) Our botanical friends will thank-us for giving here for the first time, a very
        abundant habitat of Pyrola uniflora, the rarest and most popular of all our Scottish
        plants, In avvood belonging to Mr Mathew of Newmill, about 500 yards to the
        south-east of an old farm-house called Fairfield, there `re two acres of ground cover-
        ed with this beautiful plant.
           (7) This truly Alpine plant is found on the banks of the Tay and the Almond, hiv-
        ing, no doubt, been deposited in seed by the river.
           (8) We mention this common plant not on account of its rarity. for it is more com-
        Mon with us than any of the others, but because Sir W. J. states, on the
        authority of Mr Anderson, that in Perthshire and Aberdeenshire, it gives place to
        Rubus subrectus.


