
                         LINTRATHEN.                         637

summer day, the view of this lake, sleeping in the bosom of its
wooded banks, is productive of every agreeable emotions. The
beauty of the scene is much increased, when there is a play of
light and shade on its waters.
   The Isla divides the parish on the west side from Glen-
isla. For two miles, it is hemmed in by rocky banks, rising
preciptiously to the height of more than 100 feet. The beauty
of this part of the river is increased by two waterfalls. The
first is the Reeky Lynn. There the water tumbles over a pre-
cipice of considerable height, and falls with such upon the
projecting rocks at the bottom, that the spray is often driven up in
clouds many feet above the ldvdl of the waters. Hence the name.
Below the fall, the channel of the river is broken by rocks jutting
out from the bottom that threaten to arrest the progress of the
waters. A large perpendicular mass of bare rocks on the north side
meets the eye, and contrasts strangely with the woods that clothe
the opposite bank. The banks preserve the same varied character
for several hundred yards. The numerous walks that are cut out
furnish many excellent points of view.
   The Slug of Achrannie is the name of the other fall. There
the water is not thrown from such a height, but it is compressed
within narrower bounds at the point of its descent.
   The most singular feature, however, in this scene is the appear-
ance of the river after its fall. The place where it is received, is
a cavity walled round with rock, and altogether disproportionate
to such a body of water. Here the torrent, from the force with
which it is thrown down, as well as from the dificulty it finds
of getting out, writhes and rages as if in a heated cauldron.
The dark shadows of the surrounding rocks, and the depth of the
pool impart a black hue to the waters, which tends to increase the
gloomy nature of the scene.
   The rocks on both sides of the river for half-a-mile are thrown
into the most picturesque varieties of shape and form.
   The Melgam is the only other rtream in the parish. It rises
amongst the mountains, and flows through the middle of the pa-
rish. Until it reaches the village, its course is smooth. Its bed
then becomes rocky, and, although from that point to its junc-
tion with the Isla, the distance is not more than three miles, yet
there are six cascades in its course, several of which are well en-
titled to a place in the album of every admirer of the picturesque
scenery of Scotland.


