
     Of Markinch.

S. E. of the village, and Balbirnie coal within half that
distance to the W.  Both these collieries are too distant from
a sea-port for exportation; but the whole inland part of Fife,
for many miles round, and even N. to the river Tay, is sup-
plied from them.  The former has a water engine, with a
wheel 26 feet diameter, which works two pumps to the depth
     3 Y 2

wrought upwards of 300, some say 500 years ago.  As far back as the year 1517,
the Coaltown of Balgonie is mentioned in a scheme of division and valuation of
the country of Fife, of that date.  The name of the village evidently indicates, that
it had been originally built for the accommodation of the colliers, or, because
built on the ground where coal had been found and wrought.  But since it had
grown to such consideration at the above mentioned period, as to be taken no-
tice of it in the general description and valuation of the country, it must have ex-
isted, and, of course, the coal must have been wrought for a considerable time
before.  That this coal had been wrought at an early period, to a considerable ex-
tent, appears from the coal waste, which can yet be traced for upwards of
3 mile along the line of bearing, and which had been dried by a free level to
the depth, at an average, of 14 fathoms.  It would appear, however, that when
the free level coal was wrought out, the workings ceased.  How long ago this
happened, it is impossible to say.  The grandfather of the oldest man living on
the spot 60 years ago, had neither seen it wrought, nor had he seen any person
who could tell at what period it stopped.  In the year 1731, it was again set
a-going by Alexander Earl of Leven, who erected a water engine, which
wrought two sets of pumps, with 9 inch working barrels, and which dried the
coal to the depth of 30 fathoms.  In the year 1732, this coal was let to tacks-
men, who carried it on for some years, but meeting with large hitches yielding
much water, their engine was overpowered;  which obliged the tacksman to a-
bandon this spot, and erect a wind-mill at a little distance on the crop, leaving
a sufficient barrier to keep off the water, which drained a small breast of the
coal.  This mill wrought an 8 inch bore 14 fathoms deep, which enabled them
to carry on a more extensive winning* farther on the dip, than the old level free
wastes.  During this operation, George Balfour, Esq. of Balbirnie, wrought up
a level to the coal in his estate, anno 1740, which enabled hil to undersell the
tacksman of this coal; by which means, in 1743, they were obliged to give it up,
there not being demand for both.  Nothing more was done till the year 1785,
when Lord Balgonie erected it again, by fitting up the present engine.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Whatever extent of coal is dried, either by a free level, or an engine, it is
called, in the language of the colliers, a winning, i. e. a gaining of the coal


