
			FORGANDENNY.                           949

Dunning; and on the south and south-west, by those of Forteviot
and Milnathort. A considerable portion of it, on the south-west,
is in the county of Kinross; but by far the greater part lies ih
Perthshire.
   Its whole extent is computed to be about 12,800 acres.
   Topographical Appearances, &c.--It naturally divides itself into
two parts, the lower and the higher; the former reaching, by a
gradual ascent, from the Erne to the foot of the Ochils, a dis-
tance of about a mile and a-half; and the latter including all that
part of the Ochils which lies in the parish. The lower part is ge-
nerally of a rich soil, some of it being the best carse land, and in
a state of high cultivation, producing wheat and all other kinds of
grain in great abundance. The higher part is also, on the whole,
well cultivated; but its climate being considerably colder, and its
soil lighter, wheat is seldom grown on it.
   The Ochil hills occupy fully three-fourths of the surface of the
parish.  Hardly any part of these can be said to be rocky, as they
are all either pastured by sheep and cattle, or regularly cropped.
They vary greatly in their respective heights, beginning on the
north side by gentle acclivities, until they reach about 1000 feet
above the level of the sea, which is the height of the highest hill
in the parish.
   There is a deep fissure on the boundary which sepamtes this
parish from Dron, on the edge, of which, it is said, one of the inha-
bitants was shot in the time of the persecutions under Charles II.
   On the eastern boundary of the parish, and on Lord Ruthven's
property, there are one or two springs, possessing exactly the same
medicinal properties as the Pitcaithly wells.
   The river Erne skirts the whole of the northern side of the pa-
rish.  A great part of it also is intersected by the May, a beauti-
ful mountain stream, which, taking itr rise in the upper part of the
parish of Auchterarder, flows westward trough the Ochils, form-
ing the northern boundary between this parish and Dunning, and
dividing it in the highest part. *
   Geology.--Nearly the whole of the parish, and especially the
Ochil part of it, is composed of trap.  This rock is, indeed, found
at different depths, and varies, considerably in its degree of hard-
ness, being softer and more brittle where it has approached near

<FOOTNOTE>Forgandenny was one of the eleven prebendaries of the Cathedral of Dunkeld,
and is ranked as the seventh in order. The church was a manual church of this ca-
thedral, and furnished a stipend for one of its prebends.


