
338                         FORFARSHIRE.

feet, and are about four miles in length from east to west, and one
in bre`dth,-beyond which, the surface is subdivided into the two
nearlv parallel glens, that of Ogilvie on the east, and Denoon on
the west, terminating, at their southern end, in the bighests timmits
of the Seidlaw hills, which here range from 1000 to about 1500
feet in height. The length of this portion is, from north to south,
about four miles, and varies from two to four in breadth.
	The shape of the whole parish is irregular; but its extreme
length from east to west may be stated at 10 miles, and its breadth
from north to south at 5; and it contains, of arable, 8062 impe-
rial acres; pastures 4422; woodland, 1566; roads, waters, &e. &c.
1659, total 14,609.
        Boundaries.-It is bounded, on the soutb, by tbe parisbes of Tea.
ling, Auebterhouse, and Newtyle; on the west, by Nevay and Es-
sie; on the north, by Airlie and Kirriemuir; and on the east, by
Fortar and Kinnettles.
	The climate is now dry and early, over all the lower portions of
The parish,-the extensive drainage of the swamps and mosses which
has taken place, of late years, having bad a great effect in its im-
provement. Agues, which formerly prevailed, and other complaints
ittendant upon a damp moist atmosphere, have now disappeared;
and the harvest is within a few days of being as early as along the
coast side.
        Hydrography.-The Loch of Forfar is within thd p`rish, and
once extended to nearly 200 imperial acres, but was reduced, sixty
years ago, by drainage, to about one-half the extent. It is supplied
chiefly by powerful springs, contiguous, and partly within itself
and forms the head of the water of Dean, which flows westerly,
draining Strathmore hnto the river Isla, and thence into the Tay; it
is the principal water in this quarter of the district, and is joined by
three tributaries within the parish, first by Ballandarg burn, from
Kirriemuir on the north; second, by the Kerbet water, from Kin-
nettles on the south-east; and third, by the Glammiss burn, from
Seidlaw on the south, which flows down its centre. But the De-
noon  burn, also within the parish for some distance, leaves it be-
fore its junction on the west. The united waters form a deep slug-
gish strbam, from twenty to thirty feet in width, and from one to
six in depth,-much of it being nearly stagnant.
	The mineral wells are merely some weak chalybeates, and none
of any celebrity,  The soil along the flat division of the parish, on
the, north side of the water of Dean, consists chiefly of light  gra-


