

38                    PEEBLES-SHlRE.

Gumscleugh, one of the stations of the trigonometrical survey of
Britain, is considered 200 feet higher.  Both these mountains,
Minchmoor, lying east, and Gumscleugh west of the church, are
nearly equally divided between Traquair and Yarrow, the highest
ridge, or "the shed of the waters," being the line of division be-
tween the parishes.  The church is generally said to be on the
same level as the cross of Peebles, or about 500 feet in elevation.
   Meteoroloqy.-As no regular accounts of the meteorology of
this district have ever been kept, that point must be passed over
with the remark, that the air of this parish is pure and keen, and
hence very destructive to those subject to pulmonary complaints.
It is, however, not very damp,-the higher mountains to the south
and west, from whence the more prevailing and boisterous winds
blow, sheltering it at once from their severity, and from those de-
luges of rain which fall, especially in more westerly districts. Still,
from the generally impervious nature of the subsoil, the damp aris-
ing from evaporation is considerable. It may also be stated, that
as the old parish of St. Bryde's, or, as the strath towards the mouth
of the Quair is more familiarly termed, "the parishen," lies embo-
somed among, bills, it is equally free in general from the pier-
cing cold and fogs of the easterly winds.  The same remark ap-
plies equally to both the other divisions of the parish to the east
and west, and confirms generally an observation which has been
made on this district, that the ends of the mountains point towards
the Tweed, and their sides extend inland, if we may so express it,
along, the banks of the burns and waters that are its tributaries.
Hence the appearance which all travellers notice in passing along
the banks of that river in this district of Tweeddale, of its being
almost continually land-locked ; hence, too, the extreme dimen-
sions of the parish in a straight line give no adequate idea of the
real distance of its boundaries to the traveller; and hence, finally,
the generally snug situation of its farm-houses and hamlets, in the
bosom of the straths or dells of its mountain streams, which fall
in pretty nearly at right angles to the Tweed. Only two or there
of the farm-houses of this parish stand on the promontory or end
of the hills, and thus form as it were the connecting link between
the contiguous straths.
   Hydrography.-This parish is remarkably devoid of any thing
interesting under the head of hydrography.  There is not a lake
or cascade in its whole extent. It does not possess a single spring
of any celebrity, if St. Bryde's Well, in the glebe, the Cheese


