
250                   ELGINSHIRE

known.  Near Blervie Castle, are four large stones, erect, and
forming a square; they are known by the name of the Temple
Stones, and are evidently the remains of a Druidical temple.  In
a piece of soft moss ground, on the Burgie estate, a number of
ancient querns were found, probably hid there, when multures
and thirlage were enforced by law, and the use of the quern for-
bidden.
  Family of Cumming of Altyre.  The family of the Cum-
mings of Altyre can be traced to a very ancient date, and, at
one time, held very large possessions in this country.  Pont,
or Gordon of Straloch, who, on Pont's decease, was engaged
to complete the Theatrum Scotiae, gives this testimony as to
their former power.  "Altyr ad Cuminios spectans, quae gens
ante trecentos annos omnium Scotiae nobilium, et supra omnes
Scotorum proceres potentissima et numerissima." And he goes
on to describe the extent of their possessions.  "Tenuerat ea
gens Buquhaniae maximam partem, Strathbogiam universam,
Balvanian, Badenochiam, Lochabriam, Atholiam multaque alia
in his oris.  Multaque quoque in australibus nostri regni pro-
vinciis, quae mihi non nunc occurrunt."  The family of the Cum-
mings, or Comyna, were settled in Britain before the Conquest,
The first Scotch nobleman of the name on record, is Robert Co-
myn, who fell along with his sovereign, Malcolm Canmore, in
1093.  There are references to this family, continuously, in char-
ters to which we have access.  In 1296, July 26, Sir Alexander
Cumyn, Knight, swore fealty to Edward spud Elgin, in Moravia.
On 4th September 1296, Edward I assigned thirty merks of legal
extent to Alexander Comyn of Badenoch.  This Alexander was
slain at Dumfries, by Robert Bruce, with his brother, John Cu-
myn of Badenoch, on the 10th February 1306.
   His family seem, at that, time, to have resided at Darnaway;
as, in 1368, a charter is given by David to Richard Comyn of the
office of forest of Tarneway, &c.; and, in 1671 at a court held
at Perth by Robert II. Richard Comyn resigns the Castle of
Turneway to Thomas the Graunt, son of John the Graunt, in
the presence of the King, for their faithful and praiseworthy ser-
vice to Thomas Ranulph, Earl of Moray, and Thomas and John,
his sons, Earl of Moray, our cousin; "et quas terras, &c. per
composicionem amicabilem finaliter concordati, non vi out metu
ducti, nec error lapsi, sed mera spontanea concordia et unanimi
voluntate."


