
558		            AYRSHIRE.

late Captain Archibald Cuninghame, of his Majesty's 51st Re-
giment of Foot, by her disposition and settlement in 1820, left
to the minister of the High Church parish of Kilmarnock, and
his successors in office, the sum of L. 200, to be lent out on pro-
per security, and the interest applied yearly to assist in the sup-
port of ten poor families in Kilmarnock, not on the session, whe-
ther in the High or Low Church parishes, in such proportion as-
the minister of the High Church for the time may direct. Also
the late John MacNider, Esq. merchant in Quebec, left to the
minister of the High Church, Kilmarnock, the sum of L. 40 for
bdhoof of the poor within the High Church parish, as the said
minister lay direct. The above sums to be lent also on proper
security, and the interest only applied to the poor.
	As the sessional funds are at present derived from an assess-
ment, which is levied both from  landward and town heritors, and
which is found to be very heavy, there are no general collections
for the poor. The annual amount collected at the High Church
for religious purposes may be about L. 40.
	Education.--There are in the landward part of the parish three
school, and three teachers, and in the town twent schools, and
twenty-eight teachers in all, including male and female. The first
in importance is the academy, which was built in 1807, at the joint
expense of the heritors and community. This is merely an ex-
tension of the parochial system, and seems well adapted for large
towns. In consequence of the rapid increase of the population,
the heritors and other inhabitants, convinced of the great benefits
derived from the parochial system of education appointed three
teachers in the parochial school, that is the academy, one for the
classics, one for English, and one for the commercial department.
The first is the parochial teacher, who is the classical teacher, and
who the maximum salary by the heritors, with a house
and garden sufficiently large to accommodate several boarders; the
sebond and third teachers have each L. 15 per annum without
house or garden.
	Upwards of 300 pupils attend the academy, at which are taught
the following branches, viz. the English language in all its depart-
ments, writing, arithmetic, book-keeping, mathematics, geography,
ancient and modern, Latin, Greek, French, and English composi-
tion. The direction is vested in, 1. five directors chosen annu-
ally from the heritors; 2. five directors chosen annually from the
Town-Council; 3 the three clergymen of the Established



