
76                          SELKIRKSHIRE.

of, and a great deal of other business transacted.  The third is
in the month of September, for the sale of draft ewes and small
lambs, and for the purchasing of tups and fat sheeps.  This is the
largest of the four, and is a very important market both for the
seller and purchaser.  From 8000 to 10,000 head of stock have stood
in it, and many of them exchanged owners.  The fourth, called
the Little fair, is held in November, and is principally for selling
and purchasing fat sheep for marts.  Sometimes, also, stock for
keep is exposed and disposed of, and occasionally a master may find
a servant who has been disappointed at the general time of hiring.
No custom has hitherto been levied, and we hear that it is not
likely that ever any will be exacted.
   Inns.-Two years ago a new inn was built on the banks of the
Ettrick, near the old mansion of Tushielaw.  It is neatly fitted up,
and has several comfortable apartments.
   Fuel.-Peat is the usual fuel; and it can be out for about a
shilling the cart-load.  But coal is beginning to be a favourite,
and many would prefer a "coal fire," were it not for the expence,
on account of the distance from which the material is to be brought.
But we are glad to see the long-contemplated road across the
Moorfoot hills at length commenced.  It will be of immense ad-
vantage to the district of Yarrow and Ettrick in the importation
of coal and lime.

                     VI.--MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   " I remember," says an old man of eighty, "when there was not a
cart in the parish, nor above Singlee, (ten miles below Ettrick
kirk), and but one little enclosed park behind Thirlestane."--"They
carried the manure to the fields, and the peat from the hills in creels
on horses backs," now there are about thirty-six carts and twenty
ploughs, and on every farm one or more enclosures.  Formerly
there was a village at Ettrick House, containing thirty-two fami-
lies; now there is but one house inhabited by a shepherd, built on
the ruins of an old tower, which perhaps gave rise to the name.
Two elders generally resided here, and out of a list of sixteen poor,
seven had their residence in Ettrick House.  Of the "ten pro-
prietors of the parish," says the writer of the last Statistical Account,
"none reside in it."  At present, Lord Napier, the patron of the
church and parish, lives amongst us, and from his seat as a centre,
life and cultivation are spreading and diffusing their happy influ-
ence all around us.



