
			     GLASGOW.                        117

Having asked the minister to dine with him, Oliver concluded the
entertainment with prayer, which it is said lasted three hours.
	On 16th June 1660, the session having taken into their con-
sideration the Lord's merciful providence in returning the King's
majesty to his throne and government, do judge it their duty to set
apart some time for public thanksgiving to God for the same. The
Restoration took place on 29th May, and such was the persecuting
spirit of the times, that on 14th July following, the privy-council
sent an order to the magistrates of Glasgow, to desire Principal
Gillespie to appear before them, which he did on the 17th Au-
gust, when, for the favour he had shown to Cromwell, he was sent
to Edinburgh jail, and was afterwards imprisoned in the Bass Island,
along with a number of ministers. After a period of confinement,
the Principal was brought before Parliament and liberated.
	Soon after the Restoration, an attempt was made to force Epis-
copacy on the people of Scotland, and nowhere was this attempt
more opposed than in Glasgow, where the great body of the people
were Covenanters. The King having appointed Mr James Sharp,
minister of Crail, to be Archbishop of St Andrews; and Mr An-
drew Fairfowl, minister of Dunse, to be Archbishop of Glasgow;
and two other ministers to be bishops, they were ordained in lon-
don, and On 10th April 1662, arrived in Edinburgh. The clergy
and laity of Glasgow, with a few exceptions, having refused to con-
form to Episcopacy, the Earl of Middleton, and a committee of
the privy-council, came to Glasgow on  26th September 1662.
The council met in the fore-hall of the college, when, after the usual
preliminaries, Lord Middleton informed the committee, that the
archbishop desired the royal order for uniformity to be enforced.
This was agreed to by all but Lord Lee, who assured the com-
mittee that the enforcement of that order would desolate the coun-
try. In the face of this it was enforced, when upwards of 400
ministers were turned out, and took leave of their flocks in one
day, among whom were five belonging to Glasgow, viz. Prin-
cipal Gillespie, Messrs Robert Macward, John Carstairs, Ralph
Rogers, and Donald Cargill. Early in 1678, the committee of
council returned to Glasgow, where they remained ten days. They
sat on Sunday during divine service, administering a bond for pre-
venting all intercourse with the exiled ministes; and such was the
terror which accompanied their proceedings, that Provost Camp-
bell, Bailies Johnston,  Campbell, Colquhoun, and others, to the
number of 153 persons, signed  the obnoxious bond. The council,
	LANARK. 		     I


