
404                     EDINBURGHSHIRE.

streamlets, by which it is fed among the hills. In our old records,
the name is spelt Low gate.
   The only other stream deserving of notice is Cadon Water,
which, uniting at the sheep-farm of Cadon-head several brooklets
that rise among the high hills to the north of it, pursues a south-
easterly course, and, at the farm of Cadon-lee, falls into the
Tweed.
   Geology.-There is nothing of peculiar interest in the geology
of the parish. The only rocks which occur are greywacke, slate-
clay, and clay-slate, except at the base of Windlestrae Law, where
red porphyry is seen crossing Byre hope Burn. There are none
of the more valuable minerals in the parish. Calc-spar, quartz,
and steatite are found, but in small quantities. A single specimen
of iron pyrites was found in a quarry, near the twenty-fifth mile-
stone from Edinburgh.
   There is a chalybeate spring close to the ruins of Ewes Cas-
tle. Upon analysis, it was found to contain no mineral substance
but the carbonate of iron, and that in so small a quantity as to be
useless for medical purposes.
   Zoology.-Gala Water still affords trouts in sufficient quantities
for the amusement of the angler, notwithstanding the nefarious
practice, so common of late, of "netting" or "harrying the wa-
ter."  The trouts found in Gala, including par and sea trout, are,
I would say, of six different kinds, distinguished by the variety
of their spots and shades, and the colour of their flesh, as red or
white. In length they vary from 6 to 14 inches, though a burn
trout, with red flesh, 17 inches, weighing 1 1/2 lb., and sea trout 21
inches, and upwards of 2 lb. in weight, have been occasionally
caught from August to November. The trouts are good from the
middle of March to the beginning of November; but in their
highest perfection during May, June, and July.
   The trouts of Gala are all clear and bright in the scales, and
easily distinguishable from those of its mossy tributaries.
   Otters have been seen and killed both on Lugate and Gala.
A young man in the village of Stow killed two of them; and there
are some facts which I have ascertained regarding their natural
history, which differ considerably from the common accounts, and
therefore deserve notice in this place. One killed about the end
Of 1831 in a pool in Lugate, a little above its junction with Gala,
was a young male, measuring trom the tip of the nose to the inser-
tion of the tail, 2 feet 3 inches, tail 15 1/2 inches. The other, a

                              4


