
250                   KINCARDINESHIRE.

great battle, " ad Montem Grampium" against the Caledonians,
who mustered 30,000, and were led by their chief Galgacus.
   Various opinions have been entertained respecting the place
where this great battle was fought. The late Professor Stuart of
Marischal College, Aberdeen, (Transactions of the Society of the
Antiquarians of Scotland, Vol. ii. Part 2, p. 289,) after addu-
cing many circumstances in support of his opinion that the scene of
it was here, observes, " Here (camp near Stonehaven) the Roman
fleet was seen riding at anchor in the bay of Stonehaven, within
less than a league of their camp, where no enemy could interrupt
their mutual intercourse. Here Galgacus would see the fleet equal-
ly well from the hills above, and might justly be made to exclaim
'imminente nobis classe Romana;' and from this place Tacitus
might properly say, upon Agricola's retreat southward, after the
battle, "exercitum in fines Horestorum deducit."
   On this matter it is only remarked, that tbe entrenchment at
Re-dykes is strongest towards the sea, with several outworks on
that side, an evidence that the enemy was expected from that
quarter; that along in adjoining hollow, towards the north-east,
called Monbois, (Celtic, the moor of death), and on a lower hill,
called Kempstone hill, (Kemp, a fight,) mady stones were scat-
tered, and some of them large single ones on end; that on Cantlay
hills, there is a large cairn which never was examined; that va-
rious pieces of armour, chariot wheels, &c. have been found in the
vicinity, some of which are now in the Advocates' Library, Edin-
burgh, Marischal College, Aberdeen, and Fetteresso Castle; and
that, in the neighbourhood of the camp at Stonehaven, many sepul-
chral urns were, not long ago, discovered, and near the cairn, in
which they had been deposited, a stone pavement, on which, from
the remains of ashes, it would appear that bodies had been burnt.
    In the second volume of the Transactions of the Society of
Antiquaries, p. 462, Professor Stuart communicates the result
of an examination of a tumulus opened near the seat of R. W.
Duff, Esq. in this parish. The Professor conjectures that this
may have been the place where Malcolm I. of Scotland was
interred. In November, 1837, there were discovered, about an
hundred yards to the southward of the tomb last mentioned,
another ancient burial-place, measuring 3 feet in length, 2 in
breadth, and 20 inches in depth. It contained the remains of a
human body, which had been laid on its right side, with the face
towards the south. The limbs had been bent upwards, and it


