
     of Tarland.

Tarland had been of old, (when the country was less populous,
and less cultivated ), shealing places, belonging to the proprie-
tors of ground in Cromar; and that, as they came to be more
cultivated, they had been sold off as property, which, after
changing several masters, has fallen into the hands of the pre-
sent 4 different heritors, each of whom has property also in the
parish of Strathdon.
   The parish of Migvy is also very discontiguous.  Part of it
lies in Cromar, disjoined from Tarland by a part of the parish
of Coldstone, which surrounds it on the west, south, and east
sides, and comes within 1/4 of an English mile to Tarland.  On
the N. it is bounded by a tract of hills, which divides it from
Towie.  There was a new church built at Migvy about 3 or 4
years ago, at the distance of about 1 Scotch mile from the cen-
trical church of Logy Coldstone, which lies to the S. of it.
This part of Migvy parish may be about 2 miles in length, from
N. W. to S. E. and about 1 mile from N. to S. the church
bordering upon the N. W corner.  Passing from this part of
the parish, over a ridge of mountains, N. W. by W. through
the parish of Coldstone, or N. W. by N. through the parish
of Towie, into a glen, there is a part of the parish of Migvy
on the N. side of the water of Deskry, which runs through
that glen, of 2 Scotch miles in length, and perhaps about 1/2
mile in breadth, from N. to S. At the N. W. end of this glen,
the parish of Migvy lies on both sides of the water, where it
runs into Don.  From this account of the form and extent of
the parishes, it will appear that a new division of parishes
might be attended with great advantage; and, it is believed,
that many other parishes in Scotland will afford ample ground.
for the same remark.-That part of the parish of Tarland,
which lies in Cromar, is divided from Cushny on the N. by a
track of high and barren mountains: of which there is a tradi-
tion, that the freebooters, who in more lawless times frequented

     VOL. VI. F f


