
                              CANONBIE.                       485

which, after running from the point of junction about seven miles
in a south-west direction, falls into the Solway Frith. The banks
of the Liddle, which, for the space of four or five miles, forms the
boundary with England are beautifully diversified with natural
woods and thriving plantations. Among the various interesting
objects presented to our view on this river, Penton Linns is un-
doubtedly the first. At this particular spot, the river is very much
contracted by stupendous rocks, which rise abruptly on each side,
and force the water into a broken narrow channel. There is a ter-
race-walk along the ledge of this frightful and dangerous precipice
on the Scottish side of the river, from which you see the waters dash-
ing and boiling among the huge, rocks that are scattered indiscri-
minately below. The perpendicular precipices which narrow the
bed of the river are overgrown with copsewood in every tint of fo-
liage. In the centre of these scenes of sublimity, an isolated rock,
which has braved the fury of the waters for ages, adds not a little
to the prospect, particularly in a high flood, when its summit is
is only visible in the midst, of the raging Waters, surrounded by a few
shrubs and bushes. Tarras, a small river which rises in the parish
of Ewes, and divides on the north-east quarter this parish from
Langbolm, falls into the Esk three miles below the town of Lang-
holm. This stream is remarkable for its rugged channel, roman-
tic and picturesque scenery. It flows with so much rapidity through
a narrow channel among immense masses of rock, and is so much
broken by falls, that any person whom it may chance to sweep
away, would be dashed to pieces before he could be drowned by
its waters which occasioned the following, popular saying:

      Was ne'er ane drowned in Tarras, nor yet in doubt,
      For e'er the head can win down, the harns (brains) are out.

Its banks are beautifully covered with trees; and we may mention
that this small stream gave the title of Earl to Walter Scott of
Highchester, who married Lady Mary eldest daughter of Francis
Earl of Buccleuch. The patent bears date the 4th September
1660. Besides these rivers which we have mentioned, there are
a great many burns or rivulets, such as Archerbeek and Rowan-
burn, both of which fall into the Liddle; the others scarcely de-
mand our notice. Many of these burns afford excellent sport to
the angler.
	    Mineral Springs.--There are appearances of several chalybeate
springs in various parts of this parish; but the principal mineral
well resorted to by invalids is that at Heathet, which is situated on


