
		         LANARK.                     13

Jerviswood; Thomas Young Howison, Esq. of Hyndford; the
Misses Carmichael of Smyllum Park; Walker and Company of
New Lanark; Sir Richard Honyman of Huntly Hill; Archibald
Nesbit, Esq. of Carfin; Alexander Gillespie, Esq. of Sunnyside.
Besides these, there are 65 smaller heritors in the out-parish, and
100 in the in-parish, possessing burgh lands.
	Parochial Registers.--The parochial registers consist of 14 vo-
lumes; 7 of births, and 7 of marriages. The date of the earliest
entry is 1647. The session records reach no farther back than 1699.
	Antiquities.--The Castle-Hill, which we have already mention-
ed as a small mount in the immediate vicinity of the town, towards
the river, is supposed to have been originally a Roman castellum;
and General Roy mentions a fine silver Faustina as having been
found here. But at present there is scarcely left a single vestige
either of the ancient Roman work, or of the royal castle, which in
later times occupied its site. It has been converted into a bowl-
ing-green.
	There are remains of two Roman camps in the neighbour-
hood of Lanark. The most considerable is not far from Cleg-
horn-house, and was thought by General Roy to have been the
work of Agricola. It measures 600 yards in length, and 420 in
breadth, and at the south-west angle has a small post or redoubt.
The other is situated upon the Lanark moor, on the opposite side
of the Mouss, and is within a mile of one in the adjoining parish
of Carstairs, apparently of later construction, and of which the
vestiges are much more distinct. Through this passed the great
Roman road from Carlisle to the wall of Antoninus, leaving the
camp at Cleghorn upon the right.
	About half a mile below Lanark, upon an elevated situation  on
the banks of the Mouss, stands the picture  remnant of a lofty
tower, of which little or nothing is known. The eminence is called
Castle Hill, and from it the Lockharts of Cambusnethan take
their title.
	On the very brink of Cartlane Craigs, and overhanging a press.
cipice of above 200 feet of perpendicular height, are to be seen
the vestiges of an old stronghold, called by some the Castle of the
Quaw, probably from the Gaelic cuas or cave. Neither history
nor tradition has preserved any record of what this was, or of the
date of its erection. And it is only remarkable for certain  subter
raneous caves or arched ways of rather a singular description, which
have probably given the place its name. One of them was ex-


