
			RUTHERGLEN.                     391

	By the reform in parliament bill, the burghs of Kilmarnock,
Port-Glasgow, Dumbarton, Rutherglen, and Renfrew, send one
member to the Reform Parliament.
	Constituency, 1415, viz. Kilmarnock, 687; Port-Glasgow, 238;
Dumbarton, 204; Rutherglen, 196; Renfrew, 90.
	John Dunlop of Dunlop, represented these burghs in the first
Reform Parliament, which met on 29th January 1833.
	John Bowring, LL. D. represents these burghs in the second
Reform Parliament, which met on 19th February 1835.
	George Crawfurd, Town-Clerk, salary L. 30.
	Poor.--There is no assessment for the maintenance of the
poor in the parish. The heritors make an annual subscription,
and it is from this, the fees from proclamation of marriages, and
the collections at the church doors, that the ordinary poor are main-
tained. In 1835, the poors' fund amounted to L. 279, 19s. 1d. and
the number of enrolled poor, to 86.* The allowance to paupers
and their families is from 2s. to 4s. per month; a few of the more
clamant receive 6s. per month. The interest of some small be-
quests, and the donations of Messrs Finlay and Buchanan, amount-
ing to L. 23, was given to poor householders not on the paupers'
roll. As the mortcloths belong to the corporations, the fees aris-
ing from them are given to decayed members.
	Church.--The old church with the burying ground, nearly in
the middle of which it was situated, exhibited a beautiful example
of a Druidical temple with its groves of trees. The oldest account
probably on record concerning the church of Rutherglen is in the
History of the Life of Joceline Bishop of Glasgow, who made a do-
nation of it, together with the churches of Cathcart and Mearns,
&c. to the Abbey of Paisley.+ He died in the year 1199. The
church, which was dedicated to the Virgin Mary, was 62 feet
long, 25 feet wide, and 20 feet high. Plans and elevations of this
church are given in Ure's History of Rutherglen. The choir, which


hall, (one of the present Members of Parliament for Glasgow,) and the writer of this
account, were selected to accompany him in the carriage. Medals were struck on
the occasion. On the one side, were inscribed the words, Truth, Honour, Industry,
Independence, Finlay, 1812; and on the other, Agriculture, Commerce, and Manu-
factures, for our King and country, &c. On 29th December 1812, Mr Finlay gave
two hundred guineas, and his brother-in-law Mr Archibald Buchanan of Catrine one
hundred guineas, to the corporation of Rutherglen, the interest of which to be giv-
en annually to the poor householders in that burgh not on the poors' roll. The pro-
vost of the burgh, and the minister of the parish for the time being, and the writer
of this account, were appointed trustees for the charity.

<FOOTNOTE>From July 1790 to July 1791, there were 26 persons on the poor roll in Ru-
therglen who got from 2s. to 5s per month. The sum expended was L. 46, 16s.
         Keith's History of the Scots Bishops.


