
                     DUNOON AND KILMUN.                       603

what the virtue of the charm consisted, there can be little doubt,
that the name must have arisen from some specific event, to which
the spirit of the times would ascribe some mysterious influence.
It does not appear that any ecclesiastical relation subsisted at an
period, so far as elucidated in the history of religious house, be-
tween Kilmun and the Archiepiscopal see of Glasgow. But will-
ing to save the credit of traditional story, it may not be uninter-
esting to observe, that the chartulary of Glasgow, recently pub-
lished by the Maitland Club, as the donation of Mr Ewing, of Le-
venside, records the fact of John, bishop of Glasgow, about the
year 1122, having gone to the Holy Land; * but the next year, by
order of the Pope, that he returned to his see. His procuring a
gift of such supposed value, to be carried to Scotland, has nothing
improbable, at least, to discountenance the belief, that such an
event might even have occurred as this precious consignment
having been subjected to the catastrophe which this tradition re-
cords. It is certain that the first, or at least a preceding church
to that of which we shall presently notice the foundation, stood,
not upon the spot where the more recent erections have stood, but
close to the sea-shore, on the site now occupied by the villa and
grounds of William Graham Esq. at Kilmun. A collegiate
church for a provost and six prebendaries was founded at Kilmun,
by Sir Duncan Campbell of Lochawe, who was also afterwards
the first of that family who assumed the title of Argyle. His
grant is dated 4th August 1442, and this munificent gift to the
church, stated to be "pro salute animae quondam Marjoriae con-
jugis meae, et modernae consortis meae, et quondam Celestini filii
mei primogeniti." Other grants of land to the church of Kilmun
by the family of Argyle, are found recorded in the chartulary of
Paisley, to which abbey Kilmun appears to have been ecclesiasti-
cally attached or subject. The foundation thus granted to the
church of Kilmun appears to have raised it to some rank of im-
portance in the vicinity. The tower of the church, indicating it, by
the style of its architecture, to have been erected about or subse.
quently to the period of the grant constituting it a collegiate church,
still stands almost entire; the plan, form, and size of the body of
the church itself have been obliterated by more recent erections;
but, so far as can be traced, the church formed a building of pretty

<FOOTNOTE>"Sed cum episcopus: cognita infelicis populi ferocitate et abhominabili vitiorum
multiplicitate: uptote perterritus Jerusalem proficisci disposuisset."


