
                          DESKFORD.                               73

   of individual misery and distress is very often the result of such
   changes. And in nothing does this lamentable consequence more
   strikingly force itself upon our view, than in the effect which the
   recent improvements in machinery for spinning have had upon the
   comforts of the female peasantry of Scotland. He will certainly
   entitle himself to their distinguished gratitude, and that of every
   friend of humanity, who will contrive or lead to the introduction of
   some means of employing their industry, as generally applicable and
   useful, as was at one time the spinning-wheel. The young women
   are of course not learning the use of it ; and without some employ-
   ment suited to them in their declining years they must become a
   public burden.
                 V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
     Means of Communication, &c.- There is no market-town in
   the parish. The nearest market-town is Cullen, where also
   is the nearest post-office. The distance of Cullen from the
   centre of Deskford is about four miles. But what must appear
   rather extraordinary is, that in Deskford, till lately, there has
   not been one foot of turnpike road. The inconvenience of this
   to the parish and to the public has been long most deeply felt,
   as through Deskford is the great thoroughfare from Keith to
   Cullen. What aggravated the evil to the parish was, that this
   thoroughfare required so much to keep it in repair, that little
   or none of the commutation money levied in the parish could
   be applied for making or improving the necessary cross roads.
   But whatever difficulties stood in the way of this most important
   accommodation have been now removed, and there is at last a very
   excellent turnpike along the whole line from Keith to Cullen,
   which will be of immense advantage to both these places, and the
   whole of the interjacent country ; and the more so, that there be-
   ing now a pretty good harbour at Cullen, it is likely to become
   the sea-port of Keith and the adjoining country. Another advan-
   tage resulting from this improvement is, that it will admit of the
   commutation money raised in the parish being applied to the mak-
   ing and improving of the other necessary roads.
     Ecclesiastical State.- The situation of the parish church is ex-
   ceedingly convenient, being in the very centre of the parish, and
   not three miles from any one extremity of it appears to have
   been built, as already mentioned, before the Reformation ; the exact
   time is uncertain. It is in pretty good repair, but it is not ceiled ;
   and is rather small, in its present accommodations, for the parish.


