
			  GLENBERVIE.                               169

	Alehouses.--There are five public-houses and one spirit-shop in
the parish, all on a very small scale.
	Fuel.--The fuel of the lower district consists chiefly of English
coals imported to Stonehaven. Those in the upper district use
peats got from the hills in their vicinity. The expense of a barrel
of coals at the sea-port is 1s. 3d., nine of which make a cart load.
The carriage of the load is from 3s. to 3s. 6d., according to dis-
tance. The expense of a cart-load of peats, casting and drying, is
1s. 3d.
		   MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
	The condition of the inhabitants does not differ in general from
that of those in the ndighbouring parishes. The farmer, though far
from opulent, enjoys a moderate share of the comforts of life, and the
servant has a fair allowance for the wages of his toil. Both these
classes have progressed much within the last forty years. Not so,
however, the manufacturing population. These have not risen in
the scale within the same period. They are dependent, almost to
helplessness, on the great manufacturers. In other days, the wea-
ver was the owner of the web he wove; and it was his custom to
carry it to market, whence he brought back its value, to purchase
more materials for farther operations, gratified with the reflection,
that he had something at stake in the interests of the community,
and that his condition was far above that of the mere hireling.
	In other respects, since the period of the last Statistical Account,
the circumstances of the parish have improved astonishingly. The
rental has increased more than fourfold, not from the comparative-
ly higher prices of the productions, but from the greater produc-
tiveness of the soil. The cultivation of the soil is better under-
stood, the rotation of cropping more judiciously followed, and the
business of the farm more actively pursued. At that time, there
was not one thrashing-machine in the parish; there are now six-
teen. There were then about fifty awkward ploughs: there are
now above seventy scientifically constructed, and of the most effec-
tive description; and every other implement of husbandry evinces
a knowledge far advanced in the arts of life. Much, however, yet
remains to be done in the improvement of waste lands; and it is
to be hoped, that, in this respect, something will be done ore long.

	1838.

