
        20                          SHETLAND.

        miles long, from the south side of Vaila to the north side of Papa,
        and five broad, exclusive of Foula.
           Geology.-The chief rocks on the mainland of this parish are
        quartz-rock, gneiss, and porphyry, with red sandstone. In the
        isle of Papa-Stour porphyry, trap, and red sandstone prevail ; and
        Foula is composed of old red sandstone, with -subordinate deposits
        of granite, gneiss, and mica slate.

                                   II.-POPULATION.
            The population is 2315: of this number, 1104 belong to
        Walls; 642 to Sandness; 367 to Papa; and 202 to Foula.-
        There are four propietors, each of whom has more than L.50 of
        rent from land; besides several others who have less.

                                   III.-INDUSTRY.
            With two or three exceptions, the whole of the parishioners are
        employed in the same manner. They unite the two occupations
        of fishing and farming. In a favourable season, most of the fami-
        lies. have as much meal and potatoes as they require for their own
        use ; and some of them can even sell a considerable quantity.
        They have also milk and a little butter for family use, besides
        geese and eggs. Each family, in general, kills a pig yearly, and a
        few sheep or lambs. Small fish also for home use are obtained
        in great abundance, at particular times. Tea and tobacco are in
        general use. When the crops are good and the fishin successful,
        most of them live in a very comfortable manner. Some, however,
        live very poorlv; chiefly owing to their marrying before the have
        the means of stocking a farm, or to their settling Oil small patches of
        ground which are insufficient for their support. When the crops
        fail, many families are reduced to great want.
            None of the farms exceed six acres of arable ground, and in
        general they consist of no more than two or three. The rent, on
        an average, is about L. I per acre. Almost every farm has at-
        tached to it a greater or less quantity of meadow and pasture
        ground, without any additional rent; and all have the privilege of
        cutting peat for fuel in the hill ground, which is both good and
        abundant, except in Papa; and the right of pasturing there as many
        sheep, cows, and horses as they can send to it, or the pasture can
        Support.
             The parish contain's upwards of 1000 cultivated acres. The

        <FOOTNOTE>Papa-Stour is one of the very few Scottish localities of fluor spar. Tt was dis.
        covered there, and is mentioned by Profemor Jameson in his "Mineralogy of the
        Shetland Islands."


