
                        KILBRIDE.                    879

   The most direct road from Glasgow to Strathavon passes
through the village of Kilbride.  It takes its course within the
parish for nearly five miles from its entrance into it out of Cam-
buslang parish, at the north of Nerston, to its exit from it in a
south-eastern direction into Glassford parish at the bridge over
the Calder, where that stream forms the southern boundary of
Torrance, the estate of the principal proprietor.  This road is very
hilly, but otherwise excellent, being wide and kept in good repair.
   Hydrography.-There are four streams deriving their origin
from this parish, of sufficient consequence to deserve our notice.
The Powmillon rises in the neighbourhood of Claddens and
Dykehead, towards the eastern side of the southern portion of the
parish.  It flows in a south-easterly direction, and for about two
miles it nearly forms the eastern boundary.  When it reaches
the south-eastern corner, it runs into Avondale parish, and, after
passing through the town of Strathavon, joins the Avon at no
great distance.
   The Kittock rises in the northern portion about two miles to
the southward of the village of Kilbride.  It has its origin in a
marsh commonly called Kittock's eye; it runs by the villages of
Kilbride and Kittockside, passes the house of Piel, and joins the
Cart beyond Busby; to which place the north-western boundary
of the parish anciently extended, and still extends in relation to
its civil affairs; though, as regards spiritual matters, the lands of
Busby are now included in Carmunnock.
   The White Cart and the Calder both originate in Eldrig.
The Calder runs within the parish in a north-easterly direction
for more than seven miles.  From the central and narrowest part
of the parish till it reaches Crossbasket, it is nearly coincident
with the eastern boundary.  Its banks, as it passes through the
woods of Torrance and Calderwood, present scenes of no ordinary
interest.  Among these woods it takes its course in a variety of
beautiful meanders.  Directly opposite to Calderwood House it
has formed a natural cascade at the distance of about 200 yards.
It is impossible here to do justice either to the natural beauties
of Calderwood in connection with this river, or to the taste and
well-directed zeal of its present proprietor, Sir William Alexander
Maxwell, Bart, as displayed in his exertions to make them appear
to the best advantage by the assistance of human art.  It is suffi-
cient to say that the highest expectations will not be disappointed.
The situation of Crossbasket is also extremly picturesque.  After


