
                     PENCAITLAND.                               353

   Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is a very venerable
and picturesque structure. One part of it, called the Pencaitland
Aisle, from its form and style of architecture, must have been built
in the days of Popery. The other and larger portion was erect-
ed in the year 1631. It is still in excellent preservation, and very
comfortable as a place of worship, having lately received a com-
plete repair. It is situated in the centre of the parish, and there-
fore very convenient for the attendance of the people, who are,
upon the whole, regular in the practice of church-going, and at-
tentive to the preaching of the word. The number of Dissenters
of all ages does not exceed 20, and of these some frequently
attend the parish church.
   Through the kindness of the heritors, the manse is in excellent
condition, and very commodious. The glebe, along with the gar-
den, and site of manse and offices, contains rather more than six
Scotch acre!F. The land is of good quality. The stipend consists
of 70 bolls, 3 firlots, wheat; 75 bolls, 2 firlots, 1 peck, barley ; 115
bolls, 1 firlot, 1 peck, oats;, with L. 3, 13s. 71/2d. of money.
   Education.-There are three schools in this parish. The pa-
rochial school is in the village of Wester Pencaitland. It is well
attended, and well taught. The average number of scholars in
winter is 70, and in summer, 65. The usual branches of educa-
tion in country schools are taught here, with some of the higher
branches. The schoolmaster has the maximum salary, and is well
accommodated with a house, and garden and school-room.
   There is another school in the village of Easter Pencaitland
for instructing girls in the elementary principles of education, and
teaching them needle-work. This school was established by the
late Mrs Hamilton Campbell of Pencaitland, whose estimable qua-
lities rendered her very dear to her friends, and whose memory
will long be cherished as a benefactress to this place.
   There is a third school in the village of Newtown, that is chiefly
attended by the children of the colliers. As these children from
an early age are more or less engaged in work, this school labours
under great disadvantages from the irregularity of their attend-
ance. Nevertheless, it is in a respectable state, and proves a
great benefit to that place. The teacher receives certain gra-
tuities from Lady Ruthven and the gentleman who rents the coal;'
but he is chiefly supported by the school-fees.
   On the Lord's day there are assembled in the different schools
either before or after the time of public worship, about 103 child
ren, for the purpose of receiving spiritual instruction.  They are


