

20                        CLACKMANNANSHIRE.

five feet higher than the surface of the river, at the highest spring-
tides; hence it is evident, that the tides, when washing along the
margen of the old alluvial cover, flowed at least twenty-five feet
higher than they do at present. It is supposed by geologists, that
the formation of the recent alluvial cover by the river along both
its banks, has been the cause of the excluding of the tides, and
lowering them so much in their height; but this must have taken
place at a remote period, as it is evident that the height of the
tides is very little altered since the Romans were in Scotland, as
may be seen from the artificial fords in the river, and the site of
the roads and military works of those people.
   The old alluvial cover consists of clay, sand, gravel, and boulders,
intimately mixed, so as to render it impervious to water, and is
the most sterile of all compounds; it is of various thickness, from
a few feet to many fathoms. In the rising ground, immediately
north from the town of Alloa, a shaft or pit was sunk through no less
than fifty-four yards of this clay, are the rock was found. The
lower part of this alluvium, of about a foot thick, was composed of
very fine clay in laminae not thicker than a common wafer, and of
great flexibility and toughness; from which it is inferred that this
fine clay had been deposited in still water, previous to the thick
heterogeneous mixture being superimposed. It is also to be re-
marked, that, wherever this kind of cover forms rising grounds in
this and the adjoining parishes, the steep brow of these hills faces
the west, and from this height gradually slopes to the east, these
hills and valleys being in a west and east direction.
   This cover, as before noticed, is remarkable for its sterility, the
cause of which appears to be that no vestige of animal or vegeta-
ble remains has ever been found in it, though it has been fre-
quently sunk through both in the opening of mines and quarries.
But this cover rests on rocks of tbe coal formation, which con-
tains iminense quantities of organic remains, both of the animal
and vegetable kingdoms. From these undeniable facts, it is con-
cluded that the old alluvial cover is not the deposit of the deluge,
for had it been so, both animal and vegetable substances would
have been found in it; and the conclusion is formed that this cover
had been deposited previous to the deluge, and it is supposed that
form of the valleys, and the steep brow of this cover facing the west.
   The boulder stones found in this cover, consist chiefly of those
belonging to the trap and transition rocks; and along the surface,


