
			 ST. MUNGO.                         207

To the west and south of Nutholm hill, the amygdaloid is traced
to the bed of the Annan, at the head of the glebe, where it can
be distinctly seen, lying on the white-coloured sandstone already
mentioned, and the slate-clay of the coal formation; from this point
it can be traced to the manse of Dalton, where the greywacke again
appears forming the mountain-arm which stretches along the bot-
tom of the vale of the Annan. On descending Nutholm bill to-
wards the Milk, the amygdaloid can again be traced, extending to
the bed of the Milk, lying over a very coarse sandstone and clay
ironstone, which are deposited immediately above the greywacke, a
gunshot above the Kettleholm bridge. The amygdaloid here dis-
appears, and is not met with again, till we reach Barhill, on the
opposite bank of the Milk; there it lies over a sandstone similar
to that observed on the banks of the Annan on the glebe, which
sandstone rests on greywacke. Frol Barhill, the amygdaloid con-
tinues to stretch along the high ground to Burnswark, resting in
many places on very coarse-grained conglomerate sandstone, which
again rests on much inclined strata of small-grained greywacke.
	The amygdaloid of Nutholm hill has hts cavities filled with green
earth, whereas much of the same rock forming Barhill has its ca-
vities filled with calcedony.
	In the year 1825, the plough turned up some pieces of rich
galena, on a farm belonging to the estate of William Carruthers
of Nutholm, Esq. and the tenant on making a search collected
about 1/2 cwt. of beautiful ore. The ground where this valuable dis-
covery was made, lies on the north bank of the Annan, and about
fifty feet above the bed of the river; the soil in which it was depo-
sited is loose gravel, over a till (ferruginous clay) subsoil, and this
is laid over the sandstone which has been mentioned as lying im-
mediately under the amygdaloid and resting on the transition rocks.
From the probability that a vein of lead ore might be found, a pro-
fessional examination of this spot was made by J. Wyatt, Esq. of
Foolow, Derbyshire, and specimens of the ore submitted to the exa-
mination of Professor Jameson of Edinburgh. The result of this in-
vestigation was a resolution to form a joint-stock company, in small
shares, in order to undertake a thorough examination of the land where
the ore was found. Mr Wyatt procured a mining-tack, for the pro-
jected company. The greater number of shares were subscribed
for; and nothing was awanting but the acquiescence of the conti-
guous proprietors, to justify the company commencing their mining
operations. The ground being surrounded by the property of no


