
698                        ARGYLESHIRE.

than justice to its teacher * to say that it is judiciously and success-
fully conducted. The respect of the people for the advantages of
education varies indifferent portions of the parish, as it must ever
vary according to the sufficiency or insufficiency of the means of
instruction. This, like all things else, is measured by some stan-
dard; and in those districts, where there is no person of superior
attainments with whom they can compare themselves, they cannot
be much alive to the benefits of education. The qualifications of
the teacher are generally the measure of the ambition of the
young; as they generally are also of the attainments of the old;
and few arguments can be adduced for the necessity of well-in-
structed teachers stronger than the fact, that, whether owing to a
desire on their part to communicate what has cost them much to
acquire, or to a wish on the part of the pupils to imitate and equal
them whoin they respect or admire, or to both combined, there
are in ever well-peopled district children found who are, or soon
become, willing to learn whatever branch the master can teach.
  Some years ago a reading-room was set up, but it did not
flourish.
  There are two branch-banks, and a savings bank which has
done much good.
  Charitable Institutions.--We know of none such in the parish;
but last winter a clothing society, chiefly supported by ladies, and
conducted by Mrs Campbell of Achandaroch at great personal
trouble and considerable personal expense, did much good, and
contributed largely to the comforts of the poor. +
  Poor and Parochial Funds.--The poor are relieved partly by
collections at the church doors and partly by voluntary contribu-
tions on the part of the heritors. The sums collected at the
church of Kilkmichael and at Camlodden are inconsiderable, and
given in these localities to such poor as are able partially to sup-
port themselves. + The sum collected at the church of Lochgilp-
head for the benefit of the poor, during the last year, was L.103,
10s. 0 1/2d.S These sums collectively do not meet the neces-
sities of the poor, and instead of an assessment, the heritors,
for various reasons, prefer contributing to this put-pose in pro-
portion to their valued rents,--a mode to which all of them have
agreed except one, and he undertakes to relieve all the poor on

  <FOOTNOTE>Mr Morrison:
            Stated on the authority of the Rev. D. Jackson, late minister of Lochgilpllead.
            Stated on, the authority of John Hunter, Esq. surgeon, Lochgilphead, who dis
         tributes the contributions of the heritors.
            On the authority of the Rev. D. Jackson.


