
	1186				PERTHSHIRE.

	transported from its alpine home by the torrents of winter.  I have
	made some progress in ascertaining the Cryptogamic plants
	of the parish, but will content myself with stating that, of
	sixteen Filices identified, the Botrychium lunaria grows in the
	moorish pastures around the Monk Mire, and that the Crypto-
	gramma crispa occurs in three severai stations, viz. among loose
	rocks on Persie Hill, out of the dike on the road side, a mile
	south of Persie church, and in a similar locality at Hill of St
	Phink.  Of the Fungi, it may be mentioned that an exceedingly
	minute one appeared on the corns in 1835 when ripe, com-
	pletely blackening them, alarming the farmer, but, as it turned out,
	quite unnecessarily.  It seemed to be the Cladosporium herbarum.
	As a contrast to the above, it may be added that, in 1836, I found
	below the manse a specimen of the Bovista gigantea, measuring
	4 feet 8 inches in circumference, and 1 foot 8 inches in diameter.
	This enormous specimen equals those mentioned by the French
	botanist, Bulliard--(See his Herbier de la France.)

				II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
	  I know of no ancient or modern account of the history of this
	parish, saving that in the Old Statistical Account, which is a va-
	luable and interesting paper.  The notices of the parish in ga-
	zetteers, &c. are very inaccurate.
	  Eminent Characters.--The Right Honourable Lord Wharncliffe,
	Lord President of the Privy Council, the proprietor of Bendochy,
	deserves to be noticed here, although his seat, Belmont Castle,
	is in the parish of Meigle.  He is as much beloved by his te-
	nantry for his liberality and kindness, as he is respected by the
	nation for his patriotic labours in the Senate.
	  The late Principal Playfair of St Andrews, author of the Chro-
	nology, &c., was a native of the parish ; and likewise the Rev.
	J. Playfair, the writer of the fnrmer Statistical Account, who was
	an ingenious man.  He had a large apiary, and had studied with
	great care the natural history of the bee.  He drew up some ac-
	count of his discoveries, and remitted it to London for publication.
	It fell into the hands of a piratical bookseller, who, it is under-
	stood, turned it to some account for his own behoof.  Mr Play-
	fair's successor, the Rev. J. Honey, was remarkable for his gi-
	gantic stature and immense strength, and for his daring and he-
	roic feat at St Andrews, when a very young man, in rescuing from
	a watery grave five shipwrecked mariners, at the imminent hazard
	of his own life.


