
			   DUNBARNY.                       815

presbytery bursars in 1658, 1659, and 1660; his allowance from
the kirk-session was L.6, 5s. per annum.*
  6. Mr John Omay, formerly minister of St Madoes, was ad-
mitted here on the 12th of January 1676, and translated to Meth-
ven about the 12th of June, where he was inducted on the 30th
of July, and died in that parish after the Revolution, about the
year 1693.
  7. Mr David Anderson, formerly Professor of Humanity in
St Leonard's College, in the city of St Andrews, was admitted
here on the 4th of September 1679, and transported to Perth
(with Alexander Ross) on Wednesday the 27th of October 1680,
"with all haste." He afterwards returned and preached a fare-
well sermon at Dunbarny. Mr D. Anderson was ejected from
the pastoral charge of Pertli, soon after the battle of Killicrankie,
27th of July 1689, from having been found guilty of dissaffection
to the new Government.
  8. Mr John Balneaves, who had been assistant and successor
to his father, Mr Alexander Balneaves, of Tibbermuir, was ad-
mitted here on the 5th of January 1681. He was ejected at the
Revolution. He was succeeded, after a considerable interval, by
  9. Mr John Tuilidaph or Tullideff, son of William Tullideff,
Principal of St Leonard's College, St Andrews, and who was
supposed to have been one of the ministers ejected after the Re-
storation. He was ordained here on the 14th of January 1691,
and died the 26th of August 1714, "after a long vacation of
more than three years.".

<FOOTNOTE>In the third, fourth, and fifth volumes of the session records, there is frequent
allusion made to the pecuniary supplies annually given to bursars of theology. To
elucidate these references, as well as the statement we have now given about Mr
Wemyss, it may be mentioned, that it was a practice formerly prevalent in Scotland,
and almost coeval with Reformation, for every presbytery of the church to sup-
port a bursar. "About the year 1641, it was enacted by the General Assembly,
that every prebystery, consisting of twelve ministers, shall maintain a bursar of Di-
vinity; and where the presbystery is fewer than twelve, they shall be joined with
those of another where the number exceeds." This injunction was cor-
dially complied with; for documents still extant, demonstrate, that, at this time,
there were at least seventy bursars of Theology. Their maintenance was derived
from the kirk-session penalties, according to the provisions of an act of Assembly;
and every bursar was to have allotted to him at least L.100 Socts. This act was
suspended, by another finding of Assembly, and formally repeated in 1756. About
the beginning of last century, there were, altogether, about 160 bursars of theology.
See extracts from evidence before the University Commission in 1828.
  Extract from presbytery register: "The Episcopal incumbent, (i. e.) Mr
John Balneaves, having been very early deprived of his office the lairds of Kigraston
and Dumbarny presented a call to the presbytery, August 9th, 1690, in favour of
Mr John Tullidaph, preacher of the Gospel, to be minister of Dumbarny. The
presbytery finding several informalities in the call, and particularly that there was
not yet a constituted session in that parish, first proceeded to ordnin a qualified session
here, and after this was done, and all the necessary formalities observed, Mr John
Tullidaph was ordained and admitted minister of Dumbarny, January 20th 1691."
His son was the celebrated Mr Thomas Tullidaph, Principal of St Andrews.


