
                           SANDWICK.                              61

hitherto there has been a greater desire to increase the quantity of
arable ground, by reclaiming waste land, than to increase the pro-
ductive power of that which is already arable, by rotation and
draining. In general there are no leases, and in the few cases
where they exist, their duration is only about seven years, so that
they afford no adequate encouragement for improvements by the
tenants. The state of the farm-buildings is as bad as that of the
dwelling-house which I mentioned before, and there are no in-
closures among the peasantry, except those of their " kale yards."
   The principal improvements which have recently been intro-
duced among the tenants, are better horses, and implements of agri-
culture, and those in my neighbourhood are also trying turnips oil
a small scale.
   The single-stilted plough, used here at the beginning of this
century, is now completely abolished, with all its cumbrous ma-
chinery, and the common two-stilted mould-board one substituted
in its place, and a pair of good small horses, instead of three or four
with their leaders. Harrows with teeth of iron instead of wood, and
carts are now universally used. The public road from Stromness
is made as far as the Loch of Aith, and in tolerable repair.
   Mr Watt is by far the most extensive farmer in the parish, and
has for many years carried on an improved system of husbandry;
enclosing and reclaiming waste land on a large scale,-his last in-
closure off the common, a few years since, including about 100 acres.
Mr Robertson in Lyking deserves next to be noticed with appro-
bation, for his success in raising the best crops, and acting on an
improved system. Mr Heddle of Clumly, who purchased that
property about five years ago, has already inclosed the whole of it,
and brought most of its waste land into cultivation.
   The glebe has also, during the last four years, been inclosed
and drained; and this is the only farm in the parish, or, in a much
wider district, that is under a regular rotation of crops. The
course adopted is that of six years, viz. green crop, bear, two
years grass, and two years oats; but it would be premature to af-
firm that this is the rotation best adapted to the county, or most
worthy of general imitation. This experiment, however, has
shown that the crops are vastly improved by the rotatiop, and, that
the first years are attended with more expense than profit.
   All the obstacles to improvement, noticed in the "heads of
inquiry," operate here in their full force, viz. want of capital the
want of encouragement by proprietors, erroneous management of


