
382                     INVERNESS-SHIRE.

threatens to dispute the ground, if left under grass three years.
In other places a kind of sandy loam, varying from a mere sprink-
ling to the depth of many feet, covers the compact sand : and to-
wards the east, soil of a less sandy, but more stony character, and
less pervious to water, is found. Such stratification gives evidence
of an aqueous sediment, very gently and gradually deposited in all
but the uppermost stratum. From the height above the present
level of the Frith, to which the deposit has been made, the waters
of the lake must have flowed a considerable distance before they
emptied themselves into the sea, or else the whole basin-from
Beauly to Fort-George-bas been uniformly upheaved, because the
ground at these extremes presents corresponding elevations. But
whether at the period when the sea broke in at Fort-George, and
gained upon the land along the shores of the Moray Frith at Find-
horn, there was a convulsion of nature, by which the lacustrine
basin of Pettie was elevated, and the shores at Findhorn depres-
sed ; or whether the sea only gradually ate away the eastern bar-
rier, so as to drain the lake while it made a farther entrtnce for
itself, we have no means of determining.
   There is evidence, that, on the beach between Campbelton and
Fort-George, the sea has encroached upon the land; for I have
heard Dr Tolmie repeatedly say, that be has dug up peat-moss,
bearing the evidence of terrestrial flora, nearly two hundred yards
within flood-mark. But, except at this place, at Campbelton where
the waves, deflected from Chanonry Point, would soon cut their
way, unless obstacles were interposed, into the moss of Pettie, and
reduce the bank between that and Castle Stuart to an island
(which it obviously once was), tire land is gaining from the sea
along the rest of the coast of Pettie. For there are now fields of
cultivated land, and stretches of pasture, bearing obvious marks
of being reclaimed sea-beach. We wish we could ascertain wbe-
ther there be any difference between the soundings lately made, in
the Trigonometrical Survey of this coast, and any previous sound-
ings, so as to show the rapidity with which, it is likely, the Frith is
adding to the land between Inverness abd Fort-George
			II.-CIVIL HISTORY
   The history of the north of Scotland, previous to the twelfth
century, with the exception of some few particulars, may be class-
ed with that of the ages of fable and romance. By that time we
find  the name of Petyn noticed in history; and mention made of
a fortalice or castle, which seems to have been erected either as


