
232			KINCARDINESHIRE.

flat lands are the cultivated parts, namely, Glen Dye and the val-
ley of Strachan.
	Moutains.--The highest mountains are, Mount Battack, 3465
feet above the level of the sea; Clochnabane, 2370; and Ker-
lock, 1890.
	From the top of each of these a very extensive prospect pre-
sents itself to the eye, embracing a great extent of the eastern
coast, from Aberdeen to Peterhead on the one hand, and to Mon-
trose and the coasts of Fife and Haddington on the other, and
stretching towards the south as far as Edinburgh and the Pentland
Hills. But the traveller is often disappointed. Though the day
may be fine and promising when he begins the ascent, ere he reach
the summit, one of the fogs so common in very elevated districts may
have enveloped the mountain, and shrouded from his view the sur-
rounding scenery. On the top of Clochnabane, which signifies
" the stone on the hill," is a large granite rock, called the Stone
of Clochnabane. Its height is about 100 feet perpendicular. It
is accessible only on the west side. In ascending the mountain
from the east side, it presents a very grand and imposing appear-
ance, somewhat resembling the remains of an ancient castle or fort.
It is seen at a great distance particularly from the east and north,
and forms a land-mark to seamen when entering the port, of
Aberdeen.
	From the summit of Scoltie, one of the smaller hills in the pa-
rish, about 800 feet in height, a beautiful and, extensive view is
obtained of the course of the river Dee. The majestic Lochna-
gar is seen in the distance. Further down appear the Craggs of
Ballater, the castle and village of Aboyne, and the village of Ban-
chory, and numerous surrounding gentlemen's seats lie at its base.
To the north-east is the loch of Skene. The view towards the
east terminates in the bay and part of the city of Aberdeen; and
the Grampian mountains bound the prospect on the south.
	Hydrography.--There are three rivers in the parish, Dye, Aen,
and Feufh. The two former are tributaries to the latter. Dye
takes its rise on the south side of Mount Battack and, after flow-
ing a distance of about fifteen miles, falls into the Feugh a quar-
ter of a mile above the manse. Aen rises on the north side of the
same mountain, and, after a course of from eight to ten miles, joins
the, Feugh half a mile above Whitestone. Feugh rises in the fo-
rest of Birse, and its course to where it mingles with the Dee op-
posite the mansion of Banchory Lodge, is probably from twelve to


