
                               RERRICK.			        363

	The historical notices of the Abbey are generally extremely
meagre. The Chronicle of Melrose, the compilation of which
has been frequently but erroneosly ascribed to an Abbot of
Dundrennan,* contains only this slight mention of the Abbey:--
"Anno M.C.XLII. fundata est Abbatia De Dundraynan in Gal-
waya." Nor does Dempster's Apparatus give much additional
information. " DUNDRAN in Galtveia. Fundat Cistersiensi or-
dini S. Dauid, Rex. Hect. Boeth, Lib. xii. Historiae Scoticae,
pag. CCLXXIV ; ex hoc S. Richardus Sacrista fuit, et Thomas
Abbas Pontificis elector Concilio Constanthnensi MCCCCXXXIX,
qui Donduno male ab Onufrio dicitur apud Joannem Gualteium
Chron. Chronicorum, Demochares a Dundraina vocat."+ Spot-
tiswood is equally short and unsatisfactory in his account of Dun-
drennan;++ but, according to the better authorities he gives the
honour of founding the Abbey, not to King David, but to his
noble kinsman, the Lord of Galloway. Sir Robert Sibbald, in
his Manuscript Collections, preserved in the Advocates' Library
at Edinburgh, describes Dundrennan merely as a large abbey,
in the parish of Rerrick, " wherein the wisard, Michael Scott,
lived" For this tradition, however, we are aware of no other
or better authority.
	Although the building has suffered much from the devouring
hand of time, and not a little from dilapidation, for the purposes
of building cottages in the neighbourhood, the remains are still
very considerable, and the original form and extent of the Abbey
admits of being easily traced. The church of the monastery
was in the form of a cross, with a central spire, which tradition
represents to have been 200 feet high. The body of the build-
ing was 120 feet in length, and divided into three aisles, by seven
clustered columns, supporting arclies entering to the side aisles,
of great height and beauty. The breadth of each of the side
aisles was about 15 feet, and that of the centre aisle 25 feet.
The transept measured 120 feet from north to south, and 46
feet from eist to west.
	The east end of the church was of the same breadth with the
middle aisle, and only 35 feet in length. On the south side of

<FOOTNOTE>Vide Mr Stevenson's Preface to the Edition of Chronica de Mailros, printed for
the Binnatyne Club, passim.
          + Dempsters Apparatus, lib. i, cap. 15.
          ++ Religious Houses in Scotland, chap. ix. SS 3.
          S Sibbald MSS., Adv, Lib., W. 5, 17.


