
			BIRSAY AND HARRAY.                       155

			II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
	  Land-owners.-The land-owners of this parish are very nume-
	rous. There are about too resident and non-resident. Among
	the number of the non-resident, is the Earl of Zetland, who is
	patron of the parish.
	  Parochial Registers.-The earliest records of the kirk-session
	of this parish go so far back as the year 1796. The earliest re-
	gister of baptisms is dated in the year 1784, and has been continu-
	ed to the present time.
				III.-POPULATION.
		The amount of the population in 1831, as before stated, 735
						1841,                   770
				 IV.-INDUSTRY.
	  The extent of the parish, including hills and lochs, is comput-
	ed to be about twenty-two square miles. The valued rent, ac-
	cording to the valuation taken in the year 1826 and 1827, is
	L. 346, 5s.
			V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	  Ecclesiastical State.-The present church of Harray was built
	in 1836. It is a neat, plain building, and seated for 450 per-
	sons. It cost L.215 or thereby. Its situation is fully as con-
	venient for the parishioners as any that could have been select-
	ed. The seats are divided among the heritors, according to their
	valuations. There are no pews as yet set apart for the poor;
	but in the meantime they are accommodated by their friends and
	neighbours.
	  There is no manse in the parish, the minister's place of resi-
	dence being at Birsay. The glebe is about 18 acres in extent.
	Its present rent is about L. 9.
	  There is only one Dissenting chapel in the parish,--belonging
	to the Independents. The stipend of the minister must be very
	small, if it depends entirely upon the seat rents and Sabbath days'
	collection.
	  The number usually attending the Established Church, when,
	the weather is good, is not less than 350. The number of male
	heads of families on the communion roll, is 112.
	  Education.-There are two schools in the parish, viz. the So-
	ciety School, and another, which is conducted by a person entirely
	at his own adventure. The total number of children attending
	these schools may average about, 130. There are none in the
	parish under fifteen years of age, who cannot read or write.


