
                                KILMALIE.                               119

      one broad, is the only fresh water lake of any consequence in this
      parish.  Loch Lochy is chiefly in the parish of Kilmonivaig; but
      about nine miles of its coast are in the parish of Kilmalie.  It is on
      the line of the Caledonian Canal.  The distance between it and
      Locharkaig is about a mile and a-half.  The top of Achnacarry
      House, the seat of Locheil, is seen from Loch Lochy.  There is
      a most beautiful valley between the two lakes, called in Gaelic a'
      milä dorch, or dark mile, being about a Scotch mile in length.  It re-
      sembles the Trosachs between Loch Catherine and Loch Auchray
      in Perthshire, but far surpasses the Trosachs in extent and in the
      beauty of the scenery.  The dark mile commences at the farm-
      house of Clunes, and ends at Locharkaig.  There is an excellent
      road through this truly picturesque valley.  The river Lochy comes
      out of Loch Lochy, by a new channel cut out for it about 600 yards
      to the south of the line of the Caledonian Canal.  It falls into the
      river Spean at Mucomre Bridge, and for a quarter of a mile it is
      called the Spean, but resumes its own name the Lochy, when it
      and the Spean fall into the old channel at Gearlochy.  It runs
      eight miles, separating the parishes of Kilmalie and Kilmonivaig,
      and then falls into the sea at Fort William, where the water of
      Nevis also meets it.  There is a ferry on this river about two miles
      from Fort William, having a good quay on either side, which is of
      very great use; but since the roads are so good on both sides, and
      the intercourse increasing, the want of a substantial stone bridge is
      severely felt by travellers and cattle-dealers.  It is to be hoped that
      the day is not distant when this want will be supplied.  Steam-boat
      travellers would find great benefit from a bridge at Lochy Ferry,
      on account of the intercourse between Banvie Locks and Fort
      William.
          Geology.-The predominating rocks in this parish are gneiss
      and mica slate; and subordinate to these are beds of quartz rock,
      bornblende rock, &c.  These various primitive rocks are traversed
      by rocks of granite, syenite, and porphyry.  Rocks considered as
      belonging to the transition class also occur.  The great Benevis
      is worthy the particular attention of the geologist, and, even in fine
      weather, will afford him many days of delightful and instructive
      employment.  The lower part of the mountain is composed of
      mica slate and gneiss, higher-up we meet with syenite, at a greater
      elevation granite; the upper parts are composed of different va-
      rieties of porphyry.  Many years ago Professor Jameson read an
      account of the geology of the mountain to the Wernerian Society;





