
     of Dailly.

has not been aided by the introduction of trade or manufac-
tures.-Formerly a very considerable importation of corn
annually was necessary for the subsistence of the inhabi-
tants*, but of late, besides abundantly supplying the demands
of an increasing population, the farmer has been able to
spare a little for the consumption of some neighbouring dis-
tricts.
   The lands, however, in this parish, and indeed throughout
the greater part of Carrick, seem better calculated by nature
for pasturage than for agriculture, and justify the character
given them in the sixteenth century by Buchanan,-"Pascuis
"foecunda, non infelix frumento."  The rearing end feeding
of cattle, therefore, has always been a principal, and perhaps

<FOOTNOTE>

*Buchanan, in the short topographical sketch of Scotland
at the beginning of his history, says of Carrick,-" Tota terres-
"tribus maritimisque copiis non modo sibi sufficiens, fed vicinis
"multa suppeditans"; (L. I. c. 20) a praise to which, certain-
ly, it was by no means entitled thirty or forty years ago.  From
the year 1529 to 1534, Buchanan was retained by Gilbert
Earl of Cassillis as a tutor or literary companion, and ap-
pears, during part of that time, to have resided with him in
Scotland; we may, therefore, suppose him perfectly acquainted
with a district in which his illustrious pupil possessed extensive
property and feudal jurisdiction.  If we are to credit his ac-
count, the unavoidable inference seems to be, that Carrick, after
the age of Buchanan, must have fallen from a rank, in the scale
of comparative fertility and wealth, to which, perhaps, it is not
yet restored.
   Those who are curious in tracing the comparative value of
money in this country at different periods, will not be displeas-
ed with the following statement of the prices of corn and castle
in Carrick at the time of which we have been speaking.  In an
inventory of the goods of Giles Blair, Lady Row, contained in
her testament, dated at Baltersan, (in the parish of Kinkoswald)
August 30. 1530-a cow is valued at a 2 merks,-an ox at 30 s.
-a two zeir-auld beast at 1 merk,-a sheep at 5 s.-a lamb at
16 d.-a boll of hear and meal at 12 s.-and a boll of oats at
6 s. (all Scotch money.)  It affords no very favourable idea of
the agriculture of Carrick, in the sixteenth century, that one
boll of meal was then equivalent in value to two of oats.


