
     of Kirkoswald.

are now in this parish two barley milns, which make this neces-
sary article to any degree of fineness at the rate of from 20 d.
to 2 s. per boll. This circumstance encourages the farmer to
sow barley instead of bear, as there is at all times a ready
market for the made barley, among the store farmers in the
Highlands of Carrick.  To this may be added, that 40 years
ago, every tenant dryed his oats upon his own kiln, construc-
ted in a very coarse manner.  Now every miln in the parish
has a kiln adjoining to it, properly bottomed with tyle, and
so constructed as to go with every wind. There dry grain at
the low price of from 1 d. to 2 d. per boll.  Indeed the far-
mers, who have a very great tillage, are now getting kilns of
this fort, upon their own farms at their own expence.  What,
however, adds to the charge of the farmer in this article, is
the distance from coal proper for the purpose of drying;
which cannot be got nearer than 15 miles from this place.
   The dairy was in a most neglected state in this parish for-
ty years ago.  Good butter and cheese were scarcely to be
found.  Now the milk cows are changed to the better, are
put into parks sown down with white and yellow clover, and
when they live in the house by night or by day, are fed upon
cut red clover.  Every Reading of farm house has an apart-
ment by itself for a milk house, and every conveniency suited
to it.  Both butter and cheese are now exported from the pa-
rish to the markets of Ayr and Paisley.  Butter in 1791 fold
for 8 s. and new milk cheese for 4 s. 8 d. per English stone.
   There is very little lint sown in this parish.  The soil is
thought to be in general too light for it.
   Many of the farmers now fatten cattle for the market, be-
sides bringing up a number of young cattle every year.  They
never have been in the use of rearing their own horses, which
would be a great saving.  They are commonly purchased from
Ireland. The number of labouring horses in the parish is


