
34		        WIGTONSHIRE.

part of the church are apportioned to the farmers; the remainder
below and the galleries are free to the other inhabitants of the
parish. The manse was rebuilt in 1778, and enlarged about the
year 1813. The grebe contains 9 acres, and its yearly value is
about L. 12. The amount of the stipend is L. 242, 4s. 10 1/2d. in
money; and 2 firlots, 1 peck, 2 2/5 lippies of meal, and the same of
bear. No communion elements are allowed, the teinds being
exhausted. There are no chapels of ease attached to the Esta-
blished Church. There is one Independent chapel in the parish.
The minister of this is paid by his hearers, and receives about
L. 60 per annum. There are no Episcopalian or Catholic chipels
in Sorbie.
	The number of families attending the Established Church is 152;
number of persons of all ages attending Established Church, 671;
number attending the chapels of Dissenters, 214; number attending
Catholic chapel at Newton-Stewart (thirteen miles distant), 55.
Divine service at the Established Church is generally well at-
tended. The average number of communicants at the Establish.
ed Church is about 240. There is one Bible Society in the pa-
rish, the yearly contributions of which may average about L. 15.
The yearly average of church collections for the poor is about
L. 30.
	Education.--Total number of Schools in the parish, 5; pa-
roichial schools, 1; unendowed schools, 4. Among these there
are two female schools, one of which is supported by Lady
Galloway, and conducted upon the Lancasterian system. The
branches of instruction generally taught in the parochial school
are, reading, writing, arithmetic, book-keeping, geography, La-
tin, and Greek. One of the schools of Garlieston has been
long famous for navigation, and the practical branches of ma-
thematics. The parochial teacher possesses the legal accom-
modation. His salary is L. 25, 13s. 3 3/4d.; and the amount of
school fees may be rated at L. 64 per annum. The yearly ex-
pense of education at the parochial school is as follows:--Reading
of English, 12s.; reading and wrhting, 14s. ; arithmetic, 16s.
Latin or; Greek, 20s.; book-keeping by single entry, 20s.; book-
keeping by double entry, L. 2, 2s.; mensuration, 7s. 6d.; trigo-
nometry, 7s. 6d.; navigation,, 21s. The number of the young
betwixt six and fifteen, who cannot read or write, may be about
six, and these we believe to be mostly of the lower Irish. We
know of none in the parish upwards of fifteen who cannot read or


