
         360                         BANFFSHIRE.

         near Keith from the great limestone formation of Banffshire, and,
         passing entire through a considerable length of the parish, finally
         loses itself in a number of small veins, as it approaches the gneiss
         on the south-west.  On the authority of Dr Forbes, it may be
         stated, that, where the talc slate is penetrated by the quartz veins,
         Kyanite has been frequently found.  The limestone is quarried in
         many places, both for calcination, and for building stone.  As a
         cement it is peculiarly valuable, particularly for hardening speedi-
         ly under water, as it contains 30 per cent. of silex.  This admix-
         ture, however, renders it somewhat less valuable as a manure.
          Before this talc rock disappears in the lower part of the valley,
         mica slate is seen alternating with it; and where the talc, at the
         junction of the eastern valley, meets with a formation of quartzy
         sandstone, and alternates with this, its colour is changed to pure
         white, and in consistence it becomes extremely soft and unctuous;
         so that, in fact, the people in the neighbourhood use it for paint-
         ing their cottages and furniture.
          The rocks of the valley of the Spey are gueiss and quartz, hav-
         ing also a north-east direction, and in the lower part of this pa-
         rish, when once they pass the deep chasm of the Orchil, form-
         ing the lower part of the circular valley, these pass under an
         immense deposit of red clay and gravel, which forms the whole
         extensive table-land lying above Fochabers.  On the south
         edge, along the chasm of the Orchil, this deposit is skirted by
         beds of pure white sand, in layers, in some places horizontal,
         in others inclined, and again in other places curiously contorted
         over which beds the red gravel looks as if it had been poured, fol-
         lowing all their contortions and sinuosities. The sand is discover-
         ed by the action of the burn or other causes removing the over-
         lapping deposit, Proceeding northward and eastward, the depth
         of this red stuff becomes exceedingly great.  The Spey has cut
         in upon the west side of it, opposite to Orton House, and formed
         cliffs of great height, the change of whose colour, from bright red
         to dark crimson, is a sure prognostic of rain.  The brooks which
         drain off the moisture from the table-land, have formed many ra-
         vines almost perpendicular in the sides, and in many instances
         from 50 to 100 feet deep.  Nay, it is not uncommon, where a
         ditch has been cut, or the surface otherwise removed, to find a
         new, ravine formed of great depth in the course of one day by the
         first heavy rains.  Towards the bottom of these ravines, the sides,


