
                          PRERTONPANS.                       313

of potting, with the exception of two small works for brown ware,
have been suspended, to the serious disadvantage of numerous and
manifold interests. In the immediate neighbourhood of Preston-
grange colliery, drain tiles are made.
   There is a manufactory of soap, in which several hands are con-
stantly employed by Mr Paterson, whose business appears to be,
most deservedly, thriving.
   In the salt-pans of Mr William Alexander, a very large quan-
tity of that most necessary article of commerce is annually manu-
factured. He imports his rock salt from the neighbourhood of
Liverpool, and is enabled to produce a commodity of superior ex-
cellence. It is equally deserving ok remark and extensive imita-
tion, that Mr Alexander, desirous of advancing the general inte-
rests of his workmen, has, during the last twelvemonths, paid their
wages on Friday instead of Saturday; and the result distinctly
proves that neither his servants nor himself have had any reason
to regret the change. It has evidently been followed by conse-
quences so morally important, as to encourage other masters to
adopt a similar plan. The condition of families is deeply affect-
ed by the pay-day.
   The brewery of Mr Fowler has long been signalized by the high
character of its ales. There is perhaps no similar manufactory in
Scotland that has for so long a period sustained its well-earned ce-
lebrity. Nor, is it probable, that, in Mr Hislop's management it
will be less famous in future than it has been in the past.

                   V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

   The common necessaries of life are procured in the village of
Prestonpins. It is believed, that the greater part of the grain
raised in the parish is sent to Edinburgh and sold there.
   Means of Communication.-There is a carrier to Edinburgh
twice a week from the parish. There is also daily communication
by the North Berwick coach; and the several carriers from the east
pass through the village, on their, way to town.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The church was built in 1774. *  It af-
fords accommodation for 750 persons, and, though in no way dis-
tinguished either by elegance of furniture or beauty of aspect,
it is, in comfort, inferior to none in the county. It is now by far

<FOOTNOTE>Since the Revolution, the following ministers have served the cure of this pa
rish:-Mr John Moncrieff, Mr George Andrews, Mr Robert Horsburgh, (great.
great-grandfather of the present incumbent,) Mr Williaw Carlyle, Mr Matthew
Reid, Mr William Roy, Dr Joseph M'Cormick, Mr John Trotter, Dr Peter Prim-
rose, and William Bruce Cunningham.


