
                            HUNTLY.                    1043

don, and with his family, resides in a separate house at Huntly
Lodge. The Roman Catholic bishop resides at Preshome, in the
Enzie, parish of Rathven.
      	The people in this parish, and, indeed, in this district, are cer-
tainly remarkable for their church-going habits.
      	Missionary Societies,&c.--In the new church, there have not
as yet been any missionary Societies formally constituted, but
prayer-meeting, expressly for missionary objects, are statedly
held, and, besides other objects, collections are made, and contri-
butions raised for all the Assembly's Schemes. During the year
1841, L.40 were raised by this congregation for educational, and
L.60 for missionary purposes. Among tile Independents chiefly,
there are auxiliaries to the London Missionary and British and
Foreign Bible Societies; their contributions to which, it is under--
stood, amount to about L.60 per annum. There is also an auxi-
liary to the Edinburgh Bible Society, chiefly in connection with
the parish church.
       	Education.--The educational wants of the town of Huntly are,
on the whole, at present, well supplied. In the Duchess of Gor-
don's new buildings, ample accommodation is provided for the pa-
rochial school, the new school,--which is chiefly connected with
the new church,--an infant school, and a sewing school. All
these are very efficiently taught. In the two first, all the branches
of an ordinary education are taught, as also Latin, Greek, French
and mathematics. There are also six adventure schools in the
town, chiefly for reading, taught by females with various degrees of
success; another by an old pensioner, who teaches reading, writ.
ing, and accounts with very considerable skill ; and one excellent
boarding and day-school for the higher branches of female educa-
tion.  The salary of the parochial teacher is L.34; from the Dick
Bequest he receives L.30 per annum; his school-fees may be about
L.60, and he derives L.8 from other emoluments. The teacher
of the new school receives a salary of L.20 per annum, which is
raised by subscription among the members of the new church, the
security for which evidently must depend mainly on his own effi-
ciency; and his school-fees amount to upwards of L. 50. The
teachers of the sewing and infant schools at present receive sala-
ries from her Grace the Duchess of Gordon. The fees of the pa-
rochial and new schools vary from 2s. 6d. to 5s. per quarter, but
when the higher branches are included, they are 7s. 6d. ; in the
infant school, the fee is one penny per week, and in the private fe-


