
                       RENFREW.                             11

1124, and died in 1153.  This Walter was, at the same time,
invested with the office of Seneschallus Domus Regis, Steward of
the King's Household, or Dapifer Regis, the King's Steward,
which he is sometimes called ; and hence the origin of the name
Stewart.  It seems to be clearly proven, that this Walter had also
property in Shropshire, and was otherwise connected with that part
of England; from which it has been inferred that he himself came
from that country.  After settling in Renfrew, he founded the
abbey of Paisley, and died in 1177, being succeeded by his son
Alan. He also inherited his father's office, and flourished in the
reign of William the Lion.  He died in 1204, and was succeeded
by Walter, also denominated in charters, Filius Alani.  He was made
Seneschallus Scotice, and the office was now rendered hereditary in
the family; in consequence of which, he and his successors, were
commonly called "the Stewards."  This term seems to have been
used for some time officially; but when surnames came to be intro-
duced, it naturally assumed that character.  This "Steward" died
in 1246, and was succeeded by Alexander, who, in 1255, was ap-
pointed one of the regents, and in 1263, commanded the Scottish
forces at the famous battle of Largs.  He died in 1281, or betwixt
that year and 1283, and was succeeded by James, who took a leading
part in behalf of his country in the troubles which followed. He died
in 1309, leaving his son Walter only sixteen years of age.  When
twenty-one, he appeared with his vassals at the Torwood, before the
battle of Bannockburn ; and was, with Sir James Douglas, put in
command of a division of the Scottish army.  After the battle, he,
was knighted by King Robert the Bruce, and the year following
he became son-in-law to the King, by his marriage with Marjory,
the King's only daughter, on whom the reversion of the crown
had already been settled.  In 1316, only a year after marriage, his
wife died, leaving by him a son called Robert.  This son succeed-
ed his father in 1326, and in 1371, he succeeded his uncle David
II. under the title of Robert II.  Hence the accession of the
Stewarts to royalty.
   Several memorials of the ancient residence of this illustrious
family are still observable in Renfrew. On a rising ground be-
tween the cross and the ferry, is the site of the ancient castle,
the common residence of the "Stewarts."  A charter granted by
"James the Stewart," and grandfather to King Robert II. is dated
"apud manerium nostrum de Renfrew."  Crawford also mentions
that he had seen a lease of the castle of Renfrew, with the orchards


