
          186                        PERTHSHIRE.

          tent of its propagation.  The potatoe then seems to be in that
          stage of its existence in which, under favourable circumstances, it
          will grow as luxuriantly, and produce nearly as good crops as ever
          it did; but in which its vegetative vigour is so far diminished that
          hts growth is obstructed by causes,. which, in the earlier stage of
          its existence, it would have overcome.
            These causes I have denominated the proximate causes of the
          failure; and, so far as they have come under attentive observation,
          they may be redubed to four.
            The first, and perhaps the most general of these is permitting
          the potatoes to spring in the pits.  The farmer will tell you, if
          you state this as a cause of the failure of his crop, that this can-
          not be the case.  For he has repeatedly planted potatoes, when
          they were much farther sprung, without having a blank in his field.
          He forgets that a plant will push out its sboots much more fre-
          quently in one stage of its existence than in ainother.
            The second proximate cause of this failure is the practice, which
          has been generally resorted to, of planting the potatoe crop at too
          late a period of the season, by which means the plant has not time
          to ripen, or come to full maturity.  Betwixt the new and old terms
          of Whitsunday is the period generally adopted for this operation,
          whereas it ought to be performed in the middle of April.
            The third cause. is keeping the potatoes too long above ground
          after they have been cut.  This I know to have been remarked in the
          practice of several farmers, and was very strikingly exhibited in my.
          own immediate vicinity; where two sacks of old cut potatoes were
          placed at one end of a field, and two sacks newly cut, placed at
          the other, and two women set to plant them.  They filled their
          baskets alternately from the one and the other as they reached the
          ends of the field, and the result was, that every two alternate drills
          was a complete failure, whilst in the other alternate two, there was
          scarcely a blank.
          The fourth cause is the practire of planting the potatoe sets
          upon the dung, especially if it be hot from the yard.  The soil is the
          natural place for a plant to grow in; and it will often grow there,
          when it will grow nowhere else.  But my observation of this cause
          is not founded on this reasoning, but upon what occurred in the
          practice 'of a clergyman in the north.  Having a poruon of a field
          on which the dung was spread in the drills, but which he could
          not get Dlanied over night, he directed the harrows to be drawn
          :long' tudinally over the driln in order to throw a little earth over


