
                               CUPAR.                               15


a parochial school in the parish. Up till the year 1823, there were
two burgh schools, which were under the sole patronage and direction
of the magistrates,-the masters' salaries being paid out of the funds
of the burgh. In 1823, a subscription was entered into, to have an
academy erected according to the approved model of modern times.
An arrangement was made betwixt the magistrates and the sub-
scribers, by which the former merged their rights of patronage and
direction, and agreed to be represented at the meetings of the
subscribers or patrons of the academy, by certain members of their
own body. They agreed, also, to pay a certain proportion of the
teachers' salaries along with the patrons, and to grant the use of
the buildings belonging to them as a corporation, for the academy.
This arrangement still subsists. By the munificence of the late
Dr Bell, the estate of Egmore in Galloway has been left under
trustees, consisting of the Lord Lieutenant of the county, the Lord
Justice-Clerk, the Sheriff of the county, the Provost, the Dean
of Guild, and the two parochial ministers of Cupar, to be manag-
ed for the purpose of forwarding the interests of education accord-
ing to the Madras system. By special stipulation, Dr Bell wishes
his institution to be amalgamated, under certain conditions, with
the academy as already existing. Hitberto the arrangements have
not been completed. The burgh have it in their power to make
arrangements which may free them and the community from a great
expense, and to secure for them a great advantage under this trust
But whether they will see their interests remains to be proved.
In the meantime, the business of education is conducted by Dr
Bell's Trustees, in concert with the patrons of the academy. In
the academy, there are three, departments of teaching: English
in all its branches; the languages, ancient and modern, with geo-
graphy; arithmetic in all its branches and writing. The salaries
of the masters are good, and the school-fees small; but, as there
is nothing as yet permanently fixed, and as Dr Bell's Trustees are
burdened in the meantime with the payment of several annunities,
and are therefore not yet come to the use of those funds which way
enable them fully to develope their plans, it is premature to be
more particular at present. The community are fully alive to be
benefits of education. Dr Bell, trustees we required to be libe-
ral. The result, consequently, must in time be highly salutary.
  Besides the academy, Dr Bell's trustee, have opened three
schools in the town, for the benefit of the industrious classes, at
which education is to be had at the most moderate rates; and in


