
     of Strachur and Stralachlan.

bour, took cottaries, and wrought for hire.  Many whole
families emigrated to the manufacturing towns, where a
change of climate and diet shortened the days of the old,
and enervated the young.  From the era of introducing
sheep-stocks, a very great change is observable in the dis-
posisions of the people.  Till then, they shewed no predi-
lection for a seafaring life.  Till then, their sentiments
were generally warlike.  Round every fire-side, the enter-
tainment of the evening was rehearsing tales of former
times, the actions of brave men, the warlike seats of their
ancestors.  By such coversation, the young mind, fired
with the spirit of great examples, eagerly panted after an
oppurtunity of being signalized, by surmounting dissicul-
ties, by encountering dangers.  Attachment to the chief,
and a jealousy of his honour, were reckoned primary vir-
tues.  These were inculcated at an early period of life, they
were strengthened by habit, they prevailed universally.
When the chief, or any of his family stepped forward to
serve in the army, all the young men readily followed him,
as their fathers had done on fimilar occasions*.-The di-
strict is new thinned of its inhabitants.  The people have
been forced to leave their native hills.  Such as have
gone have changed their manners, and the old spirit of the

<FOOTNOTE>

*Instances of this are well remembered, when the 42 d regiment was
first raised, and particulary when the Heirs of Ardkinglass and Strachur
were appointed officers in Lord Loudon's regiment in 1745.  Thought it
was not then the mode to make the officers commissions depend upon rai-
sing a certain quota of men, yet the two young gentlemen got most of
their company, who followed them as volunteers, from their paternal
estates.  How different the sentiments of the people in 1778! When it
was proposed to raise a Western Fencible Regiment, the gentlemen of
Argyleshire or gaged to furnish a certain number of men; but though the
men ahd an express promise from Government, that they should not be
called out of the kingdom, nor even into England, excepting in case of
an invasion, the heritors were obliged to brige them high.


