
                          MAXTON.                               117

Dryburgh; and from that time to the dissolution of their society at
the Reformation, the parish continued to be a dependency of that
manastry in spiritual matters. Robert II. granted the manor of
Makiston to Sir Duncan Wallace and Eleanor de Brueys, the
Countess of Carrick.
   When Scotland was a separate kingdom, the village of Maxton
seems to have contained a very considerable population,-being
able, is said, to turn out 1000 fighting men. If it really ever
was a place of such magnitude, it seems probable that the richer
kingdom of England. Both these source of wealth were speed-
lly dried up, however, by the union of the Scotch and English
crowns,-an event which introduced law and regular induct
among the clans, and soon reduced their numbers to a
correspondence with their honest means of miserable cottages. The
only marks of its former consequence that remain, are the founda-
tions of its houses, which are still occationally turned up by the
plough in several of the neighbouring fields, and the shafts of its
ancient cross, which is yet standing in front of a few hovels, that
marks the place where its principal street once was.
   Land-owners.-I have not heard of any persons connected with
Maxton whose name is known to fame. There are no ancient fa-
milies in the place. The present proprietors are: Sir Edmund
Antrobus; Hugh Scott, Esq. of Harden; the Duchess of Rox-
burghe; Adam Walker, Esq. of Muirhouselaw; and Thomas Wil-
liamson Ramsay, Esq. of Maxton. All these, or their families, except
the Duchess of Roxuburghe, bought their properties in this parish
within the last fifty years. None of them reside, or have a man-
sion-house in it, though the smallest proprietor, the Duchess of
Roxburghe, has a rental in the parish of L. 250.
   Parochial Register.-There is a "session-record" in existence,
and a "register of births, marriages, and deaths;" both of which
begin more than a hundred years back, but they have been very
irregularly kept. Among a small rural population of simple ma-
sers, there have been few events requiring to be noticed in the
former volume; and the latter is necessarily very imperfect, in con-
sequence of Seceders and other declining to register.
   Antiquities.-In the north-east corner of the parish, is a rocky
cliff hanging over the Tweed, on which there are distinct traces


