
               522                     PERTSHlRE.

                                                                                                                to
               Morisons will to Muthill, the place where he was born, and to
               Edinburgh, the place where he made his fortune; but his great
               object was to benefit his fellow-creatures: And, accordingly, his
               trustees were vested with the fullest powers to carry this object
               into execution in any way, in any place, and in any form which they
               might deem the most desirable.
                  The attempt to find a suitable site in Muthill was unseccessful,                      wasi unsuccessful,
               and Crieff was then ixed upon as an eligible situation. Negocia-
               tions were entered into with a view to purchase ground ; and, at
               one time, they appeared to be all but completed. But somehow, the                    But soinehow, the
               affair miscarried, and the plan was relinquished altogether. Theat-
               tention of the trustees was next directed to Inverness, where they do
               not appear to have come to any arrangement; and the result seems to
               be, that hitherto Mr Morison's bequest has prosduced none of those
               fruits which the testator was so very anxious to realize. The re-
               spectability of the gentlemen who are still entrusted with the ma-
               nagement of this legacy. is such, however that it will doubtless be
               a guarantee to the public for its being managed well. It is sup-
               posed that the fund cannot now be much under L. 20,000.
                  Literature.-There is a subscription library in Crieff, which
               contains about 900 volumes on general literature, and from which
               books are regularly lent out to the subscribers twice every week.*
               There is a circulating library, kept by one of the two booksellers
               in town, which contains a pretty extensive collection of those books
               that are usually found in such libraries. There is a small Sab-
               bath evening school library, which consists entirely of books on
               religious subjects. And there are two public reading-rooms, main-
               tained by subscription, where many of the Scotch and English
               newspapers are regularly taken in.
                  Charitable and other Institutions.-The most important chari-
               table institution in the parish is the Crieff Female Society. It was
               instituted on the 9th March 1818 (principally through the exer-
               tions of Lady Baird of Ferntower, who has always been its Presi-
               lioibi,,4f4.idy Raitdot                 ower,
               dent, and the most liberal of its supporters,) for the purpose of al-

               <FOOTNOTE>The Subscription Library was instituted in the year 1818, when several regula-
               tions were framed and printed, office-beares appointed, and a committee formed for
               purchasing books and managing other matters. The printed catalogue bears that
               many books have been presented to the library by private individual, and that the
               library of the Strathearn Agricultural Society (which contained between 200 and 300
               volumes, of which the greastest number had been gifted to that Society by Sir Patrick
               Murray, Bart of Ochtertyre,) was transfered to the Crieff subscription library in
               the year 1819. But the Agricultural Society have been reserved to themselves the right
               of again recalling their books in certain events, and on certain conditions set forth
               in the minutes of their meetings on the subject.


