
                            KINROSS.                          27

build on the side of the road to the old church-yard. Of this in-
tended building, which was never executed, a particular account
will be found in the Acts of the Scottish Parliament in the reign
of James VII. under the title Sir William Bruce.
   It may be noticed farther, that a sum of L. 100 was mortified
to the poor of the parish by the deceased George Graham, Esq.
of Kinross. This sum has been lent to the heritors of the parish,
and the interest of it, L. 5, is distributed by the minister of the
parish, at the sight of the proprietor of the estate of Kinross.
   Prison.--There is one jail in Kinross parish, in which, during
the last year, there were 3 civil and 36 criminal prisoners. This
jail, although newly built, is not so secure as to prevent, from
time to time, the escape of the worst of its inmates. Those con-
fined are allowed two hours of open air abroad every day. No pro-
vision is made for ministerial visitation or religious instruction to
prisoners; but free access is always to be bad for both purposes.
   Police.--There is also a police at Kinross. The officer, whose
salary is 14s. per week, is maintained by a voluntary assessment on
the part of the landed proprietors. His duty is to check and pre-
vent all disturbances of the public peace, and all attacks on the per-
sons or properties of the lieges ; also to seize upon and to send off
from the parish the host of vagrants and sturdy beggars from all
quarters, who were once a far greater nuisance than now.
   Fairs--There are four yearly fairs or markets ; the first on the
third Wednesday of March, old style; the second on the first day
of June, old style ; the third on the third Wednesday of July, old
style; and the fourth on St Luke's day, or the 18th of October, old
style. These fairs are chiefly for cattle; but they serve likewise for
various other purposes of human intercourse and transacting toge-
ther.
   There can be no doubt that these public occasions are, in a pe-
cuniary view, very advantageous to Kinross.
   Inns, Alehouses, &c.--There are two principal inns here, which,
in respect of the accommodation and comfort afforded by them to
the traveller, will yield to none from Edinburgh to Inverness. The
inn to the south (Kirkland's) keeps 3 post-chaises, I landau, I
hearse, 34 post-horses, 4 post-boys, 6 strappers, I hostler, I head
waiter, I under waiter, 4 female servants one of whom is a cook.
That to the north (Kinross Green Inn, or Macgregor's,) has 3
post chaises, a drosky and gig, 5 horses, and a donkey; 7 sta-
bles; 4 post-boys, 7 strappers, I hostler, I head waiter, I under


