
                          STRATHDON.                          533

is the covering of gravel and debris which rests on the sides of the
hills, and generally forms the bed of the Don.  The gravel varies
from a few inches in depth to upwards of 100 feet, with occasion-
ally interposed strata of sand, and assumes the form of terraces and
low truncated hills in some localities, as at the mouth of the
Nochty, in the vicinity of Pooldhulie bridge, and in Glencarvy.
These have been formed by the action of water.  Nearly half a
ridge below the junction of the Nochty with the Don, there is a
ridge of sienite, traversed by a vertical dike of felspar porphyry,
which runs right across the valley.  At Pooldhulie there is an-
other similar.  Previous to the disruption of these dikes, the
waters must have been collected in vast lakes, in which deposition
of the washed down sand and gravel would take place.  As these
dikes gave way, the waters would cut for themselves passages
through the deposited gravel, and hence occur those terraces, table-
lands, and low truncated hills.
   Soil.-The prevailing soil in the arable part of the parish is a
good loam of considerable depth.  In the haughs, being alluvial,
sections of gravelly loam occur, and traces of former beds of the
river are distinctly marked.  The loam is generally superincum-
bent on gravel, a crust, technically termed a pan, in many places
intervening, so hard and impervious, that it requires laborious
pick-work to penetrate it.  After it is cut through, gravel or sand
and sometimes sandy clay succeeds, which generally yields to the
spade.  This description of the subsoil will show the urgency of
drainage to carry off the surface water.  An improvement which is
yearly being more attended to.
   There are some peculiarities with regard to the soil worth no-
tice.  It is invariably deeper on the north than on the south side
of the hill or mountain, and by consequence the north lying farms
are generally supposed to be the best in respect of soil, although
the advantage is counterbalanced by deficiency in point of climate.
Again, the best quality of soil is not found in the haughs, but on
the sides of the hills, and the higher up, as far as cultivation can
be carried, the soil is said to improve.  This is markedly exhibit-
ed on the farms on the right side of the Nochty.  But on the very
tops of several of the hills good soil is found, and in many in-
stances where they are now covered with heath, traces of the plough
can still be seen, although the exposed situations and the risk of
the crop not ripening, probably led to the abandonment of their-
cultivation.  Still, the more elevated fields on the hill side often


