
                                    ARNGASK.                         895

       available for the maintenance of the poor, and the payment of the
       united salaries of the precentor, kirk-officer, presbytery and synod
       clerk, arises from the following sources; church-door collections,
       mortcloths, proclamations, and land.  The yearly amount of
       church-door collections, taking the average of the last seven years,
       is L.7, 14s.; the average amount of mortcloth dues is L.1, 9s. 9d.;
       and that of proclamation dues is 10s. 3d.  The sum of 2s. is only
       payable to the poor's fund when the bride belongs to the parish.
       The kirk-session purchased, in 1726, for the benefit of the poor,
       two small pendicles at Newton of Balcanquhal, for the sum of
       2600 merks.  And for a similar purpose another pendicle, quite
       contiguous to these, was purchased in 1838 by the present kirk-
       session for the sum of L.650 Sterling.  These pendicles now form
       one small farm, which is let to an active and industrious tenant at
       an annual rent of L.61, 10s., from which, however, land-cess, feu-
       duty, and other sums constituting the public burdens, fall to be
       deducted.  Besides the dwelling-house occupied by the farmer,
       there is another upon the property, which is at present let to two
       families; but the session intend to employ it ultimately in accom-
       modating some of their paupers.
        The parochial fund has attained its present state of prosperity,
       under the gratuitous and careful management of the kirk-session,
       and, if the sources of supply are not allowed to be dried up,
       it will continue adequate for ameliorating the condition of the poor,
       and warding off a legal assessment.  For several years, however,
       the expenditure has fully equalled the income, owing to the ex-
       pense incurred in effecting necessary improvements upon the pro-
       perty.  It is proper to add, that, though there is occasionally
       shown little or no aversion to be put on the poor's roll, yet in
       general, a considerable reluctance to accept parochial relief is still
       displayed.
          Fairs.-There are four annual markets or fairs for the sale of
       cattle.  One of these has been held at Lustielaw, from time im-
       memorial, on the third Tuesday of May, O.S.  The other three,
       established about twenty years ago, are held at Damhead, on the
       last Tuesday of April, O.S., first Thursday of August, and first
       Tuesday of October.
          Inns.-There are four houses licensed to sell by retail, beer,
       ale, and other exciseable liquors.  The number of houses of this
       description, though they are upon the whole well regulated, is far
       from producing beneficial effects.  Two of them might be sup-


