               			ARDCHATTAN.                              497

	priorate, though there are reasons for believing that they were
	considerable.  The present family were, at one time, titulars of
	the teinds, and held the patronage of several neigbbouring parishes;
	those patronages have long since been disposed of. If any valu-
	able historical records or other manuscripts existed here of old,
	they have all perished.  In the burial ground, which still continues
	to be used for that purpose, there are several ancient tombstones,
	composed chiefly of blue slate.  Most of these have no inscrip-
	tions, but bear the effigies of monks attired in the habits of their
	order, and represented in a devotional attitude.  But there are
	nthers which do bear inscriptions, though it be no easy matter to
	decypber some of them.   Of these, there is one about the centre
	of the church, which has been broken longitudinally, and on which
	the following letters appear in the old Saxon characters:--
	"FUNALLUS SOMHERLE MACDOUGALLUS, PRIOR DE ARDCHAT-
	TAN MCCCCC." , It was alleged that the inscription on this
	stone was written in the Gaelic language,-an allegation which is
	clearly groundless; nor was it supposed that any thing had been
	cut out on its lower side,-but it has recently been discovered that
	it bears, on that side, representations of wild beasts well executed
	and preserved. It would seem that what remains is but a part of
	the original monument, and that it was intended to be placed in
	an upright position, and probably was so at first.  At the south-
	east corner of the church, there is a flat stone, on which the fol-
	lowing inscription is finely cut:-" HIC JACET VENERANDUS ET
	EGREGIUS VIR RODERICUS ALEXANDRI, RECTOR QUONDAM
        FUNNANNI INSULAE, QUI OBIIT ANNO DOM:         ," the date
	not mentioned. The inscription was probably finished before the
	Rector's death, the blanks to be supplied after his interment, and
	this was omitted to be done.  Under this monument there is a
	stone coffin.
	     The inscription on another tombstone, beyond the church, to the
	south, is written in a character which cannot be decypbered : it is
	very ancient:-but the most interesting monument in the cemetery,
	and a finer is not often to be met with, is one which was discover-
	ed, several years ago, under a mass of rubbish, and is situat-
	ed within the church, near the east end of its northern wall.
	The quality of the stone of which the monument is composed is
	excellent, and the representations of two dignified ecclesiastics in
	the monastic costume, and of a warrior in full coat of mail, cut out
	in separate niches on its lower section, and of two weeping nuns,
	<FOOTNOTE>ARGYLE.                                Ii


