
574                            ADERDEENSHIRE.

and milk, and occasionally of a little beef at Christmas,-at which
period the generality of farmers kill and salt a mart for family use.
   The parishioners are neither addicted to poaching in game, nor
in,the salmon-fisheries.

                             IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agricultural and Rural Economy.-The number of acres in this
parish cannot be correctly ascertained; for whilst some of the pro-
prietors have accurate plans of their estates lately made out, there
are others whose plans are from sixty to one hundred years old, and
they cannot be altogether relied upon; besides, there are some
farms which have never been measured; at any rate, no plan giv-
ing the amount of their contents, can be found.  The writer hereof, however,
has done all that was in his power to remedy this defect,
by inquiring at tenants and others who could give him any inform
-mation upon the subject, and if there are any mistakes, he is quite
satisfied that they have been unintentional on the part of those to
whom he has applied.

<TABLE>
   The number of acres, standard imperial measure, in the parish,                       11,427
                        which are either cultivated or occasiotialty in tillage,
                          including 12 acres in gardens and orchards,          _	 8,342
                        that might be added to the cultivated land of the parish,
                          whether that land were afterwards to be kept in oc-
                          casional tillage or permanent pasture,         -	            896
                        that never have been cultivated, and which remain con-
                          stantly waste,	                                             114
                        in moss,	                                                    110
                        under wood, the greater part of which has been planted
                          within the last thirty years,	                                  1,965

   The general kind of trees planted consists of larch, spruce, and
Scotch firs; but the mansion-houses and lawns of the resident
proprietors are ornamented with fine old trees, such as ash, elm,
beech, birch, horse-chestnut, and plane.  The soil appears parti-
cularly congenial to all kinds of trees.
   Rent of Land.-The rent of arable land er Scotch acre is from
L.2 to l.2, 10s. for infield, and from 8s. to 16s. for outfield, ave-
raging about 17s. 6d. per acre, and giving a rental for the parish
of L.6000.
   The average rent of grazing is about L.3 for a cow or full-grown
ox; L.1, 10s. for a two-year old; and L.1 for a year old.
   Rate of Wages.-A good ploughman gets from L.10 to L.14
per annum, and a woman servant, L.3 in summer, and L.2 in win-

<FOOTNOTE>If the east front of Bonochie to the top of the hill was to be included in the in the mes-
surement, it would make an addition of from 1000 to 2000 acres to the waste lands
of the parish but as it is somewhat doubtful whether it belongs to the parish of
Oyne or to that of Chapel of Garioch, it has not been taken into the calculation.
                                       4


