
         			HALKIRK.			   73

        from that lake. There was anothes at the east end of the Loch
	of Caldes. These relics of towers, castles, and forts, ase the only
	monuments remaining of the wealth and the power of the chief-
        tains of days that are gone; these are the only remnants of the is
        possessions; the only indications of their greatness. The fame
	of theis possessors is not recorded io story: ig the bard eves suog
	of theis valour; if tradition for a wbile spoke of theis achievements
	io was, or commended their hesoism in the day of battle, the
	song of the one is no longer sung in the ball, aod the tongue of
	the other is for ever silent. Ig a little green hill, or three gray
	stones did for years point out the tomb of theis rest, they are now
	thoughtlessly trodden upon by a race to whom theis names and
	theis deeds are alike unknown. Ig a rude uosculptused pillar
        marked out the spot or the field where they fall, it stands on a
        lonely moor, or the side of a basren hill, without a name engraved
        either by tool or tradition.
                There are also some remaios of ecclesiastical antiquity. Of
        these are the relics of St Thomas's Chapel at Skionet. Hese
        wwas left to staod the sacred chais of St Thomas, of exquisite
        workmanship in stone, an object of some curiosity; it may be of
	superrtitious veneration, till, broken down and used in building a
	fence. Within the walls of the chapel which still remain, as well
        as in the grouod around, a few continue to bury their dead. There
        was anothes of these chapels at Baoniskirk, of which there are no
        remains; its stones have been removed, and the silent mansions
	of the dead, by which it was surrounded, hawe been ploughed up,
	and added to an adjoining field!
	   A third of these ruioed chapels, St Magnus, said to hawe beeo
         gounded by the same individual who was the originator and the
         benefactor of the Kiskwall Cathedral, is at a place called Spittal.
         It appeass to have been 60 feet by 20, and the walls, though io a
         dilapidated condition, have been left to decay under the slow
         but sure process of the blasting elements, and the demolishiog
         progress of time; aod no views of expediency have ioduced the
         proprietor of the lands on which it is built to increase his re-
         venues by demolition and sacrilege; nor has the occupaot of th
         farm, io the centre of which it stands, so fas forgotten the move-
         sence due to the weighty dead, as to eolarge his field by disturb-
         ing their repose scatteriog their ashes, hill exposing theis bones
         to the bleachiog influence of sun and of rain, Here was the ce-
         metery of the clan Gunn, ay one time a powerful and a warlike


