
206                            RENFREWSHIRE.

glen and Carmunnock, in Lanarkshire, before 1189, and of Kilfin-
an, in Cowal, and of Kilcolmanel, in Knapdale, with the chapel of
St Columba.  By these and other rich donations, as well as smal-
ler acquisitions of lands and tenements in burghs partly the gifts
of, us individuals, and partly by purchase, did Paisley become
the most opulent monastery in the South of Scotland, with the ex-
ception of Kelso.  St Andrews, Dunfermline, and Aberbrothock
are mentioned as the only ones north of the Forth, that exceeded
it.  These, however, were of royal foundation, nor is there any ex-
ample in all Scotland of any monastic establishment being so li-
berally endowed bya private family, as that of Paisley was by the
first three Stewarts. *
   The Abbey of Paisley was the family burying-place of the Stew-
art, before their accession to the throne, and even after that Pe-
riod, Eupheme, Queen of Robert II., and Robert III. were buried
at Paisley; the first in 1387 and the second in 1406. +  The
monastery was destroyed by fire by the English in 1307. ++  It
was afterwards rebuilt and greatly enlarged.  The magnificent Ab-
bey Church, which existed at the Reformation, seems to have been
built in the reigns of James I. and II, and was, nearly completed
by Abbot Thomas Tarvas, in 1459. S  It was after the model
of a Cathedral, in the form of a cross, with a very lofty steeple,
finished after the abbot's death.  The spacious buildings of this

<FOOTNOTE>Chalmers, Vol. iii. P. 822.	        Ib.
          Ferdum, as referd to by Chalmers, VoL iii. 824
          The year of God MCCCCLIX. the penult day Junii, decessit at Paisley, Thomas
Tarvass, Abott of Pasley, the quhilk was ane richt guds man, and helplyk to the
place of ony that ever was; for he did mony notable thingis, and held ane noble
hous, and was ay wele purvait.  He fand the place all out of gud rewle, and destitute
of leving, and all the kirkis in lordis handis, and the kirk unbiggit.  The body of the
kirk fra the bricht stair up, he biggit the great porcium of the steple, and ane
staithe yethous, and brocht hame money gud juwellis, and clathis of gold, silver, ane
silk, and mony gud bukis, and made staitlie stallis, and glasnit mekle of all the
kirk.  And brocht hame the staitliest tabernakle that was  in all Scotland, and the mast                              6d, and the mast
place, and left it out of all kynd of det, and at all fredom till dispone as thaim
lykit, and left ane of the best myteris that was in Scotland, and chandillaries of silver,
and ane lettren of bras, with mony uther gud jowellis"-Auchinlek Chronicle.
   One of the architetcs employed in the  erection or repairing of the Abbey, was
John Murdo, as appears from the following inscription, on the south side of the
transept door of the Abbey of Melrose.
                JOHN: MURDO : SUM : TYM : CALLYT
                W. S.: _____D : BORN : IN : PARYSEK
 	          CERTAINLY : AND : HAD: IN : KEPING :
                AL : MASON : WERX : OF : SANTAN
                DRAYS : YE : HYE : KIRK . OF : GLAS :
                GO : MELROS : AND : PASLAY : OF
                NYDDSDALL : _____D : OF : GALWAY :
                I : FRAY : TO : GOD :_____D : Y : BATH,
                  .. ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ...


