
     of Carluke.

   Roads, etc.-Through this parish there is one great turn-
pike road, leading from Glasgow to Peebles, &c.  It is well
made, and has on it several toll-bars, though none in this dis-
trict.  At the village of Carluke, a branch goes off to Lanark,
made by the statute labour.  Since the statute work was con-
verted into money, the parish roads are, in every respect, im-
proved; so that the communication is now more easy, and
the farmers property, adjoining to the roads, secured from
damage*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*With respect to articles of provision, their price, of late have very much
advanced; so that, where the farmer has many commodities to dispose of, he
can afford to live easy, pay a reasonable rent to the proprietor, and even spend
something extraordinary himself.  Fowls, eggs, butter, veal, lamb and mutton,
all fell at very high prices.  Within these last 20 years, they are doubled;
which is severely felt by annuitants of every description.  Beef and mutton, in
the markets here, are equal in quality to any in Edinburgh or Glasgow; and
they sell nearly at the same rate.  Horses and cows have also doubled their price
within there 20 or 30 years.  Amidst these revolutions, the poor farmer of a
few acres, at 10 L. or 20 L. rent, who can with difficulty support his family on the
produce of his small farm, suffers the most.  He has nothing to sell, perhaps
something to purchase.  The cottagers and day-labourers, when compared with
him, are affluent and comfortable.  It is natural to inquire, whence this increase
of price in every article of provision (grain alone excepted) can arise ?  Is it
that the number of consumers have multiplied in an equal proportion to this
advance?-or that the modern modes of farming have diminished, rather than
increased the quantity produced?-No:  the increase of the consumers, upon the
whole, is by no means in proportion to this advance of price, as we see from the
statistical accounts already published; and we know from fact, that many farms
bring more than double in the market, and none less, than they used formerly
to do.  Whence then does it proceed?  Among the many other causes to which
this may he ascribed, perhaps the principal one is, the great increase of banks
in Scotland and England, and the enormous quantity of paper which they cir-
culate, which sinks the value of money, insomuch, that in purchasing many of
the necessaries of life, a sum of money will not go half so far as it used to do.
And though the different kinds of grain are more stable and fixed in their prices
than other things, this is evidently owing to the corn laws with respect to im-
portation, of which the farmers complain so loudly.


