
     of North Yell and Fetlar.

can supply itself in grain, were it all kept within the
place.  Wool* is so scarce here, that the poor people are
necessitated to barter their grain with their neighbours in
Yell, and in the end of the summer their masters must
supply them with meal for the support of their families.
One great advantage that we enjoy is, that we have
abundance of fuel at a very reasonable price.  But on
the other hand we labour under many hardships.  Our
farms ard divided into such small parcels, that the peo-
ple who cultivate these small spots are a good many
of them poor, and with the greatest difficulty live upon
their small farms the half of the year.  Our crops are fre-
quently blasted with frosts and mildews, and this has been
the case for these several years bypast; so that we bend our
thoughts more to improve our fisheries than our crops, as
they are so very precarious in this climate.  But in this,
which is a principal article of commerce, we labour under
considerable clogs.  The high duty that must be paid for
home salt, that we are under the necessity of using, bears
very heavy upon us; but this hardship has been set forth
by a much abler pen than the writer can pretend to, and
therefore he does not choose to say more on that subject.
To conclude this narrative, the writer is sorry to say, that
within these few years a very pernicious and ruinous policy
has taken place here.  Our very prudent ancestors would
not have let their lands to any one unless his moral cha-
racter was good, and he had a visible fund to support him-
self and his family; but now a contrary method of proce-
dure is greedily adopted by some of the heritors of this pa-
rish, for they let their lands to persons of abandoned cha-
racters, if they are only good fishers; but this piece of poli-
cy is absurd to the highest degree.  Every one knows that
poverty is the greatest enemy in nature to honesty, and a

     Vol. XIII. O o

<FOOTNOTE>

*A mistake probably for Meal.

<FOOTNOTE>

*A mistake probably for Meal. 


