
188			AYRSHIRE.

tors and occupiers of land. About 50 of these sittings are strict-
ly free, and for the remaining 200 a small rent is paid, rather
for the purpose of appropriating them to the most regular occu-
pants, than for defraying the expense of erection. The pro-
duce, amounting to about L. 1O annu`lly, is thrown into the poor's
funds.
	The manse was built in 1795, and after undergoing the repairs
which generally become necessary in a short time where houses
are built by contract, it may now be reported as a good and com-
fortable house. The glebe contains about 14 1/2 imperial acres, and
the productive part of it may be stated at the annual value of L. 18.
The stipend consists of the whole teinds of the parish, which
amount to 202 bolls, 3 pecks, 3 1/5 lippies of meal; 13 bolls, 1 fir-
lot, 1 peck, 4/5 lippies of bear, and L. 5, 7s. 9 3/4d. of money, besides
L.1, 11s. 8d., paid by certain lands in the parish of Tarbolton.
	There is one Dissenting chapel in the village of Galston, which
is occupied by members of the United Secession Church. The
minister is supported by the voluntary contributions of his people,
and the average amount of stipend is L. 110.
     The number of families under the exclusive superintendence of
the parochial minister is 573, and the families connected with the
different denominations of Dissenters amount to 169. The re-
lative proportions of individuals connected as above is not so easily
ascertained, but it may safely be stated to be still higher in favour
of the Established Church. The average number of its communi-
cants is 830.
	Education.--There are 5 schools within the bounds of this pa-
rish,--in four of which the tearhers undertake to give instruction
in Latin, arithmetic and book-keeping, writing, English reading
and grammar. The parish schoolmaster has the maximum
salary appointed by Act of Parliament, and provision is made by
the heritors for a salary of L. 5, 12s. to two of the other teachers.
The fees at all these schools are 2s. 6d. per quarter for English
reading, 3s. for writing, 3s. 6d. for arithmetic, and 4s. for Latin;
but as the higher branches always include the lower, the greatest
sum paid by one pupil for education is 16s. a-year. With such
facilities for instruction, it is not surprising that there should be
scarcely a single native of the parish who cannot read; but as this
has happily been the case for many years, it is impossible now to
ascertain the change which may have been produced upon the
character of the parishioners by the universal prevalence of educa-
                                     4


