
152                        LANARKSHIRE.

this gentleman in the annals of calico-printing, was made the fol-
lowing year. It consists in printing upon Turkey red, or any dyed
colour, some powerful acid, and then immersing the cloth in a so-
lution of chloride of lime. Neither of these agents singly and alone
affects the colour; but those parts which have received the acid,
on being plunged in chloride of lime, are speedily deprived of their
dye, and made white by the acid of the liberated chlorine. This
is one of the most beautiful facts in the chemistry of calico-print-
ing.
	 For this process, a patent was obtained in this country by Mr
James Thomson of Primrose, near Clitheroe, in the year 1813;
and the same gentleman, in 1816, took out a second patent for a
very useful and happy modification of the principle of the former
one, namely, for combining with the acid some mordant, or metal-
lic oxide, capable, after the dyed colour was removed, of having
imparted to it some other colour. This laid the foundation of that
series of processes, in which the chromic acid and its combinations
have since been employed with such great success.
	Progress of the Power-Loom.--The power-loom was introduced
into Glasgow in the year 1793, by Mr James Lewis Robertson of
Dumblane. It was invented by the Rev. Dr Cartwright of Don-
caster, and was patented by him in 1774. About 1789 or 1790,
a number of these looms were fitted up in the hulks, to employ the
convicts. They were driven in a manner similar to the inkle-loom,
of which, indeed, the whole machine was a modification. Mr Ro-
bertson having been in London in 1792 or 1793, bought a couple-
of the looms from the hulks, and brought them to Glasgow, when
they were fitted up, and wrought in a cellar in Argyle Street. He
removed the driving-bar, and employed a large Newfoundland dog,
walking in a drum or cylinder, to drive the looms. He had an in-
genious old man, William Whyte, from Denny, to manage the
looms; and, by a son-in-law of this man's, the design of the looms
was communicated to a bleaching and calico-printing establishment
at Milton, near Dumbarton, in 1794, where about forty looms were
fitted up there for weaving calicoes for printing. In 1801, Mr
John Monteith of Glasgow got' a pair of looms from Milton, and,
in the course of two years afterwards, had 200 looms at work in a
portion of his, spinning establishment at Pollockshaws, near Glas-
gow. In 1803, Mr Thomas Johnston of Bradbury, Cheshire, in-
vented a very beautiful and useful machine for warping and dres-
sing warps; and sometime after, Messrs Radcliffe and Ross of Stock-


