
     Of Kilsinan.

to have been only about 20 yards long; and the cells,
from the sample that is to be seen, were also smaller
than those in the other mentioned*.
   There are a few Druidical stones to be seen in the
parish, with some traces of those circular rings of stones
supposed to have been their places of worship.  It is
unnecessary to mention, that these Druidical stones are
mostly very long, and standing perpendicular.  One of 
those in this parish is among the highest, perhaps, in
the country.
   On a rocky point, on the coast of Lochfine, about a
mile below the church, is to be seen the vestige of a 
building called Caisteal Mbic Eobbuin, i.e. M'Ewen's 
Castle.  It was a wide, but irregular building, neither
square nor circular, perhaps nearer a pentagon than any
other plan: it does not appear to have been built with
any king of mortar; but, from the quantity of rubbish,
it must have been of a considerable height.  This M'Ewen
was the chief of a clan, and proprietor of the northern
division of the parish, called Otter.  His possession of it
must have been of very remote antiquity; for there is

     K k 2

<UNREADABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

*There is a tradition in the country, which has wonderfully obtained uni-
versal credit; that the entire cell that is to be seen in this borradh was the
place where St. Marnock used to retire for the purposes of devotion,
and pennance, and likewise where he heard confession; which very much ex-
cited my curiosity, as well as that of many others, to see it.  But upon vi-
siting the place, and viewing the cell, I could not but wonder at the unac-
countable credility of those who could believe such an unlikely story.  For
the very size of it is such, that St. Marnock must have been a very little
man, as well as the person confessing, to find room in it, unless in a very auk-
ward posture.  It is therefore most likely, that the idea had been adopted from
its vicinity to the chapel above mentioned, dedicated to St. Marnock.  For my
own part, I am much more disposed to think, that, instead of its being the 
cell of a faint, it is more likely to have been the den of a thief; I mean a
place contrived by plundesers, as I have said above, for concealing thei booty.

</UNREADABLE>


