
     Statistical Account

out of it;  there being no brewery, and only two small
distilleries:  Whereas about 30 years ago, hardly 1500 bolls
were sold out of the parish*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Ancient States of the Parish- To give a general notion of the former, 
compared with the present state of the parish, the following facts relative
to the mode of cultivation, &c. 50 or 60 years ago, are subjoined;  which
are derived from the information of some intelligents farmers, who speak
from their own knowledge.  There were for the most part 8 tenants in
one farm or township, and the whole farm was run rig;  that is, one ridge
belonged to one, the next to another, the third to a third person. &c.
The ground was divided into infield and outfield.  The infield was con-
stantly cropped, either with oats or bear;  one ridge being oats, the other
bear, alternately.  There was no other crop, except 2 ridge of flax, where
the ground was thought proper for it.  The outfield was ploughed three
years for oats, and them pastured 5 or 6 years with horses, black cattle;
and sheep.  In order to drug it, they made sold of food for the cattle;
and what were called flakes or rails of wood, removable at pleasure, for
folding the sheep.  On the field thus teathed, the had their best crops for
two years.  A farmer who rented 60, 80, or 100 acres, was sometimes
under the necessity of buying meal for his family in the summer season:
Nor will this appear wonderful, when it is considered, that 15 bolls of
bear have of late years been produced upon the same field, where 50
shrave (1200 sheaves) formerly grew, which the owner said "he would
give for 50 bear bannocks," (barley cakes)  This little anecdote is cha-
racteristic of the times, though allowance be made for the exaggeration
of disappointment.  The rent of land was about a fifth of the present rent.
The ploughs and carts were usually made by the farmer himself;  with 
little iron about the plough, except the coulter and share;  none upon
the cart or harrows; no shoes upon the horses;  no hempen ropes.  In
short, every instrument of farming was procured at small expense, wood
being at a very low price.  Salt was a shilling the bushel:  Little soap
was used:  they had no candles, instead of which they split the roots of
fir trees, which, though brought 50 or 60 miles from the Highlands, were
purchased for trisle.  Their clothes were of their own manufacturing.
The average price of weaving ten yards of such cloth was a shilling,
which was paid partly in meal and partly in money.  The tailor worked
for a quantity of meal, suppose 3 pecks or a sirlot a year, according to the
number of the farmer's family.  They ploughed with horses and oxen
together: 2 horses before four of six oxen; and sometimes only with ox-
en.  The time of sowing and reaping was much the same as it is now.
After harvest, they pastured in common. No marl or lime had at that


