
     of Tarbat.

ted by seals, porpoises and whales.  A large one of the sper-
maceti kind was in the year 1756 stranded on the rocks to the
west of Portmaholmack.  It measured 63 feet in length, and
yielded a great quantity of spermaceti and blubber.  The otter
is sometimes surprised at land in his lurking places, and is va-
lued for his skin*.
   There are upon the different sides of the parish six harbours,
and a number of small creeks.  Of the harbours, Portmahol-
mack is the only one fit to receive vessels of any considerable
burden, the rest being merely landing places for open boats.-
There was a stone pier built there, at the expence of
the first Earl of Cromarty, which now through time and
neglect, lies in ruins. The want of this pier has, within these
forty years, occasioned the total loss of three vessels, and as ma-
ny more were, from the same cause, stranded on the shallows
in the frith, and not got off without much damage and ex-
pence.  From a survey lately made, it appears, that at full sea,
with a spring tide, there are thirteen feet of water at the pier
head, and 9 feet with a neap tide.  Ships driven by eas-

     VOL. VI. 3 H

<FOOTNOTE>

<UNREADABLE>

*Of land animals, the fox has his den amongst the rocks, and lives
mostly on shell-fish, though sometimes he makes excursions in search of
game, and to committed predators on the farmer's poultry-The hares are
numerous in the parish, and remarked for the when the snow
lies on the ground, they retire to the shores as a place of warmth and shelter.-
Of game birds, patridges are in great numbers in the parish, though
kept down by the hawk and kite, and other birds of prey, as well as the
sportsman-The green plover or lapwing comes early in the spring, and
quits the country again in the months of July and August.-The swallow and
come in the summer, and disappear in the middle of harvest; when
these birds take their departure, numerous flocks of curlew mountain plo-
vers, wild geese and swans return with their young ones from the hills and
lochs, where they had hatched and and reared them in the summer months.  The
various kinds of the wild duck do not remove from this place, but are inhabi-
tants of the marshes and shores, during the whole year.

</UNREADABLE>


