
                       BIRSE.                          787

of the parish of Aboyne, which extends down to the river Dee;
and on the north, partly by the said river, and by a section of
Aboyne, which stretches to the south of the Dee.
   Topographical Appearances.-The appearance of the parish is
hilly and mountainous.  If viewed from the highest round on its
western side, it would be seen to consist of three distinct valleys,
running eastwards towards the Dee, and separated from each other
by two ranges of hills.  That on the south is the largest, and,
forms the valley of the Feugh.  Its western extremity, called the
"Forest of Birse," is narrow, and the appearance of it is bleak
and wild; but at the distance of about five miles from its com-
mencement, the valley expands suddenly to a considerable breadth,
improving in appearance and in soil, and forming the chief part of
the property of Finzean.  This improvement in its natural fea-
tures is maintained throughout the valley to its termination at the
confluence of the Feugh with the Dee, near the village of Ban-
cbory, in Kincardineshire.  The total length of the Feugh which
divides this valley is about fifteen miles, and its termination forms
one of the loveliest and most romantic scenes on Dee-side. The
second valley, called "Glen-chatt," is much smaller than the
first, and the course of the stream which intersects it is shorter.
Like the former, it is narrow at first, but afterwards expands con-
siderably, forming the properties of Ballogie and Midstrath.  The
third district is not properly a valley by itself, but forms rather
one side of the vale perambulated by the Dee at this part of its
course.  There is, however, a small stream of water running
through it, and dividing it into two parts.  Hence it has still
something of the appearance of a valley although the ground on the
north side of it separating it from the Dee is not much elevated.
In the centre of this third district, the church and manse are si-
tuated.  Their position on the north-west side of the parish ren-
ders the great bulk of the inhabitants at a very inconvenient dis-
tance from church.  The scenery in the parish is not sufficiently
bold to be romantic, but may be called wild.  Some of the moun.
tains in the parish rise to a considerable altitude, Mount Geanach,
one of the Grampian range, being between two and three thou-
sand feet above the sea.
  Climate.-The temperature of the atmosphere is extremely va-
riable.  The climate cannot be called a humid one, yet itl is very
unsteady.  Sudden alternations of beat and cold, wet and dry
weather are constantly experienced.  Severe thunder storms some-


