
80                       STIRLINGSHIRE.

ed, moreover, that he had a strong sense of religion; and a tra-
dition is preserved that he was endowed with the faculty of second-
sight. He lived to a very advanced life. A tower at Duntreath,
which be is said to have occupied, still preserves his name. The
inheritance, in consequence of the infirmity of the elder, devolved
upon the younger brother, Archibald. This gentleman followed
the same line as his father, in opposing the tyrannical acts of
the government, in their endeavour to establish Episcopal juris-
diction; and was fined and imprisoned for holding a conventicle
in the private chapel of his house of Duntreath. After his release
he retired to Ireland, and died in consequence of his exertions in
defending the fort of Culmore, contiguous to Londonderry, at the
period of the famous siege of that city by King James II., A. D.
1689. He was succeeded by his son and namesake, who appears
to have resided chiefly at Red Hall, so that Duntreath fell into
decay. He represented, I believe, the county of Antrim, in the
Irish Parliament. He married, first, the Honourable Anne Ers-
kine, daughter to bavid, Lord Cardross, ancestor to the present
Earl of Buchan, by whom he had one daughter; and, secondly,
Anne, daughter to the Honourable John Campbell of Mammore,
second son to the unfortunate Earl of Argyle who was beheaded
A. D. 1685. Her brother, John, succeeded to, the dukedom of
Argyle, on the death of his cousin, Archibald. By this marriage
he had three sons and three daughters, and was succeeded by his
eldest son;
  Sir Archibald, created a baronet 1774, who married, first, Su-
sanna, daughter to Roger Harene of Footscray Place, in Kent,
by whom be had five sons and three daughters; and, secondly,
Hester, daughter to Sir John Heathcote of Normanton, in Rut-
landshire, by whom he had no issue. Sir Archibald sat, for above
twenty years in Parliament, for the county of Dumbarton, and the
Ayr and Irvine district of burghs. He very judiciously sold the
estate in Ireland, and purchased that of Kilsyth, in 1783, which
had been forfeited by the Livingstons Viscounts of Kilsyth, in
1715, and thus established and concentrated the familyr in their
vative country. He likewise began a liberal systesi of improve-
ment upon his estates, which was carried on to a greater extent
and computed by his successor.  Sir Archibald died at the ad-
vanced age of eighty-nine, in 1807, and was succeeded by his
eldest surtiving son;
   Sir Charles, who married, first, Emma, daughter of Richard


