
             134                           SHETLAND.

             and curing of herrings.  Bounties were held out as a stimulus to
             engage in this trade; but while, on the one hand, it was patroniz-
             ed and apparently encouraged, the restrictions laid on the outfit
             of the vessels to be employed in it, not only cramped the energies
             of the fisherman, but even deterred him from prosecuting a fish-
             ing which, he plainly foresaw, would involve him in difficulty and
             debt.  The consequence has been, that never, till very lately, has
             any attempt been made unless in the dead water in the voes, to
             set an herring net.  Mr James Garrick in Reawick, was the first
             in this parish who set a spirited example in the herring-fishing.
             He purchased a few second-hand boats from Wick, each of which
             carried about twenty nets, and with these was very successful.  The
             herrings caught are of an inferior quality, being mostly spent, and
             the season being too far advanced before the fishing commences.
             The cod-fishing is carried on till Lammas, and the herring-fish-
             ing does, not begin till after the middle of August.  Last year,
             upwards of 700 barrels of herrings were caught.  The general price
             given for herrings. when boat and nets belong to the fishermen is
             6s. 6d. per cran.  But when boat and nets are provided and kept in
             repair, for these the owner retains the half, and pays the fishermen
             2s. 6d. per cran for their half.  In this case, the fishermen incur
             no expense and no risk.  This fishing continues about six weeks,
             and during that time, some of the boats have caught 180 crans.
                Manufactures.-Formerly, a great quantity of kelp was manu-
             factured in the parish, perhaps not less than 130 tons.  But since
             barilla was introduced, kelp has declined so much in value, that
             the price obtained cannot now pay for the making of it.
                                 V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
                There is no, market-town nearer than Lerwick, which is distant
             about sixteen miles, with two arms of the sea intervening.  No
             post-office; and when a letter is to be sent or received, a person
             must be sent expressly for the purpose to Lerwick, the post-town,
             to whom is paid from Is. 6d. to 2s.  Sterling, according to the state
             of the weather.  There is nothing resembling a road in the parish,
             unless a piece which I made some-years ago, through the glebe, and
             carried on about half a mile towards the kirk.  But there is a de-
             cided disinclination to walk on the road, because it wears the rive-
             lins too fast, and because a road would imply a restriction to a
             particular path; whereas the Shetlander's delight is to range un-
             controlled and " to wander as free as the wind on his mountains."
             The fences are very inefficient, and being built, for the most part,


