
   186                          BANFFSHIRE.

   to whom the cause of edumtion here has been so much indebted,
   were both natives - of this parisb. The former, in 1678, be-
   queathed the lands of Redbyth and Meikle and Little Bogton, all
   within the parish, to establish bursaries at the parochial school, and
   at King's College, Aberdeen. They are called, from their founder,
   "the Ogilvie or Redhyth Bursaries." The number of bursars at the
   school is now, from 12 originally, raised to 17; the annual value of
   each bursary being, 81 bolls of meal, L. 1, 16s. 8d. in money, and
   L.l for sebool-fees to the teacher. The term of the bursarv is
   five years. The number at King's College, from 8 originally, is
   now also 17; and the annual value of each bursary is L. 17 Ster-
   ling.\f* Mr George Smith, who was born in the village of For-
   dyce, having realized a considerable fortune abroad, bequeathed
   the greater part of it for the purposes of education in his native
   parish. He died on his way home from the East Indies in the
   end of last century. The establishment on his foundation com-
   menced in 1801. There are at present nine bursars, each of them
   receiving L.25 a year for board, clothing, and education. They
   are all boarded with the teacher, who receives from the same fund
   L. 40 of annual salary, besides having bad provided for him an ex-
   cellent house and garden. The parochial schoolmaster has bi-
   therto held the situation of teacher to 11 Smith's Bursars;" but
   the magistrates of Banff, who are the patrons and trustees of the
   establishment, have it iii their power to appoint one distinct from
   this. The term of these bursaries is likewise five years. In  ad-
   dition to the above bequest, Mr Smith left L. 25 a year to the pa-
   rish minister, for taking a superintendence of the youth placed
   upon the endowment; and also L. 1000 to aid in erecting an
   infirmary or hospital, either in Banff or Fordyce.
      The Rev. James Stuart, late rector of Georgetown and All-Saints,
   South Carolina, left, besides other legacies for the advancement of
   education, L. 1200, to endow one bursary at tbe,school of Fordyce,
   and another at that of Banff, to be enjoyed by boys of the name
   of Stuart. These bursaries commenced in 1810, and the pres-
   bytery of Fordyce presents to them. There are also other two
   small bursaries, amounting together to about L. 9, founded by the
   late James Murray in Butterytack, and to which the kirk-session
   of Fordyce presents.
      In consequence of the distinguished advantages thus posses-
   sed in regartl to education, many who received the elements of

<FOOTNOTE>The Earl of Seafield is patron of them all.


