
	               LEUCHARS.                                225

wide, and 12 or 14 feet deep, an immense extent of rich land has
been gained. Numerous side cuts have been made into it. Tile
or furrow draining is also practised successfully. The only incon-
venience from this extensive draining is the great multiplication of
the grey rat. Inclosing by dikes of stone and lime has gone on
with great spirit within these twenty years past, and greatly bene-
fited the lighter soils.
   The introduction of the steam-engine into the thrasbing-mills
on two farms is found a great saving of horse power.
   The steadings are now universally in good condition, and on se-
veral farms have very excellent accommodation for cattle. There
is, however, still a want of cottars' houses for farm-servants, which
obliges the farmer to crowd young ploughmen into bothies, which
is unfavourable to their improvement in morals. It would perhaps
remedy the evil, to distribute the young men among the families
of those that are married, and lodge one or two of them with the
tenant himself, that all may be under some superintendence, and
be profitably employed at leisure hours. Indeed, the bothy system
is universally reprobated. The farm roads that are not on the sta-
tute labour books, are in the worst condition, especially in winter.
This is a subject of loud complaint with those who pay so heavily
for statute labour, and reap so little benefit from it.

<TABLE>

No. of acres in the parish amounts altogether to about,.	9800 Scotch acres.
	under regular cultivation, and not in pasture are	6310
         poor clay, and light land, often in pasture, .        3060
         in plantations,            .        .        .         360
         in roads,         .        .        .        .          70

   Rent of Land.--There are 31 farms (beside small feus) of
every variety of soil and size; and 140 ploughs, averaging fifty acres
for each plough. The average rent of good land is L. 2, 10s. per acre,
or rather L. 1, with one-half boll of wheat, one-half boll barley, and
one-half boll oats. Many acres are still valued at L. 4 each. Poor
soils are from L. 1, 10s. to 7s. 6d. per acre, the average value of
the Tents moor. The long tract of bents is fit for nothing but har-
bouring rabbits, a species of stock once in greater repute, but now
nearly extirpated, on account of its diminished value, and its de-
predations on the neighbouring crops. About a thousand acres of
such links may be considered not worth cultivating. The valued
rental is L. 10,541 Scots. The allowed real rental at last valua-
tion of stipend was L. 13,660, and it is thought that if the farms
were out of lease, they, could not at present, bring much beyond
that sum. But it is difficult to ascertain the real rental, as there
   FIFE.                               P


