
314                         PERTHSHIRE.

A third well upon the side of the Machony was of still greater im-
portance. It was called the well of Struthill, and by the credulous
was much sought after, as its virtues were considered effectual in
curing madness. Doubtless, its celebrity was altogether owing to
the artifices of the avaricious religionists, who, it would appear,
practised on the superstition of frequent visitors, to call forth their
liberality in the shape of offerings cast into the well. That this ac-
count is more than mere conjecture, appears from the fact, that the
Popish chapel which stood near the well was ordered by the pres-
bytery of Auchterarder, anno 1650, to be demolished, on account
of the superstitions which were practised within it. But even this was
not effectual to do away the celebrity of the well, or rather, we may
say, was not effectual to lessen the avarice of those who kept it; for
in 1668 several persons testified before the presbytery of Stirling,
that, having carried a woman thither, " they had stayed two nights at
a house hard by the well; that the first night they did bind her twice
to a stone at the well, but she came into the house to them, being
loosed without any help: The second night they bound her over
again to the same stone; and she returned loose. And they de-
clare also that she was very mad before that they took her to the
well, but since that time, she is working, and sober in her wits."
This well was still celebrated, and votive offerings were cast into
it, in the year 1723; but such delusions have now happily passed
away. *
   Formerly, the only lake in the parish was the loch of Balloch,
a natural collection of water at the foot of Torlum, not remarka-
ble for beauty or expansion. But now we have several artificial
lakes, one of which is worthy of notice. It is commonly styled the
Pond of Drummond. This is an interesting sheet of water, and
cannot but be admired by the visitor.  On its north side, is a rocky
eminence, about seventy feet above its level; around it are well
wooded banks; and on it, swans, geese, and ducks are at all
times seen. Its length is nearly a mile, and its breadth about half
the same. Where the loch is now, there was once a cultivated
valley, which was portioned out by the King's Commissioners on
the forfeited estates, as a reward to some of the bravest men who
hazarded their lives in the Rebellion of 1745; and after all of them
had died out, or were removed, Lady Perth desired it to be form-
ed into its present state.

<FOOTNOTE>See Darker Superstitions of Scotland, p. 82.

