
<APPENDIX>

lxxv

which have been made for eight others, were with-held from the public, as
late as the year 1780.  The account given of them by Mr Gough is not
very favourable; he states, "that incorrect pedigrees futile etymologies,
"verbose disquisitions, crowds of epitaphs, lists of landholders, and such far-
"rago, thrown together, without method, unanimated by reflections, and
"delivered in the most uncouth and horrid style, make the bulk of our
"country histories*."  At the same time, in some of those works, some use-
ful facts may be obtained, and they furnish materials, which may be of ser-
vice, when a Statistical Survey of that kingdom, on a proper system, is un-
dertaken.
   But besides these county histories, various attempts have been made in
England, of a more extensive nature, more especially that general survey,
known under the name of Domes-day Book, which is thus described by
Hume the historian:  "In 1081, William began an undertaking, which
"proves his extensive genius, and does honour to his memory; it was a ge-
"neral survey of all the lands in the kingdom, their extent in each di-
"strict, their proprietors, tenures, value, the quantity of meadow, pasture,
"wood, and arable land, which they contained; and in some counties, the
"number of tenants, cottagers, and slayes of all denominations, who lived
"upon them.  He appointed commissioners for this purpose, who entered
"every particular in their register, by the verdict of juries; and after a la-
"bour of six years, (for the work was so long in finishing), brought him
"an exact account of all the landed property of his kingdom.  This monu-
"ment, called Domes-day Book, the most valuable piece of antiquity pos-
"sessed by any nation, is still preserved in the Exchequer, and though only
"some extracts of it have hitherto been published, it serves to illustrate to
"us, in many particulars, the ancient state of England.  The great Alfred
"had finished a like survey of the kingdom in his time, which was long
"kept at Winchester, and which probably served as a model to William in
"this undertaking.+"
   It is unpardonable in the British Government, not to have translated this
record, and by tables or otherwise, to have explained the political state of
England, at the conquest.  The book is properly, indeed, a royal rent-roll,
and was intended for the purpose of ascertaining the income of the Crown.
and the persons by whom it was payable, But, at least same time, it con-
tains many curious facts, which would throw very considerable light on the
ancient state of the country, and which ought not to be kept in a manner
unintelligible to the public, from the uncouthness of its character, and the

<FOOTNOTE>

*British Topography, vol. 1, p. 21.
+Hume's Hist. edit. 1778, in 8vo, vol. 1. p. 275.


