
     Statistical Account

   Antiquities, etc.-At Low Monktown hill, 3 quarters of a
mile from the church, near the farm house, situated upon a 
rising ground, a large stone is placed.  Upon digging for ma-
terials for making a road, several urns containing human 
bones were found.  There is no tradition how they were de-
posited, if is was not in the time of the Romans, when Ju-
lius Agricola commanded, who was said to have sent Roman 
forces into that part of the country of a mile E. from the 
church, upon a rising ground, stands a handsome sepulchral 
monument, erected to the memory of Governor M'Crae, 
formerly governor of Madras in the East Indies, which is 
now the burying-place of Mr. Dalrymple of Orangefield. 
Upon the estate of Ladykirk, belonging to Alexander Gardi-
ner, Esq. there are some remaines of a chapel, dedicated to 
the Virgin Mary, called in old writings, Ladykirk in Kyle, 
situated in the common pasture of the lands of Adamtown, 
being a part of that barony belonging formerly to the family 
of Blair, who had the right of patronage in the times of 
Popery.  The building was a square, and turrets placed up-
on each corner; the chapel placed in the middle.  One of the 
turrets still remains, which some time ago was repaired.  The 
whole is enclosed in the garden at present.  When digging, 

<FOOTNOTE>

10 L. Sterl. yearly:  Women's wages are from 3 L. 10 s. to 4 L. ditto:  Day-labourers 
are 1 s. a-day, and in harvest from 14 d. to 16 d, and in winter 10 d. from Mar-
tinmas to New Year's-day:  A mason's wages are from 15. 8 d, to 25. a-day:  A
wright's wages from 1 s. 4 d. to 1 s. 6 d,:  And a tailor's wages 10 d. and his vic-
tuals, a-day.  Men's shoes from 6 s. to 6 s. 6 d., and 5 s.-The 
poor's funds of the parish, amount to 130 L.  Sterling, in stock, besides collections. 
The poor upon the box, at present, are 12, who receive mostly 3 s. a-month, 
and more when exigencies require.  This, with their own industry, is judge a 
sufficient supply: none are allowed to beg.  The yearly collections at the 
church, among to about 22 L, or 23 L. Sterling.  The yearly distributions to a 
bout the same sum.


