
322                    DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

average number of persons receiving parochial aid is 10; and the
average yearly allowance to each L. 1, 4s.

                     MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
	In the former Statistical Account of this parish, it is stated, that
there were then not 700 acres under the plough; and now there
are no less than 6391 acres, I rood, 10 poles, fit for every purpose
of husbandry. Still, however, there is a great want of shelter and
enclosures with belts of planting judiciously laid down. In the
measurement of his Grace's property in this parish, it is stated
that there are upwards of 178 acres under wood; but that wood
consists chiefly of brush and sprouthngs of trees formerly cut down,
and is confined to the sides of deep ravines and the banks of the
different rivers. The valuable part of the wood, many years ago,
was set up to public sale by order of the late William Duke of
Queensberry; and the purchasers were not required, by the arti-
cles of sale, to enclose the wood, so as to preserve the young shoots
from being destroyed by the sheep or black cattle. No doubt,
in some places, these young shoots have got the superiority over
their enemies; yet there is not a single tree of any considerable
value within that portion of this parish which originally belonged to
his Grace. The present Noble proprietor, however, has done much,
and is still going on improving his princely property in Nithsdale,
by planting, draining, and enclosing, and by erecting commodious
farm-houses and offices to his numerous tenants. These improve-
ments first commenced near his own residence at Drumlanrig Castle;
but, from the great progress which has been made, there is every
reason to hope that his Grace will soon carry them into this upper
district; and, when these are once completed, it may be safely
asserted, that there will be few more pleasant country districts,
or more delightful tours than from Dumfries by the bank of the
Nith to New Cumnock in Ayrshire. More than twenty miles of
that road, without intersection, passes through his Grace's property.
When these improvements shall have been completed, many of the
disadvantages arising from an unfriendly climate will be removed.
For the advancement of agriculture, every facility is afforded by good
roads, and a constant supply of lime from Ayrshire, about six miles
distant from the centre of this parish. In the north-east district,
there is a regular supply of lime during summer from the farm of

six months, the time required. In consequence of this plan, the needy were well
supplied with wholesome-food, and, upon closing the whole concern, the sum neces-
sary for reducing the price of provisions was found to be not much to every individual
contributor.
					3


