
			ARDROSSAN.                            197

The last two excepted, none of these heritors are resident in the
parish.
	Parochial Registers.--From a memorandum in one of the vo-
lumes, of date 1755, it appears that registers of baptisms, from
May 28, 1682 till May 23, 1725, had been regularly kept, but
which have long been lost. From 1742 till 1787, lists of baptisms
and marriages have been regularly kept, and with a little interrup-
tion at this period till 1802,--from which last date till 1816 they
are very imperfect; but they have since been kept with great ac-
curacy.
	Antiquities.--Only a very imperfect account can be given of any
remains of antiquity that are yet to be seen in the parish. The di-
lapidated remains of the Castle of Ardrossan, a venerable monu-
ment of time long gone by, stand on the small promontoryl `bove-
mentioned, which oives name to the parish. It is said that this
castle, in the days of Baliol, being in the hands of the English,
Wallace, with some trusty followers, came secretly to the neigh-
bourhood, and set fire, at night, to the village at the base of the
Castle-hill. The garrison seeing the flames, and not suspecting
the enemy to be at hand, hurried forth to quench the fire, when
Wallace and his chosen band rushed in, and having taken posses-
sion of the gates, slew all the English as they returned, and cast
their dead bodies into the dungeon, which, from that circumstance,
was called Wallace's Larder.* This once princely mansion is
said to have been habitable so late as the time of Oliver Cromwell,
who is reported to have reduced it to its present ruinous state. In
the former Statistical Account of this parish, it is said that "he
threw down the walls of the castle, carried the stones over sea in
boats, and with them built the fort of Ayr." Two fragments are
now all that remain. The castle and barony of Ardrossan an-
ciently belonged to a powerful family of the same name, according
to some, or Barclay, according to others;+ perhaps to both at

<FOOTNOTE>In making a cut, close by the south side of the castle, for the railway in 1829,
a large massy gilt bronze ring, with signet, was found, and which, from the
letter W on it, is supposed to h`ve belonged to this noble assertor of his country's
independence. The ring is now in the possession of the Rev. David Landsborough
Of Stevenston.
          +The first of this family, says Robertson, that has come under my notice is, Dom.
Fergus Ardrossan de eodem, in 1260. A Sir Fergus de Ardrossan accompanied
Edward Bruce in his Irish expedition in 1316. The last of them mentioned in any
record that I have seen is Godfrey de Ardrossan, who is witness to an undated charter
in the reign of David II. to the Abbot of Kilwinning.--Hist. of Cuninghame.
Fergus Ardrossan was one of the Scots barons who, in 1320, signed the celebrat-
ed letter to the Pope, complaining of the aggressions and pretensions of Edward of
England. Arthurus de Ardrossan is witness to a charter Hugeni de Crawford de
terris de Monach, in 1226


