
     Statistical Account

   We have several mineral springs, chiefly chalybeate, and ma-
ny rivulets, all running into the water of Luggar, a stream which
empties itself into the river of Air near Barskimming.-This
stream abounds in trout, and some eels are found in it.  On
the consines of the parish, are three lochs or lakes, which may
cover in all about 100 acres of land.  Their depth is unknown,
and they communicate each other.  The water of the eastern
one runs into Aith, while the western loch runs into the wa-
ter of Luggar.  The fish in these lochs are pike and eel.

   Hills and Minerals.-The hills, (for the parish has no moun-
tains), though partly covered with heath, are chiefly green,
and abounding in a coarse species of grass called spirit.  There
are several volcanic appearances in them, on which are found
stones of the Basaltic species; also a few figured stones; and
in the beds of the rivulets, petrifaction of shells and fish are
thrown up from the strata.  These are also found in an exten-
sive lime quarry, belonging to the Earl of Dumfries, and one
of it, upper beds abounds with a species of coral.  The lami-
na of lime stone in this quarry are of different qualities, and
the lime stone in son places, being mixed with shells and
spar, takes a very fine polish, and wou'd make a pretty enough blue
marble.  Through this quarry, there runs a small vein of lead
ore.  This upon a late trial, being dressed and smelted at the
works of Wanlockhead, was found to produce 65 lb. of lead
from 100 cwt of ore.-Free stone abounds in different parts
of the parish, and particularly in the vicinity of the village.
The quarries are of easy access, and supply materials of the
best kind for building.  Many houses have been rebuilt, and
a good many new houses have been lately erected from these quar-
ries, in the village and vicinity.  Coal is still more plentiful.
A considerable part of the parish is supposed to stand upon it.
One of mines has been worked for more than 30 or 40 years.


