
164               DUMBARTONSHIRE.


Glasgow or Ayr; consequently, peat is much used as fuel.
Agricultural produce finds a ready market in the villages on the
Leven, in Helensburgh, especially during the summer, or in
Greenock.
  Tailors are often hired by the day, and receive from 1s. 8d. to
2s. besides victuals. A pair of strong shoes for a labouring man
costs 9s. to 10s. for a woman, 7s. to 8s. The shoeing of a horse
costs 3s. 8d. The price of a cart is L. 10, 1Os. The wages of a
journeyman shoemaker per day, are 2s. 6d.; of a smith, 3S.; of
a wrigbt, 3s. A good deal of the work required in all these spe-
cies of handicraft is done by persons in Helensburgb.
  Live Stock.--The prevailing breeds of sheep are, the south of
Scotland black-faced sheep on the hill pasture, and occasionally
the Cheviot breed on the low grounds. The Highland breed of
cattle is grazed on the billy pastures. The milch cows on the low
grounds are generally of the cross breed between Highland and
Ayrshire, and on the best of the lands, pure Ayrshire.
  Agricultural Society.--An agricultural society has been esta-
blished for several years among the tenantry on Sir James Col-
quhoun's estates, and prizes have been distributed annually to
encourage improvements in the breeding of cattle, as well as in
the cultivation of land. A considerable degree of emulation has
thus been excited among all descriptions of farmers. Towards
farther improvement, draining of land is much wanted in many
places. There has been no embanking nor artificial irrigation;
but a good many acres, which are laid under the waters of the
lake in winter, are under crops of grain in summer.
  Formany years, a large proportion of the tenants have had no writ-
ten leases, and this must have operated to some extent as a check to
improvement. But as they were never removed except from strong
reasons, their circumstances were by no means so unfavourable as
might be otherwise supposed. Although there are several com-
modious farm-buildings, yet generally they are not such as were
to be desired, and such as, considering the facility of procuring
materials, might have been expected.
  Quarries.--The freestone quarry is worked only for buildings
within the parish. The slates from Luss and Camstraddan quarries
are not only conveyed by the lake to the various parishes surround-
ing it, but down the Leven to Dumbarton, Glasgow, Paisley, Port-
Glasgow, and Greenock. To Helensburgh, Row, and the shores
of the Gareloch, they are conveyed by land. There are about
                          3


