
			RUTHERGLEN.                          385

none of the company is suffered to be idle. The whole is a scene
of activity, mirth, and diversion, and might afford an excellent sub-
ject, for a picture. There is no account of the origin of this cus-
tom. The bread thus baked was doubtless never intended for
common use. It is not easy to conceive why mankind, especially
in a rude age, would strictly observe so many ceremonies, and be at
so great pains in making a cake, which, when folded together, makes
but a scanty mouthful. Besides it is always given away in pre-
sents to strangers, who frequent the fair. The custom seems to
have been originally derived from Paganism, and to contain not a
few of the sacred rites peculiar to that impure religion, as the le-
vened dough, and the mixing it with sugar and spices, the conse-
crated ground, &c. &c. This custom is given up, except in
the house of Bailie Hugh Fulton, vintner, where the entire ce-
remonies are gone through.
	Sour Cream.--Rutherglen is famous for making sour cream of
an excellent quality. It is made in the following manner: A cer-
tain quantity of sweet milk is put into a wooden vessel or vat, which
is placed in a proper degree of heat, and covered with a linen
cloth. In due time, the serous or watery part of the milk begins
to separate from the rest, and is called whig. When the separa-
tion is complete, which, according to circumstances, requires more
or less time, the whig is drawn off from near the bottom of the
vessel. The substance that remains is then beat with a large
spoon or ladle, till the particles of which it is composed are pro-
perly mixed. A small quantity of sweet milk is sometimes added.
to correct the acidity if it is in excess. The cream thus prepar-
ed is agreeable to the taste, and nourishing to the constitution.

			III.--POPULATION.
	There seems to have been no enumeration of the inhabitants
of the parish of Rutherglen that can be relied on prior to 1755,
when it was taken for Dr Webster, then drawing Up his report for
the widows' fund. In that year, the population amounted to 988.
In 1791, according to Chalmers' Caledonia, it amounted to 1860.
In 1793, Ure states, that, "the town of Rutherglen consisted of
255 dwelling-houses, inhabited by 400 families, containing 1631
persons, of whom 270 children under six years of age, males,
801, females, 830." This does not include the landward part
of the parish. If the landward contained 500 persons, which it
is very probable it did, the population in 1793 would have been
2131.


