
726                  EDINBURGHSHIRE.

members of society, and also for assisting in their outset in life
such of them as may be thought to deserve and require such aid. "
The number of children received is about 120, to whom a plain
and useful education is afforded.
   Donaldson's Hospital.-Mr Donaldson, a wealthy printer in
Edinburgh, died in 1830, and left a great proportion of his pro-
perty, upwards of L. 200,000, for the erection and endowment of
an hospital for the maintenance of 200 poor boys and girls. The
site of this hospital is on the rising ground to the west of Coates
House,-where a magnificent structure is now in progress of erec-
tion.
   Fettes Endowment.-In 1836, Sir William Fettes, banker in
Edinburgh, left also a large sum of money for the maintenance,
education, and outfit of young people whose parents have fallen
into adverse circumstances.
   Chalmers's Hospital.-Mr Chalmers, plumber in Edinburgh,
left, in 1836, upwards of L. 30,000 for the erection and endowment
of an hospital "for the sick and hurt." The management is
vested in the Dean and Faculty of Advocates. It is to be re-
gretted that more bequests of this nature are not made.
   Magdalene Asylum.-A society called the Edinburgh Philan-
thropic was established in 1797, for the purpose of taking some
charge of those unfortunate females who, after confinement in
bridewel, were again liable to be set loose upon society. In a few
years it was found necessary to enlarge the sphere of this import-
ant charity; and under the new designation of the Society for the
support of the Magdalene Asylum, they opened an institution in the
Canongate, under the patronage of the late George IV., then
Prince of Wales, for the reception of those females "who, after
deviating from the paths of virtue, express a sincere desire of
reformation;" and the endeavours of the managers are directed
to the attainment of this most important object, by instructing them
in the principles of religion, and training them to habits of useful
industry. The asylum was opened in 1807, and is capable of con-
taining about sixty inmates. Besides religious instruction and mo-
ral Superintendence, suitable work is furnished them; and as an
encouragement to industrious habits, one-fourth share of the pro-
duce of, their labour is paid to them in clothes and other necessa-
ries, the remainder going to the funds of the institution. The
other expenses are entirely defrayed by contributions, donations,
and legacies. The asylum is under the management of the Lord


