
				BUITTLE.                   213

	The old church stood in the centre of the burying-ground, and
bore evident marks of remote architecture; there are no records
respecting the period of its erection. The east end of it, which
comprehended the choir, was wider than the rest of the building,
and was divided from it by a Gothic arch. The walls still re-
main entire, and are covered with ivy, forming a beutiful ruin.
	In Symson's description of Galloway, it is said that " the kirk
was of old called Kirkennen, and was situated upon the river of
Urr, near the mouth of it; but for the more conveniency, was trans-
lated to the very centre of the parish, and called Bootle, because
built in the baronie so called."
	No vestige of the old church of Kirkennan now remains, though
the place where it stood, is still pointed out. About seventy years
ago, when digging the ground around it, handles of coffins and frag-
ments of human bones were discovered. This burying-ground has
long been subjected to the plough; it probably ceased to be used
as a place of interment when the church was removed to Buittle,
and a burying-ground was established there. No monuments or
grave stones were erected at Kirkennan, at least, no fragments of
any such memorials now remain; perhaps, at a remote period,
these were not erected in country parishes. The oldest grave-
stone in Buittle church-yard, was erected to the memory of a
person who died in 1701.
	The manse and offices were built in 1793, and have undergone
frequent repairs.
	The stipend, as modified in 1831 by the Court of Teinds, is
16 chalders, half barley and half meal; and since that period, the
average amount of stipend, converted into money according to the
fiar prices of the stewartry, is L. 211, 2s. 3 1/4d. per annum.
	Education.--There are two parochial schools in the parish.
One of the teachers has a salary of L.28, 6s. 5d. The other has
a salary of L.23, 0s. 2d. The teachers have commodious dwell-
ing houses and school-rooms, built by the heritors in 1817. One
of the teachers has a small garden free of rent; the other pays
L.1 per annum for less than a rood of ground. The number of
scholars attending the parochial schools, on an average, is about
130.
	Poor and Parochial Funds.--The average number of indus-
trious poor on the roll of the kirk-session for the last three years
is 18. There is no parochial assessment. The weekly collec-
tions in the church, with the interest of a small sum of money,


