
                ISLAND OF SKYE-KIUMUIR.                          265

exception that they bad to give a certain number of salmon, at a
fixed price, annually to the proprietor. It is said that they got
deeply in arrears with their salmon rent, and, being unable to pay
the same when demanded, lost their tenure. A Mrs Macqueen,
the relict of the last of the family, had a pendicle of the farm un--
til the day of her death.
Land-owner3 and Residence.-The most entire ruin in the pa-
rish, is the magnificent Castle of Duntulm, the ancient residence
of the family of Macdonald, the illustrious descendants of So-
merled, Rex Insularurn. This dihn or fort was built on a lofty,
perpendicular, sea-beaten rock, and, from its situation, must have:
been impregnable, both from sea and land. It was originally a
Danish fort, which was rebuilt by the powerful Clann DouuilL
for a family seat. It is said that this distinguished clan made
choice of this place as the site of their castle, because it was, at
the time of the Norwegian Conquest, the residence of David, one
of the most powerful of the Vikingr, or piratical kings, who in
vaded the island. It was anciently known by the name of Dim,
Dhaibhidh, or David's Fort, and the word David was inscriber
on a stone in the front of the original tower, but that stone, and
many others, having sculptured figures upon them, were taken
away as curiosities. This superb edifice was, from time imme-
morial, the birth-place of many gallant heroes, renowned charae,
ters, and eminent men of that powerful clan. Most of these,.
though not all, were interred in a plot in the parish buryiDg-ground,
called Reileag Mhoir Chloinn Donuill, or the large cemetery of
the Macdonalds.The Macdonalds have.for ages been justly
distinguished asthe best and most indulgent of proprietors. The
family residenceis now Armadale Castle, in the parish of Sleat.
Antiquities.-The ruins of cills, or Culdee chapels, as has al-
ready been noticed, are very numerous. The monastery, which
was erected by St Columba on an island, in the now drained lake
of Coluni-cille, bears every mark of having been an extensive and
firmly-built edifice. It is now almost level with the ground ; still
the foundation can be distinctly traced.
   There was a fane, or temple, now in ruin ' s, in the above.-men-
tioned island of Fladda-chuain, supposed to have been built by
the Druids, who, according to tradition, went thither onee a year
to worship and feast. There were nine smooth stones used by-
them, in their religious ceremonies, each about a foot in lengtb.'
They remained entire, and might still have been seen there had
   INVERNESS.                                S



