
606                        EDINBURGHSHIRE.

given for behoof of the poor by benevolent persons connected with
Cramond, so that we may safely assert that there is no parish in
Scotland where the poor are more liberally provides for. There
are four lunatic paupers, all of whom are inmates in the asylum
at Morningside.

 May 1845.

                        PARISH OF COCKPEN.

       PRESBYTERY OF DALDEITH, SYNOD OF LOTHIAN AND TWEEDDALE.

             THE REV. WILLIAM DAVIDSON, A. M. MINISTER.

                I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-The present has been the name of the parish as far
back as can be ascertained. It is probably of Gaelic origin.
   Extent.-The parish is somewhat of an oval form, 3 miles long
from north to south, and 1 1/2 mile broad from east to west. It
contains about 4 square miles.
   Topographical Appearances.-The general appearance of the
surface is flat. It is varied, however, by gradual rises and falls,
and is all of a cultivated rich clay soil, excepts a small portion on
the north end at Hillhead, which is a soil of very fine rich loam.
The stiff clay soil is in general about two feet thick, and rests upon
a stiff clay subsoil; and the loamy soil at Hillhead lies upon a
sandy or gravelly subsoil. The parish is composed of what natu-
ralists call the secondary or floetz class, and of that part of this
class called the independent coal formation. We have coarse coal,
foliated coal, and slated coal, in beds from about 2 feet to 3 1/2 feet
thick. The rocks between which the coals are deposited, in
slightly inclined strata, are clay-sandstone, slate-clay, bituminous
shale, and limestone. In some places, patches or nodules of green-
stone are to be found. There is a bed of clay sandstone at Skel-
timuir, on the west side of the parish, about 300 feet above the
level of the sea, wherein are found petrifications of sea shells.
   There is now only one coal mine in the parish, on the estate of
Mr Dundas of Arniston. This coal-work is near the south side
of the parish, at Stobhill. It has been wrought to the depth of
94 fathoms 3 feet, through 15 beds of coal, of from 1 1/2 to 3 feet


