
        				NEW ABBY.                  245

western boundary, there is a range of hills, commencing with Low-
tis on the north, and terminating with Criffell on the south.
Douglas Cairn, on the top of Criffell, is about 1900 feet above
the level of the sea. On the north-east side of the parish, there
is also a ridge of elevated ground about five miles in extent.  Be-
tween the two ridges, there is a strath, varying from a mile to a
quarter of a mile in breadth, and watered by differeni stream
which, after their junction near the beautiful villa of Kinharvey,
alias Kilhelvie, are called New Abbey Pow. Near the north end
of the parish, the surface is level, and towards the south,east there
is a portion of flat carse land; but the greatest part of that dis-
trict slopes from the western hills gently towards the east, till it
reaches the shore of the Nith which separates it from Caerlave-
rock.
	The shore is clayey. The merse is valuable pasture, but the
extent of it is gradually diminishing by the encroachments of the
tide. By embankments, many acres of valuable land might be
recovered. But there is no prospect of this being done by the pre-
sent  generation.
	The prevailing winds are from the south and west, and they
often blow with tremendous violence. In the tempest of January
1839, about 30 acres of plantation on the estate of Shambel-
lie, and worth nearly L.I00 per acre, were uprooted or injured.
	Climate.--Owing to the vicinity of the hills and of the Solway
Frith, the climate is mild and moist; but, as the soil in three
fourths of the inhabited part of the parish is of an absorbent qua-
lity, the rain soon sinks, and the moisture does not induce any lo-
cal distempers.
	Lakes.--There are three lakes in the parish. Lochkindar, at
the foot of Criffell, on the south, is about a mile long, three-quar-
ters of a mile wide, and thirty feet deep; it abounds with excellent
trout of different kinds. Where the bottom is gravelly, the trout,
in the colour of its flesh, resemblds salmon, and has a delightful
flavour. Where the bottom ir mossy, the flesh is whitish, and
tastes of the soil. The size varies from a finger-length to eighteen
inches. In this loch, there are two islands,--on one of which,
as before noticed, stood, in Popish times, the parish chureh.  A
few years ago, the late proprietor, uninfluenced by any zeal for
Romish superstitions or relics, slightly repaired the ruined walls,
added a thatch roof, and fitted up an apartment as a refectory
during the angling season. This island may measure half an


