
     Statistical Account

in their wild and natural state, are capable of supplying the
inhabitants and their families with plenty of grain; and, what
is very extraordinary, there is not any part of the ground in the
whole parish, however wild or barren, but what might be im-
proved so as to supply the inhabitants with provisions.  The
upper end of the parish, on which snow may be supposed to
lie for some time, yet is seldom or never covered with it above
three, four, or six days at the utmost; but in the adjoining
parishes of Kirkcoven, Colmonell, and Minnigaff, it will re-
main for weeks, nay sometimes for months.  This is judged
to be owing to its being situated between two large rivers,
and the land lying much lower than that in these other pa-
rishes.  The wool in the parish in general is good, and supe-
rior to that of most of the neighbouring parishes.  It is much
run upon, and commonly gives about 10 s 6 d. per stone.
The soil in general, on the south end of the parish, is ex-
ceedingly good.  The land is fertile, and much of it has of
late been improved with shells and lime, and produces un-
common crops of corn, ryegrass, and clover.  The grounds
indeed are stoney, except what is immediately upon the wa-
ter side, and occasions a good deal of expence in clearing
them off; but, when done, the labour and expence are am-
ply repaid.  The most remarkable spot of ground in the pa-
rish, is a corner of it called the Moss of Cree, lying along
the side of the Water of Cree.  It begins at a port called
Carty, about 2 miles from Newton-Stewart, where small vessels
can be brought with safety into it, either with merchant
goods from the English side, or with lime, coals, and shells;
and extends, in length and breadth, to about 4 English miles.
It is of a deep clay bottom, and was once undoubtedly cover-
ed with the sea, and afterwards with wood; for large trunks
of trees are still found in different parts of it.  The tide
somes up the Water of Cree, very high to the town of New-
   

