
578 	                     AYRSHIRE.

At the bottom of the hill, north of the rocking-stone, there are-the
remains of a circular trench, and of some building. The place is
called Kirklie Green. On a plain at the south bottom of the hill,
about twenty-five years ago, were discovered several stone coffins un-
der a large cairn of stones. The total length of the cairn is 72 feet;
its breadth 36 feet; its height 10 feet. In one of them were
found some fragments of human bones, with a small bead of burned
clay, and a piece of copper like a defaced coin; but there was no
appearance of the urn. The usual indication of Christian burial
was wanting, as the coffins did not lie east and west. The cairn
which contained these coffins, and a considerable part of which is
still left entire, has been enclosed and surrounded with a planta-
tion by Dr Robert Patrick of Hazlehead, the late proprietor. On
a field in the adjoining lands of Townend of Threepwood, about
thirty-five years, ago, there was found a large vase of burned clay,
of a size capable of containing about six gallons. In it there was
it considerable quantity of burned bones. The vase broke on
being handled, and exposed to the air, and soon crumbled into
dust. Within it there was found a small open urn of hard burned
clay, and at a short distance from it, another small urn was found
by itself; probably the larger one in which this last bad been
placed was destroyed without being noticed. They indicated no
knowledge of art, and seemed as if formed with the finger and
thumb. The small urns were doubtless for receiving the ashes of
the brain and heart, while those of the body were lodged in the
larger vessel. In one of them were two perforations, as if for fix-
ing it to some other body; probably to the larger urn, in which it
was found, or for receiving wires for its own lid or cover. These
are antiquities which, as Sir Thomas Brown says, Time anti-
quates; for we have no floating tradition as to their origin on this
hill or its vicinity.
	The two modes of sepulture here exemplified, the stone coffin
in one place, and the cinereal urn in another, probably indicate
different ages; and the one first used may have been as much
unknown to those who adopted the last as both are to ourselves.
	Some are of opinion that these funereal remains, prove that a
battle wag fought on this spot, and that the tumuli contain the re-
mains of the chiefs who fell in the conflict. There, is supposed to be
distance southwards, called-Gillies Hill, and this is supposed to be
the place where the followers of the army appeared. We know
that it was common in the warfare of such remote period, for the


