
		       PARISH OF PETERCULTER.

	      PRESBYTERY OF ABERDEEN, SYNOD OF ABERDEEN.

		   THE REV. JOHN STIRLING, MINISTER.

                  I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
         Name.-THE latter part of the name of this parish is variously
written, Coulter and Culture; in the oldest register of the pa-
rish, it is uniformly rendered Culter. Some think that this word
is a Gaelic compound consisting of Cul, the back, and tir, the
country; i. e, the back country, (the parish being situated on
the north side of the river Dee.)  Others account for the name
by what they suppose to have been the original orthography of
the parish, viz. Petri Cultura. When Popery was the esta-
blished religion, chapels were erected on the opposite sides of
the river, and dedicated to the respective Saints Mary and Peter.
To these saints were consecrated not only the chapels, but also
the nearest wells, the one called St Mary's, and the other St
Peter's well. At a small distance from the church there is a high
steep bank called Petees Heugh.
         Extent and, Topographical Appearances.-From the east, on
which it is bounded by the parishes of Bancho-Devenick and
New-hills, this parish extends south-west and west nearly 7 miles.
Between these extreme points, on the western boundary, it is in-
dented by the parish of Drumoak; so that its mean length does
not much exceed 5 miles. It is in several places nearly 5 miles
broad, its mean breadth, however, does not exceed 4 miles. Its
figure is so very irregular, that it would be difficult to compute its
superficial contents. It is bounded on the south by the river Dee,
with the exception of the small farm of Insch, which lies beyond
the river. The surface of the parish is very rugged and uneven.
It is divided by the burns of Leuchar, Culter, and Murtle, into
several distinct parts, and it has numerous slopes, and hollows,
rocky hills, marshy and mossy flats interspersed.
	The southern division, with the exception of a small district of



