
                           PAISLEY.                             205

shire; a carucate * of land, at Hastenesdene, in Roxburghshire ;
the churches of Cathcart, and of Paisley, and all the churches of
Strathgryfe, in Renfrewshire, except that of Inchinnan; the church
of Prestwick-burgh, and the church of Prestwick,, with all the lands
of Prestwick, in Ayrshire ; a salt-work at Calentir, in Stirlingshire;
the lands of Drip and of Paisley and other lands in the barony of
Renfrew; a toft in his burgh of Renfrew ;  + and half a merk of
silver, yearly from his rents in that burgh; the mill of Renfrew;
the island in the Clyde near Renfrew; and the fishing between
that island and Perthec; one nees fishing for salmon, and six nets
fishing for herrings, in the Clyde; 4s. yearly from the mill of
Paisley, and the right of grinding their corns at this mill, free of
multure: the tenth of the produce of that mill, and of all his other
mills; the tithes of all his wastes, and of all the lands, which were
settled, or should be settled in his forests : the right of pasturage
and all other easements in the forest of Paisley; the tenth of his
venison, and the skins of his venison; the tenth penny of the rents
of all his lands, except those in Kyle."  ++ Eschina the wife of the
founder, gave to the monks some lands and pasturages, in her ter.
ritory of Moll in Roxburghshire.  S Alan, the son of Walter, be-
sides confirming his father's grants, made considerable additions
to them, such as the church of Kingarf, in Bute, with its chapels,
-and a large tract of land in that island.  Walter, the third Stew-
art, and grandson of the founder, added still farther to the posses-
sions of the monastery, as did also the vassals of the founder and
his suceessors.  Accordingly we find the monks of Paisle .
session, at one time, of the church of Sanchar, and the church of
Dundonald, with its two chapels of Crosby, and Richardtoun, the
church of Achinleck and of Cragie in Ayrshire, the churches, Of
Pollock, Mearns, and Neilston in Renfrewshire.  We may men-
tion also, that Walter the Stewart, in 1318, added to the endow-
ments of the first three Stewarts, the church of Largs, in Ayrshire,
with its property and pertinents for the salvation of the soul of his
wife, Marjory Bruce, who was buried in the monastety at, Paisley.
The monks of Paisley were also gifted with the churches Rutler-

<FOOTNOTE>A carucate of land, that is, "as much land as a plough could till year,
computed in England at 100 ocre."  Skene de Signif. Verb.
          Toft is used to denote" a place of pasture near a village."  Jameson's Supplement,
verb. Toft.  Charter of Alan, the second Stewart of Scotland, son of Walter, the
founder of the monastery of Paisley, granting a toft in Renfrew, and the right of a
salmon-net in the river Clyde, to the monks of Cuper." From the Cottonian Charter
xviii. 24.  See Illustrations of Scottish History, printed for the Maitland Club.
          Chart. passim, Chalmers' Caledon. Vol. iii. p. 820.          Chart. p. 74.
          Chalmers, Vol. iii. p. 821:          Ib.


