
                             ETTRICK.                             61

of thd sea in the south of Scotland. It is fed by many a little rag-
in, mountain-torrent.  When it is small, and viewed from the top
of the hills in a fine sunny day, it is like a thread of silver; but
when raised by the storms and the rain, it bids defiance to all its
banks, and sweeps over the adjoining, haughs with the raging fury
of a "moutain sea." After a course of about thirty miles N. E.,
the Ettrick loses itself in the Tweed, between Sunderland Hall and
Abbotsford.  Timah, a small rivulet, rises on the heights between
the, parishes of Eskdalemuir and Ettrick, which, after a course of
about six miles in nearly a northern direction, falls into the Ettrick
at Ramsay-cleugh, about a mile below the kirk.  Rankle-burn,
another stream, rises also between the parishes of Ettrick and
Eskdalemuir.  It is celebrated by the song of the maid of Rankle-
burn, and by tradition, for bein- the place where the ancient pro-
genitors of the family of Buccleuch first took tip their residence
(Satchells.)  After passing in t direction similar to the Timah,
it falls into the Ettrick, opposite to the old grey dingy ruins of
the tower of Tushielaw.
   Geology.-The stratification of the range of hills in this dis-
trict runs in general from S. W. to N. E. with a variety of
dips.  The rocks are of the transition series. It is wholly
sebistose, consisting of greywacke and clay-slate.  The hills
are therefore of a rounded form, and indicate the formation to
which they belong.  There are no interesting fossils or minerals
found in the country.  A piece of antimony glance was picked up
in the channel of a little burn near the source of the Ettrick,
some time ago, but though considerable search has bden made
since, no more has yet- been found.  Iron pyrites has also been
collected in the romantic linns of the Ettrick. At Meucra, near
the Lochs, a black rock has been sometimes visited by the admirers
of nature, which some have pronounced to be glossy alum slate; it
has the appearance of bone.  Almost every kind of soil is to be met
with here.  But there is in general a deep moss on the top of the hills.
This becomes by mixture of sand or gravel, mossy gravelly soil.
There is often again a cold stiff clay on the sides, or near to the bot-
toin of the hills: this again by mixture of sand or gravel, forms a
new and different kind of bed for the plants and grasses.  But the
haughs on the sides of the river are in general of a fine alluvial soil,
washed from the hills and formed on the banks.  The soil, indeed,
of whatever kind, is in general good, and would bear crops of wheat,


