
48			WIGTONSHIRE.

with wood. It is nearly in the centre of Glasserton pleasure-
grounds, which Mr Stewart of Physgill, the present proprietor, has
greatly enlarged. The lawn or park in which the church stands
is exceedingly beautiful, and the most extensive of any in this
part of the country, containing upwards of 150 acres of the
richest pasture ground, ornamented with plantations, as well as an
immense number of single trees scattered over its whole surface,
tastefully and judiciously arranged, so as to produce the finest ef-
fect in passing along the approaches to Glasserton.  Many of the
single trees were transplanted on Sir Henry Steurt's plan.
	The church was built in the year 1732, exactly in the same
style in which all country churches were built about that period.
It is still strong and substanial both in walls and roof, but too
small for the incresing population; for at present it contains only
about 270 sittings in the under part of the church. The galleries
are private property, belonging to the family of Physgill and Glas-
serton; each of these estates having a gallery, but they both be-
long to the same family. The heritors, however, have agreed to
make an addition, by adding an aisle to the old church: and at the
end of the aisle, is to be erected a handsome towe, 68 feet in
height. The work is contracted for, materials provided, and on
the 19th May 1836, the tradesmen commenced building.* The old
church also is to be seated anew, and otherwise repaired. There
have been no free sittings in the church hitherto, but it is proposed
that some part of the addition shall be free.
	The church is much nearer the east than the west end of the pa-
rish. The parish appears to have been formed by the junction of
two parishes, Glasserton and Kirkmaiden. But there are no docu-
ments to show at what time this annexation had take place. A part
of the walls of Kirkmaiden church still remain pretty entire. It is
situated near the sea shore, nor far from Mourieth. It lies close to
the bottom of the Heughs, or rather it is embosomed in a kind of
recess formed by these steep hills. The road to it winds down the
brow of the hill, and at last ends in a flight of steps leading into
the church-yard. The slope of the surrounding hill is covered
with young wood. Altogether it is scarcely possible to conceive
that a church could be placed in a more romantic situation. It is
indeed a beautiful sequestered spot, but never could have been a
convenient situation for a church, for it lies in a corner where even

<FOOTNOTE>
	* The addition and repairs here alluded to have since been completed: and the
church now contains 400 sittings.


