
     of Barray.

might save as much bread as would prevent a scarcity in
the worst of times*.

   Harbours.-The first towards the N. is Ottirvore, which
is more properly a road than a harbour; the entrance to it
is from the E. between the islands of Griskay and Gigay.
The next further S. is Flodday Sound, surrounded by a
number of islands, and opens to the S. E.; here the largest
ships may ride with safety all the seasons of the year.  Ti-
rivah, or the inland bay, so called from its cutting far into
the middle of the country; here vessels may ride out the,
hardest gales; it opens also to the S. E.  On the S. end of
Barray is Kifimul-bay, so called by the natives, and by
mariners Castle-bay, from the old castle formerly men-
tioned; it opens to the S.  In the island of Watersay is a
very commodious harbour for ships of any burden; it is ac-
cessible from the S. E. between the islands of Sanderay and
Muldonich, or the Deer Island.  Ottirvore and Flodday
are much frequented by ships to and from the Baltic.  The
convenience of these harbours, and the great quantity of
fish killed upon the coast, should make Barray a more eli-
gible situation for a village than any that the joint-stock
company have yet pitched upon.  These harbours have
good outlets for the S. and N. and are near the fishing-
     VOL. XIII. Uu

<FOOTNOTE>

*Buchaoan is undoubtedly mistaken, when he affects, that the cockle
originated from small animalculi coming down along with the water of
a spring in the top of a green hill above the sand.  It is true, there is such
a hill, with a spring on the summit of it:  but any water running from it
does not come to the sea, being absorbed by the intervening ground,
which is sandy; besides, that it is allowed by all naturalists, that every
animal procreates its own species.  But this vulgar notion prevails among
the inhabitants to this day.  The shell of the cockle markets the whitest, if
not the strongest lime; they lie in great banks on the sea-side, where a
small vessel may be loaded in a tide.


