
434			AYRSHIRE.

ing marked once a-day :	S. W., 101; W., 69; N. E., 64; S.,
42; N. W., 37; N., 24; E., 15; N. W., 14 days.
	Average height of the thermometer throughout the year 1836,
48&deg; 03/100. A remarkably cold and wet season; though at the hour
of taking the register 170 days are marked clear; being more than
last year. But the forenoons were often the best part of the day.
Average height of the barometer throughout year 1836, 29.49.
On 13th October, the barometer if marked as low would have
been 27.95. On 28th November, it was again 27.95; and on
the 13th December, it was a third time lower than graduated, and
would have been 27.93.
	On 31st October, the thermometer, half-past 7 o'clock in the
morning, stood at 22&deg;; and yet of this cold and variable and
stormy year, 126 days are marked fine and very fine.
	Climate.--The climate of this parish, like that of the west coast
in general, is certainly moist; but the evils that might be expect-
ed to arise from a moist and variable climate are in no small de-
gree counteracted, not only by the lightness of the soil along the
coast, which drinks up the frequent showers,--but also by the ge-
neral mildness of the atmosphere from the proximity of the sea.*
The parish is healthy, and rather remarkable for the longevity
of its inhabitants; for during the last twenty-six years 18 persons
have died in it between 90 and 100 years of age; and lately one
female died in the 103d year of her age.
	That the climate is genial, and that the soil is kindly and fer-
tile, is evident from the earliness of the harvest; and from the
finer kinds of fruits ripening well in our gardens in the open air.
Figs ripen in this neighbourhood even in unfavourable seasons.
Peaches are often ripe in the end of August, and early in Sep-
tember; and when the season is favourable, they are greatly su-
perior in flavour to those raised in hot-houses. Grapes also of
various kinds ripen in the open air, in more places than one in
the parish. A purple grape in good seasons ripens well at Sea
Bank; and in the Manse garden there is what may be called an
Ayrshire vine, as it was raised from the seed of the royal Mus-
cadine, ripened in the open air on the common stone wall of the
garden. It is now of sufficient age to bear fruit; and we hope

<FOOTNOTE>In the former Statistical Report, while the climate is spoken of in general as
salubrious, it is said that epidemic fevers are perhaps more frequent here than in the
inland parishes. We are glad to say, that now fevers are considerably less frequent
here, and in Saltcoats and Ardrossan, than in some of the neigbbouring parishes.


