
     of Ecclesgreig, or St. Cyrus.

powder to force it from its subterraneous bed.  It is of an ex-
cellent quality.  The best proof of this is, that, for mason
work, it requires a third part more sand than is usually given.
If that spirituous liquor be allowed to be of the strongest
quality, which requires the greatest quantity of water to re-
duce it, by the same analogy it may be admitted, that the
lime is of a superior quality, which requires the greatest quantity
of sand to reduce it to proper mortar for building.  Every
boll of this lime requires a cart load of pure sea sand, to pre-
pare it for the use of the mason.-Upon the same farm, to the
westward, there is another stratum of lime-stone, of equal
quality, and much the same depth, in a high bank, close to
the sea.  It being impossible to remove the strata of rock and
earth above it, Mr. Carnegie began lately to work it by
mining, having brought an expert miner from East Lothian
for the purpose, who teaches assistants for himself.  The ex-
periment has been attended with success, and a great quantity
of lime-stone has been forced out, by the irresistible strength of
gunpowder.  The massy pillars, which are left to support
the incumbent hill, and which are open to view, will through
time produce a striking effect on the eye.  This quarry dips,
in a direction from the sea, more rapidly than the other; but
it is not yet incommoded with water.
   At MILTON, the lime-stone quarry, which consisted of bare
rocks within flood mark, is mostly wrought out.  Charles
Scott, Esq. of Criggie, has lately opened a new one,
which, it is hoped, will be useful to the country, and profitable
to himself.-At LAURIESTON there is an excellent free-stone
quarry, of a brown colour, formed, probably, by the chemi-
cal process of nature, from a mixture of red clay and sand.
The stone is easily cut, and much used for building, in Montrose
and throughout all the country.  The quarrying, and carrying
these stones, afford employment and bread to many in the parish;

     N 2


