
                            ASHKIRK.                         269

one hundred and two.  At present there are several persons above
eighty, and there are two men in their ninety-second year.  The chief
diseases that prevail in the parish are, fevers, consumption, rheuma-
tism catarrh, and that now universal complaint, termed dyspepsia, or
indigestion, which attacks all ages, sexes, and conditions.  Con-
cerning the causes of this wide spread malady, this is not the place
to speculate.*
     Meteorology.--There has been no accurate register of the wea-
ther kept in the parish, even to shew the average range of the
thermometer and barometer.  But this is the less to be regretted,
as there will be found some valuable tables and observations, with the
various prognostics of the weather, in the very full and able report
of the parish of Yarrow, by the Rev. James Russell.  And as the
parishes of Ashkirk and Yarrow lie contiguous, and are therefore
subject to the operation of the same causes that determine the
state of the weather, the results obtained in the one parish will,
with very slight modifications, apply to the other.
     Hydrography, Springs.--The greater number of the springs in
the parish are perennial.  Their general temperature is about 45&deg;.
Not a few of these springs are obviously impregnated with various
mineral substances, and some of them are regarded by some of
the inhabitants as possessing medicinal virtues, but none of them
have ever been carefully analyzed.
     Lochs.--There were formerly a great many lochs in this
parish, but now only those of Essenside, Sheilswood, Headshaw,
and Ashkirk are of any considerable extent.  The first is the
joint property of the Earl of Minto, and of Archibald Coch-
rane, Esq. of Ashkirk, measuring about 20 acres.  The second
and third belong to the Earl of Minto, and the last, to Archi-
bald Cochrane, Esq. of Ashkirk.  All these lochs contain excel-
lent marl, and some of them yield trout, perch, and pike.  What
is now called Synton moss was at one time a considerable
lake, but has been completely drained, in order to obtain the
marl and peat with which it abounds, both of which are of ex-
cellent quality.  There are four marl mosses on the estate of Syn-
ton, which have all been drained by the present proprietor, the

     * But would the dyspeptics of the age take an advice, which is here offered, with-
out a fee, and which is that they would find their stomachs very much relieved and
improved by putting a great deal, less in them.  But there is not much good to be
expected by advice,--and the thing will go on, unless some merciful Member of Par-
liament shall get the digestive organs placed under the same protection as the factory
children,--viz. that they shall not be oppressed by their employers.


