
                        PRESTONKIRK.                          19

of the farm in which it is situated, except near the river, where
there are some rocks.
   The parish is remarkable for the healthiness of its inhabitants,
having seldom been visited by any epidemic disorder.
   Hydrography.-The only river in the parish is the Tyne, run-
ning from west to east, and dividing the parish nearly in the centre.
It has its rise ten miles above Haddington, and falls into the sea
about three miles north-west from Dunbar. The course is little
varied, except at the village of Linton, where it falls over a con-
siderable height of claystone rocks, forming the lynn from which
the village derives its name. These rocks are mentioned in the
former Statistical Account as supposed to obstruct the progress of
salmon up the river. Since that period, a passage has been open-
ed for them, but without the desired effect, few or no fish having
ever been found farther up, while the levelling of the rocks has
materially hurt the beauty of the waterfall, which is indeed entire-
ly destroyed, except in the time of a flood.
   Geology and Mineralogy.-In this parish there are only three
species of rocks found,-uncovered claystone, clinkstone, and lime-
storie. Of these, by far the most widely diffused is claystone. It
occurs in an obscurely basaltic form at many different places in this
parish, as, on the Smeaton estate, and on the Phantassie estate, to,
the westward of the village of Linton; it also forms the lynn above-
mentioned. It is of a dark purplish brown colour, often porphy-
ritic, containing crystals of felspar, and in general deeply impreg-
nated with iron. The rock next in the frequency of its occurrence
is clinkstone. This forms the whole of Traprain-Law, and of the
rocks which are quarried close by the turnpike road at Pencraig,
about a mile and a quarter to the west of Linton. Its structure is
slaty, with seams running across the slates dividing it into imperi-
feet columns. Its colour is generally a light mottled brown,
sometimes porphyritic. At one part of Traprain-Law it has a
bluish gray tint, greatly resembling greenstone, to which rock it
also shows an approach at the summit, where it contains grains of
hornblende. At Pencraig it contains veins of a yellow jasper, sus-
ceptible of a good polish, and also veins of heavy spar:  in this it
resembles the clinkstone of the Garleton hills, a few miles to the
westward. Limestone occurs along the ridge extending eastward
from Traprain-Law; its colour is mostly a brownish red, and it
contains a great quantity of flinty matter disposed in veins. Its
strata are nearly horizontal, and are covered with a deep formation


