
                          PARISH OF AYR.

         PRESBYTERY OF AYR, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.

	THE REV. ROBERT AULD, D. D.}
	THE REV. ALEXANDER CUTHILL,} MINISTERS

                I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
        Etymology.-AYR, in all probability, derived its name from the
river at whose mouth it stands, which appears to have given the
same designation also to the parish, the bay, and the county.
But whence was the name it self derived? There are rivers, it is said,
bearing the same appellative, and having likely the same common
etymology, in England, France, Switzerland, and in almost every
country in Europe. In the formation of language, proper names,
in particular, often take their rise from some quality in the ob-
jects to which they have become affixed. This has been obvious-
ly the case in regard to the rivers Ayr and Doon. In Celtic, to
which the world must undoubtedly be traced. Ar literally signifies
clear, and Dhu or Dhun dark, and those qualities are sufficiently
characteristic of the streams which they designate. The latter, in
consequence of running through a soft deep bog near its head, re-
ceives a black mossy tinge, which it retains during the whole of
its subsequent course,-whereas the former, from flowing above a
gravelly bed, continues clear and limpid throughout. The mode
of spelling the word has undergone several changes in the pro-
gress of time. In the royal charter of the burgh, and in all an-
cient records, it is written, Are; from this it came to be changed
into Air, and since the end of the last century, Ayr has very ge-
nerally been adopted, and is likely now to be permanent.
        Topography.-The town is situated in nearly the middle of a line
of sea coast, about seven miles in length, forming in a gentle curve
the inner basin of the beautiful bay of Ayr, and the western bound-
ary of a fertile and finely cultivated valley, which is almost entire-
ly of a level surface, extending inland about four or five miles from
the beach. Beyond this, the ground begins to rise by a gentle
slope to the height of two or three hundred feet, inclosing the vale
by a finely marked amphitheatre of hills, and terminating on the
   AYR.


