
              NEILSTON.                                       323

shire," published in 1710, gives a very full account of the families
in or belonging to it in olden times. Passing from the house
of Stewart, the Lordship of Nellston, he says, came by marriage
into that of Cunningham of Craigends. It soon went from them,
and was, in the course of years, divided, as now, amongst a num-
ber of proprietors.
A cadet of the noble family of Darnly held Arthurlie; Glan-
derston was possessed by the ancient and, highly respectable family
of the Mures of Caldwell: Neilston-side was held by a descend-
ant of Sir William Wallace's family of Elderslie; the barony of
Side belonged to a cadet of the honourable house of Skelmurlie;
Covdon-hall was long possessed by the distinguished family of the
Spre6lls, and by Sir William Cochrane, afterwards first Earl of Dun.
donald. Not one of all these have now a house in the parish, nor an
acre of land in it, saving Lord Glasgow and Colonel Mure. All has
changedhands. Whatastrikinglesson! "Sictransitgloriamundl."
One remarkable trait of character in the inhabitants of Neilston
from its earliest history is their ardent love'of civil and religious
liberty. In the Reforlation they took an active interest. The
persecution of the Presbyterians by the infamous and profligate
Charles II., roused Colonel Wallace, a descendant of Nellston-
Side, to march with his followers to Pentland. William, Mure,
then of Caldwell, felt his spirit stirred within him at Charles's
cruelty, and, placing himself as captain of a company of horsemeiii
who met at Shutterflat, resolved to march forward to join the army
of the Covenanters at Pentland. The traitorous conduct of Max-
well of Blackstoii broke up this meeting; each returned to his home,
and though not Dear Pentland, all who attended it were either
driven into exile, or bad their estates forfeited.
The large estates of Caldwell were given to General Dalziel.
Sentence was passed in absence, and this good and worthy per-
son died in exile, leaving his pious lady and four orphans, destitute
of all visible means of subsistdnce.
Risin.q in 1819.-With this affair of Shutterfla4 we connect
Of the suiterings of this eminently- devout lady a d her family after the exiile
and death ofher husband,--of their retiring to Glasgo'w, and supporting themselves by
their own industry,-of their being transported to Blackness Castle, and kept in close
confinement for years, under a jblw accusation ot keeping conventicles,-ofthe harsh
treatment they met with thereof the Council reftu4n&, liberty to Lady Caldwell
to go to Mr Sandilands of Hilderston to see her dying daiYghter,-Laher OiTer to take

a guard with her, yea, to maintain the whok garr"sozr	uard if they, pleased,
,while she was do'mg her last sad duty to her child; of        th:.g facts, we leave Wod-
row to tell, only remarking on the tyranny and cruelty	which could refuse so hu-
rnane and so reasonable a request to a mother.


