
836                        LANARKSHIRE.

tober;" of course reckoning, by the old style.  These have long
since fallen into disuse.  Lanark, the county town, is twelve
miles, and Glasgow thirty-seven, distant from Lammingtoune,
both in a north-west direction; Moffat is twenty-four miles to the
South, Thornhill twenty-nine, and Dumfries forty-three, miles to
the south-west.  The farm-house of Cauldehapel, in the south-
ern, extremity of Wandell, is supposed to be equidistant from
the sea at Leith, Ayr, and Dumfries.  A post-office was establish-
ed at Lammingtoune in July 1839, with a runner three days a-week
between it and Biggar.
   Ecclesiastical State.-In Bagimont's Roll, "the Rectory of Hart-
side or, Wandell, in the Deaury of Lanark," was taxed at L. 6,
13s. 4d. Scots, and that of "Lambyntoun," also in the "Deanry of
Lanark," at the same; being a tenth part of the estimated value of
their spiritual revenues respectively.  At the Reformation, the
parsonage of Hartside was held by a Mr Nicol Crawford, who
reported that "the parsonage tithes thereof produced four chal-
ders and six bolls of meal yearly, including fourteen bolls receiv-
ed by the Cauldchapel;" and at the same period, these tithes were
rented by the laird of Leffnoreis (now Dumfries House,) in Ayr-
shire, for L. 66, 13s. 4d. yearly. (See MS., Rental Book, 18.)
Both these parishes are to be found also in Keith's List of Par-
sonages, at the same important era in the history of the Scottish
establishment, and they are given in the following order, viz. Heart-
side, Torrence, Carstairs, Lammington.  Nothing like what may
be called a formal or legal annexation of them ever took place,-
but they came first to be hold by one and the same individual at
a period when there were fewer candidates for the ministry, and
consequently when greater difficulty was found in supplying vacant
benefices, than at the present day.  Mr Charles Jardine, one of
the Applegirth family, was the last parson of Wandell or Hartside
as a separate parish.  Mr James Baillie, a kinsman of the laird's,
Was at the, same time incumbentof Laminingtoune.  Mr Jardine,
for what causes, however, it does not now appear, having been de-
posed im, 1607, Mr Jaumes Baillie; on a presentation from the pres-
bytery of Lanark, jure devoluto, did on the 5th November 1608,
receive from Mr John Leverance, minister of Robertoun, "insti-
tution of the personage and vicarage of the said parsonage of Wan-
dell, with manse, gleib, and kirkland pertaining to the samen; and
also put ye sd  Mr James in actual, real, and corporal possession of
the samyn with all that apperteins thereto, be placing him in the
                               4


