
1198                           PERTHSHIRE.

character of the parish, that it is not easy to see how this evil
could be remedied. If a bridge were thrown over the Ericht, and
the church removed to the bank opposite the present boat-house,
every thing perhaps would be accomplished for the accommoda-
tion of the people that the circumstances of the parish permitted.
This, however, would be but a partial cure of the evils to which
both minister and people are exposed. A new territorial arrange-
ment would alone remove the evil. Nothing can be more discou-
raging to the minister thin the scattered and distracted nature of
the locality in which it is his duty to labour; and, from the same
cause, the usefulness of the parish schoolmaster is much interfered
with. The boat at Coupar-Grange was long the property of the
kirk-session, and under its exclusive management, as the session
records abundantly prove. Many years ago it seems, from some
unknown cause, to have fallen into the bands of the proprietors
efCoupar-Grange. The late proprietors of Coupar-Grange, upon
the petition of the minister, allowed the people to be ferried over
to church gratuitously; and the present proprietor (Mr Murray of
Simprim) has kindly continued the boon.
   Before the abolition of Popery, the church here was the parish
church of Coupar Angus, and so lately as fifty years ago, the
seats of Keithock, in the parish of Coupar Angus, stood in the
church of Bendochy. The situation of the parish church was
then sufficiently centrical, and when it is remembered that in these
days, there were chapels at St Phink and Callie, it would seem
that, as far at least as the plantation of religious edifices was con-
cerned, our Popish predecessors had provided most judiciously for
the convenience of the people. It is not known when the walls of
the church were built. It is in a tolerable state of repair at pre-
sent,-the old grey slates having been removed and replaced with
blue ones during last summer, while the roof was strengthened
by additional wood being put into it, and the seating partially
repaired. It continues damp and cold. It would accommodate
about 400 people, and there are none of the sittings let. *
   The manse, with the exception of two apartments of an older

<FOOTNOTE>Ministers of Bendochy.-Previous to 1692, Mr Thomas Blair; 1692, Mr David
Rankine; 1700, Mr James Ramsay, the first Presbyterian minister after the Revolu-
tion, the people having retained Mr Rankine twelve years after the Revolution, and
having adhered to him for some time even after his successsor was settled; 1748, Mr
Alexander Dun; 1785, Mr James Playfair; 1812, Mr John Honey; 1815, Mr Tho-
mas Barty; and in 1829 the present incumbent was ordained assistant and successor
to his father.
				4


