
                         DUNFERMLINE.                              ç
849

         feet. Their present height is about 8 feet. They have been of
         great thickness, but all the hewn stones are removed from them.
         Apparently the lower part of the ancient tower, when entire, was 
7ê3 
ä         about 50 feet broad, from north to south, and 60 from east to west,
         so that the building must have been nearly square. It is about 70
         feet above the level of the rivulet below.
            The date of this building is uncertain, but it is supposed to be as
         ancient as the middle of the eleventh century, probably between
         1056 and 1070.
            From the nature of the ground, the tower or castellated palace
         of Malcolm III. could not have been a very spacious edifice, and
         if an idea of its structure can be formed from the coarse fragment
         which remains, it must have been of a very simple kind. Still,
         here were married, and lived in conjugal affection, this famous
         monarch and his excellent queen, Margaret.
            Palace.-A little to the south-east of King Malcolm Canmore's
         Tower, and east side of the rivulet close to the verge of the glen,
         in a very romantic situation, are the ruins of a palace, once the re-
         sidence of the sovereigns of Scotland. Only the southwest wall,
         and a small portion of the eastern end of the edifice remain. The
         wall which overlooks the glen is 205 feet in length, and 60 in
         height outside, supported by 8 buttresses. The depth from the
         sole of the window in the recess on the first floor is 31 feet. At
         the western end tradition still points out a high window, now com-
         pletely covered with ivy, and the chimney, nearly entire, of the
         room in which that ill-advised and unfortunate monarch, Charles
         the First, was born, which event occurred on the 19th November
         1600. This, too, was the birth-place of his sister Elizabeth, on
         the 19th August 1596, afterwards Queen of Bohemia, from whom
         her present Majesty is descended.
             Near the south-eastern extremity of this massive wall, there is
         in the ceiling of a high and projecting oriel window, the third from
         the end, a large antique piece of sculpture, quite visible from be-
         low, which was discovered in 1812, when some repairs were made
         on the palace ; and of which an excellent cast was taken about
         three years ago, now in my possession. It contains in bas-relief a
         well executed carving (in stone) of the passage in the first, chap-
         ter of St Luke's gospel, usually termed the Annunciation. There
         is a representation of the angrel (Gabriel) with outspread wings,
         and of the Virain Mary in a devotional attitude, facing each other.
         The angel holds in his right hand, which is very unusual, a scourge
           FIFE.                                             3 H


