
106                      CAITHNESS-SHIRE.

is supposed that it is practicable, by a small additional outlay, to
deepen the harbour so as to receive vessels of the necessary ton-
nage even at low water.  The value of such an improvement on
the coast would be incalculable, considering the thousands of in-
dividuals engaged in the herring fishing.  At present, there is not
a single place to run to at low water, when vessels or boats are
suddenly overtaken with a heavy storm, as not unfrequently hap-
pens, to the great loss of life and property.  Dunbeath is also
remarkably well calculated for a harbour, and in all probability
the time cannot be far distant, when something on an extensive
scale will be attempted there.  Nature has done her part admir-
ably, and it only requires the hand of art to turn her varied re-
sources to good account.  Petitions have this year been numerous-
ly signed and sent to the Admiralty, praying the appointment of
a survey of this coast, in order to select one or more of the fittest
stations with the view of erecting barbours for the protection of
property, and the lives of the fishermen, now exposed to such im-
minent hazard.  Should these applications succeed, as it is to be
hoped they eventually will, then a new era will arise with respect
to agricultural and commercial pursuits, and it will only require
the united efforts of enterprising and intelligent men to occupy
the field thus opened up, and call forth a spirit of industry hither-
to unexampled in this quarter.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is situated close by the
sea, and is seventeen miles from the western extremity of the pa-
rish, eleven miles from the eastern, and ten from the northern ex-
tremity.  It is, however, sufficiently centrical for the population,
though it must be obvious, from the great territorial extent, that
comparatively few of the inhabitants, were they solely dependent
upon it, could derive much benefit on account of the distance to
which they are removed.  The church seems to have been built
about the year 1734.  It received a large addition by way of an
aisle in 1822, and was, besides, new roofed and new seated.  It may
coatain about 900 sitters, and no seat-rents have been demanded
since it received extensive repairs in 1822.  It is one of the larg-
est and most commodious country churches in the county.  The
only thing wanted to its comfort is that of having it ceiled above,
which it is hoped may, ere long, be accomplished.
The manse was built about forty years ago, and is a substantial
building, with sufficient accommodations.  The grebe consists of
15 acres of arable land.  Its extent was a little increased by an
                               4


