
348                        FIFESHIRE.

Market-Town.-The nearest market-town is Pittenweem, about
a mile and a half distant; it is also the Pearest post-town.
Vilkge.-The on1v vestiLye of a village in the parish, exclusive
of St Monan's, is Abercrombie. It contains the manse and offi-
ces, two farm-houses with their' extensive offices, a wright and a
smith's respective shops, with the dwelling-bouses of these trades-
men, two houses for married farm-servants, (others being lodged
in a botbie) and two houses besides, occupied by persons connect-
ed with the place.
There is no post of liee in the parish, but the London and Edin-
burgh mail arrives at Pittenweem every morning about half-past
six, and leaves the same place at seven in the evening. There
are nearly two miles of excellent turnpike road along the north-
east boundary of the parish, and about the same extent along the
shore from east to west.
Means of Communication.-The Balcarres coach starts from An-
strutber for Pettycur at eight in the morning, Monday, Wednes-
day, and Friday, throughout the year; and from 2, Princes Street,
at, ten A. m. for Anstrutber, every Tuesday, Thursday, and Sa-
turday. There is a daily coach for a great part of the year from
Anstruther to Largo, where there arrives twice a-day a steamer
from Newhaven. There are many steamers coasting along, every
lawfid day in summer, and affording great facilities for intercourse
with the metropolis.
A carrier from Crail to Edinburgh passes and repasses every
week, and generally One from Pittenweem to Cupar, the county
town.
Bridge.-In Sir Ralph Anstruther's pleasure grounds, there is a very
handsome stone-bridge over the stream which separates the parish
of Abercrombie from that of Carnbee. The plan was given by Mr
Burn, and does credit to the taste of that distinguished architect.
Harbours.-There is a tolerable harbour at St Monan's.
It is formed by the natural opening before adverted to (page 339,)
and by a strong pier running nearly in a direct line from the shore,
then gradually bending towards the west, in the form of a quay,
of considerable elevation.-What chiefly merits observation is the
great depth of water. At stream-tides, when full water, it is from
18 to 20 feet deep at the entrance, and in ordinary floods, from 13
to 15. 'Though by this depth it is capable of admitting vessels of
burden, none such frequent it, except in the summer months, and
then but very seldom, and when 11 freighted to the place, for the


