
64                       KINCARDINESHIRE.

much greater than at the above period. It does not appear that
any ilprovement has taken place in the circumstances of the people
in Johnshaven. On the contrary, it is the testimony of old residen-
ters, that poverty is gradually gaining ground. It is reported that
forty or fifty years ago, there were many in that village in easy cir-
cumstances; now, the greater part of the families are nearly on a
level; and comparatively few are able to assist their neighbours to
any extent, in times of affliction and bereavement. This may be ac-
counted for in various ways. Trade was, for many years, in a very
depressed state,-the weavers got into difficulties,-nothing more
could be earned than was sufficient to provide a scanty subsistence
for themselves and families,-respectable furniture and comfort-
able clothing could not be procured, and in many instances debt
was contracted. And when employment became more plentiful
with a better remuneration, it was a long time before those who
were sunk in the lowest state of poverty could rise above their dif-
ficulties; and lately, when some of the more industrious were be-
ginning to surmount the harassments of poverty and destitution,
trade again became depressed, and the labouring classes must re-
new their struggles with hard toil and inadequate remuneration.
   The seafaring people in the meantime had not been in more fa-
vourable circumstances than their ndifhbours. For several years,
the fishing on the coast has been more precarious than usual, and
the herring-fishing often a complete failure. In these circum-
stances, not only were time and labour consumed to no purpose, but
debt was incurred in providing nets and sea stores. Many families
of the seafaring people have therefore been reduced to nearly the
lowest state of poverty. And, in truth, I know not any village of
like size, where there are so many poor people as in Johnshaven.
   It does not appear to me that this parish is susceptible of much
improvement in the system of husbandry, as the farmers seem to
keep pace with the improvements of the age. It is my decided
opinion, however, that an improvement in the system of education
would be of essential benefit both in a temporal and spiritual point
of view. Did all the young people receive a thoroughly scriptural
education, and were they kept at school so long as to enable them
not only to read the Scriptures with facility, but so as to enable
them to read and understand any ordinary English author, then the
parish library and the preaching of the gospel would be tenfold
more beneficial than at present. It is no slander upon my people
to assert, that many of them have been so imperfectly educated as


