
		       FOWLIS WESTER.                           253

house plants in the gardens at Abercairn. Pines, grapes, apri-
cots, and nectarines, grow there to great perfection. Few trees
grow on the north side of the parish; but there are large planta-
tions of forest trees on the south side of the Almond, to all of
which the soil is congenial, except the Scotch fir, which is slow
and stinted in its growth. At Abercairney, there are two ashes of
uncommon size and age.

		     II-CIVIL HISTORY.
  Historical Events.-The village of Fowlis was once a place of
considerable importance, where the Stewart of Strathearn held his
court. This court is memorable for one decision, at which Sir
Alexander Moray of Abercairney, who had been charged with cul-
pable homicide, pled in 1397 the privilege of the law of clan Mac-
Duff; and being within the ninth degree of consanguinity to him
he was acquitted, on paying twenty-four merks of silver. The
Marquis of Montrose is said to have been riding through the Bog
of Bannochy, when his horse stuck at a place which is still called
Montrose's goat. He first erected his standard at the bridge of
Buchanty, where he was joined by the Drummonds and Graemes,
on his way from Athole, with Macdonald, before he fought the
battle of Tibbermore.
   These reinforcements were chiefly from Menteith, and under
the command of Lord Kilpont, eldest son of the Earl of Men-
teith;-they had been raised by order of the Committee of Estates
at Edinburgh, and were marching to the general rendezvous at
Perth. The advanced party of Montrose's army were startled,
when, proceeding through Glenalmond, they came in sight of so
large a body of men. posted in their front, upon the hill of Buch-
anty. Graeme of Inchbrakie, who commanded this advanced par-
ty, immediately dispatched intelligence of what he saw to Mon-
trose, who, with all his characteristic expedition, brought up his
main body to vanquish them, should they refuse to join him. At
his approach, a negociation instantly commenced. The officers be-
ing gentlemen of his own family, and Highlanders of a kindred
clan, were easily induced to abandon their destination, and to join
the royal standard. This unexpected accession to his fore, which
now mustered three thousand, men, animated this enthusiastic
leader, and he resolved to commence offensive operations, by at-
tacking Perth next morning.
   Eminent Men.-Sir David Moray of Gorthy, son of Sir Robert
Moray of Abercairney, was Governor to Prince Henry. He ac-



