
     Statistical Account

   Productions, etc.-The productions of the parish are
oats and bear, or big, as it is generally called, and in
the gardens cabbage.  The gardens will produce early
cabbage and colliflower; as also onions, leeks, garlick; 
parsnips, carrots, turnips, and small sallad herbs; very
fine flowers will in some years likewise blow, which I
have tried.  There are no trees.-We have taken notice
of the number of sheep already; and the wool, in some
samll districts, is good; that about the shores is much
hurt with the sand, which destroys its fabrick, and like-
wife spoils the mutton; by the sheep feeding upon sea
ware.  The parish supplies itself with provisions, and
sells a little:  in good years, it generally exports to the
neighbouring towns.  They sow their oats in March,
and their bear about the latter end of April or begin-
ning of May, old style; and begin to reap about the
middle of August, and sometimes later, according to the
season.  A small quantity of marl is found, but of other
curious earths we have none.  Some bitumen, which is
the substance of peats, is to be met with, and in some

<FOOTNOTE>

At an average, a marriage may produce five children; I have baptized
three at one birth, and often twins.  In my opinion, the average may
be admitted.  
    Some, in the bad years, as mentioned before, died; but in the year 1782,
etc. one died, and many were like to die.  However, government gave
them meal in these bad years, once for nothing, and once for payment.
As to suicides, there are two that have happened in late remembrance:
A man that drowned himself, for what reason is not known; another
poor girl, in my time, had baken her own wedding bannocks, and, as may
be supposed, out of some aversion to her sweetheart, threw herself a-
way Many are lost by accident, by boats, etc.  None have been ba-
nished from this parish in our memory.  None leave the parish for want
of employment; indeed, we want hands, because our young fellows go
off in hopes of greater wages, as the farmers well feel; the N. W. etc.,
being their bait. 


