
        676                        PERTHSHIRE.

        357 feet in circumference, and 14 feet high.  In a line with these
        two, and  at the same distance, there is a third of a smaller size.
        Near the burying ground there are the remains of a cairn, where
        probably a cross had once been erected in Popish times, as the
        place is still called Crosscairn.  Near the top of the craig of Sten-
        ton, (a remarkable detached conical hill, about a mile west from
        the church,) is a place called Kemp's Hold, or the Soldier's Fast-
        ness, bearing evident marks of having been a fortified spot.  About
        two miles north of the church, in a very elevated situation, between
        the farls of East and West Cuilt, there is a small Druidical circle.
        Beside it are two larger stones, deeply sunk in the ground; the
        top of the lowest is artificially formed into an inclined plane, facing
        the south, and contains a number of small cavities, which may
        have been used by the Druids in the performance of religious rites.
           Mansion-Houses.-Tbe principal residences of proprietors are,
        Delvine House, the seat of Sir John Muir Mackenzie, Bart. a
        plain, but commodious building, and placed in a most beautiful
        and sheltered situation, on the extremity of the remarkable table-
        land before-mentioned.  Meikleour House, the seat of Lady
        Keith, on the north bank of the Tay, a little above its junction-
        with the Isla, and opposite Kinclaven Church.  Snaigow House,
        the seat of tbe late James Keay, Esq. Advocate, recently erected
        upon the model of the English baronial style of building, about
        two miles north of the church.  A little to the north of Snaigow
        is Kincairney House, the seat of Mungo Murray, Esq.  Glen.
        delvine House, the seat of James Valentine Haggart, Esq.  S.S.C.
        is at present erecting (1839), on a similar style with Snaigow,
        about a mile north-east of the church.  Stenton House, belnnging
        to Captain Beaumont, opposite to Murthly Castle, on the Dun-
        keld road, one mile west of the church.  Hillhead, belonging to
        Dr Henry Fisher, an elegant building, on the summit of the brae,
        on the east of Dunkeld, romantically overlooking the town, the
        river, the bridge, and ducal palace, and commanding a panoramic
        view of the adjacent scenery.
           Manufacturers.-Happily for the peace and purity of our quiet
        rural population, no spinning mills have yet been erected ; neither
        it is any great public work going at present in this parish.
                                III.-POPULATION.
           The population does not appear to have varied much during the
        fast half century, and for the last twenty years has been nearly
        stationary.  This is owing to the absence of all feus, and the se-


