
               MUCKAIRN.                             509

   Fuel.-The fuel commonly used is peats, supplemented in
some parts by brushwood. By the higher classes, coals are
used.
          MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   Little remains to be stated under this head additional to what
has already been noticed. Though a good deal has been done,
much remains still to be done, in the way of opening the internal
communication. In particular, roads are required on both sides
of Loch-etive,and to becarried on from the head of that arm of tbe
sea to King's House, to unite there with the great road from Fort-
William to Stirling and Edinburgh. Another line is much wanted
along the South side of Loch-creran, already formed partially  as
far as Crigan ferry, that road to be connected also with the
great Edinburgh line.-The law of entail has operated unf`vour-
ably, in so far as relates to the improvement of the country; and
though its evils have of late been mitigated, it must continue in
some measure so to operate. High rents, and still declining
prices for our staple commodities, press heavily on many among
us; and if relief be not obtained by a deduction of rents, or a rise
in prices, serious consequences. may be anticipated. But, let it
never be forgotten that the master remedy for the thousand ills
that flesh is. heir to is, that all classes of the community be
brought under the influence of the faith and the hope of the gospel.

     MUCKAIRN, ANNEXED QUOAD CIVILIA TO ARDCHATTAN.*
   (A PARLIAMENTARY CHURCH PARISH, PRESBYTERY OF LORN,
                 SYNOD OF ARGYLE.)
       THE REV. LACHLAN M'KENZIE, MINISTER.
        I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   THE Statistical Account of the district and Parliamentary
church of Muckairn, as connected with Ardcbattan, may aptly be
introduced by inserting a description of that district copied from a
MSS. probably a century and a half old, which was furnished to
the writer of these notes by the late General Campbell of Loch-
nell. The name of the writer of tbe manuscript is not known;
<Footnote>
   From notes furnished by the Rev. Hugh Fraser, A. M., minister of the Free
Church, Ardchattan.


