
                           CARNOCK.                            701

Orem, in his History of Aberdeen, says, that he demitted his charge.
He published a grammar and vocabulary of the Hebrew lan-
guage, besides several tracts, both of political and of a religious
kind.
    Nor should we omit to mention Mr Row's immediate successor,
the Rev. George Belfrage, who was ordained minister of this pa-
rish in the year 1647, and who appears to have been distinguished
for his piety and zeal. He lived in troublous times, and suffered
for his attachment to the principles of the second Reformation.
Being among the nonconformists in the time of Archbishop Sharpe,
he was first suspended, and then deposed from the ministry by ap-
pointment of that prelate.
   Connected with this parish also, as minister for nearly thirty-
five year, was the Rev. James Hog, an able, learned, and pious
man. After his return from Holland, whither he had gone to
complete his education, he received license as a preacher in the
Scottish Church, ind was first settled as minister of Dalserf.
While here, lie became involved in a dispute with his Presbytery
in consequence of his opposition to the oaths of allegiance and ab-
juration. Though of undoubted royalty, yet he greatly dreaded
the erastian principles which appeared to him to be spreading, and
felt himself constrained to testify against them. Subsequently lie
demitted his charge at Dalserf, and did not for some years accept
of another. In 1699, however, he became minister of Caruock,
and continued to labour there with general acceptance and much
success till his death. The same piety and the same zeal for the
liberties and the efficiency of the church as he had shown before,
distinguished him now. He took an active share in the Marrow
controversy, and was one of those who, in the year 1720, were
censured by the General Assembly on account of it. The first
edition of the Marrow published in Scotland was prefaced by him,
and, besides some of the ablest tracts that appeared in its defence,
he wrote several other pieces of considerable merit. He died in
the year 1736, leaving behind him a name for distinguished worth
and usefulness.
   Another minister of this parish was the celebrated Thomas Gil-
lespie, afterwards founder of the Presbytery of Relief. He was
licensed to preach the gospel in the year 1740, and in the year fol-
lowing was ordained by a class of Dissenting ministers in England,
of which Dr Doddridge was moderator. The same year he re-
ceived a call to this parish, and was settled in it on the 4th Sep-


