
     Statistical Account

in the family of Hamilton ever since.  The castle of Aven-
dale stands upon a rocky eminence at the town of Strath-
aven, near a small water called Pomilion, which falls into
the Avon about a mile below.  It was surrounded by a
strong wall, with turrets at certain distances, and the en-
trance was secured by a draw-bridge.  This, and the castle
of Arran, were alternately the residence of Ann Duchess
of Hamilton, during the usurvation of Oliver Cromwell.
This worthy Lady always remembered the attachment
shown by her tenants and vassals in the days of her adver-
sity, and paid an annual visit to this place at the celebration
of the Lord's Supper, till she was prevented by the infir-
mities of old age.  She died in the year 1716, after which
the castle of Avendale was no longer kept in repair.-The
names of some places, such as Kirkwood, Hawkwood, seem to
indicate, that this district was once adorned with woods; of
which there are no longer any vestiges, but what are com-
mon every where, large trunks of oak and birch buried in
deep morasses.  The names of places are all English, with
a very few exceptions, such as Kype, Carnduff, Drumclog.
This laft place is famous for a rencounter between the Cove-
nanters and a party of dragoons, in which the latter were de-
feated.  On Sunday the 1st of June 1679, the Covenanters had
assembled for divine service at Drumclog, to the number of
about 300 armed men.  That they might not be surprised
by a sudden attack, they had placed a watch on Loudon-
hill, a remarkable eminence about a mile distant, com-
manding a view of the whole country.  Captain Graham*
of Claverhouse, afterward Viscount of Dundee, being ap-

<FOOTNOTE>

*The gentleman was extremely obnoxious to the covenanters.  A
respectable heritor in this parish whole grandfather was at Drumclog.
remembers to have heard him tell, that he lay behind a hillock, and fired
eight shots at Claverhouse.  On the grave-stones of the people who fell
on this and other occasions, some of which are in rhyme, he is designed
Bloody Graham of Claver house.


