
648                 EDINBURGHSHIRE.

ingside, Canaan, Whitehouse, Grange, Newington, Rosehall,
Mayfield and Caramon-myre, (now called by corruption Cameron-
myre.) 3. The Harbour and Shore of Leith. All which are
parts of its ancient patrimony bestowed upon the burgh by King
David I., or at least acquire prior to the date of King Robert
Bruce's charter in 1329. And besides these, the following places
have also been annexed, at different times, to the sheriffdom of
the city, and the jurisdiction of its magistrates, viz.-
1. The Town and Links of South Leith, and the Harbour,
Links, and part of the town of Newhaven, in 1603. 2. The
King's Work of South Leith, in 1647. 3. Easter and Wester
Portsburgh, in 1649. 4. The Citadel of North Leith, in 1663,
   III. The Regality of Canongate, which includes the suburb so
called; St John's Hill, and Pleasance; North Leith, and the
Coalhill of South Leith; the superiority of which was acquired
by the city of Edinburgh in 1639.
   IV. The Barony of Calton, or Caldton, formerly called Wester
Restalrig, viz. the Calton, Caltonhill, and North Back of Canon-
gate; Yardheads, Mills, and Millflat of Leith; the superiority of
which was acquired by the city by purchase in 1725, from the then
proprietor, Lord Balmerino.
   No. III. and IV. have never been annexed to the sheriffdom
of the city, and have magistrates of their own, but they both, as
well as No. I. and II., are understood to be included in the phrase,
"The City of Edinburgh and Liberties thereof;" and the whole
four, (excepting the Burgh mills, loch, and muir,) form what is
now called the "County of the City," of which the Lord Provost
is Her Majesty's Lieutenant, for militia purposes.
   V. The Eight Southern Districts comprise all the buildings to
the south of Drummond Street, the College, and Lauriston.
Theyare without the royalty; and of course exempted from pay-
ment of the burgh customs and ministers' annuity, and the juris-
diction of the city magistrates; but in consequence of a provision
to that effect, in the act of Parliament for building th South
Bridge, they pay a proportions of the city-cess or land-tax; and
also the impost-tax, of one per cent., in lieu of impost on wines
and foreign liquors.
   VI. By the Burgh Reform Act, the privilege of electing the mem-
ber of Parliament for the city of Edinburgh was extended to a
large district surrounding the city and liberties, and including them,
forming an irregular polygon of nearly ten miles in circumference


