

58                      BERWICKSHIRE.

which forms part of the east gable of the mansion-house, and two
vaulted cells contiguous to the churchyard.
   On the west side of the ruin, there is a large arched gate or
door-way 9 feet 8 inches high, and 6 feet 1 inch broad, and within
this there is part of a ruined stair, and the door of the south cell,
which is 6 feet 4 inches high, and 3 feet 1 inch broad. The cell
itself is 22 feet 3 inches by 12 feet 6 inches, and 10 feet 9 inches
high. The walls are 3 feet 9 inches in thickness. The north cell
is similar, but less. In digging the adjacent burying-ground, the
workmen are interrupted by the foundations of walls. Before the
front door of Eccles House a stone coffin was dug up many years
ago about 6 feet long, and covered above with flag stones, contain-
ing the figure of a human body. Nothing remained but some of
the earthy matter of the bones, which, when weighed by Sir John
Paterson, was found to amount to an ounce and a-half,*
   On the farm of Hassington Mains there is a broad elevation
which is raised several feet above the surrounding surface, and can
be distinctly observed for some hundred yards. It is called the
Kames by the people in the neighbourhood, who have a tradition-
ary opinion that it extends from sea to sea. A gravelly ridge, of
which this seems to be the western termination, can be traced run-
ning through the parish by Loanknow and Ploughland. It was
opened some years ago, and found to consist of large water-worn
stones and sand, compactly thrown together, so as to form a kind
of fortification, and at one place a heap of wood ashes was disco-
vered. The adjoining farm on the south is called Kaimflat.
   The production of this ridge, of which there is a similar example
upon a larger scale in the neighbouring parish of Greenlaw, can
be satisfactorily accounted for upon the supposition that an aqueous
current had at some period existed, setting in from the north to-
wards the south, as the stones found in it were greywacke, and
therefore derived from the Lammermoor hills.
   On the property of General Hunter, Sir Martin, of Antonshill,
is Leitholm Peel, the remains of a stronghold, to which tradition
says the borderers were accustomed to drive their cattle for protec-
tion during invasions.
                "The frightened flocks and herds are pent
                 Beneath the peel's rude battlement."
   The remnant consists of a wall 31 feet long, about 15 feet high,
and 4 feet thick.

<FOOTNOTE>The revenue of the priory at and previous to 1560 was L.647, 13s. 8d.-See
short account of Scottish money, &c. pamphlet Edinburgh, 1817.
                                         4



