
                       KIRKMICHAEL.                           497

prisoner, and carried to Dumfries, on a charge of non-conformity,
but was liberated on a heavy caution being given. Soon after, he
was again apprehended, and, refusing the oath of allegiance and
supremacy, he was banished to the Plantations. In the course
of the same year, however, he contrived to return, and, late upon
a Saturday night or early on Sabbath morning, in a cottage near
the present House of Kirkmichael, when, with some of his friends at
a meeting for prayer, he was surprised by a company of militia, and
shot in attempting to escape by a window. In the church-yard, a
tomb-stone was placed over his remains, with an epitaph recording
the circumstances of his death by the "Laird of Colzean and
Ballochmyl." By some hand these two names were erased. Old
Mortality, however, took care to re-insert them, and they now re-
main as legible as the original lettering. In 1829, a new tomb-
stone was erected, in which the old tablet is preserved.*/f
   Cassillis House, the property of the Marquis of Ailsa, is a fine
old building, romantically situated on the banks of the Doon. It
seems to belong to the middle of the fifteenth century. An excel-
lent addition was made to it, in the year 1830, when it was fitted
up for the late Earl. There is, besides, an extensive lawn, on
which there is great abundance of timber.
   Under the body of the castle, there is a large subterraneous
apartment, with a secret door leading to it. Some years ago, this
place was cleaned out, with the view of making it a wine-cellar. In
this process, a great many carts of human bones were removed.
These, it is to be feared, were the lingering witnesses of deeds and
times long gone by, when the devoted guest and the refractory
vassal went so frequently missing, having met a fate which some
might suspect, but none durst inquire into.
  Sir John Faa.--This place was the scene of the story of Sir John
Faa, and furnishes the ground-work of a popular ballad.+ About the
middle of the seventeenth century, the Lady Jane Hamilton,
daughter of the Earl of Haddington, was betrothed to the young
knight of Dunbar, but a more tempting offer having been made
in the person of John Earl of Cassillis, she was desired by her fa-
ther to break up her former engagement. According to the spi-
rit of the times, the feelings of the young lady in such an alliance
were little consulted. She was treated as if she were not a party

<FOOTNOTE> A handsome monument has just been erected by the people of this parish, as a
tribute of esteem and affection to their late pastor, the Rev. David Kennedy. The
design is chaste and simple, and the workmanship well executed.
           There are several versions of this story: the most authentic is here given.
	AYR.							I i



