
                                 PERTH.                        39

   with it, and bid him cut the cow's lug, and mix the blood of it
   with the draff, which he did, and the cow gave milk.-That as
   Patrick Auchinleck was going at the plough he took a cholick,
   and she was sent for to cure him ; and that she for that effect com-
   manded him to be washed with south running water, and bathed in
   black wool and butter.
     " With regard to Isabell Haldane,-that she cured Andrew
   Duncan's bairn, by taking water from the burn at the Turret Port,
   being dumb, and carrying it to Andrew's house, and upon her
   knees washed the bairn, in the name of the Father, Son, and
   Holy Ghost.  That afterwards being accompanied by Alexander
   Lockheart, she took the water and the bairn's sark, and cast both
   into the burn.  That being asked if she had any conversation with
   the fairy folk, she answered, that ten years since, when she was
   lying in her bed, she was taken forth, (whether it was by God or
   by the Devil she knows not,) and was carried to a hill side, when
   the hill opened and she entered.   That she staid there three days,
   to wit, from Thursday till Sunday at twelve hours; when a man
   with a gray beard came to her and brought her forth again.  That
   she made three several cakes, every one of them being made of
   nine curns of meal, which had been gotten from nine women that
   were married maidens ; that she made a hole in the crown of every
   one of them, and put a baien through every cake thrde times, in
   the name of the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost ; and that there
   were women present who put the same bairns thrice backward
   through every cake, using the same words.  That she went silent
   to the well of Ruthven and returned silent, bringing water from
   thence to wash Jnhn Gow's bairn ; that when she took the water
   from the well, she left a part of the bairn's sark at it, which she
   took with her to that effect: and that when she came home again,
   she washed the bairn with the water, and that she had done in
   like manner to John Powery's bairn.
      " With regard to Janet Trall,-that Janet Burry brought her
   bairn to her, and told her that it started in the night.  That she told
   the mother that the bairn had gotten a dint of evil wind, and she
   directed her to cause two persons to go down to south running
   water, and bring as much of it as would wash the bairn ; and that
   they should be dumb when bringing the water.  And that after
   the bairn was washed, they should carry back again the water with
   the bairn's sark, and cast them into the place where the water had
   been taken up.  She farther directed her to bathe the bainr with


