
                                  ABERNETHY.                        847

bald Bell-the-Cat, whose two oldest sons, with 200 gentlemen of
their name, fell at Flodden in 1513, ended his days in the follow-
ing year at Whitterri in religious solitude ; but some time previ-
ously, be had given to Abernethy a proof of his favour in the char-
ter before referred to, which erected the town into a burgh of ba-
rony, and vested the municipal goverment in two bailies and
fifteen councillors.  Earl William renewed the charter in 1628. *
   Antiquties.-The most remarkable evidence of the antiquity of
Abernethy, and of the prominent place it occupied in the civil
and ecclesiastical history of Scotland at a very remote period, is
the round tower, to which there is nothing similar in Scotland
except at Brecbin.  It is 74 feet in height, and consists of 64
courses of hewn stone.  The external circumference is 48 feet at
the base, and diminishes somewhat towards the top.  The thickness
of the wall is 33 1/2 feet.  The door stands a little above the base, and
faces the north; is 8 1/2 feet in height, and 2 1/2 feet in width from
jamb to jamb.  Towards the top of the building are four windows,
equidistant from one another, and pointing to the four quarters of
heaven, each of them 5 feet 9 inches in height, and 2 feet 2 inches
in width.  The steeple or tower is a hollow pillar, and the only
mode of ascent is by scaling ladders attached to different wooden
platforms erected for the purpose.  It stands detached from,. but
near to what was the site of the buildings connected with the col-
lege and ecclesiastical establishment, and where stood the paro-
chial church, one of the oldest in Scotland, which was taken down
in 1802, when the present new church was built in, a different
locality.  It is now, and has been, occupied frol time immemo-
rial, as a belfry for ecclesiastical purposes ; and a eight to use it
for civil purposes connected with the burgh, has been claimed an 1
exercised within certain limits.  Though this tower is generally,
and by the voice of tradition, ascribed to Pictish times, and sup-
posed to have been connected with ecclesiastical purposes, much
obscurity rests on the subject, which has not yet been removed,
and will probably remain on it.
  Circular towers, of the same kind as those at Abernethy and
Brechin in Scotland, are found in different parts of Ireland, and
also in some parts of Asia.  As to the origin and uses of these
towers there has been of Idle much speculation and various theo-


<FOOTNOTE> Doug. Peerage, vol. i. 433, 437, 434. Stat. Account, Vol. xi. p, 446.   Ja.
tuieson's Culdess, p. 126.


