
766                  LANARKSHIRE.

centre from Bankhead mill, on the south, to the bridge over the
North Calder, on the Hamilton and Airdrie road, is 1 mile 6 1/2
furlongs; towards the extremities, it widens to nearly 4 miles.  It
is bounded on the east, by the parish of Bertram Shotts ; on the
south, by the South Calder and the river Clyde, which divide it
from the parishes of Dalziel, Hamilton, and Blantyre; and on the
west and north, by the North Calder, which separates it from the
parishes of Old and New Monkland.  It contains about 2,125
square miles, equal to 10,814 Scots acres, or nearly 13,600 im-
perial acres.
   Topographical 4ppearances.-This parish forms part of the lofty
undulating and sloping bank on the north-east side of the Clyde,
which extends from Lanark to within a few miles of Glasgow.  On
reaching the parish of Bothwell, it recedes considerably from the
course of the river, leaving a large intermediate plain or haugh of
great beauty and fertility.  It again revisits the river at Bothwell
Bridge, and before it retires a second time, forms a piece of table-
land upwards of a mile in extent, from the bridge westward.  At
the head of this table-land, the church and village of Bothwell are
situated, and command a beautiful and extensive view of the vale
of Clyde to the east.  The view westward from the village of Ud-
dingston at the other extremity is almost equally beautiful and
picturesque.
   There is a gradual but pretty rapid descent from the eastern
extremity of the parish for nearly four miles.  A flat of about
equal length succeeds, declining on the south, towards the Calder
and the Clyde.  The western extremity merges in the extensive
plain on which Glasgow is situated.
   The following is a list of the relative elevations above the level
of the sea, of a few of the different localities of the parish.  Both-
well church, situated near the south-west boundary-of the parish,
and eight miles distant from Glasgow, 120 feet; Bothwell Bridge,
eight miles and a half from Glasgow, 80 feet; Bellshill, about a
mile and a half north from the bridge, 372 feet; Holytown rail-
way, nine miles south-east from Glasgow, 335 feet; eastern boun-
dary of the parish, fifteen miles south-east from Glasgow, 680 feet.
   A few, belfings of trees would add greatly to the beauty and fer-
tility of some of the higher grounds in the upper district of the
Parish.  The forms below are better sheltered.  The family-seats
bn the banks of the Clyde and the two Calders are richly wood-
ed, and there is much fine wood in other parts of the parish.


