
                          JEDBURGH                            5

The remains of the ancient forest, amounting to many hundred
acres, were rapaciously cut down during the last century; but tho
trees which h`ve sprung from the old stocks, together with the
plantations which have since reached maturity, still render this a
well-wooded district.  A few patches of the ancient forest may still
be seen in the neighbourhood of Fernihirst, consisting chiefly of
birch.  In lower situations every species of forest trees grow luxu-
riantly ; and in higher, Scotch fir and larch are most common.
The Scotch fir at Stewartfield has attained a great age and size,
and is much esteemed in carpentry, being thought little inferior to
American fir.  The ancient forest still possesses two venerable re-
presentatives in the " King of the Wood," and the " Capon-tree,"
oaks situate near the Newcastle road, at the distance of one mile
from Jedburgh.  The " King of the Wood," towering above the
surrounding trees, rises to the height of 99 feet, the circumference
of its trunk, at three feet from the ground, being 14 feet.  The
" Capon-tree," which stands alone in a haugh opposite Hundalee
Mill, has a more aged and gnarled appearance than the monarch.
and, dividing into a multiplicity of boughs, is much admired for
the fantastic twisting of its wide-spreading branches.  The circum-
ference of its trunk at three feet from the ground is 21 feet.
   The soil and situation of Jedburgh are peculiarly congenial to
the growth of fruit trees, and of this the intelligent ecclesiastics
who inhabited the monastery appear,to have taken duo advantage,
as many pear-trees still exist, which, from their size and the slow
progress of their growth,, are thought to be at least three hundred
years old.  The oldest are of the following kinds: the Longueville,
the summer Bon Chretien, the Ludd, the autumn Bergamot, the
Pound pear, the Red honey, the White Warden, the Gray Warden,
and the Gray Good-wife.  Of a great age, but not quite so old as
these, are the Gray Auchan, the Red Auchan, the Worry Carl, the
Buchanan, the Drummond, the Golden Knop, the Lamias, and the
Pitfirran.  One of the largest of the red honey pear trees has been
known to produce in one season sixty imperial bushels.  Of the
Longueville, there is a fine specimen  in Friars 'garders, which
though much decayed through age, continues to produce excellent
crops.  In the "Lady's Yards", or convent garden, a very old
white warden pear-tree was blown down, which measured eight feet
in circumference near the ground.  In the orchard adjoining the
house which was inhabited by Queen Mary during her illness at
Jedburgh, there is a group of trees of the same kind, said tra-


