
			PARISH OF DOLPHINTON.

	PRFSBYTERY OF BIGGAR, SYNOD OF LOTHIAN AND TWEEDDALE.

		   THE REV. JOHN AITON, MINISTER.

		I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.

	Name--Boundaries.--A Dolphin fish is represented in the arms
of the principal heritor; but the name of Dolphinstown, as it was an-
ciently spelled, seems with more probability to be derived from that
of one of the early proprietors of the manor. Dolfine, the eldest
brother of Coss Patrick, first Earl of Dunbar, acquired this property
during the reign of Alexander I., about the begining of the twelfth
century. In the district of the country from which he came, a
village with the ruins of an ancient castle still retains his name;
and there are other places of the same appellation in Roxburgh-
shire and in West Lothian.*
	The parish is 3 miles long from east to west, 2 1/2 broad, and con-
tains 2926 statute acres. Its form is nearly that of an oblong
square, bounded by Linton, Walston, Dunsyre, and Kirkurd.
	Topographical Appearances.--Dolphinton hill is in height above
the level of the sea about 1550 feet. This and the hill of Wal-
ston adjoining to it, are separated about a mile from the west end of
the Pentlands, and form with Tinto, which is five miles to the west-
ward, so many connecting links of one of the great collateral chains
which gird our island, from St Abb's Head to Ailsay Craig,
With the exception of Keir-hill, which rises in a conical shape
about 250 feet high, the rest of the land in the parish is arable,
with a moderate acclivity in an altitude of from 700 to 800 feet.+
	Meteorology.--During the last two months of spring and first of
summer, the wind generally blows from the east or north-east. In
March and April it dries up from the ground the stagnant mois-

<FOOTNOTE>In Douglas M S Chronicle of England, Thomas Dolfine is recorded among the
"grete lordess of Scoteland" who were defeated at Halidon Hill in 1338.
	+ Altitude of Garvaldfoot, as ascertained by Telford, 785 feet. The top of Dol-
phinton-hill, as lately measured by the writer of this account, 816 feet above the size
of the manse.

	LANARK.					D



