
496                       RENNFREWSHIRE.

fully diversified with hill and dale, wood and water. None of the
hills rise to any considerable height, and all of them are cultivat-
ed to the summit.  Through its rich and fertile fields, the river
Cart winds its way in romantic beauty, sometimes dashing onwards
overhung by precipitous and woody banks, sometimes passing
smoothly through holm lands, whose prolific alluvial soil it former-
ly enriched.  How very different must the present appearance of
Cathcart be from what it was ages ago, when consisting of wood
and marsh, as hs intimated by the names of places throughout its
whole extent.  There are, for instance, Aikenhead, Hagginshaw,
Woodside, Williamwood, Woodend, Muirend, Bogton and Moss-
side.
  Meteorology, &c.-The temperature of the parish is comparative-
ly mild, owing, in all probability, to the numerous plantations, which
give shelter from the storms, and to the system of draining which
has been generally adopted, by which the rain, instead of lying on
the surface to evaporate, is immediately carried off to the river.
The climate is accounted most salubrious, and there are no dis-
tempers indigenous to the district.  Very few infectious diseases
leave been known to spread among the inhabitants, with the excep-
tion of cholera, which visited the northern part of the parish in 1832,
and, to a much more alarming extent, the village of New Cath-
cart in 1834. In that village alone one in seven of the population
was assailed, and one in twenty-four was carried off by that oriental
plague. From the proximity of Cathcart to the densely peopled
city of Glasgow, where disease is ever revelling, the complaints
prevalent there are frequently imported, but seldom, even in the case
of typhus fever, extend themselves in the Deigbbourhood to which
they are unhappily introduced. The village of Langside is con-
sidered to be peculiarly healthy, and althotgh the writer has
known many instances of fever patients returning to their families
there, he is: not aware that there is any instance of the malady
being communicated by infection.  The most insalubrious wind
to which the parish is exposed, and during the continuance of
which disease is most prevalent, blows from the north-east, but a
westerly wind is much more frequent, as appears from the general
bend of the trees towards the east.
   Hydrography.-The springs are numerous, and may in general
be called perennial. In a season of long protracted drought, those
in the higher grounds usually fail, but there is seldom any reason
to complain of a plentiful supply of good drinking water. Some


