
124                    HADDINGTONSHIRE.

   The whole adult population, with the exception of thirty per-
sons, are members of the Established Church; and of these thirty,
five are Episcopalians, who regularly attend the parish church.
Divine service is in general numerously attended; and although,
as mentioned above, the amount of church accommodation is more
than what is legally required, yet, so exemplary are the parishioners
in this outward observance of religious duty, that the church is not
at present sufficient to accommodate all who are in the habit of at-
tending. During about half of the year, there are two diets of pub-
lic worship every Sunday; during the remainder, there is one of
somewhat longer duration. There are, besides, services on week-
days, amounting, in the course of the year, to about thirty.
   The average number of communicants admitted at each of the
three last half-yearly celebrations of the sacred ordinance is 7.
The present gross amount is 306. The sacrament has, for the
last four years, been dispensed twice a-year, on the first Sabbaths
of February and July.
   The brief period of the incumbency of the present minister does
not permit him to form any extensive average in regard to the
amount of charitable collections. During the last sixteen months,
there have been two congregational collections for religious and
benevolent purposes, the average amount of each of which was
L. 9, 7s.
   Religious Societies.-There are two societies in the parish for
the promotion of religious objects. One, based on principles of a
catholic nature, has for its object the dissemination of evangelical
religion at home and abroad, irrespective of the interests of sect
or party. It is yet in its infancy, having been instituted only du-
ring the present year. Its annual income cannot, therefore, be
estimated, but the number of its members is considerable, and
daily increasing. The other is of longer standing, and has been
more exclusively employed in promoting the interests of dissent;
it has latterly been on the decline, and has now few supporters in
the parish.
   Education.-There are two schools in the parish. Of these, the
parochial school is situated in the village of East Salton, the cen-
tral point of the parish. The branches of education taught in it are,
English, English grammar, geography, history, arithmetic, writing,
French, and Latin. All these departments of education are con-
ducted by the parochial teacher with ability and efficiency. The
                               3

