
			     BEITH.                         601

quently from two to three hundred individuals asked to a funeral,
the greater number of whom attended. Now the parties are smal-
ler, and the custom of having an entertainment seems gradually
to be giving way. Funerals are thus less expensive, and occupy
less time; but many are of opinion that it lessens the solemnity
when there is no religious exercise; and it is well known that the
hearts of individuals have been affected by prayers at a funeral,
which have resisted or neglected more ordinary appeals. It has
been suggested, that a prayer might be offered immediately after
the body is laid in the grave, and, doubtless, the place and cir-
cumstances are well calculated to impress serious thoughts on the
mind; but the weather is not always favourable for this exercise,
and it is a subject on which it would be easy to excite prejudice
and misconception, and, so far as is known, the experiment has
not been tried.
	Poor and Parochial Funds.--The kirk-session hold two small
farms in the parish, which were purchased by sums mortified for be-
hoof of the poor. The rents of both are at present L. 78 yearly. The
average collections at the church-door are L. 70. Hearse hires and
mortcloth dues yield L. 10; and fees for proclamation, &c. about
L. 5. The seats in the church, set apart for the population of the
town, and let annually yield L. 14. These produce L. 177. The
expenditure for the poor is somewhat above this, and the surplus is
provided for by occasional assessments in the parish. The allow-
ance to the poor on the ordinary roll is from 4s. to 6s. monthly.
The number on the roll at present is 30.
	Town-House.--In 1817, this house was built by subscriptions
The lower part consists of two shops, the rents of which are, ap-
plied for public purposes, without any return to the subscribers.
The upper story is a large ball, in which are held the Justice of
Peace Courts, the Sheriff Small Debt Circuit Courts, meetings
of the road trustees, &c. It is also used as a public reading-room.
There is in the lower part of the building a lock-up, in which cri-
minals are confined, preparatory to their being sent to Ayr, or in
modum paence of minor offences.
	It was stipulated that the managementof this house, and the
affairs connected therewith, should be the first twenty years after
July 1818 remain with the subscriber, and after that period should
be transferred to the four following classes of persons:--1. All the
Justices of the Peace in the  parishes of Beith, Dairy, and Kil-
birnie, being the parishes forming the district of Beith; 2. Heri-


