
                                  HAMILTON.                              293


The absurd practice of keeping up the old and new style is still
observed in our fairs; but, fortunately, the terms are now all kept
by the new style.
   Inns, &c.--There are two inns in the town which keep post chaises,
one that hires out gigs and cars. There are several excellent and
very respectable secondary inns and taverns for the accommoda-
tion of travellers, &c.
   There are L.10 public-houses in the town and parish, in which
ardent spirits or malt liquors are sold.

                          MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   An English traveller who visited Scotland in 1723, thus de-
scribes the people: "The common people wear all bonnets, in-
stead of hats; and although some of the townsmen have hats, they
wear them only on Sundays, and extraordinary occasions. There
is nothing of the gaiety of the English, but a sedate gravity in every
face, without the stiffness of the Spaniards; and I take this to be
owing to their praying and frequent long graces, which gives their
looks a religious cast. Certainly no nation on earth observes the
Sabbath with that strictness of devotion and resignation to the will
of God. They all pray in their families before they go to church,
and between sermons they fast; after sermon, everybody retires
to his own home, and reads some book of devotion till supper,
which is generally very good on Sunday, after which they sing
psalms till they go to bed. There is no dinner prepared on the
Sabbath, and, in inns, travellers are obliged to put up with bread
and butter, or a fresh egg, or fast till after the evening sermon,
when they never fall of a hot supper." According to custom, the
eating department forms a considerable item in this English gentle-
man's account. But the fasting here spoken of, and what relates
to dress, (and, it is to be feared, some other practices,) have long
passed away.
      About the middle of last century, and a good deal later, the prac-
tice of hard drinking was very common. About the time of the Ame-
rican war, politics and infidelity began to be introduced. Of late a
reaction has taken place. Infidelity is no longer fashionable, and re-
ligion is now either warmly embraced, or, if neglected in its essen-
tial duties and requirements, it is uniformly spoken of with respect.
Trade has also been equally fluctuating as manners, religion, and
morals. At one period the malting trade formed no inconsiderable
branch of industry in this town. Many memorials of this trade are
still to be found, and the richest and oldest society in Hamilton is
      LANARK.                          U


