
                                      PERTH.                            49


      a citadel on the South Inch, with the view of keeping the place more
      effectually in subjection to him.  It was strong, and had a command-
      ing appearance.  Its figure was square.  It had a bastion at each
      corner, and was surrounded with a rampart of earth, and a deep
      moat filled with water.  It was near to and connected with the
      river, and had a pier for loading and unloading vessels. "The en-
      try towards the town had an iron gate.  The commanding officer
      ordered great trees to be cut down in the king's hunting-park at
      Falkland and brought to the citadel.  The school-house was de-
      molished.  It contained 360 scholars, was three stories high, with
      room for the rector, doctors, and music-master. They demolished the
      high walls of the Grayfriars, carried away the stones, with nearly
      300 tomb-stones, and 140 dwelling-houses, with the garden walls;
      also the hospital, a stately building.  The stone pillars and abut-
      ments of the bridge, besides many kilns and fishing-boat, all were
      carried away to build the citadel.  One hundred and forty families
      were turned out of their houses, and had starved, if they had not
      been supplied by the town.  The surface of the two Inches, which
      yielded 2000 merks yearly for grass, was carried off to build the
      ramparts. " *
        Charles II., upon his restoration to the throne, made a gift of
      the citadel, with "the whole arms, amunition, and others therein,"
      to the town, as an indemnification for the losses which they had
      sustained by its erectinn, and in consideration of their faithful ser-
      vices to his Majesty (28th June 1661.) It soon after this fell into
      disrepair; for in 1666, complaints, which appear in the city records,
      were given in to the magistrates, that, notwithstanding frequent and
      positive prohhbitions, some persons had theftuously taken from it
      stones and timber. "This year, 1666," says Mr Cant, "the ma-
      gistrates ordered it to be exposed public roup (auction.) It was
      purchased by George Conqueror, merchant and town-treasurer,
      for 4000 merks, besides 702 merks for 1960 stones which he sold
      before, for which he was to answer in his treasurer accounts. In
      the records for 1681, it is entered, that the council, finding the
      time elapsed which they allowed to Bailie Craigdellie to removed

      serving, that he was neither the beir nor the executor  Charles. Reid made this
      Pointed and manly reply, --"It your excellency is neither beir nor executor, you are
      surely a vicious intromitter." Cromwell turning to company said, that he never
      bad such a bold thing said to him.  Mr Davidson's house was that in the Watergate,
      in which the John Richardson, Esq. of Pitfour, resided. He gave a tack of the
      lands of St Leonards for a charger to fight against Cromwell; afterwards be rold                                             . : 4 1
      them to the Perth Glover Incorporation.

<FOOTNOTE>Cant's History of Perth.
       PERTH.                                  D


