
124                       WIGTONSHIRE.

many instances of seven or eight seeds in return.  Towards the
west, upon the Irish Channel, some parts are fertile, but generally
the ground is of a barren nature, and abounds very much in a
sandy soil alongst the coast.  Large tracts are kept solely for sheep
and young cattle.  The coast presents awful chasms of broken
rocks, as if some convulsion of nature had torn them asunder.
Alongst this, coast, there is not one safe harbour; although, at no
considerable expense, one might be formed at the bay called Salt-
pan, which would be of mighty advantage for this part of the pa-
rish.  Since the present incumbent came to the parish, the salt-
pan was in operation, and produced very excellent salt from sea
water.
  Along the coast, which extends about eight miles, there are
excellent fish, particularly cod; but no fishing station.  The fish-                   ermen from Portpatrick scruple not to come along the coast and
take the fine red cod.
  The middle of the parish has of late been mightily improved, be-
ing at no great distance from Lochryan, and lime easily obtained at
Soleburn about 1s. 4d. per barrel.  A fine road passes through the
parish abnut the centre, and sweeps round Lochnaw, and passes on
to Portpatrick, and another branch turns to the north, and passes
alongst the north of Kirkcolm parish, and terminates at Stranraer.
Sir Andrew Agnew, who succeeded his grandfather, Sir Stair
Agnew, in 1809, has improved the face of the lands around his
castle in a very tasteful manner.  Every stranger considers him-
self highly gratified with the prospect about Lochnaw.
  Climate.-This parish being situated along the Irish Chan-
nel, the weather is very changeable, and dreadful storms visit it,
particularly from the west.  At certain periods, a creeping mist,
assuming various forms, approaches from the Atlantic.  Sometimes
this presages a long tract of dry weather, and at other times, rain
in abundance.

          There is a high wooded hill above Lochnaw Castle ;
          Take care when Lady Craigh hill puts on her mantle.
          The Lady looks high and knows what is coming ;
          Delay not one moment to get under covering.

Although the climate is moist, few parishes can produce instances
of longevity similar to what occur here.  The beadle died a few years
ago, aged one hundred and two years, and his wife eighty-two.
Some are living at the advanced ages of ninety-six, eighty-six, and
eighty-seven years.  The people are generally of a very healthy



