
658			FIFESHIRE.

on the south side of the dike, traversed successive beds of clay,
sand, and gravel, but no indications of coal or of rock of any kind
were discovered. The trap is projected through the great bed of
sandstone on which the whole of this part of the country reposes.
   Sandstone.-The consistency of this rock varies from a minute
breccia to the utmost degree of fineness and hardness; the colour
from a deep yellow to the purest white. The colouring matter is
derived from iron in a state of chromate, with which the superin-
cumbent soil is strongly impregnated. The dip of the sandstone
beds seems to depend almost entirely on accidental circumstances,
The strata are found in all positions from the horizontal to the
vertical. In many instances, it is found in what the quarrymen
term lunearts, that is, in solid cone-shaped masses of immense di-
mensions, unstratified, and without cleavage in any direction. In
this state, on being broken up, the surfaces often present a blis-
tered or sintry appearance. But this is peculiar to the fine-grain-
ed and harder qualities of the sandstone. The coarser sort is re-
gularly stratified in layers of uniform thickness, easily separated by
means of the wedge and lever. It is in this kind that organic re-
mains are almost exclusively found. These remains consist of
cacti, and trunks of trees protruded perpendicularly; the roots re-
posing sometimes on the coal beds below, but for the most part
without trace of branches or leaves. Impressions, however, of the
bark, branches, and leaves of trees are not unfrequent on the sur-
face of the strata.
   Organic Remains.-With regard to fossils, we may state that
vegetable remains are found in the greatest abundance and va-
riety in the softer bituminous and harder shales, and in the slate
clays. They comprehend principally impressions of the leaves and
stems of plants, and are common, we believe, to the whole coal-
field on the eastern shores of Fife.
   Mineralogy-Besides the concrete and stratified rocks already
briefly enumerated, the department of mineralogy supplier, speci-
mens of rock crystal containing various extraneous substances.
Crystals of quartz of great beauty are occasionally found in the
sandstone and trap rocks; to these may be added, though more
rarely, nodules of agate, carnelian, chalcedony, and jasper.
   Ironstone.-Ironstone is found in the parish in great abundance.

<FOOTNOTE>For more minute details on the Geology and Mineralogy of this part of the
country, the reader is referred to Mr Landale's excellent Prize Essay in the Geolo-
gy of the East Cost of Fife. Transactions of the Highland and Agricultural Society
of Scotland, Vol. xi.1837.


