
     of Stronsay and Eday.

ciently paid to the sovereign:  There, in process of time, were
feued by the Crown or its donators, in parcels to the tenants,
or others who had interest to procure them; which feus they
in general obtained for payment of the old rental.  In some
instances, for a small augmentation of the rental; and in o-
thers, with a deduction therefrom: the reason assigned for
which last, is, the lands were dear, and like to ly ley for
want of tenants.
   The kirk lands were in similar circumstances, and were
feued in like manner of old, by ecclesiastics or church-mens,
for the old rental or thereby.  Some of the udal lands pay
a small proportion of yearly rent to the King, and to the
kirk; and some of them do not pay any thing to one or to the
other.  Instances of all these specialities are to be found in
this district*.

     VOL. XV. 3 E

<FOOTNOTE>

*The truth of these observations will appear, by examining a complete
rental book, of the whole lands in Orkney and Shetland, made up in 1598,
by James Law, bishop of Orkney, which was entered and rented in Exche-
quer, on the 18th November 1617, and is still extant in the Register Office.
More than 20 years after said rental was made up, namely, in the year 1621,
Orkney heritors were denominated, in their public record, to be "mean
"men, and farmouress, and payers of the riggs of the rental."  They had con-
tinued, it seems, to possess the farms, or parcels of lands, which they and their
forefathers bad feued, or had let them to their principal servants, or depen-
dents, with the steel-bow; that is, the stocking of the farms, such as horses,
black cattle, sheep, labouring instruments, and even household furniture.  For
which farms and steel-bow, tenants of this description become bound to pay
the old rental, or feu-duty, and such additional rent as the land could bear.
At this period, and long after, the feuers lived in terms of social intercourse
and familiarity with their tenants; for maintaining and perpetuating of which,
annual entertainment, consisting of the best viands which the farms pro-
duced, were chearfully given by the tenants to their landlords, during the
Christmas holy days:  These entertainments, called bummacks, strengthened
and confirmed the bonds of mutual confidence, attachment, and regard,
which ought to subsist between those ranks of men.  As an instance of


