
                        DUMFRIES.                           5

can determine at what precise period the town of Dumfries was
founded. From several remains of antiquity, however, we may:
conjecture that it must have been a place of considerable resort
before the end of the eighth century. The earliest historical fact
which we find authentically recorded, is thd erection of a monastery
for Franciscan friars previous to the middle of the thirteenth cen-
tury, by Dervorgilla, daughter to Allan, Lord of Galloway, and
mother of John Baliol, king of Scotland. The base of the mount
upon which this religious house stood, is washed by the waters of the
Nith on the north and west. It was in the chapel and cloisters of this
monastery that the Comyns were slain by Robert the Bruce, aided by
Roger de Kirkpatrick and James Lindsay, on the 10th of February
1305. In 1307, the year after the Prince's coronation, Edward II. ad-
vanced to Dumfries, and received the homage of several Scottish
noblemen. The town was burnt by the English previously to the
year l448, and again in l536. This latter injury was amply revenged
by the Lord Maxwell, who crossed the border With a small body of
retainers, entered the town of Penrith, and reduced it to ashes.
About this period a magnificent castle was erected out of the ruins,
and almost on the site of the Friary,* by the Maxwells, then a very
powerful family. Previously to this, a strong castle had stood
near the same spot. This is supposed to have been erected some
time in the course of the twelfth century. In 1563, Queen Mary
and her privy council were at Dumfries ratifying a peace with Eng-
land; and two years afterwards, the disaffected lords Argyle, Mur-
ray, and Rothes, having assembled a force in the neighbourhood
Mary advanced upon the town with an army of 18,000 men. At
her approach these nobles fled into England, and Maxwell of Ter-
regles having incurred her royal displeasure, was glad to make his
peace by surrendering the castle of Dumfries into the hands of his
sovereign. The government of this fortress, however, was not with-
drawn from the family. In 1570 the castle was taken and sacked,
together with the town, by the English, under the Earl of Essex
and Lord Scrope. In 1617, James the Sixth, on his return from
a tour through his ancient kingdom of Scotland, after his accession
to the English throne, passed through Dumfries, where he was re-

<FOOTNOTE>It is said that the monastery of Greyfriars was deserted in consequence of its
having been polluted by the slaughter of the Red Comyn before the high altar. Cer-
tain it is, that soon after his death, the people resorted for worship to St Michael's
chapel, upon the site of which the parish church of St Michael now stands, towards
the south-east end of the town.


