
     Statistical Account

procured by the possession of them, while they are the only
object of attention.  The town is pleasantly situated on a
gentle ascent, looking towards the south.  It consists of one
street only, with a by-lane or two, and a few back houses,
the entries to which are through those in the front.  A
small town-house stands in the middle, having a steeple and
good clock.  In this, the courts of Justice are held, and the
meetings of Council for electing Magistrates, and other
affairs of the town.  No man can be elected a Magistrate
unless he be also a portioner, and none but those who are
portioners can vote in such elections*.  Many of the for-
tieth parts being now the property of one person, there
are by these means houses to spare for tradesmen, and more
might still be had by subseuing.  There is every induce-
ment for such people to choose an habitation here.  The
town is distant from coal, wrought in the lands of Mr Rit-
chie of Busby, only one mile or a little more.  Each
house has a garden belonging to it, sufficient to supply any
family with plenty of potatoes, and every ordinary vege-
table.  The market of Kilmarnock, which is but 2 Eng-
lish miles from this, can afford every thing else that may
be needed.  There was a time when 30 cutlers, and a good
many tinkers, resided in Kilmaurs.  The cutlers made ex-
cellent work, some of which is to be seen in the parish to
this day, particularly breakfast knives, superior, it is said,
to any thing of the kind that has as yet been made at
Sheffield or Birmingham.  The blade is of the best metal,
neatly shaped, finely polished, and set in a haft of Tortoise-

<FOOTNOTE>

*Two bailies are chosen annually, but their influence is inconsider-
able, having no constables to assist in the execution of their authority;
the disorderly and riotous therefore laugh at their threatened punishments.
This is not a defect in the constitution of the burgh, but a neglect hither-
to of their own, in not applying to the quarter-session for an appointment
of this kind.


