
                       CRANSTON.                           193

                   II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Land-owners.-The chief land-owner is General Sir John H.
Dalrymple, who has rather more than two-thirds of the parish,-
the next is William Burn Callender, Esq. of Prestonhall; after
him Sir Thomas Dick Lauder, and Alexander Mackay, Esq. of
Blackcastle.
   Parochial Registers.-The parish registers are now regularly
kept,-they are not voluminous. The baptismal register goes
back to 1682; that of marriages to 1784; the session record to
1783; the former session records are lost.
   There is a history of the parish in manuscript, which, I believe,
is now in the Advocates' Library. It was written by the late Sir
John H. Dalrymple, father of the present Baronet. The religi-
ous house at Cousland, formerly mentioned, was burnt by Somer-
set when he invaded Scotland with a powerful army, to enforce
the marriage of the beautiful Queen Mary with the young King
of England.
   The lands of Cakemuir, though disjoined from Cranston by the
parish of Crichton intervening, belong to this parish. The an-
cient part of the mansion house of Cakemuir consists of a square
tower, four storeys high, with bold projecting battlements surround-
ing the roof. This building, still entire and inhabited, is doubtless
of great antiquity. The extraordinarily thick and massive walls, as
well as the style of architecture, shew the early age in which it
was built. Though there is no certain information, when, or by
whom it was erected, there is little doubt that it must have been
by the Wauchopes of Cakernuir, for they appear to have held the
lands at least for 300 years, before they were purchased by the
present proprietor, Mr Mackay of Blackcastle. In the tower there
is an apartment called Queen Mary's room, which, it is said, that
unfortunate Princess occupied, after having escaped, disguised in
man's apparel, from the Castle of Borthwick, when that fortress
was invested in June 1567, by Lord Home and his confede-
rates, and before she went to join her husband Bothwell, at Dun-
bar. This tradition seems well founded. Various documents
show that the lands in the immediate neighbourhood formed part
of the Lordship of Crichton, which, at the time referred to, belong-
ed to Bothwell, Queen Mary's husband; and that the Wauchopes
of Cakemuir were Bothwell's'vassals, consequently were designed
according to the custom of that age, his servitours or servants.
   Modern Buildings.-These are, Oxenford Castle, the magnifi-
   EDINBURGH.                             N


