
                      TIREE AND COLL.                      213

good deal has been done in the way of draining, in closing, and
otherwise improving waste lands, especially by Mr Campbell,
tacksman of Breachaha, presently acting as factor to Mr
MacLean of Coll, who is allowed to be an active and judici-
pus Highland agriculturist.
   Cattle, &c.-The cattle reared in Tiree are not in general reck-
oned of very good quality, and, according to the present system of
management, can hardly be expected to be so.  Crofters have no
winter pasture, and the utmost they can often do is to keep their
cows from starving, during the winter and spring.  Owing to the
fineness of the grass, and want of heather, they are not so hardy,
nor do they stand driving to market so well, as many other cattle,
and are, moreover, liable to certain distempers, which affect their
value, so that dealers are not fond of purchasing them, except at
reduced prices.
   The black-cattle in Coll are much superior in quality, and may be
estimated at L.2 per head higher in value.  The price of cows
there may be reckoned at from L.5 to L.8; in Tiree, from L.3
to L.6.
   Some sheep stocks have been lately introduced into both islands,
chiefly of the Cheviot and black-faced breed; but the experiment
has not been tried for a sufficient length of time to enable us to
form an opinion how it may succeed.  The annual and ordinary
rate of grazing is from L.1, 10s. to L.2 per cow, including fodder
or hand-feeding during the winter and spring; and from 5s. to 8s.
per sheep.  A horse's grass is considered equivalent, to that of
two cows.
   For some years back, a great number of pigs have been reared
in this parish, and are found to be a very profitable kind of stock.
They are generally exported alive chiefly to Glasgow and Green-
ock where they meet with a ready demand, and fetch tolerable
prices.  Last spring upwards of 500 of them were shipped off
from this island; and their price at home varies from L.1,, 10s. to
L.2, 10s. or L.3. *

<FOOTNOTE>The prices of country produce not enumerated above, are as follow: Potatoes,
from 1s. 6d. to 4s. per barrel, ordinary price about 2s 6d. ; bear, from L.1 to L.1, 7s.
per quarter ; large oats, from L.1, 1s. to L.1, 7s, per do. ; wedders, from 12s to 18s,
according to kind and quality ; lambs, from 6s to 12s, ; eggs, 4d. per dozen ; pair
fowls from 1s. 6d. to 2s. ; pair ducks, the same ; pair geese, os. ; butter, 10d. per lb. ;
cheese, from 4d. to 6d. per lb.  But it may be observed, that of these latter articles,
very little is sold, and that they not worth specifying in the general amount of
produce.



