
			LARBERT.                        341

part of the river Forth which extends from near Stirling as
far as Queensferry; on the south and east, the rich carses of
Bothkennar, Falkirk, and Borrowstowness, containing the opulent
towns of Falkirk and Grangemouth, with numerous thriving vil-
lages. The Carron Iron-works and many other works are finely
contrasted with the prospect to the west of the beautiful range
of the Ochills, deeply indented by ravines,--thus present-
ing so many faces to be dimpled by the shadows of the passing
clouds.
   Climate.--THe climate of Larbert is a mean between that of
Edinburgh and Glasgow, from which cities it is nearly equidis-
tant. The prevailing wind, as may be seen by the bent of the trees,
is from the south-west; but it is not laden with so much rain as
near Glasgow, while the rage of the east wind is somewhat subdued,
as compared with Edinburgh. An illustration of this fact occurs
at the time of writing this Account. The continued gales from the
east, accompanied by snow, have impeded all agricultural opera-
tions in the neighbourhood of Edinburgh,--whilst in Larbert parish,
the sowing of beans has been long completed, nearly all the oats
are in the ground, and the land is cloven, and a dry bed is ready
for the reception of the barley. This is, however, an extreme
case; but as it occured under our own inspection, and at so op-
portune a moment, it is recorded. Five days later, a heavy fall
of snow covered Larbert to the depth of three or four inches; be-
fore noon, we were in Edinburgh, where no snow had fallen. It
soon disappeared at Larbert.
  It appears, however, that the climate of Larbert is not so mild
as the climate of Edinburgh and the climate of Greenock, being
more inland than these two places, i. e. the mean temperature of
the winter months is probably somewhat colder at Larbert than
the mean temperature of the winter months at Edinburgh or
at Greenock; and this is shown by the growth of plants which re-
quire a mild temperature. For instance, the laurustinus, (Vibur-
num tinus, Lin.), a native of the country near Rome, &c. most com-
monly supports the winter's cold at Edinburgh and Greenock.

 <FOOTNOTE>The Ochills are composed of porphyritic rocks of the trap formation. Benclach,
which is the highest summit of the ridge, is situated above the parish town of Alva
and is about 2000 feet above the level of the sea. The trigonometrical survey of Bri-
tain, conducted by the Board of Ordnance, had a station on the summit of Benclach
about 1816, and one of the geometers of the detachment engraved and published a
view of the whole circle of the horizon seen from Benclach, forming a panorama of
the hills seen from that station.


