
406                INVERNESS-SHIRE.

  Ecclesiastical History. -In the history of the Reformation from
Popery, or of the struggles between Presbytery and Episcopacy,
we find no mention of this parish, or of any names connected with
it. Indeed, the changes of the national forms of religion seem to
have extended to the North Highlands, with comparatively little
excitement in the public mind, and without having led to much
personal or domestic suffering. Hence we have no places render-
ed interesting by a martyr's grave, nullum saxum cum nomine. As
to the north, generally, all that Wodrow can say is, " that the seed
sown by Hog, Dickson, Bruce, and M'Killigan, took root in the soil,
and that, though there were but few comparatively with the west
and south, yet there were more than many imagine dissatisfied with
Prelacy." This assertion derives confirmation from the diary of a
religious lady called Lilias Dunbar of Torreich, a manuscript co-
py of which is in the possession of Captain Shaw, Culblair, in this
parish. By the year 1570, when the celebrated Robert Pant was
visiter and the commissioner of Moray in the General Assembly,
Shaw states that almost all the parishes in Moray had Protestant
teachers.  He gives the names of those in Pettic and Bracholy :
Andro Braboner, 1568; James Dunbar, 1579. Of these we
know nothing, and of Donald Macqueen, who served from 1613
to 1630, the only notice we find is in this entry in the synod books;
Mr Macqueen " regrets that Mr P. Dunbar, (minister of Dores) his
travels are unfruitful in the place where he serves, and that only
through want of the language." From 1630 to 1633, there seems to
have been no minister. For the synod appointed a " Committee
to entreat my Lord of Moray to present some qualified man." From
1633 till 1683, Alexander Fraser, father of Dr Fraser of Chelsea,
was incumbent. We have a register of births during his whole in-
cumbency; but not of marriages. The session-records begin in
1644; but the first few leaves of the volume were destroyed from
its not having been bound till recently. The following extracts
are given as illustrative of the times and of the character of the
man. *

<FOOTNOTE> * "September 29. 1644. This day the minister did inquire of the elders and dea-
cons if they knew okany persons that were sick in their divisions,  .  .  .  the
minister promised to visit them on Monday. The minister desired them to search
if there were any Sabbath breakers, and to delate tbem.
  " October 1644. Intimation made that no mills grind on the Sabbath, under pain
of censure, penalty, and repentance.
  " November 24. All the elders and deacons exhorted upon ane form before the pul-
pit after the sermon respecting their duty and diligence in the work of God.
  " 16th March 1645. J. M'Dougal is declared banished, and declaration made, if
any shall harbour her within the parish they shall pay, &C.
  " The penult of May 1647.--being accused for their violating of the


