
196                     KINCARIDINESHIRE.

mity,--and above, towards the west, an ascending heathy ridge of
hill, rising to about 200 feet above the sea, through the whole breadth
of the parish, and crowned with two cahrns, which are seen several
leagues off at sea, and serve to direct those who sail near the coast.
During the late war, a flag-staff was erected upon the highest one,
to give notice of the approach of enemies' ships. The north
side of the parish consists of two haughs on the river and the side
of the hill ending in the Girdleness, and of a valley and hill be-
neath the heathy ridge above described.
	A part of the soil is clayey, but the far greater part is black
and loamy, of various depths, and on different bottoms.  The
haughs, the valley, and sides, as well as tops of the two hills to
the north, and the bank to the south, are in a state of cultivation,
particularly the whole of Torry Hill, (so called from its vicinity to
the village of Torry,) the top of which, a few years ago, was in a
state of nature, encumbered with stones and covered with furze.
A broad belt of above a mile, more or less, throughout the middle
and the whole length of the parish, with the exception of some
acres (perhaps one hundred) lately cultivated, and others in pro-
gress of trenching, is unarable, wild, and uninhabited, consisting
of moss and heath, intermixed with a prodigious number of surface
and sunk stones.
	Coast, &c.--A mile from the south-west boundary of the parish,
there is a natural harbour, formed with very little artificial help,--
thd Bove, fit for boats, which accommodates the fishermen of a village
adjoining, and is often a place of refuge to boats when overtaken
with a north-easterly storm. In thd neighbourhood of this place,
there is a cave entering from the sea, several yards inland, and
terminating in a beach, and covered with solid rock, from which,
probably the village has received its name. In the rocks along
the coast, there are several of these caverns or excavations, arched
in a very wonderful manner, and running a great way under ground.
There are nine boats in the cove, with six men to each.
	About three-quarters of a mile farther northward, is Burnbank
Harbour, less safe,--where there has been a white-fishing settlement
for a considerable period. The original settlers throve well, but
now it seems to be falling off, probably owing to the less favourable
terms of their leases. There are two boats in Burnbank; there
were forth three.
	About half a mile still further north, is Altens Harbour, formerly a
considerable  fishing settlement, now wholly deserted by fishermen.


