
            60                        PERTHSHIRE.

              A new and more constitutional session was formed (after the Re-
           voltition) in 1690, 4th June. Then the elders and deacons were
           formally and presbyterially ordained.  From this time the records
           have been regularly made up, and, with one or two excdptions, care-
           fully preserved. But it appears that the session continued to tran-
           sact, at their sessional meetings, the civil business of the hospital,
           andil in their minutes, to mix up that with matters of disciplind :
           and, when the three Lethetidy mortifications were committed to
           their management in the years 1660, 1686, 1743, to enter the busi-
           ness of these among the minutes.
            In 1796 this irregularity was rectified, and now there is a set of
           books for each of these institutions.
            In 1807, the original parish was divided into four by the Court
           of Session. Since that time the session of each parish has bad its
           own register.  The two for baptisms and marriages continue, as for-
           merly, for the whole original parish.  The two quoad sacra parishes
           lately erected, have, of course, each its own register for matters
           of discipline.
            It may not be out of place to mention bere' that the session of the
           Middle Church are in possession of four communion cups of singular-
           lyantique workmanship, chased.  They are silver gilt, and have each
           an unique cover. ln 1632, there appears to have been only two.  In
           the session register of that xdar, we find the following entry: 11 Lay
           21, the two silver overgilt goblets with gold, with the covers for the
           communion, and two basins pertaining to the session, are put within
           the charter kist in the revestry, there to be kept." Another of
           them seems to have been purchased about the year 1639, or soon
           after, for in a minute of session of that year, April 29, it is 11 or-
           dained that the hundred pounds (Scots) paid for permission to bury
           Lady Stormont in the kirk, sball be employed for the buying of
           an cup for the use of the communion. In the following year it is
           mentioned, that'Mr John Robertson gave L. 20 11 to help to buy the
           CUP." Besides th-ese cups, there is a massy silver baptismal font,
           which appears from the legend to have been the property of the Old
           or Middle Church since the year 1649, The East Church have
           had it in loana since 1808. The charter kist above referred to is in
           the Middle Church.  It contains a small box, in which there has been
           preserved since the year 1685 a CALCULOUS- The historyof which is
           somewhat curious and given in the following notice accom
           it:-" September 10th 1685. This day this stone being cot and


