
142                        PEEBLES-SHIRE.

the cattle of the former tenant used often to be bogged in search-
ing for the early grass from the springs. Lying upon a bottom of
chattery rock, no ditch could confine the water, and of course was
not attempted. It was merely surface-drained by shaping it into
high-crowned ridges by the spade; it was then limed from bas-
kets carried by women, and sown out with grass-seeds, and has re-
mained in grass ever since; a part of it being subsequently water-
ed, though scantily, from Callends burn, hay is yearly cut from it
at nearly 200 stones per acre. Three small springs have had two
small portions assigned to them for watering,-the water of one of
them being carried a part of the way to its destination in a timber
Conduit, supported upon tresses. But the most remarkable effect
produced by irrigation was upon a field of a semifluid moss of five
acres along Longstruther burn, over which sheep could not travel
in the driest weather without risk of drowning. It was so deep that
it would have required a ditch of great depth, and carried to great
length, before reaching the level of its bottom. It was, therefore,
surface-shaped for watered meadow, and the Longstruther burn
turned over it; and, from being worth next to nothing, yields 200
stones of hay per acre, and can carry carts.
    And here it may not be improper to state an experiment tried
last year upon a small scale, and with such apparent success as
has encouraged the repetition of it this season upon a larger. It
is to raise turnips by grass fresh cut from the watered meadow, and
deposited in the drills in the same way as dung. The grass in
this year's experiment underwent no other process than merely be-
ing turned into the horse pond to get wetted that it might lie the
more closely in the drill, to be the more easily covered by the
plough. I inspected the field on the 4th September 1833,
when the turnip from the grass and that from rape dust ap-
peared equally vigorous in the shaw. Those on the same field
from dung were rather fading in the shaw, but farther advanced
in the bulb, owing, as I was told, from the earlier springing of the
turnip from the dung. It might seemingly be of advantage to wet
the grass, or, indeed, any kind of green stuff afforded by the farm,
and to let it lie in heap for a few days till it gets heated, when
turnip might spring from it as early as from dung. From the suc-
cess of this experiment it would appear that manure might thus be
obtained in every farm from any green stuff it produces. I in-
spected the same day the meadow whence the grass had been taken
for manure. It was cutting green for house-feeding, and was pro-


