
422                      ROSS AND CROMARTY.

   Navigation.-No ships or vessels of any description belong to
the parish; but several vessels trade to Bonar, of from thirty to
sixty tons burthen, and occasionally some of a larger size, though
these last cannot come up to the bridge, owing to the shallowness
of the channel. They import coals, lime, meal, salt, &c. and ex-
port wood, oak bark, corn, wool, and salmon.

                    V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Means of Communication, &c.-There is no market-town in
the parish; the nearest is Tain, which is thirteen miles distant
from the church of Kincardine. But the means of communica-
tion are ample: there is a post-office at Bonar Bridge in this parish,
and a daily, post. The mail is brought from Tain in a commo-
dious double-seated gig, capable of containing four passengers,
which arrives at the Balnagown Arms Inn, Ardgay, every morning
at nine o'clock, and is despatched at five in the afternoon. The
mail-coach used to drive round by Bonar, but since May 1830, it
has crossed the frith at the Meikle Ferry, which is three miles on
this side of Tain. This ferry, from the shoals in the channel, and
its exposure to sudden squalls from the hills, is considered one of
the most dangerous and inconvenient in the north ; and many lives
have been lost in crossing it. To avoid this ferry, the Parliamen-
tary Commissioners for Highland Roads and Bridges, in the year
1812, built an iron bridge at Bonar, across a narrow Part of the
Dornoch Frith (where previously there had been a ferry), at an
expense of L.14,000. Bonar Bridge consists of three arches,-
one of east-iron 150 feet in span, and two stone arches of 50 and
60 feet respectively. The iron arch is on the Sutherland side,
and the stone arches on this side. The fabric is as strong as it
is beautiful, for the pillars have repeatedly withstood uninjured
the shocks of united masses of ice and timber, and the collision of
small vessels driven against them by the tide.
   There is a good stone pier at Bonar, which was erected a few
years ago by an enterprising individual in the parish, Mr Ross of
the Balnagown Arms Inn, solely at his own expense. It is chiefly
used for shipping timber and landing coals, lime, &c. or whatever
cargo the few vessels which occasionally come up the Frith may
contain. A good many fishing-boats corme during the summer
season.
   The parish is not blessed with the convenience of good roads;
for, with the exception of the road from the church of Kincardine
to Ardgay, Bonar, and a few miles to Gladefield and Invercarron


