
                             FETTERCAIRN.                      121

Dutch; beef 5 1/2d. to 6d. per imperial lb.; mutton do.; veal do.;
butter 9d; pork 5s. 9d. per imperial stone; cheese 7s. to 8s. per,
do; milk 1 1/2d. per chopin; eggs 5d. per dozen; fowls 1s. 2d., to
1s. 4d. each; chickens 1s. to 1s. 3d. per pair; turkey 4s. to 6s.
	Live-Stock.--The common breed of sheep is the black-faced
kind, with a few Cheviots. The black cattle are chiefly of the
Angus-shire breed, but there are also a few of the Aberdeenshire-
and Ayrshire kinds. The species of pig most in use is the Chi-
nese. Bees are cultivated, but not to much dxtent or advantage.
	Husbandry.--The mode of husbandry is generally that of five
years rotation, being successively oats, green crop, barley or oats
again, hay, and pasture the last year. Wheat is not much cultivat-
ed. In the green crop stage of the rotation, mangel wurzel, or
beet-root, has been tried and has grown well, and been considered
a very valuable kind of food for milch cows; but the cultivation of
it has been discontinued on account of the trouble and expense
attending to it. In the scarcity of manure which sometimes occurs,
bone dust is used as a substitute. It produces good crops of tur-
nips; but sheep are generally laid on the field to eat them off, for
the sake of the following crops.
	The Georgian, Hopetoun, Kildrummie, Early Angus, and po-
tato oats, have all been tried; but the potato and early Angus
varieties are those at present in use. Barley is most frequently
sown in the lower, and bear in the higher, parts of the parish; and
the returns vary from 4 to 8 qrs. per acre. Frequent changes
of seed are used to prevent deterioration, which would otherwise
take place. Tares are sown, as a substitute for clover-grass, to
be used in the end of the season. Flax has been esteemed a se-
vere crop for the land, and has been less cultivated for several years
back than when it was encouraged by the Government bounty.

Leases,&c.--The common period of leases is nineteen years. The
farm buildings and enclosures are, in general, commodious and in
good repair. In most cases, the tenants bear a part of the ex-
pense of them. The disposition of the present proprietors is al-
lowed to be liberal towards all that sit under them.
	Improvements.--At an early period in the agricultural history of
this county, we find the Ramsays of Balmain mentioned as very ac-
tive and extensive improvers of land. By the zealous and judicious
exertions of the successive members of that family who came into the
possession of the property, it was brought to such a state of im-
provement, that comparatively little remained to be done after the


