
     Statistical Account

same method is still employed, but a more effectual one has
lately been adopted, of opening arched passages some of the
piers.  Through these the current moves rapidly, and prevents
the soil from settling; and before this contrivance the harbour
was in danger of being filled up.  To the east of the harbour,
all the way to Broughty Castle, there is an excellent road for
ships of any burden, which can get within the bar, across the
mouth of the river.  This is about 8 miles below Dundee,
and as vessels can hardly attempt to cross it, in a storm, many
shipwrecks happen on the coast beyond it, when the storm is
from the east, and the vessels are found too near the shore.
The principal scene of there wrecks is St. Andrew's bay, and
the coast of Angus between Barry and Arbroath.  Even with-
in the bar, and till the vessels have passed Broughty Castle, the
courts on both tides are dangerous, consisting of fiat funds.

   River and Sea Productions.-The fresh water streams of
Dighty, Fiethy, and the Burn of Muroes, have trouts in them,
and Dighty has some pikes, but no salmon; except at the end
of the fishing season, when a few of what are called foul fish,
or kelt, are caught, and no fish of almost any other kind, ex-
cept some sea trout, after it leaves the parish, to fail into the
Tay at Monyfieth.  Though the Tay abounds in salmon,
there are but 4 or 5 fishings on all our extent of coast; nor do
almost any white fish, except a species of slounders, called fresh
waters, come within the bar.  In the funds of the river we
have a few small crabs; one bank yields periwinkles; shrimps
are caught on all of them, and smelts in the channel, on the
shore of Fife, near Balmerino, where the water becomes less
salt than at Dundee.  In some years, towards August, large
shoals of porpoises appear, and regularly go up and down
with the tide, from the mouth of the river as far as Errol,
in pursuit of salmon, but no method has hitherto been found
of catching them.  Seals are numerous, and also destructive


