
94                   ELGINSHIRE.

ledge to the people, and taught them dexterity in many opera-
tions.
   For a considerable length of time past, the improvement in agri-
culture in this parish has been great; and is likely to continue.
This has been occasioned chiefly by the command of lime, which
happily is found here in various places; and abundance of peats
and decaying timber, for burning that valuable article, is found
all over the parish.  This mode of cultivating and improving the
ground is found so beneficial, that there is not an individual of
even the lower order of farmers, (such as pay- no more than L. 6
of rent annually,) who has not a lime-kiln in use.  This manure
not only promotes the increase of corn, &c. but greatly meliorates
the pasture for cattle, and increases both the quantity and quality
of hay.
The proprietor, most prudently and most beneficially to all ranks
of farmers, gives a fixed sum for every acre of waste ground brought
into a state of cultivation.
   I cannot obtain anv accurate account of the yearly amount and
value of raw produce raised in the parish.

                   V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

Ecclesiastical State.-The church of Kincardine is very well
built and finished, and is 7 miles distant from the manse.  It af-
fords sufficient room for 600 persons.  The church in the district
of Abernethy is very sufficiently built, well supplied with light, and
commodiously fitted up with seats. There is a beautiful seat in
the gallery, opposite to the pulpit, intended for the use of the fa-
mily of the heritor.  The church can accommodate 1000 persons.
The parish was accommodated with a catechist, by the Com-
mittee for managing the Royal Bounty, since the year 1790. But
the old man died two years ago, and the salary was withdrawn. It,
is well known that the abolition of that cheap office produces a de-
plorable ignorance of the doctrines of salvation.
   Education.-I can give a very favourable report of the paro-
chial school, in which there are seldom fewer than 100 schnlars.
Mr M'Donald (now upwards of thirty-one years in office) very
successfully teaches Latin, English, arithmetic, book-keeping, En-
glish-grammar, writing, and mathematics.  There are many young
men now conducting business prosperously who bad been educated,
at this school; and we have to ascribe their success to the instruc-
tions they here'received.  We have at Kincardine, a school,


