
                          CAMPSIE.                                    239


in respect of botanical productions. Campsie glens furnish almost
as many good plants as any locality within ten miles of the city;
and some are found here which have not been described elsewhere
in the neighbourhood. The following list contains the names of
those plants, which are more rarely found in Scotland.

  Veronica montana	Geranium pyrenaicum	Epilobium angustifolium
  ----- scutellata	-------- sylvaticum
  Melica uniflora          Althea officinalis               Mosses.
  Galium pusillum          Genista anglica            Gymnostomum curviros-
  Campanula latifolia      Habenaria albida             trum
  Verbascum thapsus        --------- bifolia           Weissia tenuirostrist
  Chenopodium Bonus-       --------- viridis      ------- curvirostra
    Henricus	        Gymnadenia conopsea	Anomodon viticulosum
  Lathraea squmaria        Carex speirosta chya        Encalypta ciliata
  Arenaria trinervis	Polygonum bistorta	Orthotricum Drummondi
  Sedum villosum	Vaccinium oxyococcos	Dicranum squarrosum
  Prunus padus		  (the cranberry.)	Tortula rigida
  Cardamine amara	Pyrus aucuparia (in the	------- tortuosa
  Erysimum alliaria	  greatest abundance.)
  Geranium lucidum	Rubus chamamorus

  Mineralogy.--The minerals of which this district is principally
composed are, Ist, trap; and 2d, those of the coal formation.
That range of hills which runs along the north side of the Strath,
called the Campsie Fells, consists chiefly of large tabular masses of
trap, the divisions in which are frequently indicated by the springs
of water which issue from them, and which trace their course in
deep furrows on the brow of the bill. The geological position
and character of these masses are found to vary considerably in
different situations; in some approaching near to a columnar form,
and then passing into other layers, having large amygdaloidal ca-
vities filled with calc-spar, quartz, &c. The transition between
these two masses is sometimes marked by soft, friable green-
stone, having a marly appearance, from the quantity of mealy zeo-
lite and calc-spar which it contains. Other layers are characte-
rized by having a greater abundance of bornblende and felspar
crystals intermixed. These phenomena have been accounted for
by the different modifying circumstances under which the trap has
been cooled.
   Foliated zeolite, prebnite, and compact gypsum are also fre-
quently found in this secondary trap formation. Many sections
are to be seen in the parish (such as in the Clachan Glen, the
head of Shield's Burn, &c.), of the immediate contact of the trap
with the coal formation; the latter sometimes dipping under the
former, and at other times being upheaved by it into a vertical

<FOOTNOTE> In such abundance as sometimes to scent the air.
           This species, which was long supposed to grow exclusively in the glen of Camp-
sie, is now proved to be a curious variety, or rather state of Tortula tortuosa.


