
   162                    SUTHERLANDSHIRE.

      The annual collections at the church amount to L.20 and up-
   wards; and besides a regular donation of 1.6 from the Noble pro-
   prietor, there are extra collections, when the parishioners of all
   ranks contribute liberally.
      The paupers on the roll are about 120, and the average allow-
   ance to each may be stated at 5s.  In seasons of scarcity, the poor
   go about in the parish, and seldom leave it; but it is absolute n.e-
   cessity that compels them to go beyond their own threshold, for
   relief from other.
      A Savings sank was established for the whole county about six
   years agoand a branch of it is in each parish.  Considerable sums
   were deposited, and the institution has already been of incalculable
   advantage to the community, affording, during the late pressing
   seasons, a relief from the savings of more prosperous times.
      Markets.-A market is held at Brora in the month of October,
   which is attended by the people of this and the neighbouring pa-
   rishes.  Shopkeepers come from a distance, and erect tents to dis-
   play their commodities, and they usually meet with a ready sale.
   A great many cattle and horses change owners, it being tile last
   market of the season.  The five inns in the village used to be
   crowded on this occasion, besides a great many tents in the mar-
   ket for the retail of whisky; but the Total Abstinence Societies,
   which have been formed of late, have had a miraculous effect in
   improving the tastes and habits of the people in this respect.
   There is not a third part of the spirits used now which were used for-
   merly, and the innkeepers complain loudly that their calling is gone.
      Fuel.-The ordinary fuel is peat procured from mosses in the
   close neighbourhood, and the fishers collect coke from the shore
   under flood-mark.  Coal is imported, costing from 16s. to 18s.
   per ton, and its use among the wealthier class is much on the in-
   crease.
                  MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
      There is no district of country in Scotland where such an entire
   change has taken place in the habits, character, and pursuits of the
   inhabitants, as in this and the other parts of the county forming
   the estate of Sutherland.  They were quite a rural, a moral, and a
   happy population, inhabiting beautifully romantic and sequestered
   glens in the interior-far removed loan the bustle of the world.
   Strangers to its allurements and luxuries, they passed their lives,
   generation following generation, in the same localities, but without
   ambition to better their circumstances, or a desire to improve


