
176                     HADDINGTONSHIRE.

upon the side of the road leading from Penston to the London road;
but it is not yet finished. We find that in 1812, coal was wrought
upon the property of Hodges. There was also a brick-work upon
that property, about fifty years ago; but the working, both of the
coal and the brick, has been discontinued. A proposal was made
lately to set a-going a brick-work there for brick and tile; but it
was given up. Coal was wrought about thirty years ago at M'Mer-
ry, and also at the western extremity of the parish; but the pit was
removed a little to the west in the parish of Tranent, where it
now is. It belongs to Anderson of St Germains.
   In 1835, at M'Merry, when the blacksmith was sinking a well
a little behind his house, on the St Germains property, he acci-
dentally came upon some parrot coal. The tenant of the coal-
work upon that property, upon bearing of this, examined it, and
found a seam of parrot coal, which he has been working ever since,
and which, having supplied the new gas-work at Haddington, pro-
mises to turn to good account. The tenant of the Penston coal
also attempted to find it on the opposite side of the-road, but did
not succeed. The same year, borings were made in different parts
of the Elvingston property, with a view to find coal, but without
success. The magistrates of Haddington, some time ago, set on
foot a colliery on their property betwixt Gladsmuir and Samuel-
ston; but after going on for some time, they were obliged to give
up the work, having lost about L. 2000 in the experiment.
   From all which, it appears that the coal strata crop out on the
east, about the kirk of Gladsmuir.
   Lime has been found in different parts of the parish. At pre-
sent, there is only one kiln in operation, at Hairlaw, a little to the
east of Longniddry, on the property of the Earl of Wemyss.
About a mile to the south, on the property of Ainslie of Redcoll,
there is a kiln in pretty good preservation, where limestone had
been burnt, but the working has been discontinued for some time.
I do not know that lime has been wrought, on the south side of the
great road; but as there is a kiln in active operation on the eastern
extremity of the Pencaitland estate, and upon the borders of the
barony of Sarnuelston, it is highly probable that lime may be found
on the contiguous lands of Samuelston or of Hodges. It is found,
in the same line, all the way west to the kirk of Crichton, and on
the north of the road so far east as the farm of Hoprig.
   Iron ore has been found on the eastern extremity of the farm of
Setonhill, a little below Cotyburn, in the hollow called the Dean.

                               3


