
250			KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

tien. It is now secured from farther dilapidation except what
come isevitably from the hand of time.
	Length of the abbey from east to west, 194 feet breadth, in
cluding transept,63 feet; the cross, from north to south, 102 feet;
height of the tower about 90 feet. The particular year of its erec-
tion is uncertain.
	The monks belonging to the abbey were of the Cisterian or-
der, instituted in 1098.
	In the 24th of Edward L. John, Abbe de Douzquer, swore fealty
at Berwick, and renounced connection with the King of France,
and was in consequence restored to his lands, which had been
seized. Gilbert Brown, descended of the family of Garsleuth,
w`s the last abbot. He sat in Parlialent 17th August 1560, whilst
the Confession of Faitb was approved, and, in 1605, he was appre-
headed by the Lord Cranstoun, Captain of the Guards, appoint-
ed for the Borders, and was sent to Blackness, and, after some
days, was transported to the Castle of Edinburgh, where he was
confined till he left the kingdom. He died at Paris, 14th May
1612.
	The Lord Maxwells, ancestors of the Earl of Nithsdale, were
heritable bailies of this monastery; and Sir Robert Spotiswoode,
President of the Court of Session, and secretary to Charles I.,
being possessed of this abbey in temporal lordship, was, from it,
called Lord New Abbey.
	Distant about half a mile froin the abbey, on the farm of Lan-
dis stand the ruins of a square building called the Abbot's tower,
Which, as well as the Abbey, is partly mantled over with ivy, and
the residence of owls, jackdaws, and swifts during their short vi-
sits to these northern regions.
	Coins.--A few copper coins, very thin, and of the breadth of a
sixpence, have been dug up in the vicinity of the abbey, and two
of them are now in the hands of the minister.
	Some years ago, in a very dry summer, there were taken out of
Lochend loch, two metal pots capable of containing three or four
gallons, evidently of very ancient manufacture. They are now in
the possession of D. Hamilton Craik, Esq. of Arbigl`nd, on whose
property they were fotnd. Another pot, of similar materials, but
of smaller dimensions, was, some years ago, dug up near the abbot's
tower, and remains with the tenant of the farm.
	Land-owners.--The chief land-owners are, R. A. Oswald, Esq.


