
	496                        ARGYLESHIRE.

	of its north wall. At the south-cast corner of the church, a taste.
	ful arch in the wall still remains, divided into three compartments,
	two of which seemed as if intended for images or relics.  Part of
	the outside tracery of this arch is also yet entire ; and, at its lower
	extremity on the west side, is to be seen one of those grotesque
	figures of animals which were so common on the ornamental works
	of such buildings.  The prior's residence was situated to the
	south-west of the monastery, and, after having been fitted up and
	undergone certain necessary changes, has long been, as it still is,
	the dwelling-house of the proprietor.  Its walls are very massive,
	the gables being seven feet in thickness, including the career
	ments, which reach to the first flonr, and five feet in thickness
	above that.  In a recess on the first floor there is a singular apart-
	ment, with a fine groined roof, called the Friar's closet.  Behind
	the Prior's house there was a court, extending fifty feet westwards
	from the principal entrance to the monastery ; and the garden,
	which lay to the north, and is now part of an inclosed field, may
	still be distinguished by its back loam when the ground is turn-
	ed up by the plough.  The cemetery of the order lay to the south
	of the church, the more honoured of the dead appear to have
	been interred withinthe walls.  Indeed, human bones and other
	sepulchral remains have, at no distant period, been dug tip in the
	present garden and where the offices are erected ; for when burial
	ground within the cemetery could not be obtained, it was, under
	the reign of Romanism, superstitiously deemed a privilege that
	the dead should be laid as near as possible to their churches and
	convents. It is said that a part of the building of the monastery
	was destroyed some time before the restoration : at all events
	there is no ground for alleging that our reformers, to whose ruth-
	lessness it is deemed convenient to ascribe the demolition of the
	ancient ecclesiastical buildings, ever displaced a single stone here.
	A portion of the materials of the chapel appear to have been em-
	ployed, appropriately enough, by the resident heritors, more than
	a century ago, in erecting the parish church : other portions were
        used for building fences and out-houses, the carved freestone
	having, at the same time, been discovered by bouse-maids to be, in
	a pounded state, admirably suited for their purposes when clean-
	ing tbeir floors and passages. The once handsome and richly
	arched outer doorway has in this manner been rudely and
	thoughtlessly mutilated.
	     No precise information can be obtained of the revenues of this


