
                  DAVIOT AND DUNLICHITY.             517

lichity, where in one day he had 200 of them hanged in a
barn; but William, after his death, was quartered, and a quarter
sent to Elgin, Forres, Aberdeen, and Inverness, and his head to
Dyke, to be fastened upon a pole, all as an example to others.
None of these 200 could be induced to confess where their Cap-
tain Hector was, although life was severally promised to every one
of them, as they were led along to the gallows.  This was called
the Raid of Petty.
   On the ]6th March 1746, (a month before the battle of Cul-
loden,) Lord Loudon with the King's army was at Inverness, and
understood that Prince Charles Stuart was to sleep that night at
Moyhall, the seat of the laird of Mackintosh, which is eleven
miles south of that town, with a guard of 200 of Mackintosh's men
attending him.  His Lordship, with 1500 of his men, proceeded
immediately to Moyhall, in order to take the Prince by surprise,
and thereby to put a speedy end to the rebellion.  Mackintosh
himself was absent in Ross-sbire in the King's service, but his
lady, who was a daughter of Farquharson of Invercauld, entertain-
ed the Prince, and was so enthusiastic in his cause that she raised
a regiment of her husband's clan and followers to support him.
She got private information in the forenoon of that day, of the
intended advance of the King's forces, and having consulted with
Donald Fraser, blacksmith at Moybeg, a clever and active man, he
agreed to go along with five other men whom she named, to re-
connoitre the royal army along the high road to Inverness.
Donald having armed himself and his party, lost no time in pro-
ceeding upon their expedition.  It was in the dusk of the even-
ing when they reached the pass at the hill of Craig-an-oin, at
the boundary of the parish of Daviot with that of Moy. Here
there was a quantity of feal and divot set up to dry.  Donald
and his men, in order to watch the motions of the enemy, placed
themselves a few hundred yards asunder, amongst these heaps;
soon afterwards they perceived Loudon's troops coming forward,
and when the army came within hearing, a command was passed
by Donald, and then from man to man, in a loud voice, along a dis-
tance of nearly a quarter of a mile, "the Mackintoshes, Macgil-
livrays, and Macbeans to form instantly the centre, the Macdonalds
on the right and the Frasers on the left,"-all this in the hearing
of the commander-in-chief of the Royal army.  Fraser and his party
fired a few shots, when a soldier of the advanced guard was
killed.  Lord Loudon, suspecting in the twilight that the heaps


