
662                         ARGYLESHIRE.

  There are several small lakes, in which there are a number of
trout, many of which are reported to grow to a large size. Pike
also abound in some of them.
    Geology.-The rocks are principally composed of granite and
slate, occasionally intersected with whin dikes, which run from
south-east to northwest. There is a slate quarry near the
barbour of Portellen. The quality of the slate is very good, and
there seems to be a considerable body of it. Along the centre
of the parish there is a great mass of excellent limestone, which
is easily quarried, and is used for mantire by those farmers who
are at a distance from the shore. The limestone rock runs from
north-east to south-west about six miles in an unbroken line.
There are appearances of ironstone in different places. Rock
crystal is found in many parts of the parish; some of it is of a deli-
cate purple hue. The rocks, in general, incline to the west and
north-west, and are covered with loam, clay, or moss.
   Soil.-The soil is various. A considerable portion of it is rich
loam; but sandy, gravelly, and clayey soils are also frequently to
be met with. The sea has receded considerably from many parts
of the coast. There are many fields at present in tillage, which
were at one period covered with water.
   Live-Stock.-There are some very good cattle bred in the pa-
risb ; but they differ in no particular respect from the cattle reared
in the country.
   Zoology.-The only animals which formerly existed in the pa-
risb, but are now extinct, are red-deer and foxes. The only spe-
cies of shell-fish which is of any importance is the buckie, num-
bers of which are fished in spring and summer for bait for cod-
fishing. There are also lobsters and crabs caught. Peri-
winkles and limpets are found in many parts of the coast, and
razor fish in the bays of Ardelister and Ardmore.
   Botany.--The only plants used for culinary purposes are cole-
wort, cabbage, and wild spinage. The medicinal plants are
valerian, trefoil, gentian, thyme, maidenhair, coltsfoot, juniper,
foxglove, furze, groupd ivy, ground ivy, broad and narrow leaved plantain,
daisy and docken.
                        II.-Civil History.
   Land-owner.-Mr Campbell of Islay is sole proprietor.
   Parochial Registers.-The first registers kept were lost, and
those now in existence were very irregularly kept, until within the
last fifty years but the present register is regularly kept.


