
                PARISH OF LADYKIRK.

PRESBYTERY OF CHIRNSIDE, SYNOD OF MERSE AND TIVIOTDALE.

       THE REV. GEORGE H. ROBERTSON, MINISTER.

        I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name, Boundaries.-THE ancient name of this parish was Up-
setlington. "The parish of Upsetlington took its name,"' says
Chalmers, (Caledonia, Vol ii. p. 361,) "from the Kirktown, which
stands on the northern margin, of the Tweed, somewhat higher
than Norham, on the opposite bank." The origin of the name
is obscure. In 1500, James IV. erected a new church for this
parish, which he dedicated to the Virgin Mary, and hence, in
after times, the parish became known by the name of Lady-
kirk, although part of it still retains the ancient appellation of
Up setlington. Lady kirk comprehends the parishes of Horn-
dene and Upsetlington, which were united at the Reforma-
tion for the enlargement of the minister's stipend. "The name
of the parish of Horudene," says Chalmers, (Caledonia, Vol. ii.
p. 361,) "is peculiarly Saxon. Horn in the Anglo-Saxon tongue
signifies a corner, and done, a vale,"-an appellation remarkably
descriptive of the site of that part of the parish, lying in a corner,
and in a valley sloping towards the Tweed.
   The parish is bounded on the south by the river Tweed; on
the north, by the parish of Whitsome; on the east, by that of
Hutton; and on the west, by that of Swinton. It is three miles
long, and one broad, and contains about 3100 English acres. The
country is flat, with a few rising-grounds.
   Climate.-This parish, lying along the, banks of the Tweed, and
sloping to the south, is considerably milder in climate than the
country to the north and east, the frost being less severe than on
the higher grounds, and the parching east winds which prevail in
the spring moderated by its distance from the coast. There is no
prevailing disease peculiar to the parish; and it is generally healthy,
-many of its inhabitants attaining to an advanced age.
   Geology and Mineralogy.-The parish is marked, along the


