
                            STIRLING.                           401

quered the south and west, Wallace was recalled from the siege
of Dundee, by the intelligence that Stirling was again in danger.
The Scottish army took up its position at or near Corntown, on
the north side of the Forth; while the English, posted at Kildean
on the south, wbere it was crossed by a narrow bridge, prepared
to avail tbemselves of this dangerous path to make their assault.
Ere one-half of the English army had crossed, and formed on the
north bank of the river, Wallace attacked and routed them; and
a panic seizing those who were crossing and preparing to cross,
they fled in utter confusion; the bridge being destroyed, say some,
by a stratagem of the Scottish chiefs, according to others, by fire
applied to the wooden fabric by the fugitive English.  Cressing-
ham, Edward's treasurer, who, in opposition to the better judgment
of Warenne, the commander-in-chief of the army, had insisted on
the attack being made in a manner so rash and unskilful, perished
with thousands of his followers; and a blow was inflicted on the
English king, whose immediate result was the temporary loss of
Scotland, and by which the nation was animated to a series of pa-
triotic enterprizes and struggles, that eventually issued in the de-
liverance, and permanent settlement of the independence, of the
kingdom.  The loss of the conquerors in this memorabl  engage-
ment, known in history as the battle of Stirling, and fought on
the 12th of September 1297, was inconsiderable in point of num-
bers; but Sir Andrew Murray, the faithful associate of Wallace,
fell.
   Next year, Edward having entered Scotland at the head of
80,000 men, and defeated the Scottish army near Falkirk, Wal-
lace retreated beyond the Forth, burning in the confusion of flight
the town and castle of Stirling.  The castle was repaired by Ed-
ward, and made by him a place of arms; but was besieged by the
Scots the following year, and the English king's affairs in Scotland
having experienced reverses that discouraged and enfeebled, him,
some time after, by his orders, capitulated.  In 1300, after its
brave garrison, under Sir William Oliphant, had sustained a siege
of three months, it was recovered by the English; who were, in
their turn three years aferwards, compolled to surrender it, when
it was again entrusted to its former governor.  Early in 1304,
Edward, who had passed into the north by another route, ap-
proacbed Stirling; and, in spite of a feeble attempt by John Ga-
myn, the guardian of the kingdom, to a dispute his passage crossed
  STIRLING.                                     cc


