
                    COUNTY OP SHETLANID.                       163

   and mould, generally mixed together.  The labouring season be-
   gins in March, and terminates in May.  The staple objects of cul-
   tivation are bristle-pointed oats, (Avena strigosa,) perhaps one of
   the most valuable of all the varieties of dark oats; bear, (Hor-
   deum vulgare,) and potatoes.  The common close cabbage has
   been long cultivated.  The seed is sown in the end of June, in
   small circular enclosures, of about five yards in diameter, in poor
   ground, and manured with peat ashes alone, for the double pur-
   pose of preventing weeds, and premature luxuriant growth, and
   the plants are set out in rich soil the succeeding spring.   More
   recently, field turnips, on a small scale, have become general, and
   their culture ought, by all means, to be encouraged and extended.
   The soil and climate are very favourable  'for them. No instance of the
   fly, that I am aware of, has occurred; and the only enemy to be
   dreaded is the mountain linnet, (Fringilla flavirostris,) which is
   indeed a formidable one, and is very numerous in Shetland.
   These birds crov the cotyledonous leaves as they first appear
   above ground, with the seeds on the top, by which, perhaps,
   they are first attracted, and in doing this the young plants are torn
   up. I have often shot them in the very act of depredation, and
   have counted from 40 to 100 embryo turnips in the crop of
   one.  The remedy is diligent watching for two or three days,
   after the first appearance of the plant. This bird is rare in the
   Scottish lowlands; but congenerous species may have there done
   equal damage to the turnip crops, and the fact have been over-
   looked.  The culture of potatoes is well understood, and is increas-
   ing, but yet little more manure is collected, and thus the old ara-
   ble ground is deteriorated, and the corn crop lessened.  This is
   an abtise which proprietors Nould do well immediately to check,
   for it clearly proceeds from ignorance and indolence, and will have
   extensively injurious effects.  A better rotation, or larger stock of
   manure, should in this case be compulsory on the tenant. The
   disease of curl in potatoes may be said to be unknown.  The ha-
   bit is, not to remove the tubers from the ground, until quite ripe,
   indicated by the total decay of the leaves and stem.  Inattention
   to this, and planting in too strongly manured ground, I have long
   suspected to be the main cause of the failure of potato crops.
      The hay is chiefly the produce of natural meadows; but, from
   the careless mode of management, it becomes malted, instead of
   being simply dried grass.  This is evident from the smelli errone-
   ously attributed to the presence of scented & vernal grass, and in so


