
     Of Kirkmichael.

about 3 computed miles.  In its shape, it resembles an irre-
gular oblong oval.
   Cairn-gorm, or the Blue Mountain, one of the high,
though perhaps not the highest of those lofty mountains that
stud the Grampian desert, rises 4050 feet above the level of
the sea; and Loch-avon not more than a miles from the foot
of the Cairn-gorm*, 1750 feet.  At the southern extremity
of the parish, there is a cataract falling from a height of 18
feet.  From this cataract to Lochavon, the source of the river,
there are 8 computed miles; between the manse of Kirk-
michael, which lies within 2 miles of the northern extremity
of the parish, and the above cataract, there are 7 computed
miles.  As the source of the river there, is situated so near
the cultivated part of the country, it may be inferred, that
the situation of the whole ground is very considerably ele-
vated above the surface of the sea+.  The face of the coun-

<FOOTNOTE>

*For the height of this mountain and Lochavon, the writer is obliged to
James Hay, Esq. of Gordon Castle, a gentleman of much knowledge, whose
skill in observing, and whose accuracy in describing natural appearances, are
well known to the Linnaean Society in London.
+Close by Lochavon, there is a large stone called Clach dhian, from clach,
a stone, and dhian, protection, or refuge.  It has been a cavity within, capable
of containing 13 armed men, according to the figure made use of in describing
it.  One corner of it rises 6 feet 4 inches in height.  The breadth of it may be
about 12 feet.  Plain within, it rises on the outside from the several verges of
the roof, into a kind of irregular protuberance of an oblong form.  In times of
licence and depredation, it afforded a retreat to freebooters.
   Clach-bhan, trum clach, a stone, and bean, a woman, is another stone situat-
ed upon the summit of a hill, called Meal-a-ghaneimh, from meal, a knoll or
mound, and ganeimh, sand.  On one side, it measures 20 feet in height.  On
the other side, it is lower and of a sloping form.  In the face of it, 2 seats have
been excavated, resembling that of an armed chair.  Till of late, this stone
used to be visited by pregnant women, not only of this, but but from distant coun-
tries, impressed with the superstitious idea, that by sitting in these seats, the
pains of travail would become easy to them, and other obstetrical assistance
rendered unnecessary.


