                                  MOFFAT.                    113

stone, M.D. became distinguished in his profession; he analyzed
the mineral waters.
    The accession of John Earl of Hopetoun to the management
of the great estate of Annandale was auspicious in many respects
for Moffat.  The house belonging to the descendants there, was
then erected ; and the influence of this accession led also to the
erection of two houses for the purpose of inns, one of which was
long occupied as the King's Arms, and afforded such accommo-
dation as was very unusual at the time of its erection.  The
good Earl James of Hopetoun occassionally resided in Moffat
House,--at once the patron and example of all that is con-
nected with the fear of God and benevolence towards mankind.
His excellent and lamented daughter was like her father ; and
the names of the late Sir William and Lady Anne Johnstone
Hope are never mentioned but with esteem and regret.  The
house is now again fitted up as the residence of some that fa-
mily, who have a personal as well as a heredity claim to the re-
spect of the people of Moffat.  Sir George Clerk Maxwell was
one of the commissioners for the good Duke Charles of Queens-
berry; and the influence he possessed, his residence at Dumcrieff
in this parish, and his eminent public spirit and talents, alto-
gether were very highly beneficial to this part of the country.
    The Rev. Dr Walker, minister of Moffat, and who was trans-
l`ted to the chair of Natural History at Edinburgh, has left many
admirable specimens of his distinguished qualifications for that
office.
    Mr Boyd, the celebrated banker, was born at Moffat, and enter-
tained a kindly regard at all times for the place of his nativity.
    The late Dr Rogerson of Russia having realized a handsome
fortune in his honourable profession, and by the exercise of talents
of a very high order, purchased large estates in this district, built
a respectable mansion at Dumcrieff, to which he was partial as a
place of residence and retirement; and settled and ended his life
there, leaving it to his son and family, a legacy of future benefi-
cence to the poor of Moffat.
    It would be improper to omit here the name of Mr Murray, a
native of Moffat, who has risen to high distinction as a scientific
improver of the chronometer, and who has furnished a church
clock, as a mark of regard to this parish.
    Landholders.--These are, Mr Hope Johnstone of Annnandale,
whose lands extend to seven-sixteenths of the whole parish ; Dr
    DUMFRIES.                      H

