
     of Forgan.

a rising ground, and might perhaps be then considered as
a place strength.  There is also towards the east of St
Fort, the Upper and Nether Friartown, which, no doubt,
were formerly inhabited by Popish friars.

   Extent, Soil and Climate.-This parish is about 4 English
miles in length, but not above 2 in breadth.  A part of it
is a strath from E. to W. the ground rising gently on each
side.  Much of it is of a southern exposure.  Another part
of it lies bending towards the N. on the side of the river
Tay.  The soil is for the most part light, but is rendered
fertile by the use of lime.  Some of it is black; other parts
of a mixed nature.  There is little clay soil in the parish.
The climate is healthy; few epidemic distempers prevail
much here, except the fever, which now and then proves
fatal to many.  Some are now alive betwixt 80 and 90
years of age.  One is said to be above 90.  He lives on
the ground of St Fort*.

   River, Ferries, Coast, Harbours, Fish, etc.-The river
Tay runs along the northern side of the parish.  On the
opposite side of the river, which is about 2 miles in breadth,
stands the populous and flourishing town of Dundee.
There are two ferries on this side of the river, Woodhaven

     VOL. XVI. M

<FOOTNOTE>

*Colonel Lindsay, brother to Mr Lindsay, who was then proprietor of
that estate, one day having met this old man, asked him, how many Lairds
of St Fort he had seen he answered, he had seen six, and hoped he might
live to see the seventh.  What, said the Colonel, do you with to see a
change of the Laird?  I suppose, said the old man, you will have no objec-
tion against the coming home of the young Land The proprietor was at
that time lately married The Colonel was so much pleased with the good
humour of the old man, that he gave him half a crown, which made
him very happy, as it is more than probable he had seldom before been
possessed of so large a sum at one time.  This men has lived to see another,
who is the seventh proprietor of the estate of St Fort.


