
     Statistical Account

of a hunting which proved fatal to Diarmid, one of the Fin-
galian heroes.  Here are shown the den of the wild boar
that was hunted, a spring called Tobar nam Fiann, the fountain
of the Fingalians; a small lake, called Loch an Tuirc, the boar's
loch; also Diarmid's grave, where he was buried by his com-
rades*.  The highest hill in the country is Mount Blair,

<FOOTNOTE>

*The eminence where Diarmid was buried, is called Tulach Diarmid,
Diarmid's Hill, whence the late proprietor of the ground was called, Fear Tu-
laich Diarmid, laird of Diarmid's Hill.  The story told of Diarmid's death
is this:  Diarmid and another of the Fingalians, were rivals in love.  The
lady, who was the object of their passion, gave the preference to Diarmid.
The rival, who wished for some means of taking Diarmid off, proposed to
the Fingalians to set a day for hunting a wild boar, which had often annoy-
ed them, hoping that Diarmid's forwardness in the chace would expose him
to destruction.  Diarmid was warned by his mistress, that some evil was in-
tended him; that the hunting was a pretext, and that he ought to avoid it.
He gallantly answered, that nothing could prevail with him to decline any
any enterprize in which his fellows engaged.  The hunting took place.  The
boar was killed by Diarmid's spear, and himself escaped safe.  His rival, ex-
pressing his astonishment at the size of the boar, proposed to Diarmid to mea-
sure the length of its back with his foot, expecting that Diarmid would be
wounded by the venomous bristles on the boar's back.  Diarmid measured
along the back from the head to the tail, and still remained unhurt, His ad-
versary, disappointed, requested him to measure the boar's back again, pro-
ceeding in the contrary direction.  Diarmid scorned to decline the task.  The
consequence was what his rival wished.  The wounds he received from the
boar's bristles, proved mortal.

   Dr Smith, author of Gaelic Antiquities, in a note to the Gaelic edition of
the poem on Diarmid's death, mentions a tradition that Diarmid was vulne-
rable only in the sole of the foot, and suggests that this circumstance is pro-
bably a fiction of late invention, as he has reason to believe that the oldest and
purest editions of the poem, make no mention of it.  If so, there seems to be
a striking similarity between the story of Diarmid and that of Achilles.  The
circumstance of Achilles being vulnerable only in the heel, is no where hint-
ed by Homer, and must, therefore, as in the story of Diarmid, be the inven-


