
380                         AYRSHIRE.

purpose, into the former and present condition of an estate on the
sea shore. Before the year 1780, there was not a fence beyond
that of a low turf wall upon the whole property, and the houses
were mere huts, thatched, and generally with gabels built of turf.
The whole is now divided and enclosed, and the farm-houses and
steadings are commodious, slated, and even handsome in their ap-
pearance. But the following state of the rental, at the different
dates referred to, affords the most striking proof of the change
which has taken place. From the original document, it appears
that the rent, at the earlier dates, consisted of so many pounds
Scots, with small quantities of bear and meal, and a quantity of
poultry; but the value of the whole, calculated at the prices of
the times, is here given in Sterling money.

<TABLE>
		Years.			Rents.
	       In 1736,		     L. 172  4 11
		  1765,			211 12  4
		  1785,			346 10  3 1/2
	   	  1819,		       2157  4  0

	The town of Maybole has also of late years been much im-
proved. Access to it was formerly inconvenient and difficult, but,
by the exertions of Mr Niven of Kirkbride, who has always taken
the greatest interest in the improvement of his native place, the
streets have been opened by spacious roads to and from all quar-
ters. The tradesmen are highly respectable; the merchants are
men of substance and intelligence; and mauy of the shops are
handsome and well stocked with every article of provisions and
dress required by the town and neighbouring country.
	The change from a purely agricultural to a manufacturing po-
pulation has, too, produced great alterations, some of the perni-
cious effects of which have been elsewhere adverted to; but we
cannot doubt that, with proper means of improvement, the whole
might finally be rendered matter of congratulation.  Let the civil
magistrate be vigilant in repressing crime;--let him reduce to a
moderate number the houses of public entertainment, and rigidly
enforce good hours and orderly demeanour, more especially on the
Sabbath day;--let the ecclesiastical establishments be so adapted
to the increased numbers, that the means of religious instruction
and pastoral superintendence be provided for all;,-and let edu-
cation, under the directing care of the Church, be proportionally
extended, and there can be no question that the ignorant and ir-
religious located amongst us will be raised in the moral scale, and
be succeeded at least by a better generation.

	September, 1837.


