
                        ABDIE.                           53

the crops may be meliorated. In consequence of the improved
mode of cultivation, and the draining and bringing in of waste land,
the quantity of grain raised is greater by one-third than it was
at the time of last Report. The farm-steadings are excellent;
most of them lately erected. On all the larger farms there are
cot towns, where the servants reside. The menservants' wages
are from L. 10 to L. 12 a-year, with two pecks meal per week ; the
maid-servants get from L. 5 to L. 7.
    The draught horses may be reckoned in number about 200,
milch cows, 110. Butter costs 8d per lb.; cheese, 5d. There are
5 smiths in the parish. When paid by the year, they get as wages
L. 13 or L. 14; when by the day, 2s. Iron ploughs are now ge-
nerally used, one of which costs L. 3, 1Os.; a brake of 3 harrows
costs L. 3, 6s.; and a cart, L. 10. There are 3 carpenters be-
sides apprentices; they get 2s. a-day. There are 3 shoemakers
besides servants and apprentices. A pair of shoes costs 9s. There
are 2 tailors, paid ls. 3d. per day with victuals. There are 4 car-
ters; they earn 5s. a-day; 4 inn-keepers who have too much
business; 3 shepherds; 108 weavers, male and female, earn a
little more than 1s. -per day. Reapers are generally paid at L. 1, IO&
or L. 2 per season, or 12s. per acre, or 3d. or 4d. per thrave.
Bell's reaping-machine is used on one of the farms. Every far-
Iner has a thrashing-mill, and the use of the flail is discontinued.
A stock-market has been established at Newburgh, and all sorts
of grain are disposed of there every week for ready money. Grain
and potatoes are exported to a great extent.
   Produce.-The average yearly value of raw produce raised in
the parish, as nearly as can be ascertained, is as follows:

<TABLE>

                      Grain,	            L. 14898
                      Potatoes, turnips,            3151
                      Hay,                          1719
                      Pasture,	                 700
                                                    ----
                                               L. 20,468

                        V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY
   Means of Communication.-In nothing does the spirit of improve-
ment appear more visible and beneficial than in the construction
and repairing of roads. We are not now obliged as heretofore to
ascend 11 the lofty mountain's weary side." Three turnpikes pass
through the parish, each the length of six miles,-beside another
upon, the statute labour not so good. A coach passes daily from
Perth to Kirkaldy through the middle of the parish; and there
is ready access to Perth and Dundee by the Tay steam-boats.


