
452                  ROXBURGHSHIRE

1831, it was 1050.  After the commencement of the modern
improvements in agriculture, it rapidly advanced.  For the last
twenty years it has been nearly stationary.   The population
is entirely employed in agriculture, or in trades dependent
upon it.
 Number of families in the parish in 1831.    -    -    -    -    -    -      210
                    chiefly employed in agriculture -    -    -     -     -   112
                                     in trade, manufactures, or handicraft,    31
   Character, Habits, &c. of the People. --They are in general sober
and industrious, of simple manners, and of moral and religious
habits. Many of them have a taste for reading, and are well in-
formed and intelligent.  There are three public-houses in the pa-
rish, all in the village of Morebattle, and ale and spirits are also
sold at a toll-house in the neighborhood.  This is perhaps a
greater number than the public accomodation requires.  Smug-
gling by carrying spirits across the border into England at one
time prevailed to a great extent, but it has now, for several years
past, happily been entirely suppressed. There is neither lawyer
nor medical practitioner in the parish.  The heritors are sub-
scribers to the Kelso Dispensary, where the poor receive advice
and medicines gratis, and in cases where they cannot be taken to
Kelso, a surgeon from the institution, when requested, visits them
it their own houses.  The farm-houses are, very different from
what they formerly were, large, commodious, and elegant.  But
there is still great room for improvement in the houses of the
hinds and cottagers.
                     IV.--INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.--The higher part of the parish is mostly in pas-
ture. The lower is under tillage, and the soil being that which
is suited to the turnip husbandry, the system of farming is the
mixed, partly corn, and partly stock. The grains chiefly raised
are barley and oats ; wheat, too, but not to a great extent; beans or
pease seldom.  The prevailing rotation is what is called the five-
shift, in which case the land lies two years in grass, and sometimes
the four-shift, when it lies only one.  The chief manures employ-
ed are the dung produced on the farm,--lime, which is brought, from
a distance of seventeen miles, at the rate of about 10s. the one
horse cart,--and of late years, with much success, bone dust.  The
great proportion of the turnips are eaten on the ground with sheep,
and when the crop is good, this is a sufficient manuring for the re-
maining years of the rotation.   Without this in a district where
there is no command of dung, tillage could not be carried to near-


