
118                     BERWICKSHIRE.

   In this parish also was born, in the year 1735, the celebrated me-
dical theorist, Dr John Browne, author of the system called from
him the Brunonian system. Of the merits of this extraordinary in-
dividual as an author and philosopher, it is not for us to speak. It
seems to be agreed that his temper led him rather to aspire to the
honour of an inventor in his science, at the risk of incurring the
imputation of dogmatism, than to be content with the solid but
slower praise which is the reward of the severe observer and inter-
preter of nature. But, however this be, enough of merit will still
be his, in having stirred the depths of speculation at a time when
the spirit of inquiry was not so prevalent as at present; and, whether
his doctrines have stood or fallen, they excited an intense interest
in their day, and have no doubt still their influence in the present
state of medical knowledge.
   Land-owners.-There are nine proprietors of land in this parish.
   Baronies of Bunkle and Preston.-The ancient baronies of Bunkle
and Preston, comprehending 4774 acres of arable land, 1600 of
moor or heath, and 350 of wood, which are more than two-thirds
of the whole parish, belong to the noble family of Douglas. As
far back as can be traced from ancient records, the former of these
manors was possessed by Sir Alexander de Bonkle, and appears to
have been transferred from him in 1288 to Sir John Stewart, se-
cond son of Alexander, the Steward of Scotland, by his marrying
the only child and heiress of said Sir Alexander de Bonkle. From
Sir John Stewart it passed likewise by an heiress to a different
branch of the Stewarts, whose grandson was created Earl of Angus
and Lord de Bonkle; and a grand-daughter of this Earl, by marry-
ing William Earl of Douglas, carried the property from the race
of the Stewarts to the family of Douglas, with whom it remains.
It may not be improper to notice, that one of the descendants of
this ancient family of Stewart, having married the sister of King
Robert Bruce, the son of this marriage, in right of his mother, the
male line of Bruce being extinct, ascended the Scottish throne in
1371. This was Robert the Second, and first of the Stewarts. Of the
ancient castle of Bunkle, once the residence of the Stewarts, only
small vestiges remain. It seems to have been a place of consi-
derable strength, surrounded with a moat, which is now greatly
filled up. The estate of Blenerne, containing 960 arable acres,
and 45 of wood, among which are some very aged trees, belongs

<FOOTNOTE>referring entirely to the operation of second causes the continual tendency to decay
and the sources of renovation, which he imagined he discovered in the mundane
system.



