
				WIGTON		               3

charge of Walter de Currie, (Laird of Dunskey,) and successively
of others, and ultimately conferred it on John Baliol as the Scot-
tish King.
	Wigton was the site of a monastery founded in 1267, for Do-
minican or Black Friars by Dervorgille, daughter of Alan, last of the
provincial lords of Galloway, and mother of John Baliol, King of
Scotland. This monastery never attained to eminence. (Mur-
ray's,Literary History of Galloway, 2d ed.1832.). lt was situated
on the east of the burgh, terminating on an abrupt ridge overlook-
ing the bay, but no remains of it can now be traced. There was
a large cemetery connected with it, where, within these sixty years,
bones and other sepulchral remains have been dug up. Even in
1684, when Symson wrote," the very ruines thereof are now al-
most ruined."
	In the present churchyard, there is an interesting monument
erected to the memory of two female martyrs, who, on the 11th
May 1685, were tied to a stake within the, flood-mark, at the
mouth of the Bladenoch, near Wigton, and drowned for not ab-
juring Presbytery and the National Covenant, and not conforming
to Prelacy. They were Margaret Wilson, (aged 18) daughter
of Gilbert Wilson, farmer in Glenvernock, parish of Penningham,
and Margaret M'Lauchlan, (aged 63,) widow of John Milligan
wright in Drumjargan, parish of Kirkinner. A younger sister of
Wilson was also condemned at the same time, but, owing to
tender age, (being Only 13 years old,) she was liberated, her fa-
ther having given a bond of L.I00 Scots that he would produce
her when called. The three were tried at Wigton before Sir Ro-
bert Grierson of Lagg, Colonel David Graham, (brother to the
famous Claverhouse,) Major Windram, and:jcaptain Strachan;
persons nominated by the King as a commission to try non-con-
formists, with power of life or death. (Wodrow's Church History,
Vol.iv.p.6.) Celtron, Provost of Wigton, acted as a constituent
member of the commission, (ib. p. 248) The barbarous sentence
to which we have referred was carried into effect on Margaret
Wilson and Margaret M'Lauchlan; Major Windram with some
soldiers guarding them to the place of, execution. The stake to
which M'Lauchlan, the elder prisoner, was tied, being a good way
beyond the other, she died, first. When the water was nearly co-
vering the younger martyr, she was asked by Windram's or-
der, if she would pray for the King. Knowing that an answer in
the affirmative would be equivalent to a renouncement of her


