
                           CALLANDER.                    355

  approach of an enemy might be seen many miles off, and the
  people of the country would thereby have time to arm themselves
  and take shelter in this stronghold.  In the plain of Bochastle,
  and in the immediate vicinity of this fortification, is an artifi-
  cial bank of earth and stone, which perhaps was erected for the
  purpose of reducing this fort; but we have no authentic record
  on this subject In Loch Catherine is an island, which the inhabi-
  tants in Strathgartney used for the like purpose.  When aware of
  the approach of an enemy,  the most valuable possessions, with the
  women and children, were immediately conveyed to it.  Then the
  men armed themselves and took possession of the passes and de-
  files of the Trosachs, to   prevent the advance of the enemy.
  Dr Robertson, late minister of the parish, in a sketch of the
  scenery of Callander and the Trosachs, gives the following ac-
  count:-" In one of the defiles of this bye-road, the men of the
  country at that time hung upon the rear of the invading enemy,
  and shot one of Cromwell's men, whose grave marks the scene of
  action, and gives name to  the pass (Bealach an duine, the pass
  or defile of the man).  In revenge of this insult, the soldiers re-
  solved to plunder the island, and, with this intention, one of the
  party swam in to fetch the boat to his comrades, who stood on the
  shore in full view of all that was to pass-but, just as the soldier
  had got to the nearest point of the island, one of the women
  severed his head from his body. The hostile party seeing this
  disaster, made the best of their way out of their perilous situation."
     There are still seen at the manse, the remains of the Castle
  of Callander, which, with the adjoining lands belonged to the
  Earl of Callander. It consisted of a square strong building of
  considerable height. The property was forfeited in the reign
  of James I. or II. of Scotland, and passed to Livingstone, who
  was created Earl of Callander and Linlithgow. This person pro-
  bably repaired the castle, after his accession to the earldom, as a
  stone is still preserved in the walls of the manse, bearing his
  initials and those of his lady. A.L. E.H. 1596. We find the re-
  mains of another forfication on the farm of Achinlaich, the pro-
  perty of Mr Buchanan of Arnprior. The hill is planted, and the
  ditch and mound on the top have been thus preserved, and are
  still very distinct. It was probably used for the like purpose as
  that on the Dun of Bochastle. There is a beautiful circular
  mount adjoining the church-yard of Callander called Tom-ma-
  Chessaig, the hill of St Kessaig, who was the tutelar saint.



