
                         GLENELG-.                             135

applied around the lower part of the face of a very large and fat
man present, it could so be held without touching him; being at the
extreme points nearly twelve inches apart. The circumstances attending
the exhumation long secured to 11 Imear nam Fear Mora"
an immunity denied to the adjacent locality. But the lapse of time
brought it at last into the occupation of those, who were strangers
to the impression produced by such a cause. An attempt was made
to subdue the stubborn soil. Warnings of most portentous cast
were given, but the sturdy agriculturist, nothing daunted, pursued
his task, and the traces of the peaceful plough have now rendered
it difficult to point out the site of the " gigantic heroes' resting-
place."
   Mansion-House.-The only mansion-house in the parish, is that
of Inverie, on Glengarry's Knodyart property, where he now resides.
It is beautifully situated on the banks of Lochnevis, and was
built by the late Colonel Macdonell, father of the present proprietor,
who has been described as the last of that class of Highland
Chiefs, of whom he formed so perfect a specimen in all his feelings
and habits. The house is remarkable, inasmuch as the two principal
rooms are finished with strong wattle work from the floor to
the roof-tree, for there is no cieling. The couples which support
the fabric are of native fir, of great strength and size, also rising
from the ground and meeting in massive arches over-head. The
floor is of clay and hard sand, the whole finishing being truly Celtic,
and in excellent keeping with the tartans-wbich grace its hospitable
and accomplished inmates.
   In Knodyart and Glenelg Proper, there are several large and
comfortable houses, occupied by extensive sheep-farmers. Of
those the principal are at Barrisdale, Beolary, and Ellanreach.
The last especially is commodious, well finished, and finely situated
near the sea.

<TABLE=POPULATION.>

        	Population in 1801,	2834
	                      1811,	2611
	                      1821,	2807
	                      1831,	2874

   The ancient population must have been very considerable, probably
double -at least of what it is now. The decrease is to be accounted
for solely by emigration; for to such an extent has this
prevailed, that America too rejoices in a Glenelg, with a population,
at least equal to that which the parent parish still possesses.
This emigration was at first of necessity and not of choice. The


