
100                       FIFESHIRE.

no advantage either of a free school, or of any fund by subscrip-
tion. He rates the annual expense of each scholar at 12s. 6d. and
3s. 9d. for books, &e. A Sunday evening school has been esta-
blished in the village for about twelve years. The number of
young persons attending varies considerably, according to the sea-
son of the year. The average number may be stated at 80, of
which the larger proportion is females. The parish is well pro-
vided with the means of education. '
   Library--There is a library in the village, formed by subscrip-
tion and donations in 1822. It is maintained by the payment of
a small annual sum, and is used chiefly by the farmers in the pa-
rish and neighbourhood. The number of volumes belnnging to it
is 500, with occasional additions by purchase, and with two of the
periodical magazines, regularly presented by Lady Erskine.
  Savings' Bank.--A savings' bank was established in the parish
in 1819. For the first ten years, it slowly and steadily advanced,
until, in April 1829, its deposits reached the maximum, L. 448.
Since that time, they have gradually decreased until the present
time, when they stand at L. 321. The management of the bank
is vested in the minister, and the chief depositors are the labour-
ing classes.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.--The poor are divided into two
classes, those who receive regularly, and those who are only occa-
sionally supplied; the former are paid on every fourth Monday;
the latter receive allowances once in the half year, or more fre-
quently, if anv unusual donations be made, or accidental calamity
befalls them. The payments made to the regular poor are from
ls. to 2s. per week. A double allowance is usually given at
the return of the new vear, and of the sacrament. Coal, a scarce
and dear article, is bestowed at the former of these times, and is
chiefly provided by the benevolence of Sir David Erskine and Mr
Monypenny; when a cart load, consisting of 2 bolls or 120 stones
is given to one, or divided among two or three families, according
to their need. None of them are allowed to beg. Since the suc-
cession of the former gentleman to the estate of Cambo, a system
of most judicious benevolence has been conducted by Lady Erskine.
In cases of sickness, medical aid is provided at the expense oi the
session.
   Taking the average of the last seven years as the basis of the
following calculations, the regular poor amount to 14 1/4  per-
sons, and the occasional to 12, and the expenditure upon both has


