
                         BENHOLME.                            63

tween six and fifteen years of age, who cannot read or write. Of
persons above fifteen, there are not more than three or four who
cannot read.  The people, in general, are fully alive to the be-
nefits of education. There are a few families so distant from any
school that children cannot be sent to school except in summer,
and even then they cannot attend till they be seven or eight years
of age.
   The parish is, however, fully supplied with schools; and last
year, in spring, a seventh part of the population was attending
school.
   Libraries.-There is a parish library, consisting of upwards of
500 volumes of religious books; and a juvenile library, consisting of
nearly 400 small volumes.  The parish library is highly valued by
the people; and at present upwards of 300 individuals read from
it. The books thus find their way to more than 200 families.
   Friendly Societies.-There are two friendly societies amongst
the people of Johnshaven, one of which has a stock of L. 600, and
gives out L. 60 a year. The other is upon a more limited scale.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-About 40 individuals receive pa-
rochial aid.  The rates are from 1s. 6d. to 8s. a-month. The
average rate may be 4s. 6d. or 5s. a-month. The annual amount
of contributions for the relief of the poor is about L. 108, arising
from the following sources:-Collections in the church, L. 60,
10s.; seat-rents, L. 20, 10s.; interest of money, L. 22, 10s.; pro-
clamation of banns, L. 1, 10.; mortcloths, L. 3. Whatever is
given away above this is supplied by voluntary donations.
   There is certainly a strong disposition among many of the poor
to refrain from asking parochial relief. Many instances of this
kind have come to the writer's knowledge, and he does all in his
power to encourage this spirit of independence.
   Alehouses.-There are ten alehouses or spirit-shops. I have no
hesitation in saying, that their effect upon the morals of the people
is most pernicious.
   Fuel.-There is no fuel obtained in the parish except a little
firewood; and the inhabitants are supplied with coals chiefly from
England. One sloop, laden with Scotch coal, arrives at Johnshaven
annually.

                  MISCELLANEOUSS OBSERVATIONS.
   There must have been great improvements in farming, in the
course of the last forty years.  Much waste land has been reclaim-
ed during that time, and the quantity of grain produced must be


