
				WICK.                               163

	minister of Thurso ; 2. John  M'Donald, now minister of Ferrin-
	tosh ; 3. Donald M'Gillivray, afterwards minister of Kilmallie;
	4. Duncan M'Gillivray, now minister of Lairg; 5. William Su-
	therland, now in America; 6. George Davidson, now minister of
	Latheron; 7. Archibald Cook, now minister of the North Church,
	Inverness; 8. John Sinclair, A. M., present incumbent.
	   Parish of Keiss, quoad sacra.-The quoad sacra parish of Keiss
	was erected 1833, by authority of the General Assembly of the
	Church of Scotland.  It is composed of the northern extremity of
	Wick and of the southern extremity of Canisbay.  The boundaries
	have not yet been settled.  It is understood, however, that the
	portion which belongs to Wick is bounded on tbe north and north-
	east by Canisbay; on the north-west by Bower; on the south by
	the southern ridge of the valley of Wester; on the east by the
	sea.  The Wick portion is five miles in length, and three miles
	and a-half in average breadth.
       	   The church and manse were built by Government in 1827, at
	a cost of L. 1500.  They are situated on a rising ground at the
	northern side of the bay of Keiss.  Fronting the west, they com-
	mand an extensive view of the surrounding country.  On the op-
	posite side of Keiss-bay, to the left, are seen the gloomy ruins of
	castles Sinclair and Girnigoe, with the bold and rugged promon-
	tory of Noss-Head.  The view is bounded in the distance, by the
	mighty hills which separate Caithness from Sutherland, called
	Morven, Skerubin, and Maiden-Paps.
	   The population of that part of the parish of Keiss which is si-
	tuated within the civil parish of Canisbay is about 200 souls.  The
	part within the civil parish of Wick contains, of males, 362; fe-
	males, 447 ; total, 809 ; of these, 2 are Original Seceders, 12 Ana-
	baptists, 1 is a Reformed Presbyterian, and 1 a Methodist.
	   The church of Keiss, which is situated within the civil parish of
	Wick 2 is capable of holding about 350 sitters.  Were galleries
	erected, it would accommodate 200 more.  There is an endow-
	ment of L, 120 granted by Government.  No glebe is attached to
	the living.
	   There is a register of births and marriages kept by the session-
	clerk, which commenced after the passing of an act of the Gene-
	ral Assembly in 1833, constituting the Government churches pa-
	rishes quoad sacra.


