
330                          ARGYLESHIRE.

  Since MacCulloch wrote in 1824, considerable light has been
thrown upon the revenues of Iona by the transactions of the Iona
Club, instituted in 1833. This club, in their Collectanea de Re-
bus Albanicis, have published the "Rentale of the Bishoprick of
the Ilis and Abbacie of Ecolmkill," which interesting document
was discovered in the charter-chest of Sir John Campbell, Bart
of Airds and Ardnamurchan, in 1834; and, although there is no
marking to that effect, it appears to have been a copy made in the
reign of Jamese VI from the certified rental drawn up in 1561,
which by some omission, was never registered. The club have,
in the same work, also published a precept, under the privy seal
of James VI., of a royal charter of novodamus, with aaugmentation
of the rental to Hector Maclean of Dowart, son and apparent heir
of Lachlan Maclean of Dowart, of the Island of Iona and many
other lands formerly belonging to the Abbot of iona, 1587-88."
The club have also published a Report by Thomas Knox, Bishop
of the Isles, of the state of his diocese in 1626.
  At the Reformation, the Island of Iona and the principal lands
belonging to the monastery, fell into the hands of Lauchlan Mac-
lean of Dowart, the most powerful chief in the neighbourhood,
and his son Hector, as we have already shown, was confirmed
therein by the charter of novodamus, granted by King James VI.
in his favour in 1587-88.
  In 1567, John Carswell was Bishop of the Isles, as we find
from a renunciation, by Lauchlan Maclean, in his favour thereof,
and of the Abbacie of Iona.
  In 1573, John Campbell was Bishop, as appears from an obli-
gation by Roderick Macleod of the Lewis in his favour.
  In 1609, Andrew knox, then Bishop of the Isles, (he was af
terwards succeded by his son Thomas in the Bishoprick), held a
court at Iona, which was attended by the principal men of the
Isles, whereat two statutes were enacted for forwarding religion,
morality, and education among the islanders.
  In 1617, King James VI. annexed the Abbey of Iona to the
Bishoprick of the Isles. In the same year, an act of Parliament
was passed nominating a chapter for the Bishoprick of the Isles.
  In 1631, Charles I. writes the Lord Advocate regarding cer-
tain actions depending before the Court of Session for restoration
of the temporalities of the Bishoprick.
  In 1632, Charles I. writes to the Treasurer-Depute of Scot-
                                   3


