
     Statistical Account

pay the rents of their houses, and small crofts of land.
The women, in general, spin with both hands*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*It might, with great propriety, be thought an unpardonable omission,
were I to close this head without doing justice to the memory of the deceased
Lady Sinclair, first wife to Mr. Farquharson of Invercauld.
That amiable woman, who never lost fight of what tended to promote the
interest of the poor, finding that the women of the two parishes were entire stran-
gers to the art of spinning on the little wheel, applied to the Board of Trus-
tees, etc. about the year 1755, for some aid to encourage this branch of manu-
facture.  The trustees having readily granted her request, she procured a proper
spinning mistress, and erected a spinning school at the castletown of Braemar.
After the school was opened, it was found so difficult to get scholars to attend
it, that Mr. Farquharson himself was obliged to speak to his tenants, and, in
a manner, compel those who had 2 or 3 daughters, to send 1 of them to the
school.  Having, however, surmounted every difficulty, the school was fairly set
agoing; and from the attention Lady Sinclair paid to it, going in person to visit
it, and giving premiums to those who excelled, she raised such a spirit of emu-
lation, that in about 7 years time, the progress was astonishing.  From printed
advertisements circulated through the parishes, in the month of August 1762,
offering certain premiums to those who produced the greatest and best quantities
of linen yarn, of their own spinning, against the 31st of December following*.
there were no fewer than 129 unmarried women, and little girls, who received
premiums on the 1st of January 1763.  The quantity of linen yarn brought at
this time to Invercauld for inspection, and which was examined by Lady Sin-
clair, and some other ladies who attended to assist her, was supposed to be worth
at least 300 L. Sterling.  Previous to this institution, lint was spun on the rock
or distaff only, wool on the big wheel.
 
     *The following is a copy of the advertisements.

     "Invercauld, August 1762.

   "Lady Sinclair hereby advertises, that the trustees for the manufactures hav-
ing put into her hands a sum of money to be distributed in the way she thinks most
proper, for promoting spinning in the united parishes of Braemar and Crathy,
her Ladyship now publishes, that she is to distribute premiums of gowns, plaids,
caps, silk napkins, lawn napkins, lawn aprons, and such like goods, among the
women and girls, who shall pro lace to her at Invercauld, upon the 1st of Ja-
nuary next, the greatest and best quantities of linen yarn of their own spinning.
The yarn must be lodged at Invercauld on Friday the 31st of December next, and
the premiums will be distributed the day after.


