
                          ELIE                        293

cumstances. The general average may be about 6s. but, besides
this, there is an insane person to be maintained in the Dundee
asylum. This individual. does not belong to the parish, but was
forced upon us by a very rigorous application of the law of settle-
ment. We have also the family of a man who died of cholera to
supporl To meet these expenses, there are the weekly collec.
tions, averaging L. 30 per annum, L. 58 arising from land vested
in the minister and elders, and L. 15, 12s., being the interest of
money accumulated by the session, and leiit at 4 per cent. to the
road trustees-the whole amounting to upwards of L. 100. From
this sum, however, there fall to be paid half of thd session-clerk's
salary, together with that of the precentor ; what is necessary for
keeping up the school and schoolhouse, and the fees of the svnod
and presbytery clerk. All of these may amount to L. 25, leaving
something short of L. 80 for the use of the poor. Occasional help
is also given to those who are verging towards poverty, in order
to keep them as long as possible from becoming actual paupers.
Some houses belonging to the session are also given to the poor
rent free. The collections -at the church door are not so liberal
as they might be, owing, principally, we believe, to a foolish notion,
that any deficiency must come upon the lieritors. By tbem, how-
ever, not a single farthing has been furnished during the present
incumbency for that object. All of them are non-resident. This
state of matters will, in all probability, bring on, ere long, the ne-
cessity of at least a voluntary assessment. There are some in-
stances of a refusal to be put on the poor's roll. But we have
met with little of that Scottish spirit spurning at all assistance,
which history or tradition records as having once existed.
 Inns.-On coming to the parish, the writer found no less than
11 houses where spirituous liquors were retailed. The num-
ber is now greatly diminished. At present, there is only one inn.
But there are four grocers, each of whom has a spirit license; and,
vhat is to be regretted, they all retail spirituous liquors, more or
less, in their back shops or parlours. Some of them, we know, dis-
liking this part of the business, are endeavouring to curtail it as
much as possible; and we hope that all will come in time to see
the propriety of dropping, what we should imagine could not. be
very pleasant to themselves. They are alb however, very respec-
table. Weneverhearofatiycotragestakingplace;anditissel.
dorn that a drunk person is to be seen on the street. The writer
having been at some pains to get the number of tippling-houses
seduced, he must do the licensing magistrates the justice to say,

