
670			PERTHSHIRE.


nity, rather than that of a quiet country parish. For the male
part of the population, there is, therefore, no want of employment,,
but the female portion, it, must be admitted, is not so fortunate.
To ameliorate their condition is an object well worthy the con-
sideration of the philanthropist.  At the time of writing the
former Account, females could not only largely contribute to
the support of their respective establishments, but it is an ascer-
tained fact, that in many instances, the whole rent, amounting to a
considerable sum was the earnings of the wife and her handmaidens.
How altered, in this respect, the state of things!  Spinning, except
for family purposes, may be reckoned among the things that were.
The very fact that, of the 39 paupers supported by the kirk-session,
32 are old women, is sufficient to shew that the weaher sex, do what
they will, if depending upon their own efforts for subsistence, must
anticipate old age with feelings of the most painful solicitude!
                This is a sight for pity to peruse,
                Till she resemble faintly what she views,
                Till sympathy contract a kindred pain,
                Pierc'd with the woes "these females feel in vain."
                                                             COWPER.

February 1839.

                         PARISH OF CAPUTH.

      PRESBYTHERY OF DUNKELD, SYNOD OF PERTH AND STIRLING,

                THE REV.  ALEXANDER WILSON, MINISTER.

	I-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATIONAL HISTORY.
   Name.-It appears from our session records that formerly the
name of this parish was variously spelt, Keapoch, or Kapocht,-
more commonly, Capoch but for the last half century invariably
Caputh. The origin or meaning of the term entirely lost in ob-
scurity. Keapoch in Gaelic signifies "a decayed wood," as I am
told but how it applies to this parish I cannot  discover.
Situation.-It is situated in that district of Perthshire which is
called the Stormont, and comprehends the greater part of the plain
of the Stormont, which is just a continuition of the extensive vale
of Strathmore, towards the foot of the Grampians.


