
210                      BERWICKSHIRE.

ried on to a great extent, and bone-dust has been applied with most
beneficial results. But, as all kinds of soil are to be found in the
parish, the attention of the farmer has been directed to the cultiva-
tion of all sorts of grain.
  The general duration of leases is nineteen or twenty-one years,
and the rents are, I believe, in almost every instance paid in money.
The lands are all well-enclosed, and the farm-offices are for the
most part substantial and convenient, particularly those on the Hir-
sel estate, which are very commodious and suitable.
  Breeds of Live-Stock.-The short-horn or Tees-water breed of
cattle is that which is most admired in this district, and as the
greatest care is taken to have the stock as pure as possible, they
often reach a great weight. Highland cattle are likewise purchased
at the great annual fairs, and fattened for the market. Very few
sheep are to be found except the Leicester and Cheviot breeds;
the former of which, in particular, are selected with great care, not
only as regards the weight of the car case, but also the fineness of
the wool. The exertions of the late William Robertson, Esq. of
Ladykirk, contributed most essentially to the improvement of all
kinds of stock, amd gave to this quarter of Berwickshire its present
high reputation for breeding and grazing.
  Rate of Wages.-The wages of common labourers are 9s. a-week;
but farm-servants are paid in kind, receiving 10 bolls of oats, 3 of
barley, and 1 of beans or pease, with L. 3 in money, with leave to
keep poultry, or an allowance in money; also land for lint and po-
tatoes, and the grazing of a cow throughout the year. Carpenters
and other mechanics receive, upon an average, 12s. a-week.-
   Quarries and Mines.-Quarries of freestone have been opened
in different parts of the parish; but none of these are worked at
present, except on the estates of Hirsel, Milne Graden, and
Lees, besides one in the immediate vicinity of the town. The stone
is of most excellent quality, and beautifully white, so that the
houses have a neat, clean, and comfortable appearance.
  Fisheries.-The salmon fisheries were formerly very productive;
but of late they have afforded a very small recompense to the dif-
ferent tacksmen. This is partly owing to the prevalence of poach-
ing, and partly it is alleged, to the means that are adopted at the
mouth of the river to prevent the passage of the fish upwards; at
least complaints on this subject are very general. The rent of the
fisheries may be stated at L. 100 a-year. Bailiffs are appointed to
prevent the fish from being disturbed at improper times.
  Produce.-The average gross amount and value of raw produce



