
     Statistical Account

tion, John Baird, late of Auchenloch, added a piece of ground
for a house and garden.  All the heritors, possessed of a plough
of land in the parish, are patrons of this school. (3) In 1745,
Mr. James Warden, late minister of this parish, bequeathed
1000 merks Scotch to the session; the interest of which is allotted
to the support of a school at Auchenairn, the place of his na-
tivity.  In 1760, the worthy and humane Dr. William
Leechman, late principal of the University of Glasgow, dis-
poned to the session of Cadder, about half an acre of ground,
for a house and garden for the benefit of this school, of which
the minister and elders are patrons. (4.) The fourth school-
house is at Chrystone, in the east end of the parish, where a
chapel of ease was built by subscription 11 years ago; but there
is no salary annexed to it, nor any perquisite for the master,
excepting the school wages, 1 s. 6 d. per quarter.
   At each of these 4 schools, there may be, at an average,
30 scholars during the winter half year, and 20 through the
summer quarter.  When there is any vacancy in the harvest,
the shoolmaster's year is only reckoned three quarters!!!-
Thus 100 schoolars, for three quarters, at 1 s. 6 d. per quarter,
pay only 22 L. 10 s.  Sterling per annum, to all the 4 schoolma-
sters in the parish, for education, which is but 5 L. 12 s. 6 d.
Sterling to each of them for 9 months attendance.  This is
surely too little to support, with any decency, a class of
men confessedly useful, in this expensive and wealthy age*.
To better the condition of the people of this country, more

     3

<FOOTNOTE>

*About 50 years ago, it was the custom here, to allow the parish school-
master to go about with the scholars, and lodge free with their parents, as he
had no house of his own to teach or lodge in, but a barn in summer, and a cot-
tage m winter.  Of late, however, the gentlemen in this parish have built a
school-house, in a corner of the church yard, where the present schoolmater
lives, who has served in that office for 39 years.  One of his predecessors (wil-
liam Stirling), officiated here 41 years.  Both are natives of Cadder parish.


