
                    AUCHTERARDER.                         291

  Character of the Population.-The inhabitants of Auchterarder
may be regarded as in circumstances of more than usu`l comfort.
The land is very much subdivided-many cultivating a great part
of their own properties.  Many have houses of their own, and keep
a pig or perhaps a cow.  On account of the distance from lime,
most of the farmers in the neighbourhood are willing to let the
people have as much land for potatoes, as they can supply with
manure.  By this means, the family with the whole establishment
is supported year after year, with a principal article of food.
                         IV.-INDUSTRY.
  Agriculture.-
               Acres in rotation under the plough,   7176
                    constantly waste or in pasture,  6571
With the exception of about 150 acres on the banks of the
Earn, and some rock and moss upon the hills, all might be culti-
vated.  Traces of the plough are perceptible in the highest parts;
but it has been thought more profitable to allow these uplands to
remain permanently in pasture.
  Common.-There is a common of 228 acres, lying immediately
to the west of the town.  No one can tell how it came to be ap-
propriated to hts present use. From time immemorial, every one liv-
ing in Auchterarder having a cow, has been in the habit of send-
ing it to graze in the moor-quarrying stones, cutting turf, or appro-
priating to himself out of the moor, whatever he thought proper,
without leave asked or obtained from anx.  Sixty cows belonging to
different persons in the town are annually sent to pasture; and the
houses are all built with stones taken free from the moor quarry.
Attempts have been frequently made to effect the division of this
common,-the proprietor of the barony of Auchterarder claiming
a great part as his,-the portioners claiming their respective shares,
-the feuars also insisting that they have a right of participation.
The question has been repeatedly before the Court of Session.  In
the meantime, the moor is allowed to remain in its natural state,
sending up a most luxuriant crop of furze and other indigenous
productions.
  Wood-298 acres are planted, chiefly with larch and oak.  No
old wood is now standing in the parish, and little has been cut for
sale, for many years.  A tree is only felled when thinning is re-
quired, or for some agricultural or domestic purpose.
  Rent of Land.-Average rent of arable land per acre, L. 1, 10s.
Average rent of grazing a cow, L. 3.


