
68                              SELKIRKSHIRE.

his name among a list of border barons who agreed to assists the
Earle of Angus to starch thift, reiff, slaughter, &c. &c.
        Thirlstane.--About two miles above Tushielaw stands the old
tower of Thirlstane surrounded by a few venerable ash trees. The
young springing wood serves as a guard both for the old baronial
castle and the lately erected seat of the family of Thirlstane.
        Gamescleuch.--On the opposite side of the Ettrick is to be seen
a pretty distinct outline of the tower of Gamescleuch. In the genea-
logy of Scott, &c. in the possession of Lord Napier, it is said:
" John Scott of Thirlestane married a daughter of Scott of Allan-
haugh, by whom he had four sons, Robert, his heir, and Simon,
called Long-spear, who was tutor of Thirlstane, and built the tower
of Gamescleugh.
        Old Chapels, &c.--Near the farm- house of Kirkhope, (on the
Ettrick,) the place of an old kirk steading is still visited; it site is
so covered with grass and moss, however, that its dimensions are
barely discernible. Near the farm-house of Chapelhope (on
the side of the lakes,) is the palce of the steading of another
chapel. It is now grown over with moss, but the enclose and form
of the foundations of the chapel are still perfectly distinct. There
is yet something like the appearance of the rows of graves; and not
many years back, some "muggers" deposited in these romantic
and sequested grounds the remains of one of their dead.
        There have no coins been dug up in the parish in so far as we
know. an old tripod or urn, and two axiford stones, small toward
the middle, probably used for the skinning of the red deer, were
found some years ago, and are now in the possession of Lord Na-
pier. The cane, and what is said to have been the small sword,
of Boston, are still preserved in the parish.

                                III.--POPULATION.

        It appears from tradition,--from the amount of church collec-
tions,--from the number of paupers on the roll on the sessional re-
cords,--and from the number of small farms, with the farmers and
their familes residing on them, that the ppopulation 140 years ago
must have been much greater than at present. The following is
the state of the population subsequently.

               In the year 1755,      -     -      397
               ----------- 1790       -       -    470
               ----------- 1801      -      -      445
               ----------- 1811       -       -    440



