
368                    STIRLINGSHIRE.

scarce and dear. This part of the world is not like many places
in India, where the soil and cilmate produce different kinds of
grain,bananas, cocoa-nuts, and other kinds of food, with little la-
hour. Our soil and climate are unfavourable to the production of
grain,and it is only by means of great labour that grain can be
ripened. The chief natural and indigenous production useful to
mankind, is black-cattle.
   At the period of which we are speaking, about 1390, the inha-
bitants were altogether without industry; very little of the ground
was in tillage. They were in, a state of wild inactivity. They had
no disposition to mechanism, no dexterity in practical mechanics
and carpentry, or the conversion of bides into leather, as the
Russian boors have. They had no skill to extract metal from the
clay ironstone and lead ore which some parts of the country con-
tain. They had not the knowledge nor experience necessary for
working the pit-coal. They were unable to make the manufac-
tured articles which they needed. They got them, therefore, from
Flanders, but they could only get them in small quantities because
they had very little to give to the merchant, and therefore would
receive little from him. They went to market possessed of but
very scanty means of buying, for all they had. to give in exchange
consisted in some ox hides. Few or no, other articles of export
could be afforded by the ill-etiltivated country, raw climate, and
inhabitants without industry and harassed by war.

  <FOOTNOTE>Here is the account Froissart gives of Scotland, during this old order of things
about 1390, in the reign of Robert, King of Scotland, and when Richard II. was King
Of England. Froissart, born at Valenciennes, lived at that time, and had visited
Scotland.
  Haindebourg (est) la souveraine ville d'Escoce et ou le roi se tient le plus, quand
il est an pais. Haindebourg (nonobstant que le roi d'Escoce y tienne son siege et
quec'est Paris en Escoce) n'est pas telle ville comme serait Tournay ou Valenciennes,
car il ny a pas en toute la ville quatre mille maisons, (this number of houses, rec.
koning a family offive to each houre, will contain a population of2OOOO) ... En Escoce
ne vierent oneques nul homme de bien et sont ainsi comme gens sauvages: qui ne
saveilt avoir et de nulluy accointer et si sont trop grandement envieux des biens d'au.
truy: et si doutent de leur bien perdre, car ils ont pauvre pais: et quand les Anglois
y vont ou chevauehent (ainsi comme ils ont fait autrefois plusieurs fois) il convient
que leur pourveances (s'ils voulent vivre) les suyvent toujours au dos, car on ne trouve
rien sur le pais qu'a grande peine; (the Scotch took care always to drive their cattle
out of the way before the arrival of the English); et n'y trouve l'on point de fer
povr ferret les chevaux, ne cuir pour faire harnois, selles ne brides, car les choses leur
vienuent par mer de Flandres toutes faites: et quand elles defaillent. en leur pais
n'en trouvent point...Les Frainqois y trouvoient les chevaux si chers que ce qui ne
deust valoir que dix florins il en valoit soixante ou cent, et encore a... grand peine en
pouvoit on recouvrer...le roi (Robert) etoit dans la sauvage Escoce,..or vint le roy R
bert d'Escoce avec uns rouges yeux rebrossil sembloit desendal: et bien leur mon-

  <FOOTNOTE>Haidenbourg would be a more reasonable way of writing the name. Edinburgh
is from Edwin'sburgh. Edwin was a North-humber-land-ian prince, Dun-edin in
Gaelic, f,e, the town and bill-fort of Edwin.


