
                    COLDINGHAM.                          287

A small harbour for the security of fishing boats was erect-
ed at Northfield shore, about a mile distant from Coldingham,
in 1833, at the expense of about L. 1200, one-fourth of which
was raised by private subscription; Government supplied the re-
mainder. Sixteen families reside close bye at the picturesque fish-
ing village of Northfied, who, with about 20 others living in Cold-
ingham, obtain their livelihood by fishing. In addition to these, 30
persons proceed annually to the north for the herring fishing, which
gives employment for fourteen boats from this place. The fish
caught upon this coast are cod, which, when pickled, are sent to
the London market; also, haddock, turbot, lobsters, which are
transported in carts to the Edinburgh market.

                   V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Market-town-Villages.-The nearest market-town is Eye-
mouth, two miles and a-half distant. The villages are Colding-
ham, having a population of 850; Reston, 222; Auchincraw, 161.
   Means of Communication.-A daily post goes between Colding-
ham and Ayton. Nine miles of the great London road traverse
the parish, along which three public coaches daily travel; there
are 53 miles of parish roads, upon which L. 160 a-year, in the con-
version of statute-labour, are expended. All the bridges and most
of the fences are in good repair.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is situated nearly at
the south-east corner of the parish, in the village of Coldingham.
The situation is inconvenient for the parishioners generally, as it
has the sea on the east, and the neighbouring parish of Eyemouth,
within a mile of it, on the south, and is above eight miles distant
from the other extremities of the parish. The church was repair-
ed, and one of the walls rebuilt, in 1662; the remaining part of
the building is a part of the old monastery. The church can ac-
commodate 1000 persons, and the greater part of the aisle is ap-
propriated for free sittings, but has never yet been fitted up for that
purpose. The manse, which is situated within a short distance of
the church, was built in 1801, and repaired and enlarged in 1828.
Two glebes are attached to the living; one, consisting of five acres
of excellent land, valued at L. 4 per acre; the other, which was
allotted to the minister at the division of the common, in lieu of
his right of pasturage, also five acres in extent, but of very inferior
quality, and worth L. 1, 10s. per acre. The stipend, by an aug-
mentation obtained in 1833, was raised from 15 chalders 15 bolls,
and L. 8, 8s. for communion elements, to 18 chalders, and L. 10
for communion elements.


