
                        PARISH OF KILMALIE. *

               PRESBYTERY OF ABERTARPH, SYNOD OF GLENELG.


                  I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
        Name.-THE parishes of Kilmalie and Kilmonivaig were an-
     ciently united, and called the parish of Lochaber; but they were
     disjoined upwards of two hundred years ago.  The name Kilmalie
     is evidently derived from a burying-ground consecrated to the Vir-
     gin Mary,-Kile signifying a burying-ground, and Malie being a
     diminutive for Mary.
        Extent.-The length from northwest to south-east is about 60
     miles; the greatest breadth 30 miles.  It is bounded on the
     east and southeast by the parish of Kilmonivaig; on the south-
     east by Rannoch, in Perthshire; on the south and south-west by
     the parish of Appin; on the west by the parishes of Morven and
     Ardnamurchan; on the north by Glenelg.  It lies partly in Inver-
     ness-shire, and partly in Argyllshire.
        Mountains.-The mountains are very numerous, but none of
     them deserves particular notice except Benevis, which is the bighest
     mountain in Britain.  It is situated near Fort William.  Its height is
     4370 feet above the level of the sea, which lies within three-quarters
     of a mile from the base of this stupendous mass.  The etymo-                                                                     y
     logy of this mountain has afforded a large field of conjecture; but
     the writer is satisfied that the following is the true one; Beinn in
     Gaelic signifies mountain; näamh, the heavens or clouds; and Ba-
     thais, that part of the human head which is betweenthe forehead
     and the crown of the head.  The compound word written in Gaelic
     would be Beinn-näamh-bhathais.  It is naturally enough contracted
     to Benävis,-the mountain with its summit in the clouds, or, as in
     Pope's Homer, "cloud kissing hill."
        The view from the top of Benevis is very extensive; but it is a
     Herculean labour to'reacb its top, and the attempt should not be
     made but by able bodied and healthy persons, with a proper guide.
        There are, in this parish, about sixty-seven miles of sea' coast,


     (FOOTNOTE)Drawn up by the late incumbent, the Rev. Donald M'Gillivray.


