
			COMRIE.                                595

	March, and Clog Market on the first Wednesday of December.
	The Crieff fairs are the principal ones in this district.

	  Inns, &c.--There are 13 inns or alehouses in the parish, licen-
	sed to sell spirits.  The number of licensed houses way not be so
	great in proportion to our population as in several neighbouring
  parishes; but it is far too high. Four would be quite sufficient
	for the real wants of the public, and the excess of nine is a source
  of deplorable evil to the morals of the people.  Efforts have bedn
  made to get the number reduced, which were so far successful, that
  from being 16 in 1829 they were reduced to 11; but, in opposi-
  tion to the strongest remonstrances from the kirk-session, the Jus-
	tices have lately seen fit to add to the number of these moral pest-
	houses.  The excise returns give 1874 gallons as the quantity
	retailed in the parish last year.
	  Fuel.--Coals, wood, and peat are the fuel used in the parish.
	The coals are carried from Bannockburn, a distance of twenty-two
  miles, and cost generally 1s. the cwt.  At the annual sales of peel-
	ed oak, a cart load can be had for about 5s.  Peats are distant,
  and not very accessible; they cost 4s. the cart load. It is stated
	in the last Statistical Account, that the greatest disadvantage, un-
  der which many parts of the parisli labour, is the scarcity and high
  price of fuel.  This disadvantage is still greatly felt, but the mak-
	ing of a shorter rn`d from Bannockburn across the hill between
	Ardoch and Comrie, and the increased quantity of oak coppice
	since that time, have both tended to diminish the price of fuel.

      			MISCELLANIOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   Many changes have taken place in this parish since 1795.
	While the population has continued stationary in amount, it
	has been changed in two respects ; from being resident in farms
	it has come to be chiefly resident in vhllages, and from using the
	Gaelic it now generally uses the English language.  The High-
  land dress is entirely disused. Proprietors have diminished in
	number to one-half, while their rental has been quadrupled.  The
	system of small farms has been put down ; considerable enterprize
	has been shown in the improvement of land and stock; by means
	of green crops and sown grass, a proper system of rotations has
  been introduced; excellent farming utensils are in use; capital and
	skill have greatly increased, so that, instead of feirm produce being
	imported, a good deal is now exported from the parish. The ro`ds
  have been exceedingly improved, and a new road to the south has
	been of great benefit.  The manufacture of linen yarn, plaids, and


