
114                         SUTHERLAND.


About thirty years ago, an attempt was made to quarry marble
both at Ledbeg, and in the immediate vicinity of the church.
The marble was found susceptible of a very fine polish, and an
enterprising individual, a native of Newcastle, commenced quarry-
ing. Roads were formed, or rather tracts for the heavy waggons,
from Ledbeg to Unapool, a distance of sixteen miles.  This was
an undertaking of considerable difficulty, and after a large quanti-
ty was sbipped, it was found attended with such expense, that it
was impossible to compete with quarries in more eligible situations
and the project was. dropped.        '
  Salmon Fisheries.-There are no fisheries in the parish deserv-
ing the name, except that on the water of Kirkag, and that which
leads from Loch Assynt to Lochinver.  These are let at a in mode-
rate rent.
   Navigation.-There are very few vessels belonging to Assynt.
Mr Macdonald, Lochinver, has one or two, Several vessels how-
ever, are yearly employed on our coasts in the herring trade, and
a few in exporting the produce of the parish, which consists chiefly
of wool,
   there are no associations in the parish for the encouragement or
improvement of industry; but the Noble proprietors supply this de-
ficiency in a great measure, by rewarding the industrious, and thus
inciting to additional exertions.

                     V.-PAROCIUAL ECONOMY.

   Markets.-There is no market-town within the parish ; neither
have any markets bpen established.   It is intended to establish a
cattle marhet ot Ishnadamph.  This would prove very advan-
tageous to the people, and save them the expense and trouble of
driving their cattle to a greater  distance.  The Kyle tryst, held in
the vicinity Of Bonar Bridge, forty miles beyond Inshnadamph, is
the nearest cattle-market at present. *
   Lochinver is the only place deserving the name of a village.  In
it are some good houses, shops, and  several tradesmen.  In the
immediate vicinity is a manufactory, for the preserving of butcher-
meat, fish, and vegetables, which affords our sailors, and others.
the luxury of fresh meat, whilst they are hundreds of leagues out
at sea.  It is carried on under the suspices of Mr Macdonald, an
extensive and enterprising sheep-farmer.  Regular employment is
thus given to a number of tradesmen and labourers,
   Means of Communication, &c.- In this village, also, is a post-

<FOOTNOTE>Since writing the above, a battle market has been established, and liberty to
    prove a permanent benefit.


