
     of Kelton.

there was found a dam, or building of stone, moss, and clay*,
which appears to have been designed for deepening the Loch.
Before it was drained, there were two isles in the Loch, the

     VOL. VIII.   Q q

<FOOTNOTE>

*Besides the stone dam mentioned above, there was one of oak wood and
earth, at the end of the town of Castle Douglas, now covered by the military
road.  About this place, many horse-shoes were found, sunk deep in the mud,
of quite a different make from those now in use.  Several very large flag heads
were got in the Loch; a large brass pan was also found in it.  Near the S. W.
corner of the Loch, a brass pugio, or dagger, 22 inches long, and plated with golds
was raised from the bottom in a bag of marl.  The pugio is in the possession of
Mr. Gordon of Greenlaw.  On the west side, near the south corner of the Loch,
between it and the military road, there is a small piece of rising ground, in view of
the castle of Thrieve, and distant from it, a full mile, called The Gallows Lot,
On the top of this, stood a gibber, or gallows, upon which were executed those
whom Douglas, Lord of Thrieve Castle, thought proper to criminate.  Here, it
is said, M'Clelland of Raeberry, Lord Kirkcudbright, was put to death by the
command of Douglas, notwithstanding the king's letters demanding his release.
This circumstance proved fatal to Douglas, his family and interest, in this part
of the country.  The remains of Raebery lie buried in the church of Kirkcor-
mock, as appears from the inscription upon a grave-stone there.  In the centre
of a cairn, near Gelston, was found a stone coffin, above 7 feet long, and 3 feet
wide, in which were human hones, in length and thickness, larger by far than
the now common size; also a brass or copper helmet, with some other imple-
ments of war, greatly corroded.  Not far from this place, a nicely carved urn
was dug out of the earth, filled with a reddish dust.  On the hills, near the S. E.
boundary of the parish, there are the vestiges of two large Danish or Saxon en-
campments, of a circular form, and not far from one another; the one 117, and
the other 68 paces in diameter, strongly fortified with triple walls of stone, of a
great thickness.  In the S. E. border of the parish, likewise, there has anciently
been a pottery.  The place, where the clay had been dug up for the work, is
still very discernible, and the fragments of earthen ware are frequently to be seen
in the fields adjoining.  From this work, the farm, in which it was situated, has
derived its name, Potterland.  There are several beautiful moats in the parish,
and the ruins of a castle that belonged to the Lords of Kirkcudbright, which had
been surrounded with a wide and deep ditch, filled with water.

^The Castle of TURIEVE stands upon an island surrounded by the Dee, and belongs to
the parish of Balmaghie.  An accurate account of this ancient and famous Castle may
seen in Mr.GROSE'S Antiquities.


