
306                    AYRSHIRE.

be of very great importance to the families in that district, as the
children out of a population of fully 300, residing from two to four
miles from the parish school, would then have the means of educa-
tion within a moderate distance. Hitherto the schools in that
quarter have seldom remained long in one place. A few neigh-
bouring farmers have usually engaged a young lad to teach their
children, some one of them providing a school-room. Whenever
his family grew up, the schnol of course was removed to another
house.
	Libraries.--There are two libraries; one, called the Sabbath
School Library, from having been established at first in connec-
tion with a Sabbath school, contains about 250 volumes, chiefly
in religious biography and practical divinity. It is open to all
the parishioners gratis. The other is a subscription library, esta-
blished in 1828. It now contains about 110 volumes, in general
literature.
	Friendy Society.--A friendly society was established here about
twenty-three years ago, whose object is to afford relief to sick and
aged members. It has hitherto prospered. There is reason to
think that it has had a good effect in cherishing feelings of inde-
pendence.
	Poor and Parochial Funds.--The average number of persons
receiving parochial aid for the last seven years is 12, and the ave-
rage allowance of each during the same time L. 5, 4s. a year. In
addition to their stated aliment, some of them have an allowance
for fuel and house rent. The total sum expended annually has
amounted on an average of seven years to L. 71, I8s.
	The average income for the last seven years has been L. 63 17s.3d.
arising from the following sources, viz. Church collections,  *
L.36, 4s. 10d.; proclamations, L. 1, 7s. ; mortcloth dues,
L.1, 10s. 8d.; interest of money formerly saved, L. 24, 14s. 9d.
total, L. 63, 17s. 3d.
	It thus appearr that the expenditure has exceeded the income
by L. 8, 0s. 9d. a year. This deficiency has been supplied, by
taking from the money at interest as much as was necessary to
meet current expenses;--a mode of supporting the poor, the pro-
priety of which is very questionable. It may be proper to men-

<FOOTNOTE> Under the head of church collections, are included contributions by a few non-
resident heritors. They are put under this head, because they are sent by them week-
ly or monthl as collection the hands of some of their tenants. These contri-
butions amount at present to about L. 8, 8s. a year.


