
54                    ELGINSHIRE.

mains, but when at the plough or in the barn, a Kilmarnock coul
may Sometimes be seen. The working classes have been for some
years subjected to severe trials from the want of employment, but
they bore them patiently, and maintained their honesty and inte-
grity.

                     IV.-INDUSTRY.

Agriculture.-Extent of Farms, Rent ofLand, &c.-The farms
in this parish are of very diffierent extent, I exceeding 200
acres, employing four ploughs; 4 from 100 to 150, employing
three ploughs. each; 7 from 60 to 100, employing two ploughs
each; about 16 from 12 to 30 acres, with one plough each; besides,
therd are a few cottagers occupying from I to 4 acres, some
keeping one horse and a cow, some a cow only. There are about
60 acres occupied by the feuars of Fochabers, in the parish of
Bellie, who have free access, across the Spey by the bridge at
Fochabers to their acres, which they hold from year to year. The
rents over the parish vary from 20s. to 40s.; the average may be
about 28s. per acre. There are a considerable number of small
heritors or feuars in Garmouth, who have feus of different extent
on the lands of Garmouth, all holding of the Duke of Gordon as
superior. The rents here cannot be so well ascertained asthe greater
part of the lands are occupied by the fauars themselves.
   Husbandary.-The five-shift rotation is in a few cases carried
on, but the general course is the six-shift, viz. one-sixth in green
crop, turnips and potatoes, all in drills , generally about three-fourths
of the former, well dunged with farmyard dung, sometimes bone ma-
nure,, which is found to answer turnips very well, but it is not yet fully
ascertained if this kind of manure will be sufficient for the succeeding
crops of the shift. However, it is by far too expensive, considering
the low rate of agricultural produce at present,-the quantity found
to operate effectually being from 25 to 30 bushels per Scotch acre,
at 2s. 9d. per bushel. This shift is next year laid down with whdat
or barley, and grass seeds, eight lb. red clover, one or two white,
one or two rib-grass, and one and a -half bushels perennial rye-grass
per acre It then remains two years in grass, partly cut for hay,
partly pastured the first year, pastured the second; it is then in most
instances dunged for wheat, and sown in the month of October or
November. When the whole cannot be dunged, the remainder
is amm with mts in spring. The sixth and last crop of the course is
spring corn; the field ribbed in autumn to rot the stubble, then


