
     of Kirkmichael.

creased so much, that the distance between their lowest de-
pression and highest elevation is a full foot.  When the pres-
sure is wholly withdrawn, the stone will continue to rock,
till it has made 26 or more vibrations from one side to the
other, before it settles in its natural horizontal position.
Both the lower side of the stone, and the surface of the rock
on which it rests, appear to be worn and roughened by mu-
tual friction.  There is every reason to suppose, from the
form and relative situation of the surrounding grounds, that
this stone must have been placed in its present position by the
labour of men.  It will hardly be thought, therefore, an ex-
travagant degree of credulity, to refer its origin to the same
period with those other tribunals of a similar construction,
mentioned by writers who have treated of the customs of the
ancient Celts.  This opinion is however the more confirm-
ed, from finding, in the neighbourhood of this stone, a con-
siderable number of other Druidical relics.  On the north
side of the stone, at the distance of 60 yards, on a small emi-
nence, are 2 concentric circles, similar to that already de-
scribed, and a single circle adjoining to them on tim east
side.  Beyond this, at 37 yards distance, on another small
eminence, is another pair of concentric circles, with a
single one adjoining to them on the east side.  Beyond
these, at 45 yards distance, is a third pair of concentric
circles, with their adjacent circle on the east side.  Far-
ther on to the north east, at the distance of 90 yards, is a
single circle, and beside it on the west side, two rectangular
enclosures of 37 feet by 12; also a cairn 23 or 24 yards in
circumference, and about 12 feet high in the centre.  Several
small cairns are scattered in the neighbourhood: 120 yards
west from the rocking stone is a pair of concentric circles,
with a small single circle beside them of 7 feet in diameter.
All the pairs of concentric circles are of the same dimensions,


