
                         BALFRON.                           295

As to the poor hand-loom weaver giving an education to his chil-
dren, even in the most common way, the thing is imposible,--
thankful is he, if he can provide their daily food and give them
clothing. Why, it is asked, do parents bring up their children to
such misery, by encouraging them to follow a trade wbich is so
very much overdone, and which entails upon them a certain un-
avoidable suffering? The answer is obvious. The very effect of
tbis misery now operates as a cause, under which the unhappy pa-
rent is compelled to have recourse to the dire expedient of getting
assistance from his child. No sooner are its hands ready for the
shuttle, it matters not what maybe the sex,--the poor child is placed
upon the loom, there to "eik" out, by its 1s.6d. or 2s. per week,
the pittance of the half-starved parent. He would prefer, no doubt,
to send his child to the school, there to learn those acquirements
which may adapt both body and mind to after toil. But the temp-
tation is too much to be withstood. He grasps at the little help
which the child can give; and even with a heavy heart puts him
to the trade which he teaches himself. No apprentice fee is re-
quired; and all that is made, however little, goes to the assistance
of the family. Any one who attends to these circumstances will
be at no loss to see how, from year to year, and from generation
to generation, misery is handed down and perpetuated.
   Nor can any one who knows the circumstances of the weavers,
be astonished that there should be discontent at times among them.
Our wonder is, that there is so little, more especially when they
have so little opportunity for moral and religious training. It is
no easy matter, we are aware, to say what the Legislature should
do.  But, the subject is well worthy the attention of philanthro-
pists; and, in the name of thousands of our suffering countrymen.
we cannot help wishing, that some remedy were speedily intro-
duced to alleviate sufferings and privations, which, we are satisfied.
have no parallel in our Christian land.

                       III.--POPULATION.

  The number of the present population of the whole parish is
2057; and there has been no increase for several years. Of
these about 1700 are in the village. The number of proprie-
tors having land of the yearly value of L.50 and upwards is 16.
Scarcely any of these can be properly said to be resident in the
parish, and of all the evils which can be inflicted upon a parish,
none can be more ruinous than a non-residing, proprietary.
  Land-owners.--The names of the present proprietors are,


