
                               STOW.                      417

moved, among which were found several querns or hand mills of
stone, (the greywacke of the district,) circular, and about a foot in
diameter, with a hole in the centre.  Two fragments of freestone
were picked up which had served as the upper mill-stone.
   Ancient and Modern Buildings.--The old castle of Torwoodlee,
certainly very ancient, was superseded as a mansion-house by the
erection of the handsome and commodious one built by the late
proprietor, and finished in 1784.  The old house of Bowland is
partly retained in the new and noble castellated structure reared
by General Walker, upwards of twenty years ago.  There was no
mansion house on the estate of Symington till the present was
built by General Pringle, more than twenty years since.  The
new house of Crookston, an excellent and commodious mansion,
was entered in 1819.  Burnhouse, a handsome dwelling, and
beautifully situated, was built about thirty years ago.  Torquhan,
which may be similarly characterized, was erected in 1823, when it
superseded the house of Michelston, which was occupied by for-
mer proprietors.  Opposite to Torquhan, the House of Pirn is
picturesquely situated on a gently-sloping bank of Gala.
  The style and accommodation of farm-houses have been greatly
improved within these few years.
  Old Castles.--Of these there is still a number in various states
of ruin; and it is probable that there were others, of which no trace
nor tradition now remains.  Generally, they were square towers or
parallelograms of various dimensions.  At old Muirhouse, near
the present shepherd's house, there were lately traces of an old
castle or square tower, which are now obliterated.  A red free-
stone, that appears to have adorned the entrance of it, is built into
the garden of the present farm-house.  It bears the inscription,
" I. P. M. P. In Te Domine speravi, 1626."  It is not known
that there are any remains of an ancient castle higher up Gala
Water than Stow, except that of Hop-Pringle, opposite Crookston,
and Howliston Tower, on the opposite side of the Gala, now oc-
cupied as the farm-house.  The walls are four feet, in thickness;
and from this place you have a very extensive view.  While the
evidence of the former existence of such a building precludes all
dubiety, the remains of it are so slender, that it is difficult even to
trace the precise form and extent of the structure.  It was anciently
possessed by the family of the Hop-Pringles, the chieftain family
of the clan or tribe to which most of the lands of Gala Water
anciently belonged.  On the top of a hill on the farm of Bow,
  EDINBURGH.


