
			LOUDOUN.                            843

they were many--to advance their souls' welfare, he was cordially,
ably, and indefatigably seconded Lady Hastings.
	The principal, features of his, administration are thus summed
up by one who was well able both to appreciate and to delineate
them: "The intuitive rapidity with which be seized the true his-
tory of the country; the comprehensive system, in which, from the
first, he proposed to embrace the relations of the Peninsula; the mas-
terly military skill with which he circumscribed and crushed within
his grasp the fugitive force with which he had to contend, while he
dissipated all the combinations by which it was supported; his
complete assertion of the British supremacy without the violation
of public faith; and the great progress which he made towards ma-
turing all the reciprocal interests and obligations of the different
states into consistency, must place bis government among the
most splendid and useful administrations by which the affairs of
India have ever been directed."*
	Lord Moira was created Marquis of Hastings, Earl of Rawdon,
and Viscount Loudoun in 1816, and twice received the thanks of
both Houses of Parliament for his achievements in India. He
returned to England in 1823; and in 1824 was appointed Gover-
nor of Malta. In recording this fact, and remembering at the
same time all Lord Hastings had done for his country, and what
he deserved from its hands, we cannot but say with the poet,
"How seldom doth a good man get what he merits--how seldom
doth he merit what he gets." But though Malta was compara-
tively a narrow and limited sphere for the exercise of such com-
manding talents and enlarged views as were possessed by Lord
Hastings, yet he directed to his new government all the ener-
gies of his character; for a great and good man, as he was
is like the sun of Heaven, which fructifies and gladdens a seclud-
ed valley with the same genial beams with which it shines upon a
world. The Maltese still cherish his memory and remember his
government with gratitude. He removed from Malta to Naples
for change of air, and died on board the Revenge, in the Bay of
Baia, November 28, 1826. At his own request his remains were,
conveyed back to Malta; and they now repose in the bastion of
St John, at Valetta.
	We have thus glanced at the public events in the life of one of
the "eminent persons connected with the parish." We shall say little
of his character, because we feel how unable we are to de-

<FOOTNOTE>Colonial Stewart on the Polley of the Government of India, 1825.


