
                             DYCE.                             121

rain water flows into its channel by means of those multitudes of
drains which of late years have been cut in every direction.
   Geology.-Granite is the only species of stone found in consi-
derable quantities through this parish, of which, however, the rocks
seem almost inexhaustible, extending over a greater proportion of
the hill of Tyrebagger. *  A quarry of it has been opened on the
south-east corner of that hill, in which direction also lies the dip
of the strata.  Quartz chiefly preponderates in this granite.  It is
considered of fine quality, and a large quantity has been exported
to London for the erection of public buildings.  Other granite
quarries have at different times been opened on the same hill, but
hitherto unprofitably, chiefly in consequence of their difficulty of
access, and comparative distance from Aberdeen.  In consequence
of the very limited demand for stone in the London market, how-
ever, few of the quarries in this neighbourhood have been worked
to any extent, for a very considerable period of time.
   Zoology.-There are a few roe-deer and blackcock in the plan-
tations of Tyrebagger, with plenty of woodcock, which are occa-
sionally found to hatch there.  Before thdsd barren hills were
planted, there were some grouse, which have now nearly disap-
peared.  There are hares, partridges, snipe, wild-duck, and rab-
bits in the low grounds.  Trout-fishing is excellent during March
and April.

                       II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Land-owners.-There are six land-owners, viz. Dr Henderson, of
Caskieben, author of a well known and ingenious work on wines;
Mr Gordon of Pitlurg; Mr Bannerman of Kirkhill; Sir John For-
bes, Bart. of Fintray; Mr. Elmslie of Pitmedden's family; and
Mr Tower of Kinaldie.  Each of these gentlemen has a larger
rental in this parish than L. 50 per annum.  Sir John Forbes
and Mr Gordon reside within a few hundred yards of the parish,
and by their zeal in promoting the improvement of their estates,

<FOOTNOTE>The writer has been informed bv a very intelligent individual, who worked for
several years in these quarries, that, besides being used for crib, pavement, and cause-
way stones, and for house-building, the stones From Tyrebagger have been employ-
ed in raising the following works: the Bell-rock Lighthouse; Sheerness Quay wall;
Deptford Quay-wall ; West India Docks; and Sheerness Docks.  Stones from the
same quarry were formed into pillars for the groins of the London Custom House,
and were dressed for the long steps and coping of St Catherine's Docks ; and for the
most prominent parts of the new Bridge of Don.  They were likewise used in build-
ing the new London Bridge, and from the same place was that fine block of granite
selected which encloses certain urns and other memorials of the present age, and
forms the foundation stone of that magnificent structure.  In these quarries also a
few specimens of dolomite have been found.


