
118                      ABERDEENSHIRE.

h`s taken place within the last twenty years, which is encouraged
by many local associations bestowing premiums.

                     V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Kintore, at the distance of two miles, was the post-town till
1837, when an office was established at Blackburn.  The nearest
market-town is Inverury, distant seven miles, where there are twenty
fairs yearly.  An excellent turnpike from Aberdeen to the north-
west, divides the parish into two equal parts, from east to west.
Besides the mail, three stage-coaches from, and as many to Aber-
deen, run every lawful day, whose fares are very moderate.  The
cross-roads, except one, which leads to a single farm, are in very
bad order; part of the most frequented one, as leading to the
church, has not had a farthing of the parish money expended on it
for twenty years.  A small canal, made in 1797, runs from Aber-
deen to Inverury, at about a mile north of the church; on which
is a passage boat, and other boats, which bring coals, lime, and
manure from Aberdeen to the country; and take grain, slates,
wood, &c. from the country to Aberdeen.  Though it has not yet
been a profitable concern to the proprietors, it has been of consi-
derable advantage to a large tract of country.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The church was built in 1801; it is not
centrically placed, being only a mile frnm the Don on the north
side, and nearly four from the southern boundary of the parish.
It is in tolerable repair, and may contain nearly 250 sitters.  It is
well attended by all, except one Roman Catholic family.  The
communicants vary from 194 to 210 in number.
   Kinellar, during Popery, was a vicarage belonging to the parson-
age of Kinkel, along with Kintore, Kemnay, Dyce, Skene, and
Drumblade.  The patronage and tithes of all these were bestowed
by Archbishop Sharpe on the Dean of the University of St An-
drews, to present to them with consent of the Archbishop.  After
the abolition of Episcopacy, the university exercised this right till
1761, when these patronages being all sold, Kinellar, with four
others, wag bought by the Earl of Kintore, who is now patron.
The manse was built in 1778, is in tolerable repair, but not com-
modious.  The glebe is 5 acres in extent, very good land, and the
minister receives a trifle above L. 60 front the Exchequer, to make
his stipend L.150.  He has L.20 Scots for grass-money, and an
equal sum for moss-money, there being no moss in the parish.
   Education.-The school, built a few years ago, is pretty conve-
niently placed; the salary L26, with house and garden.  All the


