
318			     FIFESHIRE.

fowls upon it at present; a few years ago there were fifty. The
swans support themselves entirely by what they find in the water,
except when it is frozen, when they require to be fed. They breed
regularly, and would multiply fast, were it not that their nests are
often destroyed in spring. Wild duck, teal, and a great variety
of water-fowls frequent the lake. In 1823, about twenty wild
swans alighted in it during the severe weather, and remained till
the storm abated, when they took their departure.
   No river runs through the parish, and only one brook or stream
with water sufficient to drive machinery. This stream, which has
different names, as it passes different places, takes its rise in the
upper parts of the parish, and is increased by several small stream-
lets as it descends. The water of this stream with the assistance
of dams, drives, in its course, five corn-mills, and one lint or flax
mill. It falls into Largo bay at Shooter's Point, and at its em-
bouchure is the line of division betwixt this parish and that of
Newburn. The streamlets, which take their rise to the north of
Dunikier Law, run in a northerly direction, till they join some of
the tributary streams of the river Eden, which discharges itself into
St Andrews Bay. Copious springs, of excellent quality, are every
where to be found in the parish, and rarely is any scarcity of wa-
ter felt.
   SoiL-There is considerable variety in the soil, but it is gene-
rally fertile, and nearly all under cultivation. In the lowest, or
most southerly part of the parish, it is light loam, with a mixture
of sand. As you recede from the sea, it becomes deeper. Be-
tween Kilconquhar and Colinsburgh, there is a strath of rich allu-
vial soil, which extends in a south-easterly direction till it reach
Balbuthie. From this strath to Colinsburgh it is more light and
sandy, but sharp and fertile. All the rising ground above Colins-
burgh, including the lands of Balcarres, Charleton, and the south
parts of Reres and Killbrachmont, is a black loam, and being in the
highest state of cultivation, yields abundant crops. To the north
of Reres, the climate becomes colder, and the soil less uniform.
Still it is, generally speaking, good, and in favourable seasons is very
productive. From its elevation, in later seasons the crops are
more uncertain.

	"They took her to Kinniuchar Loch,
	And threw the limmer in,
	And a the swans took,to the hills,
	Scar'd with the unhaely din."
				Witches of Pittenweem.

				3



