
752                           AYRSHIRE.

dead, and love of historical truth, combined to render it desirable
that Coil's grave should be opened. Accordingly, in May 1837,
the two large stones were removed. The centre of the mound was
found to be occupied by boulder stones, some of them of conside-
rable size. When the excavators bad reached the depth of about
four feet, they came on a flag-stone of a circular form about three
feet in diameter.
	Under the circular stone, was first a quantity of dry yellow co-
loured sandy clay, then a small flag-stone laid horizontally, cover-
ing the mouth of an urn filled with white-coloured burnt bones.
In removing the dry clay by which this urn was surrounded, un-
der flat stones, several small heaps of bones were observe, not
contained in urns, but carefully surrounded by the yellow-coloured
clay mentioned above. The urns in shape resemble flower-pots;
they are composed of clay, and have been hardened by fire. The
principal urn is 7 7/8 inches in height, 7 7/8 inches in diameter, 5/8ths
of an inch in thickness. It has none of those markings, supposed
to have been made by the thumb nail, so often to be observed on
sepulchral urns, and it has nothing of ornament except an edging
or projecting part about half-an inch from the top. No coins, or
armour, or implements of any description could be found.
	The discovery of these urns renders evident, that, at a very re-
mote period, and while the practice of burning the dead still pre-
vailed--that is to say, before the introduction of Christianity-
some person or persons of distinction had been deposited there.
The fact of sepulchral urns having been found in the very spot
where, according to an uninterrupted tradition, and the statements
of several historians, King Coil had been laid, appears to give to
the traditionary evidence, and to the statements of the early Scot-
tish historians, in regard to Coil, a degree of probability higher
than they formerly possessed.
	According to Bellenden, in his translation of Hector Boece,
"Kyle is namit frae Coyll, Kyng of the Britons, quhilk was slain
in the same region." Buchasnnan state, "that the Scuts and Picts
surprised the camp of the Britons in the night, and put almost the
whole of them to the, sword. Coilus, King of the Britons, was
among the slain in this engagement, and the district in which the
battle was fought was afterwards distinguished by his name."
	Other urns were found less indurated, and so frail as to fall to
pieces when touched.
	An old man remembers that his father, then a tenant on the
                                   4


