
578				FORFARSHIRE.

real likenesses of the gallant men who bore a conspicuous part in
the achievement of that ever memorable day. *
	A large addition has lately been made to the mansion-house of
Invergowrie, the seat of Alexander Clayhills, Esq. The plan
was furnished by Mr Burn, architect, and reflects great credit on
his taste. The house is delightfully situated on a slopin bank
adjoining the Tay, and commands a beautiful view of the bay of
Invergowrie, of the course of the river for several miles, and of
the rich and fertile district of the Carse of Gowrie, lying imme.
diately to the westward.
	Balruddery House (Robert Webster, Esq.) is a handsome mo-
dern building. It stands on an eminence sufficiently elevated to
afford a rich, extensive, and varied prospect. The finely wooded
dells by which it is surrounded are well known for their beautiful
and romantic scenery.
        Mills.-Within the last sixteen or seventeen years, three spin-
ning-mills have been erected in the village of Lochee, and one at
Denmiln, in this parish. Whatever `dvantages may accrue from
these establishments, they have a very unfortunate effect on the
morals and pauperism of the community. At Bullion, near In-
vergowrie, an extensive work for bleaching and dyeing yarn and
cloth has been lately established. The necessary erections have
been made with great care, and at very considerable expense.
There is on the premises a water-wheel of 14 horses' power, and
a steam-engine of 6. A gasometer has been fitted up solely for
the use of the work.
        Parochial Registers.-1. A register of births, commencing 1633,
very much obliterated. 2. Register of baptisms, 1658, tolerably
legible. 3. Register of births, 1696, much faded. 4. Register
of marriages, 1660, almost illegible. 5. Record of kirk session,
1704, not entire. 6. Register of baptisms and marriages 1774,
not entire. 7. Register of discipline, 1726, and book of collec-
ions and disbursements, 1746, not entire. 8. Register of births,
1774, and also collections and disbursements, quite distinct. 9.
Register of discipline, 1786, well kept. 10. Register of births

<FOOTNOTE>Adjoining the House of Camperdown there is a memorial of the battle possess-
ing some interest, viz. the bulkhead of De Winter's ship, "Vryheid." It is a large
mass of wood representing a lion. The monarch of the beasts had been rather
roughly handled in effigy-half hhs face is shot away, and from the many hard hits he
had received it is easy to imagine how thoroughly the ship must have been "riddled,"
when "the masts having fallen over the side, she dropped out of the line, an ungo,
vernable hulk, and struck her colours."-James's Noval History.


