
     of New Luce.

   Farmers, Heritors, Husbandry, etc.-The parish is di-
vided into 32 farms, which are held in lease by 27 farmers.
The present rental is about L. 1100.  The heritors are five
in number, only one of whom resides within the parish.
The farmers look toward their black cattle and sheep for
the payment fo the master and their own profits.  There
are yearly sold by them about 364 black cattle, of a small
breed, but which, when removed to rich land, satten in a
short time.  The other article they have to dispose of is
sheep, of which they sell annually about X480, and about
672 stones of wool.  The mutton of this place hath long
and deservedly been esteemed for its excellent flavour.  The
wool is also of a good quality, and hath, for these some
years by past, sold from 9s. to 13s. the stone. The parish hath
not hitherto supplied itself with grain, but in time, I doubt
not, will be able to remedy this defect.  The land, in its
natural state, makes but very poor returned to the farmer;
but when dressed with lime, pays handsomely, a trial ha-
ving already been made in three of the farms.  As the
great body of the farmers did not think of improving their
land at the commencement of their present leases, now
that they are willing, they are discouraged on account of the
shortness of their leases, most of them expiring in the course
of five of six years.  The expense of dressing the land with
lime is too great for the farmer to be paid in the course of
so short a lease, having to carry it upwards of five miles,
and besides to pay at the rate of 1s. 2d. the bushel, of
which from 45 to 50 are required to an acre. These,
though the great obstacle towards the improving their land
at present, are not the only, the roads in the parish being
in such a state as to be almost impassable with carriages of
any kind; even the principal road is at times so, only a
samll part of it as yet being formed.  Although other cir-
cumstances favoured, yet so long as the roads remain in their
     VOL.XIII. 4 E


