
26			AYRSHIRE.

New Church has cost the town a large sum,--little short pro-
bably of L.6000. The original cost was upwards of L.4000; and
some years ago the roof having been found insufficient, had to be
renewed at a considerable additional expense. It was erected in
1810. It is a handsome enough building, both within and without,
but suffers a miserable drawback in appearance as a church, on
account of the want of a spire or tower.
	The Academy, as a building, is plain and not very ornamental,
but it is chaste, and in good taste, and fitted up with very conve-
nient teaching rooms for the masters, and a large handsome hall
for public meetings. It stands in an open space to the north-west
of the town, and occupies a very healthy and eligible situation.
	A large handsome new Inn has lately been built in a very con-
venient situation near the town's buildings, which the rising im-
portance of the place very much required. From its standing on a
line with the main street, it does not make a very showy appear-
ance, but what is better, it answers the public purposes of its erec-
tion.
	There is a spacious military barrack situated in an open level
ground near the harbour; and during the war, Ayr was always a
military station. This building is capable of containing a regiment
of infantry; but since the peace, it has been very little used, as sol-
diers are seldom quartered here, and Government propose dispos-
ing of it for some other purpose.
	Burn's Monument.--This splendid monument stands on a rather
commanding and tasteful position, on the summit of the east bank of
the rive Doon, near Alloway Kirk, the bank rising above the stream,
with a pretty bold acclivity, ornamented on its brow by an orchard,
and the shrubbery that surrounds the building. It is situated at nearly
an equal distance betwixt the Kirk and the Auld Brig, having the
road to Maybole across the new bridge, passing it in an oblique di-
rection. It consists of a triangular base, rising to the height of 16 or
18 feet from in appearance. These are intended to represent the
three divisions of the county, having a face to each of the districts
--Kyle, Carrick, and Cunninghame. Over this base, rises a super-
structure of nine open circular columns, representing the nine
Muses, with rich capitals of the Corinthian order, having a pro-
jecting cupola, highly ornamented, surmounted by a gilt tripod.
This tripod is supported by three inverted dolphins--fishes sacred
to Apollo, who presided over the fine arts. In the construction


