
950                 		PERTHSHIRE.

the surface and yielded to the influence of the weather. The
trap seems to overly the sandstone, with once trifling exception,
throughout the whole extent of the parish; and in the case
of this exception, the sandstone strata is found nearly in a ver-
tical position. Atthat spot, too, the trap has changed the sand-
stone at the line of junction. The old red sandstone, doubtless,
might be found in many places by cutting through the trap; but
this has never been tried in any part Of the parish. In the
upper parts are to be found beautiful specimens of conglomerate
in great abundance, the nodules of which are either trap or por-
phyry. Beautiful specimens of the blue and purple pebbles also
abound in the decomposed trap. It is a singular circumstance,
that, in so extensive a parish, and all lying upon rock, there has
not been discovered any portion of the trap, with one solitary ex-
ception, sufficiently hard to build even a common dike with. It
has its uses, however, and these are of no small importance,--being
excellent for installing roads, and making drains.
   The only other variety of mineral found in the parish is a thin
layer of laminar limestone on the lands of Dumbuils; but, from the
great distance of coal, and the thinness of the seam, the present
proprietor, Lawrence Oliphant, Esq. of Condie, has not consi-
dered it worth working.
   It is stated in the former Statistical Account, that copper had
at one period been wrought in the wood of Condie; but no traces
of this metal have been lately met with.

			II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
   Eminent Men.--The only public characters we have been able
to discover in connection with this parish were, Sir William Oli-
phant of Newton, who was King's Advocate in the reign of
James VI., and at whose instance many of the trials for witchcraft,
so prevalent at that period, were conducted;--his grandson had
the misfortune accidentally to kill his mother, and was obliged, in
consequence, to fly the country: And Mr James Graeme of
Newton who, before the Revolution in 1688, was solicitor to James
VII.
   In the churchyard, on the south side of the church, there is a
tombstone bearing this inscription; "Here lies Andrew Brodie,
wright in Forgandenny, who, at the break of meeting, October
1678, was shot by a party of Higlandmen, commanded by Bal-
lechan, at a cave's mouth, flying thither for his life, and that
for his adherence to the word of God, and Scotland's cove-
				4


