
708                 EDINBURGHSHIRE.

   By the act of James VI. the following fourteen incorporated
trades enjoyed the privilege of sending a deacon to represent them
in the town-council.

<TABLE>

Surgeons, incorporated in   1505   Tailors, incorporated in   1500
Goldsmiths                  1581   Bakers before              1522
Skinners                    1581   Fleshers                   1488
Furriers                    1593   Cordiners                  1449
Hammermen                   1483   Weavers                    1475
Wrights                     1475   Waukers                    1500
Masons                      1475   Bonnetmakers               1530

   By the act of 1833 the city was divided into five wards or dis-
tricts. Each ward returns a certain number of councillors in pro-
portion to its extent and populousness, so that the whole five wards
return thirty-one councillors. The dean of guild is elected
by the guildry, and the trades' convener by the incorporated
trades, making in all thirty-three members of council. All these,
to be eligible, must be burgesses or freemen. One-third of those
who were lowest on the poll go out by annual rotation; and a
new election supplies their place. The council elect from among
this number the chief magistrate and bailies. The Lord Provost
is High Sheriff, Lord Lieutenant, and Coroner within the city
and liberties, where he takes precedence of all the great officers
of state, and of the nobility; walking on the right of Royalty, or
of the Lord High Commissioner. He also has the privilege of
having a sword of state and mace carried before him. L. 500 are
annually allowed from the city's funds for expenses incidental to his
office. The magistrates can hold a criminal court for all cases oc-
curring within the city. They have authority to inflict arbitrary
punishments. The Lord Provost has even a jurisdiction in cases
of life and death, but it has fallen into desuetude.
   The Bailie Court and Ten Merk Court are for cases of debt or
civil trespass.
   The Dean of Guild Court takes cognizance of all building ope-
rations within the city; regulates the weights and measures; and
other matters connected with the guildry and its members.
   The four bailies are ex-officio depute lieutenants, sheriff de-
putes and justices of the peace within the liberties.
   The magistrates are superiors of the suburbs of the Canongate
and Easter and Wester Portsburgh; and appoint baron bailies, for
these districts. They were formerly superiors of Leith, but by
the act of 1833 that town was constituted a distinct borough.
The meetings of council are held in the city hall, Royal Ex-


