
     Statistical Account

freshing verdure; and their shapes are finely diversified.  Co-
vered with sheep, they suggest many pastoral images.  The
eastern part of the parish consists of three ranges of hills, with
scarcely any intervening plain.  Between the two souther-
most of these ranges, the Carron bog or meadow commences;
the largest perhaps in Scotland.  Beginning in Fintry, it runs
E. between the parishes of Kilsyth and St. Ninian's to the
extent of 4 miles; is in some places 2 miles in breadth, and
in no place less than 1; containing about 500 acres in one
continued plain.  It affords sustenance during the winter to
the cattle of the surrounding farms.  This remarkable mea-
dow, besides its utility, adds great liveliness and beauty to
the general face of the country.  The scene it exhibits du-
ring the months of July and August, of 20 or 30 different
parties of people employed in hay-making, is certainly very
cheerful: And during winter, the greater part of it being
overflowed by the Carron, which runs through the middle of
it, and which is then industriously led over its whole extent,
to fertilize it for the ensuing crop, it assumes the appearance
of a large and beautiful lake.  In both situations, it affords an
agreeable relief from the bleakness of the country around it.
Towards the west end of the parish, the hills are more rocky
and rugged.  The valley through which the rapid stream of
the Endrick runs, widens gradually to the extent of a mile.
Several groves, recently planted, beginning to lift their heads
along the banks of the river; the cultivated fields on its mar-
gin; the hedges and hedge rows round the enclosures on the
estate of Culcruich; an extensive plantation behind the man-
sion-house of that name; and some well disposed clumps of
trees on the sides of the opposite hills, gratify the traveller,
not only with a view of beauty, but of well-directed industry.
Above these, the summits of the mountains on both sides, bro-
ken, and presenting abrupt precipices, and sometimes covered


