
                        KELSO.                       317

George Scott of Wooden; James Dickson, Esq. of Pinnacle-
hill; David Monro Binning, Esq. of Softlaw; Sir William Dick-
son of Sydenham, Bart.; John Waldie, Esq. of Hendersyde;
and the Governors of George Watson's Hospital, Edinburgh.
  Parochial Registers.--These consist of the minutes of kirk-
session, the register of births and baptism, and the register of
proclamations and marriages.  The session records, in ten volumes
folio and quarto, go back as far as the beginning of the year 1622,
and come down, with some interruptions, to the present time.
These interruptions are from March 1661 to June 1668; from
August 1689 to May 1692; and from September 1749 to August
1800,--though this last blank is in a good measure supplied by a
set of duplicate minutes,--apparently the original drafts,--which
extend, with but few intermissions, from 1697 to 1830.  The re-
gister of baptisms, in eleven volumes, begins at 1597; but it has
also many blanks, and is especially of late years, far from being
a complete list of the births in the parish.  The register of mar-
riages commences likewise from 1597, and is generally kept in the
same volume with that of births and baptisms.
  Antiquities.--With the exception of its magnificent abbey, the
parish now possesses few antiquities of any note.  Even since the
date of the last Statistical Account, their number has been dimi,--
nished.  The site of the Church of St James's, near the con-
fluence of the Tweed and Teviot, is no longer distinguishable
from the surrounding sward of St James's Green.  The church-
yard of Maxwell still contains a few monumental stones, with the
inscriptions tolerably legible; yet, from the dilapidated state in
which they are permitted to lie, there is little prospect of their
long surviving the fate of the older relics.  Some minor ob-
jects and buildings in the town, "freighted with recollections" of
the past, have also disappeared within a recent period.  Nor does
a single vestige now remain of the human bones, which used to
be upturned, in great numbers, by the plough in the "Bony Brae,"
near Wooden, the supposed scene of a battle--with the Danes,
according to some; between the Scots and English, according to
others.  The possession, however, of Kelso Abbey is itself enough
to render the parish interesting to the antiquary; and there can
now be little doubt, from the judicious and successful efforts which
have been made since 1804 to disencumber the ruins of the rude
modern masonry which disfigured them, and to strengthen and
repair those parts which were verging to decay, that this solid and


