
                       LOGIE-BUCHAN.                            805

raik dike has been formed in the middle of the river, in the shape
of a horse-shoe; and this, with other rude constructions for the con-
venience of the salmon and flounder-fishings, are all that the hand
of man has done for the improvement of this interesting but much
neglected little river.  At its mouth there is neither pier, nor
wharf, nor quay for the accommodation of the increasing shipping. *

                     II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Nothing is known as to the history of this parish prior to the
sixteenth century; but during the civil and religious contests
that prevailed during the seventeenth, between the Covenant-
ers and the Anti-covenanters, this parish Had its full share of
suffering, most of the proprietors being attached to the royal
cause.  Upon the 23d February 1644, (when every estate
was compelled to raise a certain number of men to recruit the
Scottish army, then in England), "the committee in Aberdeen sent
forty musketeers to plunder the lands of the lairds of Rainieston,
Tipperty, Tarty, and the Good-wife of Artrochie, non-subscribers
of the covenant in this parish."  Mr William Innes of Tipperty
having obtained the assistance of the lairds of Gight, Haddo, and
other gentlemen, to the number of eighty horse, met the Cove-
nanters on the bounds of Tarty, defeated, disarmed, and dispersed
them, to the great offence of the Earl Marischal and Commit-
tee.  "Such alarm did this occasion," says Spalding, "that the
town of Aberdeen took instant measures for the defence of the
city."  The consequences of this skirmish give it an importance
beyond what itself merits; for it was the immediate occasion of
that hasty rising of the Gordons, the ill success of which compelled
the Marquis of Huntly to flee his country, and brought Sir John
Gordon to the block; + and for his behaviour, Mr Innes's house
of Tipperty was plundered in May following, and his meal-mill
burned.
   Nor were the proprietors of the above named estates the only
heritors of Logie-Buchan who opposed the Covenanters: for Spal-
ding farther informs us, that, "upon the 27th April of the same
year, forty-four soldiers belonging to Mr William Seton of She-
thin, Mr James Buchan of Auchmacoy, and Mr James Seton of

<FOOTNOTE>both from Fraserburgh and Peterhead to Aberdeen, would be shortened upwards of
two Miles.  The estimated expense of the bridge and road leading to it is about
L.5000.  It is hoped that this very desirable improvement will not be lost sight of.
    I am happy to announce, that Mr Robert Black, ship-owner, Newburgh, has just,
completed a substantial wraf, 120 yards long, upon ground on the south bank of the
Ythan, which he has feued from Lieut.-Col. Udny of Udny.
    He was executed at Edinburgh by the Maiden, on the July after.


