
                                       ORPHIR.                            17

       gether in their formation,by some very powerful force from beneath,
       The distance between these ridges is from four to five feet.  There
       are several of these ridges, and they run parallel to each other.
       On the west side of this bay, there is a rock of this kind of stone,
       from 25 to 30 feet high; and about the middle, there is a perpen-
       dicular line where the junction exhibits signs, on each side. of great
       pressure in the formation.  Of the freestone, some is coarse grain-
       ed, and some fine'and white.  The shores of Swanbister, belong-
       ing to Thomas Sands, Esq. abound in this last, and are carried
       to Kirkwall and Stromness, for various purposes.
        There was lately discovered a quarry of excellent gray slate on
       the side of the hill of Midland next to Houton, at an elevation of
       about 400 feet, belonging to Hector Moncrieff, Esq. of Houton,
       In sunimer 1834, 6000 slates were sent to Kirkwall and South
       Ronaldsay; 1835, 12,000 were sent to the same places; and last
       summer, about 12,000.
        Soil.-In the fields, which have been longest in cultivation, the
       soil is generally a rich black loam, yields fair crops of corn, rich natu-
       ral grass; and ryegrass and clover have been tried with success.  In
       some parts, the soil is a cold clay ; but a large proportion is sandy
       and shallow, over rocks of sandstone, and yields light crops.
        Birds.-The chief of these are : hawks (Falco), both dark-
       brown and grey.  Owls (Strix ululu), dark-grey.  The royal eagle
       (Falco fulvus).    Crows (Corvus cornix). The starling (Sturnus),
       thrush (Turdus), wagtail (Motacilla alba), lark (Alauda arven-
       sis), linnet (Fringilla), swallow (Hirundo), cuckoo (Cuculus cano-
       rus), landrail (Rallus crex), wild pigeon (Columba aenas), moor-
       fowl (T. Scoticus), plover (Charadrius).-Of water-fowls are gulls
       (Larus ridibundus), wild goose (Anas anser), duck (A. boschas),
       solan goose (Pelecanus Bassanus), puffin (Alea arctica), auk (A.
       torda), crane (Grus).
         Fishes, &c. - Haddock (Gadus AEglefinus), cod (G. morhua),                                                   .finus), cod (G. morhua),
       ling (G. Molva), skate (Raiw), dog-fish (Squalus Acanthias,) eel
       (Murana anguilla), whiting (G. merlangus), mackerel (Scomber),
       turbot (Pleuronectes hippoglossus), flounder (P. flesus), coalfish
       (G. carbonarius), trout (Salmo fario).-Shell fish; cockle (Car-
       dium), razor or spout-fish (Solen), lobster (Cancer gammarus), crab
       (C. pagurus), and buckies of various species.
         Repliks &c.-The frog (Rana), toad. (Bufo), are sometimes to
       be seen, though rarely, particularly the latter.  Gnats or midges are
         ORKMEY.                                    B


