
     Statistical Account

are L. 1, 5 s. with bounties of an ell of linen, apron and shirt,
besides, she also stipulates for a week to herself, during
which she goes to her parents house and works for herself,
and is allowed a peck of meal for maintenance during that
week.  Her wages for the winter half year are L. 1, with
same bounties, week and meal.  A tailor's wages formerly
were 2 d. and meat; they are now 6 d. and meat.  A wea-
ver formerly charged at the rate of 1 d. per ell, for wea-
ving cloth of a certain species; he now charges 3 d. per ell
for similar cloth.  A pair of coarse shoes formerly cost 1 s.;
such kind of shoes now sell at 3 s.
   In this place, the common labourers, when married,
have a small settlement from a farmer, of about one and
an half, or two acres, sufficient to maintain two cows and
24 sheep; the farmer does all necessary work for the land,
in way of tilling, harrowing, leading home the corns, and
bringing a certain quantity of fuel from the hills.  The
subrenant is always bound to serve the farmer in harvest,
and in the winter half year.  The encouragement given him,
upon the whole, is such as many enable him to bring up a 
family without assistance from the poors funds.  Though he
have a rising family of six children, the eldest under twelve,
it would be thought strange here, while he, his wife and
children were well, if he should desire any supply.  When
the scheme of the situation of the labouring poor in Eng-
land is considered, there occurs only one case in which a 
supply would be judged necessary here.  The case is where
the woman is deserted by her husband, and left with six
children, four of them being too young to earn any thing:
It is to be observed that children in this place become use-
ful at eight or nine years of age:  During summer they are
employed as herds by subtenants.  Thus their parents are
freed from the charge of their maintenance; besides they
get a small fee of about 5 s.  It is to be observed also, that a


