
                             ST MADOES.                       615

the rock, both at Cot-town and Clashbennie, had belonged. Then
an uncommonly beautiful and complete one was found, covered
with scales similar to those prevailing in the rock, few of them being
disturbed from their original regularity. To the general descrip-
tion which has already been given of this fossil fish in the Statis-
tical Account of the parish of Errol (pp. 374-376), there may
be added some particulars of importance. As there stated, its
length is 27 1/2 inches, and breadth 13 inches across the shoulders.
It is proper further to mention that the length of its head, which
has no scales like those on the body, but a uniform shagreen-
looking covering, is four inches, and its breadth seven inches. From
the circumstance of the adherence of its back to a mass of sand-
stone, it is difficult to determine accurately its depth, but it may
be something more than four inches, so that it is decidedly a flat
fish. Taking into account the rize of the scales__which is pretty
uniform (about two inches diameter), excepting that of those to-
wards the caudal extremities, which all at once dwindle into three-
fourths of an inch in diameter,__and the tabular extent of sandstone
which this fossil covers, it is perhaps one of the finest ichthyolites
that has yet been brought to view. Being anxious to make it sub-
servient to the interests of science, the author of this Account, to
whom it belongs, has subjected it to the inspection of the most
eminent of our geologists, and it has already proved useful. M.
Af`ssiz, to whom a drawing of it was sent by R. Murchison, Esq.
had previously supposed the prevalent Cot-town and Clashbennie
scales to belong to a species of fish which he named Gyrolepes
giganteus. Having described that species, however, from a defec-
tive specimen, he. had committed a generic mistake, which, from
the completeness of my specimen, he has now been enabled to
rectify, and instead of being, as his remarks in his great work (v.
liv.p. 172) erroneously indicated__a Gyrolepes giganteus, it proves
to be a new species of the genus Holoptychus, which he has named
     Holoptychus nobilissimus.  Other species of the, same genus have
bee found in the limestone of Burdie-House (Edinburgh), and in
the Gamrie deposit (Banffshire); but "this individual," Agassiz
writes, "will enable me at length tn define precisely the charac-
ters of the genus which, I named Holoptychus from the folds of the
scales." The, Holoptychus nobilissimus, Agass. is figured and mi-
nutely described in "The Silurian System of Rocks," a large
work just published by, R. J. Murchison, Esq. F.R.S., V.P.G.S.
&c. in which all the ancient formations between the coal measures






