
     Statistical Account

   Rent, Heritors, etc.-The valued rent of the parish is
16131.  Scots, the real rent about 16501.  Sterling.  The whole
parish, except one farm belonging to Mr. Menzies of Cul-
dares, is the property of two heritors, the Earl of Breadal-
bane, and Sir John Menzies of Menzies, Baronet.  Sir John
Menzies is patron, and has his principal residence at Castle
Menzies in this parish, where he resides for a part of the
year.  It is handsome edisice built in the form of a castle,
with turrets, etc.  It was built in the year 1571.  The grounds
around it were greatly adorned by the late Sir Robert Men-
zies, with gardens, plantations, and beautiful walks.  It is
situated under a most beautiful bank, which is covered with
trees of various kinds, and is of considerable lenght and
height, having an extensive plain in front towards the south,
which is divided into a number of enclosures.  Here are
likewise 2 orchards, which yield a great quantity of apples,
pears, cherries, and the finest of geans both black and red.
The Earl of Breadalbane's kitchen garden is also in this pa-
rish, and yields a good quantity of fruit of different kinds
of the walls and espaliers, and a great variety of vegetables
for the table in high perfection.

   Church, Manse, Stipend, School, Poor.-The church was
built, according to an inscription above the door, in the year
1609, and repaired in 1752.  When it was first built, and

<FOOTNOTE>

is 6 1/2 nearly.  For, though in the grazing parts of the country there are un-
doubtedly fewer persons, yet the increase in the lower parts, it is persumed, at
least compensates for the decrease.  There are no diffenters from the Establish-
ed Church of any denomination.  Servant's wages are increased rapidly for
some years past.  In the year 1778, a man servant got 3 L. and maintenance, 
who now gets 6 L. or 7 L; a maid servant's wages have risen during the fame
period from 1 L. 10 s. to 3 L in the year, and all labourers and tradesmen's wages
in proportion.


