
176			STIRLINGSHIRE.

is the adjacent parish on the east, Logie on the west, Blackford
on the north; and the river Devon, forming the southern boundary
of Alva, divides it from the parishes of Alloa and Clackmannan.
The lands of Alva extend over a very considerable portion of that
fine range of hills distinguished by the name of Ochils; and the
remaining grounds stretch over part of the valley lying at their
base, and watered by the river Devon. From east to west, the
parish measures somewhat beyond two miles and a-half, and from
north to south betwixt four and five miles.
   The Alva hills are, beyond comparison, the grandest of the whole
Ochil range. They are not so rugged and inaccessible as those
immediately to the west in the parish of Logie, but they present
a bolder and more majestic outline, while, in luxuriance and
beauty, they excel all around them. Bencloch or Bencleugh, the
highest of the Ochils, is situated at the north-east extremity of
the parish, and extends partly into Tillicoultry, reaching the
height of 2420 feet above the level of the Devon. The view from
the summit of Bencloch is most extensive and beautiful, com-
prehending the whole picturesque range of the Grampians, part
of thirteen counties, and several towns.
   The Devon, a river of small size, but of surpassing beauty, has
its source among these hills, in the parish of Blackford, Perth-
shire. This river, according to the industrious Chalmers, was
formerly called Dovan, and is so written in a charter granted by
Robert III. to the burgh of Inverkeithing. The Devon flows, at
first, almost due east from its source towards Glendevon, lying in
the centre of the Ochils. At the village called Crook of De-
von, and near the church of Fossaway, it makes a sudden turn
westward, and, passing through the parishes of Muckhart, Dollar,
and Tillicoultry, gently glides along the southern boundary of Alva
parish. The romantic waterfalls and exquisite scenery of this
little river, have long been attractions to the lovers of nature.
The most interesting part is its wonderful passage through arch-
ing rocks, where the hoarse music of waters has acquired for this
lusus nature, the epithet of Rumbling Bridge; or where, a little
further on, amid a series of cascades, we find the water producing
the curious excavation of that never empty boiler, the Cauldron
Linn. Nor can the passing travaller fail to admire also the wan-
derings of this stream, after it descends into the valley east of Dol-
lar, whence, gliding. in a serpentine course, and in a deep bed with
little fall, it proceeds towards the Forth. It is singular that the


