
     of Holywood.

   The farms are in general from L. 40 to L. 150 a year; but
there are some few from L. 40, down to as small as L. 8.
About the year 1771 a spirit of improvement appeared in
the parish, when the farms became larger than they had for-
merly been; but for some years past they have continued
nearly of the same size.  The best arable land is let from
L. 1: 1: 0 to L. 1: 10: 10; and the inferior, from 20 s. to 7 s.
an acre.  The hill pasture is not let by the acre, but by the
lump.  The whole rent of the parish amounts to something
more than L. 3000 Sterling per annum, including houses,
and the small fisheries in the Nith and Cluden.  The heri-
tors are thirty-one in number, of whom ten of the small
ones and three of the largest reside in the parish.  There is
no map of the parish, the number of acres in it have not
consequently been precisely ascertained; they are estimated
at about 7500.  Of these about 60 are employed for raising
wheat, 250 for barley, 20 for pease and beans, 10 for rye,
1310 for oats, 100 for potatoes, 30 for turnip and cabbage,
20 for flax and hemp, 500 for sown grass, the rest is pastu-
rage, except about 150 acres for roads and plantations.  None
of the ground is common; and every proprietor knows the
exact marches of his estate; but a considerable quantity of the
hilly part must always lie in a state of pasturage, not being
arable on account of the steepness of the hills. Several
hundreds acres, however, of the lower parts of these un-
broken grounds, are capable of cultivation, and, if proper-
ly improved, would pay well for the labour bestowed on
them.  The greatest part of the parish is thirled* to the

<FOOTNOTE>

*When the laird, i.e. lord of the manor, builds a mill, he
obliges his tenants to have all their corn ground at that mill
only.  The farms are then said to be thirled, or under thirlage
to the mill.  But sometimes, as is the cafe here, the tenants of
one estate are thirled to the mill of another, which, when the
dues are high, is a great bar to improvement.


