
98                   DUMBARTONSHIRE.

manufactures. There are 3 grocers, 7 public-houses, 5 of which
are worse than useless, and ought to be abolished ; but two are ne-
cessary,-the inns at Tarbet and Arrochar. There are 3 tailors,
6 shoemakers, 3 smitbs, one master wright with 2 men. 23 in-
Aividuals are employed in the herring-fisbing.
  Agriculture.-Theparisb consists of 31,011 English or 24,809
Scotch acres. There may be from 300 to 400 acres under
constant or occasional cultivation. It does not appear that more
ground could be cultivated with advantage. The number of acres
under natural wood must be very considerable; but the amount has
not been ascertained. The oak woods are regularly thinned, and
are in good order.
   Rent.-The average rent of arable ground may be stated at
L.1, 10s. per acre. The average rent of grazing is L. 2 for an ox
orcow; ewe or full-grown sheep, 2s. 6d. to 3s.
  Waqes,.&.-Farm-servant's wages may be stated at L. 20 per
annum. Labourer's wages vary from 9s. to 12s. per week; wrights
and masons, 15s. and. 16s. per week. The sheep are of the black-
faced breed. Cattle are either reared upon the ground, or brought
when young from Argylesbire.
  John MIMurrich of Stuckaoun has reclaimed about 50 acres.
The general duration of leases is nine years. Farm-buildings and
enclosures are capable of considerable improvement.- There are
no mines ; but there are two small wbinstone quarries, formed from
the whinstone dike that stretches from Loch Lomond to Loch
Long.
  Fisheries.-Herring fishing employs 23 bands, and is some-
times pursued with great success. Herrings are usually in Loch
.Long towards the beginning of June,' and are in great perfee-
Ition from the end of that month till the middle or end of July.
When the fishing fails on Loch Long, the fishermen go to Loch-
fine, and follow the occupation till the end of the season, in the
neighbourhood of Tarbert, and from Tarbert they go onwards to
the vicinity of Campb elton. Each boat upon an average will clear
from L.,30 to L. 60. There are usually three hands in an ordi-
nary sized wherry.
   Produce.-The annual thinning and felling of woods may yield
aboutL.300;offisberieEiL.320. T-heamountofsownproducethe
writer has been unable to ascertain. Small quantities of kelp were
manufactured some years ago; but, from not affording a remunerat-
Ing price, the manufacture has been abandoned.


