
     Statistical Account

   On an elevated situation very near to Kelvin, and not
many hundred yards from the Clyde, stand the ruins of
an edifice erected in 1611, and known by the name of
the Bishop's Castle.  It was the country residence of the
*Bishop of Glasgow.  In the bleachfield near to the vil-
lage of Govan, which was already taken notice of, there
is an artificial mound of a conical shape.  Its perpendi-
cular height is 17 feet.  At the base, it is 150 feet in
diameter, and at the top 102.  It is commonly called,
The Hillock, and was probably one of the + law hills
upon which courts of justice used to be held in ancient
times, which are to be met with in some other parts of
Scotland.  What chiefly favours this conjecture is, that
the oldest people in the neighbourhood remember its be-
ing known by the name of Doomsterhill.  It may be
here mentioned, as a circumstance a little uncommon,
that on the northern boundary of the parish, the coun-
ties of Dumbarton, Lanark, and Renfrew, the parishes
of new Kilpatrick, Govan, and Renfrew, and the pro-
perty of 3 heritors in these several parishes, all meet in
one point.

<FOOTNOTE>

*It was added to the notes, inserted in p. 290, by the gentleman there
mentioned, "I now forget my authority, but  remember to have read some-
"where, that the lands of Patrick, which lie in the parish of Govan, were
"gifted by David I. to the Bishop of Glasgow, who built a manhoo-house
"there, in which he resided during summer; and that about tenants.  The
"residence of the bishop and his court in this place, no doubt, gave rise to
"the adjoining village of Patrick, as tradesman would naturally seetle near
"the bishop's residence, for the accommodation of his household, and of those
"who frequented that establishment".  From the lands being called in the
deed of conveyance, as the same gentleman thinks, illaus particulum larve, it
is easy to account for the mane Patrick.
+Sec Pinkerton's Inquiry into the History of Scotland, p. 434, 4t3, 4i4.


