
32                         PERTHSHIRE.

in the Carthusian Monastery, which he himself had, in 1429, found
ed.
   In 1539, there was interred in the Carthusian monastery, beside
the tomb of James I., and his consort Jane, the body of Marga-
ret, Queen of James IV. who was killed at the battle of Flodden,
1513.  After the death of the King, her Majesty married Archi-
bald second Earl of Angus.  He proved tnfaithful; she therefore di-
vorced him ; and afterwards married a son ot Lord Evandale, whom
thereafter her son James V. created Lord Methven.  Her Majes-
ty died at Methven Castle.  The King, with a numerous retinue of
his nobles, accompanied the funeral procession to Perth.
   In 1559, the Earl of Argyle and James Stewart, Prior of St
Andrews, having learned that the Queen Regent was taking mea-
sures for gaining possession of Stirling, resolved to prosecute the
cause of the Reformation, or perish in the attempt.  They accord-
ingly set out from Perth for Stirling, attended by three hundred
citizens; and, that their determination might appear and influence
others, they, instead of ribbons, put ropes about their necks, inti-
mating thereby that whoever of their number should desert their
colours should be hanged by the ropes.  Hence arose the proverb
of "St Johnstoun's ribbons." The people joined them every where
as they proceeded.  Wherever they met with monuments of super-
stition, they destroyed them.  The gates of Stirling, and of everx
other town in their way, were thrown open to receive them.  They,
without violence, took possession of Edinburgh, cast the images out
of its churches, and placed in them ministers of the Reformation.
   There was a painting of the commencement of the march of
these heroes of the Reformatinn, from the south port of the city,
in the town-clerk's office, now the chamberlain's office, said to have
been well executed.  But it was want only defaced in the year
1795, by the town-guard, who, in consequence of some riot in the
town and neighbourhood, had obtained a temporary lodgement in
the court-room adjoining the office. No vestige of the painting re-
mains.
   Act of cautionary by Adam Ramsay, burgess of Perth, in behalf
of John Smeaton, at the hand of the Provost, bailies, council, and
deacons of crafts, of certain ornaments belonging to our Lady's
situated within the parish church of Perth,-- entered on
the record A. D. 1544. List of ornaments above referred to, viz.
"In primis, ane chesable of blak welwet wt ye prost of blue welwet


