
                                PARISH OF MIDDLEBIE.

                      PRESBYTERY OF ANNAN, SYNOD OF DUMFRIES.

                        THE REV.  RICHARD NIVISON, MINISTER.

                                   ----------

		I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	Name.--THE, name of this parish appears to be derived from
the Saxon word bee, which signifies a station, and is supposed to
have reference to one of the finest remains of a Roman camp
in the vicinity of the church ;--the word middle being prefixed in
order to distinguish it from two other Roman stations, each about
ten miles distant, in opposite direction,--Netherbie in Cumber-
land, and Upperbie in Eskdalemuir.
	Extent and Boundaries.--Consisting of three united parishes,
Middlebie, Pennersaugbs, and Carruthers, this parish is 9 miles long,
and 4 1/2 broad, and contains about 40 square miles. It is bounded
by the parishes of Hoddam, Annan, Kirkpatrick-Fleming, Half-
Morton, Canobic, Langbolm, and Tundergarth; and occasion-
ally intersecting and intersected by some of these, it exhibits an
extremely irregular figure.
	Topographical Appearances, &c.--While it is generally arable,
possessing a surface variegated with hill and dale, it is chiefly wild
and mountainous towards the east and north-east, and may, in-
deed, be considered as forming an intermediate link betwixt the
agricultural district of Annandale and the pastoral district of Esk-
dale. The westerlv winds chiefly prevail in this parish, and are
often accompanied by long and severe rains; hence the atmo-
sphere is generally moist, and not unfrequently produces fevers,
consumptions, and lasting rheumatic affections.
	Though we have amongst us nothing that can be dignified by
the name of rivers or lakes, we have numerous springs of the
purest water, unmixed with any mineral ingredient, and several rivu-
lets or burns, which arise from our hills and discharge themselves
into the Frith of Solway or the river Annan.
	Mineralogy--The rocks which are most common in the parish
are sandstone and limestone. So much, indeed, does this last
abound, that it may be called one of our staple commodities, and


