
  230                           ELGINSHIRE.

   from the purity of the air, and the verdure of the surrounding
   mountains, is regarded as highly conducive to health and longevi-
   ty. The harvests are early, and the crops very seldom affected
   by frost. For, though the more cultivated and productive parts
   of the parish lie at the distance of ten or fourteen miles from the
   sea-shore, yet, in consequence of being well sheltered on the one
   side by the high hills of the parish, and on the other, by the moun-
   tain of Beneagen, the crops are seldom more than ten days later
   in arriving at maturity than those nearer the coast.
                           II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
      Parochial Registers.-The parochial registers are of two kinds,
   marriage, and baptismal ; the former commences in the year 1791,
   the latter in 1717. The baptismal register has been kept regular-
   ly throughout; the other has a break from 1815 to 1832.
      Land-owners.-The parish is divided among six proprietors
   I the Earl of Seafield ; Richard Wharton Duff, Esq. of Orton
   the Duke of Richmond; William Grant M'Dowall, Esq. of Arn-
   dilly; William Robertson, Esq, of Auchinroath; and Mrs Cum-
   ming of Logie and Piteraigie. The last two hold their respective
   properties off the Earl of Seafield, as superior, afid pay to his Lord-
   ship a small annual feti-rent. The Earl of Seafield is the largest
   proprietor, and the valued rent of his estates amounts to 1,3621,
   14s. 10d. Scots. To him belongs the village of Rothes, situated
   on the baugh of that name, in a very pleasing and picturesque spot,
   surrounded on all hands by lofty hills, distant ten miles from El-
   gin, the same from Fochabers, and about twelve from Keith. It
   was commenced in the year 1766, on leases of two nineteen years,
   and the liferent thereafter of the possessor; after wbich, it is in the
   option of the proprietor to take the tenements to himself at valuation.
   Each tenement occupies t lie eighth part of an acre, at anannual rent
   of  1Os.At the same time, the tenants of each tenement have the
   privilegeof renting an acre or two of land along with each tene-
   ment, butwithout any formal lease ; and by this means, as the
   land is generally good, together with the emoluments of some in-
   dustrial employment, to which they have, in most cases, been early
   trained, they procure for themselves a decent and respectable live-
   lihood. Of late years, however a number of poor labourers and
   others have been induced to take up their residence in the village,
   and having no fixed employment, they are, in general, in indifferent
   circumstances., and in the winter season are subjected to great pri.
   vations.


