
     of Kilmaurs.

shell, or stained horn, girt with silver virlets*.  A branch
of business has of late sprung up in this place, tambouring,
which affords employment to the females, and which has
rendered the expense of rearing a family not only less, but
has made it an advantage for a man to have his family
consist mostly of that sex.  Girls at the age of 8 or 9 years,
it is said, can earn 8 d. a-day, and those of 14 or 15
1 s. 6 d.  It is pleasant to see the effects of this industry in
the dress and manners of these people.  Long may such
sources of comfort continue; for though the human mind
is apt to be intoxicated by prosperity, and the conduct to
be thereby tinctured with levity, yet, in circumstances of
this kind, the heart is more easily trained to virtue, and
the good less liable to hypocrisy.  Some have complained
in the Statistical Account of their parishes, that these
works of art, which bring so many people of different sex,
age and tempers together are unfriendly to the interest of
morality.  But an attentive observer must be convinced,
that the vices which are most hurtful to society, do not
prevail so much where an open and unrestrained intercourse
takes place, as where secrecy and the tempora mollia fandi
are frequently enjoyed.  Besides, that virtue which pro-
ceeds from the absence of temptation, is merely negative;
and though it may prevent punishment, yet is not surely
the object of reward.  That propensity to imitation which

<FOOTNOTE>

*The keen edge which they put on instruments requiring it, gave rise
to a mode of speech which is yet in use through the country.  A man of
acute understanding, and quickness in action, is said to be as sharp as a
Kilmaurs whittle.  An old Presbyterian clergyman, in addressing him-
self to his audience, upon rising to speak after a young divine, who had
delivered a discourse in flowery language, and English pronounciation;
said, " My friends, We have had great deal of fine English ware among
us the day, but aiblins, my Kilmaurs whittle will cut as sharply as ony
English blade;" meaning that the language of his own country would be
better understood, and do more good.


