

  344                        PERTHSHIRE.

  a load.  Wood is consumed in considerable quantities,-principally
  the useless branches of the firs used for country purposes.

                  MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
    From the last Statistical Account of this parish, we are warrant-
  ed to infer, that much has been done to advance the style of agri-
  culture pursued, to reclaim lands, and improve them by draining,
  embanking, &c.  The lands close upon the north side of the Earn
  are now never, I believe, flooded by the river, though often kept
  for a considerable period under water by the rain and melting
  snow from the higher grounds.  There is now a considerable
  quantity of bone dust and lime used.  More of both would be em-
  ployed, were not the distance from Perth (thirteen miles) so great.
  Should any railway ever come near us, it will be a great en-
  couragement to attempt reclaiming many parts of the moor lands
  which now lie hopelessly waste.  Every great farm has a thrash-
  ing-mill attached to it, and there are grinding mills, driven by
  water, at an easy distance from every part of the parish.
    The principal road through the parish is very good, and now
  100 stones of coal are not considered an unreasonable load, even
  for so long and continuous a journey.  It would add greatly to the
  beauty of the parish, were more hard-wood trees planted along
  the hedge-rows, and the fences of every description kept in better
  repair.

    September 1837.


               PARISH OF BALQUHIDDEIR.

  PRESBYTERY OF DUNBLANE, SYNOD OF PERTH AND STIRLING.*


          I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
     Name.-THE name is compounded of the words, baile-chul-tir,
  signifying the town or territory at the back of the country.
     Extent, &c.-The parish is about 18 miles in length, and between
  6 and 7 miles in breadth, and comprises many straths, glens, and
  valleys and a vast number of hills and lofty rocks.  It seems pro-
  per to mention some of these.-Strathyre, signifying in Gaelic
  the warm Strath; Glenbuckie, signifying the glen where roebucks

  <FOOTNOTE>Drawn up by the late incumbent, the Rev.  Mr M'Gregor.
                                             4


