
                        PARISH OF ORPHIR.

             PRESBYTERY OF CAIRSTON, SYNOD OF ORKNEY.

               THE REV.  JAMES ANDERSON, MINISTER.

        I.- TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
     Name.- THE name Orphir, formerly written Orfer, is said to
be of Norwegian origin, and to signify fire land, or mossy soil.
     Situation.- The parish lies west of Kirkwall on the mainland;
and the church and manse are about nine miles distant from
Kirkwall.
     Boundaries, &c.- It is bounded on the west and north, by the
parishes of Stenness and Firth, from which it is divided by a range
of high hills; on the east and south, by the parish of Kirkwall, the
bay of Scalpa, and the sea that intervenes between it and the pa.
rish of South Ronaldsay, from which it is distant about twelve miles.
The average length, by accurate measurement, is 6 miles, 6 fur-
longs, and 200 yards; average breadth, 2 miles, 5 furlongs, and
13 vards; and it contains about 18 square miles. The length along.
the coast, from Claistran to Scalpa is 13 miles, 7 furlongs, and
13 yards; the length, on the land boundary, is 10 miles, 2 fur-
longs, and 40 yards. The circumference of the wbole is 24 miles,
1 furlong, and 53 yards.
     Topographical Appearances.- From Houton head, the south-
west point, there is a succession of hills and valleys north-east,
not only through the whole length of the parish, but to the oppo-
site shore of the mainland, where the parishes of Kirkwalli and
Firth meet.
     Mountain Ranges.- Houton head is about 300 feet above the
level of the sea. The next hills in succession rise gradually; and
the Wart hill, which is the. highest of the whole, is about, 700 feet.
From the top of this, when the sky is clear, there is a very exten-
sive, varied, and delightful view, not onl over the greater part of
the county, but also along the west coast of Caithness, from Dungs-
bay head to Cape Wrath, and over several of the loftiest hill in
the interior of Caithness and Sutherland. The scene is also


