
			STEVENSTON.                      451

proach Stevenston from Kilwinning. In the foreground you have
the church and part of the village. The noble back-ground is
formed by the wooded heights above Sea Bank, surmounted by the
magnificent peaks of Arran in the distance. The view from the
south, though of quite a different character, is scarcely inferior to
this. From the shore, all the principal residences in the parish are
seen on the gentle acclivity before you. Ardeer, with its green
wood and terraced gardens, is conspicuous on the right. More in-
land, you have Hullerhirst on a very commanding site, and Hay-
ocks still prominent over a thriving young plantation. Worthy of
the centre of the scene, you behold the mansion house of Grange,
and the ivy-mantled turrets of ancient Kerilaw, embowered in
woods, stretching onward to the distant glen. In the foreground,
you have the stately church and modest manse above the subjacent
village, on a situation not surpassed by any on the coast. Lovely
Mayville salutes you on the left, breathing odours from a thousand
shrubs and flowers. Sheltered, and sweet, and cheerful, Sea Bank
presents itself on the west, with its green fields, and woody brass,
and Martello tower, and mounted battery. And the tower and spire
of Saltcoats form a good termination on the left; for though it has,
few surrounding trees to give softness to chimney tops and archi-
tectural angles, it compensates at times by its forest of masts, a
most interesting feature in sea-coast scenery.
   And still more delightful are the views from the parish. Arran,
to the south-west, beyond all doubt, forms the most striking featuro,
in the landscape. Westward, the view embraces Ardrossan Castle
and harbour and town, as well as the Isles of Bute and Cumbraes,
and is terminated by part of Cantyre, and by the two pinnacles of
Jura, and a hill in the north of Islay. To the south and south-
west, you have the Craig of Ailsa, as it were, floating on the wave,
and in favourable states of the atmosphere you have at times a dis-
tant view of Ireland. More to the left, you see Irvine and Troon,
and Ayr, and the coast of Carrick, till it meets with Wigtonshire,
near Lochryan. More to the east you have the tower of Kilwin-
ning, the castle and extensive wood of Eglinton, the distant Gal-
loway hills near Carsphairn, and the Carrick hills above Straiton.
And towards the north-east you see a rich tract of Cuninghame
about Kilmaurs and Kilmarnock; while more remote you see Lou-
don Hill rising from the plain, as if to vie with Ailsa Craig on the
other side, emerging from the deep.


