
430                           ROXBURGHSHIRE.

the eminent and loyal services of Sir David Fleeming of Biggar,
conferred upon him, in 1405, the lands of Cavers with the sheriff-
wick of Roxburghshire.  He was not long permitted, however,
either to enjoy these lands or fill this office.  As Sir Alexander
Ramsay of Dalwolsy, a former sheriff of this shire, and a man equal-
ly eminent for his bravery and justice, had been seized upon by
Sir William Douglas, the Knight of Liddesdale, when in the act of
discharging the duties of his office, carried to his Castle of Her-
mitage, and there immured in the dungeon till he died of want, so
Sir David Fleeming was assassinated at Longherdmanston, when
returning from conducting James, heir to the crown, on board the
ship which was to carry him to France, by James Douglas, second
son of Archibald Earl of Douglas, who fell at the battle of Ver-
nueil.  After this the lands of Cavers, together with the heredi-
tary sheriffship of Roxburghshire, were possessed by the family of
Douglas till the abolition of the heritable jurisdictions.  From an
unprinted act, of date 11th June 1646, it appears that a parliamen-
tary ratification of the Kirklands of Cavers passed in favour of
(Douglas,) the sheriff of Teviotdale.  The town of Cavers was
taken and laid waste by the English in 1596, and whether it ever
was rebuilt and replenished does not plainly appear.  The old
haronial castle, which was of very considerable strength and im-
portance, was situated not far distant from the place where the old
church of Cavers is still standing.  William the first Earl of
Douglas granted the advowson of the church of Caevers to the
Monks of Melrose, in whose abbey he was interred in 1384.  After
the Reformation, the patronage of Cavers Church was granted
to Douglas of Cavers, with whose lineal descendant it still re-
mains.
     Tradition affirms that the kirk of Cavers originally stood at
Old-North House, a little village which has now nearly disap-
peared, in the upper division of the parish, and about ten miles dis-
tant from the present site of Cavers Church.  The report goes
further, and asserts that the kirk was a thatched one, but no re-
cords, if such ever existed, have been discovered to throw light
on the transference, or to confute or confirm that report.  Cer-
tain it is, that there is here an old burial-place, though so much
decayed as scarcely to be recognizable; and the writer of this has
conversed with two old and respectable individuals of the district,
who could remember two persons being interred in the kirk-yard
of Old North House.  Their graves are still discernible by the
                            3



