
                      PARISH OF PORTMOAK.
  
             PRESBYTERY OF KIRKALDY, SYNOD OF FIFE.
     
            THE REV. HUGH LAIRD, D. D. MINISTER.

     I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-THE name of this parish has been usually derived from
a St Moak, to whom a priory erected at the side oi Lochleven is
said to have been dedicated,-the prefix Port referring to the
landing place from the priory on the island of Servanus, part of the
ruins of which still remain.  This derivation, however, is liable to
objection.  When the Presbytery met in 1659 to condemn the old
church which stood on the site of the priory at the side of the lake,
the name of the parish in the record of that court is Servanus.  If
that was its usual name, then it is not easy to see how recourse
would be bad for another to the Roman calendar, so long after
Popery was abolished. In the oldest manuscripts which the writer
has seen, it is called Portmag, Portmog, or Portimoag, and old
people and many strangers spell it so to this day.
   Extent, &c.-From the south-west to the north-east, and from the
north-west to the south-east, are about 9 miles, and from south to
north and from east to west, about 5 1/2.  The figure of the parish is
very irregular. One corner runs about a mile to the south-east into
the parish of Auchterderran, and one farm of about 140 acres is se-
parated from the rest of the parish, and embosomed in that of King-
lassie,-which arose from the annexation of the intermediate lands
to the parish of Kinglassie, by presbyterial commissioners in 1650.
It runs more than half round the lake, and rises gradually from
it on one side to the Bishop's hill, distant rather more than a mile
and on the other to Benartie, at scarcely half the distance. The
highest top of the former is about 1030 feet above the level of
the sea, and the latter seems nearly as high.  Both rise gradual-
ly from the east very like a wave in a narrow channel, till they
reach almost to the west end of the parish, where they terminate pre-
cipitously.  About the middle of the parish, both hills begin to
flatten to the eastward, and the arable land to extend in width.


