
                                 DINGWALL.                           231

          rish, is "the Dingwall Ladies' Association for Missionary and Re-
          ligious purposes," which meets annually with the view of collect-
          ing funds in aid of the objects of the association. But the north-
          ern Missionary Society holds one of its annual meetings at Ding-
          wall. The average amount collected by these annually is about
          L.65; the receipts of the latter generally amounting to about
          L.50.
             The yearly average amount of church collections for religious
          and charitable purposes is about L.60.
             Education.-There are five schools in the parish, One of these
          is the parochial school,-none of the others is endowed, One,
          an infant school, was erected in 1832, by private subscription, and
          is still supported by the same means. The other three, of which
          one is a female seminary, are private,-the school fees being the
          sole emolument of the teacher. At these the ordinary branches
          of education are taught, viz. reading, writing, arithmetic, English
          grammar, and geography; in addition to which, at the parochial
          school, mathematics, the Latin and Greek classics, French, &c.
          are taught.
             In addition to those mentioned, there is a Sabbath school in
          the parish, at which from 200 to 300 children generally attend.
          It meets in church, and is taught on Gall's system, by a number
          of benevolent individuals of both sexes, under the superintend-
          ence of the minister.
             The salary of the parochial teacher is the maximum, amounting
          to L.34, 4s. 41/2d. The average annual amount of school fees is
          about L.40. The teacher is provided with a house and garden,
          -that occupied by him at present is rented for that purpose by
          the heritors,-the house appropriated to the schoolmaster having
          fallen into disrepair.
             The general expense of education is as follows; viz. for Eng-
          lish reading, 6s. per annum; do. and writing, 8s.; do. do. and
          arithmetic, 12s.; Latin or Greek L.1, 4s. &c.
             The people in general are sufficiently alive to the advantages
          of education, and, with few exceptions, avail themselves of the fa-
          cilities afforded them of giving to their families at least an elemen-
          tary education. The low rate of fees places this within the reach
          of all who exercise ordinary industry and prudence; and that the
          children of the poorest may not be excluded from its blessings the
          kirk-session maintain at school twenty of the most destitute chil-
          dren out of the funds at their disposal.


