
750                         AYRSHIRE.

land called Unthank . . . . that he recalls this error, and
will subject himself, as is fitting, to the correction due to his of-
fence. Datum apud Torbolton, 21 Feb. for the salvation of his
soul and that of Emma, his wife."
         A charter by Robert de Graham of Weilston, * granting to the
monks of Melrose the patronage to the church of Torbolton and to
the seven acres of the lands of Unthank, and to the three acres of
Carnegolayn, the nearest to the church,--add another charter + by
the same Robert de Graham, conveying to the monks of Melrose,
for the salvation of his soul, and that of Emma, his wife, the fol-
lowing lands situate in the territory and lordship of Torbolton, viz.
"Dernehunche, Quyltisfeld, (Coilsfield) and Auldtounbrune,"
--give us to understand why John de Graham was compelled to
make and to put on record such humiliating confessions; and show
that the affair of the white horse was a struggle betwixt the
monks of Melrose, and the friars of Fail, for the increase of their
patronage, and the extension of their lands--John de Graham
being the dupe of the one party, and Robert de Graham the prey
of the other.
	The monks of Melrose, by a promise to Robert of what they
could not give, "salvation for his soul and that of his wife," had
obtained from him not only the advowson to Torbolton church and
glebe, but also a grant of the estate of Coilsfield and other valua-
able lands.
	The superior of Fail, his flatteris, and by the gift of the horse,
bad prevailed with John de Graham to convey to the house of
Fail, what was no longer his to bestow.
	Neither John de Graham nor Robert de Graham appears to
have been able to write his own name. Each charter bears that the
person granting it had affixed his seal before witnesses.
	In the description of the lands of the burgh of Prestwick, drawn
up 1470, mentione + is made of a John Quhit of Fale, "that acht sum
tyme a certain piece of land in Prestwick, the annuel of which he
had given stat of to our Lady of Grace, and to Tho. of Best in
her name.
	In 1532, John Hamilton was appointed minister of Failford.
	In 1546 and 1560, the minister of Failford, Robert Cuning
ham, sat in Parliament among the clergy.
	In 1587, William Wallace was minister of Failford.

<FOOTNOTE>Liber de Melrose, Tom. ii. 452    Ibidem, No. 460.
            Records of Prestwick, page 9.
					   3


