
8                     CLACKMANNANSHIRE.

in the coounty of Perth, and, descending with impetuosity from
Abe Ochils, where its course is to the east, till it reaches the
Crook of Devon, in the parish of Fossaway; it there makes a very
acute turn towards the west, and proceeding placidly in that di-
rection through a highly picturesque and beautiful vale, often de-
nominated the Arcadia of Scotland, falls into the Forth at the
village of Cambus, about two miles west from the town of Alloa.
Exclusive of its windings, the course of this river is more than
twenty-six miles, though the distance in a direct line from its
source to its embouchure, (directly north from, and opposite to its
source), does not exceed six miles. Its whole course is famed for
its beauty and fertility; for it flows, "arva inter, nemorisque
umbras, et pascua laeta." The Black Devon, or South Devon,
which forms part of the boundary of this parish to the eastward, has
its source among the Saline hills in the county of Fife. It flows
westward, in a direction nearly parallel to the north Devon, and
falls into the Firth of Forth opposite Clackmannan. In dry sea-
sons it is a small stream, most of its waters being then collected
in dams or reservoirs, for the supply of mills and other machinery.
  Gartmorn Dam.-Nearly 140 years ago, tbe celebrated John,
Earl of Mar, who had a great mechanical turn, and attended much
to the improvement,of hydraulic machine (the steam-engine not
having been then brought forwarded caused a strong dam-head to
be thrown across the Black Devon, at Forest-Mill, in the parish
of Clackmannan, by which he raised the bed of this river, 16 feet
higher. From the top of this dam-head, he carried an aqueduct
westward, about four miles, which carried the water into Gartmorn,
dam, perhaps the largest artificial lake in Scotland, covering,
when full, above 160 imperial acres. It is about 160 feet above
the level of the Forth, and 92 feet above Alloa. In some places, it
is 36 or, 37 feet deep, being sufficient to carry seventy-four gun
ship. Prior to 1785, only a temporary dike existed. A dam-
head was then built of hewn stone, measuring upwards of 320
yards, at an expense of several thousand pounds. In the year
1872, this embankment threatened to give way, in which case, it
would have swept away, with torrent of its waters, allthe
lower part of the town lying in its course. It then underwent a
complet repair, by Mr John Craich, the present manager of the
colliery, at an ezpense of only L.300; whereas, in the opinion of
a celebrated engineer, the sum for necessary for performing the work
effectually would be L.3500. This lake is situated at the north-


