
86                      KINCARDINESHIRE.

manufacture, but retaining the marks of the strings with which
they had been bound round, probably when forming. *
	"In a retired glen, called Friars Glen, above Drumtochty, and
closs to Finella hill, there are the foundations of a small friary.
The lands were granted by charter to the Carmelites by James
Fraser of Friendraught, 1st May 1402, and this charter was con-
firmed by King Robert, 12th October 1403. A more secluded and
retired situation for a friary could not have been chosen. A small
green hill was on one side, and a similar one on the nther; the
Grampians to the north and Finella hill to the south. A beauti-
ful, clear stream of water ran past the friary, and there was room
in the glen for a garden, and pasture on the hills for a few sheep.
The feu-duty of this glen was made over by Earl Marischal to
the Marischal College of Aberdeen, and sold within the last thirty
years to the proprietor of Drumtochty.
	"On the hill above Newlands, there are the remains of what is
commonly called a Druidical Temple, and a similar one in a clump
of trees near Castleton, on the estate of William Forbes, Esq.
	"On the farm of Mondynes, in the east end of this parish, or
Monethynes, as that farm was originally called, there is a large
stone erected in a conspicuous part of a field, evidently intended
to commemorate some remarkable event. This stone, in the
younger days of the tenant of West Mondynes, was called the
'King's stone,' and a field, near the farm-house, is still known by
the name of `Duncan's shade' or `field.' Professor Stuart, already
alluded to, has, in the above-mentioned volume of Transactions,
shewn, by a number of circumstances therein stated, that that stone,
in all probability, commemorates the death of King Duncan Il.
who is said to have been murdered by the Earl or Thane of the
Mearns.
	"A few old coins of our James's, both copper and silver, have
been dug up in different places of the parish, but none of them of
any value."
	Modern Buildings.--There is no mansion-bouse on the estate
of Kincardine, the proprietor, Sir John Stuart Forbes, Bart.
residing at Fettercairn House, in the adjoining parish; but much
was done for the improvement of the estate by the late Sir John
Stuart, Baronet, and after him by the late Sir William Forbes of

<FOOTNOTE>Means have now been adopted by the noble Proprietor to preserve this Roman
camp from being farther encroached upon by the plough, not the least persevering
of innovators.
 					3


