
     Statistical Account

for the whole metals and minerals upon the lands of
Blebo.
   In the course of their trials, they found at Myretown,
a little below the place where the ore was discovered,
a vein in the solid rock, about 2 feet wide, containing
spar, and other vein stuff, mixed with large spots of
flowers of fine ore; and in another place, about half a
mile W. from the former, they discovered a nest of the
purest lead ore, containing large lumps, one of 24 stones,
and several of 10 or 12 stones, and the rest smaller; and
a little below the nest, a vein of about a foot wide, in
working of which, in a small level, they came to a rib
of pure metal of about 3 inches, which increased to 6
inches.  But as the levels to both lay through rocks so
excessively hard, as could only be wrought with gun-
powder, the expense of the work became so great, that
it was thought proper to dissolve the company.  About
2 tons of lead were manufactured, and exported to Hol-
land*.

   Curiosities.-The parish is intersected from S. to N.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Afterward, in the year 1748, a gentleman, from the county of
Mid-Lothian, Captain William Thynne, took a lease of the mines and
minerals in the lands of Blebo, and came with a few workmen, and
made a trial at Myretown, where the vein appears in the solid rock.
Both he and his workmen thought the appearance promising; but, in a
few weeks after the commencement of the work, Captain Thynne re-
ceived an offer of going to the West indies, to superintend some works
there, which he accepted; and since that time, no new trials have been
made.  A few years ago, however, all the discoveries above stated, were
communicated to a gentleman of great professional knowledge and ex-
perience in these matters; and he gave it as his opinion, that, very pro-
bably, something of importance may be stambled upon in the neigh-
bourhood; and that, therefore, it would be proper to open up and exa-
mine the old works, especially as the expends of such an examination
would not exceed the sum of 200 L. Sterling.


