
     Statistical Account

carry from 3 to 14 tons, of their lying so conveniently upon
the spot, and of having many hardy seamen amongst them,
they do not, in this district, pursue the fishing with spirit.
The reasons are obvious.  They are mostly farmers having a
small portion of land, in common with many, which requires
daily attendance.  Farming in common, and other branches
of business, can never thrive in the same hands.  Poor people
with have a sure, though perhaps a starving way of support-
ing their families, seldom risk their small fortunes, and of
their own accord begin a new branch of business.  The dan-
ger of not being successful frightens them.  When a consider-
able stock is necessary for fitting them out, the plan is relin-
quished as ideal.  Surely the expence in boats, hands, hooks,
harpoons, lines, etc. is considerable, and the storms often
break their lines and buoys.  If a man could spare, from his
daily employment, time to catch 200 or 300 cod and ling,
they turn out to little avail without a purchaser at hand.  The
good effects of the Crinan canal are only yet seen at a dis-
tance.  If the fisher cures with prohibited salt, they are seiz-
able on the way to market; he finds it too chargeable for his
small cargo, to visit the custom-house so often, and observe
all its regulations for salt, nor indeed does he understand
them, he prefers to give triple price for it elsewhere.  I have
seen country lads from neglect of forms like to be ruined,
and even gentlemen who knew business suffer much.  If these
regulations must be kept in force without exception, without
amendment, a bar to fishing, should not some wellwisher to
his country collect and explain them to low capacities?  Thus
in the small attempts, the great things that might arise from
them are in effect discouraged.
   Procuring aid to the natives, from some public fund, to
purchase lines, hooks, harpoons, etc. would raise a spirit of
emulation to make more attempts, especially as an easy com-


