
	316			INVERNESS-SHIRE.

	and appointed him ground-officer telling him, at the same time,
	that no widow upon his estate should ever again be deprived of
	any part of her property.
	   About thirty years ago, an old man of the name of John Mac-
	innes died in this parish, who was one of the crew which ferried
	Prince Charles Stuart from Strathaird to the mainland.  The
	Prince was at this time accompanied by the chief of Mackinnon,
	who remained along with him until he should see him safely embark-
	ed for France.  Such being Mackinnon's intention, he despatch-
	ed the boat and crew home.  Before, however, they landed on their
	native island, they were espied by Captain Fergusson, who was at
	the time in search of the luckless Pretender, and were taken on
	board his sloop of war to undergo an, examination as to their
	knowledge of the Royal wanderer's movements.  Macinnes be-
	ing the principal man in the boat, and refusing to give any
	intelligence on the subject, and spurning at the reward offered
	for betraying the person whom be conceived to be the king of
	his chief, was ordered to the yard-arm to receive 500 lashes.
	At every fifty, he was asked to give the necessary information,
	which he scornfully refused to give ; and at last, after having en-
	dured the fall amount of the punishment awarded to him, he was
	set at liberty, or rather thrown into his boat apparently more dead
	than alive.  The writer of this Account has a perfect recollection
	of seeing the marks of the " cat-o'-nine-tails" on Macinnes's back,
	and of bearing him relate tbe cruel treatment which he had
	received.  The poor man always became furious when Captain
	Fergusson's name was mentioned.
	   There is an immense block of granite on the glebe, weighing
	at least six tons, which is so nicely balanced on a level lime rock,
	that it moves by the slightest pressure of the finger.  It has been
	evidently placed there by the ingenuity of man, but in what man-
	ner, or by what mechanical power, is a subject for the antiquarian
	to discnver.
  	   Within the last three years, about 200 souls have emigrated to
	Australia from this parish.  It is earnestly hoped that the favour-
	able accounts of those who have settled there, will induce many of
	the people to avail themselves of the great boon which is now
	offered to them, viz. a free passage, with every necessary and de-
	sirable comfort during the voyage.  And so satisfied is the writer
	of this Account of the prosperity of that colony, that he has done
	all in his power to persuade his poor countrymen to emigrate to


