

       1106                  PERTHSHIRE.

       scending by a few steps from the stairs leading to two ormore
       apartments above the kitchen.   Of part of all these apartments the
       materials seem to have been used for the construction of the more
       modern of the edifices in the neighbouring island of Talia, and of
       a mausoleum it Inchmahome, which, consisting partly of a vault
       and an apartment above, and partly of an avenue, shut in by
       two walls, and at the west end by a gateway, and running
       obliquely from north-east to south-west, surmounts part of
       the foundations of the church and dormitory.   For the awk-
       ward position of this more recent structure no reason can be as-
       signed, but a total absence of design.   It seems to have been
       hurriedly got up to receive the remains of Lord Kilpont, who was
       killed by James Stewart of Ardvorlich in Montrose's camp at Col-
       lace in 1644, and whose corpse was by Montrose dispatched to the
       deceased's father, William, eighth Earl of Monteith of the
       Grabams, then a state prisoner in Talia.  The two walls and the
       gateway above-mentioned were built in consequence of the terta-
       ment of Kilpont's son, William, the last of the Earls.
         Towards the centre of the choir, and in a horizontal position, is
       a sepulchral monument, assignable to the end of the thirteenth
       century, being that of Walter Stewart, Earl of Monteith, and his
       Countess, in whose right he enjoyed the earldom.  The church,
       of which the building was commenced in or soon after the year
       1238, by Walter Cummin, Earl of Monteith, was probably fi-
       nished by his immediate successor, viz.  Walter Stewart, and re-
       ceived from either him or his Countess this appropriate decora-
       tion.
         I Near this beautiful sepulchral remain is another of inferior
       workmanship.  This, as intim`ted by the legend, is that of Sir
       John de Drummond, son-in-law of the connubial pair commemo-
       rated as above-mentioned, and father of Sir Malcolm de Drum-
       mond, to whose bounty Inchmahome, the burial-place of his father
       and mother, and its principal messuage, the estate of Cardross, in
       its close vicinity.
         The island on which this very ancient religious houre stood,
       was formerly divided into two nearly equal parts, one on the east,
       containing the priory with its gardens, and the other on the
       west, and occupied by the gardens of the Earls of Monteith.
       These, indeed, are still distinguishable by a piece of neutral ground
       or common road, from north to south, and having a rude stone
       wall on either side.  In the part occupied by the Earls of Mon-


