
     of Kincardine.

At any rate, as there is no great thoroughfare, that expence
must be paid principally by this and two adjoining parishes;
consequently, if the statute labour shall be found inadequate
to the support of the roads, it will be wise in these parishes to
assess themselves, in proportion to their respective interests, in
whatever sums may be required further for this purpose.
   The most obvious disadvantage under which this parish, and
particularly the carse part of it, labours, is the difficulty of com-
munication with the neighbouring country.
   This is owing, on the one side, to the mosses, and on the o-
ther to the want of fords in the rivers that abound in the parish,
and the paucity of bridges over them.  Another disadvantage
is, that there is no public worship, nor religious instruction in
the Gaelic language, within the reach of those Highlanders,
that, to the number of 90 families, have lately settled in the
moss of Kincardine, several of whom have not such a know-
ledge of the English as to be able to understand either prayers
or sermons in it.
   The Society for propagating Christian Knowledge was esta-
blished, principally, for communicating religious instruction to
the Scotch highlanders, and L. 1000 is given annually by his
Majesty for the same purpose, which is under the management 
of the General Assembly.  The people of this parish, however,
have hitherto received no benefit from either of these funds, as
an opinion prevails that, both by the rules of the Society, and
the terms of the donation, the advantages of them are restric-
ted to those persons speaking the Gaelic language, who conti-
nue to reside in the Highlands*.

     VOL. VI. 3 Q

<FOOTNOTE>

Henry Ilome, Esqr. of Kaimes, one of the senators of the college of justice,
and author of many eminent works in philosophy, critiscm, and agriculture,
was buried here in December 1782.

*An application to the society by seventy of the families who are settled
in the centre part of the parish, for a schoolmaster was refused upon this ground.


