
     of Dunfermline.

may be easily got for street-dung, must render the conduct
of magistrates inexcusable when they do not attend to this 
most necessary branch of police*.  As another very com-
mendable improvement, we may mention the removal of the 
butchers (formerly scattered through different parts of the 
town) into one public flesh-market, and the obliging them
to kill their cattle in a slaughter-house built for the purpose,
at some distance from the market, and entirely removed out 
of the town.  An officer has lately been appointed, whose 
constant employment is to oversee the police of the bo-
rough:  He superintends the cleaning of the streets, attends 
the fish and butter markets, and examines the weights, sei-
zing on what he finds deficient; thus an immediate and 
constant check is given to impositions on the public:  He 
likewise dismisses all vagrants found begging in the town.
Formerly the inhabitants were very much harassed with
stranger poor, but are now effectually delivered from that 
burden.  The officer of police has L. 25 a year; and from
his care and diligence he well deserves it.

   Advantages and Disadvantages of the Town.-The great
abundance of coals in the parish, the short carriage, and 
comparatively easy rate at wich they can be purchased, 
render Dunfermline highly favourable for carrying on ex-
tensive manufactures.  Coals may be had at half a mile's 
distance+.  Plenty of good water is not usually to be got

<FOOTNOTE>

*it was formerly the practice here for the magistrates to let the street-
dung, and the tacklman engaged to clean the streets:  As long as this prac-
tice continued, the streets were shamefully dirty, and not above L. 10 was
got for the dung.  The magistrates now employ street-makers, etc. and fell
the dung when collected, and gain from L. 40 to L. 50 a-year, exclusive of
all necessary expenses.

+The inhabitants have the priviledge of being served with coals at a hill
belonging to the town at a cheaper rate, than they are sold to the country


