
208                   BERWICKSHIRE.

Mention is made of Graden, situate in the N. E. part of the pa-
rish, probably contained about forty families. There was
also the village of Park end, hardly less considerable in size, about
half a century ago; and it is well known that there was once a consi-
derable village beside the old church of Lennel, although nothing
but the ruins of the church remain to mark the site of the village.
  Eminent Men.-Within the walls of that church is the burying-
place of Patrick Brydone, Esq. author of a Tour in Sicily and
Malta, who resided for many years in Lennel House, the seat of
the Earl of Haddington.
  Modern Buildings.-After Mr Brydone's death, a new mansion
was erected by the noble proprietor; besides which, there are the
seats of the Earl of Home at the Hirsel; Sir William Marjori-
banks at the Lees; Sir David Milne at Milne Graden; and Pro-
fessor Russell at Castlelaw;-all built of freestone, of which there
are quarries of excellent quality in different parts of the parish.

                   <TABLE=III.-POPULATION.>
     Population in 1801,                2269
                   1811,                2384
                   1821,                2801

	While the villages of Graden, Snook, and Park end existed, the
population was much more diffused over the parish than at present.
By a list of the population, taken with great care in 1830, it ap-
pears, that in the land ward part there were 192 families, and in the
town 504; while in 1786, there were 189 and 305 families in these I
respectively. By that list, the whole population of the parish was
3003, which is upwards of 100 more than appears by the census of
1831. The number resident in the town was found to be 2020,
and in the country 983.
  It is impossible to give any correct statement of the average
number of births in the parish each year, as scarcely any of the
dissenters think of inset in the births of their children in the pa-
rish register,-though the fees of registration are very trifling,
and in cases of poverty, not exacted. But the average number of
births that have been registered during the last seven years is 40;
of marriages in the same time, 21; of deaths,54.
The number of families in the parish is		                         682
	   of families chiefly employed in agriculture 		          98
                chiefly employed in trade, manufacture, and handicraft,  217
  In the parish there are six persons insane, 3 blind, and 2 deaf
and dumb.
  Land-owners.-There are no noblemen or gentlemen of inde-
pendent fortune resident in the parish except those already men-
tioned. The other principal landed proprietors are, Sir Hugh


