
                     STIRLING.                             421

Ebenezer, was born June 22, 1680, and mostprobably at Dryburgh.
He was educated at the University of Edinburgh; became chaplain
to the Earl of Rothes; was licensed as a probationer for the mi-
nistry, February 11, 1703; and ordained minister of Portmoak,
within the bounds of that Presbytery, on the 22d of September
following.  His fidelity, and other ministerial gifts, recommended
him so powerfully wherever he became known, and he acquired
so much distinction by his zeal and firmness in advocating the an-
cient principles of the Church of Scotland, that he was solicited
by many vacant parishes in succession, to become their minister.
He at length accepted an invitation from the town and parish of
Stirling, and was admitted minister of the third charge, which ap-
pears to have been erected for the purpose, on the 6th of September
1731.  Soon after his settlement here, those proceedings of the
General Assembly, relative to the settlement of parishes, in the
case of the right of presentation falling into the hands of the
Presbytery, by the patron failing to present to the benefice within
six months from the vacancy, took place; and that course of keen
discussion, and determined opposition and remonstrance on the
part of some ministers, commenced; which resulted in the setting-
up of a separate ecclesiastical court, and the formation of a body
of church-members in connection with it, under the name of Se-
ceders, which, from a combination of causes, has greatly extended
itself, and has for many years comprehended a considerable pro-
portion of the church-going population of the country, and sent
forth branches into almost every part of the globe, where natives
of Scotland, or their descendants, are found.  Mr Erskine took a
very active part in these discussions, and this opposition to the mea-
sures of the ruling party in the Church.  He was one of the most
influential and determined in the steps they took. in resistance;
and one of the four who brought about the separation, and or-
ganized the Seceding court.  He was deposed by the General
Assembly in 1738; but, a large body of people adhering to him, he
continued to exercise his ministry with great acceptance, in a place
of worship, erected for their accommodation, on the south side of
St John Street.  He died on the 2d of June 1754, aged 74;
and was buried under the centre of his meeting-house.  This
place of worship having been taken down, the present one, which
is large and handsome, was erected a little farther back, and
opened in 1826.
  Dr Robert Heuiry, author of a History of Great Britain, was for


