
152     			AYRSHIRE.

tle progress. Other proprietors have since followed his example.
The land planted is no doubt small in proportion to the extent of
the parish, but it has contributed much to the comfort and beauty
of the place.

	  		II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	The ancient history of this parish is hid in impenetrable ob-
scurity. There are many single stones still standing, which, in all
likelihood, were erected to commemorate events at the time con-
sidered sufficiently important, the knowledge of which is now com-
pletely gone. Tradition, ever busy, endeavours to account in
many different ways for their erection; but tradition will be found
too often associated with fable to be trusted. There are no writ-
ten memorials--no distinguishing mark or hieroglyphic to be found
on the stones themselves, which could lead us positively to affirm
that they were erected to perpetuate either the memory of some
petty skirmish or fallen chief; and (with the exception of one on
the farm of Laighshaw, possessed by Mr Murray, which is about
eight feet high,) they are too small and unimportant to be asso-
ciated with any former religion. There are, however, other monu-
ments of a later and most unhappy period of Scottish history, which
tell but too unequivocally of the sufferings and death of our brave
progenitors. The most remarkable of these monuments is the
gravestone of one John Brown, erected on the farm of Priesthill.
The death of this man was perpetrated with such cold-blooded
cruelty, near his own habitation, and in presence of his wife and
family, that to visit his grave is considered a sort of pilgrimage
by the pious of all persuasions. The stone bears that he was shot
through the head by a party commanded by Graham of Claver-
house, while upon his knees, and in the act of prayer. It is said
that Claverhouse, or one of his party, lifted up his dead body, and
carried it to his wife, asking her, "what she thought of her hus-
band?" "Mair," said she, "than ever I did, but the Lord will
avenge this another day."* A new monument has lately been
erected on the site of the old one, suitable to the taste and libe-
rality of the present times.
	Land-owners.--The chief land-owners are, His Grace the
Duke of Portland; the Right Honourable the Earl of Douglas;
the Right Honourable the Earl of Hyndford; the Honourable
Colonel M'Adam Cathcart of Craigengillan; Mr Blackwood of

<FOOTNOTE>Old Statistical Account.
                                   4


