
     of Alloa.

   The account of the poor, from which this abstract is taken,
affords many particulars worthy of observation; but it is too
voluminous for this work.  In general, the number of poor
seems to have increased, when the price of meal was high;
but although the price was soon reduced, it was 2 or 3 years
before the numbers returned, to the common average; and in
some years the poor were numerous, although the price of
meal was moderate.
   The collections at the church doors prove the propriety of
that method of gathering alms.  The diminution that began
to take place in them about 1734, was probably occasioned by
the secession from the church, as the collection at the meeting-
house was never taken, (although the law would have allowed
this to be done), the funds must consequently have suffered.
The assistance given to the paupers, on the ordinary list, in
1691, was 16 d. per month.  This, at first view, will appear
very inadequate; and yet there is no tradition of the poor
having been neglected, or of their suffering greater distress than
at present.  About the year 1720, a greater allowance was
given in extraordinary cases; but the 16 d. per month still
continued the usual assistance till 1776, when applications
for assistance from the kirk-session became more frequent and
pressing; so that the minister was induced to apply to the he-
ritors, and the rest of the parishioners, for some enlargement
of the funds, and an aid to prevent strolling beggars from
preying on the parish; when an annual contribution was
cheerfully agreed to, and liberally subscribed for.  Most of
the occasional poor, at that time, were thought proper objects
to be put on the ordinary list.  Such of the poor as are put
on the ordinary list, are obliged to subscribe a writing, mak-
ing over to the heritors, and kirk-session, all their little clothes
and moveables, which, at their death, are fold for the increase
of the fund.  This is intended to cut off all improper appli-

     4 K 3


