
                     HAMILTON.                           261

is now in the collection of a person named Mowat. It was killed
by a boy throwing a stone (last summer) near a marshy place on
the Clyde.
	Among the rarer birds of Scotland, the following are pretty com-
mon here: Fringilla montium, twite, or heather linnet. This bird
gravely represented in some popular works on ornithology, as build-
ing in France, and as being "occasionally caught by the London
bird-catchers," is here common enough, and is well known to almost
every schoolboy. The nest is generally in a heather bush, in a
brae, or slight declivity, and is very skilfully concealed. It resem-
bles that of the common linnet, but is smaller, and is mostly lined
with wool. In autumn, especially when frost begins, they descend
in flocks to the lower grounds. Muscicapa grisola, spotted fly-
catcher: This bird, as far as can be ascertained, is in this district
confined to the vale of the Clyde at Hamilton and Bothwell. It
builds in outhouses and in wall-trees, in the most frequented
places. It is a tame and silent bird, and disappears in September.
Sylvia phoenicurus, redstart or red-tail, is exceedingly abundant.
The Certhia familiaris also occurs in the parish. The Curruca
atricapilla or black-cap is common, but here it seems to lose that
varied and melodious song for which it is famous in the south, and
on account of which it is sometimes called the mock nightingale.
The Motacilla flava, or yellow wagtail, is here called the Seed
Lady. Motacilla boarula, or gray-wagtail, which some natu-
ralists say is "chiefly observed in winter" is most common with
us in summer, and builds among stones, and on the rocks by the
sides of rivulets. It is asserted that the siskin, Fringilla spinus,
builds here, but upon no sure authority. The goatsucker, the mis-
sel-thrusb, the dipper, the yellow-wren, the crested-titmouse the
bullfinch, goldfinch, starling, &c. are common. The missel-thrush
builds in orchards, and lines with clay beneath the small wrack, ex-
cept where the branches of the tree embrace the nest. Opposite these
there hs no plaster work, the branch itself affording abundance of
shelter. A person kept a tame one in Hamilton, which sung remark-
ably well. The Alcedo ispida, or kingfisher, builds here regularly.
	A large heronry may now be seen in Hamilton haughs. There
were about thirty nests this season. The heron seems to prefer the
loftiest trees for building on, especially those a little elevated above
the rest, by the nature of the ground on which they stand. These
birds are frequently attacked by the. carrion-crow, on their return
from their fishing expeditions, and the prey snatched from them.
	LANARK.			S


