
98                         ELGINSHIRE.

down the sandy surface, and turning up the clayey subsoil to the
summer sun and winter frost; by purifying and enriching it with
lime and other manure,-posterity may yet convert this large extent
of ground into a beautiful and fertile field.  The number of acres
under wood, natural and planted, is 1411.
   Rent of Land.-The average rent of arable land per acre in the
parish is about L. 1, 10s.  The real rent of the parish is L. 4764.
   Stock.-There are now few sheep in the parish, the former pas-
ture for them being either planted with wood, or cultivated and
brought into tillage.  The most approved breeds of cattle have
been gradually introduced by some of the farmers; and much at-
tention paid to their improvement.  The Earl of Seafield, for a
number of years past, has encouraged his tenants to cultivate the
waste ground on their farms, by affording them L. 5 per Scots acre
for what they bring into a proper state of tillage.  Some of the
tenants of the Earl of Fife have of late years made considerable
additions to their farms, by cultivating waste ground, with great
industry, at an expense of from L. 5 to L. 10 per acre.  Mr Sel-
lar of Westfield has, for a number of years past, been tastefully
dividing and inclosing his property with hedges, beautifying and
sheltering it with belts of plantations, enriching the soil with lime
and marl, and making substantial roads.
   The estate of Findrassie had been for many generations posses-
sed by the Leslies of Findrassie, and was, in 1825, purchased from
Sir Charles Leslie, the present Baronet, by Colonel Grant of the
H. E. I. C. S. now deceased, son of the late Provost Grant of
Forres.  Colonel Grant was the only residing heritor in the pa-
rish, and during the time he had the estate, very much improved
it, by judicious draining. fencing, planting, trenching waste ground,
and bringing it into a proper state of tillage.  He also made an
addition to the mansion-house, and otherwise much improved it.
   The general duration of leases is for nineteen years.  The farm
buildings are for the most part commodious squares, and suitable to
the respective farms, though in general they are thatched, instead
of being slated.  The enclosures are made either with substantial
stone dikes, or hedges, excepting temporary ones with paling.
   Quarries.-There is, near the summit of Quarrywood-bill, a free-
stone quarry, very hard and, durable, which supplies a large ex-
tent of country with will-stones, and the town of Elgin and neigh-
bourhood with stones for building.  Towards the foot of the hill,
on the south side, there is a fine quarry from which it is supposed
                                  4


