
			FODDERTY.                             247

   sion of a beautiful white stone resembling a pearl, but much larg-
   er. It is said that, shortly before his death, he threw it into Loch-
   Ussie, predicting that it would be found many years afterwards in
   the stomach of a pike, by one who, in consequence, should be also
   endowed with the gift of prophecy. Above Dunglass, is a low
   mound covered with green sward, and surrounded by a well defin-
   ed circle of forty feet diameter. It seems to be a fairy ring. The
   grass of the circle is greener and fresher than that in the middle,
   -a phenomenon which is supposed to be occasioned either by
   lightning, or by a kind of fungus, which breaks and pulverizes the
   soil.
     The views from all the eminences in the parish are extensive
   and striking, but especially from those to the north. Behind, rises
   the stupendons Ben-Wyves, its top often covered with. clouds and
   storm; in front, is Knock-Farril; and beneath, lies the beautiful
   vale of Strathpeffer, with its gently winding road, its well-cultivated
   fields, its tall ancestral trees, its venerable-looking castle, and its
   neat dwelling-houses. Stretching the eye to the westward, there
   appears nothing but one vast assemblage of conical topped hills of
   the wildest and most rugged description; while on the east, are to
   be seen the town of Dingwall, part of the Frith of Cromarty, and
   the rich landscape which surrounds the Castle of Tulloch. The
   view, as a whole, is one of the most varied and magnificent, and
   includes the heights of Inverness-shire rising successively one above
   another, until they are lost from sight in the far-distant clouds.
      Meteorology.-Climate, according to Dr Ure, is the prevailing
   constitution of the atmosphere relative to beat, wind, and moisture.
   There is considerable humidity in the high grounds of this. parish,
   and the cold at times is very intense. In the lower parts, however,
   the air is mild and genial. Even in winter, this is not unfrequently
   the case in the vicinity of the spa. Hills surround it in all direc-
   tions, the sinuosity of the valley breaks the force of the cold east-
   erly winds,-while those from the west are deprived of much of their
   moisture by the beath-clad hills over which they pass; and besides,
   the gradual rising slope of this district elevates it into a kind of
   mid-air, which is always pure and invigorating. During the greater
   Tart of the year, the wind blows from between south-west and
   north-west, and at the time of the equinoxes is generally accom-
   panied with rain. There are occasionally strong gales from the
   east and north-east, but the most violent proceed from the former
   points. Thunder is seldom heard. The temperature in summer


