
                             DRYMEN.                            103

filbert trees, which produce a nut of a larger size and higher fla-
vour than the common nut of the wood. The were brought ori-
ginally from the Monastery of Inchmahome, in the Isle of Men-
teith, to which they had been conveyed from foreign parts.

                      IL.-CIVIL HISTORY.
    The only accounts of the history and statistics of the parish
which the author of this sketch knows of are, "Description of
Drymmen paroch, by Alexander Graham of Duchray, 1724," to
be found in M'Farlan of M'Farlan's Geographical Collections, in
the Advocates' Library, Vol. ii. p. 439, * and the old Statistical
Account.
  Family of Drummond.--The parish gives name to the Drum-
mond or Perth family. According to tradition, the founder of that
ancient and noble house was a Hungarian, named Maurice, who
came over from Hungary in the train of Margaret, Queen of Mal-
colm Canmore, and obtained, in reward of his services, a grant of
certain lands, and, among others, of Drymen, in Stirlingshire. It is
not certainly known in what part of the parish the Drumrnonds had
their residence. Mr Nimmo, in his History of Stirlingshire, says,
that it was probably somewhere near the Endrick. The northern
part of the parish, however, still goes by the name of the barony
of Drummond; and we are inclined to think, from this circu-
stance, that it was there they had their original seat, though neither
history nor tradition now indicates the spot.
   It is uncertain how or at what time, the Drummonds ceased to
be connected with Stirlingshire. In the year 1360, in consequence
of a feud which had long subsisted between them and the Earls of
Menteith, a compact was entered into at a meeting on the banks
of the Forth, in presence of the justiciaries of Scotland, by which
Sir John Drummond resigned certain lands in the Lennox, and
obtained in lieu of them others of greater value in Perthshire.
Shortly after this, and probably in consequence of it, their resi-
dence seems to have been transferred to Stobhall in Perthshire,
which, along with other extensive estates in that county, had some
years before come into, possession of the family by marriage. Pre-
viously to this change of residence, however, Anabella, daughter

<FOOTNOTE> This description is rather curious as to its computation of distances, and gives
us a pretty good idea of "the lang Scotch miles" of our forefathers. The church
of Drymmen, e.g. is said to be "fifteen miles west of Stirling;" whereas it is now
twenty-two, and these miles long enough. "A large half mile from the church, on
the south side of the Enrick, is the house of Edward Buchanan of Spittal."  We
would now reckon it distant a tolerably large whole mile.


