
448                      ROXBURGHSHIRE.

a naked hill, a conical hill, &c. a derivation not inconsistent with
the character of the district.
   Extent and Boundaries.--The greatest length is in the dire-
tion of nearly north and south, and is about 9 1/2 miles.  The
greatest breadth is from west to west, and is about 6 miles.  The
mean breadth may be about 4 miles.  It is bounded on the north,
by the parishes of Yetholm and Linton ; on the east, by part of
the parish of Yetholm, and by Northumberland; on the west, by
Hownam, Eckford, and Linton ; and on the south, by Northumber-
land and Hownani.
   Topographical Appearances.--The parish extends to the summit
of the Cheviot range, and, with the exception of a small portion of
the north and west sides, Consists almost entirely of hills and the in-
tervening values. It presents not, however, that bleak and barren
aspect which generally characterizes a mountainous district.  The
hills are verdant and beautiful, the low grounds are under culture,
as also the sides of several of the hills to a considerable height,
and some of them to their very summers.  The principal vales are
those of the Kale and Beaumont, neither of them of very great
breadth, but extending in length, the former about four, and the
latter about six miles.  The principal hills are the Cheviot, (part
of which is in this parish) ; the Curr is next to it in locality and also
in height ;--the Schell, Whitelaw, Percy hill, Woolside, and
Clifton hill, a beautiful hill rising from the east side of the Beaumont
in the form of a dome.  Between the Beaumont and the Kale, Swin-
don hill, Belford hill, and the Grubit hills ; and on the west of the
Kale, Giteshiw hill and Morebattle hill.  They vary in height
from 500 feet to upwards, of 2000.  From the Cheviot hills the
view is grand and extensive, and in the summer season attracts
frequent parties of visitors from both sides of the border.  The
surrounding  counties of Northumberland, Berwick, and Rox-
burgh, lie extended below as on a map.  On the east, the view
is lost in the German Ocean, and on the south and west it is
confined by the midland mountainous tract, which stretches
from Westmoread to the sources of the Clyde and the Tweed.
The prospect from the Grubit hills, though more limited, is un-
commonly fine;--looking down on the beautiful vales of the
Kale and the Beaumont lying at their base, and containing within
their limits the pleasant villages of Yetholm and Morebattle, the
Primside and Linton lochs, the romantic church of Linton, the
wooded villas of Marlfield and Clifton Park, the ruins of Cessford


