
                         PARISH OF MARNOCH.\f*

                 PRESBYTERY OF STRATHBOGIE, SYNOD OF MORAY.

                     I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
           Name.-ABERCHIRDER, the original name of this parish, was,
        no doubt, taken from Sir David Aberkerder, Thane of Aberker-
        der, who lived about the year 1400, and possessed a great part of
        it. He is mentioned as paying revenue to the Bishopric of Mo-
        ray; his daughter was married to Sir Robert Innes, brother
        to John Innes, for seven years Bishop of Moray previous to 1414.
        The present name is derived from St Marnoch.  A well near the
        manse is called the Saint's Well, and another, at no great distance,
        the Lady's Well.  There is a village in the parish, contain-
        ing 800 inhabitants, still called Aberchirder.  Some say this word
        signifies the mouth  or opening of the moss, and that this place was
        so called from its being near the edge of a large moss.
          The Earl of Fife is patron.  The right of patronage connected
        with, the property of Kinardy war purchased by the late Earl
        James.
          Extent and Boundaries.-The parish is of very irregular shape.
        It lies along the north bank of the river Doveron for about 6 miles,
        and extends backwards from the river to the distance of 5 or 6
        miles.  Some of the extreme points are 8 miles apart.  It is
        bounded on the south by the Doveron, on the opposite side of
        which lie the parish of Inverkeithny and part of Rothiemay; on
        the west, by Rothiemay; on the north, by Ordiquhill, Boyndie,
        Banff, and Alvah; and on the east, by Forglen.  The superficial
        extent is about 34 square miles.
         Topographical Appearances, &c.- The southern parts of the pa-
        rish are beautifully situated, have a fine exposure, and consist of ear-
        ly fertile soil.  Some of the haugh ground is superior.  There are
        several most delightful spots along the river-side.  The Inch line
        on the property of Edward Ellice, Esq. of Ardmellie, is remark-

<FOOTNOTE>Communicated by the Rev. D. Henry.


