
	128                        PERTHSHIRE.

	residing in the burgh were alone admitted into it, while it was in-
	habited by poor.  There was a teacher for the young, and the
	master acted as chaplain.
	   A new arrangement took place in 1814.  After due inquiry in-
	to the most economical mode of management, it was agreed to
	break up the establishment, and, reserving the hospital master's
	apartments, and the managers room containing the records, to let
	the house, and make each pauper an out-pensioner, at a certain
	sum per annum, to be paid weekly.  Since the above-mentioned
	period, that system of management has been followed.
	   The net income of the hospital is L. 597, 8s. 6d.
	   The number of poor receiving from it is 61.
	   In the year 1660, James Butter, sheriff-clerk of Perthshire, dot-
	ed two fifth parts of the lands of Scones Lethendy, to maintain
	four poor persons of the burgh of Perth.  In the year 1686, Mr
	Jackson doted one-half of one-fifth of the lands of Scones Leth-
	endy to support one poor relation, whom failing, one of the name of
	Jackson, whom failing any other.  In 1743, Mr Cairnie doted two-
	fifths of the lands of Scones Lethendy, to the poor of the burgh
	of Perth, reserving two-thirds of the free rent to two of his descen-
	dants nearest the age of fourteen years, one-half to be paid to them
	annually, for ten years, and at the expiry of the ten years, the re-
	served half to be paid in full, but without interest, the other third
	annually to the hospital poor.  Of these mortifications, the minis-
	ters and elders were appointed trustees, and the patronage of the
	two first was vested in the Magistrates and Ministers.
	   It so happens that these lands are contiguous, and form one dis-
	tinct estate, in all 610 imperial acres, including 145 imperial acres
	of planting.
	   The free rental is L. 513, 8s. 6d. ; two persons of the name of
	Cairnie get at present annually, L. 130; the hospital poor L. 50,
	18s. 6d. ; total L. 180, 18s. 6d.
	   Under Butters's and Jackson's mortifications, L. 170 are given to
	twelve annuitants, and a balance of L. 162, 1Os. is applied for re-
	demption of about L. 1500 of debt incurred in building steading,
	&c.&c.
	   Dispensaries.--The Perth Dispensary commenced in 1819.  The
	objects which it was intended to embrace, were the relief of the

<FOOTNOTE> the poor members of Christ's body, therefore, in such a charter, granted at such a
	time, could be those only who were bona fide members of the Established Church.
	The decision in the case of Lady Hewly's bequest, shews distinctly who in the burgh
	of Perth are entitled to the benefit of the hospital funds.


