
146                       FORFARSHIRE.

and for other purposes: some operations of these kinds are, how-
ever, still necessary.
	Hydrography.--There is a small chalybeate spring on the north
side of the drain leading from the loch of Dunnichen; from which
some people have thought they found relief in stomach complaints.
A much more copious spring of the same quality, although not so
strongly impregnated, has its fountain head on the north-west cor-
ner of Dumbarrow, although it breaks out in the parish of Kirkden.
	The only loch in the parish is what is commonly called the Mire
of Dunnichen. This occupies a space of about fifty acres, and has
been partially drained for marl, and converted into pasture land.
But, to render the improvement effectual, the drain would require
to be made five or six feet deeper, and concealed drains thrown out
on each side of it, to take off springs which rise from different parts
of its bottom.
	The only running-water in the parish is the small rivulet of Vinney
Water, which rises in the parish of Forfar, from wh`t was the loch of
Lower, but is now completely drained, and converted into fertile
land. This rivulet, after receiving some smaller streams in its pro-
gress, joins Lunan Water near Pitmuies, in the parish of Kirkden.

                            II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Antiquities.--The stones of the fort or castle, before referred to,
have been removed to build fences; and its area has been nearly
obliterated by a quarry. On its floor was found a thick bed of
wood ashes, mixed with numerous bones, which seem to have be-
longed to the animals on which the inhabitants fed. In one place
there is said to have been found a number of small golden bullets,
which seem to have been the current coin of the times when they
were formed.
	A confused tradition prevails of a great battle having been fought
on the East Mains of Dunnichen, between Lothus King of the
Picts, or his son Modred, and Arthur King of the Britons, in which
that hero of romance was slain. Buchanan, no doubt, Places the
scene of that battle upon the banks of the Humber, in England.
But it is probable that some battle had been fought here; for, a
good many years ago, on the East Mains of Dunnichen, there was
turned up with the plough a large flat stone, on which is cut a rude
outline of an armed warrior's head and shoulders; and not many
years ago, the plough also uncovdred some graves on another part
of the same farm. These graves consisted of flat stones on all


