
	1044                        PERTHSHIRE.

	what above 9 square miles.  It is bounded on the west and south
	west by the Tay, which separates it from Perth and Redgorton;
	on the north, by the parish of St Martins ; on the cast and south-
	east, by St Martins, Kilspindie, and Kinnoull.  The ground rises
	gently from the Tay, towards the north and east.  Much of the
	soil is light, and considerable portions consist of dry gravel, but
	by far the larger proportion is in a state of high cultivation.
	There is much good arable ground included within the extensive
	parks and large plantations of the Earl nf Mansfield; and towards
	the river, there are patches of strong rich clay.
	   The parish is not intersected by any river.  There are one or
	two rivulets or burns, of which the Annaty may be mentioned as
	one supplying several good waterfalls for the movement of ma-
	chinery.  From the quantity of ground through which drains
	have been cut, the supply of water is somewhat irregular.  A re-
	medy for this has been suggested by Professor Anderson of St
	Andrews, who surveyed the whole course of the stream ; but it
	has not yet been carried into effect.  The Tay, by means of an
	artificial canal, affords an abundant supply of water for the ma-
	chinery connected with a bleachfield at Stormontfield, in the
	north-west district of the parish, and also for flour-mills in the
	same quarter.
           Geology.-The southern part of the parish is occupied by thick
	reddish-gray sandstone, which dips from the Sidlaw hills towards
	the north-west ; the same beds on the south of the range dipping
	towards the south-east.  For several miles along the course of
	the Annaty Burn, the outcrop has been laid bare by the stream,
	and exhibits well-defined sections of the deposit.  It is one of the
	lower members of the old red sandstone formation, which abounds
	in this part of the country.  There is little variety in the aspect
	or structure of the rock, except that here and there a bed of a
	lighter and darker colour, more or less abounding in comminuted
	scales of mica, occasions slight apparent variations.  Several dikes
	of whinstone or trap traverse the sandstone nearly in straight lines.
	Some of them are remarkably regular, and where worked out for
	road-metal, for which the stone is admirably adapted, leave a cut
	like an immense drain, the sides of which are scorched or semi-
	furred by fire.  At Spoutwells, the sandstone may be observed
	partly lying above the trap vein in the form of an arch only a few
	inches thick, and partly as it has been mixed with the mass in a
					2



