
        36
                                 NAIRNSHIRE.

        country artisans are as follows : ploughmen per balf-year, L.5;
        women-servants, L.2 per blalf-year, with food; day-labourers, Is.
        2d. per day in winter, and 1s. 6d. in summer; women per day,
        7d.; carpenters, 1s. 6d. per day in winter, and 2s. in summer;
        masons, 2s. 6d. per day in summer;-tbey do not work in winter.
          'Price of Produce.-The average price of produce is much the
        same as in the adjoining parishes.  Wheat, L.2, 10s. per imperial
        quarter; oats, L,1 per quarter; barley, LA, 10s. per quarter;
        potatoes, 1s. per bushel; turnips, L.5, 10s. per acre; hay, 38.4d.
        per cwt. ; cheese, 4d. per lb.; butter, 8d. per lb. ; beef and mut-
        ton, 4d. per lb.; eggs, 3d. to 31d. per dozen in summer, and 6d.
        in winter; fowls, hs. each.
          Breed of Live-Stock.-The breed of sheep, some thirty years
        490., was the old Scotch sheep, having brown faces and legs,'ghort
        wool, and wide-spreadiDg horns. These gave place to a black-
        faced Highland breed, with pretty long horns, snow tops, or tufts
        of wool on the forehead, and an open and very coarse fleece of
        lovg wool. This last breed is now greatly improved by superior
        tups (Lintons), brought principally from Lanarkshire every year,
        having no tufts on the forehead, a much closer and better fleece,
        and more compact barrel-shaped bodies.  The horns of the we-
        tbers, instead of spreading high, keep close down by the head on
        either side, so as nearly to resemble a horse-shoe.  This last breed
        is inuch more esteemed by turnip-feeders than the coarse and open-
        woolled kind; but a few even of the ancient Scotch breed are still
        to be found, perfectly pure, on two or three farms in the lower end
        of the parish, where there is not sufficient range for the black.
        faced mountain sheep.  This ancient breed is, however, nearly
        tixtinct.  The practice of annually smearing in autumn, with tar
        and butter, each individual oUthe mountain flocks, has only of
        late become general in the few and limited sheep-walks in this
        parish; but it is found to be a great improvement, as it completely
        protects the animal against the most inclement weather.
        The cattle are of small size, but hardy and well-formed, and
        are well eared for,-the inhabitants having been always remarkable
        for their attention to cattle and skill in rearing them.  They are
        yearly improving in size and condition by better and more plenti-
        ful keep; On though, generally speaking, the land is somewhat over-
        stooked. On the  whole, it would, perhaps, be difficult to intro-
        duce a breed either of cattle or sheep more suitable in all respects
        to the district than those it at present. possesses.


