
     Statistical Account

   Fish and Fuel.-A ling sells from 1 s. to 2 s.-a cod, from 1/2 d
to 1 s.-a skate from 3 d. to 1 s.-haddocks 1 s. per dozen.  The
price of all kinds of fish is much higher than it was 7 years a-
go, because of the great scarcity of them upon this coast.
Haddocks give now six times their former price; and, after
all, our fishers are giving up their employment because they
cannot live by it.  They also complain of the hardships they
suffer by press warrants being issued against them, when there
is war, or rumour of war; because they must either then de-
sert their families, who live in misery in their absence, or pay
an exhorbitant sum, much more than they can afford, to one
who goes for them.
   The only fuel used here is coals, either Scotch or English.
The former cost 8 s. 6 d. per boll of 70 stones Amsterdam; and

<FOOTNOTE>

and victuals, At hay-cutting, a man gets 1 s. per day, with victuals and drink.
In harvest he gets the same.  Women, when hired by the day to field work,
get 4 d. and victuals: in harvest 9 d.-When farmers hire men for all the har-
vest, they generally give from a guinea to 25 s.-and women hired in that way
get from 16 s. to 20 s-for this they become bound to assist in down-cutting, in-
gathering, and thatching all the crop.-The wages of a taylor are 8 d.-a
carpenter 8 d-and a mason 1 s. 2 d. with victuals.  The wages of all these
have been raised within these 7 years.  If a labouring man luckily marry an
industrious well managing woman, and is sober himself, they may live and
bring up a family with some degree of comfort, especially if they have saved a-
ny money before marriage; which, we are sorry to say, is seldom the case:-
for the women generally spend as much upon fine clothes, and the men upon
fine clothes and drink before marriage, as would greatly assist them when they
have more need of it to support themselves and children.
   The present average price of beef, mutton, pork, lamb, and veal, we may
reckon at 3 d. per Amsterdam pound, at Bervie and Stonehaven, our market
towns.  In autumn it may be cheaper, and in spring dearer.  The price of a
hen is from 6 d. to 8 d.-a dozen eggs 3 d.-a duck 6 d.-chickens 2 d.-but-
ter 8 d. per lb. of 22 ounces Amsterdam weight;-and cheese from 4 s. 6 d. to
5 s. for Amsterdam pounds to the stone.


