
     Statistical Account

than 25 are posthumous; and as 159, to 8047, the whole num-
ber of inhabitants, so is 25 to 1265, the number that may he
supposed to have been destroyed.  It is true, that this diminu-
tion of inhabitants does not produce any immediate effect
upon the marriages, or baptisms, recorded in the register; nay,
that in the six suceeeding years, the marriages are more nu-
merous than before the siege.  But among these, 66 are the
marriages of English soldiers; and though the baptisms, dur-
ing this period, are not upon the whole increased, but in
small degree diminished, 255 of them are of soldiers' children.
Besides, the money spent by a numerous garrison could not
fail to attract people by the hopes of profit; and, the exact
discipline of Cromwell's troops, and the regular distribution
of justice, which took place during the whole time of his
usurpation, gave them full and unusual security in their va-
rious occupations.  But on the withdrawing of the garrison,
the deficiency of inhabitants, becomes immediately evident.
Notwithstanding the accessions which the garrison has been
supposed to attract, a calculation from the marriages brings
out, after the restoration, a diminution of 875 in the popula-
tion; and, towards the end of the reign of Chales II. and
during the whole reign of James VII. a diminution of 1420.
   This diminution of population cannot be ascribed to the
slight or removal of the inhabitants, on the foresight of the
siege; for many persons, and some even of the highest rank,
had repaired to Dundee, as a place of security, and strength.
Among these, I find the Earls of Buchan, Tweddale, Buc-
cleugh and Roseberry; the Viscount of Newburgh; the lords
Balcarras, Elibank, Yeller and Ramsay; and the mailer of
Burley; 15 persons also bearing titles of knighthood; 11
other gentlemen of landed property; 9 of the Faculty of Advo-
cates; 24 writers, merchants, and indwellers of Edinburgh
and 6 citizens of the Canongate, Leith and Musselburgh.


