
     Botriphnie.

church, which, at an average, will amount to 10 l. yearly,
by which 10 persons receive occasional supplies*.

   Miscellaneous Observations.-The people are sober, industri-
ous, and of good morals, and well affected to our present
constitution.
   There are no diseases peculiar to this country.  The prac-
tice of inoculation is not yet introduced among them.  In
the course of 19 years, 8 children have died of the small-
pox.  No extraordinary instances of longevity have occurred
here.  Two persons died some years ago at the age of 90;
and there are 4 now living upwards of 80.
   The neighbouring hills supply the inhabitants with peat
and turf; but much of their time in summer is consumed in
preparing and leading them home.  If the tax on coals be
taken off, it will probably encourage the farmers to supply
themselves with that article, and thereby they will have more
time to devote to husbandry.  The roads are more attended
to, and kept in better repair, by the statute labour, in this
than in any of the neighbouring perishes.

<FOOTNOTE>

*The price of every necessary of life has advanced very consi-
derably since 1783; some of them have nearly doubled in value.
Eggs, formerly 1 d. per dozen, are now 2 d.; hens 8 d. former-
ly 5 d.; butter 7 d. formerly 5 d. per lib. of 24 English ounces;
cheese 5 s. per stone; beef, mutton, and pork, from 4 s. to 5 s.
per stone.  But the price of no article is so much felt, and so
loudly complained of, as salt and leather, the taxes on which
fall heavily on the middling and lower classes of people.
The clergy whole brings are fixed, suffer particularly by the
advanced price of almost every article necessary in a family;
but, if our Judges continue to grant augmentations to ministers
on the same liberal principles they have done of late, it will in
some degree remedy this inconveniency, and is the only circum-
stance that can enable them to maintain that respect in society
which they have hitherto done.

     VOL. X. B b

