
     Statistical Account

   Miscellaneous Observations.-We labour under no disad-
vantages, but such as are common to us with almost all
the county of Angus; the want of salt, lime and coal.
We have all the advantages which are enjoyed by other
inland districts; and are supplied with marl from pits near
the boundaries of the parish.  Houses unconnected with
land, dont yield, I think, L. 12 Sterling.  Farm houses are
in cumulo with the farms.  Such houses being now an ar-
ticle of considerable expense, the landlords begin to spe-
cisy a rent, according to a certain rate of interest on the
money laid out in building, viz. about 7 per cent.-The

<FOOTNOTE>

the parish, is not dug.  Our coals are from the Forth, by sea carriage to
Dundee.  Moss-dues to the proprietor, are 9 d. in one moss. 6 d in ano-
ther, the cart-load.  The usual price of coal is 4 s the boll, the boll
weighing 56 stone-The rate of common labourers wages is the same as
that of farmers servants.

<TABLE>

Husbands wages,                                           L   8  0  0
Meal, in place of maintenance, 2 pecks a-week, with milk,     5 17  0
Industry of the wife, besides the care of the family,         2 12  0
                                                            ----------
Amount of their funds for one year,                       L. 16  9  0

</TABLE>

This a-week is 6 s. 3 3/4 d. I make no doubt but it may suffice for the
plain diet and clothing which such families use.  Let us suppose the fami-
ly to be numerous, I allow only the husband and wife, and 5 children, to
depend on this weekly allowance, viz. one child of 8 years, one of 6, one
of 4, one of 2, and an infant.  When the youngest of there 5 is born,
boy or girl of the family, who had reached the age of 10 years, goes to
service, and the burden of that child is taken away.  A boy or girl at 8
years of age becomes useful in the family, and enables the mother to use
her industry for increasing their funds.  When a few of the children get
above 10 years, they increase the living of the family very considerably
If the labourer be a farmer's servant, the farmer generally allows him a
day for digging peats, and some draughts of carts for bringing home his
fuel.-The wages of male servants, in husbandry, are in general about L.
Sterling, with maintenance in the family, or 6 1/2 bolls of oat-meal yearly,
with a sufficient quantity of milk.  A maid-servant has L. 3 Sterling, with
maintenance.


