
72                 EDINBURGHSHIRE.

measure owing to the manner in which the coal has hitherto
been wrought. There are coal-pits, and consequently roads lead-
ing to them, in almost every field, which renders it next to impos-
sible to keep the fences in good order. For the same reason, the
parish roads are far from being good. They are much cut up
with coal-carts, and stand in need of a thorough repair. These
are all obstacles to improvement; and, unless they are re-
moved, it is hardly to be expected that improvements can be car-
ried to any great extent. One of them, however, the writer is
happy to observe, is soon to be obviated. The roads are to under-
go a complete repair; and, as the coal-carts in future will in a great
measure be taken off them by means of the rail-road, and as a
sufficient sum is levied annually by assessment on the tenants for
their support, there will no longer exist any cause of complaint on
this score. The repairs, indeed, are already begun.
   The greatest improvement which has recently taken place is
the bridge already described, which carries the railway over the
valley of the South Esk at Dalhousie Mains. It was erected at the
sole expense of the Marquis of Lothian, and is a great ornament
to the neighbouring scenery, as it mixes the grand With the beau-
tiful.
   Though the tenantry in this parish are highly respectable, and
comparatively in a flourishing condition, their rents, especially upon
the Marquis's property, being in general moderate, yet it must
not be denied that a larger capital would in some instances be
extremely advantageous, as it would enable them to extend their
improvements in the way of draining, &c. which in a clay soil would
amply repay them by the surplus crops which it would produce.
   Produce.-The average gross amount of raw produce raised
annually in the parish is nearly as follows:

<TABLE>

Produce of grain of all kinds, cultivated for the food of man and of
                      domestic animals,                             L. 17,212  10  0
           potatoes, turnips, cabbage, &c.                              4,000   0  0
           bay of every description,                                    2,500   0  0
           pasture grass, rating as previously mentioned,               3,600   0  0
There are annually about 575 acres Scotch of summer fallow in the
    parish.
Produce of gardens and orchards about,                                    405   0  0
           coals and quarries,                                          1,600   0  0

                   Yearly value of produce raised,                 L.  29,317  10  0

                 V:-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Market-Town, &c.-There is no market-town, nor other towns


