
78                      KINCARDINESHIRE.

ty town of Kincardine. Several respecteble trees also ornament
the old houses of Monboddo and Castleton, and in the plantations
of Drumtochty, trees, venerable for their age and size, tower far
above the saplings around them. There are likewise a few fine
beeches at Phesdo; and a considerable quantity of fall-grown ash,
birch, elm, &c. shelter and adorn the church, parsonage, and vil-
lage inn at Fordoun. During the last fifty years, a considerable
part of the Kincardine estate, belonging to Sir John Stuart Forbes,
Bart., has been enclosed, and many belts and plantations formed
for ornament and shelter. At Phesdo, much was done by the late
lamented and spirited proprietor, in planting and adorning his pro-
perty. Many plantations of larch and Scotch fir were formed
by the Carnegies, late proprietors of Pittarrow, which shelter and
relieve the tameness of the surface in that part of the parish.
Belts of larch. and Scotch fir, with deciduous trees intermixed,
were also planted by the late Mrs Burnett of Monboddo, and
there are likewise some plantations, although of no great extent,
around the house of Castleton. Mr Drummond, while proprietor
of Drumtochty, planted extensively both with resinous and deci-
duous plants, and the whole are in the most thriving state imagin-
able. Lord Arbuthnott has lately planted about 200 acres of the
front of Strathfinella hill, and proposes extending his operations
so as to cover the whole front of the hill. There is thus a con-
siderable extent of woodland in the parish; still, from its being dis-
posed in masses, and from the want of hedges, and particularly of
bedge-rows, the landscape has not that rich and wooded appear-
ance, which a more judicious disposition of the plantations would
have produced. It may, under this head, be remarked, that both
soil and climate are favourable to all kinds of forest trees. Oak,
which formerly was rather a reluctant grower, now takes freely,
and all other kinds of deciduous trees, when judiciously planted,
make a fair progress. Scots firs thrive well, but larches, although
rapid growers, are observed to be short-lived, and to decay soon.
It is, likewise, observed that forest trees of all descriptions thrive
better with a north or north-west aspect, than with a south expo-
sure. This is very perceptible in the glen behind Strathfinella
hill, and in other situations, and is perhaps owing to the soil on
the north side of the hills being generally deeper, and the plants
being protected from the sharp sea-breezes that come from the
south-east quarters.


