
150				WIGTONSHIRE.

yet to be done. Within the same periods, the principal proprietor
has effected very striking improvements by extensive plantations,
tastefully arranged for the landscape effect, and by draining and laying
down for permanent pasturage about 400 acres around his re-
sidence. The great extent of private gravel walk and well-
dressed thorn hedges, although, strictly speaking, they do not
come under the head of agriculture, may be mentioned here as re-
markable improvements.
	The chief obstacles to improvement are what may be supposed
to have arisen from the the want, of improving leases as to farm-build-
ings, &c. and from the laws of entail, under which there ir about
one-third of the landward part of the parish.
	There are no mines in the parish. Coal has been lately sought
for, but in vain.
	Fisheries.--Till the year 1813, there was no regular fishery at
Portpatrick, except for the supply of the inhabitants. The fish
caught were generally of small size, sucg are still caught for
the same purpose during the summer months near the shore, either
with rods or hand-lines baited with limpets or crabs. From 1813 to
1821, about 20 boats and 100 men were employed in fishing herrings.
Each boat used from 1200 tn 1600 yards of net, and the average
profit of each was about L. 80; the price of herrings varying from
30s. to 40s. per barrel. The average number of barrels of her-
rings caught by the Portpatrick boats during each of the above
years must have been about 900. From six to eight of these
boats fished with the Government bounty of L. 3 per ton, and
averaged about twenty tons. The other boats employed were from
five to eight tons. After the Government bounty was withdrawn,
the fishery was abandoned as unprofitable: for, although the great-
er number of the boats employed had not enjoyed the bounty
they did not put to sea till the bounty boats discovered the
shoals of herrings, and so were saved so much expense. The great-
er number of herrings were caught between Portpatrick and Port-
nessock to the south, and at thd distance of from two to three miles
from the shore. The usual fishing season for the Portpatrick boats
was from beginning of June till the beginning of August. The
herrings came from the north, and proceeded south to the Isle of
Man, where the fishery began about the 10th of August. Be-
sides the Portpatrick boats, many from other places fished on the
coast, and 120 have been seen in the harbour at once. The want of


