

216	    		  DUMBARTONSHIRE.

<TABLE=III.-POPULATION.>
                          III.-POPULATION.

         Amount of population in 1801,  .  879
                                 1811,  .  898
                                 1821,  . 1008
                                 1831,  .  999
    The population at present, as ascertained by the minister in visiting the
	parishioners, amounts to					      950
    Number of families in the parish in 1831,       	                      175
		       chiefly employed in agriculture,	                       80
					   trade, manufactures	or handicraft, 27

   The number of illegitimate births in the parish during the last
Three years is 1.
                	IV.--INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.--There are in the whole parish about 660 imperial
acres under wood, besides a great many detached trees in hedge-
rows, fences, and elsewhere; of which the following is a statements:

<TABLE>

On the lands of the Duke of Montrose, all planted by the late Duke, :      180 acres.
On those of Mrs Macdonald, including the wooded islands of Cracinch and
  Torrinch, Lochlomond,          .      .      .        .       .          230
On those of John Buchanan, Esq. of Ardoch,    .        .       .           200
On those of R. D. Mackenzie, Esq. of Caldarvan,            .   .     .      40
On those of the other proprietors,    .            .      .       .      .  10
                                                                           ___
                                         Imperial acres in all,            660

   The average rent of land is 18S. per acre.
   The moorland part of the parish grazes only about 500 sheep,
which are of the black-faced or Highland breed, and a few cattle of
the Argyleshirebreed. A few sheep of tbe Cheviot or Leicester sort
are sometimes kept in low parks.  The cattle on the low grounds
are of the Ayrshire breed. Considerable attention has been paid
of late to the improvement of all these sorts of cattle.
   Part of the lands, bein the inferior sort, is kept in cultivation
by being four years under pasture, and two under oats; but the bet-
ter part of the land is cultivated by a six years' course of crops and
pasture; thus, 1st, green crop; 2d, grain crop; 3d, hay; 4th
and 5th, pasture; and 6th, oats. Considerable attention has been
paid, of late years, to the improvement of inferior or waste lands, in
some parts of the parish, by the new modes of draining, &c. ; but a
considerable part, perhaps more than a third part of the arable land,
is incapable of a high state of improvement under ordinary tenants,
either on account of the shallowness or peculiar qualities of the
soils; from rocks, chiefly of sandstone, want of proper declivity, or
other obstacles to thorough draining; or from the difficulties there
are in driving manure and other commodities from and to distant
parts and markets, owing to the bad roads through the parish,
which are kept so chiefly from the want, of proper metal or materials


