
210                                AYRSHIRE.

	Fuel.--Coal, conveyed in carts or by the railway, from the neigh-
bouring parishes of Stevenston and Kilwinning, is the only fuel
used throughout the parish.

	July 1837.

			PARISH OF DALRY.

	PRESBYTERY OF IRVINE, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.

	     THE REV. THOMAS JOHNSTONE, MINISTER.*

		I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	Name.--THE ancient name of the parish appears to have been
indiscriminately written Dalry, Dalray, and Dalrye. The mo-
dern name is Dalry. It is evidently derived from the Gaelic
"Dail," a plain or Valley, and "Righ," a king, signifying "King's
plain" or "Kings valley,"--a considerable portion of the parish
being in the valley of Garnock. In ancient times, it is believed
that not only the district of Carrick, but also a part of Cunning-
hame, was comprehended in the province or lordship of Galloway.
A part, however, was under the royal jurisdiction, and bore the
designation of the King's District, hence the name of King's Val-
ley was derived. A field, on part of which the village is built, still
bears the name of Croftangry, doubtless a corruption of Croftanrigh,
or croft of the King.
	Extent--Boundaries.--The parish extends in length, from north
to south, 10 miles, and varies from 3 to 8 miles in breadth from
east to west, and contains 29 square miles. It is bounded on the
east by the parish of Beith; on the south and south-west, by the
parishes of Kilwinning and Ardrossan; on the west and north-
west, by the parishes of West Kilbride and Largs; and on the
north and north-east, by the parish of Kilbirnie. The figure of
the parish is very irregular, being narrowest at the middle. A
stripe of hilly ground juts out from its northern side, about 3 miles
in length, by 1 to 2 in breadth. A portion of the parish at this

sery, the necessary consequence of indulgence, are not wanting to attest the fearful
extent of this most beneful and demoralizing habit.

<FOOTNOTE>
	* The following Account was drawn up by Mr Thomas Hogg, Junior, Tofts-Mill,
Dalry.


