
134                     RENFREWSHIRE.

experience, of individuals voluntarily resigning their little monthly
allowance, in consequence of their circumstances having become
somewhat improved.  Not long since, there was a petition laid be-
fore the session from a very aged and infirm widow; but when the
relatives were informed of it, they begged it to be withdrawn, and
agreed to contribute a much larger allowance than the parish would
have granted.  When a person's circumstances become strait-
ened, and there is no relative able or willing to lend assistance, the
practice very usually is, to dispose of the clock, watch, writing-
desk, or other symbol of better days, upon the principle of a lot-
tery.  This custom having the nature of gambling in it, has never been
encouraged by the gentlemen of the parish or kirk-session; but it
is said to be attended with few abuses, and it cannot be denied that
it has been the means of keeping persons off the poors' list for years.
   Alehouses.-There are two of these, of which at least one might,
with advantage, be abolished.

                    MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   Since the former Statistical Account was published, the aspect of
this parish has assumed various and important alterations.  The
roads have undergone great improvement.  While almost all the old
farm-buildings, &c. have vanished, and been succeeded by new ones
adapted to a more advanced state of society.  The comforts of the
peasantry, with respect to the articles of food and clothing, have ex-
perienced a similarly beneficial change.  The author of the former
Statistical Account lamented the existence of five alehouses, into
some of which the card-table was introduced.  Of these evils
amongst a greatly increased population, the first has been mitigated,
and the last has entirely disappeared.
   With the exception of a small portion of moorland not yet re-
claimed, the parish is enclosed.  In many instances, however, the
fences are susceptible of improvement, and the slovenly manner in
which some of them are kept but ill accords with the high cultiva-
tion of the land.
   The number of illegitimate births has of late years increased, and
the pledge usually preceding promiscuous intercourse is now in
fewer instances redeemed on the part of the male delinquent, by
marriage.  In the state of social manners just referred to, no slight
meliorations might be effected by an increased circumspection of
parents and heads of families, who, by adopting a more prudent sys-
tem in the adjustment of field labour, and by enforcing a stricter
domestic discipline, might, without difficulty, accomplish this most
desirable reform.
   March 1836.


