
             194                    ROSS AND CROMARTY.

                 Antiquities.-On the estate of Letterfearn, near the harbour of
             Ob-Inag, are the remains of one of those singular structures, which,
             for want of a better name, have been denominated " Picts' houses."
             This building, like the rest of the same kind, is of a circular shape,
             having the faces of the wall separated by an interval, which, at the
             base, is 3 feet wide, but diminishes gradually upwards, until it en-
             tirely disappears.  Across this space, rows of band-stones are laid
             in a spiral manner, connecting the two faces of the wall.  The in-
             ternal diameter is 25 feet, and the thickness of the wall, including
             the enclosed space, is 9 feet.  An aperture of 4 by 5 feet occurs
             on the side that looks to the sea.  The building is constructed of
             flat stones., the greater number of which are of large size (that co-
             vering the entrance, which is of a triangular form, cannot weigh
             less than a ton,) apparently carried from a heap of stones of the
             same kind that occurs in the immediate vicinity.  These stones
             are laid with remarkable accuracy, especially on the external face,
             being so closely fitted as to leave no room for pinnings, but with-
             out mortar.  The internal surface is less carefully built; and no
             attention has been bestowed on smoothing the sides of the inter-
             yening space, into which the pointed ends of the longer stones are
             suffered to protrude far beyond the general level.   There is no
             tradition, except such as is manifestly fabulous, respecting the date
             or purpose of this building.  The peculiarity of its construction,
             indeed, indicates an origin too remote to leave room to expect that
             the case should be otherwise.  This is a subject, the investigation
             of which demands and merits more attention than it has hitherto
             received.  These towers seem to point to an era and a state of
             society, concerning which history is altogether silent.  Respecting
             the intention with which they were erected, no theory has yet been
             suggested that is not liable to objection.  The opinion of their
             having been strongholds for securing the cattle, is contradicted by
             their limited dimensions, and by the care bestowed, and the labour
             expended in their construction.  That they were intended as places
             of refuge from an invading enemy, is rendered equally improbable,
             by their being unprovided with loopholes for the discharge of wea-
             pons, and their being sometimes, as in the present instance, com-
             manded and overlooked by a neigbbouring eminence.  For begins
             permanent places of residence, they seem not at all adapted, hav-
             ing had neither windows nor roof; and did their construction, other-
             wise, admit of the supposition, that they 'were meant for watch-
             towers or beacons, the position of this one, which is situated in a

                                             1


