
     Statistical Account

exclusive of the glebe and manse, is 59 L. 15 s. 7 3/4 d.  Communion
elements, 5 L. 11 s. 1 4/12.; grass, 1 L. 13 s. 4 d.; 22 bolls 3 firlots
and 2 pecks of bear; 18 bolls of oat-meal; 1 boll 3 firlots
and 2 pecks of wheat.  The manse was built in the year
1774; both it and the offices are in good repair.  There are
4 acres of a glebe.  The Earl of Mansfield is patron.  The
Antiburghers have a meeting-house here.  Their minister is
a very prudent sensible man, quiet, and conscientious in the
discharge of his duty.  The spirit of secession has for some
time past been on the decline.  The members of the establish-
ment and the Antiburghers live in the most friendly habits.

   Schools and Poor.-There are 2 schools in the parish, at an
average about 50 scholars at each during the winter.  The
parochial schoolmaster has generally that number throughout
the year.  His salary, and perquisites as session-clerk, amounts
to about 9 L. 18 s.  He has likewise the interest of 190 L. and 1 L.
13 s. 4 d. from a mortification for teaching poor scholars.  The
fees for teaching are very low.  He has a good house, but no
garden.  His income will not exceed 30 L.-The poor's funds
are made up of the money collected on Sundays, and the
rent of 11 acres of land, called Kirk land, amounting annually
to about 25 L. Sterling.  The poor on these funds are from 13

were much discouraged), it was turned into a priory of regular canons of St
Augustine, who were brought, it is said, from the abbey of Inchassray.-FOR-
BES, in his Treatise on Tythes, fays, that "the Collegiate Church was found-
"ed by the Earl of Angus;" probably he meant ARCHIBALD Earl of Angus'
Lord of Abernethy, who gave the town a Charter of Privileges, August 23.
1476.  The Earl might be a benefactor to the Collegiate Church, or restore it
to a better state than it had been in for some time before, and, on that account,
might be said to have founded it.  To the above charter, a venerable man, Sir
JOHN FRIZZLE, (that is FRAZER), Provost of the Collegiate Church of Aber-
nethy, was one of the witnesses.  This charter was renewed by WILLIAM Earl
of Angus, at Holyroodhouse, on the 16th of November 1628.  By this chuter 
the government of Abernethy is vested in 2 bailies and 15 counsellors.


