
     Statistical Account

of the satisfaction of the contending powers, he received
from the King of Prussia a grant, for adding to his coat
of arms, the Eagle of Silesia, with this motto, Ex benc
merito, which was ratified by the Queen of Hungary.
In 1744, he went Ambassador to the Court of Russia,
where he continued till the end of 1749, and was
very instrumental in accelerating the peace of Aix la
Chapelle.  On his return to Britain, he was appointed
one of the Lords of the Bed-chamber, and of the Privy
Council.  While he thus served his country in a public
capacity, he was highly useful to the place of his nativity,
by employing, for many years, a great number of work-
men in the buildings, and extensive plantations, carried on
at Carmichael, and at Westraw, in the neighbouring parish
of Pettinain.  Upon these, the whole rent of the estate,
and sometimes more was expended.  There are at Carmi-
chael 1200 acres enclosed and subdivided by him.  The 
enclosing and planting was begun about the year 1738, and
mostly completed in the 1762.  The stone and earthen
fences at Carmichael alone, are said to measure 35 miles.
The enclosures are of differents sizes, containing from 20
to 30 acres, and upwards, surrounded by belts of plantation
of various breadths, from 40 to above 100 feet.  The
quantity of ground occupied by the plantations has not
been accertained, but the weedings here, and at Westraw,
yield near L. 200 annually.  The present Earl is adding
to the plantation, having planted this last season about
10,000 trees.  In the plantations here, is a great variety
of pines.  The larix grows fast in every soil, at the same
time yielding a close pored tough wood.  There was a la-
rix tree cut here, when 24 years old, the root cut of which
8 feet long, was squared into planks of the mean breadth of
17 inches.  The Scotch fir thrivers well in dry ground, as
does the silver fir in several soils, where it rises to a great
height, making a beautiful and striking appearance.  The


