
	                  KING-EDWARD.                              277

nected with the family of Craigston, if he did not reside in this pa-
rish, seems to have taken an interest in it, for the inscription on
the massive silver communion cups shews that they were a joint
present from Dr Guild, Sir Thomas Urquhart, and John Urqu-
hart of Craigfintrie, the former name of Craigston.
   Sir Whitelaw Ainslie M.D., the author of "Materia Indica" and
other works, for a considerable number of years before his death,
used to spend the summer months in this parish.  His remains are
interred within the church.
   Land-owners.-The heritors of the parish are, the Earl of Fife,
William Urquhart, Esq. of Craigston; James Grant Duff, Esq. of
Eden; Beauchamp Colclough Urquhart, Esq. of Meldrum, who
is proprietor of Byth, in this parish; Mrs Duff Mackay of Bal-
maud; and James Taylor, Esq. of Mill of Balmaud.
   Parochial Registers.-The date of the earliest parochial regis-
ter is 1704, when the first Presbyterian minister was settled.  The
register was kept with considerable attention for some years, but
for a very long period there were no entries in it.  The register of
baptisms commences in 1728, and the register of marriages in 1784.
   Antiquities.-The ruins of the castle of King-Edward stand
on a rocky eminence, on the east side of the Turriff and Banff
turnpike, about a mile and a quarter south-east of the church.  The
castle belonged originally to the Cumines, Earls of Buchan.  The
castle of Eden has also been long in ruins.  Craigston Castle, the
residence of William Urquhart, Esq. of Craigston, was built
about the beginning of the seventeenth century, by John Ur-
quhart, commonly called Tutor of Cromarty.  It is a fine old build-
ing, and the grounds about it are much embellished.  Byth
House is also an old building, but has been much enlarged and
improved by the present proprietor.  The grounds about it are
tastefully laid out, and ornamented with thriving wood.
   The church seems to have been built during the incumbency of
Dr Guild. His initials are engraved on a stone above the west
door.  From the date 1621, on an arched gateway leading, into
the church-yard, of the same style with the church, it would ap-
pear that the church had been erected about the same time.
   Within, and on the north wall, near the east end of the church,
is a monument with the following inscription: "Joannes Urqu-
hart, hoc in honorem Dei, et metris suae Beatricis Innes, domina a
Cromertie memoriam erexit opus, anno 1599.  The inscription is in
relief on a tablet of freestone, within a semicircular arch, around


