
324                    HADDINGTONSHIRE.

mastery, with much of the property belonging to it, was granted by
James VI. to Alexander Home, the possessor of the barony of
North Berwick; but his family failed, and the property was trans-
ferred successively to other owners, and in 1640 a ratification was
passed in Parliament of the right of Sir William Dick to the lands
and tithes of the barony. These possessions were many years af-
terwards acquired by Sir Hew Dalrymple, Lord President of the
College of Justice; who purchased also from the Marquis, after-
wards Duke of Douglas, representative of the Earls of Angus, the
remainder of the barony of North Berwick, styled the lands and
lordship with the fortalice of Tantallan. The property of the
whole has descended regularly in entail, and is now vested in Sir
Hew Dalrymple, Bart., the lineal descendant of the President of
the Court of Session.
   Eminent Characters.-Many illustrious men in ancient times
have lived and died in the parish of North Berwick, and illustri-
ous women too; the Lords of Tantallan, the Prioresses of the mo-
nastery, and the Martyrs of the Bass,-over most of whom the veil
of oblivion has long fallen, and it cannot be upraised. How very soon
the mighty and the famed, the learned and the good, fade into the
shade of forgotten time, without the faintest memorial even of their
existence; no note even to tell us where they sleep! So fares it
here with his house of Douglas, and the house of Home, and the
many beside, rich and powerful, and noted in their various genera-
tions. Tradition reports St Baldred, the disciple of St Kentigern,
and the apostle of East Lothian, as a resident on the Bass. He
died in the beginning of the seventh century.
   As an eminent character, celebrated in the fifteenth century, the
name of John Mair or Major must be recorded as a native of this
parish. * He was born at Gleghornie in 1469. He became a mem-
ber of Christ's College, Cambridge, where in 1518 he seems to have
written his learned history. He became a member of the University
of Glasgow, and bore the titles of Canon of the Chapel Royal and
Vicar of Dunlop. He is represented as Professor of Theology in
Glasgow in 1521, and one of the Deputati Rectoris; during that
year his work "De Gestis Scotorum" was published in Paris. He
remained in Scotland about five years, and taught theology in
the University of St Andrews; where, in 1525, Buchanan is stated

<FOOTNOTE>I am indebted to my esteemed friend, Mr Robert Chambers, for the knowledge
of this fact, in whose very valuable "Biographical Dictionary of Eminent Scotsmen,"
the more curious reader will find ample details regarding this learned historian.


