
                  460                   RENFREWSHIRE.
                                                 
                  attached to the church. The church and schoolhouse cost L. 1052,
                  4s. 3 1/2d/*
                     The stipends of all the recently erected parish churches in
                  Greenock are secured either in whole or in part by bond, except-
                  ing the last, But, much to the honour of the managers of that
                  church, it is provided in the constitution, granted by last General
                  Assembly, that, on the occurrence of a vacancy, a bond shall be
                  granted to the minister succeeding to the charge.
                      When the new church for the old parish shall be completed,
                  the total number of sittings in all the places of worship conected
                  with the Established Church will be about 9042-of which at
                  present 548 are free or set apart for the poor. It appears from
                  the Eighth Report of the Commissioners for Religious Instruction,
                  that, of the whole population of Greenock, 19,493 belong to the
                  Established Church and 2117 are of no den'omination of professing
                  Christians. Adding these two sums together, they amount to
                  21,610, of which about 14,000 belong to the poor and working
                  classes. It also appears from the testimony of one of the minis-
                  ters of Greenock, recorded in the same report, that he had ascer-
                  tained the number of sittings held by the poor and working classes
                  in his parish to be as 1 to 3 nearly; and by the wealthier
                  classes as 1 to 1 1/3. Supposing the proportion to be the same in
                  the other parishes, then of 9042, the total number of sittings in
                  the places of worship connected with the Established Church,
                  there are in round numbers 4600 held by the wealthier classes,
                  leaving only 4450 to the working classes and the poor-a number
                  greatly, below the legal allowance, though taking into account only
                  the population connected with the Established Church to the ex-
                  clusion of Dissenters.  With the growing population there will, it
                  is to be hoped, be an addition to the number of our churches with
                  soat-rents so moderate as to be accessible to the poorest persons
                  in the community. Nothing can be more gratifying to the church
                  extentionist, and, we may add, to every enlightened and liberal-
                  minded Christian, than the success of the experiment in this
                  town, so far as it has been already made. If the Church Exten-

                  <FOOTNOTE>In a preceding part of this Account the writer has expressed his doubts of the
                  accuracy of the statements in the first Statistical Account, respecting an ancient chapel
                  near the east end of the town, said to have been called St Lawrence's Chapel. On
                  more minute inquiry, he finds that the ruins of that chapel did not exist near the site of
                  what is now the Easr Caurek. Some of the old men of the last gendration, now de-
                  ceased, remembered to have seen them.
                       Eighth Report, p. 305.
                                                   

