
     of Strachur and Stralachlan.

the neighbouring hills.  It is seen from Inverary, and from
many parts at a great distance.  It is called Sien-Sluai, the
fairy habitation of a multitude*.  On the top of it, which
is flat, ashes have been found, and bits of timber half burnt,
within the area of a circular building, whose foundations can
be easily traced.  The area is now covered with moss of
considerable depth.  Tradition reports, and it is very like-
ly, that it was one of those alarm-towers so frequent in
the north of Scotland.  There were chains of them on
conspicuous high grounds from the west to the east coast.
They were constantly watched when there were any ap-
prehensions of the approach of an enemy.  By kindling a
fire or fires, the arrival of a hostile fleet on the coast, and
even the number of the ships was announced, in a very
short space of time, tof the most distant corner of the king-
dom.-There is an obelisk in the midst of a plain field,
within 80 yards of Strachur-house, the residence of Gene-
ral Campbell of Strachur.  About 15 years ago, when
the General was building his house, there was number
of stones of different sizes about this obelisk.  He was told
that they were the remains of a druidical circle, and gave
particular orders that none of tne stones should be remo-
ved; on purpose, that any person conversant in antiquities
might be enabled to trace the circle.  The stones, how-
ever, were mostly taken away in the General's absence.
It does not, however, appear, that this obelisk was any
part of a druidical circle.  It is most likely that it was
erected as a memorial of the death of some man of emi-
nence, who had been killed on that spot; a custom which
was very prevalent in the Highlands.  This obelisk is 10

     VOL. IV. 4 B

<FOOTNOTE>

*A belief in fairies prevailed very much in the Highlands of old; nor
at this day is it quite oblituated.  A small conical hill called Sien, was
assigned them for a dwelling, from which melodies music was frequently
heard, and gleam.  Might seen in dark nights.


