
                  LISMORE AND APPIN.                     253

houses.  The other missionary is placed between Glencoe and
Glencreran, in the parish of Appin, and Glenetive in the parish
of Ardehattan.  His services are intended to be equally divided
between the three glens.  His charge is exceedingly difficult, ow-
ing, to the great distances over hill and dale, that he has to travel;
and it often happens in stormy weather, that he is not able to ob-
serve the regular rotation.
   There are two Episcopalian chapels in this parish; one near the
slate quarry in Glencoe, and the other at Portnacroish, in Strath
of Appin, and these are served by the same minister who offici-
ates alternately in each, to respectable congregations.  The ma-
jority of the heritors of Appin are of this persuasion, and I am
glad to have this opportunity of bearing testimony to their good
wishes to ther Establishment, as well as their kindness to its minis-
ters.  I do not think that there is a parish in Scotland in which
the Episcopalian heritors deserve at the hands of the Establish-
ment more honourable mention to be made of their names.
   The Roman Catholic Seminary, which was planted in Lismore
in 1801, was removed from the island in 1831, and left no vestige of
that religion behind them; but there is a Catholic chapel and priest's
house near the slate quarry of Bailechelish.  There are fifteen fa-
milies of them in that locality, of people who came there origin-
ally from other places, to work in the quarries, and eventually got
themselves established there with families.  The priest of Fort-
William visits them frequently and remains among them for a
short period at a time, and I believe that there is a priest about to
be, if he is not already, established permanently among them.
Bishop Scott, otherwise Bishop of Eretria, residing in Glas-
gow, is their Bishop.  Besides these, there are no other Dissen-
ters or Seceders in the parish, except three or four Anabap-
tists in Lismore.  The number of communicants in the Es-
tablished Church is about 900, and divine service is generally
well attended.  Formerly the sacrament used to be dispensed al-
ternately in Lismore and Appin, but for the last three years it
has been dispensed both in Lismore and in Appin yearly.
   Education.-There are eight schools in the parish, and of these
six are parochial, of which two are in Lismore, the parochial
stent bding divided among them.  From the principal school in
Appin, there emanated three branches, one of them is in Glen-
creran, one in Glencoe, and the other in Duror, and each of
the teachers gets a portion of the parochial salary.  Besides these,


