
                           ABERCORN.                       30

veyance; and the line of the Edinburgh and Glasgow  Railway,
runs alongside, and in some parts but a few yards distant from the
canal. No harbour or qoal exist, but small vessels with coal un-
load their cargoes on the beach, in the bay at Society; and lime-
stone is some times exported in the same manner.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The church stands near the centre of
the north boundary of the parish, and close to the sea shore. This
situation is tolerably convenient, being about three miles from the
extreme points, while the greater part of the population reside
within two miles. Part of the church is very ancient; the date of
its original erection is, however, unknown; it was enlarged and
fitted up soon after the Reformation, some of the old wood-work
bearing A. D. 1579. Built at various periods without much re-
gard to convenience or beauty, the form is most irregular, and the
accommodation was wretched until 1838, when a thorough repair
took place. Being now drained, floored, the walls lathed, and a
heated air apparatus constructed, it forms a comfortable place of
worship, nearly adequate to the wants of the community. There
are no sittings let, the whole, with the exception of the private
seats of the heritors, being allotted to the parishioners. The
church bell, of considerable size, and handsome workmanship,
presented by a naval gentleman, was formerly the bell of a Danish
ship of war, and formed part of the spoil at the battle of Copen-
hagen. Part of the manse is of an unknown date; additions have
been made to it at various times; it was last altered and repaired
in 1832. The garden is large, walled, and productive. The
glebe contains between five, and six acres, and might let for,L15
a-year. The stipend consists of the following items: bolls of
wheat (old measure,) 4 1/5 1/4; barley, 92; meal, 16; total,
192; money, L. 450; for communion elements, L. 8, 6s. 8d.; and
the, whole may average L. 240. There is no dissenting place of
worship in the parish; the nearest is at Queensferry. The num-
bers belonging to different denominations were in 1832 as follows,
nor have the proportions much altered since; Seceders, 12 do.; 41 do;
192 families; 948 persons of all ages; Seceders, 12 do., 41 do;
Episcopalians, 1 do; 2 do. The church a attendance is very good.
A communion-roll, embracing all the members, has been kept
since 1832, and regularly revised by the kirk-session previous to
the dispensation of the Lord's Supper, which takes place twice a-
year. The number on that roll is at present 390; the average
number of communicant at each time, is 350. The kirk-session,


