
328                          AYRSHIRE.

demand, who will frequently receive L. 5 or even more in the half
year, but then they will perhaps have the milking of twelve or fifteen
cows, and the charge of making the cheese likewise. Colliers can
earn 4s. a day.
	Quarries and Mines.--As before-mentioned, there is a great
variety of stone. In the neighbourhood of the village, it is gene-
rally a red sandstone. There is a quarry of freestone upon the
banks of the Lugar, which is in great demand for mill-stones.
There is a stone at Wallacetown said to be fire proof, and used
for building ovens. There are two considerable quarries of lime-
stone; the principal of these, upon the Auchinleck property, an-
nually yields about 50,000 bushels, or 5000 carts of shells, and
is considered to be peculiarly adapted for land; the other the
property of Mr Limond of Dalblair, about 20,000 bushels. They
are situate about five miles above the more populous part of the pa-
rish. There is an inferior species of coal found close beside them
with which the lime is burned. The limestone itself is very near
the surface of the ground, and varies from six to fourteen feet in
thickness. It is chiefly used for agricultural purposes. When
the land has just been reclaimed, from twenty-five to thirty carts
of lime are frequently put upon the acre; when it has been long-
er in cultivation, perhaps not above twenty. Limestone is also
found on the farms of Boghead and Tarreoch, and at Dornal.
	The coal has already been alluded to. It has been wrought
from time immemorial on the Auchinleck estate; and pits have
more recently been opened on the lands of Mr Alexander of Bal-
lochmyle. Both works have steam-engines connected with them.
Only two seams fitted for use have as yet been discovered, and
these vary from a yard to 4 feet in thickness. The pits are about
30 fathoms in depth. About 20 or 24 men are usually employed
in them; and they annually put out about 8456 tons. The sale
is not confined to this parish, but several of the neighbouring pa-
rishes are more or less supplied with coal from these pits. The
price of coal at the pit is not generally more than 5s. or 5s. 6d.
per ton.
	Produce.--The following is the gross amount of raw produce
raised annually in the parish, as nearly as can be ascertained:

<TABLE>

         Grain of all kinds,                   L.4800
         Potatoes, turnips, &c.                      600
         Ryegrass and meadow-hay,                   1820
         Produce of cows,                           4100
         Produce of sheep,                          1650


