
200                       RENFREWSHIRE.

regularly built street in Paisley is George Street;  but, in point of
elegance of buildings, none can equal Forbes Street, which is lately
opened.  The new town, which is separated from the old by the
river Cart, was planned by James eighth Earl of Abercorn, who
named most of the projected streets, in honour of the trade and
manufactures of the place.  The first houses in this important ad-
dition to Paisley were erected in 1779.  It now consists of upwards
of twenty regularly formed and closely built streets.
   The town of Paisley, upon the whole, although well built, can-
not cope in elegance with some of the larger towns of Scotland.
Of late years, however, its appearance has been greatly improved
by several low thatched houses having given way to neat and sub-
stantial tenements.  Improvemets of this description are in rapid
progress.  Of modern erections, Garthland Place may be point-
ed out, at the entrance to Paisley from the east, as one of the
most elegant rows of which any town in Scotland can boast; and
in passing along the streets, may be seen several handsome, if not
splendid houses, intermingled with the ordinary dwellings of the
inhabitants.
   At Williamsburghi, a village or suburb, east of the town, were
erected, about fifteen years ago, barracks, adequate to the accommo-
dation of half a regiment of foot.  These barracks are commodious
and pleasantly situated.
   Charleston, including Lylesland and Dovesland, is a district, to
the south of Paisley, inhabited chiefly by weavers, and containing,
although most of it is built within these few years, a population
of nearly 4000 inhabitants.
   Maxweton, Ferguslie,and Millerston, form the western suburbs
of Paisley, and with;the places just mentioned, are comprehended
within the parliamentary burgh.  From the great space occupied
by the town and suburbs of Paisley; from the sloping character
of the ground, on which great part of it is built; and from the house
in general having a considerable portion of unoccupied ground be-
hind them, and some of them tastefully laid out gardens, Paisley
may, upon the whole, be considered as a healthy place of residence,
not with standing the occasional visitations of epidemical disease.
   Villages.-In the parish, beside the suburbs of Paisley, we have
to mention the following villages, viz. Nitshill, Hurlet, Corsemill,
and Dovecothall, in the south-east; and Eldenslie, Thorn, Over-


