
			CAMBUSLANG.                      427

Edinburgh, M'Knight of Irvine, M'Laurin of Glasgow, Currie
of Kinglassie, Bonner of Torphichen, Robe of Kilsyth, &c. The
sacrament on the 15th August was very numerously attended.
One tent was placed at the lower extremity of the amphitheatre
above alluded to, near the joining of the two rivulets; and here
the sacrament was administered. A second tent was erected
in the churchyard, and a third in a green field a little to the
west of the first tent. Each of these were attended with great
congregations, and it has been estimated that not less than
30,000 people attended on that occasion. Four ministers preach-
ed on the fast day, 4 on Saturday, 14 or 15 on Sunday, and 5 on
Monday. There were 25 tables, about 120 at each, in all 3000
communicants. Many of these came from Glasgow, about 200
from Edinburgh, as many from Kilmarnock, and from Irvine and
Stewarton, and also some from England and Ireland. The Cam-
buslang work continued for six months, from 8th February to
15th August 1742. The number of persons converted at this
period cannot be ascertained. Mr M'Culloch, in a letter to Mr
Robe, dated 30th April 1751, rates them at 400, of which num-
ber 70 were inhabitants of Cambuslang. The 18th of February,
the day on which this extraordinary work began, was, long after,
observed in the parish partly as a day of humiliation and fasting for
misimprovement of mercies, and partly as a day of thanksgiving for
the season of grace to many in the British colonies, and particular-
ly in this small corner in 1741 and 1742.* The secession clergy,
who had lately broken off from the church, viewed these transac-
tions in a very unfavourable light, and evidently with a malignant

<FOOTNOTE>When the present venerable and learned incumbent of Cambuslang entered on
the charge of the parish, a number of the converts of 1742 still lived, and gave evi-
dence, by the piety and consistency of their conduct, of the reality of the saving change
that had been wrought on their hearts. So late as July 1818, the writer of this note
heard an aged clergyman of a neighbouring parish allude in the church of Cambus-
lang, on a Monday after a communion, to the revival in the following terms: He
had been speaking of the time and place in which God had been pleased to afford
extraordinary manifestations of His power and grace in the conversion of sinners, and
in comforting and strenthening his people, and he added, "Such was Bethel to the
Patriarch Jacob, Tabor to the three disciples, and such was this place about seventy-six
years ago, of whom I am told some witnesses remain to this present hour, but the
greater part are fallen asleep." If any one is still so bold as to allege that the work
at Cambuslang was "a work of the Devil," he will find no countenance from the serious
part of the inhabitants of the district in which it took place. No one ever attempt-
ed to justify every thing that was said or done at that memorable period; but, on the
other hand, it is hoped that the warmth of party spirit will no longer prevent good
men from admitting what even the correspondent of Mr Wishart of Edinburgh was
constrained to acknowledge in regard to the revival in New England at that time,
"that an appearance so much out of the ordinary way, and so, unaccountable to per-
sons not acquainted with the history of the world, was the means of awakening the
attention of many, and that a good number settled into a truly Christian temper."


