
			ARDROSSAN.                              201

	Agricultural Society.--A society, embracing nine contiguous
parishes, formed with the view of giving encouragement to the
raising of live-stock and other agricultural produce, holds its meet-
ings in this parish. It is chiefly supported by the farmers. Lord
Eglinton is patron, and several of the county gentlemen are mem-
bers of it. Its annual meeting is held on the fourth Thursday of
November, when premiums are awarded to successful competitors
for stock, farm, and dairy produce. Premiums are also given for
the best managed farms, and the most neatly kept courts and en-
trances about the steadings.

			V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	In this parish there are two sea ports, Saltcoats and Ardrossan.
	Saltcoats.--Saltcoats stands partly in the parish of Stevenston,
and partly in this parish. The harbour is in the Stevenston part
of Saltcoats. The town contains about 4000 inhabitants, of whom
nearly two-thirds belong to this parish. The population consists
chiefly of sailors and weavers, shopkeepers, joiners, masons, black-
smiths, &c. The weavers, who form a large proportion of the in-
habitants, (there are upwards of 450 looms in the Ardrossan side
of Saltcoats,) are chiefly employed by the manufacturers of Glas-
gow and Paisley. The kind of work done is lappets, gauzes,
shawls, trimmings, silks, &c. Many families are employed in sew-
ing muslin.
	Ardrossan.--Ardrossan, which may be said to be the capital of
the parish, owes its origin to its harbour, and is yet only in its in-
fancy. It is built on a regular plan, and, when completed, will do
honour to the taste and judgment of the projector, the late Hugh
Earl of Eglinton. The streets are wide, straight, and cross at right
angles. The houses are all of two storeys, well finished, neat and
comfortable. There are several very excellent houses built for sea-
bathing quarters, and which afford very genteel and commodious
lodgings. There are a few good shops which supply the necessa-
ries and conveniences of life, and sea-chandlery on a small scale.
Ardrossan has hitherto been well frequented as a sea-bathing place.*
Ship-building on a small scale, is carried on, by an active and en-
terprising man, a Mr Henderson, who has hitherto found it to be
no unprofitable speculation. The town of Ardrossan is a place of

<FOOTNOTE>The late Duke of Buccleuch, the Earl of Home, the Earl of Glasgow, the
Lord Justice-Clerk, the late Sir Alexander Muir Mackenzie, of Delvine, Lady
Olivia Sparrow, Lord and Lady Mandeville, and several other families of distinction,
have spent the summer at Ardrossan for the benefit of sea-bathing.


