
68			KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

shaker"), stone crop (two species), Sherardia arvensis, sea gilly-
flower (Statice armeria), speedwell (three species), strawberry, St
John's wort (six species, Hypericum hirsutum, humifusum, perfo
ratum, pulchrum, quadrangulum and dubium), tansy, Teucrium,
Tormentilla, Trollius violet, winter-green (Pyrola), woodruff,
woundwort (two species).

<TABLE>

Anagallis arvensis	 Geranium sylvaticum      Orobus tuberosus
--------- caerulea       -------- lucidum         Origanum vulgare
--------- tenella        Genista tinetoria        Parnassia palustris
Anthyllis vulneraria     Hippuris vulgaris        Pinguicula lusitanica
Astragalus glycyphyllus  Ilex aquifolium          Polygonum bistorta
Atrops Belladonna        Juniperus communis       Rubus saxatilis
Chelidonium majus        Melampyrum sylvaticum    Sanguisorba officinalis
Circaea lutetisna        Myrica gate              Smyrnium Olusatrum
Drosera longifolia       Ononis arvensis          Scilla verna
------- rotundifolia     ------ spinosa           Serratula tinctoria
Euonymus Europaeus       Orobus sylvestris

	It would be unpardonable to dismiss this very imperfect enu-
meration, without adverting more particularly to the Geranium
sanguineum, or bloody cranesbill, which grows along the banks of
the Dee in such profusion and beauty, during the months of June
and July, as to excite the admiration of every one who sees it.
Many of the rocks are covered with this lovely flower. Scarcely
inferior to it in beauty, and, in the opinion of some, even surpass-
ing it, is the Geranium pratense, which is likewise uncommonly
abundant; but, being a taller and more straggling plant than the
other, the blossoms, from the want of compactness, do not pro-
duce the same gorgeous effect. The quantity of wild haney-
suckle, too, is immense, especially of late years; and to one who
has a taste for such pleasures, I can imagine nothing more en-
chanting than a solitary walk by the side of this river on a serene
summer evening when the wild flowers are in full blossom, to
gaze on the deep crimson of the cranesbill, or the graceful fes-
toons and exquisite tint of the convolvulus, to inhale the fragrance
of the honeysuckle and the sweetbriar, and to bear the notes of
innumerable birds mixing with the murmur of the stream.
	In the above slight account of the botany of this parish, I have not
noticed either the grasses or the cryptogamic plants. To attempt a
complete enumeration of them would far exceed the limits proper to
a work of this nature; and it is the less necessary, as I rather
think that there is nothing in them peculiar either to the parish
or to the neighbourhood. However, as I have not had the oppor-
tunity of comparing them with those in other parts of the country,
I may very possibly be mistaken. Many of the Agarics are ex-
tremely beautiful, and some of them are very large. The same


