
                           ROSENEATH.                        109

ous distraction, he rushed from his cottage, and drowned himself
in the Gareloch. So awful and sudden an event was not unblest
to the poor widow: the result was her entire and almost immediate
restoration to soundness of mind.
    Hydrography.-As might be expected from the nature of the
parish, there are many small rivulets, or brooks, descending from
the higher grounds. In rainy weather, these give an aspect of
great liveliness to the scenery on both shores, increasing at times
from brawling brooklets to impetuous torrents, and showing in the
lower parts of their course many cascades of various and pictu-
resque beauty. During the piercing frosts of our severer winters,
there may thus be seen an endless variety of columnar congelia-
tions, glancing through the leafless brushwood of the bolder rocky
banks; while during the intense beats of summer, the streams
which should replace them entirely disappear.
  Of late years, there have been several waterspouts of unusual
magnitude on the Gareloch side; and, as these occurred at one
locality, there must in all probability be something in the nature
and form of the ground to occasion the coincidence.
    There is one small lake in the parish contiguous to Tamnahara.
It is not deep, but its waters are very pure, and it affords what
may be considered rather good perch fishing. A small stream
from this lonely and elevated lake falls into Loch Long near the
north-west extremity of the parish; but this, like our other streams,
is very inconsiderable during the warm summer months.
   There are but few perennial springs: one of these, near the
old mansion-house at Clachan, is nearly of the same temperature
at all seasons; and in droughty summers has been occasionally re-
sorted to from considerable distances. The other, in the Clachan
glen, called the Minister's well, is slightly chalybeate, and, like the
former, scarcely varies in its temperature.
   Although there are no fresh water rivers, there is a considerable
stream in the tides of the Gareloch at Roseneath Ferry. These
are very remarkable, as well for their rapidity as their varying di-
rection, occasioned by the narrowing of the loch at the Row-Point,
and the various headlands or horns of the contiguous bays. The
waters both in Loch Long and Loch Gare are generally clear,-
their depth varies from 10 to 30 fathoms, and the saltness of nei-
ther is materially diminished by the waters of the Clyde. In Loch
Long, the current runs about two miles, and in the Gareloch three
or four miles, an hour.



