
90                     BERWICKSHIRE.

   There have been three illegitimate births during the last three,
years.
   Character of the People.-The general character of the people,
intellectual, moral, and religious, is respectable; they are desirous
of useful information, peaceable, honest, industrious, and attentive
to public worship.

                         IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture and Rural Economy.-The number of acres which
are cultivated in this parish is about 5000. There may be nearly
12,000 acres which never have been cultivated, remaining con-
stantly in pasture. All the land seems at present in tillage that
would repay the expense of cultivation. There is only one small
piece of undivided common: it does not exceed ten acres, and is
called the King's Inch. There is no wood here of natural growth.
The plantations cover about 200 acres; the trees generally planted
are larches and Scotch firs, mixed with elm and ash. They seem
to be properly managed, and thriving.
   Rent of Land.-The average rent of arable land is 25s. an
acre. The average rent of grazing for a cow or ox, is L. 4; for a
sheep, 15s. The real rent of the parish is L. 5400.
   Rate of Wages.-The rate of wages for farm-servants, with
victuals, is, in summer, for men, L. 5; women, L. 4; in winter,
men, L. 3; women, L. 2. Most of the farm-servants are married,
and have cottages on the farms. They are paid in a different way,
with corn or meal and potatoes, their wages amounting to nearly
the same value as those of single men. Day-labourers receive, in
summer, weekly, about 12s., in winter, 9s.
   Live-Stock.-The common breed of sheep on the hills is the
old Scotch black-faced sort. The Cheviot breed is common in
the lower districts of the parish. On some farms the Leicester-
shire has been tried, and found suitable. The plan of husbandry
commonly followed is that of four courses, generally practised on
soils fit for raising turnips. Neither the soil nor climate encourages
the growth of wheat, which, accordingly, is not generally attempt-
ed, or only in small quantities.
   Husbandry.-There were lately several farms held on leases of
the duration of a life, and some for longer periods, extending even
to several lives. These are all expired but two; and about twenty
years is now the common term for the continuance of alease. The
arable land is nearly all enclosed with good hedges of thorn, or
with thorn mixed with beech; some of the pasturage is enclosed
			      3


