
     Statistical Account

   Fast Castle is situated on the banks of the sea, on the N. W.
corner of this parish.  It is now in complete ruins.  It must,
from the steepness of the rocks on which it stood, have been
Inaccessible on all parts, except by a narrow neck, or entry from
the land, of a few feet in breadth.  At the date of Gowry's
conspiracy, it belonged to Logan of Restalrigg.  Every body
knows his sate, or rather that of his family.  Several years af-
ter he was in his grave, he was tried and condemned, and his
whole estates were forfeited, and bestowed upon the then Earl
of Dunbar, for his being engaged in that conspiracy: A sil-
ly body of the name of Sprot, a notary in Eyemouth, pro-
duced some treasonable letters that passed between Gowry and
Logan; and he was rewarded by being hanged at Edinburgh
cross.  There was a fortalice, on family castle at Renton, an-
other at Houndwood, one at West Preston, and one at East
Preston, in which the proprietors of these estates resided.  They
have been all demolished, since the commencement of this cen-
tury, and the stones and materials applied to other purposes.

<FOOTNOTE>

sprung, they could not weather the Head, but landed in some part near it, pro-
badly at Coldingham lands; and being hospitably received by the bishop or
prior of Coldingham, she was soon appointed Abbess, or some such dignified
rank in that church, and, from a principle of gratitude, built that chapel as
her own expense, after which the promontory was known by the name of St.
Abb's head.  There is also a tradition, and it even appears in some part of the
history of these times, (which by the by the writer hereof never read), that upon
an invasion of the Danes, this Lady Ebba, or some of the succeeding Abbess,
and her or then nuns of Coldingham, cut off their noses, for preventing their
being violated by those terrible foes.  And by way of control to that very
singular mode of preserving their chastity, it is said that the Pope, in some of his
charters to this Convent, indulged the Monks with the use of some females at
certain periods, of purganats rents; and that some of these charters are pre-
served in the cathedral of Durham to this day.  And it has been always current-
ly reported and believed here, that all the principal writings and archives of
this priory were carried off and deposited at Durham, some time before the Re-
formation, and also some of their largest bolls.


