
                          PARISH OF ABERLOUR.

                      PRESBYTERY OF ABERLOUR, SYNOD OF MORAY.

                     THE REV. ALEXANDER WILSON, MINISTER.


                 I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
            Name.-THE name of this parish was originally Skirkdustan,
        from the word Skir, meaning, in the original Gaelic, to cut or di-
        vide, and Dustan, the name of its tutelary saint; the whole signify-
        ing Dustan's division or parish.  It takes its modern name of Aber-
        lour from its situation, the word literally signifying the locality near
        the influx of a noisy burn ; which burn, discharges itself into the
        Spey, about the middle'of the northern boundary of the parish.
           Boundaries, Extent, &c.-Aberlour is situated in the western
        part of the county of Banff; about 34 miles from the county town;
        14 miles from Keith ; 14 from Elgin ; and 5 from Dufftown.
           The form of the parish nearly resembles a wedge. It extends
        9 miles along the southern bank of the Spey, from the hill of Car-
        ron on the west, to the influx of the Fiddich on the east, forming
        its northern boundary.  Its eastern boundary, which represents the
        point of the wedge, extends backwards from the junction of the Fid-
        dich with the Spey, for about a mile of arable ground in a south-
        east direction; the line of boundary then rises, in a southwest di-
        rection, along the summit of the Conval hills, and gradually diverg-
        es from the Spey, until, reaching the western boundary at the south-
        western extremity, it makes the greatest breadth of the parish
        nearly equal to its length.
           On the north, it is separated from the parishes of Knockando
        and Rothes by the river Spey; on the east, from Boharm, by the
        small river Fiddich ; on the southeast, from Mortlach by the Con-
        val hills, and the brook Dullan in the vale of Glenrinnes; and on
        the west, from Inveraven, by a line that passes from the rivulet Ter-
        vey over the western shoulder of Benrinnes and the hill of Carron
        on the river Spey.
            Topographical Appearances.- There is an almost complete moun-
        tain chain towards the southern part of the parish, consisting of the


