
                  COUNTY OF RENFREW.                      551

the barony into a principality in 1405, which, with some other
lands, was granted in free regality during the life of his son.  The
tenures of land in this county were only changed from ward to
blench after the 25th of March 1748.  The battle of Langside
in 1568 was another trying period for the people of Renfrewshire,
who naturally felt an interest in the cause of the Stewarts, of
whom Defoe in his Caledonia thus sings,
         Stewart, ancient as the hills from which they sprung;
         The mountains still do to the name belong:
         From hence they branch to every high degree,
         And foreign courts embrace the progeny.
  The Castle of Crookstone in this county is intimately connected
with the history and fate of Mary Queen of Scots.  Wilson in
his Clyde thus happily groups some of the most striking circum-
stances connected with that royal lady's first and last abode in her
ancestorial domains in the west.  The passage is so beautiful and
striking, and the poem being somewhat scarce, we the more rea-
dily submit it to the perusal of the reader.
           "By Crookstone Castle waves the still green yew,
            The first that met the Royal Mary's view,
            Where, bright in charms, the youthful Princess led
            The graceful Darnley to her throne and bed:
            Embossed in silver, now, its branches green
            Transcend the myrtle of the Paphian queen.
              But dark Langside, from Crookstone viewed afar,
            Still seems to range in pomp the rebel war.
            Here, when the moon rides dimly through the sky,
            The peasant sees broad dancing standards fly,
            And one bright female form, with sword and crown,
            Still grieves to view her banners beaten down."
During the reign of Mary's son, the inhabitants of the barony, in
common with many, or perhaps all of the western counties, partook
of the insecurity and inconveniences connected  with these turbulent
and unsettled times.  In the printed Acts of Parliament, we find
that, on the 29th June 1598, the inhabitants of Renfrew, Bute,
Dumbarton, and Carrick, were summoned by proclamation to
meet at the town of Dumbarton, concerning "the disobedience of
the inhabitants of Kyntyre and uthris partis of Iles and Heelan-
dis of this realme, committing vyle and beestlie murthur, slaugh-
teris, reiff, thift, open herschipps, oppressionis and depredationis,
upon the hail inhabitantis of countries next adjacent."  And as if
their personal services and bodily presence at Dumbarton had
not been enough, all having an yearly rent of 300 merks in heri-
tage, or annual rent, if residing within the above districts, are or-
dered to furnish the King with "feir of weir, with schippis, cre-


