
			   AYR.                              63

their joint expense, and a large handsome window, with an edging
of stained glass, opened up at the west end, which has a fine effect.
The front seat is allotted to the convener, and the deacons of the
different incorporations, and formerly the benches behind were
filled with tradesmen and their apprentices indiscriminately. This,
to strangers, had rather a novel appearance, by exhibiting a dense
congregated mass of men, without any mixture of females. Since
the gallery has been repaired, however, one-half of it has been
formed into pews, and let to tradesmen and their families at an
annual scat rent, which assimilates it more. to the portions occu-
pied by other parts of the congregation. The other half is appro-
priated, as before to tradesmen, journeymen, and apprentices, who
choose to sit there. Several of the trades have separate widows funds
of their own, which it is optional on the members to enter or not, as
they may feel inclined, and the annual payments vary from Is. to
8s. The ulterior benefits derived, from them of course, bear a
similar porportion. The convener's board of deacons are respec-
tively chosen by the corporations, and have a general superintend-
ence of what concerns them as a united body, each retaining the
separate management of its own affairs.
	Writers' Society--This association was called originally "The
Fraternity of Procurators in Ayr" but the period when it com-
menced cannot now be ascertained. Its records extend no further
back, than 1710; but that it was in existence before that time,
these records themselves seem evidently to intimate. It then con-
sisted of eight or ten members; and its object was, to provide, a
fund for the relief of their wives and children after their decease,
and also for themselves in case of indigence.  So far back as the
record-book extends, the dues of admission were five merks from
each apprentice to one of the fraternity, and ten pounds Scots on
his admission as a member, while those who had not served with
one of the society, paid one hundred merks Scots, the entry-money
being the same in both cases.  In 1710, the funds of the society
amounted to only one hundred merks, and along with the interest,
were disposed of from time to time, according to the pleasure of
the members, there being no definite object in view. But in the
year 1772, the funds having accumulated to L.243, 18 11d.
Sterling, it was agreed that each member should make an annual
contribution of a Guinea, besides other small occasional payments,
so as to enable the society to give a reasonable annuity to the
wives and childten of deceased members. The annuity was fixed


