
312                      PERTHSHIRE.

lation, it may be said to contain about 80 square miles.  Its figure
is very irregular, extending downwards into the vales of the Allan
and the Earn. It is bounded on the north-west by Comrie and
Monivaird; on the north by Crieff; on the north-east by Madderty;
on the east by Trinity-Gask; on the south-east by Blackford;
and on the south-west by Dunblane. The village is three miles
from Crieff, nineteen from Stirling, and about the same distance
from Perth.
   As to the general appearance of this parish, it is sufficiently diver-
sified, and will be judged so by the traveller in passing through it;
but if viewed at a distance from the east, all inequalities are lost
sight of, except that of Torlum Hill, and the aspect which it then
assumes is that of two inclined planes, ascending gradually from
the north and south extremes to a transverse ridge of considera-
ble elevation. The transverse ridge, however, is found to be double
as we come near it, and between the ridges flows the river Machony.
The one ridge or part next to Muthill village, extends in a circuitous
direction onwards to the foot of Torlum, and is in a state of culti-
vation; the other, bleak and barren, known by the name of Corry-
aur, extends from the Muir of Orchill westerly, until it terminates
abruptly amongst other hills wild as itself.
   The south ridge may be considered the natural division of the
parish, and has led us to speak of the Muthill side and the Ardoch
side. Each of these sides has its attractions and its beauties; the
one has its Allan and its Knock rivers; the other its Earn and Ma-
chony; each has its kirk and village, its woods and cultivated lands;
but yet we are inclined to think that the observing traveller must
give a preference to the Muthill side. And that he may do so, we
would place him on the eminence of the northern ridge, on his
way from Ardoch by the military road. In this position he sees
the parish church, a stately Gothic building, with its adjacent
cleanly village, looking through the rows of shrubs and trees,-
roads in several directions, half-shaded over with limes and chest-
nuts,-large fields in the highest state of cultivation, and the wind-
ing Earn moving slowly through them. But this is not all. On
his left is Drummond Castle, full in view, whose shattered walls re-
mind him of other days; and behind it is Torlum hill, 1400 feet
above the level of the sea, unsurpassed for beauty, in its conical shape
and its evergreen trees; and then before him is lofty Benchoan, and
Turret Glen, and the Knock with Crieff on its sloping side; and
on his right, the far extending prospect to the hills of Sidla.

