
                                  ADERLOUR.                      117

     dustrious in their habits, neat and cleanly in their persons, and
     temperate in their diet, which, although animal food is occasionally
     used in the poorest families, principally, consists, among
     the labouring classes, of milk and vegetable fare of their own produce.
     They are in general contented and comfortable in their
     circumstances.  Nor are they behind their neighbours, in point of
     shrewdness and intelligence.  They are, in general, very well informed
     according to their station in life, and the tone of their minds
     may certainly be considered as moral and religious.  A consider-
     able change for the better in these respects is understood to have
     taken place since the suppression of smuggling,-a case of which is
     now scarcely ever heard of within the bounds of the parish.
                              IV.-INDUSTRY.
       The cultivated parts of the parish, which may be about one-half
     of its whole extent, and a great proportion of which has been im-
     proved within the last twelve years, are divided into farms, of from
     L. 10 to L. 100 of yearly rent, generally under leases of nineteen
     years' duration.  Some of the farms are inclosed by good stone
     fences, and the farm-buildiDgs are in general substantial and com-
     modious.
       Rent of Land.-The average rent per acre may be reckoned at
     L. 1, 5s., inclusive of permanent pasture susceptible of cultivation,
     the extent of which may be again estimated at about one-twen-
     tieth part of what is tinder the plough.  Some moors, too, in the
     centre of the parish may be undercultivation in the course of years.
       The soil, with due culture, is in general capable of raising all
     sorts of grain, barley, oats, wheat, pease, &c.; and it is remarked,
     that the average weight of barley here is from a pound and a-half
     to two pounds more per bushel than in the heavier soils of the
     neighbouring parishes Mortlach and Glass.
       All the farmers raise black-cattle of the Morayshire breed, an
     those near the hills keep a flock of sheep of the hardy black-faced
     kind; but, on the whole, grain is the staple commodity the farmer
     has to depend on.
       Prices.-Witbin the last two years, the price of oats has varied
     from 16s. to L. 1, 2s. per quarter; barley from L., 1, Is to L. 1, 4s
       Rate of Wages.-The rate of wages to farm-servants may be
     stated as follows: for a first or principal man, L. 6 per half year,
     a ploughman, L. 4, 1 Os,; and maid-servants from L. 1, 10s. to L. 2                                                         s.
     all inclusive of lodging and maintenance.  Tradesmen's wages
     are moderate, mason and carpenters' work being furnished by es-                        


