
			KILBIRNIE.                            711

			IV.--INDVSTRY.
	Agriculture.--The statements under this head are given with
confidence, on the authority of Robert Logan, Esq. of Baillieston,
one of the most spirited and enterprising agriculturists in the dis-
trict.
	The parish contains in all 8576 Scotch acres, of which there
were in 1839,

<TABLE>
		Under crop,	                        1280 acres.
                  In cultivated grass lands and meadows,    2209
                  Green-hill pasture,                       1009
                  Heath, moss land, water, &c.              4000
                  Under wood, all planted,                    78

	About 700 acres might be added to the cultivated land, and af-
ferwards kept in a state of permanent pasture; but this would have
to be accomplished by the proprietor, as none of the waste lands
would yield to the farmer a fair remuneration for their improve-
ment, during the currency of an ordinary lease. There are, in the
higher grounds, two undivided commons, one of which consists of
1000, and the other of 500 acres. The right to the pasturage of
the former belongs to different feuars, holding various portions of
the barony of Ladyland, and the latter, by a similar right, is pas-
tured by the flocks of feuars of the estate of Kilbirnie. They are
of no great value, the land being very poor, and situated far be-
yond the limits of profitable cultivation. There is no natural woud
worth mentioning, and to the few detached acres of plantations
there seems to be little attention given--those on the estate of
Ladyland excepted, which appear to be regularly pruned and
thinned, and their enclosures kept entire. We learn, however,
that several acres have been recently planted on the estate of Kil-
birnie, and that it is the intention of the noble proprietor, gradu-
ally to extend this highly ornamental and most beneficial accom-
paniment, especially over lands fit for nothing else.
	Rental.--The valued rent of the parish in Scotch money is
L. 2905, 14s. 1d. The real rent, as recently made out to fix an
assessment, is L. 6001, 10s. Sterling; and of houses and gar-
dens in the village L. 1200, 10s.
	Rent of Land.--The average rent of arable land is L.1, 10s,
per acre, but in the neighbourhood of the village, where the soil
is very fertile, some fields rent as high as from L. 3 to L. 4 an
acre. The generally allowance for grazing a cow is L. 3 10s.; for
a stirk L. 1, 5; for a ewe or full-grown white-faced sheep, 16s.;
and for a black-faced one, 7s.


