
698			AYRSHIRE.

feudal tyranny, the district of Cuninghame, though occasionally
disturbed by such murderous feuds as those of the houses of Kil-
maurs and Eglintong, seems, on the whole, to have benefited by the
humanizing influence of the church--one of the largest properties
being that of the Abbey of Kilwinning, while the predatory vio-
lence to which the border counties, and those in the vicinity of
the Highlands, were subject, was here unknown.
	Eminent Men.--The only eminent person whom this parish can
claim, is Captain Thomas Crawfurd, of Jordanhill. He was the
sixth son of Laurence Crawfurd of Kilbirnie, and Helen, daughter
of Sir Hugh Campbell of Loudon. He was a brave and enter-
prising officer, and his adventurous exploit of storming the almost
impregnable castle of Dumbarton in 1571, is familiar to every one
acquainted with the history of Scotland during the minority of
James VI. This extraordinary feat of courage and dexterity, the
boldness of which, says Sir Walter Scott, was unequalled by the
siege of the Numidian fortress mentioned by Sallus, or the more
modern surprise of Fecamp during the wars of the league, has con-
ferred deserved celebrity on his name. In consideration of this
and other faithful services, Captain Craufurd received a grant of
several lauds in the neighbourbood of Glasgow, whence his title
of Jordanhill, besides,an annuity of L. 200 Scots during his life,
payable out of the priory of St Andrews. He appears to have
commenced his military career at a very early age, as he was taken
prisoner at the disastrous battle of Pinkie in 1547,--which bloody
event he survived fifty-six years. The latest notice we have met
with of this celebrated character, into the detail of whose public
life it would be unsuitable to enter here, is in the year 1581,
when the king, by a gift dated at Holyrood, grants him L. 100
Scots yearly "out of the superflue of the third of the bedefices
not assignat to the maintenance of the ministrie." Much of the
last twenty years of his life was probably spent in retirement,--
the estate of the country no longer demanding his military
services. It must, therefore, be to some part of this disengaged
period, that the residence allotted him by tradition at Kersland,
in the adjoining parish cf Dalry, the heiress of which he had
married, must be assigned.
	In 1594, Captain Craufurd erected a monument to himself and
his lady in Kilbirnie charch-yard, and "bequeathed," says Mr
George Craufurd, the learned historian of the shire of Renfrew,
"his body to be buried there." The monument is still entire,


