
584			    AYRSHIRE.

L. 30, and not under L. 20; 29 under L. 20, and not under L. 10;
21 under L. 10, and not under L. 5; and upwards of 30 whose
valued rent is under L. 5 Scots. This last list consists chiefly of
the feuars of the old grebe, on whom the valued rent of the farm
of Mainshill was apportioned when itwas exchanged for the glebe.
Within the last thirty years, one-half of the whole lands of the
parish has changed owners.
	Family of Mure of Caldwell.--The most ancient family in the pa-
rish is that of the Mures of Caldwell. They are immediately descend-
ed from Sir Reginald More or Mure of Abercorn, who was Lord
High Chamberlain of Scotland in 1329. Gilchrist, second son of
Sir Reginald, acquired the estate of Caldwell by marrying the heir-
ess of Caldwell of that ilk. His son John is the first of the name who
appears designed "of Caldwell" in 1409. A younger branch of the
male line of Caldwell of that ilk retained possession of a portion of
the estate called Wester or Little Caldwell, and continued to be a
respectable Renfrewshire family, until about the end of the se-
venteenth century, when it failed in the person of John Caldwell,
who was one of the Commissioners for Renfrewshire, to the Scot-
tish Parliament after the Revolution. The estate passed to the
Earl of Dundonald, afterwards to the Duke of Hamilton, from
whom it was purchased by Baron Mure, and now forms part of
the Caldwell property. In 1655, William Mure of Caldwell
married Barbara, daughter of Sir William Cunninghame of Cun-
ninghamhead. In 1666, he and some other gentlemen of the
neighbourhood, having met at Shitterflat in this parish, resolved
to aid the people, in the cause of civil and religious liberty, and
formed a troop of horse which marched under the command of the
Laird of Caldwell, to join the Covenanters. Intelligence having
been receiied that the Whigs had been defeated at Pentland, this
company dispersed. For this patriotic act the Laird of Caldwell
was attainted, fled to Holland and died in exile. His estates were
forfeited and bestowed on General Dalziel. His lady and eldest
daughter were imprisoned in Blackness, and subjected to great
sufferings, and privation, as detail by Wodrew and other his-
torians of the times. After the Revolution the estate was restor-
ed to the eldest surviving daughter, who married John Fairlie of
thay Ilk, but she having died without issues, was I succeeded by her
cousin, William Mure of Glanderston, the heir-male of the family.
He was succeeded by his nephew, of whom the present owner,
William Mure, Esq. is the lineal descendant. Mr Mure married
		                 4


