
                        FORTINGAL.                       541

distance of several miles. It has its rise on the south side
of Glen-Etive, in the deer-forest of the Marquis of Breadal-
bane, or Coirreacha-Batha. Augmented in its course by the union
of man mountain streams, it becomes a considerable river. It in-
tersects the military road in the Black Mount, 5 miles south of
the stage at King's House. After a course of 1O or 12 miles, and
forming some lakes in its way, especially Loch Batha, nearly 2
miles long, and upwards of half a mile broad, with fine woody islets,
-it expands into the fine lake, Loch Laoidean, already described.
Issuinf thence, it assumes the name of Gearr-Ghamhair, or
short Gamhair, for 4 or 5 miles; then it enters an extensive
tract of low meadow land, which in time of rain it completely in-
undates, presenting a lake of several miles in circuit, called
Loch Eathach. Leaving this ocasional lake, it enterr the inhabit-
ed parts of Rannoch, under the name of Gamhair, and after a course
of 8 miles between Loch Laoidean and Loch Rannoch, it enters
the latter by two mouths, leaving a beautiful green islet in the
middle.
   The Lyon.-The source of the Lyon is the lake of that name.
Issuing thence, it imniediately receives the waters of Meran from
the north. After flowing about ten or twelve miles, it receives
the Conait, also from the north. The course of the Lyon, with
little variation, is easterly. After flowing upwards of forty miles,
and being in its course augmented by innumerable mountain streams
and rills, it merges into the Tay below Taymouth Castle.
   Erochd issues out of the lake of that name, already described.
For the space of a mile or two, it is a slow, deep-running water;
then it becomes a torrent, tearing its banks with almost irresistible
fury, till it is lost in Loch Rannoch. The course of Erochd is
about 6 miles.
   There are a number of other considerable streams; such as
Uisge Arlair, Cam-chriochdain, Alt-Eathach, Moran, Cnnait,
Duibhe, &c. &c.
   Cascades.-These, as might be expected, are very numerous,
there being hardly a solitary brook in a sequestered glen without
its waterfall.
   On the confines of the parish the Tummel forms it fines cascade.
   The rivers Gamhair and Duibhe, at the head of Rannoch, pre-
sent very fine and picturesque waterfalls,-that of the former call-
ed falls of Garbhdhun; and of the latter the falls of Torm•r.
   The only cascades on the Lyon are the Sput-ban, as you en-


