
88                    LANARKSHIRE.

   Breeds of Live Stock.-It can hardly be said that there is a flock
of sheep in the parish, though we have them of all kinds, as black-
faced, Leicester, and Cheviot.  The first are bred on the moor-
land and high part of the parish; the second fattened on some of
our best farms; and the third only are bought in, to eat off the
turnip in winter.  The breed of cattle is chiefly what is called the
Ayrshire.  The cows are almost universally Ayrshire, as these are
accounted best for the dairy; and while the quey calves are reared
in numbers and with the utmost care, the bulls are fattened and
sent as veal to the Edinburgh market.

                    V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

   Village.-The village of Carnwath hs much changed for the better
within the last twenty years.  Formerly its streets were encumbered
with dung-hills and peat-stacks, which are now all swept away; and
even the old houses now present an appearance of comfort and clean-
liness.  Many of the new houses are handsome; and should Sir
Norman Macdonald Lockhart, Bart. succeed in his plans of feu-
ing, which he has already done to a considerable extent, the next
twenty years will do more for its improvement than even the last.
   Means of Communication.-The roads throughout the parish
are in a far better state than formerly; and there is one change
which deserves to he particularly marked, as by it the neighbouring
parishes are in a manner brought nearer to each other, and a new
thoroughfare is opened to the country at large.  The Clyde, which
is the boundary of the parish on the south and south-west, often over-
flows its banks, and even long before it does so becomes impassable
by the fords.  For at least nine months in the year the parishes of Pet-
tinain and Carnwath were thus separated by 8 or 9 miles.  To this
I have been exposed even in the month of July, while the distance
betwixt the one place and the other was not above 2 1/2 miles.  This
led the proprietors on both sides to think of some means of commu-
nication more direct and convenient; and about five years ago a
boat or float was erected, and has ever since continued to ply on
the river, to the immense comfort and accommodation of the in-
habitants on both sides, as well as of the country in general.  The
float is large, running upon a chain, and two or even three loaded
carts can pass on it a time.  Thus a new outlet for the lime
and coal of the parish is opened up, and were the roads on each
side more improved, they would obtain a sale much more extend-
ed than ever they have yet done.  The Clyde is, indeed, still im-
passable during some of the winter floods, the holms on each side
				3


