
     Of Auchindoir.

<TABLE>

                  Of these there are:
                  Of the Established Church,        441
                  Seceders, [Burghers, and Anti-
Above 10 years,      burghers],                      15
                  Scotch Episcopalians,               5
                  Papists,                            4
                  Quaker,                             1*

</TABLE>

   Soil, Agriculture, etc.-The soil of Auchindoir is, in ge-
neral, thin, dry, and early, consisting of a pretty rich mould
mixed with land, and lying on freestone.  From this, how-
ever, there are many exceptions.  The N. E. part, at least
the infield, is a strong deep clay, and the glens or hollows a-
mong the hills are wet, spongy, and late, much fitter for
pasture than tillage.  Improvements in this parish, and in-
deed in all this country, have made little progress.  The
Scotch plough drawn by 10 or 12 oxen, or by 2 small horses
and 4 or 6 small oxen and cows, is chiefly used.  The land,
in general, is neither straighted nor levelled, and the quanti-
ty of turnip or sown grass is inconsiderable.  The infield is
kept in constant tillage, without being cleaned or rested: the
outfield, which is more than two-thirds of the whole arable
ground, is sown with oats for 5 or 6 years, and then allowed

<FOOTNOTE>

*The Burgher-Seceders attend public worship in the parish of Tough, and
the Antiburghers in Cabrach.  The latter have public worship 4 times a-year
in Auchindoir, but have no church.  The Episcopalians have a church-in the
parish, in which one of the nearest clergymen of that persuasion officiates once
a-month.  Dissenters of all denominations are much on the decrease.  There is
one person who was born in Flanders: all the other inhabitants are natives of
Scotland, and almost all of them of this and the neighbouring parishes.  We
have no physician nor lawyer.  No manufactures are carried on here.  The wo-
men knit a good many stockings, and spin a good deal of linen yarn for the
manufacturers of Aberdeen and Huntly; but how much money this may bring
into the parish, it is not easy to determine.


