
                               CAVERS.                       427

tion, well characterized the braes of Teviotdale, when he says, "the
Teviot braes are green and gay."  But Gilpin, in his Tour, thus
ambitiously describes them, "the downy sides of all these valleys
of the Teviot are covered with sheep, which often appear to hang
on immense green walls: so steep is the descent in some parts, that
the eye from the bottom scarce distinguishes the slope from the
perpendicular.  Several of these mountainous slopes, for some of
them are very lofty," he adds, "are finely tinted with moss of dif-
ferent hues, which gives them a very rich surface."  It may be
added, that these hills seem to be a continuation of that irregular
mountainous track which, from the head of Clydesdale, stretches
across the country by Tweedshaws, Lochskeen, and Ettrickpen,
and which separates the rivers and streams of this part of Scot-
land, sending them to the eastdrn and western seas.
     The largest and loftiest of these mountains is the Wisp, imme-
diately above Mosspaul, rising 1830 feet above the level of the
sea.  But it is not so much either its largeness or its height, which
renders it remarkable, as its position, and the diversified and exten-
sive prospect which it commands.  From its summit, the sea at Ber-
wick-upon-Tweed is observed to the eastward: to the south and
west, the Solway Frith, and, if the atmosphere be clear, the Isle
of Man.  Tutop is of equal height with the Wisp, or, according
to some measurements, 10 feet higher.  Pikethowe, Cauldcleugh,
Gritmoor, and some others in this vicinity, are computed to be
nearly of the same elevation.  But, besides these, there are a few
hills in this parish which serve to impress upon it a peculiar cha-
racter.  These, from their isolated positions, appear like pyramids
in the wilderness, conveying the idea, that the district must at
one time have been visited from the west by some violent in-
undation, sweeping almost every thing along with it.  The little
conical mountains referred to are the Maiden-paps, Leap-hill,
Rubberslaw, Pencrest and Skelf-hill-pen.  The last of these is the
most remarkable.  On the south side, it rises abruptly out of a
deep glen; on the north, it ascends more gradually till, attaining
to a certain height, it becomes somewhat rocky and rugged, and
then contracting itself suddenly, it towers yet higher, presenting a
peak like the spire of some large edifice, "reared by human hands."
This and Pencrest-pen are memorable for having preserved their
British names through so many successive generations of different
people.  Rubberslaw, rising to a height of 1419 feet above the
sea's level, though situated in the lower division of the parish, is


