
                PARISH OF ROGART.

     PRESBYTERY OF DORNOCH, SYNOD OF SUTHERLAND AND

                     CAITHNESS.

           THE REV.  JOHN MACKENZIE, MINISTER.

            I-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
  Name.-ROAIRD is the name of this parish in the Gaelic lan-
guage. How it came to be written and pronounced Rogart can
only be accounted for by the difficulty in pronouncing the name
to those who did not speak that language. It is evident that Ro-
gart is a modification of Roaird. Various etymologies have been
assigned to this word. The most probable is, that it is an abbre-
viation of two Gaelic words, rhidhe, an, inclined plain, and ard,
high. In the district of the parish called Roaird, which gives the
name to the whole parish, there is Roaird-bheg and Roaird-mhor;
both inclined plains of no great extent, but one, Roaird-bheg of less
extent than the other, as the name implies. Rhidhe and Rhidlhea-
chan, in the plural, are common in Sutherland, and all of them are
used as names of inclined plains. To give an idea of the liberty
used with Gaelic names, when attempted in another language, it
may be mentioned, that Rhidheachan is found in this county, and
in the neighbouring county, Ross-shire, to have passed into Rhives.
In like manner, Roaird has been changed into Rogart.
  Extent, Boundaries.-This parish is of nearly equal length and
breadth, and forms a square of ten miles. It is bounded on the
east by parts of the parishes of Dornoch and Criech; on the
south by parts of the parishes of Dornoch and Criech; on the
west by the parish of Lairg; and on the north by parts of the
parishes of Clyne and Farr. It comprehends, on the south side,
the whole of Strathfleet; on the north side, the upper division of
Strathbrora, and an interjacent space, consisting of low hills, flat
moors, meadows, small lakes, and the courses of many burns issu-
ing from them to form the river Fleet, and to swell the Brora,
which has its source in a distant mountain.
  Topographical Appearances.-Strathfleet, in the language of the



