
                          BOURTIE.                              627

into cultivation; and not only so, but what is already in tillage
might be rendered very greatly more productive.  According to
what we even at present see, it is perhaps not extravagant to af-
firm, that every acre in Aberdeenshire, under whatever crop,
might, on an average, be brought to produce one-fourth more.  It
is not want of skill nor enterprise that prevents this; nor want of
capital; nor want of proper encouragement by proprietors; one
and all of these may partially operate as retarding causes.  There
exists one barrier to our onward progress, of such supereminent
magnitude that it stands alone, and before it, the others " hide
their diminished heads."  This is want of confidence in the stabi-
lity of our external agricultural defences.  Could it be whispered
into the ears of those men whose motto is, " We are the people,
and for the people," how many ten thousand pounds their motions
for demolishing the corn-laws prevent annually from being com-
mitted to the bosom of that " tellus gratissima, quae nunquam red-
dit nisi cum foenore," we believe that, having the end in view which
they profess, they would cease from agitating this question.  Far-
mers will not lay out on waste ground the value of 100 bushels of
grain, even with the prospect of reaping in time 200, for that time
embraces a period of some years, if the sword be ever suspend-
ed over their heads.  The capital thus withheld would incalcula=
bly increase the productions of the earth for man and beast : for
each acre of land brought into cultivation does not iocrease grain
and herbage only pro tanto, or arithmetically, but adds to the pro-
ductive powers of all the land around, from the increased tempe-
rature which it induces, and the diminution of mildews and ear-
ly frosts.  Nor is this all: the "bare boll," (as the farmer signi-
ficantly calls it), brought from abroad, is a very different thing
from an additional boll raised at home; because this last carriest
with it the capacity of feeding more cattle, and thus brings a
greater supply of milk, butter, cheese, and well-fed butcher-meat
within the reach of the great body of the people.  But this, says
the modern school of economists, is forcing things unnaturally.  It
is, every Briton may answer, adding to the beauty, the fertility, the
salubrity, and the riches of that land, "quae me genuit atque aluit:"
it is following the dictate of a sound mind, for preventing under
Providence those violent and sudden alternations of ruinously low
and ruinously high or famine prices, as to the desolating effects of
which the traditional annals of this and other parishes bear ap-
palling testimony.

