
			      KINNELL.                     409

dergone. But doubts have been expressed whether the vegetable
powers of such land can be maintained in great activity for a great
length of time. The old glebe may be valued at L.2 per acre, a
sum which is above the average of the best farms in the parish.
The rotation of cropping is--1. Oats; 2. potatoes and turnips;
3. barley; 4. hay; 5. pasture. If wheat be substituted for barley
after the potatoes, all the subsequent crops are greatly deterio-
rated.
   The stipend being the whole teind of the parish, and, conse-
quently, including the allowance for communion elements, is
L.165, 19s. 11 4/5d. Sterling of money, 17.1371 imperial quarters
of barley, 5.7124 imperial quarters of bear, and 408 imperial stones
of oatmeal.
   Nf the heads of families, only one (the father) is a Dissenter,
while the mother and the oldest daughter are communicants in
the Established Church. * Among the young people at the spin-
ning-mills, there are occasionally a few Episcopalians, Seceders,
and Independents from the neighbouring towns.
   Divine service is generally well attended. The average num-
ber of communicants for eleven years immediately preceding 1836,
was 427; whereof 305 were parochial, and 122 extra-parochial.
The extra-parochial coinmunicants were chiefly from the parishes
of Kirkden and lnverkeilor. In 1833, there were 103 commu-
nicants from the former, and, in 1820, there were 79 from, the
latter. In 1836, the extra-parochial conmunicants almost entirely
withdrew from the communion of Kinnell to the communion of
their own church in the new parochial district of Friockheim
and, notwithstanding the withdrawal of so many strangers, the
church of Kinnell, at the time of the communion, has been still
full throughout,--a proof, that in former years, there was great
discomfort to all, and danger to the aged and infirm, when a house,
which has only 392 sittings, was sometimes crowded with 450
Communitants, independently of other worshippers. In the latter
case, the young were necessarily excluded; and all opportunity
denied to parents of showing their childrdn an ordinance which it
is the duty of one generation to teach and transmit to another.
And, moreover, it ought ever to be remembered, that, as commu-
nicants are seldom under eighteen years of age, there are neces-
sarily many younger persons, who, having the, ordinance specially

<FOOTNOTE>There is at present a Dissenting family in the parish.

length of time.  The old glebe may be valued at 1,.2,per acre, a
sum which is above the average of the best farms in the pari*h.
The rotation of cropping 152-1.  Oats; 2. potatoes and turnips;
3. barley; 4.,bay; 5. pasture.  If wheat be substituted for barley
after the potatoes, all the subsequent crops ard greatly d-eterio-
rated.
The stipend being the whole teind of the parish, and, couse,..
quently, including the allowance for communion elements, is
L.165, 19s. 114d.  Sterling of money, 17.1371 imperial quarters
of barley, 5.7124 imperial quarters of bear, and 408'imperial stones
of oatmeal.
Of the heads of families, only one (the father) is a Dissenter,
while the mother and the oldest daughter are communicants in
the Established Church.' Among the young people at the spin-
ning-mills, there are occasionally a few Episcopalians, Seceders,
and Independents from the neighbouring towns.
Divine service is generally well attei3ded.  The average num-
ber of communicants for eleven xe`rs immediately Y)recedin 1836,
9
was 427; whereof 305 were parochial, and 122 extra-parochial.
The extra-parochial coinmunicants were chiefly from the parishes
of Kirkden and lnverkeilor.  In 1833, there vvere 103 cominu-
-nicants,from the former, and, in 1820, there were 79 from, the
latter.  In 1836, the extra-parochial cotnmunicants almost entirely
withdrew from the communion of Kinnell to the communion of
their own church in the new parochial district of Friockheim
and, notwithstanding the withdrawal of so many strangers, the
church of Kinnell, at the time of the communion, has been stfli
full throughout,-a proof, that in former years, there was great
discomfort to all, and danger to the aged and infirm, when a house,
which has only 392.sittings, was sometimes crowded with 450
.Communitants, independently of other worshippers.  In the latter
case, the young  were necessarily excluded; and all oppcwtilnity
'denied, to parents of showing their children an ordinance which it
is the duty of one generation to teach mid, transmit to anoth,,pr.
And, moreover, it oughc ever to be remembered,     that, as commu.
nicants are seldom under eighteen years of age, there are neces-
,sarilv many younger persons, who,- having the,o' rdinance specialty

There is at present iL Di"enting fataily in the parish.


