
                            COMBIE.                       579

versified with mountain, glen, and strath, a corresponding diffe-
rence of climate is to be expected. The dry, gravelly nature of the
soil, and the shelter of the surrounding hills render the climate
of the strath mild, salubrious, and favourable to longevity, so
much so, as to have formerly obtained for Strathearn the epithet
of the Montpelier of Scotland. A thermometer in the village of
Comrie was found, during the months of November and Decem-
ber 1831, to average higher than that registered in Edinburgh.
The glens are colder than the strath, and the more so the higher
they ascend into the mountains. But in them the air is general-
ly dry and clear.
     There is nothing so peculiar either in the soil, climate, or mode
of living here, as to produce any endemic disease. But, though
remote and almost isolated, this parish appears to have no immu-
nity from those diseases that spread in that mysterious manner
termed epidemical. It however, was exempted from the visita-
tion of the cholera.
     In the spring and summer of 1831, influenza was prevalent; in
the winter, chincough was common; in the summer of 1832,
measles appeared; in the spring of 1833, influenza was again very
prevalent, succeeded in the autumn by scarlet fever, which was fol-
lowed by small-pox, that continued till the winter of 1834. In-
fluenza again prevailed in the spring of 1835, and was followed by
chincough, which was more general among the children than either
of the two preceding epidemics. In the spring of 1836, there were
a number of cases of continued fever, and the influenza, so univer-
sal at the beginning of 1837, seized at least three-fourths of the
population, but apparently not with so many fatal results as in the
districts to the east.
     Before each of these epidemics appeared, they were prevalent
for some time to the east of this parish. As Comrie has little
communication from any other quarter, an inference might be
drawn from this, in favour of the opinion, that these diseases are
caused by contagion alone, were it not a fact that epidemic dis-
eases generally travel from east to west. Typhus fever is very
rare; intermittent fevers or agues never occur; common continu-
ed fever occasionally prevails, but never in the severe form, (the
typhus gravior,) so frequent and fatal in large towns. Inflamma,
tions fill up the largest space in the catalogue of our diseases,and
of these bronchitis appears to be the most frequent and fatal.
Pneumonia and pleuristy are not uncommon, but the true idiopa-


