			NIGG.                                   199

acres, and supplying water to a meal-mill, a bone-mill, and saw-
mill. In some of the old leases, the liberty of a road is given to the
tenants in the lower part of the paris, to drive their cattle to this
loch for watering,--a circumstance which must have been occa-
sioned by an uncommon drought at that time in the country.
	Rivers.--The River Dee, which forms the harbour of Aber-
deen, after a course of eighty miles northeast, falls here into the
sea. On this side of the river and harbour is Torry Pier, where
sbips lie to occasionally. It was much more frequented by shipping
formerly than now. Sometime ago, a Greenland Company had a
boiling establishment there. The river is famous for salmon, although
there are not now so many caught in it as formerly, owing to the
number of stake and bag-nets at the mouth of the river, and along
the coast north and south, and probably also to the, annoyance given
by the harbour improvements, and the constant plying of steam-
boats, and to the noxious refuse of so many mantifactories that
run into the river. One of the salmon-fishing stations on the Dee,
the Mid Chingle, formerly productive, has been given up, as not
covering the expense.
	Geology.--The whole parish abounds with rocks of granite, of a
very hard consistence, of various colours, blue and purple, &c. In
some places, there are large distinct veins of quartz running through
the rock. In the low grounds near the bay of Nigg, various al-
luvial deposits are found, such as white clay, sand, gravel, and rolled
smooth stones; and above these, in some places has been formed
peat moss to the depth of five or six feet. Imbedded therein
have been found the remains of trees, viz. fir, alder, and oak, lying
buried at the depth of four or five feet. On the top of the high
hill, part of the Grampians, there are several little mounds com-
posed of rounded pebbles, gravel, and sand, in pretty regular strata,
such as still appear on the beach below.
	Fishes in the River.--Salmon, during October and November,
go up the rivers to deposit their spawn. Some of the earlier
spawners return to the sea generally about the end of December,
or in January. The lobster and crab are found here in their sea-
sons. The latter is used by the fishers along the coast as bait, as
is also the limpet, a small shell-fish gathered from the rocks, usual-
ly by the younger branches of the family.
	Botany.--The artichoke is a plant, to the growth of which the
climate and soil are particularly favourable.
	Marine Plants.--The sea-weed bladder-fueus grows on the

