
     Statistical Account

<TABLE>

scotch cheese, per stone*,   L.0    5   4   Bear, per boll,     L.1   2   0
English ditto, ditto*,         0    8   0   Barley, per boll,     1   6   0
Oats, per boll+,               0   18   0

</TABLE>

   Antiquities.-There are many vestiges of British and Ro-
man camps to be traced through this parish.  Some are almost
entire, others much defaced.  In the Carse of Culdoach there
is one of the former still visible, though much effaced.  From
its situation, it seems to have been formed with a view to de-
fend the ford across the river Dee, which lies immediately be-
low it.  In Little Sypland there is another British camp, quite
entire.  In Whynny Liggat there is a Roman camp.  In
Meikle Sypland there are two British; and in the farm of
Bombie there is one British and one Roman camp++.

   In the farm of DRUMMORE there is one large British camp,
almost entire.  This camp, which is surrounded with a

* The English cheese is sold at English weight, but the stons of Scotch cheese consists
of 28 ounces

<FOOTNOTE>

+The Kirkcudbright boll consists of 8 pecks, and is equal to 11 Winchester busbels.

++Near the Roman camp there is a Druidical temple, which was destroyed
within there eight years, by the hands of an ignorant Goth, who carried off the
stones, split them, and applied them to building a contemptible bridge over an
insignificant rivulet, called Buckland Burn.  The stones were 7 in number, of
round granite, and of unequal sizes.  The smallest at least 3 feet in diameter.
In Milton there are also two British camps, and one Roman.  (See the map.)

 From the situation and extent of this camp, it is extremely probable that
the ancient-Britons had here collected a considerable force together to repel the
invasion of the Romans, or perhaps to defend themselves against the plundering
Danish and Norwegian rovers, who, in a later period, infested the coarse of Scot-
land.  At some distance from this camp, in the farm of Balmae, there was found
a few years ago, by two ditchers,a straight plate of gold, which was some-
what thick at each end, and at the middle.  It bent easily at the centre, so as
to admit the two extren to meet.  But to whom it originally belonged, or
so what purpose it was anciently applied, it is impossible to investigate.  It was
sold for about 20 L. Sterling.


