
<APPENDIX>

xc

measures will be recommended to the attention of the public, which have
been found to occasion an increase of population, whilst those which have
been unfortunately distinguished by a contrary tendency, will be distinctly
enumerated, and unless counterbalanced by some striking advantages, will
be justly reprobated.

   Col. 6th. This column gives a view of the Valued Rent, which is al-
ways stated in Scotch money, L. 12 of which is only equal to L. 1 Sterling.
This is the rate according to which the Land Tax is now assessed.  It was
originally introduced during the Usurpation of Cromwell, but was after-
wards more fully established by an act of the Scotch Convention, in 1667.
In some facts, the valuation taken during the government of the Protector,
continues the rule; but in general, new valuations have since been taken,
which have been occasionally altered from time to time.  The rents, how-
ever, being estimated at a remote period, are certainly in general low.  At
the same time, the proportional increased value, compared to that of Eng-
land, would not have been considerable, had not the Agricultural system,
and legal policy of Scotland, been infinitely more favourable to improve-
ment than those of her sister kingdom.
   Col. 7th.  In the next column, the Real Rent is stated in Sterling money.
I know that some doubts are entertained, how far it is prudent to lay this
information before the public, as if it were possible to alter that solemn
compact between the two nations, by which their respective proportions of
the Land Tax were for ever ascertained*.  The fact, however, is, that on

<FOOTNOTE>

*Nothing can be stronger or more explicit than this Article.  It is con-
ceived in the following terms:
   Art 9th. "That whenever the sum of one million, nine hundred, nine-
"ty-seven thousand, seven hundred and sixty-three pounds, eight shillings
"and fourpence halfpenny, shall be enacted by the Parliament of Great
"Britain, to be raised in that part of the United Kingdom called England,
"on land and other things usually charged in Acts of Parliament there, for
"granting an aid to the Crown by a Land Tax:  That part of the United
"Kingdom now called Scotland, shall be charged by the same Act, with a
"sum of forty eight thousand pounds, free of all charges, as the quota of
"Scotland to such tax, and to proportionably for any greater or lesser sum
"raised in England by any tax on land, and other things usually charged
"together with the land; and that such quota for Scotland, in the cases
"aforesaid, be raised and collected in the same manner as the Cess now
"is in Scotland; but subject to such regulations, in the manner of collec-
"ting, as shall be made by the Parliament of Great Britain.


