

60                       BERWICKSHIRE.

ble, and, being all enclosed and studded with thriving plantations,
it presents to the view a rich and elegant appearance.
   The increase of the rental within the last forty years is a strik-
ing proof of the improvement of the land, but is not greater than
was anticipated. Mr Murray states the amount of rent in 1793
to be L.11,000, but adds, "it would not be surprising if in the
course of a few years the rental of the parish should exceed
L.18,000 or L.20,000."  Accordingly, in 1822 it amounted to
L.20,000, the valued rent being only L.15,604, 3s. 4d. Scots.
   Rent ofLand.-The average rent per acre is under L.2. The
size of farms varies from 50 and under to 1000 acres. The rents
of course vary in proportion, the greatest being L.1400.
   Husbandry.-The general duration of leases is 19 and 21 years,
but one or two farms are let for 15 years. Most of the larger
tenants keep a greater or smaller number of sheep, principally of
the Cheviot and Leicestershire breeds. The former, from their
greater hardihood, are best suited for clay lands. The four shift
husbandry has been long, and for some time successfully practised
here. Excellent wheat, oats, and barley are produced. Turnips
are raised by every farmer, both for sheep and cattle, and, although
the light soil of the southern part of the parish is best adapted for
their growth, yet in the clay and loam they attain a very fair size,
and are healthy and well-flavoured. In all the stiff lands it has been
remarked of late years that the broad-leaved clover (Trifolium
pratense) sown in spring rarely stands the ensuing winter. Va-
rious reasons have been assigned for this, but the fact indicates
the propriety of making some change in the present rotation, and
the employment of gypsum as a manure. *
                 V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Markets.-The parish is very well supplied with respect to mar-
kets, for, although there are none within its bounds, yet Kelso and
Coldstream are only about 6 miles, and Berwick 18 from the centre
of the parish. There are four villages in the parish, and of these
Leitholm is the largest, having a population of 343 souls, and a
bye-post to Coldstream.
   Means of Communication.-The London road from Edinburgh

<FOOTNOTE>For an account of the agriculture of Derwickshire, relating especially to the pa-
rish of Eccles, vide "Sketch of the present state of Agriculture in Berwiekshire."-
Annals of Philosophy, Vol. i. 260,-Vol. ii. 185.
   About the middle of last century Mr Hume of Eccles and Lord Kames were
very active promoters of improvement in agriculture.



