
                        PRESTONKIRK.                        21

many very fine trees, particularly near the church, and the vil-
lage of PreSton. There are no rare plants, unless the following:
Geranium sanguineum, Arenaria vernal Viola lutea, Dianthus del,
toides, Sedum Telephium, which grow on Traprain-Law; the Py.
rola minor, and Hypericum pulchrum, occur on Smeaton grounds.

                    II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Eminent Men.-Two of the most eminent agriculturists of East
Lothian lived and died in this parish, viz. George Rennie, Esq. of
Phantassie, and Robert Brown, Esq. tenant. of Markle. The for-
mer died in 1828, the latter in 1831. Both have long been ce-
lebrated for their exertions in the improvement of the husbandry
of this country.-The late John Rennie, Esq. long an eminent
engineer in London, and brother to George Rennie, Esq. was also
born and brought up in this parish.-Mr Andrew Meiklel the in-
ventor of the thrashing machine, lived for a considerable time, and
died here. Though his claims as the inventor of the thrashing
machine have been disputed, there can be no doubt that he brought
the machine to its present state of perfection, by inventing the fixed
beaters or skutchers now in universal use, and from want of which
all previous inventions had proved useless. A tombstone erected
to his memory in the churchyard of Prestonkirk testifies this fact.
   Land-owners.-There are six principal heritors,-the Trustees
of the Pate George Rennie of Phantassie; Miss Dalrymple of
Hailes; the Earl of Wemyss; Sir Alexander Hope; Sir David.
Kinloch; and Sir Thomas Buchan Hepburn, and four smaller pro-
prietors.
  Parochial Registers.-The parochial registers began in 1663,
and are complete,-that is, none of the volumes are wanting; but
the number of names registered varie's at different periods. Of late
years almost every birth in the parish has been regularly entered.
  Antiquities.-There is mentioned in the Saxon annals a place
of worship under the name of Ecc. S. Baldridi, which stood on the
site of the present church so far back as 1000 years ago. The
principal ruin in the parish is Hailes Castle, famous for once hav_
ing been the temporary residence of Queen Mary when carried off
by the Earl of Bothwell, then possessor of the castle. It is now
rapidly going, to decay, though part of it is, still used as a granary.
It is now the property of Miss Dalrymple of Hailes. The only
other ruin in the parish is an old religious house on the farm of
Markle, the property of Sir David Kinloch of Gilmerton. It ap-
pears that a monastery was early established here, and continued till
the Reformation; but it is testified in the Parliamentary records,


