
			GLASGOW.                             233

the guests had to drink in quantity and quality as presented by
their hosts; now every person drinks what he pleases, and how he
pleases,--after which he retires to the drawing-room, and drunken-
ness and dissipation at dinner parties are happily unknown. Pro-
fane swearing is considered highly reprehensible; so much so that
swearing in good society is never heard. The working-classes are
better lodged, clothed, and fed, than formerly; and since the for-
mation of the Water Companies, they are more cleanly in their
houses, and healthy in their persons.
	With the exception of Hutchison's Hospital, the Town's Hos-
pital, the incorporations, and a few societies, our numerous chari-
table and benevolent institutions, and the whole of our religous in-
stitutions, have been got up during the last forty years. Since
1791, when the former Statistical Account of Scotland made its
appearance, the Bible and Missionary Societies, and the City and
Parochial Missions, have been called into existence. These and
similar institutions bid fair for improving the morals of the most
worthless of our population. The inhabitants of this city are justly
characterized as charitable and humane; and on all proper occa-
sions the feeling of compassion and of active benevolence is never
wanting. Though this be the general, it is, however, by no means
the universal character of the population, for there are many per-
sons among us who live as if they existed only for themselves, and
desired to know nothing but what may he conducive to their own
private advantage. Persons who are placed in circumstances above
the labouring artisan may be classed into three divisons.
	The first in order, but last in respect, are those who, though
wealthy, or at least in easy circumstances, lend a deaf ear to the
tale of woe, and neither contribute their time nor their means to
the relief of the wretched.
	The second are those who give none of their time to the public,
and whose charities are in a manner extorted through the influence
of respectable applicants, or the force of public opinion. Than
this class, who may be considered the drones of society, there are
none more ready to find fault with the administrators of the ge-
neral concerns of the city, and none more anxious to grasp at that
patronage which so justly belongs to those who give so much of
their valuable time to the community without fee or reward.
	The third class are those who voluntarily contribute their time
and money to the service of the community in the various depart-
ments of usefulness. Through the providence of God, this class


