
990                          PERTHSHIRE.

It dates its origin to a donation of books made in 1811, by the
Rev. Donald Macintosh, a priest of the old Scots Episcopal
church, and the last of the non-jurant clergy in Scotland.  It is
managed by curators. There are two large and commodious ho-
tels with porthng establishments, at which the Inverness mail stops
daily.  Besides these, there are three secondary inns, and excellent
summer lodgings. The lodging houses for the humbler classes
are under the surveillance of the county police. The districtjus-
tices hold their courts in the town. Their clerk is also the fiscal
and the sheriff-clerk for issuing small debt summonses. The quar-
terly sheriff's small debt court, the registration court, and all
public meetings are held in the mason lodge. The commissary
court, before it was removed to Perth, was first held in the Bi-
shop's castle, and afterwards in the under flat of the steeple; in the
room above the records were kept. The Court day was Saturday." *
The old prison was removed about 1743, but one of the land arches
of the Dunkeld bridge is now used as a lock-up. It is a cold damp
hole, without a fire-place, windows, or furniture, or even straw for
a bed. It is intended to build a small prison with a court-room,
and a room for keeping the district records. At one time there
was a town drummer and piper, whose dress was faced with blue.
These functionaries were supplanted by a bellman, whose Insignia
of office bears the following inscription: "Dunkeld kirk-session,
Soli Deo Gloria, 1693." It was called the buihbean, or funeral
bell.
	The town is well supplied with butcber-meat `nd all other pro-
visions, excepting sea-fish, which are occasionally brought in carts
from Arbroatb, Dundee, and Perth. Coals sell about L. 1, 5s.
per ton; peats are not openly sold, as the Highland, tenantry are
restricted from disposing of them. The principal fuel is wood,
which is purchased by the cart load. There is a brewery; a dis-
tillery; and also malt barns.
	The properties in the principal street are held in feu; but the
rest of the town property is a branch-holding. The old feuar
have a right to quarry stones in Newtyle hill, for building within
the city, as a part of the consideration for their right of the com-
monty hill of Dunkeld, which they sold to the Atholl family about
1812, and which is now under plantation. House property in

<FOOTNOTE>On removing the commissary records to Perth, there were found, books, records,
and warrants of the Court of Regality of Dunkeld; and of sundry regality, barony,
and prebendary courts, and other papers, all of which were, conform to inventory,
transmitted to the sheriff-clerk of Perth in July 1834. Many ancient writings relative
to properties in Dunkeld and Dowally are only to be found in these registers.


