
                     LILLIESLEAF.                               31

pies, wheat; 112 bolls, 3 stones, 3 6/10 lib. meal; 81 quarters, 6
bushels, 1 peck, and 2 quarts, barley, all paid by the fiars prices.
  A dissenting chapel was erected during the incumbency of the
late Mr Stalker in this parish, about twenty-six years ago: it be-
longs to the United Associate Synod persuasion, the minister of
which is understood to be paid, along with the interest of debt up-
on the chapel, &c. from the seat rents and collections.

<TABLE>

The number of persons of all ages in Lilliesleaf parish appears to be in 1834, as fol-
 lows, viz. attending the Established church, about         -         -           429
Do. Chapel in Lilliesleaf of United Associate persuasion from Lilliesleaf parish,
  of all ages, about         -       -         -       -      -         -          249
Do. Three chapels at Hawick and Selkirk, of said persuasion, and chapel of
  Associate Original Seceders at Midbolm, parish of Bowden,                         95
                                                                                 -----
          Population of Lilliesleaf parish, 1834,      -      -         -          773

  The attendants on the Established church at Lilliesleaf have
continued to increase for a number of years past; and the attend-
ants on the United Associate Chapel, as above, in Lilliesleaf, have
been proportionally decreasing for several years past.
  Education.--There are two schools in this parish, viz. the pa-
rochial and a private.  The salary attached- to the former is L. 25,
13s. 4d. besides an addition, on the teacher's proving diligent, of
school-fees for a number of the poorest scholars: which addi-
tion, on an average of some years has exceeded L. 5 annually;
also L. 1, 11s. 10 1/2d. for deficiency of garden-ground.  He is also
clerk to the heritors, for which he receives L. 4 annually, &C.
His school fees have been stated to me at L. 17 a-year.  He pos-
sesses all the legal accommodations.  The heritors lately built a
most excellent school-room.  The branches generally taught at
this school are English reading and grammar; writing, arithmetic,
Latin, and French.  The teacher is well qualified, and has, of late,
adopted the improved system of education, which affords ground
to expect a great increase to his school.
  The private school is supported by a teaching-room, free of
rent: and the school-fees are about one-fourth higher than those
of the parochial, amounting to about L. 26 annually.  In this
school, viz. the private, are taught English reading, writing, and
arithmetic; the latter only tolerably well, the former two in the
most vulgar manner.  The teacher has no education superior to a
common labourer, and refuses to apply for farther information
There are none in this parish unacquainted with reading or writ-
ing.
  Library.--A library was established about sixteen years ago,


