
158                     KINCARDINESHIRE.

ject of this removal to be, that the Assembly might more easily
enjoy the benefit of his advice, and with that view might transfer
their sittings to St Andrews, a royal mandate was issued, forbid-
ding, him to absent himself from his college at Aberdeen. The
General Assembly, which met in 1583, remonstrated against this
oppressive act of arbitrary power; but the King remained inflexible.
Principal Arbuthnott died soon after, 16th October, in the forty-
fifth year of his age: "omnibus derideratus, nemini invisus," says
a manuscript account of him in the library at Arbuthnott House.
He was buried in the chapel of King's College on the 20th Oc-
tober 1583. His character is given in highly favourable terms by
Archbishop Spotswood in his History of Scotland; and elegant
epigrams in honour of him by Andrew Melvin and Thomas Mait-
land, are to be found in the Deliciae Poetarum Scotorum. In
1572 he published at Edinburgh, in 4to, an elegant and learned
work, intituled, "Orationes de Origine et Dignitate Juris;" and
he left in manusrcript an account of the Arbuthnott family, inti-
tuled, "Originis et incrementi Arbuthnoticae familiae descriptio
historica," which is still preserved. It was afterwards translated
by George Morrison, minister of Benholme, and continued by
Alexander Arbuthnott, minister of Arbuthnott, to the period of
the Restoration.
	John Arbuthnott, M. D. one of the wits of the reign of Queen
Anne, and the most learned of the whole, was bom in this parish
April 1667: He was the oldest son of the last mentioned Alexan-
der Arbuthnott, (who was nearly related to the noble family of
that name,) and Margaret Lamy, from the parish of Maryton.
In 1690, his father, being obliged to resign his charge in conse-
quence of his refusal to comply with the Presbyterian system, which
was restored at the Revolution in 1688, retired to the Castle of
Hallgreen, near Bervie, in the neighbourhood of which he posses
sed by inheritance the small estate of Kingbornie. His sons de-
termining to seek their fortune abroad, John went to London,
where he employed himself for some time as a teacher of mathe-
matics. His subsequent career will be found in Kippis's Biog.
Brit. and the common biographies of learned men.
	Sibbalds of Kair.--In the latter part of the fifteenth century,
James Sybbalde, chaplain of the Church of St Ternan of Arbuth-
nott, eminent as a calligraphist. Some splendid specimens of his
art still remain.
	In the Statistical Account of 1796 it is mentioned that Dr


