
150                           PEEBLES-SHIRE.

<TABLE>

Number of acres that might with a profitable application of capital be added
  to the cultivated land of the parish, whether that land were afterwards to
  be kept in occasional tillage, or in permanent pasture,                         1,190
                  under wood, the greater part of which has been planted
  within the last 30 years,                                                       1,050
   Rent of Land.-The average rent of arable land per acre in
the parish is L. 1, 15S. for in-field, and 12s. 6d. for out-field land.
The average rent of grazing is L. 5 for a milk cow; L. 3 for a
full-grown ox or heifer; 5s. for a black-faced sheep; and 6s. for
a Cheviot sheep, pastured for the year.
   Rate of Wages.-Ploughmen fit for every kind of farm-work re-
ceive L. 12 per annum, with victuals. If married, they have gene-
rally, in addition to their wages, a free house, a milk cow, the usual
allowance of meal, half a boll of potatoes planted, and their fuel
driven gratis. These allowances, together with their wages, may
be fairly estimated at L. 25 per annum. Female-servants receive
L. 6 a-year; and masons and carpenters 15s. per week.
   Improvements.-Much has been done with respect to reclaiming
waste land, draining, irrigation, and embanking upon all the farms
that have been let within the last twenty years. Almost every
spot capable of irrigation has been irrigated, and wet land has
been made dry. The general agriculture of the parish, however,
has been greatly retarded, in consequence of one-half of the parish
having been let by the late Earl of Portmore upon fifty-seven years
leases. The farmers sitting at easy rents contented themselves
with cultivating the dry and most productive spots, and left the
rest in a state of nature. These leases expire at Whitsunday
next, when great improvements may be expected to take place.
There are no enclosures in this part of the parish, and the farm-
buildings are in a state of great decay. The steadings in the
other parts of the parish are most complete and comfortable. Most
of the farms are enclosed with ring fences, laid several of them
are completely subdivided. This practice it is probable will soon
become universal, as the opinion is becoming very general that our
land has been so long under the plough that it cannot be much
longer cultivated with advantage without being thrown into pasture
for a few years. This, however, can only be done by means of
enclosures. One large farm, the property of Lord Cringletie, is
now managed in this way. It is completely subdivided. The te-
nant pastures it with sheep for three years after every rotation,
and the increase of produce is very great. The general duration
of leases is nineteen years.
   Average gross amount of raw produce raised in the parish:


