
                     AUCHTERGAVEN.                        447

on the General Assembly's scheme at Kinglands. A school here
would also accommodate the barony of Mullion in Redgorton parish,
as also a large district in that of Moneydie.
   Literature.-A library was instituted in the village of Bankfoot
in 1822, and is under the management of a committee of the sub-
scribers, consisting of a preses, a treasurer, a librarian, and a clerk,
with five members elected annually. The books amount to near-
ly 300 volumes, and consist of theology, history, and general lite-
rature. The entry money is 2s. 6d. and the annual subscription
is 2s., paid half-yearly. There is another library at Stanley, which
contains 560 volumes of well-selected works on various subjects.
The fees are 2s. for entry money, and afterwards 9d. per quarter.
Stanley, however, is not a reading community, as those who avail
themselves of the advantages of this valuable collection of books
do not exceed twenty. By the laws of the library it cannot be
alienated, but must remain the public property of the village.
   Charitable Institutitions.-The Benevolent Society of Stanley is
entitled to the first notice under this head. It was instituted in
1831, for the purpose of assisting poor people, and is supported
by voluntary contributions. The average disbursements have been
till lately abo ut L. 40 per annum-they now exceed L.60-and
in such sums as the necessities of applicants may demand, but
averaging about 1s. per week. Coals, clothes, food, and medi-
cines are given to the necessitous according to circumstances.
   Stanley Funeral Society.-A society for defraying the expense
arising from funerals was instituted at Stanley in 1831, the mem-
bers of which are now about 1200. Every member pays 1s. of
entry money, and afterwards 1d. for every funeral which occurs.
When the head of a family dies, L.4 are advanced to pay the
charges of his funeral; and when a child dies, L.2 are paid for
the same purpose. The sum of L.30 is always kept in hand that
in case of any unusual mortality taking place at nearly the same
time, the collections may not come too frequently upon the mem-
bers. An educational society has also recently been instituted at
Stanley for assisting the poor to pay for the education of their
children.
   Savings Banks.-In January 1831 a savings bank was also es-
tablished at Stanley by a few individuals connected with the works.
The baleful influence of the "cotton-spinners' combination" has
prevented this institution from producing the benifits which it is


