
                          COLLESSIE.                            23

from that of Kettle. Even this stream is not more than twenty-five
feet broad in any part of its course along the confines of the pa-
rish; nor does it become considerable till it reaches the Guard
Bridge in the parish of St Andrews, where it forms an estuary of
the German Ocean.
   Geology.--As no mines of any description are wrought in this
parish, and no considerable portion of the strata or formation of its
rocks is exposed to view, it presents no feature of interest to the eye
of the geologist. The only organic remains of any consequence
of which I have heard being found in the parish, were the large
branching horns and almost the entire skeleton of an elk of great
size, which were dug up a few years ago in the marl pits of Pit-
lair, in the eastern part of the parish. At the same place were
found several segments of the oak, denoting great circumference
and corresponding length in the trees of which they had formed a
part; probably a portion of the primeval timber that grew in the
district, and so few traces of which are now to be found.
   There is excellent whin or greenstone open in the parish; it
is much used for building, for which purpose it is at once durable
and ornamental. Sandstone has also been exposed on the proper-
ty of Rankeilour, though not wrought to any considerable extent.
Great quantities of marl too, both shell and clay, are found in the
parish. It was formerly much used, and some of it even shipped
to the Carse of Gowrie. It is now little in demand, except for top-
dressing and forming compounds for grass. It may perhaps have
been formerly applied in too large quantities, or the cropping may
have been too severe after it.
   Botany.--I have been kindly furnished by one of the heritors
with the following notice of the rarer plants found in the parish.
It may be proper, however, to mention, in reference to this enu-
meration, that, although part of the banks of the Black Loch are
in this parish, the loch itself lies in the adjoining parish of Abdie.
   There is nothing in this parish which would, a priori, seem to,
indicate a great variety in its botany; but, when more accurately
viewed, we find that, being bounded by water on the north and south,
and occupied in the centre by a wood of several miles in extent, in
which there are several large marshes, few parishes are in this re-
spect more favourably situated. A very brief view of the rare plants
to be found within it will not disappoint the botanist.
   The Hippuris is found at Monkstown, and near the edges of the
Black Loch; the Scirpus sylvaticus is found on Edensmuir, and


