
				GORDON.			       35

   There are no nobility, nor individuals or families of independ-
ent fortune residing in the parish.
   The parish has been long remarkable for the number of insane
persons residing in it. At present there are only 3, I blind per-
son, and I deaf and dumb.
   Character and Habits of the People.-They are rather remarka-
ble for the persevering steadiness with which they attend to their
several occupations, and for their industrious and frugal habits.
Like all who are actively engaged in the business of life, the people
are disposed to relax at times, and to seek a reasonable degree
of enjoyment in a frank and friendly intercourse with one another.
This disposition shows itself among all classes of society. They
possess a considerable extent of religious knowledge; and this, from
their fondness for reading, is every day gaining ground. Many of
the better sort evince a knowledge and a taste in literary matters
which would do credit to men in far more elevated stations, and
with far superior advantages. Smuggling is almost unknown : not
so poaching.
    The number of illegitimate births in the parish for the last three
years has been 7.

			IV.-INDUSTRY.

    Agriculture and Rural Economy.

<FOOTNOTE>The number of acres, standard imperial measure, in the parish which are cultivated,
 or occasionally in tillage, is about					      4300
	      acres which have never been cultivated, and which remain con-
 stantly waste, or in pasture, about					      4100
             acres in undivided common,						 0
		   under wood, about					       500
  The trees are mostly fir, intermixed with some beech, oak, elm,
&c. I am informed that about 1000 acres might be added to the
cultivated land. But it appears doubtful whether even the occa-
sional cultivation of such land would repay the trouble, expense,
and risk attending it. A few good crops might be got at first, after
which the land would become less profitable either for crops or grass.
  Rent of Land.-The average rent of the arable land may amount
to about L. I per acre. The average rent of grazing in the whole
parish, at the rate of L. 2, 10s. on good grass land, and L. 1, 10s.
on meadow and waste, per ox or cow grazed; and at the rate of
18s. per ewe, or full-grown sheep, pastured for the year,-may
amount to about L. 3300.
  Rate of Wages.-Farm-labourers receive, in summer, Is. 8d. per
day, and in winter, Is. 6d. Masons receive 2s. 6d. per day, and
joiners the same.


