202                          FORFARSHIRE.

from two to three pounds per fleece of very indifferent wool yearly.
The carcases, when fattened on the hill, as they sometimes are,
weigh from eight to ten pounds per quarter of well-flavoured mut-
ton. But the far greater part, when rising three or four years old,
are sold in October, to be fed off with turnips,--when they in-
crease generally to about fifteen per cent. both in weight and value.
	Cattle and Horses.--Many black-cattle are raised, and when ris-
ing three years old are stall-fed to the weight of from thirty to
sixty stones of excellent beef, much of which is sent to Glasgow
or London. The breed of horses is good, and few are used of an
inferior description.
	Spinning Mills, &c.--There are two spinning, and twice as
many plash-mills,--the former of which may each throw off from
1300 or 1400 spindles weekly. No flax produced in this parish
is sptn at the mills, which are supplied from Dundee and Montrose.
Much yarn is brought from the same places to be cleaned, where
water and water-power are abundant; and opportunities are not
wanting in Forfar and Kirriemuir of converting the yarn into
cloth, in which form it is returned to the ports already mentioned.
			V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Means of Communication.--Of the great thoroughfare by Dun-
dee to the north, there are about three miles in this parish, viz.
from the bridge over the Esk at Finhaven, to that over the No-
ran at Nether Careston. This piece of turnpike on which there
is a toll-bar, is both nearly straight and level, and is easily kept
in excellent order. There are two principal lines in the parish
that lead to this turnpike; these, from the great number of very
heavy loaded carriages daily, almost hourly, traversing them with
coals, grain, flax, yarn, &c. are expensively kept up, and are now in
indifferent repair. The other lines of road are numerous and long,
and are barely passable in winter. There are four stone bridges
over the Esk,--one of them with an arch of 105 feet span, being
wholly, and the other three partially, in this parish.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The Archbishop of St Andrews had been
in use to let the teinds; and the tacksmen levied the ipsa corpora.
St Mary's College having become titulars, bontinued the former
practice of uplifting the teind till the year 1718, when the whole
annual value of the parish was, upon oath, ascertained to be
15,000 merks Scots, of which a fifth, or 3000 merks, became
teind; of this the College allowed a third to the officiating resi-
dent clergyman: of the remaining two-thirds, they were finally
				3


