
	160                     CAITHNESS-SHIRE.

	worship, which stood on a little knoll. This situation correspond-
	ed exactly with the predilection of the Culdees, who loved, in those
	ferocious times, remote and sequestered residences, wbence, in-
	deed, they had their distinctive appellation.
	Presbyterianism, derived from the scriptures and Apostolic days,
	continued for ages the form of ecclesiastical government in the
	Scottish Church, unmixed with Prelacy till 909, when Constantine
	tbe Third appointed Kellach bishop of St Andrews.  At this pe-
	riod, the Norwegians established themselves in Caithness, and pa-
	tronized the heathen deities.  About 100 years afterwards, how-
	ever, the Scandinavian idolatry gave place to the Romish ; the
	Norsemen of Caithness and Orkney having been converted by
	certain papal ecclesiastics, backed by the sword of Olaf King of
	Norway.  Malcolm Canmore, who began to reign in 1066, found-
	ed the prelature of Caithness, comprehending Caithness and Su-
	therland, and made Dar, one of his favourites, the prelate.  Po-
	pery flourished apace within the diocese.  Besides the Kirk of
	Wick, there were within the bounds of the parish, the Kirk of
	Ulbster, dedicated to St Martin; the Kirk of Thrumster; the Kirk
	of Hauster, dedicated to St Cuthbert; the Kirk of St Ninian, at the
	Head of Wick; St Mary's Kirk at Sibster; the Kirk of St Tears,
	dedicated to the Holy Innocents, near Ackergill; the Kirk of
	Moss, latterly dedicated to St Duthoc; the Kirk of Keiss ; and
	the Kirk of Strubster.  The Kirk of Ulbster is yet entire, and
	has been converted into a family tomb.  Several of the burial-
	places attached to the other kirks are yet in use.  Around the
	ruins of tbe Kirk of Moss, there are about twelve acres, said to
	have been under tillage so late as 1689.
	  In Caithness, the progress of the Reformation was very slow.
	Only Wick and Thurso had ministers in 1567 ; the rest of the pa-
	rishes of the county were supplied by readers and exhorters.  In
	1576, Dunnet, Halkirk, and Wick had each a minister and a
	reader.  The other parishes appear to have been entirely desti-
	tute of teachers.  Wick, apparently, was visited soon afterwards
	with a long vacancy.  The people, in these circumstances, con-
	tinued attached to popish superstition.  They were accustomed to
	visit the chapels with which the parish abounded, and pay their
	devotions to the stone images of their tutelary saints and saintesses.
	Dr Richard Mercheston, minister of Bower in 1613, exerted him-
	self to suppress this atrocious and debasing sin, and procured the
	demolition of the stone images.  On his retuin homewards, he was
	drowned by the blind and infuriated idolaters.  It was given out,


