
               BOINDIE.                                       221

dyce; and a streamlet falling into the latter, towards Ordiquhill.
By survey, the parish contains about 5000 acres, Scots measure.
   Topographical Appearances.-The surface of the parislh is pure-
ly of a lowland character, rather elevated, however, above the
sea-level, except the fine agricultural valley through which the
Boindie flows, which lies chiefly within the parish. The north-
ern coast, bounded by the Moray Frith, is chiefly rocky, with a
portion of sandy beach. At its eastern extremity, there is a point
of land called the Knockhead, extending into a reef of rocks, vi-
sible at half-tide, called the Salt Stones.* Here the coast turns
towards the south and forms one side of a bay. The shore be-
tween this point and the confluence of the Boindie with the sea,
extends less than a mile, and forms chiefly a beach of sand and
gravel.
   Climate.-The climate in the lower part of the parish is dry and
salubrious ; that of the upper district, although removed only a few
miles, is, on the other band, wet and cold.+ We find the virulent
influence of the easterly wind on the human frame less complained
of here than in the country at the opening of the fritb, and although
more steady frost occurs than on the immediate coast of the Ger-
man ocean, yet we experience sufficiently the influence of the sea air
to enjoy the most sensible superiority, in this respect, over the in-
land districts to the south. The most prevalent winds are from
north-west and south-east ; violent gales are generally from the for-
mer point. From other causes than their greater violence ++, it is by
north-west storms almost exclusively that great damage is done to
the grain crops on the coast; wbile their influence is attested by the

<FOOTNOTE>It is understood that the grey rat was first imported into this part of the coun-
try from a vessel wrecked on this reef. Three or four of these ferocious creatures
were found in the act of killing the sixth of a litter of young pigs ; the former five
having been killed and devoured. They are manifestly dangerous to young children.
           + The cattle in-this lost district are very liable to the disease known here by the name of
crockles-in England called chine-fellon, which also occurs at one or two points in the
lower part of the parish where the soil and climate are similar. Its more immediate
cause seems to be the poverty of the pasture. This is inferred from the fact, that it
has been wholly banished from a small farm in the lower district, where it used great-
ly to prevail, since the tenant began regularly to fertilize his fields by an abundant
supply of fish manure. It is a remarkable, as it appears to be a well ascertained fact,
that those farms on which it prevails in the upper part of this parish, and in the ad-
joining district of Fordyce parish, have been peculiarly liable to this disease, only
since the introduction of the sown grasses. Cattle affected with the disease are said
to be cured by being made to pasture either in a marshy uncultivated situation, or in
a fertile field. Thus the origin and the cure oftbe disease appear to illustrate the bad
effiects of the practice, perhaps unavoidable under an alternate system of husbandry, of
cultivating the same grasses in all varieties of soils and climates.
          ++ Probably the cause of this fact is to be found in the usual dryness of north west
storms, and their coming off the sea charged with salt spray unmixed with atmo-
spheric moisture, which seldom happens in the case of north-east storms, It has been
discovered that the blighted grain, if even partially filled, is quite available for seed.


