
634                         FIFSHIRE.

are denominated dikes, may be observed, though not in abun.
dance. One vein of compact felspar, in the direction of the dip,
may be observed at the Broombill. It is quarried for road metal,
being greatly superior in durability to the amygdaloid with which
it is surrounded. Another mass of felspar traversing the amygda-
loid in a south-easterly direction, on the Sheep walh hill,of Carphin,
may be observed.
   The greenstone dike, which has been denominated the great
Flisk vein, and which may be traced from the neighbourhood of
Newburgh on the west, enters this parish at Carpbin wood. After
baving traversed the clinkstone of Norman's Law, it passes on in
an easterly direction through the amygdaloid, until it is -lost ill the
neighbourhood of the new church of Creich, though it appears to
be related to the greenstone of Drumnod, &c. to the eastward.
In consequence of the dip of the strata being to the south, the
steep sides of the bills in the parish face the north. From the
great inequality of the composition of the amygdaloid, it has resist-
ed in a very unequal manner the decomposing influence of the at-
mosphere, and hence the surface of the parish is exceedingly un-
even. The harder rocks occupy the eminences, and exhibit an
irregular outline, while the prevailing softer amygdaloid gives to
the hills composed of it a more rounded and even surfaces
   The rock cover or tirrinq is in general derived from a decom-
position of the rocks, though, in a few instances, it is diluvium.
Gravelly diluvium occurs, though in no great quantity, at Luth-
rie. Clay diluvium forms the subsoil to the west of Balyarrow
mire. By the partial filling of a valley, and interrupting the pro-
gress of the natural drainage, this diluvium has formed by its de-
ition the barrier of a lake.

                        II-CIVIL HISTORY.

   Eminent Individuals-Aledander Henderson.-The Rev. Alex-
ander Henderson, who acted so prominent a part in fayour of Pre-
byteriarism, during the reigns of James the Sixth and Charles the
First, was a native of this parish. He was born in 1582 or 1583, as
appears fiom his monumental inscription in the Greyfriars Church-
yard, Edinburgh. His birth is not inserted in any of the registers
of the parish, in possesion Of the kirk-session, as none of them ex-
tend father back than 1668. In a minute of session, however,
of dta 5th October 1702, it is mentioned, inter alia, that "There
was a bond of 2000 merks secureduup the land of Craiech, which
Mr Alexander  Henderson, late minister of Luchars,  and afterwards



