
		               CARLUKE.			     567

the Garrion, Brownlee, Mauldslie, and Milton-Lockhart estates, re-
mains unaffected by this fault, and continues its course rising to
the south-east. But on the eastern side of the fault, a new ar-
rangement takes place. What may be called the Carluke coal
basin is formed. At the north-west parts of the parish, the infe-
rior coal seams are introduced by an up-cast of 50 fathoms per-
haps; at the Theafal stane in Jock's Gill (a well-marked point in
the course of this fault,) on the east side, the limestone range is
brought to the surface, an upcast of considerable extent; and
at Samson's sling stone in the Fiddler Gill (another well-mark-
ed point) the upcast is still greater. The extent of the Carluke
coal basin, of which the fault above noticed is one of the grand
boundaries, is well ascertained. Words, however, cannot ade-
quately supply the place of a diagram in giving an idea of it,--
but when we state that it describes as usual a curve, and that the
out-croppings of the coal and lime take a semicircular form north
by west to east, the convexity being west and south, we shall pre-
sume that we are understood. Taking the east side of the fault
above described, near Bogside and Hyndshaw, as the northern li-
mit, and passing due south, the out-croppings of the under seams
of the coal are found in Braidwood estate, about a mile south of
the town of Carluke, a distance of about three miles. Westward
below Whiteshaw bridge, on the estate of Milton Lockhart, is the
boundary in that direction, and, passing eastwards, the out-crop-
pings take place beyond Belston bridge--a distance of about two
miles. The centre of the basin is near Castlehill iron works,
and of course the dip is towards that point from all directions. In
this basin the following seams are wrought:
	1. The first or highest is what is here called Castlehill first
seam, of about three feet; a soft coal of inferior quality, but found
to answer the furnace. Has the appearance of a lignite, and while
burning sends out sparks like peat.
	2. From seven to eight fathoms below is the Castlehill second
seam, of good quality, but not so thick.
	3. At from seven to eight fathoms lower occurs the Castlehill
third seam, of four feet, with a rib of shale in the under portion;
a coal also of good quality.
	4. Four fathoms lower, the Castlehill fourth seam is found, of
two feet, and of good quality.
	5. At a considerable unascertained distance lower, the Castle-


