
			APPLEGARTH AND SIBBALDBIE.              175

age and extent. In these a marked difference is perceptible in re-
gard to the growth of the firs on the greenstone, contrasted with
those planted on the sandstone gravelly banks of the Annan.
Larches thrive remarkably in Mary's Cleugh: spruces, silver firs,
and Weymouth pines, planted from twenty-five to thirty or forty,
years ago, still show every mark of vigorous and healthy growth;
and the splendid silver firs at Hook-bridge, and the gigantic larches
in Mary's Cleugh, are fine specimens of their respective species at
a more advanced age.
        The only remarkable trdes in the parish are,,The silver firs,
fourteen in number, growing at Hook-bridge, planted nearly seventy
years ago, and measuring, the largest of them, 7 feet 4 inches in
girth, and about 80 feet high; Two larches in Mary's Cleugh,
planted about seventy years ago, measuring in heightat least 100
feet, and which grew three feet on an average annually for the first
twenty years of their existence. An ash in Applegarth church-
yard, the age of which is unknown, though tradition says it is be-
tween two and three hundred years old; it measures 14 feet in
girth at a yard from the ground; it is called the Gorget. Tree,
from the circumstance of its having, it is said, been used as a pil-
lory in the days of yore. The iron staples which held the collar
or gorget were visible not many years ago.
        Zoology.-The wild animals of the class Mammalia in Ap-
plegarth, and which are common to the country in general, are
about twenty. Among these, there are one or two that may be con-
sidered as rarer species. In addition to Vespertilio emarginatus,
the great bat (V. altivolans of White's Selbourne,) has been seen
fiving about the river with rapid and powerful flight, and must
rank as a very rare animal. Plecotus auritus is nnt uncommnn. The
water-shrew (Sorex fodiens) which is often accounted rare from its
retired habits and difficulty of capture, may always be found along
the soft and sandy banks of the Annan. The otter is to be seen
occasionally, and the fallow-deer sometimes stray from the Wood
of Raehills. The only animal certainly existing in this parish in
former times, and which has now disappeared, is the badger. Thirty
or forty years ago this animal was well known here; it was very fond
of garden vegetables, particularly carrots; and the last of the race
were killed in the old gardens of Jardine-Hall. To the badger
may perhaps be added the roebuck, the remains of which have
been found in some of the mosses.
        Fishes.-An enumemtion of the different species of fishes fre-


