                              GLENCROSS.                        319

within the last thirty years, and the offices attached to them are,
for the most part, very complete, thrashing-mills forming almost
always a part of them. The fields are well enclosed with hedges.
Dry-stone dikes are also pretty general, particularly in the higher
parts of the parish.
   Improvements.--great deal has been done in the way of im-
provements. Draining has been in very general use; and many
acres of land, which were formerly in a marshy state, are now com-
pletely brought in, and producing the finest crops. The whins,
too, which covered many of the fields, have been rooted out, and
the ground is now carrying grain of excellent quality. Lime is
very generally used for agricultural purposes, after having been
first made into compost.
                 V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Market-Towns.--The nearest market-town is Edinburgh, which
is little more than six miles from the manse. Dalkeith, which is
seven miles off, is also resorted to by the farmers on the south side
the parish.
   Means of Communication.--The means of communication en-
joyed by the parish are excellent. There is no post-office in the
parish; but there is one at Penicuik and another at Roslin, be-
twixt two and three miles distant, and which are both easy of ac-
cess. There are two turnpike roads running through the whole
length of the parish, and the old Dumfries road by Auchindinny.
The Dumfries mail-coach passes daily through the south side of
the parish, as doth also the Peebles coach to and from Edinburgh;
and on the north, there is a stage coach to Dumfries every
day by Linton and Biggair. The parish roads are kept in ex-
cellent repair. The statute labour money is regularly levied,
and the average annual expense of keeping them in order for the
last three years may be estimated at L. 20. There are three stone
bridges over Glencross water, which are in good condition; and
another over the Esk at Auchindinny, where this water forms the
boundary of the parish.
   Ecclesiastical State.--The church. is most conveniently situated,
being nearly in the centre of the parish. It stands on the top of
a curiously insulated knoll, and is very beautifully surrounded with
trees. It appears from dates upon it to have been built at two
different periods; the main body of the church in 1665; but hav-
ing been destroyed by fire in 1695, it was rebuilt in 1699, and en-
larged by adding a projection to each side, which forms it into the


