
278                     PERTHSHIRE.

   Leases and Farm-Buildings.-The general duration of leases
is fifteen years, and this is regarded by the farmer as a favourable
period. Many of the farm-steadings have been lately rebuilt upon
an improved plan, but much in this respect remains to be done.
   Quarries.-There is a quarry of excellent freestone upon the
estate of Cultoquhey, of a red colour, and great durability; and
upon the property of James M. Patton, Esq. of Glenalmond,
there is another, besides two quarries of slate, all of superior
quality.
   Amount of raw Produce.-The average gross amount of raw pro-
duce raised in the parish, as nearly as that can be ascertained,
after making a suitable deduction for what may be consumed upon
the farms, is as follows:

<TABLE>

                    Grain of all kinds,       L. 981
                    Potatoes,                    205
                    Hay,                         110
                    Grass parks,                1000
                    Sheep and wool,             3195
                    Cattle,                      513
                    Dairy produce,               337
                                             -------
                                             L. 6341

                    V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   There is no market-town in the parish of Monzie; but this de-
ficiency is but little felt, as Crieff is only three miles distant, where
there is a weekly market, besides eight fairs in the year.
   Villages.-The parish contains two villages, Monzie and Gil-
merton, the former having a population of 118, and the latter of
232 souls.  Monzie is built upon the property of Mr Campbell,
and the inhabitants are merely tenants; while Gilmerton is feued
off Mr Maxtone.
   Roads and Fences.-There ard about eleven miles of excellent
turnpike road, besides several miles of road maintained by statute
labour.
   As a great proportion of the parish is pastoral, much of the land
is unenclosed, but where fences are necessary, they are in general
kept in good condition.
   Ecclesiastical Statd.-The situation of the church, near the south-
ern boundary of the parish, is convenient for the majority of the
parishioners.  It was built in 1830-31, and opened, for public
worship, by the Rev. Mr Cameron, on Sabbath, 24th July 1831.
It is after a plan by Mr Stirling, architect, Dunblane, and is built
to contain 512 persons.
   Manse, Glebe, and Stipend.-The manse was built in 1779.



