
148                        ARGYLESHIRE.

before the Reformation, still remains though ruinous.  It is of
much more recent date, and larger size than that of Finnan.
   Modern Buildings.-Of these, Arasaig House is the most costly
and elegant.  It is a handsome mansion-house, built by the pre-
sent chief of Clanranald, of polished freestone, a material import-
ed at great expense, with interior accommodations befitting the
seat of a distinguished family.  The present parish church is
a durable and well constructed edifice, built after a plan by Mr
Burn of Edinburgh.  The tone chiefly used was a micaceous rock,
brought by sea from primitive rocks about twelve miles to the
eastward,-the buttresses, belfry, and sides of windows are of free-
stone from Glasgow.  The farm offices of Drimantorran, near
Strontian, are worthy of notice for their extent, and admirable
adaptation to their purpose.  The residences of the proprietors
are generally plain comfortable buildings suited to the climate,
the more recently erected showing a due regard to ornament.
   At Glenfinnon, a tower with apartments attached was erected
by the late amiable and much lamented Alexander MacDonald of
Glenaladale, in commemoration of the event which took place
there in 1745.  The inscription, which he did not live to see
placed, was written by Dr Donald Maclean, already alluded to,
highly approved by the late Sir Walter Scott, and translated into
Latin by the late celebrated Dr Gregory of Edinburgh.  The re-
lative and successor of Glenaladale, Angus MacDonald, Esq. has
of late improved this monument, having removed the buildings
annexed, so that the tower stands singly on the plain, and erected
on the summit a statue of the Prince, to whom the gentlemen of
his family were ardent adherents from the day of his landing,
and not more in the hour of his fleeting triumphs than when a
hunted wanderer in the caves of Arasaig and wilds of Moidart.

                     III.-POPULATION.
   The population of the Argyleshire districts, as taken by Sir
Alexander Murray in 1723, amounted to 278 farnilies-408 men,
444 women, 500 children ; total, 1355.
   In 1795, according to the last Statistical Account, they amount-
ed to 470 families,-1218 males, 1334 females ; total, 2552.
Families, numbering, 124 individual members, emigrated to Ame-
-rica in 1790 and 1791.  Since then, individuals and single fami-
liesh ave been constantly emigrating to the low country or the co-
lonies.   In 1837 and 1838 not less than twenty families left
Ardnamurchan and Sunart chiefly for Australia.  Allowing the
Inverness-shire districts the same proportion as Ardnamurchan


