
			GARVOCK.                            37

fices. So common was the practice among the surrounding na-
tions, that God's chosen people, although warned and strictly pro-
hibited, Deut. c. xviii. v.9, 10, yet were ensnared and often join-
ed in this shocking crime, Psal. cvi. v. 37, 38.
	The only names for Whitsunday and Halloweven in Gaelic,
are La Beiltin and La Samh'in; nay the writer of this has repeat-
edly heard old people, even in the Mearns, use the name Beiltin
for Whitsunday, quite ignorant of its meaning or origin.
	On the larger of the two cairns mentioned above, the late J. Far-
qubar, Esq. ofJohnston, on whoseproperty itlies, erected a neat hol-
low tower of substantial mason-work, about thirty feet high, with a
winding stair inside to the top, from which there is a most exten-
sive and charming view.
	About seven years ago, there was a cairn on a knap or knoll in
the lower part of the parish, on the farm of Upper Tulloch, from
time immemorial called the Priest's Cairn. In the progress of Gar-
vock improvements, this cairn was converted into road metal, and
a distinct Druidical circle, consisting of twelve large stones, was
found under it, and within the circle a stone coffin, composed of
slabs of freestone, not deposited in a pit or grave, but simply set
upon the surface of the ground and covered by the cairn. In the
coffin, nothing was found but unctuous black earth, and four little
white substances exactly resembling human teeth, but so soft as to
write on a slate like pencil. It is not easy now to conjecture why the
circle contained a coffin and was covered by a cairn, for a circle of
upright stones, consisting of seven, twelve, or nineteen, referring to
the days of the week, the months in the year, or the cycle of the
moon, with all which the Druids were acquainted, (Caesar, I. 6. c.
14,) was the ordinary place of Druidical worship, as the cairn w`s
on more solemn occasions. The circle or common Druidical
temple was erected in a grove, commonly of oaks. The cairn
was erected on high places.  Indeed, it is clear from Scripture,
the best of all evidences, that these or something like these were
the plain and simple places of worship in the earliest ages. In
Gen. xxviii. 18, you find Jacob set up a pillar as a place of wor-
ship at Bethel. In Exod. xxiv. 4, you find Moses, before he had
received any command concerning the tabernacle, which was af-
teewards the place of worship, built an altar and surrounded it
with twelve stone pillars; and during the separation of the ark
and tabernacle in the days of Samuel, Saul, and David, worship
of the true God in high places was permitted, 2 Chron. i. 3
1 Sam. ix. 19. But when these places had been desecrated by



