
650                              LANARKSHIRE.

first Earl of Haddington.  He is described as being a good lawyer
and keen-sighted judge, and concluded a profitable political life
by the accumulation of a vast sum of money, which he wisely vested
in landed property.  He discovered a silver mine in the lands of
Ballencrieff, in Linlithgowshire, which he took care to secure by a
charter, including "miners, mineralia, auri, et argenti, inter bondas
terrarum de Ballencreiff."  Had he been so fortunate as to secure
in the same manner the minerals in the Monklands, they would
have been more valuable to his descendants than mines of silver
or gold.  the Monklands passed from the Haddington family in-
the the hands of the Clellands of Monkland about 1633, and in
1639, they were sold to James, Marquis of Hamilton.  The char-
ter is dated 19th November 1639, or the year after the noble
Marquis which met in Glasgow 1638.  These territories passed
from the Hamilton family into the hands of the College of Glas-
gow, and thus have become once more the appropriate possession
of a literary community.  This purchase was made from Anne,
Duchess of Hamilton, in the reign of Charles 11., and included
the patronage and tithes of the subdeanery of Glasgow, and of the
churches of Calder and Monkland; all of which, except the pa-
tronages of the churches, they retain to this day.
   The Monklands were divided. into two parishes according to
Hamilton of Wishaw, in or about 1660, but more probably about
1640.  Long before this period, the land had been almost aU feued
out to particular heritors, some of whom are very old possessors
of their respective inheritances.
   Beyond all the above facts, which are authenticated by existing
documents, there is a tradition, that a certain pilgrim, in order to
de penance for some sin, was obliged to carry a particulr stone in
to build a church at his own expense. The weary pilgrim laid
down his burden at the place when the Old Monkland church
stands, and the stone is still to be seen.
   Chief Land-owners-General Pye Douglas of Rosehall; Robert
Buchanan of Drumpdllier; John H. Colt of Gartsberries; John
Sligo of Garmyle; Hugh Bogle of Calderbank; James M'Call of
Daldowie, William Dixon of Faskin; Theodore Wolrond, Cal-
derpark; George Nisbet of Cairnhill.  The estate of Breadies-
holm is also a valuable property.
   Parochal Registers.--These consist at present of seventeen
volumes.  The oldest legible date is January 24th 1692.


