
			   BANCHORY DEVENICK.                   187

on all occ`shons to lend his aid to every measure for the good of
the parish, and who has a considerable property in the vicinity
of this school,) and a few other lesser gratuities, along with the fees
of teaching.
	The ordinary branches of education are taught at the first and
third of these schools; and in addition to these, Latin is taught
at the parish school, but few Latin scholars are entered. These
are all open for an hour and a half or two hours on the Lord's day
under regulations agreed to by the minister of the parish along with
the Trustees of the late Mr Gordon of Murtle, who make allow-
ance of L.10 annually, which is divided among the teachers, who
have no other remuneration for this part of their duty. These schools
are open before sermon in winter, and in the afternoon in summer.
Meetings under night are not permitted. Besides being exercis-
ed in the catechism, and in reading the Scriptures, such of the
scholars as have been taught to write are, permitted to copy, a
short passage from the New Testament. This institution is of
decided and obvious advantage to those who attend.
	The parish schoolmaster has a salary of L. 30, with about one-
third of the usual proportion of the Dick bequest, there being only
about one-third of the parish in Aberdeenshire; he likewise re-
ceives L. 5 per annum for teaching a Sabbath school, behng his
proportion of the annual grant for that purpose by the Trustees of
the late Mr Gordon of Murtle, and L. 20 per annum for teaching
twenty children recommended by the session. This last is an en-
dowment by a benevolent gentleman in India; but the plan is as
yet experimental, and the emoluments of the teacher from that
source are of course contingent. The plan, if permanently adopt-
ed, is likely to prove a great blessing to the parish. It is conduct-
ed under the most judicious regulations.
	The amount of fees actually paid to the schoolmaster is proba-
bly about L. 20 per annum.
	There are three other schools in the parish, unendowed.
	From what is above stated, it will be seen that few parishes are
better accommodated with the means of education in all branches
most proper and necessary for the lower classes of the commu-
nity. The average number of scholars may range from 120 to 140:
	Library.--A good many years ago, a parish library was formed
under the charge of the parish schoolmaster, and consists of a con-
siderable number of volumes; but the demand for books has almost


