
                     CARNOCK.                            699

the University of Edinburgh.  The well known Institutes of the
Professor were composed, it is said, in his house of Newbigging,
in this parish, where he usually resided during the summer months.
He resided latterly at Cardross, in Monteith, where he died in the
year 1767.
   The property belonging to the family in this parish descended
to his eldest son, the late Dr John Erskine of Edinburgh.  The
doctor, who was an eminent minister of the Church of Scotland,
and whose worth and talents were well known and highly appre-
ciated both at home and abroad, was first settled at Kirkintilloch,
afterwards at Culross, in the Presbvtery of Dunfermline, and final-
ly was translated to the Old Greyfriars, Edinburgh, where he
had for his colleague the celebrated Principal Robertson.  Dur-
ing the period of his residence in Edinburgh, he took an active
part in church affairs; and as to much energy of character, and
great industry, he joined an ardent piety and an enlightened zeal,
he contributed not a little to maintain the purity and the efficiency of
the Scottish Kirk.  Like several of his ancestors, he was a warm
friend both of religious and civil liberty.  His thirst after know-
ledge was great, and continued unabated to his death, which hap-
pened A. D. 1803, in the eighty-second year of his age, and the
fifty-eighth of his ministry.
    Another individual long connected with this parish by office,
was Mr John Row.  He seems to have been the third minister of
it after the Reformation.  Livingston, in his memoirs as quoted
by Gillies, says, that "he was a godly, zealous man, who was care-
ful to collect the most observable passages of Providence in his
time.  He helped at the General Assembly at Glasgow 1638, to
discover sundry corruptions of the former time."  His father,
who was one of the Reformers, and who was a distinguished He-
brew scholar, and the first that taught that language in Scotland,
early initiated him into the knowledge of the Hebrew, so that when
eight years of age he read the Hebrew chapter in the family.
Being firmly attached to the Presbyterian Church government,
and an enemy to the encroachments of Episcopacy, he suffered
frequent hardships in consequence, during the ascendancy of the
latter.  But, being much respected for his piety and integrity, he,
though a nonconformist, was permitted to live at his charge; and

<FOOTNOTE>David Ferguson, afterwards minister of Dunfermline, and James Stewart, were
his predecessors.  Vide Row's Historie, p.471, just published by the Wodrow Society.


