
122                  PEEBLES-SHIRE.

   Hydrography.-There are manyperennial springs, some of which
flow from the earth, and others from rocks. Their temperature is
46&deg; they are very clear, but not very large, and none of them so
far impregnated with any mineral or chemical substances as that
these become distinguisbable by the taste or smell.
   Tweed is the largest river in the parish. It has its source in the
parish of Tweedsmuir, at a fountain called Tweedswell, about seven-
teen or eighteen miles above the uppermost part of the parish. It
is upwards of twenty yards broad, and on average about one foot
and a-half deep at the fords. It enters the parish where Biggar
water joins it, and it the junction is 615 feet above the level of the
sea. It leaves the parish where the Lyne water Joins it, and at
the junction is 550 feet above the level of the sea. It, runs either
through or along the parish for seven miles. Its declivity is about
twelve feet per mile.
   Geology and Mineralogy.-There is a bed of clay-slate in the pa-
rish which has been worked for centuries. It is of excellent quality,
and resembles Inueb the slate from the quarries of Ballachulish in
Argyleshire. Its direction is from west to east, and it dips to the
south-east. All the other rocks are greywacke, more or less dis-
tinctly stratified.
   The slate and greywacke rocks (whinstone) have been only work-
ed where they crop out on the surface, and where there is little or
no soil covering them.
   Soil.-The soil is generally light and gravelly, abounding with
numerous water-worn stones, especially in the valley of Tweed. in
some parts the soil is clay, especially on the north parts of the hills,
and in the best parts at the bottom of the hills. The alluvial soil
in the haughs of Tweed is various, part being carse-land, part
sandy or gravelly, evidently the deposit of the river, or what was at
one time the bed of the river.
                      H.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Accounts, &c. of the Parish.-The only account of the parish,
besides the former Statistical Account, is to be found in a publica-
tion entitled "A Companion to Armstrong's Map of the County
of Peebles," published in 1775. Sir Alexander Murray, once a
proprietor of Stoho estate, which comprehends now three-fourths
of the parish, had a plan of it made and engraved about the year
1734, which is correct, and gives the heights of many of the hills.
   Eminent Persons.-Sir Alexander Murray, Bart. who resided
in the parish during part of the incumbency of my predecessor, was
possessed of a most enterprising spirit, and carried on Improvements


