
         516                         FIFESHIRE.

         house for the schoolmaster, with a suitable garden attached to it,
	has this year been built adjoining the school-house.
              The other school is kept by two females, and is attended by
	about 30 very young children, who are instructed in some of the
	elementary branches of education.
              Poor.-The average number of regular paupers is from 4 to
	6, who receive a weekly allowance of Is., Is. 6d., or 2s. There
	are from 12 to 15 more, who obtain occasional relief in money,
         and regular supplies of meal and coals, The church-door col-
	lections have hitherto been sufficient for defraying these expenses.
	But, for several years, a heavy charge has been incurred for the
	support of two lunatics, who are boarded in the Dundee asylum.
	There is also a fatuous young man, for whose maintenance a year-
	ly allowance is given from the session funds.
              Inns.-There are two inns and four ale-houses in the parish.
              Fuel-The only fuel used is coal, which is brought chiefly by
	sea, although tenants and cottars cart it occasionally from the Fife
	coal hills, about ten miles distant. The prices of that which is
	sea-borne is from 4s. to 5s. per bushel.

                         MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
               The more striking differences betwixt the present state of the
	parish and that which existed at the time when the last Statisti-
	cal Account was published, consist in the improvements that have
	been made in agriculture, which have been such as greatly to in-
	crease the produce, and to improve the appearance of the lands; in
	the improved state of the roads, some of which, particularly the
	present great road to Newport. were at that time nearly impas-
	sable; in the important changes that have taken place in regard
	to the Dundee Ferry; in the large increase that has been made
	to the village of Newport; in the reclaiming and cultivation of
	much waste land; and in the plantations that have been made on
	the estates of St Fort and Tayfield.
              By the number and excellent condition of the roads, and the
	ready means of communicating with other parts of the county,
	every obstacle to the farther improvement of the district has been
	removed; and from the character of the present proprietors and
	tenants, there can be no doubt that these advantages will be nade
	available for advancin the prosperity of the parish, and promot-
	ing the welfare of its inhabitants.

	    Jamuary 1838.


