
                          PARISH OF POLWARTH.

          PRESBYTERY OF DUNSE, SYNOD OF MERSE AND TIVIOTDALE.

                 THE REV. ROBERT HOME,        }
                 THE REV. WALTER HOME, A. & S.}MINISTERS.

                    I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Boundaries, &c.-THE parish of Polwarth lies nearly in the
middle of the county of Berwick, forming part of the boundary
between its upland and low districts. It is in the form of a
triangle, the base of which is bounded by the parish of Langton;
the east and west sides are bounded respectively by the two pa-
rishes of Fogo, and Greenlaw. The parish is about three miles in
length; its greatest breadth does not exceed two; and it occupies
a space of 4.767 square miles.
   Topographical Appearances.-The surface presents nothing
very remarkable in character; from Kyles-hill, which rises to a
moderate elevation in the western extremity, the ground gra-
dually slopes in gentle undulations to the east. These eminen-
ces extend also into the southern angle of the parish, and, being
covered with plantations and groups of trees, give the whole
a very pleasing and romantic appearance.
   Geology.-The southern district is the most fertile; it belongs
to the new red sandstone formation. The northern belongs to
the old red sandstone formation; and is poor and barren. The
rock in the first of these is a dark marly stone, sometimes run-
ning into a white variety; in the second, the old red sandstone,
which is continued from the adjoining parish of Greenlaw, is ge-
nerally coarse and often conglomerate. Kyles-hill consists of a
hard reddish porphyry; the basis of which is clay containing
crystals of felspar interspersed through it. The soil of the dis-
trict is for the most part clay, but beds of sand and gravel here
and there intervene.
   Botany.-The Flora of the parish is, from its small extent, very
limited. Campanula latifolia, Acer campestre, and Spiraea salici-
folia, occur in Marchmont woods. Agaricus muscarius and Alec-
toria jubata, on Kyles-hill.


