
     The Statistical Account.

Now, it is effectually removed by a parochial assessment up-
on the heritors.  Relying on the certainty of this legal pro-
vision against want, they relax gradually in honest industry,
and at last abandoning work altogether, throw themselves up-
on parish charity without necessity; whereas, when they have
none to look up to but the minister and his elders, and no-
thing to depend upon but the voluntary collections at the
church door, they see nothing before them but poverty, or at
most, a very scanty subsistence.  ldleness, therefore, must
yield to exertion in order to better their condition; and thus
they are prevented from falling into that torpid slate so na-
tural to men who are void of ambition.  At the same time
it is quite equitable that men of all ranks and denominations
should contribute their mite for tim relief of the poorer bre-
thren of their nature.  But this is far from being the case in
Scotland at present.  Of the 99 sectarists in this parish, not
one of them, as I have already observed, contribute one far-
thing for the support of our poor.  The collections at the
doors of their different meeting houses, go entirely to support
their own clergy; a set of men who are not only a useless
burden upon society, but pernicious also to the morals of
the people, by preaching antinomian doctrines, and by which
they loosen their obligations to real virtue.  We have like-
wise 9 heritors in this parish, who are nearly as blameable in
tiffs respect as the sectarists.  None of them reside in the pa-
rish; and, except what they contributed in 1783, they have
not given us a single penny for the relief of the poor these
20 years.  The burden of maintaining them lies entirely up-
on the frugal and industrious farmers who work hard for a
maintenance to themselves.  These evils are great.  How
are they to be corrected?  Shall we call for an asess-
ment upon the heritors, and by making the lazy depend up-
on the pockets of the rich, open a wide door for idleness and


