
   1136                   PERTHSHIRE.

   road previously mentioned, and joining it near Stanley; and a
   third road, formed within these few years, and running through
   the northern side of the parish, from the ferry boat to the Perth
   and Caputh road, and intended to be carried straight forward un-
   til it joins the Dunkeld road, near Murthly Castle.  If this third
   line of road were, by a branch, extended over to Bankfoot, in the
   parish of Auchtergaven, which might be done at no great expense,
   a direct and easy line of communication would then be opened up
   betwixt that populous part of the country and the towns of Blair-
   gowrie, Coupar-Angths, and other places in the valley of Strath-
   more, by the boat of Kinclaven, as also to the fertile district of
   Stormont by the boat of Caputh.  The first of these roads is
   turnpike; the other two are statute labour roads.
      Post-Town.-Perth mav be regarded as the post-town for the
   eastern part of the parish, by means of a runner three times a-
   week from the Bridge of Isla.  A sub-office to Perth and Dun-
   keld has recently been established at Stanley, which is more con-
   venient for the inhabitants of the western part.
      Bridges.-At Kinclaven Ferry, ttiere is a passage boat, on
   the same construction as those used at Logierait and Caputh.
   The length of the chain here is 136 vards, `nd that the boat,
   although loaded, may effect the passage in five minutes, even
   when the river is not more than one foot in depth,-such is
   the buoyancy imparted to the boat or flying bridge, by the mode
   and principle of its construction.
      Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is most inconveniently
   situated for the bulk of the population, being at the eastern ex-
   tremity of the parish, while the greater portion of the people re-
   side at the distance of three or four miles towards the west, or
   south-west.  It is also in a very indifferent state of repair, so that
   it is hoped the heritors will soon erect a new one in a more
   centrical situation.  The present church contains accommodation
   for 320 sitters, and the sittings are all free.  In the east end of
   the church, there is a large monument, erected to the memory of
   Alexander Campbell, Bishop of Brechin, who is stated on the
   monument to have been "the Laird of, Kerco," in this parish.
   He died in February 1608.  The inscription, now scarcelx legible,
   makes mention of the marriage of his two only daughters,-the
   "elder to Sir John Hubleton of Lerwick, and the younger to the
   Laird of Weem." Keith, in his History of the Scottish Bishops,
   blames this prelate for having "alienated most part of the lands,


