
104                       WIGTONSHIRE.
     Geology. *---The geology of Kirkcolm is not without interest.
Professor Jameson was the first who traced out the geological struc-
ture of the great southern high land of Scotland, and ascertained that
its predominating rocks belong to the transition class.  Afterwards
his celebrated pupil, Dr Bou‚, and a good observer, Dr Grierson of
New Galloway, now minister of Cockpen, in Mid-Lohian, went
over the same ground, and obtained similar results.  Dr Thomson, in
the second volume of his Outlines of Mineralogy, at pp. 181, 182,
sum up what was previously known in the following terms: " There
is a range of transition mountains in Scotland, which begins at St
Abb's head, the southern termination of the Frith of Forth, and
extends with little interruption till it terminates in the Irish sea,
on the north side of Loch Ryan in Galloway.  This range ex-
tends in length about 120 Miles, and includes the mountains of
Galloway, Dumfries, Lanark, Pedbles, Mid-Lothian, and Ber-
wick.  The highest part of the tract is near Moffat, where Hart-
fell rises to the height of 3300 feet above the level of the sea.
Lowther, near Lead-hills, is 3130 feet high.  This mountainous
tract is composed of transition rocks," p. 182.  The Doctor adds,
" Good sections of this greywacke may also be seen in the moun-
tains north from Loch Ryan.  The road from Glasgow to Portpa-
trick crosses these mountains.  It is steep and inconvenient for the
traveller, but admirably contrived to furnish the geologist with sec-
tions of transition rocks.  The hill behind General Wallace's house
at Cairn is composed of clay-slate, and this slate, alternating with
greywacke, may be traced for several miles north till the moun-
tainous country suddenly terminates a little to the south of Girvan."
     Now, to satisfy any observer that the northern part of the pe-
ninsula, which forms the parish of Kirkcolm, is merely a continua-
tion of the great transition range just noticed, rising from the
western shore of Loch Ryan on the eastern boundary of the pa-
rish, and terminating in the Irish Channel on its western boun-
dary, it is only necessary to inspect the rocks, as they are visible at
the following points: at Lady Bay and Sloughnagarry, near Cors-
wall House, at the parish school-house, at Portmoulin, near Cors-
wall Lighthouse, at Aires, which lies south-west from it, and at
Cairnbrook, on the south-west extremity of the parish.  At all
these points, strata of greywacke, alternating with greywacke

<FOOTNOTE>The compiler of this Statistical Account has been favoured with the view here
given of the geology, and of the testaceology, of Kirkcolm, bv his friend George
M'Intosh, Esq.  Glasgow.




