
                              LARGS.                             797

merks from Stewartoune, 1 hundrith eleven punds ; from Kil-
winning, 1 hundrith pound ; from Perston, 40lb. viij merkes."
   Other assistance was procured, and the distress of the people
alleviated ; but the effect of this visitation was felt for a consider-
able period.
   The population of the parish, at the date of this calamity, seems
to have been greater than what it is now, as the number of com-
municants is stated to have been 2000.  The population decreased
considerably.  Besides those who were carried off, the alarm and
excitement must have caused many families to leave the place ;
and it was not until a comparatively recent period, that the tide of
popular favour turned, and caused a gradual increase until the pre-
sent day.  Yet even now, with all the advantages, the resident
number of communicants is not near the amount it had attained
previous to the devastation.
   There was a proposal to remove the church from the village to
the south part of the parish, and, as the proceedings to accomplish
this are not uninteresting, an abstract of them is lodged along with
the MS. of this Account.
   The record proceeds, on 1st November 1649, to state, " con-
cerning the accomodation of the Largs, which is a wyd and spati-
ous congregation, the perambtulators did judge it expedient that
the lands of Southanan, belonging to my Lord Semple, the lands of
Corsbie, belonging to Auchinnames, sould be annexit to Kilbryde,
because of their neirness to that kirk and farness from their own ;
2dly, Because of the impossibilitie of building a new kirk within
that paroch, be reason of the desolation of these partes ; and, 3dly,
Because of ane impassable water betwixt them Rnd Largs."
   The annexation of these lands took place; but the idea of trans-
porting the kirk to the south of the impassable river Gogo was
given up, and, a few years ago, a chapel, in connection with the
Establishment, was built at Fairlie, near the place where it had
been contemplated to erect the parish church.  The difficulties
of passing rivers no longer exist,--substantial bridges being now
erected over every stream which crosses the highway.  The bridge
over the troublesome Gogo was carried away by a heavy flood in
1831 ; but a large and commodious one was speedily erected, and
is likely to resist the power of the river for a long series of years.
   Land-owners--Rent.--Tbe valued rent of the parish is L.3802,
which is divided among the different proprietors as follows:--


