
			KIRKGUNZEON.                            219

side of the parish are of blue whinstone, and are used for building
dikes, which are the principal fences in the parish.
	Zoology.-The cattle reared are of the Galloway kind. The
farmers pay a good deal of attention to this stock, as they find
from experience that it makes a better return than any other. On
the coarse and high-lying lands, a number of Highland bullocks
are wintered, as they are considered to be more hardy and more
easily fed. They are generally bought at Falkirk in the end of
harvest, and yield a pretty fair profit for a season's keep. There
are few sheep now kept in the parish. There are only two farms
where a shepherd is kept tn look after the flock. The hills on the
south and east of the parish abound with grouse and black game.
When the present incumbent came to the parish in 1809, there was
scarcely a blackcock to be seen. Now the black game outnumber
the grouse, and if they continue to increase in the same proportion,
they will banish the grouse from the ground. From occupying the
low ground where they first hatched their young, they ascended to
the higher hills, and have taken possession of the breeding grounds
of the grouse. Hares and partridges are also plenty, as the most
part of the parish has been strictly preserved for a number of years.
There are also some pheasants, which have made their appearance,
of late from two of the neighbouring parishes, where they were
reared with some care.
	The river is an excellent trouting stream, and in the deep water
at the lower end of the parish there is a quantity of large pike and
perch. Some very large trout about spawning time have been
caught at the outlets of the locbs from which the water takes its
rise. They are from four to six pounds weight, and are of excel-
lent quality when they are in season.
			IT.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Land-owners.--There are only five proprietors in the parish.
The principal heritor is Mr Maxwell of Terregles, whose rental
amounts to nearly L.3000 per annum. The rental of the other
four proprietors is about L.1000 per annum. There is no heritor
residing in the parish.
	Parochial Register.--The parochial register was begun in
1705, and has been very irregularly kept. Meetings of session,
births, marriages, and collections are all jumbled together. There
are some very-curious insertions in the record, which strongly mark
the inquisitorial spirit of our ancestors. The first volume of the
record comes down to 1770; and from that period to 1800 the


