
                  ON THE COUNTY OF DUMBARTON.                           235

It is upwards of twenty miles long, and in some places very deep.
Its immense depth gives to the waters a dark blackish colour, in
some degree heigtened by the hills which skirt it on either side.
The scenery at the opening of Loch Goil and about Arrechar is
peculiarly bold and striking; and from Baremman and Tamnahara,
in Roseneath, it is of a character, perhaps, scarcely equalled even
in the panoramic assemblage of nature's gifts in this highly favour-
ed district. Beautiful streams and lakes of less note are plenti-
fully scattered over the face of this county; and springs of whole-
some water gush out in liberal profusion for the use of man and
beast.
   Geology.--The geology of this district presents a suite of rocks
from the oldest strata, mica-slate, to the limestone and coal forma-
tions. The oldest formations are to the north, and the newest in the
south and south-east. The generally predominating rock where the
primitive strata prevail is mica-slate,--a formation which lies im-
mediately above the gneiss, and into which it insensibly passes.
This mineral here, as in the neighbouring districts, and through-
out the greater portion of the Highlands of Scotland, presents a
distinct and uniform character. It is composed chiefly of parts
adhering together without any intermediate cement, forming
plates laid on each other. It is always stratified, and is most-
ly composed of mica and quartz, and occasionally felspar.  Mica
is very abundant, quartz also very abundant, and felspar scarce-
ly perceptible. This rock forms the bulk of all the highest and
most striking hills in the north of the county. The direction
of the strata, as a whole, is nearly N.E. and S.W. At the sum-
mits and along the bases of the hills on both sides of Loch Lomond,
the strata of mica-slate are distinctly observed cropping out in the
usual direction, and in a position, almost vertical, from which it
may be inferred that this substance composes the mass of these
mountain ranges.  The mica-slate of this quarter is distinguished
by an abundance of quartz, which in, some other districts is gene-
rally in small quantity. Towards the summits of some of these
mountains, the rock is remarkably penetrated by it, and exhibits
veins and masses of every form, but not in regular beds. Indeed,
quartz in many instances is so abundant, that it gives the mica-
slate a whitish colour, resembling at a distance pure quartz.  In
some places these rocks are remarkably twisted, as at the foot of
Glen Falloch, in Arrochar, where a beautiful section is brought to


