
624                           AYRSHIRE.

also paid, annually, out of the same funds. Besides, this yearly
expenditure is increased by the burden imposed on the town,
of defraying the charges for occasional repairs of the building.
Apart altogether from what remains of the possessions belonging
in the olden time to the Carmelite friars,--the town has other
property and other sources of income, to which references are made
in the charters, and more especially in the charter granted by
James VI., dated 1st May 1601.
	The situation of the town is not only beautiful but very salubri-
ous, and presents in every respect a most desirable place of residence.
With the exception of an assessment of a very limited amount, for
the support of the poor, there is not a local burden. The main
street is wide, well-causewayed, clean, and handsome. Through-
out the town, the houses, generally speaking, are excellent and
commodious: in the suburbs, there are several well-built villas;
and in the immediate vicinity, there are sites eligible in the high-
est degree for building. Now that communication by steam car-
riages, with Paisley and Greenock and Port-Glasgow and Glas-
gow, is both frequent and rapid, parents may easily avail them-
selves of the advantages afforded here for the satisfactory and, in-
deed complete instruction of their children in every branch of clas-
sical, commercial, and ornamental education. Doubtless, the
communication so happily opened up will bring these advantages
under the consideration of many, so as to induce them either to
settle with their families in Irvine, or board their children under
the care of one or other of our accomplished and efficient teachers.
	Among the principal buildings, the Academy deservedly claims
the first notice. This large and elegant edifice was built in the
year 1816. It contains seven very commodious apartments, and
stands in a fine open and well-aired situation. The teachers are
three in number, and all the chief branches of education are
taught. There are, beside, various private educational estalish-
ments in the burgh. The present parish church may next be no-
ticed; a large and well-proportioned building, erected in the
year 1774, with an elegent spire attached. The church is esti-
mated to contain 1800 sitters. The patronage is vested in the
Earl of Eglinton. There are also congregations in Irvine in con-
nection with the Relief, the Associated Synod, and the Baptists.
	The Town-house was built in 1745. Besides court hall and
counell chambers, it contains two rooms formerly used for civil
debtors, and three apartments for criminals, with police-office,
               			3


