
                        RATHO.                          104

Maitland, a former proprietor of Hatton. The one consists of
two communion cups of massive silver, bearing this inscription :
"Given by Richard Lord Maitland in 1684, to the service of God,
for the church of Rutba." The other consists of a baptismal plate
and ewer, with the Lauderdale arms, and the inscription, "For
the service of God, given by Richard Lord Maitland, to the pa-
rish church of Ratho, anno 1685."
   Manse and Glebe.-The present manse, which is a plain but com-
modious structure, is situated in the Kirktown hard by the church.
It was built in 1803, during the ministry of the late Dr Duncan,
whose name is kept in grateful remembrance by the people. Since
the time of its erection, no alterations of any consequence have
been made upon it. The offices belonging to the old manse still
remain, and are fast hastening to decay.
   The glebe consists of two separate portions of land. The one
of these, which is of excellent quality, is about 3 1/2 acres Scotch,
exclusive of the garden, and the site of the manse and offices; the
latter, or grass glebe, which contains about 4 acres, is a piece of
swampy mossy soil, of little comparative value. Togethert, they
are worth about L. 16 or L. 18. The stipend is 17 chalders of
grain, half meal, half barley, with the exception of about 6 bolls,
3 firlots, 2 pecks, 2 lippies, of wheat, and 6 bolls, I firlot, 3 pecks,
3 lippies of oats. It is paid by the highest fiars of the county, and
on an average of the last five years may be stated in money at
L.250, exclusive of L. 8, 6s. 8d. for communion elements.
   There is no place of worship in the parish save the parish
church. Six-sevenths of the population belong to the Establish-
ment. There are 1286 individuals in connection with the Esta-
blisled Church. Those belonging to other denominations amount
in all to 168 persons. Of these, 132 are Dissenters or Seceders,
chiefly in connection with the-United Secession, and worshipping
at East Calder, Slateford, or Balerno; 17, chiefly the famalily
of the Earl of Morton, are Episcopalians; and 19 are Roman Ca-
tholics. Of those belonging to the Establishment, the number of

<FOOTNOTE>It appears from the session records, that these cups were carried off by the Earl
of Lauderdale to his estate in the south, at the period of Revolution; from what
cause does not appear, probably for their safe custody in these troublous time. One
of the first minutes of the kirk-session on record contains the appointment of a com-
mittrr for the recovery of the same. The committee, it appears, waited first upon Sir
John Dalmahoy of that Ilk, to request his assistance in procuring their restoration,
but he being in prison could give them no aid. A deputation of two is forth with
sent to Lauder to wait upon Lord Maitland, from whom, upon granting a receipt,
they received the utensils, and since that time they have remained in the custody of
the  ministers and kirk-session.


