
     Of Auchindoir.

or the pursuit of an enemy*.  The form of the parish is ir-
regular, and in many places it is intersected by the neigh-
bouring parishes.  There is no map of the parish; and, ex-
cept the estate of Craig, none of it has been measured.  It
may contain about 35 square miles, being about 7 miles from
N. to S., and, at a medium, 5 miles from E. to W.; but by
far the greatest part of this is hill or moor; so that the ex-
tent of arable ground does not exceed 2000 acres.  This
country is, in general, hilly, or even mountainous, and some
of the mountains are of considerable height.  The Buck in
particular, the top of which is a boundary of this parish, is,
according to Ainslie, 2377 feet above the level of the sea, and
though more than 30 miles from the nearest sea, is seen at the
distance of 10 leagues from the land.  The mountains, in ge-
neral, are covered with heath, and supply the sportsman with
plenty of moor game, though for some years with consider-
ably less than usual, owing, as it is supposed, to the stormy
weather in the breeding season.  Some of the hills are green,
and though the grass be for the most part coarse, afford tole-
rable pasture to a good many sheep.

   Rivers, Hills, etc.-The number of rivers, or even rivu-
lets, is not so great as might have been expected in such a
mountainous country.  The only river in the parish is Bogie.

     3 Q 2

<FOOTNOTE>

*Buchanan tells us, that Luthlac, son to the usurper Macbeth, having been
pursued northward by Malcolm, was slain "in the valley of Bogie."  The spot
where he was slain is thought to be about 2 miles to the north of the church of
Auchindoir, but in the parish of Rhynie, in a place where a large stone, with
rome warlike figures on it, has been set up.  If so, it is not improbable that
Luthlac has been overtaken about a mile to the S. of the church, in the place
where the above mentioned cairns now are; that being defeated, he has been
pursued through the valley of Auchindoir, which lies between the cairns and
the figured stone; and that from this pursuit, the parish of Auchindoir has
taken its name.


