
			BANCHORY-TERNAN.                       335

rare limit of his success is now two, or at most three. The salmon
fry generally go down the river to the sea in April or May, and
are supposed to return grilse in June.
	Muscles (Mytilus cygneus?) are found in the Canny, which
was formerly celebrated for its pearls.
	Of reptiles, besides the common toad, and the common and edi-
ble frog, there are the Triton aquaticus, and the T. palustris,-
the water and the warty eft, the Lacerta agilis-the nimble lizard,
the dnguis fragilis or blind-worm, and the Vipera communis, or
common adder. The bite of this species has here been found
poisonous. The leg of a woman, bitten lately by it, became great-
ly swollen on the third day up to the top of the thigh, with a con-
siderable discoloration (ecchymosis) in the ham. Specimens of a
serpent upwards of four feet long have several times been found;
but whether it be the adder at an advanced stage of its growth, or
whether it be a distinct species, is unknown.
	Nothing in the entomology of the parish, as hitherto observed,
seems to require particular notice. Insects are numerous, and in
considerable variet, especially moths.

                      II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
	At Cairnton, on the east end of the bill and ancient wood of
Trustach, near a steep bank of the Dee, there is a slightly hollow
place, overgrown with birch, about 150 yards square, which, on
its north and only open side, has two ramparts of earth, each 300
yards long, from 10 to 15 yards high, and 16 broad. They converge
from the bank on each side, and complete two sides of a square,
the rest of which is formed by the nature of the ground. They
do not, however, meet, but leave an entrance at the angle about 20
yards wide. A large body of men might lie within them without
being easily observed. The position is moderately elevated, and
commands a pass between the heights of Inchmarlo and the Dee,
through which the present road lies. It overlooks almost every
approach, and has the river immediately behind, and the, Canny
at a little distance in the haugh below. No traditions respecting
it exist, and, as the spot is rather sequestered, it is very little
known. But it has evidently been a strong and well-selected en-
campment. Its massive structure and general appearance, com-
pared with their undoubted remains in other parts of the country;
incline some to think that it owes its origin to the Romans. The
name of the place would indicate, perhaps, the site of a battle, but
there are no cairns or tumuli at present to be seen. On the


