
                       INVERKEITHING                         245

to the neighbouring places and chief towns. At about a mile from
the North Ferry the main road sends branches to Torryburn,
Dunfermline, and Kirkaldy, respectively running nearly three,
and two miles through the parish,--the great north road from
which these strike off extending through it for six miles. There
are two Tour-horse coaches, which run every lawful day from Edin-
burgh through the burgh, one to Perth, and the other to Aberdeen,
besides the mail daily. There are two two-horse coaches between
Dunfermline and Edinburgh, which pass within a little distance of
the burgh. There is also an easy communication from North
Ferry by several steam-boats to Leith, Stirling, and intermedi-
ate ports. The bridges in the parish are small, the streams be,
ing of a trifling description. The fences on the sides of the pub-
lic roads in several places are certainly not the best in the parish.
There is an iron rail-road, made about twenty-five years ago, re-
placing a wooden one of a much older date, used for conveying
coals from Halbeath, and stone to be shipped at the harbour.
The length of it is five miles, one of which is within the parish,
and three upon the very boundary between it and that of Dun-
fermline. The harbour is a pretty good one, and may be greatly
improved and deepened by the removal of the mud. Vessels of
200 tons burden can load and sail from it at the spring-tides; but
it is generally frequented by smaller vessels.
   Ecclesiastical State.--The parish church is situated in the middle
of the burgh. The town population are all within five minutes walk
of it, and the greater part of the country people within two miles;
about an hundred may be farther distant; but none farther than
three miles except the inhabitants of one family in a small cottage.
It was built in 1826, replacing the one which was partly burnt
the year before, and is in a good state of repair. No benefac-
tions are on record. The church has a handsome appearance,
commodious and elegant within, and ornamented with two rows
of pillars running through it, having arches in the style of a
Gothic cathedral. There is a very old steeple adjoining the
west end of it, containing a large bell and a public clock. The
building accommodates nearly a thousand persons. It has only one
gallery, opposite the pulpit, which is allotted to the magistrates and
council, and four of the principal heritors; but, by the erection of
side galleries, which the heritors have pledged themselves to exe-
cute when necessary, it would contain about three hundred more,
--almost the amount of accommodation legally required for the


