
                          ABERDEEN.                          45

magistrates, the ministers of the Established Church, an the pro-
fessors of Marischal College, when prize, provided by the magis-
trates, are awarded to the most deserving ; and the appearance
which is generally made at this examination is such as to warrant
the assertion, that, in as far as regards the communication of
knowledge of Latin, the Grammar School of Aberdeen, under the
rectorship of Dr. Melvin, is inferior to none in Scotland.
   Gordon's and Simpson's Hospital.-Robert Gordon, a descendant
of the family of Straloch, having acquired a competent fortune as
a merchant in Dantzig, returned to his native place about the be-
ginning of the last century.  Subsequently to this, his habits gra-
dually became extremely penurious, and he almost denied himself
the necessaries of life.  Previous to his death, which occurred in
1732, he executed a deed, by which he conveyed all his property
to the Provost, Bailies, Town Council, and the four Ministers of
Aberdeen * in trust for the erection and maintenance of an hos-
pital for the reception and education of boys, who are sons or grand-
sons of decayed burgess of guild and; 1st, relations of the founder
of the surname of Gordon ; 2d, relations of the founder of the sur-
name of Menzies; 3d, relations of the founder of any other sur-
name 4th, not related to him, but of the stirname of Gordon ;
5th, not related to him, but of the surname of Menzies; 6th, not
related to him, and of any other surname; 7th, sons and grand-
sons of decayed tradesmen members of any of the incorporated
trades ; 8th, sons and grandsons of dyers and barbers ; and, 9th,
sons and grandsons of inhabitants of Aberdeen gpnerally.
   Mr Gordon had, during his lifetime, purchased the ground
formerly belonging to the Dominican Monastery in the School-
hill, and on this site his trustees erected, at an expense of L. 3300,
a handsome edifice, according to the design furnished by Mr James
Gibbs, architect, which was finished in 1739.   The expense of the
building bad, however, materially encroached on the funds in their
hands, (the amount of which was originally L.10,300,) and, owing
to this and the disturbed state of the country in 1745 and 1746,
the house remained unoccupied (except that it was  used as bar-
racks by the Royalist troops in 1746,) till 1750.  by that time,
the funds had accumulated to L. 14,000, and the hospital was
opened.  Thirty boys were then admitted, and the number has

<FOOTNOTE>Since the division of the town into ten parishes, the Court of Session has de-
cided that the ministers of the East and West parishes, and the two senior ministers
of the other parishes, shall be the four clerical governors.


