
            376                      BANFFSHIRE.

            speedily settled, that the road might be again put in proper con-
            dition, for not only is the disrepair inconvenient already, especially
            in winter, but it is always increasing, and must soon terminate in
            the complete ruin of the present roadway on one of tbe most im-
            portant lines in the county.
              Ecclesiastical State.-The church is situated as nearly as possi-
            ble in the centre of the parish. It stands on the boundary line
            between the old parish and the annexation from Dundurcos,-the
            decreet of suppression and annexation having provided fnr a new
            church and manse in this situation. It was built in 1793, and is in
            good repair.  It affords accommodation for about 700. There are,
            strictly speaking, no free sittings, the whole sittings being divided
            among the farms, and annexed to them; but there are no seat-
            rents, and all are well accommodated, in consequence of all hold-
            ing some land, a farm, a croft, or a kail-yard. Though the church
            is situated as conveniently for the general body of the people as
            perhaps it could be, yet, in a parish of such length, and where the
            population is so scattered, one church cannot be convenient for
            all, while the numbers of those most inconvenienced are so few in
            their respective localities as to prevent all idea of remedying the
            evil by additional churches within the parish. One or two of these
            remote districts might be accommodated by churches or preach-
            ing-stations erected in similar detached corners of the adjoining
            parishes, by combining them with which suitable congregations
            might be formed.
              The manse was built in 1811. It is large, but very far from
            commodious. Though built in a very damp situation, which must
            soon impair it, it is rtill in pretty good condition, having received
            some trifling repairs in 1818.
              The glebe is about 28 Scotch acres in extent, of which 18 were
            arable at the time of the designation, poor thin land; and the rest
            have been improved at an enormous expense by the late and pre-
            sent incumbents. It was given at the time when the church was
            removed, in excambion for the old glebe of eleven acres, which
            now rents at L.14. The present glebe would perhaps let for L.25
            or L.30 ; but this increase of glebe value is but a poor compensa-
            tion for the outlay which has produced it.
              The stipend is, by surrender of teinds in 1817, L.168,_55.B. 1 P.
            2L. oatmeal, and 28 1/2 bolls barley payable in kind, and 11 1/4 bolls
            victual, i. e. half meal half barley, payable by the county fiars,
            without any separate allowance for communion elements.


