
                             PARISH OF HARRIS.
    
                      PRESBYTERY OF UIST, SYNOD OF GLENELG.
   
                        THE REV. JOHN MACIVOR, MINISTER.
    
            I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
       Name.-TILL of late, this parish was designed Kilbride.  It is
    now denominated in English, Harris; and evidently. derives its
    name from "na hardibh,"-a Gaelic expression signifying the
    heights,-this parish being the highest and most mountainous part
    of the long, island in which it is situated.
       Extent and Boundaries.-Its extent from north to south is 50
    miles, and its breadth varies from 8 to 24 miles.  Its superficial
    extent is upwards of 146 square miles.  It is bounded on the north,
    by the parishes of Lochs and Uig in Lewis; on the west, by the
    Atlantic Ocean; on the east, by the channel; and on the south,
    by the parish of North Uist, from which it is separated by a nar-
    row sound, running betwixt the Island of Bernera and Uist, called
    Caolas Uist, i. e. the Sount of Uist.  A chain of mountains
    run along from the sound of Harris to the boundaries of Lewis,
    the highest average from 2000 to 3000 feet above the level of the
    sea.  The shore along the west coast is, in some parts, sandy, in
    other parts rocky and precipitous.  The east coast is indented
    with harbours, bays, and creeks.
       Islands.-A multitude of islands lie irregularly interspersed
    through the sound of Harris.  Four of these are inhabited, viz.
    Bernera, Pabba, Ensay and Killigray; the rest are consigned to
    pasturage.  The other islands of any extent in the parish are
    Scalpa, Tarrensay, and Scarp: these are all peopled.
       Meteorology, &c.-The temperature of the atmosphere for eight
    months is cold and moist; during the rest of the year, it is mild.
    The winds blow more frequently from the south and west than any
    other point. The greatest quantity of rain falls in the months of
    September, October, and November.  The most prevalent com,
    plaint is rheumatism.  The Climate is considered very salubrious.
       The fresh water lakes and rivulets that intersect the country
    are so numerous, that it is impossible to particularize the them.  The

