
82                          BERWICKSHIRE.

the tributaries of the Leader. The advantages of this extensive
system of draining are incalculable; it has brought into a state of
tillage, picture, and thriving plantation many hundred acres which
were formerly overflowing with water, added much beauty to the
place, and improved the salubrity of the climate, besides affording
shelter to the cattle. It may be added, that the agreement between
landlord and tenant in such matters is, that the landlord cuts the
drains, while the tenant drives the stones, and fills the trenches.*
   The general duration of leases is nineteen years; and perhaps in a
country where so much requires to be, done, it would be still more
favourable for the tenant to have the lease extended to 21 years, as
has sometimes been done. Subtenants are generally excluded. The
entry to the possession of the houses and to the grass, is at Whitsun-
day, and to the arable lands at the gathering in of the crop of that
year. The first half-year's rent is payable a twelvemonth after
entry. The farms which were about fifty years ago generally very
small, have been thrown together, and converted into large farms,
which was certainly a good arrangement for the farmer, and in-
deed absolutely necessary in a country where the chief dependence
must always be on the stock. The rent of the largest farm at pre-
sent is L. 465. Of course the difference cannot be ascertained
from this circumstance between the rent of the present day, and
the rate of land per acre at the period when the farms were of
much smaller extent. But, in general, it may be stated, as a
proof of the great improvement which enlarging the farms has
been the means of introducing, that a farm which thirty years
ago was let at L. 30, is now rated at L. 105. The greater part
of the parish is already enclosed with hedges and dikes, and
progress is daily making in that department. The accommoda-
tion afforded to the farmer may be described as in every way ex-
cellent. The houses are of a superior description, there being
few places where any farmers can boast of a better or more elegant
and commodious style of building. The houses are generally two
stories high, wide in proportion, and covered with slate. The of-
fices bear generally a proportion in size and neatness to the house
of the farmer. They are well apportioned, consisting of a stable,
cow-house, shade for the cattle, a dairy, a piggery, a poultry-house,
all the appurtenances, in short, necessary for a farm establishment,
and formed into a rectangle, the size of which varies according to

<FOOTNOTE>These spirited improvements have been carried on under the skilful superinten-
dence of Mr Black at Spottiswoode, who obtained, for an essay on draining a silver
cup from the Highland Society.


