
614                        FORFARSHIRE.

   The following species are occasionally to be met with in the
neighbourhood of houses: Anchusa sempervirens, Verbascum thap-
sus, Agrimonia eupatoria, Chelidonium majus. Viola polustris is
found on Catlaw, at about 1500 feet above the level of the sea.
Echium culgare sometimes appears in cultivated fields. Lych-
nis viscaria grows in great abundance on rocks on the banks of the
Melgun. Cerastium arverse is pretty common on gravelly soil.
Acinos vulgaris is very abundant on light ground having a south-
ern exposure. Listera cordota is not unusual in woods. Lemna
trisulca may be more particularly noticed.  This singular plant
is found along the course of a spring that rises in the swampy
ground below the hill of Landhead, and is associated with Vero-
nica scutellata and Myosotis palustris.  We are not aware that
this plant has been found in a more northern habitat.
   The plantations are principally composed of larch and Scotch
fir. Some old Scotch fir at Balnathrash, on the estate of Pearsie,
is very superior. Though it has a cold northern exposure, the
trees have attained a great size, and are considered nearly equal
in quality to those which grow in the forests of Braemar. The
larch planted within the last thirty years is not in a thriving con-
dition.  The trees become infected with canker, and gradually
decay.  There is a good deal of natural wood around and near
the house od Pearsie, composed of birch, oak, and alder copse.

                     II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   The chartulary of Aberbrothock, which is preserved in the Li-
brary of the Faculty of Advocates, contains the only authentic re-
cords which throw any light upon the early history of the parish.
These records are, so far as they are connected with the parish,
particular in their details, and embrace the period betwixt 1253
and 1500.  They are presented to us in a form somewhat repul-
sive, but convey much information, particularly interesting to the
antiquarian.  By a foundation charter of William the Lion, the
whole lands are made over to the abbey of Aberbrothock. This
grant is confirmed by Alexander III., and afterwards by Robert
Bruce.  The words of the charter are, "Kyncoldrum cum sua
tota skyra," &c. and again "totam terram suam et nemora mea
de Kyngoldrum schyr in forestam," From this, Tytler in his
History of Scotland remarks, that the term shire was anciently
given to districts of much smaller extent than the sheriffships of
the present day. There is a proclamation of Alexander III. pro-
hibiting any one from cutting wood or hunting in the forest of
				4


