
36                      HADDINGTONSHIRE.

which is now so valuable and so beautiful, he says, "There was a
field of 300 Scots acres, called the Muir of Tynninghame, that was
common to some of my tenants, and a neighbouring gentleman. This
ground she (Lady H.) desired to enclose and plant. It seemed too
great an attempt, and everybody advised her not to undertake it; of
which number I confess I was one. But she said if I would agree
to it, she made no doubt of getting it finished. I gave her free
leave. The gentleman and tenants had their loss made up to them,
and in the year 1707 she began to inclose it, and called it Binning
Wood. "The trees radiate from three ceintres, and this mode of
planting has conduced both to the beauty and growth of the
wood.
   Encouraged by the success of this undertaking, and now taking
great pleasure in it,the same enlightened improver, after enclosing
and sheltering his fields by strips of planting, proceeded to plant.
several large sandy fields, close upon the sea shore. From a re-
ceived notion that no trees would grow there, on account of the sea
air and the north-east winds, these fields had been of little or no use,
but as a rabbit warren.  But the project succeeded perfectly.  The
trees grew, as they do still, to the water edge, and his Lordship's
fondness for planting growing with the growth of his trees, he re-
solved " to fight no more with the cultivation of bad land, but to
plant it all. "The trees were adapted with great skill to the dif-
ferent soils in which they were planted; and yet what he says of
the oak is worthy of being here recorded; "As the oak is my
favourite tree, I have planted it every where; and, I can show them
very thriving on rich, poor, middling, heathy, gravelly, clayey,
mossy, spouty, and rocky ground, nay, even upon dry sand. It
is visible that the oak grows every where on my grounds faster
than any other tree, some of the aquatics only excepted. "Thus
arose, under the skill and perseverance of this spirited nobleman,
and where trees were almost before unknown, woods to the extent of
800 acres; the plantation and care of which afforded much useful
occupation, and ultimately much enjoyment to himself; have been
profitable to his descendants; and are at this moment the great-
est ornament of the country.
   On the estate of Newbyth also there is much fine timber; and
near the mansion-house many noble and lofty trees.
   There are in the parish probably upwards of 1000 acres of tim-
ber.
   Holly Hedges.-The holly hedges of Tynninghame are far
			    4


