
52                     LINLITHGOWSHIRE.

is fourteen or nineteen years. The farms are not large; and the
style of farm-building corresponds; some of them, however, are of
a rather superior order.
   Quarries.-There are two limestone, one sandstone, and two
granite quarries; and there was once a quarry or mine of iron-
stone on the bank of the Avon, near Torphichen, bridge, but it
has not been wrought for some years.  The two limestone quarries
of Cathlaw and Bowden have already been noticed, as also the
coal mine on Hilderston, on Kipps, and on Bridge-Castle estate.
It is said also that coal may be obtained on the Bridgehouse pro-
perty.
   Produce.-The average amount of raw produce raised in the
parish has not been ascertained, and cannot be stated.
   Manufactures.-The only branches of manufacture in the parish,
if such they can be termed, are two flax mills, and one mill for
the manufacture of wool, part of which is wrought into shawls.
                   V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Market-Town.-There is no market-town in the parish; the
nearest is that of Bathgate, distant from Torphichen village about
two miles and a-half. Linlithgow is little more than four miles
and three-quarters distant. There are two villages in the parish,
Torphichen and Blackridge.
   Means of Communication.-The means of communication en-
joyed by the parish are, the turnpike-road from Linlithgow to
Bathgate, about two miles and a-half of which is within Torphi-
Chen; that from Linlithgow to Glasgow by Armadale, about one-
and a-half of which is within Torphichen; and about three miles
of the middle road from Edinburgh to Glasgow, passing through
the west end of the parish. The parish roads are kept in general
in a very good condition; and are upheld by an assessment upon
the land at the rate of L.2 each ploughgate, which is estimated
at seventy acres.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is situated close beside
the village of Torphichen, its eastern gable resting on the ancient
preceptory. It is within about a mile of the east end of the pa-
rish, consequently is by no means convenient for a very large ex-
tent towards the west.  As, however, the eastern district is the
most populous, the church is tolerably convenient for nearly two-
thirds of the population.  It was built in 1756.  It affords accom-
modation for about 450.  Being allocated to the different proprie-
tors of land and their tenants, its sittings are free to such persons,


