
400                       STIRLINGSHIRE.

in Sir Robert Sibbald's time, on a rock overhanging this road, op-
posite to the old gate of the castle, the following inscription:
"IN EXCU. AGIT. LEG. II," supposed to intend In Excubias
agitantes Legionis Secunda.  Boece says, that, in the latter part of
the ninth century, the Northumbrian princes, Ella and Osbricbt,
having defeated Donald V. and taken him prisoner, followed up
their victory by marching northward, and subduing all before them
to the Forth and Stirling; and, rebuilding the castle, placed in it a
strong garrison. He adds, that, after it had continued twenty years
in the possession of the Northumbrian Saxons, it was restored by
treaty to the Scots.  From authentic documents, we learn, that it
was possessed by its rightful masters in 975; when Kenneth III.
not only maintained his authority over this part of the country, but
made himself master of the extensive kingdom of Strathcluyd, com-
prehending almost the whole of the west and south of Scotland.
In the twelfth century, it had become a stronghold of great impor-
tance to the nation, as appears from the fact, that, in 1174,
it was surrendered into the hands of the English by William the
Lion, as one of the four principal fortresses of the kingdom, in
fulfilment of the treaty, by which he was delivered from captivity
in England. By this treaty, also, the English king, Henry II. was
acknowledged superior of the whole kingdom of Scotland.  This
claim, however, was renounced, and Stirling Castle, with the
other strongholds restored by Richard I. his successor.  The cir-
cumstances that led to the revival of the claim of lordship over
Scotland, by Edward I, and to events resulting from it of deep in-
terest to the nation, and permanent importance to its history, are
too well-known to require more than an allusion to them here;
although they produced consequences, in which Stirling and its
castle were, for a considerable period, more or less deeply involved.
The Scottish army being, on the 28th of April 1296, defeated in
an attempt to relieve the castle of Dunbar, the English speedily
obtained possession of all the principal fortresses of Scotland, Stir-
ling being of the number.  On this occasion, two priests, Thomas
Chaplain, and Richard Tulle, had the boldness to excommunicate
Edward before his whole army; and were seized and committed
to Stirling gaol, and afterwards tried and punished.  William
Wallace, however, having been raised up to be the deliverer of
his country, and having expelled the invaders from a large por-
tion of it, Stirling returned into the possession of the Scots.  Ed-
ward having, soon after, sent a large army into Scotland, and recon-



