
                                  GLENSHEIl.                      193

            The most interesting historical event connected with the parish
         is the action which was fought in the cause of the Stewarts in the
         valley of Glensheil, in June 1719, between the Macraes, sup-
         ported by some other adherents, of the family of Seaforth, and 400
         Spaniards, commanded by Earl William of that name; and a
         body of the Royal troops.  The principal force of the Highland-
         ers was posted on the north bank of the Sboil, on a steep emi-
         nence overlooking the narrow pass, into which the valley is here
         contracted ; and round the base of which, on the brink of the tor-
         rent, which at this placeforms a succession of falls and deep pools,
         wound the rugged path by which the Royal forces were advancing;
         The Spaniards occupied a similar eminence on the South bank ;
         while a small party, at the head of which was the celebrated Rob
         Roy, was stationed about a quarter of a mile to the eastward, be-
         hind a hillock, with the view of surprising and surrounding the ene-
         my. The advantages of this strong position were rendered una-
         vailing by the superior discipline of the King's troops, and the trea-
         chery or cowardice of the foreign auxiliaries.   The Highlanders
         fought with their accustomed bravery repelling three several at-
         tempts to dislodge them from their position.  A fourth attack
         proved more successful.  Earl William being dangerously woulded,
         and the Royalists having, with hand grenades set fire to the long
         heather among which the Highlanders were posted, the latter fell
         into confusion : and receiving no support, from the Spaniards, who,
         on a party being detached to attack them, laid down their arms
         without firing a shot, they retired, carrying along with them their
         wounded leader.  Of Rob Roy, it is recorded, that having, with
         more zeal than judgment, attacked the rear of the enemy's column
         before they had become engaged in front, his little party was rout-
         ed, and the intention of placing the King's troops between two fires,
         was thus defeated.  In constructing the Parliamentary road which
         runs through this pass, a few years sincef several outlets, and some
         pieces of musket barrels were found; and the green mounds while
         cover the, graves of the slain, among while that of the " Dutch
         Colonel," Wightman, is distinguished, and the ruins of a rude
         breastwork, which the Highlanders had constructed on, the crest of
         the hill to cover their position,-still mark the scene of ther con-
         flict.


<FOOTNOTE>ance before the date in question, than at any subsequent period; 3 that more of-
          their number fell at Auldearn, dum or the Macfennans; and that the Letter have
          Always been considered & subordinse sept.

           ROSS AND CROMARTY.                           N


