
328                          ARGYLESLIE
Tradition says that, at the visitation of the synod of Argyle be.
fore referred to, the monks and inmates of Iona made their escape
the best way they could, carryina, with them the most precious and
portable relics, MSS. and charttilaries, which were deposited io
the colleges of Douay and Ratisbon. From the opinions of Scots-
men resident or trained at the Scottish colleges on the continent,
it would appear that there is far less ground for this assertion than
has been generally imaoined, and Dr Jamieson is inclined to
think that, "if an accurate search were made by such travellers as
really possessed a literary character, and took an interest in the
ancient history of our country, more, perhaps, might be discover-
ed among the treasures of the Vatican than anywhere else.
In the last Statistical Account, the writer says, 11 that some of
the MSS. were carried to Inverary, and that a Duke of Montague
found some of them in the shops there, used as sntiff-paper. If
any of them were in the library of the family of Argyle, the per-
sectition that family underwent in the time of Charles II. accounts
for none being there now." What is here said receives consider-
able support ' from a circumstance mentioned by Governor Sa,ebe-
verell, who visited Iona in 1688, in relation to a book which had
certainly been brought from Iona. II The Dean of the Isles, Mr
John Fraser, an honest Episcopal minister, told me his fattier who
bad been Dean of the Isles, left him a book,with above 300 inscrip-
tions, (taken from the monuments of Iona,) which he had lent
to the Earl of Argyle, a man of incomparable sense and great
curiosity, and doubts thev are all lost by that great man's afflic-
tions."
In this monastery, particular attention seems to have been paid
to the science of medicine. 11 The Olla Ileacb, and Ola Mui-
leach," says Dr Smith, 11 the ancient and famous line of phys
cians in lay and Mull, must, no doubt, have derived their first
knowledge from this seminary." Dr Smith received from Major
Maclachian of the Island of Luhng, a MS. in the Irish character
and language, on the subject of medicine and surgery, which he
thinks was written by some of the learned men of Iona.
Mr MacNicol says, 11 of what has been written at Iona," there
is a translation of St Augustine De civitate Dei, and a treatise on
Physic. This last is to be seen in the Advocates' Library. A full
account of this manuscript is given by Dr Jamieson, who mentions
that this folio bears the following   mark of property, "Leabhar
Giolia Coldiin Meigbeathadh," and also "Liber Malcolmi Be-


