
 		          MONKTON AND PRESTWICK.              173

&c., to hold a weekly market, and a fair upon the feast of St Ni-
cholas, the 6th of December.
	Land-owners.--The chief land-owners of the parish are, Robert
Reid, Esq: of Adamton, who also is patron of the parish; R. A.
Oswald, Esq. of Auchencruive; W. G. Campbell, Esq. of Fair-
field; A. Murdoch, Esq. of Whiteside and Orangefield; The
Duke of Portland; and Lord James Stuart. The lands of Prest-
wick are divided into thirty-six freedoms, of from fourteen to six-
teen acres each in extent, of which from seven to eight acres may
be good arable land. The rest was formerly in a state of common,
but some years ago was divided and portioned out among the free-
men.
	Parochial Registers.--The parochial registers are the records
of the kirk-session, and the register of births and baptisms. The
earliest entry in the latter is in 1702. The former does not ex-
tend so far back, the earlier volumes having been lost. Both are
now kept with considerable regularity.
	Antiquities.--There are upon the estate of Ladykirk, the pro-
perty of R. A. Oswald, Esq. of Aucbencruive, the remains of a
chapel dedicated to the Virgin Mary, called in old writings, Lady-
kirk in Kyle. This estate was originally part of the barony of
Adamton, and belonged to the family of Blair of Adamton, who
were patrons of this chapel in Roman Catholic times. The build-
ing formed a square with turrets at each corner, with the chapel in
the middle. One of the turrets is all that remains of this ruin.
	Between Prestwick and Prestwick Toll, within fifty or sixty
yards of the high road, are still to be seen the ruined walls of
King-Case or King's Case, a charitable institution said to have been
endowed by King Robert Bruce. Tradition says, that the Bruce, in
consequence of great personal efforts in a bard-fought battle, was
seized with an eruptive disease of the nature of leprosy; and that
upon his recovery from this disease, under the conviction that his
cure had been mainly effected by drinking of the water of King-
Case well, he built this lazar-house for the accommodation and
relief of such as might be afficted with the same disorder.*

<FOOTNOTE>Kingcase. The history of this charitable institution is thus given by Chalmers in
his Calendonia. "At Kilcais, which is now called or Kingcase, on the coast
of Kyle, in the parish of Prestwick, there was founded an hospital for leprous persons,
which was dedicated to St Ninian. Tradition relates that the founder of this esta-
blishment was King Robert Bruce, who was himself afficted with leprosy, the re-
sult of hard fare, hard living, and hard work. This hospital was endowed with the
lands of Robert-loan, which is now called Loans, in Dundonald parish; with the lands
of Sheles and Spital Sheles in Kyle Stewart, and with other lands which cannot


