
292	         	   KINCARDINESHIRE.

        Villages.-The village or kirktown of St Cyrus consists of about
forty houses, for the most part straw-thatched cottages, disposed
withott much regard to neatness or regularity around the parish
church. The situation is exceedingly damp and exposed, and ap-
pears to possess no other advantage than that of showing off the
church, which has rather a respectable appearance, when seen from
a distance. Burnside and Roadside form a line of cottages along
the north side of the public road, at a short distance from the
Kirktown; and, a little to the west of these, there is another ham-
let, inhabited, as the others generally are, by feuars and crofters.
The united population of these villages, which are included within
a circle of one mile from the parish church, amounts to about one-
fourth of the whole population of the parish.
        Means of Communication.-Tbe parishioners have now the be-
nefit of a branch post-office at Bush of Woodston, before the esta-
blishment of which there was often an irregular and expensive
conveyance of letters from Montrose, and there is a delivery of
letters throughout the parish daily. Two mail-coaches pass daily
to and from Edinburgh and Aberdeen. Steam-boats touch four
times a week on their passage to and from Inverness, Aberdeen,
Leith, &c. at the village of Johnshaven, which is half a mile distant
from the eastern extremity of the parish; and there is a commu-
nication between Montrose and Newhaven twice a week by steam,
during the summer, and by Sailing vessels during winter, The
public roads and bridges are generally in good condition. The
bridge across the north Esk, on the line of the great north road
which passes through the parish, a distance of five miles, was built
in 1775, at a cost of L. 6500; and a small but handsome bridge,
on the same line, was erected in 1817, at an expense of L.600.
The small harbour of Sea-greens, in the vicinity of the lime-works,
is capable of admitting  vessels of 50 or 60 tons burden.
        Ecclesiastical State.-The church, which was built in 1785 to
contain 870 feet of sitting room, or one foot of space for every two
persons then in the parish, was enlarged in 1830, and now can ac-
commodate about 50 per cent. of the population, at the rate of 15
inches to each person. The situation is more accessible by the
major part of the parishioners than that of the ancient parish
church, being about three-quarters of a mile to the north of it, and
at a short distance from the turnpike road. It is, however, at an
inconvenient distance from many families both in the eastern and
western districts of the parish, some of whom have to travel to it


