
DUNINO.             357

in which Dunino is called 11 Dynnenoch," precisely of the same
import.
Situation and F,,xtent.-This parish, including Kingsmuir, ap-
proaches to a square form, about 3 miles long, and as many broad.
The church is 4 ' miles south-east of St Andrews, which town is si-
tuated North Lat. 56'. 19'. 33'., and West Long. 2'. 50'. from the
Observatory at Greenwich. Dunino parish is bounded by St An.
drews and Cameron parishes on the north and west; by those of
St Leonards and Kitigsbarns, on the north-east and east; by Crail
parish, on the east and south ; and by Carnbee, on the south. It
lies 13 miles east of Cupar, the county town ; the same distance
south-east from Dundee; and 37 miles north of Edinburgh. The
highway from St Andrews to Anstruther, an extent of nine miles,
bisects the parish, and forms the eastern angle of the peninsula, or
provincially, the East Nook of Fife.
Climate.-The effect of the proximity of Dunino to the sea,
coast, added to the recent drainage of the ground, the application of
calcareous and putrescent manures, the enclosing by stone fences in
every part but Kingsmuir, the partialsbading byplantation,-andthe
wind blowing two-thirds of the year from the south-west, and only
one-third from the cold north-east,- has been of much advantage
not only to the soil, but to the inhabitants. The writer of the for-
mer Account mentions that, from thirty to forty years before his
time, 11 scorbutic disorders" prevailed in the parish. These were
obviously caused by want of sufficient lodging, clothes, and food-
The writer of the former Account, adds, that, in his time, 11 rbeu-
matism and hvsteric complaints were the chief disorders." An in-
stance of rheumatism may no doubt here still occur as in other
places; but certainly the complaint is not general. Hysterical af-
fections are here unknown : and intermittent fevers have vanished.
Though the chalybeate fountains, eulogized in the former Account,
and of which no trace remains, Were still available, they would be
held useless, from the general health of the present inhabitants.
Geology, Mineralogy, and Hydrography.-The parish of Du-
"ino is situated on the north-east part of the great coal basin of
Scotland, supposed to be 90 miles long, and 33 miles broad. It
is believed that a square mile of this space will answer the demand
yearly. Coal began first to be used in Scotland, near Dunferm-
line, in Fifesbire, about 1215. On every estate in the parish are
vestiges of coal-working at some former period; and very frequent-,
ly at the surface, appears bituminous schistus or blaes, denoting


