
				LANARK.                          17

tained for arms a heart within a lock, with the motto, Corda serata
pando. Sir Simon is said in this journey to have taken prisoner a
Saracen chief, for whose liberty his lady offered a large sum ot
money. ln counting it out, she happened to drop the gem from
her purse, and showed such eagerness in recovering it as drew the
knight's attention, and raised his curiosity to learn what it was.
Being told of its remarkable virtues, he refused to liberate the
husband, unless it were added to the ransom. With this demand
the lady unwillingly complied, and thus the talisman came into the
possession of the family with whom it has ever since remained.
Formerly it bore a very high and extensive celebrity for extraor-
dinary medicinal properties. Water in which it had been but dipt
was supposed to be an effectual remedy for all diseases of cattle,
and has been sent for as far as the northern counties of England.
It was also considered to be a specific against hydrophobia. The
most remarkable instance of its efficacy in that distemper was the
cure of a Lady Baird of Saughod-hall, near Edinburgh, who, by
using draughts and baths of it, recovered from the bite of a mad
dog, after, it is said, hydrophobia had actually begun. When the
plague was last at Newcastle the inhabitants borrowed the Lee-
penny, giving a large sum in trust for the loan, and so convinced
were they of its good effects, that they were willing to forfeit the
deposit and retain possession. *

<FOOTNOTE>Various of course, are the opinions held as to whether these virtues are real or
imaginary, natural or miraculous. The following authority upon the subject is per-
haps curious enough to deserve a place:--

	"Copy of an Act of the Synode and Assembly spud Glasgow the 25th of October,
				Synods Session 2d.
	" Quhilk daye amongest the referies of the Brethern of the ministrie of Lamark, it
was propondit to the Synode, that Gawen Hammiltone of Raploch had preterit one
complaint before them against Sir Thos Lockhart of Lee, anent the superstitious
using of ane stone set in silver for the curing of deseased eattel, quik the said Gawen
affirmed could not be lawfullie used,--and that they had defenit to give any desisboune
therin till the advise of the Assemblie might be heard concerning the same. The
semblie having inquerit of the maner of using therof, and particularlie understood
be examinatioune of the mid Laird of Lie and otherwise, that the custom is onlie to
cast the stone in sume water, and give the dessarit cattled ther of to drink, and yet the
same is done wt-out using onie worries, such as charmers use in their unlawful prac-
tisses--and considering that in nature they are monie thinges sein to work strange
effect, qrof no humane witt can give a reason, it having plessit God to give unto
stones and herbes a special virtues for the healling of mony infirmities in man and
beast,--and advises the Brethern to surcesse their process, as qr-in they perseive no
ground of offence--and admonishes the said Laird of Lie in the using of the said
stone, to tak hoid it be asit heir, after wt. the least scandall that possiblie maybe.
	LANARK.                         B


