
166		    DUMBARTONSHIRE.

towns along the banks of the Clyde. Various plans have been
suggested, at different times, for supplying this defect. The deep-
ening of the Leven, so as to reduce the surface of the lake to the
level of the sea or nearly so, is one of these. However feasible
this may have been eighty years ago, the vested rights of the pro-
prietors of the public works on the Leven have long since caused
all idea of it to be abandoned. Another plan suggested is to lead
a canal along the vale of the Leven, from Loch Lomond to the
Clyde. A third plan is to cut a canal across the isthmus from
the head of Loch Long to Tarbet. It is feared that no plan such
as these will be carried into effect, till the proprietors of the ex-
tensive estates, surrounding the lake, combine for the common in-
terest, with greater zeal and harmony than they have hitherto ma-
nifested.
   Ecclesiastical State.--The church is rather conveniently situated
for the parish than otherwise. It is rather distant, indeed, from the
southern district, in which the greatest part of the country population
is concentrated; but, on the other hand, the most distant and least
accessible part is the opposite or north-west quarter. The church
of Arrochar is of much easier access than that of Luss to some of
the families who are located there. The greatest distance which
any parishioner has to travel in coming, to church is eight miles.
The distance from Inverlaran to the south-west extremity of the
parish, is seven miles. The church was built in 1771, and is still
in a good state of repair; it affords accommodation for 500 per-
sons. The seats are all appropriated, and are paid for at the rate
of 1s. per sitting, which goes to the parish fund. The manse was
built about forty-four years ago, and is at present in need of re-
pairs.
   The glebe contains about nine arable acres, and from two to
three under Datural wood, and is generally considered a good glebe.
The annual amount of stipend is 134 bolls oatmeal; 50 bolls
bear or barley, and L. 50 in money. There is a process of aug-
mentation at present depending. There is no church or chapel
of any kind within the parish, except the parish church; neither
is there any religious missionary or cat‚chist. The church is ge-
nerally well attended. All the parishioners belong to the Esta-
blishment, except three families who are connected with the Relief
body. The average number of communicants is 360. The
amount of collections at the church for religious and charitable
purposes during the year is about L. 12.


