
         		TORBOLTON.                              747

modation and breeding places for this animal, its increase to a vast
extent would be the result, were it not for the activity and courage
of the natural enemy of the rat, the weasel (Mustela vulgaris).
It is unfortunate that there should be a general prejudice against
this creature, the most dexterous, the most indefatigable, and the
cheapest of all rat-catchers.
	Botany.--Owing to the mildness and moisture of the climate,
many flowering shrubs, originally outcasts from gardens, propagate,
and are to be met with in hedge-rows and woods, while plant, un-
questionably of native origin, exhibit unusual richness and beauty.
Such is the case with the beautiful Menyanthes trifoliata and Par-
nassia palustris in Torbolton Loch. In this loch also, the Ranun-
culus aquatilis is to be seen, having its usual single row of petals,
but tracing it along till it appreaches the central ditch, (or main
got, as it is called), when its roots penetrate into rich mud, it ac-
quires a double row of petals. The Trollius Europeus, Geranium
sylvaticum, and a white variety of foxglove, occurring in Coilhome
wood, deserve notice. The Solanum dulcamara, with its clusters
of purple flowers, adorns the hedge-rows near Privick Mill. The
Orchis exhibits itself on shaded banks in great profusion, and is
designated by some aged persons of the parish, by a name which
vies in beauty with the plant to which it is applied, "the belldera."

                  	II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	"The Hill" or "Tor-bol."--The Hill is a beautiful green
knoll surmounted by an artificial summit termed "the Moat."
The hill has, in different states of society, been used for very dis-
similar purposes. It has already been spoken of as a place of ido-
latrous worship. One of those implements of stone termed celts, *
used by the Druids for cutting the misseltoe, (and probably also
for slaying the human or other victim to be offered in sacrifice),
was, a few years ago, dug up when cutting a drain in a field
about a mile to the north-west of the Hill, and is preserved at the
manse. The celt is of a bard clay stone, measures ten inches and
a half in length, one inch and a half in breadth at the narrow end,
gradually widens till it becomes three inches in breadth, when
it is brought to a sharp edge, and, being of considerable weight,
would, when grasped by the middle, according as the narrow and
blunt or the broad and sharp end was used, inflict a stunning

<FOOTNOTE>"The celts wherewith the misseltoe was cut," Cooke's Enquiry into the Pa-
triarchial and Druidical Temples, quoted by Ure in his History of Ruthergien,
page 225--226.


