
                          KINCLAVEN.                      1133

  miller, I; wood forester, I; gamekeeper, I; schoolmasters, 2;
  sawyers, 2; thatcher, 1; minhsters, 2.
     Agriculture and Rural Economy.-The whole superficial ex-
  tent of the parish may amount to 6400 imperial acres, of which
  3900 are arable; 800 in moorland or improvable pasture; 1500
  under wood, of different kinds, and the remainder in lakes or moss.
  The valued rent of the parish amounts to L.4002 Scots.  The real
  rental is about L.4800, including fishings and cuttings of wood.
     Rent of Land.-The rent of land varies from 15s. to L.2, 10s.
  per acre, according to soil and situation.  Two-thirds of the arable
  ground being upon an impervious subsoil of red till or mortar, a
  considerable extent has been furrow-drained to great advantage;
  the other third is on sand and gravel, with some rich haugh or al-
  luvial soil on the banks of the Tay.
     Leases.-The leases are for the period of fifteen or nineteen
  years; and on several of the farms the rent is calculated by the
  fiars of the county.
     Farm-Buildings.-Several excellent and commodious steadings
  have been erected during the last twenty years, erpecially on the
  Arntully estate, where some of them are equally substantial and or-
  namental.
     Live-Stock.-The cattle are of a mixed breed.  Greater atten-
  tion is now paid by all the farmers to their stock of cattle.  On
  some farms, Ayrshire cows have been introduced, along with bulls
  of the Teeswater breed, so that several fine-looking herds of cattle
  may be seen in different parts of the parish.  Till of late years,
  the horses were rather small in size ; but, by holding out encou-
  ragement for Clydesdale stallions to travel in the district, the stock
  is now much improved in size and stredgtll.
     Wages.-The wages of common ploughmen vary from L.10 to
  L.14, with the usual allowance of oatmeal and milk, viz. 6 1/2 bolls
  of oatmeal, and a Scotch pint of sweet milk per day.  The female
  servants receive from L.4, 10s. to 1.6. Day-labourers are paid
  at the rate of from 7s. to 10s. per week.  Women engaged in out-
  door work get 8d. in summer, and 6d. in winter, without vic-
  tuals.
     Rotation of Crops.- The rotation of crops on the different
  farms is adapted to the nature of the soil.  The five-years course
  is that which is generally in practice on light soils, viz. 1. green
  crop, that is, potatoes or turnips, either with dung or bone-dust;
  2. barley and grass seeds; 3. hay; 4. pasturd; 5. oats.  This


