
442                    PERTHSHIRE.

had within its bounds.  Perth and Dunkeld are resorted to, the
former on Fridays and the latter on Saturdays, by the farmers for
the disposal of the produce of their farms.  The greater part of
the parish is about equally distant from these towns-namely, from
six to nine miles.  There are three considerable villages, with
eight hamlets, or clusters of houses, inhabited by small farmers
and cottars.  These were once much more numerous, but Blelock,
Ledmore, Tullybelton, and others have been razed to their foun-
dations, and some of those which still remain are destined also to
destruction.  Self-defence must have been the inducement which
made so many of the rural inhabitants congregate together in
hamlets. "Their neigbourhood to the Grampians exposed them
eternally to that species of visitation from the plaided gentry, who
dwelt within their skirts, which made young Norval a warrior and
a hero."  But the days of the " creachs of the clans" have long
gone by,and now there is not the least danger of a "foray." The
third part nearly of Stanley, which has been so often mentioned,
is within the bounds of the parish of Redgorton.  It contains a
population of upwards of 2000, and it owes its existence entirely

to the cotton-mills.  Previous to their erection in 1785, there was
but one solitary house on the site which it now occupies; and must
have, been a porter lodge to the house: for it was called the " Yett
House of gtanley." Bankfoot and Cairnehill may be regarded as
the same village, as the one stands on, and the other under, the
same bank.  They have been built within the last thirty years on
ground feued by Mr Wylie of Airlywight.  They are near the
church, and contain 1000 inhabitants.  The village of Waterloo,
a mile and a half nearer Dunkeld, is also built on ground feued from
Mr Wylie.  It contains upwards of 100 inhabitants.  Most of
the weavers, the other tradesmen, and many of the labourers, live
in the villages. Numbers of the feuars had once small farms in
the parish, which now form parts of larger ones.
   Means of Communication.-The parish is traversed, for upwards
of five miles, by the great north-road from Edinburgh to Inver-
ness on which stage-coaches between Perth and Dunkeld pass
daily, as well as the Inverness royal mail boach.  There is a penny
post from Perth to Bankfoot, at which letters arrive both from
the south and the north every day.  The statute labour roads in
the parish extend to nearly twenty miles ; and across the streams
in the line of these roads, including that of the turnpike, there are
at ldast as many bridgesi but none of more than one arch.


