
     Statistical Account

times repaired, and is now much decayed.-The schoolmaster's
house is stated, consists of 4 rooms and 2 closets; and there is
also a school-house of 38 feet long, lately built by contribu-
tion.  The salary is 100 L. Scots, which, with the dues a-
rising from his office of session-clerk, and from marriages, bap-
tisms, etc. makes his living worth 30 L. Sterling.  He has al-
so a small garden.  The scholars are generally about 50 or
60, some of whom are boarded in the schoolmaster's house.
The fees for reading English are 1 s., for reading and writing
1 s. 6 d., for arithmetic 2 s., and for Latin 2 s. 6 d. the quar-
ter.

   Population.-According to Dr. Webster's report, the po-
pulation was 1592.  Between the years 1770 and 1780, the
commencement of the increased population of this parish may
be dated.  For some years in that period, the increase was
flow; but since the year 1780, it has been very rapid, general-
ly above 50 pesons in a year.  This increase has been chief-
ly, if not entirely owing to the flourishing state of manufac-
tures in the town of Arbroath.  An estate, lying in detached
parcels near that town, was sold very lately to several per-
sons, who immediately feued out ground to tradesmen, for
houses and small gardens.  A number of houses have been al-

<FOOTNOTE>

in the lake.  The belief of this had taken such hold of the people's minds, that
on the day the sacrament was administered, some hundreds of the parishioners
fat on an eminence about 100 yards from the church, expecting every moment
the dreadful catastrophe.  They were happily disappointed; and this spirit of
credulity "soon vanished, like the baseless fabric of a vission."  In the present times,
it would prove a matter of great difficulty to make the people believe such ab-
surdities.  Perhaps the local situation of St. Vigeans, in the vicinity of the Ab-
bey, might have disposed the people to imbibe such principles as are not easily
rooted out.  This much, however, may be said in savour of credulity, that it
generally flows from an honest heart, though, on the hand, it is seldom the
offspring of a well informed head.


