
110                          SUTHERLAND.

   "In 1660, or about that time, this parish and its superiority became
the property of the Earl of Seaforth, who made it over to
a younger son of his family, whose successors possessed it for three
or four generations.  Thereafter, it was purchased by Lady Strathnaver,
who gave it as a present to her Noble and no less deserving
grandson, the late William, Earl of Sutherland, father of the present
Right Honourable Countess of Sutherland, married to Earl
Gower, heir-apparent to the Marquis of Stafford.  Thus the barony
and parish of Assynt reverted to the Noble family who gave
it to Mac-Kry-Cul."
   The term of the Thaner of Sutherland's charter to Macleod
was, " as long as a cow gives milk, and waves beat on a rock."
  Family of Assynt.- The whole of the estate and parish of Assynt
once belonged to the Macleods of Assynt, a branch of the
ancient family of the Macleods of Lewis.  The first of the Assynt
branch was Norman, second son of Torquil, fourth Baron of Lewis,
from whom he got Assynt as his patrimony about the year 1360,
From Norman, the estate passed through nine generations, to
Neil, ninth baron, who, from a combination of his enemies to effect
his ruin, and other unfortunate events, was denuded of his
estate about the year 1679.  There were encumbrances on the
property of long standing, and the laird having become security
for friends, in several small sums, some of his more powerful
neigbbours, taking advantage of his indolence, and the difficulty
of access to public justice, bought up his debts, by which means
they carried off his,wbole estate for less than half its value; and
though both he and his heirs raised several actions for the recovery
of their ust rights, they never obtained any redress. To
such a length was the spite of his enemies carried against this unfortunate
gentleman, that, not satisfied with having deprived him
of his estate, a criminal process was instituted against him before
the Court of Justiciary on various charges, of which he was finally
acquitted by the verdict of a jury of his countrymen, as appears
from the records of that Court.  His, estate, having fallen into the
hands of the Seaforth family, was forfeited to the Crown, together
with the possessions of that family in 1715, and was sold in 1758
to the late Earl of Sutherland, so that it now forms part of the
vast territorial perty of her Grace the Duchess-Countess of
Sutherland.    On the death of Neil, the last Baron of Assynt,
without issue, the representation  of the family devolved on his
brother John whol left a son Donald, a captain in the Dutch ser,-


