
                            INVERKEITHING.                     243

or servants, and there are 282 males engaged as retail-dealers, or
in handicraft trades, either as masters or workmen,
  Agriculture.--From the number of heritors in the parish, and
the accurate measurement of many of the lands being unknown,
and also from the many subdivisions of lands, nothing approach-
ing even to a good approximation of the number of acres in it could
be obtained without actual admeasurement, or a very great degree of
trouble in collecting information, often inaccurate. It may be stated
however, in general, that almost every piece of ground capable of cul-
tivation is under the plough; that there is but a very small propor-
tion of wood, and that chiefly young; and that there is no pasture ex-
cepting a small quantity on the steepest acclivities of the hills.  There
are no commons. The lowest rent of land in the parish is L. 1, 5s.
the highest approaches L. 4, per acre; but as many of the rents
are partly in grain, convertible at the fiars prices, they are of
course variable. The average rent is nearer the higher than the low-
er rate. From the vicinity to Edinburgh, the rate of labour, and the
prices of raw produce and manufactures, are regulated by the
prices there. The husbandry follows different systems of rota-
tion. The crops raised are, wheat, barley, oats, beans and pease,
potatoes, hay, turnips. Much waste land from moss has, of late
years, been reclaimed in the upper part of the parish, and there
has been a great deal of draining, some of it tile, but the most of
the farmers prefer stones, as better, and also more economical.
A good many sloop loads of manure are imported from Leith.
The leases are almost, without exception, for nineteen years. Many
of the farm buildings have lately been erected in the most com-
modious style; they are almost all good, and the fields are well
enclosed with thorn hedges chiefly, though sometimes with stone
walls.
  Quarries.--Greenstone for building, paving, and road-making,
is quarried in several places, and often sent off by sea. A good
many years ago, great quantities were shipped from the Ferry hills
for paving the streets of London; but the granite of Aberdeen is
now preferred for that purpose. Sandstone is also quarried in two
places, chiefly for exportation coastwise, and limestone in several,
for home consumption, or sending to a distance by sea. These are
wrought by the aid of gunpowder, wedges, and levers,--the work-
men being particular in keeping a face upon the quarry.  There
are no mines. There are no coal-pits, though there are many
closely adjoining in the neighbouring parishes.


