
                           MARKINCH.                         661

     Dislocations and Obstructions.--The trap dike by which the
Balbirnie coal-field is intersected, has already been noticed under
the section of Geology, as well as its effects in throwing up and cat-
ting off the coal seams. A similar vein of trap cuts off the coal to
the north of Coull engine. Occasional hitches are met with in all
parts of the field, raising or depressing the strate, but withot offer-
ing any very serious obstacles to the operations of the miner.
The upper coal being only 18 inches in thickness, and the diffi-
culty of sufficiently enlarging the galleries, from the nature of the
strata in immediate contact with it, being very considerable, the
men suffer severely from a confined and hampered position, and
from bad air, so that their general health and appearance are there-
by, in process of time, sensibly affected. Asthma and consump-
tion are the complaints to which they are most liable, and at the
age of thirty many of them look old men. Formerly, when en-
gaged on the main seam, many reached the ages of sixty, seventy,
and eighty. Now, what with the thin seams, bad air, and an un-
guarded use of ardent spirits, it is rare to find an old man among
them.
     Balgonie Coal, the property of James Balfour, Esq. of Whit-
tingham, has been worked for centuries. In the old valuation of
the county in the year 1517, Coaltoun is mentioned as one of "the
pertinents" of Balgonie. The waste may be traced for several
miles along the line of bearing, and the coals have been exhausted
in the same direction to a depth of 14 fathoms, as far as the free
level admitted. In 1731, a water engine was erected, which drain-
ed the coal to the depth of 30 fathoms, but in succeeding years,
this engine was overpowered by the increased accumulation of water
from hitches, and the tacksman to whom the field had been leased
substituted a windmill farther on the crop. Operations were car-
ried on this way till the year 1743, when it was found impos-
sible any longer to compete in the market with the Balbirnie
coals, and the working was consequently relinquished. This sus-
pension continued for more than forty years, till at last, in 1785,
more powerful engines were erected, and the coal throughout the
whole field rendered accessible to the former depth of 30 fathoms,
but still only reaching to the 9 feet or upper seam. This coal is
presently worked at Thornton, near the bridge of Orr, by steam
power. The Balgonie is known to be a continuation of the Dy-
sart coal. The strate dip towards the south-east, and consequent-
ly crop our in north-westerly direction, at an angle of from 25&deg; to


