
     of Clatt.

ing north towards Huntly, Elgin, etc.; and the public road,
from the high country, down through Glenlivet, Cabrach,
Rhynie, etc. towards Aberdeen; which last passes within a
few paces of the village of Clatt.  The great south road,
leading directly north from the Cairnie Mount, passes through
the town itself, and the whole breadth of the parish.  It was
made by the military about 25 years ago, and is kept, here, in
tolerable repair.  This road is shorter by many miles, than that
leading by Aberdeen.  A proper inn erected in the village of
Clatt, (as was intended by the late Colonel Gordon), would
render this a most convenient stage for travellers, either to
the south or to the north; and the road being once frequented,
would contribute quickly to the improvement of the village.
A spirited and enterprising heritor, by availing himself of
these, and some other local advantages, and by circulating a
little money to begin adventurers in the mercantile and manu-
facturing lines, might, through time, be repaid with large
increase; and, at the same time, give employment, and a de-
cent livelihood, to many, who, for want of such encourage-
ment, drudge on through life, burdened with a family, upon
a few ridges of land, which can hardly afford them either sub-
sistence, or opportunity of exertion.  The great and popular
objections, against attempts of this sort, are, the distance from
the county town, or any proper sea port and harbour; scarcity
of fuel; danger of engrossing the working servants, and with-
drawing the hands necessary for agriculture, etc.  But all
these, in the present case, might be obviated by a prudent
economy; particularly, by introducing a better breed and size
of horses for the carts; keeping the roads in due repair, by a
proper application of the statute work; and giving good en-
couragement to dealers and merchants to settle in the village,
and to frequent the fairs and markets.  As to want of fuel,
that complaint would soon cease, if the unreasonable coasting


