
64                      EDINBURGHSHIRE.

age, some of them still vigorous, who have resided in it the greater
part of their lives.
   Geology and Mineralogy.--Coal mines have been wrought in
this parish to a very considerable extent on both sides of the hill,
on the range of the Roman Camp, by means of levels, brought up
from the bed of the Tyne on the south-east  side, and from the
river South Esk on the north-west side; and they will in future be
more extensively wrought, in consequence of a direct communica.
tion having. been opened from the field of coal to Edinburgh, by
means of raiways. The Marquis of Lothian has, at his own ex-
pense, completed a railway from the mines, one rnile and a half in
length, to Dalhousie Mains, where it forms a junction with the
Edinburgh Company's Railway By this mode of conveyance, the
minerals, coal, limestone, and sandstone, will in future be carried,
from the mine or quarry to the Depot at St Leonards. In the
progress of this or operation, a valley of 1200 feet in breadth had to
be overcome. This has been done by means of  a bridge, consist-
ing ot three main arches of cast-iron in the Gothic style, each 65,
feet span, and the one that crosses the river is 70 feet in height at
the  centre of the arch from its bed.  The other two are not so high
above the ground.  These arches have stone piers, built from the
quarries of the proprietor. Besides these, there are eighteen stone
pillars, ten of which are joined at the top by horiszontal iron beams,
and eight by beams of wood; the whole the design of Mr John
Williamson,  Newton Grange, the manage of his Lordship's col-
liery.
   Limestone has been but partially wrought to serve a limited de-
mand, by skirting the outburst or crops, and tirring the superin-
cumbent deposits; but as these in future will be increased, it is
the intention of the proprietor to work it under cover, and to a
much greater depth.  The quality of the lime has been generally
acknowledged to be excellent, and it everywhere abounds in the
Sold.
  Sandstone is also in great abundance, and two or three quarries
have been wrouht to a considerable extent, by tirring the surface
only. One quarry has been wrought many feet below the surface
without tirring, and the stones drawn up by a horse power along
an inclined plane. The quality is fit for all ordinary purposes. Dur-
ing the progress of the railway the manager wrought it thirty fa-
thoms under cover, of excellent quality.
   Geology.--The 'geology of the parish cannot be better explain-


