
  1130                           PERTHSHIRE.

  the parish, the air is peculiarly mild and temperate, owing partly
  to the drier nature of the soil, and partly to the shelter afforded
  by the Meiklour woods, and the oak copphces on the neighbour-
  ing eminence called the Court Hill.
     Hydrography.-At the eastern extremity of the parish, the
  Tay is joined by the Isla, which, descending from the lower range
  of the Grampians, flows to the westward through the fertile vale
  of Strathmore, until it runs into the Tay.  In rainy weather, these
  rivers, after their junction, still retain, for a considerable space,
  their peculiar appearance; the Tay, on the one side, being clear,
  while the Isla, on the other side, is thick and muddy.  There
  are several small lakes in the parish, in which pike, perch, and
  very large eels are found.
     About eighty years ago, in consequence of an extensive flood
  from the Highland mountains, the Tay was swollen to a great
  height, and forced out to itself a new channel on the northern
  side of the parish; for instead of flowing in a circuitous course
  along, the south side of the farm of Haugh of Meikleour,
  then a peninsula, it burst through the narrow isthmus in a
  straight form and course, and completely separated that farm
  from the parish of Caputh to which it belongs.  The old course of
  the river was about three miles, whereas its new course does not
  exceed half a mile in extent.  Although the old bed has now
  filled up to a considerable extent, and in some places affords
  excellent parture, or has even been put under crop, yet in great
  floods it is also covered with water, which sometimes ascends so
  far tip on the farm, as to assume the appearance of a large lake.
  In ordinary seasons, the pools in the old bed of the river are much
  frequented by wild ducks, and other water fowl.  It may be men,
  tioned that it is this farm of Haugh of Meiklour, which in large
  maps is designated the "Bloody Inches,"" but no satisfactory ori-
  gin of the name can now be assigned.
     Botany.-The plants peculiar to the different kinds, of soil are
  also to be found here, in the spots where these soils prevail.  On
  the low banks of the Tay, some alpine plants may be met with,
  supposed to have been brought down by the river.  All kinds of
  forest trees seein to thrive remarkably well, where the soil is at all
  congenial.  There are some splendid specimens of fine oaks, ashes,
  plane, beech, limes, and firs of various kinds, to be seen in the
  policy grounds of Meiklour, betwixt the church of Kinclaven, and
  the'ruins of the old castle.


