
168                         BERWICKSHIRE.

and Hilton mere rectories. Rauf de Hawden, the parson of Whit-
some, and David, the parson of Hilton, among others of the clergy,
swore fealty to Edward I. of England at Berwick, on the 24th of
August 1296, when their parsonages were restored. In Bagimont's
Rolls, the tenth of Whitsome rectory was rated at L.6, 13s.4d.; and
the taxatio at 45 merks. Hilton taxation was set down at 18 merks.
-The advowson of Whitsome church has always been annexed to
the manor which belonged to the Earls of March and Dunbar;
and, after passing through several hands, it is now vested in John
Wilson, Esq. of Whitsome Hill.
   Together with "Ederham et Nesbitt," Whitsome was granted
to the monks of Coldingham by that "sore saint for the crown,"
David I. of Scotland, and afterwards confirmed to them by William.
   Robert I. granted to Roger Pringle half of the lands of Whit-
some, the whole, of which, valued at 200s. of old extent, had been
forfeited by John de Yle.
   Thomas Hop Pringle of Smailholm and Galashiels died about
the close of the fourteenth century. He was succeeded by his
son, Adam Pringle of Whitsorne, who married, during his father's
lifetime, Marjory Keith, daughter of William Keith, grand Mar-
shal of Scotland. By his marriage he obtained an important ac-
cession to his estate, as appears by a charter under the Great Seal
from King David Bruce, dated 25th January 1362. This Adam,
and many of his successors, attached themselves to the powerful
family of Douglas, and shared in the enterprises of the period,
doing essential service to that illustrious house, and earning a rich
harvest of martial fame. Adam left a son and successor in Robert
Pringle of Whitsome, afterwards of Smailholm and Gala. He
was a warm patriot, and stood high, while a young man, in favour
with the heroic James Earl of Douglas, to whom he acted in the
capacity of scutifer or shield-bearer at Otterburn, the last of his
fields. There are still preserved several charters, to the aforesaid
Robert, of the different parts of the lands and barony of Smail-
holm, viz. TERRAS DOMICALES DE, SMAILHOLM, Smailholm Crag,
the tower of Smailholm, &c. which were long enjoyed by his poste-
rity; and, as he preferred the designation of Smailholm to that of
Whitsome, the former became one of the chief titles of the family.

<FOOTNOTE>us, and of those which we have gathered from the popular traditions, we must ac-
knowledge our obligations to Chalmer's "Caledonia," "Charter Chest of the Fami-
ly of Harden," Sir David Erskine's" Antiquities of Dryburgh," and a manuscript
copy of the Charters of Coldingham, in the possession of Mr Alexander Allan Carr,
surgeon in Ayton, who has otherwise contributed to our historical facts.


