
     Statistical Account

habitations; besides a number of gentlemen's seats and farm-
houses, built in a very superior stile.

   Character.-The people of this parish are, in general, active
and industrious: Those employed at the lime quarries, and
the salmon fisheries, particularly deserve this character.  The
former, working by the yard, observe the maxim, "The
more they work, the more they win," (gain).  The latter,
when not fishing, employ themselves in their respective trades,
or labour by the day to those who employ them*.  The fe-
male part of the parish is not behind the men in point of in-
dustry.  They are excellent spinsters, and perform the opera-
tion with both hands, spinning two threads at once with the
greatest facility.  It is a common and an easy talk, for one of
these two-handed females, to spin 3 spindles in the week;
which, at the rate of 1 s. 3 d. the spindle, comes to 3 s. 9 d.
The writer of this narrative is informed, that, excepting in
harvest, 500 spindles of coarse yarn are spun weekly in the
parish.  This quantity of yarn must bring, at the rate above
stated, 31 L. in the month; and allowing this to continue 10
months, the total sum made by spinning, in the parish, must

<FOOTNOTE>

*The common hire of the day labourer is 8 d. in the short, and 1 s. the long
day, without maintenance.  But, in harvest, the men have 1 s., and the women
10 d., besides victuals.  The farm servants are excellent ploughmen.  The Scotch
plough alone is used.  Their wages are lately advanced from 6 l. to 7 l., 8 l., and
even 10 L. for the year's service.  They usually work 2 horses, 4 hours in the
forenoon, and 4 hours in the afternoon.  The married servants, who live in
their own houses, are allowed 2 pecks of oatmeal in the week, and one half-
penny a day, for maintenance.  They are engaged by their masters at a public
market, without any certificate of their character, and often without any know-
ledge of their capacity for work.  One of these markets for hiring servants is
held on the Hill of Garvock, and the other at Laurencekirk.  The congress of
masters and servants, at these places, is very numerous, and, almost in every
point of description, resembles the SATURNALIA of the ancient Romans.


