
254                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

figure; most of the streets crossing each other at right angles;
the lower part of it adjacent to the harbour and the bay.  A
considerable number of new houses have been built within these
few years; and new openings are making, and new streets are laid
off, according to a plan, which was resolved upon about twenty-five
years ago.  There are now 180 tenements, each of which contains
from 20 to 22 falls.  The price of each lot is from L.30 to L. 33
Sterling, besides an annual feu-duty of 4d. per fall.  The old tol-
booth, townhouse, and cross, were erected by Sir Alexander
Fraser, the superior, and disponed to the feuars by the charter of
erection.  The cross is reckoned a fine structure.  It is a hexa-
gon with three equidistant angular abutments; the area of the
base is 500 feet; by nine intrenchings the top is contracted to 23
feet, on the middle of which is raised a stone pillar 12 feet high.
The British arms, surmounting the armorial coat of Fraser of
Philorth, adorn the summit.  The jail, though still remaining, is
falling into ruins, and is of no use.  Fraserburgh is one of the old
burghs of regality, having its government vested in Lord Saltoun,
the superior, two bailies, a dean of guild, a treasurer, and a coun-
cil.  His Lordship has the right and the authority of provost, with
power to nominate and appoint yearly the new magistrates and
council, with the advice and consent of the old.  By the charter, the
feuars and incorporated brethren of the guild have liberty to exercise
all kinds of trade and merchandise.  Those, who are not freemen,
may be debarred this privilege; but, for a long period, this exclu-
sion has not been insisted on.  The feuars are obliged to uphold
the public works of the town; but, for doing so, the market cus-
toms were granted them; and in lieu of some privileges which
they possessed over commonable lands, they have obtained others
from Lord Saltoun, which now rent at L.58 Sterling per annum.
These funds have been hitherto applied to repairing the streets,
and opening new ones, but chiefly to bringing water into the town
for domestic use, of which its inhabitants stood in great need, and
of which there is now an ample supply.  It is not improbable, how-
ever, that this burgh will, soon undergo such a change in its con-
stitultion, as has been lately effected in others.
   Harbour and Trade.-As seamen were wont to seek for
shelter to their vessels upon this coast at an early period, a harbour
was built so long ago as at the beginning of the sixteenth century;
being however, upon a small scale, and not affording the requisite
security, especially against storms fro the north find the north-


