
     of Portmoak.

   Advantages and Disadvantages.-The advantages of this
parish are considerable.  Fuel is cheap and in great abun-
dance.  Peats are easily got in several places of it; and
what is of more consequence, the coal pits of Lochow, kel-
tie and Lochgelly are in the immediate neighbourhood.  It
labours, however, under great disadvantages; among
which may be reckoned distant markets for the produce of
the lands, and very bad roads.  The value of the property
might ne increased, and the circumstances of the people
bettered in various ways.  By streighting the coarse of the
Leven, and draining the adjacent meadows, perhaps 300
acres of arable ground would be added to the parish.  This
is not only practicable, but would soon repay the expence
of doing it and contribute to the health of the inhabitants
But the most valuable improvement which this district
could receive, is a turnpike road from Kinghorn or
Burntisland, northwards, through the parishes of Kinghorn,
Auchtertool, Auchterderran, Ballingry and Portmoak, to
join the road from Perth to the Queensferry, about two or
three miles north of Kinross.  By this travellers from the
north of Scotland to Edinburgh would reach the Forth, by
a road shorter than that to the Queensferry by several
miles.  This, added to the distance betwixt the south
Queensferry and Edinburgh, which would also be cut off,
would be a saving to the public of great importance.  In

<FOOTNOTE>

lected for a long siege.  (See Hector Boece and Buchanazz).-This was
not the only time the English visited this place in an hostile manner.
Oliver Cromwell, (after deseating the royal army at Inverkeithing, un-
der Sir John Brown of Fordell), in his way to Perth, made a halt in
this parish, and lodged himself in the house of Kirkness.  This estate then
belonged to, and is still possessed by a branch of the Morton family.  In
the east corner of this parish are to be seen the ruins of the castle of Ar-
nott, which was in the possession of a family of that name upwards of 600
years.  (Vide Sibbald).  It now belongs to the descendants of Sir John
Bruce of Kinross.


