
218                       KINCARDINESHIRE.

spring, and taking its departure early in autumn. Its nests occu-
py nearly a mile of cliff, but are intermixed with the nests of se-
veral varieties of the genus Colymbus, as the marrot or foolish
guillemot, the norie or puffin, and three or four others. Besides
the myriads of sea-fowl in these rocks and caverns, several land-
birds breed there, as the stock-dove, raven, jackdaw, sparrowhawk,
and gentil falcon or gamehawk. Of the latter, it is said more than
one pair is never observed in one season. The parish abounds in
partridges; and wild-duck, teal, and snipes, are by no means rare.
There are a few pheasants, and in their seasons, landrails and vood-
cocks. Occasionally, a covey or two of red grouse are produced
in Carmount Hill, and blackcock, has been seen in the woods, but
not probably bred there. Cushats or ring-doves are very numerous,
although not so much so as before the late severe winters. Be-
sides the howlet and barn-owl, a beattiful, and, it is believed, rare
variety of this genus, is found among the rocks of the sea coast.
Its solemn broad face has a short and erect covering resembling
hair, encompassed by white silky down disposed in the form of a
narrow ring. The belly is of pure white, and the back a cinna-
moon colour, mottled with bright spots and with longitudinal stripes
of a darker tinge. It is believed neither the carrion nor the hooded-
crow breeds in Dunnottar; nor has the rook ever yet built in it,
but a large rookery at Fetteresso Castle, on the border of this pa-
rish, sends forth visitors in sufficient numbers to all the neighbour-
hood. Magpies do not abound here of late, having, as well as
other birds of prey, suffered under the proscription of game pre-
servers. Since the formation of plantations, there has been a great
increse in the number and variety of singing-birds, and between
the extremes from the thrush to the wren, more than a dozen of
different species are to he found, all common to this part of the
country, and therefore not ndcessary to be particularized.
        Botany. *--In the inland part of the parish, the botany affords
nothing worthy of remark; but the sea-coast, abounding in shel-
tered coves of rich soil, presents a varied and luxuriant vegetation.
Perhaps in no district is there a greater number of species in so
small a space, though no one hs known as peculiar to this locality,
or even very rare. Among the most remarkable, may be noticed
narrow-leaved blysmus, Scottish lovage, sea lungwort, cowslip,
bittersweet, scarlet pimpernel, perwinkle, white saxifrage, agri-

<FOOTNOTE>From information supplied by the Rev. Robert Sim, schoolmaster of Dunnottar.
					4


