
174			KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

of worship are but thinly attended, though some adherents of the
Established Church attended in the Sabbath evenings, and also in
the forenoons, when the weather is inclement.
	Besides the ordinary collections for the poor, the average
amount of church collections yearly for religious and charitable
purposes is about L.12.
        Education.-There are six schools at present in the parish,
three of which are parochial,-one in Castle Douglas, one in
Rhonehouse, which is the original parish school, and one in Gel-
ston. The other three are unendowed, and on the teachers' own
adventure. All the unendowed schools are conducted by females.
Two of thel may almost be reckoned infant schools. In the third,
besides all the ordinary brances of education, sewing, drawing,
music, and French are taught.
	The parochial schoolmaster of Rhonehouse alone has a dwell-
ing-house; but all the three school-houses are large, well-aired,
and convenient.
	The branches of education generally taught in the parsih schools
are, reading, writing, aritmethic, geography, mathematics, Latin,
Greek, French, and Italian. The fixed salary paid by the heri-
tors is L.51, 6s., which is equally divided among the three school-
masters. The teacher in Castle Douglas receives also but
L.7, 10s. from a sum of money mortified by Sir William Douglas,0
and about L.15 as his share of the seat-rents in the church gal-
lories. The other two teachers recieve from the same sources
about L.3 and L.7, 10s. each. The average amount of school-
fees in Castle Douglas is L.120, and in each of the other schools
about L.32 per annum.
	The people are, in general, very much alive to the benefits of
education. No part of the parish is so distant from one or other
of the schools as to prevent attendance. The magistrates of Cas-
tle Douglas have the privelage iof sending sixteen poor children to
school, on the Douglas mortification; and the trustees and share-
holders in the church galleries exercise the same privilege in re-
gard to the other schools. Education is thus brought within
reach of thd poorest inhabitant; and there is hardly an individual,
a native of the parish, of suitable age, who cannot read and write.
The proportion of scholars to the whole population is a little less
than one to five. Perhaps it might be of advantage to have a se-
cond school endowed in Castle Douglas to act as a nursery to the
present one, which is rather overcrowded.
        Literature.-There is an excellent subscription library in Castle



