
              COUNTY OF RENFREW.                            545

  Rocks, &c.--The coal measures occupy all the north-eastern di-
vision of the county; the old red sandstone girdles it on the sea-
shore from Kelly bridge to Port-Glasgow; all the rest are traps
or igneous rocks of various descriptions. If a line be drawn
from the Cloch Lighthouse to the extremity of Eaglesham, a dis-
tance of about tbirty-one miles, the whole is of the whin formation.
The thickest part of the old red sandstone is between Kelly bridge
and the Cloch. Between the sea shore at Innerkip and the
Shaws-water reservoirs it is about five miles broad; but from Kem-
poch Point to Port- Glasgow, it is a mere stripe. Dunrod hill and
the heights behind Gourock, are of trap, but much surrounded by
the old red sandstone. A very good description is given of this
sandstone in the old account of Greenock, which, from its simpli-
city and truth, we cannot refrain from quoting:" Along the coast,
freestone, mostly of a red colour, and sometimes beautifully varie-
gated with regular spots of a light-gray colour, occasionally inter-
mixed with a great variety of what is called sea-pebble, (conglo-
merate), of different shapes and hues, is most common. The stra-
ta of this stone on the shore, and a great way above it, as if the
vaults of caverns below them had some time failed, are very irre-
gular, scarcely ever horizontal, but dipping or inclining at different
angles in every direction, and chiefly towards the south." Perhaps
the whole formation which, in this treatise, we term old red sandstone,
might as well be termed conglomerate, although the term is gene-
rally applied to that sort which Mr Reid, with no pretensions to
science, describes very graphically as "occasionally intermixed with
a great variety of what is called sea-pebble of different shapes and
hues." The entire formation is in fact a conglomerate, either
granular or rolled. The fine granular is composed of quartz,
felspar, and mica minutely aggregated, in some varieties without
a base, and in others with a cement of clay. The rolled conglo-
merate is a fragmentary rock, containing angular pieces and rolled
masses of quartz, felspar, greywacke, clay-slate, jasper, flint-slate,
&c. The rolled conglomerate is seen to great advantage in the
parish of West Kilbride, in those remarkable eminences composed
of porphyry flanked by conglomerate, termed the Three Sisters.
The fine granular is the most common, but, if carefully examined,
it will be found everywhere to contain large quartz balls, smooth
and rounded like "sea-pebbles," showing it to be all one forma-
tion. Indeed, the old red sandstone and its adjuncts are emi-
nently fragmentary. Even the limestone which is occasionally


