250	                GENERAL OBSERVATIONS

vail  but little in the county; and were none allowed to sell beer
and spirituous liquors, but such as take out licenses accordidg to
law, they would still prevail less than they do.
   The women, as in all districts, form a considerable class, and, from
their industrious habits, many of them When young and unmarried,
are decently ornamented with the little superfluities of dress; which
they hold out probably as a fund at their disposal for the mainte-
nance of children, in case any young admirer should cboose to fancy
them. Were it not, therefore, for the use of ribbands, and such
little, ornaments now in fashion, a country lad could form no judg-
ment of the industry and frugalhty of the young women of the pa-
rish. Some shallow observers and pepper-corn politicians scout
at the gaudy dresses of the country maiden, and abuse her for try-
ing to " mimic a lady." This is a short-sighted policy. I call
the buying of such ' superfltiities as ribbands the greatest proof of
frugality; because every unnecessary expense must be cut off be-
fore they can purchase an ornament, which, from the wedding day,
the husband expunges out of the list of his wife's expenses; as she
bad formerly expunged all other superfluities in order to acquire,
what now she finds to be superfluous.
  This county in its natural phases, and in its social character, is
one of the most interesting in Scotland. In those beautiful arms
of the sea, Loch Long and the Gare Loch,
              -------" The Dolphin sports upon the tide,
              Displays his beauties and his scaly pride;
              His various-coloured arch adorns the flood,        
  	      Like a bright rainbow in a watery cloud."
Her streams and lakes the most beautiful in this island,
               		   " A various rare supply,
	    The bright-eyed perch, with fins of Tyrlan dye;
            The silver eel in shining volumes  rolled,
	    The yellow roach in sales bedropt with gold;
            Swept trouts, diversffied with crimson stains,
	    And pikes the tyrants of the watery plainis."
  To these agreeable features,
           "------------his proud head the airy mountain bides,
	   Among the clouds, his shoudler and  his sides
	   A shady mantle clothes"
  Among these woods,
          " The luscious pine, of humble growth, indeed,
	  But of majestic form its mitred head
          Upears"
  The oak and many other trees abound, all contributing, with
the beautiful retreats of men, to add beauty and interest to the
scent.


