
170                  HADDINGTONSHIRE.

well as in the unendowed schools, the common branches of read-
ing, writing, arithmetic, and English grammar are taught. In
addition to these, Latin, Greek, French, geography, and ma-
thematics are taught in the parish school at Gifford. Two or
three boarders usually reside in the Gifford schoolmaster's house;
and he is well qualified to instruct them in the various bran-
ches of classical education. The fees of one of the unendowed
schools may amount to L.24 per annum, and of the other to about
L.14.
   The following is a statement of the income of the parochial
schoolmasters: at Gifford, salary, L.34, 4s. 4d., school-fees, L.40,
other dmoluments, L.1. 7s. 10d., * total income, L.75, 12s. 2d.;
-Long Yester, salary, L.8, 11s. 1d., school-fees, L.18, total in-
come, L.26, 11s. 1d.;+-and Long Newton, salary, L.8, 11s. Id.,
school-fees, L.14, total income, L.22, 11s. 1d. The schools and
dwelling-houses are in good repair, and the teachers have the le-
gal accommodations. The general expense of education is as fol-
lows: For teaching to read, 3s. per quarter; to read and write, 3s.
6d., and in the parish school, 4s.; for reading, writing, and arith-
metic, 4s. 6d., and in the parish school, 5s.; for teaching these
branches, together with geography or grammar, 6s.; and for teach-
ing the classics, 7s. 6d.
   The schools are conveniently situated for the accommodation
of the children. None are so distant from school as to be de-
prived of the means of instruction. The schools are in general
well attended. The average attendance of children in this parish
at all the schools is about 220, which is more than one-fifth of the
population. All the children in the parish above six years of age
are able to read, and most of them can write. It is to be regret-
ted, however, that in many cases the children are taken from school
too soon, in order to assist their parents in their work. Yet the
people in general seem to be alive to the benefits of education;
and it would be reckoned a great reproach to any parent if he ne-
glected to send his children to school at the proper age. About
twenty years ago, the sum of L.100 was mortified by William

<FOOTNOTE>The sum of L.1, 7s. 10d., given to the parochial schoolmaster in Gifford, arises
from mortified money on some estates in the parish, and part of it from an estate not
in the parish,
          It ought to be mentioned that, in addition to the sum of L.8, 11s. 1d., which
the schoolmaster of Long Yester receives from this parish, he obtains also from the
parish of Garvald the sum of L.17, 2s. 2d., so that his emoluments amount to L.43,
13s. 3d.
                                            1


