
406                    EDINBURGHSHIRE.

is "two inches longer than the largest weasel." One common
and curious characteristic of both is, that neither of them eat ani-
mal food, till it be in a state of putrescence.
   Botany.-Woodroof, (Asperula tetrandria monogynia), a rare
plant in many places, is found in abundance in the Torsonce plan-
rations, and probably in other parts of the parish.
   White clover (Trifolium repens) seems to be everywhere indi-
genous in this quarter. Where heath has been burnt, it is seen to
spring up with the young grass. Where a "lime shell" (burnt
limestone) has accidentally fallen among strong heather, and burnt
it down, there in a little time we find a spot of verdure abounding
with white clover. It is still more remarkable that, in a marsh
that has been thoroughly drained, this plant immediately ap-
pears.
   Forests and Plantations.-We have undoubted evidence that, at
a considerably remote period, there had been extensive forests be-
tween Wedel or the Galawater district, and Lauderdale. Not a
tree is now to be seen; but we have recent evidences of their for-
mer existence. In draining a little piece of moss in the Hill glebe,
upwards of twenty years ago, I found several fragments of trees in
good preservation. Mr Bortbwick of Crookston is in possession
of a piece'of oak which must have been part of a large tree found
in a moss at Hareshaw-head, in the farm of Allanshaws, on the
east of Selmoor.
   The part of this parish which lies in the county of Selkirk forms
a portion of Ettrick Forest.
   In the whole parish, I find that there are 950 acres under wood,
and by adding some sheep "stells" and other clumps that may
have been omitted, the whole may amount, in round numbers, to
1000 acres, or nearly one-fortieth part of the whole. Many of
our hill tracks would be greatly improved, in beauty and value, by
stripes of plantation judiciously laid out. Some estates are suffi-
ciently planted both to please the eye and afford shelter; and on
others, considerable progress has been made of late years. Under
one or other of these characters may be specified, Torwoodlee,
Bowland, Torsonce, Pirn, Symington, Torquhan, Burnhouse,
Pirntaiton, and Crookston.
   All kinds of forest trees are found in the older woods. Some
remarkably fine Scotch firs, about eighty years of age, are to be
seen on old Torwoodlee, and a few between Tortonce Inn and
Stow. There is no sort of timber to which the soil of this dis-


