
370                  RENFREWSHIRE.

  It is doubtful whether it may be right to introduce in this place
the name of Dr William Cullen, connected with this parish solely
by marriage with Anna, only daughter of the Rev. Robert John-
stoun, who was minister of Kilbarchan from 1700 till 1738.  This
circumstance is mentioned by Dr John Thomson, in his memoir of
Dr Cullen, lately published.  It may, perhaps, not be improper to
add, that the Rev. Mr Johnstoun of Kilbarchan is, through his
only son, Major Johnstoun, represented by his granddaughters,
Lady Gray of Kinfauns.
  Modern Buildings.-The mansion-house of Milliken has been
built within these few years.  It is a handsome building, and
does honour to the professional talent and taste of the ar-
chitect.
  Blackstoun House is of comparatively modern erection, dating
rather before the middle of last century; and is still a most sub-
stantial and comfortable residence.
  Glentyan House, although built several years previously by a
proprietor who, at that time, felt in no way called to restrict him-
self in point of expense, was in some sort new when the present
proprietor entered on possession twenty years ago.  To an ele-
gant house, in a very commanding situation, there is super-
added, a collection of valuable paintings, at once select and
numerous, and chiefly by the great masters.  Access is readily
granted, to this collection, by the kindness of Captain and Mrs
Stirling.
  The House of Craigends,-with the exception of an elegant ad-
dition made within these few years in the form of a drawing-room,
and relative accomodations,-though not a very spacious, is yet
an ancient and massy structure; of which the old walls, with small
apartments formed within the wall itself, speak of ages long since
gone by ; while a large extent of fine, and some of it old, wood, is
in keeping with the venerable fabric.
  Clippens House, the property of Hugh Ferrier, Esq. late of
Porto Rico is a handsome villa, erected some twenty years
ago, his late relative, Peter Cochrane, Esq. M. D., who
returned from India to his native farm with a sound constitu-
tion, and ample fortune, after a residence in India of forty-
three years, during which he had risen to the head of the me-
dical board.
  Parochial Registers.-The parish register of proclamations and
                                3


