
                                 MUTHILL.                          319
                                                                              319
      palians were ejected; and, from the history of that trying time, we
      find that the presbytery,jure devoluto, sought out for an able mi-
      nister to this parish, but, that it was not until the year 1704 that
      Hally was ordained by them. In this, the presbytery was fortu-
      nate in their choice, for no one could have filled the situation bet-
      ter than he. With a heart devoted to the work given him to do
      by his Lord and Master, he began, and continued, to labour
      amongst the people for about half a century; and although many
      years have passed since his demise, Hally yet lives in the recollec-
      tions of the people, for his unblemished character and Christian
      boldess on the side of truth. At his settlement he had the greatest
      opposition to contend with.  The Episcopalians, although ejected
      by law, still held out against his ordination, and their minister
      was resolved to possess the pulpit. "The opposition," says the
      presbytery record, "proceeded to the extent of a riot.  Several
      individuals of the parish kept the doors of the kirk and kirk-yard,
      armed with swords and staves, which they made use of, in beat-
      ing and wounding several that had come there to hear the word."
         But the presbytery persevered in their duty, and went on with
      the ordination of Hally, in the church-yard; and in that place he
      preached for many Sabbaths, oftentimes pelted with stones, by his
      wicked opponents. At last, through the kind interference of the
      Duke of Athol, and the firmness shown by the presbytery, and
      especially by Hally himself, the contest was given up, and the keys
      of the church were surrendered to him. This took place in March
      20, 1705. And then Hally entered that pulpit, which he filled in
      an eminent degree for forty.-nine years and eleven months.
         Hally was succeeded by the two Mr Scotts, father and son,-the
      former minister twelve years,-tbe latter forty-two; these again
      were succeeded by Mr Russell. They were all faithful servants
      of God,-and, as a proof of this, there has been no Secession
      church established here; and we can say of the parish, at the pre-
      sent, time, that there is not perhaps another, in Scotland, where
      the people are more attached to the Established Church.
      The Drummond Family.-Few families in Scotland can trace
      a longer line of descent, or boast of nobler alliance, than the
      house of Drummond. Its founder was Maurice, a Hungarian noble-
      
<FOOTNOTE>Vide R\o1be's Narrative of the Revival of Cambuslang.
      Vide Genealogy of the House of Drummond, by the Honourable William Drum-
      mond, afterwards first Viscount of Strathallan, 1681,-one-who was as illustrious
      by his deeds as by his writings. In his publication, are several curious and interest-
      ing documents, which merit the attention of the antiquarian.

