
                      TILLICOULTRY.                   71

Esq. in 1813; and by R. Wardlaw, Esq. in 1814. About four
years ago, part of Tillicoultry estate, including the mansion-house,
was sold to the late Patrick Stirling, Esq. which was bought in
1840 by the present proprietor.
  Land-owners.--The proprietors of the parish are, J. Anstruther.
Esq. of Tillicoultry; the Globe Insurance Company, Harviestoun;
R.Wardlay Ramsay, Esq. of Whitehill; James Johnstone, Esq.
of Alva; the Earl of Mansfield; Mr Harrower of Shannock-hill;
Mr Blair of Glenfoot; and Mr Ritchie of Cairntown.
  Parochial Registers.--The earliest register of discipline is dated
1640; of baptism, January 1640; of proclamation, November
1752; of burial, October 1753. They have been kept with va-
rious degrees of accuracy; and many parents have neglected to
register the names of their children. The Devon Company hav-
ing, many years ago, purchased ground in the church-yard, there
are many persons from Clackmannan parish buried here.
    Antiquities.--The remains of a fort or building on the Castle
Craig, above the village, and the Druidical circle are mentioned
in the former Statistical Account. About twenty years ago, a
small axe, apparently of brass, was found in a bed of sand, at the
south end of the mound on which the Druids circle stands.
  In 1796, when digging a drain behind Harviestoun House, a
sword was found; and in 1802, when making the west approach to
Harviestoun, an urn; both of which are now in the possession of
John Tait, Esq. Sheriff of Clackmannanshire. The sword is iron,
but totally oxidized. It appears to have been double-edged, and is
perfectly straight. It is 31 inches long, including the handle, which
is remarkably small, not large enough for an ordinary-sized man's
hand. There is no basket at the handle, but a small narrow piece
of iron, curved outward in a semicircular form, at each extremity,
one of which serves as a guard, separating it from the blade. It
is thought to be Roman, as the Romans were certainly in this part
of the country, and as it resembles some of the swords used by
them. The urn is about five inches in height, and about the same
width, formed of clay, baked, or perhaps dried in the sun. It has
a rude waved pattern on the outside, as if it had been formed by
a mould of plaited rushes. Inside, there was some dust or ashes,
and a flat flint, about two inches long, and an inch broad, sharpen-
ad all round, except at the bottom, which may have been the head
of an arrow or spear. It was found enclosed in a sort of nude

