
32                       SELKIRKSHIRE.

is formed to leeward, thick in the middle, and wasting at both
ends, with its side to the wind like a ship lying-to, it indicates con-
tinuedd wind.  After a clear frost, we sometimes see long whitish-
coloured streaks of cirrus, whose two extremities seemingly ap-
proach each other as they recede from the zenith.  This appear-
ance is vulgarly called Noah's ark; and if it point from S. W. to
N. E., we expect a thaw from S. W.  Small blackish boat-shaped
clouds rising in the west, and moving sideways, indicate a gentle
thaw, with little or no rain.  A short glare of red in the east about
sunrising portends a rainy and windy day.  When the sky shines
from the watery exhalations around the mid-day sun, rain or snow
wiII soon follow; when it has a green appearance to the E. or
N.E., frost and snow.  A crimson red in the west after sunset in-
dicates fair weather; a purple red indicates sleet.  Atmospheric
changes are more likely to happen a few days after new or full
moon than in the quarters.  The point where she changes, seems
to have little influence; if in the N. W., or N. W. by W., it is often
succeeded by boisterous weather.  When her horns are sharp and
well-defined, we look for frost; when she is whitish and not very
clear, for rain or snow.  If the new moon seem to embrace the old,
very stormy weather is likely to follow.  This has long been a re-
ceived opinion amongst our countrymen, as we learn from the old
ballad of Sir Pattrick Spens, supposed to refer to an early period
of Scottish history.
        "I saw the new moon late yesterday, wi' the auld moon in her arm,
        And ever alack, my master dear, I fear we suffer harm."
Haloes are seen only when the cirro-strati are slightly but equally
diffused over the sky; the sun or moon seems to "wander through
the storm," which is at no great distance.  One side of the halo
is often open or imperfectly formed, owing to the denseness of the
vapour, and points to the quarter from which the storm is approach-
ing. When Parhelia or mock-suns appear, the cloud is more
stratified ; hence, though, like haloes, they forebode a change, it is
not so immediate.  From the rainbow also, we draw prognostics
of the weather.  Sea-faring men say,
           "A rainbow in the morning--sailors take warning;
           A rainbow at night is the sailors' delight."
And shepherds and husbandmen assent to the truth of this old
adage.  In the former case, (as the arch must be opposite the
sun,) it appears in the west, whence our rains generally come; in
the latter it irradiates the east, and indicates that the rain is pas-
sing from us.  Aurora borealis is most likely to appear in change-
                                4


