
     of Stronsay and Eday.

bad a state, the minister will not be able to officiate there at
all, if the heritors do not rebuild or repair it*.

   Poors Funds and Schools.-A house and small parcel of
land was mortified to the poor of the parish of Stronsay a-
bout fifty years ago, into the possession of which one of the
principal heritors slipt in a clandestine manner, during the
vacancy of the parish, at least during the insane state of
mind into which the minister had fallen, about twenty three
years ago; and that after this heritable subject had been many
years in the possession of the minister and kirk session of of Stron-
say, as trustees for the poor.  These trustees, several years past,
have been have been using legal means, all others having pro-
ved unsuccessful, to recover their possession and property.
   The kirk sessions of Stronsay and Eday have no other funds
for the relief of indigent objects, except the weekly and sa-
cramental collections, with some small penalties from delin-
quents; in all, not exceeding 8 l. Sterling yearly, out of which,
the session clerks; and kirk officers salaries must be paid; so
that, after paying; for coffins for those on the poor's roll who
die annually, the pittance is very small, indeed, which remains
to be distributed among the most destitute objects in these
united parishes, whose number amounts, at an average, to
twenty five.

     VOL. XV. 3 I

<FOOTNOTE>

*A decreet of the presbytery of North isles went out in the year 1780,
for repairing the manse, and building offices, But these repairs and buildings
are not yet executed; they are indeed far from being compleated.
   The minister gave the heritors no charge on this decreet, till seven years
after its date, in hopes that there would be no necessity for charging
them, but these hopes were frustrated; accordingly, he gave them a charge,
which they instantly suspended, and they have litigated the cause for other
seven years before the Court of Session, and before arbiters, whose final de-
creet hath not as yet been given out.


