
                          KILMALCOLM.                        59


age; 13 in manufactures; and 57 in the retail of grocery goods,
&c. There, are 104 family servants, and 2 surgeons.

<TABLE>

	Cultivated or occasionally in tillage, 	8000 acres.
         Constantly waste, or in pasture     ,       22000
	That might be profitably cultivated,	1000
	Under wood, natural 20, planted 205,	 225
	In undivided common, Duchall moor,	5800

  Agriculture.-The soil is light. A large quantity of land in the
parish has not been brought into a state of cultivation. This is
no doubt owing, in a great measure, to its general sterility, and the
consequent expense attending improvements. The farmer has
done much, but cannot be expected to do all, unless be receive
considerable assistance and encouragement.
  Rent of Land.- The average rent of land per acre is L. 1; for
grazing an ox, L. 3; for pasturing a sheep, 5s. Real rent of the
parish about L. 7000.
  Husbandry.-The cattle in general are of the Ayrshire breed,
and some of the farmers, along the moors keep sheep, which pas-
ture on Ducball moor. The usual course of husbandry is pursued,
and considerable improvement has been made in this department
within these few  years. The farmers were, sometime ago, thought
rather behind their neighbours; but, considering the nature of the
soil, there is now no ground for such complaint. Their crops
bring as high prices at the market as those of the adjoining  pa-
rishes. Leases are in general for nineteen years. The farm.
steadings are not in good order; but some new ones are build-
ing, which will be a great improvement.
  Produce.-The average yearly amount and value of raw produce
raised in the parish, may be as follows:

                 Grain of all kinds,     L. 8000
	        Potatoes and turnips,      5000
	        Hay,                       1500
	        Land in pasture,           3150
                 Gardens,                     80
	        Miscellaneous produce,      200
                                           _____
                                        L.17,930
                V.-PAROCHIAL Economy.
  Kilmalcolm is the only village in the parish, and is distant about
four miles from Port-Glasgow, which is the nearest market and
post-town. The public roads; on which there are two toll-bars,
are kept in good repair, and extend length about; six miles. The
bridges are also kept in good order. The fences are but indiffe-
rent,-no  great taste or care being shown in this respect. It is


