
                 INVERNESS.                                    5

tending inland from I to 6 miles, and in the Great Glen even 18
miles from the sea; and abutting against the primary mountains,
where the formation terminates in highly inclined strata, or thick
shapeless masses of a coarse semi-crystalline breecia or C'onglome-
rate. In Caithness, this secondary deposit developes itself in
great horizontal sheets of rock, uninterrupted by primitive masses,
and constitutes almost the whole of that Champaign county, and
the greater portion of the adjoining Orkneys.
As already noticed, this secondary formation consists chiefly of
sandstones and limestones, which are probably of several different
geological eras. Thus a ridge of coarse conglomerate is usu-
ally.found on its inner margin next the primitive masses, from
which undulating ridges and plains of softer rock extend towards
the sea. But on the coast, and in the ceDtre of the deposit, other
masses of conglomerate sometimes appear; and between them and
the interior conglomerates, layers of a dark and soft argillaceous
sebist, abounding with bituminous matter, and occasionally with
scales and impressions of extinct fishes, also interpose in some
places. The latter, in general, lie on soft red sandstone. Hence
the question arises, are both the conglomerate ridges of the same
wra, and the argillaceous schists of the same formation with the
sandstones; or are the former here the substitutes of the true coal
deposits, and the latter of the old red sandstone of Werner ?
So far as has yet been ascertained, it would appear, that the con-
glomerate zone next the primary rocks may be classed as of the
age of the old red sandstone; but, on the other hand, some of the
exterior conglomerate ridges and sandstone beds reclining on them
belong to the new red or variegated sandstone deposit. On the
latter, also, as a base, members of the lias and oolite formations
have been deposited,'of which a few beds 'still remain, as at AtWe
and Shandwick in Ross-shire, Brora in Sutherland ' and on the
Morayshire coast eastward of Burgh-head. They appear to have
constituted the superior'beds of a great basin of rock stretching,
across the Moray Frith, but which has been almost entirely wash-
ed- away by the encroachments of the sea. At Brora, these upper
strata further display an unusual connection of coal with the lias
formation; and in the same vicinity also they exhibit a very inte.
resting example of the intrusion of granite among i secondary de-
Posits, and of the consequent fracture and dislocation of the latter.
The foregoing details are necessary as an introduction to the
short notice that now remains to be made of the rocks composing


