
     of Peterhead.

   2dly, Boddom Castle, built a long time ago by a family
of the name of Keith, a branch of the Marischal family, op-

<FOOTNOTE>

   In the time of Malcolm II, who began his reign in 1004, a complete
victory was obtained over the Danes, under the command of their Gene-
ral Camus at Barry a few miles below Dundee.  This victory is, by the
Scotch historians, chiefly attributed to the valour of the Celti, under the
command of Robert their leader, who is said afterwards to have killed
Camus in single combat.  In regard of so great service, the King was plea-
sed instantly to bestow upon Robert the honour of knighthood, and
created him Heritable Great Marischal of Scotland, (but not a Peer),
which office his posterity continued to enjoy until the attainder of George
the 10th Earl Marischal in the 1715.  The King bestowed several lands
on Robert, particularly some in East Lothian, called from his name and
office Keith Marischal, and the small island in the Forth, called Inch
Keith.  It is not very easy to say when the family became possessed of the
estate of Raven's Craig in this parish; the house is supposed to have been
built in the 12th century, and to have been inhabited by some of them till
a connexion was formed by one of the family marrying a Miss Cheyne,
heiress of Inverugie, in the parish of St Fergus.
   Sir Robert Keith, Great Marischal, who is said to be the thirteenth ge-
neration in a direct line from the above Sir Robert, was very instrumental
in gaining the battle of Inverurie, which was the first victory King Ro-
bert Bruce obtained in 1308.  The King rewarded his bravery, by be-
stowing on him his own lands of Hall-Forest near to Kintore.  At the
Parliament holden in Perth 1320, the King gave him a considerable share
of the Earl of Buchan's estate, who had been forfeited for adhering to the
English interest.
   Sir Edward Keith, Great Marischal of Scotland, and grandson of the
last Sir Robert, had two sons, viz. Sir Edward, who succeeded him, and
Sir John Keith, who married Mary Chein, daughter and coheness of Sir
Reginald Chein of Inverugie.  John Keith had got from his father the
lands of Raven's Craig, which then comprehended a considerable part of
the parish of Peterhead; and he and his successors are designed promis-
cuously by the titles of Raven's Craig, Inverugie, and Craig Inverugie.
John Keith's marriage with Miss Chein seems to have been betwixt
1354 and 1360.  In 1535, William 4th Earl Marischal married the eldest
daughter of Sir William Keith of Inverugie, and by this marriage became
proprietor of the estate of Inverugie, Raven's Craig, etc.  The sands par-
ticularly designed in the parish of Peterhead as belonging to that family,


