
	           PARISH OF GARGUNNOCK.

       PRESBYTERY OF STIRLING, SYNOD OF PERTH AND STIRLING.

		THE REV. JAMES LAURIE, MINISTER.

 	I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.--The ancient name of the parish is Gargownno; its
modern name, Gargunnock. It is probably, derived from the
Celtic words Caer-guineach, which signify a sharp or conical for-
tress. A fortress of this kind, called the Peel of Gargunnock,
was situated near the north-east boundaries of the parish.
   Extent and Boundaries.--The length of the parish is 6 miles,
and its breadth 4 miles; and it contains about 20 square miles.
It is bounded on the east and south by St Ninians ; on the west,
by Fintry, Balfron, and Kippen; and on the north, by Kincar-
dine and Kilmadock. The Lennox hills, which run from Stirling
to Dumbarton, extend through the breadth of the parish on the
south.The greater part, by far, of the parish lies on the north
side of these hills; and from their base, the land slopes gradually
till it runs into the level plain, or carse ground, which is bounded
by the windings of the Forth.  The height of the Lennox hills
above the level of the sea, is about 1400 feet; and from.their sum-
mits, there is one of the most extensive and finest views in Scot-
land, comprehending, perhaps, more than 12,000 square miles.
   Climate.--The temperature of the atmosphere is mild, and the
climate wet, but not unhealthy.
   Hydrography.--There are in the parish a number of perennial
springs, flowing from tilly or gravelly subsoils, resting on red and
white sandstone rocks, which supply the inhabitants with abun-
dance of excellent water. At the Burn of Boquhan, which forms
the western boundary of this parish, there are two chalybeate
springs, one on each side of the burn, perhaps little inferior to
the Dunblane and Airthrey wells, though not so celebrated.
   The Forth is the only river in this parish. Its average breadth,
where it forms the northern boundary of the parish, is 60 feet, and                      y
its average depth 12 feet. There: are several cascades on the north


