
     		 		  BOINDIE                            241

rage, about the sum of L.15\f* annually, of wbich above two-thirds
have been applied to religious objects not in the parish.
   There are, besides, two collections yearly, for a Presbyterial
Pauper Lunatic Fund, and for the Aberdeen Infirmary; the two
together amounting on an average to L.7 Sterling. The whole
sum collected in church for charitable objects, is about L.45 per
annum. Subscriptions are occasionally entered into, to procure
a supply of fuel and clothing for the poor, which have amounted
usually to L.12 or L.15. Besides, there have in recent years
been large contributions for church extension, new schools, and
for the starving Irish and Highlanders.
   There are three schools in the parish taught by masters, an in-
fant school, several dame schools, and numerously attended Sab-
bath schools. The parochial schoolmaster has the minimum sa-
lary, with the legal accommodations; but enjoys an interest in the
admirably administered bequest of the late Mr Dick. In addition
to the common branches, he teaches Latin, Greek, geography,
and the higher branches of mathematics. The two additional
schools, one of which is at a distance of nearly three miles towards
the upper extremity of the parish, and the other is at Wbitehills,
within a mile and a half, receive, from the liberality of the pro-
prietor, L.8, 9s. 61/2d. divided between them, and also three bolls
of meal each. Each possesses an excellent school and school-
house built by subscription. There is no need of an additional
school, except it be for females. Those already in existence might
be more conveniently situated. Indeed, since the eredtion of a
new parochial school in the adjoining district of Banff parish, two
only, judiciously placed, might be made to serve the wants of the
whole community. The union of the two small salaries attached
to the additional schools might, in this case, warrant the reduction
of the fees, which, although varying only from 2s. 6d to 3s. 6d.
per quarter, are obviously too high for the means of a poor la-
bourer having to support a family out of an income of from L.10
to L.15 per annum. The infant school has recently been insti-
tuted in Whitehills, to be Supported by Voluntary subcriptions
from the Honourable Mrs Grant + and others. It well conducted,

<FOOTNOTE>Compare this with L.50 given for whisky by the fish-eurers
to the persons engaged in the herring-fisbery; and this is the merest fraction
of what is spent in the same way throughout the year.
          We have since had to lament the removal, of this Christian and benevolent
lady, by death.


