
                            PENNINGHAME.                     169

	There is a harbour at Carty, about a mile and a half below
Newtonstewart, at which vessels of from 35 to 45 tons burden
arrive regularly; and occasionally vessels of a larger size arrive.
	The only frith contiguous to the parish of Penninghame is the
mouth of the River Cree, which flows into the Solway. The
depth of the water varies, but at ebb-tide it is in no place con-
siderable. As far as the parish of Penninghame extends, there is
a current fresh stream, when there is no tide. The degree of salt-
ness in the frith is not great, and it is much affected by the floods
in the River Cree, and the streams which flow into it.
	The current is pretty strong, both on the flowing and ebbing of
the tide.
	The depth of the water at Carty on the flowing of spring-tides
is about twelve feet; sometimes a little more.
	There is nothing remarkable in the springs in this parish, which
are generally very pure, excepting one, that contains so much iron
as to be useful to invalids in a dry season. Were it duly attend-
ed to, it might probably be made much more useful.
	There are several small lakes in the north end of this parish,
without any peculiarities. The loch of Cree is merely a portion
of the river, which spreads out into a lake of about four miles in
length; the breadth is various, but not great in any place. In
some places, the water is pretty deep. The loch was much larger
before the cutting of a rock, and deepening of the channel of the
river, at the bottom of it, about forty years ago. That cutting
gained a quantity of excellent meadow on each side of the water.
	The only rivers contiguous to this parish are the Cree and the
Bladenoch, which bound it, as has been stated, and unite below
Wigton. The Bladenoch flows from Loch Mabery on the bor-
der of Ayrshire, and its course to the Frith of Cree is about twenty-
four miles in length. The Cree rises in Ayrshire, not far from
the boundary of this county, and falls into the Solway, after a
course of about thirty miles.
        Geology, &c.-There are no strata of rocks of any extent in Pen-
ninghame. The common stone of the parish, the greywacke of
geologists, exists in several varieties, and is found almost every-
where. In one place, it is partially stratified, of no uniform dip,
and of excellent quality for building; it forms walls, beautiful,
strong, and, with due care, perfectly dry. It occurs in some places
deeply tinged with iron ore. It is found in great and small quan-
tities, and is quarried, sometimes with ease, and sometimes with
considerable difficulty, and at much expense.


