
462		     EDINBURGHSHIRE.

year Prince Henry died. He is said to have had two sons, Peter
and John. Peter de Graham is considered the founder of the
Dalkeith family of Graham; while John became the founder of
the house of Montrose.
   It is asserted in the Caledonia,* that William de Graham re-
ceived from his sovereign David I., a grant of the Manor of Dal-
keith. The statement is highly probable; but the learned author
does not mention his authority, nor does he state whether his as-
sertion is inferential, or derived immediately from documentary
evidence. That this property, however, if not in the possession
of William, was certainly in the possession of Peter de Graham,
his son, or near relative, is clearly shown by the chartulary of
Newbattle. There it is recorded+ that Peter de Graham grant-
ed to the monks of Newbattle, in the reign of William, (1165-
1214), "pro salute Domini mei Willielmi Regis, et pro anirma mea,
et pro animabus praedecessorum meorum, et pro anima matris meae
Geria, et pro salute filiorum meorum in perpetuam elymosinam,
terram de Balnebuth, (hodie Benbow-vel Bellybucht?)"  These
lands lay on the Esk in his manor of Dalkeith. Peter de Gra-
ham had probably also possessions in Annandale.+  He had two
sons, Henry and William, who witnessed a charter of the mother
of King William, the Countess Ada, who died in 1178.

<FOOTNOTE>ary parts, we obtain the form Gra-eme, which is a very ancient and not unusual spelling
of the word. It is proper, however, to observe, that in the charters of Holyrood and
Melrose, the spelling is commonly "Graham."-The person from whose heroism
Grahame's Dike is said to have received its name is supposed to be fabulous. Ca-
ledon. Vol. i. p.119-The introduction of the surname of Graham in the reign of
Malcolm III., mentioned by Boece in his History, 1. 12, folio 256, a, is also con-
sidered fabulous.-Sir D. Dilrymple's Annals of Scotland, Vol. i. p. 29, note.
     Chalmers's Caledonia, Vol i. p. 545. In the passage here referred to, this learn-
ed writer states that "William de Graham obtained from David I. the lands of
Abercorn and Dalkeith in the Lothians," &c. Again, in Vol. ii. p. 879, he states that
"the manor of Abercorn, so early as the reign of David I., belonged to Robert
Avenel."  We do not pretend to reconcile these contradictory passages, or to deter-
mine which of them is correct; but the probability is in favour of the latter. At all
events, that the manor of Abercorn belonged to Roger Avenel in the thirteenth cen-
tury, is proved by a charter in which be grants to the nuns of Manuel (i. e. Im-
manuel) near Linlithgow, "unam celdram frumenti recipiendam de horrco suo de
Abercorn, &c."-and on his decease in 1243, it was conveyed to the family of the
Grahams of Dalkeith, by the marriage of the third Henry with Sir Roger's daugh-
ter, the heiress of Eskdale.+
      Charta Petri de Graham. Chart. Newbattle.
      In the index of missing charters of King Robert I. we find the following:
"Carta Ada Barbitansori of the lands of Brachanwra in Annandale, &c. que fuit
Petri de Grame."-Robertson's Index, p. 6, 36. See also Regist. Magn. Sigilli, p.
8-36.
      "Testibus * * *  Henrico et Willielmo filiis Petri de Graham."-Chartu-
lary of Newbattle. Charta Ada Comitisse de Beresford, &c.
      Spottiswood's Religious Houses, in Hope's Minor Practicks, p. 514, (Edition,
1734.)
      Sir James Balfours Annals, sub anno 12431, and Douglas's Peerage, Edinburgh,
1764, p. 479.
				       6


