
                    ARTICLE GLASGOW.                     925

Sir Matthew Stewart of Mynto, Provost of Glasgow, frequently
occurs; and among the-number we meet with that of the Parson
of Renfrew; the Sub-dean of Glasgow, the Principal of the College,
some of the Regents in the University, &c.  In 1588, we meet with
the name of Robert l,ord Boyd.  In that year, there were not less
than 34 elders and 20 deacons; two years after, 39 elders and
18 deacons; on another occasion, 42 elders and 24 deacons; and
in 1592, when the second, the additional parish of the Tron was
created, there were 37 elders and 25 deacons.  This shows how
strong was the religious spirit of the people.  Besides, so large a
body of the choice men of the parish most have formed a power-
ful aid to the minister in his labours.  A good man, in a parish of
a few thousands, surrounded by a staff of more than sixty moral la-
bourers, must have felt himself greatly strengthened and encouraged.
With God's blessing, his success must have been insured.  In
addition to the elders and deacons, there was an important class of
labourers--the Scripture readers.  The session records frequently
speak of them.  They seem to have read public prayers and the
Scriptures, where there was no settled minister, and also in some
cases, at least, to have celebrated marriage, and administered dis-
cipline.  The name of the reader at Monkland appears in the re-
cords in this connection.  In 1591, the stipend of the reader of
Glasgow was L. 20--paid out of the thirds of the bishoprick.
Even this small sum the session bad to defend against the rapa-
city of a factor.  The reader in Glasgow seems also to have been
the teacher of music, as he petitions for a seat in the Blackfriars'
Church, which he may occupy with his scholars on the preaching
days.
   Turning from those who may be called office-bearers in the church,
we may now attend to the members; and here, following the session
record as our guide, we find that all were not indiscriminately ad-
mitted to ordinances, as in some modern churches, but, on the con-
trary, that no parent could receive baptism for his child unless
he could "distinctly tell the commandments of the Eternal God ;
the articles of faith, and the Lord's prayer."  When he was found
ignorant or judged unworthy, " some other godly man was to re-
ceive the bairn of the ignorant to be baptized," and he was to be
subjected to the discipline of the church.  A similar requirement
was extended to persons desirous of marrying.  Until their reli-
gious knowledge was ascertained, they were if "judged unworthy to
be joined in that band."
   With regard to the Lord's Supper, it was dispeased two Sab-


