
                           MOFFAT.                            121

own discretion.  Accordingly, the system of public begging having
thus become less easy and less profitable, it is hoped that many of
the wandering poor have returned to the places where they are
known, and that some of them have resumed habits of industry, for
their numbers have been reduced in this neighbourhood; and this
ought to enable the farmers and others, who formerly were sub-
jected to such a burden, to give more liberally into the colllections
for the parish poor.
  The practice of irrigation has not been much tried in, this pa-
rish, perhaps on account of the sheep stocks, and the, suspicion that
not among them would follow.  But if lands are not watered in sum-
mer, this does not happen; and there is no danger at all if the
water be not laid on before Michaelmas, nor continued past the
first week of April.
  Another mode of improving soft meadows,--by drahning, levelling,
and liming the soil, is of great importance; and as it requires above
L.5 per acre, landholders would act wisely in allowing the cost and
carriage of lime, provided the meadows, were not to be broken up,
and were to be generally kept in pasturage, and not to be cut for
hay above once in the three years.  This plan would answer well
with the new system of half-bred lambs, which has paid so abun-
dantly hitherto; and in order to carry it on to more advantage, a
part of the hill grounds might farther be enclosed off, and improv-
ed in cultivation; and by laying down well-limed into rich grass, to
feed them to more advantage, and in quietness and seclusion from
the other stocks. This would pay well, and furnish also useful em-
ployment, and at least 500 acres might thus be added to the lands
in culture, perhaps even twice that extent.
  Of building materials at Moffat, the blue whinstone is particu-
larly valuable; it cuts better than granite, and lasts almost as long;
it is so hard that the workmen strike fire with steel from it; they
raise and dress it in pieces of convenient thickness, and it looks
beautiful in front of a building, and turns damp off it, if well-joint-
ed and laid.  Sandstone, and even Portland stone are hardly thought
equal to this blue whin, the finer variety of which has to be carried
some distance to Moffat.  It is that variety of the greywacke through
which the quartz solution appears to have diffused itself, and which
renders it so hard and so durable.
  There is a heavy red clay near Moffat, which, before the use of
lime, was commonly used building.  It is a fire-clay,--stands
well at the back of chimneys, and was used for making the brick



