
				FORDYCE.                              193

   which is to support the schemes of the General Assembly, and to
   provide, at the same time, for local wants, such as Sabbath school
   libraries, cbeap Bibles, circulation of tracts, and the like. The
   average amount of annual contributions for these objects may be
   stated as being, for Fordyce, L.16, 10s., and for Portsoy, L.14,
   10s.
     Education.--Tbere are eleven schools in the whole quoad civi-
   lia parish, of which one is parochial; one is supported by the So-
   ciety for Propagating Christian Knowledge; five others have more
   or less aid given to them from voluntary liberality, and the rest are
   entirely dependent on the exertions of their teachers. Greek,
   Latin, English grammar, arithmetic, matheniatics, and all the com-
   mon branches of education, are taught both at Fordyce and Port-
   soy. The salary of the parochial schoolmaster is L.34, 4s. 4 1/2d.
   and the annual amount of his scbool-fees, about L.30. He has
   no dwelling-house from the heritors, nor any allowance in lieu of
   it, but he has a glebe of ten acres of land, mortified by Thomas
   Menzies of Durn. The salary of the society's teacher in Portsoy
   is L. 15, with L. 5 additional from the Earl of Seafield, and the
   usual accommodation of a house and cow's grass. His school-fees
   average about L. 20. The same nobleman gives liberally to the
   support of an infant-school teacher, and female teacher, in Portsoy,
   and to three other teachers in different parts of the country dis-
   trict. The annual expense ofeducation at the parochial school
   varies from 10s. to L.1, according to the branches required; at
   the Society's school from 6s. to 14s.; and at the grammar school
   of Portsoy, which is unendowed, from 12s. to L.1, 10s. The
   children at the infant school pay each one penny per week. The
   fees for the common branches of female education are much the
   same as those paid at the other schools; but a considerably higher
   charge is made for lusical French, drawing, and the like.
     There are very few between the ages of six and fifteen, who can-
   not either read, or are not learning to read; and few also who are
   not, at the same time, taught to write. Any persons above that
   age who are unable to read, and of whom likewise the number is
   very small, consists almost entirely of those who bave come from
   the Highlands, and settled in the parish, after they bad reacted
   the years of maturity. The people in general are fully alive to
   the benefits of education; and the means of attaining these are
   now amply-provided, there being no part of the parish that is not
   within a comparatively short distance of a school. No additiona


