
			       DALZIEL.                     455

have hitherto kept free from any share in intimidation or acts of
violence. A few cases of poaching have occurred, but not of an ag-
gravated nature.
		         IV.--INDUSTRY.
	Agricufture and Rural Economy.--This parish contains 1873
arable acres Scotch, of a heavy clay soil, except about 140, on the
banks of the Clyde and Calder, which are of a deep loam, or what
is called haugh land. There are about 340 acres planted with
wood, and 70 acres in copse,--410 in all. The kinds of trees which
have been planted are, Scotch fir, larch, oak, ash, elm, lime and
plane tree. As hard wood is generally planted among the firs at
the distance of five and six feet, and the firs from three and a-half
to four feet, in thinning, the plan generally adopted is to prune the
firs for the first ten or twelve years, so as to allow the hard wood to
rise. After this period, the firs are cut down whenever they seem
to hinder the growth of the other trees, and the thinnings sold for
making fences, &c. The yearly thinnings in this way yield from
L.1, 10s. to L.2, 5s. per acre. The copse is cut once in twenty-six
or twenty-eight years, and yields from L.2 to L.3, 10s. per acre,
each year, from the time of its being cut. In noticing the wood,
we must advert to two rows of large trees, planted in the form of
an avenue, extending about a mile along the banks of the Clyde,
which, closing together with their upper branches, present a good
specimen of Gothic architecture, and with the breeze from the river,
afford a cool and shady walk in the hottest day of summer. We
are not aware of any thing like it in Scotland to the same extent,
and in such a favourable situation. We must also mention a large
oak tree, near Dalziel House, which, though it must have weather-
ed the storm of many hundred years, is still in a thriving state. Its
trunk is 21 feet in circumference, 1 1/2 yard from the ground, and
its branches spread out beautifully on all sides, to a considerable dis-
tance. This is probably one of those trees mentioned by Sir Wal-
ter Scott, at which the lord of the manor used anciently to receive
and to welcome his guests.
	Rent of Land.--The average rent of land is L.1, 8s. per acre
Scotch, but some parts are let at L.3 10s. and L.4. The average
rent for grazing a milch cow or ox is L.2, 10s. L.3, 10s. A ewe
7s. to 7s. 6d.
	Wages.--The rate of wages for farm labourers in summer, is from
1s. 3d to 1s. 6d. with victuals; in winter from 1s. to 1s, 3d.; without
victuals from 1s. 8d to 2s. per day. Masons get in summer from


