
     of Wattinn

get above the world.  And this seems to be the principal rea-
son of their being so averse to hold their possesions by lease.
Unable to bear any great lost, either by failure of crop or
cattle, they think themselves safest, when free to remove at any
term they choose, after finding matters likely to go against
them.  And yet, notwithstanding of this, removals are by no
means so frequent as might be expected.  It is very common
to see the son succeed the father, and end his days within
the walls of the same dwelling in which he was born.

   Farms, etc.-The ordinary extent of farms, 15 from 12 to 20
acres infield, from 2 to 6 outfield, from 1 to 2 meadow; off
which they cut a short kind of natural hay, with some acres
of pasture ground, and the liberty of common.  The yearly
rent of such possessions is from 2 L. to 3 L. Serling, and from 6
to 9 bolls oatmeal, at 9 or 9 1/2 stones per boll.  They likewise
pay some feet of custom peats, as they are called; the number
almost universally in proportion to the distance they are at
from the moss; from 8 to 12, or 13 fowls, with the cutting
down of an acre, or an acre and a half of corn.  Such small
possessions, and there are very many below this extent, cannot
afford much for the subsistence of the labourer and his family;
and may be assigned as a reason why the inhabitants in general
are so very poor.  A spirit for larger farms, however, now
begins to break out amongst them.  Several are venturing to
join two into one.  Unlimited services, some time ago exacted
almost by every proprietor, are nearly abolished in this place.
The abolition of this practice, baneful in the highest degree,
both to the interests and morals of the people, has made a very
perceptible change, not only on their spirit, but on their indus-
try.  Still, however, they require to be encouraged, if not
nursed by their landlords.  Improvement, even in husbandry,
is not to be expected, but by the labour of the actual farmer.

     VOL.XI. L1


