
                          DALKEITH.                       457

mixed with vegetable matter. Other portions are firmly United
by the oxide of iron, and others are distinct cale-tuff, formed ob-
viously by a deposition from fresh water, similar to what occurs in
various calcareous springs of this country, and so abundantly, on
the great scale, in different parts of Italy.
   A compact variety of the encrinal limestone, of the above se-
ries of stratification, when cut and used as marble, seems to resist
well the wasting action of our climate. The oldest monumental
tombstone in the churchyard is of this stone, bearing the date of
1609, and, while much later monuments around it are mouldering
to decay, with their inscriptions almost completely obliterated, it
still remains fresh and entire, with its angles nearly as sharp as
when they were cut.
   An extensive bed of clay is found in the alluvial formation at
Newfarm, and on the town-common near Gallowsball, where both
bricks and drain-tiles are made. At the former place the bluish
clay, seven feet thick, is seen lying beneath laminated sand, and
passing into a reddish pebbly or stony clay, seventeen feet thick,
which rests on sandstone. Here the drain-tiles are very expedi-
tiously formed by a piece of mechanism, consisting of a series of
rollers and revolving belts of a given breadth. The number of
tiles made by this machine per day amounts to no less than 10,000.
   Hydrography.-In confirmation of the correctness of the above-
mentioned geological structure of the basin of the Esks, the spring
from which the town of Dalkeith is partly supplied with water af-
fords additional proof. This rather remarkable spring was artifi-
cially formed in 1826, while boring for coals near the channel of
the North Esk. On penetrating to the depth of about 50 feet,
the water began to flow, but, on reaching 180 feet, it rose with
much impetuosity in a jet of about 18 inches above the level
of the surface; and though now, through in attention, filled up to
the depth of 35 feet, it continues to flow in a constant stream at
the rate of 6 cubic feet or 37 gallons per minute. The water here
rises by the hydrostatic pressure of the fluid lodged in the curved or
basin-shaped strata; and in this manner a real Artesian well has
been formed. At Artois, the place from which these wells take
their name, the quantity of water so raised is sufficient to turn the
wheels of corn-mills.
   The temperature of this spring as it issues from the mouth of
the bore is 48\d Fahrenheit, or three-tenths less than the mean
temperature at the level of Leith, which, according to he- receiv.


