
        KILFINICHEN AND KILVICEUEN.                             315

coast This sound is about half a-mile broad, and has already
been spoken of, in regard to its navigation. On all other sides, Iona
is washed by the Atlantic. The island is about three miles in
extreme length, by one and a-half in breadth, and may contain a
superficial area of 2000 imperial acres. Dr Walker guessed its
superficies at 3840 English statute acres; but this seems evidently
a mistake. Of its supposed number of 2000 imperial acres, 600
are in occasional cultivation, the remainder being hill pasture-
morass, or rocks. The surface is unequal, rising, into eminences
or small hills; but the most elevated part, called Dun-ii, does not
exceed 400 feet above the level of the sea; and the boldest shore
lies upon the south-west side. The ridges of these hills run in the
direction of the length of the island, and shoot out at its extremities

<FOOTNOTE> cious fault committed by their-progeniter. The registers and records of this ile was
all written on parcbtnen, but all destroyed by that assembly that destroyed thti
crosses."
 Immediately following that description in the foresaid manuscript, is one by John
Fraser, Dean of the Isles,-the same Fraser who, in 1688, gave Sacheverell, Governor
of Iann, various particulars regarding Iona when the Governor, in that year, visited
the island. The paper in the manuscript is thus described: " Ane Answer to Sir
Robert Syball's Queries for the lyle of Tirry, Gunna, Col]6, and lcolrakill, all lying
within the Sherydome of Argyll and the Bishopwrick of the lylls; marked on the
back, " A Description of Tyrie, Gonna, Colla, and Icolmkim, given into me by the
Bishop of the Isles."
 After describing the islands of Tirce, Gunnal and Coll, Fraser proceeds thus with
Iona :
 " Icollumkill, antiently called Iona. layes from Colle to the south and south-east
about 36 mailes of sea, and is distant from the south end of Mull about 1 maill of
sea. It is 2 miles in lenth, and almost from east to west; and I mile in breadth. it
is very fertile; commodious for fishing and fowling. It has two freshwater lochs;
guid springs and medicinal herbs. Here the sea casteth up in ane place a number
of small stones of divers collours and transparente, verij fair to looke upon. They
realy are peculiar to the place, for the longer they lay upon the shoar, they reapen
and turns more lively in their coulors. They yield to the file, and admits of gouid
Polishing and engraving. Marble also of divers collours and with beautyfull vains
It has bein counted renouned, pairtly for the monuments of the place. In it
is two monastryes, one of monks, another of nuns, a church of considerable dimen-
dedicatee to Columbus. This has been the cathedral of the Bishops of the
Ills since Sodora in the Ill of man came into the Inglishe's hands. In this illand
ard many other small chapells. The vestiges of a citie is zit visible in it, which, as
sum old manuscript testifies, was called Sodora. Many of the Kings of Scotland,
some of the kings of Irland and Noroway was buryit heer. Many tombs, appropriat
to the families of the illanders, as their inscriptions, though now almost obliterate, do
t-tify. Heer the faraous Columbus himself was also interred. The coast round
About Iona is very bade, full of rocks and violent tyds. The whole illand is church-
land. so is also a gouid part of Tyrie, the ile of Gonna wholly, and the two
Colle. It is remarkable that there is in Iona a few people called to this Ostiarij
from their office about the church in Columbus' tyme. This people never elect
the number of 8 persons in perfyte age. This is found to had true; and there is a
traditions, that, for some miscarriage of their predecessors in Coulumbus Tyme
malediction was left them. The inhabitants of all the said illands is naturally civil
and bountiful, right capable of all gouid instruction. All thir illands has been pos-
sessedd be M' Leane and the cadette of his family."


