
26                     DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

last fifty years, amount together to about L.18,000. There is
also a public Dispensary at the west end of the town which, dur-
ing the year 1831, took under its care 2538 patients, and supplied
them at the wonderfully trifling cost of L. 30.
     	Friendly Societies.--The friendly societies of this parish are now
all extinct except one, their rules having been drawn up on false
principles. The surviving one has for its object the support of
widows.
      	Savings Banks.--A parish bank has existed here ever since the
beginning of 1815; and with the happiest effects, of which striking
proof has been given in individual cases. The average yearly in-
vertments amount to L. 3997, 17s. 6d. and the average yearly re-
payments to L. 3293, 7s. The small sums deposited in the course
of the year 1831, amounted to no less than L. 4829, 2s. 4d. The
repayments during the same period, were L. 2816, 7s. 7d. The
whole stock now accumulated is L. 7716, 7s. 7d. The invest-
ments are chiefly made by labourers, industrious mechanics, and
servants.
       	Poor and Parochial Funds.--The average number of per-
sons receiving parochial aid directly from the kirk-session, pre-
vious to the year 1832, was 560; and the average allowance to each
of these was about 14s. But this does not include the fifty inmates
nor the forty-two pensioners of the Poor-House, nor ten pensioners
supported by a fund left by the late Mrs Carruthers of Warman-
by, for the lame and blind, among whom not less than L. 200 will
be annually distributed by the trustees, under the will of the tes-
tatrix. Since the commencement of 1832, however, pauperism
has, owing to the desolations caused in many families by cholera,
so much increased, that it is impossible to give any accurate ac-
count, either of the present number of the poor, or of their annual
average allowances.
       	The contributions for their relief, including L. 205 of collec-
tions at the churches, donations, fees for proclamation and baptism,
and the use of the mort-cloth, the interest of lefacies, a large vo-
luntary asrersment, subscriptions to the poor-house above-mention-
ed, rent of land belonging to that institution, and the annual pro-
ceeds of the Warmanby bequest, besides one or two minor charities
not managed by public bodies, can hardly be estimated at less than
L.1500 perannum. In former times,the poor were supported without
the aid of extraordinary contributions from the heritors. Two-thirds
of the session's funds were placed at the disposal of the directors
                                 4


