
                                 COLLACE.                         211

	general consists of a light, sharp, blackish loam, in some places in-
	termixed with clay; but the bottom is free, being a dead reddish
	sand.  The Sidlaw hills, which commence in the parish of Kin-
	noull, here assume considerable elevation.  Sid or Sud, in the
	Gaelic, signifies South, a name most appropriate, as they form not
	only the boundary of Collace on the south, but also of a great part
	of the valley of Strathmore.  Ranging north-east, they traverse the
	country with little interruption for thirty miles, and lose them-
	selves in the German Ocean, at the promontory in Angus-shire
	called the Red-Head.  The climate is variable.  In winter and
	spring, piercing and stormy winds from the south-east, are accom-
	panied with a chilly ha\a5 from the sea ; but in general the atmo-
	sphere is clear, temperate, and salubrious.  The mean annual tem-
	perature, ascertained from careful observations taken twice a-day
        for a series of years, is about 47&deg; of Fahrenheit.
	   There are no epidemical diseases, and as to longevity there are
	not a few both of men and women seventy years of age and upwards,
	enjoying wonderfully good health, and engaged in their various
	occupations; several are above eighty.
				II-CIVIL HISTORY.
	   Parochial Registers.-Tbere are neither ancient nor modern
	historical accounts of this parish, nor have any events taken place
	worthy of public record.  The parochial registers go back to 1713,
	and have been pretty accurately kept.  They consist of six thin
	folio volumes.
	   Eminent Men.-In reference to the eminently good men connect-
	ed with this parish, and now numbered with the dead, we have much
	pleasure in doing justice to the memory of William Nairne, Esq., a
	younger son of the family of Dunsinane.  Bred an advocate at the
	Scotch Bar, he soon became Sheriff of Perthshire, and in due time
	was promoted to the important offices of a Senator of the College of
	Justice, and member of the High Court of Justiciary, with the title
	of Lord Dunsinnan.  A more upright Judge never sat upon the
	Bench.  In 1809, when his public duties were becoming oppres-
	sive to his declining years, he resigned both gowns, and retired to
	his residence at Dunsinnan.  He had become sole proprietor of
	the parish some thirty years before, by purchase from his nephew
	Sir William Nairne, at whose death the title also devolved on
	him.  To the improvement of his paternal estate, he had as early
	as possible applied, with unabated zeal and perseverance, and so
	judicious were those improvements, that Lord Dunsinnan lived to
	see his rents doubled, and often quadrupled.


