
                                 KILDONAN.                   141

       to the Chronicle of Man, published with Camden's Britannia in
       1586, Godred or Godfred, surnamed Crovan, and son of Harold
       the Black, of the royal family of Norway, was the first King of
       Man, and his sovereignty appears to have extended over a large
       portion, if not the whole, of the Western Isles.  His reign is sup-
       posed to have commenced about the year 1077.  The fifth King
       of Man, from Godfred the first King, and descended from him,
       was Olave, who, succeeding his father when very young, was de-
       prived of his kingdom by a natural brother named Reginald, and
       had the Island of Lewis assigned to him.  After severe and pro-
       tracted struggles, Olave succeeded in recovering his kingdom,
       and died King of Man in Peel Castle, 18th June 1237. He
       had been thrice married, and by his third wife, Christina, daughter
       of Farquhar Earl of Ross, King Olave had three sons: 1. Guin
       or Gun, the ancestor of the clan Gun; 2. Leoid, Loyd, or Leod,
       from whom are descended the Macleods; and 3. Leaundris,
       from whom were the clan Landers, or Gillanders of Ross-shire,-
       but many of this last clan afterwards assumed the name of Ross.
       At this period, the Earls of Ross were very powerful in the north
       of Scotland ; and, besides being masters of the present district of
       Ross, they held extensive tracts of country, in several parts of the
       west coast, and along the Caithness shores.  The three grand.
       children above-named, of Farquhar Earl of Ross, appear to have
       been provided for by that potent earl about the, middle of the
       thirteenth century;-Guin or Gun having been settled in Caith-
       ness, where the Earl's authority at that period was considerable
       Leod obtained Glenelg from him, and by marriage with the
       daughter of a Danish knight, Macraild Armine, also obtained
       Miginish, Bracadale, Durinish, Dunvegan, Lindell, Vaterness,
       and part of Troterness, in the Isle of Sky; while Leander settled
       in the midst of his grandfather's territories in Ross.               -
         The particular lands in Caithness which were originally acquired
       by the clan Gun cannot, at this distant period of time, be satis-
       factorily traced; but the earliest castle or stronghold of their
       chief in that quarter, was the Castle of Halbury, at Easter Clythe,
       or as it is often called Crowner Gun's Castle, which, like almost
       all the other old castles in Caithness, was situate on a precipitous
       and nearly detached rock, overhanging the sea, and, except at
       one side, surrounded by it.
         The, clan Gun continued to extend and occupy their possessions
       in Caithness, until about the middle of the fifteenth century, when
       in consequence of their deadly feuds witk the Keiths of Caithness,


