
58				KINCARDINESHIRE.

	On the farm of Boghead, a quantity of human bones have been
dug up, the coffins containing which were formed of unhewn stones.
It is remarkable that these remains should have been found, not
only in one spot, but scattered over a space of nearly a mile in
length. A number of flint arrow-heads were found in the same
vicinity; and tradition speaks vaguely of a battle fought here.

                                III.-POPULATION.
	I do not find any authentic statement of the population of this
parish, prior to the year 1753. It then amounted to 1351. It
seems, with some fluctuations, gradually to have increased till the
year 1773, when it amounted to 1715. From that time it seems
to have slowly declined; and in 1793, it was reduced to 1557.
	The amount of the population in 1831 was 1484. The dd-

crease of the population may be ascribed in a great measure to the
union of small farms into larger ones in the country part of the pa-
rish, and to the influence of press-gangs during the late wars in the
village of Johnshaven. The press-gangs not only carried off many
of the most able men, but rendered the village an unpleasant resi-
dence for others, who, therefore, sought every opportunity of leav-
ing it.

<TABLE>

	Population in 1831 residing in the village of Johnshaven, was      1027
		   			   country,                         457
        The yearly average of births for the last seven years has been       34
   		           of marriages,                                     13
        	   	   of deaths fully                                   28

	But in the first four months of this year [1837] no fewer than
43 have died, chiefly of influenza.

<FOOTNOTE>rich diamonds, estimated at 5000 merks; a jasper stone for stemming of blood, esti-
mated at 500 French crowns; a chain of 'equall perle,' wherein were 400 pearls,
great and small; two chains of gold, worth 3000 merks; a great pair of bracelets, all
set with diamonds, price thereof 5OO crowns; the other pair of gold bracelets at 600
pounds the pair; a turquois ring worth 10 French crowns; a diamond set in a ring,
worth 28 French crowns, with a number of other small rings set with diamonds and
other rich stones in gold, worth 300 French crowns; also 16,000 merks of silver and
gold, ready coined, which was within a green coffer; together with the whole tapes-
try, silver-work, bedding, goods, gear, and plenlshing, within the said place." Whe-
ther any further steps were taken in this matter does not appear. lt rather seems that
it was compromised, and that the prosecution was allowed to drop.
	Another monument bears the following:
       "Piae memorize justisque meritis patris et mariti optimi, Roberti Scott a Benholm,
qui mortalitatis coeno relicto, in immortalitatis sedem sublatus est, aetatis suae anno
LXIV. Salutis vero humanae MDCXC. X. kal. Feb. mausoleum hoe quale quale
sacrum voluit superates sua soboles et vidua Dna Catharina Ellis,
				Tumulus seu defunctus.
		    Ne gemitu somnum, ne turbes gaudia luctu
		      Ne laurum lachrymis pollue, quisquis ades,
                    Certavi hanc vitae pugnam; victoria parta est
		      Et membria fessis obtigit alma quies
                    Explevi numerum vitae; terraque relicta
       		       Carpo coelestis gaudia Jerusalem."
                                      3


