
            414                      RENFREWSHIRE.

            Greenock and Crawfurdsburn, and that at one time they were
            cherished by these proprietors, not without some degree of rival-
            ship, from motives of patriotism, or as the means of increasing at
            once their wealth and their influence.  At first they were probably
            nothing more than fishing villages; but, at an early period, each
            appears to have had its harbour capable of receiving and mooring
            vessels of considerable burden.  Part of the expedition to Darien,
            in 1697, was fitted up at Cartsdyke.  In the car 1635, John Shaw
            of Greenock, obtained a charter from Charles L, erecting the lands
            of Wester Greenock, and the town and village of Greenock, into
            a burgh of barony. That charter was ratified in the Scottish Par-
            liament in 1641. In the year 1669, Crawfurdsdyke was in like
            manner erected into a burgh of barony by a charter from Charles
            II. And in 1670, another charter was granted by him in favour
            of Sir John Shaw, son of the above-named John Shaw, annexing
            the lands of Finnart, belonging to him, to the barony of Wester
            Greenock, and erecting both into one barony, under the name and
            designation of the Burgh of Greenock, the title given to the first
            barony in the charter of 1635.
               These circumstances afford strong presumptive proofs of the ri-
            valry to which we have alluded.  And, when we compare some of
            the ancient dwelling-houses in these two towns, it is evident that
            the time was when Crawftirdsdyke was not unworth of being the
            competitor of Greenock, and when it must have, equalled, or per-
            haps surpassed its sister burgh, in the respectability and the wealth
            of its inhabitants.  That time, however, is long gone by.  Green-
            ock and Crawfurdsdyke, each increasing in population, are now one
            town; their interests are the same; and no rivalship can exist, or,
            at least, ought to exist between them.  It may confidently be pre-
            dicted that, if at any future period, Crawfurdsdyke shall attain to
            any measure of its relative magnitude and importance, it will owe
            its revival or increase chiefly to the extension of the port and trade
            of Greenock; and its name will become obsolete, and will give
            place to that of its wealthier and more fortunate competitor.
               The trade and town of Greenock having rapidly increased dur-
            ing the first half of the last century, Sir John Shaw, with a libe-
            rality which reflects the highest honour on his memory, gave power
            by charter, in the year 1741, to the feuars and sub-feuars, to meet
            yearly for the purpose of choosing managers of the public funds of
            the town, the said funds arising at that time from a voluntary as-
            sessment upon all malt ground at the mills of Wester Greenock.




