
				TAIN.                               299

	  Poor Funds.-The average number of persons receiving paro-
	chial aid, is about 145, among whom about L. 70 is annually di-
	vided. In addition to this, the sum of L. 5 is yearly entrusted to
	the kirk-session from the estate of Macleod of Cadboll for behoof
	of the poor; the interest of L. 300 is distributed by the executors
	of the late George Murray, Esq. of Westfield ; and a sum of
	L. 500 has been left by a Mr Robertson, that its interest may be
	yearly applied at Christmas for the relief of reduced householders.
	Unfortunately, the reception of public charity is by very few con-
	sidered a humiliating circumstance, chiefly, perhaps, in conse-
	quence of a munificent annual donation which used to be given
	by a benevolent gentleman of the name of Ross, residing in Lon-
	don, to be distributed among his poor namesakes. The result
	was an influx into the parish from every quarter of those (not a
	few) who could lay any claim to the title of Ross.
	   Prisons.-There is one prison in the parish, which serves for the
	whole surrounding district, and has of late been used for the greater
	part of Ross-sbire. In 1836, the prisoners for poaching and breach of
	excise laws were 16; for theft, 7; for defrauding of creditors, 1;
	for assault, 9; for homicide, 2; in all, 35. Of these, but 3 be-
	long to the parish, viz. two for theft, and 1 for assault; and of these
	3, NOT ONE is a native. We mention the circumstance particu-
	larly, as showing a moral character rarely to be met with in towns
	of an equal size. The walls of the prison are strong, yet it has
	been broken through. The principal insecurity arises from the want
	of an enclosing wall. The management of the jail is not very good.
	The prisoners receive their allowance of aliment in money, and are
	permitted to purchase with it what they please, with the exception of
	ardent spirits. There are no special means employed for preserving
	their health, so that it not unfrequently happens that some are re-
	leased on the ground of dangerous distempers contracted in jail.
	The magistrates of the burgh have the government of the prison.
	  Fairs.- Of these, there are three principal ones still held in the
	parish, which, though at one time of great importance-having
	been resorted to by dealers from all quarters, with every variety
	of goods-have now degenerated into comparatively insignificant
	markets for country productions. They are held at Midsummer,
	Lammas, and Michaelmas. The two first are now useful, chiefly
	as established resorts of farmers and labourers respectively to hire
	and to be hired for the harvest work.  The rapid decline of these
	fairs is a matter of gratification to every sober-minded individual,
	since they used formerly to be, and to some extent still are, scenes
	of abominable drunkenness and riot.


