
                              RATHO.                                 83

to the estate of Hatton proper, at successive times, the properties
of Norton, Platts, Westhallt, Priestlands. and Northraw of Ra-
tho. To these possessions Overgogar was added by the marriage
of one of the Lauder family to Annabel Ballenden, the heiress of
that property, in 1610. The whole of these lands came into the
possession of the Lauderdale family by the marriage of Charles
Maitland, third son of John Earl of Lauderdale, to Elizabeth, the
second daughter of Mr Richard Lauder in 1653, and continued in"
that family till 1792, when the property was sold, and shortly-af
ter was parcelled out into the original elements, of whhch it con-
sisted, when it was consolidated by the purchases nf Allan de-
Lawdre.
Dalmahoy.-The estate of Dalmahoy, which contains at present
between a third and fourth part of the land in the parish, belonged
anciently to the Dalmahoys of that Ilk; the first of whom mention-
ed in the Baronetage of Scotland, is Henry de Dalmahoy, who
lived in the time of Alexander III., and was, in: 1296, obliged to
submit to Edward L It continued, it is presumedly in their pos-
session till the middle of the seventeenth century, when it came
into the hands of the Dalrymples, and was purchased from them
by James Earl of Morton, about ninety ye`rs ago. Since that
time, it has formed part of the estates of the Earls of Morton.
   Bonnington.- The proprietor of the lands of Bonnhngton, or,
as it was anciently called, Bondyngton of whom mention is first
made, is Robert de Erskinef. A charter was granted him of L.20
Sterling from the annual rent of the lands of Cadyon, near Ha,
milton, in excambion for Bonnington. This seems to have been
done with a view to reward the military service's of Hugh de Eglin-
ton, as a charter was given him immediately thereafter of the said
lands, with four merks and eight shillings, from the lands of West.
hall in the Barony of Ratho. In the middle of the seventeenth cen-
tury, the said lands were the property of Lord Collington. They
have since been successively the property of families of the names
of Durham, Cunningham, and Wilkie.


The half of Norton was disposed to Sir Allan by Hugh, Earl of Eglington, with
reservation to him of its thirlage to his mill of Ratho, and giving to Sir Allan mod
his beirs, multure free at that mill, axcept the payment of a fiat ao meal.
Westhill, including a part of Craigpark and Ratho estate, was disposed by
Thomas Cripmy of Scotstoun, in the barony of Abercorn, in 1375, to be holden
blench of the granter for payment of a silver penny at the kirk of Ratho, in the time
of high mess.
See Records of Ancient Charters.


