
                             ST FERGUS.                      185

of the law compelling them to support their own poor would be very
desirable.
   Fairs.-There are five fairs held in the village annually.  One
in April; a feeing market in May; and a market in June; one in
October, and a feeing market in November; at all these, horses,
cattle, sheep, &c. are exposed to sale.
   Inns.-There are three inns in the village. Two of them prin-
cipal ones.  Spirits are also sold by most of the retailers of tea and
tobacco.  These, however, through the whole parish, do not ex-
ceed eight or nine.
   Fuel.-The fuel principally used is peat, procured from the
neighbouring mosses, at the cost of about 1s. 9d. a cart load.

Revised January 1840.

                      PARISH OF ST FERGUS.

              PRESBYTERY OF DEER, SYNOD OF ABERDEEN.

             THE REV. JAMES ANDERSON, A. M. MINISTER.

             I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-THIS parish was formerly named Langley, and ori-
ginally Inverugie.  It assumed its present designation in the year
1616; but for what special reasons cannot be accurately ascertain-
ed, though it would appear to have been intended as a compliment
to the memory of its ancient patron saint.
   Situation, Boundaries, Extent.-This parish, though locally
situated in Aberdeenshire, belongs to the county of Banff, to which
it was annexed at a very early period by an act of Legislature, ob-
tained through the influence of the Cheynes, the ancient proprie-
tors, who, being the hereditary sheriffs of Banff, were naturally
very desirous to have their own domains placed under their own
jurisdiction.  But its connection with the county of Banff is now
recognized in no other way than by the payment of the ordinary
taxes.  It is bounded on the east, by the German Ocean; on the
South, by the river Ugie; on the north, by the parish of Crimond;
and on the west, by the parish of Longside.  Its extreme length is
5 1/2 miles, and its greatest breadth 3 1/2 miles.  In superficial extent
is about 12 square miles.
   Topographical Appearances.-The sea beach is flat and sandy.


