
810                         FIFESHIRE.

remaining in the parish of considerable interest to the antiquarian.
Seafield tower presents a striking feature on the margin of the
shore, resting on one side on a solid mass of red sandstone, and
guarded on the other by the visible remains of a fosse and draw-
bridge. This was the seat of an ancient family of the name of
Moutrie. In the middle of a field belonging to the farm of Tyrie,
there stands an old ruin, the gable of a building of no great ex-
tent, but which, from its name and human bones found around it,
was most likely a chapel or place of public worship. The people
call it Egsmalee, an evident corruption of Eglise Marie. Farther
northwards, on the side of the hill of Piteadie, the old castle of
that name is very entire in its ruins. This place was inhabited
not more than an hundred years ago. It belongs to the Earl of
Rosslyn, and has been in the family of the St Clairs for a long
period. There are two obelisks of rough stones standing in a field
to the west of North Glassmount House; (this place is called by
Sibbald Boisvill-Glasmond,) supposed to have been erected im-
mediately after the last battle which was fought between tbe Scots
and Danes, to mark the spot where some of the Scottish com-
manders had fallen. A chapel had formerly been in existence in
connection with this land. A field to the east of the house still
bears the name of the Chapel-field, and it is not long since some
of the ruins of the building were to be seen.
   Modern Buildings.-Few places have undergone such a trans-
formation during the last thirty years as Kinghorn. Its streets
were then almost impassable, they are now levelled and well pav-
ed. Its public buildings were mean,-they are now good. The
former town-house was an ancient ecclesiastical building, the pre-
sent town house and jail is of Gothic architecture, which cost the
burgh L.2500. Notwithstanding, however, its beauty, strength,
and cost, its jail can only now be used as a lock-up house, and it
does not prevent the inhabitants of the burgh from being assesed for
the erection of prisons in other parts of the county. The school-
bouse was formerly a plain unpretending building; the school-
house now, and the grounds adjoining would do honour to the me-
tropolis.  The spinning-will, adjoining the townhouse has under-
gone of late great improvements, and has been much enlarged.
This improvemnt has taken place since it came into the posses-
sion of the present public spirited proprietors, the Messrs Swan of
Kirkcaldy. Its extensive front, and well kept shrubbery, make it
a great ornament to the place. The church is the only public
				4

