
          ISLAND OF SKYE-DUIRINISH.                          327

   It is worthy of mention, that, while vaccination is generally ne-
glected, those of the people who remain at home, with few excep-
tions, escape the ravages of small-pox ; but those who go to the
sotith or low country are almost universally attacked by it, and
many of them fall victims to it.
   Geoloqy and Mineralogy.-The geology of the parish is remark-
ably uniform, being almost entirely of the trap formation. Hori-
zontal beds of amorphous basalt and trap tuff are surmounted by
columnar basalt, the angles of which are, however, seldom regu-
lar or well defined. It may be said to show only an incipient ten-
dency to crystallization. These beds are very frequently intersect-
ed by veins or dikes of basalt, harder, darker, and more splintery
than that of which the columns are composed.
   Minerals.-The simple minerals imbedded are zeolites of every
variety and in great abundance; steatite likewise abundant, espe-
cially about Dunvegan; augite and olivine more rarely.
  Beds of limestone occur in two localities, 1st, at Waterstein (or
Vaterstein,) in a very remarkable situation,-tbe immensely high
cliffs already noticed, overhanging the sea ; and 2d, more exten-
sively at Loch Bay, in the district of Vaternish. In this latter lo-
cality, the limestone contain numerous fossil shells, and in some
instances is entirely composed of them. They seem all to belong
to a comparatively recent era,-a fact which might be easily as-
certained by a skilful geologist, as they are verv little changed
from their original state.  One of these beds of shelly limestone
lies under an immense cliff of basalt, which is near 200 feet in
height.  Veins of sandstone occur at Loch Bay, along with the
limestone, and both here and at Vaterstein seams of coal are to
be met with. The sandstone is very soft and friable, consequent-
ly utterly unfit for the purposes of building. The coal, which is
hard and brittle, resembling cannel-coal, though scarcely so lus-,
trous, is to be found in seams of only a few inches in thickness.
Repeated attempts have been made to discover a workable seam;
but they failed; and it is evident, from the geological formation of
the surrounding district, that all such attempts must end in disap-
pointment.
  Soils.-The soils are generally peat moss, or a mixture of peat
moss and decomposed trap.  There are a few tracts of clayey soil
to be met with, and still fewer of gravelly; but no instance of
sandy soil occurs.
  Zoology and Botany.-Very little can be said on these heads.


