
     of Kilbarchau.

the person of Mr Andrew Knox, a clergyman of the moderate
party, in the reign of King James the VI. and much esteemed
by men of all parties.  On the restoration of bishops, King
James translated him to the bishoprick of the Isles 1606; and
in 1622, to the Episcopal see of Rapho in Ireland.  He died
1632.  This bishop had a son, Thomas Knox, who succeed-
ed his father in the Episcopacy of the Isles, but died soon af-
ter his promotion*.

     3 R 2

<FOOTNOTE>

*The Semples of Beltrees, whose residence was at Thirdpart, now the
property of Mr M`Dowall of Garthland, were a very antient family in this
parish, and descended from the noble family of Semple.  From this family,
several remarkable persons have sprung.  As, 1st, Sir James Semple, who was
a great favourite of James VI. while King of Scotland, and by him lent am-
bassador to Queen Elizabeth.  There is yet extant, a letter, written by King
James, dated Sept. 9th, 1599, to Mr James Semple of Belltrees, while am-
bassador at London, ordering him to pay Robert Fowlis, from the first of
his salary as ambassador, the sum of one hundred pounds sterling, for certain
purposes, therein mentioned There is also a passport for his return from the
Court at Richmond, the 23 d of February 1599, signed by "Thomas Egerton,
George Hunsday, William Knollys, Thomas Buckhurse, Robert North, Ro-
bert Cecyll," the ministers of Elizabeth.  In the year 1601, after he had been
made a Knight Bachelor, he was sent ambassador to France, and there is still
extant, a passport, or order, from the Court at Richmond, the fourth of Oct.  1601.
to have him conducted with all due respect, befitting the dignity of an am-
bassador, through England to Dover, on his way to France, signed Ro. Ce-
cyll.  These papers are still in the pessession ot his descendants.
   This gentteman possessed a poetical talent, and was author of the Packman
and the Priest, a Satire on the absurdities of Popery, the great subject which
then agitated the minds of men.
2 d, Robert Semple, son, and successor of this Sir James, was author of an
Epitaph and Elegy, on Habie Simpson, Piper of Kilbarchan,
     Who on his bags, wore bonie flags,
     He made his checks as red as crimson,
     And bobbed when he blo'ed the bags.

   This piece is too long for insertion; but it has acquired much local cele-
brity.
   3 d, Francis, son of Robert, was an adherent of the Stewart Family.  He
wrote several panegyrics on James II. while Duke of York and Albany; and


