
         		  PARISH OF ARBIRLOT.

          PRESBYTERY OF ARBROATH, SYNOD OF ANGUS AND MEARNS.

                  THE REV. THOMAS GUTHRIE, MINISTER.

                I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
        Name, Extent, &c.-ARBIRLOT seems to be a contraction of
Aberelliot, the ancient name of this parish, which refers to the
circumstance, that the river Elliot here enters the sea. The pa-
rish is about 4 miles long and 3 broad, and is bounded on the
south by the sea; on the east by the parish of Arbroath; on the
west by the parish of Panbride; and on the north by the parish-
es of St Vigeans and Carmyllie.
        Topographical Appearances.-A considerable portion of the pa-
rish consists of what may be called flat land, and the rest has a
gradual elevation, not attaining such an altitude as to deserve
being called billy. The extent of sea coast is between two an
three miles; and along its whole length, the shore is flat and
sandy, affording excellent bathing ground to considerable numbers,
who come here during the bathing season.
        Hydrography.-There is a chalybeate spring in the parish, of
some little celebrity, though it is not now so much frequented as
formerly. The Elliot is a stream which rises in Dilty Moss in
the parish of Carmyllie; from thence it pursues a south-easterly
course, and after being joined by two or three smaller streams, it
falls into tho sea in the east part of the parish.
        Mineralogy, &c.-The strata dip to the south; the rocks are red
sandstones and strap, containing considerable quantities of rock-
crystal. The soil, though on some-farms clayey, generally con-
sists of a light rich loam lying on gravel; this applies to the lower
parts of the parish. In the higher and  northern parts again, the
soil Wet and moorish, and on the borders of Carmyllie, which
bounds the parish on the north, there is a considerable extent of
land still in a state of muir.
	Since the erection of some dam dikes, almost no salmon have
been found in the  Elliot. The only fish now caught in that stream
                                    4


