
     Marischal College and University of Aberdeen.

ed Latin abridgement.  While reading the Latin poets, the
students are not only exercised in scanning, but also accus-
tomed to read according to the quantity; a practice which
is attended with the best consequences; and if begun early,
would wonderfully facilitate the composition of Latin verse.
The Latin authors read in the second class are Virgil, Ho-
race, Juvenal, Cicero, and occasionally, Tacitus. 2. As an
introduction to civil history, a view is given of chronology
and geography.  Particular attention is paid to the revolu-
tions of Greece and Rome, the Greek and Roman antiqui-
ties, and the progress of literature, philosophy, and the fine
arts among the ancients. 3. Natural history comes next in
order.  This subject is comprehended under six heads: viz.
meteorology, hydrology, geology, mineralogy, vegetation, zoo-
logy; the last whereof is introduced by a brief view of com-
parative anatomy and physiology: the students receive a syl-
labus of the whole.  At the same time, the students in this
class attend the professor of mathematics, for the elementary
parts, as the knowledge of the mathematical sciences is an
absolutely necessary key to the philosophy of bodies.
   3. As material objects are the most familiar to young
minds, and experiments and reasonings concerning them are
most level to their capacities, the students in the third year
of their course, enter on the study of natural and experimen-
tal philosophy, and are instructed in its several branches; viz.
mechanics, hydrostatics, pneumatics, optics, astronomy, mag-
netism, electricity, and any others which new discoveries have
added to the parts already cultivated.  At the same time,
they continue their application to mathematics, so as they
may go hand in hand with their studies in the different ob-
jects of natural philosophy.
   4 In the last year of the philosophical course are taught,
1. pneumatology, or the natural philosophy of spirit, includ-


