214			AYRSHIRE.

sandstone, the prevailing rock in the neighbourhod being porphyry.
It runs in a direction from north-west to south-east, and is about
6 feet in depth and 4 to 5 in width at the top. It is very in-
flammable, and emits a strong sulphureous smell on being burned.
	The greater part of the limestone quarries abound in petrifac-
tions. At Auchenskeigh these are numerous. Sea sand and
small shells similar to those found on the sea shore are found in
the incumbent earth. In sinking a coal mine recently at Swin-
ridgemuir, great quantities of small shells were discovered in the
indurated clay. Vegetable petrifactions are numerous in the free-
stone quarries there, and in the freestone rocks small cavities are
found filled with moss earth.
	Trees, chiefly oak, birch, and hazel, are found in all the mosses,
generally lying in a direction from south-west to northeast. Se-
veral years ago, some persons in digging peats on the Barkip Moss,
discovered hairs adhering to the peats. On excavating the moss
the body of a cow was laid bare, with a rope formed of "shews,"
or the refuse of dressed lint, twisted about the horns. On being
exposed to the atmosphere, the hair melted into a greasy substance,
and the carcase speedily dissolved.
	Soil.--On the east of the Garnock, the soil is chiefly a thin,
cold, tenacious clay, retentive of moisture. There is a portion of
loamy soil along the banks of the Garnock. There is also a con-
siderable extent of moss mostly under cultivation. In the holm
lands the soil is a deep alluvial loam. In some places, ten feet
deep of soil has been found. On the west of the Garnock, there
is a considerable extent of adhesive clay soil. Along the base
of the hills, the soil, being incumbent on limestone or trap, is
generally light and dry. Although immense quantities of boulders
have been removed from the soil within these twenty years, there
are still great numbers unmolested, especially on the north side of
the parish.
	Zoology.--The moor grounds abound with grouse, &c. Snipes
frequent the marshy places. Herons are almost daily to be seen
in search of fish in the Garnock. The kingfisher is also occa-
sionally observed. Trout are found in all the streams. The Dusk
has long been famed for the abundance and excellence of its trouts.
These fish are every year becoming less abundant. Bands of per-
sons in spring and summer, when the waters of Rye, Caaf, and
other streams are low, sweep every pool with small meshed nets,
and, not content with this, destroy the fish with quicklime,--a ne-


