
     Statistical Account

be found: blue, white, and red clays, strong and weak,
sharp lands, loam of various depth and strength; a mixture
of loam and clay, light lands, moss, heath and bent in no
small quantities.  Before Sir David Carnegie sold part of the
lordship of Leuchars, he employed a number of workmen to
cut a large drain of 3 miles long, passing through the west
end of the village of, Leuchars, that the surface on each side
of it might be turned into more important uses.  The Hon.
Robert Lindsay bought this part of the lordship before the
effect of the drain was fully proved.  Mr Lindsay found himself
under the necessity, at no small expence, considerably to enlarge
the former drain, and thereby rendered it effectual for relieving
the flat grounds of the water through which it passed.  Many
acres formerly covered with coarse grass and rushes, and about
36 acres south and west of Leuchars, covered with water to a
considerable depth in the winter season, and not free from wa-
ter in the summer, are now producing abundant crops of all
kinds of grain, clover, turnip, and cabbage.  These grounds
are let from 14 s to L. 1: I6 per acre; yielding a profitable re-
turn to the generous landlord, and affording the labourers hope,
that their expence and industry may not be altogether unre-
warded.  Of the many remaining acres to the north and
northeast, some are highly improved, and others in a state of
preparation for similar crops.  These circumstances are motives
which should prompt to exertion in all similar situations in
Scotland; but are by no means, to those who wish well to
mankind, the most important motives for draining water from
the neighbourhood of villages.  Before the above drain (of 20
feet wide, and 14 deep, for a considerable way-above the
outlet) was cut, the families who lived near the stagnant wa-
ter, were subject in the spring and end of autumn, to inter-
mitting fevers of very long continuance; from 23 to 33, and
sometimes to 39 days.  Whole families were to be seen in

     2


