
306                     KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

street. This bridge, or rather a bridge on the game sites seems to
have existed at a remote period ; perhaps at the time when the
place was visited, in 1300, by Edward I. In 1661, Richard Mur-
ray of Broughton obtained an Act of the Scottish Parliament for
"rebuilding the bridge over the Fleet at Gatehouse of Fleet, and
authorizing him to levy certain tolls on all horses, cattle, and sheep
passing this bridge, to reimburse him for the expense of building and
upholding the same." (Act. Parl. vii. 24 1.) The present bridge,
which consists of two ample arches, has been twice widened consider-
ably; the last time was about twenty-five years ago. A portion
(about a fifth part) of the town of Gatehouse lies on the west side of
the river, in the parish of Anwoth, principally on the line of the turn-
pike road; but this, as it is situated in another parish, has not
been taken into account in this article, and the population thereof
not included in this report.
	Means of Communication.--There is a post-office in Gatehouse.
The only turnpike road in Girthon (that which connects Dum-
fries and Portpatrick) runs through the parish from Gatehouse to
Barharrow, a distance of only two miles. In order to remove this
road a little farther from the mansion-house of Cally, a line was
cut, in 1820, through the Gallow-Hill, at the private expense of
Mr Murray, which cost upwards of L.3000. Two mail coaches
pass through the town daily, one going to Portpatrick, the other
returning from it. There are various parish roads, all of them in
pretty good order; the principal of which is the road leading from
Gatehouse northward to the mineral well of Lochenbreck and
Laurieston, both in tbe parish of Balmaghie.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The parish church was situated, from the
remotest date, about two miles south of Gatehouse, till 1818,
when a new and substantial church, capable of containing about
800 sitters, was built at Gatehouse, on a suitable and convenient
site. The former edifice was unroofed, and now exists as a ruin.
It stands in the centre of the only burial- ground in the parish.
The family,of Broughton bury in a vault underneath the church.
	The manse was formerly situated in the immediate vicinity of
the old church, but a new one was erected about fifty years ago,
within less than half a-mile of Gatehouse. It has undergone various
successive alterations and repairs, and is, on the whole, a comfort-
able building. The glebe extends to 22 acres; its annual value may
be between L.25 and L.30. The stipend, which is paid from Crown
feinds, was L.66,15s. 5d. in 1755; it is now L.14l, 13s. 2d.;


