
                      STIRLING.                              411

ty of manoeuvres, Charles, who commanded in person, was obliged
to retreat before Cromwell, and encamped at Stirling, in the King's
Park.  Cromwell in his turn having retreated into England, and
being followed by the King, defeated him in the memorable bat-
tle of Worcester.  Soon after Charles's departure from Stirling,
General Monk, who had been detached by Cromwell with a strong
body of men, arrived at Stirling; took possession of the town, and
proceeded to besiege the castle.  He erected batteries on the
Tower of the Church and on the adjoining burying-ground; and
thus succeeded in reducing the fortress.  The ornamental parts
of the palace, and the church tower, still bear marks of the mutual
cannonading.  It was on this occasion that the national registers,
which had been lodged in the castle as a place of security the pre-
ceding year, were seized and removed to the Tower of London;
whence being conveyed by sea at the Restoration, they were lost in
a storm.  In 1715, the Duke of Argyle, before proceeding to fight
the battle of Sheriffmuir in the neighbourhood of Dunblane, en-
camped here in the King's Park.  In 1745, the walls were repair-
ed, probably With a view to its protection from the Pretender's for-
ces.  On the return of his army, however, from England the fol-
lowing year, the town being found untenable against him, he was
admitted on terms which, it is said, were immediately violated by
his men; who pillaged the houses and shops of those who were
known to be most opposed to them.  He invested the castle; erect-
ing batteries on the Gowling hill in the space between the church
and Mar's work, and on the Ladies' hill; and would have suc-
ceeded in forcing it to capitulate for want of provisions, had he
not been compelled by the approach of the Duke of Cumberland
to retire from the neighbourhood.--One other event may be no-
ticed as of more than local interest.  This was the execution of
Baird and Hardy for high treason in 1820, after the absurd rising
which took place under the excitement of Radical agitation, goad-
ed on by scarcity of work and want of the means of subsistence
amongst the operatives; and which terminated in the defeat at
Bonnymui.  They were beheaded in Broad Street, in front of the
Townhouse; and buried in the church-yard.
  Burgh of Stirling.--On an ancient sell of the corporation was
a wooden bridge; on one side of which were English soldiers ap-
pearing to attempt the passage, on the other, Scottish in the atti-
tude of opposing them; with the legend " Hic armis Bruti, Scoti
stant hic cruce tuti;" all which seems probably to have been in-


