
1062                     ABERDEENSHIRE.

Scotch coinage may be able to determine whether this piece be
of the reign of David II., who, when only eight years of age, suc-
ceeded his father, "the Bruce," in 1329.  Of either reign, it
would fill within the date (1335) of the battle of Culblean, fought
about two miles to the westward; and in the direction of Ferrar
it is generally admitted the routed Baliolites fled, closely pursued
by " the Gordon" and his gallant band. Some of the fugitives
are reported to have rushed into the mill at Dinnet, and there
(except two saved by the address and bravery of the miller,) cut
down by their fierce pursuers. From this incident the name of
the mill was changed from that of Dinnet, Dion-aite, (sheltering
place,) to Muillean donas (the mill of mischief). The sucken
considered their mill polluted. A new one was erected about one
hundred yards distant; but the old site is still called Muillean
donas.  Connected also with the chase from Culblean, a small
rill, nearly a mile north of Aboyne Castle, is called "the bleedy
burn," the tradition being, that, for twenty-four hours, the water
was reddened with the blood of the slain. But "bleedy burn"
being expressed in Scotch and not in Gaelic, it may be inferred,
that the occurrence from which arose the name must have been
of more recent date than the battle of Culblean. If, too, the
coin be of the reign of David II., and if the legend have refe-
rence to the liberation of that monarch from England, (1358,)
the piece (and bones found with it in the cairn) must have been
deposited on some memorable occasion subsequent to the rout, in
1335, from Culblean. Cairns (some of great size) and tumuli
are to be found on every hill and moor in the parish. Some of
them may mark the graves of the Sassenach and the Dane; but
many of them may be claimed by every Celt in the north as a
" Carn na Cuimhne," a cairn of remembrance over a clansman of
his own, who fell either in nobly repelling a foreign foe, or in the
direful conflict of chief against chief.  But it is not to be suppos-
ed that all these tumuli and cairns owed their origin to the casual-
ties of war. Around the Druidical places of worship, there were
no cemeteries. Such convenient spots * as, amid their pasto-
ral and migratory life, might at the time occur to the surviving
relatives, were selected, add the grave secured against the raven-
ous wolf +by a heap of stones. "Curri mi cloch er do charne," I

<FOOTNOTE>The writer knows some remote Highland parishes in which still are many places
of interment which have never been connected with any place of worship.
             At a hunting in forests of Athole and Marr, so late as 1528, a wolf is mentioned
among the game killed by James V.

					3


