
                 SANDSTING AND AITHSTING.                    99

of sheriff put an end to these courts ; but, it must be admitted,
that the municipal regulations by which their proceedings were
conducted, were well calculated for preserving good order in the
islands.
   Situation, Boundary, and Extent.-These united parishes are si-
tuated in latitude 60o 30', and form the bounds of one ministry.
They lie nearly in the middle of the mainland of Shetland, and are
bounded on the east, by that part of the parish of Tingwall, called
Wiesdale; on the south and south-west, by the Atlantic Ocean ;
on the north-west, by the parish of Walls; on the north, by a large
arm of the sea called the Minn, or Swarback's Minn, separating
them from Muckle Roe, an island belonging to the parish of Del-
ting; and, on the north-east, they march with Delting on the
Mainland.  As no regular survey of the parishes has been made,
or actual measurement of their extent taken, their dimensions
cannot be stated with perfect accuracy; but their length may be
fairly estimated at 10 miles, and their breadth at 8 miles.
   Topographical Appearances.-These parishes are of an oblong
figure, and their greatest length is from north to south, or rather
from north north-west to south south-east.  They abound in knolls,
or rising grounds ; but there are no hills of any considerable height
in them, neither is there, in any one place, any considerable ex-
tent of low level land.  The cultivated lands are generally bounded
on the one side by the sea, while the occupiers of lands, which
are farther inland, have an easy access to the sea, none of them
being more distant from it than a mile.  All the rising grounds
are covered with heather, interspersed with patches of green, on
a mossy soil, while the nesses or peninsulas are generally green.
The parishes abound in moss, which, in many places, is very deep,
and which affords abundance of excellent fuel for the people,
though it yields not much good pasture for the cattle.  The shore
on the west side, where it is washed by the Atlantic Ocean, is
bold, and in the rocks are many caves, to which the wild pigeons
resort.
   Climate.-A great deal of rain falls, and the air is generally very
damp.  Notwithstanding, however, the excess of moisture, the
Country cannot by any means be considered as unhealthy.  Though
the deep moss, which is the general soil in these parishes, may emit
copious exhalations, these do not appear to carry with them any
contagious miasmata.  But when these exhalations are condensed
and converted into hoar-frost, they often do very serious damage


