
972                          ABERDEENSHIRE.

ander Anderson.  He was a person of some note, and held this
living in 1560.  In 1541, Duncan Burnet, rector of Methlick, as
appears from volume first of the Spalding Club Miscellany, lately
published, bequeathed to the chaplains of the choir of the cathe-
dral of Aberdeen an annual rent of 26s. 8d. for the celebration of
an obit on behalf of his own soul, and the souls of all his succes-
sors.
   At the Reformation, a large part of the north of Scotland was
left in a state of great spiritual destitution ; and, in the register of
ministers, 1567, we find Methlick, together with the three neigh-
bouring parishes, Tarves, Ellon, and Fyvie, superintended by only
one clergyman.  His name was Mr Alexander Ogilvie, and his
stipend six score merks.  Readers were provided in each of the
four parishes above-mentioned ; and the name of the person who
then held that ancient ecclesiastical office at Methlick was Nycoll
Smyth.
   The ministers of Methlick Since the Reformation have been
Mr John Mercer, Mr Adam Reid, Mr William Seaton, Mr Wil-
liam Strachan, Mr Robert Ogilvy, Mr George Anderson, Mr
Alexander Clerk, Mr John Mulligine, Mr Alexander Howe, Mr
Andrew Moir, Mr Alexander Knolls, Mr Robert Adam, Mr
Ludovick Grant.
   Besides the parish church, there was, before the Reformation,
a chapel at a place called Chapeltown, the name of which remains
unchanged ; and there was another chapel at Andet, dedicated to
St Ninian.  That last mentioned must have stood near a farm-
house now called Chapel-park, where there is a good spring that
still goes under the name of the Chapel Well, and where, until
recently, traces of a church-yard were distinctly visible,-they
having disappeared, about fifty years ago, under the plough.
   The present church and manse are situate upon the south bank
of the Ythan, about five miles from the northern, five and a-half
from the eastern, three from the southern, and two from the western
boundary of the parish.  The church was rebuilt in 1780, repaired
in 1840, and may contain about 600 persons.  The sittings are all
free, and are apportioned among the several tenants.  One gal-
lery is occupied by the family seat of the Earl of Aberdeen, who
is sole proprietor and patron of the parish ; and adjoining to the
church is the burying-place of that Noble family.
   The manse was rebuilt in 1806, and repaired in 1840, when a
wing was added to the offices.


