
                        FIFESHIRE.

390

the fund adds another 6d. so that the spinner receives 1s. for
her work, while the fund loses 6d. on each spindle. The sum
earned in this way, by even a good spinner, is very small; byt
whatever it may amount to, it is the fruit of labour, and it is prized
as such.
  Fairs.-Two annual fairs are held in the village of Kennoway.
the one i April, and the other in October. No business has for
the one i April, and the other in October. No business has for
a long time been done at them.
  Inns and Alehouses.-There are no less than 13 houses in
the parish licensed to sell spirituous liquors and ales. If so
many can make profits by such a traffic, there is great reason
to fear, that by far too much money is spent in them, and that an
increase of intemperance must be the result. The unnecessary
multiplication of such palces of resort is much to be deprecated;
for, besides affording facilities to those who are already addicted
to drinking, it sets additional and powerful temptation to the worst
of all vices, in the way of those who are sober and industrious.
  Fuel.-Coal abounds in all the neighbourhood, and after what
  has been already said in regard to its being found of good quality,
  and wronght in the parish, it is scarely necessary to add, that
  this is the fuel universally used. At Balgrie colliery, in the parish,
  from which the great majority of the inhabitants are supplied,
  it is sold at present as 8s. 4d. per ton.
    January 1838.


                     PARISH OF WEMYSS.

         PRESBYTERY OF KIRKCALDY, SYNOD OF FIFE.

         THE REV. JOHN M'LACHLAN, MINISTER.


           I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.

  Name and Boundaries.-The name of this parish is of Gaelic
origin, the word Weem or Wemyss signifying a cave, manifestly
in allusion to the number of caves on the sea-shore. It is bound-
ed by the parish of Dysart, on the west; by Markinch, on the north
and east; and by the Frith of Forth, on the south. Its length
from south-west to north-east is about 6 miles; and its breadth
about 1 1/2; in whole, it contains about 9 square miles.


