
698                         PERTHSHIRE.

the centre of each boat, and by a connecting moveable rod fas-
tened to the stern heads.  The vessel is slipped across on a chain,
--there being a suitable apparatus for changing the relative posi-
tions of the boats and platform.  The main improvement on the
action of the common ferry-boat is, by setting the boats below in
an oblique position to the stream, when, if the boats are placed so
as to receive the impulse of the current on the larboard bows, they
will be moved gently to the starboard across the river, and, by
shifting their position till the stream impinges on the starboard
bows, the bridge will return to the point from whence it started,
and that without any assistance of manual labour.  There is a
swing-boat on another part of the river; but the near vicinity of
a bridge lately erected has caused it to be, in a great measure, dis-
used.  there is a fourth regular ferry in the parish.   There is a
post daily, with the exception of Tuesday.
    Ecclesiastical Estate.--The parish church I regard as, under pre-
sent circumstances, conveniently situated.  It is within half a mile
of the junction of the Tay and the Tummel, and within a few
hundreds yards of the two principal ferries.  As about a third of
the population is located on the farther side of the Tummel ferry,
and as a considerable number of the parishioners of Little Dunkeld
are located in a parallel situation to this parish on the south side
of the Tay ferry, there can be no doubt of the convenience of the
situation of the church, in so far as they are concerned.  On the
other hand, the length of Strathtay, at nearly the extreme end of
which the church is placed, renders the situation, in some respects,
inconvenient to the inhabitants of that district, who, in conse-
quence, are partly driven to seek such accommodation as they can
find in the parish church of Weem and the chapel of Grandtully.
Frequent interruption to regularity of attendance occurs in winter
from the swollen state of the rivers, by which the ferries are ren-
dered impracticable.  otherwise, there is a very commendable at-
tention paid by all classes, and, I may add, by all religiuos deno-
minations in the district to sacred ordinances.  The church was
finished in 1806, and is in a good state of repair.  It accommo-
dates 1000 persons.  The manse was built in 1804; it has since
received extensive additions in the kitchen and servants' depart-
ment.  In 1833, sufficient and substantial offices were built.  the
glebe consists of four acres and a half Scots, exclusive of grass for
two cows.  The stipend amounts to sixteen chalders, half meal and
half barley, at the highest fiars prices for the county, with L.10



























































