
     Statistical Account

those who were regularly on the poor's roll, amounted to
36, besides a number of others to whom occasional assistance
was given.  It is to be observed, that out of the above sum,
received chiefly on account of the poor, between 2 L. and 3 L.
are annually given to the presbytery and session-clerks, the
precentor, and kirk-officer.

   Town of Girvan.-The town of Girvan is situated at the
mouth of the river bearing that name.  It is a post town,
and lies on the great road between Ayr and Port-Patrick*.
The town of Girvan possesses many advantages for trade and
manufactures.  In the neighbourhood of a plentiful corn
country, with abundance of coal within 2 or 3 miles, and
probably much nearer, it enjoys in sufficient quantity, all the
necessaries of life.  Standing very near the sea, and built on
a dry sandy soil; its situation is remarkably healthy.  Its
harbour, far from being now a bad one, is capable of much
improvement.  In its present natural state, the entrance into
the harbour is, at high water, from 9 to 11 feet deep; and
were a key to be built, which, it is said, might be done for
2000 L. or 3000 L. it would be rendered considerably deeper

<FOOTNOTE>

*This town is a burgh of barony.  A charter of erection was originally
granted to Thomas Boyd, Esq. proprietor of the lands of Ballochtoul, on which
the town is chiefly built.  This charter was afterward renewed by King Wil-
liam to Sir Archibald Muir of Thornton, in the year 1696.  The powers and
privileges granted by it to the proprietor of Ballochtoul, were regularly carried
down, in all the subsequent charters and investitures, from the Crown.  These
powers were, however never used; till, in consequence of the great increase
of the town, Mr. Hamilton of Bargeny, the present proprietor, thought of exer-
cising them.  Accordingly, in the year 1785, the town of Girvan did, by his
direction, assume the form of a burgh of barony.  It is governed by 2 bailies,
and a council of 10.  The bailies are annually chosen by the council, and the
vacancies of the council are filled up by themselves.  But the superior has a ne-
gative upon both elections.  The town, by its charter, enjoys all the liberties
and privileges belonging to other burghs of the same kind.


