
                   GREENOCK.                     467

       school, granting that the directors should continue the school
       fees at the present moderate rate, will furnish a very inadequate
       supply of the means of cheap education and moral training; many
       of the children of our working-classes will grow up in ignorance,
       irreligion, and crime; pauperism will yearly increase; and Green-
       ock, like other overgrown towns, will be noted for its discontent-
       ment, and turbulence, and misery. It is the interest of all, and
       most of all of the heritors superiors, to erect and endow one or
       more parochial schools, or one large school, to be erected in a
       central position above the town, so as to accommodate the inha-
       bitants of the town and of the landward parts of the West and East
       Parishes.
            The general sessions of Greenock have exerted themselves
       most earnestly to procure this invaluable boon; and it is hoped
       that the time is not far distant when their efforts shall be crowned
       with success.
            Meanwhile, there are in all seventeen unendowed schools for
       the children of all ranks, in which the reading of English writing,
       arithmetic, and geography, are tau ht with different degrees of
       talent and success.  In most of them, the modern improvements
       in the arts of teaching and youthful training have been adopted.
       In almost all of them the Bible is used as a scliool-book; and in
       many the teachers assiduously endeavour to instil into the minds of
       their pupils the knowledge of the principles and duties of revealed
       religion.
            For orphans there are two schools built at the expense of                the
       burgh-the Charity School and the School of Industry; the first
       for giving an elementary education gratis to orphan children, or
       children neglected by their parents; and the second for teaching
       girls from the Charity School, needle-work, knitting, and other
       handicraft occupations gratis, preparatory to their going to domestic
       service. The salary of the teacher of the Charity School ig raised
       by subscription; that of the schoolmistress of the Schoot of In-
       dustry arises partly from private subscription, and partly from the
       profits, of needlework done in the school.
            There are two burgh schools; one in which Latin, and
       French are taught; another, in which instruction is given in writ-
       ing, arithmetic, geography, drawing, and mathematics, compre-
       bending Euclid, plane and spherical trigometry, practical geo-
       metry, and algebra.
            The grammar-school was established, as we have already men-


