               			BARR.  	                   413

established in 1819, and has been of undoubted advantage, both
in furnishing relief, and in fostering the spirit of independence.
	Savings Bank.--A savings bank was also begun at the same
time, and has proved of considerable benefit to servants and la-
bourers, for whom it is exclusively designed. It has suffered, how-
ever, from the pressure of the times within the last two or three
years, and the sum now deposited does not exceed L.150.
	Poor and Parochial Funds.--The poor are very sedulously at-
tended to, and well provided for, partly by the session, and partly
by the charitable and humane. Their average number is 18, in-
cltding children. Of this number, however, not more than six or
eight names appear on the session-roll; and the allowance to them
is very variable, running from 2s. 6d. to 6s. or 8s. a month, and
sometimes, when an attendant is to be employed, 15s. or 16s a month.
The collections to meet these and other usual demands amount
to about L. 26 a-year, with L. 25 from the absent heritors, of vo-
luntary contribution; and mortcloth-money and penalties, amount-
ing to about L. 2 more; and seats in the church, yielding L. 10
more. One donation of L. 50 was recently made by a lady anony-
mously. The gifts of the session are never bestowed but as a help
or partial support. The pauper is made to understand that he
must look to friends if he have them, and to the parish at large;
and the parishioners at large having the same understanding, give
at their door, or send assistance, according to disposition or ability.
There is some reluctance, in the first instance, to be enrolled in the
list of paupers; but the feeling rapidly dies away, when the person
has once stooped to the name; and friends and relatives are simi-
larly affected. It is hard to say, however, whether the disposition
among the poor to ask for parochial relief is advancing or decreasing.
	Fair.--There is an annual fair which was originally designed for
country business, but, from changes in the habits of the people, it
has now no very assignable object, and continues more from use and
wont than for any distinct purpose.
	Inns.--There are 4 inns in the village, and 1 in a remote part
of the parish.
	Fuel.--Fuel is not a very expensive article.  Peat is abundant,
and used in all the distant and higher parts of the parish, whilst
the village and neighbourhood consume coal obtained at a mode-
rate expense, on the water of Girvan, eight miles, and costing
6s. 6d. a single horse cart, including carriage.

		MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
	On this head it may be stated, that the parish has undergone


