
              54                  KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

              moat at top, 300 feet.  There adjoins this another in a lower si-
              tuation, and of somewhat larger extent, which, at one period, was
              evidently surrounded with water.  In the lake whose waters had
              once surrounded this fort, fragments of spears and an old silver
              coin, as mentioned in the former report, have been found.
                 There are no traces of Roman occupancy in this or the adjoin-
              ing parishes to the west of the Dee, lower down than Balmaghie
              and Kells.  It seems probable, from this circumstance, that the
              Roman legions crossed over from the territory of the Selgovae,
              where their remains are numerous, at some ford higher up the ri-
              ver; and directed their course to Wigtonshire, through the moun-
              tainous range extending from New Galloway to Newton-Stewart.
                 There are two other strengths similar to those already describ-
              ed, which are considered to have been Danish forts, having a re-
              markable situation on the range of the high  cliffs at Borness and
              Muncraig.  That on the Borness shore has been protected on the
              landward side by a double trench of considerable depth, whilst a
              precipice of 200 feet perpendicular height rendered it sufficiently
              secure from any assault by water, with which, indeed, it is nearly
              surrounded.
                 Next to the moats, the works of art in Borgue which bear the
              stamp of greatest antiquity, are the ruins of what appears to have
              been a castle of considerable strength, on the side of a small bay
              half a mile westward from Kirkandrews.  The foundations only of
              this building, which bears the name of Castle Hayne, can now be
              traced, indicating, however, that the walls have been of great
              thickness and some extent.  No mortar has been used to cement
              the stones,--the interstices having been filled with earth and rub-
              bish.
                 At the entrance of Ross Bay, on a promontory called Manor
              Point, may still be traced the foundations of a strong wall, which
              had enclosed a triangular piece of ground, somewhat less than an
              acre in extent. The character of this ruin is not unlike that near
              Kirkandrews.  It is described by Simpson as the ruins of a castle,
              of which no traditions were then extant.  The links of a gold or
              silver chain and some other antique remains have been found here;
              but not of such a defined character as to show whether they be-
              longed to the British, Roman, Irish, or Saxon period of our his-
              tory.
                 The Tower of Balmangan, the Castle of Plunton, the churches
              of Senwick and Kirkandrews, both in ruins, and remarkable for
					     I


