
			CRAWFORD.                            333

in general receive little money from their masters. They enjoy the
profits of what is called a pack, that is, forty or fifty ewes with their
lambs. This is an encouragement to look after the interest of the
flock in general. Should, however, the shepherd leave his master,
he does not carry his little flock along with him; it is taken off his
hand at a valuation, and is transferred to his successor at the same
rate, and forms part of the stock of the farm: besides, he receives
forty or fifty stones of oatmeal, perhaps a few potatoes, and has a
cow kept through the year at the expense of the master.

	Stock.--In former times, the short or black-faced sheep formed
the principal stock of the parish. This is still the case on the
higher grounds; but of late years, in consequence of the high
price of wool, the Cheviot breed has been introduced, where it
can be done with propriety. In other cases, a cross breed between
the short or black-faced and the Cheviot is preferred. This
breed, by frequent crossing, has been brought almost to the real
Cheviot, and gives satisfaction to many who have tried it.
	The duration of leases is generally from nine to fifteen years;
some few leases reach the extent of nineteen years. These short
leases are very unfavourable to the improvements even of a pasto-
ral country. Though draining and enclosing have been carried
on to a great extent, (and perhaps there are few parishes where
these improvements have been carried on to a greater extent,) yet
short leases are a drag to the exertions of the tenants. The drains
that are made, and the dikes reared, are generally at the expense
of the land-owner, the tenant paying six or six and a-half per cent.
on the outlay. Were the leases longer, many small enclosures
would be made, many drains would be opened, and much ground
would be turned up by the very active tenantry at present in the
parish. It must be observed, that the chief landholders afford every
encouragement to their tenants, and provide them with comfortable
accommodation.
	Slate Quarry.--A slate quarry (transition clay slate) on the pro-
perty of the Earl of Hopetoun gives employment to six or eight
men through the year. The slate, in general, is reckoned soft;
some of it, however, is of an excellent quality.
	Leadhills.--The mining village of Leadhills, lies in the south-
west of the parish at the distance of a mile from Wanlockhead in
Dumfries-shire, where lead mines are also carried on. It contains
population of 1188. It is situated in an irregular valley sur-
rounded, by hills covered with heath, and at a short distance on


