
370                        GENERAL OBSERVATIONS

quantity of stock than in former times; and from this county being
within a reasonable distance of the great stock markets in the north
of England, and from the establishment of new markets for cattle
and sheep at Coldstream, Dunse, and Ayton, at which places busi-
ness in this line to a large amount is transacted, opportunities are
presented to the farmers of readily disposing of their stock to any
extent.
     The grain raised in this counry is mostly sold at Berwick, where
there is a weekly corn-market.  It is sold by sample, and the quan-
tity annually disposed of is very great.  It is believed that Berwick
ranks amongst the third or fourth rate towns in Great Britain in
respect of the quantity of corn exported.  A great deal is sent to
London.  A stock corn-market has also lately been established at
Eyemouth.
     The Lammermoor district not being adapted for tillage, but a
small portion of it is under plough.  It is therefore principally
devoted to the pasture of sheep, which is deemed a more safe
anf profitable method of employing capital in this part of the
county, than the attempting to raise grain, which frequently yields
a precarious return.  The hills, neither being so high nor so
sterile as in other mountainous tracts in the south of Scotland, af-
ford sound and healthy pasture for sheep of the Cheviot and black-
faced breed,--the management of which is well understood and
successfully practiced by the intelligent and active Lammermoor
farmers.
    A number of fields remain permanently in pasture, generally
in the hands of proprietors.  They are annualy let by public roup
--afford a fair return--and are convenient for breeders, dealers in
stock, and butchers.
    Population.--The population of this county has been more station-
ary than of most other counties in Scotland, which is doubtless to
be ascribed to its almost exclusively agricultural character.  There
is a sufficient supply of labourers, and though the farmers, from
the badness of the times, now employ as few hands as with proprie-
ty they can, there are seldom any unemployed.  For these few
years past, a considerable emigration of persons belonging to the
labouring classes has annually taken place to Canada, which, were
it to proceed at the same rate for any length of time, would have
the effect of sensibly diminishing the population.






