
     of Rerrick.

   Antiquities.-With regard to Druidical temples, and Saxon,
Roman or Danish camps, so much has already been said, in
the course of the Statistical Account, that any farther des-
criptions, conjectures, and bold assertions, must appear trite
to most readers.  Of the former there are 2, and of the latter
12; besides a heap of loose stones, collected apparently with
great fatigue, on the very top of Bencairn, whose summit is
1,200 feet above the level of the sea.-In the bottom of a
long and narrow valley, about a mile and a half from the sea,
stands the old Abbey of Dundranen*; a minute description of

     H 2

<FOOTNOTE>

*It may here, however, be observed, that according to an extract from the
Chronicle of Melross, and other authentic documents, it was founded by FERGUS,
the first Lord of GALLOWAY, in the year 1142.  The first possessors came from
Reivell in Yorkshire, and were of the Cistercian order; so called from ROBERT,
Abbot of Citeaux, or Cisteaux, or Cistertium, in Burgundy; who, about the year
1088, made a second refinement on the principles of the Benedictines, the first
having been made about the year 913.  That the monks of this description were
very numerous, we have this strong evidence, that they had no less than 14 con-
vents in Scotland, four of which were in Galloway.
The first abbot of this monastery was one SYLVANUS, who died in the year
1189.  In the year 1430, we find one HENRY, granting a charter to HENRY
CUTLAR of Orroland; which was confirmed by Pope PAUL III. in 1437.  We
find another of the name of THOMAS, an honour not only to his country, but to
the age in which he lived.  Whether it was he who wrote the Chronicle of
Melross, is not asserted; but it is allowed on all hands that it was written by an
abbot of Dundranen, at least the latter part of it.  The last abbot of the place
was EDWARD MAXWELL, son to JOHN Lord HARRIES, who here afforded an
asylum to MARY Queen of Scots, in her flight from the battle of Langside, in
the year 1568; and after whose death, King JAMES VI. annexed this place to
his Royal Chapel at Stirling.  The revenue of the abbey about this time, as to
the money part of it, was 500 l. Scotch; but, according to the mode of endowing
religious houses in those days, this must have been the smallest part of it.
   There is no vestige of any tomb deserving notice, though it is certain, that
ALLAN, Lord of Galloway, surnamed the GREAT, Constable of Scotland (whose


