
                           BOWDEN.                              47

     Among the obstacles to improvement in agriculture, the prac-
tice common with proprietors, of protracting the reletting of their
lands until within a short time of the outgoing tenants term of re-
moval, deserves special notice.  This practice, as may be easily
conceived, often proves most embarrassing and injurious to the ten-
ant.  Owing to it, he is frequently kept, until within a few weeks
of the close of his lease, in ignorance of a future home for himself
and family, and of a place to which he may remove his stocking;
and he may feel himself compelled, at last, to enter upon a new
engagement, on far more disadvantagenus terms than he would have
submitted to under different circumstances.  The practice is also
very impolitic on the part of the landlord; for the tenant, as a m`t-
ter of course, looks only to the end of his contract, and makes ar-
rangements to secure some return for his industry and outlay; but,
in doing so, he cannot be expected to guard against the deteriora-'
tion of the soil, in the same manner he would have done if he had
a longer interest in the possession secured to him.  The con-
sequence is, the lands are often seriously injured for years to
come, which result might be prevented by the landlord's as certain-
ing the value of the property in due time, and letting it on a new
lease at least twelve months before the expiration of the previous
contract.  Should the old tenant continue, he would not only pre-
vent deterioration, but would immediately commence improvements
on the farm, and, in cases of new tenants, both parties would feel
it to be their interest to come to such mutual understanding as to
prevent future inconvenience, as well as positive loss to all con-
cerned.
     The last obstacle to improvement in agriculture we shall notice,
is the frequent tampering with the laws which regulate the duty
upon imported grain, wool, and other produce.  Tenants complain,
that, in place of being protected as they ought to be, their property
is trifled with, and that, while things continue so, they cannot, with
safety, undertake such improvements upon their farm as might be
beneficial to themselves, to the landlord, and to the community.
     Enclosures, &c.--The greater part of the parish is enclosed.
The fences are either stone walls or white thorn hedges, and are
kept in good order, under the disadvantage of a great part of them
being upheld entirely at the expense of the tenants.  Fences so
maintained are seldom kept in such a good state as when the ex-
pense is borne mutually by landlord and tenant.



