
              200                  ROSS AND CROMARTY.

              Christmas and New Year's Day, O. S.; but this pastime is now al-
              most abandoned to the boys.
                In their personal habits, the people manifest as great a love for
              cleanliness as their circumstances admit; the smallness and smoki-
              ness of their houses, and their general poverty, being strongly op-
              posed to the practice of this virtue.   The Highland dress is still
              a good deal worn, on occasions of public meetings, espeally by the
              young men in the higher district of the parish.  The ordinary cloth-
              ing of the males consists of a short coat or jacket and trowsers of
              kelt, blue, or checquered of different colours  manufactured at home,
              and dyed with the native substances before enumerated; a cotton
              waistcoats shirt, and neckeclotb; the blue felt bonnet, flat or cock-
              ed, and shoes and stockings; the former generally made by each
              individual for himself, of home-tanned leather, the latter spun and
              wrought by the females of the family.  The females, until about
              forty years ago, were universally clothed in worsted stuffs, generally
              dyed blue, with narrow stripes of red, of domestic manufacture,
              and woven by country weavers, and are still generally clad in
              the same material when engaged in field or other labour, but
              always appear at social meetings and at church dressed in cotton
              garments, of which last substance the shift is always composed.
              Caps are seldom worn, except by such women as have had children,
              or are married, and the straw bonnet is not yet assumed by the
              native females of the lower class.  The ordinary food of this
              class consists of potatoes; along with which, they generally have
              herrings, but sometimes nothing but salt, Oat-cake and flesh meat
              are luxuries which they can but seldom afford; and butter and
              cheese, though favourite articles, they can but rarely indulge in.
              Oatmeal, when it can be, procured, is used in the form of cake or
              gruel, being seldom made into porridge.  The universal beverage
              is cold water.  In their eating and drinkiDg, the people are scru-
              pulously 'cleanly; and they will walk a considerable distance to a
              fountain, rather than quench their thirst at a common brook.  Beer
              is unknown.
                 It cannot be said with truth, that the class of people of which
              the great majority of the population consists, enjoy the comforts of
              life in even a moderate degree.  Poorly fed, scantily clothed, and
              miserably lodged, theirs is a life of penury and toil.  Exposed to
              the temptations of idleness without its ease, and to the slavery of
              labour without its, rewards, they drag out a wretched existence, suf-
              fering under the continual fear of impending want and uncheered by


