
                        LOCHWINNOCH.                        107

about 600 children. We have a Tract Society, a Temperance
Society, a Society for the reformation of morals, and various col-
lections for religious and charitable purposes, in the course of
every year.
   The Tract Society is constituted and managed in such a man-
ner, that every family in the village is furnished with a new tract
upon some religious subject every week in the year; the distri-
butors going through their respective quarters for this purpose every
Monday.
   Education.-There are altogether ten schools in this parish,-two
or three of which are very small, and other are not large; but there
are about 400 children attending all these schools.
   The parochial schoolmaster has the legal accommodations of a
house and garden, and the maximum salary of L. 34, 4s.; but hi-
therto the teacher has paid L. 5 of this sum to a teacher at Glen-
head, a village on the south side of the loch, who has, besides this,
a school-house, a dwelling-house, and a small garden.  The teacher
at Hollowood, the other village on that side of the loch, has the
same accommodations, and sometimes a sum raised by voluntary
subscription; but there is no regular salary attached to this school.
There is in the village of Lochwinnoch a school supported by the
proprietors of the New mill.  They have, very much to their honour,
provided an excellent school-room, giving the teacher a salary of
L. 36a-year, and requiring him to teach 60 scholars through the day,
30 under twelve years of age, who leave the mill before the others,
and meet in school at six o'clock, and 60 who meet at eight o'clock
in the evening.  These children pay only 9d. a quarter to defray the
expense of paper, slates, &c. which are provided for them.  But the
teacher is permitted to take in more than 60 scholars if they apply,
exacting of these additional scholars the ordinary rate of wages,
All the other schools are wholly unendowed. In about one-half of
the schools there is nothing taught but reading, and perhaps a little
English grammar, writing, and arithmetic. The other, five or six
teachers are acquainted with Latin, and some of them know Greek,
French, and other branches of education.  I am not aware there
are any children growing up among us without education, and if
this were discovered, provision would be made for their instruction.
There may be one or two but there are not many, adults who can-
not read. The state of education seem to have been very diffe-
rent, only a little more than a century ago.  So far from employ-
ing ten teachers, here the parochial schoolmaster seems to have


