
178                             ORKNEY.

references to the one as well as the other of them in accounts of the
Orkney Islands, and even in the Old Statistical Account. The mi-
nister always resided in St Andrews. He officiated every alternate
Sabbath in the adjoining parish of Deerness, till May 1830, when,
in consequence of the Parliamentary grant of 1823, for building
churches and manses in the Highlands and Islands of Scotland,
the latter was blessed with a resident clergyman of its own, and
the former with a regular dispensation of religious ordinances.
Parochial Register-The only parochial register is the ses-
sion-record, which extends backwards to the year 1657, and con-
tains an account of births, marriages, and sessional transactions.
It was accurately kept till the year 1796 inclusive; but from that
period till 1804, it was sadly neglected. And, notwithstanding the
exertions of those who have since had the charge of it, to render
it more complete for the succeeding period, it still forms a very
imperfect record of the Parochial events of the present century,-
the carelessness or bigotry of Dissenters often preventing them
from applying for the registration of their children's'names.
Land-ownm.-The chief land-owners are, Lord Dundas;
James Baikie, Esq. of Tankerness; and James Stewart, Esq. of
Brough.
    Antiquities.-In different parts of the parish are to be found
ruins, now almost levelled with the ground, which are called cba-
pels. We c'Ould particularize at least four, each in a separate
division of the parish, called an ursland, and situated near, or in
the midst of a considerable extent of good ground. It is thought
that they are the remains of Roman Catholic chapels, one of
which probably formed an appendage to the dwelling of each con-
siderable proprietor, for whom, in former days, it was customary
to reside on his estate. On the point of Ness, there is the vestige
of a small rude fort, consisting of a circular embankment of earth
and stones, which is said to have been used, in days of piracy, for
annoying vessels when entering Deersound. One piece of ord-
nance still lies on the spot. There are in the parish three tumuli,
denominated howies. One of the-se stands on the ministers grebe,
by the side of the lake, and projects into the water. It is about
140 yards incircumference at the base, and 12 feet high. At the
time at which the last Statistical Account was written,iit contained
a wall 9 fe 'et thick, in which,'says the writer, 61 there seem to
have been noapartments, or if there have they are now filled
with rubbish.Some pieces of wall h.ave been found on the out-
                              3


