
172                     ROSS AND CROMARTY.

the shore is sandy and clayey. The chief bays in the parish are
those of Dornie, Inverinate, and Corfhouse.
   Meteorology.-The temperature of the atmosphere, compared
with that of the east coast, is mild and pleasant; and although,
generally speaking, the climate may be termed damp, it is un-
commonly salubrious. Very few distempers of a virulent nature
appear in the country. Rheumatism and complaints arising from
damp and hard labour, greatly prevail. The natives live to a good
old age. The season of the greatest mortality is from December
to March; and although all the parishioners of Glensheil and of
Kintail, with very few exceptions, and a vast number of the pa-
rishioners of Lochalsh, inter their dead in the burying-ground of
this parish, it has been remarked that, at other seasons, for weeks,
indeed for three or four months, there was not an interment in the
district.
   Hydrography.-The,,parish of Kintail abounds with the finest
fresh water springs, chiefly perennial. Some of these afford the
most abundant supplies of water. The united streams of three of
them supply water sufficient for the use of the parish mill, through-
out the year. During the most prolonged draught of summer, this
mill has not been known to want sufficient supplies of water. The
water issuing from these springs, has no particular colour to indi-
cate the presence of any mineral. The natives, in some instances,
resort to one particular well, deeming its waters to possess sanative
qualities: but, in taste or appearance, it differs not from its thousand
Deigbbours.
  The lochs belonging to this parish are few, and of no great ex-
tent. The largest are Loch-a-Bhealich and Loch Glassletter,
abounding with trout of the finest quality, affording delightful sport
to the angler. They have never been sounded; but their depth is
supposed to be considerable.
The rivers which merit special notice are, the Croe, separating
the parishes of Kintail and Glensheil; the Loing; separating Kin-
tail from Loebalsh; and the Elchaig. The Elchaig and LoiDg
empty themselves into Loeblong, and the Croe into Lochduich at
its eastern extremity. They run but a short course, and from the
great number of mountain streams whi ch fall into them, are quick-
ly flooded. These rivers at one time were much frequented by
salmon, and the fishiDg was held as common property by the people.
This was more-especially the case with the river Croe. The sal-
mon is now by no means so abundant. The Lochduich and Croe


