
32                         LANARKSHIRE.

lime-works, the dip is as one in six; while at Auchenheath, where,
as well as in two other places in this parish, a fine kind of cannel
coal is wrought, supplying Glasgow and other places with gas, the
inclination is only one to twelve, or thirteen. Coal of the same
quality has (we believe) been nowhere found in Scotland; and even
here, and in a small corner of the parish of Carluke, to which it
extends, the thickness of the strata varies from ten to twenty-one
inches; it is sold for about 8s. per ton upon the coal-hill, and
affords employment to about forty pickmen in this parish. Pit-
coal is also plentiful in Lesmahago.
	The rocks that appear are either whin, or trap sandstone, or
limestone; in some places the sandstone inclines to slate, but no
true roofing-slate has been discovered in this parish. Limestone
has been wrought, and still is wrought in seven or eight different
places in the parish. Though sold at a pretty fair price, affording
the landlord about one-sixth of the sale price, it has given a stimu-
lus to improvement, particularly of waste lands. In these lime-
stone workings, petrified shells are very commonly found; and
sometimes the fossil remains of terrestrial animals. Ironstone may
be seen in many of the banks, both in balls and in regular strata,
but not in such quantities, nor lying so regularly, as to warrant the
erection of a furnace. Lead has frequently been sought in the
high grounds, on the south-west of the parish, but hitherto with-
out success; nor have simple minerals been found in the rocks,
or beds of rivers, to any extent,
	From the rapid current of the streams, little alluvial soil is found
in the parish; it may therefore be said to consist chiefly of a yel-
low clay, to a small extent resting on a substratum of white sand-
stone; of a light friable soil, resting on whinstone; of a sandy
gravelly soil, from decomposed sandstone, and of moss. The se-
cond of these is unquestionably the best; but both that and the
first, when properly managed, produce better and more certain
crops than the other two.

				II.--CIVIL HISTORY.


	A short account of this parish was written by the Rev. Mr
Whyte of Libberton, and published in the Edinburgh Magazine
about sixty years ago.
	Historical Notices.--There we no historical events of import-
ance connected, with Lesmahago, except the burning by the bro-

					4


