
                           RAPPORD.                          243

the disadvantages of climate, in consequence of a high elevation,
are more than compensated by the fertility of the soil. What may,
be still more difficult of explanation is, that, in such cases, the
more fertile lands lie generally to the north, shaded from those
genial influences to which we are accustomed to ascribe fertility
and abundance.
  Zoology.-We are not aware that any very rare animals ha haunt or
frequent the parish.  The red-deer or stag is occasionally to be
seen.  The roe-deer is frequently to be met with, and parties of
sportsmen are sometimes formed for a battle.
  We must be content to give only a few of the most remarkable
birds.  Of a predatory nature, we have the kite, the buzzard, the
moor-harrier, the hen-herrier, the merlin, the kestril, the sparrow-
hawk, the raven, the carrion-crow, the hooded-crow, the rook,
the jack-daw, and the magpie.  Of owls, we have the long-eared
owl,the short-eared owl,and the white owl.  Of the legitimate objects
of interest to sportsmen, we have the pheasant, no longer so rare as
to be considered sacred; blackcock, an occasional visitant, when
driven by deep snow from his alpine retreats; red grouse or moorfowl,
the partridge, the golden plover, the lapwing, and the corncrake.
Of water-fowl, we have the wild-goose, now merely halting on
their way to well known remote lochs, or passing over our heads,
in regular array; the heron, which may be seen wading pursuit
of prey in solitary marshes, or flapping his way towards his social
home in the Findhom; the wild-duck, the woodcock, the water.
rail, the water-hen, &c.
  There is no variety of fishes beyond what is common to all
small lakes or lochs, although the trout of each has its peculiar
cbaracter, of shape and colour.  They may all be said to be re-
markably delicate.
  Adders are sometimes to be met with in the woods; they may,
however, be said to be scarce.  The largest specimens occurring 
are about two feet in length.  They are considered venomous.
  Botany.-Mr Gordon's Collectanea for the Flora of Moray,
published in 1839, which is the most obvious source of informa-
tion respecting the localities of Morayshire plants, mentions very
few stations within the parish of Rafford.  In the absence of other
materials, the names of a few have been selected from that work;
they are known to be indigenous, or fou in the parish, though 
scarcely entitled to be called rare.


