
                        DRUMBLADE.                        297

44 bolls, 3 pecks and 4/5 lippy meal.  The grebe consists of 5 1/2
acres.  The manse was built in 1803.  The number of families
belonging to the Established Church is 400; of Dissenting or Se-
ceding families, 40.
   Education.-There is at present only one parochial school in
the parish, and two private schools; but the parish would require ad-
ditional schools, which it is hoped will soon take place.  The pa-
rochial schoolmaster's salary is the minimum, but he receives a
share of the donation bequeathed by the late Mr Dick to the
schoolmasters in the counties of Aberdeen, Banff, and Moray.
His fees may amount to betwixt L.24 and L.32 per annum.
   Poor.-The average number of the poor of all classes in the
three years preceding 1838, 77; average on the permanent roll,
24 2/3; average of those not on the permanent roll, L.46, 19s;
average amount distributed among poor on the permanent roll,
L.14, 16s; average amount distributed for support of lunatics,
L.14. Average amount from church collections, L.55; from other
voluntary contributions, L.11, 11s; from mortifications, mortcloth
dues, &c. L.24, 10s.

January 1840.

                         PARISH OF DRUMBLADE.

              PRESBYTERY OF TURRIFF, SYNOD OF ABERDEEN.

                THE REV. GEORGE R. DAVIDSON, MINISTER.

                I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-THE ancient name of this parish seems to have been
Drumblait, which signifies in Gaelic, hills or braes covered or
fledged.  The modern name is written Drumblade.
   Boundaries, &c.-It is bounded, on the north and east, by the
parish of Forgue; on the south, by Insch and Gartly, in a glen
called Foudlin, in which, though of small extent, no fewer than five
parishes meet; on the west, it is bounded by the river Bogie,
which in that point separates it both front Huntly and Gartly.
   Extent, &c.-The parish is considerably diversified, by small hills,
mostly, cultivated, and gently sloping valleys, with one flat on the


