
                       INCHINNAN.                                     123

   Antiquities.-The Palace of Inchinnan, referred to in the histo-
rical notices, stood near to the site of the farm-steading of Garna-
land, on the north side of the parish, and looking towards the Clyde.
It was built by Matthew, Earl of Lennox, in the year 1506.
When Crawford wrote his history of the shire of Renfrew, there
were "some considerable remains of it."  Persons still in life re-
collect having seen a portion of the ruins, which, however, having
been found to contain some good materials for building, were, in
the absence of the laird, condemned to contribute their share of a
gable to the farm-house adjacent.  Had the structure been of any
great consequence, it would not, it is likely, have fallen so early in-
to decay; a conclusion strengthened by the fact, that the castle of
Crookston, the principal residence of the Darneley Stewarts, now
in ruins, is only five miles distant from Inchinnan, and by another
fact referred to in the historical notices, viz. that the lands of Park,
immediately adjoining the palace, were alienated a few years after
the date of the erection of the palace. It may be added, that there,
is no evidence of charters having been dated at the palace of In-
chinnan.  From a wall in an old mill near to the site of the palace,
and recently pulled down, was taken a stone, which is referred to
by Semple in the continuation of Crawford's history of the county;
it is now deposited within the tower of the church, and is inscribed
as follows: *


   The former church of Inchinnan, which was pulled down in the.
year 1828, was a very ancient structure, upwards of 50 feet in
length by only 18 feet in breadth, with an antique scarcement to
throw off the rain from the foundation.  Its walls were of great thick-
ness.  The side wall to the south presented several frightful fissures,
which were observed suddenly to increase, and having, moreover,

<FOOTNOTE>door of the room was secured, and that there was a board set over the window, which
was not there the night before when they left him.
   The seven witch alluded to in the above extract were three men and four wo-
men, executed at Paisley for the bewitching of Christian Shaw, daughter of Bargar-
ran, on Thursday the 10th June 1697,  They were first hanged for a few minutes,
and then cut down, and put into a fire prepared for them, into which a barrel of tar
was put in order to consume them more quickly.-Vide a History of the Witches of
Renfrewshire, who were burnt on the Gallow green of Paisley.  Paisley, 12mo. 1809.
   The antiquarianism of the place and neighbourhood has not yet interpreted the
above inscription; and the writer deems it prudent to hazard no conjecture on the
subject, calling to remembrance the embarrassing position of a distinguished anti-
quary, who, after having made as he thought the profound discovery, that A. D. L. L.
meant Agricola dicavit Libens Lubens, was required to abandon it for the true in-
terpretation, which turned out to be Aiken Drum's Lang Ladle.-Antiquary, new
edit. Vol. i. p. 50.


