

                         KILMARONOCK.			      217


within any ordinary distance for repairing them. Yet, in spite a
all these difficulties and hindrances, a spirit of industry and enter-
prise now observable among a great proportion of the agricultu-
rists, is leading them on to many useful improvements.
                    V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
    There is no village in the parish : there are not even four dwel-
ling-houses in it closely contiguous.
    Means of Communication.--Neitber is there a post-office; but
the penny-post from Dumbarton to Drymen passes daily through
the parish. The Dumbarton and Drymen turnpike-road passes
through it from south-west to north-east for six miles ; and the
Drymen and Glasgow road passes throlugh the east end of it for
about one mile. A public coach travels from Drymen to Glasgow,
and returns in the evenings on Wednesdays and Saturdays in
winter, and on Mondays additional in summer, and there are two
carriers, one from Buchanan, and another from Drymen who pass
through this parish once a-week on their way to Glasgow on Tues-
days, and return on the Wednesday.
   The only bridge worth mentioning is that across Endrick, the
boundary of the parish, on the road to Drymen, which is an old
one containing four arches. The fences are generally thorn hedges
or stone dikes. The hedges in inferior soils are generally bad
and insufficient for fences, and require to be frequently repaired
with other materials; but in the better soils there are some good
thorn fences. The stone dikes are, in some places, new and good,
but in others old and in a falling state, and insufficient for fence.
I think that I may state generally, that their condition is somewhat
worse than in most neighbouring parishes. There are no canals,
railroads, or harbours.
   Ecclesiastical State.--The parish church is situated almost at
the northern extremity of the parish, and is not convenient for
the greater part of the population, as its distance from the eastern
extremity is two miles, from the western by the roads six miles
and from the southern, five miles. The church was built in the
year 1813, and is at present in a very good state of repair. There
is no benefaction on record except one from Mr Maurice Car-
michael of Bromley, to the poor of the parish, amounting to L. 50
Sterling, and made by him in the year 1790. The church affords
accommodation for 400 sitters. The sittings were divided among
the heritors, as is usual in all parish churches, in the country, and
they are; occupied by their respective tenantry and others, free of



