
     of Strongsay and Eday.

   There are in this districts one farm of 80 L. rent, four of a-
bout 60 L., eight of about 30 L. yearly rent:  The rest are each
laboured by one plough, rent from 5 L. to 8 L.  In some instan-
ces, two or more tenants join to make one plough to labour
their small farms; and there are many small pendicles, par-
ticularly in the island of Eday, the possessors of which, in-
stead of using a plough, delve the whole of their small farms
with the spade; and even the harrow is frequently dragged
by these tenants or by their wives or their children.
   The preceding narrative will show the infant state of im-
provements in agriculture within this district, and that few
and feeble attempts have hitherto been made to improve the
soil*.

     3 F 2

<FOOTNOTE>

did not exceed one third of the expence incurred by this removal of the farm
houses.  The grass rent is about 40 L. yearly.  Thus hath this tenant, in a
very spirited manner, during the currency of a short lease, expended a consi-
derable sum for his own interest accommodation, and for the permanent bene-
fit of the farm.

*An enquiry into the causes which contributed to frustrate some of those
which were made, particularly by Mr Balfour, (from patriotic, it is believed,
more than selfish motives,) might be interesting and useful, if the inquiry
was made by one duly qualified for the task: but as there is little probability,
at present, that this will engage the attention of such an one, unskilled and
unexperienced as the writer may be held, he will presume on the liberty to
mention briefly such as appear to him to have operated in this way: 1st, The
subjects selected for improvement were of a poor quality; such it is appre-
hended, require skilful management, great experience, and no little ex-
pence to render successful any attempts to improve them to advantage.  Mr
Balfour was, indeed, an experienced merchant, an intelligent, patriotic, and
most hospitable gentleman; but, although, he had occasionally passed through
many counties in Britain, and had been in other parts of Europe, yet it
will be admitted, that he could not rank as a practical farmer.  Besides, he
lived in the town of Kirkwall, at about 15 miles distance by sea from the pla-
ce in Stronsay where his improvements were carried on 2dly.  The labour-


