
		               GLENELG.                                143

there are several situations within our wide bounds which would
still plead for such valuable aid as we now derive from the patriotic
and Christian society to which allusion has been made.
   The prevalence of Catholicism in the southern districts of the
parish declares the necessity of some measure for the supply of
the means of instruction ; the want of which has, doubtless,'prin-
cipally maintained the ascendancy of that form of religion there
and elsewhere. Though the gospel be preached within the reach
of Catholics they will not hear; it is a virtue, in their esteem, so
to act; and if at any time they be enticed to give their bodily pre-
sence, they come so panoplied in ignorance and prejudice, that of
them it may be literally said, " they are like the deaf adder that stop-
peth her ear, and will not hearken to the voice of charmers charm-
ing never so wisely." If, however, this ignorance and prejudice
were removed, might we not expect another character? If the way
were thus prepared through the means of instruction, might we
not expect that the gospel would have free course and be glorified
among them, hopeless though their case at present seems?
   The number of the young betwixt six and fifteen years of age
who can neither read nor write may be reckoned, for the whole
parish, at 100; the number of persons upwards of fifteen years,
in similar circumstances, at 900.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The number of poor on the roll
is about 40,-being thus small, from the circumstance that the Ca-
tholics never have applied for any portion of the funds. The bene-
fit to the other poor from this cause is more than counterbalanced
by the fact, that no proclamation of banns in the case of Catholic
marriages ever takes place at the parish church, and consequent-
ly no payment of the ordinary dues to us.
   The only funds possessed by the parish are the collections at
the church doors, the fees for the proclamation of banns, exclusive
of what fall to the share of the session-clerk and beadle; and the
mulcts or fines that are imposed by the kirk-session for various de-
linquencies which come within their jurisdiction. The whole never
amounts to more than L. 20 Sterling per annum, subject to pay-
ment of a small salary to the precentor, stationery for the clerk,
and part of the expense incurred on the interment of paupers.
The average.sum allotted to each person receiving aid is conse-
quently small, not exceeding 8s. annually ; which is thankfully re-
ceived, and never asked nor allotted, save in cases absolutely
requiring it. Of the district of Glenelg Proper, it has long. been
a distinction that few travel from it as beggars into other quar-


