
     of Dunnottar.

   Surface, Soil, and Minerals.-The surface of this parish,
in general, is uneven, with small risings, but no considerable
hill.  The soil is various:  Toward the sea coast, loamy and
clayey; in the middle, wet and mossy; towards the West,
gravelly and moorish.  The strata appear, both from the sea
coast and inland quarries, to sheep toward the S. W.; which
observation is applicable to all the country round.  The soil
is full of round small stones, of various kinds, having the
appearance of being water-worn.  These stones are very use-
ful for improvement, in filling drains in wet land, almost
every field having sufficiency in itself; and the harbour is
surrounded with excellent free-stone quarries, of a most dur-
able quality, which prove extremely valuable for building.

   Climate, Diseases, Rivulets, etc.-The air and climate here
are much the same as along the whole east coast; variable,

<FOOTNOTE>

line of march, which all invaders from England followed, at the different period
when they over-ran Scotland.  To this they were particularly directed, by the
fordable passages of the river Tay, above the flow of the tide at Perth, and con-
fined by the Grampian chain on the west.  The progress of the Romans, parti-
cularly, in this direction, is evident, from a regular series of encampments all
the way along the foot of the hills.  And it appears probable, that in this neigh-
bourhood, where the hills join with the sea, the famous battle was fought, nar-
rated by TACITUS, of the Scotch, under GALGACUS, with the Romans, stopt at
the end of their progress, by the mountains and morasses; which are described
as being at the foot of the Grampians, in fight of the Roman fleet.  But at no
other place in Scotland (to the Grampian hills approach the sea.  And in the
neighbouring parish of Fetteresso, about three miles to the northward of this
place, there are the remains of a very large irregular camp in the hills, strongly
entrenched on the quarter next the sea.  This would seem to have belonged to
the Scotch army; whereas, at the distance of about two miles farther down, close
to a flat sea beach, there were evident vestiges of a Roman catap, a few years
ago, though they are now defaced by the improvement of the ground.  And
upon a moor nigh to the supposed Scotch camp, there are a number of tunnel
indicating it to have been the field of battle.


