
     Statistical Account

which are still extant.  It is probable, that he was early di-
verted from his purpose, by the confusion of the times, and
that nothing was afterwards done, till the re-establishment
of the Earl his son, some time between the 1663 and 1670.
During the short period of his profession, it appears, that he
had particularly bent his thoughts towards beautifying the
family seat, and almost the whole of the old trees about In-
veraray, are of his planting, and still remain a singular in
stance of his good taste and discernment, respecting that
which was best adapted to the nature of the soil and climate.
Some of the most admired avenues, rows of trees, and
plantations, are of his designing, and plainly show, had he li-
ved longer, that much of would have been done, upon a very
large scale, even at that early period.  Since the beginning 
of the present century, the several succesors to the estate
and honours of Argyle, have been particularly attentive to
extend their plantations, and to embellish the place. A-
bout the year 1745, the present castle was begun, by Archi-
bald Duke of Argyle, and, after a short interruption du-
ring the rebellion, it was resumed and finished.  Since that
time, a great sum was annually expended by him, by his
successor the late Duke, and by the present, in making ex-
tensive inclosures, in building, planting, improving, ma
king roads, (which in this parish are highly finished, and
kept in excellent repair,) and in other words of utility and
decoration.  It is said, that the sums laid out at Inveraray,
since the 1745, do now amount to the enormous sum of
L. 250,000, and that the present Duke, since his accession
to the estate, has expended at the rate of at least L. 3000
per annum.  Happily for his family and his country, New-
market had not engrossed his attention; and hence a con-
siderable part of his great revenue was fortunately employ-
ed for more useful purposes, in promoting the general im-
provement of his estates, in giving employment to the poor,


