
                           GOLSPIE.                           37

and 1s. 3d. in the short; a female 6d. a-day generally; in har-
vest, 1s.  House-carpenters 2s., and masons 2s. 6d. a-day.  The
prices of articles of manufacture, and the rate of work, are; for
an iron plough, L. 4; for, a wooden one from L. 2, 10s. to L. 3.
A cart, with hay frame, L. 14; a set of cart and plough harness,
L. 7, 10s.; pair of harrows, L. 2, 10s.; rood of stone and lime-
work, L. 2, 12s.; drystone-dike, 4 feet high, with coping, 6d. per
yard; if 6 feet high, 9d.; blacksmiths work 4d. to 7d. per lb.
   Live-Stock.-The price of a Dunrobin ox, from two to three
years old, is generally L. 9; but, during the war, the price was L. 14
and sometimes higher.  Other Highland cattle are considerably
lower in price.  A work-horse from L. 25 to L. 40.  The price of beef
and mutton is 4d. per lb.; butter, 10d. per lb.; a common house fowl,
8d.; eggs, 3d. per dozen; oatmeal generally L. 1, but this year 17s.
per boll of eight stone; potatoes from Ss. to 12s. per boll of twelve
bushels imperial; salmon Is. to Is. 6d. per lb.; grilse 6d. per lb.;
a cod 6d.; haddocks from 10d. to Is."per dozen.
   The Dunrobin breed of cattle, originally from Argyleshire, are
deservedly accounted excellent, and there is great attention paid
to the rearing of them.  For dairy use, there are some Ayrshire
cows.  On some farms, the breed of Highland black-cattle is
chiefly reared; and on the farm of Kirkton, an excellent breed of
black polled Galloway cattle.  At the Highland Society's cattle
show, held at Inverness in 1831, where stock of all'kinds were
shown, from all the northern counties, including the counties of
Aberdeen and Perth,-a larger amount of prizes was awarded to
this parish than to any other.  To the Marquis of Stafford was
awarded the prize for the best two oxen of the Highland breed;
another for the best lot of stirks of the same breed; andthe So-
ciety's medal for two Hi Wand oxen shown as extra stock.  Mr
Craig of Kirkton obtained a prize for the best co, another for the
best heifer, and another for the best ox, all of the Galloway breed,
-together with the commendation of the judges for a bay colt and
a chesnut filly, shown as extra stock.  This gentleman afterwards
sold his prize ox for L. 30, to the advantage of the buyer.  The
Galloway breed of cattle are here found to be very hardy, and to
arrive at a greater. weight, upon the same feeding, than the High-
land breed do.  The milk, both of the Galloway and Highland
cows, is not great in quantity, but is in quality very rich.  On the
large farms, Some good work and saddle horses are bred; and by
In 1834,14s. per boll.


