
     Statistical Account

preceding 1790, was 54; of burials, 25; and of marriages,
13.  The natural small pox was very mortal in winter 1786 and
1787.  Five children in one family were cut off by this dread-
ful malady in the course of one week: this havoc alarmed the
neighbourhood, and introduced inoculation with success.
   There are 14 heritors, of whom 6 for the most part reside.
The number of ploughgatcs of old extent is 60; 16 of which,
both hill and dale, are now let in sheep-walks 108 tacksinen:
these were formerly occupied by 50 tenants, besides a number
of cottagers; the remaining 16 ploughgates are divided among
a number of small tenants, 3 and sometimes 4 to each plough.
Upon each farm, besides the tenants, there are one or two
cottagers, consisting of weavers, taylors, dyke-builders, and old-
women*.  There is 1 writer in the parish; and 3 students of
philosophy from it attend the college of Glasgow.

   Villages.-There are two villages in their infancy, one near
the head of Lochlubnaig, and the other at the head of Loch-
earn, both upon the military road leading from Stirling to
Fort William.  The last is extending rapidly; the houses of it are
all built with stone and lime, by the sides of the road.  Each
house-holder has a few acres of land, partly arable and partly
in a state of nature, capable of being made arable: these the

<FOOTNOTE>

*Most of the tenants keep a maid-servant for the purpose of spinning
woolen and linen yarn, for cloathing the family, and for sale; and for out-
work in the season of peats easting, and of hay and corn-harvest whose year-
ly wages are about L. 3 sterling.  There are few men-servants employed, ex-
cepting herds, who, bedies their maintanance, are allowed for thier wages or
fee to keep from 40 to 60 breeding ewes with their master's slock; the pro-
fits of which are from L. 8 to L. 15. sterling commonly.  The wages of men
labourers per day, are from 10 d. to 15 d. without meat, and from 6 d. to 9 d.
per day with meat; carpenters get 10 d. measons 1 s. 2 d. taylors 6 d. with their
maintenance.


