
                   ON THE COUNTY OF SUTHERLAND.               221

the battle of Otterburn, 5th August 1388 and died in 1389.  He was
succeeded by his son, Robert, the sixth Earl, who died in 1442; and
Earl Robert was succeeded by his son, John, the seventh Earl, who
dying 1460, was succeeded by his son, John the eighth Earl,
who died in 1508, leaving one son and one daughter. The son,
John, the ninth Earl, died -without issue in 1514,. and was; succeed-
ed by his sister-german Elizabeth, who thus, in her own right, was
Countess of Sutherland, and, consequently was the tenth person
who held the title.  She married Lord Aboyne, and, dying in
1535, was succeeded by her son, John, the  eleventh  Earl, who was
poisoned at Helmsdale in 1567, and was succeeded by his son
Alexander, the twelfth Earl, who died in 1594.  He was succeed-
ed by his son, John, the thirteenth Earl, who died in 1615. John
was succeeded by his son, also named John, the fourteenth Earl,
who died in 1679, and was succeeded by his son, George, the fif-
teenth Earl, who died in 1703.  Earl George was succeeded by
his son, John, the sixteenth Earl.  He, Earl John, rendered emi-
nent services to his countryman the senate as a Peer, and in the
field as a General in the Army, and obtained the Royal authority
for adding to his paternal coat of arms, the double Tressure cir-
confeurdelire, to denote his descent from the Royal family of Scot-
land.  He died in 1733, and, was succeeded,by his grandson,
William, the seventeenth Earl, who died iw 1750, and was suc-
ceeded by his son, William, the eighteenth Earl.' This last Earl
died in 1766, leaving only one infant daughter, the late Duchess-
Countess of Sutherland. Her right of succession tothe long-de-
scended-- honours and earldom of her direct ancestors, was disput-
ed, on the ground that the title did not, descend to heirs-female;
but after a long, full, and arduous contest, during the young
Countess's minority, the House of Lords,'on the 2ist day March
1771, solemnly "Resolved and adjudged, by the Lords, Spiritual
and Temporal in Parliament assembled, That the, claimant, Eliza-
both Sutherland, has a right to the title, honour, and dignity of
the Earldom of Sutherland, as heir of the body of Willlam, who
was Earl of Sutherland in 1275." The Countess of Sutherland
married in 1785, George Granville, Viscourd Trentham, eldest
son of Granville, first Marquis of Stafford, by his second wife,
Lady Louisa Egerton, daughter of Scoop, first Duke of Bridge-
water.  His Lordship was successively, Earl Gower, and Marquis
of Stafford, and was created Duke of Sutherland in 1833. The
Duchess of Sutherland being also Countess of Sutherland in her


