
254                     DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

been so uncharitable as to say that the valuator took his report
from a proprietor, without examining into the state of the parish.
	There are no dissenting or Episcopal chapels; but there are in
the parish 19 families of dissenters, and 2 of Episcopalians.
The number of communicants in the Established church has
increased So within these three years, yet in all, the average num-
ber does not exceed 350. About 247 families attend church.
	Education.--The number of schools in the parish is three, one
parochial, one endowed, and one unendowed. The branches taught
in the parochial school, besides the ordinary ones, are navigation,
geogr`phy, Latin, and Greek. And at the other two schools, read-
ing, writing, and arithmetic. The parochial schoolmaster has L.30
of salary, with the usual allowance of house and garden and school-
house, and about L.30 of fees. The charge, per quarter, for Eng-
lish reading, is 2s.; reading and writing, 2s. 6d.; arithmetic, 3s. 6d.;
and Latin and Greek, 5s. All in the parish above eight years of
age can read, and the number of those who cannot write does not
exceed twenty five. Education, within these thirty years, has pro-
duced a very favourable change in the manners and habits of the
people. It has enlarged, their hdeas, polished their address, and
freed them from much prejudice and superstition. No ghosts, fai-
ries, or brownies are to be heard of now. It is, however, much to
be regretted that true Christian piety, from whatever causes, has
rather retrograded than kept pace with the intellectual improve-
ments of the community.
	There are three Sabbath-schools in the parish, one of which the
minister superintends. The other two are in more remote parts of
the parish. The number of children attending these amounts to
about 220.
	Poor and Parochial Funds.--The average number of persons
receiving parochial aid is 26, and the average sum allotted to each
annually is about L.3. Some individuals, who are incapable of
doing any thing for themselves, receive as high as L.8 per annum,
payable quarterly. A part of the allowance is judiciously appro-
priated by the beritors and kirk-session to the payment of house
rent. The church collections amount to about L. 28 per annum,
Which is distributed quarterly by the heritors and kirk-sersion; and
when any farther sum is required the heritors, voluntarily assess
themselves to the amount, according to their rentals,-- and it de-
serves to be mentioned to their honor, that they have never been
backward to grant additional relief to, the poor of the parish when
                                  4


