
     Statistical Account

tion with respect to its formation.  In papers dated 300
years ago, the oldest we have seen on the subject, it is
termed the island of the loch of Clunie.  The people here
affirm, that it was once joined on the S. E. side to the con-
tinent; but this is not at all probable, as the land there lies
at a very considerable distance, with deep water intervening.
Its surface is a circular plain, of about half an acre, raised a
few feet above the ordinary level of the loch, and sur-
rounded with a strong barrier of stones, thrown carelessly
together, and sloping into deep water all around, like the
frustum of a cone.  On the N. E. quarter, the wave, which
from that point has a pretty long course, has made visi-
ble encroachments on the island, and laid bare the roots of
some of the old trees, which, by consequence, have of late
years suffered very material decay.  But Lord Airly is
now taking steps to prevent such devastations in future;
and pity it were indeed, that such a curiosity should perish
merely through neglect.  That this island has been form-
ed principally by human art seems demonstrable from
this, that the ground of which it is composed is evidently
factitious; and in lately digging to the depth of 7 feet, near
the centre of the island, nothing like a natural stratum of

<FOOTNOTE>

bones.  And here, some have thought it probable, that Aulus Atticus,
and some of the 33 Romans who fell with him in the battle, were burnt
together in one funeral pile, at the great cairn, which is about 80 or 90
yards m circumference, and in the centre of which we had occasion to
see cinders turned up last summer, 1792.
Such, on the whole, are the conjectures we have been led to form on
this subject, from our having examined the different scenes with some de-
gree of attention.  We offer them to the public, however, only as con-
jectures.  And it is by no means our intention to enter into any contro-
versy on a subject, which, in all likelihood, will ever remain involved in
obscurity; and which must be considered as at best rather a matter of
curiosity to the antiquary, than of real utility to mankind.


