
252                            ARGYLESHIRE.

verted statute labour.  The roads in Lismore are not so good,
and there are scarcely any roads at all in Kingerloch, if we except
two or three miles, which the proprietor made near the mansion
house.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The Duke of Argyle is patron, and the
parish church of Lismore is situated about three miles from the
east end of the island, and seven miles from the west end.  Ac-
cording to the old Statistical Account, it was the chancel of the
old Popish cathedral, and received its present roof in 1749.  The
fabric is supposed to have been placed so near the Appin end of
the island, for the purpose of accommodating the Appin people,
when there was no church in that part of the parish.  The church
of Appin, which is situated in the district of Strath, was built in
1749.  It is conveniently situated, being not farther than three
miles from the extremities of the district attached to it all round.
The church of Lismore accommodates 550, and the church of
Appin 400 sitters.  The seats are all free, as is generally the case
in all country parish churches.  The area is apportioned among
the heritors, according to their valued rents, and the tenants of
each have a right to free seats in the portion of the church be-
longing to their landlords.  Paupers have an equal right, and
strangers are never refused admittance into any seat in which there
is room.
   The manse was repaired about thirty years ago, and is at pre-
sent receiving further repairs, and a large addition.  Both churches
were repaired during the incumbeney of the late minister.
   The extent of the glebe is ten acres, between arable and pas-
ture and is valued at L.20 Sterling.  The amount of the stipend
is 13 1/2 chalder of victuals, half meal half barley, paid in money
according to the fiar prices of the county besides this, there is
also a little money.
   There are no chapels of ease attached to the parish; but there
is a Government church at Duror, a district of Appin, situated
about nine miles from the church of Appin ; and to it are attach-
ed the districts of Duror and Glencoe, quoad sacra.  There are
two missionaries on the Royal Bounty establishment in the parish.
One of them is in Kingerloch; but his services are equally di-
vided, between Kingerloch and Achaghavil, a district of the pa-
rirh of Morven.  He officiates alternately at each station; but
there is no church at either.  The people of Kingerloch assemble
in the inn, and those of Achaghavil in one of the neighbour's
                               4


