
292                  EDINBURGHSHIRE.

at work; each loom produces from 18 to 25 yards of netting per
day.  A spinning machine is attached to the work; both together
employ 52 hands; and during the last year, 30 tons of hemp have
been manufactured.
  It is a curious coincidence, that, in 1834, Mr N. G. Robinson,
an English gentleman, who has been for some time resident in this
parish, without any communication with Mt Paterson, also com-
pleted a similar invention, differing, however, in this, that his ma-
chinery forms a knot of quite another description.  He has already
six looms in operation, and meditates a considerable extension Of
his manufactory.  He has also erected a machine for spinning,
and at this and the present number of looms, 23 hands are em-
ployed, and 14 tons of hemp annually manufactured.
   Brewery and Distillery.--There is at present only one brewery
in operation, belonging to Mr William Whitelaw, another hav-
ing recently been stopped.  The average quantity of malt,
which is manufactured by himself, annually consumed, is 1744
quarters.  The ale is sent to all the principal towns in Scotland,
and to London, Hull, and Newcastle, as well as to the East and
West Indies.  The distiller is the property of W. Aitchison,
sq. of Drummore, who declines permitting any information to be
furnished regarding it.
   Tanneries.--There are three extensive tanning and currying
works carried on, at which the quantity of leather manufactured
has been steadily on the increase. The raw hides are procured
from the Edinburgh market, from Russia, and Hamburgh : the
markets for the manufactured articles are chiefly Edinburgh, Glas-
gow, and London.  One of the houses sends goods to almost every
town in Scotland.  The quantity of bark annually consumed
amounts to about 1000 tons, and is procured from England, Bel-
gium, Germany, Holland and one particular sort from Smyrna.
The number of hands employed in this trade is from 70 to 80, of
tbese 25 are curriers, who can earn from 14s. to L. 1, 4s. per week:
the wages of tanners may be from 1Os. to 15s.
   Bone-manure.--The manufacture of bone-manure has of late
years added considerably to the amount of our imports and the
trade of tbe place.  One house last year imported above 1200tons
from Russia, Prussia, and the Mediterranean.  The value of the
raw material, as imported, runs from L. 5 to L. 6 per ton; when
ground it is sold at from L. 1, Is. to L. 1,3s. per imperial quarter
Rape-cake linseed-cake are also extensively imported: the


