
               120              ROSS AND CROMARTY.

               sands of Tong, by the motion of my horse's feet, beautiful golden
               stars, of the size of half a-crown, are made to float on the surface,
               for a, few seconds; these disappear, and are succeeded by others,
               often to the terror of the animal.  It is probable these appearances
               arise from the decaying particles of fish which float on the surface;
               and when the water is troubled, the air escaping forms a globule,
               Which emits a phosphorescent light before it bursts.  The brine
               must be strong, for the water left in shallow basins on the rocks is
               converted into salt, when the summer heat is strong.  The cur-
               rent in the Broad-bay flows south and ebbs north,- though in the
               Minch the flood is to the north, and the ebb to the south.
                 Springs.-There are perennial Springs in the parish, the water
               of which is most excellent; but many of the natives, rather than
               be at the trouble of digging for wells, drink mossy and surface wa-
               ter.  Martin relates, that the well St Cowstans in Garrabost never
               boils any kind of meat, however long subjected to the fire; and
               this holds true, I presume, of every water, when the fuel is wet and
               the fire of insufficient strength.
                 Lakes.-Lakes or lochs are numerous, and cover many acres;
               but the largest does not exceed three miles in circumference ; the
               greatest depth, two fathoms.  The scenery is bleak and dreary.  Wa-
               ter occupies 204 acres.
                 There are six streams of considerable size in the parish, viz.
               the Creid, Laxdale, Tong, Upper and Nether Coll rivers, and the
               Gress.  The course of the longest, from its source to the sea, is
               about ten miles.  The Creid and Gress are the largest and most
               rapid.  The velocity of these is seven miles an hour; breadth 30
               feet; depth 4 feet at low water.  The tide enters all these.  The
               Creid joins the sea in Loch Stornoway.  Laxdale, Coll, Tong, and
               Gress, discharge their waters into the Broad bay.
                 Geology and Mineralogy.-The island of Lewis was not inap-
               propriately compared to a gold laced hat in the former Statistical
               Account; for the cultivated parts of the coast bear the same pro-
               portion, as yet, to the bleak moss in the interior, as the gold lace
               on the rim of the hat, to' the whole superficies of the chapeau.
               There is abundance of sand on the sea-shore; some clay, and a
               little lime at Garrabost.  There is also a great appearance of bog-
               iron, if we may judge from numerous cbalybeate springs.
                 There is a large whinstone dike with parallel walls, on the farm
               of Gress.  It is supposed to run across the island, as a similar
               dike is seen at the Butt of Lewis on the north, and at Garrabost
               in a southerly direction.


