
               ST LEONARDS.                              499

to St Leonard. Like most of the religious institutions of the
times, it had a church or chapel attached to it, which is fre-
quently alluded to in the records of the University prior to the
erection of St Leonard's College, as one of the places where
that body held its meetings, at a period when the apartments
appropriated for its accommodation were very circumscribed.
In process of time, the desire for pilgrimages cooled, and the
veneration for ancient relics decayed. The hospital of St Leo-
nard's became, in consequence, less and less frequented, and this
esertion increased at last to such an extent, that it was obvious
that its revenues ought to be appropriated to some more beneficial.
purpose. An experiment was accordingly made, to convert it
into an hospital or nunnery for the reception of females consider-
ably advanced in years, who might there devote themselves to the
performance of religious duties; but it failed to realize the expec-
tations which had been formed of its utility, its inmates having
exhibited but few indications of a regard either for morality or
piety. The prior and convent of the Augustine monastery, with-
in whose precincts the hospital was situated, and from whose re-
venues it had derived its endowments, came at last in 1512 to the
resolution of converting it into a college connected with the Uni-
versity, to consist, according to the charter of erection, of a princi-,
pal, four chaplains, twenty scholars, who were to be instructed in
grammar, music, and the other liberal arts, and six other scholars
who had previously acquired a knowledge of the arts, and who,
under the superintendency of the principal, were to devote their
attention to the study of theology. Two of the chaplains were to
be regents or professors in the college, and one of them was to be
invested with the cure of souls, and was to act as a sacrist, or a
parish minister. For the maintenance of this institution, the whole
of the endowments of the ancient hospital were appropriated.
These consisted of three farms, upper and lower Kenloway and
Fawside, and 631 1/2 acres of the lands of Rathelpy, in the immedi-
ate vicinity of the city of St Andrews; together with the feu-du-
ties of that part of the suburbs denominated Argyle, which had
been erected on part of these lands, and of the tenements situated
between the Priors or Eastburn Wynd, and the Augustine monas-
tery Of the three farms, one, viz. Fawside, was situated in the
Parish of Crail, now of Kingsbarns, and the other two, together
with the lands and tenements alluded to, with the farm of Pikie,
Which has been since mortified to the city of Glasgow, form the


