
   32                          ELGINSHIRE.

   import a coarser and a cheaper spirit than, in the circumstances of
   the distillers here, can be produced.
     Where this parish presses so closely on the city of Elgin as to
   have the gentle Lossie only intervening, there are two other manu-
   factories,-the very respectable manufactory of wool, begun by
   Alexander Johnston, Esq. which employs about 50 people in com-
   pleting cloth from 4s. to 1s. the yard, with blankets, flannel of dif-
   ferent degrees of fineness, fancy articles, chiefly of wool, which
   are all disposed of mostly in the country.
     At  Newmill there is also established a cast iron foundery,
   which, though upon a small scale, is of great convenience in the
   country, and receives increasing encouragement.

                      V.-PAROCRIAL ECONOMY.
     Ecclesiastical State.-The kirk is as commodious for the people
   as in landward parishes kirks generally are.  About 400 persons
   form the ordinary amount of the congregation.  The stipend is
   128 cwt. 90 lb. and 9 oz. of oat-meal,--of bear, 81 qrs. 1 bushel, 1
   peck, and 14 pints,-and in cash, burdened with the cost of the
   communion, L. 6, 11s. 1 4/18 d. All the families in the parish, ex-
   cept three or four Dissenting or Seceding, attend the Established
   Church.
     Education.-The endowment of the parish school, including the
   yearly interest of L. 27, 15s. 6d., bequeathed by a distinguished an-
   cestor of the family of Fife, may be estimated almost at the high -
   est allowed by the 43 Geo.  III. cap. 54; and the accommodation
   is better than that act has provided.  His fees may amount to
   L. 10 per annum.  The people are all quite sensible of the ad-
   vantages of education.  With scarcely any exception they can
   all read, atid with few exceptions, they can write; although there
   are many who do not write often, and a great many also who add
   nothing to their stock of knowledge by their reading.  There
   is no occasion for any other besides the parish school.  Although
   not permanently endowed, it would be improper to omit the men-
   tion of Mr Barclay's private academy at Calcots.  That gentleman
   teaches every thing requisite for our national universities and for
   the business of life. The number of his pupils at present (the
   sons of respedtable families in other parishes) is 27, in addition to
   his own  sons.
      Poor abd Parochial Funds.-The funds for the poor, after de-
   ducting expenses, amount to about L. 36 yearly.  The number of
   poor at present at 42.
      April 1835.


