

	978			FIFESHIRE.
              
			 IV.-INDUSTRY.
	   Agriculture.-The number of acres in the parish may be esti-
	mated at about 2400, the greater proportion of which is under
	the plough, and in a bigh state of cultivation. There may be
	from twent to thirty acres which do not seem at any time to have
	been cultivated, but remain partly in pasture and partly in a state
	of nature. 'For a very considerable number of years, a regular
	system of rotation in farming has been followed, and varies upon
	different farms. A five, or six, or seven years' shift is the rota
	tion generally adopted; and the principal crops are, wheat, beans,
	barley, oats, bay or pasture, potatoes, and turnip. Along the
	coast the land is richer and more productive; but, taking the
	whole parish, the average produce of an acre may be estimated
	at 8 bolls for wheat and beans, and for oats and barley, from 6
	to 7 bolls. There is comparatively little of the land in pasture,
	as the farmers think it more advantageous to take parks in the
	higher parts of the neighbouring parishes for rearing their young
	stock.A vast improvement has of late taken place, in conse-
	quence of the great extent to which draining has been carried.
	This is effected sometimes with stones and sometimes with tiles;
	but, in both cases, the beneficial effects are qpeedily made mani-
	fest.  The average rent per acre mav be about L.2, l0s.
	   Live-stock.-There are few sheep kept in the parish, and the
	prevailing breed of cattle is what is called the Fife breed.
	Leases.-Leases are generally granted for nineteen years, and
	the farmers being possessed both of capital and intelligence, are
	ever ready to adopt the most improved implements of husbandry,
	and any new suggestion with regard. to the mode of culture.
	The great proportion of the steadings are ample and commodious,
	with excellent dwelling-houses for the tenants.
	   Wages.-The wages of masons, carpenters, &c. range about
	2s. 6d. per day, while the day-labourer earns from Is. 4d. to Is. 6d.;
	and the women,  who are generally employed during the summer
        in hoeidg, &c., receive Sd. per day, and during harvest, they are
	allowed from L.1, 10S. to L.1, 15s., with dinner, which consists
	of beer, and bread, with a lippy of a meal for their supper.
           Limetone, with thin seams of coal, has for a long period
	been wrought upon the estates of Innergelly and Thirdpart; and
	ironstone has also been found along the sliore within high water
	mark. The best freestone quarry for building purposes is to be
                                   4

