
110                         ABERDEENSHIRE.

There are no sheep, whth the exception of a few of the English
breeds, kept for domestic use, chiefly on account of their wool.
         Husbandry.-The system of husbandry pursued in the lower
parts of the parish is a five years, and in the higher parts a seven
years rotation.
	The crops raised are oats, barly, hay, turnips and potatoes.
There is very little wheat raised, the soil being in general too thin.
It has, however, of late years been cultivated at Murtle with suc-
cess after ley.
   The breadth of turnips, for which the soil is well adapted, has
been increasing every year since the introduction of bone dust as
a manure.
	A great deal of waste land has been brought under cultivation
within these last twenty years and improvements are still making
in trenching, ditching, and draining low-lying land-a consider-
able breadth of which is still susceptible of being reclaimed.
	The leases are of nineteen years' duration; in some cases they
are granted for twenty-seven years, when waste land is required
to be improved during the lease.
	Farm-buildings are in general substantially built of stone and
lime, and belong exclushvely to the proprietors, being held by the
tenants on dead inventory. The cottages are neat and comfort-
able; and the fields are inclosed with stone fences.
         Fisheries.-The salmon-fisheries on the Dee, since the intro-
duction of the stake-nets at the mouth of the river, have greatly di-
minished in value, barely remunerating the labours of the fisher-
men, though formerly they yielded a considerable rent to the pro-
prietors.
         Produce.-The average gross amount and value of raw produce
yearly raised in the parish, as nearly  as can be ascertained, may
be as follows:

<TABLE=PRODUCE>

1896 acres of oats and barley, at L. 5, 10s. per acre, imperial, L.10,422 10 0
 949 ditto turnips and potatoes, at L.7 per acre,                    6636  0 0
 948 do. hay, at L.4 per acre,                                       3792  0 0
1895 do. pasture, at L.1, 1Os per acre,                              2842 10 0

                                       Total amount              L.23,693  0 0

         Manufactures.-The manufactories in the parish are three in
number.
	1st. On the burn of Culter, near its junction with the
Dee, is situated a snuff-manufactory, belonging to William.
M'Combie, Esq, of Easter Skene. It is small low square thatched
building. The internal machinery is driven by a water-wheel of



