
     of Hamilton.

   The culture of carrot, turnips, and cabbage, is scarcely
practised here, except in gardens.
   Red, white, and yellow clover, rye-grass, ribwort, etc.
are cultivated here, for hay and pasture, and no person now
panied, rejected, they generally prove very fruitful for some
years.
   Whatever may be the cause of this disease, nothing can be dis-
covered in the parent root to  give any indication of its being lodged
there, nor does it appear, in fact, to proceed from it.  The brown
scar, above mentioned, breaks out always near the surface of the
earth, and is frequently three inches above the original root; be-
sides, a healthy plant, and a diseased one, have been frequently
found to spring from contigous eyes in the middle of the same po-
tatoe; and sometimes both a healthy, and a diseased one from the
same eye.  Yet the producing germ seems to be in some manner
contaminated; for, potatoes, from different stalks planted at the
same time, in one field, and undergoing the same treatment, one of
them will produce healthy, and the other curled plants; and when
the disease once appears among potatoes, if par of their produce is
used for feed, in the subsequent season, a greater proportion of the
plants will be infected every year, though those, spring from dis-
seased plants, have been rejected.
   The disease first made its appearance in rich ground, manured
with offals from the town; and even potatoes, which prove healthy
on such land one year, are frequently much diseased, though plan-
ted on other land, the year following.
   Though the disease has spread much since its first appearnce, it
has been confined to low lying lands, and has not yet reached any
place, in this part of the country, which lies more than 350 feet a-
bove the level of the sea; nor are plants spring from potatoes
which grow in such places, subject to it, even in the low ground
for a year or two.  Since this has been discovered, it has proved the
best antidote against the growing evil.


