
           1096                             PERTHSHIRE.

           foot of the mountains, is not more than fifteen feet above the
           high-tide mark in the river Forth, into which it sends the sluggish
           stream of the Guidie.
              The mountainous tract above-mentioned is part of the Gram-
           pian.   The highest point being that of Craig Dhu or Black
           Craig, is, from 1800 to 2000 feet.  This mountain, of which the
           general form is that of a sow's back, and vhich is harshly cut into
           five ot sit parts, is composed of conglomerate rock and of lime-
           stone.   The latter, blue and streaked with white, is fit for being
           cut into chimney-pieces ; and specimens are, as is believed, to be
           seen in the house of Ballhkinrain, distant from the quarry about ten
           miles.  When burnt it affords a quick-lime of the purest white.
           In another mountain, which stands on the east, and is, by the
           lowlanders, called the Craig of Port, but, by the Highlanders,
           from its colour, ; as seen from the north, Craig Dhereag 6r Red
           Craig, there occurs, on the south side, in the lands of Auchrig,
           a rock avalanche a quarter ofa mile long.  Masses of rock, detached
           from the mountain, and interspersed with ivy Of ancient growth,
           are piled in rugged disorder, and resorted to by the fox and the
           badger.  From their base, a copious stream of limpid water issues
           in the driest weather.  Of Craig Dhereag the height may be esti-
           mated at from 1500 to 1600 feet.  Immediately above the rock ava-
           lanche now described, and within 300 feet of the highest point of
           the mountain, a lake occurs about half a mile in circumference,
           and of witih the nutlet is towards Loch Venachar, which bounds
           the greater part of the parish on the north.  This sheet of water,
           from its being invisible from the lower parts of the country, is
           called Lochan-falloch, or "hidden little loch."  South of Craig
           Dhereag about half a mile and in a moor considerably higher than
           the country south of it, is Loch Rusky, about a mile in circum-
           ference, having a small island, on Which are the ruins of a house,
           partitionally assigned to that noted Sir John Menteith of Rusky
           by whom the patriot Sir William  Wallace was apprehended.  In
           the neighbourhood of this lake are some medicinal springs, which
           have never been scientifically examined.
             Geology.-Of the strata iti the mountainou tract above-men-
           tioned, the dip is towards the south-east. In a ravine, a quarter
           of a mile north of the lake of Inchmahome  is a deep fissure, cut,
           by the stream of Glenny, in a tortous direction, and to the lenght                      of about a hundred yards.  The sides, about thirty feet high and
           of about a hundred yards.  The sides, about thirty feet high and


