                                 KELLS.

kept, but they bear a very small proportion to the number of
births.
     There are eight proprietors in the parish, but only two perma-
nently resident, namely, Viscount Kenmure and W. Grierson
Yorstoun, Esq.
     Character of the People, &c.-- The inhabitants are sober,
moral, and religious, and of sound and healthy constitutions.
There is only one fatuous person in the parish.  There has, un-
doubtedly, since the commencement of this century, been a great
improvement in the dwellings and comforts of the people.  Of
late years, a considerable stimulus has been given to neatness and
cleanliness in the cottages and gardens attached to them, by the
prizds given by the Glenkens Society.*  The food of the pea-
santry is the same as in other parts of the south-west of Scotland,
chiefly oatmeal and potatoes.  There is a considerable consumpt
of bacon and mutton ham.  Wheaten bread is coming into much
more general use, and the retail of butcher-meat has, within these
last ten years, greatly increased.

                                 IV.--INDUSTRY.
    Agriculture.-- Kells must be regarded, almost exclusively, as a
pastoral parish.  The grain produced (chiefly oats) certainly does
not exceed the annual consumpt.
    Rent of Land.- In the neighbourhood of New Galloway, the
rent of land is L.2 per acre ; but, as in other parts of the parish,
the arable land is attached to extensive stock farms, no fixed sum
can be specified as its value per acre.  The fences are in most
cases exceedingly bad, and there is ample scope for improvement
in drainage, collecting manure, and in general farm management.
Turnip husbandry might be most advantageously and more ex-
tensively adopted.  That agricultural improvements have not kept
pace here with those in the lower district of the stewartry, must
not be attributed to any deficiency in intelligence, activity, and
industry on the part of the occupiers of land, but partly to the
great expense of lime, and chiefly to their attention being directed
almost exclusively to stock.  There can be no doubt, however,
that an improved system of tillage, by which the land might be

  *  The Glenkens Society takes its name from the district, and was commenced
about 1830, under the suspices of William Grierson, (now W. Griarson Yonstoun.)
Esq. of Garrocla.  It has for its object the general improvement of the people.
It gives prizes in the schools, for the neatest kept cottages, to apprentice joiners and
blacksmith, &c.
    KIRKCUDBRIGHT.                                   H


