
252                    HADDINGTONSHIRE.

winters are singularly mild, and, in sheltered situations, many of the
tenderer shrubs succeed remarkably well. The east wind in spring is
keen and piercing, but less so than in some of the neighbouring pa-
rishes; the weather in autumn is generally clear and bracing; and,
on the Whole, the climate may be considered as more than com-
monly conducive to health and enjoyment. Ague, which was for-
merly prevalent, is now unknown; and the inhabitants seem to be
altogether exempted from peculiar disease.
                     II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Aberlady does not appear to have been ever the scene of any
very memorable event, nor is it famous in history as the birth-place,
or place of residence, of any very eminent man. After passing
under different arrangements, through the hands of various fami-
lies, more or less distinguished, it is now divided into three estates,
the proprietors of which, in the order of their valued rent, are,
Lord Elibank; the Earl of Wemyss and March; and the Ho-
nourable Sir Alexander Hope. They have all seats in the parish;
but the two last named only reside in them.
   Ballencrieff, the seat of Lord Elibank, occupies a fine and com-
manding situation, is surrounded by some stately trees, and enjoys
a most extensive prospect-Gosford, the seat of the Earl of Wemyss
and March, has had vast sums expended on it, since it came into
the possession of that noble and very ancient family, and from the
amenity of the situation, and beauty of the grounds, may justly
be considered as a very pleasing residence. The house is distin-
guished amongst the mansions of the Scottish nobility, by a very
large collection of pictures; most of them by the ancient masters,
and many of them of the highest merit.-Luffness, the seat of Sir
Alexander Hope, has been much improved and adorned, by the
taste of the present proprietor, and has an air of antiquity about
it, from which it derives no small degree of interest.
   Antiquities.-There are few remains of antiquity in the parish,
The fortalice of Kilspindy, which stood between the village and
the shore, and which at the date of the former Statistical Account,
was in no very ruinous state, has been swept entirely away. It
was built, in 1585 by Patrick Douglas, grandson of Sir Archibald
Douglas of Kilspindy, a man of no smalI note in his time. He was
Treasurer of Scotland in the minority of James V., and much con-
fided in by his nephew, the Earl of Angus, substantially Reggent of
the kingdom.  Subsequently, however, he shared in the forfeiture
of the "Douglases," and died in exile.-Redhouse, or Redhouse
Castle stands on the margin of the small stream which separates


