
				GLASGOW.                     159

Forth and Clyde Canal, into which it is introduced. On a paral-
lel line with this water conveyance there is the Garnkirk and Air-
drie Railway, on a part of which locomotive engines were intro-
duced on the 2d July 1831. The Garion-Gill Railway, which is
to be connected with the Garnkirk and Airdrie Railway, and with
the Monkland Canal, will carry the communication with the mi-
neral field eight miles farther, and it is expected that the great
coal field at Coltness will soon be opened up. With these ad-
vantages for obtaining the materials and sending the manufactured
article to market, Glasgow must become the seat of a great iron
manufacture. She has already large establishments for the ma-
nufacture of steam-engines and machinery, and for making the
machines employed in the processes of cotton-spinning, flax-spin-
ning, and wool-spinning. In these works every thing belonging
to or connected with the mill-wright or engineer departments of
the manufacture, is also fabricated. Having these important and
valuable portions of the manufacture already established, and with
the advantages which the district possesses for carrying on the
trade, there is every reason to expect its rapid growth, and its ex-
tension to every article of iron manufacture.
	Neilson's Patent Hot-Blast.--An improvement of national im-
portance has lately taken place, in the making of iron, of which the
following is a description. Mr James B. Neilson, engineer in this
city, obtained patents in this country and France, for an improve-
ment in the manufacture of iron, which he designated a Hot-Blast.
The patentee drew up a description of this improvement, of which
the following is an abridgement:
	In 1824, an iron-maker asked Mr Neilson, if he thought it pos-
sible to purify the air blown into blast furnaces in a manner simi-
lar to that in which carburetted hydrogen gas is purified; and from
this conversation Mr Neilson perceived, that he imagined the pre-
sence of sulphur in the air to be the cause of blast-furnaces work-
ing irregularly, and making bad iron in the summer months. Sub-
sequently to this conversation, which had in some measure direct-
ed his thoughts to the subject of blast-furnaces, he received infor-
mation, that one of the Muirkirk iron-furnaces, situated at a con-
siderable distance from the engine, did not work so well as the
others; which led him to conjecture, that the friction of the air,
in passing along the pipe, prevented an equal volume of the air,
getting to the distant furnace, with that which reached to the one
situated, close by the engine; and he at ouce came to the conclu-
sion, that, by heating the air at the distant furnace, he should in-


