
                         FORTINGAL.                         555

from the parish, regularly plying betwixt it and Pertb. Between
Aberfeldy and the extremity of Glenlyon, there is a runner three
times a-week, passing and repassing through the district of For-
tinfal; but the graziers in the upper parts of the glen are served in-
differently. At Kinloch-Rannoch, a penny post-office was lately
established. The communication is with Pitlochry three times a-
week. The letters, &c. for the district are regularly brought for-
ward thus far by post, and thdnce circulated by the best means that
offer, through the country.
   Our bridges and fences are generally kept in good repair. I
would particularly refer to the great improvements made, of late
years, in bridges, fences, and roads, upon Sir Niel Menzies's pro-
perty of Slismine, in this parish. In connection with the trus-
tees of the estate cf Strowan, the patriotic Baronet also caused
to be erected, last summer, a most elegant new bridge over the
Gamhaire, at the west end of Loch Rannoch. I regret to say
that the heavy floods of last harvest carried off this beautiful struc-
ture; but it is now in the course of being rebuilt by the same par-
ties.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is situated within three
miles of the south-east corner of the parish. There are, also, two
Government churches,-one in the district of Rannoch, and the
other in that of Glenlyon,-both of which have lately been erect-
ed into parishes (quoad sacra) by the General Assembly. The
three churches form nearly the angular points of an equilateral
triangle, whnse side is about twelve miles. The parish is thus di-
vided into three great portions or districts, (exclusive of the dis-
trict of Bolfracks,) south of the Tay. The parish church is about
six miles from the limits of its own district, quoad sacra, on the
west, three from the east, and about four from the north-east; but
its, distance is from thirty-five to forty miles from the western boun-
dary, quoad civilia. The government churches are at least seven-
teen and twenty-six miles from the extremities of their respective
districts. To afford the remote parts of their congregations every op-
portunity to hear the word, the ministers often preach, the one at a
station eight miles, and the other twelve miles, distant from their
respective churches. There are eleven heritors or land proprietors
in the parish, all whose estates are of the yearly value of L.50 and
upwards. It is but justice to mention here, as an instance of their
generous spirit and liberality, that a few years ago they built one of


