
                    ATHELSTANEFORD.                          43

   Meteorology.-The climate of East Lothian has changed greatly
for the better within sixty years. About that period the air
of this county was far from being salubrious, particularly in the low
district, or north of the Tyne. At that time the lands were not
laid dry, large stagnant pools were to be found in many places, field
drainage not being practised, except in open cuts or furrows; and
fevers and ague greatly afflicted the inhabitants. Many young per-
sons were carried off by consumption, and a number of respectable
families were greatly diminished, and some entirely swept away, by
the prevalence of that disease. Since the beginning of the present
century, fevers and consumption are far less common in this dis-
trict, and ague has completely disappeared. The people now en-
joy much better health than formerly, and generally arrive at a
greater age. Three persons have lately died in this village at the
age of ninety, another at the age of ninety-one. During the in-
cumbency of the present minister, two women have reached ninety-
five. These persons retained their mental faculties to the last, and
died apparently without pain.
   A considerable change of the atmosphere of this county in win-
ter has taken place of late years, so much so, that we have had al-
most no frost in the lower district of this county until the begin-
ning of January. Last season, 1834, we had, strictly speaking, no
winter, the plough having been never arrested by the frost; and
spring began early, accompanied with an agreeable and genial
warmth. During that period the wind was almost always from the
west, and the number of deaths in this parish was few, compared
with what usually happens here at that season of the year. The
heavy rains which visit this county are from the east and north-east,
and these sometimes continue without intermission two or three
days. Rain from any other point is of short duration. Formerly,
dense fogs frequently spread over this county, particularly in the
months of April and May, and would have remained two, and some-
times three days; but since the lands have been drained, that dense
vapour appears less frequently, and when it comes, is of shorter
duration. Whatever effect it may have on the human frame it is
favourable to the growth of plants. When this county is visited
by a thunder storm the thick and dark cloud generally appears
first above the hills which separate this county from Berwickshire,
and spreading wide, it either passes along the same range of hills
to the eastern sea, or crosses the county by Gladsmuir, to which


