
116                          FIFESHIRE.

Lately one of these was taken up, and search made, when a large
stone coffin with bones in it were discovered. To this day many
of the knowes are distinguished by particular names, as the Gal-
lant Knowe, &c. It is thought that, at the western part of the pa-
rish, is the place where the Caledonians disputed with the Romans
the passage of the Leven, after defeating the ninth legion on the
Orr. Here the Caledonians were defeated, and betook themselves
to the Lomonds; and the Romans encamped on Balsillie heights,
at the back of Leslie, where the mounds raised by the Romans
are called the Balsillie Laws.
  In 1335, the dam erected to drown the Scotch in Loch Leven
Castle, was near the junction of this and Portmoak. The existence
and locality of this dam have been proved, by the removal of its
foundation, in the recent operations on the Leven.
  About 1760, a stone coffin or urn was found near the Gallant
Knowe, on Strathendry. In 1770, a tumulus, which stood near Pit-
cairn House, was opened; a stone chest was found, full of human
bones, (in particular, several entire jaw bones,) standing east and
west. At the east end, were found two urns of bluish clay, full of
bones evidently calcined, and white as chalk.
  Modern Buildings.--These are, Ist, Leslie House. The original
house built by the Duke of Rothes, around a court like that of the
Abbey of Holyrood House, with a gallery three feet longer than that
in the Abbey, hung on one side with portraits of the connections of
the Rathes family, and on the other side with those of the contem-
poraries and friends of the Duke,-was burnt to the ground on the
28th December 1763. The fourth of the square, forming the pre-
sent house, was repaired by John Earl of Rothes in 1767. The
house of Strathendry, belonging to R. Douglas, Esq. a very hand-
some building, in the style of the old English manor-house of Queen
Elizabeth's time. There are also the church built in 1820; the
manse in 1811; and several large flax spinning-mills, the first built
about thirty years ago.
  The materials very generally employed in building are whin-
stone for the walls, with freestone for the rybats and skews.

<TABLE=III.POPULATION.>

                   III.-POPULATION.
  When the returns were made to Dr Webster in 1755, the num-
ber of the inhabitants of this parish was said to amount to 1130.

        In 1756, the total number was - -      1096
        which in the town of Leslie, -   782
        in the country part of parish, - 364


