
			KINGARTH.                        83

and Quien loch, which separate it grom the parish of Rothesay;
and on the east, south, and the west, by the Frith of Clyde. It is ir-
regular in its figure, being indented by several small bays on both
sides; but it gradually narrows from its northern extremity, till it
becomes an isthmus of a mile and a half in breadth, beyond which
it forms a peninsula of two miles in length, terminating in the pro-
montory above-mentioned.
	Topographical Appearance.--The land in general rises consi-
derably above the level of the sea.  The principal bills are Suldhe
or Suidhe Chotain (the Seat of Cotan), 520 feet high, and Saint
Blane's Hill, 486 feet. The coast to the east and south is for
the most part rocky, in many places rising precipitously at a little
distance from the shore, in ridges that appear to have at a former
period served as a barrier to the sea, and to have been subsequent-
ly raised by volcanic action to their present level. To the week
the coast has, in general, a more gentle rise, although it exhibits a
similar appearance of a shore elevated above its original position.
The shore is principally sandy, but to the east and south rocky;
and the Kilchatan bay , and on some parts of the west coast, it con-
tains a stratum of the blue clay. The bays are those of Ascog, Sou-
lag, and Kilchatan to the east; and of Scalpsie, Stravenian, and
Dunagoil, to the west. The only headland is the Garnoch-head;
which has its name corrupted from the Gaelio Ceann Garbh.
	A table, serving to indicate the temperature and pressure of the
atmosphere, and the prevailing winds in this parish, will be found
in the Account of the parish of Rothesay.
	The climate is somewhat moist; but is remarkably healthy, and
induces invalids to seek it for its singular mildness. No distem-
per prevails at any time, that can reasonably be attributed to any
peculiarity in the atmophere, or other local cause; and cases of
longevity are very common.
	The Frith of Clyde, which bounds the parish on the east
south, and west, is 9 miles in breadth betwixt Scoulag bay on the
east shore, and the nearest point of Ayrshire, at Largs; and 8
miles in breadth between Dunaguil bay on the west, and the
nearest part of the Island of Arran; and 20 fathoms deep betwixt
the Garroch-head and Little Curnhane, where its depth is great-
est. The water is usually clear; its saltness is distinguished by the
volume of fresh water proceeding from the Clyde and the
of Cowal in Argyleshire.
	The connected with the parish, all of their fosshing that
of the boudary towards the parish of Rothesay are, the Loch of


