
                           SLAINS.                              591

springs are generally found along the rocky part of the coast, at
the base of high and steep brass covered with verdure, from under
which they rush out in a stream as abundant as a rivulet, and in
quantity sufficient to turn an ordinary mill.  There are a few cha-
lybeate springs, the strongest of wbich is found near the old kirk
of Forvie; but their medicinal qualities have never been sufficient-
ly tested so as to gain them any repute.
   There are three lakes in the parish, and one of these, called the
Muckle Loch of Slains, is really a magnificent sheet of water, co-
vering, in the depth of winter, a basin of from seventy to seventy-
three acres in extent.  It is surrounded on three sides by a ridge
of land, Kippet hills, rising, by an easy acclivity, to the height
of from fifty to sixty feet above the level of its surface.  Its mean
depth may be about twenty feet; but, in one place, it has been
ascertained to be fifty-two.  The only outlet from it is by a small
stream at the south end, which has been converted into a dam, to
drive a meal-mill about a mile below.  The other two lochs, called
Cot-hill and Sand-loch, have evidently been formed by the drift-
ing of the sands from Forvie, and each covers a space of about
fifteen acres.  The only river is the Ythan, formerly mentioned
as forming one of the boundaries of the parish.
   Geology and Mineralogy.-The rocks along the coast consist of
gneiss and mica-slate, alternating with, here and there, thin seams
of quartz, and their direction is from north-east to south-west, and
their dip north-east.  The small eminences, already alluded to as
intersecting the parish, called the Kippet hills, are composed of
gravel, mixed with smooth and polished limestones, generally from
one to sixteen pounds, and few of them exceed the latter weight.
Formerly they were carefully picked and burned for lime by the
farmers, which produced most excellent crops.  This species of
manufacture has now long been given up, as English lime may be
had at greatly less trouble and expense.  The burning of these
stones must have been carried on to a very considerable extent, as
many excavations along the whole line of the ridge are still very
obvious, though now covered with grass.  The organic remains
found in these limestones, are mussels and other shells.  Though
occasional blocks of granite are to be found in some districts, yet
there are no rocks formed of it; but so soon as the boundary to
the north-east of the parish is crossed, the gneiss and mica-slate
disappear, and graduate into red granite.  This parish abounds
with a kind of calcareous sand, which was long extensively used as


