
                          OLD MONKLAND.                      657

the rotation is, 1. oats, sometimes two crops; 2. potatoes; 3.
wheat; 4. hay; 5 pasture; 6 pasture.  Wheat here averages
8 bolls per acre, but is often as high as 12; oats 6 boll; pota-
toes 40 to 50 on best lands; hay 150 stones per acre.  The ave-
rage rental of the land throughout the parish is L.2, 5s., much of
it is below this, and many acres let much higher.  There are about
200 acres of undivided common.  The parish is very well wooded,
and may have 1200 acres in plantation.
   The cattle here are of a very superior sort; the cows mostly of
the Ayrshire breed, and the horser of the Clydesdale breed.
Perhaps no parish in Scotland has taken more first prizes at the
great cattle-shows in various parts of the country.  The breeders
here have repeatedly taken first premiums from the Highland So-
cieties' shows, and others, for mares, stallions, bulls, cows, &c. Mr
Bowman and Mr Drew have been deservedly often rewarded for
their great skill and perseverance in rearing the best sorts of stock.
Mr Baird of High-cross, near Old Monkland Kirk, is one of the
ablest and most enterprising of those meritorious individuals to
whom the agricultural interests of this district are so highly indebt-
ed.  Mr Cairn and Mr Finlay have also stocks of a very superior
order.  Considerable improvements are everywhere carrying on
in the reclaiming of waste lands.  Mr Johnstone of Gartcloss
has been a very successful improver of moss, and has made many
successful experiments on the Gartcloss moss.  His method is,
1. to drain; 2. to dig; 3. to put on earth on the surface; 4. ma-
nure.  The drains are what are here termed goats, i. e. deep
ditches about six yards apart.  The digging costs L.4 per acre,
putting on the clay, L.6, draining, L.4.  Perhaps, generally
speaking, it will take from L.20 to L.24 to put an acre in crop.
About 20 tons of Glasgow dung at 5a. or 6s. per ton are requir-
ed, but 15 bolls of oats have been obtained from an acre of moss
thus reclaimed.  The usual duration of leases is nineteen years.
The farm-houses are generally in good condition.
   Flax was formerly much sown in the parish, but at present only
very partially.  The lintseed was generally sown on ground
well manured with dung or lime, after one crop had been taken
from it.  The time of sowing is April, and it is ready for pulling
about the 1st of August.  Nine woman at 10d. per day will pull an
acre, or about 16 stones.  Thirty or forty years ago, this was a pro-
fitable way of procuring a return to the farmer, one individual having
benn known to get L.240 per annum for 30 acres.  One of the prin-


