
                         TULLYNESSLE AND FORBES.                        451

which the bulk of that community may be entitled; but it is be-
lieved, that the number of exceptions in the present case, if not
smaller, does by no means exceed what will be found in any agri-
cultural population, of equal extent, throughout Scotland.
   Habits.-Within the last thirty years, great improvements have
taken place in the modes of living and dress.  The houses of
tradesmen itid crofters are much more comfortable and clean;
while those of the farmers are commodious, in general suitable in
size to the extent of their farms, and such as their industry and
enterprize well entitle them to possess.  Slates are now the com-
mon roof for farmhouses, and those of tradesmen.  It may be
with truth affirmed, that although at times, in consequence of a
numerous family, and unforeseen disaster, exposed to considerable
privations, the crofter and labourer now enjoy luxuries, if they may
be so called, to which even the farmers were fifty years ago entire
strangers.
   The anti-agriculturist would make you believe that the farmer
has reached a stage of comfort and external show to which he is
not entitled, and, in place of enabling him to maintain his present
status, by means of due protection, would reduce him to the drud-
gery and spare living of last century.  We perhaps touch upon a
forbidden topic, but one passing remark may be allowed.  Let the
persons of whom we speak be impartial and advocate a similar
descent in the case of the merchant and manufacturer.  Their
rise is still greater than that of the farmer.  In the case of all of
them, it is the fruit of increased intelligence and enlightened enter-
prize.  They are now, in as far as present prosperity is concern-
ed, indissolubly linked together, and you cannot harm the one with-
out injuring the other.
   From the general dryness of the soil, and the improvement in
climate, which has no doubt been superinduced by the recovery of
waste land, draining, and planting, the parish is favourable to
health.  We have our share of diseases common to the north of
Scotland, but no disease peruliar to the parish.  In the last Sta-
tistical Account for Forbes, which now forms part of this parish,
is mentioned that there prevailed almost universally among the
parishioners a species of latent scurvy; and Malthus, in one of
the editions of his work on population, has, according to the in-
formation of the writer, noticed the circumstance as one of the
checks interposed by Providence to counteract the great tendency
which population has to exceed the means of subsistence.  The


