
842                             PERTHSHIRE.

The oldest Scottish historians represent Abernethy as the ca-
pital of the Pictish nation, both in civil and religious matters.
   Most probably, a church was built at Abernethy at a very re-
mote period-in the fifth century, by Nethan Morbet, a king of
the Picts, according to the Pictish chronicle; towards the close
of the sixth century, by King Garnard M'Dourmach, according
to Fordun, Winton, and Major; or in the beginning of the seventh
century, by King Nethan II., Gariiard's immediate successor, ac-
cording to the Register of St Andrews.
   Pinkerton supposes that Nethan IIL, who asked architects or
masons from Ceolfrid, Abbot of Weremouth, in the eighth cen-
tury, and who, according to Winton, founded.  Rosemarkie, may
have been a founder of Abernethy also; or, at least, have substi.
tuted more substantial buildings in place of the original wooden
erections.*
   According to the Pictish chronicle, the founding and endowing
of the church of Abernethy was a sacrifice which the Pictish king
offered to God and St Bridget, in acknowledgement of the reco-
very of his kingdom; and over the sacrifice, i. e. on the occasion
of dedicating the church and lands to the use of religion, hallelu-
jahs were sung by Darlintach, an Irish abbess, who had previously
in her own country prayed for the restoration of the Pictish king,
and was then, as it would appear, placed at the head of an esta-
blishment of nuns in her capital.  Fordun, indeed, does not scruple
to relate that St Patrick himself introduced St Bridget and her
nine nuns into the religious establishment of Abernethy.+
   The antiquity as well as dignity of the church of Abernethy
may be seen in this, that it was the seat nf the Bishop of the Picts.
Fordun says, that there were three elections of bishops at Aber-
netby, while as yet there was only one bishop in the whole king-
dom of the Picts; and that the church of Abernethy was founded
227, some said 244, years before the, church of Duakeld.
   According to Boethius and Buchanan, Kenneth M'Alpine,
King of the Dalriad Scots, translated the Episcopal see, after he
subdued the Picts, from Abernethy to St Andrews, in the ninth
century; `nd the Bishop of St Andrews henceforward was known
as the national Bishop, Episcopus Scotorum.
   The bishopric of Dunblane, within which the parish of Aber-

<FOOTNOTE> Piotish Chron. in Pikerton and Innes; Fordun's Scotic. Chr. Lib 4, 12;
Winton, Vol. i p. 127 ; Major's Hist. p. 85 Regis. St Andrews; Pinkerton In-
quiry, Vol. i. p. 296. edit Edin. 1814.
     Boethius'i Hist pp. 158, 180.


