
     Statistical Account

   Agriculture.-The husbandry on both tides of the Tweed,
is, in general, conduced with judgment and spirit:  To give a
particular detail of the practice would much exceed the
bounds of this report, hut as the tenants in a great measures
depend on their live stock, and of course on the condition in
which it is kept, they pay very particular attention to their
grass lands, and the manner in which they are laid down, as it
is found that the grass of land, in high condition, will not on-
ly keep a much heavier stock, but will fatten it much sooner,
than the grass which we too frequently see growing on good
lands, in many parts of the kingdom, under bad manage-
ment.

   Sheep.-The sheep, in general, are very good, and are of that
kind commonly known by the name of the new Leicester
shire breed, which were first introduced into Leicestershire by
Mr. Bakewell; they are found, in point of profit, far to ex'
cel any other kind of sheep in this country.  The wedders af-
ter having been twice shorn, at 26 months old, or so, weigh
from 20 to 28 lb. per quarter and the ewes, when fattened,
from 19 to 26 lb.  Three fleeces and a half commonly make a

<FOOTNOTE>

*The grass seeds are sowed with the first crop, after turnips or fallow, in-
stead of the fourth or fifth crop, which was the practice about 30 or 40 years
ago; and the succeeding corn crops are taken after the grass is plowed up, By
these means there are no corn crops lost; and the grass has the benefit of the
fallow and the manure, and throws up great crops, when compared with ex-
haunted lands, which are commonly full of couch and other noxious weeds.  Har-
vest generally begins about the 20th of August, and ends in September.  The
grass lands remain in pasturage from 2 to 5 years, when they are broken up for
oats.-The English plough, with the feathered sock, is the only one used here.
It is drawn by a pair of horses, and managed by one man.  Oxen were former-
ly more used; but from their inability to drive manure and coals from any dis-
tance, and the slowness of their step, they have fallen into disrepute, excepting
for home work, which they are exceedingly well calculated to answer.


