
     Statistical Account

   Bridges, Roads-The bridges are in good repair, and
the roads, though not the very best, are better thn in any
neighbouring parish.  The roads are mostly made by private
gentlemen, with the assitance of the statute labour.  Any
repair they get, is from the statute labour, which is paid in
kind, and no commutation allowed, except for the inhabi-
tants of the village.
   A toll-road is now making from Paisley to Newport, Glas-
gow, by the bridge of Johnson, and Kilmacolm, which passes
through this parish.  Another is in contemplation, from

<FOOTNOTE>

on the birth of his children:  also, satires upon the Whigs, some of which still
remain in Manuscript.  He was also author of two pieces of considerable
merit; the first intitled, The banishment of Poverty, and the second, the cele-
brated Scotch song-She rose and let me in.
   4. Robert Semple, grandson of Francis, we mention, as a remarkable in-
stance of longevity.  He died 1789, aged 108 years.  He was the first in the
nomination of Justices of the Peace for Scotland, in the year 1708, being the
year after the Union.  Towards the close of life, his memory gradually failed
him.  Two anecdotes of his early life, remained impressed upon his memo-
ry, after every other circumstance was forgotten.  The first was, his being
present, while the witches were burnt at Paisley, the last detestable exhibition
of that kind in Scotland, which happened 1697*.  The second was his hav-
ing seen Peter the Great, Czar of Russia, at Archangel, who, amusing him-
self with some sea animals in a pond, one of them snapped at him, and but
the cock off his hat.  This last occurrence he continued to repeat to the day
of his death, after he had forgotten every other.
   Among the remarkable persons connected with this parish, we may men
tion James Milliken, of Milliken, Esq.  He was the first who introduced ru-
ral improvements into the parish, on an extensive seale.  He adorned his es-
tate with plantations, arranged with great taste.  He inclosed, drained, fal-
lowed, and reduced his lands into an elegant form.  He first excited a taste
for good roads in the parish, many of which he made at his own expence.
In his improvements he spared no expenee, esteeming nothing done, while
any thing remained undone.  He died An. 1776, much lamented by the poor,
on account of his extensive charity.

*Semple's History of Renfrewshire.


