
                           MORHAM.                           263

tain;) Spirea ulmaria (meadow-sweet;) Geum rivale (water avens;)
Veronica beccabunga (brooklime;) Nasturtium officinale, (common
water-cress) in great plenty; Caltha palustris (marsh marigold,)
&c. In the moor, not yet quite extirpated, and ever ready to
spring up abundantly, occur in patches, Calluna vulgaris, Erica
tetralix, and E. cinerea, (common, cross-leaved, and fine-leaved
heath;) and bushes of juniper (Juniperus communis) are here
and there to be met with. In the pasture fields, the scarlet pim-
pernel (Anagallis arvensis,) whose petals close, at the approach of
rain, and indicate fair weather by their opening in the morning, is
occasionally to be found. And among the plants to be met with
elsewhere may be mentioned the following:-Antirrhinum lina-
ria (yellow toad-flax;) Achillea ptarmica (sneezewort;) Artemisia
absynthium (common wormwood;) Convolvulus arvensis (small
bindweed;) Atropa belladonna (deadly nightshade;) Echium vul-
gare (viper's bugloss;) Geranium pratense (meadow crane's-bill;)
Hypericum perforatum (perforated St John's wort;) Lychnis dioi-
ca, (red and white campion;) Malva sylvestris (common mallow;)
Orchis maculata (spotted orchis;) Potentilla anserina (silver-weed;)
Reseda lutea, (wild mignonette.) It is remarkable that the prim-
rose does not occur.
                  II.-CIVIL  HISTORY.
   Historical Notices.-There are few of these connected with the
parish. In former times a castle, of which not a vestige now re-
mains, stood on a point of land near the church, and overlooking
the glen below, which no doubt was the residence and stronghold
of the Lord of the Manor. * Who the Lord of the Manor was pre-
vious to the twelfth century cannot be ascertained; but it would
appear that then the manor of Morham, was possessed by a fami-
ly bearing the name of Malherb, who assumed from the property
the name of Morham or de Morham, after the fashion of the time
of taking the surname from the family possession. In this family
it came down to Sir Thomas de Morham, who was of some dis-
tinction in the time of Robert Bruce. In him the title became
extinct. And his daughter and heiress, Euphemia, marrying Sir
John de Gifford, of Yester, transferred to him the manor of Mor-
ham, along with other estates,-from whom it passed, by another
female transmission, to the Hays of Locherwart, the ancestors of
the Marquis of Tweeddale.

<FOOTNOTE>The field on the opposite side of the glen to where the castle stood is still Cal-
led the Castle Shot.


