
     Statistical Account

   Poor.-In taking the account of the inhabitants, it was
also particularly noted, with much concern, that there are
in the two parishes no fewer that 1185 children, whose
parents are unable to defray the expence of their education;
and that 883 of the number are the children of parents
from the counties of Scotland above mentioned.  To ac-
count for this, it is to be observed, that most of the labour-
ers, boatmen, sailors, etc. in Greenock, are from the High-
lands, and that they often settle there with large families,
to support which requires their utmost industry and applica-
tion.  The wealthier people in Greenock, and even those in
moderate circumstances, are uncommonly generous and li-
beral; and there are, perhaps, no people in Scotland, 
whose generosity and liberality have been better tried.
Though charity should not end at home, it is reason and
sound policy that it should begin there.  In no part of the
Highlands or Isles of Scotland, perhaps, would the benevo-
lent intentions of the Society for propagating Christian
Knowledge be better answered, than in Greenock, The e-
rection of a free school or two, for the education of the chil-
dren of poor people from the Highlands, would be attend-
ded with the happiest effects.  That their charity would be
applied according to their pious intentions, the Society
would have the best security in the disinterested zeal of the
wealthier part of the Highland inhabitants, of which they
have lately given a very good proof.  Nothing, for a num-
ber of years past, has been more needed, than a place of
public worship, for a vast number of people who do not
well understand the English language.  By a voluntary
subscription, amounting to L. 1500, the wealthier part of
the Highland inhabitants have lately erected a large, ele-
gant, and commodious Gaelic chapel, and endowed it with
L. 100 per annum.  They are to elect a minister of the E-
stablished Church, who is to preach one half of the Sab-


