
     Statistical Account

This ferry is the property of Mr. Grant of Redcastle, who is
to build a pier and an inn, and stables at the ferry, for the ac-
commodation of the public, which, with proper boats, will
cost between 700 L. and 800 L. Sterling.
   The population of this parish has, of late years, consider-
ably increased; and this is to be chiefly attributed to the en-
couragement given by the family of Kilcoy to mealers and
cottagers on that estate.  This plan was originally adopted by
Mrs. M'Kenzie Dowager of Kilcoy, during the minority of
her son, and carried on with spirit and success; and as there
is still a considerable quantity of waste lands in his property,
that is fit for culture, he continues to encourage these new
settlers upon liberal and advantageous terms both to himself
and them*.

   Rent, Heritors, etc.-The valued rent is 3145 L. 11 s. 2 d.
Scots, and the real rent, including the heritor's mains, may
be estimated at 2600 L. Sterling, some of which is paid in kind,
such as barley and oat-meal, the rest in money.  Indeed, the
gentlemen are converting all their rents into money, all the
customs, carriages, and services being converted some time
ago, I think, at the rate of 1 L. Sterling for every boll of old
rent, and now only assess the tenants with as much victual as
pays the clergyman's stipend.  There are 8 heritors in this
parish, 5 of whom have their mansion-houses in it, and re-
side in them, except Colonel Graham of Dryney, who is with
his regiment in America, and Mrs. M'Kenzie of Suddy at

<FOOTNOTE>

*There are no Papists, Seceders, Methodists, nor any other religious sect from
the Established Church in this parish, except about 200 Episcopalians, who have
a chapel of their own, and a clergyman to preach to them once in 20 days.  This
clergyman regularly administers the sacraments, and marries his own hearers,
but never without a line from the session-clerk of this parish, certifying the
parties having been proclaimed, and the dues paid.


