
     Statistical Account

the bed of sickness.  The poor, who are able to travel from
door to door for their subsistence, have no more allowed them
than what will purchase a pair of shoes once in the year*.

   Mode of Cultivations.-There are 84 ploughs in the parish:
most of them of the old Scotch construction, and well adapt-
ed for the stony ground.  The proprietors, and first rate farm-
ers, use the English plough, drawn by two horses; and, if
the land be stiff, two oxen are commonly yoked after the hor-

<FOOTNOTE>

* The average price of barley, meal, and pease, for the last 15 years, may
be rated, communibus annis, at 125. 6 d. per boll.  During that period, victual
was sold in this parish for 9 s. and 10 s.-in other years it was sold for 12 s. and
frequently for 15 s. per boll of 9 stones:  oats sold from 10 s. to 12 s. per boll;
potatoes for 8 s. and some years for 10 s. per boll.-The average price of
beef, mutton, pork, and veal, from the beginning of October to the first of
January, is 3 d. for those of the best, and 2 d. halfpenny for those of inferior
qualities.  During the rest of the year, butcher meat, except mutton, gives
higher prices.-Fresh butter sells for 8 d. per lb. 16 ounces; salted butter in
casks for 12 s. per stone; common cheese 4 s. and cheese of a superior quality
5 s. and sometimes 6 s. per stone:  the price of  a good hen is 6 d.- a duck 8 d.-
a chicken 2 d.-eggs 1 d. per dozen.
   The wages of labourers are in proportion to the strength and skill of the
persons employed.  Some men get 8 d. while others receive no more than 6 d.
per day.  The wages of women, especially in harvest, are of late years in-
creased from 4 d. to 6 d. per day; out of which they furnish their own provi-
sions.  The day's pay of a mason, carpenter, and slater, is from 1 s. 2 d to
1 s. 6 d. per day.  Shoe-makers, taylors, and weavers, make their own prices,
there being no standard in the parish to regulate the value of this work.-Do-
mestic and farm servants have, at an average, L. 3 per annum.  Out-servants
are allowed L. 3 wages, and 6 bolls meal for maintenance; together with so
much arable land, rent-free, as is sufficient to provide 7 or 8 bolls of potatoes,
a free house, garden, and peats:  all which is computed to be worth L. 12
per annum;- a sufficiency in this country to enable a careful, sober man, with
the assistance of a virtuous wife, to live more comfortably than many of the
farmers, and to rear a family of children till they are of age to work for their
bread.


