
388                  ROXBURGHSHIRE.

Teviotdale was laid waste by Sir Ralph Evers and Sir Brian
Latoun.  Nor did it escape in 1570 ; for to prevent its occupation
by the troops of the Earl of Surrey, the inhabitants themselves
tore the thatch from the roofs of the houses, and set fire to it in
the streets, by which, with the exception of Don Lamoreck's
Castle or the Black Tower of Hawick, the whole town was com-
pletely destroyed.  And, whether from the invasion of English
armies, or from intestine feuds, no less fatal and calamitous among
the lawless clans of the border, it seems to have been involved,
during the course of many centuries, in a state of almost perpetual
war.  This state of matters, it is not to be doubted, has had its
influence in imparting even to the archhtecture of the town, a some-
what interesting and peculiar character.     For amid the many
buildings which, in accordance with the spirit of modern improve-
ment, have been erected in every part of the town, there are still
standing a few venerable structures, which are not only interesting
from their antiquity, but which, wbilst occupied as ordinary dwell-
ing-houses, have evidently been constructed as places of  security
and defence, amid the troubles of a warlike age.  These ancient
tenements are built on arches of rough whinstone, whilst the walls
are of massive thickness, almost defying injury from fire, and ca-
pable of being stoutly defended, and though they certainly pre-
sent a somewhat rugged exterior, they seem internally to have
been planned with no small degree of ingenuity, and must in trou-
blous times have afforded accommodation to a considerable num-
ber of families.
   The same causes which gave rise to this peculiar species of archi-
tecture have had their influence in moulding the general character
of the population, and thereby impressing upon them certain peculia-
rities, which, though gradually disappearing like the rough masonry
of those ancient buildings, are yet sufficiently obvious to arrest the
notice of any careful observer.   The truth is, the border spirit, a
spirit certainly more congenial with the usages of a ruder and less
enlightened age than the present, is not altogether extinct. And
we doubt much, if a community could be found elsewhere, more
jealous than they are of what they conceive to be their own rights,
more keen and indefatigable in the working out of what they reckon
to be their own interests, and more determined in asserting at all
hazards what they deem to be essential to their own independence.
Anything like a spirit of vassalage to any man, or to any class of
men, how elevated soever in rank, is what they cannot brook, and
                                  3


