
                       NEW KILPATRICK.                        37

towards the valley of the Allander and Kelvin in the south-east,
the descent being broken by a succession of undulations, which di-
minish in elevation as they approach the rivers. This undulating
surface gives to the landscape a variegated and interesting charac-
ter. It is thickly set with swelling knolls, generally accessible to
the plough, and actually under cultivation, but many of them so
steep, as to render ploughing difficult. If more of these knolls
were wooded, it would contribute much to ornament, at no ultimate
loss to the proprietors.
  Meteorology.--No register of the weather has been kept in the
parish for many years, so that we have few meteorological obser-
vations to record. A singular phenomenon occurred in the sum-
mer of 1832, which was carefully investigated at the time, and the
fact fully ascertained. On the 13th June of that year, there fell
near Castlehill, a shower of fish, consisting chiefly of herring-fry.
Some of them were described as being of the size of large min-
nows; but the largest that I saw were about two inches in length.
Upwards of l00 were found huddled together by a road side;
others were probably washed away by the stream that was speedily
formed; and some were seen scattered over the neighbouring field.
Three days after the occurrence I picked up a few. By this time
they were much disfigured; but still it was not difficult to discover
what they were; and some which I saw preserved in spirits left
no doubt of their being herring. Castlehill is three or four miles
distant from the Clyde, from which they bad probably been
caught up by a whirlwind, and carried hither through the air.
They fell amidst a very heavy shower of rain, accompanied with a
peculiar rushing noise, which was heard at a considerable distance.
  Hydrography.--Dugalstone loch is a considerable sheet of wa-
ter, of artificial collection. It lies within Dugalstone pleasure-
grounds, and contributes much to the beauty of that once highly
ornate, but now neglected seat. It covers 23 Scots acres. The
pleasure grounds of Kilmardinny likewise contain a small loch,
surrounded by trees and ornamental shrubbery; and abounding
in pike, eel, and perch. It contains about 8 Scots acres. St
German's loch is somewhat larger. It is a good locality for the
botanist, containing several water-plants not everywhere to be
found. Germanus was the companion of St Patrick in his mission
to Ireland; and from him it probably is that this loch derives its
name.

<FOOTNOTE>Transactions of Society of Scottish Antiquaries, ut supra.


