
                          ROGART.                               47

inhabitants, is called Strathfloid; and the small river passing
through it is called in that language Flodag the diminutive of Flod,
a word signifying inundation, to which this stream is subject. This
strath is ten miles in length, and of irregular width. In some parts it
is three-fourths of a mile wide; in other parts it is contracted to with-
in a few yards of the stream passing through it. Both sides of it rise
to an elevation of from 500 to 700 feet above the course of the
Fleet,-in some I parts abruptly, but generally in sloping banks,
which are occasionally cultivated and produce crops.
   The part of Strathbrora which is in this parish bears a resem-
blance to Strathfleet,-the difference being such as may be ac-
counted for by the action of a larger body of water, which has in
some places cut deeper into the rock, forming chasms. In other
parts, the water meets with less resistance, the valley is widened,
and lengthened haughs are formed. Being nearer the mountain-
ous region, the aspect of this strath is of a more rugged character
than that of Strathfleet.
  The hills between these straths are nearly of equal height, and
rise to an elevation of from 800 to 900 feet above the level of the
sea. The meadows, which are found around some of the lakes
and in those flat parts which are subject to irrigation from burns
passing through, are not of great extent, and form but a small
proportion to the extent of the moors.
  Climate.-The climate of the county of Sutherland, from its
latitude and exposure to the winds of the German and Northern
Ocean, is sharp and cold. The, greater part of Rogart, owing to
its elevation, and to its having but little shelter from the east wind,
and being swept by every blast coming from the high mountains of
Assynt and Strathnaver, is much exposed to the severity of a cold
atmosphere. Yet snow does not lie long here, and frost is not very
intense. Winter, however, leaves us but reluctantly, continuing
during the greater part of spring; and it often arrives in the last
month of harvest. At the times alluded to, we have, our most dis-
agreeable weather,-cold easterly winds, bringing sleet or rain.
The most frequent winds, however, are the north and east, but
the south-west blows with greatest violence.
  Summer here has a great proportion of dry weather; as the rains
which fall among the high mountain in this season do not extend
to this place. A dry scorching summer is more frequently a
subject of complaint with us than one too rainy. Nor can it be


