
582                     FIFESHIRE.

of many days hard work before it could be carted away to the en-
closures on the grass glebe. It was a primitive hornblend, or
greenstone rock, and must have been transported from beyond
" the far distant Grampians" by the agency.of floods, of which we
have now happily no experience.
  Soil.-Th,e soil is in general thin, of a black loamy quality where
it rests immediately upon the whinstone; and is fit for carrying
crops of every description. This is generally the character of the
fields which range along the southern and northern divisions of
the parish. Much of the intervening valley consists of either a
light and gravelly soil, or of a strong plastic till, but, through the
operations of an enterprising tenantry, it has been rendered com-
pletely fertile.
  Botany.-The plants which occur in this parish are such as are
common to the general flora of the Ochils, and, as it can boast of
neither lake nor marsh, few aquatics are found within it. Along
the shore, the following are to be met with: Scirpus maritimus,
Agrostis vulqaris, Hordeum maritimum, Triticum loliaceum, Glaux
maritima, Rumex maritima, Statice Armeria, Alisma plantago,
Cochlearia Anglica, Artemisia maritima. Throughout the other
districts of the parish the following occur abundantly: Fedia
olitoria, Iris pseudacorus, Briza media, Parietaria officinalis,
Primula vulgaris, elatior and veris, Agrimonia eupatoria, Geum
rivale, Bartsia odontites, Geranium sylvaticum, Malva sylvestris,
Scrophularia nodosa, Euphorbia paralia, Silene inflata, Lychnis
Flos-cuculi and dioica, Tussilago pelasites, Tulipa sylvestris, once
abundant at the Abbey, but now very rare.

		II.-CIVIL HISTORY.

  Under this head, few particulars can be gleaned, from any au-
thentic sources, of sufficient importance to be communicated to
the public. The history of the Monastery, which will be noticed
in its proper place, is connected with the earliest transactions that
are to be found in the records of the parish ; and as there are no
chartered towns in it, or corporations of any kind, nothing of a
civic or burghal description requires to be stated.
  Eminent Men.-Among the list of eminent men, however, its
annals can justly boast of two, if public notoriety or a tragical
end entitle any to that distinction. One of these was the ce-
lebrated Lord Balmerino, who suffered for his share in the re-
bellion of 1745, and whose history is too well known to need
repetition here. The family estate was in this parish, and pas-


