
140                          AYRSHIRE.

in this, as in other parishes, fluctuate very much. Sometimes a
good weaver may earn from 1s. 6d. to 2s. per day; at other times
only from 9d. to 1s.
     Stoch.--The cows in the parish are mostly of the Cunningham
breed, and the sheep are the common black-faced. No particu-
lar attention is paid to the breed of horses in the parish, which is to
be regretted. For were farmers careful to have something of the
blood horse in their horses, they would find them much better fit-
ted for every species of work, and better able to undergo fatigue
than those now generally in use among them.
	Manufactures.--In the village of Catrine, and on a part of
the estate of Ballochmyle, which still forms a part of the parish
of Sorn, there are the very extensive cotton and bleaching-works
belonging to Messrs James Finlay and Company of Glasgow.
These works were commenbed in 1786, by the late Claud Alex-
ander, Esq. of Ballochmyle, and the late David Dale, Esq. mer-
chant in Glasgow. At that time, where the village of Catrine
stands, there were only two families living,--those of the miller and
blacksmith ; now it contains a population of 2702 souls, whose
chief support is derived from the cotton and bleaching works. In
1801, the cotton works were purchased from Claud Alexander, Esq.
and David Dale, Esq. by their present proprietors, and have since
been greatly enlarged and improved, particularly by the erection
of an extensive bleaching work in 1824, and three very large water-
wheels a few years ago. Two of these wheels, which are about 50
feet diameter, and estimated at 100 horse power each, along with
two steam engines of about 40 horse power each, which are
used occasionally in dry seasons to make up for any deficiency in
the supply of water, and to insure regularity of motion, propel the
machinery in the cotton manufactory; and the third, which is about
32 feet diameter, aided by a steam-engine of twenty-five horse
power, when there is a scarcity of water, propels the machinery in
the bleaching establishment. At Catrine, the cottion which is
brought from Glasgow is spun, woven, bleached, finished, and put
up for home sale and exportation, to suit the various markets. The
weight of yarn spun in 1836 was 951,973 lbs., and the quantity
of goods produced 172,175 pieces of 25 yards, or 4,304,393 yards,
equal to 2445 miles. Besides bleaching that which is manufac-
tured at Catrine, there is also bleached at the bleachfield there
the cotton cloth manufactured at the other works belonging to
Messrs James Pinlay and Company. The quantity of cloth bleach-


