
                         KENMORE.                       453

west by part of the parishes of Killin and Weem; and on the
south and north by those hills which rise from the sides of the
loch, and border on the south with Comrie and Monivaird, and on
the north with Fortingal and Weem.
     Topographycal Appearance.--The most stricking feature in the
district id Lochtay, a beautiful basin of water, extending from the
village of Kenmore, at the one extremity, to that of Killin at hte other,
a distance of nearly sixteen miles.  On either side, there is a pa-
rallel range nof mountains, rising gradually from the margin, and, in
one instance at the summit of Benlawers, attaining to an elevation of
morethan 4000 feet above the level of the sea.  The lower portion
of these Alpine ranges, from the edge of the lake, and allround it,
to nearly a mile upwards, is in a state of tillage, or under pasture, or
covered with wood, partly natural and partly planted.  At the
upper limit of this zone, commences the russet hue of the heath,
but yet, all over, pleasingly and richly intermingled with vendure,
which in many places prevails to the very loftiest ridge.  Nor is
there any interruption to this agreeable appearance by the inter-
vention of rough, broken, and precipitous rocks.  The line pre-
sented to the eye, as far as it can reach, is the varied and waving
line of beauty.  There is but little of what may be styled low, flat
land.  At the mouths of the more considerable streams, which
rush into the lake, there are formed deltas of some few hundred
yards.  The most extensive formation of that kind is at the upper
extremity ofLochtay, where the waters of Glendochart and Glen-
lochay discharge themselves, and, by their spoils from above, have
composed the rich meadows of Auchmore, Kinnell, and Finlarig.
At the opposite extremity begins the basin or valley of the Tay.
This opens out at once into a fine plain, about a mile in width,
with the river, even at its very birth, full and deep, as if it had
been a stream of an hundred miles, sweeping its powerful flood
through the splendid parks of Taymouth.  With these exceptions,
the land rises everywhere with considerable acclivity, from the
edge of the water,--the character of the arable portion, being in
general that of steep ground, and rather difficult to be worked.
     There is a small detached part of the parish in Glenquaich.
This valley runs nearly parallel to Strathtay, and its waters, first
collected into the Quaich, and afterwards into the Braan, empty
themselves into the Tay at Dunkeld.  For the space ofmore
than a mile above the entrance of the Quaich into Lochfranchie,
there is a dead level of swampy, undrained, and apparently un-
drainable land.


