
74                     HADDINGTONSHIRE.

rugo procumbens, among the ruins of the Castle; Eryngium mariti-
mum, by the sea coast; Trifolium scabrum, dry pastures by the sea;
Epipactis palustris, marsh near Dunbar; Verrucaria maura, ba-
saltic rocks at Dunbar; and Menyanthes trifoliata, marshes at Brox-
mouth. The following Algae are found on the rocks and coast of
Dunbar, Lichina minor, Lichina confinis, Alaria esculenta, Ro-
domenia laciniata, Sphaerococcus laciniatus, Ceramium cirrosum, and
Fucus loreus.
   Trees.-There are scarcely any plantations but such as adorn
the houses of proprietors. The land is considered too valuable
to be laid out in that way, and the farmer has but little fancy for
that kind of produce. He prefers a well-dressed hedge to the in-
numerable rows of brushwood which in England occupy at least a
tenth part of the soil. At Broxmouth, there are many stately well-
grown trees of all kinds, and at Belton there are lofty silver firs about
two hundred years old, and a magnificent beech tree which, three
feet from the ground, measures 18 feet 6 inches. The timber is
tough, weighty, and of excellent quality.
                     II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   There is a history of Dunbar by Mr James Miller, a useful and
meritorious work; it was published in 1830.
   The origin of parishes in North Britain, says Chalmers, cannot
be traced beyond the ninth century. The time when Dunbar was
established is unknown; but, from the circumstance of its being
the most valuable parish in Lothian, it is probable that it was one
of the first formed in that district. It is distinguished for its
fertility and cultivation, and it derived all its ancient importance
from the castle, which was accounted the principal key of the king-
dom.
   The lands of Dunbar and the eastern marches were conferred
by Malcolm Canmore, in 1072, upon Cospatrick Earl of North-
umberland, a princely nobleman, who fled from the wrath of Wil-
liam the Conqueror, into Scotland, and there had a long suc-
cession of potent and warlike descendants, who were created Earls
of Dunbar and March, and held the same possessions till they were
forfeited in 1435. The castle rendered Dunbar the theatre of
many warlike exploits. Twice it was the field of very deadly strife:
In 1296, when the whole force of Scotland collected for the relief
of the castle, were defeated in battle with great slaughter, by Earl
Warrene, the English, Commander, who was sent to press the siege:
And again in 1650, when Cromwell defeated Leslie on the same
                            4


