
     of Cluny.

   The language of the generality of the people here is the
Aberdeenshire dialect, intermixed with several old French,
words and phrases, from the ancient intercourse betwixt

<FOOTNOTE>

on the top of a sandy eminence, were found two stone cossion
or rather chests, each consisting of four flat stones laid on their
edges, with a large flat stone for a cover: in each was found a
human skull and several human bones, together with an urn of
coarse earth, or clay, and rude figures, with ashes in each, but
different in shape from Roma urns.  Whose remains they were,
or at what time deposited, there is no tradition.  There is also
a muir with several stone cairns upon it, where, according to
tradition, there was an engagement in the reign of Charles I
between the Irvines and Forbeses, at that time two potent clans
in Aberdeenshire, the former Royalists and the latter Covenan-
ters, wherein some upon both sides fell.  There is also, in the
archives of a family in the district, a contract of marriage in the
fifteenth century, between Andrew Lord Frazer, and Dame Iso-
bel daughter to Lord Forbes, wherein the latter obliges him-
self to pay to the former, on the high altar of Cluny, on the
feast and term of Candlemas, 500 merks and a green apron, by
way of tocher good.  On the top of two hills there are two
very large cairns, which probably have been collected to kindle
fires upon to alarm the country in time of danger, as many of
the stones have marks of fire upon them.  There are two large
castles in the district, those of Cluny and Castle Frazer, built in
the beginning of the 15th century; the former by Sir Alexan-
der Gordon, a son of the Huntly family, and the latter by a
Lord Frazer, both of a singular form, with a square tower at
one corner, and a round tower at the diagonal corner, with lea-
den platforms and parapet walls; all vaulted below, and six sto-
ries high, evidently intended for fortalices, the walls being two
ells in thickness, and one of them, the Castle of Cluny, having
still a double barred iron gate, weighing thirty two stone, with
massy iron bolts, and the remains of a fosse, once full of water.
It is also remarkable, that there is a family in the district, of the
name of Robertson, originally from Athol, who uninterruptedly
have possessed one of the largest farms from father to son, for a
series of upwards of 230 years.  One of this family, the first
Protestant incumbent at Cluny after the reformation, was a
member of the first General Assembly at Edinburgh in 1560.
Such instances are uncommon in that ambulatory class of people.

     VOL. X. l i


