
386                            AYRSHIRE.

	The whole parish is possessed by the seven landed proprietors
already mentioned, and four of them reside in it, at least occasion-
aly.
        Two blind girls belonging to this parish were for a number of
years in the Edinburgh Asylum. They are able, by knitting, to
gain a little for their own support. There is one lad deaf and
dumb, who is very active and intelligent as a labourer, and who is
scarcely ever absent from church. There is also one boy in an-
other family, who is deaf and dumb. There are two fatuous
persons.
	In the course of the last three years, the number of illegitimate
births in the parish was 21.
        	       		IV.--INDUSTRY.

        Agriculture.--It is supposed that the parish contains above
17,000 acres, and that 8000 or 9000 are either cultivated or occa-
sionally in tillage. Out of the uncultivated portions, there are pro-
bably not 200 acres to which the labour of cultivation could be pro-
fitably applied. There is no part of the parish in a state of undi-
vided common. It is computed that 2500 acres are under wood,
natural or planted.
	The trees planted are generally oak, ash, plane, and elm, with
such proportion of Scotch larch and spruce firs, as fills the ground
for an early crop. The indigenous trees are chiefly oak, ash, and
birch. The woods of the first and last are remarkably well pruned
and thinned every year. The felling of the Scotch and larch firs
takes place at about fifteen years growth, to give room to the hard
wood and spruce firs.
	Rent.--The average rent of arable land, per imperial acre, is
about L. 1. The average rent for grazing a cow or ox, of three
years old and upwards, is from L. 2 to L. 3; of two years old,
L. 1, 10s. to L. 1, 15s.; of one year old, L. 1 to L. 1, 5s.; a ewe
or full-grown sheep, 4s. There are three kinds of sheep common
in the parish,--the black-faced or moor sheep, the Cheviot, and
a cross between these breeds. The cattle are chiefly of the dairy
or Ayrshire, with a portion of the Galloway breed. There are
some crosses between the Ayrshire and the Teeswater. Consider-
able attention is paid to the improvement of both sheep and cattle,
by introducing superior kinds of the different breeds. Premiums
for the best that have been reared have for somd years been award-
ed, by the Carrick Farmers' Society, and a new impulse has recent-
ly been given to agriculturists in their attention to breeding, by the
				     4


