
     Statistical Account

   Mountains and Minerals.-Goatfield is the highest hill in
the parish.  It is 2,840 feet perpendicular above the level of
the sea.  There is not a more extensive prospect in Britain,
than the top of Goatfield affords.  Many transparent stones
are found on it, naturally formed into pentagons, heptagons
and octagons, and all pointed at the top as if done by art.
Lapidaries purchase these stones, and apply them to various
uses*.  At Corrie, near the sea-shore, there is a rich mine of
marle and lime stone, which might, at a small expence, be
caried coast-wise round the island, to the west side; where
there are extensive farms, upon a soil of a mixed loam of
clay and moss.  Marle and lime, laid on this ground, would
produce great crops of corn, which is much wanted in the
island.  At Cock of Arran there are free stone, lime stone,
iron ore, blind coal and slates.  The slates, on trial, are found
to be of an excellent quality.  Within an English mile of
Lochranza harbour, a cart road is already made, from the slate
quarry to the shore.  On both sides of Lamblash Bay, there
is a fine free stone, between the beds of which craw coal is
found.  And it is affirmed, that wherever this appears, there
is a body of coal under it+.  A coal, so near a fine harbour

<FOOTNOTE>

title of "the seven days desease;" but he does not describe it accurately, nor at-
tempt to investigate its nature.  In the opinion of an eminent physician in this
city, "the disease cannot proceed from, any injury, which the child can suffer
"during delivery; and therefore the midwives can have no concern in occasion-
"ing it, unless they swerve so far from their professional duty, as arbitrarily to
"dictate some improper mode of managing the child, for the first seven days
"after birth." According to the opinion of another eminent physician in
town, (Dr. W. W.) it is "that species of the locked jaw, mentioned by several
"authors as the trismus infantum, which is query fatal to new born children in the
"West Indies."
*They are known, among the jewellers, by the name of Arran stones, Cairn-
gorms, and Scotch topazes; and are often let in gold for rings, and other ornaments.
The colour is generally a dark brown; but some are found of a beautiful yel-
low, which are reckoned very valuable.
+About 70 years ago, colliers were employed to make trial for coals.
Owing to some treachery, the search proved unsuccessful, and no farther trial
has ever since been made.


