
   174				ELGINSHIRE.

   stone, on which rest the massive chains from which the platform
   is suspended.  The whole work was admirably executed, and re-
   flects great credit on the workmen employed.  The expense of
   the building amounted to nearly L. 7000, which was principally
   subscribed by the spirited and enterprising inhabitants of Forres,
   aided by the land-owners of the neighbourbood.  A pontage is
   exacted, under authority of an Act of Parliament, for the pri-
   vilege of passing the bridge, and affords a remunerating, revenue
   to those who have advanced their money for this noble and useful
   structure.
      Ecclesiastical State.-- The parish church is conveniently situated ;
   it was built in 1775, and was partially repaired and painted about
   three years ago, when an additional gallery was put up by the he-
   ritors, which accommodates nearly 100 sitters.  The whole church
   is seated to accommodate about 1000 persons, and that number
   usually attend divine service.  About 600 of the sittings are let,
   and the rents are paid to the heritors.  The parishioners have
   lighted the church with gas at their own expense, for the conve-
   nience of those who attend divine service, and the Sabbath schools,
   in the evenings.  It is in tolerable repair, but is far from being a
   suitable church for the parish in size, convenience, comfort, or or-
   nament.  The manse was built in 1818 ; it has not undergone
   any material repair since it was built, and is at present in need of
   considerable improvement.  The glebe is about five and a-half
   Scotch acres in extent, and would bring a rent of L. 25 a year if
   let.  The stipend is eighteen chalders, half meal and half bar-
   ley, payable at the county fiar prices.
      There are no chapels of ease or Government churches in the
   parish connected with the Established Church, but there are three
   Dissenting chapels, one of which is connected with the United As-
   sociate Synod of the Secession Church, another belongs to the
   Independents, and the third to the Scotch Episcopal Church.  The
   first of these is attended by a large congregation, amounting to seve-
   ral hundred persons, but of these a considerable proportion come
   from the neigbbouring parishes.  The Independents are not a nu-
   merous body, and there are only a very few families of Episcopa-
   lians resident in the parish.  The ministers of these chapels are
   paid by the seat rents and Sabbath-day collections of their hearers.
   There is no place of worship for Roman Catholics in the parish.
      There are two services in the parish church every Lord's day,
   and on some occasions three.  The number of communicants be-


