
686                            PERTHSHIRE.

parish of Dull, forming the estates of two proprietors.  The pa-
rish then takes a bound of twenty miles and upwards over the pa-
rishes of Weem, Dull, and Fortingall, and is found, in two sepa-
rate pnrtions, in the district of Rannoch. Its extent must be esti-
mated rather from the particulars of its statistics than from any
statement of its length or breadth in miles, since there are so many
interruptions to its contiguity.  The greatest length may be stated
at probably 12 miles, and thd mean breadth at 5.
   This parish, and, in particular, the larger division of it, which
lies between the Tay and the Tummel, is very remarkable for
beauty. Washed by these; among the most romantic of the
Scoto-Celtic streams; formed by them into two straths, which a
sloping ridge of hill divides and commands, Strathtay on the one
side, Slisbeg, or the narrow country, on the other;-cultivated as
if by the gardener; or varying its beauty by wood and pasture, and
living water; with many a fair residence ranged along both slopes
of the hill as along a gallery,-it would be difficult, in any country,
to point out a scene of more perfect amenity. It is relieved from
the character of tameness by the frowning features of rocks and
mountains which overlook it from the neighbouring parishes.
   Climate.-The air is here pure and dry,-qualities which it pro-
bably owes to the light sand character of the soil, the infrequency
of marshes, the comparative distance of very high mountains, and
the remoteness of the situation from either ocean. Fevers and
slall-pox are rare, except when imported by vagrants, when they
are sometimes very difficult to expel from the poorer hamlets and
cottages. The aged suffer from rheumatism, and the young are
somewhat liable to consumptive disorders. There is reason to
believe in the extensive prevalence of scrnfula; dropsy is also
common, and what are called nervous disorders,
   Hydrography.-We have no lakes, unless one or two small
pieces of water on the summit of mountainous ridges deserve the
name. * The only rivers are the Tay and the Tummel. The
falls of Moness are formed by the stream which divides. Logie-
rait and Dull, near Aberfeldly.
   Soil.- The soil is of a light and pervious nature, consisting of
gravel, with mixture of alluvial soil from the higher grounds.
This description applies to the haughs or low lands. On the slope
the soil is deeper, and of a thick substantial loamy quality. But

<FOOTNOTE>The most distant part of the parish, indeed, skirts Loch Rannoch for about three
 miles.


