
     of Statistical Account

siderable extent, and is surrounded with a deep trench,still
visible, which the garrison could fill with water at pleasure,
and over which a draw-bridge was placed.  The wall which
surrounded the fortress is in a great measure destroyed, but
some parts of it still remain pretty entire, which display a-
mazing strength from their thickness and solidity.-Upon Mr
Walker's estate at Wooden, there are the vestiges of a Ro-
man tumulus*.  There are also several of the same kind in

<FOOTNOTE>

possession of this fortress, render its history of more importance
than that of any near the borders.  It frequently changed mas-
ters; and, in the reign of HENRY VI. was in the possession of
that monarch.  JAMES II. of Scotland having laid siege to it,
his army made themselves masters of the Castle, in a great
measure destroyed the works, and reduced it to ruins; but, pre-
vious to the victory, the king was killed by the bursting of a
piece of ordnance.  A holly tree is said to stand on the spot
where this happened, on the north side of the river Tweed, and
a little below Fleurs house.  Near this tree stood a large village,
which, from across that remained within these few years, was ge-
nerally called the Fair Cross.  But the probable origin of the name,
as it has been handed down, though not generally known, is this:
James II's Queen, having very soon reached the spot where
the lifeless body of her husband lay, is reported to have ex-
claimed, "There lies the fair corpse," whereupon it received
the name of Fair Corpse or Corse; and, in process of time, the
change from corse to cross was easily effected.  The Queen,
soon after this fatal accident, observing that the army was dis-
heartened, and that the chiefs were for raising the siege, used
every means to excite their courage, and, among other things,
told them, that although their king had fallen, he was but one
man, and that she would soon give them another king, her son
James III. who next day arrived in the camp, and was crown-
ed in Kelso in the 7th year of his age.  This heroic and well
timed address, produced the desired effect; the spirits of the
whole army were roused; and, renewing the attack with re-
doubled ardor, the garrison surrendered in a few days.  From
this period the Castle has remained in ruins, although it was in
some degree repaired, by the Lord Protector, Somerset, in the
reign of Edward VI.

*This tumulus consisted of a vast number of stones, piled


