
80                       SUTHERLANDSHIRE.

mestic purposes, now thousands of fleeces of Cheviot wool, wedders,
and ewes, are annually exported. The people who had been re-
moved from the interior in 1818 and 1819, when these great changes
took place, are thickly settled along the sea-coast of the parish,
-in some instances about thirty ]otters occupying the land for-
inerly in the possession of twelve, and some of them placed on
ground which had been formerly uncultivated.
   This alteration in the locality of the parishioners has been fol-
lowed by a corresponding change in the general system of their
occupation. Instead of tending flocks, and following other avoca-
tions connected with the habits of an inland population, they are
now partly employed in cultivating their small pendicles of land;
but more vigorously engaged, especially the young, in preparing
the necessary fishing implements, and prosecuting the fishing in
its season. The females, in place of manufacturing tartans, and
other woollen cloths, for their husbands, brothers, and other rela-
tives, now use the spinning wheel in preparing hemp for herring-
nets; and the labour of the country weaver is considerably set
aside by the knitting of the nets. The Garb of Auld Gaul is en-
tirely superseded by the fisherman's habilments; and our population,
who in early life traversed the hills, moors, and crags of the inte-
rior, now cautiously steer their boats on the waves of the Northern
Ocean, and actively carry on the various labours connected with
the fish-curing stations.
   The changes referred to in the locality and in the employments
of the inhabitants have had their influence on the state of society in
the parish. Although there are greater facilities of communication
than formerly with different parts of the kingdom, the manners of
the resident population are not thereby improved. It is a well
authenticated fact in this country, that the herring fishing is not
conducive to the improvement of the morals of those engaged in
it. The leaseholders of our large sheep-farms are, as was already
mentioned, all non-resident gentlemen. But the former tacksmen
resided on their own farms, most of them having respectable and
numerous families. By their education and status in society, as
justices of peace, arid officers in the army, their example, in their
general intercourse with the people, had an influence in giving a
respectable tone to society, which is now almost gone. There is
not now a resident justice of the peace in the parish, whereas there
was formerly a most regqmetable bench of such civil magistrates; and
the permanent population being composed of letters, day-labourers,


