
262			KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

now there are neither artisans nor manufacturers within our bourn-
daries, whose services are required beyond the immediate neigh-
bourhood.
     		     V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Market-Town, &c.--The nearest market is afforded by the
thriving little town of Castle Douglas, which lies about six miles
south-west of the village of Kirkpatrick. There is a post-office at
the village, and a daily delivery and dispatch. A post-cart, which,
along with the mail, carries light goods, travels between Kirkpa-
trick and Castle Douglas, by which the household wants of the
community are chiefly supplied. The great road from Portpatrick
to Dumfries skirts the southern boundary of the parish for five
miles, offdring a means of ready communication with every quar-
ter of the kingdom. Besides the mail, a heavy coach passes from
Dumfries to Kirkcudbright and back on six days of the week.
At Crocketford, a road branches off. towards New Galloway and
the Glenkens; but there is at present no public conveyance in that
direction.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The church is situate in the southern ex-
tremity of the parish. It was built A. D.1748 and bears all the
marks of its early date. About thirty five years ago, in conse-
quence of the increased demand for church accommodation, a num-
ber of the inhabitants were at the expense of erecting an aisle,
which increased the sittings to three. hundred and seventy-five, a
number greatly below the proportion legally requisite for the
amount of population. The manse was built in the year 1838.
The glebe contains upwards of six acres, and consists of tolerably
good land. The. teinds are exhausted, and the stipend amounts
to L.271.
	Before the late secession from the Establishment, the numbers
connected with the different religious societies might have been
stated as follows: Established Church, 1284; Dissenters and Se-
ceders, 158; Episcopalians, 12; Roman Catholics 32. Among
the Dissenters and Seceders in the preceding table, are included
two aged individuals, a man and a woman, resident. at Crocket-
ford, the last venerable remnant of a fanatical sect, the followers
of woman named Buchan, who arose in Ayrshire about forty
years ago,--and who, to the amount of forty men and women,
including a minister of the Relief Church and a memeber of the legal
profession, after having been persecuted from one district to another
for several years, at length took up their abode in this parish, where



