
                        LOGIE.                                221

minating characters of this class of rocks. In the coal formation
adjoining, the usual organic remains have been found.
   The only ore found in this parish, and wrought to some extent,
is copper. It was found in veins.
   The simple, minerals, found in the trap rocks are, small rock
crystals, calc-spar, heavy spar, ironstone, agates, felspar, and
hornblende.
   The alluvial deposits upon the Ochils are chiefly composed of
the debris of the rocks, mixed with sandy loam and gravel; and
at the foot of the Ochils, from the village of Menstrie to the west
ward of Airthrey Castle, are undulated banks, mounds, and knolls
of loam, sand, and gravel, in which are occasionally large boulders.
This deposit of gravel appears to have been occasioned by the
opening which bad once existed betwixt the Abbey Graig and the
Ochils. All the alluvial deposits south of the face of the Ochils,
and those mounds of gravel, are of a more recent formation than
that before-mentioned, being evidently formed by the tides in the
River Forth. In Scotland, this deposit is known by the name of
carse land, and is very fertile. The surface has a declination to
the River Forth, quite imperceptible. In the eastern part of the
parish, it reaches to the rocky foot of the Ochils, from which they
rise abruptly without any intermediate deposit. This alluvial depo-
sit is of very various depth. Bores have been put down above 30
feet before reaching the rock; but in all the bores put down to
the south Abbey Craig, no rock has been found; indeed, there
is reason to conclude that it is of a very great depth.
   The upper part of this deposit is a strong adhesive clay, from
three to six feet in thickness, under which is a very soft silt or
sleech of a dark bluish-black colour. In this silt is uniformly found
a bed of sea-shells mixed with sand. The varieties of these are the
same as those found recently at Leith; but the most numerous
are those of the common oyster, mussel, and cockle. This bed of
shells extends for miles both to the east and west of Abbey Craig.
   The most remarkable animal remain found in this parish, in
this deposit, was the entire skeleton of a whale which, according
to, the measurements which were made, must have been fully seventy
feet long. It was found in the year 1819, in the course of some
draining operations carrying on by the late Sir Robert Abercromby
in the estate of Airthrey. The place where it was found was adjoin-
ing the south side of the turnpike-road east from the eastern, por-
ter's lodge, which leads, to Airthrey Castle, and near to the north


