
                PARISH OF LESLIE.

      PRESBYTERY OF KIRKALDY, SYNOD OF FIFE.

         THE REV. JAMES NICOL, MINISTER.

        I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
  Name.-IN the former Statistical Account of this parish, it is
stated that the original name of the parish was Fetkill; but that,
when the Earls of Rothes, whose name is Leslie, became the pro-
prietors, they gave their own name to their possessions here, and
the whole parish came at last to be known by the same appella-
tion. 
   Extent, Boundaries.-The extent of the parish may be between
4 and 5 miles in length, and from 3 to 4 in breadth. It is bound-
ed on the west by Portmoak; on the north by Falkland; on the
east by Markinch; on the south by Kinglassie,-the river Leven
being the boundary between Leslie and Kinglassie. The figure
of the parish is that of a bow, the Leven being the string of it.
   Topographical Appearances.-The greater part of the parish is
now good, and the eastern part most excellent arable land; the
two most eastern farms, viz. Pitcairn and Cadam, having, for some
years past, in general had the first sheaves of barley in Fife. The

 <FOOTNOTE>It has been conjectured that the name is derived from the Gaelic words Lis, signi-
fying a garden or enchanting spot, and Leven, the name of the river, hence Libleen,
Leslie. This derivation corresponds with the beautiful table-land on which the village
is built, originally the scene of royal and noble games, and the resort of all that was
royal and noble in Scotland, to enjoy those games in safety; hence the name still
retained by many a contiguous field and croft, where each noble family erected their
own pavilion,-such as Bin-ard-ri, pronounced Bingarbree, high station of the King
Every name of any standing in the parish is Gaelic, and many evidently connected
with royalty, such as Strathendry is Strath-an-ri, the King's Park or Forest. Bal-
quhonvic is Bal-quhom-ri, tbe King's Grass Town. Balsillie is Bal-shiellie, corn
town. Ingri is Eglisi-an-ri, the King's Chapel. No vestige of this religious esta-
blishment now remains, except the name and the fount for baptism or holy water,
now standing in the dike, on the north side of the road, immediately below the old
farm Steading, where formerly stood the cross, and still so called by the older natives,
the cross of Ingri to this day. To shew that Leslie was a place of royal and no-
ble resort, packmen were always found in great numbers, selling their wares under
the protection of such assemblies. Hence Leslie. became, and was till of late years,
the head quarters of the Packman's Society, where an annual meeting was held, no-
vices ''Brothered, and taken into the fraternity, horse and foot races; the last re.
mains of ancient games were played by the packmen, on horseback, in humble imi-
tation of their ancient betters."


