
  		             GLASGOW.                       139

the wheel, and communicating with each other by very circuitous
passages. One part of the circumference was exposed to the heat
of a furnace, and another to a stream or cistern of cold water. At
the death of Amonton, M. Dessandes, a member of the Acade-
my of Sciences at Paris, presented to the academy a project of a
steam-wheel, where the impulsive force of the vapours was impel-
led; but it met with little encouragement. In the meantime, the
English engineers had so much improved Savary's invention, that
it supplanted all others. Mr Newcomen, a blacksmith at Dart-
mouth in Devonshire, observing that Savary's engine could not lift
water from deep mines, set his genius to work, and made great im-
provements on it. Savary's engine raised water by the force of
steam; but, in Newcomen's contrivance, this was done by the pressure
of the atmosphere, and steam was employed merely as the most ex-
peditious method of producing a vacuum. This engine was first
offered to the public in 1705, but its imperfections were not removed
till 1717, when Mr Beighton brought it into its present form.
	The greatest improvement on the steam-engine was, however,
reserved for Mr James Watt, who was born at Greenock on the
19th of January 1736. When Mr Watt had completed his edu-
cation in Greenock and Glasgow, he went to London in 1754, and
returned in 1757, and in a short time he was appointed philoso-
phical instrument-maker to the university. This circumstance laid
the foundation of an intimacy with Drs Adam Smith, Black, and
Dick, Mr Anderson, Mr Robison, and other distinguished persons
connected with the university. In contemplating the principles of
a small working model of Newcomen's steam-engine, which Pro-
fessor Anderson sent him to repair, Mr Watt thought it capable of
improvement; and having procured an apartment in Delftfield he
shut himself up along with his prentice, Mr John Gardner, after-
wards a philosophical instrument-maker in this city, and it was in
this place that the foundation of the great improvement on the
steam-engine was laid. * In 1769, Mr Watt, on the recommenda-
tion of Dr Black, formed a connection with Dr Roebuck of Carron

<FOOTNOTE>When Jean Baptiste Say, the celebrated French phillosopher, visited Glasgow
several years ago, he sat down in the class-room chair which bad been used by Dr
Adam Smith, and after a short prayer, said, with great fervour, " Lord, let now thy
servant depart in peace" In August 1834, when the no less celebrated M. Arago,
Perpetual Secretary to the French Institute, visited this university, accompanied by
Principal Macfarlan, Professor MacGill, Professor Meiklebam, and Dr Cleland, he
requested see  the to small model of Newcomen's steam-engine,which directed Mr
Watt's mind to his great improvements. On the engine being shown him, he expres-
sed great delight, and considered it a relic of great value.



