
272                        ROXBURHSHIRE.

the present proprietor.--Charles B. Scott, Esq. of Woll, has about
70 acres of very fine plantation, including the policy.  There are
two large and beautiful hollies, near the house, the one measuring
at one foot from the ground, and at five feet from the ground, 61/2 feet
in circumference.  The other measures at one foot from the ground
51/2 feet in circumference, and at eight feet from the ground, 5 feet
in circumference.  The policy has been much improved, and the
wood judiciously thinned by the present proprietor, which has ad-
ded much to the natural beauty of the commanding situation on
which the house stands.  There are about thirty acres of plantation
on North Synton, the property of Robert Pringle, Esq. of Clifton ;
and on Drydean, the property of the Earl of Minto, about six acres;
and on Burnfoot, the property of Elliot Lockhart, Esq. of Borth-
wickbrae, there are from 8 to 10 acres, which in all make of planta-
tion in the parish about 386 acres.

                          II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
     There are no ancient records or MSS. that refer solely to this
parish, but it is frequently mentioned in general descriptions of the
county, one of which, a very able article, was furnished to the Edin-
burgh Encyclopaedia, by Mr William Laidlaw, author of Lucy's
Flittin and many valuable essays.
     Land-owners.-- The land-owners in the parish are, in the order
of their valuation as follows: John C. Scott, Esq. of Synton; The
Earl of Minto; Archibald Cochrane,  Esq. of Ashkirk; Elliot
Lockhart, Esq. of Borthwickbrae; Charles B. Scott, Esq. of
Woll; Robert Pringle, Esq. of Clifton; George Pott, Esq. of
Todrig; Mark Sprot, Esq. of Riddell.
     Parochial Reqisters.--There are some very old and curious en-
tries in the registers of this parish, but unfortunately the books
are far from being entire.  In looking over the registers, you may
find them for a few years here and there pretty regularly kept, but,
upon the whole, they are still far from being an accurate record
of what they were intended to preserve.
     Historical Events.--The greater portion of the parish at one
time formed part of the see of Glasgow.  The Bishop of Glasgow
had a palace, which stood on a field now forming part of the
present glebe-lands.  Some old men in the parish remember to
have seen part of the walls, and the field at this day retains the
name of Palace Walls; and the greater number of the present
proprietors still hold of the College of Glasgow.
     Eminent Characters.--It is a curious fact that at one time al-


