
                   KILWINNING.                      819

Dunlop, Dreghorn, Stevenston, and Stewarton, all in Cunning-
ham; Dumbarton and Kilmaronock, in Dumbartonshire; South
and North Knapdale, in Argyll; Kilmory and Kilbride, in the
Island of Arran.
	The monks of Kilwinning were originally brought from Kelso;
and were called Tyronenses, from Tyron, in the diocese of Char-
tres, where their order was first settled under St Bernard. It
would appear that the usual artifices by which superstition was
encouraged and confirmed in the Roman Catholic church, were
not neglected by the occupants of this monastery. The fountains
which had been blessed by St Winning continued in high repute,
and one of them was believed to give warning of the approach of
war, by flowing with blood on such occasions. R. Hoveden and
Benedictus Abbas relate a portent of this kind as having occurred
in the year 1184. "In eadem vero ebdomada qua rex in Anglia
applicuit, quidam fons aquae vivae, juxta eccelesiam sancti vinini,
in occidentalibus partibus terrae regis Scotise, infra Cuninham, non
longe a Castello de Irevin, mutatus in sanguinem, manavit puro
sanguine per octo dies et totidem noctes sine intermissionse. Et
dicebant indigine quod simile portentum ibidem contingere solebat
contra effusionem sanguinis. Sed numquam antea tam diu mana-
vit ibi sanguinis manatio."* This fact was mentioned by Lord
Hailes, among the miscellaneous occurrences in the first volume
of his Annals of Scotland. He was, in consequence, accused of
credulity by the critics; and, in a subsequent edition of his work,
he declares, that "the author must still remain under, that impu-
tation, for he cannot submit to acknowledge that he does not be-
lieve that a fountain, near Kilwinning, ran blood for eight days
and eight nights, without intermission." A recent occurrence
tends to prove the truth of the story, and to vindicate the stubborn
faith of the learned Lord. In 1826, when the square or green,
in the town of Kilwinning, to the west of the monastery, was being
levelled, the workmen came  upon an old leaden pipe about an
inch in diameter, which ran from the walls of the building, in the
direction of a fine spring, now called Kyles Well. This pipe
had a considerable descent, and could not have been used for the
purpose of drawing water from the well to the abbey. Through
it, therefore, in all probability, blood, or some liquid, resembling
it, had been caused to flow into the fountain, and thus the credu-

<FOOTNOTE>Ben. Abbas, page 406.


