
                        KING-EDWARD.                     283

pasture.  The garden, manse, and offices may occupy about one
acre.  One part of the glebe, of about 5 acres, called Bogburrie,
was mortified in 1617, to Dr Guild and his successors in office,
by Arthur Lord Forbes, who had at that time lands in this parish;
and in 1626, another part of it called the Kirkhill, was mortified
by Patrick Meldrum of Eden, to the same worthy individual and
his successors.  The yearly value of the glebe may be about L.15.
   The stipend is 16 chalders, one-half meal and one-half barley,
payable by the fiars prices of the county, and L.10 for communion
elements.  The Crown is patron.
   The minister of the chapel at Newbyth, the Rev. Gilbert
Brown, receives L.40 a year from the Society for Propagating
Christian Knowledge, and a like sum from seat rents and collec-
tions.  His hearers supply him with peats for fuel.  He has also
a good manse and a glebe of about 9 acres.  The managers of the
chapel, by the liberality of Mr Urquhart of Meldrum, who is pro-
prietor of Byth in this parish, hold the glebe at a very low rent.
   About six miles east of the church is an Independent chapel,
seated for 200, the minister of which is, I believe, paid from seat-
rents, collections, &c.  In 1835, when the census of the parish
was taken for the Royal Commissioners, the whole number of
souls in the parish connected with this body was 127.  There is
also a house in the village of Newbyth in which the Catholie ser-
vice is occasionally performed.  The bishop resides at Priestholm,
in the parish of Rathven.
   Persons belonging to the Established Church, 1863; Episcopa-
lians, 81; Independents, 127; persons belonging to Associate Synod,
19; persons not known to belong to any Christian community, 50;
Roman Catholics, 15; Baptists, 5.-Total 2160.
   Divine service at the parish church and also at the chapel at
Newbyth is well attended.  The number of communicants at both
about 880, being 470 at the church, and 410 at the chapel.  There
are two extraordinary collections at the church yearly, one for the
Infirmary of Aberdeen, which averages about L.2, and the other
for the General Assembly's India Mission, which may average from
L.3 to L.4.  The average amount of collections for the poor at
the parish church is about L.38 a-year.  The collections at the
chapel of Newbyth go principally to the general purposes of the
chapel.
   Education.-Besides the parish school, there are other two schools
in the parish,-one in the village of Newbyth, and the other a Fish-


