
    106	                       PEEBLES-SHIRE.

    transferred to him, but is now worth L.72 at a moderate calcula-
    tion.  It is now beyond doubt a great advantage to him, and this,
    with 14 chalders of victual, one half meal and the other half bar-
    ley, together with L.8, 6s. 8d. allowed for communion elements,
    forms the living of the incumbent.  The stipend for 1832 amounted
    to L.193, 4s.
       The number of families and persons attending the Established
    church, and the chapels of dissenters, is as under:
             Number of families attending the Established church,  53
	            of persons,                                   270
	            of communicants,                              160
                    of families attending Burgher Chapel,           6
                    of persons,                                    21
                    of families attending Relief chapel,            5
                    of persons,                                    23

       It may here be remarked, that what may be considered as the
    fluctuating population of the parish, the servants, adds considerably
    to the numerical strength of the dissenting interest, and that the
    children of some of the parents who belong to the dissenters are
    connecting themselves with the Established church.
       Education.-There is only one school, the parochial, which,
    however, is quite sufficient for the accommodation of the parish.
    The branches of instruction taught in it are English, English gram-
    mar, writing, and arithmetic, practical mathematics, geography,
    Latin, and Greek.  The schoolmaster has the full legal accommo-
    dations, the maximum salary, and may receive of school fees, on an
    average, nearly L.26 per annum.  There is a library belonging to
    the school, formed in 1828, and upheld by public subscriptions
    and collections.  It contains 142 volumes, and appears to be much
    valued.  The annual expense of education is, for English, 10S.;
    English and writing, 12s.; English, writing, arithmetic, &c. 14s.;
    Latin, 22s.; Latin and Greek, 24s.
       The school is excellently taught and well attended, and if there
    be any cause of complaint, it is, that parents are too much inclined
    to take advantage of the improved mode of teaching to shorten the
    attendance of their children, and thus in some instances sacrifice
    the substantial benefit of their children for the present saving of a
    little money.  There are only two persons in the parish upwards
    of 15 years of age who cannot read or write: one of these is from
    Ireland, and the other fatuous.
       Friendly Society.-There is in the parish a friendly society for
    the mutual benefit of the members in sickness.  It was instituted in
    1800, and has 78 members.  Its stock is L.128, 2s. 11 1/2d.  It

