
                        NORTH BERWICK.                      341

   Church collections are occasionally made for religious and cha-
ritable objects, and these are suitable and liberal.
   Education.-There are in the town, at the present time, four
schools taught by male teachers, and three schools by female
teachers. There is a parish school-and a burgh school built and
endowed to remedy its deficiencies, and the others are supplementary
to both. The most ordinary branches of tuition are taught in them,
English reading, writing, arithmetic, and geography. The parish
school has the maximum salary, and the usual school fees, with the
legal accommodation. But it is nearly deserted,-24 scholars only
were present at the last presbyterial examination; consequently
the amount of fees must be inconsiderable-and, from circum-
stances, the other emoluments are but trifling. Education is in
the most unsatisfactory state. Some legislative enactment is im-
peratively called for to secure and increase the efficiency of the
parochial institutions of our land, on which the intellectual, and
moral, and literary character of our rural population are so early
and mainly dependent.-There is a sub-parochial school in the
neighbourhood of Tantallan, for the immediate locality, under the
patronage of the chief heritor and the kirk-session, with a free
school-house and dwelling, and a small glebe.-A Sabbath school
is taught in the parish church in the evening, and is productive of
much benefit.
   Literature.-There is a subscription library of considerable va-
lue, which was established in 1827. It contains many of the best
works in English literature, and is rapidly increasing. Already,
there are more than 500 volumes. The town and parish are also
gratuitously favoured with divisions of the East-Lothian Itinerating
Library, under the direction and management of Mr Samuel Brown
of Haddington, to whom the population of the county is under
weighty obligations for his generous and unwearied exertions to
promote their mental and moral improvement.
   Friendly Societies.-There is a "Benefit Society" established in
North Berwick, which serves the double purpose of providing aid
in seasons of sickness and bereavement, and accumulating savings

<FOOTNOTE>his turn, was succeeded by his son, Mr George Murray, who died in 1822; when the
present incumbent was translated from the parish of Stenton. The brief interval of
the ministry of Dr Henry Hill, Professor of Greek at St Andrews, was a mere tem-
porary arrangement, he holding the living till the late Mr George Murray, his nephew,
was of age to obtain license for ordination to his father's church. Dr Henry David
Hill was brother of Mrs Matthew Murray, and of the eminent Principal Hill of St
Andrews.
   The moderator's chair in the kirk-session is said to be one of the ancient oaken
chairs brought from Tantallan Castle, on its final demolition.


