
                           STOW.                         409

Stow) granted, in 1540, to George Pringle of Torwoodlee, and
Margaret Crighton, his spouse, by Cardinal Beaton, as Arch-
bishop of St Andrews, within whose diocese the lands were situ-
ate.*  This Margaret Crighton was daughter of Sir William
Crighton, then Secretary of State. This and other things show
that the family of Torwoodlee must, at this period, have attained
to considerable rank and fortune.
   By grants of "oaks" and "harts," &c., made by Edward I. in
1291, &c., we find that the forest must have been a very inviting
scene to the lovers of the chase, and that its woods were very
valuable, corresponding to the description:-

		    "Ettrick Forest is a fair forest,
		    In it grows many a semelie trie;
		    The hart, the hynd, the roe, the doe,
		    And of a beastes great plentie."

   Adjoining to what was called (by way of eminence) "The Fo-
rest," were the smaller forests of Traquair and that on Gala;
but all of them appear to have been denuded of trees before 1649.
The English Edward I., in the exercise of sovereignty in this
quarter, gave the keeping of the forest to Aymer de Vallence,
Earl of Gloucester, in 1304. For other matters of curiosity and
interest, we must refer to Chalmers' Caledonia, Vol. ii., pp. 975-
981.
         	     II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   The history of this district, as a place of importance, is carried
so far back as the days of King Arthur, in the early part of the
sixth century. We are told that fragments of the real cross
brought from the Holy Land by that monarch, were preserved with
great veneration in the Virgin Mary's church of Wedale. "Nen-
nius or his interpolator, Samuel, pledges himself," says Turner,+
'that the fragments of the cross brought by Arthur, were kept
in Wedale, six miles from Mailros."  St Mary's church referred
to, was situate fully half a mile below the present church, imme-
diately under the public road, where, on the estate of Torsonce, a
part of one of the walls, three feet thick, may still be seen built in
with a common dry stone dike. A little above it, is a very fine per-
ennial spring, known by the name of the "Lady's well;" and a
buge stone, recently removed in forming the new road, but now

<FOOTNOTE>Tack of "Cragend we ye pertinents lyand in our barony of the Stow, Twad-
dale and regalitie of Sanctandrews" for "free years," and to yr longer live of
ym. Rent threttein pundis sax shillings and aucht pennies, usuals money of Scot-
land." that is, L. 1, 2s. 2 d. Sterling for what is now about .400 Sterling.
    Hist of Anglo-Saxons, i.286.


