
                                BALMAGHIE.                      179

phairn, and Minnigaff hills to the north and west, those of Cumber-
land to the south-east, and also, in clear weather, the Isle of Man.
	In the valley of the Dee the soil is kindly and fertile, and in a
few places deep. Immediately adjoining the river, there are some
extensive meadows, the advantage of which is felt by the farmer
in the supply of much excellent keep for his dairy stock during
the winter months. These meadows, in connection with the re-
markable stillness of the river, which expands in many places to a
great width, impart a peculiarly peaceful air to the landscape in
this part of the parish.
	Hydrography.--At Lochinbreek, on the estate of Woodhall,
the property of William Kennedy Laurie, Esq., there is a mineral
spring possessing considerable medicinal virtue, and which has in
consequenbe been resorted to from time immemorial. The mine-
ral ingredients which enter into its composition are sulphate of
iron and carbonic acid. The water is transparent; a powerful
tonic and diuretic, and not unpleasant to the taste. In com-
plaint of the stomach, and disorders arising from obstruction or
debility, it has often, proved a very effeacious restorative. Pa-
tients afflicted with aguish complaints have generally derived much
benefit from it; and even in obstinate intermittents, when bark
and other medicines have failed, it has frequently been instrumen-
tal in effecting perfect cures. For the accommodation of visitors
and, invalids, an inn has been provided in the vicinity of the well;
but there is reason to believe, that, were the accommodation more
extensive, the resort to it would be still greater than it is.
	There are five considerable lochs in the parish. Gran-
noch or Woodhall Loch is the largest, and is about two and  a-
half miles long, and at some places half a mile broad. In all
of them, with the exception of Lochinbreck, pike and perch are
to be found in considerable numbers, and on this account the trout
are few. Lochinbreck, however, contains neither pike nor perch,
but abounds in trout; and hence its name, which signifies the loke
of trouts.
	In general those takes are situated in the upland districts of the
parish, and their shores are for the most part unclothed with wood.
Even in these circumstances, however, they please the eye by the
variety and freshness they impart to the landscape; but Wood-
hall Loch, which is situated at the bottom of a steep bank, covers-
ed in various, places by trees, possesses much beauty.
	The Blackwater of Dee, taking its rise in the parish or Minni-


