
FETLAR AND NORTH YELL.                                      29

the outsets were made.  We have no system of draining, irriga-
tion, or embanking, by.which either the old or the new lands can
be properly improved. Indeed, there is no encouragement for im-
provement,-all except a very few being tenants.at will on a rack-
rent, their farm-buildings in general most wretched, and no en -
closures except paltry ring-fences-of turf.   Where any improve-
ment is made, a neighbour, envying the industrious tenant, goes to
the laird, and offers a shilling or two per merk more rent, when
the improver must either pay this additional rent, or flit at next
term.
Mr Jerom Johnson, a small udaller, who had been a consider-
able time in the army, at Gibraltar, Minorca, and with General
Abercromby in Egypt, on his return home, more than five and
twenty years a-0, made great improvement on his kail-yard, con-
verting it into a neat, small garden, where he cultivates currant
Vusbes, and other shrubs, flowers, turnip, onions, pease, carrots,
and tobacco.  He claims the bonour of bein- the first who intro-
doced field turnip into Fetlar.
Mr George Lyle has, of late years, rented a small  spot; o f
formerly barren ground, between two and three acres, which
he has enclosed, and in which he cultivates with success, Scots
oats and barley, field and garden turnip,-cabbage, greens, and
pease, though he holds a lease of only seven years.    This shows
what might be done, if landlords would give encouragement by
granting leases, and giving proper accommodation to their te-
nants.
Quarries.-Some years ago, there was a quarry of chromate of
iron wrought in this island ; but it is exhausted, and no other has
since been opened.    Wherever houses are to be built, quarries
are opened in their neighbourhood, and the necessary quantity of
stones taken for the purpose required,-after which, they are de-
serted.
Fisheries.-The fisheries are a most important branch of our
statistics. If prosecuted with vigour,- they would prove to us an
inexhaustible mine of wealth.  But in this, as in most other
branches of our economy, we are far behind in the race of im-
provement.  Our boats are too small-, and our means-too limited,
to enable us to make the proper exertions.. Nevertheless, we are
doing something; and., being well situated for the prosecution both
of ling and herring-fishing, it is hoped that in time we may make


