
                              LIFF AND BENVIE.       		 583

<TABLE>

No. of farmers,                                                    24
       professional,                                                4
       males,                                                     704
       females,                                                   804

	The number of illegitimate children born within the parish within
the last three years is 7. In most of these cases, the parents were
afterwards married.
	In the Lunatic Asylum, Dundee, there are 3 patients belong-
ing to this parish. Ond fatuous person is taken care of in a pri-
vate family, at the expense of the kirk-session; and 5 by their re-
lations, aided by the session. There are 2 persons, a brother and
sister, deaf and dumb.
        Character of the People.-The people, generally speaking, are
peaceable and industrious, and, with a few marked exceptions, so-
ber. It may be here remarked, that the bothie system, which is
considered so injurious to the religious and moral character of an
important class of our population, is by no means general in this
parish, By far the greater number of farm-servants are married
men.

			IV.-INDUSTRY.
        Agriculture.-There is a considerable variety of soil in the pa-
rish. In general, that of the higher grounds is light, mixed with
sand, upon a subsoil of rock or mortar. The lower grounds are
either of a black soil, inclining to loam, or of clay.  Being in the
hands of skilful, sober, and industrious tenants, and at a short
distance from Dundee, where all kinds of manure can be had, the
lands are rendered very productive. Grain of all the ordinary
kinds, wheat, barley, oats, pease, and beans, are in general culti-
vation.
	The raising of green crop is an object of particular attention,
within three or four miles of Dundee. The average price of
grass of the first year, for green cutting, is about L.12 per acre.
An acre of turnips will bring as much, and often more.
	Potatoes are cultivated to a considerable extent. On some of
the larger farms, from twent to thirty acres are sometimes ap-
propriated to this species of produce. Forty bolls per acre is con-
sidered a fair return. The average selling price varies from 8s.
to 12s. though it sometimes rises to 15s. per boll of thirty-two stones,
Dutch.
	It is a common practice for the farmers to let a field in small
lots, for a potato crop, at the rate of 1s. per pole, or L.10 per
acre, to cottars or villagers, who provide seed, assist in planting,


