
                        ARTICLE GLASGOW.                  903

confirmed from other sources of information.  The Religious In-
struction Commissioners, (at page 15 of their Second Repor,) state,
on the authority of Dissenting as well as Church Establishment
inquiries, that, in a population of about 140,000, the whole Ro-
man Catholics were 15,171, while before the same commission the
Roman Catholics rated their number at 50,000.  It cannot be
doubted that, had they extended their inquiries so as to embrace the
country parishes, where the Roman Catholics are very few, they
would have arrived at the same conclusion with the committee of
Presbytery.  The investigations of the Commissioners at Greenock
brought out a similar result.  The Romish priests, by calculations
connected with baptisms, had made an extravagant estimate of
the population under their superintendence.  The Dissenters of
Greenock, by enumeration, reduced it nearly one-half, viz. from
4000 to 2282.
   It would seem that, to swell their numbers, is part of the syste-
matic policy of the Romish priesthood; a policy against which it
is the duty of Protestants to be on their guard.  Large and af-
fecting as is the Roman Catholic population in Glasgow and its
vicinity, a population which the cheap facilities of communication
with Ireland, and the demand for labour in a manufacturing com-
munity creates, it is not perhaps greater than might have been
expected.  At least it is satisfactory to be informed by the Com-
mittee of Presbytery, that, "so far as they can judge from their
own knowledge, and the returns submitted to them, there does not
seem to be any increase of Popery from proselytism deserving the
name.  Intermarriage may occasionally add an ignorant so-called
Protestant to the communion of the Romish Church, but the great
source of increase is by immigration from Ireland." '
   Warmly as the ministers and members generally of the Esta-
blished Church in Glasgow feel upon the subject of Popery, and vi-
gorously as they have employed means to expose the errors and cor-
ruptions of the Church of Rome, it is scarcely necessary to remark,
that they have never been wanting in kindness to the poor delud-
ed Roman Catholics themselves.  They have practically shown,
that it is quite a possible thing to denounce the fatal errors and
pernicious operation of a man's creed, and at the same time to ma-
nifest the truest benevolence in promotidg his temporal and spi-
ritual good.  One or two facts illustrative of this may be ap-
pealed to.  While the Roman Catholic popolatiou of Glasgow
forms only some twelfth part of the whole population, Dr Cowan,


