
         368                      PERTHSHIRE.

         turally receive from persons entering this part of Scotland, by sail-
	ing up the estuary of the Tay.
	   Extent and Boundaries.-The parish is an irregular four-sided
	figure, somewhat approaching that of a trapezoid,-its longest side
	being that which coincides with the bank of the Tay on the south,
	and it narrowest extremity being that toward the southwest.  The
	length of its southern boundary is rather more than 6 miles, but
	its average length does not exceed 5 1/2 miles. Its breadth at the
	eastern extremity is about 3 1/2 miles, while toward the western ex-
	tremity it is not more than 2 1/2 miles.  Its entire extent may be
	estimated nearly at 15 square miles, so that it contains about
	8600 imperial acres.  It is bounded on the south by the Tay;
	on the west by the parish of St Madoes; on the north-west by
	Kinfauns; on the north by Kilspindie and Kinnaird; and nn the
	east by Inchture.  The parish of Errol thus occupies the most cen-
	tral situation of the Carse of Gowrie, being at the one extremity
	only 7 miles distant from the city of Perth, and at the other, lit-
	tle more than 9 miles from the town of Dundee; while, in its
	breadth, it extendr from the Tay, to within half a mile of the foot
	of those hills which form the northern boundary of the Carse.
	   Topographical Appearances.-The general surface of the pa-
	rish is low and flat.  With the exception of two beautiful emi-
	nences, which swell up from the bosom of the surrounding plain,
	the whole eastern half of the parish is almost an entire level, be-
	ing scarcely anywhere more than 26 feet above the high-water-
	mark of the river.  The western half, however, though less fer-
	tile, is more diversified. The village of Errol, which is situate at
	little more than half a mile of direct distance from the river, and
	therefore much nearer to the southern than the northern boundary,
	is, in regard to the length of the parish, almost exactly in the
	middle.  At the distance of about a quarter of a mile to the east
	of the village, there commences the largest of those eminences
	which diversify the western division of the parish. To the west
	of the village, this ridge assumes considerable breadth, receding
	also a good deal farther from the river, and continues onward, with
         occasional irregularities, but on the whole diminishing in elevation
	to the western extremity, and prolonged through the small pa-
	rish of St Madoes.  Not quite a mile to the north of this princi-
	pal ridge, and nearly opposite the liddle of its course, is another
	ridge, of rather more than three quarters of a mile in length, and


