
   1080                       PERTHSHIRIE.

   mer takes its rise about twenty miles to the west of Killin, at the
   boundary of the counties of Perth and Argyle, then flowing through
   Strathfillan, under the name of Fillan, for a distance of about seven
   miles, it enters a small lake called Loch Doehart, and thence is-
   suing, enters Lochure.  These two lakes are nearly joined.  It
   then, under the name of the Docbart, flows rapidly through the
   romantic glen of that name, and, after a course of about ten miles,
   joins the Lochay, and falls into Lochtay.  The river lochay rises
   in the braes of Glenlochay, through which it flows for about four-
   teen miles.  There is another stream, the Falloch, which runs
   through the beautiful glen of that name, and discharges itself into
   the queen of British lakes, Lochlomond.
     Cascades.-In times of rain, thousands of cascades dash down
   the sloping sides of the mountains.  The falls of the Falloch, as
   it pursues its way through the lovely wooded glen, will richly re-
   pay a visit.  The falls of the Dochart at Killin are much admired
   by the traveller of taste.  From the bridge, looking upwards, few
   scenes present a more striking and grander appearance.  The falls
   of Locbay, about three miles from Killin, are uncnmmonly grand.
   The glen is naturally divided into two parts, and the river has
   forced its way througb the solid rock of the precipitous defile
   which separates the upper from the lower glen.   This part,
   extending to about a mile in length, is not inferior in grandeur or
   richness of scenery, in rugged knolls and wooded dells, to the far-
   famed Trosachs, while the falls have been pronounced equal to
   those of Clyde.   The different points from which the best views
   may be got, are accessible by romantic winding walks formed
   through the woods.  From these points, at one time high above
   the foaming cataract, and sometimes near its edge, it may be seen
   tumbling and dashing in majestic grandeur, sending clouds of spray
   to a considerable distance.
     Mr Pennant thus describes the view from a hill above the manse:
    "A most delicious plain," he observes " spreads itself beneath,
   divided into verdant meadows, or glowing with ripened corn; em-
   bellished with wood, and watered with rivers, uncommonly con-
   trasted.  On one side pours down its rocky channel the furious
   Dochart; on the other glides between its wooded banks the gentle
   Lochay, formiog a vast bend of still water, till it joins the first,
   both terminating in the great expanse of Lochtay."- "Killin,"
   says Dr MacCulloch, "hs the most extraordinary of collection of ex-


