
582                          AYRSHIRE.

tification was for the benefit of the souls of Richard De Moreville;
William De Moreville, Rolland of Galloway, and Elene De Mo-
reville, his spouse. It was confirmed by Walter De Mulcaster
the over lord, and his charter was also ratified by AlIan, son of
Rolland, Constable of Scotland. The charter is in the Chartu-
lary of Dryburgh. It bears no date, as was customary in those
days; but from the names of the parties, it must have been grant-
ed between 1209 and 1223. The lands of Trearne now belong to
Mr Patrick of Hazlehead. About this period the lands of Rough-
wood, being a sub-barony of Giffen, belonged to a very ancient fa-
mily of the name, of Hammill, which is now represented by Robert
Montgomery of Craighouse, through female descent.
	The daughter and heiress of Richard De Mareville was mar-
ried to Rolland, Lord of Galloway. Their son Allan, Lord of
Galloway, succeeded to the estates of the De Morevilles, and be-
came thus Lord of Cunninghame and Constable of Scotland. He
had several daughters, but no son, and his estates were divided
among his daughters. One of them was married to John Baliol;
another to an English nobleman of the name of De la Zouche, and
another to one of the Comyns. These families having all taken
part with their near relation, John Baliol, in the contest with
Bruce for the throne, their estates were forfeited by Bruce, and di-
vided among his own followers, as the Stewarts, Flemings, Boyds
Sempills, &c. In this way, the estate of Giffen reverted to the
Crown. 1n 1370, the first year of the reign of Robert II., A char-
ter passed under the Great Seal, bestowing the lands of Giffen on
Sir Hugh De Eglinton, who was married to Egedia, sister of the
King, and widow of Sir James Lindsay of Crawford. Sir Hugh
possessed great influence at court, and held several important
offices. In 1361, he was Justiciary of Lothian, and in 1367, was
appointed one of the Commissioners for a treaty with England. He
left an only daughter, Elizabeth, who married John Montgomery
of Eaglesham, whose deseendants became Earls of Eglinton. The
estate of Giffen remained with this potent family for several centu-
ries, being given as the messuage of the heir-apparent or master of
Eglinton. It appears that, in 1452, John De Lyddale had right
to the land of Braidstane, a sub-barony of Giffen, but the right
reverted to the family of Eglinton, as about that time Braidstane
and the lands of Hazlehead, another sub-barony of Giffern, were
given off to younger sons of the Earl of Eglinton, and two
distinct families, which continued to hold their respective proper
				3


