
   Statistical Account

Clackmannan is terminated by the Campsie Hills, and the
high grounds in the neighbourhood of Falkirk and Lin-
lithgow.  The intermediate country is all rich and diver-
sified: a great part of it also is classick ground.  Not far
from the extensive Carron iron works, the Tor-wood, fa-
mous for the retreat of Sir William Wallace, appears in
full view; at a small distance from which is seen the well
known field of Bannockburn, the pride of the Scotch war-
rior.-The bleak and barren track of land, bounded by
the Saline hills, to the E. and N. E., interspersed here and
there with fresh water lakes, and some very thriving plan-
tations, forms of striking contrast to the whole scene.
   The village of Clackmannan itself, however, does by
no means correspond with a situation so uncommonly
beautiful.  Its street is broad and regular enough; but
many of the houses are wretched and mean.  In the
middle of the street, stands the tolbooth and court-house; 
a heap of ruins! and a nuisnce to the publick.  Here,
however, the sheriff sometimes holds his courts*; the
country fiars are annually struck here; and here the mem-
bers of parliament for the country have been always elect-

<FOOTNOTE>

*The countries of Clackmannan and Stirling have one sheriff-depute
between them; and the most part of the benefits is transacted by two
substitutes, who have only very small salaries allowed for their trouble.
Most of the sheriff-substitutes in Scotland are in the same situation.
Would it not be an object worthy of the attention of the leg, slature, to
have this useful class of men placed on a more independent footing, by
allowing them salaries more adequate to the importance of the trust
committed to them?  This could be done, either by a small tax on the
fees of court, or in any other way that might be least oppressive to
the country.  The independence of our judges is one of the greatest
blessings of the British constitution.  Before the heritable jurisdictions
were abolished.  The proprietors of the estate of Clackmannan were he-
ritable sheriffs of this country.


