
			      PENICUIK                         41

spirit-shops not included in this return, and the whole sum spent
annually on ardent spirits within the parish will be about L. 1700,
although it is to be hoped that this sum is not all expended by
parishioners.  A Total Abstinence Society exists, and numbers
100 members.
   As the manufacturing population are in the receipt of re-
gular and good wages, their houses present on the whole a
greater appearance of comfort than is generally to be met with
in the cottages of our peasantry.  The character of these lat-
ter is decidedly moral and intellectual, and their standard of ci-
vilization high.  They read much, and take a pride in the ac-
quisition of knowledge.  These laudable qualifications are not, as
may be expected, unaccompanied, in every circumstance, by those
unhappy effects, which generally flow from a "little learning." Po-
litical reading and discussion preponderates, accompanied with no
little degree of disaffection to the institutions of the country, par-
ticularly the rights and privileges of the Established Church.  A
great number of the paper manufacturers are Dissenters, and, al-
most without an exception, Voluntary Churchmen.  The tenantry
are an exceedingly shrewd and industrious class; some of thern are
also Dissenters, but they are more moderate in their political sen-
timents than the other class.  The weavers are not a numerous body,
amounting in all to eight, and they are much depressed by low
profits.  But, on the whole, a great change for the better has taken
place within the last thirty years, in the social condition of the
people,--though I cannot affirm that this improvement arises
from an increased diffusion of godliness.  While it may with
confidence be affirmed that infidelity and open irreligion have
greatly declined, it must be allowed that that high-minded de-
votion which eminently distinguished the people in former times
is now rarely to be met with.  They who can recall those primi-
tive days before the effects of war or manufactures were known to
this rural district, lament the decay of religious feeling, and the dis-
use of those services at the family altar from which spring so many
social blessings and civil virtues.  I fondly believe, howeve, what
domestic religion is now again reviving.  Poaching is a crime which
has been, of late, muchl on the increase, and has led to scenes
happily not often exhibited on this side of the Border. The land-
ed proprietors endeavour to protect their game, by employing
keepers, while their tenantry are stricty prohibited from shooting;
an unhappy arrangement, and one that signally defeats its own
end.  The tenantry have no interest in detecting the poacher, and


