
                         SELKIRK.                     9

  Savings Bank.-We have one savings bank, called "The Et-
trick Forest Savings Bank." The average amount invested in it
for the last five years is L.240, 4s. per annum; the average amount
withdrawn, L.263. The greater amount of the sums withdrawn
is to be attributed to the great number of persons emigrating to
America,-these of course leaving nothing behind them. The
amount invested, however, for the present year, is greater by L.48
than that withdrawn; and the whole amount of the fund on hand
at 5th August 1833 was L. 1673.
  Poor and Parochial Funds.-Paupers are divided into two class-
es,-those receiving and from the town, and those from the parish.
The number of poor on the parish is 15; and 2s. per week is the
average allowance to each. The number on the town is 45. The
average sum paid by the town for the last three years is L. 191,
1s.5d. which is raised byassessment. The church collections amount
to L.25 a-year. The Duke of Bucclleuch gives annually L. 20
to purchase coals; and 200 merks were mortified many years ago
by William Ogilvie of Hartwoodmyers, of which the kirk-session
are the managers.
  Prisons.-In the prison of Selkirk, during the las year, at diffe-
rent periods, seven individuals have been confined. It is not well
secured, as two prisoners have this season escaped; and others
have been frequently in the practice of coming out in the evening,
and returning again before the jailor's visit in the morning. But
this is now in the course of being remedied.
  Fairs, Inns, &c.-Five fairs are held during the year. One of
these, on the 31st of July, was established thirteen years ago for
the sale of lambs, but has not succeeded well. The rest are for
the transaction of business of all snrts. There are fifteen ins.
Happily, however, they have not been of late much encouraged.
  Fuel.-In the western parts of the parish the principal fuel is
peats; but in the town and around it, coals brought from the mines
of Mid-Lothain are chiefly used. The average price per cwt. is
about 1s. or 1s. 1d.
             VL.-Miscellaneous Observations.
  Since the above pages were in the press, a reading-room has
been opened in the town, in which a monthly magazine, three news-
papers, and one of the cheap periodicals are received. It is sup-
ported by subscription; the regulations are good, and it is likely to
prove of much service. The line of road between Selkirk and Gala-


