

626                       ARGYLESHIRE.

well paid, and they afford, it must be acknowledged, but very in-
adequate compensation for the amount and the importance of the
labour bestowed.
   It may be stated that there are scarcely any of the young within
the parish, excepting in cases of culpable neglect on the part of
parents, and these, happily, are but few, who are not able to read
and write, between the ages of six and fifteen, or who are not un-
der instruction.  The people are certainly becoming more alive
to the benefits of education. With the schools that have been men-
tioned, as now instituted and maintained in the united parish,
there cannot be said to be any parts of the parish, containing a
population adequate tn justify the establishment of additional
schools, so distant from school as necessarily to prevent attend-
ance.  In the more upland portions of the parish, indeed, indivi-
dual families are so situated, as to exclude their children from at-
tendance on school, and the parents, in such cases, generally ma-
nifest a laudable desire to supply this, by employing young men
to instruct their children. An aid school, during the winter
months, for the benefit of the younger children, might be advan-
tageously placed in one or two situations.
   The number of schools in the united parish, as has been now
stated, is seven.  The average attendance on the whole of them,
by comparison of lists furnished at the annual examinations for
the last four years, may be stated at 290 or 300. It is to be regret-
ted, that, taking recent improvements as the standard in the quality
of the instruction communicated, it is not such in the parochial
schools generally as is to be desired.  The teachers of these show,
most of them, diligence and faithfulness in the exercise oftbeir im-
portant trust, according to their ability ; but there is assuredly need
that the standard should be raised.
   The beneficial effects of educational facilities are certainly be-
gun to be seen and felt, and, it is to be hoped, will increase.
Sabbath schools are taught in connection with the several schools
mentioned.
   Literature.-There is a parochial library instituted within the
last two years, its property vested in the majority of the annual
subscribers.  The rates of contribution are, Is. of entry-money,
and 1d. per montb.  It already consists of about 300 volumes,
and promises to be beneficial.  Visitors to the place during the
summer season are admitted on the same terms as permanently
residing parishioners to the use of this library.  There is also a
library for the use of the Sabbath schools, and small libraries are


