
524 			DUMFIES-SHIRE.

patch the greater part of them to Annan, to aid in the defence of
the town, and the neighbouring district. In 1570 the castle was
again demolished by an English army under the Earl of Sussex.
It was afterwards rebuilt, and continued to be a border fortification,
till the union of the crowns. At that time, the inhabitants were,
reduced to a state of very great destitution, and in a grant obtain-
ed from James VI. in 1609, it is stated, that owing to their being
"so miserably impoverished" as to be unable to build a church
the castle war granted them for a place of worship.
	During the civil wars in the reign of Charles I., Annan suffered
still more and, as some compensation for the privations to which
it had been subjected, the Restoration Parliament granted it the
privilege of collecting customs and other aids.
	Nothing worthy of note seems to have occurred at Annan, from
this period down to that of 1745, when the rebel forces, retreating
before the Duke of Cumberland's army, lay encamped there dur-
ing the night of the 20th December, after several hundreds of
their number had been swept away by the current, when attempting
to cross the rivers Eden and Esk.
	Eminent Men.-Dr Thomas Blacklack, a poet and a divine,
was born at Annan in 1721. Though totally deprived of sight
by the small-pox when a child, he was not deterred from prose-
cuting his studies for the church, which he commenced at the
age of twenty, and continued to pursue for ten years at the Uni-
versity of Edinburgh. His acquirements in the Latin, Greek, and
French laguages were very considerable,--his knowledge of the
sciences intimate,--and his attainments in poetry remarkable, con-
sidering the disadvantages under which he laboured. A volume of
poetry, and several theological productions composed by him, are
printed. As a particular instance of his discernment, may be
mentioned the circumstance of his having been the first to appre-
ciate the poetical merits of Robert Burns.
	He was brought up and educated the celebrated African tra-
veller. Hugh Clapperton, whose dust now lies in the land which
was the scene of his researches.
        Here too was born and brought up the Rev. Edward Irving,
whose fate is still more a subject of melanchoy regret. Posses-
sed of a heart wedded to his sacred profession, and once of a mind
to whose vigour and capacity we presume not to assign a limit, he
bade fair for becoming one of the brightest ornaments of our na-
tional church. But, alas, " in ttie midst of his fame, delusion like
				4


