
     Statistical Account

fits of the farmer arise more from sheep and cattle than from
grain.

   Climate.-The air is generally sharp and piercing, as the
surface of the parish is for the most part bare of shelter, and
is opposite to two glens, which generate a current of air.
No unwholesome vapour can arise, on account of the quick
circulation of water, as there is every where a ready commu-
nication with the rivers, whose channels are deep and rapid.

<FOOTNOTE>

Diseases.-There are no very remarkable instances of longe-
vity.  One man, who had been born, and lived most of his life
in this parish, died a few years ago, near to the age of 100.
Another gave an account of himself, which must have made
him to be above that age; but it appears from the records, that
his claim was not well founded.  One woman now lives in the
village above the age of 90, and is still able to move about:
another is 86.  Several have reached above 80.  The most pre-
vailing complaints are, asthma amongst the men, and hysterical
disorders amongst the women, rheumatism in both sexes.  These
may, in part, be caused, or nor a little heightened, by poor diet,
hard labour, and forry lodging.  Consumptions are also fatal
to persons in this parish.  No peculiar epidemical disorder pre-
vails.  Several years ago, many were cut off by an infectious
putrid fever, which was, however, more fatal in some neigh-
bouring parishes.  The people are fast surmounting their prejudices
against inoculation.  Some observe, that the ague was frequent
in their youth; but the complaint is now hardly known.

   Antiquities.-The castle of Edzell is one of the most magnifi-
cent ruins any where to be met with.  It long belonged to the
family of Lindsay, and now belongs to Mr Maule of Panmuir.
It consists of two stately towers evidently in different stiles, and
built at different periods.  These are connected by an extensive
wall; and large wings went backwards from the towers.  Tra-
dition says, that the square tower, the most ancient, was built
and possessed by the family of Stirling, from whom it descended
to Lindsay of Glenesk.  Of the former family, no traces now
remain in these parts.  The Lindsays of Glenesk, afterwards of
Edzell, make a distinguished figure in Scottish history.  Buchan-
an mentions several remarkable actions in which these chieftains


