
	254			ROSS AND CROMARTY.

	in the time of the Druids, as the larger of the two has the appear-
	ance of being burnt from top to bottom ; but others, that they
	were erected as memorials to perpetuate some events which, as the
	stones are in their natural shape, and without inscription, have not
	been transmitted to posterity; and a third party, that they were
	intended to mark the neutral ground between the Mackenzies of
	Seaforth, and the Mackenzies of Dochmaluack.
	   There is another stone halfway between Castle-Leod and the
	Spa with an eagle cut upon it, and called in Gaelic Clack-an-
	tiom-pan. It stands close to the old line of road, and is supposed
	to mark the place where a number of the Munroes fell in an af-
	fray with the Mackenzies of Seaforth. The tradition is as fol-
	lows: The Lady of Seaforth dwelt at that time in a wicker or
	wattled-house at Kinellan. A party of the Munroes came upon
	her by surprise, and carried off the Lady, house, and all that it
	contained. They were overtaken near Castle-Leod, defeated with
	great slaughter, and the Lady of Seaforth rescued. Clach-an
	tiompan was set up by the Munroes over the remains of their fel-
	low clansmen. Kenneth Oure is said to have prophesied that
	in course of time ships should be seen moored to this stone.
	   On the north-west side of Knock-farril is a circular enclosure
	or ring, formed of small stones, having the earth somewhat scoop-
	ed out in the interior. There is a similar one near the march
	line between the properties of Cromartie and Hilton, and within
	sight of the former. They are not unlike the pond-barrows of
	Wales, and are supposed to have been used either for the perfor-
	mance of religious rites around them, or for games and combats
	which took place within them. The common people call them
	fairy-folds.
	   On a small eminence at the west end of Park is a number of
	standing stones, placed in a circular form, and enclosing a space
	of about 15 feet in diameter, from which two rows run eastward, and
	make a rectangle of 9 feet by 6 feet. They are supposed to Com-
	memorate a bloody battle which took place towards the end of the
	fifteenth century, between the M'Kenzies and the M'Donalds,
	headed by Gillespie, cousin of the Lord of the Isles. The chief of
	the M'Kenzies bad married a sister of the latter; but for some slight
	reason repudiated her, and is said to have sent her back, by way
	of insult, with a man and horse each blind of an eye, as she her-
	self had a similar defect. Some time thereafter, a predecessor of
	the Laird of Brodie happened to be on a visit at Kinellan, and on


