
     Statistical Account

   Character of the People.-All the inhabitants belong to
the Established Church, except 1 Unitarian, 1 family of
Episcopals, and 1 of Baptists.  There are few districts in
Scotland that have been less disturbed by religious dissensions
than the Carse of Gowrie.  From Perth to the extremi-
ty of the county towards Dundee, a populous district of
18 miles in length, and 5 or 6 in breadth, there are but
2 meeting houses for separatists, each of which has but a
small flock.  The inhabitants of this district were much
reproached by the zealots of last century, for their supineness
and carlessness about their controversies; though the people
here are moderate, they are not justly reproached with in-
attention to religion; in general they attend its services
well.  The people are industrious and peaceable, though
unrefined in their manners.  Few have been known to in-
list in the army, fewer have entered into the navy, none

<FOOTNOTE>

ning of it now costs.  Wheels for two hands, now universally used in this
country, were not then introduced.  Wheels of any kind, indeed were
little used.  The rock and spindle were the only instruments for manu-
facturing yarn.-Another circumstance, in the record, points, out the
great straits to which the people were reduced.  It is well known what
zeal the people of Scotland at that time cherished for a struct observation
of the Sabbath; yet six or seven of the people having, in the beginning
of harvest, got in some early parcels of grain, united in setting, the mill a-
going, that they might have meal for immediate use.  The session were
under the necessity of taking cognisance of the breach of the Lord's day.
And the miller having stated to them, "that he never set on the mill on
"the Lord's day, but for the behoof of such people as represented to him
"that they could get neither meal to buy nor barrow, and had now;"
and the people also having declared that they were in absolute want, the
session found them not deserving of censure.  Among this group of cul-
prits, was Mr Alexander Nicol. at that time schoolmaster of this parish.
He, at that time, was much regarded as a poet in this corner and suffered
the proverbial lot of that unfortunate race.  He published two small vo-
lumes, chiefly in the Scottish dialect.  The first called Nature without
Art, and the other the Rural Muse.  He was afterwards translated to
Collace.


