
        130                        PERTHSHIRE.

          Friendly Societies.-About the time that the Highland Society
        directed its attentinn to the aseertainment of the true principles
        upon which friendly societies should be founded, there were, in
        -Perth eighteen in active operation, viz. the first second, and
        third shoernakees, the coachman's, the mason's, the labourer's, the
        eart6r's, the fisber's, the stocking-maker's, the cabinet-maker's, the
        Scone and Perth free-mason's, the provident, the new Row, the
        High Street, the South Street, the Pornarium weavers', societies.
        The " first shoemaker's society," and the 11 coachman's," were in-
        stituted in 1776.  The former continued fifty-nine years; the
        others were gradually formed in succession.  When the Highland
        'Society's report was published, the most of them were experien-
        cing difficulties which sprung frorh their originators being ignorant
        of the true principles on which they should have proceeded.  The
        light thrown upon the subject by this report, the subsequent
        AttOrnpt of Government to legislate upon it, and various internal
        causes, threw them into a state of alarm, and although many of
        them were possessed of considerable funds, and, with good manage-
        ment, might have struggled through, yet, in the course of a very
        few years, the great majority of them were abandoned.: Those
        now in existence are 11 the Scone and Perth," the 11 mason's," the
        11. carter's," and the 11 labourer's," but even these are in a languish-
        ing condition.  Little can be said of the benefits resulting from
        them to the community.  That the community was ever much
        benefited by these institutions is questionable, for though many
        individuals and families received timely relief while in distress by
        their means, they were accompanied with evils of a deteriorating
        description.
        In the early period of the Societies' history, the members were
        very reluctant to be put upon the fund.  Indeed, it was consider-
        ed by some of them as equivalent to- being put upon a pauper
        fund.  It *&y often happened that individuals in distress would
        defer reporting themselves for eight_days or a fortnight, to see
        whether they might not get better, and render application to the.
        fund unnecessary.  This reluctance, however, soon evaporated,
        and at length it happened that no sooner was an individual affect-
        ed with a slight cold, or headache or trifling temporary ailment
        than he: wa& reputed to be sick, and immediately received for a
        week or two something in the shape of aliment.  Others again
        whd lweie members of two or three societies, would continue on the
        lis4 drawing more ihoney thiLn they were able when in health


