
                           KILTEARN.                          319

evening of his days in improving his estates and ameliorating the
condition of his tenantry.
  Parochial Ministers.-Besides the Fowlis family, there have been
several individuals, of considerable eminence in various departments,
connected with the parish. One Donald Munro, minister of Kil-
tearn, and contemporary with Buchanan, furnished that historian
with much information respecting the Highlands and isles, of which
he was archdeacon, and is characterised by him as a pious and learn-
ed man. The ministers of the parish, as far back as is known, were
Messrs T. Hogg, J. Gordon, Hugh Campbell, William Stuart,
Andrew Robertson, George Watson, Harry Robertson, D.D. The
present minister is Mr Thomas Munro. Mr Hogg was settled in
the parish in 1655, but was obliged to leave it at the Restoration to
make way for an Episcopal minister. He was one of five mini-
sters in the synod who refused to conform, and was consequently
subjected to a harassing persecution. After a tedious imprison-
ment in the Bass, he at length obtained his liberty, and retired to
Holland, where his learning and piety acquired for him the greatest
esteem. He appears to have united the most sincere and ardent
piety to a strength of mind which no prospect of suffering could
daunt. At a period when, to all appearance, his affairs were despe-
rate, when he was obliged to fly from his parish and people with-
out any prospect of ever seeing them, he declared, with the most
assured confidence, that there should be such a revolution as hap,
pened afterwards, and that be should return to his charge at Kil-
tearn. And so it was. In consideration of his eminent worth, and
as a sort of reparation for his sufferings, King William appointed
him one of his chaplains for Scotland. He did not, however, live
long to enjoy his honours and ease; for, exhausted by a long course
of fatigue and suffering, he died in 1692. At the entry to the south-
west door of the church, his grave is marked by a plain stone, which
bears the following singular inscription. "This stone will witness
against the people of Kiltearn, if ever they bring in an ungodly mi-
nister here." *
  No historical events of any importance have, of late years, hap-
pened in the parish. The feuds which used at one time to cause
so much bloodshed, are now happily unknown; and till very lately,
the communication, with the south, was so imperfect, that the events

<FOOTNOTE> The Episcopalian minister settled in the parish upon Mr Hogg's ejection, was a
Mr John Gordon, who met with so much opposition, that the then laird of Fowlis,
Sir John Munro, called for his adherence to the cause, the Presbyterian mortar-piece,
refused to pay him any stipend.


