
     Of Barony of Glasgow.

   Division and Rent of Land.-The whole valued rent of the
parish, as stated in the cess--books for the county, is 13,000 l.
Scotch; but of this 4000 l. is held by the College of Glasgow,
as the teind of the archbishoprick, for which they have ne-
ver yet paid any public burdens.  The heritors are 92 in
number, of whom 59 reside in the parish, either constantly or
occasionally.  The farms are, in general, about 60 acres,
though there are some of 160, and some as low as 20 acres.
In the neighbourhood of the villages, a great deal of the land
is rented in very small parcels by the tradesmen, for the pur-
pose of rearing potatoes, etc.  The soil being very different,
the rents are also different; but from the spirit for improve-
ment which prevails, and the increasing demand in the city of
Glasgow for the produce of the farms, the rents are every
where rising.  The greatest part of the land is enclosed, the
face of the country much improved, and the tenants better
able to afford a higher rent than formerly.  At present, there

<FOOTNOTE>

middle of March to the middle of April; potatoes and bailey in May; and
turnips in June and July.  The harvest generally begins about the middle or
end of August, and the crop is got totally in about the middle of October, ex-
cept in cold and wet seasons.  The price of grain and provisions in this parish,
is regulated by the Glasgow markets, and need not be here separately stated.

   The Price of Labour.-The wages of day-labourers are, in winter, from 10 d.
to 1 s., and in summer from 1 s. 2 d. to 1 s. 4 d. a-day.  Journeymen weavers earn
from 10 s. to 14 s. a-week, and some 20 s.  In harvest the men's wages, a-day,
for reaping, are from 1 s. 4 d. to 1 s. 6 d., and the women's 1 s.; both of them
furnish their own provisions out of their wages.  Colliers earn from 2 s. 9 d. to
3 s. each day; but are so many days out of the pit, that they seldom, at an
average, earn above 30 L. annually.  The wages of domestic servants are, for
men 10 L., and for women from 3 l. to 5 L. a-year.  A ploughman's wages are,
in general, about 10 L. or 12 L.; but some who have excelled at the ploughing
matches, some time ago introduced into this country, have got their wages ad-
vanced to 25 L. a-year, besides bed, board, and washing, The expenses of a
common labourer's family, when married) are generally about 16 L. a-year.


