
486			AYRSHIRE.

lies in the hinge, which is extremely ingenious in point of con-
trivance, as well as exquisitely delicate in point of execution; so
that it is with much propriety styled "the invisible wooden hinge."
The principle on which the hinge is formed, as well as the instru-
ments employed in making it, were for many years kept a secret;
but are now no longer so. The wood used in the manufacture
is plane tree, it being preferable to all others by reason of its close
texture. The tree is first of all cut from the centre towards the
circumference into triangular pieces. These are then put to dry,
and season for at least five months, under cover. One set of artists
make the boxes, another paint those beautiful designs that em-
bellish the lids, while women and children are employed in varnish-
ing and polishing them. The process of varnishing a single box
takes from three to six weeks. Spirit varnish takes three weeks,
and requires about thirty coats; while copal varnish, which is now
mostly used, takes six weeks, and requires about fifteen coats to com-
plete the process. When the process of varnishing is finished,
the surface is polished with ground flint; and then the box is ready
for the market.
   These ingenious and elegant specimens of art have been brought
by successive improvement to an astonishing degree of perfection;
and the skill of the artists, sharpened and stimulated by keen ri-
valry, is continually advancing this curious and beautiful manufac-
ture to a higher pitch of improvement. At one time a single box,
without either painting or varnishing, but just as it came from the
hands of the maker, sold for 30s., whereas at present, seven such
boxes can be had for 12s. A few years ago, a solid foot of wood
that cost only 3s., could be manufactured into boxes worth L. 100
Sterling. And then the workmanship increased the original value
of the wood nearly 700 times. But at present, a solid foot of wood
will only yield in finished boxes about L 9 Sterling. The workman-
ship thus only brings at present one-eleventh part of its former
price.
   In consequence of this great decline in the price of the boxes,
the wages of the artists have also been much lowered. A few years
ago, the box-maker made L. 1, 1s. a week, the painter L. 2, 2s.,
the varnisher 12s.; whereas now the box-maker only makes 10s. to
12s., the painter 15s., and the varnisher 5s. to 6s. a week.
   A system of chequering has now almost superseded the painting
of the boxes. It is done by very ingenious and nicely adjusted
machines, that are worked by boys, and is much less expensive


