
     Statistical Account

   Manufactures.-There was formerly a great deal of thin
narrow linen, from 10 d. to 1 s. 1 d. a yard, made in this

<FOOTNOTE>

the next.  From motives of frugality, we dissolve dirty salt (the
sweepings of the garnels, bought at a low price) in sea water.
But it should hardly think this circumstance could make and
difference.
   A vast quantity of potatoes is raised in this parish, not only
by the farmers, but every family in the towns have a patch of
them, which they plant and dress themselves, in the neighbour-
ing inclosures, if they can procure ground, if not, they go to a
considerable distance.  This not only makes a principal article
of family provision, but is used here for feeding swine, horses,
and especially milk cows.
   The price of many articles of provision is lower, and that of
labour higher here, than in many other districts of Scotland.
The first is the consequence of plenty, joined with our distance
from the great markets of Glasgow, Paisley, and Greenock.
The last is the consequence of the increasing demand for labour.
Eggs are from 3 d. to 4 d. per dozen; beef, and all butcher-
meat, from 4 d. to 6 d. per lib.; pork somewhat dearer; butter
from 7 d. to 10 d. the lib.; the Ayrshire pound is 24 ounces,
or 1 1/2 pounds English; honey at 6 s. the Scotch pint, i. e. 5
pounds English; salmon, except at an early season, 3 d. the
English pound.  The price of tour of there articles, and also
of cheese and coals, has risen, within these last 20 years, about
a third part.  The price of eggs, butter, and also of horses,
has doubled; and that of salmon, in consequence of an easier
carriage from Ayr to Edinburgh, tripled.
   The wages of the coal-hewers, or miners, are from 2 s. 6 d.
to 3 s. a day; but they never work above five days in the
week.  The coal is now so well ascertained, that it is lately let
by the piece at one of the collieries, much to the advantage both
of master and workmen.  Long before the late act of Parlia-
ment, the coal-hewers and their children in this district, were
set free from their ancient servitude, by a voluntary deed of
their master; and this much more effectually than that act of
Parliament did.  They are here quite on the same footing with
all other workmen.  The wages of the carpenters are 2 s. a
day:  Those of masons now risen to half a guinea and 11 s. a
week, besides sharpening their tools.  Wrights, 10 s. a week.
Common labourers, 1 s. in Winter, 1 s. 2 d. often, 1 s. 4 d. in
Spring and Harvest.  Wages of house maid-servants, 3 L. a year
and upwards; and of a labouring man-servant, not living in


