
                        CAVERS.                       435

   Wages.-The rate of labour per day, for men, during summer,
1s. 4d., and for women, 10d. including victuals; and during win-
ter, for men, 1s., and for women, 6d.  The wages of artisans vary
from 2s. to 3s. per day.
                    V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Market-Town.-Hawick, in the adjoining parish of that name,
is the nearest market-town, distant about a mile from the nearest
point of the parish, and from Cavers church about three miles.
The only village is Denholm, situated near the lower extremity of
the parish. It contains a population of about 500 souls.  The
principal means of subsistence is stocking-weaving, given out by the
stocking-mariufacturers of Hawick.  The wages, of course, are re-
gulated by the extent aiid quality of the workmanship.  A skilful
and industrious person may win, on an average, throughout the
year, 15s. per week.
     Means of Communication.- These, for the greater part, are suit-
able and good-the turnpike roads being pretty numerous, and in
general in a very sufficient state of repair.  The main road be-
tween Edinburgh and Carlisle, entering at Tein-side bridge, runs
through the upper part of the parish, a distance of about seven
miles, on which are four mails in the day to and from Edinburgh.
Besides these, there are also two other coaches which run the same
way in the same time.  A turnpike of the same quality as the
main one, branching off at Hawick, runs through the lower division
to Jedburgh, Kelso, &e.  Another, up the Slitrige, communicates
with the English border counties, by Note-o'-the-Gate, Carter-fell,
&c.; while the county roads, leading in various directions, are too
numerous to be here noticed.  A penny post-office is established
at Denbolm, and another at Caerlanrig Chapel.  There are many
bridges in the parish, some of whith are constructed of stone, and
others of wood, the latter being chiefly for the conveniency of
foot-passengers; and the fences, whether consisting of hedges, dry
stone dike, or of stone and lime, are in general pretty well kept.
     Ecclesiastical State.- As one church could not possibly accom-
modate the whole parish, the present one was built with a view to
the accommodation of the lower division of it; and for this it is
pretty well placed.  It was erected in 1822, and contains seats for
500.  The building is very substantial, as well as somewhat ele-
gaiit, and is at present in an excellent state of repair.  The number
of communicatits is about 300.
     The manse was built in 1813, and is also in good repair.


