
                          ABERDEEN.                          59

a few words explanatory of may design and intention in that be-
quest.  The effect of early impressions on the youthful mind is ge-
nerally admitted.  These lectures, therefore, if properly conduct-
ed and pressed home, may, by the blessing of God, be the means
of laying the foundation of an early piety in the youthful mind,
and thus give God the first possession of the heart.  Whilst al-
most every branch of useful knowledge is ably taught in our Bri-
tish universities, it is matter of regret that so little provision is
made for the instruction of our youth in the more important duties of
religion.  In apportioning the sums of money for charitable purposes
under this deed, I would, therefore, beg leave to recommend to my
trustees, to give a decided preference to all charitable institutions.
having for their object the education of the rising generation, more
especially where due attention is paid to their instruction in the prin-
ciples of religion.  In doing this, they will best fulfil my intentions."
   The trustees accordingly, in the exercise of the powers devolv-
ed on them, have annually paid L.100 to lecturers on Practical
Religion in King's and Marischal Colleges; L.150 to aged fe-
male servants; L.150 to Sunday schools; and set aside L.300 as
a fund for the establishment of an hospital for orphan and desti-
tute girls; and the residue they have apportioned in annual or oc-
casional donations to various institutions, such as the Deaf and
Dumb Institution, the Sick Man's Friend Society, the Female
Society, the Coal Fund, the Clothing Society, the Dispensaries, &c.
   Carnegie's Fund.-In 1835, Mr John Carnegie bequeathed a
sum of between L.7000 and L.8000 to certain trustees, for the
purpose of establishing an hospital for female orphans, which will
probably be conjoined with that portion of Mr Gordon's bequest
which his trustees have set aside for a similar purpose.
   Orphan Girls' Hospital.-In the year 1836, Mrs Elmslie, a
widow lady, residing in London, devoted a sum of L.26,000 to
the erection and endowment of an hospital at Aberdeen for orphan
and destitute girls.  This sum she believed that her husband, had
be lived to execute his intention, would have applied for this pur-
pose.  Accordingly, a site having been selected on the west side
of the town, the building was commenced, ands is now very far ad-
vanced towards completion.
   Show's Fund.-In 1807, Alexander Shaw executed a dead,
vesting his property in trustee, with directions that it should be
allowed to accumulate till it should be sufficient to build and en-
dow an hospital for 5 boys and 5 girls, either orphans or desert-

