
                           DORNOCH.                              5

Duchess Countess of Sutherland, who both died in the flower of
youth, the one ten days after the other, at Bath, in the year 1766,
and were buried in one grave in the church at Holyrood-House.
His lordship had only attained the age of thirty-two, and her lady-
ship,that of twenty-six.  This amiable pair were not less ennobled
by their shining virtues than by their high rank.   Their humane
dispositions and condescending manners had greatly endeared them
to all orders of society: and their untimely death was deeply felt
and universally deplored.
   A melancholy event which occurred in July 1833 added to the
number of those belonging to the noble family of Sutherland, vhose
mortal remains are deposited in the cathedral of Dornoch.  George
Granville Leveson Gower, first Duke of Sutherland, died at Dun-
robin Castle on the 19th day of July 1833.  His Grace's remains
are laid in a place prepared for them in the south aisle of the ca-
thedral; over which, it is said, the Duchess Countess of Sutherland
proposes to raise a statue of his Grace, to be executed by Chantry
of London.   The death of the Duke of Sutherland produced a
deep and universal feeling of regret among all ranks in this country;
for his Grace was highly respected by all as a nobleman of most
honourable principles, and having the comfort of his numerous te-
inantry at heart.  His funeral was attended by the gentlemen and
tenantry of thirteen parishes in this county, and by the tenantry
of four parishes from his Grace's estates in Boss-shire; and the
procession strikingly testified to the high estimation in which his
Grace was held.
   Land-owners.-These are, the Duchess Countess of Sutherland;
George Dempster, Esq. of Skibo; Major George Gunn Munro
of Poyntzfield; and Mrs Gordon of Embo.  None of the principal
land-owners reside in the parish, except Mr Dempster.
   Parochial Registers.--A register of baptisms has been kept,
though sometimes not very regularly, since 13th August 1730; and
a register of marriages, since 13th A ust 1734.   These registers
have been always under the charge of the parochial schoolmaster
for the time being, who acts also as clerk to the kirk-session, and
receives a small fee for every act of registration.  When the school

<FOOTNOTE>Vide Golspie
   While prepations were making in the cathedral for the Duke of Sutherland's
funeral, a leaden coffin was discovered in the burying-place of the noble family, having
a plate bearings inscriptin that it contained the remains of John, the twenties
Earl of Sutherland, who "died June 27,173a," a little more than a century before
the Duke's death.  His Lordship's coffin was covered with another, and laid up with
all due respect and care in the same burying-place again.


