
     Statistical Account

plars had considerable possessions in land adjoining to Cupar
on the south.  There are still two houses, in different parts
of the town, called Temple Tenements, which belonged to
that order.  They now hold of the Earl of Hadington, and
enjoy all the privileges and exemptions usually attached to
the possessions of the Templars.-The only religious house
which existed in Cupar, at the time of the Reformation, was
a convent of Dominican, or Black Friars.  It was situated
at the foot of the Castlehill, and connected with the Castle*.
A considerable part of the chapel, built of cut free-stone,
still stands.

<FOOTNOTE>

the country.  The Latin name, by which this hill is sometimes
mentioned, must decide the controversy, if with any plausibility
it could ever have been maintained;-"Mons placiti," which
may be translated "Statute-hill."

*No part of the Castle now remains.  Though long the re-
sidence of the Earls of Fife, it had at last become a national
fortress.  It had been a place of considerable strength.  Bu-
chanan stiles it Arx munitissima Cuprensis.  The English were in
possession of it anno 1297.  In the course of that year, it was
recovered by the bravery of Wallace.  [Buchan. Hist. book viii.]
-Robert Wishart, bishop of Glasgow, who had joined the par-
ty of Bruce, after the murder of Comyn, held the Castle of Cu-
par against the English.  He was made prisoner there, arrayed
in armour, and, in that ancanonical garb, was conducted to the
Castle of Nottingham.  This happened anno 1306.  [Dalrym-
ple's Annals, vol. II.]-Edward Baliol, assisted by Edward III. of
England, reviving his pretensions to the crown of Scotland,
defeated the Scotch at Halidon, anno Dom. 1333, during the
minority of David II.; upon which the greater part of the
kingdom submitted to him.  Upon this occasion, we find the
Castle of Cupar entrusted to William Bullock, an ecclesiastic of
eminent abilities, chamberlain of Scotland, in whom baliol pla-
ced his chief confidence.  [Dalrymple.]-The king was again
put in possession of this fortress, by the successful valour of Wil-
liam Douglas, and soon after he caused it to be entirely demo-
lished.


