
	               CAWDOR.                                 25

regularity prevails in attendance on public worship, which is con-
ducted in Gaelic and English.  The communicants are from 80
to 90 in number. Stipend about L. 170.
  There are two religious associations to which the parish in ge-
neral contributes. The one a Bible, the other a Missionary Society.
  Poor and Parochial Funds.-The church collections for the
poor amount to about L. 25 per annum, besides which there are
no other parochial funds. About a similar sum is collected an-
nually for other charitable and religious purposes. The number
on the poor's roll is 50.
  Clothing Society.-A penny a week clothing Society is support-
ed in the parish by the Countess of Cawdor, upon a plan well de-
serving extensive imitation. A penny is contributed weekly by
each poor person on the list, to which another is added by the be-
nevolent promoter of the scheme. With this sum, which, in the
course of a year, amounts to 8s. 8d. for each person, there is pur-
chased at the beginning of winter such articles of clothing as they
severally find most requisite. The number on the list here at
present is 50, but this might vary according to circumstances.
The clothing is purchased for the poor, and in no case is the money
entrusted to themselves. By this plan, charity is prudently and
usefull dispensed, while at the same time, habits of thriftiness
and forethought are cultivated in the minds of those who are ad-
mitted to the benefit. Of course, wherever acted on, some suitable
individual must be appointed to take charge of the weekly deposits,
procure the clothing, and take the general management of the
scheme.
  Education.-There are four schools in the parish, all more or
less endowed. The parish school enjoys the maximum salary;
the fees vary from L. 10 to L. 14 per annum.  The children of
paupers are taught at reduced rates. Another school has lately
been established by the society for Propagating Christian Know-
ledge. The two others are sewing and reading schools, taught
by females; one endowed by the Right Honourable the Countess
of Cawdor, and the other by the above-mentined society.  With
the exception of a very few old people, there are none but can read,
and the majority can write.
  Means of Communicaition.-There is apenny-post in the village
of Cawdor, where a considerable daily increase of letters has ta-
ken place since the reduction of the postage rates.
  Inns.-There is one inn, and two licensed spirit-shops.


