
820                    FIFESHIRE.

There are many rabbits on the island, and its shores are well
known to the fishermen as abounding with fish and oysters, and
other kinds of shell-fish.
   The island was conferred by Malcolm II., in 1010, upon the
first of the Noble family of Keith, as a reward for his valour at
the battle of Barry. From this family it received its name. It
subsequently fell to the Crown, as it was included in the grant of
Glammis Tower and the lands of Kingborn to Lord Glammis.
The Strathmore family retained it till 1649, when it was sold to
Sir John Scott of Scotstarvit, for the purpose, it would appear, of
establishing a fishery upon it. After passing into the bands of
various proprietors, it ultimately became the property of the Buc-
cleuch family. His Grace, the present representative of that
distinguished family, is, in virtue of this property, an heritor of
the parish of Kinghorn.
   The purposes to which this beautiful island has been appro-
priated are varied and important. It became a military station of
great consequence to the contending parties during the stormy
periods of Mary of Guise and her unfortunate daughter, and of
Charles 1. A part of the wall, showing the strength and nature
of its fortifications, is still to be seen. James IV. is said to have
made it the scene of an experiment to discover the original lan-
guage of mankind, by sending thither two infants under the care
of a deaf and dumb nurse; but the result of the trial has never
been recorded. At an earlier period ( 1497), the island was, by
order of the King, made an asylum for the reception of persons in
Edinburgh who were seized with a contagious disorder "callit the
grandgore."
   Very different is now the purpose to which Inchkeith is appro-
priated. In 1803, it was selected for the establishment of a light-
house, on account of its great importance to the navigation of the
Forth; and the first beacon-light appeared from it on the evening
of the 1st September 1804. Since that time it has undergone
various improvements. In 1815, it was changed from being a
stationary light to a revolving one, to distinguish it from the fixed
light erected on the Isle of May. But the greatest improvement
upon the apparatus was made in 1834, when, instead of seven re-
flectors revolving, each with its own lamp in the cavity or centre
of the reflector, there is now one fixed burner, around which there
revolves a heptagon, having on each side a perpendicular lens of
large size and great power, which concentrates the light at the

