
                           CAMPSIE.                         257

facture of Prussian blue. The exquisite beauty of this salt con-
trasts strangely with the filthiness of the animal matter out of
which it is made.
   The Prussian blue manufactory, which is in connexion with the
above, produces Prussian blue of the finest quality. This arti-
cle, as is known to chemists, is the result of mutual decomposi-
tion of prussiate of potash and sulphate of iron.
   In the year 1834, another manufactory was established by the
same company for the production of muriate of potash for their
alum manufactory, and of soda ash (a crude carbonate of soda,)
for the use of bleachers. These salts are obtained from  kelp.
From a particular species of kelp, in addition to the above-men-
tioned salts, iodine is also obtained, which, from the beautiful co-
lour it produces in combination with certain metallic bases, may
possibly, at some future period, become a valuable article in the
hands of the calico-printer or dyer.  It is as yet, so far as we
know, used only in medicine.
   Coals, to the quantity Of 14,500 tons, are turned out by this
company yearly for their own use and for sale to the country,
also about 450 chalders of lime. Ironstone, which abounds in this
district, has been begun lately to be wrought by this company, and
at present gives employment to many men. But, as the mining of
ironstone here is of recent commencement, and as there seems to
be abundance of material in the field, the operations, in this de-
partment will probably be much extended.
   The whole number of persons employed by this company is not
less than 180, and the amount of wages paid annually is from
L 8000 to L.10,000.
   There are other four coal and lime-works in the parish, at which
there are about 20,000 tons of coal turned out annually, and about
2600 chalders of lime burned. The present selling-price of good
round coal (1837,) is 6s. 8d. per ton of 20 cwt. dross, 3s. 9d.per
ton, and that of lime, I5s 4d. per chalder of 16 bolls, for credit,
and 14s. 8d. per chalder for cash sale.
   The chalder of lime contains 32 Winchester bushels, each con-
taining 2128.9 cubic inches, and ought, like all other similar ar-
ticles, to be sold by this standard measure. But a practice has
crept in among the lime-dealers in this, as in other places, of com-
peting with each other who shall give the largest measure, so that

<FOOTNOTE>Much less of this salt is now. manufilctured here than formerlyl owing to the
great reduction of its price in the market.
  STIRLING.                       R


