
                        GAIRLOCH.                              91

Applecross; on the north, by the river Gruinard, that separates
it from the parish of Lochbroom ; on the east, by a chain of hills,
where the mountain streams running towards the east and west
coasts, separate; and on the west, by the Minch, that separates the
Long Island, or Lewis, from the main land. To sbew the irregu-
larity of the figure of this parish, it may here be stated, that, on
the west coast, it has from 80 to 100 miles of sea coast, all of a
bold rocky description, except on the shores of the inland lochs.
   Hydrography, 6-c.-Few parishes on the west coast can boast of
more magnificent mountain scenery,-as the traveller can testify,
who has sailed down thd picturesque Lochmaree. The principal
mountain in the range, is Slioch or Sliabhach; its elevation above
the level of the sea cannot be less than 3000 feet. The traveller,
who, from the west end of Lochmaree, takes a view of the scenery.
before him, cannot fail to be struck with astonishment at the wild
grandeur of the scene presented to his view ;-the much--admired,
and far-famed Lochmaree, with its four-and-twenty wooded islands;
the range of mountains commencing on the right and left, and ex-
tending four miles bevond the east end of Lochmaree ; Loebmaree
itself, eighteen miles long, appearing in the distance like an
amphitheatre of nature's own workmanship, and presenting to the
eye of the stranger an impenetrable barrier.
   Hydrography.-Loclimaree, as already stated, is IS miles long,
and I mile broad at an average. The greater part of it is 60
fathoms deep, so that it has never been known to freeze, dur-
ing the most intense frosts. About the centre of the loch, is
an island called 11 Island Maree," on which is a burying-ground
supposed to be dedicated to the Virgin Mary;-hence the name
of the island and of the loch. This is one conjecture ;-another is,
that some of the Danish Kings were buried in this island, and that
the original name of it was 11 Eilean nan Righ," which came to be
pronounced 11 Eilean Maree." The number of tombstones in the
burying-place, with inscriptions and bieroglypbical figures which
few now-a-days can satisfactorily decipher, gives a plausibility to
this conjecture which is not easily got over. As it is a doubtful
subject, and likely to remain so, a third conjecture may be ven.
turod,: There lived, a great many years ago, in this part of the
Highlands, a great and good man called 11 Marec," who had his
principal-residence on this same island; after his death his admir-
ers prefixed Saint to his.name. Many of his generous and bene-


