
                        ALNESS.                               343

cease to have an peculiar interest attached to them, as so many
of a similar description have been discovered throughout the coun-
try. The custom of burying in this manner appears to have been
an honour conferred in ancient times, on the chiefs of clans, or
on individuals distinguished in some other way. In the hill
ground, and almost on the march line which separates the pro-
perties of Teaninich and Ardross, there is a stone of remarkable
size, known by the name of "Clach airidh a Mhinistir." The
tradition connected with this stone has shared the fate of many
others, and nothing is now left us but the name. From the name,
which signifies the minister's shealinq, we may infer that there ex-
isted there a piece of land, which was employed as grazing or
pasturage ground by one of the ministers of the parish.
  On a bleak and dreary spot, in the moor not far from Gildermorry,
there is also a stone or rather two immense stones, piled one up-
on the other, in a very extraordinary manner, and having the ap-
pearance at first view of being the effect of art rather than of na-
ture. Among the nearest inhabitants, it is known by the name of
"Clach nam ban," which signifies the stone of the women. The
tradition regarding this place must have originated at a remote
period, and is now very imperfectly related. Several women, it
appears, were proceeding duridg the depth of winter to the Ro-
man Catholic Chapel at Gildermorry, and carrying with, them
bundles of hemp or flax. When near this place, they were over-
taken by a snow storm, and, in order to escape the rigour of the
blast, they took shelter under the pile. The storm, however,
which was of very long continuance, and almost unexampled se-
verity, was then only in its birth: and not for many weeks could
any trace be discovered of the women of the stone. When the
covering of snow had at length been partially removed, some of
their friends coming to the spot, found their bodies lying at the
foot of the pile, and beside them was erected a stick, which they
had probably found at the place, on which was suspended one of
the bundles of hemp as a memorial of their fate.
  In a glen at one extremity of Loch Muire, which has already
been noticed under the head Hydrography, there are still to be
seen the ruins of a Roman Catholic place of worship, from which
circumstance we may conclude, that that district of the parish
which is at present inhabited only by a few individuals, was, at a
former period, at least thinly peopled. The chapel occupies a
very romantic situation at the head of the loch, and is surrounded


