
840                        ABERDEENSHIRE.

and east, by the parish of Strathdon. It consists of two or three
hills and glens, said to have been appropriated as pasture-grounds
in the forest of Mar, for the accommodation and benefit of the
Earl of Mar's vassals, who were proprietors of ground in Clomar,
and especially in the parish of Tarland, holding of his Lordship
as superior.
   In more civilized and modern times, these glens, &c. were par-
tially cultivated, chiefly along the sides of the Don and Ernan,
and were consequently disposed of and purchased by neighbouring
proprietors in Strathdon, who still hold of the Earl of Fife as su-
perior of these lands; but they always did, and still constitute a
part of the parish of Tarland. In the immediate neighbourhood of
this part of Tarland parish, a missionary, upon the Royal Bounty, is
stationed, and discharges all parochial duties to the Tarland pa-
rishioners, with exception of Church discipline, for which they are
amenable to the kirk-session of Tarland. There is also a detach-
ed part of the parish of Migvie, six miles north-west from the
church of Tarland, and three miles north from Migvie church.
This part of Migvie parish is bounded on the south by the water
of Deskrie, which separates it from Coldstone and Towie parishes;
on the west, by Strathdon; oil the north, by the river Don ; and on
the east, by the parish of Towie. In extent it may be about two
miles long and nearly three broad, and it contains a population of
144 souls. The minister of Tarland discharges all parochial du-
ties here, when called to do so; but his reverend and friendly
brethren in Strathdon and Towie kindly save him much trouble
and inconvenience.
   In that part of the parish of Tarland and Migvie which is bound-
ed by the Cromar hills, the general temperature of the atmo-
sphere is mild, varying from 50&deg; to 80&deg; in summer, and from 12&deg;
to 25&deg; in winter. Springs flow from the adjoining north hills, which
constitute a part of the parish, and supply the burn of Tariand in
the plain, whose course extends, as before described, until it falls
into the river Dee. In regard to soil, from the flat and low
grounds about the town and burn of Tarland, to the highest part
of the cultivated north hills, there is great variety. In the low
grounds along the burn side from Tarland, for three miles east-
ward, and a quarter of a mile in breadth, the soil is generally rich,
deep, and fertile. The subsoil about the village consists mostly
of shingle arid pure sand, with surface soil of rich loam, from eight
to twelve inches deep.


