
 374           GENERAL OBSERVATION ON THE

Some farmers have begun draining in every furrow, when the
above-mentioned expenses are of course doubled.  The landlord,
at the same time in many cases, are liberally bearing a share of the
burden.  Now tile-works are being erected on all the clay-fields,
formerly noticed to supply the yearly increasing demand for these
tiles.
   Statute, labour or road money is the only public burden that is
everywhere levied on all the occupiers of the soil, whether land-
lord or tenant, and is applied to the maintenance of both parish
and turnpike roads,-the former in many cases being now made
turnpike.  The amount paid by each individual is regulated by
the ploughgates of land he occupies.  The term, as originally used,
was rather indefinite, but meant the extent of land that a plough
was understood to be able to cultivate properly throughout the
year.  In 1833, however, a new Act of Parliament was obtained
for regulating the management of the roads, when, by a general
arrangent the Justices of the Peace, it was understood that
sixty Scotch acres, nearly on an average, should be taken as the
ploughgate; and, according to that scale, the road money has
since been levied in the different parishes, commonly at the rate
of L.2 the ploughgate.  The number of ploughgates was then
found to be 1344, which gives L. 2688 Sterling, as the sum an-
nually expended in maintaining the roads, besides what is derived
from the toff-bars, now so common in almost every direction.  The
entire arable land of the county was also found to be 82,184 acres
Scotch. measure, or very nearly so, exclusive of plantations extend-
ing to nearly 7500 acres.  There are besides about 2000 acres
not arable, of sandy soil or links along the sea shore, generally
occupied as rabbit warrens, and of which nearly one-half of that
extent at Gullane is the only common worth noticing in the dis-
trict.  The Lammermuir-hills in this county are computed to con-
tain 2O,OOO acres.
   There, 386 separate farms of from 60 acres and upwards,
the average size being something near to 250 acres, Each farm
has a thrashing machine, of which about 80 are driven by steam, 7
by wind, 30 by water, find the rest by horses.  About 40 of these
farms are in the natural possession, of the proprietors, being mostly
in pasture; the others area all let to tenants on leases of from nine-
teen to twenty-one years.  Rents are commonly paid by gain,
generally wheat, the price being regulated by the annual fiars of
the country.  Seven bushels of wheat per scotch aere may be


