
                      CUMBERNAULD.                          143

Not far from this, is the Vault Glen:  and till very lately the
farm house called the Vault, on the edge of the Glen, was standing;
whether, as its name vault would import, it was anciently a prison
or place of confinement, is not well known.
     At the Chapelton, on the farm of Achinkill, it is supposed there
had been religious house and burying ground:  for upon the re-
moval of the houses, some human bones were turned up by the 
spade and plough, but nothing else of interest was discovered.  A
century ago, January 1739, there was a very violent storm of wind,
by which many houses were unroofed, windows broken, large trees
blown down, and much damage done by it in many other respects.
     It is worthy of notice, that as a very violent storm of wind hap-
pened in January 1839, the same should have occured in 1739.
Session Records, 7tyh February 1739.  The same day the session,
"considering that the heritors have been often called upon to re-
pair the damage done to the kirk windows, and to be paid by their
treasurer."
     It also appears that the year 1739 had been season, for,
20th January 1740, "the session, considering the great want and
hardship, which a great many honest families in this parish are
under, through the calamities of a late hail blast, and the pre-
sent cold and dearth, agreed, that the circumstances of such fa-
milies shall be inquired into, and their necessities carefully re-
lieved by the several members of the session, especially the mo-
derator, to whom they are readiest to let their case be known, with
confidence it will not be divulged to the damage of their credit."
     During the Rebellion 1745-6, a party of the King's dra-
goons, who took up their quarters in the old castle or house of
Cumbernauld, which, after the building of the present mansion,
1731, had been converted into stables, &c. "sic transit gloria
mundi," and upon their departure set it on fire and burnt it to the
ground.  This happened a short time before the battle of Falkirk,
between Price Charles Stewart and General Halley, 17th Janu-
ary 1746.  The fury of the dragoons seems to have evaporated 
with the smoke and the flames of the old house, for the present
mansion with its inmates they left unscathed. 
     Ecclesiastical History.--Originally Cumbernauld formed part of




