
   196                        ELGINSHIRE.

   the property of Sir William G. Gordon Cumming is also covered
   with natural oak, and the rest of it be lately planted with fir and
   larch.
      There is another thriving plantation of fir and larch joining
   that of Melundy, on the estate of Craigmill, the property of James
   William Grant, Esq. of Elches, and formerly of the Cummines,
   who sold it to the Grants about the year 1752.  There are, be-
   sides, several small plantations in the parish.
      Meteorology.-The climate may, in general, be considered very
   healthy; the inhabitants have seldom been visited by any epide-
   mic; but, as the parish is more elevated than the lower parts of
   Moray, it is much colder, frequently the harvest being nearly
   completed in the low country, before it is well begun here.  The
   south wind, which is the most prevalent, blows down the vale with
   great fury, for the greater part of winter and spring, often tearing
   up trees by the root. The north side of the strath is much warmer
   than any other part of the parish, and is sheltered by the sur-
   rounding hills from the north wind.
      Hydrography.-The parish is supplied with many excellent
   springs of different qualities, some of which are strongly impreg-
   nated with iron.  There is an excellent spring, which passes
   through gravel and rock of a very soft nature, which had been a
   favourite well, and dedicated to St Michael, the patron saint of
   the parish.
      There are several locbs in the parish, the principal of which
   are, Loch Dallas, Loch Noir, or Grass Loch, Loch Trevie, which
   is the source of the Lossie, and the Loch of Rheninver; in all of
   which, there is abundance of excellent trout.
      There are small burns rising among the bills, all of which
   are tributary to the Lossie. The principal of these are, the
   Black Burn, the Dorral, the Burn of Auchness, the Burn of
   Auldnachuirn, or Cart Burn, so called on account of the people
   f the country making their carts of the wood which grows on its
   banks, the Burn of Aulderg, or Red Burn, so called because the
   water is coloured with a red kind of clay, through which it passes;
   the Burn of Auldnacuish, or Fir Burn; and the Burn of Glen
   Latterach, or Angry Burn. The latter, which, in time of rain, is
   very impetuous, divides Bimie from Dallas.  On it, there is a
   beautiful waterfall, called the Ess of Glen Latterach, which has a
   grand appearance when the burn is swollen.  It rises among tbe
   bills, about two miles above the fall. It dashes over a precipice


