
854                           PERTHSHIRE.

persons, and also gave the ground for its site to the congregation
gratis. But besides the place of worship, he left them, for
the support and accommodation of their ministers, four or five
acres of valuable land, on which the manse and offices are built
for the incumbent. It is understood that, both in relation to the
meeting-bouse and glebe, the rights are given to Mr Moncrieffe's
successors in the charge of the Secession congregation, only so
long as they continued to adhere to the principles for which he
bad seceded.
  The Rev. John Brown, who was for thirty-six years minister of
the Associate Burgher congregation at Haddington, and the au-
thor of the Self-Interpreting Bible and other valuable works on
theology, was born at Carpow, in this parish, in 1722.
  P`rochial Registers.-Many of the session records preceding
the period of the Secession seem to have been carried away or
lost during the troubles of this period, and all attempts to recover
them have hitherto failed.  The register of baptisms commences
in the year 1667, and, with the exception of a few years before
and after the Secession, has been continued to the present time.
It is to be observed, however, that in this, as in other parishes in
similar circumstances, many of the Dissenters, as well as some
connected with the Established Church, have not registered the
births of their children.  Hence the little value of the register
as a statistical document in relation to the number of births in the
parish.  The same remark applies to any records which have
been kept of marriages and burials, &c. The defects which exist
in all our parishes, with few exceptions, in the system of registra-
tion, suggests the necessity of some legislative measure on the
subject.
  Ministers of the Parish.-The following is a list of the ministers
of this parish, with the dates of their settlements and deaths, so far
as it has been ascertained.-J. Robert Jenkins, deposed by the coun-
cil for not praying for William and Mary, &e.  September 7, 1689;
2. Alexander Dunning, ordained, 1691, died, 1719; 3. Alexander
Moncrieffe, ordained, 1720, deposed, 640; 4. Andrew Grey,
D.D., * ordained, 1747, died, 1779; 5. William Duncan or-
dained, 1780, died, 1809; 6. David Duncan, ordained, 18O9,
From a small, document, entitled Some Notices of the Family of
Moncrieffe of that Ilk, and its branches in Perthshire, furnished
to the author by Mr Rowand, keeper of the Theological Library,
Edinburgh, it would appear that one of the numerous branches,

<FOOTNOTE>Author of a valuable work on the Parables.


