
280                       RENFREWSHIRE.

   Supply of Water. *-At present, the inhabitants of Paisley
are by no means well supplied with water.  Some of them draw
their supply from public and private wells, and from barrels and
cisterns into which rain is conveyed from the roofs of houses
and a great many families purchase it from individuals, who make
a trade of carting it along the streets, in large barrels, and selling
it at the rate of one penny for ten gallons.  The water thus sold
is partly filtered from the Cart, and partly supplied from wells and
springs in the surrounding country.  A supply so inadequate to the
comfort of the inhabitants, and the wants of public works, induced
the formation of a Water Company in 1825, who proposed to ob-
tain water by raising it, from the river, immediately above the
town.  But after the capital had been subscribed, and an Act of
Parliament obtained, objections, by the proprietors of the Sacel
and Seedhill Mills, to the abstraction of water, without an amount
of compensation, to which the company were unwilling or unable
to agree, caused the scheme to be abandoned.
   Engineers having stated, that, in their opinion, a sufficient
supply of water for the town could not be procured from any other
source, all hope of obtaining it was abandoned, till our respected
townsman,  James, Kerr, M. D., after a laborious examination of
the Gleniffer hills, called the attention of the public, to the prac-
ticability of procuring from that source an ample supply, by the
formation of one or more large reservoirs.  Mr Thom, civil-en-
gineer, was then employed to examine and report upon the scheme,
and his report having been highly satisfactory, a capital of L.40,000
was speedily subscribed, and, in 1835, an Act of Parliament for
carrying the scheme into effect obtained.
  The company are preparing to intercept the drainage of more
than 1600 acres, on the north eastern side of the Gleniffer Braes,
comprehending the sources of the, Espedair and Harelaw burns. +
Of this drainage, the altitude ranges from 135 to 750 feet
above the level of the sea.  Two capacious reservoirs, one of them
baving a maximum depth of 32 feet, and the other of 49, covering
nearly 100 acres, and eapable of containing about 91 millions of
cubic, feet of water, are in the course of formation.  The reservoir
nearest the town, is to be formed with two divisions, in order to have

<FOOTNOTE>This notice of the supply ot water was furnished by Mr W. Kerr, Surgeon, of this
town, and Mr Stirrat at Netheroraigs.
          The Act of Parliament gives power to intercept, the drainage. of 2300 acres.
Sheffield, which is supplied from a large reservoir, derives its water from only 1300
acres.


