
162                          RENFREWSHIRE.

drium aquaticum, Barbarea vulgaris, Nasturtium officinale, Meny-
anthes trifoliata, Caltha palustris, and Petasites vulgarism are all to
be found, some of them in great abundance.   In Black Cart and
some reservoirs of water, the Nymphea alba may be seen; the Nu-
phar lutea, Ranunculus lingua, aquatilis, and hederaceus, Alisma
plantago and ranunculoides, Polygonum amphibium and Hydropi-
per, and several species of Potamogeton, are by no means uncom-
mon.
   In the shade of woods and coppices, the Anemone nemorosa,
Hyacinthus non-scriptus, Sanicula Eurbpae, Stachys. sylvatica,
Habenaria viridis, Betonica officinalis, Fragaria vesca, are fre-
quent: while the Solanum dulcamara, Convolvulus sepium, and
many other plants, are found taking advantage of the support and
shelter of the hedge.
   Several extensive woods and plantations occur throughout the
parish, besides numerous ornamental clumps and belts f6r affording
shelter.  On the high grounds, these clumps and belts consist for
the most part of birch, larch, spruce, silver and Scotch firs.  On the
low grounds, on the contrary, the hard woods are more frequently
planted in like situations, such as the oak, elm, plane, horse-chest-
nut, asb,&c. intermingled with some of the more showy, though
less valuable species.  These are always nursed for several vears
with speedy growing deciduous trees, as the various poplars, and
also with such evergreens as the spruce and Scotch firs: these are
removed from time to time, as the more valuable trees enlarge.
   Zoology.-The following mammalia are to be found in the Ab-
bey parish and vicinity:-Vespertilio murinus, and more rarely, as
at Crookston Castle, Rhinolophus,Hipposideros and Plecotus au-
ritus.  The Erinaceus Europaeus, Talpa Europaea, sometimes of a
white colour, are numerous.  The Sorex araneus is common, the
fodiens somewhat rare.  The Mustela vulgaris, and sometimes. M.
putorius, are killed.  The Meles taxus, Lutra vulgaris, Felis ca-
tus, and Martes fagorum, have also been killed within the parish,
but must be considered as ver uncommon.  The Mus musculus,
sylvaticus, and decumanus, are very abundant, as is also the Arvicola
aquatica.  The Delphinus phocaena and orca are said to have been
seen inthe White Cart in pursuit of fish.
   The indigenous reptiles are not numerous.  The most common are
Vipera communis, Triton aquaticus and vulgaris, Rana tempo-
raria, and Bufo vulgaris.  The lacerta agilis and Anguis fragilis,
have both been taken on the GIeniffer hills, but are very rare.


