
     of Alloa.

the neighbouring parishes, and by such a number of hands,
as makes the collection of it both very disagreeable and diffi-
cult.  Mr. Erskine has relieved both the minister and tenants of
the greater part of file vicarage on his estate.  The glebe is
about 11 Scotch acres, (very nearly equal to 14 English),
of fertile ground.  Formerly it was over-run with weeds; but,
by laying it down in grass, and pasturing, it now yields fine
crops.  The greatest part of the glebe lies close to the town,
and the remainder very near it.  The manse, which was re-
paired in 1776, is beautifully situated at the head of John's
Street, and has a garden adjoining of about half an acre.-By
the Earl of Marr's forfeiture in 1715, the Crown is patron.-
There is an Antiburgher and a Burgher meeting-house in the
town, both well attended, and the people are much improved in
the civilities of life.  There is likewise a chapel of the Scotch
Episcopal church.  Their number is small; but they have
been joined by several of the glass-house work people, whose

     4 M 2

<FOOTNOTE>

Scotch, for communion elements, is continued, and 71 L. 3 s 2 d. Scotch, vicarage,
paid as use and wont.  The additional 2 chalders may seem a small augmentation
for so large a parish; but the conversion of the money into grain makes it con-
siderable, and gives a security for the stipend's rising with the other necessaries of
life.
   At the Reformation, the stipends of the Protestant clergy were fixed, to be
paid at the rate of so many chalders of victual, (the general term in Scotland for
all kinds of grain), part of which was paid in kind, and part in money, convert-
ing the chalder, in the rich counties, at 100 L. Scotch the chalder, and at 80L.
Scotch in the less fertile ones.  It is greatly to be regretted, that the whole sti-
pond was not paid in victual; as by that means the value of them would have
kept pretty nearly an equal pace with the value of estates.  This method should
now be absolutely fixed; or if, from local situations, it should be very incon-
venient to the clergy, to receive the whole in victual, one third might be convert-
ed into money; and the value of the bolls should be estimated by an average 
25 years; and at the end of the 25 years, a new conversion might be taken; but
no alteration should he made, unless the price of victual (i. e. the medium price of
barley and malt), differed from the formes one 6d. pence per boll.


