
<APPENDIX>

compared to what it yielded formerly, yet might soon be doubled, if not
tripled, by promoting useful improvements, and by converting the farms, to
such a reasonable size, as would enable the farmers to live more comfor-
tably themselves, to pay better rents to their landlords, and to raise a greater
produce for the public.

     V.  Productions of Manufactures and Commerce.

   It does not seem necessary, in the present sketch, to enter with minuteness
into the commercial and manufacturing state of this county, as those are
subjects which will be more fully considered, when the general slate of the
kingdom at large, in regard to those two important particulars, is discussed;
and, owing to various circumstances, I have not been able to collect the
necessary facts, for forming any exact estimate.  I calculate, however, on
very general grounds, that both may produce about L. 200,000 per annum.
The flocking manufacture alone, in the neighbourhood of Aberdeen, is sup-
posed to extend to L 103,000 annually, for hose or stockings exported; a
part of which, however, is manufactured in the shire of Kindardine.

     VI.  Mines, Fisheries, and Kelp

   These sources of wealth, being principally of a local nature, are on that
account joined together, under one head.
   With regard to mines, little wealth of that description has hitherto been
found in Aberdeenshire.  The most valuable article arises from the granite
quarries in the vicinity of Aberdeen; 12,000 tons of that durable stone are
annually exported to London, valued at 145. the ton, or L 8400.
   There are millstone quarries in Aberdour parish, rented at L. 40; the
produce may be slated at L 400.  Limestone is found in some parts of this
county; Glenbucket parish contains inexhaustible stores of that valuable
mineral.  About 55,000 bolls of lime are annually burnt in Old Marchar
and Old Deer parishes, and may be valued at L. 2750.  A quarry of blue
slate is wrought in Culsalmond parish, though not to any extent; and a vein
of manganese in Old Machar.  The total produce of mines and minerals
may be stated at L. 11,600.
   The Dee and the Don, and the other rivers of Aberdeenshire, have long
been celebrated for the excellence of the salmon they produce.  The rent
of those fishings amount to about L. 2482 per annum, and the produce to
L. 10,000.
   Considerable fisheries are also carried on, on the sea coast of Aberdeen-
shire, and by fishing vessels from the ports of that county, in particular from


