
				ELGIN.				  15

   venient and profitable as such enclosures are to the farmer, they
   are too expensive to become general, unless the land-owners were
   to defray the cost of building, exacting a moderate per centage from
   the tenantry.  Extensive improvements have recently been made
   by draining in the vales of Pluscarden and Mosstowie, mostly at the
   expense of the proprietors.  Much waste land in the parish has
   been reclaimed by frequent ploughing, harrowing, and liming,--at
   the tenant's expense generally, though in a few instances an allow-
   ance of L. 5 per Scotch acre has been given by the proprietor when
   the land is brought into proper tillage and limed, and for which the
   tenant pays five per cent. during the remaining years of his lease.
   The proprietor of Westerton trenched and limed a large moor
   some years ago at an expense of L. 12 per Scotch arce, which is
   now paying well.  A small sum of money laid out in making roads,
   and an allowance of L. 5 per acre for tillage and liming, would soon
   bring some hundreds of acres of waste land under crop, which, even
   in these times of agricultural distress, would pay both landlord and
   tenant.  Leases in general are of nineteen years endurance.  On
   some of the large properties the farms are valued by an experien-
   ced person before being let; on others they are let to the highest
   bidder.
      Manufactures.-- There are eight grain mills in the parish,--a
   carding-mill for wool, and a saw-mill for timber.  Thrashing-mills
   driven by horses or by water are in general use.  A tannery and.
   brewery in the town, and two distilleries in the landward part of
   the parish, are in active operation.  The bands employed in any
   of these works are not numerous, and no injurious effects on the
   health or morals of the persons engaged in them have been obser-
   ved.
      Morayshire Farmers' Club.-- This club was instituted in 1799,
   and is now the oldest local agricultural Association in Scotland.
   The original members were most happy in their selection of Mr
   Isaac Forsyth as secretary, who engaged in the cause with all his
   heart, and, for more than a quarter of a century, devoted the ener-
   gies of an active and intelligent mind to the attainment of the im-
   portant and patriotic objects for which the Society was established.
   The attention and funds of the club were first applied to the in-
   troduction of new implements of husbandry--to the excitement of
   emulation among ploughmen, by awarding premiums after public
   competition to the most skilful, and to the improvement of the
   breed of horses by the purchase of one of high character and pedi-


