
     of Sanqubar.

tillage.  The whole grain raised in the parish is not sufficient,
to supply the inhabitants one half of the year, as there is not,
at all average, more than 600 or 700 acres under the plough.
There is an annual supply of meal imported from Dumfries mar-
ket, and the lower parts of the county*.

     Population.-No register having been kept of the population
of the parish, must render this part of the history very
defective+.  The population in 1755, as returned to Dr.
Webster, was 1998 souls.  From an enumeration made by
the present incumbent in 1786, there were found to be 2600,

<FOOTNOTE>

*From the description already given of the extent and general face of the
parish, it is evident, that there must be great diversities of climate.  This is so
much the case, that in winter, people in the E. and N. ends of the parish are
often diverting themselves with the curling stone, while the farmers in the
south end and center are ploughing their land.-Though this may seem to
carry in it the air of romance, this is easily dispelled by this single addition,
that there is at least an elevation of 1000 feet from the center to the eastern
extremity of the parish.  Notwithstanding this diversity of climate, there are
no peculiar diseases.  The most frequent are complaints in the stomach, slow
fevers, the rheumatism, and nervous disorders.  And there are more frequent
in the burgh than in the country part of the parish.  Agues seldom appear.
The small-pox formerly used to carry off great numbers of children, as well as
of adult persons.  But the prejudices of the people against inoculation are now,
in a great measure, eradicated, and this mode begins generally to be adopted
and as generally with success.

+Soon after the ordination of the present incumbent, he desired the school.
master to begin a register for births, and proposed, for his encouragement, to
collect sixpence from every parent who came to obtain baptism for a child.
This being, an innovation, the multitude disliked it, on account of the sixpence,
and many refused to registrate the names of their children for that reason.  But
by persevering, and pointing out the propriety of the plan, those of the esta-
blished church now registrate universally.  The seceders, however, do not in-
sert the names of their children in the public register.


