

134                      PEEBLES-SHIRE.

in a purely agricultural parish, where there is no village and no
manufactories. These collections vary considerably at different
times. When the heritors' families are resident, they are some-
times 9s. or 10s., and 2s. 6d. may be considered as the average at
other times. Occasionally, collections are made for religious and
charitable purposes, and the people in general contribute liberally
enough. It may be right to mention, that there was at one time
a capital of about L. 400, which by extraordinary expenditure,
as in the payment of a schoolmaster's salary for several years,
the building of a house for the church-officer, the maintaining
of a widow with a large family, and by purchasing mort-safes, en-
closing the schoolmaster's garden, erecting an iron gate to the
churchyard, and occasionally repairing the church, painting the
same, &c. is now reduced to less than L. 200. At an average
for several years past the disbursements for the poor have been
about L.40 annually; and the number of persons receiving aid
yearly has been six. It may be safely stated, that there is little
danger of any assessment ever becoming necessary in this parish.
To the credit of the people it may be mentioned, that a highly
laudable and independent spirit exists among them, and that they
will not have recourse to parochial assistance except from absolute
necessity. They very generally avail themselves of the advantages
arising from Savings Banks, established in different parts of the
county.
   Inns.-There is one inn in the parish, chiefly for the accommo-
dation of travellers.
   Fuel.-Coals are generally used. The nearest are six miles
distant, and can be procured, including carriage, &c. for nearly
10s. per common cart, containing about 12 cwt. The people in
general, however, prefer getting their coals from Douglas, and the
neighbourhood of Carnwath, because, though at a great distance,
they are reckoned excellent in quality.
   Friendly Society.-A. Friendly Society was many years ago es-
tablished in the parish; but, owing to its not being founded on
proper principles and to the want of efficient management, it has
become extinct.

   May 1834.


