
158                       RENFREWSHIRE.

   The manufacture of alum was also first introduced into Scotland
by Nicolson and Lightbody, who prepared considerable quantities
of that article at their works at Hurlet in the years 1766 and 1767;
but their process being defective, the manufacture was abandoned
in 1768-9; and it was not till the year 1797, (when works were
erected at Hurlet by Mr Mackintosh of Crossbasket, and Mr Wil-
son of Thornly, and their partners) that the manufacture of alum
was successfully established; but since that period the works now
mentioned, as well as that established in 1820, under the manage-
ment of Mr Wilson Junior, have been producing a large and
steady annual supply of alum, manufactured on correct chemical
principles.
   The extent of the various mining and chemical operations of
Messrs John Wilson and Sons, all situated in this parish, wilI be
best understood by the following statement, shewing the quantity of
minerals turned out, and alum and copperas manufactured by that
company fGr one year, namely, from Whitsunday 1835, till Whit-
sunday 1836 ; viz. 1. Minerals turned out during the year men-
tioned, from the lands of Haugh, on the estate of Nether Polloc,

<TABLE>
              Coal,                   -         42,554 Tons,
              Limestone,              -         4,931
              Alurninous Schistus,    -         5,701
						           -------
                       Turned out in one year, 53,186 Tons.

The whole of this large quantity was turned out from a single
shaft or pit at Haugh.
   2. The quantity of alum and copperas manufactured by the
same company during the year was,

<TABLE>
Alum made at the work at Hurlet, formerly belonging to Nicholsons
   and Lightbody,	                  -                 1200 Tons,
Copperas made by them at Nitshill   -                  300
                                                     -----
        Manufactured in one year,   -                 1500 Tons.

   Large quantities of muriate of potash and sulphate of ammonia
are also manufactured by the company, in connection with their
alum process.  The former article is extracted from kelp, and the
latter, is prepared from the ammonia liquor produced at the gas-
works in Glasgow; from whence it is conveyed to the alum-works
by the Paisley and Glasgow Canal, and by the Hurlet Railway ;
by which modes of conveyance, the greatest portion of Hurlet mi-
nerals and alum and copperas are also sent to the markets of
Glasgow, and Paisley.  The number of men employed by Messrs
Wilson and Sons in the various operations, at and near Hurlet
is at present 380, and may be divided thus:


