                                                   WICK.                                       HO


           fowl; and always of a pair or two of marlin hawks.  The Brig o
           Tram, Craig-Ammel, Brickigoe, land Falligoe, near the southern
           termination of the parochial coast, are some of its more interesting
           features.
              Keiss Bay, called also Reiss Bay, from the toweland of Reiss,
           which lies upon it; Ackergill Bay, from the noble Tower of Acker-
           gill, which stands on its shore, and likewise Sinclair Bay,; from
           the neighbourhood of Castle Sinclair and Girnigoe; and the Bay
           of Wick are the only two bays on the coast.  The former is by
           far the larger.    Ships have often been stranded on its shore.
           This has arisen from its having been mistaken for the eastern en-
           trance of the Pentland Frith.  A lighthouse ought to be erected
           on Noss- Head.
              This Aangerous promontory, Proudfoot, the Head of Wiok,
           and Ulbster Head, are the most important headlands on tire
           coast.
              Surface.-The surface of the parish of Wick is in general flat,-
           or but very gently sloping in different directions.  The northern
           parts generally face the south, and the southern have a northern and
           north-eastern exposure, as shown by the run of the water.  Its aspect
           is bleak, unpicturesque, and tame.  The heights of Yarrows and
           Camster, towards the south-west of  the parish, are the only hills
           deserving of the name.  Their elevation above the sea is consider
           rable; but their appearance is dull and heavy.
              A spacious valley, forming the fertile strath of Stirkoke, stretches
           in a westerly direction from the Bay of Wick to the Loch of Wat-
           tin,-a distance of about twelve miles, without ever attaining an
           elevation of more than 60 feet above  the level of the sea. Half
           a mile above Wick, a similar valley, running southwards in a cir-
           cumlinear direction, and keeping nearly parallel to the sea coast,
           but bending a little more to the west, arrives at a somewhat greater                                           4eepin q rly parpL110 0 thp 4va co.-Apt,
           elevation at ist southern extremity, than the former.  Another val-
           ley, containing the deep and extensive moss of Kilminster, separates          ley, cont                                                of K lininsto
           the parish of Wick and Bower.
              Meteorology,-The climate of this parish is that of the whole of                      ,ps of Wic Apa Wwar,
           Caithness,-very windy, humind, and variable.  The average num-
           ber of days in the year with rain is 190; with snow, 36 1\2 and with
           frost, 35.  The fall of rain is pretty equally distributed through-           w9f
           out the twelve months.  The quantity of rain that fell in 1840,     mania e         W41S
           from the 1st of January to the 31st of December inclusively, was
           as follows:-

