
                             OLD DEER.                          153

exhaust the land, and render it too open and loose; and it
has, in general, been deemed expedient to lengthen the se-
ries to six, seven, or eight years, that the land, from getting more
rest, as it is called, may become more consolidated and produc-
tive.  How far the evil that arises from loosening the soil to ex-
cess, is remedied by the agricultural instrument lately invented and
called a compressor, is yet here only the subject of experiment.  The
ground, whether naturally dry or wettish, is still laid out in flat,
straight, and narrow ridges, from sixteen to twenty feet broad.
Furrow-draining,-although stones in general are pretty plentiful,
-is not practised to great extent; but some trials of it have been
made with good effect.  Enclosing fields by stone dikes, deep
ditches in wet land, and shallow ones in dry situations, with a
round on one side cropped with stones, where stones are not easily
provided, or little or no allowance is granted by the landlord for fen-
ces,-has become very common of late.-Cattle are found to thrive
better when they are allowed to eat, drink, roam, and rest at plea-
sure, free from the control of a herd, and the confinement of a
house or pen during the heat of summer; and more of them can
be kept within the same bounds enclosed than open.-Hedges of
hawthorn, beech, or other wood plants suitable for the purpose, are
rare, unless near gentlemen's seats, on account of the expense of
rearing them, and the difficulty of making them by any care suffi-
cient fences in this climate.  It would be judicious, however, to
encourage the growth of them, at least, to a certain extent, for the
sake of shelter, in conjunction with other means of enclosure.
Several persons, the resident heritors especially, have laid out a
considerable quantity of land, not under 600 or 700 acres, in per-
manent pasture, which they let annually at a rent, it may be stated,
varying from L.1, 10s. to L.4 per acre, to cattle-dealers, graziers,
and farmers, who can keep a greater stock of bestial in winter than
summer on the produce of their farms, when they are kept in the
ordinary course of rotation.  Both the soil and climate are thought
to be better suited for oats, turnip, and pasture, than for wheat or
barley.  The last two species of grain are on that account sparingly
sown.  The varieties of oats in most common use are of an early
kind, such as white or English barley oats, early Angus oats, po-
tato oats, &c.  In dry and warm soils, liable to be affected by
drought, recourse is usually had to those of a later quality, such as
late or gray Angus oats, Kildrummy, or what is considered the na-
tural oat of the county, Hopetoun oats, &c.  The usual quantity


