
196                  HADDINGTONSHIRE.

besides what is enclosed, there is at least a rood outside the walls
all around where all kinds of crops are raised.
   The glebe is small, consisting only of about 5 acres, including
garden, barn-yard, &c. The soil is loamy, upon a clayey bottom.
Most of it has been drained with tile and stones within these two
years. This year, the field immediately behind the manse, which
was wet, uneven, and full of weeds, has been drained and trenched,
with the view of its being laid down in grass, in a more favourable
state. The annual value of the glebe, estimating it according to
the lands in the neighbourhood, is about L. 8. The stipend con-
sists of about 34 bolls of wheat, 137 bolls of barley, 24 bolls of oats,
95 bolls of meal, with L. 10 for communion elements, the amount
of which varies according to the fiars of the county. *
   There are no chapels nor dissenting meeting-houses in the pa-
rish. The number of persons of all ages attending the Establish-
ed Church varies from 400 to 500. Those who are in the prac-
fice of attending are never all present at the same time. From the
uncomfortable state of the church, many are prevented from at-
tending who otherwise would do it; and a considerable number are
very irregular in their attendance. The average number of com-
municants is 500. It is not easy to ascertain how many attend dis-
senting places of worship. The number, however, may be stated
to be betwixt 40 and 50. All this leaves a very considerable pro-
portion of the examinable persons of the parish who are not pre-
sent at any place of public worship on the Lord's day.
   A society for religious purposes was instituted, in the beginning
of last year. The design of it was to promote the progress of reli-
gion in the parish, and to contribute to the objects recommended
by the General Assembly. Its contributions during the first year
of its existence amounted to L. 6; and they are now upon the in-
crease. The average annual amount of church collections for reli-
gious and charitable purposes, for the last five years, is about
L. 20.
   Education.-Besides the parochial, there are four private schools
in the parish. The parochial school is situate at Gladsmuir, close
by the church and manse, and is very much shut up by the school-
master's garden. The number attending the school is, upon an

<FOOTNOTE>There have been eight ministers of Gladsmuir since its erection. 1. Mungo
Watson; 2. John Bell; 3.__Seathrum; 4. Andrew Robertson; 5. William
Robertson, ordained 17th April 1744; 6. Francis Cowan, ordained 5th April 1759;
7. George, Hamilton, ordained 15th April 1790; 8. John Ramsay, admitted 14th
February 1833.


