
                                ERROL.                              389

     late the rent, only when the price of the three quantities does not
     exceed that sum.  There are no grazings in the parish except in
     the parks or enclosed grounds of three or four of the principal
     proprietors. When these are let, it is always per Scotch acrd, the
     ordinary rent being L. 3, L. 3, 10s. or L. 4. Very fine pasture
     sometimes brings L. 4, 10s. per acre.
        Produce.-The principal articles of raw produce may be stated
     at the following prices, taking the average of the last seven years.

      <TABLE>
                  Wheat per quarter,             L. 2 11   4 1/2
                  Barley,                           1  8   5 1/2
                  Oats,                             1  0  11 1/4
                  Pease,                            1  7   7 1/3

        Oatmeal per half sack, of 140 lbs. avoirdupois, 16s. 5 1/2d.; po-
     tatoes, 1Os. per boll, of 32 stones Dutch, equal to 40 imperial
     stones or 5 cwt., which is at the rate of 2s. per cwt.
        The average price of new hay is about 8d. or 9d. per stone.
        The ordinary price of provisions is regulated by the markets of
     Perth and Dundee.
        Very little round timber, fit for mechanical purposes, is cut in the
     parish.  What little there is, sells for 1s. per cubic foot.  Buildinf
     stones for rubble-work can be purchased at the quarry of Clash-
     bennie, at the rate of 1s. per ton; and stones for hewn-work at the
     rate of 6d. per linear or 9d. per cubic foot.  Stones for draining are
     got for 6d. per ton.  Quicklime can be delivered at the shore of
     Port-Allen, at from 3s. to 3s. 6d. per boll, of 52 stones Dutch, or
     8 cwts. imperial weight.
        Wages, &c.-The average rate of mason-work, in the erection of
     farm-houses, not including materials, is from L. 2 to L. 3 per rood.
     In building farm-offices the rate is from L. 1, 15s. to L. 2.  The
     average rate of carpenter-work in roofing such buildings, with
     foreign timber, materials included, is from 4s. 10d., to 5s. per
     square yard.  When home timber is employed, the rate is about
     4s per yard.  Flooring, including joists, when of foreign timber, is,
     about 5s. 6d. per yard ; and when of home timber, it is about 4s.
         Live-Stock.- Very few sheep are reared in the parish.  Of cattle,
     no more are reared or kept than are required to consume the
     grass, straw, and turnips which are raised on the farms, and neces-
     sary for turning these productions to proper account.  Much atten-
     tion is paid to the quality of the horses which are reared for agri-
     cultural work.
        Hurbandry.-The general character of the husbandry pursued
     in the parish, seems to be skilful and judicious.  About two-thirds


