
 762                       PERTHSHIRE.

 Hitherto no mines of any kind have been discovered. At one
 time, it was thought that a coal seam existed in the vicinity of the
 above limestone quarry, and such were the prospects held out to Sir
 Niel Menzies, the proprietor, of finding it, that he was induced to
 let the quarry to a practical miner, with the view of ultimately bor-
 ing for that useful mineral ; but somehow or other the attempt
 was never made.
   Soil.-In some placer, it consists of a mixture of clay and
 loam, and in other places it is light and gravelly. In some dis-
 ricts, it partakes of a wet mossy nature, and in other districts,
 again, it consists chiefly of a thin mould, or a brownish loam
 mixed with sand. Thhs last kind of soil predominates in the
 lower grounds of Appin, and is, in many places, incumbent upon
 coarse porous gravel and boulders of stone, evidently rounded
 and smoothed by the action of water.
   Woods. *-A great part of the surface of this parish is beauti-
 fully diversified with clumps of trees, both natural and planted.
 The indigenous woods consist chiefly of birch, interspersed with
 oak, ash, hazel, willow, alder, and mountain-ash; while the plan-
 tations are composed of beech, ash, plane, elm, oak, Scotch fir,
 spruce, and particularly larch. The former predominate in the
 district of Foss, especially on the north side of the river Tummel,
 towards Bonskeid, Fincastle, and the Pass of Killicrankie. Here
 indigenous birch constitutes almost the only wood. " So large
 and so perfect are these trees," says Dr M'Culloch, " that where
 they form continuous woods their effect on the landscape is equal
 in richness to that of oak forest, round, full, and swelling, and,
 from the shape of the land, thrown into broad masses of endless
 variety; while, where they are disposed in groups or in scattered
 clumps, or where they stand as solitary trees, their effects are even
 more beautiful, more airy, and more in character with that general
 lightness which here, as at Loch Catrine, forms so essential a part
 of the effect of the scenery." The clumps of planted wood seem
 to be well adapted to the soil, and are generally in a thriving con-
 dition, although they have not attained to any remarkable size or
 maturity, none of them exceeding seventy or eighty years of age,
 with the exception of numerous ancient standards of oak, ash, elm,
 plane, and beech, which are scattered in greater or less numbers
 and variety over the parish, many of which are much admired for

 <FOOTNOTE> For the Botany of this parish, see the Statistical Reports of Kenmore and For-
 tingall. The writer is not aware that there is any plant peculiar to the parish which
 is not taken notice of in one or other of these Reports.
                                                4


