
                             KIRKMAHOE.                      63

portionally swelled. The Nith sometimes threatens to break into
our fine corn-fields, but they are well defended against" the horn-
ed flood" by strong and espensive embankement and fences of va-
rious forms and materials, constructed and executed with all the
skill which science could furnish, and with every auxiliary of art.
	The general duration of lease is fifteen years, but some farms
are let for nineteen, and some for only seven years. Our proprie-
tors appears to take delight in seeing the dwelling-house on their
respective properties neat and comportable, and even elegantly com-
modious, and all their office-house suitable and substaintial. The
principal improvement of a general nature are, the feeding of sheep
with turnips, which is more practised now in this parish than it was
in the whole county thirty years ago; thrashing-machine, intro-
duced by the late Mr Miller of Dalwswinton, (who also made us ac-
quainted with ruta baga); iron plough; and the use of bone ma-
nure. The most approved plans of husbandary have been eagerly
adopted and ardently prosecuted by our agriculturist, who form a
numerous and respectable body of the population. It would be dir-
ficult to do any thing like justice to those individuals who have re-
claimed waste lands, and made the wilderness a corn or grass field,
or a green wood; who have thus graced our hills and moors with in-
delible memorials of their industry and perseverance. The late
Patrick Miller, Esq. of Dalswinton; the late William Allan, Esq.
of Newlands; James Dinwiddie, Esq. Of Whitehall; Joseph Bell,
Esq. of Netherhall; Joseph Mitchell, Esq. of Whitestanes; John
Morin, Esq. of Carzield, deserved to be particularly noticed. Un-
der the animating auspices of our landlords, the parks and fields
in the lower grounds have of late assumed an improved appearance,
and cultivation has ascended our heights as far as she could urge
her way. The moor-cock, with his frighted covey, fled at he start-
ling sound of fervent industry, and, from his rodky retreats, crowed
defiance to the tyrants that would encroach on his wild domain, or,
in moody melody, deplored the abridgement of his ancient bounds!
        Produce.-The average gross amount and value of raw produce
yearly raised in the parish, as nearly as can be ascertained, is as
follows:-

<TABLE>

Grain of all kinds,                                                L. 13,500  0 0
Potatoes, turnips, &c. with the gross produce of green drop, hay
        pasture, and the stock fed thereon,                            6,500  0 0
                                                                     ------
                                                                   L. 20,000  0 0


