
122                       SHETLAND.

or four acres, and therefore the tenant cannot be supposed to leave
much unlaboured to acquire ley strength. The tenant also holds
his small farm by such a precarious tenure, (from one year to an-
other), that little, if any improvement, can be expected from him.
And it is no uncommon thing, when a tenant has made all the
improvement that could be expected from his slender means, that
an offer of additional rent is made to the landlord, and he (the
tenant) must either agree to pay the additional rent or remove,
without any compensation. Under such a policy on the part
of the landlord, spirited exertions in improving the lands can
never be expected from the tenant. It may be observed, that the
want of leases tends to keep the tenants in a very servile state.
The landlord's will becomes the tenant's law, and if a disposition
to resist should manifest itself, it is immediately subdued by a
threatened warning of removal. Even in the few cases where there
are missive tacks, the tenant can hardly be said to sit securely. There
are so many ways by which the strong can get the better of the
weak, that the saying, "the weakest are always driven to the wall,"
is verified to a considerable extent here. But perhaps the occupiers
of small farms are not arrived at that stage of civilization, when it
might be considered proper, or even safe, to trust them with all
the immunities a tack would confer.
   In some cases "grassums" are taken, the injurious tendency of
which has been felt, wherever they are known. They deprive the
tenant of the earnings of his toil,-they damp his ardour in im-
provement, and afford him no additional security; while all that
can be acquired in this small way, will "bulk little in a holed
pocket!"
   The houses, in general, are mere huts; and if the landlord puts
up a dwelling-house once,-tenant after tenant must be content to
occupy it as he finds it, or to repair or build anew to himself. Few, if
any of the landlords, build any of the office-houses; and the tenant
always builds and keeps in repair, such as that repair is, the dikes
around his farm. The great object of the landlord is to get his rent
for his land, which, in many cases, it must be confessed, he has con-
siderable difficulty in obtaining; but, at the same time, he cramps
not the labour of the tenant with any restrictions, as to management,
and leaves him at full liberty to employ, as the implements of his
husbandry, the plough, the spade, or the snout of the swine.
   The climate and situation present formidable barriers to any
thing like extensive improvement. The former can never be de-


