
     Statistical Account

adorned with 5 large Gothic windows.  The other three sides 
of the square formed the convent, of which the side walls 
were 14 feet high, and 16 feet distant from each other, and 
the ground floor vaulted.  It was of the order of churches 
called Ministries, and contained 70 red or Trinity friars, an or-
der instituted in honour of the Holy Trinity, and for the re-
demption of Christians who were made slaves by the Turks, 
to which a third part of their yearly income was to be ap-
plied.  Besides other endowments, its royal founder gave 
to the Cross Kirk, about 50 acres of excellent land lying all 
around it.  Friar Thomas its minister, was chaplain to K. 
Robert IV. who gave to it the lands called the King's Mea-
dow, juxta Villam de Peblis, which description makes it pro-
bable that Peebles was not as yet erected into a burgh royal, 
though the charters granted to it afterward, show that it re-
ceived this honour soon after, either from that prince, or from 
James I. 
   A mile and an half below Peebles stood the hospital of
St. Leonards, called afterward by corruption, Chappel yards, 
founded for infirm and indigent persons.  In 1427, James I. 
gave this hospital to his confessor David Rat, of the order of 
the preachers; a probable evidence that James lived frequent- 
ly at Peebles, and wrote there his poem, entitled, Peebles to 
the Play, in which he represents a great annual festival of 
music, diversions, and feasting, that had long been in use to 
be held at Peebles, attended by multitudes from the Forth 
and the Forest, in their best apparel.  The time of this festival 
was at Beltein, which in te Gaelic language, signifies the 
fire of Bell or Baal, because on the first day of May, our 
heathen ancestors, by kindling fires and offering sacrifices on 
eminences or tops of mountains, held their great anniversary 
festival in honour of the sun, whose benign influences on all 
nature begun to be strongly felt at this time, and men wished


