
   178                        BANFFSHIRE.

   ing parishes. To those who have a privilege of firing, peats cost
   from Is. to 1s. 3d. per cart load, exclusive of carriage; to others
   they cost from 2s. to 2s. 6d. English coals are procured at Banff
   at from Is. Oid. to Is. 2d. per imperial barrel.

     Drawn up by the incumbent while parochial schoolmaster of Al-
   vah, in 1837.  Revised February 1842.


                          PARISH OF FORDYCE.\f*

		PRESBYTERY OF FORDYCE, SYNOD OF ABERDEEN.
		     THE REV.  JOHN INNES, MINISTER.


		  I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HisTorty.
     Name, Boundaries, &v,-Tii is parish appears, from the earliest
   times, to have borne its present name. The most satisfactory
   account of its derivation is that which derives it from the two
   Gaelic words, PWar (cold) and Deas (south); so that Fuar-
   deas, or, as it is now commonly written, Fordyce, would signify "a
   cold south." This derivation is very descriptive of the character
   of the parish,--the south part of it chiefly consisting of low, wet,
   or moorish lands, far inferior, both in point of productiveness and
   climate, to that which lies along the sea-coast. That the name
   is of Celtic origin is farther evident from the etymology of vari-
   ous other places in the parish, which are unquestionably to be
   traced to such a root, such as Auchmore, the great field or
   declivity; Kindrought or Keandrochit, the head or end of the
   bridge; Tillynaught, the turn or ridge of the bill; Glassaugh,
   the gray haugh; Durn, round like a clenched fist, &c.
     The parish, including the whole of the quoad sacra parish of
   Portsoy, is of a quadrangular form, irregular, however, and ap-
   proaching nearly to that of a triangle. Its greatest breadth, in a
   straight line along the sea-coast, is 6 miles; its least, at the
   southern extromity, 2 miles; its greatest length, from the mouth
   of the Burn of Boyne to the top of the Knock Hill, 8 miles; find
   its least, from Logie Head tthe same point, 7 miles.  The num-

<FOOTNOTE>Drawn up by the Rev-Alexander Reid, Minister of Portsoy.


