
     Statistical Account

The family of Panmure acquired a right to those tithes and
patronage; but, by the attainder of the Earl of PANMURE, who
unfortunately engaged in the rebellion in 1715, the patron-
age fell to the Crown.  The stipend is 90 L, including one
chalder of bear, and three of meal, valued at 8 L. 6 s. 8 d. per
chalder.  The glebe is about 8 acres of good land.  The
church was built in 1763, and the manse in 1766; and both
are in good repair.  There is no dissenting meeting-house in
the parish.

   Schools.-The school-house was built anno 1786.  The
salary of the school-master consists of 10 bolls of meal paid
by the parishioners, and 3 L. 9 s. paid by heritors.  He draws
2 L. from the kirk-session as their clerk, besides what he re-
ceives at baptisms and marriages.  As there are generally
some private schools in the parish, the number of scholars
attending the parochial school seldom exceeds 30.  Such as
are taught Latin pay 2 s. 6 d, arithmetic, 2 s, reading and writ-
ing, 1 s. 6 d, and reading English, 1 s. per quarter.

   Poor-The number on the poor's roll in the parish is 30;
and the funds, from which they are supplied, arise from 120 L.
at interest, the profits of a herse for burials, which, at an ave-
rage, produces 3 L. per annum; seat-rents, 2 L. 14 s. 4 d; etc. the
weekly collections 24 L per annum; amounting in all to 35 L.
14 s. 4 d. JAMES FERGUSON, Esq; of PITFOUR, the sole pro-
prietor of the parish, gives annually a liberal donation to the
poor, by which, and the above funds, they are so well sup-
plied, that there are no beggars in the parish.

<FOOTNOTE>

reason is said to be, that the CHEYNES of Inverugie, the ancient proprietors,
who were heritable Sheriffs of Banff, obtained an act of the Legislature, de-
claring their own lands to be within their own jurisdiction.  St. Fergus, Fet-
terangus, and Strolach, in New-Machar parish, which also belonged to the
Cheynes, pay the land tax and window tax, as parts of Banff-shire, but in every
other respect are subject to the jurisdiction of the Sheriff of Aberdeen.


