
     Statistical Account

crimes have been attempted, or brought to light in this pa-
rish*.  The manners of the people are open and hospitable,
though not so gentle and mild as might be expected from the
subserviency of their state.  But the influence women have
upon manners is prevalent in every condition+.  The change

<FOOTNOTE>

*No person has been convicted of a capital selony since the year 1728,
when the famous Maggy Dickson was condemned and executed for child-
murder in the Grass-market of Ediburgh, and was restored to life in a
cart, on her way to Musselburgh to be buried.  Her husband had been
absent for a year, working in the keels at Newcastle, when Maggy fell
with child, and to conceal her shame, was tempted to put it to death.
She kept an ale-house in a neighbouing parish for many years after she
came to life again, which was much resorted to from curiosity.  But Mar-
garet, in spite of her narrow escape, was not reformed, according to the ac-
count given by her cotemporaries, but lived, and died again, prosligacy.
For 25 years past the Stool of Repentance, that relict of Popery, has been
discontinued in this parish, and one strong temptation to this crime of
child-murder, which formerly prevailed so much, has been withdrawn.
This branch of penance has been too long a disgrace to the country. and
highly degrading to a respectable body of men, who sat monthly in
judgment, with little else to do, than to find out the fathers of the chil-
dren of licentious women.  It had a still worse effect than that of degra-
ding the clergy, as it impressed on the minds of the people an idea, that
there is no other crime great enough to deserve ecclesiastical centures,
but fonication.

+No change has ever been more complete and rapid than that of man-
ners, in many respects, whithin these 40 years In the beginning of that
period, penny bridals, promiscuous dancing, and cards and dice were
absented from and shunned by the grave, because they had been prohibi-
ted in the acts of Assemblies of an ancient date.  Clergymen, in those
days, were sometimes libelled for dancing and playing at cards, even in
private houses; as well as for shaving or dressing their hair, or dining in a
neighbour's house on the Lord's day.  Happily those firsticious rices, an easy
abstinence from which gave credit to the whole train of artificial virtues
in a false and hypocritical character, are now no more; and clergymen
and their families are on the same footing in respect to all innocent amuse


