
632                   ARGYLESHIRE.

branches, which Continue their course in a north-easterly direction
two and a-half miles farther. The average depth of the Frith is
twelve fathoms. The extent of coast washed by the sea, includ-
ing all the indentations of Lochswen, cannot be less than fifty miles.
The coast from the point of Ardnoe, near the harbour of Crinan,
to the promontory of Keills, is bold and rocky, in many places ris-
ing precipitously to the height of 300 feet; on the west side of
Lochswen it consists principally of low rocky ledges, and on the
east side it subsides into a sandy beach. From Castle Swen to In-
verlussay the ground rises with a gentle slope from the water, for
the distance of nearly half a mile. It is then succeeded by gentle
acclivities, forming the slopes of hills of moderate height, which
are themselves the flanks of a chain of hills running north-east and
south-west. The highest of these hills is called Cruachlusach.
It is 2004 feet above the level of the sea. Next to Cruacblu-
sach, the hills of greatest note in the parish are those of Dunar-
dary, Duntaynisb, Ervary, and Arichonan; the last of these is
about 1200 feet above the level of the sea. From the summit of
Cruachiusach, which commands a most extensive prospect, are
seen the Cowal and Arran hills, the peninsula of Kintyre, and the
north of Ireland; towards the west, the islands of Isla, Jura, Scarba,
and Mull; towards the north, Bencruachan, and a large number of
rugged and dusky mountains,-altogether presenting a scene unsur-
passed perhaps in any other part of the Highlands. But to be seen
to advantage, it must be viewed from the rising ground near the
southern extremity of Lochanfad, or from the hill of Ervary. From
either of these points, you behold a succession of delightful pro-
spects breaking at intervals on the eye, over sea, and lakes, and dales,
and hills. The rocky and towering mountains of Jura in the dis-
tance,-the bright green islands of Ellanmore and Danna at the ex-
tremity of the parish,-woods scattered here and there decorating
the sides of grassy hills and the margin of the shore, and the waters
of Lochswen, now hid, now revealed to the eye,-exhibit a scene
seldom surpassed in variety, novelty, and grandeur.
   In Dr MacCulloch's Letters to Sir Walter Scott the following
description is given of the scenery of Lochswen : "Lochswen it-
self is a very deep, though narrow inlet, utterly different in cha-
racter from any thing that I have seen in Scotland, and as pictu-
resque as it is singular. The shores are very deeply and remark-
ably indented in man parts, while, on both sides, they are covered,
with fine wood; being thus productive of much beauty as well as


