
192                      ABERDEENSHIRE.

viridis, rather rare; Heracleum Sphondylium, very abundant; an
old woman in the parish, the only person in the neighbourhood
who seems to know its value, gives her cows a creel-full of this
plant in the season for suppeir, and she says that the milk-pail
next morning bears testimony to its virtues.  Might not this plant
be cultivated to great advantage ? Hippuris vulgaris grows here
in great abundance and to an immense size in some of its locations,
particularly in the canal near Scotstown.  Humulus lupulus is said
to have been found here, but the writer has never discovered it;
Hypericum Fulcrum and quadranqulum.  Juncus balticus is found
among the benis near to Rattray.  It was first discovered by
Alexander Cow, Esq. who brought his specimen to the writer,
when first engaged in collecting materials for this account.  Knappia
agrostidea, very rare, only one plant was found among the bents;
Lapsana communis; Ligusticum Scoticum; Linum catharticum;
Lapsana dioca and Flos-cuculi; Menyanthes trifoliata, only in one
location at the Burn Mill; Mercurialis perennis; Nymphea alba,
very abundant near Stone Mill, but only found there; Ononis
arvensis, at the mouth of the Ugie and on the glebe only; Papaver
Rheas; Phalaris arundinacea; Pimpinella saxifraga; Pinguicula
vulgaris; Plantago lanceolata, maritima, and Coronopus; Polygala
vulgaris; Parnassia polustris, most abundant on the links; Pota-
mogeton densus, pectinatus, pusillus, heterophyllus and natans;
Potentilla anserina and argentea; Primula veris and elatior; Ra-
nunculuc sceleratus; Saponaria officialis is likewise found in the vicinity
nunculus sceleratus; Soponaria officinalis, only found in the vicinity
of Inverugie Castle; Parietaria officinalis is likewise found only
there; Saxifraga tridactylites; Scandix Pecten ; Scrophularia no-
dosa ; Spergula nodosa ; Symphytum officinale, on the glebe and
at Inverugie only; Trientalis Europea, very rare, only between
St Fergus and Kininmonth; Triglochin palustre, in the links;
Tussilago Farfara, only at the end the Mains Park of Inverugie;
Veronica anagallis, abundant in the laighs of Scotstown, but only
there; thalictrum minus; Vinca minor, near to the old castle of
Inverugie only; Daucus carota is found on a croft near the vil-
lage.
   Planting.-In the former Statistical Account it is mentioned that
"there is no wood in the parish, except a few old planes at Inveru-
gie."  Since that period the late James Ferguson, Esq. planted
upwards of twenty acres, chiefly along the banks of the Ugie. The
present tacksman of Lunderton, about thirty years ago, planted a
good many trees for shelter to his residence, as did also the writer's
                                   4

