
                          ISLAND OF SKYE-PORTREE.                     233

          ever, to come to a better understanding, and, from present appear-
          ances, there is reason to believe that the number of communicants
          will soon be considerably increased.
             Education.-In this parish, there are two parochial schools, one
          by a society in Glasgow, and two Gaelic schools. In the paro-
          chial school situated in the village, English reading, waiting,
          English grammar, arithmetic, book-keeping, geography, Latin,
          and the elements of Greek, &c. are taught. In the branch paro-
          chial school in Rasay, the elementary branches are only taught
          and the same is the case in the Glasgow Society school. The pa-
          rochial teachers have all the accommodations to which they are by
          law entitled. The parochial school salary is the maximum, but
          the school-fees are only nominal. The people are so poor that they
          can scarcely afford to pay any fees; and if the teacher insists on his
          right to receive fees from the scholars, their parents threaten to
          withdraw, and, in some instances, do actually withdraw their children
          from the school. As to the expense of education in these schools,
          there are no pupils in attendance from distant quarters. It is only
          the children in the immediate vicinity of the sdhool that attend,
          and all the charges to which they are liable are the small sums ex-
          pended in buying books, and the trifle of school-fees which they
          occasionally pay. This is an expense to which they with reluc-
          tance subject themselves, as they are not by any means so desirous as
          could be wished to have their children educated. The blessing of
          education having been for the most part denied themselves, by
          their predecessors, they are not particularly anxious to bestow it on
          their successors.
             There are two districts in this parish so remote, that they are
          inaccessible to the parochial and all other scbools. The are the
          districts of Glenmore and the Braes. In the former of these
          places, 50 scholars might attend a school, and in the latter, from
          60 to 100, under a well-educated and systematic teacher. In
          both these localities, a subscription school has been taught
          occasionally, but the teachers were invariably so little qua-
          lified to discharge the duties of their office, and the remuneration
          for their labours so very inadequate, that little progress has hitherto
          been made in promoting the important object of education, and,
          consequently, many instances of gross immorality occur among the
          people. At the same time, it is matter of common observation,
          that profane swearing, intemperance, drunkenness, and the dese-
            INVERNESS.


