
14                     ROXBURGHSHIRE.

which in some of the ancient charters is styled "Temple Garden,"
substructions of ancient buildings have been found at the depth of
six feet from the surface.
    Accustomed to incessant warfare, the inhabitants of Jedburgh
and its forest were in ancient times much distinguished for bravery.
"I assure your Grace,"  says Lord Surrey, addressing Henry VIII.
respecting the storming of Jedburgh, "that I found the Scots at
this time the boldest men and the hottest that ever I saw in any
nation, and all the journee; upon all parts of the army they kept
us with such continued skirmishes, that I never beheld the like. If
they could assemble 40,000 as good men as the 1500 or 2000 I
saw, it would be hard to encounter them." Their favourite weapon
was the Jedwood axe, which was manufactured at Jedburgh. Their
war cry, or slogan, was "Jedworth's here." The corporation of
weavers possess two tropbies,-one taken from the English at Ban-
nockburn, and another from the Highlanders at Killiecrankie. The
corporation of shoemakers possess one trophy, taken from the Eng-
lish at the battle of Newburn. The town-arms were anciently
azure, a unicorn tripping, ringled, maned and horned; but these
were succeeded by the present, a knight mounted in full armour,
with the motto, "Strenue et prospere." The term "Jedworth
Justice," which implies execution before trial, is supposed to have
originated in the illegal and tyrannical proceedings of Dunbar
when superintending the courts of justice at Jedburgh.
Modern Buildings.-The chief modern buildings are, Jedburgh
Castle, containing a bridewell and prisons for criminals and debtors;
the county-hall; and the meeting-houses of the first congregation
of Seceders, and of the Relief. The modern mansion-houses are,
Edgerston, Mossburnford, Langlee, Lintalee, Hundalee, Glen-
burnhall, Hunthill, Stewartfield, and Bonjedward. There are
corn mills at Fernihirst, Hundalee, Newmills, Bonjedward, and two
at Jedburgh. There are three manufactories at Jedburgh upon a
respectable scale. These buildings are constructed of freestone.
			III.-POPULATION.
The population of this, parish appears to have been anciently
much greater than it is at present. In his dispatches to the court
of Henry VIII, Lord Surrey states, that there were twice as many
houses in Jedburgh as in Berwick, and well built, with many fair
houses in garrison, and six good towers. The foundations of an-
cient houses have occasionally been dug up at a great distance from

<FOOTNOTE>Vid, Border Minstrelsy, Vol. i. p. 50.


