
292                      STIRLINGSHIRE.

publishing his Exposition on the Revelations; and in his preface
addressed to the King, he shows very strongly his adherence to the
strict Presbyterian principles of the time, his preference to which
may be traced very naturally to his intimacy with the fifth Earl of
Glenecairn, whose seat, Ballindalloch, was within a mile and a-half
of Edinbelly, the residence of his boyhood, if not his birth-place.
Otherwise, it is difficult to account for Napier's predilection for
these principles, seeing that the bias of his mind might naturally
have been to the other side, when it is remembered that his father
was Master of the Mint, to one who had no great partiality to
the Presbyterian party. When it is stated besides, that, upon
the Edinbelly property, not many years ago, there was a inonu-
ment'standing, raised to the memory of this great man in ac-
cordance with the tradition, which assigned this property as his
birth-place, we are inclined to believe that, though at Gart-
ness and Drumbeg he may have resided, yet at Edinbelly the
Inventor of the Logarithms first saw the light. Edinbelly, the
place in question, is, at present, the property of the much respected
and deservedly esteemed Robert Dunmore Napier, Esq. of Balli-
kinrain.
   Parochial Registers.--The first date of the parochial register
is 1691, when the first proclamation of banns in order to marriage
is inserted. The first registration of baptisms is in 1687. From
that time till the present, the register of baptisms has been very
irregularly kept. From the year 1825 downwards, to the present
year, with a few exceptions, the records of session have been re-
gularly kept.
  Manufactures.--Previous to the year 1780, this parish was, strictly
speaking, rural. - Agricultural pursuits occupied the population, if
a population could be really said to be occupied, who were of ne-
cessity compelled, from the low state of agricultural pursuits, to
pass fully the half of their time in idleness. But in the year 1780
a very material change took place in the parish, by the establish-
ment of an agency for manufacturing calicoes, under the influ-
ence and patronage of a very enterprising and intelligent man,
the late Mr Dunmore of Ballindalloch and Ballikinrain, in whom
were united the activity of the country gentleman and the li-
berality of the merchant; and to whom this part of the country
is indebted for many valuable improvements, of which certainly
not the least are its high-roads. The calico establishment, how-
ever, did not turn out very satisfactorily; Mr Dunmore, therefore,


