
<APPENDIX>

xxxiv

   156. Are the people fond of a military life? Do many inlist in the army?
And principally in what corps?
   157. Are the people economical, or expensive and luxurious for their cir-
cumstances? Is property, particularly in land, often changing? And at
what prices is it in general sold?
   158. Are the people disposed to humane and generous actions; to pro-
tect and relieve the shipwrecked, &c.?  and are there any events which
have happened in the parish, which do honour to human nature?
   159. Do the people, on the whole, enjoy, in a reasonable degree, the
comforts and advantages of society? and are they contented with their situa-
tion and circumstances?
   160. Are there any means by which their condition could be ameliora-
ted?

     ADDENDA

   1. What is the state of the roads and bridges in the parish? How were
they originally made? How are they kept in repair? Is the statute labour
exacted in kind, or commuted? Are there any turnpikes? and what is the
general opinion of the advantages of turnpike roads?
   2. What is in general the rent of the best arable and the best pasture or
meadow grounds, per acre? What the rent of inferior?
   3. What in general is the size and the average rent of the farms in the
parish?  And is the number of farms increasing or diminishing?
   4. Is the parish in general inclosed, or uninclosed? And are the people
convinced of the advantages of inclosures?
   5. What was the situation of the parish anno 1782 and 1783?  Please
state any curious or important circumstances connected with that era, or
with any other season of scarcity.
   6. Are there any curious or important facts tending to prove any great
alteration in the manners, customs, dress, stile or living, &c. of the inhabi-
tants of the parish, now, and 20 or 50 years ago?

   N. B.  If you reside in a town or city, please give an account of the hi-
story and antiquities of the place; of its buildings, age, walls, sieges, char-
ters, privileges, immunities, gates, streets, markets, fairs; the number of
churches, wards, guilds, companies, fraternities, clubs, &c.:  How the town
is governed:  if it is represented in parliament, to whom does the right of
election belong, and what the number of electors? together with a compa-
rison between its ancient and modern state, in regard to population, com-
merce, shipping, fisheries, manufactures, more particularly at the following
periods, about the time of the Union, since the year 1745, and at present.


