
			   AIRLIE.			  671

north side of the parish, and terminates in a deep rocky gorge,
through which the Isla pours its waters from the high into the low
country. At Airlie castle, This ravine separates into two, which
respectively form the channels of the Isla and the Melgum. The
Den of Airlie, which extends for above a mile below the junction
of these streams, is justly celebrated for its romantic beauty. The
clear stream of the Isla, hurrying far below over its rocky chan-
nel, and the lofty and precipitous braes, clothed with every variety
of natural brushwood, compose one of the finest pieces of river sce-
nery to be found in this part of the country. The Kirktown is
pleasantly situated about a mile and a half south-east from the
castle, and rather less than a mile to the east of the river. The
elevation of this parish ranges from below 150 to upwards of 500
feet above the level of the sea.
   Geology.--With the exceptioin of a trap-dike, which crosses the
channel of the Isla towards the foot of the gorge at Airlie Castle,
and appears again about half a mile to the north-east on the farm
of Brae of Airile, the mineral strata in this parish belong entirely
to the old red sandstone formation. The strike or run of the basset
edges of the different beds is from north-east to south,wdst. The
synclinal line of Strathmore crosses the parish from its north-east
point to Dillavaird on the Isla. On the south of the line the strata
dip gently to the south-west, but on the north of it their inclina-
tion is towards the south-east. On this side, they curve more ra-
pidly upwards, and attain within a short distance of the synclinal
line very high elevations, so as to become nearly vertical along
the summit of the Airlie ridge. The sandstone is here of the
brownish-red colour, and, in the upper beds, is frequently found
intermixed with small portions of a whitish colour, called calmstone,
and sometimes, interstratified with beds of that species. Many of
these upper beds are unfit for any useful purpose, being apt to
crumble by the action of the atmosphere. The lower bed, how-
ever, are of a more durable texture, and, where they admit of being
quarried, those of finer grain are applicable to all the different pur-
poses of architecture, while those of coarser grain are extensively
used for drystone dikes and ordinary rubble buildings. In several,
there is a mixture of conglomerate; and some of the lowest beds,
as in the gorge at Airlie Castle, become an entire mass of conglo-
merated, pebbles, none of them exceeding a few inches in diame-
ter, and consisting chiefly of rounded portions of quartz, with a
mixture of nther minerals. The cementing substance of these peb-
   FORFAR.                             X x


