
			ESKDALEMUIR.			407

	There is no village in the parish,--no nobility nor families of in-
dependent fortune residing in it. The whole ten proprietors for-
merly mentioned have, each, land to the yearly value of L. 50 and
upwards.
	Poaching in game, for these last two years particularly, has been
unusually common. Strangers come in groups of two and three,
and sometimes in triple that number; go every where openly, but
chiefly upon the Duke of Buccleuch's grounds, where the grouse and
black game are most plentiful, and send them off in large quanti-
ties. Having regular licenses, they know they can only be prose-
cuted for trespass, and the penalty for that offence they can easily
pay. The demoralizing influence of such conduct need not be
dwelt upon. To do them justice, they are careful not to disturb
the sheep. But were proprietors, in place of preserving the game
on their estates to the exclusion almost of every one, to grant li-
berty to several of the farmers in the parishes where their estates
happen to lie, these would become guardians of the game, and
would feEL more interested than at present in its preservation.

			IV.-INDUSTRY.
	Agriculture and Rural Economy.--The number of English acres
either cultivated occasionally or in tillage is 482, and the number
remaining constantly in pasture 41,768. Very little wood is to
be seen.
	Rent of Land.--The average rent of land per English acre may
be 15s. The sum for grazing a cow in summer, L.3. Hay for
a cow in winter is commonly obtained by making it either in the
bogs of the farmer under whom the cottar lives, or some neigh-
bouring farmer for the third part,--so that to obtain ten summer
ricks for himself, he must make twenty for the farmer.
	Breeds of Live-Stock, &c.--All the sheep in the parish, except
two hirsels, are of the Cheviot breed; the two hirsels alluded to
are the black-faced or Linton breed. On several of the farms there
is a proportion of west Highland cattle, bought either at Falkirk
or Dumfries in the autumn. These are wintered either at large on
grass with hay, during a storm, or in an enclosure on hay, and sold
next summer. Some farmers allow them to continue at large on
the farm, even in summer, considering that they can do no harm
to the sheep provided they be disposed of before Lammas; this
parish, from its soil and situation, having generally abundance of
pasture till that time. But to keep them later is considered inju-
rious to the sheep.


