

                  LINLITHGOW.                           171

ruins of the ancient palace,-the scenery of this lake is very
lovely, and from several points where the town is not seen, it
has much the appearance of a sheet of water in some seques-
tered Highland vale. There is no river properly belonging to the
parish. The Avon bounds it for several miles on the west, and,
during that part of its course, presents some very pleasing scenery,
the effect of which is now much heightened by the aqueduct which
carries the Union Canal across the valley, and the viaduct which,
at a lower point, conducts, over the same valley, the Edinburgh
and Glasgow Railway.

                   II.-CIVIL HISTORY.

   With the exception of the account in the last Statistical Ac-
count, no history of the parish has been published. Copious no-
tices of it are, however, to be found in the histories of the county,
published by Sibbald and Penny. A MS. history of the town,
by Crawford, author of the history of Renfrewshire, is said to
exist. It may also be stated, that a very beautifully illustrated ac-
count of the Palace has lately been published by Mr Collie, ar-
chitect, Glasgow.
   Historical Notices.-From its locality, and the residence of the
Scottish monarchs in the palace of Linlithgow, the parish has
been the scene of several memorable incidents. The most re-
markable of these are mentioned in the last Statistical Account;
and the present notices embrace the same incidents, with some addi-
tional details. It was on the lands now belonging to the town, and
lying to the east of it, that Edward I. encamped on the night pre-
vious to the battle of Falkirk, so disastrous to the Scottish patriots
under Wallace. The warlike monarch slept in the open fields,
with his horse beside him. During the night the animal struck
the King on the side. The accident caused great confusion in
the camp; and, to allay the tumult, Edward, regardless of pain,
mounted his charger, and, by riding through the army, convinced
the soldiers that he was in safety. The same monarch ir said to
have built a castle or peel at Linlithgow in the year 1300, where
he spent the following Christmas. This castle was left by him
garrisoned with English troops. Its capture by the Scottish pa-
triots was one of, the many daring exploits which distinguished the
war of independence under Bruce. The following account of the
surprisal is given in Tytler's History of Scotland: "Binny, who
was known to the garrison, and had been employed in leading hay
into the fort, communicated his design to a party of Scottish, sol-


