
256                     BERWICKSHIRE.

<TABLE>

   The population of the town amounts to 2656; of the country,
to 813. There are no villages in the parish.

1. Number of families in the parish,        -           -         -           834
          of families chiefly employed in Agrieulture,  -         -           104
                      chiefly employed in trade, manufactures, or handicraft, 336
2. The average number of births yearly, for the last 7 years,     -            37
                      of deaths,            -           -         -            33
                      of marriages,         -           -         -            19

   The principal resident proprietors in the parish, are, William
Hay, Esq. of Dunse Castle; the Honourable General Maitland
of Manderston; William F. Home, Esq. of Wedderburn.
   The proprietors of land of the yearly value of L. 50 and upwards,
are, The Most Noble the Marquis of Breadalbane; Dr Alexander
Monro, of Cockburn; Mrs Turnbull, of Grueldykes; John
Wilson, Esq. of Cumledge; James Bell, Esq. of Ninewar; Wil-
liam Sanderson, Esq. of Ninewar; James Luke, Esq. of Ladywell;
Douglas Ainslie, Esq. of Cairnbank; Major A. Brown, of Trinity
Lodge; the Representatives of the late A. Logan, Esq. of Burn-
houses.
   The number of insane persons in the parish is 6; blind, 2;
deaf and dumb, 2.
                      IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture and Rural Economy.-This parish, which is partly
in Lammermoor, contains about 12,000 acres. About 6000 acres
are arable, 1000 under wood, and the remainder hill pasture. The
arable land is highly cultivated, being all enclosed, limed, and
drained, and generally let in leases of nineteen years.
   Rent of Land.-The average rent of the southern part of the
parish is nearly L. 2, 10s. per imperial acre; the remainder L. 1, 5s.
The bill pasture is of very little value.
   Husbandry.-Nearly the whole of the arable land is a dry sandy
loam, and well adapted for the raising of turnips. It is managed
partly in a four-course shift, and partly in a five, viz. first, turnips;
second, barley; third, pasture; fourth, oats, or two years pasture.
   Rate of Wages.-On the different farms almost all the servants
are paid partly in corn and partly in money,-they having a cow
maintained all the year. Servants paid in this manner appear to
live better than those who are paid entirely in money.
   In the parish of Dunse, in common with the parishes in its vici-
nity, the most improved breeds of short-horned cattle, Leicestershire

<FOOTNOTE>This enumeration must not be held as quite correct, as many births, and all ir-
regular marriages, of persons not belonging to the Established church, are not re-
corded.
                                     3


