
                PARISH OF SOUTHEND.*

             PRESBYTERY OF KINTYRE) SYNOD OF ARGYLE.


              I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
      Name.-THis parish lies at the extremity of the peninsula of
    Kintyre, and consists of what were formerly the parishes of Kil-
    colinkill and Kilblaan. Kilcolmkill literallysigni6esthecellofCo-
    lum of the Cells, or, in other -words, the Church of St Columba, the
    founder of Churches. The remains of the former chapel, Kilblaan,
    the church of St Blaan, are still visible. No vestige whatever re-
    mains of St Blaan's chapel. These two parishes of Kilcolinkill
    and Kilblaan are now United, under the modern name of Southend
    or South Kintyre, which the parish has borne since the Reforma-
    tion.
      Extent, &c.-The extreme length of the parish is 11 miles, and
    greatest breadth 5; the whole being about 50 square miles. It
    is bounded on the east and south, by the Frith of Clyde, and the
    North Channel; on the west, by the Atlantic; and on the north,
    by the parish of Campbelton.
      Topopraphical Appearances.-Its figure is polygonal. There are
    no considerable ranges of mountains in this parish. The highest
    mountain, called Knockmoy, (or Hill of the Plain,) is 2036 feet
    above the level of the sea, and is the most remarkable for its height
    ill the district of Kintyre ; it is a conspicuous object to all ves-
    sels coming from the westward.
      There are some valleys that intersect the parish with small
    streams running through them, the principal of which are Coni-
    glen and Glenbreckry, and which run at nearly parallel lines with
    each other.
      Caves.-This parish abounds with many eaves; some nf tbeise
    situated at Keil, are of considerable dimensions and have a very
    striking appearance. There is one of these caves from which,
    according to the tradition among the country people, a subter.

                Drawn up by late incumbent, the Rev. Daniel Kelly.



