
				ASSYNT.				115

	office. There is another in the immediate nighbourhood of the
	church. The mails arrive regularly twice a-week. This isone of
	the greatest improvements imaginable. A letter or newspaper
	from London we have the fifth day. In connection with the post-
	office, I am naturally led to notice, our excellent roads. Nothing
	has so much contributed to the external improvement of the coun-
	try as these, by which this interesting district, till lately inaccessible,
	and comparatively unknown, has been opened up to the public; and
	thus, advantages secured to the inhabitants, which our ancestors
	would have deemed impossible. This improvement is attributable,
	in a great measure, to the Noble proprietors, and, were there no
 	other benefit conferred on it, Assynt, on this account, owes a last-
	ing debt of gratitude to the late excellent Duke of Sutherland.
	The length of road constructed from Aultnacaelgach to Store, in-
	cluding branches to Unapool and Inverkirking, exceeds forty miles.
	To this may be added several miles of bye roads for the exclusive
 	benefit of the tenantry. There is a small convenient barbour at
	Lochinver, where a pier has been erected. There are some other
	harbours, or rather creeks, at Nedd, Oldney, and Ardvar, all ly-
	ing on the north side of the point of Store, which afflord shelter and
	anchorage.
	   Savings' Bank.-There was a savings bank established about
	four years ago, and it is now in full operation. It has already
	proved very beneficial. It is under the patronage of the Suther-
 	land family, who encourage industry by giving a higher rate of in-
	terest than the banks do, for all sums not exceeding L.20 Sterling.
	   Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is situated within nine
	miles of the southern boundary of the parish-a situation extreme-
	ly inconvenient for the people. The great bulk of the population
	dwell at distances from the church, varying from twelve to eighteen
	miles.  The intervening population is very small. The church was
	built upwards of sixty years ago, but was re-slated and seated about
	twenty-five years ago. It is seated for 260 or 280 sitters. It is
	small, but comfortable. There are two other regular preaching
	stations, where the minister has to officiate, viz. Lochinver, distant
	fourteen miles, to which there is a good road leading; and Kyle-
	side, nearly the same distance, but without any road at all. In
	the former district there is preaching once in the three weeks ge-
	nerally, or once a month at farthest; in the other, once in the six
	or seven weeks. At Lochinver there is a pretty good house built
        by subscription, to which the late Duke, and the Duchess-Coun-


