
			  WHITHORN. 			    57

   Breed of Live-Stock.--Formerly the Galloway breed of cattle
was universally reared in this parish, and the greatest attention was
paid to its improvement. Farmers from other parts of the country,
desirous of improving their breeding stock, regularly applied to
the farmers in this parish for young bulls and queys. Of late
years, dairies have been introduced, and the Ayrshire breed is
threatening to supplant the Galloway. The young cattle that
were formerly reared in this country, and driven into England to
be fed for the London market, are now to a considerable extent
kept in the country until they are fit for the butcher market, and
others shipped to Liverpool. The favourite breed of horses for
the cart and plough is a low, flat, heavy-bodied, and rough legged
breed: sheep, a cross betwixt the Leicester ram and the Mug and
Cheviot ewe.
   Husbandry.--Farming in this district is every day arriving at
higher excellence. The bone manure has given such an impetus
to green crop, that turnip husbandry during the last ten years has
increased at least tenfold. The turnips are partly eaten off with
sheep, and partly lifted for cattle fed in stalls. The rotation general-
ly practised by crofters is the six year shift, a white crop, a green
crop, a white crop with grass seeds, a hay crop, and two years in
pasture. Upon large farms, the nine or ten years shift,--two white
crops, a green crop, a white crop with grass seeds, a hay crop,
and four or five years in pasture. Wheat is not cultivated to any
extent, as it exhausts the strength of the land, and is very detri-
mental to both hay and pasture. As to the produce of the parish,--
that depends upon so man circumstances, and is so various, one
year differing so much from another, that any attempt at ascertain-
ing its extent would be mere conjecture. A farmer, for instance, one
year fatted upwards of fourscore swine; other years, much fewer.
An acre of wheat one year may yield 20 bushels; and the same
extent of ground next year, 40. The farmers in general are very
comfortably lodged, with farm-steadings suitable for the dimen-
sions of the farms, and both dwelling-houses and offices covered
with slate. The duration of leases is from twelve to ninteen
years. The crofts around the town are usually let for twelve
years, and the large farms for nineteen.

			V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Means of Communication.--The parish in easy of access both by
land and water. At the isle, there is a very safe and commodious
harbour, where a quay or pier was erected above forty years ago by


