
		CORRACHY AND CLOVA.                             441

as ash, elm, plane, larch, beech, spruce, limes, Scotch fir, and
chestnuts.
        The following is the measurement of a few of the trees:-

<TABLE>

	1. An ash tree,      87 feet in height, and 9 feet in circumference.
	2. A larch,          79                     7
	3. A silver fir,     78                     7 1/4
	4. A beech,          75                     9
	5. A lime,           62                     7
	6. A common fir,     47                     6
	7. A chestnut,       45                     8

	In the neighbourhood of the castle, there is a very fine old hol-
ly hedge, nearly 400 yards in length, and from 12 to 20 feet in
height. There is also a great variety of evergreens and shrubs,
most of which have been planted in the course of the last twenty
years. They are thriving remarkably well, and give a fine ap-
pearance to the pleasure grounds; which have of late years been
greatly enlarged, and highly improved. In the mountainous dis-
trict near to Lochesk, in Clova, several acres of land were plant-
ed, about fourteen years ago, with larch, spruce, and Scotch firs.
Although the situation is high, exposed, and cold, yet the greater
proportion of the larch and spruce trees have already attained a
considerable height, and answer the purpose for which they were
intended, as shelter for deer,-the abovd plantation forming part
of an extensive forest for deer, in the upper districts of Clova and
Glenisla, belonging to the Earl of Airlie, and Colonel the Ho-
nourable Donald Ogilvy of Clova.
	Many large old trees, chiefly ash and plane, are to be seen
here and there throughout the united parish; also natural birch,
alder, mountain-ash, and hazel.
	The quantities of old wood found in the mossy and marshy
grounds tend to show, that, in former times, trees had not only
been common, but many of them of large size throughout the pa-
rish. For many years, it has been known that a large oak was
imbedded in a marsh near the side of the river Esk, about
one mile north from Cortachy Castle. The marsh having been
recently drained, has permitted the tree to be dug out. Mr
Blackadder, land-surveyor, Glammis, having been requested to
examine it, reports that it is not entire, the root end of the
trunk, apparently to the extent of one-third of its length, hav-
ing been destroyed by fire, which had also penetrated up through
its heart to the forks, where the principal limbs branch of; two
of which were found lying in the position as they had fallen, and
were broken over at that point. Some portions which had been
most deeply submerged are in a fresh state, particularly the greater


