
     of Buittle.

   Antiquities.-It is now the disposition of the world, (per-
haps it may not decrease), rather to know how things are,
than how they have been.  Were it proper to swell a work
of usefulness, and to load the page of profitable information
with urns, coins, calcined bones, unfashionable implements
of slaughter, and other precious relics, over which the con-
jectural tribe of antiquaries rejoice or lament, we might men-
tion numerous discoveries of the kind made hereabouts.  On
such matters few words shall be used.-The Casile of Buittle
is assuredly the most considerable remain of antiquity in the
parish.  Some have affirmed, that it was formerly called the
Castle of Knare, Nare, or Bar-nare, and was the chief resi-
dence of the Reguli of Galloway.  An adjoining hill, nam-
ed Craig-nair, gives some weight to this supposition.  Yet
when we recollect, how large a division of the British is-
land* once bore the name of Gallovidia, or the province of
the Galwalenses, (Strath Clyde), and that several places in
this great extent of country, both from name and situation+,

<FOOTNOTE>

*Buchananus enim, non ab aliis modo, sed a se ipso diversus abit,
says Mr Ruddiman.  Here that remark would seem to be justi-
fied.  In lib. 1. Buchanan makes Gallovidia to signify Gaul in the
Scotch language, and what but Gauls were the Galwalenses, or
Cumbrian Britons?  In lib. 5. however, Buchanan makes Gal-
lovidia a single county, peopled with Hibernian Scotch.  Again,
in lib. 8. he mentions a dispute between William the Lion, and
the King of England, as to the vassalage of the Lords of Gal-
loway, and he makes Earl Allan vassal to both, on decent
terms indeed.-The truth is, Buchanan was too busy in settling
kingdoms, to be precise as to the limits of counties.  Truly
does that great man say ^, "Ita tamen cum iniquitate temporum
"conflexerim ut aliquid restitisse vidcar."  Even from the hasty
account which he gives, it may well be supposed, that part of
the antient Gallovidia lay in Scotland, part in England.

+E. G. Botel, now called Bol, in Cumberland, and Barnard
Castle, in Durham.
^BUCHAN de Fure Regni apud Scotos.


