
                      BERTRAM SHOTTS.                      631

and have ever since been under the management of John Baird,
Esq. who planned and superintended their erection.  Besides the
smelting of iron ore, which was all that was originally contemplated
in these works, an extensive foundry was built many years ago,
the castings from which have long maintained a character second
only to those of the Carron Company.  For many years there was
only one smelting furnace in blast, and the produce of pig-iron was
no more than 45 tons weekly, but in consequence of various local
improvements, and particularly the use of heated air, the produce
from two furnaces now in operation is 160 tons weekly.  A third
furnace is at present being erected.  A large engineering establish-
ment was added to the works some years ago, in which many ma-
rine and land steam-engines, and other kinds of machinery, have
been fitted up, which have given much satisfaction to the purchasers.
   The country around these works was formerly altogether un-
productive, and, from the want of roads, was of little or no value;
but from the impulse given to improvement by the circulation of
L. 500 weekly amongst the workmen, &c. the face of the country
has undergone a most surprising change.
   The other iron-works in the south-west of the parish are called
the Omoa works, and were erected in 1787.  They are the pro-
perty of Mr Young, and at present there is one furnace in opera-
tion.
   It gives me sincere pleasure to state that Mr Baird has of late
stopped the working of his furnaces on Sabbath.

                     V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   There is no market-town in the parish.
   We have four villages, viz. Shotts Works, Omoa, Harthill, and
Sallysburgh.  We have a penny-post at Shotts Works, and have
reason to expect that in a very short time there will be another
established on the line of the mail-coach in Sallysburgh.  The
length of the turnpike roads in the parish is about seventeen miles,
and no fewer than twenty public coaches pass through it daily
   Ecclesiastical State.-The church stands in a very centrical po-
sition, being, nearly as may be, equidistant from the different ex-
tremities of the parish.  It was built in the year 1820, and is in a
good state of repair.  It affords accomodation for 1200 persons.
All the sittings are free.  Within the last year a new manse was
built, which may well be characterized as most substantial and com-
modious.  Graet praise is due to the heritors for their liberality
in erecting such an excellent house.  The glebe extends to


