
     Statistical Account

   Fuel.-The fuel used here is peat, which is procured at
an immense labour and expense.  Nothing contributes
more to retard the progress of improvements, than the time,
expenses, and number of hands requisite to secure a suffi-
cient quantity of peats.  It is cut down in the month of
April with irons made for the purpose.  Four men to an
iron, 30 of which will hardly be sufficient to supply a
tacksman's family and servants with fuel*.

<FOOTNOTE>

most necessary, pointed out 2 populous districts in this parish, we Pa-
ble and Sand, as places deserving the attention of the Society, and where
schools might be erected to great advantage.  He also fixed upon the last
mentioned place a district containing 800 souls, with the adjacent islands
of Berwea and Paba, belonging to the parish of Harris, as a proper sta-
tion for a missionary.  The Society, always ready to bestow their funds
where they may best promote the objects of their institution, propose to
grant a salary of L. 50 yearly to a missionary to be employed in the above
station, and L. 15 yearly to each of 2 schoolmasters to be employed in the
district already mentioned; if the proprietor should co-operate with their
views, so far as to grant certain accommodations required by the Society.
His Lordship has not hitherto signified his acquiescence; and it is hoped,
that he will not long withhold his countenance from a measure tending
so much to promote the civil and religious interests of his tenants.

*When it hardens a little, it requires near the same number of hands
to raise it on end, for the purpose of drying.  The next step, is to put
it into stacks near the peat moss, which requires a great number of men
and horses, but the greatest part of the whole trouble and expense lies
in leading them in creels by horses a mile and a half, and in some places
two miles, to their respective homes; so that this business of procuring
a sufficient quantity of fuel, employs the tacksmens men-servants, from
the month of May to the 1st of September, excepting the time spent in
making heath ropes for securing their houses.  The small tenants are
employed every hour they can spare from other necessary occupations, in
furnishing themselves with peats; and after all they can do, they seldom
have but a scanty supply of that necessary article.  In very rainy seasons,
such as the year 1790, there has been such a scarcity of fuel as to oblige
people to go with their horses several miles for heath to dress their vic-
tuals with.
 

