

       1112               PERTHSHIRE.

         The ridge of high ground behind Bamff House consists of a
       band of trap rock, generally about a mile in breadth, with fronts
       stretching down into the hollow behind the hill of Alyth.  On the

       north side of the ridge, the trap rocks are conglomerate in their
       structure, the pebbles being also trap; but towards the south they
       are more homogeneous, and of a felspathic texture.  Within this
       series, some narrow beds of ligbt-grey sandstone occur; and to-
       wards the north of the trap beds, there is a large nucleus of yel-
       lowish compact limestone, which is well adapted for building.  A
       little to the south of Bamff House, the trap range is intersected
       by a dike or vein of well-defined serpentine, about a hundred yards
       in width, forming a prolongation of that which traverses the district
       to the eastward.
         The southern part of the parish, with the range of hills behind
       the village, is occupied by the old red sandstone strata, intersected
       by narrow dikes of trap, two of which are laid open by the chan-
       nel of the burn.  These strata, at their commencement on the
       north, are generally conglomerate, the pebbles ranging from one
       to six inches in diameter, and consisting of quartz, porphyry, &c.
       As they descend towards the south, the strata become more ho-
       mogeneous and of finer grain, and are occasionally of a soft marly
       texture.  The synclinal line of Strathmore passes near the village,
       from north-east to south-west.  On the south of the line, the dip
       is to the south-east; on the north, to the south-west.   On the
       north, side of the line, the amount of dip is very great, ranging in
       the, conglomerate beds from seventy to ninety degrees.  No fossil
       remains have been observed.
         No ornamental stones are found in the parish.  The beautiful
       agates, formerly well known under the name of Alyth jaspers,
       were found in the Burn of Kilry, in the adjacent parish of Glen-
       isla, and derived their name from the circumstance, that they were
       generally searched for by persons from Alyth.
         The flat grounds or haughs, on the side of the Isla, consist of
       a fine deep loam, with a subsoil of sandy alluvial silt, and are very
       productive.  With the exception of these alluvial loams, the best
       soils are where the rocks are thinly covered by their own detritus,
       which forms a warm dry porous subsoil.  When the cover is
       deeper, it is chiefly composed of detritus from the Grampians,
       forming an impervious mixture of clay and stones of all sizes.
       The subsoil is generally of this kind, in the hollows behind the
       hills of Alyth, &c., and in the Muir of Alyth, an extensive com-


