
     of Dudingston.

common collections at the church door, with the other usual re-
sources of such revenue, have been made to suffice, however inade-
quate to the object.  The collections used to amount to about L. 27
ster. per ann.  From seat rents, marriages, and funerals, L. 13
more are raised.  Of late, from some incidental causes which
are not of a regularly productive or stable nature, they have
considerably increased.  At present there are 13 poor on the
roll, who receive 2 s, 2 s 6 d, 3 s, and 4 s per month.  Families
in distress are occasionally supplied from the funds*.

   Population.-The state of population has been for some time
very variable.  From the late interruptions and threatened
decay of the coal works, a great body of the people employed
in them have removed to scenes more favourable to the re-
gular and durable exercise of their occupations.  In one vil-
lage alone, Joppa, which was solely inhabited by coalliers,
above 30 houses have been deserted, or suffered to fall to
ruin, within the space of the last 4 years.  To counterbalance
in part, this deficiency of population, several families of new
manufacturers, &c. have in the same period settled in Porto-
bello, &c.  A migratory colony, besides, of bathers, summer
lodgers, &c. upon the same coast, continue every year to in-
crease their numbers.  But these cannot with propriety be

<FOOTNOTE>

*A fund, or box as it is commonly named, is also supported in this and
some of the neighbouring parishes, by the coalliers and carters, for the main-
tenance chiefly of their sick or disabled members.  Little or nothing is pro-
vided for their widows or surviving children.  But, if the scheme were placed
upon a more liberal and advantageous footing: were its objects in some sense
reversed, and its chief expenditure devoted to the support of the widows and
orphans, instead of being consumed in expensive funerals, and engrossed in the
selfish sustenance of the subscribers themselves, it might become a truly valu-
able and praiseworthy establishment.


