
     of the Abbey Parish of Paisley.

Renfrew parish, and joins the river Gryfe at Inchinan bridge.
In the Cart are found perch, trout, flounders, and braises, or
gilt-heads, but none of them in any considerable quantities,
owing, no doubt, in a great to the bleachfields, print-
fields, and a copperas work upon the banks of the river.  As
for the fine large pearls once found in this river, and which,
according to our old historians, had been noticed by the most
eminent jewellers in Europe, they have long disappeared, and
the river has become a more certain source of wealth by its
utility to an industrious and manufacturing neighbourhood.
Of several smaller rivulets in the parish, none are so consi-
derable from their size as to merit notice.  Covered, how-
ever, as their banks every where are with thread, lawns, or
muslins, they have all become highly valuable to their pro-
prietors, and of great importance to the country.-The river
White Cart was, by direction of the Magistrates of Paisley,
surveyed by Mr Whiteworth in 1786.  He reported, that
by removing some rocks and shoals in the river, a depth of
seven feet of water might be obtained in ordinary spring-
tides; and, as the channel is but shallow under Inchinan-
bridge, as it could not be easily or safely deepened there, and
as, at any rate, vessels with standing masts could not pass un-
der the arches, he proposed to avoid that part of the naviga-
tion by means of a navigable canal, Which should leave the
river a little above, and join it again below the bridge.  The
expence of the whole, including a draw-bridge across the
canal, was estimated at 1900 l.  The plan being approved of,
an act of Parliament was obtained, empowering the Magis-
trates and other trustees to carry on the work, and defray the
expence by a tonnage of eight-pence per ton upon all vessels
navigating the Cart, with an exception in favour of those
loaded with coal.  The work is now completed, but at an
expence of about 4000 l.  The navigation is greatly improved,


