
394                     DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

son, who caused it to be presented to the Antiquarian Society.
The new church, a handsome substantial building, capable of con-
taining 1700 sitters, was opened for public worship in the year
1819, and cost the heritors, including a new wall round the church-
yard, the sum of L. 3000. The heritors agreed to remove the
church from its original site in the churchyard, and placed it at the
south end of the burgh. The situation is very centrical, being
nearly equidistant from all the extreme points in the parish.
	The manse, which is still in tolerable repair, was built in the
year 1761. The late worthy incumbent frequently proposed to the
heritors to have a new manse, and had fixed upon the site, about
600 yards east of the church in front of the Castle loch; but, though
he offered to contribute L. 100 towards the expense of the build-
ing, the plan was given up, as it was found no easy matter to gain
the consent of 247 heritors. The glebe is very small, consisting
of one acre lying very near to the manse, and another of meadow
in the lower part of the parish. It was long supposed that a glebe
belonged to this parish near to the chapel of Rokle, which is four
miles distant from the manse. This opinion was confirmed by some
documents that were found in the office of the chamberlain of the
late Duke of Queensberry, in which it was discovered that an al-
lowance was given for this glebe to a former incumbent. After the
discovery of these documents, the late Mr Gibson took the neces-
sary steps before the Presbytery, and then raised an action in the
Court of Session against Lord Queensberry, the present proprie-
tor. After a long and expensive litigation, Mr Gibson gained his
case, though he did not live to see the excambion take place to
which Lord Queensberry had agreed.
	Dissenting Meeting-Houses.--There are two Dissenting meet-
ing-houses in this parish, one of which belongs to the Cameronians,
and the other to the Burghers. The Cameronian meeting-house is
situated in the village of Hightae, and was originally built for a Re-
lief congregation in the year 1796, during the incumbency of the
late Rev. Dr Andrew Brown, Professor of Rhetoric, who was trans-
lated from Lochmaben to the New Grayfriars, Edinburgh, in 1799.
The managers of this chapel, some years ago, sold it to the
Cameronians, who have now a minister settled among them. The
congregation is a mere handful, as there are only thirty-seven Ca-
meronians in the parish. The clergyman has no dwelling-house,
and his stipend does not exceed L. 50. The Burgher chapel,
which was built in 1818 is situated within the burgh roods, and
				    3


