
336                     INVERNESS-SHIRE.

in which were deposited the ashes of once renowned, but now
forgotten heroes.
   Subterranean dwellings, or earth-houses, of considerable size,
are to be met with in the parish.  These seem evidently to have
been intended for hiding-places in times of danger.  There is one
of them situated on the farm of Vatten, having its entrance in
the face of a very precipitous bank, overhanging a deep ravine.
This door, or more appropriately fox-hole, is completely covered
over with heather and moss, so that its existence would never be
suspected even after a minute examination of the bank.  A passage
about tbree feet in height, and near the same breadth, roofed by
stones laid on as linters, leads inwards to thd distance of sixty or
seventy feet, when it opens into what appears to have been a cen-
tral room of considerable extent, arched over with stone, and from
four to five feet in height.  Off this room, several narrow galleries
branch off in various directions, but to what extent has never been
ascertained, as it is difficult and even dangerous to explore them
until they be opened from above, and free air admitted into them.
How these dwellings were ventilated, so as to be fit for the habi-
tation of human beings, it is not easy now to discover, (as for light
they seem to have been utterly destitute of it,) but in all probabi-
lity the ingenuity of our rude ancestors discovered expedients,
more simple, if not more effective, than those boasted of by our
scientific age.  There is another interesting specimen of these
earth-houses on the farm of Clagan; but it is neither so extensive
nor so well constructed as that already adverted to.
  The only relics of antiquity excavated in the parish are sorne
urns, apparently of Celtic manufacture, which were dug up about
four years ago, in an old burial-place near the site of the parish
church.  These are composed of a very coarse reddish clay; but
have several rude ornaments upon them, or rather are notched
and scolloped throughout, and are much more elegant in shape
than those generally known as Celtic urns, frepuently are.  One
of them is in the possession of Macleod of Macleod.  Another is
believed to be in the Glasgow Hunterian Museum.  All the rest
were broken to pieces through the carelessness of the excavator,
who was more anxious to fit the ground for bearing a crop of po-
toes, than to bring to light any relics of antiquity which it con-
tained.
   The Castle of Dunvegan is a very interesting monument of by-
gone ages.  The oldest part of it is said to have been built in the


