
536                      LANARKSHIRE.

vered with water to a considerable depth, and the mud which is
then deposited serves greatly to enrich it. At such times, the
river has much the appearance of an arm of the sea, and occasions
much damage to the corn crop, completely destroying it if in the
shot-blade, and leaving so much sand upon the pasture, as to ren-
der it unfit for cattle, until again washed off by the rain. The
ground rises by a gentle acclivity from. the river, presenting an
unequal surface; but in general it is well cultivated, and subdivided
into different enclosures.
	Topographical Appearances.--The only high ground deserving
any notice is a ridge, which, commencing in the parish of Coving-
ton in the south, runs in a north-westerly direction through the
parish, until it terminates in the west end of it, where it rises to the
greatest height, about 500 feet above the bed of the river, The
highest point of the ridge is named Cairn-gryffe, while the other
portions are styled Westraw and Swaites hills, the one opposite
the mansion-house of Westraw, and the other attached to a farm
of the same name, situated at the bottom of the hill.
	Climate.--The climate may rather be represented as moist than
otherwise, and the sudden changes of the temperature of the at-
mosphere from hot to cold, and from cold to hot, particularly in
the spring, are not unfrequent; and often give rise to colds, sore
throats, &c. During the spring months, cold easterly winds fre-
quently prevail, which produce a withering effect upon the pasture,
the, braird, and the blossom of the small fruit; but the dense fogs
which prevail upon the east coast very rarely extend so far to the
west. The highest winds are from the south and south-west,
which is particularly indicated by the inclination of trees planted
in exposed situations, being uniformly found to be toward the
north-east. It may also be remarked, that the heaviest falls of
snow are from the east and north-east.
	The parish may be generally represented as dry and healthy.
The diseases which prevail are such as are common to the neigh-
bourhood, viz. fevers, sore throats, rheumatisms, &c. During the
time that cholera prevailed in this-country, it afforded great ground
for thankfulness, that this parish was entirely free from it. The
practice of vacination is carefully attended to, so that a face mark-
ed by the small-pox is rarely to be seen.
	Hydrography.--The river Clyde, rising upwards of twenty-
five miles. to the southward, in the parish of Crawford, flows
along with considerable rapidly, until within a few miles of its


