
296                     ROXBURGHSHIRE.

number of windows, which lay a tax on the minister disproportion-
ed to his stipend.  Half the number of windows would have been
sufficient; but it was built when clergymen paid no window-tax.
  Of the 46 families in the parish, 25 attend the parish church,
and 21 belong to Dissenting congregations of different denomi-
nations.  There is no dissenting place of worship in the parish;
but those who frequent such places go to Jedburgh.
  School.--The school-house was built a few years ago, and both
it and the schoolmaster's dwelling-house are very substantial and
commodious.  The schoolmaster's salary is L. 26 Sterling, with
the usual quantity of garden ground, and six days darg of turf.
The number of pupils attending this school, in former times, used
to be much greater than now; but, owing to the decrease of the
inhabitants in the village and neigbbourbood and other causes, the
number has much decreased.  The branches taught are, reading,
writing, arithmetic, and book-keeping.  The Bible is the general
class-book, and the Assembly's Shorter Catechism regularly
taught.  Some of the more advanced pupils read Barrie's Collec-
tion.
  Poor.--These are supported by assessment fixed by the heri-
tors at their meetings, held twice yearly for this purpose.  The al-
lowance to paupers is generally between 2s. and 3s. weekly.  In
some urgent cases, more is allowed; but 3s. may be considered as
the average.  There are but four on the list at present, so that the
poor's rates of the parish are very trifling.  Indeed, there are few
parishes in Scotland where public burdens in general, as they are
denominated, are so light.  Five hundred merks were mortified to
the poor of the barony of Bedrule 1695, William Ramsay in
Bedrule mill, and Margaret Turnbull his wife; of which the
family of Cavers Carre are left trustees Mrs Mary Anne
Stevenson, relict of the Rev. James Borland, (formerly mention-
ed) sunk L. 100 Scots to the poor of this parish, of which, accord-
ing to the account in the parish records, the session appear to have
been appointed by her as the overseers.  Of the interest of these
sums, mortified by pious individuals, the poor of this parish have
received nothing for several years, and the writer has not been
able to gain any satisfactory account of what became of the deeds
of mortification.

                        GENERAL REMARKS.
A few years ago, there was a great spirit of emigration in this
parish, as in most other parishes in the neighbourhood.  But, since


