
     Statistical Account

the farms of Kinaldy, Blelachy, and Lonhead, with great
success; but no where else, except in gardens, for want of
inclosures.  Many of the farmers begin to raise flax; and as
there are now 2 lint-mills erected in 2 of the neighbouring
parishes, Towie and Coal, it is thought it will turn out a
very profitable crop.  There are a good many sheep rear-
ed in the parish, the greater part of them of the black fa-
ced kind; they sell from L. 7 to L. 13 the score.  Black
cattle are very much degenerated for want of grass, the far-
mers send them all, except a few milk-cows, to pasture in
glens every year about Whitsunday for 3 months; and since
the sheep became numerous, they generally return as poor as
when they went away.  In 1780 there were 5 or 6 carts
in this parish; now, in 1793, there are about 30.  There are
at present 4 heritors in the parish, Lord Aberdeen, Lord
Strathaven, James Farquharson of Invercauld, and Charles
Gordon of Blelack; the latter is the only residing heritor.
The valued rent of the parish is L. 2783 Scots.  Real
rent L. 782, 10 s. 344 bolls 2 firlots meal, 181 bolls 1 firlot
bear.  The rents of the principal estates are demanded
when due; with certification, that if the last farthing is not
paid, the tenants (very few of them having tacks) must
remove at the first term of Whitsunday.  To avoid this evil,
numbers of them sell meal and bear for ready money,
which they have not to deliver, and at that instant buy the
same back from the one they sold it to at 5 s. and 3 s. 6 d.
the boll of additional price, payable 9 months after.  Such as
have the victual to deliver, are obliged to thresh out their
crop before they have use for the straw; by which means,
they lose a great deal of it, carrying it out of their barns
and building it up in their yards, and it becomes dry and
insipid for their cattle.  By this uncommon kind of traffic,
numbers are reduced to very low circumstances.  All the
consolation they have, is, the one part of them is taught by


