
226                     ROXBURGHSHIRE.

was of a very antique form, and measured about 11 inches in length.
It is now in the possession of His Grace the Duke of Roxburghe.
 About a quarter of a mile to the north of the castle, in a steep
bank close to Cessford-burn, is an artificial cave of considerable
dimensions.  It is in a very sequestered spot, and might be often
passed and repassed without attracting observation.  It is known
by the name of Hobbie Ker's cave.
 On the southern banks of the Kale, near Eckford mill, is the
small estate of Haughhead, which is one of the most retired spots
in the parish, and which was once the property of Robert Hall,
usually known by the name of Hobbie Hall, a man remarkable both
for his piety and his bodily strength. About a quarter of a mile to
the south of his ancient mansion-house, which is still in a tolera-
bly good state of repair, is a mount which measures in circumfe-
rence 218 feet, and to which the appellation of Haughhead Kipp is
given.  This is composed of artificial layers of earth and stone,
and is surrounded with a clump of old fir trees, which, standing out
from the extremity of a belt of young plantation, gives to the place
when viewed at a distance, something like a turreted appearance.
Placed on the summit of this mount is a rude stone, which, ac-
cording to tradition, records a triumph achieved by Hall over
Ker of Cessford, when ousted in his attempt to take lawless posses-
sion of his property. The stone has been wantonly broken; but
the inscription on it, which is now scarcely legible, is as follows:

          Here Hoby Hall boldly maintained his right,
          Gainst Reif plain force armed with lawles might,
          For Twenty Pleughs harnes'd in all their Gear,
          Could not his valient nobl Heart make Fear,
          But with his sword he cut the formost Soam
          In two: hence drove both pleughs and
          Pleughmen home.   1620.

About a quarter of a mile to the east of this mount, in a deep ra-
vine through which the Kale over a rocky bed winds its way, is a
sequestered spot where tent-preachings were wont to be held by the
Covenanters of old; and a little farther down, on the opposite side
of the stream, near Grahamslawfarm-house, are to be seen several ar-
tificial caves of various dimensions, whither that persecuted people us-
ed to flee for refuge,in times of danger.  As is mentioned by Wodrow,
they had two great conventicles in Scotland,--the one at Haugh-
bead, in this parish, and the other at Maybole,  in the countv of Ayr.
From Henry Hall,/f* the then proprietor of Haughhead, an indivi-
dual both of the most undaunted courage and of the most unaffect-

<FOOTNOTE>It is probable that this person was the son of the above-mentioned Robert or
Hobbie Hall.


