
120                         FORFARSHIRE.

embankment along the side of the basin, within the boundary of
this parish.
	It may also be added, that the yearly value of the garden fruits
raised in the parish is about L. 80; and of river fishing about
L. 100.

                     V.-PAROCHIAL ECONONY.

	Market-Town.--This parish derives much advantage from its
vicinity to the town of Montrose, where the farmer has always a
ready market for everything he can raise, and where in return he
can purchase whatever he needs for his farm or his family.
	Means of Communication.--Another great benefit is the open
navigation from Montrose to Old Montrose, where coals are im-
ported for fuel to this and the adjoining parishes; and likewise
great quantities of lime for manure. Vessels of fifty or sixty tons
burden can, at stream tides, land their cargoes at that harbour.
Grain and potatoes are also sometimes shipped from the same
place. This, and the parishes to the westward, will also derive
another great benefit from a turnpike road just now making, and
leading from Montrose to Forfar, which will open the communi-
cation, and shorten the distance betwixt these towns about four
miles. This road, passing the whole way through a very level
country, will afford to the farmer easy access to the harbour of
Montrose for the delivery of his grain, while it will also facilitate
the carriage, from quarries situate to the westward, of slates and
pavement, for which there is a great demand at that town and
harbour.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The church stands on the east corner
of the parish; nevertheless, it is very accessible to all the inhabit-
ants,--none of the people being at a greater distance from it than
two miles. It was built in 1791, and some years ago underwent
a thorough repair; and is now a very commodious house for public
worship. It may `cbommodate nearly 300 people, or about 100
more than in the present state of the population can be supposed
to attend. The number of families attending the Established
church is 90.
	The manse is partly an old, and partly a new, building. The
principal part of it was built in 1789; the rest is of a much older
date. The offices were all rebuilt five years ago, and, by the
kindness of the heritors, on a larger scale than usual; and they
now afford very complete accommodation. The grebe measures
                                3


