
    120             KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

    Newton-Stewart.  The Palnure is navigable, for a short distance,
    for vessels of fifty or sixty tons.
        Geology.- The rocks belong to the transition formation, and
    consist of greywacke and clay slate.  In the valley of Palnure they
    appear partially stratified, with an inclination to the west.  Gra-
    nite is found chiefly as boulders, except at Craigdhews, where
    great masses are scattered.  These have been extensively cut for
    building purposes, the stone being of a very superior quality. The
    granite columns, upwards of twenty feet in height, of the splendid
    portico at Cally House, were procured from Craigdhews.  Lead
    occurs in veins in the south-western portion of the parish, on the
    estates of Kirouchtree and Machermore.  The veins vary from
    two to five feet in thickness, and dip to the west.  For many
    years, the mines were wrought extensively, producing several hun-
    dred tons of lead annually; but having latterly become unproduc-
    tive, the working is now almost abandoned, there being only three
    or four individuals occasionally employed.
       Soil.-The soil is various. In general it is of a dry gravelly
    nature, abounding with stones.  In the valley of Palnure, and
    along the Cree, above its junction with the former stream, the
    soil is generally a tenacious clay, interspersed with portions of
    moss.  Boulder stones abound, though immense qualities have
    been removed from the soil within these few years: they are most-
    ly of granite, and being in demand for building, are cut up, the
    proceeds assisting to defray the expense of raising.
       Zoology.- Foxes abound in the parish.  The otter is occasion-
    ally seen in the Cree, above the manse of Minnigaff.  The vea-
    sel and the polecat are found.  The common gray rabbit was in-
    truduced a number of years ago by one of the proprietors, and
    latterly increased to such an extent as to prove a serious detriment
    to agriculture; though, these two seasons past, their numbers have
    been greatly reduced.  The red deer and the ptarmigan at one
    period were common. but both have disappeared.
       Among were common, but both have disappeared.
    may be mentioned the following: The common eagle, peregrine
    falcon (Falco peregrinus), the sparrow hawk (F. risus), the mer-
    ling (F. (ae)salon), the glead (F. milvus), the barn owl (Strix flam-
    mea), the raven (Corvus corax), the carrion crow (C. corone), the
    rook (C. frugilegus), the jackdaw (C. monedula), the magpie (C.
    pica). the lapwing (Tringa vanella), the plover (Charadrius plu-


