

6                     BERWICKSHIRE.

subsequently improved by the Duke of Lauderdale. It is a spa-
cious and massy edifice, having some stately apartments decorated
in the best taste of the age of Charles II, and is surrounded by a
park, which, being recently enlarged and beautified, is now much
admired.
   In concluding these historical notices, the writer may here re-
mark, that there is no reason whatever to suppose, as has been done
by Dr Ford in his Statistics, that the church of Lauder was ori-
ginally a chapel of ease attached to Channelkirk, and that it was
not raised to the dignity of a church till the era of the Reforma-
tion; for, in the oldest records, it is represented as a separate
church. In the ancient taxation it was valued at ninety merks,
and that of Channelkirk only k at forty. To this it may be added,
that Lauder, as a mother church, had formerly two chapels of its
own,-one at Kedslie, and another at St Leonards.
                     III.-POPULATION.
   Respecting the ancient state of the population of the parish, no
information is to be obtained, on the accuracy of which dependence
can be placed. It is supposed by some that the population in the
country district was greater in the olden time than it is at present,
as formerly the farms were comparatively small, and more hands
were employed in cultivating them. Certain it is, that the births
in the whole parish were, a century and a-half ago, more nume-
rous than they are now. It appears from the register, that in
1682, 1683, 1686, and 1687, the yearly average entries were 66,
whereas now the average births exceed not 54. But since there
is no register of deaths for these years, from the above statement
no just inference in regard to the total population can be deduced.
Considering the present more improved mode of living, and other
circumstances which affect health and longevity, it may be pre-
sumed that the population is now as large at least as it ever was
in more ancient times.
   According to the census of 1821, the population was 1841, and
in 1831, it was 2063. This increase of 222 may be caused in a
great measure by the greater demand for labour, to aid in prose-
cuting various agricultural improvements in the neighbourhood of
Lauder, as well as in road-making. The population residing in
the town of Lauder is 1075, and in the country, 988. The villages
being small, and inhabited almost solely by farm-servants, the po-
pulation of these is included in that of the country part of the
parish.


