
28                          PERTHSHIRE.

reign of James 111. The estimation in which the town was held by
James VI.appears from the following extract from the charter of con-
firmation of the whole rights and privileges of the burgh of Perth,
1600. "Our most renowned predecessors have not only beauti-
fied, but abundantly heaped on our said royal burgh of Perth
greatest benefices and egregious gifts, liberties, privileges, and
immunities, that almost all the donations, liberties, benefits, and
privileges conferred on other royal burghs of our kingdom are re-
ferred to our said royal burgh of Perth; and the benefices confer-
red on the said royal burgh of Perth (as being first bestowed on
our said royal btrgh of Perth, and in a manner depending there-
on,) are granted as agreeing thereto."  In several of the public
writings, especially in the time of James IV. it is designated the
City of Perth, and it still bears the title.  At present it ranks next
to Edinburgh on the list of royal burghs.

  It was, at an early period, a fortified town. It is not known by
whom, or under whose reign its walls were originally built. *  On
the outside of these, there was a fosse or moat, supplied with water
by an aqueduct from the river Almond.  Its strength as a fortified
town in those times may be inferred from the fact that it was re-
peatedly subjected to a siege. In the year 1311, Robert Bruce
invested it with the most powerful force which he could muster.
For a considerable time he pressed the siege with great vigour,
but without effect, as be wanted a competent power of engines.
He was obliged to withdraw his troops, and retire lest famine and
the diseases occasioned by long encampment, on low marshy ground,
in an inclement season, should cut off the flower of those true and
faithful followers by whose aid he had now nearly conquered Scot-
land. But he could not relinquish his purpose, and suffer this
single walled town for ever to baffle his efforts. Therefore, pro-
viding himself with scaling-ladders, and such other instruments as
he cotld procure, he speedily renewed the siege at a time when
those within were pleasing themselves, with the persuasion that they
were enclosed within impregnable walls, and had no siege to fear.
He chose a dark night, and in its silence, taking a chosen band,
conducted them himself in person, p`rtly wading and partly swim-
ming across the ditch, deep, broad, and full of water, that sur-
rounded the walls.  His men were animated on this, as on many
other occasions, by the example of the daring valour with which
be exposed himself, the foremost, to danger.  The contest among

<FOOTNOTE>Major, the historian, says, "Est insuper oppidum de Perth quod sanctum Joan.
nem sive Sancti Johannis villam vulgo dicimus, solum inter Scotie villas muratum."


