
4				NAIRNSHIRE.

5O imperial acres with different kinds of hardwoods which are now
most thriving.  He also took all the farms which were in the hands
of tenants into his own; built substantial farm-steadings upon
them; drained, limed, and enclosed them; so that they are now
equal to any fields in the country, either in appearance or produc-
tiveness ; and be has added about thirty acres to the arable, mak-
ing in all 390 acres, exclusive of pasture and beltings.
  The mansion-house and approaches to it have been much im-
proved and enlarged. An excellent garden has been laid out,
with an extensive range of glass. About seven years ago, the pro-
prietor of Geddes purchased a farm called Torrich, immediately
adjoining his own property.  It was at the time in the worst order,
but, by taking it into his own hands, he has so improved it by
draining and blasting of stones, that, from 102 imperial acres, he
has increased them to 155, of the best land, and let them to enter-
prising tenants, in two farms, one of 115 acres, and the other of
40.  On the largest firm, there are erected a substantial steading
of offices, and a capital mansion house.
  The last improvement to be noticed on the estate of Mr Mack-
intosh, is the erection of a'range of neat cottages for labourers at
Burnside of Torricb.  One of the houses is occupied as a school
and dwelling for the teacher, who is appointed by, and receives a sa-
lary from, the Society for Propagating Christian Knowledge. There
is generally in an attendance of from 50 to 60 scholars.  A Sab-
bath school is regularly attended by the children, and their pa-
rents, who appear to prize highly & benefits derived from this
institution through the bounty of Mr Mackintosh.
   Fishings.-Haddock and cod-fishing is carried on to a great
extent, by about 200 fishermen and boys; and in the season, they
all remove to the Caithness coast, to the herring-fishing, which
is their principal source of wealth.  There is also a small salmon-
fishing at the mouth of the river, and along the shore, which rents
at L.60 or L.70
  Navigation. - Seven vessels belong, to Nairn, the only port.
The burden of the seven may amount to 370 tons register. There
is a good deal of trade carried on with the place, through other
vessels, in importing coal lime and bone-dust, and exporting wood,
the principal export, and sometimes corn.
  The small pier was erected some years ago at the mouth of the
river Nairn, which has since been much injured in the floods in the
river, and in the accumulation of the sand driven in by the sea, so as to
be of little use except for fishing-boats and small vessels.


