
62                      SUTHERLANDSHIRE.

  Land-owners.-The land-owners in the parish are the Duchess
of Sutherland; Munro of Poyntzfield; and Rose of Achany.
  Parochial Register.-There is la parochial register regularly
kept, but the earliest entry is dated only in 1768.
  Antiquities- There is at a place called "Cnoek a chath" (the
Hill of the Fight) a number of tumuli, said to be the graves of those
who fell in a skirmish between the Sutherlands and the Mackays.
There are also found in various parts of the parish strong circular
buildings called cairns. What the desion of these was, cannot now
be ascertained.  When the people are questioned on this subject,
the only answer is," They were built by the Fingalians." It is a
curious circumstance, that one of these buildings is always visible
from the site of another.

		III.-POPULATION.
  The present opulation of the parish is about 1100. What
the ancient state of the population was, cannot now be discovered:
but about thirty years ago, it was far greater than at present. A
system commenced in this country about the year 1807, which has
been followed out extensively. As the interior of the country con-
sisted principally of moor grounds covered with heath, the pro-
prietors were convinced that these grounds could be more profit-
ably laid out in sheep-walks, than (as formerly) in the rearing of
black-cattle.  With this view, the interior was let to sheep-farmers,
and the tenantry were removed either to the coast, or to those
parts of the country more susceptible of cultivation. Lairg being
an inland parish, this circumstance accounts for the great de-
crease in its population.  From Mr Rose's property, the tenants
were all removed some years before be purchased it; and although
the Duchess of Sutherland and Munro of Poyntzfield have still a
considerable number of tenants, yet they are far less numerous
than formerly.
  As to the measure of comfort enjoyed by the people, the chief
want is pasture for their cattle during the summer months. The
Duchess of Sutherland's tenantry have their land. on very mo-
derate terms; and though their pasture is at present confined,
this defect (we believe) is to be immediately remedied. The
other tenants in the parish are certainly less comfortable,-they

  3d, Captain, now Lieut.-Col., William Cunningham, Quarter-master-General,
grandson of the Rev. Mr Robertson of Gladsmuir, and nephew of Principal Robert-
son.
  4th, Captain, afterwards Major-General Sir John Malcolm, G. C. B., political
agent to the Governor.General, afterwards governor of Bombay, deceased.


