
1094                      PERTHSHIRE.

to 1841 is 81, being 1 in 21 of the population. Almost all of
them have a free house, and many of them a small garden, rent-
free. They have the liberty of cutting peats, and occasionally
get a supply of fuel. The average money expenditure for six
years is L.180, being L.2, 4s. to each pauper. Besides the above,
several persons have private pensions from the Marquis; and the
Marchioness causes a yearly distribution of clothes to be made
about Christmas among the most necessitous poor. In addition
to the above, about L.40 worth of meal is annually allowed to the
poor. The old feeling of independence and unwillingness to be
on the "box" is, we regret to say, fast disappearing. *
  Fairs.-There are several fairs held at Killin. One for gene-
ral business on the third Tuesday of January: the first Tuesday
of May for business, and the 12th for cattle; and the first Tues-
day of November O.S. for general business and for cattle. There
is a market at Tyndrum for lambs and wool on the third Thurs-
day of July.
  Inns.-There are six excellent inns in the parish; and at five
of them post-horses and carriages are always kept. They have
been lately much enlarged and improved. Streethouse Inn is re-
ceiving very extensive additions, which will make it a very com-
modious house.
  Fuel.-Fuel is scarce and expensive. A cart of peeled oaj
costs 5S., of peats, 3s.; and a ton of coals, L.1, 10s.
  It may here be mentioned, that this parish was visited by, her
Most Gracious Majesty Queen Victoria, and his Royal Highness
Prince Albert, on the 10th September 1842. The day was all
that could be wished. The lake, about to receive its Queen on
its bosom, though sometimes rude and boisterous, assumed a holi-
day placid appearance. All classes of the people, from the infant
lisping the name of its sovereign, to the gray-haired sire of 92
and the venerable dame of 105, in their gayest attire, hastened to
see and welcome their Queen. Royalty had not visited the parish
since the illustrious Bruce fought at Dalree.

<FOOTNOTE> In addition to the sums arising from collections, donations, mortcloth and pro-
clamation-dues, about L.180 has been raised by voluntary assessment, according to
the valued rental ofproperty. The sum annually collected for the poor averages about
L.40. This is inclusive of the collections at Strathfillan, and of about the half of
those at Ardeonaig.

   April 1843.


