
20                      EDINBURGHSHIRE

of Mortonhall, entering a corner of the Moredun grounds, turning
to the west by Hyvot's Mill, entering the grounds of Southfield,
running through the village of Stenhouse, Moredun Mill, and
Moredun Mains, where it again takes a turn almost due south, and
enters the property of Sir David Baird, and continues nearly in
the same direction till it enters the parish of Newton, near Ed-
monstone.  I understand that in all these places, except at Muir-
house, it is of excellent quality; but its working on Sir David Baird's
property can only be resumed by employing a steam-engine to re-
move the water, or in consequence of the working of the North
Green coal.
   Lime-works at Burdiehouse.-The limestone at Burdiebouse,
which is entirely distinct from that at Gilmerton, was discover-
ed about, eighty or ninety years ago.  It was worked by tirring
till about thirty or forty years ago, when a successful attempt
was made to work it by means of a mine.  A level was at first
made to the burn near Burdiehouse Mains, for the purpose of
carrying off the water, but afterwards a steam-engine was procured
for, this purpose. The rock is about 30 feet thick, lies at an angle
of 45, and is of excellent quality.  It runs from Burdiehoue
Mains to Straiton, and rock precisely the same kind is not found
in any other part of the parish.  Its organic remains have attract-
ed much attention, and many valuable specimens of them are to
be seen in the Museum of the Royal Society, Edinburgh, collect-
ed with great care bv Sir John Robison.
   The limestone was formerly carried to the surface by means of
asses, as at Gilmerton, but, in 1822, two gins, with inclined planes,
were erected for this purpose.  From that period till 1827, this
quarry was worked very extensively, producing in 1825 and 1826,
when the mania for building raged in Edinburgh, from 800 to 1000
bolls of six bushels each per week during the summer, and employ-
ing from forty to fifty men during the year.  In 1829, the rock
being worked out to the level at which the steam-engine carried
off the water, a new discovery of rock was made to the west, a
quarry opened, and a level run to the old quarry, in consequence
of which the work is now carried on.  The stones are brought to
the surface by means of a gin and inclined plane, and conveyed
from hence to the kilns by a railroad.  There are at present em-
ployed about, twenty-five or thirty men durin the year.  The pro-
duce is about 800 bolls a-week, or between 15,000 and 16,000
bolls per annum.  The consumpt of small coals is about 12,000


