
     Statistical Account

<TABLE>

                             Brought over,     L. 2650   0   0
Herrings,                                          300   0   0
Beef, hides and tallow,                            350   0   0
Butter,                                            150   0   0 
Fine and coarse stockings, gloves, and caps,       300   0   0
Kelp,                                              100   0   0 
Calf, otter, and seal skins,                        30   0   0 
                                                  ------------            
                                               L. 3880   0   0

</TABLE>

   In the year 1732, boats went out from Hillswick upon the
appearace of wreck, and different quantities of wood in St.
Magnus's Bay, and found the captain of the ship and cabin-
boy on a float of the wood.  The captain reported that the
vessel split at sea twho days before.  The greatest part of the
cargo was saved and brought to Hillswick, and sold for the be-
boof of the captain*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*In 1741, a large Dutch vessel, men and cargo, were lost off Uya, the N.
part of the parish, and most dangerous part of our coast.  Her guns are yet to
be seen.  In 1745, another large vessel of the same nation was wrecked on the
same place.  The men, and great part of the cargo saved, and sold for the be-
hoof of the owners.  In 1783, a boat went from Hillswick to pilot in a vessel,
seen off the mouth of the harbour; upon boarding her, found her deserted, and
upon endeavouring to steer her, all sails being up, sound the helm could not di-
rect her, not discovering that she was dragging 2 anchors.  Upon the boat coming
a-shore, and giving such account, several boats were manned and sent to her.
The weather being stormy, a high sea, and a dark night, the men in the boats
could not board her, and in the morning were surprised to find her at anchor
near the shore.  Some hours after which, she parted her cables, and came a-shore
on a sand; she was loaden with logs of wood, and pot-ahes, from the Baltic,
Two days afterward, she was claimed by the captain, who, with the crew, had
lest her only a few hours before the first boat came to her.  Ship and whole cargo
were sold for behoof of the owners.  She belonged to Waterford, and was called
the Sea-Flower.  Two or three other sloops were lost on this coast; but owing to


