
192				RENFREWSHIRE.

is noway uncharitable to suppose that some proportion of it at least
has been spent in drink-a farther advance is then wanted, it may
be for the same wretched purpose, and the following device is re-
sorted to.  There are in town a good many clothes people or
brokers, as they are called, who traffic in every sort of second-hand
article.  These persons have now got into the way of purchasing
pawn-tickets, and cases have occurred in the Justice Court, where it
turned out that tickets on which 6s. or 8s. had been advanced,
have been sold to these middlemen as low, as 6d. or Is.  Now,
keeping in view the original discrepancy between the value and the
advance, the sacrifice is beyond calculation when this second
transaction is closed.  A woman in one of the parishes told the
public prosecutors that she had an amazing quantity of such
tickets, "half a tea-chest full," was her expression, and that when
her own shop required replenishing, she went to the pawnbroker's,
as to a bonded warehouse, and got herself supplied! Many in-
stances are on record highly creditable to the feelings and honesty
of pawnbrokers in the place; but it is the system that is radically
and thoroughly bad.  Too easy a door is left open for the immedi-
ate means of dissipation; and if the system cannot be rooted out
altogether, it should at least be so far modified as to debar, and that
under any circumstances, the pawning of bed-clothes, wearing ap-
parel, and such like articles.  It would be easy to show how rami-
fied the operations of the system are, as affording a facility to a
weaver, for instance, to pawn articles committed to his care for
manufacturing purposes, and many other such cases.  Pawnbroking,
public-houses, and intemperance, are subjects which richly demand
the zeal and energy of the upright senator, in order to a direct
and profitable interference of the Legislature.
   Executions in Paisley.- Since the Union, there have been three
public executions in Paisley.  In 1765, Alexander Provan was
hanged at the Gallowgreen for the murder of his wife, his right
hand having been cut off prior to execution.  In 1797, Thomas
Potts was executed for housebreaking; and in October 1829,
John Craig  and James Brown were-executed for housebreaking
and robbery.
   On a general review of the police, establishment, the following
things appear to be desiderata in its constitution and plan of Pro-
cedure:-an effective union between the establishment of the
burgh and suburbs, *-a larger number of officers,-and more

<FOOTNOTE>This union has, we are happy to say, been accomplished since the above was
written, and we have no doubt that the advantages of it will soon be manifest, (Janu-
ary 1897.)


