
176			KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

        Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of persons
recieving parochial aid is 55. The sums allowed to them vary
from 9d. to 5s. per week, the average allowance being 1s. 8d.
The annual amount of contributions for the relief of the poor is
about L.330. This sum is raised by a legal assessment, amount-
ing to L.300, and the half of the ordinary collections at the pa-
rish church, amounting to L.30, the other half being retained by
the session to meet the current expenses, and relieve the occa-
sional poor. There is also the interest of L.100. ghven by Miss
Harriet Douglas, now Mrs Congar, of New York, one of the
heirs of Sir William Douglas, which is expended in the purchase
of coals, and distributed, in equal proportions, `long the poor in
Castle Douglas, Rhonehouse and Gelston. The legal assess-
ment was imposed in 1837-38. It began at the rate of 5d. per
pound upon the real value of property in the parish. It stea-
dily increased at the rate of 1d. per pound each year, until it
reached 8d. per pound. The rate is imposed upon all tangible
property above the value of L.3 per annum. The landlords pay
the one-half, and the tenants the other half. The system is ma-
naged at an expense of L.25 yearly, including L.15 as the clerk's
salary, the remainder being expended in paying the persons ap-
pointed to value the different properties, and in providing the ne-
cessary accommodation for the permanent committee of manage-
ment, which meets once a-month.
	Besides the regular poor, a good many persons require occa-
sional aid. These are relieved by the kirk-session, out of the
half of the ordinary collections, which the law allows them to re-
tain. There is no disposition among the poor to refrain from
seeking parochial relief, but, on the contrary, there is the most
mortifying eagerness to get upon the roll. They look upon it as
their natural and legal right, and receive, without gratitude, the
pittancd that is given without charity. This deplorable effect,
the destruction of the proper feelings that ought to exist between
the givers and receivers of charity, seems to be inseparable from
the system, and is one of the strongest objections to its adoption.
In some few cases, it is to be feared that the poor refrain from
making the exertions to maintain themselves, of which they are
capable; or, having an opportunity of earning a livelihood, as
most of them have at certain seasons of the year, they still apply
for the benefit of the public fund and there is seldom any appa-


