
                                MADDERTY.                         751

       By that charter, the privileges are extensive.  It is declared
    thereby, that the said burgh shall have the haill privileges, com-
    modities, and immunities of a free burgh of barony; it also
    gives special power to the proprietrix for choosing, constituting
    and creating bailies, burgesses, officers, sergeants, and haill other
    officers necessary within the burgh for the government thereof,
    and the said bailies and other officers are thereby authorized to
    elect yearly and empower as to them shall seem expedient, with
    full and special power also to the burgesses of the said burgh,
    present and to come, to peck and peat, and to buy and sell wine,
    wax, linen, and woollen cloths, broad and narrow, and all other
    merchandise and staple goods, and to have a weekly market every
    Friday, with four free fairs yearly.  There have been, of late,
    courts held occasionally at the village of St David's, within the
    barony, for settling disputes which may arise in the barony, and
    also for the internal peace and good government thereof.
       Ecclesiastical State.--100 families belong to the Established
    Church, and there are 13 or 14 Dissenting families.
       The stipend is 15 chalders, payable half in meal and half in
    barley.
       The extent of the glebe is about nine acres, value about L.13
    or L.14.  The manse is at present in a tolerably good state of
    repair.
       Education.--There are two schools in the parish, and also a
    school for sewing and knitting, under the superintendence of a
    females.  The parochial teacher's salary is the maximum.  Probable
    amount of fees paid to parochial teacher, from L.10 to L.12.
    The parochial teacher holds the situation of session-clerk, for
    which he receives a salary of L.3 ; and other perquisites therewith
    conneeted may amount to L.3.
       Savings' Bank.--There is a savings' bank in the parish.  For
    the last three years, the average sum deposited was L.43; sum
    withdrawn, L.90.
       Poor.--Average number receiving parochial aid from 10 to
    12.  The average annual amount of contributions for their relief
    from L.40 to L.50; whereof, from church collections,  L. 10 ;
    from voluntary assessment, L.30; legacies, L.3 or L4.

       November 1842.


