
                          KILLEARN.                        61

level of the sea, and eighteen above that of Lochlomond; into
which the united rivers flow after a course, in a direct line, Of five
miles. The Enrick forms the northern boundary of the parish, for
eight miles nearly, dividing it from the parishes of Drymen and
Balfron. Its course is rapid, and its waters peculiarly turbid in
time of floods; hence probably its name, Enrick, is a compound of
the Celtic aun, or avon, ruadh, the red river. Along its bank,
there is a narrow slip of alluvial soil, the most fertile and valuable
of the parish. Receding from this, the ground gradually rises,
forming a sloping tract of arable land, varying from one to two
miles in breadth. The village, with the church, and Bucbanan's
monument, is situated in this tract, on a rising ground command-
ing an extensive prospect. The limit of the arable ground is
about 500 feet above the level of the sea; at one place, Tam-
netherskins, *the height above that level exceeds 600. Still
higher, is another belt, rising about 200 feet farther, and extend-
ing about a mile in breadth; which, though, in some places, Sbew-
ing marks of the plough in former times, is now kept permanently
in pasture. The surface is generally mossy, incumbent on white
freestone, and producing coarse grass where it is marshy, and
stunted heath where it is dry. Above this, is the mountainous
ridge, composed of trap rock, and rising to the height of 1200 feet
above the level of the sea. Except in some steep places, particu-
larly in the Corrie of Balglas, the rock is concealed by soil form-
ed of the debris of trap, whose rich verdure is a striking contrast
to the dark heath below. It produces white clover, and the finest
grasses in abundance; some patches of it, at an elevation of 800
feet, seem formerly to have been under tillage.
    Hydrography.-- At the southern extremity of the parish, where
it meets Kilpatrick, there is an artificial lake, covering about 150
acres,--a reservoir to supply water during summer to the Partick
mills, on the Kelvin near Glasgow,--as the sources of that river
were taken to form the summit reservoir of the Forth and Clyde
Canal. Besides the Enrick and Blane, already alluded to, there
are many rivulets descending rapidly from the mountain's brow,
and forming numberless cascades in their course. Of these, the
finest is in the glen of Dualt, near Killearn House, where in a
deep wooded ravine, amid many smaller falls, the rivulet rushes

<FOOTNOTE>Tamnetherskins is a corruption of the Celtic Words Tam-na-uriskin, the mount
of goblins. Tam is a common Celtic affix to places. It may be traced as a primitive
root in many languages, e.g. tumulus in Latin is the diminutive of it, and tumco is a
verb formed from it. The Original idea is a mount, a small round eminence.


