
BURNTISLAND.                             425

  Fair.-A fair is annually held in the town on the 10th day of
July.
  Fuel.-The chief fuel is coal, which is brought principally from
Lochgelly and the neighbourhood, about six or eight miles distant.
The price is from 9s. to 10s. 6d. per ton, including tolls and car-
riage.
MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
Since the date of last Account, both the town and the landward
district have undergone great improvements. For a number of
years, the town has been a favourite watering-place. The pure
air, the good batbing-ground, the agreeable and extensive walks,
the rich and varied scenery, together with the facility of commu-
nication with Edinburgh, attract annually a great number of visi-
tors; so that, between June and October, the town assumes a much
more animated appearance than during the remainder of the year.
There is good accommodation for visitors, at rates varying from a
small sum up to fifteen or twenty guineas per month. The vitriol
work, which was in operation when the last Statistical Account was
written, has been lono, suspended, and the premises have been con.
verted into cottages for the summer visitors.
The country part of the parish is in a much higher state of cul.
tivation than it was forty years ago. The farms are large, and the
country population is consequently smaller. In this, as in many
parishes, a want of hands is sometimes experienced in harvest,-
many who formerly inhabited rural districts having been attracted
to towns by the thriving state of manufactures. Would it not be
for the advantage of all parties, if proprietors were to erect cot-
tages, or give greater facilities for feuing, or otherwise encourage
labourers and their families to settle in the country? This would
be preferable in many ways to the system of bothies ; and we should
look for a much healthier state of the community, both in a moral
and an economical point of view, were the proportion of the rural
to the town population much higher than it is-
December 1836.
 

