
				GARVOCK.                      39

was about four feet long, two broad and two deep, contained an
urn of baked red clay standing at the head or west end, containing
only a little black earth. 'Two of the coffins contained nothing
else; but the third, besides the urn, contained a complete human
skeleton, with the leg, thigh, and arm-bones, all parallel to the
spine, the knees having been folded up to the breast on account
of the shortness of the coffin. Now, as we know that all the
heathen nations of Europe, the Greeks, Romans, and Celts,
burned their dead, reserving their ashes in an urn placed in the
sepulchre, but when converted to Christianity, they abhorred the
practice and interred the body entire,--is it not probable, that this
had been the skeleton of a Christian, deposited in the grave and
coffin of an heathen ancestor?
	On the next farm, Forth, about a quarter of a mile distant,
there was, till a few years ago, a cairn about 12 yards diameter,
surrounded by a fosse or ditch even then about four feet deep,
giving it somewhat the appearance of a little fort; and hence,
probably, the name of the farm, Forth, a little corrupted. When
this cairn was removed by the present tenant, a stone coffin was
found in it composed of slabs of freestone set upon the surface of
the ground and bovered only by the cairn. It contained nothing
but an urn similar to those found on the neighbouring farm, and
containing only a little black earth. The site of this cairn, as
well as that on Upper Tulloch, is now converted into corn land.
It is worthy of remark, that all the coffins found here, both under
ground and under cairns, were placed directly east and west, as
our graves are at the present day.
	Since this parish, in the time of Druidism, had its high places
so well furnished with sacred cairns, the more solemn places of
worship, it cannot be doubted, but that it had been equally well
provided with its circular temples for ordinary worship in sacred
groves. But they, being quite ready and convenient for building
stones, have all long since been removed, as the cairns too in pro-
cess of time may be. A steep bank or brae on the face of the
hill of Garvock, about half a mile from the church, from time im-
memorial, has been called the Gallowbank, probably from being
the spot where the gallows stood in feudal times, when every baron
had the power of pot and gallows in his own lands.
	That the Celts or Gael inhabited this part of Scotland is evi-
dent from the names of many farms in this parish, clearly Gaelic:
e. g. Davo (Tighe-bho) the cattle-house ; Tulloch (Tuilich)
the hillock ; Balhagarty (Bal-na-tagart)  the priest&s  town


