
	1276                       PERTHSHIRE.

	drains properly, and by skilfully improving their farms.  The
	dryfield farmers are accustomed to use broken stones for filling
	their drains, of which they have abundance on their farms, and
	which, by competent judges, are in light soils, preferred to tiles.
	   Many of the most improved implements of husbandry are in
	general use here, not only in the cultivation of the soil, but also
	in the reaping of the crops, and in preparing the grain for the mill
	and the market.
	   Some years ago, Mr Drummond secured a beautiful part of his
	park, on which were some fine old trees, against the encroachments
	of the Teith.  This was accomplished at an expense of about
	L.100 per month, during two summers, by a strong wall of large
	stones projected into the bed of the river, and well sloped back-
	ward to the edge of the bank.  In some places large piles were
	driven by a machine to secure the foundation, and at one place in
	water of considerable depth.  This work has stood firm and un-
	injured by flood or ice ever since its construction.
	   The progress of agricultural improvement in this parish gives
	the best proof of the comfortable relations that subsist between pro-
	prietors and tenants.  The terms on which the land is let to the
	tenants, are by leases at so much per acre for nineteen years, in
	which they become bound to follow an improving system of rota-
	tion of crops by draining, liming, manuring, and judiciously
	ploughing their farms, the proprietors binding themselves at the
	same time to assist, according to the state of the farms, in bearing
	a part of these expenses.  Hence a strong mutual interest in im-
	provivg the soil.
	   The lease includes the obligations of the contracting parties in
	reference,to fences and farm-buildings, &c. and the general prac-
	tice in regard to houses is, that the proprietors pay for the build-
	ing and furnish all the materials, and the tenants bear the expense
	of driving them.  These houses in this parish, but especially in
	the eastem division of it, are very creditable to the proprietors
	and comfortable to the farmers, and have improved with the ad-
	vancement of our country in civilization.  On the farms of Colo-
	nel Graham and Mr Dundas, excellent new farm houses have
	lately been built, and also on the estate of Blair Drummond.
	   There were formerly five corn-mills in this parish, but now
	there are only two.  One of these, called Little-mill, is at the
	western boundary, for the benefit of the farmers there, and the



