
522                       INVERNESS-SHIRE.

     The church of Daviot was rebuilt in 1826, and cost very nearly
L.100O Sterling. It is seated for 5OO persons, and the seats are di-
vided among the heritors in proportion to the valued rent of their
estates. The manse was built in 1763. It and the office-houses
have since had several repairs, the last of which was in 1824.
     The church of Dunlichity was rebuilt in 1759, and contains
only 300 persons. The seats are divided, as already mentioned.
It has bad several repairs, the last in 1826; and it is said that the
present is only the third church which has been built in that place.
     The church-yards are enclosed with substantial stone walls, and
a night watch-house has been erected in each. The extent of the
glebe at Daviot is from 4 to 5 acres arable, and 12 pasture; that
of Dunlichity is about 3 1/2 acres arable, and nearly 4 of pasture.
The stipend, as fixed in 1814, is 12 chalders, half meal, halfbar-
ley. In 1781, it was L.52, 6s.; but, in 1784, there was an aug-
mentation of L.25, no part whereof was victual.
     The number of families attending the Established Church is
about 450. The average number of communicants at the Esta-
blished Church, in both parishes, is 45. The Episcopalians have
a chapel, where one of their clergymen preaches once in three or
four weeks, and administers the sacrament four times in the year,
after the manner prescribed by the English ritual. They general-
ly attend our public worship when they have none themselves, and
are personally acquainted with the minister. There are several
Seceders in these parishes. The whole number of Roman Catholics
is three women, who have come lately from other districts. They
are married to Protestants, and attend our church.
     Education.- There are two parochial schools in the parishes,
-one at the manse of Daviot, and the other Dear Dunlichity.
There is one also at Croachy of Aberarder, supported by the So-
ciety for Propagating Christian Knowledge, and by the proprietor
of the estate of Aberarder. The salary of each parochial school-
master is L.25 per annum; and the school fees amount to L.8
or L.10 for each.
     Poor and Parochial Funds.- The number of poor on the ses-
sion roll for both parishes is from 45 to 50, among whom there is
distributed the sum of L.15 yearly; which sum arises partly
from the interest of L.52 mortified money, from the collec-
tions made at the churches, and partly from penalties inflicted
upon delinquents. But, out of these penalties, certain fees are


