
476                      ABERDEENSHIRE.

districts, and the crops raised are deficient both in quantity and
quality.  A considerable extent of the highest parts of it is co-
vered with heath, and fit only for planting.  With the exception of
the northern extremity, the soil of the parish is of a superior na.
ture.  It consists of a deep loam, resting generally, though not
uniformly, on a subsoil of clay, and produces weighty crops of grain.
   Plantations.-Since the last Statistical Account was drawn up,
more than 500 acres have been planted in this parish.  A consi-
derable extent of the plantations is on the high lands of the
northern extremity; but the greatest part of them is on the
estate of Meldrum, about the centre of the parish, and in its
eastern division.  In addition to several large plantations which
have grown with great rapidity, there are numerous detached
clumps put down for the sake of ornament, which have a very
pleasing appearance.  Along with the different kinds of fir, there
is a number of thriving ashes and elms; and of late years, oaks,
planes, and various ornamental trees have been introduced.
There are some fine old spreading beeches in the plantations near
the House of Meldrum; and there is one in particular in front
of it, of large dimensions and exuberant foliage.  It is 60 feet
in height and 243 feet in circumference; the girth of the
trunk is 11 feet 8 inches, and the longest entire branch is 51
feet.  The foliage generally comes close to the ground ; it is
very thick, and has a regular and rich appearance.  There is an-
other large and remarkable tree (an ash) supposed to be fully 200
years old, which stands on a rising ground at Pareock, above the
town of Old Meldrum.  Its position and appearance are altogether
so singular and striking, that it is well known for many miles around
by the name of the Tree of Parcoch, or simply of the Tree.  Be-
fore the town was built, there was an inn at Pareock, which must
have been a place of some note in former days, as it is frequently
mentioned in Spalding's history, and formed at the period when it
was written, one of the principal stages between Aberdeen and the
north of Scotland.  It is probable, therefore, that the tree of Par-
cock may have been planted in its present solitary but very con-
spicuous situation, in order to point out to the traveller from a dis-
tance, the place where he might rest for a time from the fatigues
of his journey.

			II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   There is a plan of the whole parish of date 1780, in the pos-
session of the proprietor of Meldrum, who is the principal land-


