
                         COLDSTREAM.                            201

long frozen; but often great damage is done to the banks, as well
as to bridges, and trees, by the sudden breaking up of its icy barrier.
The accumulation of alluvial soil being greater towards its mouth,
the rapidity of the river is of course there not so great as in Cold-
stream parish, where, for the, same reason, it is less than nearer its
source. To this circumstance way probably be ascribed the fact,
that there are no water-mills to be found lower down the river than
Tweed-mill, about three miles below the town of Cold stream; for
on account of the constant liability of the Tweed itself to rise
fall by floods, mill-leads are absolutely necessary, which, to give
a proper fall, must be longer and more expensive, wherever the
slope of the main channel is inconsiderable.
   Geology and Mineralogy.-The particular formation to which
the strata of this as well as of the neighbouring parishes -belong
is still a subject of doubt and farther inquiry. The mineralogical
characters of its marls and soft red variegated sand stones, contain-
ing, as they do in several parts, imbedded nodules and veins of
gypsum, have led some to refer them to the new red sandstone se-
riles, which is known to lie in other places considerably above the
coal-field. Whilst, on the other hand, the apparent geological
position of these rocks, and the occurrence of extensive fossil re-
mains both in the sand stones, and clay beds of the district, have
induced others to consider them as subordinate to the carboniferous
limestone, which is far below the coal-field.
   The strata which are prevalent in this parish are the following
and we name them in the order in which they seem to be most
abundant: 1. White sandstone; 2. Clay marl; 3. Reddish sand-
stone; 4. Limestone; 5. Gypsum.
   1. White sandstone is visible, and may be found chiefly, in the
south parts of the parish. It runs in an E. N. E. and W. S. W,
direction, crossing the Tweed a little below Fireburn-mill, and
running, down the north side of the Tweed towards Milne Graden.
The line may be traced for many miles farther; and it forms a
high cliff on the banks of the Whitadder, below Claribad-mill.
This white sandstone, being an excellent building stone, is worked
in several parts of its course through Coldstream parish. It is
quarried immediately to the north of the town of Colstream, as
well as on Leet water on the west side of the town, and also on
the Tweed, between the town and Coldstream-bridge. It is work-
ed also near Lennel church, and again on Sir D. Milne's property,
at the eastern extremity of the parish. The colour of the stone


