
                            ROSLIN.                       343

senting, within its perimeter three Gothic points of great elegance,
and it is ornamented all round with a double row of foliage.
At the east end of the chapel are four windows of uniform size,
but varied in their ornaments; and five buttresses, each having a
canopied niche with a column pedestal, and a bracket pedestal
alternately, and surmounted by circular pinnacles.
   The west end of the chapel is terminated by a blank wall, clos-
ing the centre and side aisles, and rising above the roof; and on
the summit of the wall is a small belfry.  In this wall are three
door-ways, opening to the middle and side aisles; but it is long
since they have been built up.  Each door-way outside has a
square top or architrave, resting on imposts of richly sculptured
capitals.  Three ornamental piscinas and eight brackets are in-
serted in the wall parallel with the doors; and two brackets are
elevated high in the wall, on one of which is represented the
descent from the cross, and on the other the angels rolling away
the stone from the door of the sepulchre.  At each end of the ar-
chitrave of the central door, is a human figure: that on the north
represents a man bound by his middle and ankles to a tree, his
bands being tied behind his back, and a man at each foot holding
the ropes he is tied with.  This is St Sebastian, who, according
to the legend, was condemned by the Roman emperor Dioclesian,
to be fastened to a tree, and shot with arrows; the two men at his
feet are two soldiers, crouching lest the arrows should strike them,
and two arrows are represented as sticking in the left side of the mar-
tyr, while he presents a serene and determined countenance to his
persecutors.  The figure on the south side appears to be of gi-
gantic size, with a large stick in his left band, and a child sitting
on his right shoulder.  This is St Christopher, a giant, who, as
the legend says, on one occasion, carried the Saviour on his shoul-
der across a river, supporting himself with the torn-up trunk of a
tree, while he was ready to sink under the load.  He knew not
whom he carried till he reached the opposite shore, when Christ,
in the form of a child, blessed him, and disappeared.  All this is
naturally expressed by the carving.
   No sooner does a visitor enter the chapel than he is struck with
the immense profusion and the wonderful variety of the ornaments;
and, above all, with the grandeur and magnificence of the lofty
roof, which is composed of a vast Gothic arch, divided into five
compartments, each of them remarkable for the beauty and the
diversity of its decorations.  The roof of the chapel is supported


