
                      STRATHDON.                       555

Manse, &c.-Very large additions were made, or rather, it
would be more correct to say, a new manse was built in 1831,
while the chief part of the old one (built in 1791) was retained.
Having been completely gutted, it joined well with the new build-
ing, and it now possesses every convenience for a family.  An
excellent steading of offices was built at the same time.  The
glebe is about 1 3/4 of an acre in extent.  The value may be
estimated at L. 2, 12s. 6d. per annum.  The stipend is L.190,
5s. 9 11/12d. money, including L.20 Scots for grass, and communion
element money : meal, 2 bolls, 3 pecks, 4/3 lippie : bear, 1 boll, 1
firlot, 1 peck, 4/5 lippie, and 634 back-loads of peats, which, by an
agreement between the heritors and minister in 1838, were com-
muted for half-a-merk per load.
   There is a small Roman Catholic chapel in the upper district
of the parish, in which service is performed once in three weeks.
Ten years ago there were 69 Roman Catholics in the parish.  The
whole number is now 23, consisting of 6 families and 9 individuals.
There is one Dissenting family in the parish, which came from
Aberdeen some years ago.  The number of Dissenters is 2.
   Divine service, both- at the parish church and the missionary
chapel, is attended in the most exemplary manner.  The number
of families attending the Established Church is 283, or all in pa-
rish excepting the 7 above-mentioned.  The average number of
communicants has already been stated to be 860, including, of
course, those who communicate from neighbouring parishes.
   The average annual amount of church collections for religious
and charitable objects, as ascertained in answer to the queries of
the Church Commissioiiers, was found to be, for three years pre-
vious to 1835, L. 14, 12s. 11d.
   Education.-There are seven schools in the parish, exclusive of
a sewing-school taught by a dress-maker ; one parochial; three
supported by the Society for the Propagation of Christian Know-
ledge; and three adventure schools taught only in winter.  The
branches taught at the parochial school are, reading, writing,
arithmetic, mathematics, English grammar, geography, and Latin
when required.  The school is daily opened with prayer.  A por-
tion of scripture is read by each pupil, sufficiently advanced, every
day; and prayers, psalms, and portions of scripture repeated weekly.
The general expense of education is, English reading, 6d. 6 per
month; reading and writing, 8d. per month; de. do. with arith-
metic or Latin, 10d. per month.  The salary of the parochial


