
				   SANDWICK.                              53

	Conferva centralis       Mesogloia multifida         Batracchopermum monili-
        Calothrix confervicola   Gloiosiphonia capillaris      forme
	III.  ALGM GLOIOCLADES.  Trichocladia vermicullaris  Corynephora marina
	Mesogloia Hudsoni                       virescens

	   There are no forests in this parish; but some trees have been
	planted within the last fifteen years, and the kinds that seem to
	succeed best are, the plane, ash, mountain-ash, elm, and willow.
                                  II.-CIVIL HISTORY                                                    II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
	   The only plans or surveys of this parish of any importance, in ad-
	dition to those of the county in general, are those of the townships,
	in which the Crown holds property, made by Messrs Granger and
	Miller, and lodged in the sheriff-clerk's office.
	   Land-owners.-The property is divided into very small portions
	here, as in the neighbouring parishes.  William Graham Watt,
	Esq. of Breckness, holds about a third, and resides on it, cultivat-
	ing a considerable part.  The Crown holds about a fifth; and the
	remainder is held by nearly seventy other proprietors, most of
	whom cultivate their own little farms.
	   Parochial Begisters.-The date of the earliest entries in our pa-
	rochial register, of births is 22d September 1728, and in that of
	marriages, 20th April 1727.  They have for some years been kept
	and preserved with great care; but they do not appear to have been
	so formerly.
	   Antiquities.-In the former Statistical Account it is mentioned,
	that, "on the west coast of the parish of Sandwick, close by the
	sea shore, is to be seen the ruins of a large building, which yet
	bears the name of the Castle of Snusgar;" also that several tumuli
	had been opened, one by Sir Joseph Banks, containing three stone
	chests, each enclosing a human skeleton, in different positions,
	and bruised bones, teeth, hair, beads, &c.; and others containing
	smaller stone chests, enclosing urns, in which were found ashes, with
	fragments of bone, or ashes and fragments of bone without urns.
	To these antiquities, a residence of six years enables me to add
	the following.
            In the township of Yeskenaby, not far from the boat noust,
	are the ruins of a small church, with an enclosure about it like a
	churchyard; and in several other places, a kirk green or burying
	ground.  Between the top of Lingafiold and the loch of Clumly,
	are the stones of Via, which are worthy of the antiquarian's is notice,
	and which are supposed to be a cromlech or heathen altar.  In-
	deed, the figure of that, with the head stone in the hundred and

        <FOOTNOTE>A place for boats.


