
102                        AYRSHIRE.

	      Roman Catholics,	      205, holding 39 sittings.
               No denomination,            87           0
                                         ____        ____
                                         4037        1063

	The result is, that 2960 persons, professing to belong to the
Established Church, hold 708 sittings, and of that number 801 are
communicants: 990 Dissenters of all denominations hold 355
sittings: and among them there are 35o communicants.
	Divine service at the Established Church is always well attend-
ed. Scarcely a sitting is unlet. The Lord's supper is dispen-
sed twice a year, and the number who communicate each time is
betwixt 700 and 800. The amount of extraordinary collections
for religious and charitable objects is small; but the ordinary col-
lections for the support of the poor are, comparatively speaking,
liberal. There are three religious societies connected with the
parish, but none of them exclusively so, viz. the Ayr, Newton, and
Wallacetown Female Bible Society; the Ayr Sabbath School
Union Society, which has three schools in this parish, attended by
about 200 children; and the Newton, Wallacetown, and St Quivox
Society, for the monthly distribution of Tracts.
	Education.--There are in all five schools in the parish, but
two of them are of a very imperfect description; being taught by
elderly women in the humbler walks of life, and intended solely for
beginners. Wages are from 2d. to 3d. per week. Of the remain-
ing three, one is for the education Of young ladies--and in it En-
glish, writing, music, drawing, and fancy-work are taught on mo-
derate terms; another, in which all the ordinary branches are
taught, is unendowed. Besides these, there is the parochial school,
which is at present attended by 91 scholars. In addition to the ele-
mentary branches, instruction is given in mathematics, Latin and
French. The schoolmaster has the minimum salary. He has no
house or garden, but an allowance in lieu of them. The average
amount of school-fees received does not exceed L. 50 a-year. There
is a small fund of L. 98, the interest of which is appropriated to the
education of children of the poor, provided their parents have been
born in the parish. The general expense of education may be stat-
ed at 3s. 6d. per quarter. The whole number of children attending
schools within the parish is only 250, which is not more than a six-
teenth of the population. Many, however, attend the Ayr Academy,
and other schools which are in the immediate vicinity; so that it is
believed the number who cannot read or write is but small. Still
                                   4


