
     Statistical Account

   Population.-The population of this parish may be very accu-
rately stated.  For in the year 1790, an exact list was taken of
every individual in it: at that time it contained precisely 2450
souls, but the three following tables will give the most con-
cise view of this subject.
     2

<FOOTNOTE>

and prudent management, increased to what is to them a considerable sum.
In houses, bills, and bonds, their property may amount to upwards of L. 300
sterling.
   They meet annually upon the 1st Friday of August to chuse their deacon,
and other office bearers, who meet regularly every quarter, or as often as
occasion requires, to receive petitions, supply the poor brethren, and settle
the private affairs of the society.
   The mason lodge was instituted about the same time: they hold of the
grand lodge of Edinburgh; every member at entry, pays 7 s. 6 d. if the son of
a member, if a stranger 10 s. 6 d. and all pay 4 d. quarterly thereafter.  Their
number is likewise on the increase, and may amount to about 120, their funds
will of course be enlarged; at present they exceed L. 100 ster.  in houses, bills,
and bonds.  They have a very convenient lodge well fitted up; they are able
in some measure to contribute to the support of their poor brethren: if una-
ble to work, they allow each member 2 s. 6 d; if confined to bed, he receives
3 s. weekly.  And a guinea is likewise allowed for funeral charges; so that when
a poor man is connected with the society both of masons and weavers, which
is often the case, he has a very liberal allowance.
   The miners of this parish propose likewise to establish a friendly society;
but it have not yet taken place, though I hope it will very soon.
   Of all charitable institutions, those friendly societies seem to be the best: for
they are not only happily calculated to relieve the poor, but to maintain that
honest spirit of independence, which is the sure mark of an honest and inge-
nuous mind.  They therefore deserve encouragement from all ranks and deno-
minations; but especially from the landed interest, who have it in their
power to be liberal.  It would be for the interest of every heritor to encourage
them; perhaps it is not unworthy of the legislature itself to interpose in their
behalf.  Their funds might be exempted from all duty on bills and receipts:
or in cases when they come in competition with other creditors, they might
be allowed a prefarable claim to all; except the crown and the land-
lord.


