
     of Avendale or Strathaven.

of the Avon.  On the same side of the river, there are 3
chapels named after different saints, which were probably
places of worship, where the clergy belonging to the neigh-
bouring abbey of Lesmahagoe, officiated at times for the
benefit of the people, before this district was erected into
a parish.  An honest man, who happened to dig up some
human bones near one of these chapels a whale ago, remark-
ed, that the people in old times had been much about the
same size as at present.-The town of Strathaven was e-
rected into a burgh of barony in the year 1450, with the
usual privileges, and had an extensive commonty; all of
which has long ago become private property.  It has a
weekly market, and a number of annual fairs; but having
no public funds, has no other magistracy than a baron bailie
appointed by the Duke of Hamilton.  This parish was
anciently a part of the estate of Douglas, which being for-
feited in the reign of James I. continued in the hands of
the Crown till the year 1456, when it was erected into a
barony in favour of Andrew Stuart, grandson of Murdoch
Duke of Albany, who was at that time created Lord
Avendale, and made warden of the east marches to-
wards England.  He built the castle of Avendale;
and upon the accession of James III. was made Chan-
cellor of Scotland.  Andrew second Lord Avendale, ha-
ving a feud with some of the neighbouring barons, and
wishing to live at a distance from them, exchanged the ba-
rony of Avendale with Sir James Hamilton of Finnart,
for the barony of Ochiltree in Ayrshire, in the year 1534
which is ratified by an act of Parliament in 1543; and
Andrew Stuart allowed the style of Ochiltree, with the
precedency of Avendale.  It would appear, that Lord
Castlestruart, of the kingdom of Ireland, considers himself
the representative of this family, as he is now claiming the
title of Lord Ochiltree.  By the imprudence of Sir James
Hamilton, the barony of Avendale soon came into the
hands of his brother, the Earl of Arran, and has continued


