
                         YETHOLM.                         175

240; of whom about 40 are from England and adjoining parishes
in Scotland.
   Under fifteen years of age, there are very few, if any, of a pro-
per age who cannot read and write. Above fifteen years of age
there may be many who cannot write, but few or none who cannot
read. The people seem, in general, to be alive to the benefits of
education.
   Literature.-There is one parochial library, consisting of 500
volumes; one congregational library connected with one of the di-
senting meetings; and two Sabbath school libraries.
   Charitable and Economical Institutions.-There is a Friendly So-
ciety, which has been in existence for several years. Its capital is
L. 370. It might probably be made much more useful, but it seems
somehow or other to be mismanaged. A society was lately esta-
blished in the parish for the purpose of supplying the poor, espe-
cially poor and single females, with spinning. Its capital is very
small, and is daily diminishing; otherwise the benefits of this in-
stitution might be greatly extended. A Clothing Society has been
more lately established.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The number of poor upon the roll
in this parish is very great. The average number each year dur-
ing the last seven years who have received parochial relief is sixty-
five persons. The average sum raised yearly for this purpose by
assessment (one-half of which is paid by the heritors, the other
half by the tenants,) during the same number of years, is L. 252,
8s. 10d. The average sum, therefore, which each pauper receives
in the year is L. 3, 17s. 6 1/4d. The session may have a sum of from
L. 15 to L. 20 at their disposal, from L. 12 to L. 15 of which are
raised by collections at church, and left in the hands of the session,
to be distributed at their discretion among the poor of the parish,
either on or not on the roll. It is unfortunate, that, with very few
exceptions, there is little disposition among the poor to refrain from
seeking parochial aid; neither do they seem to consider it in any
sense as degrading.
   Obviously one great cause of the number of the poor in this pa-
rish, is the facility with which aged and single persons, who have
probably spent their lives in England, where they find it ex-
tremely difficult to establish a residence, can procure a room or
lodging, of any dimensions, in the villages of Yetholm, where
they contrive to subsist, by their own labour, for a certain number
of years; and finally, when unable to work, get enrolled on the


