
148                      STIRLINGSHIRE

the neighbourhood, and the practice spread extensively. Some
noblemen, as well as farmers and agriculturists, came from a dis-
tance, among others the unfortunate Earl of Perth,-to observe
the mode of culture, and the success of the experiments. Mr Gra-
ham rented lands in the vicinity of Renfrew, Perth, Dundee, Glas-
gow, and Edinburgh, and for many years obtained premiums for
cultivating the potato.

                         II.-CIVIL HISTORY

     Historical Events.-The most memorable event in the civil
history of this parish, doubtless, is the battle of Kilsyth, fought
in 1645, betwixt General Baillie and Montrose, and which
proved so disastrous to the Covenanters. The site of the battle
is not very visible to the eye. It is in the valley, rough and stony,
below Riskend farm-house, the greater part covered with the
water of the reservoir already described. Every little bill adja-
cent records something connected with the events of that day,
e. g. the Bullet-knowe, the Baggage-knowe, the Drum-burn,
the Slaughter-home, &c. On the land of Wester Auchincloach,
north-east of Kelvinhead, human bones have been frequently dug
up. About twelve years ago, a quantity of human bones, mostly
of a small size, were found in a corner of a field, north of Wester
Auchincloach. The tradition that the drummers and fifers were
buried there, was thus confirmed. In the Dullatur bog, many
skeletons and bones have been discovered. The hilt of a sword
and part of a saddle, and various coins, have been found in different
places.
     Livingston, Viscount of Kilsyth, a branch of the Linlithgow
family, was at that time, and till the year 1715, the chief proprie-
tor of this parish. There are the ruins of three mansion-houses
which were occupaied by the chief, or by branches of the family:
at Colzium (cooper hill) where, in a modern house, near the ruins
of the old castle, the present proprietor, Sir Archibald Edmonstone
of Duntreath, Bart. resides; at Dovecotwood, where there is a
fragment of a very strong castle in a commanding situation, over-
looking the town of Kilsyth; and in the town of Kilysth, where
there is the latest inhabited of the castles, of date 1655, which
is still pretty entire: it was formerly surrounded with gardens and
lofty trees, but is now inhabited by many poor families. William
Livingstone, Lord Kilsyth, joined the rebels in 1715, and lost at
once his property and home. The room and bed-closet are still
shown, in which Charles Edward spent a night. The unfortu-
                            6


