
26                        ARGYLESHIRE.

these, bones have been found in the memory of an individual
lately living.
   There were in the parish several places of burial in ancient
times, and in which children and infants were interred in the last
century.  These are Kilmun, (called after St, Munde), Glenaray
Kilblane, (after St Blane), Glenshira, Kilbryde, and Kilian,
(named in honour of St Bride and Kilian)), and Achantiobairt.
   There is a bridge over the water of Douglas. on the road
which leads to tire house of Claonary, three miles and a-half to
the West of the burgh, so ancient that the date of its building is
unknown.  The arch forms a segment of a circle, and it is there-
fore called the Roman Bridge.  The house iia which Rob Roy
M'Gregor received wood and water from the Duke of Argyle
while he lived at the expense of the Duke of Montrose, still stands
on the farm of Benbuy, the most remote house in the parish.
   Modern Buildings.-Inverary Castle was begun in 1745, and
finished a few years after.  It stands a few yards to the west of the
site of the former castle, and is built of chlorite slate passing into
talc,-a stone which stands the weather well, and the colour of
which accords with the scenery.  It is a square building, three
stories in height, with a tower at each corner, and a high glazed
pavilion shooting from the centre.
   There are two churches under one roof, which are divided by
a wall.  It is a long and inelegant structure, with a spire rising from
the centre of the roof.  lt looks well,however,at a distance,and forms
a handsome termination to the street, on approaching the town.
The jail and county house are built of the porphyry of the district.

                      III.-POPULATION.
   There are no means of ascertaining what the population of this
parish was in ancient times.  The quantity of land in cultivation was
indeed greater formerly than at present, and farms were in many
cases smaller,-facts which, on first consideration, would lead us to
infer that the population was proportionably more numerous but,
when it is remembered that the outfield and poorer soils formed the
excess of the cultivation ; that farming was not understood; that the
seed was seldom changed ; and that potatoes, as well as the present
breed of sheep, were unknown, it must be granted that the greater
quantity of land formerly in tillage forms no just ground for imagin-
ing that the population has decreased.  Glenshira has, indeed, been
depopulated by forming large sheep-walks, but the villages have
increased in number and extent; and otherwise the noble proprie-


