
	DUNFERMLINE.                                    	839
      
        <TABLE>
	Siliceous matter, insoluble in acid, in powder
          and small masses,	                          3.7
	A trace of sulphur and naphtha, and a little
	  carbon.
                                                         _____
	                                                 99.84
The second,-
	Carbonic acid,     	                         41.4
	Lime,	                                         52.2
	Magnesia,	                                  0.33
	Alumina and oxide of iron,	                  0.4
	Siliceous matter, insoluble in acid, in gritty
	  powder,	                                  4.7
	A trace of carbon.
                                                         ______
	                                                 99.03

   This limestone abounds in the same kinds of fossils as have been
mentioned to occur in that of Charleston. The encrinite is ex-
ceedingly abundant, and very large at Roscobie. One piece has
been found, containing not only a great mass, in apparent confu-
sion, as if arising from some violent disturbance of the stems and
tentacula, but also what are very rare, at least in Scotland, two
heads of this fossil. The rarity of these is supposed to be owing
to their having been more tender parts of the animal, and of course
more easily destroyed than the others.
   There are met with here also pieces of calcareous shale, in
which there are parts of the encrinite covered with iron-pyrites,
and beautiful crystals of the same. Some pieces of shale, too,
have the spines of the Producta distinctly marked on them; and
one has spines of perhaps a large Producta, with portions of en-
crinites and Retepora. Also Turbinolia is found.
    At the neighbouring lime-quarry of Lathalmond there are some
large specimens of the Producta.
    Sunnybank Limestone.-The limestone at the small quarry of
Sunnybank, in the south-eastern part of the parish, is not the main
bed of the mountain deposit, but one of the interpolated beds of
the same formation. There is a thin bed of coal immediately be-
low the limestone, and beneath the coal is a deep bed of fire-clay,
of which are manufactured the very excellent fire-brick and gas
retorts made at Inverkeithing.
    Orthoceratites and various shells abound in a bed of slate-clay
immediately above the limestone; as also at Duloch, in the im-
mediate neighbourhood, in Inverkeithing parish.
    Craigluscar Lime- Quarry.-This quarry, which is in the north-
western part of the parish, and near the summit of a hill of the
same name, presents one of the exceptions to the, general nature

