
144                    LINLITHGOWSHIRE.

10 pews, containing 88 seats; and 45 pews, containing 279 seats,
are private property, but pay an annual feu into the church funds.
From L. 20 to L. 30 per annum are realized from these; seats.
There are 46 pews, containing 274 seats, which pay no feu, being
the free property of private individuals; and 14 pews, containing
99 seats, are the property of different societies. Many of the seats
belonging to the societies, and of those which are the property of
private individuals, are let, at the will of the proprietors, at rents
varying from 1s. to 4s. per annum. There are fourteen free seats
before the pulpit.
   The church, being in the town, is situated near the eastern ex-
tremity of the parish; yet the farmers, even in the most distant
parts of the parish, are remarkably regular in their attendance at
church.
   The manse was built about thirty years ago, and, though not
well planned or neatly finished, is a good house, and in tolerable
repair.
   The glebe consists of about six acres of excellent land, about
L. 20 yearly value; and the grass glebe is let at L. 4 per annum.
   When the parishes of Kinneil and Bo'ness were united in 1669,
the act of Parliament appointed the old stipend of Kinneil to be
added to the stipend given by the town, and the whole to be the
constant stipend of the minister serving the cure of the united pa-
rishes. According to the act of erection in 1649, the stipend of
BO'ness was 800 marks, with a glebe, and the rent of an minis-
ter's house. A stock of 10,000 merks was invested in land, and the
annual rent, of this mortification was designed for the stipend, but
not amounting to 800 merks, the Act of Parliament appointed the
inhabitants of the town to be stented 200 merks, (L. 11, 2s. 2 d.),
and representatives were to be chosen annually to fix and levy the
assessment. The farm of Muirhouse, in which the stock wag in-
vested, is about two miles south from the town, and consists of
169 acres. As it was not very productive at first, the assessment
was frequently levied during the first century after the, disjunction
of Bo'ness from Kinneil, but this has long since become unneces-
sary, as the ferny has been greatly improved, and its value and
yearly produce have been much increased.
   The rent of this farm, together with a bond L. 6, 18s. 11d.
by Duchess Anne Hamilton, and the seat-rents formerly mention-
ed, constitute the funds of the church of Bo'ness. These funds
are chargeable with five-sixths of the expense of all repairs of the
                                 3


