
320                         BERWICKSHIRE.

angle, not unfrequently perfectly vertical. * The prevailing direc-
tion of the strata is from west to east. In composition, this rock
bears the same general character throughout the parish, being corn-
pact and fine-grained; in many places, indeed, it is only a variety
of sandstone. It forms a very good building stone, and is the prin-
cipal mineral employed for that purpose. The trap and porphyry
rocks are more abundant; they present themselves on the western
side of the bay of Eyemouth but their exact position, with reference
to the greywacke on the opposite side of the bay, it is by no means
very easy to ascertain, the space between being constantly under wa-
ter. These trap and porphyry rocks form very considerable preci-
pices all along the coast, and the scenery, in consequence, is in va-
rious places highly picturesque. With little interruption they con-
tinue from the town of Eyemouth to St Abb's Head, beyond which
the greywacke again appears; but how far they extend from the coast
into the interior cannot be easily ascertained, though probably the
distance is inconsiderable. Of these trap rocks the principal are
trap-tuff and felspar porphyry, the former being most abundant.
The trap-tuff occasionally contains large masses of porphyry, a
good deal of the green ore of copper, and large portions of grey-
wacke. Occasionally, also, the finer portions of this rock assume
such an appearance of stratification, as is apt not a little to puzzle
the observer. An attentive examination, however, leads to the con-
clusion, that, instead of stratification, it ought rather to be con -
sidered as a modification of structure. This appearance is particu-
larly observable beyond the Bay of Killiedraught, at the western
extremity of the parish, it being exceedingly difficult, in examining
several parts of the cliffs in that direction, to say whether they are

<FOOTNOTE>Opposite Netherbyres, these rocks have been quarried to a considerable extent,
to supply stones for the improvements in progress there. At first, the strata, as
above noticed, were found vertically disposed, but at the bottom of the quarry, after
turning and twisting about in a very remarkable manner, they assumed the form of
a long, low-browed double arch. The surface of this arch is so smooth, and so per-
fectly turned, that it resembles a work of art rather than an operation of nature. A
friends who has devoted much of his time to the study of the geology of Berwick-
shire, has given the following explanation of the appearance which these rocks pre-
sent:
   "The rocks in the channel of the Eye from its mouth to Ayton mill are the grey-
wacke or transition rocks. They can be proved to have been originally deposited ho-
rizontally. Now to account for their disturbance;  they have been, at a subsequent
period, elevated,-and elevated by an eruption of lava or trap, which has burst through
them in an igneous state. The Hill of Highlaws is composed of this trap. You will
see it in the harbour, on the northwest corner, where it has lifted up the conglome-
rate. You will also see it on the Highlaws. where it is quarried. This trap, in
bursting through and lifting up the greywacke rocks, has softened them, and in many
places the greywacke strata, whilst in that softened state, have, probably by their own
weight, folded over one another, and thus formed arches in appearance."


