
                        KIRKLISTON.              149

viz. the gift of a certain quantity of oat-meal to decayed labourers
on his Lordship's property, and their widows and orphan families.
The amount of this charity is at present about 35 bolls, divided
among 38 families. The list is revised by the kirk-session, every
year, and new cases of destitution are admitted on their recom-
mendation to the benefit of the charity. This charity is most ju-
dicious in its design, and has, for a very long series of years af-
forded a seasonable relief to the wants of the destitute.
  Fairs.-There is one held annually in the village of Kirkliston,
on the last Tuesday of July; and one likewise, in the village of
Winchburgh, on the first Friday of June. No business is tran-
sacted at either of them, and they may be justly styled nuisances,
which ought to be abolished, as they are invariably the fruitful
sources of injury to the morals and comfort of the people.
  Inns, Alehouses, &c.-There are three inns, viz. in the villages
of Kirkliston, Winchburgh, and Newbridge. At Winchburgh there
are likewise post-chaises, and horses. Of alehouses, the number
is very Considerable: far greater than is required; and it is much
to be regretted, that licenses for the sale of spirituous liquors are
granted by the county Justices, so indiscriminately, without any con-
sideration of the number previously existing, as the morals of the
community are greatly injured by them.
  Fuel,-That chiefly used is coal, which is conveyed from the
collieries belonging to the Duke of Hamilton, near Falkirk, to
Winchburgh, by the Union Canal. A considerable quantity of
coal is also driven from Benbar, and Barbauchlie, in the vicinity,
of Bathgate. Of late, the price of coal has been very high, and
to the poor it is always much greater, than to those in better cir-
cumstances; for as they are quite unable to pay for a cart-load
at a time, they are under the necessity of purchasing what they
use from retailers, in very small quantities and at an enormous
additional cost. For this reason very little coal is, used by the
poor; their fires are chiefly made from the cuttings of the woods.

		MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.

  There are no striking variations betwixt the present state of
the parish and that which existed at the time of the last Statistical
Account. But from that period, there has been a steady progres-
sive improvement in the mode of farming; and, at the present time,
there is perhaps no parish in Scotland, which, in respect of the
system of husbandry pursued, is farther advanced in improvement,
or more distinguished by the excellence of its management. At


