
     Statistical Account

   Surface, soil, etc.-The surface is very uneven, a great
part being barren hills covered with heath; a great part of
them, however, appears to have been once in a cultivated
state, as is evident from the ridges that are still perceptible
on them.  Some of them have of late been planted.  The
Honourable General Gordon of Fyvie, the patron and prin-
cipal heritor, has of late inclosed and planted above 1000
acres with oak, ash, plane, beech, larch, pine; and common
firs, all which are in a thriving condition.  The soil is vari-
ous, but in general kindly, and yields pretty good early
crops of bear and oats, especially in the neighbourhood of the
church and Fyvie Castle.  The more remote parts, parti-
cularly near the mosses and moors, are of a colder nature
and later.  They are, however, capable of improvement,
and a great part has of late been considerably improved;
there being few or none of the farmers who have not a part
of their fields in turnip and potatoes, and afterwards laid
down in clover and rye grass.  The writer of this was a-
mong the first, who set them the example by sowing grass-
seeds in the open fields, which, succeeding very well, o-
thers were induced to follow the example.  The time of
sowing varies according to the season, and nature of the soil.
It is commonly from the beginning or middle of March to
the middle of April, for oats.  Bear is sown in the end of
April, and throughout the month of May.  They begin
to reap in the month of September, and in early seasons
sooner.  Oxen are generally employed in ploughing.  Some
use 8 oxen, others 10, and some 12, others 4 horses, and
some 2 horses and 2 oxen.  The plough used for all these
is on the model of the English one, except in very stony
ground, where the Scotch one is employed.  The rents are
pretty reasonable excepting small crofts, which generally
give 30 s. and upwards the acre, besides services and mill-
multures, so often taken notice of in this work, as unfa-


