
                          MIDMAR                           631

wood.  Now the plantations, under trees of various kinds, amount
to about 1400 acres, properly thinned, pruned, and thriving.  The
clumps and hedgerows are, for the most part, judiciously laid down
and kept.  Here it may be observed, however, that too little at-
tention is paid to extirpate the noxious weeds that, in many places,
infest the fields, offend the eye, and prove inimical to the crops of
grass and corn.

                       II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Parochial Registers.-These consist of the kirk-session minutes,
earliest date, 17th April 1768; records of baptisms, 22d Sep-
tember 1717; records of marriage-contracts, earliest date, 18th
October 1718.
   Land owners.-Of these are four: John Mansfield, Esq. of
Midmar, who possesses the most extensive and valuable estate in
the parish;  Mrs Duff of Corsindae has the next in extent and
value; Colonel Gordon of Cluny lately purchased the estate of
Shiels;  Mr William Davidson is proprietor of Kebbaty.  The
only residing heritors are Mrs Duff of Corsindae, and Mr Davidson
of Kebbaty.  The former may be said to reside only occasionally.
   Eminent Men.-Under this head we may mention the Rev.
John Ogilvie, D. D., the late incumbent, and predecessor to the
present minister of the parish.  He was allowed to be an able
divine, a good critical scholars, an excellent orator, a sincere
Christian, and an agreeable member of society.  His superior abi-
lities are evinced by his Britannia, and several other productions of
his pen.  He died in the year 1813 at the advanced age of eigh-
ty-four.
   The late James Mansfield, Esq. of Midmar, and father of the pre-
sent proprietor, John Mansfield, Esq. was a gentleman that de-
served the gratitude, not only of his tenantry, but also of the neigh-
bourhood.  He had much merit in setting a good example of an im-
proved style of husbandry, and liberally contributing to promote
its advancement.  From the most wretched and sterile condition
imaginable, in which he found his property in Midmar after making
the purchase, he brought about 500 acres most contiguous to his
dwelling to resemble a flourishing garden, and these he set apart
for his home-farm.  When he began his agricultural operations,
so rugged, wild, and barren were most of the fields, as not to be
worth 5s. per aere; now they draw from L.1, 10s. to L.2.  Mr
James Mansfield died in 1823, much and justly regretted by his
tenantry, and a wide circle of friends and relatives.


