
198		              RENFREWSHIRE.

Esq. The remains of the old Castle of Ferguslie are still to be
traced on a property lately purchased, and at present possessed by,
William Barr, Esq. of Drums.
   Within the burgh of Paisley, while it was yet an inconsiderable
place, there stood several mansions, each being the property,and
frequently the residence of a noble or distinguished family.  Of
these we may mention Semple House, inhabited by the Lords
Semple, heritable Sheriffs of the regality of Paisley; and Fergus-
lie House, originally belonging to the family of Ferguslie.  Both of
these dwellings are situated in the High Street, and are now oc-
cupied by a variety of tenants.
   Modern Buildinqs.-The principal modern seats in the parish
are, Johnstone Castle, Housebill, and Ralston. The first of these
stands on an estate originally called Easter Cochrane or Quarrelton,
anciently possessed by Cochrane of Craigmuir, but for ages past by
the ancestors of the present proprietor, Ludovic Houston, Esq., t*
whose castle is now one of the chief ornaments of the county.  The
grounds around it are well wooded.-Househill, on the banks of the
Levern, near its confluence with the White Cart, is a neat and com-
fortable mansion, still, with the lands, in the proprietorship of the
ancient family of Dunlop of Househill.-Ralston House is compa-
ratively a new and excellent mansion, built by the late William Orr,
Esq. of Ralston. +  There are also good and commodious houses
on the estate of Barshaw, the property of Robert Smith, Esq.-
and on the lands of Corseflat and Achentorlie, built by the late
proprietor, Matthew Brown, Esq. and now in the possession of his
son, Andrew Brown, Esq.  To these may be added, Greenlaw
House, the property and residence of Mrs Kibble; Brabloch, of
Fulwn MKerrell, Esq.; Maxwelton House, of Colonel Fulton;
and Kilnside, an elegant mansion latel. erected by Joseph White-
head, Esq.
    There are, besides, especially in the neighbourhood of the

<FOOTNOTE>The family of Johnston is a collateral branch of that of Houston of "Houston fo that ilk,"
spoken of in Robertson's continuation of Crawfurd, p. 99, as of great antiquity, and
deriving their descent from "Hugo de Padvinan," who is mentioned as one of the
witnesses to "Walter High Stewart of Scotland's foundation charter of the Abbey of
Pasly." George  Houston, younger of Johnston, Esq. has been recently chosen
member of Parliament for this county in room of the late Sir M. S. Stewart of
Greenock and Blackball, Bart.
   The estate of'Ralston was long possessed by "the Ralstons of that Ilk," said
to derive their pedigree from Ralph, younger son of one of th Earls of Fife, who
haveing obtained these lands from the High Steward of Scotland, they were afterwards
called Ralphstown, from the proper name of their proprietor."-Robertson's Craw-
furd, p. 57.  The estate is now in the possesion of the British Linen Banking Com-
pany.
				        3


