
			  CARMICHAEL.                       529

known to require any description or commendation from the writer
of this account.
	Husbandry.--The old practice of dividing the arable ground
into two divisions, the croft or infield and the outfield, of manur-
ing and cropping, without interruption, the croft land, and of taking
two or three white crops off the outfield, and then allowing it to
rest and produce what grass might grow from the seeds which were
lodged in it, or might be carried to it by the winds, has been long
since abandoned. The same course of cultivation is not adopted
by all the farmers. The nature of the soil, and the limited re-
sources in obtaining manure, except what is produced in the pa-
rish, forbid the adoption of a four years rotation of crops. Per-
haps in no situation is such a rotation commendable. Some of
the farmers take one, and sometimes two white crops, when pas-
ture, with or without a top-dressing, is broken tp; then a green
crop of potatoes and of turnips, partly consumed by sheep; then a
crop of oats, and then hay; and last of all, pasture for two years.
Some of them are bound by their leases to a six years rotation of
crops, on land kept in a regular state of cultivation, and of course
one-sixth part should always be in green crop. When the land is
damp, with a northern exposure, two white crops are sometimes
taken, and then it lies in pasture four years.
	Recent Improvements.--The raising of turnips, with bone manure,
and consuming them with sheep, on ground of a light soil, or not
very accessible with heavy carriages, is a great improvement, which
has been recently adopted, and, it is hoped, will soon be generally
adopted. Very considerable improvements were made upon the
estate of Carmichael from 1819 to 1831, under the management
of the late Colonel Robert Anstruther, in the way of draining and
fencing,--23,390 yards of drains from five to seven feet deep, being
cut, filled with stones, and covered,--and 19,430 yards of dry stone
fences having been built, from 9d. to 1s. 8d. per yard, the average
expense being 1s. 2d. per yard; 70 acres of very swampy ground
within the enclosures were thoroughly drained, cropped, and sown
with grass seeds, and now yield excellent pasture; 33 acres got at
the rate of 30 bolls of lime per acre and 37 were laid down in
grass whthout lime. The difference is very perceptible. Within these
few years the farms belonging to the Douglas estate have been
much improved, by the erection of commodious dwelling-houses and
offices, and by drainage and fences.
	Anticipated Improvements.--There is a great deal of ground in


