
268                       LANARKSHIRE.

in Parliament, on the demise of James V., in the event of the
death of Mary Queen of Scots, next heirs to the Crown, and have,
in consequence, been ever since regarded as a branch of the royal
family. They were created Dukes of Chatelherault, in France,
on carrying Queen Mary thither. They were made Dukes of Ha-
milton by Charles I. and Dukes of Brandon in England by Queen
Anne. In consequence of the marriage of Anne Duchess of Ha-
milton to Lord William Douglas, eldest son of William first Mar-
quis of Douglas by his first wife, Lady Mary Gordon, the Hamil-
ton family are now Douglasses by the male side.
	Buchanan, and some of his followers, represent the Hamiltons
as dependents on the Douglasses, and as becoming great by betray-
ing them to James II., who murdered the Earl of Douglas in Stir-
ling Castle with his own hand, although he had a safeguard. It
is farther asserted, that James III. forced the wife of Boyd, Earl
of Arran, to forsake her husband, and marry Lord Hamilton.
These statements, there is reason to believe, were invidious on the
part of Buchanan, and made in order to please his patron the Earl
Murray, a great enemy of the Hamiltons. Boetius (book 12, chap.
5,) says, that the first daughter of James II. was married to Lord
Boyd, who had by her a son and a daughter; and that after the death
of Lord Boyd, this daughter of James II. was married to Lord Ha-
milton; in that way the Hamiltons are "decorit in the King's blood."
This edition of Boetius was translated by Bellenden, who, being
contemporary with the lady, is better authority than Buchanan,
who lived a century after.
	Silverton Hill.--Silverton Hill, anciently Quhitecamp, the place
from whence the Hamiltons of Silverton Hill take their title, has
dwindled down to a small farm, which has repeatedly changed
owners. This family broke off from the ducal house in 1449. Sir
Frederick Hamilton of Silverton Hill, Bart. collector of the East
India Company's revenues at Benares, is the fourteenth in descent.
	Earnock.--The estate of Earnock, in the west of the parish, was
for many generations the property of a family of the name of Ro-
berton the descendants of Robert, brother of Lambin Fleming,
to whom Malcolm IV. gave these lands; part of which are now
called Kennedies, and belong to Mr Roberton. Earnock was sold
about fifty years ago to Mr Semple, and about 1810 to A. Millar,
Esq. the present proprietor.
	Ross--One-half of the lands of Ross or Inveravon were, by Robert
Loudon, brother to Alexander II., conveyed to the monks of Kel-


