
622                           PERTHSHIRE.

well proposed, indeed, the evil was abated; the fly, by a higher than
human agency, had been checked in its destructive powers. The
wheat crop of 1831 generally escaped its ravages, and though here
and there, as has doubtless been always the case, in that year and
those that have succeeded it, a field might be found in which
partial damage was induced by its appearance, it has not proved a
prevalent destroyer. May the search for remedies to prevent
its injurious effects long continue to be as needless as in these
latter years!
     There are several insects which molest and prove injurious to
our fruit-trees. The common aphis or green fly annually attacks
the peach, nectarine, and plum-trees, and sometimes it descends
even to the gooseberry-bushes. This hnsect is easily destroyed,
by the application of tobacco-juice, or of soap mixed with water.
The web-apple caterpillars, which are very destructive if they be
allowed to remain undisturbed, may also be easily subdued if care
be taken to pick them off before tbey have separated from the
web, and been distributed over the tree. The Aphis lanigera or
woolly bug, has been gradually extending itself for the last thirty
years; and although it does not seem to have infested the orchards
in any great measure, there is scarcely a garden to be found in the
disttict into which it has not been introduced. It is by far the
most mischievous of all the insects that infest the apple-tree, to
which its attacks are confined. Numbers of it cluster together,
and digging into the bark, they abstract the sap in its progress,
produce excrescences in, the branches, and thus render the tree
sickly, while the fruit is crined. They know well, moreover, how
to choose the best, for if there be a Ribston Pippin, a Cornish
Jellyflower, or a Margile in the garden, they are almost sure to
give them the preference. Various methods, such as clotting
with oil and immersing in hot water, have been tried to eradicate
them, but I have never known a single instance of their effectual
removal from a tree when they had once fairly established them-
selves upon it. After some experience, and with a ftll sympathy
with the reluctance which every one has to adopt such a course,
I have arrived at the convection, that the only certain way of get-
ting rid of the Aphis lanigera is to root out and commit to the
frames every, tree infested with it. Every year I believe that this
mode of  procedtre is delayed, will only  afford  new and most vexa-
tions evidence of the necessity of adopting it, adding, in all pro-
bability, to the number of its victims.
                                   4


