
     of Carluke.

master.  Though the fees were lately increased, yet they ate
still such as not to bear hard upon the poor, and at the same

<FOOTNOTE>

bones, thrown up lately by planting young trees upon it.  Having made a pit
on the top, to the depth of 6 feet, even there, many bones were discovered; and
the soil itself, at that depth, was much, blacker than any croft in the parish.
That he might satisfy himself with regard to the bones being human, he shewed
them to several medical gentlemen, who all assured him that they were.  It is
therefore presumable, that this hill was the family tumulus, where the Miles of
Mauldslie were burned; and for that reason might have been originally called
Haugh-Kill, in opposition to Gasgows-Kill (or Hadzows-Kill), which lies in the
highest part of the parish:  Kill, in Gaelic, signifying a tomb.  This circum-
stance alone, however, can scarcely account for such a vast quantity of bones, and
rich black earth, in one tumulus.  It is thereclose probable, as this little hill is so
nigh the site of the old Abbey, that, about 3 or 4 centuries ago, when the parish
increased so as to be inhabited toward, the Shields, and which the kirk was found
necessary to be erected at Carluke, as more convenient for the whole inhabitants;
that at that time, this tumulus would be made the repository of the bones and
consecrated earth that would be found in the Abbey-Steads at removing the
kirk, and turning the sacred ground into such pasture, or arable ground, as the
spirit of these superstitious times would permit.  There are 3 circumstances that
seem to favour this conjecture.  First, The ground where the Abbey stood, is
now a clay of as pure a quality, and white colour, as the adjoining fields; which,
without some excavation, can scarcely be supposed, after being a burial place for
perhaps near 1000 years.  Secondly, The whole earth on the amount, appears of
a blacker and much richer quality than any to be found (but in kirk-yards),
within many redes of it, even blacker and richer than the fattest earth in the
oldest burying ground in Carluke kirk-yard, this last having been only employ-
ed as burying ground for 3 or 4 centuries at most.  Lastly, It does not appear,
that the family of Mauldslie had taken up any burying ground at the kirk of
Carluke till about the cod of last century, when their present aisle was built.
From this it is probable, that the family, before that time, must have buried
somewhere else than at Carluke.  It does not appear, that they had burned on
the Abbey Steads, as there is no tradition, or visible vestige of it.  It is there-
fore probable, that they buried their dead on the top of the tumulus, where the
whole sacred earth of the Abbey Steads had been collected.  Accordingly, the
summit was flattened, and so continues to this day.  Stones have tumbled from
it, which appear to have been used, either in a tomb, or some building of decent
architecture.


