
                   AUCHINDOIR AND KEARN.                      411

                     II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Eminent Men.-One may be mentioned, whose talents, learn-
ing, and accomplishments seem to have been considerable, from
the terms addressed to him, in a Latin poem of great power and
beauty, by Dr Arthur Johnstone in his "Parerga," published in
1642.  This was John Gordon of Craig, born in 1607, the seven-
teenth in descent from the principal stem of the family of Gor-
don, *-a man who appears to have been held in great estimation
at the Court of James VI.
   Antiquities.-The prominent objects of antiquity are the old
parish church, the moat or mount on which the ancient Castrum
Auchindoria, mentioned by Boethius, seems to have stood, and the
houses of Craig and Druminnor.  The old church, now a ruin, is
extremely venerable, and every justice is done to its ivy-mantled
walls, by the proprietor on whose estate it stands, in order to exhibit
this impressive object with effect.  The fine Saxon gateway or prin-
cipal door; the carved representation of our Saviour on the cross,
with the letters J. N. R. J.; the recess for the elements, &c. with the
inscription immediately over it, Hic E. corp. D. N. J. C. V. M., (Hic
est corpus Domini nostri Jesu Christi, Virginis Mariae); the stone
vessel at the entrance for the holy water, &c. are the clearest in-
dications of its once having been a Roman Catholic Chapel, though
at what precise period it was converted into the Presbyterian pa-
rish church cannot be ascertained.  The oldest date is on the-
north gable, and heirs 1557.
   The Houses of Craig and Druminnor, (still habitable even in
their more ancient portions) are of considerable antiquity, and ex-
hibit many of the characteristics of remote times; the oldest date
at Craig is 1518; that at Druminnor (which was the ancient Cas-
tle Forbes, once the chief seat of the Forbes family,) is 1577.  Or
modern buildings it seems unnecessary to say anything farther,
than that on all the principal properties, the owners have, by mo-
dern erections or additions, given comfort and embellishment to-
their several residences.  The proprietors are five in number; Mr-
Leith Lumsden of Clova; Mr Gordon of Craig; Mr Grant of
Druminnor; the Honourable Walter Forbes of Brux (now Mas-
ter of Forbes); and Mr Gordon of Wardhouse.  The three first
named are the principal heritors; and reside either wholly or for
a considerable portion of the year within the parish.

<FOOTNOTE> See printed tables of the pedigree the famines of Gordon.


