
                           AUCHTERARDER.			          287

  Botany.-It does not appear that there are many plants peculiar
to this parish.  Tussilago or colt's-foot is of frequent occurrence.
Petasites or butter-bur grows in ond place, larger than we have seen
it in any other. Trefoil is plentiful in our meadows.  The Orchis
family seem to be natives of this parish.

                        II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
  The earliest notice we have seen of Auchterarder is in a char-
ter by Alexander II. in the year 1227, conveying the teinds of
the King's revenue of the lands of Auchterarder to the Convent
of Inchaffray.  In 1328, King Robert Bruce granted a charter of
the lands of Auchterarder to Sir William Montifix, Justiciar of
Scotland, on the payment of a small sum, reserving the liberties of
the burgh and burgesses, as they were in the reign of Alexander
III.  One of the daughters of Sir William, marrying Sir John
Drummond, received as her fortune the barony of Auchterarder,
which brought this property into the possession of the Drummond
family, in which it continued until of late.  In one of the books
of Exchequer, entitled Liber Responsionum, 1576, there is this me-
morandum: " Assignit to the baillies of Octerardour the tent day
of November, to compeir and mak colp, and to that effect bring
with thame the copie of their last comp, with sic uther writtes as
thai will use for making of thair seasance." This curious excerpt
seems to countenance the opinion, that Auchterarder once enjoy-
ed the privileges of a royal burgh.  This is, however, rather a
dntbtful matter.  On diligent search, it does not appear from the
Rolls of Parliament, that it was a royal burgh, when the act 1696,
for the division of commons, was passed, in which was excepted the
property of royal burghs, all there enumerated.
  Auchterarder was one of the Scottish towns ironically compared
by George Buchanan with the fine English cities.  Some English
noblemen, boasting to King James of the properties of the English
towns, the sarcastic Scot replied, that he knew a town in Scotland
which had fifty draw-bridges, and which is afterwards described as
a "country village between Stirling and Perth, called Auchterar-
doch, where there is a large strand which runs through the middle
of the town, and almost at every door there is a long stock or stone
laid over the strand, whereupon they pass to their opposite neigh-
bours, and when a flood comes they lift their wooden bridges in
case they should be taken away, and these they call draw-bridges."
 -So goes the story.
  In the troublous times of 1715, Auchterarder appears to have



