
                           GOVAN.                           697

has pronounced this to be " one of the greatest discoveries ever
made in smelting and founding iron."  The process, however,
though it has been, introduced into the works near Glasgow for
several years, has as yet scarcely passed the borders of Scotland. *
Mr Dixon, in addition to similar works at Wilsontown and Calder,
has erected two hot-blast furnaces, in the immediate neighbour-
hood of his extensive collieries in this parish. Other two are now
erecting, and will be in operation in the course of a few weeks. His
intention is to erect eight in all, each of which will produce the
average quantitx of 4OOO tons of pig iron annually.  Near his blast
furnaces, Mr Dixon is likewise constructing a bariron manufac-
tory, in which he will have forty-two puddling furnaces.  These, if
kept constantly at work, will make, according to the lowest calcula-
tion, 400 tons of bar-iron weekly.
   In the village of Govan, 81 men and 37 women are employed in
a dye-work.  The weekly wages of the men are from l2s. to 16s.
and of the women, from 6s. to 7s. At a short distance from that
village, a factory for throwing silk was erected in 1824.  There
was previously no work of the kind in any part of Scotland. The
number of persons employed in this factory averages 250.  Of
these, the larger proportion are thildren, none of whom are under
eight years of age.  The grown up people are at work eleven hours
a-day, and the thildren from ten to eleven hours. The factory ge-
nerally stops at seven o'clock in the evening, with the exception of
Saturdays, on whith it stops at three o'clock in the afternoon. The
wages of the men vary from 12s. to 18s., of the young women from
6s. to 7s., and of the thildren from 2s. to 5s. a-week. The healthy
appearance of the thildren connected with this work, in conse-
quence of its lower temperature, and the great care that is taken
to produce, proper ventilation, + is in general very different from

<FOOTNOTE>Dr Ure's Dictionary of Arts and Manufactures, p. 699.
          Govan factory " is heated by steam, and the steam pipes, instead of being sus-
pended from the ceiling of eath flat, are disposed in beds in the ground floor, within
a few inthes of the ground.  Round the bottom of the ground floor are perforations
in the walls, through whith is constantly rushing a current of fresh air, whith, being
heated and rarified by the steam beds, ascends from them throughl holes and pipes in
the floor, to the upper stories, producing a constant supply of pure and warm air,
from the bottom to the top of the factory.  The benefit of this is evinced by the total
absence of that feeling of suffocation met with in most other factories.  The boiler is
fed with boiling water, by means of a subsidiary boiler, whith the proprietor has cal-
led a Conville, in honour of a young man Peter Colville is placed at the side
of the large boiler, constituting for its length one side of the flue, and is thus kept buil-
ding by that heat whith otherwise would be lost in the wall."  Swan's Views on the
Clyde, with Leighton's Historical and Descriptive Illustrations. pp. 59-60.


