
			CULTER.                          349

live stock, thay have not been statioifary in the improvement of
their lands. Their farms are managed pretty much on the com-
mon rotation plan, viz. first oats, then green crop, then barley, then
hay, and lastly pasture, which last is allowed to continue for one,
two or more years, according to the quality of the land. Lime,
which is driven from a distance of seven miles, is plentifully applied,
and on new land yields a rich return. It seems to be generally
agreed, however, that, when repeatedly applied to the same field, its
effect is greatly diminished, and the farmer sees more and more the
necessity of resting his land. Big or bear is fast disappearing, and
barley coming in its place. Till the last two or three years, there
was not a field of wheat in the parish, but now there is scarcely any
farm, however small, where it is not to be seen. Draining in all
its different branches is duly attended to. The sheep-walks have
been dried with surface-drains, and much wet land reclaimed and
rendered arable by those of the ordinary kind. The late Mr Sim
of Cultermains, erected an embankment along the Clyde nearly
l 1/2 mile in length, which cost upwards of L. 1000; and calculated
that he had, on that part of his property which he retained in his
own possession, underground drains extending to the length of 35
miles.
	Leases, Farm-Buildings, &c.--The leases all over this part of
the country are of nineteen years durations,--a term which seems to
give satisfaction both to landlord and tenant. The farm-houses
and offices are in general commodious, and enclosures are nume-
rous and increasing.
	Produce.--The average gross amount of raw produce raised in
Old Culter, as nearly as can be ascertained, is as follows:--

<TABLE>
Produce of grain of all kinds, whether cultivated for food of man or domestic animals,
	including straw				 		 	L. 5236 15  5
Of potatoes, turnips, cabbages, and other plants cultivated in the fields
	for food,							   1177	 0  0
Of hay, whether meadow or cultivated,					   1032	 3  4
Of land in Pasture, rating it at L. 3 per cow or full-grown ox; L. 2 per
        head of young cattle; and 7s. per ewe or full grown sheep including
        the fleece,							   2829	 8  0
Of gardens and orchards,						     80	 0  0
Miscellaneous produce not enumerated under any of the foregoing heads,      119  0  0
Total yearly value of raw produce raised in Old Culter,                L. 0,474  6  9
	The average gross amount of raw produce raised in the Kilbucho
part of the parish, as nearly as can be ascertained, is as follows"--

<TABLE>
Produce of grain of all kinds, whether cultivated for food of man, or domestic ani-
	mals including the straw					L. 2894 12 6 1/2
Of Potatoes, turnips, cabbages,	and other plants cultivated in the
	fields for food,						    559	 0 0
Of hay, whether meadow or cultivated,					    541 10 0


