
                     PARISH OF ABBOTSHALL.

            PRESEYTERY OF KIRKALDY, SYNOD OF FIFE.

                THE REV. JOHN MURRAY, MINISTER.

                     __________________

               I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
  THE whole of Abbotshall, with the exception of three farms,
Easter and Wester Touch, belonging to Kinghorn, and Wester Bo-
gie to Dysart,--was disjoined from the parish of Kirkaldy in the
year 1650./f*
  Name.-The newly erected parish was called Abbotshall, a
name obviously derived from the circumstance of one of the ab-
bots of Dunfermline having built a house here, in which he oc-
casionally resided. The situation of the house, or hall of the ab-
bot as it was styled, was about a quarter of a mile due west from
the present church, and near to the centre of the Raith gardens, or
what are still sometimes called the Abbotshall gardens. A fine yew
tree which grew in front, and which has already stood the blast of
centuries, will probably long serve to mark out to the inquirer the
spot on which the mansion of the abbot was placed./f+

  <FOOTNOTE>This disjunction originated in an application made to the presbytery by several
of the heritors of the landward district of Kirkaldy, in consequence of the great ex.
tent of the parish, and distance of a considerable part of it from the church,--praying
that they would appoint some of their number to visit that part of the parish, and re-
port whether or not another church should be built. The records of presbytery bear
that they willingly received this application, and appointed certain of their number to
visit the bounds of the said landward district, and to report their judgment of the rie-
cessity of separating it from the other part of the parish; as also what was the fittest
place where a new church should be built, in the event of their opinion being favourable
disjunction. It also appears from the records of presbytery, of date October
81st, 1649, that this visitation was made, and that a report was given in favourable to the
wishes of the petitioners. The consequence was, that the presbytery recommended
to the Commissioners of Parliament for Surrenders and Tithes that a disjunction
should take place, which the commissioners authorized, and the whole was completed
the following year.
            At what time the lands of Abbotshall ceased to be the property of the Abbacy of
Dunfermline we are not aware, but it appears probable that they were disposed of
about the same time (the year 1450) that the town of Kirkaldy and lands in the
immediate neighbourhood were disponed by the comynendator and convent to the bai-
lies and community of Kirkaldy. Be that, however, as it may, it is certain that
Abbotshall was for a great length of time the property of the Scotts of Balwear,
and that it afterwards became the property of the Rammays (of Abbotshall,) who
sold it to the ancestors of the present proprietor, Mr Ferguson of Raith. Sir
Robert Sibbaid, in his History of Fife, which was published near the beginning of last


