
                                      UNITED PARISH OF

                               KILCALMONELL AND KILBERRY.

                          PRESBYTERY OF KINTYRE, SYNOD OF ARGYLE.

                         THE REV.  JOHN MIARTHUR, MINISTER.

                           I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
                  Name.-Tus name Kilcalmonell is of Gaelic derivation, and
                signi fies the burying place of Malcolm O'Neill. Kilberry, the
                name of the other division of the parish, we think, is compound-
                ed of 011 a-Mhairi, the burying,place of Mary.  KilcalMODell is
                situate in the peninsula of Kintyre, extending from the parish of
                Killean, on the west, to Lochfine, at Tarbert,. on the nortb-east.
                  Extent,&c.-Its length is about 16 miles, and its breadth 3
                miles.  It is bounded, almost along its whole length on the north-
                west, by West Loch Tarbert and the Atlantic Ocean ; and on the
                south-east, by the parish of Saddel and Skipness.  Kilberry is situ-
                ate, properly speaking, in the district of Knapdale, is separated
                from Kilcalmotiell by West Loch Tarbert, and bounded by the
                sea on all sides excepting on the northeast, where it is niet by
                the parish of South Knapdale.  The form of it is triangular) and
                nearly equilateral.
                   Topographical 4ppearances- Kilealmonell rises sometimes witli
                a gentle acclivity, at other times with greater abruptness frorn the
                sea to its greatest elevation.  The general altitude of the range of
                bills in which it terminates on the south-east, does not exceed
                1500 feet, whilst the few valleys by which the uniformity of the ac-
                clivity is disturbed,. rise not more than 100 or 150 feet above the
                level of the sea.  Kilberry is bi;ected from west to east by a ridge
                of hill which rises gradually till it is lost in the cloud which fre
                quently envelopes the lofty Sliohh-ghoil, one of the two bases of
                which extends out into considerable breadth of soil, well fitted to
                reward the labours, of the husbandman ; while the other, posses-
                sing equdl extension, is of a more moorland character.                 The
                coast of Kilcalmonell is not remarkable for variety of aspect
                                                       4


