
                         ISLAND OF LEWIS.
                          PARISH OF UIG.
              PRESBYTERY OF LEWIS, SYNOD OF GLENELG.
              THE REV. ALEXANDER MACLEOD, MINISTER.
     I.-ToPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
Name.-THE word Uig is applied to many situations in the High-
lands, and signifies a solitary place. It is therefore peculiarly ap,
plicable to this parish, which is situated on the west coast of the
Island of Lewis. It is bounded by the Harris mountains on the
south; by the Atlantic Ocean on the west; and on the north by
a district of the parish of Lochs, which runs across the island from
east to west.
Extent, kc.-The length of the parish is 24 miles, including the
wide entry of Loch Roag, which - runs the distance of 12 miles,
from west to east. The breadth of the parish is, 10 miles, and
the circumference along the coast 40 miles.
Topographical Appearancei.-The interior is more mountainous
than any other part of the Lewis. The hills are intersected by
extensive tracts of soft moor and fresh water lakes. The lands,
for the most part, along the sea shore are low and the soil sandy.
In the interior, the soil is partly clay, but principally mossy, and is
everywhere capable of producing forced- crops, with the assistance
of sea weed for manure.
The bay of Uig is the only notable bay in the parish: it is one
English mile in breadth. Gallan-head is the most prominent point
on the coast. It is situated about two miles 4orth from the mouth
of the bay of Uig, which is much exposed to the sounding Atlantic.
There are twelve small islands within the bounds of the parish,
exclusive of the Flannel Isles, which are seven in number. Of the
former, four are inhabited; the other islands are peculiarly adapt-
ed for pasturing sheep and black-cattle. The Flannel Islands are
about fifteen miles from the mainland of the parish. They are sup-
posed to have been the residence of ecclesiastics in the time of
the Druids; and the ruins of their temples in these lonely islands,
and in. several other placer, in this parish, are still extant.

