
     Statistical Account

a-week, and receive alms in meal or money.  Few have re-
course to this mode; and such seldom get from the funds.  The
funds are:

<TABLE>

Collected at the church-door annually,   L. 46   6   0
Interest of stock,                           9   4   0
Seat rents,                                  6   6   0
 
                                         L. 61   16  0

</TABLE>

51 persons are now upon the roll, who receive from 1 s. to
5 s. monthly.  Few of the industrious born and bred in the
parish, come to be a burden on the funds.  But numbers in
the decline of life, come into the parish, and in a few years
must of course be supported; others who have been idle and
thoughtless in youth, when distress or age come, are cast up-
on the public*.

sent, about 40 attend.  It has had good effects:  the children are regular in at-
tending church, and attentive when there; but those parents are much to blame,
who, wanting ability or inclination to instruct their children in the principles
of religion, do not avail themselves of the assistance they might have, by send-
ing them to the Sunday school.  As the funds raised for this school were more
than equal to its support they are partly applied to purchase bibles, and put
poor children to the weekly school.

<FOOTNOTE>

*There are several private funds of great use.  In Dysart, the sailors, the
maltmen, the bakers, have each their boxes for assisting their members in dis-
tress.  In Pathhead, there are two associations of weavers, and one of smiths:
In Galaton one:  In Borland one.  In 1782, the poor were in great traits.  The
patron (then Colonel James St. Clair) bought quantities of meal and pease, to
be fold at reduced prices for their behoof, and gave money to be distributed to
the most needy.  In Dysart and Pathhead, money was raised by subscription, to
purchase meal for them.  When, by any unforeseen accident, a person or fami-
ly is reduced to great distress, the neighbours frequently procure a temporary
supply, by a contribution among themselves.  None, I believe, get from the
funds who do not stand in need:  but the supply afforded is rather scanty.  Soon-
er or later, it is supposed the heritors will be brought in:  as few of them reside,
they by no means pay their proportion.  The kirk session at present manage
the funds:  but are always ready to allow the heritors to inspect their books,
and take a share in the management.


