
                          BIRSAY AND HARRAY.                     151

      1631. They consist of five volumes, and are, upon the whole in
      tolerably good condition.   The register of baptisms and marriages
      commenced under the ministry of the Rev.-James Aitken in 1645,
      and has been continued to the present time.
         Antiquities.-Arnong the antiquities connected with Birsay,
      may be noticed the remains of the sacerdotal palace.  It stands
      on a beautiful green near the sea.  It was the resident of the
      Earls and Bishops of Orkney.  The time of its erection is not
      known with certainty.  It is said, that additions have been made to
      it at different times, by the Sinclairs, commonly styled Princes and
      Counts of Orkney.  Robert Stuart, natural brother to Queen Mary,
      as also his son, Patrick, made great additions; but now, only the
      bare walls remain.  It was built upon the model of Holyrood-
      house.  Above the gate was the famous inscription, "Dominus
      Robertus Stuartus, filius Jacobi quinti Rex Scotorum, hoc opus
      instruxit," and above the coat of arms, was the following motto,-
      " Sic fuit, est, et erit."  The stone, it is said, is still in the posses-
      sion of the Earl of Morton, to whom the lands were sold: by him
      they were sold to Sir Lawrence Dundas, whose grandson, now
      Earl of Zetland, possesses the greatest part of the parish.
         About half a mile to the westward of the palace is the borough of
      Birsay.  It is a small portion of pretty high land, which the force of
      the ocean has broken off from the mainland, and formed into a
      separate island, to which there is access by land only at low water.
      From the remains of a wall yet to be seen on the land-side, and
      the marks of some huts there is reason to believe, that, as the
      name imports, the spot must have formed a rock fortification.  At
      a later period, a chapel was erected here, of which only one win-
      dow and part of the wall remain.  It is said to have been dedicat-
      ed to St Peter.
         Picts Houses are also very frequent in the parish, some of which
      confer names on places.  Single erect monumental stones are,
      also, not unfrequent in the parish.

                             III.-POPULATION.
         In the year 1755, according to Dr Webster's report, as quoted
      in the Old Statistical Account, the number of souls, in Birsay and
      Harray, was 22OO souls; in 1831, it was upwards of 2387,-the
      number belonging to Birsay being 1652, and to Harry, 735.
      Amount in 1841, 1634.
         The great body of the people are of industrious habits and al-
      though, from the pressure of the times, they have not had it in


