                432                          ARGYLESHIRE.

                  From 100 to 150 acres may be under wood, either natural or
                planted.
                  Live-Stock.-Througbout Kintyre, in general, and the parish of
                Southend, the principal breed of sheep is the black-faced.  It was
                introduced by store-masters from the south, who brought their
                own sheep,-the Linton along with them.  It is much to be regret-
                ted, that the Cheviot had not been introduced in place of the Lin-
                ton.  This kind is indeed hardy, and well adapted to a moun-
                tainous region ; but their wool is coarse, loose, and shaggy, and
                they are subject to a very fatal disease,-the braxy,-which, before
                the introduction of these sheep, was totally unknown in this coun-
                try.  Several, however, of the more substantial tenants are in
                the practice of rearing English sheep for the use of their farni-
                lies, and. allow them to pasture along with their black-cattle.
                Some considerable attention has been paid to the improvement of
                the native sheep of the district by the introduction of black-faced
                tups.  The new Leicesters have lately been introduced upon the
                lowlands, and the soil appears to agree admirably with them,
                though, from the dampness of the climate, they must b-- 11OLISM
                during winter.
                  In this parish, and throughout Kintyre, the cattle are of an
                inferior description to those in the upper p`rt of the county of
                Argyle, being a cross between the Irish and West Highland, and
                have merely a faint resemblance to the original breed of Highland
                cattle.
                  Mr Stewart of Glenbuckie, the Chamberlain of Kintyre, has
                very much improved the breed of cattle by introducing hand-
                some bulls into the district; and he has also established a dairy
                of forty-five low country cows upon one of his own farms, as an
                example to the inhabitants of the district to excite them to pay
                more attention to that breed of cattle. He has been very success-
                ful in the making of imitation English cheese, and obtains for this
                article the highest English price in the Glasgow market.
                  The general agricultural management is good.  The soil is of
                a light loam and sandy nature along the sea coast; but produces
                potatoes in great abundance, and yields from sixteen to twenty
                seeds.  Turnips grow well when properly managed.  Bear or
                big thrives well ; but the soil, particularly in the eastern dis-
                trict of the parish, is considered too light for wheat, barley, or
                beans.  But, in manx parts of the parish, where there is deep
                loam and strong land, could good enclosures be obtained, wheat


