
     Statistical Account

bers then were 2322.  There are of these Burgher-Sece-
ders 128; Anti-Burghers 151; Relief 53; Methodists 18;
in all 350 dissenters.  Besides these sectaries, some of the
different classes of Independents and Anabaptists mention-
ed in the Statistical Account of Galashiels, have, with their
manufactures, been imported into this parish.  Mr Milne,
in his description of this parish, published in 1743, makes
the number of examinable persons 1800.  If he compre-
hended all above 10 years of age, the population must have
undergone little alteration, but seems rather to have in-
creased than diminished*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*A statement might be given of births, marriages, and burials, from
our parish-register, but it is very incomplete; because the Seceders, con-
sidering this as an appendage to the Established Church, rather than an
institution calculated to promote the civil interest of their posterity, do
not in general registrate the names of their children; and, because the
temptation to neglect this among the lower classes of people, has also been
increased by the late tax upon registration.  They think that the money
required out of their scanty funds, for this purpose, is better employed in
providing against present wants, than in securing a very distant, and per
haps uncertain, good to their posterity.  Nor can the marriage-register
be depended on, as there are many irregular or (as they are commonly
called here) o'er-the-march marriages.  It is suspected that certificates to
this purpose, are sometimes forged or antedated by the parties, in order
to conceal a previous blunder that may have been committed.  This prac-
tice is also countenanced by some Episcopal Clergymen upon the border,
who, for the sake of the beggarly fee of office, marry all who apply to
them, without even requiring any evidence of the parties being legally
entitled to this privilege.  There have also been instances of Fiscals in
Royal Burghs, and of other Courts, summoning parties before a Justice of
the Peace, who, on their acknowledging a previous marriage, (which per-
haps never took place), decerns them to pay a fine, and adjudges one half
of it to the prosecutor.  Certificates of regular proclamations have also
been produced, not only here, but in all the neighbouring parishes, from
the Session-clerks of Edinburgh, Canongate, and West Church, in favour
of people who were never two days resident within their bounds; and on
such certificates, many marriages have been celebrated.  This evil claims
the attention of the Legislature.


