
     of North Uist.

   Emigrations.-The sudden rise of the land-rents was
certainly the original cause of emigrations from the isle of 
Sky and Uist to America.  Those who found a difficulty
in supporting their families when the rents were low, could 
not be persuaded that any exertions in industry would e-
nable them to live with any degree of comfort, when raised 
a third more at least.  This determined several of them to 
look out for any asylum some where else.  Copies of letters 
from persons who had emigrated several years before to 
America, to their friends at home, containing the most 
flattering acccounts of the province of North Carolina, were 
circulated among them.  The implicit faith given to these 
accounts made them resolve to defert their native country, 
and to encounter the dangers of crossing the Atlantic to 
settle in the wilds of America.  From 1771 to 1775, se-
veral thousands emigrated from the western Highlands to 
America, among whom were more than 200 from North 
Uist.  These in their turn gave their friends at home the 
same flattering accounts that induced themselves to go, so 
that these countries would in a short time have been drained 
of their inhabitants, had it not been for the American war. 
However, it will be acknowledge, that in this parish, 
those who took the benefit of the leases granted at that 
that time, never lived in greater affluence than during the 
currency of them, owing to the sudden and great advance 
in the price of kelp, occasioned by the American war. 
Since the close of the war, the rage for emigration has 
broke out again in different parts of the Highlands.  To 
produce this, other causes have concurred with that already 
mentioned.  The sense of grievances, whether real or ima-
ginary; the fear of having the fruits of their industry called 
for by their landlords, many of whom think they have a 
right to the earnings of the tenants, except what barely 
supports life; the want of employment for such as have 


