
     Statistical Account

farm, which before was let at L. 33, is now rented at L. 200;
another, which was then let at L. 23, now gives upwards of
L. 90; and so on, of all others which have been let lately.
The activity and skill of the farmer are now called forth;
improvements are beginning, and spirit of industry dif-
fusing itself over the whole parish.  As we have no shell-
marl, all our improvements, are carried on by lime brought
from  Perth, distant about 9 miles.  The soil is so different
in different places of the parish, that no stated rotation of
cropping is universally pursued.  White and green crops
alternately seem best calculated for cleaning and enriching
grounds so far removed from the means of artificial manure
as this parish is.  Some, accordingly, have divided their
farms, after they have got them all thoroughly followed
and limed, into four parts; sowig one-fourth with pease,
potatoe, and turnip, to which they give all their dung;
this crop is followed next year by barley, or wheat, if the
season answer, and is laid down with grass-feeds; next
year it is grass, cut green for feeding cattle in the house, or
made into hay for private consumption, or public sale;
this fourth is broke up next year, and never fails to yield
an excellent crop of oats.  This rotation excludes pasture,
but it abundantly compensates for the want of it by the
turnips is winter, and the great quantity of sown grass in
summer.  The turnip, and every other species of drill hus-
bandry, begins to prevail here, and the good effects of sown
grasses are well understood.  An attempt was lately made,
with much probability of success, of rearing cattle in the 
house on green cut clover in summer, and on turnips in
winter.  The quantity of dung raised by this method of
seeding is astonishing, and cattle attain the same size,
and bring the same price at 3 years of age that they for-
merly did at four.  The farms in this parish are very un-
equal, both as to size and rent.  We have some large farms


