
			          MELDRUM.                        477

holder, patron of the church, and superior of the burgh Df barony,
of Old Meldrum.
   Parochial Registers.-The date of the earliest parochial regis-
ter is 1698; and there are regular documents preserved from
that period to the present time, with the exception of one year.
   Antiquities.-The foundations of a small private chapel, built
during the establishment of the Roman Catholic religion, in this
country, are to be seen on a farm in this parish, which for that:
reasod still retains the name of Chapelhouse.  They are surround-
ed by a Place of interment, in which there is the appearance of
many graves; and two bodies have been buried there within the
memory of the present generation.  The baptismal font, (or what
tradition declares to be such) remains, and a well inclosed with,
rude mason-work, which we are given to understand from the same
source, was formerly dedicated to the Virgin; it is called to this
day the Lady well.  During the prevalence of Popery, St Natha-
lin was reckoned the tutelary saint of this district.  There was a
tradition, that when a dreadful pestilence raged in the country,
St Nathalin prayed fervently that it might be averted from this
parish, going round it on his knees; and the fatal disease never
entered within it.  A day called St Nathalin's day was for a
long period observed in honour of the supposed benefactor,-
a proof of the powerful influence of superstition over the mind.
Several persons yet alive recollect that, in their early years, St
Nathalin's day was still so far attended to that no work was per-
formed on it throughout the parish.  Until a very late perioad, a
market-day was held in Old Meldrum annually in the month, of
January, which was called Nathalin's fair.  About half a mile
from the ruins of the chapel lately alluded to, there was found by
labourers employed in repairing a road a few years ago, a rude
enclosure of stones about 3 1/2 feet under ground; two long stones,
formed the sides, and two short ones the ends of the enclosures,
and the whole was covered by one large broad stone.  The space
enclosed was 4 feet by 2 feet 6 inches, and it contained an earthen
urn, a human scull, and some of the bones of the extremities.
Two urns of a similar nature were discovered in the same neigh-
bourhood, not enclosed by stones, but deposited under a rough
Pavement.  The remains of a Roman encampment existed until
lately on the farm of Bethelnie ; they have now been levelled and
the ground is ploughed.  The encampment was a very small one,
and could only have given lodgement to a detachment from the


