
                         KINTAIL.

salmon-fishings are annually let to strangers from the east coast,
who generally send the fish to the LODdon market. It is difficult,
perhaps impossible, to say, why the salmon has deserted these
streams so much. Various causes have been assigned, but none of
them satisfactorily accounts for the fact. The idea which most com-
monly prevails in the country is, that salmon, naturally fond of
clear sweet water, resorted to these rivers while they possessed
these qualities, (as they unquestionably did in a greater degree
than they now can be said to do, While black cattle continued to
he the staple stock of the country;) but since the introduction of
sheep, and th*e habit of washing them in the rivers, and pasturing
them on the banks, has obtained, the waters have become more im-
pure and less relished, and consequently not so much frequented
by the salmon. The spawning season commences in the month of
October; and the fish commonly return to the sea about the months
of February and March.

  The Waterfall of Glomach.-In this parish, there is one of
the highest and finest waterfalls in the kingdom, well known in
the district by its appropriate name, Glomach. It is situate in a
remote and uninhabited valley on the estate of Mr M'Kenzie of,
Applecross, and about seven miles from the inn of Shealhouse.
It merits a special notice in a national work of this kind, and will
most amply reward any fatigue the traveller may undergo in ap-
proaching it from the plains. Its height, lately ascertained (without
instruments) as accurately as the nature of the ground admitted of,
is 350 feet. At the distance of about 50 feet from the bottorn,
the water meets with a slight interruption from a shelving Projec-
ti on in the rock, This, however, adds to, rather than subtracts,
from, the peculiar interest and grandeur'of the scene,--formiDg a
kind of resting-place for the eye in surveying this stupendous  fall,
and giving occasion to an increased volume of spray, which must
ever contribute to the imposing appearance of such scenes. Ther-e
is, however, independent of this break, at any season, and in any
weather, a mighty fall of 300 feet. But the interruption alluded
to is not at all perceptible, when there is any great body of water
in the river (Girsac;) and on such occasions the fall is unbroken,
terrific, and sublime.. The best view is obtained from-a solitary tree,
about a hundred feet down the ravine, to the southwest of the fall,
in a situation the most favourable possible for gettinga complete
view of the whole scene ;-for here, a narrow neck of rock, covered
with long heath, stretches forward towards the water, enabling the


