
      194                   INVERNESS-SHIRE.

      obstacle to this article of husbandry, as well as to turnip.  The
      meadow hay is generally of very fine quality.
         Live-Stock.-The number of black-cattle in the parish, includ-
      ing stirks, is 5254; of horses, 2145; of sheep, 7042.  There are
      not above 100 goats.
        Manufactures.-Kelp is the only article manufactured in this pa-
      rish. While the price continued good, the -proprietors were en-
      abled to pay high wages for the manufacture, and the people were
      thereby enabled to maintain themselves comfortably.  But, by
      the taking off the duty on salt and sulphur, the price of kelp has
      been so much reduced, that the article is hardly worth the mak-
      ing.  In this Way the value of the principal estate in the parish
      has been reduced from L.15,000 to less than L.5000 a year.  The
      wages of kelp-makers has been consequently reduced, and, indeed,
      the manufacture would not be continued at all, but to enable the
      tenants to pay their rents.  The number of persons employed in
      the manufacture of kelp is 1872, including young persons of both
      sexes between twelve and sixteen years.  It is a healthy employ-
      ment, and has no bad effect on the morals of the young persons en-
      gaged in it.  In dry weather, the work is carried on at an average of
      eight hours a day.  But the persons employed in burning the ware,
      and working it when burnt till it becomes liquid, with their irons
      fixed on long poles, have a very warm and troublesome task, and
      are often engaged for sixteen hours together.  The quality has
      been much improved during the last twenty years.  The weed is
      allowed only two years growth before it is cut, instead of three
      and four years, 'as formerly,-which is considered by some peo-
      ple to be prejudicial to the quality and strength of the kelp. The
      wages have been lately reduced from L.3, 3s., and L.2, 12s. 6d.,
      to L.2 per too; the latter of which is still considered a fair remu-
      neration in good seasons, but very inadequate in rainy summers.
      The work begins about the middle of June, and is finished when
      the weather propitious, between the beginning and middle of
      August.
        Shipping.-There are only four decked-vessels of small burden
      in the parish.  They are chiefly employed in ferrying cattle to
      Skye and the mainland, and in carrying kelp to Liverpool and
      Glasgow.  The custom-house of the district is Stornoway.
        Parochial Association.-There is a local Association in connec-
      tion with the neighbouring parish of North Uist, for improving
      the breed of black-cattle and horses.


