
                           LEOCHEL AND CUSHNIE.                      1115

1613; Middleburgh, 1614; and, in a Latin version by his son,
Dr John, Amsterdam, 1646; and also of "Eubulus," or a Dia-
logue, wherein a rugged Romish Rhyme is confuted, Aberdeen,
1627; together with a "Defence of the Lawful Calling of Mi-
nisters of the Reformed Churches against the Cavillations of Ro-
manists," appended to the Latin edition of the Commentary in
1646. On his death in 1635, a volume of funeral sermons, ele-
gies, and other eulogistic compositions, in prose and verse, and in
various languages, by the most learned men of the time, was pub-
lished at Aberdeen, entitled "Funerals of Right Rev. Father
in God, Patrick Forbes of Corse, Bishop of Aberdeen." Portraits
of the Bishop by Jamieson are in King's College, and at Fintray
House.
    John Forbes, Minister of Alford.-This was the third son of
William Forbes of Corse. He became minister of Alford, and,
in 1605, the Synod of Aberdeen and Moray "maid speciall choise
of their loving brother, Mr Johne Forbes, baith for his fidelitie
and uprichtness, and for his sincere affectioune borne to the ad-
vancement of the kingdome of God, his Majestie's service, and
peace of the land," as their Commissioner to lay before the King
"all their proceedings and present difficulteis quhairwith they were
straitit."* The commission is dated at Aberdeen the 21st Fe-
bruary; and in March, he "past to the King, and wes verie weill
acceptit of his Majestie, and wes sent back with diligence, carie-
ing lettres and credit against the Erle of Huntlie and all Papistis,
with certificatioune of the King's constancie in that religioune he
wes brought up into, and concerning the order of the kirk, that
his Hienes wes not myndit to alter ony thing thairin." He
was chosen "with uniforme cousent" Moderator of the General
Assembly which met at Aberdeen on the 2d of July following;
and in consequence of the proceedings there, he and all the bre-
thren present were "denunceit rebellis and put to the horne." The
tyrannical measures of the court which followed are well known.
The minister of Alford was imprisoned "in the dungeoune of
Blacknes," and various others in the "prissounes of Dumbartan,
Stirling, and Doune."+ They were called before the Lords of the
Secret Council on the 24th October; and on the 10th January

<FOOTNOTE>* Commission, Spalding Club Miscellany, Vol. ii. pp. 149,150.
    + Forbes was supported in his firm adherence to Presbytery by the other two
commissioners from Alford to the Aberdeen Assembly, Mr James Irwin, minister
of Tough, and Mr Robert Youngson, minister of Clatt, who were also confined at
Blackness, and brought before the Council on the 24th October.


