
350                             DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

climate is moist,--which may be partly occasioned by the extensive
Lochar morass, and partly by the neighbourhood of the towering
Criffel.
	Geology.--Almost the whole parish lies upon a bed of red sand-
stone. This stone is easily wrought, and at the same time durable.
According to tradition, and, I may add, probability, New Abbey
was built of Caerlaverock stones. A quarry on the glebe has long
been famed for producing very superior grindstones; it is only oc-
casionally wrought, and that to a trifling extent. Neither coal nor
limestone has hitherto been found in this parish. There are some
faint indications of the latter mineral, and many believe that the
former might also be found. This is, indeed, not improbable, when
we survey the geological map of the kingdom. The same coal-
field in all probability extends from the English side to Sanquhar.
This, I am informed, was the opinion of an eminent engineer; but
it is right to add, that he also conceived, from the nature of the
dip, that the mineral was so deeply buried in the centre of the bed,
that it would be in vain to hope that it could be worked to advan-
tage. A good deal of land has been reclaimed from the Lochar
moss, and the operations of the husbandman have disinterred many
massy roots of oak, which for centuries had been buried under a
stratum of peat twelve feet deep. Below the mossy stratum, sea
sand mixed with clay and shells may, in many places, be recognized.
	Canoes, similar to those used by the North American savages,
when first visited by Europeans, have been found in this vicinity.
Coins of different dates, some as old as the time of Edward I.,
have been found in the neighbourhood of the church, and in other
places. The soil is in general a light loam, and what is rather un-
common, the worst soil is generally in the valleys. There is a con-
siderable portion of peaty soil; but where the situation admits of
draining at a moderate expense, by a liberal application of lime, it
is rendered tolerably productive.
				II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Eminent Men.--Dr John Hutton, first Physician to Queen Anne,
was a native of this parish. He was originally " a herd-boy" to
the Episcopalian minister of Caerlaverock. The clergyman, per-
ceiving his superior talents, generously promoted his education,
and fanned his youthful ambition. Hutton directed his attention
to the science of medicine. He was fortunately the nearest sur-
geon at hand when the Princess of Orange met with a fall from
her horse in Holland. His services were put in requisition, and


