
                       AUCHTERTOOL.                          261

lage of Auchtertool. One of these collieries belongs to Lord Mo-
ray, from which, and from collieries in the parish of Auchterderran,
this parish is supplied. The price of coal is now advanced to a very
high rate. The former Statistical Account states that the price of
as many as two horses could draw easily in a cart, was then 1s. 6d.
and the same for driving them home. The same quantity of best
coal now, driving included, costs 6s. 7d.; and of inferior coal, 5s. 8d.
               MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
  The agricultural state of the parish now is very different from
what it was at the date of the former Statistical Account. Im-
provement by draining and reclaiming waste land, was then scarce-
ly visible in the parish. The implements of agriculture, particu-
larly the plough, is much improved. The iron plough is general-
ly used; emulation prevails among the ploughmen; the natural
effects of which are visible in the state of the land, when it receives
the seed, and in the progress of its growth till the crop be reaped.
In few places, is foulness amongst the crops to be seen at any stage
of their progress.
  To that improved state of cultivation, the extension of green
crop has contributed not a little; which of late years has been ren-
dered practicable to a greater extent, by the introduction of bone-
dust. It is particularly well adapted to turnip crops, wliieh en-
ables the farmer to transfer the quantity of common manure, for-
merly required for turnip, to land for raising potatoes. From 20
to 30 acres of turnips are annually raised with bone-dust, which
may be supposed to increase to that extent the number of acres
of green crop.
  After the grain crops are ready for the barn, the use of thrash-
ing-mills makes the preparation for the market speedy and easy.
That useful piece of machinery saves much time and labour, which
of course is beneficially made over to other work; and when any
casualty occurs unexpectedly, requiring grain to be sent to market,
it is in the power of the farmer tb accommodate to the case;--within
a few hours after warning, he can have prepared an ample stock
for market on the following day. At the date of the last Statis-
tical Account, there was but one thrashing-mill in the parish; now
they are in general use; one of them is wrought by steam power.
  But though agricultural improvement be strikingly obvious in
most parts of the parish, and some advance apparent in the rest,
there is still considerable scope for its further progress. In some
places, fences need to be mended, in other places renewed, and many


