
			ISLAND OF SKYE-PORTREE.               229

	part of the year, without employment, so that a tradesman is not
	at the end of the year in possession of more comfort, or in better
	circumstances, than a common labourer.
	  Live-Stock.-The greatest attention is now paid to the improve-
	ment of both cattle and sheep, and the labours of the great Highland
	and Agricultural Society in Scotland, together with the local
	associations formed, after the constitution of that society, and adopt-
	ing its plans, are most instrumental in accomplishing this desirable
	purpose. The prizes annually awarded by those to meritorious and
	successful rearers,-the easy intercourseby means of Parliamentary
	and district roads, together with the facility of communication by
	steam navigation with other parts of the country, where both skill
	and capital are employed in the rearing and improvement of live-
	stock,-contribute their share in this parish to produce the same
	beneficial effect.
	  Husbandry.-The kind of husbandry prevalent in this parish, is
	performed with the crooked spade; an instrument most awkward
	in appearance and operation, but none is better fitted for the land.
	For here, the land is for the most part hanging on steep braes
	and precipices, and encumbered with rocks and ponderous stones.
	In these circumstances, it is evident that the plough could never be
	employed, and the straight spade, which is made use of in other
	parts of the Highlands, is far more fatiguing to the workman, and,
	with the same exertion, would not perform half the work in the
	same period of time. But the most painful of all the operations
	is the finishing part. After the ground is turned up with the
	crooked spade, and the seed sown, a male, or more frequently a
	female,takes a kind of hand-barrow, and with this the person
	works with both hands backward and forward, up and down, still
	the whole surface is iriade quite smooth, and all the hollows rea-
	dered completely level: or otherwise, a person gets a small bar-
	row made of light wood, to which he fixes a rope, which he takes
	in his hand, and over his shoulder or round his breast, and, by
	dragging it after him, he harrows and finishes his land. This
	mode of working is peculiar to those who have small divisions of
	land and cannot keep horses; but these are by far the greater
	number. It is quite obvious that such tenants as these can never
	improve land. On the contrary, they are constantly in arrears
	to the proprietors, and frequently to the amount of two and some-
	times three years rent. The poverty of the people is an inver


