
134                   HADDINGTONSHIRE.

and both sides of a light loam of a spungy quality. A similar va-
riety of soils is to be found in the southern and higher part of the
parish; a great portion of which by good management has been
brought from a barren moor to a state of high cultivation. On
the western part of the parish, there is a portion of meadow land,
about ten acres on both sides of the Tyne, producing very good
natural grass, which is first cut and then pastured. It would ap-
pear, that, in ancient times, the inhabitants of Ormiston were sup-
plied with meadow Hay from that quarter; for it is stated in the old
Account already referred to, that the pay "zeirlie for their wester
meadow have, 280 merkeis."  The present tenant at West Byres
lately made an embankment where the river runs along his farm,
to prevent its overflowing, and has ploughed up and sown the
meadow ground. The experiment has not yet bad sufficient time
to shew its effects. *
   Botany.-The limits of this article will not admit of a particu-
lar enumeration of the plants of the parish. A few, however, of
the rarer kinds that are indigenous may be mentioned. These are
Scolopendrium vulgare et officinale, Iris Pseud-Acorus et fotidissi-
ma, Cucubulus Behen, Solanum nigrum et vulgatum, Cardamine
amara et pratensis, Adoxa moschatellina, Anemone nemorosa, Pul-
monaria officinalis, Viburnum Lantana, Sium anyustifolium, Epilo-
bium, hirsutum, Chrysanthemum segetum.
   Ormiston abounds with excellent gardens, in which all the com-
mon fruits are to be found. When the house of Ormiston Hall
was enlarged and fitted up for the Dowager Lady Hopetoud, who
now occupies it, the half of the garden was taken away and convert-
ed into a flower garden; which garden has been well laid out by
the present gardener, and contains above 500 species of herbaceous
plants, above 110 species of evergreen and deciduous shrubs, and
270 sorts of roses, besides about 70 or 80 sorts of annual flower
seeds, and a considerable quantity of Dutch flower roots.
   The garden at Ormiston Hall is chiefly taken up with fruit

<FOOTNOTE> Nothing is so hurtful to the crops in this parish as mildew. Whole fields last
year were almost useless, and not a season passes without more or less in-
jury being done by it. It is confined to the lower district of the parish, and prevails
chiefly in a range along the east, north, and west of the village, beginning at the
Tyne, and sweeping in a circuit of about a quarter of a mile broad, round the vil-
lago to the Tyne again. The prevalence of this local disease about the village of
Ormiston has been ascribed to barberry trees, interspersed in the hedge-rows, and also
to the confined situation, which  is flat and surrounded with numerous hedge-rows on
all sides. In order to remedy this great evil, it would be necessary to thin the hedge-
rows, and keep the ditches properly cleaned. The late Earl of Hopetoun was decid-
edly of opinion that the disease originated from the confined situation of the place.


