
     Statistical Account

these streams.  Large pike are also found in the old runs of
the Clyde.  The water that comes from the iron-works seems
to be unfriendly to trouts, as none are to be found for a great
way below the works, where they formerly abounded.  Few
eels are found in any of these waters, and no salmon above
the falls of the Clyde.  There is a lake 1/4 of a mile to the
W. of the village of Carnwath, more than a mile in circum-
ference; small perch are the only fish found in it.

   Minerals, etc.-On the N. side of Dippools coal, iron, and
limestone abound every where; the springs and small streams
on this side are, in general, hard water, not good for tea,
washing, or for watering flax.  To the S. of this waters no coal,
and little iron and limestone have been discovered; and the
springs and small streams on this side are commonly soft.
Freestone abounds in every part of the parish.  At Wilson-
town the freestone is of a greyish white colour, soft when ta-
ken out of the quarry, but hardening when exposed for a
time to the air.  Stones of any dimension may be raised out
of the quarries at Wilsontown.  In the south parts of the
parish the freestone is of a reddish colour.  Although none
of the rising grounds in the parish can with propriety be cal-
led a mountain, yet Leven Seat, on the northern boundary,
is about 1200 feet above the bed of the Clyde, but as the
ascent is long and gradual, it does not appear to the eye to
be so high as it is in reality*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*There are but few antiquities and curiosities in this district
worthy of notice.  At the west end of the village of Carnwath,
there is a large tumulus or moat evidently artificial, of a form
somewhat elliptical, the diameter from E. to W. longer than
that from N. to S. There is an opening on the top which has
been the entrance of a rude turnpike sort of stair, that once
reached to the bottom, but is at present filled up with stones and
rubbish thrown in from time to time by young and idle people.


