
     Statistical Account

and sometimes a greater number of ships*.  But, to
proceed, along a dangerous wooden bridge to the opposite
side of Inver river, in our way to Row-store-point, several
farms+ and grazings offer to view, interspersed with num-
berless rocks, stones, and hollows; however, all have the
advantage of fishing.  Every farm has one, two, or more
boats, according to the number of inhabitants fit to be em-
ployed.  After fishing, the natives draw up their boats on
shore, or into small creeks; as after leaving Loch-lnver
harbour, there is no safe one until (after doubling the point
of Row-stone) you enter the chops of Kills+; which being
effected, a mariner may, as he finds convenient, safely an-
chor at Cu-il heu ig north side of Dorny-oldney^^; or
from the point of Store, keeping clear of the island
Oldney, he may safely put in at Poul-an-dun-an??^ on the

<FOOTNOTE>

*These come from every part of the east and west coast of Scotland,
from Stornaway, nine leagues distant from this coast and seen from it,
when the day proves clear and serene; a ew ships some from the islands
of Orkney and Man.  All these herring-busses, their numerous crews,
boats, and great trains of nets, make no less pleasant than grand appear-
ance in pursuit of herring, the crews etc. set out to fish late in the
evening, and continue till early next morning.  The busses ride at anchor.
Such is the method practiced.

<UNREADABLE>

   +Their names are, Baddy-darroch, Inver, Bracklocb, Baddy-giinan
wintering.  Tor -wintering, Clacktoll, Stone, Balla-chla-
dach, Clashmore, Achnakarnan and Dure-land, Curkin-ach-na-kar-nan,
close by the point of Row-stone

</UNREADABLE>

   ++ Kills was describe in general, p. 166; this further description is
meant for the more particular information of mariners.

   ^^Dorny, i. e. a narrow space or channel of sea, whole it flows and
ebbs, and where, at full sea, a vessel can be towed to either side of the
harbour.

   ^Poul-an-dun-an, called so, as there is there a little mount or dune
on the north side of the island, oppossite, to the auchoring ground.


