
                        DUNFERMLINE.                              ç
843

       tent, pervades the whole coal-field of the Earl of Elgin, in thin
       bands and balls, and was once wrought to the extent of 4000 to
       5000 tone per annum. But the working of it was discontinued
       about eight or nine years ago, as a remunerating price could not
       be obtained for it, on account of the low price of pig-iron, and
       has not since been resumed. Copper-pyrites; in small quantities,
       is found imbedded in the clay-ironstone with carbonate of lime
       at the Elgin Colliery. There is a thin seam of argillaceous iron-
       stone in the Wellwood, Town Hill, and Halbeath Coal-fields,
       but in all of these it is of an inferior quality, and not sufficiently
       abundant to render it workable to a profit. It occurs both in veins
       and nodules at the Townhill Colliery. It is also found in blaes
       while tirring for lime at the Charleston and Northern Limestone
       Quarries.
            Iron-pyrites is likewise sometimes met with in the roof of the 
7ê3 
ä       parrot-coal at Halbeath Colliery. Neither the extracting nor
       purifying of ores is practised in the parish. Some beds of sand-
       stone at the Elgin Collieries contain strong impregnations of alum.
       Quartz and calcareous spar are found imbedded, and in veins, in
       the trap-rock at the Town Hill Colliery. Garnets occur in the
       boulders of mica-slate scattered in that neigbbourhood.
            Alluvial Deposites.-At the Elgin Colliery the alluvial cover
       above the sandstone is composed of clay, mixed with sand and
       small rounded stones, and frequently of fragments of the different
       strata under it. In the working coal-field it varies in thickness
       from 6 to 18 feet. It is impervious to water, and never produces
       water of itself. Peat in some instances forms part of the alluvial
       cover.
            At the Wellwood Colliery the alluvial cover is from 6 to 90
       feet in thickness, consisting of clay, sand, and large blocks of
       quartz, greenstone, and other materials. As none of these rocks
       are in the immediate neighbourhood, the blocks must have been
       transported from some of the hills by water.
            At the Townhill Colliery the alluvial cover, in the higher parts
       of the ground, consists of a stiff tenacious clay, intermixed with
       rounded water-worn stones; and in the lower and hollow parts, of
       a rich vegetable mould, approaching in some places to the nature
       of peat, under which the clay is again found, resting upon the rock,
       but much thinner. The covering varies from 3 to 9 feet in thick-
       ness.
            At Halbeath Colliery the alluvial cover is from 4 to 40 feet


