
                               DUNNICHEN.                             145

barrow are trap; and these include all the visible trap rocks in
this parish.
	A thin silicious incrustation sometimes intersects our trap
rocks. In other cases there are hollows lined with a silicious in-
crustation, from which beautiful rock crystals project towards the
centre of the hollow.
	On the summit and sides of the hill of Dunnichen there are seve-
ral large loose masses of mica-slate and granite. Large granite
stones, which interrupted the plough, were dug up some years ago,
on the farm of Broadlea. A large mass of granite was lately
blasted to the north of Letham, and many stones of these kinds
occur, or have been discovered, in various parts of the parish, all
more or less rounded by attrition. There being no rock of these
stones nearer than the Grampians, we are puzzled to account for
their getting into their present position. In the beautiful mass of
granite that was blasted near Letham, I observed fragments of dark-
blue whinstone interspersed in the body of the stone.
	The quality of our soils may be inferred from that of the rocks
which thex cover, and from whose decomposition they have been
formed. A large sheet of good soil slopes from the south side of
Dunnichen Hill. In the upper part, this soil is too shallow, and
too near the rock. It deepens as it descends, and may be de-
scribed as a friable loam, in which sand predominates. It seems
to have been made up of particle washed down from the hill
above. In the different ridges of the parish, where the soil is
primary, the subsoil is always tenacious, or impervious to mois-
ture. Of course it is apt to throw up rushes, Sphagmum palus-
tre, and other moss-plants. This sort of soil prevails on the
summit of those ridges of which the estate of Dunnichen is com-
posed. The only exception is that of soils formed from the decom-
position of trap-rocks, which are always fertile, provided they be of
sufficient depth. On the estate of Tulloes the lower part is an
alluvial haugh soil, and becomes less fertile as you advance to the
higher grounds. The same observation applies to the estate of
Dumbarrow, which is least fertile at the higher parts, where the
soil is primary, but becomes deeper and more fertile as we descend.
In a word, the soils of this parish may be ranked under two classes,
--friable loams, in which sand predominates; and friable clays,
with a retentive subsoil. Most of the stones which were injurious
to agriculture have been removed to make drains, mend the roads,
   FORFAR.     			      X


