
                            STIRLING.                           397

tide; and winds its way by a tortuous course, and with extraordi-
nary majesty and beauty, to Alloa, where it begins to lose its cha-
racter of a magnificent river in that of a noble estuary.  The tide
rises near the Drip bridge, at the point where it is arrested by a
rock crossing the channel, five feet at stream-tide; and about four
fathoms lower down near Stirling.  It has certain intermissions
of ebb and flow, making a kind of secondary tide.  Its utility as
a navigable river is much impaired by fords, or rocky shallows,
occurring in certain places a little below Stirling.  But vessels of
seventy tons burden reach the shore. The whole course of the
Forth, from its source to Alloa, where it becomes an arm of the
sea, may be estimated at about sixty miles; although the actual
distance between these two points does not exceed thirty-five miles;
The surface, which it drains, is estimated at 541 square miles;
and it is believed, as the result of calculations, which appear to
proceed on carefully ascertained data, that the fresh water it con-
veys to the ocean, is about, one-half of what is discharged by the
Spey, and one-fourth of what is discharged by the Tay. It is
thus, in point of magnitude, the third of Scottish rivers.
   Geology and Mineralogy.--The rocks are of the coal-formation,
They crop out within a mile of the ridge of the Castle-hill at Craig-
forth on the north-west, and at Causewayhead on the north; where
they are met by the old red sandstone, which continues to Callan-
der. Under the town and castle, and in the King's Park, which
is to the south of these, the coal-formation is surmounted by green-
stone, which, in a few instances, assumes a regularly formed
columnar aspect. The fossil remains are marine shells. In
the alluvial clay there is a stratum of vegetable matter, in which
are found pieces of decayed wood, hazel-nuts, and reeds; Which
seem to have been deposited by water, and which generally lie
from 10 to 14 feet below the surface. This stratum extends
not less than six miles near the margin of the Forth. Its breadth
is unequal. It is found in some places, a mile from the river. It
varies from 6 to 16 inches in thickness; but, considering the pres-
sure of the superincumbent mass of clay upon it, we are led to
conclude that its thickness must have been originally much great-
er. In the coal-formation have been found thin strata of ironstone,
and in the greenstone there are seen veins of calcareous spar. The
alluvial deposits are clay, sand, and gravel. In some places the
sand and gravel are 40 feet deep. The clay has in one place been
ascertained to be upwards of 70 feet in depth. Under the gravel,


