
                         ST FERGUS.                          193

predecessor at the manse.  These experiments have completely
disproved an opinion which was long and most tenaciously enter-
tained, that trees would not grow in this parish.  It appears, how-
ever, that the soil is most congenial to ash, elm, planes, poplar,
and alder, and that firs in particular, unless in very dry situations,
cannot be accommodated to it.

                        II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Maps and Plans.-There is an unpublished map of the parish,
and plans of its separate divisions, in the possession of the princi-
pal proprietor.
   Papers and Documents.-The writer is not aware of the existence
of any thing under this head which would tend to illustrate the
history of the parish, with the exception of some old leases granted
by the last Earl Marischal, from which no other fact of importance
can be gathered, but that wheat was more generally cultivated in
St Fergus at that period than it is now.  There is also an old
paper in the session chest, under the hand of the same nobleman,
authorizing his chamberlain to repay the kirk-session, out of his
rents from the lands of Fortree in Longside, the money advanced
by them for causewaying a part of the public road.  There are
other documents too in the same repository, which shew that in
former times small bridges, which facilitated access to the church,
were built and repaired out of the funds under the management of
the kirk-session, even when no guarantee for repayment was
granted either by the proprietor or parishioners.
   Historical Notices.-The Cheynes were proprietors of this par-
rish in the thirteenth century, but at what particular period they
succeeded to the property cannot be ascertained.  They had other
extensive estates in different parts of Scotland, as appears from
ancient chartularies.  Sir Reginald Cheyne was Lord Chamber-
lain of Scotland in 1267; and his brother, Henry, was Bishop of
Aberdeen in 1281.  The house of the Carmelite Friars in Aber-
deen had been built and endowed by their father, Reginald le
Cheyne, who besides other revenues secured to it by the deed of
erection, bestowed upon it L.2 yearly out of the lands of Black-
water in this parish.  Sir Reginald was succeeded in his estates
by a son of the same name, who was taken prisoner at the battle
of Halidonhill in 1320, and died about the 1350, leaving
two daughters, Mariot and Mary.  Mariot married, first, Sir John
Douglas, and after his death, without issue, John de Keith of Ra-
ven's Craig, the second son of Sir Edward Keith, Great Maris-
 ABERDEEN.                            N


