
     Statistical Account

they yield; and because, under their bad management, such
lands will give no grass.
   Laighlands are in general a strong deep heavy soil, and in
this country are either alternately in oat crop, and lee, or 2
years in oats, and one or two in lee.  In dry early seasons,
they give good crops of good grain, and always a great quan-
tity of straw; but in wet and late harvests the grain is never
fit for seed; and sometimes not good enough for meal, as these
lands, owing to their lateness and wetness, (for they are not
sufficiently drained in this country,) are liable to be frosted
before the corn is perfectly ripe.  They however through
up abundance of good natural grass.
   The pasture lands consist either of benty muir, marshy
grounds, which cannot be ploughed, the banks of rivers and
rivulets, or hill grounds.  These lands have never received a-
ny manure to meliorate them, but that which drops from the
cattle during the day; but they have for centuries been was-
ted by the practice of cutting up the sward into turf, for the
different purposes of mixing it with the stable and byre dung,
(muck-fail*;) of building the walls of houses, when it is cal-

<FOOTNOTE>

*The practice of cutting up sward for manure or muck fail, was prohibi-
ted by an Act of Parliament, made for the county of Aberdeen, as long ago
as 1685, under a penalty of 100 L. Scots bolls, toties quoties, to the masters of
the ground; and in case of their neglect to execute the Act, the sheriffs and
justices were enjoined to put it in execution.  There are still many places in
this county where this law should be enforced.  This Act shows that the Le-
gislature was, even in those times, not ignorant of the bad consequences of
continual grain crops, and the want of proper provender for cattle in winter,
and that they knew green crops to be the proper remedy; for it contains an
enactment, whereby a certain proportion of the in field of every farm (valu-
able according to its Highland or Lowland situation) was ordered to be sown
with pease yearly, and regulations for punishing persons who should steal the
pulse.  Pease was the only green crop known in those times.


