
596                      ARGYLESHIRE.

by the result not to be sacrilegious, has negatived the popular
story,-no disturbance of the subsoil manifestly having ever before
taken place. The top-stone of the crom-leac is seen still oc-
cupying its proper place; and the pillars indicate a place of
highly respectable order in its day; and the native oak still,
amidst all vicissitudes, continuing to claim alliance with the
soil, points out that this spot, not improbably, formed the
grove of the district, where Druidic priesthood and worship-
pers had once their resort and their orgies.
 On the farm of Ardinsiat, on the Hafton estate, there is presented,
what no one, who has had occasion to see and mark any number of
such acknowledged remains, can doubt for a moment to be Roman.
It now presents itself as a green mound, an oblong square, about
90 feet in length, by about 73 in breadth, raised about ten feet
above the surrounding level; the fossa clearly traceable around
it, as well as the entrance, though the latter has been partly  obli-
terated by the erection of some modern enclosures. The sides
of the mound are seen bearing, as indeed the whole of it does,
that compacted smoothness and finish which is always found mark-
ing the labour of the Roman soldier, and the same slope on all
the sides, which is always seen characterizing their military labours
of the same description. That Agricola, on one occasion, ran
his fleet up Loch Fine, to the westward of the district of Cowal,
is well known. Traces of the soldiery having landed at the place
of Otter, on the side of Loch Fine, have been discovered, though
there is no evidence of their having formed any regular encamp-
ment there. And whether any division of that army penetrated ac-
ross the district of Cowal to the Frith of Clyde, is not certain. In
such a march, indeed, exceeding twenty-five miles by modern com-
putation, it may be supposed they would have marked it by some
other military works, less or more distinct, had they crossed this
territory. None such, we believe, has been noticed along any route
by which they could have marched. And the most probable con-
jecture, to be formed regarding this mark of their operations is,
that, while engaged in the important labour of erecting their wall
from Abercorn to Dunglass, on the Clyde, they would station an
outpost here, to communicate with the main body by signal, giving
alarm of any danger approaching seaward. The spot selected for
the station, for such it may be, called, appears at once particularly
well chosen for such a purpose, situated at the foot of a consider-
able eminence, the summit of which could be gained from the
                             6


