
                      CUPAR.                                  7

Dr Campbell, writer of the last Account, by his sons Sir George of
Edenwood, and Sir John, the present Attorney-General
   The ancient cross of Cupar still stands, and is seen from a great
distance on the top of the hill of Wemyss Hall.  It was carried up
and placed there by the late Colonel Wemyss, father of the pre-
sent proprietor of Wemyss Hall, when it had been removed from
its original position to make way for the improvements that were
making upon the streets.  It is a straight round column surmount-
ed by the town arms, and placed now upon a strong pedestal, com-
posed of the rock of the hill on which it stands.
   Porochial Records.-The records of the kirk-session reach back
to the year 1648.  The minutes of session contain many curious
and interesting views of the character and manners of the times.
Excepting a chasm from 1661-1695, they are complete.  The re-
gisters of baptisms, deaths, and marriages, reach back to 1654,
and are brought down regularly, and without interruption, to the
present time.
   Modern Building, &c.-The modern buildings of the town are,
the Town and County Halls, and an Episcopal chapel, standing
in the New Street, otherwise called St Catherine Street, and form-
ing part of it.  Also, a town and county jail, standing on the op-
posite side of the Eden from the town, but built in the, style of
the New Street, and according to a plan by whiqh it was to orna-
ment that street.  Its present site, however, and the plan on
which it is built, do not correspond.  None of the modern build-
ings can boast of much elegance, The County Buildings, when
the plan by which they are now being enlarged shall have been
completed, will be very spacious, and afford such accommodation
for the county meetings, and the meetings of th Sheriff-courts,
and Justice of Peace Courts, and also for the keeping of the pub-
lic records, &c. of the county, as will reflect great credit upon the
county.  In the County Hall, there are two very elegant portraits
lately procured by the county.  One of these is a portrait of the
late General John Earl of Hopetoun, by Raeburn.  The other is
that of Thornas Earl of Kellie, Lord Lieutenant of Fife, by Wil-
kie.  They were procured by the gentlemen of the county in tes-
timony of the high respect in which they hold these noblemen, and
in return for the high services which they rendered, by their atten-
tion to the business of the county.
   The most ancient mansion-houses in the parish are those of
Carslogie and Wermyss Hall.  The former was built upwards of four


