
20 	                BERWICKSHIRE.

Baillie, Esq. of Jerviswood, merits a conspicuous place. He was
the son of the venerable patriot who in the reign of Charles II
fell a victim to a tyrannical government, and whether he be viewed
as an exile soon after the death of his father, or as afterwards fil-
ling high offices of responsibility in his native land,-whether he
be regarded as a member of Parliament or as a private gentleman,
there are few men of his station who have left behind them such
purity of character or more striking attestations of all that is useful
and edifying both in public and private life. Nor was the worth
of his wife, Lady Grizzel Baillie, either less conspicuous or tried
less severely than his own. It was by means of her courage and
caution in regularly bringing by night a necessary supply of food,
that while as yet a child she preserved the life of her father, the
Earl of Marchmont, when, persecuted by arbitrary power, he was
forced to seek refuge in the confinement of a tomb. And when
to this it is added, that the same true greatness of soul uniformly
distinguished her behaviour both in the conjugal and in the paren-
tal relations, we can scarcely be surprised that a writer of no or-
dinary talent should have adopted this lady as a heroine of the
highest order in the scale of female excellence.
   But in mentioning some of the more eminent characters con-
nected with the parish of Earlston, the writer of this article would
consider himself as chargeable with unjust omission were he to
pass unnoticed the, late Mrs Baillie of Jerviswood, the mother
of the present representative of that honourable house, since her
conduct presents a most useful example to those of her own sex,
who, possessing similar means of doing good, are at the same time
placed in such circumstances as induce them too hastily to con-
clude that they have a just title to be exempted from several of
the duties of life. This amiable woman was confined to bed dur-
ing almost the whole of the last thirty-two years of her existence.
Yet, instead of resigning herself to indolence, or satisfying her-
self with the performance of those offices of piety by which she
was comforted in the solitude of her chamber, she was never
more actively benevolent, even in her healthiest days. Her de-
light was to employ a messenger of kindness, whose office was to
search out cases of distress, that to the indigent and helpless,
to the ignorant and thoughtless, to the sick and dying, to widows
and orphans she might communicate immediate and effectual re-
lief.
   Land-owners.-The chief land-owners in the parish are George


