
      140                    CAITHNESS-SHIRE.

      of the older and larger portion, which is the one farther out, is
      buried in remote antiquity.  The newer portion seems to have
      been built in the sixteenth century.   The extremity of the penin-
      sular rock is occupied by a chamber said to have been the Earl's
      bed-room.  A trap-door in the middle of the floor led through
      the rock to the sea.  This room communicated by a flight of steps
      with the court, which stood on a higher level.  On the right side,
      facing the Bay of Keisg, ran a range of low rooms all the way to
      the dungeon-keep, while towards the land there were only three
      or four small rooms next the bed-chamber, the rest of the court
      on that side-having been shut in by a high wall, pierced with
      seven loop-holes.  The tower, which consisted of five stories, and
      is about fifty feet in height, occupied the whole breadth of the
      rock.  The staircase, circular within, stood in the north-east
      corner next the land.  No part of the stair remains.  The main
      part of the tower is of such a size as to contain several vaulted
      apartments on the ground floor, besides the passage to the newer
      building.  In one corner of the room next the sea there is a nar-
      row stair leading into a cell, partly formed in the rock.  A small
      window opening on the Bay, but beyond the reach of the hapless
      captive, gives light enough to reveal the gloom which pervades the
      dungeon.  Here languished for several years, till he was ultimately
      murdered, John Garrow the Master of Caithness, a victim to the
      hatred of his unnatural father, who revelled in the chambers above,
      while his son was perishing in the dungeons below.  In the north-
      west corner of the court, a passage leads through the tower to the
      edge of a chasm in the rock, over which a draw-bridge led to the
      court of the new castle.
        With the exception of one or two outer rooms, and of a narrow
      chimney-stalk of the main tower, this part of the building is now
      a heap of rubbish, presenting a singular contrast to the older walls,
      which are nearly entire.  This decay must be ascribed to a defect
      in the foundation which seems to have been built with clay.  The
      superstructure being cemented with lime fell almost in one mass
      into the hollow between the castle and the mainland, and still
      shows the sides of several arches of very strong masonry prostrate
      on the groud. The tower of this part of the castle was not
      nearly so lofty as that of the other; but much more attention had
      evidently been paid in the construction of it to internal finishing.
      Access was obtained from  the mainland by a drawbridge over an


