
     of Preston-pans.

same manner as those of the feuers, and are included with
them in the payment of the sixth part of the assessment.  The
assessing of these subjects by the real rents was considered as
ineligible for many reasons.  When a proprietor occupies his
own house, it is difficult to ascertain what the rent ought to
be.  Tenants and landlords may not always be disposed to
give the necessary information, especially when they have an
interest in with-holding it.  Even where the rent is ascertain-
ed, there must be a difference in assessing old and new houses,
though the rents be equal, on account of the necessary repa-
rations which the former require.  This it is not easy to ap-
preciate.  Ten per cent, may be an equitable deduction for
one house, but not for another.  For these reasons, the other
de of assessing, by the value of the subjects, was adopted
about 8 years ago, and the proportion, with concurrence of
the heritors, settled as it now stands.  The value of the sub-
ject, or subjects, belonging to each individual, is estimated by
persons of still and of character; and the assessment is levied
in proportion.  The medium of the whole disbursements to
the account of the poor, for the 5 years preceding 1793, is
about 137 L. Sterling per annum.  The sum paid as the week-
ly maintenance of the stated poor, for the present year (1792),
is 2 L. 1 s. 6 d.; which is less than it has been for many years
past*.

   Friendly Societies.-Some private Friendly Societies are in-
stituted here.  By contributing a small sum of money week-
ly, when in health, a subscriber, when sick, receives a com-

<FOOTNOTE>

*During the years 1782 and 1783, owing to the scarcity
which then distressed the country, the number of the poor, and
the sum necessary for their support, was greatly increased.  The
rate for stated pensioners, in 1783, amounted to 3 L. 10 s. per
week, besides what was given to the occasional poor.  The num-
ber of poor continued to be greater than usual for several years
afterwards.


