
              ON THE COUNTY OF DUMBARTON.                    233


gorific influence subsists between the islands and mainland, which
produces a thick board of ice in severe seasons.
   The waters of the lake, although much too limited to be affect-
ed by tides, are not stationary. At the time of the great earth-
quake at Lisbon, November 1st, 1755, a singular commotion was
observed in this lake, which shows that its foundations are deeply
set, and are connected with secret and distant correspondents.  Its
usurping powers at present have evidently a tendency to encroach
upon the land. In some places the ruins of the works of man have
been overtopped by the waters of Loch Lomond; and the stepping-
stones across the channel of the Falloch, at the north end of the
Lake, are now below the surface of the water, many feet, even in
the greatest droughts. The effects of heavy rains or the melting
of snow are not insensibly felt; affecting the water level in some
instances to the amount of five or six feet. In droughts the de-
crease of water is equally perceptible. North of Luss, the banks
of the lake are often lofty or precipitous; but south of that village
they slope gradually to the shores of the lake, and flatten down
almost to a dead level. The family seat of Camstradden, men-
tioned by ancient writers as an island or peninsula, with an house
and orchard, has been completely overwhelmed, and exhibits only
a cairn of stones when the water is very low. A number of head-
lands or Rosses, especially along the southern banks, at once en-
liven and diversify the scene, which, added to the islands scattered
over the surface of the lake like spots on the sun, give a peculiar
character to the scenery of Loch Lomond. The principal islands of
Loch Lomond in this county are Inch-murin, Inch-lonaig, Inch-ta-
vanach, Inlch-moan, Inch-conachan, and Inch-galbraith, with nine
other islets of inferior size and less importance. The islands Inch-
cailach, Inch-fad, Inch-cruin, For-inch, Cre-inch, Clair-inch, and
Bue-inch, are in the county of Stirling. The Tom-na-clag in Inch-
tavanach, the yew trees and deer park in Inch-lonaig, added to the
circumstance of both islets being used as "temperance hotels," for
the reclaiming of confirmed drunkards, add atonce a moral and natu-
ral beauty to the scene. This fine sheet of water empties itself by
the river Leven, which pursues the same direction as the lake it-
self into the Frith of Clyde, after a sweet and richly varied course
of about seven miles. Its waters, like those of the loch, are extreme-
ly pure, and are equally well fitted for culinary or manufacturing
purposes. To the traders of Glasgow they are invaluable, and


