
      264                        INVERNESS-SHIRE.

     has ceased to regard the claims of the house of Stuart, it is a mat-
     ter of regret that the dust of the memorable Flora, in whose bosom
     that spirit, so lofty and chivalrous, burned with such unexampled
     fervour, should be allowed to moulder without a monument of the
     meanest description to mark her tomb.  In this age, so remark-
     able for the zeal displayed in rearing memorials for distinguished
     characters, it is surprising that no spirited individuals have stepped
     forward to erect, by public subscription or otherwise, some monu-
     ment over the ashes of one so justly celebrated and so universally
     admired.  In all quarters of the kingdom, burying-grounds are to
     be seen crowded with every variety of tombs, excelling each other
     in neatness of workmanship, and in elegance of inscriptions ; while
     the remains of the memorable Flora are allowed to crumble un-
     der a green solitary turf, without a stone to mark the spot, or even
     a rude flag with the initials of her name to catch the traveller's eye.
     Soon after the suppression of the Rebellion, when the isles were
     ransacked by Government forces in search of the ill-fated Prince,
     Major Allan Macdonald, alias Ailean a' Chnoic, who was a staunch
     adherent of the Government, harboured, as it would appear, some ill
     will towards his chief, Sir Alexander Macdonald.  In consequence
     of this, it is alleged that be informed Captain Ferguson that Sir
     Alexander possessed a great stock of arms at Monkstadt; no
     doubt, insinuating that they might be used at some future period
     in the cause of the Chevalier.  Sir Alexander having heard what
     Allan had done, and in order to avoid any such suspicions being
     entertained against him, gave instructions to throw the arms into
     the sea.  They were accordingly conveyed to a boat, and consign-
     ed to the deep near Kilbride, the place at which the Prince and
     Flora landed in this parish. *
        Ancient Families.-The Macqueens of Garafad, the Martins,
     and others, were ancient families of some note in the parish.  Tra-
     dition says, that, at some remote period, twenty young men, of
     each of three clans, or tribes were given to the proprietor, as a
     dowry with his wife, Nighean Chathain, from Ireland, as men in
     those days were more valuable than money.  It is alleged, that
     the Macqueens, Martins, &c. are their descendants.  The Mac-
     queens had the farm of Garafad for many centuries free, with the

     <FOOTNOTE>Ailean a' Chnoic was father to General Donald Macdonald, Colonel of the 55th
     foot, Who was wounded in Holland in 1799, and died in London.  Major Allan used
     the Jacobites very harshly in Uist, and in other quarters, so that he was no favourite
     with any who had embraced the Prince's cause.  After the Rebellion, he left the coun-
     try in the town of Ayr.


