
               		FALKIRK.                            37

There is no superintendence of them, nor due investigation made
as to their circumstances; and, for a few years back, almost every
person applying has received assistance. From this cause, and
from the idle and improvident habits of many of the lower classes,
pauperism is much on the increase.
  Prison.--To this we have already adverted. The number of
prisoners during last year was about 80, who were in general
immured for petty offences. The prison is strictly a place of con-
finement, having no airing-ground. Its government is vested in
the Sheriff, and under him one of his officers acts as jailer, and
supplies the prisoners with food, &C.
  Fairs.--Exclusive of the Falkirk tryrts, which, as already stated,
are held in a neighbouring parish, there are nine. annual fairs in
the town of Falkirk. Of these, seven are for buying and selling
horses and cattle, and two for hiring servants. The markets and
fairs are held uniformly on Thursdays.
  Inns, Alehouses, &c--Within the parish, there are 6 inns and
110 other houses of public entertainment. So many houses of
this description can scarcely be considered as favourable to the
morals of the people.                                                  .1
  Fuel.--This consists of coal, which is procured within the pa-
rish. An ordinary cart-load of 15 cwt., delivered in the town,
costs, carriage included, 7s. Id.

                        MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
  Little remains to be added on this head. It will be seen from
the foregoing statements, that much external improvement has ta-
ken place since the former Statistical Account was written. Hus-
bandry has been carried to a high pitch of melioration in its
various departments, and the facilities of internal comvaunicatiofi
are abundant. When the railroad now in progress Shall be
finished, these will be greatly enhanced In order that the moral
improvement of the people may keep some equality with merely
outward adiantages, an additional supply of pastoral superiaten-
dence would,. humanly speaking, be very serviceable. This can only
be accomplished, by a subdivision of the town and country parts
of the parish into separate districts, each with its church and school.
In this way, would the progress of crime and of, pauperism be most
effectually checked, and the present and future happiness of all
classes of the community promoted.

Drawn up May 1840, revised March 1841.


