
     Statistical Account

wood, as he has dug out of the hollows, now under culture,
and producing cabbages, and other articles for kitchen use,
large pieces of oak and fix*.

   Character of the People.-To delineate, in a few words, the
leading feature in the character of a people, different in
their religious tenets, and consisting of natives and stran-
gers, landmen and seamen, is no easy matter.  In general,
however, as far as my observation and experience go, they
are sober, frugal and industrious; peaceable and friendly
to neighbours and acquaintances; decent and exemplary in
their attendance on the ordinances of religion.  A taste
for comfortable houses, both in the fisher towns and in the
country, is become prevalent; and a more fashionable man-
ner of dress is making rapid progress.  On the whole then,
being well clothed, well fed, and decently lodged, they
have, in a comparative degree, a reasonable share of the

<FOOTNOTE>

*There is a large heap of stones on an eminence in one of Lord Find-
later;s enclosures, near Woodside, southward of the public road, com-
monly called the King's Cairn.  And tradition says, that it is the grave
of Indulphus, the 77th King of Scotland, who after obtaining a com-
plete victory over the Danes, was unfortunately killed near this spot.
According to Abercromby, this victory was gained A. D. 961:  accord-
ing to Buchanan, in 967.  In this parish, the above events is distinguished
by the name of the Battle of the Bauds, then an extensive moor, now a
plantation belonging to Lord Findlater:  and it is believed, erroneously
indeed, that by it the Danes were finally expelled from Scotland.  Bu-
chanan places their final expulsion in the reign of Duncan I. and 84th
King of Scotland A. D. 1043; when, after receiving a great overthrow
in Fife, and reflecting on their many unfortunate expeditions to Scotland.
they bound themselves by a solemsn oath to return to it no more RS ene-
mies. On the moor between Findochtie and the plantation of the Bauds,
a great number of small cairns are distinguishable, and supposed to be the
burial places of the Danes, who were slain in the engagement with In-
dulphus.  About 30 years ago, a country man discovered, in a tumulus
or cairn, on the lands of Rannes, which he was removing, a stone coffin,


