

			MINNIGAFF.                              127

he was enabled to enter on his studies at the University of Edin-
burgh, with a view to the ministry. While ardently devoting his
talents to the preparation requisite for entering upon the ministe-
rial office, he, at the same time, extended his investigations to
every language to which he had access, and not only made him-
self acquainted with all the dialects of Europe, but his researches
penetrated into the languages of the East. Subsequently he made
himself master of the Sanscritta, the ancient dialect of India, and
arrived at no slight proficiency in the study of the Chinese.
He made himself completely master of the Guz or Tygrd, and
the Amharu,--the two dialects of which the Abyssinian consists.
In 1802, he was engaged by the late Mr Constable to edit a new
edition of Bruce's Travels, which  was published in 1805 in seven
volumes, to which was prefixed a life of Bruce. Having, in the
meantime, been licensed as a prescher, he, in 1806, was appointed
assistant and successor in the parish of Urr. His predecessor dy-
ing in 1808, he succeeded to the benefice, and, in December of
the same year, married Henrietta, daughter of Mr James Affleck
in Grange. In 1812, he was elected Professor of Oriental Lan-
guages in the University of Edinburgh; but, alas! was not des-
tined long to adorn it by the splendour of his talents. Dr Murray
was naturally of a delicate constitution, and, being attacked with
consumption, died at Edinburgh on the 15th April 1813, in the
thirty-seventh year of his age. His remains were interred in the
Greyfriars churchyard. He left behind him, in manuscript, a
History of the European Languages, which was published in two
volumes in 1823. A monument, consisting of a granite column,
has been erected near the spot of his birth.*
	The  late Lieutenant-General the Honourable Sir William
Stewart, K. C. B., K. T. S., resided in this parish for several years.
He was second son of John Earl of Galloway, and entered the
army at an early period of life. He served in sevdnteen campaigns
in the West Indies, Egypt, and various part of Europe. He com-
manded the troops embarked with Lord Nelson in the expedition
to Copenhagdn. In Spain and Portugal he commanded the se-
cond division of the army under the Duke of Wellington. At
Ferrol he was severely wounded, from the effects of wich he ne-
ver recovered. He received the thanks of the House of Commons

<FOOTNOTE>For the greater portion of this notice of Dr Murray, the writer is indebted to
Murray's Literary History of Galloway.



