
                                OXNAM.                      263

     Wood.--The quantity of natural wood is about 50 acres; and
that of old and young plantations is 600 acres.  The latter consist
of the common kinds of forest trees; but in point of numbers the
larch and Scotch fir greatly predominate.  What were planted
lately, in addition to those which have stood for several years, are
regularly thinned, pruned, and under excellent management, and
consequently they are all in a vigorous and thriving state.  A few
of the aged ash, elm, and other deciduous forest-trees of a large
size still remain to attest, by their scattered and solitary appearance,
the wide desolation produced by the hand of time.
     Rent.--The average rent of cultivated land is about 16s. 6d.
per acre.  The charge for the annual keep of a cow is L 5, 10s.;
of a three year old, L. 4; of a two year old, L. 3, 7s.; and of a one
year old, L. 2, 10s., all without turnips, but including a little hay
in spring.  The charge per annum for a full-grown sheep of the
Leicester breed is L. 1, and for a young one, 12s., both getting a
proportion of turnips in spring, and being otherwise pastured for
the rest of the year.  A Cheviot ewe pastured for the year is 8s.
and of a young sheep, with a few turnips, 5s. for the same pe-
riod.
     Breeds of Stock.--The sheep are almost exclusively of the Che-
viot breed; though, in some richer and more sheltered situations,
the Leicester breed is preferred.  The strictest attention has long
been paid to the breeding and management of the former.  Hence
the method most commonly adopted for its improvement is this:
a small number of the best and finest woolled ewes is selected
from the general stock, to which valuable rams, sometimes pro-
cured from the adjoining English counties, and sometimes pur-
chased from, or exchanged with, a neighbouring farmer, are ad-
mitted at the proper season; and from their produce, rams of the
first and most approved quality are afterwards chosen.  Some
manage otherwise, for they buy Cheviot lambs, feed them upon
turnips during winter, procure Leicester rams at the proper time,
and at length dispose of the whole crop of half-bred lambs, and,
subsequently, the ewes also, when ready for market.  Others again
adopt still different methods, according to circumstances.
     The kind of cattle most usually reared is that of the short-horn-
ed breed.  No small attention is generally paid to the improve-
ment of it.  The horses are of a moderate height, but powerful
and active.
     Husbandry.--The five-shift rotation is now almost universally


