
                           KINGHORN.                              801

cultivated fields and narrow straths, watered by some small rivulets,
continue to ascend till the whole is surrounded by the Hill of Glass-
mount, about two-and-a-half miles from the shore.  The hill is the
highest ground in the parish, being 601 feet above the lvel of the
sea.  Northwards from it, there is a greater equality of surface,
although in some places the rich arable fields are varied by beau-
tiful knolls and gentle swelling of the ground, with occasional
patches of table-land.  This stretch of the parish is bounded and
embellished by the finely wooded hill on which the mansions-house
of Raith is built, the property of Colonel Fergusson.
     Nor is the coast less diversified.  From its junction with Burnt-
island parish on the west, to its termination on the east with Abbots-
hall, where the Tiel Burn empties itself into the sea, the extent
along the shore cannot be less than four miles.  Along this, theres is
much to attract the geologist, and gratify the lover of the pictu-
resque.  Near the Burntisland boundary, there is a lofty overbang-
ing cliff, marked at one spot with the melancholy name of the
"KIng's wud end," in reference to the event to be afterwards
noticed.  Onwards to the harbour of PEttycur, the shore is of
a fine level.  The coast then becomes bold and rugged.
The trap rock has here assumed a columnar form, and its immense
fragments, as they have become separated from rhe columnar
masser, lie in endless confusion on the shore.  They from the
headland called Kinghorn Ness, where towards the east, the bay
of Konghorn opens.  From this point, the bay is formed by a curve
of about a quarter of a mile in extent, till, on the east, its termi-
nates in the Kirk-craig,--a bold projection of rock which runs
from the churchyard a considerable distance into the sea, and
forms a natural break-water or shelter to the old harbour of King-
horn, which was built on that side of the bay. Beyond this, the
shore is beautifully diversified, and the action of the tide has, in
may places, laid bare the stratified  rocks which are found per-
rading this part of Fife.  About a mile to the east of Kinghorn,
a cave pf considerable size presents itself, with its dark mouth
looking out upon the sea, and guarded on each side by two bold
rpojecting rocks.  This is the only natural cavern along this shore.
There is, at a small distance from it, s curious excavation of earth,
formed by an attempt to work the limestone which is found here.
     Meteorology.--The following table, as taken from the meteoro-
logical journal, kept an Inchkeith by the present intelligent keeper
   FIFE                                         3 E

