
634                     LANARKSHIRE.

amounts to L.11.  I am glad to have it in my power to state that,
generally speaking, there is a spirit of independence amongst the
poorer classes, which causes them to refrain as long as possible from
asking parochial relief; such relief being considered as very de-
grading.
   Fairs.-In virtue of a "warrand granted by James VII., anno
1685, to the Duke of Hamilton, for two yearly fairs and a weekly
mercat at the Kirk of Shotts," there are two fairs held in the
parish every year, one on the third Tuesday of June, old style,
and the other on the third Tuesday of November, old style.  The
locality chosen for the said fairs is somewhat Mal a propos, being
immediately adjoining the church.  The chief business done at
these markets is the buying and selling of horses and cattle.
   Inns, &c.-There are 16 public-houses in the parish.  Many of
these, however, are chiefly supported by travellers on the great roads
between Glasgow and Edinburgh.  Unquestionably, if we had
fewer alehouses, we would have less intemperance, and were these
shut on the Sabbath, there would be less desecration of the Lord's
day, but still, all circumstances considered, it cannot be said that
drunkenness prevails to any great extent among us.
   Fuel.-The fuel which is used here is coal, peat being rarely
seen in the parish.  Indeed there is no inducement to dig in the
mosses, as a cart of coal weighing 12 cwt. can be purchased at the
Duke of Hamilton's pit for the small sum of 2s.  This, however,
is an inferior kind of parrot coal, but the ashes are considered very
valuable as manure.

               MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   There is a very marked contrast between the state of the pa-
rish as it now exists, and as it is represented in the last Statisti-
Cal Account.
   A large proportion of those lands wbich were then unreclaimed,
and which are there spoken of as unimprovable, is now under til-
lage, and bears astonishingly good crops.  The price of labour is now
much higher and a better and more ready market can be obtained for
all kinds Of provisons.  Much advantage has of late years been de-
rived by the inhabitants of the parish from the Shotts Iron-works,
-the employment which is there given to the active and well-behav-
ed, and the money which is there circulated weekly, may well call
forth a desire on the part of us all for their prosperity and extension.
   It cannot be too stronngly pressed upon the proprietors of the
parish, that draining and planting are improvements of paramount


