
                      KIRKNEWTON.                           445

Scotland at the time,-was in the habit of stating a curios fact,
with which his experience had made him acquainted. He had
found, that mixing together in the same churn the milk of different
cows diminished its productiveness, and this in proportion to the
number of cows whose milk was so mixed. According to his opi-
nion, the greatest quantity of butter would be obtained by churn-
ing the milk of each cow separately.
   Quarries, &c.-There are, as has been already stated, abundant
supplies both of freestone and of whinstone.
   Reference has been made to the field of limestone to the east
of the village of East Calder. There is a lime-work there on the
property of the Earl of Morton. The lime is of excellent quality;
and, besides supplying the demands of the neighbourhood to a
considerable distance, both for building and agricultural purposes,
it is carried into Lanarkshire, where it is employed as a flux in the
smelting of iron ore; and, since the introduction of gas, it has been
found well suited for, and has been extensively used in, the process
of its purification.
   There is now in progress of erection, on the property of Stuart
B.Hare, Esq. of Calderhall, near the village of Kirknewton, a tile
and brick-work, which promises to be of great advantage to this
part of the country. The clay found is said to be well adapted
for the purposes of this manufacture.

                V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY
   Market-Town.-The nearest market-town is Edinburgh.
   Villages.-There are two villages in the parish-Kirknewton
and East Calder. The former stands a little way; east from the
church, occupying, together with its cottage gardens, a square
space of no great extent, and containing a population of about 200,
East Calder consists chiefly of two rows of houses, with gardens be-
hind, running the one on the one side, and the other on the other
of the road from Edinburgh to Glasgow, at the distance of eleven
miles from the former. Its population is about 370. In each of these
villages there are well-appointed shops, containing all the articles
in ordinary demand for clothing, consumption, &c. There are
also resident tradesmen belonging to all the common departments
of handicraft. Besides these villages, there is the hamlet of Wil-
kieston, on the north side of the Glasgow road, near the ninth
milestone from Edinburgh, having a population of about 77.
   Means of communication.-As already mentioned, there are
two public roads running through the parish, the one an the north
side, from Edinburgh to Glasgow, the other on the south, from


