
     of Melrose.

For this purpose, they regularly meet once every quarter,
along with the kirk-session, to consider the state of the
poor.  At such meetings applications are made for ad-
mission to the charity-roll, and a weekly pension, or a tem-
porary supply, is granted.  No plan that has been adopted
or conceived can be more just or beneficial than the one
adopted here.  By the lower classes of people the lands are
cultivated, and their value increased.  To whom, there-
fore, can they so naturally look for maintenance, when,
through age, on disease, they are unable to provide for
themselves, as to those who may have reaped the fruits of
their past industry, when in the vigour of their days, and
favoured with health and strength?  As the non-residing,
as well as the residing heritor, are subject to this assess-
ment; and as it is imposed according to the valuation of their
respective properties, they are burdened only in proportion
to their supposed advantages, from the past industry and ex-
penditure of the poor.  Upon the same principle, commerce
might become an object of assessment, the value of which,
(if not left to the capricious judgment of assuming superi-
ors, but to an equitable jury), might, without entering in-
to the secrets of trade, be nearly ascertained*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*To prevent unnecessary applications, none are admitted upon the roll,
without first surrendering all their little effects, of which a regular in-
ventory is taken; and which effects are, upon the pauper's decease, but
not sooner, sold for the benefit of the public.  As their pride is generally
interested to retain these effects as long as possible, few make application
till forced by dire necessity.  In cases of temporary distress, however,
and where there is no appearance of a continuing burden, supply is granted
without this surrender.  The weekly pensions are small, and do not alto-
gether supersede the necessity of charitable assistance from friends and
neighbours.  This will appear from the following statement: For the
last 10 years, the average number of poor upon the roll, has been 148
persons; the annual expence of whose maintenance, has amounted to only


