
                        NEW KILPATRICK.                         43

the associate of Crawford of Jordanhill in the taking of Dumbarton
Castle in 1571; * and likewise as having been implicated, by 1he
doubtful evidence of Edmonstone of Duntreath in the raid of
Ruthven, and other transactions; connected with
consequence of which he was beheaded at Edinburgh in 1584,
along with his father-in law, Cunningham  of Drumwhassil. +
This seems. to be the person whom Buchanan (Hist. Lib. xx)
erroneously calls Robert Douglas.
Colquhoun of Garscadden and Killermont.- This family, to whom
nearly a third of the parish now belongs, is descended from John
Colquhoun, second son of Robert, sixth laird of Camstradden. He
is said ta have distinguished, himself in the battle of, Pinkie, 1547.
His great-grandson, William Colquhoun, writer in Glasgow, ac-
quired the lands of Garscadden by purchase in 1655, and was
succeeded by his eldest son Andrew, an eminent, merchant in Glas-
gow. Lawrence, second son, of Andrew, purchased the estate of
Killermont in 1746; and left an only child Agnes, who married
John Campbell of Clathic in Perthshire. Their son Archibald,
who assumed the name of Colquhoun on becoming presumptive
heir to Garscadden, was educated for the Scottish Bar; and rose
to distinction in his profession, having been many years Lord Ad-
vocate, and afterwards Lord Register of Scotland. His son, the
present John Campbell Colquhoun, Member of Parliament for the
Kilmarnock burghs, on the death of Miss Jean Colquhoun in
1821, succeeded to the estate of Garscadden, and the representa-
tion of the elder branch of the family.
   The Campbells ofSuccoth are believed to be cadets of the Ard-
kinlas branch of the house of Argyle. They were settled in
Dumbarton before the Union of the Crowns; and in 1616, Ro-
bert Campbell purchased Succoth, in the Parish of Cardross.
In the reign of Charles II. John Campbell of Succoth, Director
Depute of Chancery, acquired the estate of Garscube; since
which time, the family have added to their possessions the estate
of Craigton, in this parish, and various other lands, in the counties.

<FOOTNOTE>This was not the first time that the Castle of Dumbarton was taken by a Kil-
patrick laird. The lands of Balvie were formerly possessed by a family of the name
of Logan; and in the Privy-Seal Record, 16th July 1526, we meet with the following
entry, which has been obligingly furnished us by John Riddell, Esq. Advocate. "Res-
pette to John Logan of Balvey. Walter Galbrathe" and others, "for you're ???
ble assieging, taking and wytholding of the King's castle and fortalice of Dumbarton,
frae his servandis repairs yerof, and for uyeirs crimes, tresone, lese majesti, alachtris,
&c,
<FOOTNOTE>For his and some of the following genealogical notices, we are are indebted to James
Dennistoune of DEnnistoune, Esq. Advocate.


