
                            AIRLIE.		            685

heart, proceeding from the root upwards; but this affection was
merely local. Those plantations, however, which have been made
within the last forty years, have become more and more liable to
an external canker or blister, in many cases to such a degree as
entirely to destroy the trees, and sometimes to occasion serious
loss to the proprietor. The larch appears to have been always
subject to this disease, but not, till lately, to an alarming extent.
But the woodlands have been visited within the last few years by
a mile more serious and wide-spread calamity: a great proportion
of the younger, and some of the very oldest trees, having been
destroyed by blight. The decay commences in the top-shoot, and
thence extends downwards, sometimes killing the tree within a
single year, and seldom permitting it to survive the third. The
disease has become so general, that the planting of larch, unless
as a mixture, is in the meantime suspended; a consequence deeply
to be lamented, as no other tree is so well adapted for high eleva-
tions; and such must now remain in their present nakedness till
a remedy or a substitute is discovered. As the Scotch fir has
partially suffered in the same manner in some localities, hopes are
entertained that the affection may havd `risen from some atmo-
spheric circumstances of unfrequent occurrence; but this, of
course, remains to be decided by future experience. The silver fir
has also been affected; but the spruce, during the prevalence of
the disease among its kindred species, has been fully as vigorous
as usual. The blight appears to have come from the east, having
attacked the woodlands in the counties of Aberdeen, Kincardine,
and Forfar, much about the same time. It has subsequently spread
over Fife and Perthshire, to their western extremities, and has been
recently observed in the south-western counties, where, however,
it is as yet very partial.
   Mills.--There are two flour-mills in the parish; one at Cook-
stone on the Dean, and the other at Cardean, by the side of the
Isla, but deriving its power from the Baikie drain; at both of
which a considerable business is carried on; and two meal-mills,
one on the Dean, at Brydeston, and the other on the Isla at Dal-
lavaird.
   There are no manufacturing establishments, but a considerable
number of the inhabitants are engaged in weaving coarse linens
for the Dundee trade.
   Wages.--The wages of farm-servants at presents may be stated
at from L.10 to L.13, according to capability; those of foremen


