
     Statistical Account

uniformly observed throughout the parish; but the one most
approved, is that which the ingenious Lord Kames has re-
commended.  the arable land is laboured by 55 ploughs,
drawn each by two horses, which are driven by the plough-
man.  Though the use of cattle in tilling the ground, and
even in dragging carriages, be entirely exploded here, it
may be computed that 139 are raised annually within the
parish, and fold when from between 3 to 4 years old.  There
are no more horses bred than what are necessary for the
purposes of husbandry, and for preventing the places of those
which fail from being supplied out of the public markets*.
   Of the land which at present lies waste, a considerable
extent may be brought into a state of cultivation.  The
meadows, in particular, on the banks of the Motray, and
which the water often overflows, might be made the most
productive ground in the parish.  Activity has already
converted a part of these into the most luxuriant corn-fields;
but to the improvement of the whose an obstacle is oppo-
sed, which perhaps may not speedily be removed.  The
water of Motray turns four mills in its course through the
parish.  The accumulation of water which hence must be
made at each, renders it impossible to drain the meadows so
thoroughly as otherwise might be done; and the proprie-
tors of these mills have not as yet been disposed to give up
for any equivalent the privilege they possess.  This privi-
lege was undoubtedly acquired, when ignorance of agricul-
ture supposed these meadows to be useless; but notwith-
standing this ignorance of the nature of the compact, it was
fairly acquired, and the enjoyment of it has now become a
right.  Through it would be absurd to think that it might
be sacrificed to benevolence, it would not be unnatural to
expect, that for a proper equivalent it would be yielded to
promote the public good.  But the proprietors of these

<FOOTNOTE>

*The parish feeds also two flocks of sheep, amounting in number to
about 240, mostly of English breed.


