
84                     LANARKSHIRE.

ancient family of Sommerville, one of the most opulent and power-
ful families in this part of the country, about the middle of the
twelfth century.  Hither James the Sixth seems frequently to have
repaired, perhaps to enjoy his favourite sport of hunting, and here
he seems also to have sometime spent a considerable portion of
his time, as some of the charters granted by him are dated at
Couthalley.*  The castle is now a complete ruin, though its extent
may yet be marked; and, from its situation, surrounded on every
side by a deep ditch and earthen mound, with a drawbridge on the
west, it must have been a place of very great strength.  It is situated
on the property of John Wilson of Westsidewood, but Sir N. Mac-
donald Lockhart, Bart. is the hereditary Keeper of it.
But the most perfect piece of antiquity which is presented in the
parish is the aisle which we have already mentioned, and which,
though built in 1424, retains much of its original beauty and gran-
deur.  It is a Gothic structure, covered with freestone flags; and
the north window especially appears to have been a beautiful piece
of workmanship.  It has, successively, been the burying place of the
Sommerville family, of the Dalziels, Earls of Carnwath, and now of
a branch of the Lockhart family.  The church, to which, no doubt,
it was attached, and of which it formed a part, was founded in 1386,
and endowed by the existing Lord Sommerville in 1424, with some
lands, which the relict of one of his successors in vain endeavoured
to resume.  It was founded for a provost and six prebendaries, and
there was at the same time, and by the same person, provision made
for the maintenance of eight poor old men; but when or how this
provision ceased is now unknown.

<TABLE=III.-POPULATION.>

1. Population in 1755,        -     -     -     -     -     2390
                 1821,        -     -     -     -     -     2888
                 1831,        -     -     -     -     -     3505
   Numbers in villages,       -     -     -     -     -     1858
2. Average of births for the last seven years, but many of the dissenters are
   not registered, and consequently are not reckoned here,  90 1/7
Average of deaths for the last five years,-     -     -     45
   Do.     marriages        do.     -     -     -     -     27 4/5
3. Number of families,        -     -     -     -     -     757
   families chiefly employed in agriculture,    -     -     169
   chiefly employed in trade, manufactures, or handicraft,  185
Average number of persons in each, (nearly)     -     -     4 1/2 3/1
4. Number of inhabited houses,      -     -     -     -     707
   DO. not inhabited,      -      -     -     -     -       181

<FOOTNOTE>The castle of Couthalley, according to the Sommerville papers, was burned down
in 1820, and there is no record, so far as I have been able to ascertain, when or by
whom it was rebuilt. It was burned, no doubt, during some of the inroads of the
English, which were so frequent at the time, and led to the building of what is called
in the above-mentioned papers "the double tour in Carnwath lowne."  Of this double
tour" not a vestige remains, though the situation of it is marked out by certain lands
being still called Castle Sommerville.


