
158                         ABERDEENSHIRE.

for which the district has obtained some celebrity, is dodded or
humble, of good symmetry, rather above the middle size, and upon
the whole goodmilkers.  Within the last dozen of years, the Tees-
water has been introduced and propagated, pure or as crosses, to
considerable extent.  The blending of the two breeds has tended
much to increase the sizes though some allege to deteriorate the
quality of the stock.  Of this, however, there is scarcely any
doubt, that a great increase of carcase and value may be obtained,
without much additional cost, from a judicious mixture, and with
moderate keep, now that the necessity of making cattle travel
southward is removed, and they can be sent direct to London on
shipboard at no very high charge.  A first cross from a Buchan
cow and a Teeswater bull is commonly accounted the most profi-
table beast for the market.  Some have begun to make experi-
ments on the Hereford breed; but the process is not yet sufficiently
advanced to warrant any practical conclusion as to the suitableness
of this stock to our pasture and climate. Calves are in a few
cases allowed to suck, but generally are fed from the pail. There
is nothing particularly deserving of notice in the kinds of horses
used and bred for husbandry purposes.  As the soil is generally
light, and the greater proportion of the fields free from steep as-
cents, the animals usually preferred are rather of a slender and
active than of a heavy make, and are of a moderate size.
   Agricultural Association- There is in the district an Agricultu-
ral Association of many years standing, though of late remodelled,
which holds its regular meetings here, for promoting and suggest-
ing improvements in husbandry.  Each member pays 5s. annually
to form a fund for premiums, given for the best specimens of breed-
ing stock, the best samples of seed oats, &c. as awarded by judges
selected for the purpose. An additional half-crown is contributed
by several, if not by most, of the members for procuring a few pe-
riodicals and books upon agriculture, to be circulated among the
contributors.
   There are still two lint-mills kept tip, and occasionally but im-
perfectly employed.  The culture of flax was almost entirely
discontinued a few years back, but of late a little more has been
done in that line.
   There are two wool-mills, with spinning jennies, and looms
for weaving woollen cloth.  At one, of them, Millbrake, the
copartnery of proprietors, the most of whom area operatives
themselves, besides working to the public, to which the operations


