
	54                        BANFFSHIRE.

	Structure;-and this under the idea; it may be supposed, that they
	thereby, in effect, established an hospital for the admission and re-
	lief of persons labouring under the disease of an empty belly.  Pa
	tients of this class were accordingly, for a time, admitted, and dis
	missed relieved.  These, however, were soon succeeded by others
	of a different class, whose malady consisted in an inability to pay
	the penalties in inflicted by excise courts; and, at present, the only
	patient in the hospital is the Sheriff-clerk, whose complaint was
	want of room in the apartments otherwise allotted to him.  To
	speak more plahnly, the broth-kitchen became a prison, the prison
	a writing chamber or record office; but the departure, in this in-
	stance, from the testator's intentions, was more of chance or neces-
	sity than of design; and, as there is now an ample provision for an
        infirmary otherwise, it needs not be regretted.\f* Besides the be-
	quest for the hospital, however, the magistrates realized the sum
	of L. 10,297, 16s. 6d. three per cent. consols; and the yearly di-
	vidends (L. 308, 18s. 8d.) thence arising, are duly expended ac-
	cording to the directions of the will: nine boys, chosen by the ma-
	gistrates, receiving maintenance and education for five years each,
	in the manner specified.
	   On the 2d July 1799, Mr James Wilson of the island of Gre-
	nada, directed, by will, "the whole stock" (of his property, after
	the death of certain liferenters nominated,) "to be drawn from
	the funds, and remitted to the magistrates of the burgh of Banff,
	North Britain, to be by them laid out as a charitable fund, in the
	best manner possible, and to remain under the directions of the
	acting magistrates from year to year," and without any more spe-
	cific instructions whatever.
	   The last of the fiferenters died only last year, and the magis-
	trates have realized L. 3561, 16s. 1d. 3 per cents., and L. 2647
	of cash,-which, however, is less than half the actual sum left;
	the  remaining, and greater part, being lost by the failure of the
	bouse in London to whom it was remitted.  Every species of po-
	verty and distress in the parish being already as well provided for,
	otherwise, as can be beneficially done, it has been resolved to ap-
	ply Mr Wilson's bequest, jointly with some funds from other
	sources, to  the purposes of education:+ and with this view, the

<FOOTNOTE>In regard to this matter, the Commissioners on Municipal Corporations observe.
	that, "while the proceeding is not an example to be followed, it can hardly be cen-
	sured."
	     In the case of Cassy a fund, afterwards mentioned, counsel were of opinion that
	education fell clearly within the objects of the bequest.


