
                         FOWLIS WESTER.                 255

On the margin of the Almond, at the bridge of Buchanty, St
Methven, the local and tutelary saint of thd parish, had a chapel,
which is now demolished.  At Cultoquhey, there is a small camp
in which urns with ashes have been dug up, and which probably
was connected with the great camp at Fendock.  Tradition says
that Combal Cult, the father of Fingal, fought here with the Ro-
mans, and lost the battle.  At the junction of the road from Fowlis
with the turnpike, there is a large cairn, on which is a standing
pillar, or the monumental stone of some hero or chieftain, who had
fallen in a battle, which is said to have been fought here. Heaps of
stones of this nature were formerly accumulated on battle fields,
and so long as there was any memory of the dead, every passen-
ger added a stone to the heap.  Hence the Gaelic proverb, "I will
add a stone to your cairn."
   The castle of the Earl of Strathearn is now a verdant mound.
One of the most considerable families of the kingdom, whose ori-
gin is now uncertain, formerly resided in it.  Grim, Thane of
Strathearn, was killed in 1010, at the battle,of Mortlach, where
Malcolm II. fought with the Dands.  Walinus, a man of rank
in England, is said to have received this dignity from Malcolm
Canmore in 1068.  Malise signalised himself as a brave and gal-
lant man at the battle of the standard in 1138.  In a council
of war held in the Scottish camp, the evening before the battle,
the King rhgnified his intention, that the archers and men at arms
should lead the van of the army. "Whence this confidence in
these men, cased in mail, (said the Celtic chief, Malise Earl of
Strathearn,) I wear none, yet will I advance farther to-morrow than
those who are sheathed in steel.  Earl, said Alan de Percy, you
have said more than you dare perform." The King interposed to
put an end to the dispute.  Ferqubard, his son, with five other Earls,
conspired to seize the person of Malcolm IV. at Perth, 1160,
and assaulted the tower in which he sought refuge, but were
repulsed.  Gilbert, in 1200, founded the abbey of Inchaffmy.  Ro-
bert was one of the guarantees, on the part of Alexander King of
Scots, for ratifying the differences in 1237, between him and the
King of England.  Malise, when a peace was concluded between
Alexander 11. and Henry III., was, in 1244, one of the guarantees
of the truce.  Malise, his son, signed the famous letter to the Pope,
and during the minority of David Bruce, opposed Edward Baliol
with all his interests; and when  that prince prevailed, his earldom
was forfeited, and given to Warren Earl of Surrey.  His countess alsol;



