
14                            STIRLINGSHIRE.

<TABLE=Industry>
                              IV.--INDUSTRY.


Agriculture.-
The number of acres, standard imperial measure, cultivated or occasionally in tillage,
may be computed at                .            .              .                   11,000
Number of acres never cultivated, and constantly waste or in pasture,     .        1 900
                undivided common,          .         .             .                none
                under plantations,           .          .               .          1 800

  The trees planted or indigenous are, oak, Scotch fir, ash, larch,
beecb, hazel, and birch. The wood of Callendar is believed to
be the remains of the Caledonian forest, with which a great part
of the country was covered at the Roman invasion.
   Rate of Labour.-Farm labourers have, in summer and winter,
8s. and 9s. per week, with victuals. Masons and carpenters, 2s.
and 2s. 6d. per day besides victuals. Ploughmen have L. 16 per
annum, with bed and board.
  Breeds of Cattle.--Of these few are reared, supplies being ob-
tained from the North and West, Highlands.
   There is nothing peculiar to the husbandry of the upper parts
of this parish.  Of the method of labour practised in the Carse,
district, we here insert an account, which has been furnished by
an intelligent and scientific farmer, Mr David Hardie, Westkerse,
and which may be viewed as applicable to the carses of this
county in general.
"Owing, probably, to the small size of the farms in the dis-
trict, which, till within the last fifty years, were much smaller than
they now are, improved modes of management were later in being
introduced, than into many parts of the country. Since then, how-
ever, great changes have been effected; improved breeds of cattle,
have been introduced; agricultural implements have been perfect-
ed; farm-offices improved; and the fields have been levelled and
laid off in straight ridges.
   "Greater facilities have also been afforded by the harbour of
Grangemouth for procuring sea-borne manures, which have been
largely used.
   "The greatest alteration, however, has undoubtedly been effected
by draining,-tbe first agricultural improvement of modern times,
and one admirably adapted to the state of the soil.  For the latter
operation, drain-tiles, of which there is a manufactory in the dis-
trict belonging to the Earl of Zetland, are universally used, and
nearly all the farms have been either wholly or partially drained
with them.  The rotation of crops has also become better under-
stood, and the particular shifts which are best suited to call forth
the energies of the soil, have been ascertained. Indeed, most of


