

    118                        WIGTONSHIRE.


    judiciously planted on the western side of the peninsula, would
    have, in course of time, a most important effect in ameliorating the
    climate of this district.  The value of the adjoining lands would
    thus be materially increased.  Irrigation is not practised here.
    The general subsoil is an open rock or gravel; and spring or
    deep draining is more generally applicable than shallow or fre-
    quent draining: much, however, of both is wanted.  Though
    there are no hills of considerable elevation, the surface is very ir-
    regular; the bogs or deep soil at the bottom of declivities are
    often wet; on such land, deep draining would be very profitable.
    From the present agricultural spirit both in proprietors and te-
    nants, considerable improvement by draining may be expected.
    The general duration of leases is nineteen years; a period suffi-
    cient for the encouragement of the tenant.  The usual entry to
    the houses and grass is at Whitsunday, the outgoing tenant hav-
    ing the crop of that year.  The first half-years rent being paya-
    ble at Martinmas, makes a hard entry to the tenant, and in a
    country where agricultural capital is scarce, is a bar to improve-
    ment.  The farm-buildings are in general substantially built, and
    comfortable.  The fences are usually stone dikes; but within
    the last few years hedges have been planted on some farms, and
    the tenants seem fully sensible of the benefit to be derived from
    them. Inconvenience is felt by the  tenants in the north-east
    quarter of the parish from the want of a harbour or landing-place,
    for receiving and exporting produce.  The erection of a small
    landing place in Lady Bay would be of great utility to the neigh-
    bouring farmers.
      Produce.- It is difficult to estimate accurately the gross pro-
    duce of the parish.  The following is a rough estimate, from the
    extent of the parish, and supposed average produce per acre:

<TABLE>
                  Produce of grain of all kinds, about L. 8800
                  Potatoes, turnips, &c.                  3000
                  Hay, whether meadow or cultivated       1800
                  Land in pasture                         6000
                                                       L. 19,600

      Fisheries.- About eighty years ago, there was a great herring
    fishery in Loch Ryan.  Since that time, and especially during the
    last twenty years, the herring fishery has not, excepting a year now
    and then, been very productive. Hurrings, however, visit the
    Loch every year; and every year are more or less beneficial to this
    parish.  The quantity of white fish in the loch, has upon the
    whole, decreased. Haddocks, which about twenty-five years ago


