
		     PARISH OF SOUTH UIST.

    	      PRESBYTBRY OF UIST, SYNOD OF GLENELG.

	       THE REV. RODERICK MACLEAN, MINISTER.

          	I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
      Boundaries, Extent, &c.--SOUTH UIST is bounded on the north
   by a sound which separates it from North Uist, 2 miles broad, and
   which is dry at low water; on the south, by the sound which se-
   parates it from the islands and parish of Barra, and which, in the
   narrowest part, is about 6 miles across; on the west, by the At-
   lantic Ocean; and on the east, by the Minch, which divides it
   from the island of Skye, and which is about 20 miles where
   narrowest, and 26 where broadest.  Its length, from its boun-
   dary with North Uist to its southern extremity, including the
   island of Erisca, opposite to Barra, is 38 miles.  Its breadth va-
   ries between 6 and 8 miles.  Its superficies consists of about 137
   square miles.
      This parish consists of three principal islands : but there are
   others of smaller dimensions, the largest of which is Wia, on the
   south-east side of Benbecula.  The principal islands are, 1. Benbe-
   cula, on the north, 8 miles long and 8 miles broad, of a round form,
   and separated from South Uist, the largest island, by a small chan-
   nel half a mile broad in the narrowest part, dry at low water, but
   which at high water in spring tides has a depth of about 2 fathoms
   in the deopest parts.  2. South Uist proper, 127 miles: long, and at
   an average 7 miles broad.  3. Erisca, 3 miles long, and 1 1/2 mile
   broad, separated from the largest island by a channel 2 miles
   broad.
      Topographical Appearances.--All the west side of the parish
   (Erisca excepted) is low, flat, and sandy ; and the east side moun-
   tainous, hilly, and mossy.  The highest mountain in South Uist is
   named Heacle, Heacam-hall, or Hecla, supposed to be so named by
   the Danes, from Mount Hecla in Iceland, perhaps from a similarity
   in their figure or appearance.  It is about 2500 feet above the level
   of the sea, and lies between Loch Skipport on the north, and Loch
   				4


