
          372                        PERTHSHIRE.

          nalf of the parish consists almnst entirely of the richest carse land;
          and the chief beauty which it presents to the eye is the wide extent
          of those fields in which all varieties of crops are reared in the great-
          est luxuriance.  The fields are not inclosed or divided by hedges,
          thotfh, in some instances, intersected by rows of trees, and diver-
          sified, at intervals, by extensive and flourishing orchards.
             The aspect of the country to the west of the village of Errol,
          with the exception of the broad fields of rich alluvial soil that
          stretch along the banks of the Tay, differs widely from that of the
          fields which lie to the east.  Though inferior in fertility, the for-
          mer is both the most elevated and the most diversified part of the
          parish.  It not only presents a greater variety of scenery in itself,
          but commands a most beautiful prospect toward the upper extre-
          mity of the carse and the surrounding landscape.  This prospect
          stretches, on the one hand, to the Lomond-hills in Fifeshire, and
          the opening of the delightful valley of Strathearn; and, on the
          other, to the bold and romantic scenery of those rocky promon-
          tories, and wooded steeps which form the north-western barrier of
          this part of the valley of the Tay; while, more directly in front,
          are seen the high grounds which rise in pastoral beauty from the
          very deepest part of that valley.  Beyond these, is seen the loftier
          summit of the hill of Moncrieff, which divides the Earn and the

          Tay immediately above their juncture, and which, from the wide
          panorama which it commands over what is the richest, and also
          what is the wildest and the sublimest region Of our native land,
          may be allowed to possess some claims to the proud title which its
          admirers have bestowed on it, in calling it the glory of Scotland.
          Such are the objects which present themselves in the more im-
          mediate neighbourbood of the position to which we have referred,
          on the open high ground about a mile to the west of Errol; and
          beyond these, the prospect terminates in the sky, except when, in
          favourable, states of the atmosphere, the spectator obtains a glimpse
          of the blue mountain tops of the western highlands of Perthshire.
             Turning towards the village of Errol itself, the beauty of its si-
          tuation cannot fail to arrest the attention.  However irregular in
          its structure, yet, situate on the crown and sloping sides of an
          eminence which is surmounted by the lofty and umbrageous oaks,
          that adorn the contigous grounds and avenues of Errol Park, and
          commanding a view of the richest and the most spacious of Scot-
          tish plains, which is bordered on the one side by a long range nf
          beautiful hills, called, the Braes of the Carse, over which is seen


