
494                             FIFESHIRE.

as while they are calculated to cherish industrious habits, they
foster also the natural desire of independence.
   A Savings Bank was established in the city in 1816. During
the first nine years, the amount of the deposits, after deducting the
sums withdrawn, was annually on the increase. During the fol-
lowing three years, there was a considerable decrease, but since
that period, the increase has again been steady, and the amount in
March 1837 is about L. 1100 Sterling. The number of the de-
positors is at present nearly 200, and the average amount of the
deposits is about L. 6. The deposits are almost exclusively
made by persons belonging to the labouring classes. They
are lodged in the Bank of Scotland's branch at St Andrews;
and that establishment has from the commencement, with the view
of encouraging the savings bank, allowed one per cent. more of
interest to its deposits than to ordinary depositors, so that the
rate of interest to savings bank deposits has never been below 3
per cent. The writer of this article has had the sole charge of
the savings bank, for eighteen years past. He sets apart for it an
hour every Monday, though in general the half of that time would
be quite sufficient.
   Poor and Funds for their support under the management of the
Kirk-session.-The average number of persons receiving parochial
aid, during the last seven years, was 103 per annum, and their al-
lowances varied from 6d. to 2s. 6d. weekly, according to their exi-
gencies. The funds for their support were, average collections at
the church doors, L. 218, 4s. 2d.; rent and feu-duties of lands,
L. 73, 16s. 7d.; interest of a debt due by the city, L. 40; col-
lected by Saturday's boxt L. 44, 4s.; rent of a legacy, L. 5;
total annual average, L. 381, 4s. 9d.; total average expenditure,
L. 417, 0s. 4 1/2d.
   The poor's funds have for many years been burdened with a
heavy expense in supporting and confining indigent lunatics. The
kirk-session has, in consequence, found it requisite to apply, though
at distant periods, to the hectors citizens, tenantry, &c. for volun-
tary contributions to enable them to meet this expenditure, and
hitherto they have contributed liberally for this object. There is
now unquestionahly less delicacy among the poor relative to appli-
cation for parochial relief than in former times, and there are many
who account it no degradation to receive an allowance from this
source. But there are also individuals who can only be compelled
by the most urgent necessity to have recourse to parochial relief.                                 					4


