
     Statistical Account

ly altered their mode of ploughing.  It is fortunate, that this
blight never attacks barley, wheat, or potatoes.  The crops
raised in the parish, not only supply the inhabitants, but afford
a surplus of barley and potatoes for exportation.  The ma-
nures employed are lime and dung, and near the shore the
farmers lead and lay upon their lands considerable quantities
of sea sleech or sand, dug up within sea mark, which is used
to great advantage in the mossy soils, where lime is of no be-
nefit*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*The only ancient building in the parish is the castle of
Comlongan, the seat of the Viscount of Stormont, which, al-
though erected some centuries ago, is still entire.  It was a con-
siderable place of strength before the Union of the Crowns, is 60
feet square and 90 feet high, with battlements, and port holes in
the walls; the walls are of a sufficient thickness to admit of small
apartments within them, and the hall and larger rooms are still
occupied, as the roof is standing.-The castle of Comlongan
was for many ages the residence of the Murrays of Cockpool, a
family of great eminence in Annandale, as some of them were
wardens of the western border, and Cuthbert Murray of Cock-
pool was one of the commanders of the Scotch army, that de-
feated the Duke of Albany and the Earl of Douglas, when they
invaded Scotland.  John Murray, a younger son of this family,
having acquired a great estate, as well in Scotland as in Eng-
land and Ireland, was created, by King James the 6th, Earl of
Annandale; he afterwards succeeded to the family estate, and
resided in the castle of Comlongan; but the title became extinct
upon the death of his son without children, and Lord Stormont,
who is heir of line, became proprietor of a considerable part of
the estate.  His Lordships grandfather, father of Lord Mans-
field, resided here many years; and, for his accommodation, added
sundry buildings to the castle, which are now possessed by his fac-
tor.  The remains of an old castle are also to be seen at Cock-
pool, within half a mile of Comlongan, which was likewise a
seat of the family.  In the church yard of Ruthwell, a very cu-
rious ancient monument appears, although now broken into two
or three fragments, which, however, have all been preserved.
The whole, when entire, seems to have had the form of an obe-
lisk, and was about 18 feet long; and the side of each square is
ornamented with figures, in relievo, descriptive of sacred story.


