
                     CRATHIE AND BRAEMAR.                     651

remembrance.  Under the feudal system, when the chieftains, on
any alarm being given, called out their adherents, they had to
march through this pass, and on the said cairn, each laid down a
stone; by which means every successive party could discern the
number that had advanced towards the scene of action, and, upon
their return, by counting the stones thus deposited, it was discover-
ed bow many of the men were amissing, or bad fallen in the field
of battle.

<TABLE=III.-POPULATION.>
   In 1755, according to Dr Webster, the united parish contained 2671 souls.
      1794, by the return made to Sir John Sinclair,      .      2251
      1831, by census,    .     .      .       .       .         1808
      1841,       .      .      .      .       .       .         1712

   The only village in the parish is Castletown of Braemar, which
contains 245 inhabitants.  The average of births for the last seven
years is 39, and of marriages, 23.  Of deaths, no record is kept.
There are, in the united parish, 9 bachelors and 7 widowers
above 50 years of age, and 21 unmarried women above 45.
   Language.-The Gaelic is very generally spoken throughout
the whole parish, and, during the summer months, is used in con-
ducting part of the public worship, both at Crathie and Braemar.
There are, however, very few, if any of the inhabitants, who are
not so well acquainted with the English language as to be able to
converse and transact business in it, when necessary.

                      IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.-The number of acres under cultivation is com-
paratively small in proportion to the great extent of the parish,
There is no undivided common.  The number of acres under
wood, both natural and planted, cannot be less than from 10,000
to 11,000.  Considerable attention is paid to the pruning and
thinning of plantations, although perhaps not so much as their ex-
tent would require.  There being so much of hill pasture attached
to each farm, and valued along with the arable land, renders it
the more difficult to fix precisely the rent per acre.
   Live-Stock.-The black-faced, or Linton breed of sheep, and
the small black-borned breed of cattle prevail here, and of late
some attention has been paid to its improvement.
   Several expensive bulwarks and embankments have been con-
structed on the Dee since the flood of 1829; but the most ex-
tensive of these is the one above the Lawn, in front of Mar Lodge,
being 260 ells long, about 40 in breadth at the base, 9 at the top,
and from 10 to 10 feet high.  Another very strong bulwark was


