
                                        BARRAY.                      207

        ship. In several of the islands: are to be seen immense heaps of
        human bones: and we have been credibly informed by a gentleman
        of some information, and a native of the place, that he had seen,
        on the island of Watersay, the entire skeleton of a trooper and
        his horse, where they bad; fallen side by side on the sand, with
        some pieces of the armour pretty entire, where the sand-drift, had
        exposed them to view, Although tbis gentleman's veracity can-
        not be doubted, it is difficult to account for the fact. There are
        several tumuli over the country in which, when opened, were found
        human bones along with deer horns.
          The most entire and regular ancient building in Barray is
        Kismull Castle, the ancient residence of the Macneils of Bar-
        ray .It is built upon a small rock- in the middle of a beautiful bay,
        (Kilelerin of Dean Munro). The whole rock is covered by the
        sea at high water, the castle is of an irregular figure, strongly
        built, with anchorage for small vessels on every side of it. It is
        about 60 feet high, with a square tower in one corner, overtopping
        the rest of the wall by many feet. Tradition says that delinquents
        were let down by a rope and confined there. Immediately over
        the entry -to the castle, the gockman or watchman stood all night,
        repeating some rhyme to keep himself awake, and throwing stones
        down over the outside of the gate through a hole made in the
        wall for the purpose, to prevent a surprise. On the area within
        the walls, the dwelling-houses, were built, which, if we may judge
        by their size and appearance, must have afforded but very indif-
        ferent accommodations.
           In the centre of the area a large circular well is sunk; but it is
        doubtful whether it was used as a reservoir for rainwater, or sunk
        for the purpose of raising water from beneath. The well is now
        filled up with stones thrown into it by the natives, in order to
        prevent accidents.  Attached to this castle, at the entrance to the
        gate, there is a dock built for the galley, adapted to the exact
        length and breadth of the boat, and defended on the west by a
        strong wall from the action of the sea. Martin says that the na-
        tives informed him, that the castle was 500 years old when he vi-
        sited the island, and that it had then its regular officers and guards,
        keeping watch upon the walls to prevent surprise.
           Both coins and arms have often been found in Barry, but none                    Both coins and                                      Bar
        of them have been preserved. About three years ago, in trench-
        ing the clergyman's garden, a gold medal nearly the size of a
        half-crown-piece, was dug up. It was cast for the coronation of


