
			MAKERSTOUN.                         139

		V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
    The turnpike road from Kelso to Edinburgh by Smailholm pas-
ses through the eastern extremity of the parish. There is a coach
daily from Edinburgh to Kelso by this road.
    Ecclesiastical State.-The church and manse wore built on a
new site in 1807, near the centre of the parish. An excambion
of the glebe took place at the same time; the extent is twenty-
two acres, and the value may be about L. 1. 5s. per acre. The
stipend is fifteen chalders of barley and oat-meal, in equal parts,
with L. 8, 6s. 8d. as an allowance for communion elements. The
church may hold about 200 persons. The number of communi-
cants for the last seven years has varied from 105 to 115. There
are 58 families, 38 of which, either in whole or in part, belong to
the Established church.
    Education.-There is only one school in the parish; the paro-
chial. The salary of the schoolmaster is L. 34, 4s. 4 1/2d. and the
average amount of school fees for the last seven years is L. 17
per annum. There are none in the parish above five years of age
who cannot read.
    Poor and Parochial Funds.-The number of persons on the
poors' roll for the last seven years has varied from two to five, and
the sum allotted has been from 1s. 6d. to 2s. 6d. per week. The
annual amount of church collections for the same period has va-
ried from L. 4 to L. 7. An assessment of from one farthing to
three farthings per pound, on the rental of the parish, has been
made half-yearly, as circumstances have required: and the average
yearly amount raised from this source has been L. 5, 17s. There
is a legacy of L. 27, the interest of which is for women above the age
of seventy. There is another sum Of L. 20, the interest of which is
employed in the maintenance of the poor; but there is no record
to ascertain for what purpose the sum was left. The amount of
these interests is L. 1, 3s. 5d.
    Fuel, &c.-There is no alehouse in the parish. Coal is the
only fuel, used, and costs from 8d. to 1s. per cwt.

    Revised November 1834.


