
	200                    SUTHERLANDSHIRE.

	riages for this parish, of any earlier date than the close of the last
	century; and this is a defect common to almost all the neighbour-
	ing parishes, which has been often attended with the most vexa-
	tious and injurious consequences to persons in humble life, who
	required to establish their propinquity to deceased and	remote re-
	latives.  Older registers may have existed; but, as there was no
	legal provision for the care and preservation of such records, the
	system under which they were entrusted to the parish seboolmas-
	ters, afforded little or no security for their preservation.  All pa-
	rish registers are now under better and safer management than
	formerly ; but many persons who have directed their attention to
	the matter, are convinced, that, as national records, the parish
	registers of Scotland admit of being placed under more strict con-
	trol, and more certain protection, than have yet been devised for
	insuring their full public benefits.
	   Antiquities.-The old Castle of Helmsdale, situate on an ele-
	vated green bank, close to the River of Helmsdale, where it min-
	gles with the sea water, is the only remarkable ruin now remaining
	in the parish. The date of its erection is not known: but the building
	is of that square form, with sharp angles, generally attributed to
	the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries, in the north of Scotland.
	It was a hunting-seat of the Sutherland family, adjoining the old
	deer-forest of Sledale, and the Ord, and is distinguished in the
	annals of the county, as the place where John, the eleventh Earl
	of Sutherland, and his Countess, were both poisoned in July 1567,
	in a diabolical, but fortunately abortive attempt to poison the
	whole family, and thereby divert the succession to their honours
	and estates, out of the direct line of descent.  Several of those
	very ancient edifices, known as circular or Pictish towers, stood
	formerly in the parish of Loth, and one of them, at Lotbbeg, was
	entire at the time Pennant visited the county in 1769.  It is now
	only distinguished as a circular cairn of small stones.  Another of
	these towers stood at Wilkbouse; one to the east of Midgrarty; and
	a very large one, called Dun-Phail, crowned the brow of the high
	ground, close to the public road, -and about half-way, between
	Port Gower and Helmsdale.  The foundation of this last tower
	could only be traced of late years, and the large stones forming
	that foundation have been dug up recently for building purposes.
	The old Hunting House, in the Glen of Loth, of which Pennant
        gives a plan, has also disappeared.

        <FOOTNOTE>Pennant's deseription of the above hunting houses is, that " They consist of a
	gallery, with a number of small rooms on the sides, each formed of three large stones,

