
                        EDINBURGH.                             659

the General Assembly held their sittings in the west aisle of this
church, and when in 1833 a thorough repair and renewal of the
whole edifice was accomplished a new Assembly hall was formed.
It was found, however, that this hall, when finished, was imper-
fect; in so far as the speakers could not be heard properly. An
other and commodious elegant hall has since been erected near
George IV. Bridge, which is used also as a church for the Tol-
booth parish.
   St Giles now contains the High Church, in which the magi-
strates, the Lords of Session, and the Lord High Commissioner.
have appropriate seats; the Old Kirk; and the New North.
   The ground now occupied by Parliament Square formerly was
the burial ground of St Giles. Here the celebrated John Knox
was interred. Within the walls of the church the Regent Murray
also lies buried, and the gallant Marquis of Montrose. On the
outside of the north wall of the High Church is a monument to
Lord Napier, the Inventor of Logarithms.
   Formerly, around the walls of St Giles, which looked towards
the Parliament Square, a number of small shops were placed;
and this seems to have been a fashionable and distinguished
locality, for we find an order of the Council prohibiting any kind df
shops to be placed there but these of goldsmiths, jewellers, and
watch-makers. These have all been swept away in the modern
improvements.
   Originally the city appears to have been comprehended in one
parish; and in the time of James VI. the ministers had Manses, in
the Parliament Close, where they all lived. James, however,
during his frequent disputes with the clergy, took their manses
from them and obliged them to live dispersed in the eity.
   In 1625 the city was divided into four parishes. In 1641 it
was further divided into six parishes; and several new churches
were built to accommodate the citizens. In 1625 Charles I. be-
stowed on the town-council the right of patronage to all, the
churches in Edinburgh. More than a century afterwards, this
right was contested, and a legal decision given in favour of the
council, who still retain the patronage.
   In 1633 Charles I. erected Edinburgh into an Episcopal see;
including within the diocese all the country south of the river
Forth, which had formerly belonged to the Archbishoprick of St
Andrews. The chapter consisted of bishop, dean, and twelve
prebendaries; St Giles being converted into a cathedral. This
state of matters continued for six years, when Episcopacy was


