
42                           ORKNEY.

hills of Gyran and Lingafiold stretch eastward near its south side,
and those of Vestrafiold and Yonbell at its north boundary. These,
as well as the lower lands and valleys remote from the sea, slope
gently eastward towards the loch of Stenness, forming part of that
extensive amphitheatre in the centre of the west mainland, the
area of which is little elevated above the loch. Vestrafiold, or the
west hill, is the highest, and may be about 300 or 400 feet above
the level of the sea. A little east of the Sandy bay are eminences
or low sandy hills, called Sandfiold and Kierfiold, which seem to
be formed in a great measure of the sand blown from the bay by
the west wind, which is prevalent and violent. The latter of these
hills was formerly considered beautiful for its verdure, as it was
covered with grass to the summit, but for some years it has been
forced to submit to the plough, and I suppose it is more profitable,
though less pleasing to the eye than formerly.
   Coast, Caves, &c.-The west coast extends about four miles and
a half, and is precipitous at all places except the bay, the highest
part being between 200 and 300 feet perpendicular. There are
many caves on the coast that form the favourite retreat of pigeons.
The softer portions of rock being washed away much more quickly
than the harder, there are many deep indentations, or "geoes," as
they are called, where the soft parts have given way, and in some
cases the hard portions still  remain as insulated pillars, within a stone
throw of the precipice, forming very picturesque objects; but the
most remarkable thing produced in this manner is the Hole of Row,
which is a high natural arch through the peninsular crag, forming,
the south side of the bay, caused by two whin dikes, occurring so
near each other, that the intervening strata have been pulverised
and washed out by the sea, as high as its waves bad power to do
so. Immediately south of the arch, the stones on the top of the
precipice are arranged like those on a beach by the force of the
waves and, on the top of one of these crags, I once picked up a
lump of India-rubber covered with barnacles. Not far from Row,
on the nearest, part of the coast, is an immense rock, which is well
known to have been carried a considerable distance by the sea; it
is 16 feet long, 6 broad, and 3 thick, and weighs, according to my
calculation, about 24 tons.
   Meteorology.-I have kept a register of the weather for the last
twelve years; the latter half only in this parish, and the former

<FOOTNOTE>Fiold means hill.



