
	               KILMARNOCK.                      539

preferred this version to that of Mr Rous, which was recom-
mended by the English Parliament, adopted by the General As-
sembly, and has ever since been used in Scotland.
	2. William, Earl of Kilmarnock, was attainted on account of
his accession to the Rebellion in 1745, and beheaded at London
in 1746. * The capture of this nobleman, at the battle of Cul-
loden, was attended by circumstances peculiarly affecting. Du-
ring the confusion of the flight, being half-blinded by smoke and
snow, be mistook a party of dragoons for the Pretender's horses,
and was accordingly taken. He was soon after led along the lines
of the British Infantry, in which his son, then a very young man,
held the commission of an ensign. The Earl had lost his hat in
the strife, and his long hair was flying in disorder around his head,
and over his face. The soldiers stood mute in their lines, behold-
ing the unfortunate nobleman. Among the rest stood Lord Kil-
marnock, compelled by his situation to witness, without the power
of alleviating, the humiliation of his father. When the Earl
came past the place where his son stood, the youth, unable to
bear an longer, that his father's head should be exposed to the
storm, stepped out of the ranks, without regard to discipline, and
taking off his hat, placed it over his father's disordered and wind-
beaten locks. He then returned to his place, without having ut-
tered a word, while scarcely an eye that saw his filial affection,
but confessed its merit by a tear.
	3. The very Rev. Dr Robert Findlay, late Professor of Theo-
logy in the University of Glasgow. The memory of this vene-
rable man, who was equally distinguished by his extensive learn-
ing, unfeigned piety, and unbending integrity, is fondly cherished
by all who had the pleasure and advantage of studying under him.
	4. Sir James Shaw of Kilmarnock, who was Lord Mayor of
the metropolis of the British Empire, though a native of the
neighbouring parish of Riccarton, spent his early life, and received
his education in the town of Kilmarnock, and has for in many years
been the liberal patron of every institution which has for its object
the improvement and comfort of its inhabitants.
	Historical Events.--In the year 1800, during a season of
drought, a most destructive fire orinated among some houses,
covered with thatch, in the lower part of the town of Netherton-
holm, which, under the influence of a strong wind, spread, with
amazing rapidity, on both sides of the street. Fortunately it was

<FOOTNOTE>Chamber's History of the Rebellon 1745.


