
	          ON THE COUNTY OF DUMBARTON.      237


  A little to the south of Camstradden slate quarry, and near to
Ros-doe, the transition rocks succeed the primary stratified group
in the shape of greywacks, and slaty greywacke of a peculiar com-
position, and alternating with the older formation to the north.
This greywacke is very different in appearance from that general-
ly found about Leadhills and the south of Lanarkshire. It seems,
for the most part, to be composed of quartz, felspar, and clay-slate,
cemented together with a basis of clay-slate, and frequently stud-
ded with blue quartz, common quartz, and crystals of felspar:
Scarcely anything of the shape of greywacke-slate is to be found,
and none of those remarkable alternations of greywacke and grey-
wacke-slate, which abound in the south of Scotland, occur here.
But the peculiar feature of these transition rocks is the presence of
the black-limestone, not a vestige of which occurs in the greywacks
of the south of Lanarkshire. This limestone, of a bluish-black
colour, is to be found connected with the slate formation in Ar-
denconnel muir, and also in Glenfruin. The same superanbun-
dance of quartz as in the mica-slate is also another remarkable
feature, to which we may add the total absence of flinty slate, or
Lydian stone, and those frequent alternations with porphyry, re-
sembling the elvan courses of Cornwall. With regard to the black
limestone, it is allowed by Charpentier and others, that it is of
later formation than greywacke and clay-slate. When nearest to
the primitive formations, the black limestone is subordinate, while
in the newest part of the transition formations, clay-slate is only
found subordinate to limestone. This is exactly the position in
which is occurs here, as may be seen in the localities above al-
luded to. It must be confessed, however, that the remark of
Humboldt has much weight, namely that the constancy of binary
or tertiary associations, as connected with the transition formations.
are of much more importance than the analogy which the succes-
sion of homonymous rocks presents. Thus he observes, that clay-
slate and black limestone, clay-slate and porphyries, clay-slate and
diorites, and greywacke, porphyry, and sienite, granular lime-
stone, and anthracitous mica-slate, are observed to form geognos-
tic associations in countries the most remote from one another.
Some of these associations, as the clay-slate and black limestone,
are to be found in Dumbarton, but not in Lanarkshire, while many
of the others are found in the south of Scotland, but not in this
part of it.


