
			BANCHORY-TERNAN.                        355

railroad has lately been talked of; but it is evident that, if ever
executed, it must be only as a part of a more distant and profitable
transit.

                        V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
        Villages.-In the immediate vicinity of the churchyard and the
manse a few houses, generally styled "Townhead," show the re-
mains of the old villagd nf Banchory, formerly, it is believed, of
much greater extent. It is mentioned as existing, in 1324, and it
probably originated in the habitations required by the vicar or his
curate and other assistants, who served the cbapel of St Ternan
in early Catholic times. It was the Kirktown. A broken stone
cross, or small pillar, is seen in an area near the middle of it, and
it appears from the register already mentioned, that the Barony
Court of Leys was most frequently held in the place. The only
road from Aberdeen on the north side of the Dee, forty years ago,
passed through it, and it had then a flourishing inn. It now con-
tains but the old manse, the two endowed schools, a farm-house
and offices, and seven or eight labourers' cottages.
	The new or Arbeadie village was begun by three individuals in
1805, 1807, and 1809, who took in feu successively from one of
the proprietors in all about twenty Scotch acres, which cost them
2s. 6d., 3s., and L.1 per acre, and for which they continue to pay
in whole L.11, 4s. 6d. The ground is now sub-feued at the rate
of L.12 to L.120 per acre. It has at present 50 houses, inhabit-
ed by 72 families, and contains a Dissenting chapel, a post-office
a prison, two schools, three inns, and in the immediate vicinity, a
branch of the Bank of Scotland. It is the residence of a Dissent-
ing clergyman, of a surgeon, of a feu-proprietor, of a constable,
of a watchmaker, of a dancing master, of a coachman, of a carrier,
of a letter-carrier, of a road-contractor, of a baker, of 2 plasterers,
2 gardeners, 2 scboolmistresses, 3 innkeepers, 3 sbopkeepers, 3
floaters, 3 weavers, 4 shoemakers, 4 tailors, 4 carpenters, 4 saw-
yers, 13 labourers, and 20 servants.
        Societies.-There are six associations for various purposes in the
parish,-the "Dee-side Agricultural Association," already men-
tioned, with 80 members; the "Banchory Horticultural Society,"
with 51; a lodge of "Odd Fellows," with 30; a "Rechabite
Tent," with 25; an "Abstinence Society," with 200; a "Society
for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge," with about the same
number; an "Association for the Distribution of Religous
Tracts," with seven distributors.



