
424                       STIRLINGSHIRE.

houses and gardens adjoining to its, bounded by King-Street and
Friar's-Wynd.  In the year above-mentioned James lV.founded
a conveat of Franciscan or Gray Friars, in the upper part of the
town, and built this church for their accommodation. The eas-
tern portion was the choir, in which the public service took place
and the western portion the nave, which was left unoccupied, and
open for other purposes of a devotional and sacred nature. The
Chancel, that is, the circular portion at the east end, in which is a
large and handsome window, is believed to have been added seve-
ral years afterwards by Cardinal Beaton, contributing much to the
improvement of the structure, in respect both of convenience and
beauty.  It was in 1656 divided into two distinct places of worship;
both of which are handsome, and much admired by visitors. The
East Church is very commodious; and in respect of facility of
speaking and hearing, a quality of first-rate importance in a place
of Protestant worship, is remarkable.  This quality it owes to a
large and lofty curvilinear recess at the west end, in which the
pulpit is placed, constructed, with a view to this effect, under the
direction of the celebrated Professor Robisono fedinburgh.  Whe-
tber the position of the large and very convenient, but old fashioned
and rather ungainly-looking pulpit, and the corresponding arrange-
ment of the pews, adopted several years since, when an alteration
in.  These respects was made, be the best fitted to give effect to the
internal structure of the church, is another matter.  The view is
certainly seen to most advantage from the pulpit; from which point
this church, with its, lofty roof, its double row of light and elegant
pillaM and its eastern window, presents one of the chastest and
most pleasing specimens of the pure ' Gothic architecture now ex-
isting in Scotland.  The West Church is in some respects less
comfortable and commodious.  The pillars, of which there is here
also a double row, are inconveniently large; obstruct im many places
the sight of the preacher and the sound of his voice; and give a
heavy appearance to the place.  The ground rises behind in the
adjoining burial-yard, and renders at least part of the church damp;
increasing thereby the coldness, which in winter is experienced in
both churches.  The pulpit, however, being light and handsome;
there being a west window of stained glass; and a splendid central
gaselier; and the whole interior having received a cowplete and
contury repair when, after being disused for tbree-quarters, of a
Century it was re-opened in 1817, at an expense which might have
been more beneficially employed in building a new fabric in an-
                                 6


