
272                 INVERNESS-SHIRE.

and want then witnessed.    All classes of the lower orders, cottars
and crofters, lotters and land-occupiers of every grade, were si-
multaneously overwhelmed in the general calamity.  The atten-
tion of gentlemen, both clerical and lay, was speedily aroused.
The clerg who were located in the regions of distress, and were
eye-witnesses to scenes of hardship which they can never forget,
lost no time in framing and forwarding representations of the ca-
lamity to all and sundry in the kingdom, who, they supposed,
could afford relief. The British capital was visited by a deputa-
tion of gentlemen, who relinquished for a time their several avo-
cations, and, with minds teeming with philanthropy, aroused the
sympathies, and the noblest feelings of the English nation, by ap-
peals adorned alike with eloquence and truth. Those appeals the
benevolent English could not resist, and the amount of liberality
displayed on that occasion surpasses all admiration and praise. *
   The primary cause of the late destitution was a redundancy
of population, occasioned by an injudicious system of manage-
ment. The error of the system of management lay in the
frequency of early and improvident marriages, encouraged by the
introduction of the lotting system, which, in its turn, gave rise to
bad husbandry. These several causes operated on each other with
mutual influence, and acted in concert against the prosperity of
the inhabitants. The amount of population was rapidly increas-
ing, while the amount of the means of support for each family was,
in the same ratio, diminishing. Poverty was speedily making in-
roads among the people, and the seeds of wretchedness at a future
period were rapidly growing up. The natives, however, might
have for years borne up under the pressure and influence of these
unfavourable circumstances, had not other external causes come to
operate in unison with those just mentioned, to reduce them with
accelerated speed, to poverty. These other causes were the fall
in the price of cattle,-the failure of herring-fisheries,-the cessa-
tion of kelp manufacture,-and the want of remunerating employ-

<FOOTNOTE>The writer of this Account cannot omit to notice, that, by the indefatigable ex-
ertions in this cause of the Rev. Norman Macleod, D. D. of St Columbals, Glasgow,
and John Bowie, Esq., W. S., Edinburgh,-these gentlemen have won themselves
a title to lasting honour. They not only exerted themselves with devoted industry
to procure relief for the distressed in the years of scarcity already referred to, but
they still exert themselves, in their different spheres, to get the Hilandders esta-
blished on such a tooting a" to prevent (under Providence) the recurrence ofsimilar
destitution. A reduction of the overgrown amount of population is the only rerne.
dy for this desirable end. The people themselves are sensible of it; and the gentle-
men just mentioned are so sensible of it, that they are even now using their utmost
endeavours to obtain a boon so loudly called for.


