
204                        FIFESHIRE.

rents are annually paid, in whole or in part. The first of these
classes is composed at present of 12 families, more or less nu-
merous, and requiring of course different degrees of pecuniary re-
lief. Temporary supplies are afforded to others when visited with
sickness, or otherwise deprived of the means of earning a liveli-
hood. This description of beneficiaries generally comprises about
15 families. On these different objects of parochial charity,
about L. 72 communibus annis are laid out in the course of the
year.
   The funds from which the poor receive relief arise from church
door collections, land, marriages, mortcloths, erection of tomb-
stones, and interest on bank deposits. As the means of supply are
very much strengthened by the second of these sources, the weekly
contributions (not generally amounting to L. 13 per annum) are less
liberal than in other circumstances they would be. Although the pa-
rishioners are the reverse of wealthy, yet handsome sums have been
collected at church for pious and benevolent purposes. The land-
ed property, to which reference has been made, lies in the parish
of Abernethy, Perthshire, and was purchased in the year 1726 for
6600 merks. What rent was paid at that period is not exactly as-
certained; but in terms of a tack granted in 1762, it was fixed at 200
merks. It was subsequently raised to L. 36, and afterwards to L. 50,
with the additional obligation of discharging public burdens to an
amount somewhat exceeding L. 6. The immediately succeeding
lease of the poors' farm, extending to nineteen years from Martinmas
1835, stipulates that the tenant shall annually pay L. 100, and advance
the various legal assessments due from the land, for which, on the
production of discharges, he is entitled to discount out of the rent.
As these imposts are considerable, and as the joint administrators
for the poor incurred great expense in building a dwelling-house
and stone fences, and in otherwise enhancing the value of the pro-
perty, the pecuniary return has been much abridged. Beside emer-
gencies, the regular annual drawbacks on the farm amount to
about L. 10.
   The only marriage fee payable to the poors' fund is 2s. when
the bride's residence is within the parish. Three parish mort-
eloths are severally lent at 5s., 3s. 6d., and 2s. The united sa-
laries of synod, presbytery, and session-clerks, precentor, and kirk-
officer amount to L. 10, 10s.
    In several instances of known or suspected indigence, a strong
aversion to receive parochial aid has been occasionally evinced,--
wile, in cases less urgent, a very different spirit has appeared.


