
			EDENKILLIE.                               181

	  Soils.\f*-Those of the arable land are as follows:
	  Division of Soils of the Arable Land of Edenkillie.-
     1. A small extent of brown-coloured loamy soil.
	  Subsoil, clay and red mortar.
     2. A considerable extent of sharp black soil.
	  Subsoil, partly mortar, sand, and dry gravel.
     3. A considerable extent of light, dry, sandy, and gravelly soil.
	  Subsoil, sand and dry gravel.
     4. Moss.
	  Subsoil, generally white sand and clay.
	  Lands under Wood.-
     5. A considerable extent of brown-coloured gravelly soil.
        Subsoil, red mortar and gravel,-under very thriving oak.
     6. A considerabld extent of light clay soil, with a great mixture of
	  sand.
	  Subsoil, gravel, mortar, and clay-under very thriving oak and
	  larch.
     7. A great extent of light sandy soil.
	  Subsoil, sand and open dry gravel-under Scotch fir, larch, and
	  oak, all generally thriving.
     8. A great extent of Moorish soil.
	  Subsoil, gravel and white sand-under Scotch fir and larch,
	  all thriving.
     9. Wet moorish soil.
	  Subsoil, retentive, clay, and close gravel-udder Scotch fir and
	    larch, all stunted, and in a backward state.+
	Hydrography.-The parish abounds with siprings of the purest
     and finest water, but none of a medicinal quality, deserving of no-
     tice, have been hitherto discovered. The rivers are the Findborn,

<FOOTNOTE>The writer has to acknowledge his obligation for the following account of soils
          to an intelligent and respectable farmer in this parish.
          +  No. 1 is to be found on the farm of Redstone, and a small extent on Dounduff.
	    2. On Newton, Berryley, Connicavel, Cuperbill,  Dounduff, part of Gervalley,
             part of Logie, part of Glenernie, East Tuilyglens, the greater part of Duuphaff estate,
             Half daugh, and partof the Knock lands.
	    3. The high land of Dounduff, the greater part of the properties of Sluice, Logis,
             and Rolugas, West Tullyglens, and part of the Knock lands.
          4. On Relugus, Broadsh`w, and Half daugh.
          5. Part of Darnaway forest opposite Shuie, and part of DoundufF oak plantation.
          6. On the alopping banks on both sides of the. Divie, Roughbog plantation.
             and part of Dounduff plantation.
	    7. Part of Darnaway forest near the gate of Dounduff, the greater part of the woods
             of Reluges, and part of Logie at Toremore.
	    8. Part of Darnaway forest, Logic, and Sluie,
	    9. Part of Relugas plantation on the hill, and hill plantation of Tullygions.


