
         			DALZIEL.                      451

	All the Hamiltons in the west, and perhaps throughout Scot-
land, are descended from the ancestors of his Grace the Duke of
Hamilton. Gavin, the fourth son of Sir James Hamilton of Cad-
zow, is the branch from which the Hamiltons of Dalziel have de-
scended. He granted a charter in 1468 of the lands of Osborn-
ston (now Orbiston,) with the consent of the chaplains of Both-
well, to whom these lands had been given by the third Earl of Dou-
glas when he made that church collegiate to his son Robert,
Chancellor of Glasgow, whom failing, to his other sons in succes-
sion. His third son, John, eventually succeeded to Orbis-
ton, whose grandson, David, was the first proprietor of Bothwell-
haugh. James Hamilton of Boggs, and first laird of Dalziel of
that name, was son of the fifth proprietor of Orbiston; and his
brother, Sir John, was Lord Justice-Clerk in the reign of Charles I.
Heirs failing, both in Orbiston and in Bothwell haugh, these es-
tates came to the Hamiltons of Dalziel. Archibald, the fourth
Hamilton of Dalziel, also succeeded his maternal grandfather in
the estate of Rosehall, and removed the entail to Dalziel. Archi-
bald was succeeded, first by his son James, and then by his son tbe
late General Hamilton, who, surviving his son Archibald James,
is succeeded by his grandson, John Glencairn Carter Hamilton,
who is a minor. With the lands of Bothwellhaugh, there was con-
veyed to the Dalziel family the gun with which James, the second
laird of that property, shot the Regent Murray, and which had
been preserved in the family, not from an approval of that foul
deed, but merely as a relic of antiquity. It is now in the posses-
sion of his Grace the Duke of Hamilton, having been presented
to him by the late General Hamilton when he sold to him the
lands of Bothwellhaugh.
	Roman Road.--The principal branch of the western Roman
highway or Watling Street, as it has been called, passed through
this parish from east to west. It entered at a place, called Mea-
dowhead, near Wisbaw gate. The present road from Glasgow to
Lanark by Carluke has been here, for a considerable way, form-
ed upon it. When the last, Statistical Account was written, and
till within these twelve years, a part of it had been preserved on-
tire, and a large heap of the cinders of the Roman forges remain-
ed untouched. All trace of it has now been, effaced by recent im-
provements. At the north-west boundary of the parish, there is
a bridge over the river Calder, evidently, of great antiquity, and


