
236                           KINCARDINESHIRE.

bour to the covenanted cause in the north. Spalding, designates
him a " great Covenanter, and a mortal enemy of the bishops."
	Dr Thomas Reid, author of the " Inquiry into the Human
Mind," and Professor of Moral Philosophy in the University of
Glasgow, was born in the manse of Strachan in April 1710. His
father, Mr Lewis Reid, was the first Presbyterian minister of the
parish after the Revolution settlement. Mr Reid was ordained in
March 1704, and died in November 1762, having been incumbent
for the long period of fifty-eight year. The predecessor of Mr
Reid was a Mr John Strachan, an Episcopalian, who, having be-
come incapable, from bodily infirmity, of performing the duties of
the parish, the Presbytery met at Strachan with the view of ob-
taining the appointment of an assistant and successor. This Mr
Strachan resisted, and appealed to the Lords of Her Majesty's
Privy-Council. After speaking, in terms of indignation, of the
measure adopted by Mr Strachan, Mr Howe, minister of Birse,
moved the Presbytery to proceed in the face of it, and secure a
provision for the spiritual wants of the parish, to which the Pres-
bytery unanimously agreed.
	Parochial Registers.--These have been regularly kept since the
date of Mr Reid's settlement in 1704.
	Landed Proprietors.--The proprietors of the parish are, Sir
James Carnegie, Bart. of Southesk, proprietor of the estate of
Strachan. (Sir James has a neat and commodious shooting-lodge
at Glen Dye, which is occupied by himself and party during the
shooting season): Colonel Campbell, proprietor of Blackhall,
whose mansion-house is beautifully situated on the southern bank
of the river Dee, about two miles from Banchory, and three from
the church of Strachan by the nearest road: Burnett Ramsay,
Esq. whose mansion-house, Banchory Lodge, is situated in the
adjoining parish of Bancbory; and Henry Lumsden, Esq. of Til-
whilley, proprietor of Invery, which house is situated at the north-
eastern extremity of the parish on the banks of the Feugh, and is
a handsome building.
	Antiquities--There are three circular and evidently artificial
mounds, two of them covered with wood of from forty to fifty years
growth, Which may have been used as fences for bowmen when
practising arrow-shooting. A farm-house, in the neighbourbood
of these, is called Bowbutts. The third is named Castle Hill;
but no remains of a castle or fort are to be seen, nor is there any
tradition of its existence.


