
                              TORTHORWALD.                                     33

<TABLE>

  Of Potatoes,                                                                                                                                                     285
   Turnips,                                                                    300
   Sown hay,                                                                   572
   Natural meadow hay,                                                         274
   Number of acres which never have been cultivated (besides Lochar-Moss.)     290
   -------that might be cultivated with a profitable application of capital
      (independently of the large tract of Lochar-Moss)                        200
   -------in undivided common,                                                   0
   -------under wood,                                                            5
                                                                              ====
                                                                               334
   Rent of Land, &c.-The rent of arable land varies according to
quality and situation, from L.2 to 7s. 6d. the imperial acre. Leases
are commonly for fifteen or nineteen years.
   The yearly rent of labourers' and cottagers' houses, in from L.1
to L.5. Those at the lowest rent are miserable hovels; and the
rent of the best places them beyond the reach of labourers, or even
common tradesman. It is of great disadvantage that so many of
the houses are covered with thatch.
   Prices of Provisions.-The prices of butter, eggs, and poultry,
are regulated by the Dumfries market, of which Reports are published
weekly in the Dumfries newspapers; and the Dumfries markets again
are very m much affected by those of Edinburgh and Glasgow, there
being carriers who make a busines of transporting such articles to
these more distant markets, whenever a profit can be made by them.
Indeed, the very cheap and rapid communication which is now
established, and continually improving, between the most distant
markets, is fast bringing the prices of articles every where nearly
to a level, and thus, benefiting all classes; raising the prices in re-
mote parts of the country where the articles are produced; and
lowering them in cities and towns where they am principally con-
sumed.
   Live Stock.-The number of horses kept in the parish, almost
all farm work-horses of a middle size, is 150. Young horses bred
by the farmers, 35; cows kept, 354; young black-cattle, 495;
sheep kept through the year, 284; sheep fed on turnips in winter,
1800; swine bred and fattened yearly, 388.
   Rate of Wages, &c.-The wages of day-labourers are at ao ave-
rage 1s. 6d. in sununer, and 1s. 3d. in winter, without victuals.
Most of the farm-servants here are unmarried, and are lodged and
fed in the farmers' houses. The wages of men-servants vary from
L.9 to L.14 a-year, and of women-servams from L.5 to L.6 a-
year. Doing work by the piece is very general; such as mowing,

   DUMFRIES.                      C



