
192                   BERWICKSHIRE.

ments, Lord Swinton added a thorough knowledge of country busi-
ness, and was distinguished by activity and benevolence of character.
   It is a remarkable fact, especially when we keep in mind the in
secure state of this portion of the country for many ages, that the
estate of Swinton has descended linearly from father to son for not
less than 27 generations, comprising a period of almost 800 years.
   It is now in the possession of Samuel Swinton, Esq. a nephew
of the late Lord Swinton, who, by draining to a large extent, and
other judicious measures, has greatly improved the property, while
he has shown himself most solicitous to promote the comfort and
well-being of the labouring poor.
   Other Land-owners.-The parish of Simprin also appears, until
very lately, to have been in the possession of an old and powerful
family, Cockburn of Langton; but as they do not seem ever to have
had a place of residence within its bounds, it may be improper to
enter upon their history in this statement. The lands of Simprin
were sold, in consequende of their affairs having fallen into disorder,
in 1755, to Lord Elibank, and are now the property of Patrick
Murray, Esq. of Simprin. There are two other proprietors in the
parish, Henry Seymour, Esq. of Handford, and Admiral Halket
of Delgaddo.
   Parochial Registers.-Simprin was, from 1699, until his transla-
tion to Etterick in 1707, under the ministerial charge of the Rev.
Thomas Boston, a name deservedly dear to the people of Scot-
land. *
   The session register of Simprin, commencing 21st September
1699, (the day of Mr Boston's ordination,) and continued during
Mr Boston's incumbency, is still in preservation, and is wholly in
Mr Boston's own handwriting: that of Swinton commences on
the 29th April 1696, and extends, in respect to the records of ses-
sional business, to 1711, and in respect to baptism, to the present
day, excepting the short space of ten months in 1760. No regu-
lar register of marriages and deaths appears to have been kept un-
til about seventeen years ago.

                           III.-POPULATION.

   Mr Boston found 88 examinable persons in Simprin upon his
induction to that parish in 1699. In 1751, the population of the

<FOOTNOTE>(Vide Etterick.) The manse, which was built for Boston after his induction,
was still standing a few years ago; but the church, which appears to have been very
small has long been in ruins. Simprin large barn, mentioned in the former Statis-
tical Account, appears, from his session record, to have been used regularly by Mr
Boston upon sacramental and other extraordinary occasions.



