
                        PARISH OF SLAMANAN.

          PRESBYTERY OF LINLITHGOW, SYNOD OF LOTHIAN AND
                             TWEEDDALE.

               THE REV. ALEXANDER DAVIDSON, MINISTER.


        I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.

IT is recorded in Robertson's Index, that, in the year 1470,
and reign of James II., Lord Livingstone obtained a grant of the
lands of Slamanan under the Great Seal. His Lordship's suc-
cessors, the Earls of Linlithgow and Callander, feued out these
lands to different proprietors, the superiority of which remained
in the Callander family till the year 1715, when they were for-
feited to the Crown, together with the patronage of the church.
But it is uncertain whether the foresaid charter contained a grant
of all the lands, or only a part, as the papers of many of the pro-
prietors bear that their lands were faued from Lord Torphicben.
In proof of this we find, that Robert 11. gave a charter to James
de Sandelands of Slamanon More, in Stirlingshire, to be holden by
the said James, and Joanna, the king's daughter, his spouse, and
their heirs. As the lands ot the parish are sucken to two mills,
it would seem that Lord Torphichen was proprietor of one-half of
the parish, and the Earl of Callander the other.
  Name.--This parish is called Slamanan and St Laurence.
The former is generally used, and the latter is only found in the
records of session, and in the presentation issued by the Crown,
"the church and parish of Slamanan, otherwise St Laurence."
It is highly probable that St Laurence was not the original name
of the parish, but only of the church, and the lands adjoining to it;
for a little to the south-east of the church, there is an excellent
spring of water which still goes by the name of St Laurence's Well.
As places of worship were frequently denominated from particular
saints, St Laurence would appear to have been the tutelar saint
of this parish. But the etymology of the name Slamanan is, like
that of many other proper names, uncertain, and merely con.
   STIRLING.                                S


