
46                       SELKIRKSHIRE.

must be mentioned Mr James Hogg, author of the "Quenn's Wake,"
and commonly called the "Ettrick Shepherd."
     Antiquities and Traditions.-- The ruins of St Mary's Chapel
are now level with the dust, and mark only where it stood.  It was
injured by the clan Scott, in a feud with the Cranstouns; but
continued a place of worship during the first part of the seventeenth
century.  The vestiges of the chaplain's house are also visible; and
the ancient cemetery is still used by several families.  About 400
yards to the eastward, there is a small mound called Binram's cross
or corse, with a few stones on the top--probably as tradition re-
presents, the burial-place of some necromantic priest, from decay-
ed wood and ashes being found on its being opened.
     There are still some remains of the old towers or Peel-houses,
which were formerly occupied by the feudal barons, and their retainers.
The oldest of these now standing, and whose figure has been dif-
ferent from all the rest, is Blackhouse, situated in a solitary glen
up Douglas (Dhu-glas, i.e. dark-grey) burn.  This wild tract form-
ed one of the most ancient possessions of the Black Douglases.
Godscroft represents them as baronial lords of it in the time of
Malcolm Canmore; and this was the usual retreat of the good Sir
James, when recruiting for Bruce.  It is here too, that tradition
has placed the scene of "the Douglas Tragedie," and seven large
stones on the neighbouring heights are shown as marking the spot
where the seven brethren were slain.  Elibank Castle, connected
also in popular story with doughty deeds, still overhangs the
Tweed.  The lower part of the massy walls of Dryhope is nearly
entire.
     There is a piece of ground lying to the west of Yarrow Kirk,
which appears to have been the scene of slaughter and repulchre.
From time immemorial it was a low waste moor till twenty-five
years ago, when formed into a number of cultivated enclosures.  On
more than twenty different spots were large cairns, in many of
which fine yellow dust, and in one an old spear, was found.  Two
unhewn massive stones still stand, about 100 yards distant from
each other, and which doubtless are the monuments of the dead.
The real tradition simply bears, that here a deadly feud was set-
tled by dint of arms; the upright stones mark the place where the
two lords or leaders fell, and the bodies of their followers were thrown
into a marshy pool, called the Dead Lake, in the adjoining haugh.
It is probable that this is the locality of "the Dowie Dens of Yar-
row."  One cannot easily, however, unravel the details, or fix the


