
     of New-Machar.

draw-bridge was, by which they passed to and from the lod-
ging.  It is said that the lake was compassed about with
tall trees, but none of them remain.  The rising ground where
the lodging was, another piece of rising ground in the E. end
of the loch, and part of the circumjacent grounds are planted,
by the proprietor, with thriving young trees.  In the Loch is
abundance of pike, but no other kind of fish is found in it.
-There is also a rivulet, which has its origin about a mile
above the N. end of the parish, runs through it southward;
affords as much water as supplies 4 corn mills; after which it
falls into the river Don.  There are some trout in it, but of a
small size.

   Minerals, and Cattle.-There is a considerable quantity of
moor, and other stones to be found near the surface of the
ground, fit for building houses, and for inclosing land, and
they are in general obtained at a small expence.  There are also
stones to be found by quarrying, but lime-stone is very
scarce; and where it is found, the expence incurred by quarry-
ing and burning is so high, that they who have tried it, have
given it up, because they can purchase lime at Aberdeen at a
much cheaper rate*.
   There are some cattle bred in this parish of a good size,
beautiful shape, and considerable value.  Of this description
there are however comparatively few, being in possession of

     3 N 2

<FOOTNOTE>

*In the end of November and beginning of December last, many of the
country people observed very uncommon phenomena in the air, (which they
call dragons), of a red fiery colour, appearing in the N. and flying rapidly
towards the E. from which they concluded, and their conjectures were right,
a course of loud winds, and boisterous weather would follow.
   The quadrupeds, are such as are common to other parts of this country.
Birds of the migratory kind, are the cuckow, rail, green plover, and swallow.
They generally make their appearance in the end of March, and retire in
the month of September.


