
                             KELSO.                         311

though Lesly speaks of a popular tumult in 1560, when the images
and relics, and whatever else remained of its internal furniture and
decorations, were defaced, yet it is certain that the Scottish Re-
formers are not open to the charge of having dismantled this Po-
pish temple.  The Erostratus in this instance was not John Knox,
but an English baron.
  The latest mention made of the monks of Kelso is in an act
of Parliament, eight years after the establishment of the Reform-
ed religion, appointing Sir John Maitland to hold the confiscated
estates of this rich Abbey in commendam.  From this document it
would seem that they had disappeared one after another, and that
none of them was left in 1587.  When Maitland was raised to
the dignity of Lord High Chancellor, the Earl of Bothwell ob-
tained a grant from the Crown of the possessions of the Abbey.
On the attainder of Bothwell, these lands and possessions again
reverted to the Crown: and they were finally conferred on Sir
Robert Ker of Cessford, Warden of the East Marches, from whom
they have descended to the Noble family of Roxburghe.
  About the year 1580, one of the cells of the cloister was converted
into a church for the use of the now united parishes, and the ser-
vices of the Reformed religion set up in the room of the Romish
worship.  A considerable period, however, elapsed before the plas-
tic and ameliorating power of the new institutions became apparent.
The bulk of the people, having been all along proverbially indif-
ferent to Christian observances, and more open to the influence of
fairies and elves, the last remnants of Paganism, than to any re-
ligious, consideration, required to be instructed in the first elements
of faith; while the unsettled state of the times presented obstacles
to the success of the Reformed clergy, which render it far from
surprising that the moral condition of the border should not have
speedily assimilated to that of more peaceful districts.  It was not
till an advanced part of the seventeenth century that the good
fruits of the great ecclesiastical revolution began to be gathered;
nor even then, nor for generations afterwards, were these fruits so
abundant here as elsewhere.  Throughout the agitating con-
tests between the Presbyterian and the prelatical parties, with
respect to the King's supremacy, Kelso appears to have generally
sided with the hierarchy; and even subsequent to the Revolution,
when the question about Lay Patronage and popular rights,
excited so warm an interest throughout Berwickshire and Teviot-
dale, such was the ascendancy of jacobite and high church prin-


