
                         KILCONQUHAR.                          321

Grange coal-works are situated, the metals of which consist of nine
seam . s; the largest beino- about eight feet thick. This coal-field
is traversed by three trap dikes or veins, which have produced the
usual effects upon the minerals, those in contact -being charred,
and in some places thrown into a vertical position. The strata in-
cline to the west at an angle of 12'.
As we approach the Balcarres coal-field, some very interesting
sections may be observed, in the Den, of an alternating series of
sandstone, shale, coal, and ironstone, and the manner in which
these have been upheaved and altered by the igneous rocks. The
stream, already mentioned, traverser this beautiful ravine for the
space of nearly two miles, and has laid open the outcrop of the
whole series, as they have been deposited one above another. To.
wards the lower extremity of the Den, the attention is first arrest-
ed by a projecting mass of trap- tuffa, which is very friable, and
easily yields upon the slightest compression, its several component
parts, consisting of shale, coal, sandstone, ironstone, clinkstone,
basalt, varying from portions of half an inch to a foot or more in
diameter, and which are all imbedded in a paste of claystone. This
dike (for such it may be considered,) is very interesting, both by
its great eytent, stretching as it does from Kineraig Hill, to the
opposite coast of Fife, where it may be observed to the eastward
of St Andrews, forming the rock and spindle, and likewise by the
proof it affords, from its composition, that it must have owed it's
origin to causes in action at a period long subsequent to the for..!
mtion of the coal, and consolidation of the adjacent rocks. The
str,ita dip from this towards the N. W., at an angle bf 29" The
dip increases as they approach Balearres Craig, where, a few6 hun.
dred yards to the north, acro,-xs the stream, the sandstone may be
seen capping a mass of greenstone, and dipping nearly due north at,
an angle of 500. Here the sandstone is verv little indurated, though
in immediate cnntact with the trap. Baicarres- Craig, which is a
picture in itself, risiiig abruptly from the bottom of the ravine, to
the height of 200 feet, and completely insulated from the surround-
ing hills, consists of clitikstone split up, as iriay be observed on
the south side, into tabular masses, and exhibiting on. the top
a considerable display of the columnar structure. It is of a dark
bluish colour, close-grained, and compact, and has been mistaken
for bas it but upon miqute inspection, it will be found to pos-
sess the qualities of a compact felspar, or clinkstone rock. At the
    FIFE                        X


