
274                       BANFFSHIRE.

strawberry may be seen blushing in the crevices, and the green
ivy insinuating itself into every chink, and climbing up the shelv-
ing sides.
Caves.-As might be supposed, amongst such gaigantic masses of
rock,  there are several caves along this coast ; and among others
of inferior note, two in the neighbourbood of Troup deserve par-
ticular notice. The first is about 50 fathoms deep, 60 long, and
40 broad, from which there is a subterrancous passage to the sea,
about 80 yards long, through which the waves are driven with
great violence in a northern storm, and occasion a smoke to
ascend from the den. Hence it has got the name of Hell's
lum.  The other is a subterranean passage through a penin-
sula of about 150 yards long from sea to sea, through which a
man can with difficulty creep. At the north end of this narrow
passage, is a cave about 20 feet high, 30 broad, and 150 long,
containing not less than 90,000 cubic feet. The whole is sup.
ported by immense columns of rocks, exceedingly grand, and has a
wonderfully fine effect, after a person has crept through the nar-
row passage. This place is called the Needle's Eye.
   Meteorology.-The climate may be considered comparatively
dry and healthy. The temperature varies greatly in different parts
of the parish, the high land being cold and the valleys warm. It
in general may be considered colder than the interior, owing part-
ly to the elevation of the land, and partly to the prevalence of
north winds and storms from the German Ocean. Less snow lies,
however, than in the interior, owing to the exposure to sea breezes.
The warmest and earliest part of the parish is the eastern or Troup
districts which has the double advantage of a south exposure,
and of shelter from the north blast by the high rocks of Troup
bead.
   Bydrography.-On the sea coast in the neighbourbood of Mac-
duff, is a pretty good mineral spring, called the Well of Tarlain,
which has been resorted to for many years by invalids, both for
the benefit of the waters and for sea-bathing; and the Earl of
Fife, whose philantropy and attention to the comforts of al with-
in his reach, are proverbial, has been at considerable expense in
Making roads to it, and keeping the place neat and commodious
for visitors. There are minerals also of the same kind at Melrose,
near the shore of old Haven.
  In the hill of Troup, on early the highest ground in the pa-
rish, there is a very small lake called the Standard loch, formed


