
840                        LANARKSHIRE.

tances, instead of the former little contacted ones, which gave
little light, and did not open.  New and suitable doors, also, were
opened up, with fan-lights above to correspond with the windows.
The old door already mentioned was preserved, but built
tip.  Tradition says,-that this doorway, which consists of free-
stone, has been preserved ever since there was a church upon the
spot,-that the original structure, having nearly become ruin-
ous, the then incumbent applied for a new kirk, which the Lam-
mingtoune family refused, but agreed to repair the old,-and
that on the faith of this promise, the minister, at his own venture,
had recourse to the help of certain willing bands among his people,
who secretly assembled under night, and soon demolished all but
the favourite Saxon door, when he reported the alleged accident
to the laird, and reminding him of his promise, called upon him
to "repair the house of God !" From an inscription upon a
door lintel removed in 1828, the present church appears to
have been either rebuilt or repaired in 1721.  Like all churches
of that period in country places, it is ill-proportioned, being
60 1/2 feet in length, by 23 feet 8 inches in breadth, outside.
This was partly remedied by taking off, by a partition wall, a ves-
try or session-house, in the west end of the building.  There is a
belfry on the same end with a well toned bell, put up, as our ses-
sion records bear, "by the Laird of Lammingtoune, upon his own
charges," in 1650, having on it this inscription, "Joannes Monteith
fecit me 1647."  The stool of repentance, projecting three feet in
advance of Wandell gallery at its junction with the south side wall
of the church, and having, merely a few coarse spars in front, so
as to afford to the congregation a full view of the culprit, remained
here entire (th,e last, I believe, in the kingdom), till it was removed
on repairing the kirk, as already stated, in 1828.  This conspicu-
ous station, for there was no seat allowed in it, went by the name
of Canty! There is yet another remnant of "the olden time" con-
nected with this building, and that is, an iron staple rivetted into
the east side of the ancient door-way, in a perpendicular position,
having a play of 14 inches tip and down, in order to suit every pos-
sible circunstance in the objects to which it was applied, namely,
by compelling any one who had beep guilty of gross immorality, to
da penance hereon a Sabbath morn in the face of the assembling
congregation, having an iron collar fastened with padlock, round
thc neck, and the collar at the same time attached to an iron chain
moveable up and down, at pleasure, by means of a ring, upon the
                            3


