
			ALNESS.                          341

From an anecdote which is still current in the family of the
Munros, it appears-that he owed his first commission in the King's
service, and probably the whole of his after success and military
glory, to a circumstance in itself trivial.  A lady of considerable
rank, happening to travel alone in a thinly peopled part of the
country, was left in a helpless and unprotected state, in her car-
riage, from her postilion getting intoxicated.  Sir Hector, then
quite a youth, finding her in this condition, took the place of the
drunken coachman, and rendered her considerable service.  For
his activity and gallantry on this occasion, the lady was so grateful,
that she did not relax her exertions, till, by her influence, she had
procured him a commission in the army.  Without entering mi-
nutely into the particulars of his life, some idea may be given of his
eminence as an officer, by quoting shortly from an interesting ac-
count of the military operations in which he was engaged, written by
an officer in the same service.  The first occasion on which Sir
Hector Munro signalized himself in India was immediately after
the hostile intentions of France had become manifest; when the
British Parliament and the East India Company boldly determined
to strike the first blow in the east. Government bad at this time
resolved, as the Mahratta war had already employed so many of the
Company's troops, to send out a squadron with fresh supplies, and
1000 Highlanders, composing the seventy-third regiment, to assist
in the reduction of, Pondicherry, and for other services in India.
"It happened, however," says the officer to whom we are indebted
for information on the subject, "that intelligence of this resolution
had no sooner been transmitted overland to India, than the presi-
dency of Madrass found means to collect force enough themselves
for that purpose, before the seventy-third could arrive; with which
Major General Sir Hector Munro quickly laid siege to Pondicherry;
and, notwithstanding every effort of M. Bellecombe and his officers,
the garrison was obliged to capitulate in less than six weeks after-
wards; and, according to orders, the ramparts of that extensive
and beautiful city were completely levelled with the ground."
   Passing over several actions on the Coromandel coast, in all of
which Sir Hector Munro signalized himself more or less, but
in wbich he acted either as second in command, or in conjunction
with other officers, we may notice the taking of Negapatnam, which
was conducted and finally accomplished under his sole command.
The garrison bad been strongly reinforced by a large detachment of
Hyder Ally's troops, and consisted, at the time it was besieged, of



