
814                LANARKSHIRE.

to upwards of a hundred years of age.  The late Rev. Dr Blin-
shall of Dundee, his son, was a native of Lammingtoune ; as
was the late eminent Professor Jardine of Glasgow, a native of
Hillhouse in Wandell,-and a large flat tombstone in the kirkyard
marks the spot where his ancestors repose.  The late incumbent,
the Rev. Thomas Mitchell, was an accomplished scholar, and was
a candidate for the Greek chair in the University of Edinburgh,
at the time when the late excellent Professor Dalzell was ap-
pointed to it.  Mr Mitchell published a treatise upon the Atone-
ment, in answer to the work upon that subject by the Rev. Dr
M'Gill of Ayr.  His eldest son, Dr John Mitchell, a native of
the parish, is at present Senior Physician to the Royal Infirmary
of Manchester, and esteemed a man eminent in his profession.
It may be added, that the young laird of Lammingtoune, Alex-
ander Cochraine Baillie, Esq. just returned from his travels in
Greece, and the east of Europe, has this spring published a
volume of poems called " The Morea."
   Land-owners.-There are, at the present day, only two land-
owners connected with this parish, namely, Lord Douglas, the sole
proprietor of Wandell; and Alexander Cochrane Wishart Baillie,
Esq. sole proprietor of Lammingtoune.  The former old parish
and barony was held, in the time of King Alexander II., by
one styled " William de Hertisheved" (since Hartside), sheriff
of Lanark in 1225, (see Chart. Glasg.), and subsequently in the
reign of David II by " William de Gardin or Jardin," an-
cestor of the Jardines of Applegirth in Annandale, in whose fa-
mily it continued till the time of Charles the First; when it was
acquired by William, Marquis of Douglas, who conferred it upon
his son Archibald, Earl of Augus, created in 1651, Earl of Or-
monds, Locd Bothwell, and Ha rtside, with remainder to the heir-
male of his second marriage. The only son of that second mar-
riage was Archibald, second Earl of Ormond, who, in 1661, was
by a new patent created Earl of Forfar, Lord Wandale and
Hartside.  His son Archibald, second Earl of Forfar, being
mortally wounded in the King's cause at the battle of Sheriffmuir,
died on the 8th December 1715, without issue, when the barony
of Wandell or Hartside reverted to the head of his house, Archi-
bald, his cousin, created in 1703, Duke of Douglas, &c.; and it is
now held by his Grace's grand nephew, lord Douglas.  The farm
of Littlegill in Wandell, belonging formerly to a family of the
                                 3


