
               DYKE AND MOY.                           221

himself as a botanist, and added a considerable number of plants
to the British Flora.
   Land-owners.-The Earl of Moray; William Brodie Esq.of
Brodie; Norman M'Leod, Esq. of Dalvey; James M. Grant,
Esq. of Glenmorriston and Moy; Robert Grant, Esq. of Kin-
corth; John P. Grant, Esq. of Rothiemurcbus and Binsness.
   Parochial Registers.-The earliest date of the parochial regis-
ters is 1640. They consist of eleven volumes of different sizes.
Before the date of the registers which are now filling up, there are
several blank. Since 1783 they have been regularly kept.
   Antiquities.-Forming the back wing of the castle of Darnaway,
stands an ancient hall, measuring 89 feet long by 35 feet broad.
Its lofty roof is supported by massy beams of oak, and resembles
those of the Parliament House of Edinburgb, and Guildhall Lon-
don. It is said to have been erected by Thomas Randolph, Earl
of Moray. A large table of oak, and a chair of the same mate-
rial, which bear evident marks of great antiquity, are still preserv-
ed as memorials of the office and hospitality of the Regent.
   Near the northern approach to Brodie House, is a sortof obe-
lisk, about six feet high, forming a parallelogram. On one side is
a cross, elaborately carved, and on the other a number of rudely
sculptured fabulous animals. It was found in digging out the
foundations of the present church, and as claimed by some of
the parishioners as a grave-stone, a purpose for which it was obvi-
ously never designed. It was put up in the village in commemo-
ration of Rodney's victory over the Count de Grasse, and from
that circumstance received the name of Rodney's Cross. A few
years ago, it was removed to the Park of Brodie. It is verv much
defaced, and no trace of any inscription can now be seen upon it.
   In the church yard of Dyke, there is a grave-stone belonging
to the Brodie family of the date of 1448. The inscription is still
perfectly distinct and legible.
   About eighteen years ago, there was found in the churchyard,
imbedded in a heap of rubbish, a grave-stone, which possesses a
peculiar and melancholy interest, not so much from its antiquity,
for its date is only 1613, but as the only existing memorial of a
once powerful and opulent family, now extinct. Even the spot
where the ashes of the members of the family repose, cannot now
be pointed out. Fortunately it bad escaped injury, and is quite
entire. A few years after it was, found, it was placed for its better
preservation in the church.


