
		             GIRVAN.                        395

from a point to the east of south. Owing to the proximity of the
Atlantic, the average moisture of the atmosphere is greater than
in the more eastern parts of the island; but the soil being light
and dry, and upon a sandy, or gravelly, or rocky bottom, the cli-
mate is, upon the whole, mild, and remarkably salubrious.
	Hydrography.--Though, as compared with most places, the sur-
face of the parish be dry, there is no want of a necessary sup-
ply of water. Excellent springs are to be found at convenient dis-
tances; and there are three running streams, viz. the Girvan; the
Lendal, which falls into the sea at the bay of Carleton; and the
Assel, which falls into the Stinchar, opposite the house of Pinmore,
in the parish of Colmonell. Except the Girvan, however, these
streams are very small; but as they never run dry, they are ex-
tremely useful for the watering of cattle. There are only two
lochs in the parish, the Lochton and the Laggan; and these, though
deep, are so very diminutive in point of surface, as scarcely to be
worthy of notice.
	Geology.--Though the vale of Girvan abounds with coal, yet it
would appear that the strata all terminate above the boundary of
this parish, for none of that valuable fossil has ever yet been
found in it. In the east side of the parish, however, there is abun-
dance of excellent limestone, which has been wrought pretty ex-
tensively for upwards of twenty-five years, and tended very much
to the improvement of the surrounding country. Copper has also
been found in the parish; and it is thought by many, whose opi-
nions should have some weight, that a rich store of it is in reserve
for future enterprise, especially in the estate of Ardmillan. One or
two attempts have been made to determine the point, which did
not prove successful, but they were on a scale so very limited, as
to be by no means decisive. What little ore was got, was of the
first quality; and in working for the copper, two or three beautiful
specimens of asbestos were discovered. There is some red free-
stone, a good deal of blue whinstone, and several detached masses
of graystone; but the rock which abounds most, and particularly
in the neighbourhood of the sea, is what is commonly called rotten-
rock, or puddingstone, the old red sandstone of some geologists.
The shore, for several miles, is bound by this rock, which in many
places assumes a most fantastical appearance; it dips in all direc-
tions, but chiefly towards the sea, at an angle of not more than
from five to ten degrees. In many instances, mass of it is seen
piled upon mass, and resting frequently on props so narrow, as to


