
                                     CROMARTY.
                                                                     7
       when it was first discovered to be composed mostly of vegetable
       remains,-part of the ruins, perhaps, of one of those forests which
       covered at one time almost the entire surface of the island, and
       sheltered the naked inhabitants from the legions of Agricola.
       Huge trees from two to four feet in diameter, and so entirely de.-
       cayed that they offered scarcely more resistance to the tool than
       banks of common clay, were seen to stretch across the bottom of
       the newly formed chasm, or to protrude from its sides.  The soil in
       which they were imbedded is a black solid peat moss, composed
       mostly of bark and branches; and in masses of a fetid unctuous
       earth, which seems endowed with a stronger preservative quality
       than even the moss itself, there were found the leaves of plants so
       little decayed that the species could still be distinguished, stalks
       of what seemed to have been either grass or straw, and whole
       handfuls of hazel nuts.  It is not yet four years since there were
       dug out of the sides of the chasm, about nine feet from the sur-
       face, three huge oaken planks, which had evidently been fashioned
       by the hand of man; and in the bottom, which is now fast filling up,
       there were found, about fourteen years before, fragments of the bones
       and horns of deer, and the horn of an elk.  In the upper part of the
       parish, there was a much more extensive moss, which, before the
       opening of the coal trade with Newcastle, supplied the place with
       fuel, but it gradually wore out, and the poorer part of the people
       were subjected in consequence to much hardship durimg severe win-
       ters.  " A Cromarty fire" was a name current over the country for a
       fire just gone out; and some humorist of the period represents a
       Cromarty farmer in a phrase which became proverbial, as giving
       his daughter the key of the peat-chest, and bidding her take out a
       peat and a-half that she might " put on a good fire."
                               II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
         The celebrated Macbeth makes his first appearance in history
       as Thane of Cromarty; but we are acquainted with only the fact.
       In a later age, the hill directly behind the town was the scene,
       says tradition, of one of Wallace's victories over the English; and
       a few shapeless hillocks which may still be seen among the trees
       and bushes that now cover the eminence, were raised, it is said,
       over the slain.  A still more ancient field of battle is pointed out
       on a moor in the upper part of the parish.  It abounds in tumuli
       and little heathy ridges which resemble the graves of a churchyard,
       and towards its eastern extremity there is a huge pile of stones,
       known to the people of the place as the grey-cairn; but the con-


