
		   ISLAND OF SKYE-LEAT.                          321

	are regular in attending on religious ordinances. Many come to
	church in winter, a distance of five and six miles. The average
	number of communicants is 200.
	     Education.-There are three endowed schools in the parish : viz.
	the parochial school, near the church-an Assembly school at
	Tormore in the southern part of the parish, and one from the So-
	ciety in Scotland for Propagating Christian Knowledge. These
	three schools have suitable houses for their accommodation. A
	school from the Gaelic School Society has been established at
	the ferry of Kyle-rhea, opposite to Glenelg. Another schoo
	is wanted at Isleornsay, to place the means of education within
	easy reach of all the inhabitants. A large proportion of the old
	people are unable to read or write; but they all seem desirous that
	their children should be educated.
	     Poor and Parochial Funds.-When the season is good and the
	crops plentiful, the poor having more or less crop, do not require
	the same extent of aid as in bad seasons. During the destitu-
	tion of 1837, nearly 1500 required aid ; but in ordinary years,
	about 200 are left to depend more or less on others. The ave-
	rage amount of the collections from 1826 to 1836 was L. 10
	a-year. Since that period, Owing to the landlord's absence from
	the parish, and other causes, the collections became merely nomi-
	nal, so that in 1836 the kirk-session came to the resolution of
	having no stated collection. The poor are now supported by the
	charity of their neighbours. All the rent-payers consider it a duty
	to appropriate a certain portion of their potatoes and corii for the
	poor, and in this way their wants have been hitherto supplied.
	When a case of extraordinary distress occurs, an occasional col-
	lection is made for its relief. This plan for the support of the poor
	may answer well in good seasons. But should a bad season come,
	and the crops fail, similar destitution to what took place in 1837
	must recur. To afford to the poor the aid of food and clothing
	which their destitution requires, a permanent fund must be provid-
	ed, and this can only be secured by an assessment; but, in the cir-
	cumstances of the parish from over-population, and its consequent
	poverty, this would introduce such evils, that other means must
	fail before it be resorted to. At present, the situation of the
	people is gradually but surely tending to make an assessment ne-
	cessary.
	     Fuel.-The only fuel is turf, which is,good and- abundant.


