
                      ELLON.                                925

Lord's Supper has been annually dispensed in the new church, for
the last four years, by authority of the Presbyteries of Deer and
Ellon, and the number of persons who partook of the ordinance
in 1840 was upwards of 500.  The writer is not aware that the
ordinary attendance at the original parish churches, though the
number of communicants of course is not so great as formerly, has
been sensibly diminished.-The sittings in the parish church, with
the exception of the minister's pew, are exclusively in the hands
of the heritors or their tenants.  No sittings in the parish church
are let.  The sittings in the new church above spoken of are let
annually at a rate varying from 1s. 6d. to 4s.  The seat rents, as
the collections are applied exclusively for the relief of the poor,
constitute the only fund available at the present time for defraying
the expense of public ordinances.
   The manse of Ellon was repaired and enlarged by the addition
of two public rooms, a bed closet, kitchen, and sleeping apart-
ments for servants, in 1826.  It is now probably, in point both
of comfort and accommodation, one of the best manses in the
countrv.  Though but a little way removed from the village, yet
an intervening screen of Huntingdon willows gives to the grounds
within the gate an appearance quite secluded and rural.  The si-
tuation, for this part of the country, may be considered beautiful.
It stands on a bank sloping to the Ythan, the intermediate ground
between it and the river being laid out as garden.  The offices also
are sufficiently commodious and in good repair.
   The glebe, inclusive of the garden, may extend to about six Scotch
acres.  From its proximity to the village, although the soil is not
in general of first rate quality, it would probably yield an annual
rent of from L.18 to L.20.  The stipend, as modified in 1823
amounts to sixteen chalders of grain, half barley half meal, pay-
able by the fiar prices of the county, with an allowance of L.10
for communion elements.  The barley is estimated by the Linlith-
gow measure.  The teinds, which belong to the heritors, may
amount on an average of years to the value of L.800 per annum.
   The patronage of the church belongs to the Earl of Aberdeen.
   According to the census, already repeatedly adverted to, the dis-
tribution of the population with reference to religious communion
stands as follows:

<TABLE>
          Number of Episcopalians,	.	.	.    147
          Independents,	.	.	.	.	.     47
          Roman Catholics,	.	.	.	.      1


