
			GLASGOW.                            165

in procuring the services of Mr James B. Neilson, engineer, pa-
tentee of the iron hot-blast. To the scientific attainments of this
distinguished manager, the company are chiefly indebted for their
uncommon success, and for the most perfect and beautiful esta-
blishment of the kind in the kingdom.
	In May 1835, the directors of the Gas Company drew up,
printed, and circulated a short history of their affairs, of which the
following is an Abstract. In the act of 1825, the company became
bound that the dividends should not exceed 10 per cent on their
stock per annum. From the commencement of the undertaking,
they supplied the city and suburbs of Glasgow with gas, at prices
below what were charged in any other city in the empire.
	In 1818, the period at which the lighting of the city commen-
ced, the charge for a single jet to eight o'clock was 12s. per annum.
Since that period, the company have been enabled to make four
successive reductions of the rates. In 1819, they reduced the
rates L. 1800 per annum; in 1822, L. 1200; in 1830, L. 2300;
and in 1833, L. 1600. The charge for a single jet lighted to eight
o'clock; is now reduced to 6s. 6d. per annum. The aggregate
amount of the rates paid by the consumers in 1835 is L. 30,000,
and the number of payers about 10,000.
	Chemical Works.--The process for dyeing Turkey or Adria-
nople red, was first introduced into Britain by Mr George Mac-
intosh, at a dye-house which he established at Glasgow. The im-
mense importance since attained by this branch of commerce in
Britain owes its origin entirely to this circumstance.
	Mr George Macintosh also commenced the manufacture of the
dye stuff called cudbear, in Glasgow. This is a modification of
the Florentine manufacture of orcella, or orseille, and is still car-
ried on, on a large scale, by Mr Charles Macintosh, the son of
the first named gentleman.
	In the year 1786, Mr Charles Macintosh introduced from Hol-
land, the manufacture of sugar of lead, saccharum saturni, or ace-
tate of lead. This article had previously been obtained by im-
portation from Holland; but in the course of a very short time, this
state of matters was reversed, by Mr Macintosh exporting ihe ar-
ticle in considerable quantities to Rotterdam, the place from which
a knowledge of the manufacture was first obtained. Independent
of its use in medicine, sugar of lead is employed on the large wale
in calico-printing, in the formation of the mordant called red co-
lour liquor; in which process a double chemical decomposition is
	LANARK.				M


