
310			     FIFESHIRE.

the district. The common plough drawn by two horses is in daily
use. The trenching and subsoil plough have both been tried,
but neither are as yet in general use in the parish ; but I should
consider that there could not be a greater improvement to the
parish generally than the use of the latter; as most of the land is
recumbent upon a very retentive substratum, when rain falls, the
earth soon gets saturated; whereas were the bottom opened by the
subsoil plough, the water would get into the land, and off by the
drains, and thus the quantity of rain which made the land before
unfit for tillage would never occur, and the plough would be kept
profitably at work. Of manure, besides the common farm-yard dung,
lime is in constant use, and is found to be most beneficial when
applied to land that has never been limed, or to that which has
lain long in grass. The second and third application of it has been
found not to be productive of so much good, but still lime can be
beneficially applied at all times. There is an abundant supply
of it at, Radernie and Winthank, sold at from 2s. to 2s. 6d.
per boll, old barley measure. Bone-dust has also been tried suc-
cessfully in the rearing of turnips, but this will not prove such a
benefit to this part of the country, from the wetness of the soil
not admitting the turnips being eaten off by sheep, as it must be to
the dry upland farms of Scotland.
   Improvements.-The condition of farm-buildings in the parish
is in general good, and the offices well laid out for the various pur-
poses of rural economy. The houses of the tenants are general-
ly two stories high, and wide in proportion, and most of the mo-
dern buildings are covered with slates. In general agreements as
to new erections and repairs, the tenant engages to drive the ma-
terials, such as lime, stone, sand, wood, slate, &c. and the land-
lord pays for the erection of the buildings. In some instances also,
with regard to the draining of land, the landlord pays for the open-
ing and laying the drains, the tenant quarrying the stones and car-
rying them, which may be said to be for their mutual advantage.
There is one thrashing machine in the parish which has a steam
power; the rest are wrought by horses. The duration of leases is
nineteen year is and perhaps, in a country where so much requires
to be done, it would be better to extend the lease to a longer pe-
riod, to encourage the tenant to improve his land, and allow him
a sufficient time to reap the full benefit of his outlay. The greater
part of the parish is already enclosed with hedges and dikes, and
the enclosure of the rest is proceeding  gradually. On the farm of
South Lambieletham, the proprietor is at present opening all the

