
234                        BANFFSHIRE.

   The common breeds of cattle in the parish are the polled Buch-
an kind, or a Banffshire breed with horns. A Teeswater bull was
introduced by John Wilson, Esq. Brangan, in 1829; and there are
now four or five bulls of this kind in the'parisb, and consequently
a considerable stock of the cross-breed is now reared, which are
fed off when rising three or four year old for the London market.
A large flock of sheep is kept on the farm of Mill of Boindie; but
this stock is not kept on any of the other farms, there being no range
of suitable pasture for the purpose. It would contribute to the im-
provement of the light drx soil in the low part of the parish to con-
sume turnips on the ground with sheep, as it would tend-to obviate
the bad effects of frequent cultivation on soil of this character. Wheat
husbandry has been practised to a considerable extent within the
last ten years in the low part of the parish, but it is again very
much abandoned. Independently of the soil being generally a
sand, the climate on an average of years is incapable of maturing
other than an inferior sample of this grain; and the coarseness of
the straw is a serious objection in a cattle-feeding district. The
Chevalier barley is also generally abandoned, being found, although
a fine sample, to be too late, and to yield a deficient return in
quantity.
  Leases now granted are for nineteen years. The houses of the
farmers are generally very superior. The offices have undergone
a great improvement of late years. For houses the landlord ge-
nerally allows one or two years rent in whole at the expiry of the
lease. The more recent erections have far exceeded this allow-
ance. For the improvement of waste land L.5 per acre is allow-
ed, for which 71/2 per cent. per annum is charged from the tenant.
Several of the farms on the coast are enclosed with dry stone
dikes. One of the principal improvements executed in this parish
of late years, has been the reclaiming of the marshes lying along the
course of the burn of Boindie, chiefly on the farm of John Milne,
Esq. at Mill of Boindie. Frequent draining, chiefly with stones
from the sea-beach, about the size of road metalling, is now going
forward on the farms of Alexander Rainy, Esq. factor for the Earl
of Seafield. Alexander Murray, Esq. at Whitehills, intends to put
the same plan in practice on his fields at Lochside, which, when
thoroughly drained, will confirm the reputation of his farm as the
most highly improved in this district.\f*

<FOOTNOTE>This farm, Kirktown of Boindie, affords an instructive example of the effect of


