
98                   ROSS AND CROMARTY.

in the year 1823. The glebe is worth about L. 30 per annum;
the amount of the stipend is L. 240. There is one Government
church in the parish; it is situated at Poolewc, six miles to the
north of the parish church, and fourteen from the northern extre-
mity of the parish. It is now erected into a new and separate pa-
rish quoad sacra, called the parish of Poolewe. Exactly one-
half of the population of the whole parish is connected with this
new parish. We have one catechist employed by the Committee
for managing his Majesty's Royal Bounty, and another paid by con-
tributions from the parishioners. There is not a single Dissenter
within the bounds of the parish. The average number of comniu-
nicants at the parish church and Government church, is 360.
Education.-Tlie total number of schools in the parish is 9
the parochial school is one of that number ; all the rest are sup-
ported by different religious societies. The branches of instruc-
tion taught at the parochial school are, Greek, Latin, mathematics,
arithmetic, writing and English, and Gaelic reading. The branch-
es taught at the Societv schools are arithmetic, writing, English and
Gaelic reading. The salary in the parochial school is L. 30 Ster-
ling, and L. 4 are obtained from school fees ; at the Society
schools, the salaries are from L. 5 to L. 25 Sterling. Scarcely
any school fees can be calculated upon, owing to the poverty of the
people. From six to eight schools are still required in the parish ;
and. some of the schools now in operation ought to be put on a
more permanent and efficient footing. Not more than one in every
ten of the whole population is able to read and write in English.
In 1833 ' 1773 persons above six years of age could not read either
in the Gaelic or English languages.
Poor.-The number of poor receiving parochial aid in the pa-
rish, is about 100, each receiving from 2s. 6d. to 6s. per annum.
The annual amount for their relief is about L. 16, principally aris-
ing from church door collections.
... Inns.-There are five licensed inns in the parish. Their effects
are most destructive to the inomls ofthe people. This is evident
from the fact, that those who live in-the close neighbourhood ofthese
houses ' are in general given to tippling and idleness,-while those
who have not such a temptation at their doors are sober, industri-
ous people.
liwl.-Peat is the only kind of fuel used by the people: it is
procured in the mosses contiguous to their dwelling-botises, at an
ezpense of from L. I to L. 2 for a family, in the year.
4

