
124                       ELGINSHIRE.

of the Lochaber reivers to Moray land. Its modern name is evi-
dently derived from the Gaelic Tuathil, north, in opposition to
Deishal, south, the name of a considerable stripe of land in the
southern district of the parish.
   Extent and Boundaries.-The parish may be about 16 miles
long by 13 miles broad. It is bounded on the north and north-
east by the parishes of Ardclach and Cawdor; north-west, by
the united parishes of Moy and Delarossie; south-west, by Alvie;
east, by Inverallan; and on the south, by the Spey, which di-
vides it from the united parishes of Abernethy and Kincardine.
Its figure is nearly that of an oblong square.
   Topographical Appearance, &c.-The appearance of the parish
is hilly. Along the whole of the north side, there runs a continu-
ed range of hill, commencing at the north-eastern extremity, and
running westward in a direct line, till it terminates in the Monadh-
lia, an extensive range common to the districts of Badenoch,
Strathdearn, and Stratherrick. The only interruption to the con-
tinuity of this range, is the narrow pass or ravine of Slocmuic,
through which the great highland road between Inverness and
Perth passes. The only natural production peculiar to this range,
as well as to many smaller hills projecting from it, is heather, with
a sprinkling of small verdant patches at considerable distance from
one another, which relieves the eye in some measure from the
sombre monotony of the general landscape. Parallel to this range
there is another in the south side of the parish, much lower than
the range already mentioned, but equally barren in natural pro-
ductions. This range commences eastward in Craig Ghartin, and
expands in breadth till it terminates in Craigelachie, the slo-
gan hill of the Grants, which divides Strathspey from Badenoch,
and the county of Moray from Inverness, in that direction. Be-
tween these two parallel ranges, is the narrow valley of the Dulnan,
bisected by the stream from which the valley derives its name,
Between the southern range and the Spey, is a narrow stripe of
land, extending the whole length of the parish.
   Soil.-The soil is of two, kinds. That on the banks of the
Dulnan and Spey is chiefly alluvial, with a deep clay subsoil. In
the more elevated situations, its general characteristic is thin and
gravelly, with a considerable intermixture of stones. In favour-
able seasons, the haugh grounds yield heavy crops of oats; and
since the year 1827 till 1834, (both included), the higher grounds
nave, under the joint influence of favourable seasons, and an im-


