
228                     FIFESHIRE

years averages at L.218 Sterling, with L.8, 6s 8d. for commu-
nion elements.
   There is only one church of Original Seceders, stationed at
Balmullo, with about 70 joined members, and a respectable minis-
ter, whose stipend is of small and variable amount. But to supply
the deficiency, his supporters have built him a small manse and a
few offices, and granted two acres for a cow's grass.
   The attendance at the Established Church throughout the year
is steady and full. The number of persons attending church may
be estimated at 600 generally. The number of communicants
average 700. Some are induced, from convenience, usually to at-
tend the neighbouring parish churches. The number of dissen-
ters throughout the parish is perhaps not more than 100.
   A society has been established for twelve years for promoting
religious purposes at home and abroad, which has contributed
about L.40 annually. However, it is now fast declining.
   The collections throughout the year at the church door average
L.23, and have varied little in amount for the last twenty-five
years. The farmers seem to prefer giving their charity to their
cottars, with whom they are more immediately connected. The
villagers assist their poorer neighbours in a similar way, without
troubling the kirk-session, by rendering it the medium of com-
munication. A mistaken idea prevails among many that the ses-
sion funds are so rich as to require no addition to them.
   Education.--There are four schools; one parochial and three
unendowed. Of the latter, one is for teaching sewing chiefly, and
English reading,--is supported by the Balcarres family, and the
fees of the scholars. The remaining two are supported by fees
alone. The branches taught in the parish school are, English
Latin, Greek, arithmetic, practical mathematics, writing, gram-
mar, and geography. At present there are no Latin or Greek
scholars. The amount of fees in the parochial school is L.20;
do in the Balmullo school at present L.40 nearly. The amount
of fees in the other two varies much. The parish schoolmaster
now enjoys the maximum salary; and interest of 2000 merks Scots,
also a glebe of two acres, bequeathed by the Rev. A. Henderson.
The children generally attend only two or three quarters in the
year, and pay 6s, 7s. 6d., or at most 9s. per annum each, but
often pay weekly. No person is known to be incapable of read-
ing, and very few who cannot write after nine years of age. There


