
			      MORTLAC           		   105

   of a brave, sensible, and pious man, was reluctantly borne along by
   the retreating crowd, till he was opposite the church of Mortlach,
   then a chapel dedicated to St. Molach.  The narrowness of the pass
   here abated a little the career of the pursuing Danes; and the fly-
   ing army having a short space to breathe, were, from the very nature
   of the ground, again almost necessarily collected.  The appearance
   of the consecrated walls inspired the monarch, in that age of su-
   perstition, with a devotional impulse.  He prayed, paid homage to
   the Virgin Mary and the tutelary saint, according to the manners
   of the times, and addressed himself in an animating speech, to his
   countrymen and fellow-soldiers.  At this critical moment, he put
   himself at the head of his forces, again pressed on the foe, threw
   Euetus, one of the Danish generals, from his horse, and killed him
   with his own hand.  The charge was vigorously renewed; and , un-
   der the mingled influence of patriotism and relogion, the Scotch,
   carrying all before them, achieved the victory.  Soon after this de-
   feat, the Danes left the kingdom.  There are some appearances
   indicating that the final engagement, after rallying, happened a few
   hundred yards to the south-west of the Castle of Balvery; and it
   seems more than probable, that the more ancient part of that build-
   ing was then in existence, for a fort is mentioned as near the field
   of battle.*
      Antiquities.- The two old Castles of Auchindown and Balvery de-
   serve to be mentioned.  They are, at present, in a ruinous state, but
   were, about two hundred years ago, both inhabited.  When They
   were first built, and by whom, is not known.  The former stands
   in a bold and commanding situation, on the banks of the Fiddich,
   and has, since the year 1535, been in possesion of the Gordon
   family.  The latter stands on a beautiful eminence, a little below
   the confluence of the Fiddich and Dullen, and is now the proper-
   ty of the Earl of life.  On its front and over its high and massy
   gate still remaining, is a motto of the Stewarts, Earls of Athol,
   descriptive of the savage valour and unhappy circumstances of the
   times: "Furt Fortuine and Fill thi Fettris."
      Among some rubbish dug up about fifteen years ago, in the ruins
   of the Castle of Auchindown, a massive gold ring of three links
   was found, with a motto inscribed upon it, which, as it could only
   be read when the rings were in a certaun position, seems to have
   been intended as a puzzle.  It is supposed to be possesion

   <FOOTNOTE>Vide Fordun, Boetius, &c.


