
274                             BERWICKSHIRE.

   Quarries.-There are four good freestone quarries in the pa-
rish, one of which is a sale quarry.
  		   V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Dunse is the nearest market-town,-distant from this parish
about three and a-half miles. Allanton is the only village in the
parish,-about three miles from Edrom.
   Means of Communication.-We have a regular conveyance for
letters and newspapers by Dunse and Ayton. The length of the
public roads in the parish, including turnpikes and parish roads, is
twenty-five miles. A public coach runs between Dunse and Ber-
wick in the summer season thrice a-week, and sometimes every
lawful day. Carriers from Dunse to Berwick pass Edrom every
day in the week: there is a daily coach from Dunse to Edinburgh,
besides regular carriers. There is one bridge over the Whitadder,
called Chirnside Bridge; and another over the Whitadder at Al-
lanton, is very much needed. There are also two bridges over the
Blackadder in this parish,-one, called the Mouth Bridge, on the
road from Dunse to the south Berwick road; the other at Kimmer-
ghame. Farther, there are two wooden bridges over the Blackad-
der for foot-passengers.
   Corn-Markets.-There is a weekly corn-market in Dunse every
Wednesday. The sales are by sample; but the principal corn
market is Berwick, which is held every Saturday. The corn is
shipped to London, sometimes to Edinburgh. Some farmers
drive their grain to Dunbar and Dalkeith, and frequently lime is
brought back by the returning carts. Sheep and cattle are mostly
driven south to Morpeth; but some to the Dalkeith and Edin-
burgh markets. There are fairs, besides, in the neighbourhood
for the sale of cattle, and there is a monthly market at Coldstream.
   Ecclesiastical State. *-The present church of Edrom was built
in 1732, and has since been repaired. It is a long building, a
gallery at each end and a gallery in front of the pulpit, and ano-
ther gallery immediately behind the pulpit. The gallery in front
is over the burying vault of the Kelloe family, the gallery behind

<FOOTNOTE>"The lands and church of Ederharn with Nisbet were grand to St Cuthbert's
monks by Gospatrick Earl of Dunbar, and confirmed in 1139 by David I. In 1150
the donation of Gospatrick was confirmed by Robert Bishop of St Andrew's, in the
presence of the Synod at Berwick town, and it was also confirmed by Bishop Richard,
who ruled the see of St Andrew's from 1163 to 1177. Richard also granted in favour
of the prior of Coldingharn the investiture of the church of Ederham. In the ancient
taxation the church of Ederharn was rated at no less than 100 marks. Ederham was,
of course, a vicarage till the Reformation, and William de Chatton, vicaire de l'eglise
de Ederham, swore fealty to Edward I. 24th August 1296, at Berwicktow."-
Chalmers' Caledonia, Vol. ii. p. 357.
   				   3


