
116                        KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

tors can be compelled by the sheriff to grant relief.  There is,
however, a great repugnancy on the part of the paupers to be re-
moved to anything like a workhouse; that is, to being collected
into one dwelling, with a person to attend to them.
     Fairs, &c.--Formerly there were four fairs in New Galloway.
The April, midsummer, and Hallow fairs are still pretty numerously
attended.  Little business, except hiring, is transacted at them.
Cattle-markets have recently been commenced, with every pro-
spect of success.  There are three inns in New Galloway, and one
public house in a remote part of the parish.  Fuel is expensive.
Peats are most generally used by the peasantry and in the farm
kitchens.  They are becoming scarce, and cannot cost less than
3s. per cart load.  Coal are brought from Dalmellington in Ayr-shire; they cost at the pit 3s. or 3s. 6d. per ton of twenty cwt.;
but there is a land carriage of twenty-four miles to New Gal-
loway, which necessarily renders them very expensive.

                       * MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
     The comforts of the people have been undoubtedlY much in-
creased since the last Statistical Account was written.  At that pe-
riod, and down even to the last fifteen or twenty years, salted pro-
visions were alone used from Martinmas to July.  The houses have
undergone a great improvement.  Roads, which in 1792 were mere
mountain tracks, have been opened up in every direction.  The
church collections, which then averaged only L. 12, 1Os. per an-
num, now average L. 35 or L. 40, and this without any additional
resident heritors to swell the amount,--a circumstance showing both
a more general attendance upon ordinances, and greater ability on
the part of the people to contribute to the poor, while the number
of paupers, when the population is considered, has not proportion-
ally increased.  There appears to have been no increase in the num-
ber of sheep and cattle kept in the parish, but in the quality of
the stock there has been a vast improvement.  In agriculture,
though a more liberal system of husbandry is certainly gaining
ground, much remains to be done.  The fences and drainage are
both bad, nor in many cases is the value of manure at all appre-
ciated as it ought to be, either as a mean for top-dressing mea-
dow land, or to enable the farmer permanently to improve his pas-
turagd by sowing out his fields in a luxuriant state.  The two
great impediments in the way of farther improvements are the ex-
pense of lime, and several farins susceptible of profitable tillage,


