
168                        ABERDEENSHIRE.

and regularly interred.  The proprietor of the lands of Fintray
collects and pays to the Exchequer the feu-duties which belonged
to the Abbacy of Lindores-several of the landed estates in this
part of the country holding of said Abbacy, and paying feu-duty
thereto.
   The buildings (denominated the Northern Abbey) are suppos-
ed to have been erected about the year 1386, from a stone bearing
that date having been observed many. years ago in the dike of the
burying ground, which had probably been composed of fragments
of the demolished abbey whereof no vestige now remains above
the surface of the ground; but foundations of its walls occasionally
interrupt the digging of graves.
   The minister has in his possession a silver cup belonging to the
parish, bearing date 1632, which tradition says was formed from a
silver head of St Meddan, the tutelar saint of the parish; which,
in the days of Popish superstition, was wont to be carried through
the parish in procession, for the purpose of bringing down rain, or
clearing up the weather, as circumstances might require.
   Modern Buildings.-The principal building in the parish is Fin-
tray House, a large, elegant, and commodious mansion in the Tu-
dor style, lately erected by Sir John Forbes, Bart.  There is also
a neat and commodious house on the lands of Disblair, built in
the cottage style, and of a size suited to the extent and value of
the property attached.
   Historical Occurrences.-The most remarkable events in this
parish, within the memory of the present generation, are the floods
of the river Don, which were till of late years a very serious bar
to agricultural improvements.  The first great flood on record
happened in the year 1768, which carried away the greater part
of the crop from the haughs and level lands, at the period between
reaping and stacking. A similar inundation took place in August
1799, which carried off considerable quantities of hay, and de-
stroyed, in a great measure, the grain crop, the whole of which
stood, at that time, on the ground uncut.  A similar, but still
higher flood happened on 4th August 1829, when the river rose
about fourteen feet above its ordinary level, and nearly eighteen
inches higher than any flood of that river in the memory of the old-
est person alive, and extending (where the river was not confined
by elevated lands or embankments) to from half to three-fourths
of a mile in breadth.  This extraordinary flood occasioned very
serious losses, to many individuals; and bad it not been for strong
                                   3


