
                              MONTROSE.                           273

healthy,--an inestimable advantage, for which it is probably in a great
measure indebted to time dryness of its soil.
   Geology.--The lower part of the parish is sand to a great depth,
and as that sand is mixed with sea shells, it is highly probable that
the basin has at one time been a bay. The lower part is separated
from the upper for the space of upwards of a mile, by a low mound
running nearly parallel with the sea, formed of round water-worn
stones or bowls; whether this mound has been left in its present
state by the retiring of the sea, or whether it is not in a great de-
gree artificial, affords room for doubt. The north road is carried
along it, and a considerable portion of it has been removed for
metal to the roads. Although it is only a few yards in breadth, the
soil on the west side of it is of a totally different nature from that
on the east, part of it being black loam with a clay bottom, part
of it lighter with a gravel bottom. On the estate of Hedderwick
there is a limestone quarry, and a great part of the higher grounds
in the parish probably rests upon lime. The want of stone in the
neighbourhood is, in an economical point of view, a great disadvan-
tage to the town. The stones used in building have to be brought
from Brechin, a distance of eight miles, or from other quarries
about the same distance. Lately a considerable quantity of stone
has been brought from the south coast of Fife by sea, and the dif-
ference in price between these and what is brought by land is not
material.
   There is a mineral well in the parish still resorted to by people
in its immediate neighbourhood: but its reputation does not stand
high.
   Zoology--Under this head, there is little deserving particular
notice. The principal varieties of birds that frequent the basin
are enumerated in the account of the parish of Craig, and it is
unnecessary to repeat them here. The salmon-fishings in the ri-
vers which bound the parish, and in stake-nets along the coast, are
valuable. The market is abundantly supplied with white fish,
chiefly cod and haddocks, also ling, whitings, halibut, turbot,
flounders, &c. The families employed in the fishing reside chiefly
in Ferryden and Usan, villages in the parish of Craig. From the
same quarter, a great many fish are carted for the supply of the in-
land parts of the country.
   Botany.--In this department, the parish does not produce much
that is particularly deserving of attention, although it certainly
possesses a considerable variety of indigenous plants. The sea


