
        192                      INVERNESS-SHIRE.

        This bent is used by the parishioners in making sacks for carrying
        their corn to the mill, and for horse graith, &c.  There is a large
        sandy tract near the northern extremity of South Uist, named
        Machare mianach, consisting of about 600 acres, which, for the
        last hundred years, has been of no use whatever, now partly brought
        into cultivation, being contiguous to abundance of sea-ware occa-
        sionally cast ashore.   There were about 150 acres of it under
        bear or bigg last year, which, notwithstanding the inclemency of
        the season,-produced about 500 bolls.  If this ground, tilled last
        spring, were- allowed, to remain without crop for a few years, and
        if the adjoining pairt of 450 acres were brought into cultivation
        in succession in the same way, the whole (now a complete waste)
        would. in the course of a few years, be a delightful piece of ground,
        yielding abundance of fine grass.  So backward were the tenants
        of the district to commence cropping this waste, under the idea
        that they should have nothing for their labour, that Clanranald's
        factor, in order to stimulate them to exertion, was obliged to pro-
        mise each a certain quantity of grain, if the crop should fail.
          Rent.-With regard to the average rent of grazing, it is to be
        observed, that the lands are let according to the amount of black-
        cattle they are calculated to maintain. The average sum for a milk
        cow with a two year old and stirk, is L. 2, 15s.  The grass rent
        of the sheep is included in this sum.
          Wages.--The wages of farm-servants are from L.4, 12s. to
        L.8. Price of butter, L.1 ; of cheese, 7s. per stone, Dutch weight.
          The crofters are tenants at will, and have no leases: but there
        is scarcely an instance of any of them being dispossessed of their
        lands, unless when guilty of bad conduct towards their neigbbours,
        of gross immorality.  The tacksmen, or principal farmers, have
        leases of fourteen years' endurance.  There are very few enclo-
        sures in the parish, and farm-office houses are in a very indifferent
        state in general.  There'are fifteen slated farm-houses in the pa-
        rish.  The principal improvements, as already stated, are, road-
        making, stopping sand drift, and bringing moss lands into cultiva-
        tion.  Much land of excellent quality might be recovered from
        the water, by. draining some of the lakes; the largest of which,
        Loch Bee, in the immediate vicinity of the extensive sand waste
        before described, might, by an outlay of an inconsiderable sum
        of money, or by the labour of the tenants, now much in arrears,
        from, the low price of cattle, be nearly all drained, whereby a
                                         3

