
                                KILBRIDE                    23


which stood on the farm of South Sannox, was used as building-
materials for a dry dike; and, about twenty-four years ago, a
very complete circle at the mouth of Glensberaig was remov-
ed, in clearing the field in which it stood for the operations
of the plough. But there are imperfect remnats of circles still
to be seen at the top of Blarmore glen, at the head of Glencloy,
and in some other places. Many erect monumental stones or
columns still remain in the parish. the largest of these, which is 14
feet high, stands on the lower side of the raod at Brodickwood; and
at Glenshant, Sannox, Mayish, and Largiemore, others of the
same description appear, either singly or in irregular groups. Per-
haps a few of them may be remnants of circles. Of the sepulchral
cairn, there are one or two specimens not far from the manse, on
the farm of Blarmore; but the largest which the writer has
examined is one of more than 200 feet in circumference, at the
head of Moniemore glen. From its position, on a plain of considerable
extent, near the mouth of a narrow pass, between the
east and west  side of the island, it is probable that this was the
scene of a battle; and that the cairn was erected to cover the
ashes of those who fell in the engagement. A copsiderable part
of the stones was carried away two years ago, for building a dike
in the neighbourhood; and as those on the surface were removed,
several stone coffins, aech composed of six unhewn flags, were
found under them. Similar coffins are every year met with, in
cutting drains and ditches, in differnet parts of the parish, some-
times connected with cairns and sometimes not. There is a large
collection of them on a narrow plain near the shore at Largiebeg.
In some of them, when opened, there were found rude urns of un-
baked clay, containing ashes. One turned up last year in the
neighbourhood of the manse contained human bones. And in
another, which a man at South Kiscadale fell in with several
years ago, in making a fence round his garden, there was found a
piece of gold in the form of a handle of a drawer thus, with
some iron or steel much corroded, at each end. The man con-
cealed his prize, till he got it disposed of to jeweller in Glasgow,
who melted it down into rings and brooches. It was, therefore,
never submitted to the eye of any experienced antiquary, to ascer-
tain either its age or probable use. From the description given of
it, the probability is that it was the guard of a sword handle.
There are differnet places in the parish, what appears to be ves-
tiges of ancient forts. One of these is on Tornamahigin (Gaeh,





