
540                             ARGYLESHIRE.

the parents themselves, in poor circumstances, hiring teachers for
the winter and spring months.
  By a census taken in 1835, the island of

<TABLE>

             Jura contained, males, 598; females, 630; total, 1228
             Scarba,                 25            23           48
             Lunga,                  l0            14           24
             Belnahun,               77            74          151
             Colonsay and Oronsay,                             839
             Garvelloch or Holy island,                          7
                                                               ----
                                        Total,                2297

                       	IV.-INDUSTRY.
  Improvements and Modern Buildings.--Since the publication
of the former Statistical Account, much has been done  in the way
of turning waste and pasture lands to the very best advantage.
Considerable sums of money have been expended in making sheep
drains in hill and dale, by which means several extensive tracts of
land, where nothing but stunted heath, sprits, and underwood was
to be seen, now present an improved surface clothed with a ver-
dant covering.  Bridges have been constructed, comfortable farm-
steadings erected; and throughout the whole extent of the parish,
sunk fences with whin, black and hazel thorn hedges, substantial
and well built stone dikes, judiciously laid out, now intersect
the Island of Jura.  Judging from the progress already
made, and from the zeal displayed by the principal proprie-
tors in this work, it may not be too much to expect that, in a
short time, the yearly value of the lands may be much enhanced,
and the landlords amply remunerated for their outlays.  Among
the recently erected buildings in this parish, may be reckoned the
additions made to the mansion-house of Jura,--a complete set of
offices and coach-houses, and a splendid mausoleum in the church-
yard of Killearnadale, all designed and executed by Mr Burn,
architect, of Edinburgh.  On the property of Ardlussa in Jura,
which belongsto Captain McNeill, an elegant and comfortable man-
sion, with offices, has been built by his brother, the Right Hon.
Duncan McNeill, Lord Advocate of Scotland, in a situation of
great beauty, adorned by banks of natural wood, extending seve-
ral miles, and by recent plantations of forest trees.  A great deal
has been done by the proprietor towards improving the property,
not only at Ardlussa House, but by a large extent of hill-draining.
   Live-Stock.--Horses, though generally small in size, are exceed-
ingly hardy and active.  The breed of black cattle, the staple com-
modity of the country, is considered to be superior: it is rear-
ed solely for the market, at which it meets a ready sale;
much attention is therefore paid by landlord and tenant to the


