
			    PETTIE.                       409

not give him the key of the kirk. In 1709, the Presbytery are
relieved from their perplexity by Mr Denoon's death.
   Mr Denoon was succeeded by Mr Daniel Mackenzie, who was
translated to Inverness in 1727. A Mr J. Duncanson, translated
from Ardclach, succeeded Mr Mackenzie, and died in 1737. Mr
Lewis Chapman, from Alvie who died in 1741, was Duncanson's
successor.
   Between the years 1704-39, the school of Pettie, taught by
Mr John Clark, son-in-law of Mr Denoon, rose to high repute as
a classical seminary, and sustained its. character under subsequent
teachers. The tradition is, that the farmers' sons in the parish
understood Latin about as well as Gaelic. From the fame of the
teachers, gentlemen's children from great distances were board-
ed in the parish. It was at this school that James Grant, late
of Corrymony, author of " The Origin and Descent of the Gael,"
&c. acquired the rudiments of his education; and General Fraser,
and his brother Archibald, the sons of the Lord Lovat, who was
beheaded, were among the pupils.
   On the death of Mr Chipman, Mr Eneas Shaw was translated
to Pettie from Comrie in 1742, and was removed to Forres 1758. The
tradition is, that at the time of the battle of Culloden, by giving
certificates of character to the rebels of his neiglibourhood, and
asking no questions for conscience sake, he saved the lives of a
great many. It may serve to show with what wanton disregard of
life the King's army conducted themselves it that time, that, in pas-
sing the road,they seized this minister's servant and hung him on
a tree, from which be was cut Down, before life was extinct, by the
minister himself.
   In 1759, a Mr John Morrison became minister of Pettie. We
are ignorant of the place of his birth, and of his parentage. It
appears that be was missionary at Amulree in April 1745, where he
continued until translated to Pettie. There is to this day a prevalent
belief in the North Highlands, that be was endowed with the
gift of prophecy, and anecdotes in confirmation of this are related.
He went by the name of the bard, and besides a song in praise of
his patron, the Earl of Moray, beginning thus,
		 " Deoch slainte an Iarla chluiteach;
		 Thug smuid dhuinn as bhaile so,"
which means, " health to the famous Earl who has placed me by
this hearth," the two following popular Gaelic songs are said to
  INVERNESS.                             Dd


