
                          PETERHEAD.                        395

   Manufactures.-A thread manufactory was at one time carried
on in this place.  The manufacture of thread has been disconti-
nued, but there is reason to believe, that it might be again carried
on with advantage.
   Woollen cloth, was rather extensively manufactured.  This
business is now carried on only to a very limited extent.
   There was formerly a distillery of whisky.  There is now no such
distillery.
   Fishing.-Boddam and Ronheads were the only fishing vil-
lages in the parish.  The village of Boddam has been greatly
enlarged.  The Ronheads remains the same as when the last Ac-
count was written.  Other two villages have arisen-Buchanhaven
and Burnhaven-at both of which the different fishings are carried
on to a considerable extent.
   There was then no herring-fishery.  This is a new and most
extensive branch of industry, of which a short account has already
been given.
   There was no light-house on this part of the coast.  This de-
fect has now been remedied, and a short account of the Buchan-
ness Light-house has also been given.
   Salmon sold at from 2d. to 2 1/2d. per lb.  Salmon now sells at
from 6d. to 1s.
   The salmon exported yearly amounted to from 50 to 60 barrels.
There are not now so man exported,-the Ugie salmon-fishing
having fallen off considerably.
   The rent of the Ugie salmon-fishing was L.100.  The rent of
it is now only L. 45.
   Stipend, &c.-The stipend was 5 chalders meal, 3 chalders bear,
and L.41, 13s. 4d. in money, and L. 8, 6s. 8d. for communion.
elements.  The stipend is now 18 chalders, half meal, half bar-
ley, at the highest fiar prices for the county, and L.20 for, com-
munion elements.
   The number of those receiving parochial aid was from 70 to 80.
There are now from 270 to 280 receiving parochial aid.
   The schoolmaster's salary was 13 bolls, and 2 firlots of meal,
and L.3 6s. 8d. in money.  The schoolmaster now enjoys the
maximum salary of L. 34, 4s. 4 1/2d., besides what he may receive
from the trustees of the late Mr Dick.
   The town was not supplied with spring water.  The town is
now supplied whth excellent spring water, and in sufficient abun-
dance for every purpose.


