
                          BIRSE.                            797

of the elderly and unmarried, that, if a person to go into the
dwelling of such an& find the "sbank" absent from her hands, he
might regard it as an unfailing symptom of indisposition.

                  V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Means of Communication.-There, is no market-town, Village,
post-office, turnpike-road, public carriage, or canal in the parish.
The principal roads are the Great North Road from Brechin to
Huntly and Inverness, across the Cairn o' Mount and Grampians.
it commences at Whitestone, and extends to Bridge of Potarch,
a distance of nearly five miles.  The other chief road is the South
Dee-side Road from Aberdeen to Braemar.  It commences at
Whitestone, and extends to the suspension-bridge of Aboyne, a
distance of about nine miles.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The church and manse are situated in the
north-west corner of the parish, being about, two miles distant from
the west end, and seven miles from the east-nine or ten miles,
from the south, and half a mile from the northern boundary.  The
church was erected in 1779, and is a plain substantial building,
capable of containing between, 500 and 600 persons.  The sittings
are given over by the landlords to the farmers, who in turn supply
their dependents.  The manse was built at separate times.  The
last addition was made in 1834, rendering it a large and commo-
dious house.  The glebe is of small value extending to four acres,
besides the garden, and would probably rent for L.6.  The amount
of stipend is L.150, of which sum  L.19 are paid by, the Exche-
quer.  There is a small Roman Catholic place of worship near
Ballogie.  To this is attached a grebe of about seven acres of
land, and a house for the residence of the priest.  In addition to
his duty in this parish, the priest has a small chapel in the parish,
of Glenmuick, where be conducts worship once in the month.  In
1834 the number of Roman Catholics in the parish was 59: of
Episcopalians, 2.  All the rest belong to the Established Church.
Average number of communicants, 700.  The amount of collec-
tions, exclusive, of those for the ordinary poor; made at church for
charitable or religious purposes, is about L.12; but occasionally a
good deal more has been obtained.
   Education.-The number of schools in the parish is three,
one parochial school, one supported by the Society for Propagat-
ing Christian Knowledge, in Edinburgh, and one by an endow-
ment from the fund of Dr Gilbert Ramsay, already mentioned.
Besides these, there are generally two or three small schools on the
teachers' own adventure.


