
132                     PEEBLES-SHIRE.

annual produce, and in connection with this, we now state that the
real rental of the parish may be about L. 1900 yearly. The land,
upon the whole, is well cultivated. The improved system of hus-
bandry has been adopted, and good crops in general are produced.
                  V.-PAROCHIAi, EcoNoiiy.
   Market-Towns, and Means of Communication.-There is no vil-
lage in the parish, and the nearest-market towns are Biggar and
Peebles, the one seven and the other ten miles distant from the
church. The parish enjoys abundant means of communication,
the great public road betwixt Edinburgh and Dumfries, &c. pas-
sing through it, and also the road betwixt Glasgow and Peebles, &c.
The length of the turnpike roads are betwixt seven and eight miles.
and they are kept in excellent repair. There are three principal
bridges, all of which are in pretty good condition.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The situation of the church is convenient
for the bulk of the population, the distance from one extremity
being two and a-half miles, and from the other about three. It was
built in 1766, and is fitted for accommodating about 300 people.
The interior is upon the whole pretty comfortable. The sittings
are all free, every farmer in the parish being entitled to a seat in
the church for himself and family.
   We understand that in 1116 there belonged to the Bishop-
rick of Glasgow in Kercayrd one carucate of land and a church.
This church was confirmed to the bishops of Glasgow by the
bulls of Pope Alexander in 1170 and 1178, and by the bulls of
Lucian and Urban in 1181 and 1186. The church of Ord was
afterwards given to the hospital of Sottra, in proprios usus, and con-
tinued with it till 1462, when Mary of Gueldres transferred it to
the Trinity church of Edinburgh, upon condition that the sacrist
of the collegiate church of the Trinity should keep in repair the
church of Kirkurd. It is a curious fact, that in 1384 Sir James
Douglas of Dalkeith founded near his castle a chapel, which he
endowed with the lands of Lochard, and 40s. out of the lands of
Kirkurd in Peebles-shire.
   It would appear that the church of Kirkurd must have been a
vicarage in Roman Catholic time, for we are told that in 1477
William Chamber, the vicar of Kirkurd, granted some lands in the
manor of Corstorphine and various annual rents for supporting a
chaplain to officiate at St Ninian's altar in Corstorphine church;
and that this endowment was confirmed in 1477 by James III.
   It may be proper to mention, that during the prevalence of the


