
         		MONIVAIRD AND STROWAN.                         733

         are thus more generally produced in the districts fruit is abun-
	dant in qantity, and reasonable in price.
         Forests.-The locality is very rich in wood, and much of the
	natural copse in this and the neighbouring parishes is supposed. to
	be the remains of the Caledonian forest, which extended from
	Callander to Dunkeld, a distance of nearly fifty mile-;.  The soil
	is well adapted for the growth and nourishment of all descriptions
	of forest trees reared in Scotland, which thrive here uncommonly
	well, more pasticularly the oak, to which the soil seems peculiarly
	congenial.  Immediately around the mansion-house of Ochtertyre,
	there is a very splendid collection of old oaks, and on the estate of
	Lawers are some remarkably fine specimens of Scotch fir, and
	other kinds of wood.  The whole district, indeed, is most taste-
         fully and finely wooded, and the oak, ash, elm, plane, pine,
	birch, laburnum, aiid other different kinds of hardwood inter-
	tnixed in the older plantations, produce, while in leaf, the finest
	effect, and gratify the eye in a very high degree.  Within
	the last thirty years, extensive tracts have been lahd out by the
	late Sir Patrick Murray, on the estate of Oebtertyre, by the late
	Lord Balgray on Lawers, and by the late Thomas Graham
	Stirling, Esq. on Strowan, in plantations of Scotch fir, larch,
	and spruce, having hardwood, chiefly oak, intermixed, with the
         view ultimately, when the purpose of shelter shall have been
         served, of clearing out the soft wood, and leaving the oak for
	copse.  Innumerable clumps and belts have also been planted in
	suitable spots, and bedge-rows of all the varieties of hardwood
	everywhere appear;-improvements which, whilst they are - con-
	ducive to ornament and shelter, afford a ready stipply of all that
	the country demands for purposes of utility, and insure a profita-
	ble return for the public spirit manifested by the proprietors., The
         utmost attention is paid'to thinning and pruning, and the manage-
	ment is of the first order.
				II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
	  An account, illustrative of the histor of these parishes; drawn-
         up by the Rev.  Mr Porteous, formerly minister of Monovaird, will
         be found in Part 1. Vol. II. of the Transactions of the Society of
         Antiquaries.  From this compilation, the writer of the present
	Account has derived various points of interesting information.  It
	is there  stated, that the plague ravaged Monivaird in thd reign of
         Charles I. "An old man,"' says, the writer,  informed me that
	his father, having  recovered at that time, was a cleanser; and


