
806                             PERTHSHIRE.

and is entitled to a seat at the College table, in lieu of which he
now receives, along with the eight foundation bursars, an allowance
amounting annually to two bolls of wheat, two of oats, and five of
bear, and L.1, 17s. 2\b1 8\8d.  Sterling, the victual to be converted
every session at the Fife fiars prices for the crop immediately
preceding.  The annual allowance to each bursar from the United
College for four years is L.5, I IS. I 14 d. One of the colleges pur-
chased from Mr Thomas Halyburton the lands of New Grange,
in the parish of St Andrews, amounting tn eleven and a-half acres,
with the sum of 2000 merks left by Sir Thomas Monerieffe, and
some other monies added to it, composing altogether the sum of
3750 merks. *
   John Grant, Esq. of Kilgraston.  Mr Grant's family is that
of the Grants of Glenlochy, lineally descended from the family
of the Grants of Grant, the chiefs of the clan of that ancient
name.  Kilgraston was purchased towards the end of last century
by John Grant, Esq., who was succeeded by his brother, Francis
Grant, Esq., the father of the present proprietor.  The mansion,
which is large and commodious, is in the Grecian style of archi-
tecture.   It contains a collection of valuable pictures. Amongst
these is an allegorical representation of a legend of St Louis by
Guercino, measuring 12 feet by 9. It illustrates a story related
of Louis IX, that, having been seized with a brain fever, he sent
for his confessor, and vowed, in the event of recovery, his abdica-
tion of the crown and assumption of the cowl.  It is farther stated
that, having been restored to healtb, his Queen induced him to
believe, that a vow taken under these circumstances could not be
binding, and that, as therd were many religious monks and few
religious kings, he was likely to do more for the glory of God it,
the latter than in the former capacity.  The picture, which is one
of Guercino's finest works, represents St Louis with his hair closely
cut off, having assumed the surplice, with the crown of France and
the fleur-de-lis at his feet, presenting himself before the guardian.
angel of France, while a seraphr is crowning him with a heavenly
chaplet. A choir of angels heads the composition. There are
likewise among the most remarkable pictures, a head o
Viour and of the Virgin by Leonardo da Vinci; a fine "Corona
tion, with Thorus," by Scbedoni; a beautiful portrait of a child by

<FOOTNOTE>Evidence, oral and documentwy, of the Royal Commissioners for St Andrew
in 1627.


