
               PARISH OF KILMORACK.

         PRESBYTERY OF DINGIVALL, SYNOD OF ROSS.

          THE REV. SIMON FRASER, MINISTER.


     I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL History.
  Name, Situation, and Extent.-THE parish of Kilmorack, like
many other parishes in the Highlands of Scotland, derives its
name. from its having afforded burial ground to some reputed
saint or person of distinction-Kill Mhiorac, signifying the bury-
ing-ground of young, Marion. From what family the lady sprung,
cannot with certainty be determined; though it seems most like-
ly she was a descendant of one of the lairds of Chisholm, who, long
before the Reformation, was the principal resident heritor in the
parish, and to whose family a large proportion of it still belongs.
   The parish is bounded; on the south, by the River Beauly, the
parishes of Kirkhill and Kiltarlity; on the north and east, by the
parishes of Urray and Killearnan ; and on the west, by the pa-
rish of Kintail.
   Topographical Appearances.-To a spectator placed on an emi-,
nence where an extensive view of this parish could be obtained, it
would present a scene of sublimity and grandeur, united with rich-
ness and beauty, almost unrivalled. Its eastern extremity consists
of a large open plain, about three miles in diameter. Along
its southern boundary, the river Beauly gentiv glides. About
two miles west from the village of Beauly are situated the
celebrated Falls of Kilmorack, which are annually visited by
hundreds from all parts of the empire. They are less remark-
able for their height than for their breadth, and the great volume
of water poured over the precipice. The beautiful accompani.
ments of lofty rocks, green banks, and hanging woods, which encir-
cle them, greatly add to the charms of the scene. As the water ap-
proaches the precipice, 20 feet in height, it " hovers doubtful, as
it were for a moment over the gulf, and as if forced reluctantly by
the unconscious river behind, it is poured down without resistance,
in one unbroken ponderous mass" into a deep cavern, which cannot,


