
                         DRUMOAK.                            877

very numerous.  Among the brush-wood and furze, the hedge-
hog is increasing rapidly; and in the cairns and drystone fences,
the weasel or common whitret abounds.  The otter is often seen
pursuing his destructive occupation in the river; and the badger,
though less abundant than formerly, is still occasionally met with
on its banks.
   Ornithology.-The extensive plantations which, have been rear-
ed, and the progress of agricultural improvements, have increased
in the parish the number of many species of birds, diminished that
of others, and rendered some altogether extinct.  Upon the moors
the lapwing and plover are found in their season.  In fenny copses,
the woodcock appears about the beginning of October; and on
the open marshes, which generally abound with common snipes,
the jack-snipe (Scolopax gallinula), is frequently met with, and
the whistle of the lonely curlew is also sometimes heard.  In the
fields partridges are numerous; but black-cock ( Tetrao tetrix), be-
came extinct in the parish about three years ago, and only two or
three packs of moor-fowl (Tetrao Scoticus), are now hatched an-
nually in the Red moss.  In belts and young plantations, the
chaffinch, bulfinch, red-breast, common wren (Troglodytes Euro-
peus), and several creepers, are abundant.  The golden-crested
wren (Regulus auricapillus), though sometimes seen, is rare ; and
the goldfinch (Fringilla carpels), must also be regarded, as un-
common.  In the same coverts, the blackbird and thrush have
become so numerous, that the sweetness of their song no longer
protects them in the garden from the fate of other depredators.
The woods afford a suitable retirement for ringdoves, and some
of the most common species of hawk's and owls ; and the wood or
Drum, in particular, is frequented not only by the Royston -or
hooded-crow (Corvus cornix), the jackdaw (Corvus monedula), and
the magpie (Garrulus pica) ; but a numerous colony of rooks (C.
frugilegus), have occupied part of it as a nursery for many years.
This last species pair about the middle of February, build their
nests early in March, lay four or five eggs, which are hatched in
April, and towards the middle of May their young appear upon the
branches.  The myriads of birds which belong to  this rookery,
and inhabit it throughout the year, except for a few weeks in sum-
mer, when many of them are supposed to migrate in quest of
mountain-berries, are not only of great benefit to the country for
many miles around ; but from the commencement of incubation to
the time at which their young become capable of providing for


