
104			KINCARDINESHIRE.

mutation roads. Auchinblae enjoys the advantage of a daily post,
with runners both to Stonehaven and Montrose. Commutation
roads are carried in all directions through the parish; and the ex-
tent of roads of this description cannot be less than forty miles.
Much attention is bestowed by the trustees in keeping them in re-
pair, each being desirous of obtaining as large a share of highway
and bridge money as possible for his own district, and no less de-
sirous of expending it in the most judicious and economical man-
ner. Bridges are thrown across the different streams where neces-
sary, and are always kept in good repair. The turnpike road from
Aberdeen to Edinburgh through Strathmore runs through the
lower part of the parish for about three miles, along which two
coaches, "the Defiance" and "Union," convey the natives daily,
either to Edinburgh or Aberdeen, with the greatest ease, safety,
and dispatch.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The church stands in the most beautiful
spot in the parish; and, although in as centrical a situation as could
have been selected, still several of the parishioners have from four
to six miles to travel in order to attend divine worship at their own
parish church. The church is a handsome edifice, erected in
1828-29, at an expense of not less than L. 3000. It is in the
Gothic style, from designs by Mr Smith, architect, Aberdeen, and
consists of a nave (but without side aisles,) with a Gothic tower on
the west end, rising to the height of ninety-three feet, forming a
striking object from all quarters. The church is finished in a neat
and even elegant manner, superior to most parochial churches in
Scotland. It is seated for 1230, and is fully equal to the accom-
modation of the parish. The church (with the burying-ground)
is surrounded by a wall of substantial masonry, and hs approached
by an elegant gateway.
	The manse was repaired in 1809. It affords considerable ac-
commodation, though not in the modern style. The situation of
both church and manse have been already described.
	The glebe contains about the statutory number of arable acres,
viz. four Scots, or five imperial acres. The soil is excellent, but
there is no grass glebe attached to it. Its yearly value may be
about L. 10 or L. 12.
	The whole teinds of the parish are bishops' teinds, and former-
ly belonged to the Archbishop of St Andrews. They are now the
property of the Crown, of whom they are held by the different pro-
prietors of the land, either on lease, or by tacit relocation. The
 			                   4


