
                     TINWALD AND TRAILFLAT.                51

where the material has to be paid for, a single horse load costs
from 1s. 6d. to 2s.; and when moss is attached to the farm or house,
the load costs from 1s. to 1s. 6d. according to the difficulty of cut-
ting. Coals are beginning to come into more general use. These
are brought from the English coast to Dumfries by water, and are
sold commonly about 8s. per cart load. They are also to be had
at Sanquhar, at about 3s.* per cart load.

		MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
	The time of sowing oats and barley is about ten days earlier now,
than that stated in the former Statistical Account of the parish; and
wheat after turnips is very frequently sown about the end of Decem-
ber, and sometimes even later. The average rent, especially of the
best arable and meadow land, is fully double of what it seems to
have been then. Dry hard land, which formerly was not worth
one-third of the holm land per acre, is now (in consequence of the
facility with which bone manure, &c. can be procured) fully equal to
that in value. There are not now above five scores of stock sheep
in the parish. The rental of the parish, which at the time the for-
mer Statistical Account was written, is stated to have been L. 2559,
is now L. 6208. The population has increased from 850 to 1215.
The weekly church collections have advanced from L. 15 to L. 26
per annum; and the mortified money from L. 140 to L. 300. The
wages of day labourers have been raised from 1s. to 1s. 6d.; car-
penters from 1s. 10d. to 2s. 6d.; masons from 1s. 10d. to 3s. 6d.;
tailors from 8d. to 1s. 3d.  And the minister's stipend has been
advanced from L. 77, 4s. to L. 150.  Parish roads, then reported
to have been bad, are now excellent: all Macadamized.
	The parish is very properly divided into small and large farms,
varying from L. 40 to L. 600 of rental, thus affording for all classes
a sufficient motive to industry. The servant, by frugality and care,
raises himself to a small tenant, and the small tenant is, by the same
means, raised to a greater. This system of progressive advance-
ment, however, can never possibly come into salutary operation,
so long as the law of hypothec is permitted to remain. A man
who has little or nothing to lose is much less timorous, and much
more ready to bind himself for the payment of a large rent, than
one possessed of capital. And as the law now is, a proprietor has
little interest in being scrupulous about a tenant, for, lose who may,
it must be his own fault if he ever do; while the tenant


