
                             INSCH.                        759

building, when it was proved on the part of the heritors, that,
though the state of one of the walls was such as has been describ-
ed, yet, as it had been extetly the same for a long period of years,
it could not be considered as incompatible with the safety of the
congregation.  It is to be hoped, however, that, notwithstanding
this finding, the heritors will soon of themselves see the propriety
of erecting a new church on a scale adapted both to the comfort
and convenience of the parishioners.  The present one is neither
ceiled nor plastered, and is seated to contain only 460 people.
   There are 60 free sittings in the area of the church, under the
control of the kirk-session, who let them at low rates, viz. from 1s.
to 2s. per annum, for behoof of the poor.
   The present manse, which is about half a mile distant from
the church, the old site in the village having been relinquish-
ed, was built in 1771, and enlarged and repaired about sixteen
years ago.  The grebe is 12 imperial acres in extent, and abo t
L.25 yearly value, having been got in exchange for one-half the
quantity of very superior ground, on the site of the manse being
changed.
   The stipend was last modified in 1833, when an augmentation
was obtained.  It now amounts to 15 bolls of victual, half meal,
half barley, commutted into money at the fiars' prices.  By an ar-
rangement entered into between the present minister and the, he-
ritors, and sanctioned by the Presbytery, the latter pay him L.9,
3s. 6d. annually instead of 550 back-loads of peats, which they were
formerly bound to deliver to him, the back-load being as much as
a horse could carry on a pair of panniers, or creels, the usual mode
of conveying fuel from the moss in olden times.
   There is no chapel of ease nor Government church, in the pa-
rish, nor any Dissenting place of worship, properly so called.
There is in the village of Insch an Independent preaching station,
(or rather a hall given for this amongst other purposes), in which
there is a sermon every second Sunday in the afternoon, the same
being supplied by two Independent clergymen from neighbouring
parishes.
   The number of families in the parish that attend Dissenting or
Seceding places of worship is about. 26; the number of indivi-
duals about 70 or 80.  All the other inhabitants capable of
church attendance come to the parish church, there being no
Episcopalians or Catholics in the parish.

