
148                    ROSS AND CROMARTY.

                         IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture and Rural Economy.- The uncultivated portion of
the parish, and the extensive moors to the southward, which have
not been accurately measured, and cannot well be estimated, ex-
ceed the arable land in extent, beyond all proportion. By giving
proper encouragement, much waste land might, with a profitable
application of capital, and with little difficulty, be reclaimed. At
present, there are 1468 acres of land cultivated, or occasionally in
tillage; 12,146 in pasture; and 489 in fine pasture. The rental
of the whole is L. 1070, being on an average nearly 15s. an acre
arable, including the value of the pasture attached to it. Each
tenant is entitled to a souming proportional to his rent, at the
rate of a cow with her follower till a year old, 8 sheep, and half a
horse for every pound rent.
   Rate of Wages.-All the artisants in the parish consist of 6
blacksmiths, and two self-taught carpenters, the former paid by
the quantity of work, and the latter at the rate of 1s. a-day and
their victuals, and sometimes paid by contract. When farm-la-
bourers are hired, which is not often the case, they receive 1s. per
day in summer, and 8d. in winter, without victuals.
   Breeds of Live Stock and Husbandry.-There is not the slight-
est attention paid by the people, to the improvement of their breed
of cattle. They are satisfied if they multiply in proportion to the
annual sale. Upwards of 2500 are reared in the parish, and fed
in winter principally on ware or sea-weed. The sheep amount to
triple that number, and are of a more improved breed than formerly.
   In husbandry, there is hardly any improvement or deviation from
the system which has been followed for centuries. Hitherto, they
have not attempted draining or trenching, or to imitate in any re-
spect a better mode of tillage,-owing to their indigence, and to
the short duration of their leases, which vary from six to twelve
years. The minister's plough is the only one in the parish, except
we admit as such three or four machines so called, having but one
handle, which the ploughman manages with both hands, stand-
ing sideways. A little refinement of taste, more than a sense of
its disadvantages, has in some instances abolished the use of the
crooked spade, a very indelicate tool for females; for which the
common spade is now substituted. As there is no produce export-
ed from this parish, its amount cannot easily be valued, but may
be conjectured from the fact, that in no season is it more than bare-

                               1


