
                         
                          DUNINO.                371

their landlords; and one tenant occupies the farm entered upon
by his grandfather seventy years ago.  The loss corn-merchants
is a theme on which some farmers dwell.  Here, there is a persua-
sion, that, without corn agents, farming would be at a stop.
     Ninety-one years ago, at the time of the last Rebellion, the scanty
crops raised at Dunino could scarcely find market.  There was no
wheat, and the oats were kept for support of the family; the barley
or rather bear was given, the one-half for rent, and the other half
of the rent was paid by cattle.  One-fourth of the bear was given
in kind to the brewer in the parish, for bedr to the family, and the
other fourth was sold for cash either to him, or to some of the
thirty three brewers in St Andrews, to buy gin or brandy, which
then and long after, were delivered in large quantities from con-
traband ships on the coast.  What clothes the family nof the
farmer required were manufactured by themselves.  A great part
of business was transacted by barter.
     Plantations.--The plantations in the parish, wherever formed,
are properous.  Those beside the two streamlets consists of a va-
riety of hard-wood trees.  The other plantations are of larch or
Scotch fir.  Some parts of the plantations have of late been
cut down; but it is hoped they will soon be replaced by a new
stock.
     Vaued Rent.--The valued rent of Stravithy estate is somewhat
larger than of Dunino apart from Balcaithly, to which it is
now united; so that in the 7th of Charles II., the property must
have been superior.  it fell in the rear by Sir William Areskine's
improvements; but the active skill of the present proprietor has
well nigh raised it to its former pre-emimence,--though the soul be
often less grateful than that of Dunino estate, which is sandy or
alluvial,--whereas the other is in many places rather a stiff clay.
The proprietor of Dunino deserves praise for the handsome ac-
commodation he has offorded, and is still affording, to his tenanttry,
and the proprietor of Stravithy for his flourishing plantations, the
drainage of his fields, and the handsome cottages he has erected,
for the servants of his principal tacksman.  The proprietor of
Kinaldy, on the northern part of his estate, separated from this pa-
rish only by a rivulet, has erected a splendid establishment of farm
buildings.

                         V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
     Dunino possesses good public roads, and near markets.  There





















































