
404                             AYRSHIRE.

which there forms the Glasgow and Port-Patrick road; so that the
congregation are very often disturbed, during the time of Divine
worship, by the rattling of carriages and other annoyances which
cannot be prevented. It was built above sixty years ago, when the
population of the parish was not the one-fourth part of its present
amount; and though an aisle was since added to it by Sir Hew
Dalrymple Hamilton of Bargany, for the accommodation of his
feuars in the town, it is still very inadequate, affording only about
850 sittings for a population of nearly 7000 souls. The minister
has a manse, and a glebe of 6 imperial acres, with a stipend of
15 chalders, half oat-meal, and half barley, payable by the fiars
of the county. This stipend was modified six-and-twenty years
ago, and is not greater at present than several of those in the
neighbourhood, where there is scarcely a fifth part of the popula-
tion; but there is still free teind in the parish sufficient to raise it
to an equality with other livings in similar situations.
	There is no chapel of ease or Episcopalian chapel in the parish;
but about twenty years ago, on the heritors refusing to enlarge or
rebuild the church, there was first a Burgher meeting-house erect-
ed, and afterwards a small Methodist chapel, which has been ge-
nerally used, on the week days, as a private school-house. The
Roman Catholics, too, have a small apartment where they meet
for public worship every sixth Sunday; but neither they nor the
Methodists have ever had a stated minister. In the Burgher
meeting-house, however, there has been a minister officiating re-
gularly, ever since it was built. Still, by far the greater number
of the parishioners adhere to the Established Church, and many
more would attend, provided they could get seats. The average
number of communicants is about 1200, who could not all have
the long-enjoyed and highly-valued privilege of communicating on
the same day, and under the same roof, were it not for the use of
a tent.
	The number of families in the parish attending the chapels of
Dissenters or Seceders is 200, inclusive of 100 of Roman Catholics.
	Education.--The parochial schoolmaster has the maximum sa-
lary, with an allowance of L. 20 a-year in lieu of a house and gar-
den. He gets the interest of L. 1000, (minus the legacy-duty,
and two guineas a-year for prizes,) the bequest of the late Mrs
Craufurd of Ardmillan, on condition of his teaching gratis forty
poor children, twenty of whom are to be taught English reading
only; ten, English reading and writing; and the remaining ten,


