
     of Tongland.

of begging, 2 s. and often 2 s. 6 d. a-day.  It is truly ama-
zing, that the police of this corner allows such a destructive
nuisance to honest industry still to prevail.

   Antiquities.-Contiguous to the church are the ruins of
the priory of Tongland.  It was founded in the latter end
of the 12th century, by Fergus Lord of Calloway.  The
monks were of the Praemonstratentian order, formed by St
Norbert in 1120 in France, and received their name from
Praemontre in Champaigne, the name of their 1st abbey.
Fergus brought them from Cockerland in Lancashire to
this priory.  Alexander, abbot of Tongland, swears fealty
to Edward I. in the 1296.  James Herries, prior of
Tongland, in the 1430, repaired the monastery of Tong-
land, which was greatly decayed, and inclosed the precincts
with a high wall.  He was a Doctor of the Sorbonne, and
much famed for his learning, and wrote upon the validity
of indulgences*.

<UNREADABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

*Bishop Lesly tells a story of an abbot of this place who, in the 1507,
undertook to fly through the air to France, from the castle of tirling,
and to be there before the King's Ambastadois, who were just setting oil.
He took his flight from the walls of the castle, but soon met with the re-
ward of such a foolish attempt, by falling, and breading his thigh bones.
Lord Maxwell was heritable bailie of this abbey, and had the L. 5 land of
Cargane, of old extent, in the parish of Troquier, near Dumfries, given
him as his bailie fee.  William Melvill was commendator of this abbaey
in 1198.  Afterwards this abbaey was annexed to the bishopck of Gal-
loway, upon the bishop of that see complaining of the smallness of its re-
venue.  The ruins show that it had been an abbey of considerable extent.
The pilfering and avaricious spirit of the country people had picked out
the free stones from time to time, till all fell down in one heap of rub-
bish.  There are several Druidical cairns in different parts of the parish,
in which have been found human bones, surrounded with large stones, in
form of a grave, but no urns have been found in them  Upon a rocky
moor-hill, called Barrstobrick, in the north end of the parish, is still shown
the spot of grounds where the unfortunate Mary Queen of Scots, in 1568,
with a few faithful friends in her retinue, lasted and refreshed herself, in

</UNREADABLE>


