
566                      ABERDEENSHIRE.

cumstance, very ingeniously availed themselves of the information,
by decking themselves out as people attending a wedding; and
having brought with them a piper, they commenced dancing on
the green.  The garrison speedily went out to join them, when
their enemies dancing around to intercept them, pulled up the
draw-bridges and thus obtained possession of the castle without
violence or bloodshed.
   The traditions now detailed were communicated by the late
Miss Lumsden of Pitcaple, the great grand-daughter of the laird
who received King Charles as above, and who afterwards accom-
panied the King to Worcester.
   Battle of Harlaw.-Upon the 24th of July 1411, on St James's
Even, the memorable and bloody battle of Harlaw was fought in
this parish, between Alexander Earl of Mar, who commanded the
Royal army, and Donald, Lord of the Isles.  Donald having pass-
ed through Ross-shire, and having afterwards ravaged Moray,
Strathbogie, and the Garioch, promised his followers a rich booty
in the plunder of Aberdeen.  The Duke of Albany, then Regent,
alarmed at the progress of Donald, sent a commission to Alexan-
der Earl of Mar to levy forces and oppose him. The Earl, * in a
very short time, found himself at the head of the whole power of
Mar and Garryacli (Garioch,) in addition to that of Angus and
the Mearns; Sir Alexander Ogilvie, Sheriff of Angus; Sir James
Scrymgeour, Constable of Dundee, and hereditary Standard-bear-
er of Scotland; Sir Alexander Irvine, Sir Robert Melville, Sir
William de Abernethy, nephew to Albany, and many other ba-
-rons and esquires, with their feudal services, joined him with dis-
played banner; and Sir Robert Davidson, the Provost of Aber-
deen, and a troop of the stoutest burgesses, came boldly forward,
to defend their hearths and their stalls from the ravages of the
Island King.
   Mar immediately advanced from Aberdeen, and, marching by
Inverury, came in sight of the Highlanders at the village of Har-
law, on the Water of Ury, not far from its junction with the
Don.  He found that his little army was immensely out-number-
ed, it is said, by nearly ten to one; but it consisted of the bravest
barons in these parts; and his experience had taught him to con-
sider a single knight in steel as a fair, match against a whole troop
of ketherans.  Without delay, therefore, he intrusted the leading
of the award to the Constable of Dundee, and Ogilvy, the She-

<FOOTNOTE>Tytler's History of Scotland, Vol. iii. pp. 173-74-75.


