
	1042                         PERTHSHIRE.

				V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
           Market-Town, &c.--Dunblane is a market-town. *  Kinbuck
	is a village with 125 inhabitants.  There is a post-office in
	Dunblane.  Three mails and three stage-coaches pass through
	daily.  The only bridge of importance is that over the Allan
	in Dunblane; very old and very narrow, and being on the mail-
	road between Glasgow and Perth, it loudly calls for enlarge-
	ment.  The parish church is the chancel of the cathedral, in
	the most convenient place for the parish ; date of erection un-
	certain ; walls in good repair, but roof very old, and not deemed
	quite safe.  The accommodation does not amount to 500 sittings:
	very inadequate for so populous a parish.  All the seats allocated,
	and all therefore free ; but numbers are excluded.  The manse was
	built in 1829, and is one of the largest and handsomest in Scot-
	land.  The glebe is four acres in extent, and having been lately
	well fenced, brings a rent of L. 15.  The amotint of stipend last
	year was L.277.  There are three Dissenting chapels belonging to
	the United Secession ; two in Dunblane and one in Greenloan-
	ing.  The stipends are said, to be L. 130, L.30, L.60.  A room
	in Dunblane is at present hired for a few Episcopalians.  The
	number of communicants in the Established Church, in July 1842,
	was 444.
           Education.-There is one parochial school, besides four unen-
	dowed, and two schools supported bx individual subscription.
	There is still, however, a considerable deficiency of education.
           Libraries.-Besides Leighton's library, there are two others of
	religious books.
           Savings' Bank.-A savings' bank was established about a year
	and a-half ago, which the great depression of trade has kept from
	making much progress.
           Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of poor on
	the roll is 45, among whom from L.6 to L.7 are divided every
	fortnight.  The voluntary assessment amounts to L.250. The
	church collections average L.30, There is little disposition among
	the poor to refrain from seeking parochial relief.
           Prison.-A new prison was erected last year by the Prison
	Board, for the western district of Perthshire.  It contains eight
	eells and a house for the jailor.

<FOOTNOTE> The sheriff-substitute of the western district of Perthshire resides in Dunblane,
	Connected with his court there are a sheriff-clerk, procurator-fiscal, and four other	practising attorneys.
        practising attorneys.




