                                   CULTS.                569

The number of families is at present                                      204
By census 1831, the number of families is 211
The number of unmarried men, bachelors, or widowers upwards               211
of 50 years of age, 24 unmarried women upwards of 45,                     36
inhabited houses, by census 1831, 174.
Since that period, there have been ten additional dwelling-houses
built, and nearly as many of the former houses converted into
loom-shops. There are seven dwelling-houses at present uninha-
bited or building.
   There are three proprietors of land of the yearly value of L.50
and upwards; one of them, the Earl of Glasgow, is occasionally  resident.
   Character and Habits of the People.-There is nothing remark-
able in the character or habits of the people to distinguish them
from those of the surrounding district. They are for the most
part healthy and vigorous; and, on the whole, enjoy, in a reason-
able measure, the comforts and advantages of society.
   Thirty-five years ago, smuggling prevailed to a great extent in
the village of Pitlessie. It has since been entirely abandoned.

                             IV.-INDUSTRY.

   Employments of Male Adults.-The Government census of 1831
gives the following return of the occupations of the males upwards
of twenty years old:

Number employed in agriculture as farmers, cottars, and farm-servants, 48
manufactures, 49 retail trade and handicraft, 68 Merchants, 37
professional persons, and other educated men, 4 Labourers employed
in mines, roads, etc.
  By the same census it appears that in 1831 there were
Families chiefly employed in agriculture, in trade, manufactures, and handicraft,                  151
Other families not included in these classes, 21
Male servants of all ages, 18

  Agricultural State.-The number of standard imperial acres in
the parish is nearly 2250; of which there are,
Under cultivation.                                                         1900
Constantly waste or in pastures (but all capable of being rendered arable,) 140
Under wood, (Scoteb firs, larches, spruces, and hard-wood,)	            115
Roads, fences,water, and quarries, about                                     60
Houses and gardens,                                                          35

  There is no part of the land in a state of undivided common.
  Husbandry.-The system of husbandry adopted varies according
to the qualities of the different soils. A rotation of five years is ge-
nerally observed. The farm-buildings are, with a few exceptions,
good and commodious. A great part of the land in this parish
stands in much need of draining and enclosures.
  Rent of Land.-The rent of land varies, according to the qua-


