
        			DOUGLAS.                    485

	This precious relic was nearly lost in the civil war of 1745-6,
having been carried from Douglas Castle by some of the followers
of Prince Charles. The Duke of Douglas, however, regained it,
by making great interest with the chiefs of the Stuart party. It
is now at Bothwell Castle.
	There are several cairns in different parts of the parish,--one on
the top of Auchensaugh hill, where the Covenant was renewed;
another on the top of Kirkton hill called the Captain's cairn. On
the farm of Poniel, there was a large cairn, beneath which the pre-
sent tenant found a stone coffin a few years ago, and two other
stone coffins had, some time before, been found on the same farm.
There is likewise a stone coffin in the burying-place of the Inglises
in the parish church-yard.

			   III.--POPULATION.
	Since the publication of the former Statistical Account of this
parish, its population has been progressively increasing. In 1831,
it amounted to 2549; in 1834, it had increased to 2567. It is re-
markable, that during these three years, the population in the coun-
try part of the parish had decreased, while an increase to the
amount of about 90 had taken place in the town. The obvious
cause of the diminution in the country population was, that when the
census was taken in 1831, there were several large families, most of
the members of which had just reached, or were on the verge of
maturity; and before the number of the population was again taken,
the greater number of these were dispersed. In 1834, the popu-
lation of the town of Douglas was 1343, When the former Sta-
tistical Account was drawn up, it was 684. The population of the
whole parish in 1791, was 1715, so that an increase to the amount
of 852 has taken place within the last forty-four years. The
number of houses occupied is 532, the average proportion of in-
habitants, therefore, is a very small fraction more than 5 to each
house. As but few of the dissenters have the baptism of their
children registered, it is impossible to state precisely the average
number of baptisms in a year; about 46 are annualy registered.
The average number of marriages is 18. A register of burials has
been kept since the beginning of the year 1833. In that year, the
number registered was 46; in 1834, the number was 42. In this re-
gister it may be observed, the names of those only are inserted who
were interred in the parish burying-ground. On the other hand,
some of those whose names were registered were brought from

	LANARK.        		I i


