
428                   ROSS AND CROMARTY.

was appointed minister of St Andrews Church, Pictou, Nova Sco-
tia. This church is at present vacant.
   Mission in the heights of the Parish.-The mission of Rosehall,
which is partly situated in this parish and partly in that of Creich,
was established by the Committee of the General Assembly for
managing the Royal Bounty, about the middle of last century:
it extends over a space about twenty-three miles in length, and
fifteen in breadth, and consists of two glens and a long strath ; the
glens are in the west part of the mission, and are separated by a
lofty hill; the river Oikell runs through the strath, whence it is
called Strath Oikell.
   The population is about 1100, and is luch scattered, particu-
larly in the glens, which are chiefly inhabited by shepherds; the
bulk of the people are located in small hamlets or farms on both
sides of the strath. They are all of the Established Church.
Their moral and religious principles are in general excellent, and
the Sabbath is well-observed; they labour under great deficiency
of the means of education-an evil which the people themselves
strongly feel, and are most anxious to have remedied.
   The missionary possesses a dwelling-house, cow-house, and
garden; the people supply him with fuel, and with provender for
a cow in winter. The salary was originally L.20 from the Com-
mittee, and L.7 additional from the people; but it is now L.60
per annum; and the Duke of Sutherland, gives L.5 more, as an
equivalent for the deficiency of accommodation.
   There is a place of worship at Rosehall, which was repaired in
1832; and the missionary preaches at Ochto, and Bailephuill,
(the hamlet of the pool), in Glen-Oikell, which are both on the
Kincardine side of the Kyle; but there is no church at either of
these places. Before the erection of the Parliamentary Church
at Croick, there were three regular preaching stations, viz. Amat
and Croick in Kincardine, and Innis-na-lin, (the island or plain of
the nets,) in Creich, at which the missionary was obliged to offi-
ciate in regular rotation; his residence was at Achnahuagh, (the
field of the graves,) in this parish. The church at Rosehall can
accommodate about 300, but is usually attended by 100 more.
At Ochto nearly the same number attend, but not so many at
Bailephuill. Thebulk of the people are within six or seven miles
of the church, and about the same distance from Ochto. Baile-
phuill is about seven miles west from Rosehall, but even that sta-
tion is eight or nine miles from the most remote houses in the


