
			LOCHWINNOCH.                            91

ciples, was his colleague, and it is supposed that, at the sugges-
tion, and perhaps with the assistance of Melville, Sir James en-
gaged in a controversy with him, which had the effect of pre-
venting the spread of his opinions among the, students. Pro-
voked at this, Tilesius endeavoured to ingratiate himself with
King James, by publishing a defence of the late proceeding in
Scotland, and filled it with unmerited and unmeasured abuse of the,
Scotch Presbyterians. This was answered by Beltrees in 1622,
in a book written with great ability. The style is nervous, and
the satire keen, but more chastened than was necessary in answer-
ing the coarse attack of Tilesius. As intimated in the conclusion
of this work, the controversy was continued, in which Sir James
perhaps obtained secret assistance from Melville, and, at any rate,
public and effectual aid from Calderwood, who published an ela-
borate work entitled "Altare Damascenum." The other works
of Beltrees were, an Answer to Tilesius's Defence of the Bishops,
and the Five Articles, Cassandra Scotiana to Cassander Anglica-
nus, published in 1616 "Sacrilege sacredly considered," Publish-
ed 1619; the Packman's Pater Noster, a satirical poem against
the Church of Rome, and probably the following production.
When King James visited his native kingdom of Scotland in 1617,
an oration, in the, form of an allegory, welcoming his Majesty, was
pronounced in the. great hall of the Earl of Abercorn by a very,
pretty boyof nine years of age. This was William, the youngest,
son of the Sheriff, Sir James Sempill of Beltrees. He died in, his
house at the Cross of Paisley, in February 1625
  His descendants seem to have retained chiefly his poetical ta-
lents, but degenerated from grave and serious subjects, to, the com-
position of merry songs and satirical poems. His son Robert was the
author of the epitaph of Habbie Simpson, the piper of Kilbar-
chan, and perhaps, other similar productions. Francis, the next pro-
prietor, was still more fertile in work this kind, but, as will
easily be believed, he squandered away his property, which he
treated as lightly as every other subject. Theses light-hearted
descendantsof the grave and literary Sir James, when they could not
rise to the composition of a poem, showed their spirit in a diffe-
rent way. Robert, the sixth of the family, was present at the last
burning of witches in Paisley, in 1697, though to prevent this his
parents had concealed his shoes, and he was obliged to go with-
out them. It was he who died at kilbarchan in 1789, aged 160
years. His son Robert made a little money, and retrieved the.


