
484                    EDINBURGHSHIRE.

ed, he was promoted to honourable situation in the court of King
James VI.  He commanded an army of 3000 Scots in Bucking-
ham's unsuccessful expedition to Rochelle in 1627; and, in 1630,
he was appointed to the office of Lord High Treasurer, which he
held for about five years.  He received various grants of land, too
numerous to be here particularized; and havings subscribed the Co-
venent, "band and othe," in presence of his Majesty, and in face of
Parliament, in 1641, he was nominated to the office of Lord Chan-
cellor of Scotland; but, through the envy of his enemies, and
especially from the strenuous opposition made to his appointment
by the Earl of Argyle, his son-in-law, the nomination was with-
drawn. *\f  Being a deveted adherent of the unfortunate Charles,
be supplied him in his exigencies with large sums of money, which
so exhausted his resources, that he was obliged, in 1642, to dis-
pose of his valuable property of Dalkeith to liquidate his engage-
ments.  This estate was purchased by Francis, second Earl of
Buccleuch, in whose family it still remains.  The civil wars had
already commenced; and as misfortunes seemed now to be ga-
thering thick around the head of the unhappy monarch, the Earl
of Morton, overpowered with sorrow, and feeling that his services
could be of no avail in rescuing him from his impending fate, re-
tired to the Orkneys, where he died at the Castle of Kirkwall in
1648, in the sixty-sxith year of his age.
     The castle and manor of Dalkeith passed from the house of
Douglas into the hands of the family of Buccleuch in the year
1642, as has been mentioned;--Francis, the second Earl, the
purchaser, being at the time a minor in the 16th year of his age.
and the late Earl Walter, his father,. having been nine years
deceased.
     Family of Buceleuch.--As this noble family has been now
(1844) for upwards of two centuries in possission of this splendid
domain; as, during that period, they have generally chosen it for
their permanent residence; and as the generous and paternal inter-
rest they have always manifested in the welfare of the town and
parish, as well as that portions of the community more immediately
connected with them, has won for them the strong affection and
esteem of the inhabitants;--a brief sketch of their previous his-
tory may not be out of place on the present occasion.

     <FOOTNOTE> Sir James Halfour's Annala.          Ibid.
"The year 1687 may be considered as the epoch a civil war, which lasted with
short intermission during fifty years."--Chalmer's Calsdonis, i.p.862
Crawfurd's Officers of State, p.405-6.



