
                   388                         ARGYLESHIRE.

                  Although the farmers have been, within the last twenty years,
                very industrious and indefatigable in improving and.draining waste
                land, and clearing fields of rocks and stones, by which they have
                greatly increased the bulk of crops in their stack-yards, yet
                the want of inelostires and subdivisions is a great obstacle to a
                regular rotation of crops, and precludes the possibility of adopting
                that judicious system of husbandry practised in the more cultivat-
                ed districts of Scotland.
                  Under existing circumstances, the tenants confine their labour
                to the cultivation of oats, bear, potatoes, pease, and beans.  Bear
                is cultivated to a great extent, and may be considered as the staple
                culmiferous crop.
                  A considerable proportion of bear land is annually laid down
                with clover and rye grass, and cut green for stall-feeding milk
                cows and horses, btat seldom seasoned for a hay crop.
                  A great extent of land is planted with potatoes, and it may with
                justice be said, that the farmers of Kintyre excel any other di,i.
                sion of Scotland in the cultivation of this valuable root.    It has
                been calculated that, at an average, upwards of 50,000 boils are
                annually exported from the district of Kintyre. Since a cominu-
                nication has been opened with the English and Irish markets,
                where Kintyre potatoes are in great demand and repute for seed,
                the tenants have for some years back, chiefly depended upon them
                for payment of their rents. But the prices are so fluctuating as
                often to disappoint the most sanguine expectations.
                 The following rotation of crops is frequently practised in the
                parish by the most judicious and substantial farmers: Ist, pota-
                toes; 2d, bear; 3d, clover and rye-grass; 4th, oats without ma-
                nure, or bear well manured with sea-ware; 5th, potatoes,-aiid so
                on in succession.
                 Outfield land, after lying two years lea, is generally manured
                with A con..ipost of earth and lime, or shell sand, and cropped two
                years in succession with oats. Such fields, as have a poor
                and shallow soil, are often allowed to rest four years, before they
                are turned up with the plough.- The system of summer fallowing
                has,never been attempted, and very few of the tenants pasture
                clover land, or allow it to rest for more than one year.
                 In the immediate vicinity of the sea, the soil of the parish is of
                a, very sharp and sandy nature, but as it recedes some distance
                from theshore, it assJnes a loamy texture of a chocolate colour-
                Upon the whole, it may be said that the west side of Kintyre con-


