
                              	CRIECH.                                             19

<TABLE>

	   Number of families in the parish in 1831,	                           525
                    	chiefly employed in agriculture,                           407
   			chiefly employed in trade, manufactures, and handicraft.    37

	   THE Gaelic language is spoken in the parish; but the English
	has now gained so much ground, that it may be said to be spoken
	by the greater number of the inhabitants.

	                       IV.-INDUSTRY.
           Agriculture and Rural Economy- Wood.- There is a natural
	oak-wood of great beauty at Ledmore, the divided property of the
	Duchess of Sutherland and Mr Dempster of Skibo, of about 150
	acres. The bark of the portion which belongs to the latter owner
	was sold last year for L.500, and that of the former was sold
	some years ago for a much larger sum.
     	   There is also some natural oak and birch at Rosehall, and in
	one or two other places; but, excepting some large oaks, it is not
	valuable, nor attended to.
	   The oldest planted wood in the parish is the hard-wood at Os-
	pisdale, and the fir-wood at Rosehall; but this last, from being
	grown in a soil too rich, is considered of bad quality.
	   A considerable extent, chiefly of fir and larch, was planted thirty
	or forty years ago on the estates of Skibo and Pulrossie; and the
	present proprietor has already added upwards of 1500 acres, con-
	sisting of larch and fir, (chiefly the former,) with oak and other
	forest trees in smaller quantity.  Mr Houston of Creech, (who
	has recently sold his property to the Duke of Sutherland) and Mr
	Gilchrist of Ospisdale, have also planted considerably; and, on the
	whole, the extent of growing wood in this parish cannot be less
	than 2500 acres, and on the estate of Skibo it is yearly increasing.
	All sorts of hard-wood sell readily, and at good prices, and the ex-
	port of pit-wood from the fir plantations is considerable.
	   It has been found impracticable to ascertain the quantity of
	land cultivated and uncultivated, and the amount of gross pro-
	duce.
	   Rent.-The largest corn farm in the parish yields about L.300
	per annum, and there are half a dozen others giving betwixt L.50
	and L.200.
	   The rent of sheep grazing is from 2s. to 4s., and of cattle from
	5s to 1Os. according to the size of the cattle and quality of tbe
	pasture.
	    Husbandry.-There are no sheep-farms in this parish, except
	one at Auchinduich, occupied by Mr Marshall, the property of the
	Duchess of Sutherland, and one in Inverchasly, occupied by Messrs


