
     The Statistical Account.

ground very apt to be hurt by surface water, descending from
the hill and moor after rain, and by water springing out of
the ground at the point of separation betwixt the heath and
green ground; I contrived to rid the ground of both, by cut-
ting a ditch, four or five feet in depth, along the foot of the
moor, just at the point of separation.  The earth taken from
the ditch I threw on the lower bank; which served at the
same time to form a sort of fence, and give free admission to
the water coming from the moor into the ditch.  This ditch
had a wonderful effect on the lower grounds; and was con-
trived and executed long before Mr Elkington, and his mode
of a similar nature, for which he has obtained a liberal pre-
mium from government, were heard of, and even before I
had seen Nugent's travels in Mecklenburg, where the same
plan is stated as having been practised many years ago.
   The laying dry the wet land below was not the only be-
nefit acquired by means of this ditch; for by the water col-
lected in it, I have been enabled to convey water into every
one of my inclosure by cross ditches, and to flood, at the
proper seasons, such of them as are dry.  The flooding had
had a very happy effect; and I have had great crops on the
ground which has been treated in that manner.  The flood-
ing of land is perfectly well understood in this country, and
has been practised above fifty years past, so that we have no
need of any instructions from Mr. Stevens on that point.-
On this farm of Altens, I now raise turnip, bear, oats, pease,
tares and hay; and they all answer well.  I have not yet had
any great crop of potatoes on it, but no fair trial on proper soil
has yet been made.  This year I had oats about 6 feet high on
ground, which at my entry was not considered worth 20 d.
per acre.  I have, for improving this farm, used all kinds of
manure which I could get hold of, lime, sea ware, fisher dung,
sheep dung, stable-yard dung, and foot.  And they all answer


