
728                   EDINBURGHSHIRE.

the superintendent and necessary assistants. The average annual
number of pupils is 65. The annual expense about L. 1000. The
average cost of each pupil is under L. 20, including education,
maintenance, books, and other necessaries. As the funds of the
institution are limited and precarious, the managers are obliged to
prefer those pupils who can pay the whole or part of their expenses,
although in many instances no payment is received. The system
of tuition is on a simple practical plan, and, under the management
of the present master, Mr Kinniburgh, most efficient. Five years
are required for completing their education,-none being admitted
under nine years, or above fourteen. If the pupils remain beyond
the first five years, which are devoted to education, they are then
taught businesses; if of the lower classes, mechanic trades. The
girls are taught sewing, knitting, and other domestic employments.
The good order, intelligence, and amount of practical knowledge
resulting from the management of this establishment are worthy
of the highest admiration, and deserve the best encouragement of
the public. In consequence of the limited nature of the funds of
this institution, and its being inadequate to receive all the objects
of such a charity, a day-school for the deaf and dumb has been
for some years opened in St John Street, Canongate, which also
depends upon the public for support. At this school a number
of pupils of both sexes receive instruction.
   Royal Infimary.-Prior to the year 1725, the members of the
medical faculty had been in the practice of giving advice and me-
dicines to the poor gratuitously; but about this period an hospital,
wbich had for years before been talked of, was seriously set about.
By public subscriptions, and some funds contributed on the dissolu-
tion of a fishing company, about L. 2000 were procured, and a
house was opened for the reception of the sick poor in 1729. The
number received into this small hospital during the first year was
thirty-five,-of whom twenty-four were dismissed cured, five dis-
charged as irregular or incurable, one died, and five remained.
   In a few years the beneficial effects of the institution began to
be appreciated. In 1736 the stock of the Infirmary amounted to
L. 3000, and this year a royal charter erected the subscribers into
a body corporate. Meantime contributions and donations greatly
increased, and for twenty-five years the Earl of Hopeton bestowed
on it the yearly sum of L. 400 Sterling.
   In 1738 the present building was commenced, and the work
was carried on to a termination, chiefly through the indefatigable


