
      26                         ROSS AND CROMARTY.

      men; and from this casual appellation, arose the name Gallie,
      which has been for nearly 200 years a common and rather respect-
      able name among the inhabitants.  The name is now, however,
      much on the decrease.
        A Hugh Rose of Kilravock, in Nairnshire, married a daughter
      of the fore-mentioned Sir John Sinclair, and got her father's lands,
      in the parish of Nigg, as her dowery.  Hugh after Hugh possessed
      them, till about the middle of the eighteenth century; and as the
      Gunns had formerly come from Caithness, so did the Roses
      come from Kilravock, though few of their descendants remain to
      tell the tale.  The lands of Culiss and Rarichie were sold to a
      gentleman of the name of Ross, who had made a fortune in Poland,
      and was on that account called Polander Ross.  One of the Hugh
      Roses of Kilravock was sheriff-depute of the counties of Ross and
      Cromarty in the beginning of the last century, and it was he that
      instituted the only fair in the parish.  Till a few years ago, it
      was held at Wester Rarichie; but it is now held at Ankerville,
      commonly on the third Tuesday of November.  It is named Hugh's
      Fair, in honour of its founder. *
        From the end of the seventeenth century till a few years back,
      the estate of Meikle Pitculzean was the property of Mr John
      Frazer, minister of Alness, and his descendants.  His son, Mr
      James Frazer, (the author oftbe celebrated and excellent Treatise
      on Sanctification, as revealed by Paul in the Epistle to the Ro-
      mans,) possessed it after his father's death, and having no child-
      ren, was succeeded in it by his sister, Mrs M'Arthur.  These
      three worthies deserved a better memorial than the present writer
      can give of their excellence.  Their connection with Meikle Pit-
      culzean brought clansmen to it, and there are consenquently thir-
      teen families of the name of Frazer in the present day within the
      bounds of the parish.
         There are two small fishing villages in the west end of the pa-
      rish, Balnabruach, and Balnapaling, each containing nearly twenty

      <FOOTNOTE>Previously to Kilravock's marriage with Sir John Sinclair's daughter, there was
      an immigration of Roses to this parish, caused by the following circumstance, which
      tradition still preserves.  A laird of Kilravock, it is said, or some gentleman nearly
      connected with him, and of the same name, had married twice, and three sons of the
      first marriage bad conceived a strong dislike to their stepmother-so strong, indeed,
      that they barbarously put an end to her existence.  The young ruffians immediately
      made the best of their way across the ferries, in order to escape the vengeance they
      deserved, and though pursuit was instant and zealous, perhaps, it was unavailing.  A
      young maiden, in the first house they entered in Ross-shire, became enamoured of
      one of the young men; and by this circumstance, they succeeded in finding friends
      and protection.  Some of their descendants are to be found to this day in the parish
      of Nigg.


