
538                                 PERTHSHIRE.

  The upper parts of the parish are liable, during summer and
harvest, to cold dews and fogs, which arise from low and marshy
places and mossy soils, often destroying, the crops.
   In the lower parts, the crops are generally sure and early. Our
climate, upon, the whol is healthy. When easterly winds prevail
in the end of spring or beginning of summer catarrhal complaints
are common. We have no other epidemical distempers; and often
in wet weather and unhealthy seasons, when neighbouring districts
are affected with influenzas and other pulmonary complaints, our
glens, owing to their hard and gravelly bottoms, are quite healthy.
  Hydrography.-No mineral waters of any consequence have yet
been discovered in this parish. On the south side of Sith-chaillinn,
there is a spring of clear water, allowed by the common people to
be nephritic and diuretic, and persons labouring under complaints
of gravel or stone drink plentifully of it. From time immemorial,
young people of both sexes sometimes to the number of several
hundreds, on the morning of the first Sabbath of May O. S., have
been in the habit of repairing to the mountain to quaff the spring.
They come from all the surrounding districts, Rannoch Foss, Ap-
pin, Fortingal, and Glenlyon, often a distance of nine or ten miles.
It is reckoned particularly lucky to get the first draught, or what
is called the cream of the spring. Often, the crystalline dew of
Sith-chaillinn is qualified by some other dew of a more exhilarating
nature.
  Lochs.-These are both numerous and extensive, amounting to
four or five large, and eight smaller ones,-besides about fifteen
pools of considerable size, scattered over the moors.
  Loch Rannoch.-This lake is about 12 miles long, and its ave-
rage breadth may he about 1 1/8 mile. Its depth has never been
exactly ascertained; but there is every reason to believe, that in
the greater part of it, especially in the east end, it is from 60 to 85
fathoms, as 50 fathoms were at one period tried and found short.
The lake extends nearly due east and west. In common frost, it
freezos for a few miles at the west end, and it is there crossed, in
time of hard frost from side to side, by the country  people, with-
out apprehension. But the oldest inhabitant living does not remem-
ber, nor has heard of its being frozen from end to end, except twice,
the last occasion being in the beginning of the year 1809. *
  There are two small islands situate in the upper end of the
lake. The east and large one is wholly artificial, resting upon

<FOOTNOTE>It was also frozen all over in winter 1838.


