
164                          WIGTONSHIRE.

of annual rent.-The two principal heritors, John M'Taggart, Esq.
of Ardwell, and Patrick Maitland, Esq. reside generally on their es-
tates in the parish, unless when the former is attending his duties
in Parliament.
        Antiquities.-The parish contains three earthen mounds of a
conical form; the most remarkable of which is near Balgreg-
gan House, (the residence of Patrick Maitland of Freugh), which
is 460 feet in circumference, and 60 feet in height, with an ex-
cavation on its summit, and defended by a circular fosse.-On the
lands of Garthland, is a square tower 45 feet in height, and exhi-
biting on its battlements the date 1274; it was formerly the resi-
dence of the Thanes of Galloway. The Bay of Floats is, in this
parish, so called from a belief that some of the vessels composing
the Spanish Flota were wrecked there. On the lands of Ard-
well are some remains of Druid temples and Pictish castles.
Two gold lachrymatories, weighing three and a half ounces each,
were found on the lands of Garthland in 1783. It may be ad-
ded, that there are the ruins of an old church, on the farm of
Clayshank, distinctly visible above the surface. And Kirkmadrine,
with its church-yard, still preserved as a burying-place, contains
some grave-stones, with antique inscriptions.
        Modern Buildings.-A new church, on a magnificent scale, and
of the Gothic order of architecture, was erected in the year 1827,
the expenses of which amounted to L. 2000 Sterling; and in
1831, a new school-house and schoolmaster's dwelling-house, on
a neat and commodious plan, were built. Within the last twenty-
five years, a great number of farm-houses bave been erected,
all of which are very commodious and handsome, many of them
consisting of two stories, and tastefully designed.

<TABLE=Population>
                          III.-POPULATION.
		Amount of population in 1801,		1848
					1811,		2364
				        1821.		3133
					1831,		2966
	The increase in the population of 1821 ws attributed to the
ingress dof Irish as servants and labourers; and the decrease in 1831
is attributed to the efforts of the heritors to check such ingress,
with a view to the relief of the poor's funds.
	There is no towm in this parish, and the only villages are the
Sandhead, containing at last census a population of 121; and the
little village beside the church, with a population of 72.


