
750                           ABERDEENSHIRE.

                            II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Any authentic account of the more remote history of the parish
would undoubtedly be very interesting, as the memorials of long
past times, which still exist in it, are such as shew that it has once
been the scene of important events.  No such account, how-
ever, is known to the writer of this.  In a genealogical work, now
rare, entitled Laurus Lesliana, and which gives an account of the
various branches of the Lesly family, there is some information to
be found respecting the former proprietors of land in the parish,
the chief of whom had belonged to the house of Lesly.
   Land-owners.-The principal land-owners, at the present time,
are, Count Lesly of Balquhain, proprietor of the lands termed
the Barony of Meikle Wardhouse, Knockenbaird, &c. in the pa-
rish of Insch.  Count Lesly's ancestors had it would seem, at one
time been possessed of the greater part of the lands in this parish,
as also in not a few of the parishes in the Garioch.  The baronies
of Balquhain and Meikle Wardhouse, the former in the parish
of Chapel of Gariosh, the latter in this parish, had formerly be-
longed to separate branches of the family, and they continued to
do so till about the year 1642, when, according to Spalding, the
estates of Wardhouse were "so much dilapidated, that the heir,
Sir John Leslie, (who died in 1645), on coming home from Ger-
many, on the death of his father, found that there was nothing left
for him to live upon."  The greater Hart of his property, having
probably been mortgaged, had come, about that time, into the
hands of the Balquhain branch, in which it has continued ever
since.
   A considerable portion, however, including the site of the castle
of Wardhouse, having been otherwise disposed of, and having
passed through various hands, is now in the possession of John
David Gordon, Esq. merchant in Cadiz, who succeeded his father,
Charles Gordon, about nine years ago,  The family residence in
Scotland is Gordon Hall, Kennethmont.  The other proprietors
of land are, Theodore Gordon, Esq. Overhall, who is possesed
of part of the lands of Dunnideer, in this parish.-Robert Aber-
crombi, Esq. of Rothtney an Drumrossie, who came into pos-
session of the above lands (lying partly in Insch, partly in Prem-
nay), by purchase, only a few years ago, they having been sold
by the executors of the late Miss Mary Gordon, the last of her
family, which was a branch of the Gordons of Lesmoir, and in
whose hands they had been for some centuries.-Sir Andrew


