
                        ST BOSWELL'S.                        113

it takes place on the 18th of July annually, or on the following
Monday, if the 18th fall on a Sunday. When held on a Mon-
day it is justly thought to occasion a most offensive desecration of
the Lord's day; nor is this disgusting profanation at all diminished
when the fair holds on a Saturday. This evil, so justly complain-
ed of, might be easily corrected by holding the fair on the third
Wednesday or Thursday of the month. This fair is looked for-
ward to with much excitement among the youthful population, and
an immense concourse of people assemble from all quarters for
business or amusement: and if the day is fine, St Boswell's Green
presents on this occasion a very gay and animated scene. The
whole space being planted with tents, covered with a profusion of
goods, consisting of Scotch and Irish linen, hardware, toys, croc-
kery, shoes, books, &c. or crowded with sheep, lambs, horses, and
horned cattle. My predecessor estimates the amount of the money
transactions of the day from. L. 8,000 to L. 10,000, and the toll or
custom, which belongs to the Duke of Buccleuch, at L. 38 on an
average. This is probably not far from the truth, though it has
been thought that this great fair has not of late been so numerously
attended as in former years, owing to the number of other markets
that have recently been established elsewhere for the sale of stock.
   Fuel.-Coal is almost the only species of fuel used in this pa-
rish. There are no peats. Wood is scarce, and consequently
high-priced. And when it is considered that we are equidistant
from the Scotch and English collieries, it is manifest that the price
of fuel must be high. Our coal is brought either from the neigh-
bourhood of Dalkeith, or the collieries in Northumberland. The
price, however, has for some years been greatly reduced. Coals.
from Vogrue, the species in highest estimation, used to cost from
18d. to 20d. a cwt. (the writer has paid as high as 1s. 10d.) but
can now be bought for 1s. a-cwt. Lothian coals, and for 10d. a-cwt.
from the English collieries
   Inns.-There are no fewer than six inns or alehouses in the pa-
rish, and without doubt, however well regulated, they present far
too great a facility to dissipation; and unquestionably the num-
ber ought to be diminished.
                MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   The first most striking fact that occurs on comparing the former
with the present Statistical Account of this parish, is the increase
of the population, which has been considerably more than one-
third in less than forty years. A second point of comparison,
   ROXBURGH.                    H


