
                          MOY AND DALARROSSIE.                      107

     deaths, about 15.  The number of persons under fifteen years of
     age is supposed to be, at an average, about 350; between fifteen
     and thirty, about 270; betwixt thirty and fifty, about 228; betwixt
     fifty and seventy, 200; and above seventy, 50.  The number of
     unmarried men, bachelors, and widowers, upwards of fifty years of
     age, is about 68, and of unmarried women about 180, including wi-
     dows.  The number of families is 262, in each of which there is,
     at an average, three children.  The number of inhabited houses
     is 212; and the number of uninhabited or now building is 22.

     The number of families chiefly employed in agriculture is     108
                               trade, manufactures, or handicraft,  48
        There are two insane persons in the parish, one blind and one
     deaf and dumb.

        Character, &c. of the People.-The people are generally of a
     hardy constitution, and remarkably well-formed,-so that as hand-
     some a company of soldiers could be got in this district as in any
     part of Scotland.  This is owing to their constitutions not being
     broken by hard labour when young,-as they then generally oc-
     cupy their time in herding cattle, or in driving them to the southern
     markets.  The language spoken is the Gaelic, which is generally
     spoken very correctly, but, from the increasing admixture of Eng-
     lish, we doubt not that, in a few years, it will be lost altogether.
     The old customs of the Highlanders are also in a great measure
     neglected; few or none wear the kilt and belted plaid; and the
     ancient superstitions, with the ceremonies connected with them, are
     vanishing away.  The game chiefly played is the club and ball,
     which forms the winter amusement, and the collecting of the people
     for a trial of skill at this game is the only remnant of the old mode
     of celebrating the Christmas and new year holydays.  The belief
     in ghosts and fairies still exists, but in a very modified degree.  At
     funerals the whole people of the parish are generally colldcted, if
     the deceased be a person of respectability; and those who are invit-
     ed, alternately by two and two, watch the body in the churchyard,
     -a very unnecessary trouble.  They do not drink much of ardent
     spirits at funerals, since they are limited by the Justices of Peace
     to three glasses of whisky,-two in the house before starting and
     one in the churchyard.  On marriage occasions, a bagpipe always
     precedes the parties on their way to the church, and in the even-
     ing there is a dinner given gratis, and drinking afterwards, for which
     each pays a certain sum.  There are always music and dancing.  Up-
     on the whole, however, the character of the people is very moral.


