
186				EDINBURGHSHIRE.

coloured--their hair of a dingry white or red colour, and wiry; and
their skin drier and of a tougher texture than that of the people of
this country.
   Their wandering tribes still frequent the bye-paths and wood-
sides of this district; they are then distinguished by the epithet
of Campers--and during the summer months there are few of the
more retired lanes or hedge-sides where their tents may not be
seen erected--their travelling-cart resting on its beams--their fire
kindled and ment cooking--their asses feeding by the wayside--
their children sprawling half-naked--the men busied in forming
easier work or tin vessels--and the women hawking them among the
neighbouring villages or cot-houses.  So far as I have seen or ex-
pereinced, they are a harmless, though sadly uneducated race;
nor do I think that it is possible to reclaim them, except by inter-
marriage with the rest of the community.  In proof of their former
lawless habits, it may be mentioned, that when, about half a cen-
tury ago, it was proposed to erect a grave-stone in the church-yard
of Borthwick for one of them, and this was objected to by the na-
tives, as a thing quite unusual in the case of tinkers, the objection
was set aside by a sagacious heritor, who observed that in his
opinion, the man deserved such an honour, as being perhaps the
first of his race who ever came to so respectable an end.
   Ecclesiastical State.--What now constitutes this parish belong-
ed formerly to the collegiate kirk of Crichton.  In April 1596,
King James I. of England, dissolved from the said collegiate kirk
the prebendaries of Ardnalestone, (now Arniston,) of Middleton
first and second, and of Vogrie, of old called Loquharriot, with
two boys or clerks to assist in the performance of divine service,
with suitable salaries annexed to their office.  These prebendaries,
with the haill vicurage of Borthwick, fruits, rents, manse, and globe
thereof, were then, by a royal charter, erected into a distinct
and separate charge, in all time coming, to be called the parson-
age of Borthwick.  This deed was afterwards, in 1606, solemn-
ly ratified to parliament, and in 1609, confirmed by the Archibishop
of St. Andrews, as the undoubted patron of said prebendaries.
   The old church, which from the style of its architecture, seems
to have been coeval with the castle, having been burnt in 1775,
the present place of worship was finished in 1778.  It is a sub-
stantial and commodious building, and was originally designed
to contain 500 sitters, but from some subsequent arrangement of
the seats, it does not at present contain so many.  The number
of communicants at present is 400.


