
		    INVERARITY.                           235

wooded hills, such as Fothringham, Kincaldrum, Lawrence, and
Carrot, --ascending gently from the valley, and terminating the
landscape as it recedes to the horizon. From its natural position,
this parish contains no small portion of low flat land, admitting of
the best divisions for agricultural convenience and ornamental land-
scape.
	Climate, &c.--The atmosphere, from the neighbourhood of the
parish to the coast, and its comparatively low situation, is in spring
and autumn often foggy; but during the other seasons is mild and
dry. The east wind, blowing almost directly from the sea, pre-
vails in the early part of the year, and, towards evening, fre-
quently during summer.
	Freestone and gray-slate quarries abound here, and are con-
verted to the most useful purposes. The soil is various,--prin-
cipally clay,--in many parts alluvial, and rests upon beds of freestone
or slate; and in the more elevated districts, a dark loam, on sand-
coloured freestone.
	Roe-deer abound in the parish, and find a ready shelter in the
numerous young plantations. The birds mentioned in the former
Account, such as dotterel, rails, wood and black-cock, still visit,
and abound in, the parish. The small squirrel, not noticed in the
former Account, is found on Fothringbam hill.
	Botany.--There are many plants here, though not of a kind
peculiar to the place. On Fothringham hill, Trientalis Europoea,
Oxalis acetosella, Vaccinium Vitis Idea. In other parts of the
parish, Erica tetralix, Veronica beccabunga, Ranunculus, Meny-
anthes trifoliata, Parnassia palustris, &c. There has been a very
great increase of plantations since the last account of the parish
was written. The property of Fothringham is ornamented with
extensive and varied plantations, consisting of oak, beech, plane,
sprtce, ash, larch, and Scots fir. Near the house of Fothring-
ham are several beech trees of very large size; and the approach
to it from the south, through a winding den, presents clumps of
spruce trees of distinguished beauty. On the other properties, the
greatest attention has been paid to the improvement of waste land,
and to the ornamenting of enclosures and fields, by plantations,
and with handsome trees. In this respect, Colonel Lawrenson,
of Inverighty, has earned a just claim to distinction in this district
for his judicious and successful disposal of such trees, of consider-
able size, as are both suited to the soil, and an ornament to the
neighbourhood. The soil, indeed, seems well fitted for trees in


