
274                       FORPARSHIRE.

shore, which forms its eastern boundary, being a low sandy beach,
affords no support to the Algae, except among the shingles toward
the mouths of the North and South Esk, where some of the Con-
fervoe. Fuci, and Laminarice occur. The other marine plants in this
direction `rd chiefly the Salsola Kali, Cakile maritima, Eryngium
maritimum, Arenaria peploides, Statice Armeria. The extensive
range of sand hills skirting the beach is bound down and secured,
as in other places, chiefly by the Arundo arenaria, Elymus arena-
rius, and Triticum junceum. Here, also, and along the links, we
find the Tragopogon pratensis, Salix repens, Thalictrum minus,
Astragalus hypoglottis, Gentiana campestris, Ononis arvensis, in
great profusion: Trifolium arvense, Medicago lupulina, Convolvu-
lus arvensis, &c. The Silene conica, a plant not hitherto recog-
nized as indigenous in Scotland, grows plentifully in the North
Links, though it has probably been introduced along with the rye-
seed, a considerable quantity of which is raised there, as agreeing
best with the light sandy soil. Along the margin of the basin,
westward of the town; we find the Arenaria marina, Glaux mari-
timum, Chenopodium maritimum, Aster Tripolium, Triglochin mari-
timum, Cochlearia officinalis, Salicornia herbacea with one or two
varieties, Scirpus maritimus, &c. Abundance of the curious
Zostera marina is left by the tide; and, though it does not ap-
pear to be actually produced within the boundary of the parish, it
is met with a little higher up the basin, growing in the sea water
pools along with the still more curious Ruppia maritima.
	In pasttrds and by road sides, grows the comparatively rare Ci.
chorium Intybus; also Echium vulqare, Papaver Argemone, Centau-
rea scabiosa, Marrubium vulgare, Nasturtium terrestre, Tanacetum
vulgare, Veronica Scutellata, Lithospermum arvense, Conium macula-
tum. In marshes and ditches occur the Menyanthes trifoliata,
Iris Pseud-Acorus, Sparganium ramosum, Scirpus lacustris, Alisma
Plantago, Ranunculus aquatilis, hederaceus, and sceleratus, several
species of Potamogeton, Myriophyllum spicatum, Orchis bifolia,
Morio, &c. In the more elevated grounds we meet with the
Trientalis Europea, Pyrola minor and secunda, Genista Anglica,
Gymnadenia conopsia. In the Cryptogamie Flora there seems to
be nothing very remarkable, though a good many species of Fungi,
some of them rare, grow on the links and sand-hills.
	Within these few years, a considerable quantity of forest trees
of various kinds has been planted on the estate of Charlton. There
is also Some extent of fir on the north-west boundary of the pa-


