
			IRVINE.				621

many years afterwards, smuggling appears to have been carried on
very extensively and in	a very daring manner. It appears by the
custom-house books at Irvine, that the custom-house there was re-
peatedly broken into and robbed of large quantities of seized
goods by bands of armed men, and that several people in the bet-
ter ranks of life were concerned in these lawless proceedings.
Latterly smuggling was chiefly confined to whisky from Arran;
but of late years, this illicit traffic has almost entirely ceased.
According to the official returns published by Chalmers in his
Caledonia, Irvine was the third port in Scotland in the year
1760. Port-Glasgow, including, as it then did, Greenock and
Glasgow, was first, and Leith second, in the importance aris-
ing from the number end tonnage of vessels. In Leith at that
period, there were 79; whilst in Irvine, there were 77 vessels.
The subsequent increase of trade has been very considerable.
At the present day, all vessels belonging to the coast of Ayr-
shire, from Troon point to Largs, inclusive of Saltcoats and Ar-
drossan, and all vessels belonging to Arran, are comprehended
within the port of Irvine. Of these vessels, by far the greatest
number belong to ship-owners resident in Irvine, who employ them
in carrying coals chiefly coastwise, and to Ireland, but not unfre-
quently to France, Malta, Gibraltar, and other places in foreign
countries. The imports consist of timber chiefly, but occassional-
ly of grain from America, and of grain and butter from Ireland
in great quantities. The timber from America yields the great-
est part of the revenue of the customs, and the average amount
may be stated at L. 2700 annually. The coals exported from the
port and district execeed 276,000 tons annually. The number of
vessels belonging to the Port is 118; their tonnage amounts to
15,756; and they are navigated by 958 men.
	Irvine ranks amongst the most ancient of the royal burghs
Scotland. In a charter granted by King Robert in 1308, it is
mentioned as a place of great antiquity. In a subsequent charter
granted 1323, there is reference to a charter in favour of this burgh,
granted in the reign of Alexander II, early in the thirteenth cen-
tury. The antiquity of the burgh and its importance in ancient
times, are also evident from a charter by King Robert II,
dated 8th April 1372. This charter bears to have preceded on
"an inquest at the King's command, concerning a dispute between
Ayre and Irvine, anent their boundaries and libertries &c. and by
which it was clearly found, that, time immemorial, Irvine had been


