
314			KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

Galloway, the priory of Whithorn with its pertinents, of which
this church was one.*  But when Episcopacy was finally abo-
lished in 1689, the patronage of Kirkdale reverted to the Crown,
--and the Sovereign, as patron of this church, enjoys a moiety of
the patronage of the united parish with M'Culloch of Barholm.+
	Extent and Bomidaries.--The united parish of Kirkmabreck
and Kirkdale is of an irregular shape, and is about 9 miles long,
and 5 1/2 miles broad. It is bounded on the north by Minnigaff;
on the east, by Girthon; on the south, by Anwoth; and on
the west, by the Cree and Wigton Bay.
	Topographical Appearanes.--The general aspect of the parish
is mountainous, and may be said to be formed of a succession of
hills and valleys; and the ridges of mountains, which rise rapidly
from the shore and intersect the parish, have a very picturesque
effect, particularly from Wigtonshire. The hills are in general
covered with heath, and present a variegated appearance; and the
sloping banks of Kirkdale and Cassencarrie are covered for miles
with beautiful copsewood, which at all times, but especially in
autumn, gives a singular richness  to the whole landscape.
	Mountains.--The principal mountains in this parish are the
Clints of Drumore, Craig, Pebble, Cairnharrow, Larg. These
are all from 800 to 1000 feet above the level of the sea, and are
principally composed of granite, greywacke, and clay-slate, and
are partially covered with heath. A part of Cairnsmore is also
in this parish. It is the largest as well as the highest of all the
mountains in this neighbourhood, and was found by the civil-en-
gineers employed by Government many years ago, to be 2222
feet above the level of the sea. It is wholly of granite, and par-
tially covered with heath, and, at a little distance, it has a singu-
larly gray and, sparkling appearance. There is a plain of consi-.
derable extent upon its summit, with less heath and more soil and
herbage than Upon its sides.  The top of Cairnsmore commands
a most extensive view of many of the counties of Scotland, and
of the Isle of Man, Ailsa, Craig, and a part of England and Ireland.
	Surface and Soil.--The surface upon the hills is thin and much
broken by projecting rocks. The valleys, again, are green, with
a better soil, and have been considerably improved by shelling,
and now yield good crops of grain and pasture. The land upon

<FOOTNOTE>Act. Par. v. 72.                + Chalm. Cal. Vol. iii. 333.
				4


