
                        MINNIGAFF.                              143

	Library.--There is a library attached to the Sabbath school,
which contains about 400 volumes. There is also a public sub-
scription library in Newton-Stewart, immediately adjoining.
	Charitable Institutions.--There is no friendly society or saving
bank in the parish. A clothing club was instituted a few years
ago by Lady Galloway. The contributors deposit 1d. or 2d.
weekly, as they choose; at the end of the year, her Ladyship
adds to the, sum deposited one-half of the amount, and, for this
sum, the depositor receives an order on a draper in Newton-Stew-
art for what articles of clothing he may wish. This scheme has
been of much advantage to many of the poorer clasr. A clothing
depository was formed last year, under the patronage of Lady
Heron Maxwell, which is supported by subscriptions. The clothes
are made and sold at the cost of the materials, to those who are
unable to pay the full price.
	Poor and Parochial Funds.--The number of persons perma-
nently receiving parochial aid is 46, and of persons receiving oc-
casional relief, 27. In all, 73 persons are on the poor funds, or one
pauper to every 25 of the population. The highest sum allowed
to those on the roll is 4s. weekly, or L. 10, 8s. annually. * The
lowest is 5s. quarterly, or 4 3/4d. per week; the average to each
pauper being L. 1, 14s. 2d., and the total expenditure, L. 138, 8s.
8 3/4d. The income arises from collections at church doors, L. 80,
7s. 10 3/4d.; mortcloth dues, proclamations, and interest of morti-
fied money, L. 40, 10s. The deficiency is supplied by a contri-
bution on the heritors, according to their valued rents. Many of
the poor are Irish, or of Irish extraction, and, among these, there
is little disposition to refrain from seeking parochial relief. Among
those originally belonging to the parish, there is more reluctance
manifested to apply for aid; but this feeling is disappearing, and
individuals, by no means in distressed circumstances, do not he-
sitate to apply for relief.
	Police.--A constable was `ppointed by the county for this pa-
rish in 1839, whose services have been of much benefit, especially
in the suppression of vagrancy.
	Fairs.--None are now held in the parish, but every facility for
the disposal of cattle and farm produce is afforded by the markets
of Newton-Stewart.
	Alehouses.--There are eight public houses in the parish; two in
the village of Minnigaff, three at Creebridge, and three in the
country.

<FOOTNOTE>The person receiving this allowance is a man upwards of ninety-four years of age.


