
FETLAR A-ND NORTH VELL.                          25

from L.1, 10s. to L.5. The prices of both have been consider-
ably raised since the steamer commenced.
A mixed breed of sheep was, some years ago, introduced into
Fetlar, by Sir Arthur Nicolson, and scab, which was unknown
among the native breed, was introduced alon' with them.  Thi&
9
mixed breed does not seem to thrive well.
In the small lochs there is plenty of trout, which go up the burn
to spawn about the end of September.  Ling, cod, haddock, tur-
bot, seath and flounders, are found in our friths and bays, sillocks
and piltocks all along our shores.  Limpets and welks are com-
inon.  The limpet is used for bait to catch haddock, sillock, and
piltock.  Spouts and large muscles are sometimesdriven ashore in'
stormy weather.  Large oysters are dragged in Bastavoe; anti
some spouts are, taken in Gloupvoe.
There are no forests of any kind in the parish.       A few stunt-
ed trees and bushes drag out a miserable existence in some of the
gardens.. A few apples bave,grown in the manse garden, also
some gooseberries, currents, and strawberries.
II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
Land-owners.-There are 28 proprietors in Fetlar and North
Yell, of whom the chief are, Lord Dundas, Sir Arthur Nicolsoij,
and William Mouat, Esq.
Parochial Be
.9isters.-No parochial register is to be found, of
older date than 1754: it commences with the ordination of Mr Gor-
don on the l2th June of that year, and was irregularly kept till 1803,
when a new book was begun, in which the births and marriages
are pretty regularly entered ; but there are no entries of deaths.
Antiquities.-In antiquities, we are not behind our neighbours,
if any body thought it worth while to investigate them.  We have
St Hillary's kirk above Feal, Old kirk at Fetcbie Burn, Roman
Catholic chapels. at Oddsta, Urie, Rossiter, Gruting, Strand,
Hubie, Funzie, Nortb Dale, Roman camp at Snawburgh, Pictish
forts at brough of Hubie and Aithsness, two round Pictish build-
ings at Aithsness, several fonts dug up at Aithsness, some urns
at Stackaberg with ashes, and bones among the ashes, stone urns
dug up in the manse yard in 1828, old burial place at Hammers.
field, where the bodies have been burnt, numbers of small round
tumuli among the hills.  All these in Fetlar.  In North Yell,, 4S
a brough at Burraness almost entire, and another at Brough.
Modern Buildings.-The onl modem buildings which we h&ve
y
in Fetlar are, a nondescript kind of house, designed fbrr a mans .iotrw


