
198			KINCARDINESHIRE.

might have been the cause of the formation of the bay of Nigg, the
earthy matter being constantly washed away, and the stones accu-
mulating from time to time, and forming the hirsts of pebbles. There
seem to be three distinct collections of these small stones, formed at
different periods. The first or farthest inland of these (about one
hundred and fifty yards from the sea) is now covered with vegetable
mould, and is cultivated for crops of various kinds. It rises from
twelve to fifteen feet above the present level of the sea. Towards
the south side of it, an excavation was made in the year 1804, near
a burn running through the low ground in the valley above, to the
sea, and several feet deeper than the bottom of the burn,--for the
purpose of forming a drain to carry off the water collected in the
low ground, by a passage to the sea through the beach. In making
this excavation, the workmen cut through the timbers of a vessel of
considerable size. The depth at which they cut was about nine or
ten feet from the surface, and three or four feet beneath the bed of
the burn. The distance of the spot where the vessel lay is about
an hundred yards from high water-mark. At what period this
ship was thrown in, and how so great a quantity of matter requi-
site to fill up the space above it was accumulated, whether gradual-
ly or at once, it is impossible to say.
	There is another small bay north of the Bay of Nigg, and close
by the Girdleness Light-house, called Grey Hope, memorable for
the loss of the Greenland ship, the Oscar, which happened there
in the year 1813, with fifty-five persons on board.
	Climate.--The air is healthy: along the coast, it is fresh,
and from the influence of the sea is rather chilly. Yet the
frost is less intense,--snow continues for a shorter time, and
the crop ripens sooner, than in places more inland. The east and
north-east winds prevail a good deal. And sometimes, particu-
larly in May, mists come off the sea, and also in autumn, destruc-
tive to the crop on the coast. From the moderate quantity of rain
which falls upon, this east coast, and from the light loamy sandy soil
absorbing it soon, and from frequent breezes, the ground soon dries,
and allows grain to be sown early, and the crop soon ripens in ge-
neral.
	Springs.--There are several chalybeate springs about the cen-
tre of the parish, though not used medicinally. Springs of good
water abound everywhere throughout the parish.
	There is one lake in the parish, the Loch of Loirston, on the
south-west boundary, oblong hn form, covering about twenty-seven
				3


