
     of St Monance.

proprietors, Sir Robert Anstruther, Baronet, proprietor of
Abercrombie, and Sir John Anstruther, Baronet, of the
lands of Newark; but none of them reside in the parish.
In the lands of Abercrombie, all the inhabitants are farm-
ers, and cottagers employed by them; except in the village
of Abercrombie, there are 1 wright, 1 smith, and 3 wea-
vers.-It was observed before, that the lands of Newark
were let in small parcels to persons who resided in the town
of St Monance.  Besides these, in that place, there are 4
bakers, 3 brewers, 2 smiths, 4 merchants, 1 wright, and 1
boat-builder; 2 masons, 20 sieve-makers, 2 flax dressers, 1
shoemaker, 5 tailors, 6 weavers, and 1 gardener.  The rest
of the inhabitants are composed of fishers and sailors, land-
labourers and day labourers, and such as are employed about
the coal and salt works.  And it merits observation, that
there are no less than 12 spirit and ale houses, the unhappy
effects of the keepers of which, by their craft to decoy, are
with regret seen upon both the health and morals of the
young and inconsiderate.

   Church, Stipend, etc.-What is at present used for the
church of the parish is part of an old convent, on the west
of the town of St Monance; which is situated upon a rock,
advancing into the frith of Forth.  It had been a very
stately and beautiful Gothic pile of hewn stone, in the form
of a cross, with a square steeple in the centre*.  The walls
of the south and north branches are still standing, but want

     VOL. IX. X x

<FOOTNOTE>

*This chapel is recorded to have been a priory of the Black-friars.
It was founded by King David II. of Scotland, in the 40th year of his
reign, and was served by a hermit.  By his charter, dated "at Edin-
brugh," he grants thereto, the lands of Easter-birney in Fife, and some
lands in the sheriffdom of Edinburgh.  It was given by King James III.
to the Black-friars.  To it was annexed the convent founded by the
Macduffs Earls of Fife, at the foot of the Castlehill of Cupar of Fife.  Af-


