
                           SOUTHEND.                                  429

this is, that St Columba landed here on his way from Ireland to
the Hebrides.  Here also is the pedestal of a large stone cross,
no doubt dedicated to the memory of the saint, but which has
been removed from its proper place, and now lies neglected at
Inveraray.  On the lands of Machririoch, near the mansion-house
of Mr M'Donald of Ballyshear, are also the remains of a religious
edifice called after, and dedicated to, St Coivin.  In the island of
Sanda, are also situated the ruins of a chapel dedicated to St
Ninian, together with two crosses of very rude design.  In this
burying-ground, there is a superstitious story, universally be-
lieved, respecting an alder tree growing over the reputed grave
of the saint, over which should any one walk, even by chance, he
is doomed to die before a year expire.  Like the former reposi-
taries of the dead, this burying-ground also shows every mark of
neglect, being unenclosed; the grave-stones are broken and de-
faced, and betoken that want of affection and respect for the dead
which is cherished by the rudest nations.  No vestige remains of
the parish church of St Blane.  Here also neglect is conspicuous.
The chapel was carried away by the water of Coniglen, which
passes close by it, as was also the whole of an extensive cemetery
attached to it, with a very small exception, which now forms the
bank of the river, and hurnan bones may now be seen bleaching
in the sun.  We must not omit to mention the ruins of St Cathe-
rine Chapel, situated in a lovely spot on the banks of a stream in
the secluded  pastoral vale of Glenadle, where, close to the cha-
pel, there is a cemetery and holy well, frequented by diseased per-
sons to a late date.  In this parish are situated the remains of
what are usually denominated Danish forts.  The principal re-
mains of one of these are situated oil the farm of Balemacumra,
which is near the Mull of Kintyre.  The situation is almost inac-
cessible, being on the head of a perpendicular rock 180 feet in
height, the base of which is about 100 feet from the sea.  The
fort is surrounded by three walls.  The inner is 12 feet in thick-
ness, the second 6 feet, and the outer wall 3 feet.  The space be-
tween the inner wall and the edge of the precipice is 66 feet in
length, and its medium width 22 feet.
   Ministers.-Mr Duncan O'May was minister of this parish in
the year 1631.  Mr David Simson was settled in 1655, and outed
in 1663; afterwards indulged; in August 1685 banished, by orders
of Government, to New Jersey, where he died.  He was succeed-
ed by his son, Mr David Simson, who conformed to the Prelatic


