
			BANCHORY DDVENICK.               181

brought from the Cape of Good Hope; besides several Alpine
plants, brought down from the mountains, and deposited by the
Dee upon its shores.
	Plantations.--On the subject of plantations it may be remark-
ed, that so much has not been done hitherto as might be wish-
ed. In that part of the parish which lies along the sea-coast, fo-
rest trees will not thrive. Shelter from the immediate influence
of the east wind seems indispensable. But although much barren
surface possessing this advantage remains in a state of nature, the
plantations of Mr Thomson of Banchory, covering about 250
acres, and one on the property of Pitfodels of considerable extent,
are well attended to, and are in a thriving conditions. *

			II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Land-owners.--There are seventeen land-owners in this parish.
Mr Thomson of Banchory is the first heritor in point of valued
rent, and Mr Menzies of Pitfodels the second. There are, how-
ever, several others whose properties are of considerable value, as
Mr Symmers of Cults; Mr Anderson of Dee Bank; and Mr
Corbett of Buildside, in the Aberdeenshire district; and Miss For-
dyce of Ardo;+ Mr Nicol of Badentoy; Mr Gammel of Portle-
then; Mr Shand of Hillside; and Mr Boswel of Auchlee, in the
Kincardineshire district. None of the heritors, however, reside in
the parish all thd year, except two; and only four during the sum-
mer months.
	Parish Registers.--We have no parochial registers of earlier date,
than the beginning of last century. Since that time, they have been
regularly kept, with the exception of a hiatus from April 1713 to
March 1716.
	From the early part of the record, it appears that the princicipal
feasts and fasts of the Church of England were regularly observ-
ed: and at date 19th October 1712, we find the following minute:
--"The said day, intimation was made to the congregation,
the next Lord's day, the excellent liturgy of the Church of En-
gland was to be used in the worship of God in this congregation,
and, accordingly, the people were exhorted in to perform this method
of worship in a spirit of devotion, and with that becoming gravity
and decency that was expected from those who had been so ex-

<FOOTNOTE>Since the above was written, Mr Thomson of Banchory has added considerably
to his plantations; and 12 or 15 acres have been planted on the estate of Ards and
a few on that of Mr Thurburn of Murtler.
       This lady is now dead and has been succeeded by a family named Watson, to
whom she bequeathed the property.  John Garloch, Esq. of Heatbeat has now be-
come a proprietor by the purchase of the flashing village, and part of Findon
connected with it.


