
     of Closeburn.

provided for a schoolmaster.  In room of a legal salary, 
the proprietor of Closeburn has, for a great many years,
been in use to give a small sum of money yearly, to a per-
son named by himself to teach English, writing and arith-
metic, in any part of the parish he himself thought proper.
But the principal schol of the parish is that which, in ho-
nour of its founder, is called the school of Wallacehall.
John Wallace, merchant in Glasgow, a native of Close-
burn, in the year 1723, mortified L. 1600, for the purpose 
of erecting this school*.  The reputation of the school of 
Wallacehall was raised very high by the late rector Mr
Alexander Mundell, and there is every reason to expect,
that under his son and sucessor, it will preserve that repu-
tation it has very justly acquired.  The situation of this 

<FOOTNOTE>

whose age, from his own account, is 89.  He was long gardener to the
family of Closeburn; but for some years his only employment has been 
going errands.  He is yet a healthy and vigorous man, and walks some-
times 7 or 8 miles in a forenoon, without being fatigued.  In the church-
yard of Dalgarno there is a tombstone, under which are buried a father 
and mother, with their son and his wife, whose ages, all added together,
amount to 350 years. 

<FOOTNOTE>

*The presbytery or Penpont were appointed trustees for the manage-
ment of the fund, judging of the qualifications of the teachers, and
watching over the interests of the school.  In the management of the 
fund, the Laird of Closeburn was to be consulted.  Five patrons were
appointed to nominate the rector of the school, viz.  John Wallace of
Elderslie, Thomas Wallace of Cairnhill, and Michael Wallace, merchant 
in Glasgow, three brothers, the minister of Closeburn, and town clerk 
of Glasgow, for the time being.  In the election of a rector, it is re-
commended to the patrons to give a preference to one of the name of 
Wallace, if equally qualified.  Of the money mortified by Mr Wallace, 
L., 200 was laid out in building a school-house and dwelling-house for
the rector, and in purchasing 5 acres of ground contiguous to the school,
for the rector's use; L. 1145 was laid out in purchasing lands at some
distance; and the remainder was at first put out to interest, but has since
been applied, towards enclosing the land, and cularging the rector's


