
500                              BENFREWSHIRE.


	perty in the parish.  The plough passes annuall over the
	foundation.of their once formidable castle, the stones of which
	form the garden wall of a retired Glasgow merchant.  The
	same may be said of the Maxwells of Williamwood, the traces of
	whose family seat, which appears to have been built in the style of
	Saxon architecture, are now with difficulty to be discovered.  The
	estate passed into the possession of a gentleman of the naine of
	Stewart, and is now thb property of his son.  The Hamiltons of
	Aikenhead, cadets of the ducal family of that name, were at one
	time very extensive proprietors, holding the lands of Langside,
	Holmhead, and others.  The last representative of the family is
	the present Miss Hamilton, with whom the name must terminate,
	and to whom Holmhead is the whole now left of their once
	wide domains in this parish. The largest beritor at the pre-
	sent day is Sir John Maxwell of Pollok, whose residence is, how-
	ever, in Eastwood, so that to the statistical historian of that pa-
	rish belongs the pleasing task of recording the many distinguished
	services rendered to their country by the successive generations of
	that most ancient and Honourable bouse.
	     The largestresident heritor is Gordon of Aikenhead, who is
	also the patron.  Abnut twent years ago, a splendid mansion-
	house, highly ornamental to the parish, was erected by the father
	of the present proprietor; and of late years the estate, extensive
	from the first, has been greatly augmented by the acquisition of
	the very beautiful and romantic property of the Linn.  The heri-
	tors of the parish are now about thirty in number, and the princi-
	pal of them are, in addition to those already mentioned, Graham
	of Dripps, Brown of Langside, Thomson of Campbill, Clark of
	Crosshill, the hill on which, there being no natural boundary
	to the parish at that place, the cross, according to the practice in
	Catholic times, was erected to mark the limit.
	   Parochial Registers.-There is no parochial register of an ear-
	lier date than the year 1707, although it appears from a minute
	of heritors about sixty years ago, wlien a session-clerk was chosen,
	that there was a more ancient record then in existence consigned
	to his charge, which has unfortunately been lost.  The session
	minute-books Vihich remain have been kept in extremely good or-
	der, and, instead of being deficient, are, perhaps, too abundant in
	their detail of the cases of scandal which were occurring in the pa-
	rish During the last century, with one exception in the case of the
	Rev. Mr Adam on whose too true tale is founded; the deeply in,
                                     4

