
     Statistical Account

gevity of its inhabitants, yet there are not wanting many in-
stances of long life.  Some years ago, a man, in the labour-
ing line of life, died at the age of 101.  Within these few
weeks, an old soldier died, who, from his age in the master
roll 1746, must have been 103.  A woman of the colliery
died, about 5 or 6 weeks after the preceeding lift was taken,
aged 92.  There are many old people on the poor's roll; in
particular one woman past 90.  There are 5 men and 5 wo-
men living, who are past 80; and there are 13 men, and
20 women past 70*.

   Population.-The following tables of births are extracted
from the register of baptisms; and although this may not be

<FOOTNOTE>

*There in an instance of longevity, which is too remarkable to be passed over
unnoticed, viz. GEORGE ASERCHOMEY, Esq. formerly of TULLIBOX, now of
BRUCEFIELD, who is a native of this parish, and was born in the year 1705.
Notwithstanding his great age, he is still in good health, and enjoys life and the
company of his friends in a surprising manner.  He is in perfect possession of all
his faculties; and though he sometimes complains of his sight and hearing, evi-
dences the same acutness of judgement, that distinguished him in his younger
years.  He can relate facts, of an early date, with great accuracy, and apply them
with uncommon sagacity to present occurences.  This deserving old gentle-
man is greatly respected by all his acquaintance, and has been singularly for-
tunate in his fammily.  His eldest son, GENERAL ABERCROMBY of TULLIBODY,
to whom he has made over his estate in this parish, now commands part of the
British forces in Holland.  His eldest Son, GENERAL SIR ROBERT ABERCROM-
BY, is governor of Bombay, and commander in chief of the forces in Bengal.
Having lately commanded one armica against TIPPOO SIAB, his Majesty 
has rewarded his services, by creating him a Knight of the Bath.  His third son   
is LORD ABERCROMBY, one of the senators of the College of Justice, whose ap-
pointment to that important office given general satisfaction.  His daughters
are most respectably married; and, what is still more, he sees the rising genera-
tion trading in the footstems of the former: General Abercromby's eldest son is
now accompanying Lord Elgin in his embassy: His Second is a captain in India:
And all this singualar prosperity, the worthy old gentleman lives to see, to enjoy,
and to give God the PRAISE.


