
                            JURA.                            541

improvement of it, the payment of their rents being made to de-
pend upon the produce of their cattle; but few of the tenants send
corn to the mill, the produce of their harvest, (bear and potatoes
excepted,) being for the most part expended upon their stock, dur-
ing the months of winter and spring.  There are from 1000 to
1200 head of black-cattle annually sold out of the Island of Jura,
one-half of these by the tenants; average value, L.5 Sterling.
The other half consists of four-year-old stots and heifers, sold by
Mr Campbell of Jura, and Captain M'Neill, younger of Colonsay;
average value at the present prices, L.10 Sterling.  Previous
to the year 1800, the Island of Jura was stocked with the small
white-faced Highland breed of sheep, which was highly valued on
account of the flavour of the mutton, and the superior quality of
the wool; at that time, the black-faced breed was introduced,
which in its turn is likely to give place to Cheviots, now prosper-
ing in the extensive tenement of Tarbert.
   The quantity of grain annually sown in Jura may fluctuate be-
tween 400 and 500 bolls of oats, and from 80 to 100 bolls of bear.
                 V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Harbours.--There are two good road steads in the Island of
Jura.  Daillghall in Jura, or Lowlandman's Bay is a capacious
basin, two and a-balf miles in circumference; its depth of water
from five to six fathoms; its entrance, which is at the south end,
is in breadth above 570 yards.  The other harbour in Jura is
formed by four islands, and has thence obtained the appellation
of Small Isles Harbour; it is considered safe and convenient;
depth of water from four to six fathoms; it is furnished with a sub-
stantial quay. Besides these, there are several in ferior road-steads.
   Villages.--Miltown, including Craighouse, is the only place
possessing the character of a village in Jura.  There is a corn-
mill, and smithy.  Weavers, shoemakers, and other tradesmen,
have of late years taken up their abode in it.  Craighouse inn
was rebuilt and enlarged about nine years ago; and a distillery,
capable of producing 720 gallons of whisky per week, was erected
by Mr Campbell of Jura about the same time.
   Ecclesiastical State.--There are two parish churches, one in
Jura and the other in Colonsay.  The parish church of Jura,
built about sixty-three years ago, was at first roofed in, furnished
with doors and windows, seated in part, but never fully finished.
For many years during the writer's incumbency, it was allowed to
fall into a miserable state of disrepair.  It is now otherwise, con-


