
480                      INVERNESS-SHIRE.

the Cornmittee for managing the Royal Bounty, signed the Lt.-
Governor, and principal inhabitants of Fort-George, craving that
the Committee would grant a proper salary to Mr Walter Mori-
son minister of Ardersier, for encouraging him to preach in the
Fort every Sabbath, at an hour not interfering with his parish kirk,
which petition the Presbytery did highly approve, and did, and
do hereby recommend it to the serious consideration of the Com-
mittee." We quote this minute, to show the activity evinced in
former times, in regard to the provision for a minister or chaplain
in the Fort. At the union of Scotland with England, it was sti-
pulated that chaplains should be maintained in the three castles
of Edinburgh, Stirling, and Dumbarton. It being considered un-
necessary to continue the chaplaincy at Dumbarton, this situation
was some years ago abolished. But in order to fulfil the act of
Union in spirit, if not in letter, the chaplaincy of Fort-George
was substituted in its room. And yet this chaplaincy has been
dealt with, as if, in maintaining it, a boon to which they had no
claim, was conferred on the garrison. We observe the Presbytery
of Edinburgh taking steps, in order to give the chaplain of that
castle a seat in the Presbytery. But the Presbytery of Nairn
seems to overtook the fact that the chaplain of Fort-George has
an equal title to a seat in the Presbytery of Nairn. The situation
of chaplain is a very important one, and should have an adequate
provision, instead of the present pittance allowed by Government.
Mr Pryse Campbell succeeded Mr Morison, as appears by the
following extract from the Presbytery of Nairn records of date
6th March 1781:  "The moderator asked the people if they bad,
any objection to the presentee; they replied they had none, as he
agreed to preach in Erse."
   In December 1839, Mr John Matheson was ordained assistant
and successor to Mr Campbell. In Febrdary 1840, Mr Camp-
bell died at the advanced age of 86. He was distinguished for
cheerfulness of disposition, liveliness of imagination, and disinte-
rested benevolence.
   The parish church is situated in tire eastern and interior part
of the parish, and is convenient for the bulk of the population,
three-fourths of which reside in Campbelton, about a mile distant.
It was finished in 1802, and is in a good state of repair. It affords
accommodation for upwards of 500. No seat rents are now paya-
ble. The manse, which is commodious and modern, was built in
1828. The glebe extends to 17 acres arable, and about five of pas-
ture. It is worth about L. 25. The amount of stipend paid by


