
                  ISLAND OF SKYE-DUIRINISH.                         349

of the Baltic traders; and there is no illicit distillation carried on.
Poaching is also nearly unknown.

                          IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.-Almost the whole population is engaged more or
less in agriculture. There are five proprietors of land residing in
the parish, all of whom farm to some extent, except one. There
are seven tacksmen, or occupiers of large farms. There are 40.
individuals who support themselves mainly by handicraft, or re-
tailing merchandise: but all these have patches of land. There
are two ministers, one surgen, and ten schoolmasters in the pa-
rish. There are at least 1200 grown up males employed in agri-
culture during a considerable portion of the year, either as croft-
ers, or as farm-servants. There are no retired capitalists among us.
   There are 1900 acres now in cultivation, and upwards of 3000
which were once cultivated, but are now in pasture. Thus there
are about 40,000 acres which have always remained waste. There
are 12,000 acres of these that might be brought into tillage, 4000
of which would probably yield a good return for the expense.
The remainder, however, would require a greater outlay of capital
than it would be prudent to expend upon them. 100 acres under
wood; no undivided common.
   The rate of grazing varies both according to the quality of the
pasture, and the will of him who lets it. That of a cow ranges
from L.1 to L.3 10s.; of a sheep from 1s. to 4s. per annum.
   Wages.-The common wages of labourers are, in summer 1s.,
in winter 9d.; of artisans, 2s. 6d. without victuals; of female ser-
vants, from L.3 to L.4, 10s. in the year; of men, from L.6 to
L.18, according tothe charge entrusted to them.
   Live-Stock.-There are still some of the caoirich bheaga, or
little sheep,-that is, the breed of sheep indigenous to the High-
lands,-kept by the poor people; but they are very worthless com-
pared with the larger kinds introduced from the south. They are
very diminutive in size, seldom weighing more than 30, pounds,
and are to be found of a great variety of colours, white, black,
grey, brown, and sometimes with a mixture of all these. They
are, however, useful to the common people, as they require very
little food to support them, and are so tame as to allow themselves,
to be milked daily. Their wool is of a fine quality; and their
mutton possesses a delicacy of flayour which far surpasses that be-
longing to the best fed of the larger kinds.
   These sheep constituted at one time all the flocks of the coun-


