
                LOCHGOIL-HEAD AND KILMORICH.                   705


                       II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Antiquities.--There are three castles in this parish. The castle
of Dunduramh * is a large and strong tower, of an irregular figure,
with small turrets above the angles in the wall; but, as it is built
in a low situation, it could only be a defence against the,cursory
attacks of hostile neighbours, or of thieves and robbers, who fought,
or plunder, and, when repulsed, fled away.
   The castle of Ardkinglass + is composed of three separate towers,
each of them fronting an area within. The space between the
towers is defended by a strong wall about fifteen feet high. In
the course of this wall is the great gate, which is defended by small
round turrets in flank, with apertures, through which those who
assailed the gate might be annoyed with arrows or with small fire-
arms. The gate is also defended by a small tower immediately
above it, called the gate-tower. Around the area, and within the
walls, are smaller buildings for lodging servants, for holding arms,
and for storehouses and cellars. This castle is also built in a low
situation, and could not stand out against a regular investment.
The time in which this castle was built is not known; but there
is certain evidence of its having been repaired in the year 1586.
The old residence of the family of Ardkinglass, of which the
ruins can now scarcely be traced, was at a small distance from
the present castle, but in a more commanding situation. The
place of greatest strength in this district, is the castle of Car-
rick ++ This castle is built upon a rock, which was formerly
surrounded by the sea by means of a deep ditch. The entry to
the castle from the land was by a drawbridge, which was defended
by a strong wall and two small towers. The castle itself is of an
oblong figure, but not perfectly regular, as the architects in laying
the foundation kept in some places by the very edge of the rock;
it is 66 feet long and 38 feet broad over the walls; the side-wall
is 64 fdet high and 7 feet thick. Between the castle and the sea
there is a part of the rock unoccupied, which was surrounded by a

<FOOTNOTE>Donduranmh, the fort of the two oars. This castle was built close to the sea; and
as the access to it by land was in these times very bad, the most frequent communi-
cation would probably be by boats.

          Ardkinglass; probably Aird achoinghlaiss, the residence of the gray dog. The
great extent of plain ground around Ardkinglass permitted the proprietors to indulge
In the pleasures of the chase, the favourite amusement of the times. Aird generally
means the residence of a great family ; it seems to express the same meaning which
the word place conveys in some parts of the low country of Scotland. Ard signifies
high. In former times, powerful families usually built in high situations, particu-
larly on promontories, for defence ; and the name is still continued, though the cir-
cumstance which first gave rise to it has ceased to exist.

          Carraig, a Rock.
ARGYLE.


