
296                          FIFESHIRE.

ed the scantiness of wood in the district, which gives it a bare and
uninteresting appearance.
Geolo.-The rocks along the shore are chiefly sandstone,
and are used in building, though not well adapted for that purpose,
as they always retain a certain dampness, which indicates itself
even in some houses that are known to have been built two centti-
ries ago. The dip of the strata is towards the southeast. There
is a bank covered with large boulders, apparently of granites, im-
mediately to the east of the mouth of the harbour. The town it-
self seems, fiom recent excavations made in building, to rest on
stratified rocks of the description first mentioned, but apparently
softer, and overlaid with a thick bed of clay, and retentive subsoil;
and hence the water derived from springs is what is called hard,
and unfit for culinary and household purpose, until filtered and
corrected by carbonate of soda.
             II.-CIVIL 141STORY.
Anstruther Easter was erected into a royal burgh, by a charter
of Jarhes VI. dated 18th December 1583. It does not hold
burgage of the Crown, but feu of the family of Anstruther. An-
struther Easter was at one time possessed of lands lying Dear to
Kingsbarns. The magistrates having engaged in a law-suit with
Sir J. Anstruther, sold their lands about the year 1770, for L. 500,
to pay the cost of the action. The same lands have since been sold
for L. 5000.. The revenue of the burgh arises chiefly from cus-
toms, and shore or harbour dues, &e. It has fallen off conside-
rably since -1827. In the year ending Michaelmas 1832, it was
L. 78, 3s., and at the same period, the debts due by the burgh
amounted to about L. 485. The magistrates levy no taxes, except
the cess due to government, and the customs and shore dues.
They have the usual jurisdiction of magistrates within the royalty.
There have been no civil causes tried in the Bailie Court
since 1820. The town clerk acts as assessor to the magistrates,
and his appointment is duridg pleasure of the magistrates and coun-
cil. They appoint the burgh schoolmaster, procurator-fiscal, and
town-officer. The council consists of nineteen members, includ-
ing three bailies and a treasurer. The councillors are now elected
according, to the provisions of the 3 and 4 William IV. Like
many other small. towns, Anstruther Easter has of late years de-
creased. much in wealth and importance. Though it is still the
best market-town in the district, its decayed condition may be


