
2                        KINROSS-SHIRE.

the evaporation of the waters of the lake, all concur in rendering the
climate of Kinross parish, moist, cold, and variable. So far as
this climate depends on evaporation, a great improvement has been
accomplished, and will go on, by means of the recent operations
upon Lochleven, and the increasing exertions of cultivators of the
soil to convert wet land into dry; of which, more particular men-
tion will be made in a subsequent part of this account.
   About sixty years ago, agues were very prevalent, in consequence
of the marshes and stagnant water which then abounded. Now,
a case of agne is seldom to be met with. Rheumatism, often pro-
ceeding from the same causes as ague, or at least very much ag-
gravated by them, is both of rare occurrence and less severe than
before.
   It is also not unworthy of remark, that our harvest frosts, which
some years ago left the potato stems in the lower grounds alto-
gether black, while in the upper they remained fresh and green,-
are now far less frequently attended with these effects. And to what
is this so much to be attributed as to a less copious exhalation?
   Hydrography.-Throughout this parish, there lie scattered
many perennial springs, "as clear as crystal, and as cold as ice,"
arising from a sandy or gravelly bottom. They yield water of ex-
cellent quality. But there is none to which recourse is had for
any medicinal or chemical purposes.
   Among the different objects connected with the parish of Kin-
ross, there is none which imparts to it so much celebrity, interest,
attraction, and value, as the magnificent sheet of water which forms
its eastern boundary. The pen and the pencil have been so often
employed in the description of this lake, and have been employed so
well, that nothing of the kind is required or will be looked for in
this Account.
   Yet it may not be unnecessary to observe, that while the ope-
rations which the lake has given rise to within these few years,
have certainly taken from its general impressiveness, as well as
from its extent, it still presents an appearance on which the ad-
mirer of nature delights to dwell. 'The appearance referred to,
in calm weather, and under an unclouded sky, is that of mild
beauty, rather than of picturesque grandeur. Under moonlight,
and when "all the air a solemn stillness holds," the views from
the road leading to the old church-yard are in no ordinary degree,
sweet and soothing.
   Now that Lochleven has been subjected to a considerable drain-
                            4


