
36                           LANARKSHIRE.

mon sheep-pastures, 5s. a-head during the season may be stated
as a fair rent.
	Rate of Wages.--Farm-servants are not so high priced, nor so
difficult to be got as they were a few years back; at present, a good
man-servant, fit for the plough, &c. may be hired for L. 14 a-year,
with bed and board; while less experienced hands may be had from
L. 9 to L. 12; girls fit for conducting a dairy, under the eye of their
mistresses, get about L. 4 during the summer, and about L. 2, 10s.
during winter, with board. Tradesmen generally work by the
piece or job; but, like the labourers, are getting less wages than
lately, nor are they so shy to work by the day; when they do so,
masons and carpenters expect 2s. 6d. a-day, without victuals; and
tailors 1s. 3d. or 1s. 6d. with board.
	Breeds of Live Stock.--From the elevation of Lesmahago parish,
it is better suited for the dairy, and the breeding of cattle, than
for raising grain; consequently, the small proprietors and tenants
have turned their attention in these ways for the last thirty years.
During that time, the Ayrshire breed of cattle has been principal-
ly reared; and the cheese made from new milk, known by the
name of Dunlop, has become a staple commodity. Of this about
300 lbs. weight may be made from every cow, when the whole milk
is turned to that account; and on some farms, with careful hands,
that quantity, is raised, and a number of young stock reared,--
which goes to uphold the original stock, or to supply the English
and other markets with that breed of cattle. Lanarkshire has
long been famous for its breed of draught horses, of which Les-
mahago has its share.
	The Jewish antipathy against swine seems to be wearing off, and
the occupiers of land find it profitable to keep a few of these ani-
mals, to consume the refuse of the dairy; and many labourers and
mechanics keep a pig, by the dung of which they raise potatoes with
a neighbouring farmer in the following year. A mixed breed, be-
tween the English and Highland kind, seems the favourite; which,
when properly fed, may be killed at the age of nine or ten months,
weighing from two to two and a-half hundred weight. It is pro-
bable this kind of stock may be more attended to hereafter.
	The sheep kept on the high grounds are of the old Scotch
black-faced kind, weighing from ten to fifteen pounds imperial per
quarter, when fattened. This breed is better adapted to the soil
and climate than the Cheviot or finer kinds; and the improvements
sought after by the sheep-master are in shape and weight; to both
of which they pay particular attention. By keeping fewer in num-


