
     of Newburg.

<UNREADABLE>

near a dozen of looms are employed by one manufacturer.
But the greater put of them weave their own yarn, and
bring their own webs to sale.  The webs, which they com-
monly weave, are of three kinds, termed by the workmen,
Silesias, Osnaburghs, and Brown Linens.  For such cloths, there
is, generally, a good, and at present, a wry great demand in
London and Leeds.  The weavers, in Newburgh, however,
have little direct intercourse with either of there places.
They generally dispose of their webs, at Newburgh, to a few
of their own number, who again dispose of them at Perth,
Dundee, Cupar, Auchtermuchty, and Glasgow, to persons
there, who purchase them, either with their own capital, or
upon commission, for the English markets.  Not more than
two of them transact business immediately with London.  Be-
sides weavers, New burgh contains its full proportion of shop-
keepers, inn-keepers, smiths, masons, carpenters, shoemakers,
tailors, butchers, bakers, fishermen, and seamen.  Scarcely
any of its inhabitants find themselves placed beyond the ne-
cessity of employing themselves in manual labour; although
few or none of them are engaged in manufacturing any materi-
als for exportation, except the linen cloths already mentioned,
and barley into malt.  Of the latter, they send to Edinburgh
market, in the course or one season, about 1800 bolls.  Till
of late years, a great proportion of bread, beer, and butcher's
meat, consumed in Newburgh, was brought from Perth,
Dundee, and the Carse of Gowrie; hut the bakers, brewers,
and butchers, are exerting themselves in their respective oc-
cupations, and they bid fair for securing, in future, the cus-
tom of the generality of the inhabitants.  Formerly, few peo-
ple resorted from any distance to Newburgh, for merchant
goods; and the retail trade in it was limited to a few articles,
in the hard-ware and grocery lines, purchased commonly by
the dealers at Perth, or at Dundee.  But within these few

</UNREADABLE>


