
                       LOCKWINNOCH.                         99

heat, fatigue, and long confinement of the mills require a ge-
nerous diet, and use it. They have generally butcher-meat at
dinner, and sometimes at breakfast. This occasions an excellent
market in the village. Many of the other inhabitants live in a
plainer style, both in the town and country. The peasantry, I be-
lieve, generally eat porridge, and bread and cheese or milk to
breakfast; broth and butcher-meat to dinner; and porridge again,
or potatoes, or some other lighter food, to supper. Tea is not
used in the country on ordinary occasions, except by some heads
of families; but, with solitary exceptions, they live well.
In a manufacturing  place like this, a great deal of ignorance
and immorality may be expected. But the managers of the pub-
lic works have always, much to their credit, been very careful about
the character of the persons whom they employ; and the inhabi-
tants enjoy all private as well as public means of instruction and
improvement. The young are not merely educated at public
schools, but many of them attend classes for religious instruction
and as soon as they approach the years of maturity they in gene-
ral apply for admission into full communion with the church.
They are in a remarkable manner a churchgoing people. There
is hardly any such thing as infidelity, or even heresy, in the parish;
and those who are suspected of bad principles are regarded with
such feelings as to prevent them from doing much injury to those
around them.

                         IV.--INDUSTRY.
<TABLE>
         Extent of Lochwinnoch parish in English acres, 19219
         Cultivated, or capable ofcultivation,  9000
         Wood,                                   700
         Water,                                  300
         Gardens and orchards,                   100
         Pasture of all sorts,                  9119
                                              ______    19219

Such a large extent of land planted contains an immense variety
of wood; and upon the estates of Colonel Harvey and Mr McDowall
it is managed in the best possible manner. The former keeps a
skilful forester, and the plantations of the latter are manage with
similar skill and attention. Where the soil is deep enough, all
sorts of forest trees can be grown. On Castle-Semple estates there
are many fine old trees,-beech, oak Scoth and English elms,
and large variegated planes; larch firs, silver firs, of remarkable
size, and the largest tree of the cedar of Lebanon, except one,
that exists in Scotland. Besides these  old trees, the forestor has
lately planted a large assortment of the finest trees of the forest
which could be collected, and which are thriving well. I have re-


