
     Statistical Account

guage of those times, designed, the whole glebe and kirklands* 
has been a good deal ameliorated by former incumbents,
though much still remains to be done.  The progress
they have made in clearing it of immense quantities of
granite or whin stones, with which, notwithstanding all
that has been done, it still abounds, is the most essen-
tial and durable improvement that has been made.  For
though, in its original state, it might be judged equal in
value to 4 acres Scotch, (5 acres English,) of good ara-
ble land, yet, from their improvements, and the extent of its
surface, which, with the bed of the river, that partly inter-
sects it, and a steep bank occupied by wood,+ all taken to-

<FOOTNOTE>

outfield, sufficient to pasture four soums, in lieu of each acre arable, to which
he was otherwise entitled, being designed him.  From this, as well as from
other causes, particularly on the borders and in the Highlands, it happens
that some glebes are of greater extent than others, independent of grass suffi-
cient to pasture one horse and two cows being assigned according to act 24th,
Parliament 1st, Charles II. 1663, to which, notwithstanding, by said act, the
ministers of these parishes are also entitled: vide Mackenzie's observations
on act 17th, Parliament 18th, James VI And, therefore, from the difference
of the ability and pains of incumbents in improving such glebes, as well as from
their size and the nature of their soil, obviously proceeds the difference of their
value.  Hence the importance of adopting some reasonable plan, as has been
often suggested, the more effectually to excite all ministers, who are able, to
do so, without prejudice or loss to those who do it, their families or heirs, on
the event of their removal or death.  By this means, though successors were
bound to make a reasonable allowance for important and durable improve-
ments, at the sight of arbiters chosen by the parties, the livings would be be-
nefited, while none concerned could be any way injured.

*As "the glebe and kirk land of the kirk of Fedburgh," vide said record, 25th
March same year; vide also chap. 62. Par. 5. James VI.; chap. 10. Par 23.
James VI.

+Though the minister had been in use to cut the wood on his glebe, yet
the heritors of Bedrule, soon after the admission of Mr George Dickson,
questioned his right to do so, who, when the cause was tried in the Court
of Session, obtained a decreet in favour of his title, passed 30th July,1754,


