
                        ARDNAMURCHAN.                           119

comparatively, of the coast, consists of productive arable and se-
veral well-cultivated farms, while little wood is to be seen. Be-
yond this, the country assumes the bolder and more precipitous
aspect of the gneiss or mica slate formation; the pastures become,
coarser; woods of oak, birch, and hazel, especially on the south,
through which scanty patches of cultivated land are seen at distant
intervals, clothe the nakedness of the rocks, and cover the lower
part of the hills down to the waters of Loch Sunart.  At its junc-
tion with Sunart, Ardnamurchan slopes gradually on the south
into a low neck of land, across which the line of demarcation ex-
tends for three miles, from the beautiful Creek of Salen on Locb
Sunart to the west end of Lochshiel.  On the north, its eastern
extremity is a moss flat of great extent, upon which the hills
abruptly descend, and which is bounded by the river Shiel, the
boundary betwixt this district and Moidart.
   Sunart.-In some old records, it is written Swynefort or Swyni-
ford.  Hard by its western extremity, but in Ardnamurchan, there
is a creek where boats or galleys micht be drawn up or moored,
called Swinefort, which in Gaelic means the port or landing-place
of Swin, Swen, or Sweno; in the tenth century, a king of Denmark,
an apostate from Cbristianity, having been driven from his king-
dom took refuge in Scotland, where, during his exile, he again em-
brace the true faith.  If this Prince landed at Swinefort, or re-
sided in the district, both -may have been named from that circum-
stance.  At any rate " Suaain Mac Righ Lochlunn," " Swin Prince
of Denmark," is a name well known in Highland tradition, and
it appears certain that Sunart is compounded of "Suain" and
" Aird, height or eminences."  Suaine, however, also, in Gaelic,
means rest or sleep.  The exceeding stillness of the land-locked
waters of Loch Sunart may have suggested the name given to
secure and tranquil Suain and also to the district.  This dis-
trict is a continuation of Ardnamurchan, and is in mean breadth
not less than 10, nor in length than 25 miles.  The character of
its rocks and soil is the same with that of the contiguous portion of
the latter; but its mountains rise to a greater height; its valleys
are wider and deeper; its scenery altogether, cast in a grander
mould; and its declivities more amply wooded.  For a few miles, it
presents the aspect of one mountainous ridge, which, as we pro-
ceed eastward expands.  The coast on the south trends to the
south-east, and on the north for a much greater distance to the
north-east, so as to give a far greater breadth at its eastern than


