
288                    HADDINGTONSHIRE.

ed so high as L. 3333, 6s. 8d. At the time of the purchase of the
Winton estates in 1719 by the York-Buildings Company, the coal
and salt-works yielded above L. 1000 per annum. According to
the former Statistical Account of the parish, the produce of El-
phingstone Colliery in 1790, was 6053 tons, 15 cwt.; in 1791, it was
8348 tons, 10 cwt. At present, the produce of the different coal-
works of Tranent, Elphingstone, Birsley, and St Germains, must
be about 60,000 tons annually, a large proportion of which is ship-
ped at the new harbour at Cockenzie, and a considerable quanti-
ty exported to foreign parts.
   Besides the consumption of coal for ordinary purposes, a num-
ber of persons have long been employed in this parish, in con-
verting coal into cinders or coke for malting or drying grain. The
process of making cinders, as they are here called, is first to form a
large fire, and when the mass is completely ignited, and the smoke
driven off, the fire is then covered up and extinguished, leaving the
purified cinders in a fit state for the maltster. An improved mode
has lately been adopted in other parts of the country for forming
coke, by burning the coal in small furnaces where a small por-
tion of air is admitted, and the mass is more completely fused; but
this improvement has not been hitherto adopted in this parish.
   From what is above stated of the coal measures existing through-
out the parish, it will be inferred, that freestone is generally to be
found at a moderate depth. In several places, quarries producing
sandstone well suited for building have been opened, though the
quality near the surface is rather soft.
   The whinstone or trap dike, intersecting the parish about half
a mile from the sea, affords excellent stone for the roads, and has
been wrought in various places, but it is much inferior for that
purpose to the whinstone obtained from the Garleton Hills, which,
on being pulverized, becomes a dry sand, while the Tranent whin-
stone becomes mud. This superiority has induced those having
the charge of the great post-road to bring the materials for its
repair from a quarry behind Huntingdon, six miles to the east-
ward, although the carriage of it is thus greatly lengthened.
   Hitherto, no other mineral strata or veins have been discovered.
Near the trap dike at Cockenzie, some faint traces of ironstone
are visible, but of no value. When excavating the sandstone to
form the new harbour at Cockenzie, organic remains of fossil trees
were found, and at Tranent there are abundant specimens of plants


