
                           LUSS.                             159

maha, in Buchanan, it proceeds in a south-westerly direction. It
crosses the Froon near the junction of the Laran with it,and pas-
sing above Ardincaple Castle, runs between Cairndow and Dun-
more points, and in Rosneath over the hollow behind Campsail
Bay. The dip of the strata is in general towards the south-east.
The rocks of the clay-slate formation are often traversed by veins
of quartz; crystals of cubical iron pyrites are also met with,as well
as quartz abundantly disseminated in masses, throughout the same
class of rocks. Roofing-slates of good quality are obtained in
Camstraddan and at Luss. There are documents to prove the
existence of the former quarry, more than four hundred years ago.
A freestone quarry is also occasionally worked. The alluvial
land generally consists of sand or gravel, or of peat-moss. There
is good loam in some parts. The peat-moss, which is extensive,
everywhere contains the remains of ancient wood. Birch and oak
are the predominating species. Some brazen points of spears and
antique iron helmets were found in the alluvion, near the Froon,
at Dumfin. They came into the possession of Sir James Col-
quhoun about two years ago.
   Botany.--The more remarkable plants are, Isoetes lacustris;
Subularia aquatic ; Alisma ranunculoides; Vaccinium oxycoccos;
Rubus chamtemorus; Lysimachia tyrsiflora; Agrimonia Eupa-
toria; Osmunda regalis ; Collema Burqesii, &c. The natural
woods of this parish consist of oak, ash, yew, holly, rowan, birch,
hazel, aspen, alder, crab, bird-cherry, wild-cherry hawthorn and
willows. The oak thrives only in dry ground; ashes abound near
brooks, and by the bank of the lake. The yew is rarely met with
except in the islands. The rowan often grows in elevated situa-
tions, and. hollies are scattered through the woods. There are
from 800 to 900 acres under natural wood, and now a great deal
under plantation. The other indigenous plants are nearly the
same as in other parts of the Highlands, in similar soils and situa-
tions.
                       II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
   This parish was formerly of great extent, including the modern
parish of Arrochar on the north, and the lands of Auchindennan,
Cameron, Stuckrogert, and Tullichewen, on the south; and the
lands of Buchanan on the opposite side of the lake. Buchanan
was disjoined in 1621, and Arrochar in 1658. The rest were an-
nexed to Bonhill about 1650. But the lands of Caldanach,


