
536                          PERTHSHIRE.

day.-a task which few pedestrians of this generation, or probably
of his own, could achieve.
  Another of these sheltering beds is in the face of a hill, on the
farm of Invervar, Glenlyon. It is 14 feet long, 6 feet broad, and
4 1/2 feet high; and there is a spring of clear water at the end of it.
Here, during their cruel proscription, a gentleman of the clan
Gregor, commonly called Jain Buidhe ruadh, i. e. John of the yel-
low-reddish hair, concealed himself. He was a man of an extreme-
ly, handsome figure, possessed some lands in Glenlyon, and re-
sided on the said farm of Invervar. His principal pursuer was
Campbell of Lawers, whose emissaries, by flattering promises, pre-
vailed upon M'Gregor's wife to betray him, which she did in the
following manner: She desired the pursuers to come to the glen,
and wait in ambush in a certain place all night, and, by keeping an
eye on the face of the hill upon the north side of the glen about
sunrise, she would discover to them her husband's hiding place by
coming out of the cavern, and would walk several times backward
and forward in front of it. The morning arrived;-and the sun
had no sooner illuminated the rugged mountain than the traitress
performed her promise; and, upon her husband's remonstrating on
the impropriety of her conduct, she expressed her hopes that no-
body, at that early hour, would be in the glen to do them injury.
So saying she returned to repose beside her devoted husband.
M'Gregor, in a short time, happening to raise himself on his el-
bow, observed his enemies just at hand, started up, and, after up-
braiding, his wife as false and treacherous, betook himself to the
hills; and never again was heard of.
  Meteoroloyy.-Our high mountains have sometimes their peaks
enveloped in white clouds, containing little or no moisture. This
takes place only during the continuance of warm dry weather. At
other times the mountain tops are covered with dense black clouds,
containing a good deal of moisture, and discharging a considerable
quantity of very small rain; while such places as are not covered
with clouds, as well as the valleys below, are entirely free from rain.
In wet weather, mists and fog sometimes form many singular ap-
pearance. At such times if the day clears up and is sultry, the
exhalation from the earth become so great, as to form thick clouds
upon, the face of the steep mauntains. Sometimes, a great num-
ber of these little clouds unite into, one forming  stripe, seemingly
resting on the ground, several miles in length, and not a hundred


