
			SORBIE.                 31

Number of acres which have never been activated, and which remain
	constantly waste, or in pasture.                                  744
Number of acres that might, with a profitable application of capital, be
	added to the cultivated land of the parish, whether that land
	were afterwards to be kept in occasional tillage, or in permanent
	pasture.                                                           30
	Number of acres in a state of undivided common,                     0
		under wood,                                               490
	We have already mentioned the variety of trees planted, and it
may here be noticed that the, yearly thinning and periodical fel-
ling of these is judiciously conducted.
	Rent.--The average rent of arable land per imperial acre is L. 1.
The average rent of grazing may he rated at L. 3 per ox or cow
grazed, and at 15s. per ewe or full-grown sheep pastured for the
year.
	Wages.--The rate of for a farm-labourer per day is
1s. 6d,; do. per year without victuals, L. 25; do. per year with
victuals, L. 11. Rate of wages for a mason, house-carpenter, or
mechanic, per day, 2s. 6d.; do. for a ship-carpenter, 3s.
	Prices.--The average price of wheat per imperial bushel is 6s.
9d.; of barley, do. 4s.; of oats, do. 2s. 4d.; of potatoes do. 7d.;
of turnips per cart, 3s.; of hay per stone of 26 lbs. 7d. The price of
a good cart, L. 10; of an iron plough, L. 4, 10s.; of a couple of
harrows, L. 1, 15s.; of a drill-harrow, L 1, 10s.; shoeing of a
horse, 2s. 6d.
	Live-Stock.--Our common breed of sheep is rather large, but
considerably mixed. The cattle, as we have already stated, are of
the Galloway breed, and much attention has been paid to their im-
provemeint. Their colour is mostly black, and they are without
horns. They are generally sold when two or three, years, old, and
taken to the Dumfries market, where they are again sold for the
English markets.
	Husbandry.--The state of husbandry, in this parish, is highly im-
proved. Oats and barley are the grains usually cultivated. Wheat
is raised only in small quantity. Within the last ten, or twelve
years, turnips have been extensively and profitably cultivated for
feeding sheep. The sheep, for this purpose, are purchased at the
Falkirk trysts, and, when fat, are generally sent to the Liverpool
market, with which the parish enjoys the advantage of a regular
steam communication. Bone-dust was introduced as a manure,
about two year ago, and the green crops raised on it, as well as the
following crop of grain, have been of superior quality. It costs
2s. 6d. per bushel, and from twenty-five to thirty-five of them are
laid on the acre.


