
212                       ARGYLESHIRE.

ing the land. The present occupiers do not seem to have
much skill or experience, in general, in conducting such opera-
tions, and, in truth, have many serious natural obstacles to
contend with.  In several situations, there is much difficulty in
draining off the water, owing to the level nature of the ground.  To
many instances, also, stone for enclosures is very scarce, and can-
not be obtained without blasting or quarrying at a great expense;
and it can hardly be expected that tenants possessing little capital
will willingly lay it out for such purposes.  In other cases, where
sand-blowing is prevalent, they might with reason consider any ex-
pense of this kind as thrown away, for the work of years might be
overwhelmed in a few days, or at best would require constant la-
bour to keep it in a serviceable state.  Still, a great deal might
unquestionably be accomplished in these respects by tenants of
some capital and experience, having suitable encouragement,
which need never be expected while the occupier is in a state of
poverty, and his tenure uncertain.  Tacksmen, or holders of large
possessions, generally get leases of nineteen years duration; but
no leases have been granted to crofters or small tenantry for the
last twenty years.  It was probably considered expedient to retain
such a check over them, and to make the tenant's tenure depend
in a great measure on good behaviour; it being found very diffi-
cult, in some instances, to get quit of a refractory person holding a
lease, however irregular or immoral his conduct might be.  Under
liberal humane landlords, such as it has been the lot of this parish
to enjoy for some generations, this circumstance may not be of so
much importance, especially if their agents are men of similar
sentiments, desirous to promote the comfort and welfare of the
people; but under arbitrary sway, the situation of the tenant can-
not be reckoned very secure or enviable.
   Farm buildings, more especially enclosures, are accordingly as
might be expected, in rather a backward state. Indeed, for four
or five months in the year, i. e. from the time the crops and pota-
toes are secured, till the sowing season comes on, the lands appear
to be almost in common, and the cattle to range backward and
forward at pleasure, and without molestation.  All this may be
reckoned excellent neighbourhood, but I fear it can scarcely be
called good farming.
   Tacksmen get nineteen years lease in Coll, as here.  Crofters
in that island obtain seven years leases.  They have certainly
been very industrious in clearing their ground of stones; and a
                                  3

