
444                      DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

night-jar (Caprimulgus Europaeus,) are seen in the woods of Rock-
hall. The black-cock (Tetrao tetris,) and grouse (Lagopus Sco-
ticus,) are frequently found in the moss.--Water Birds. The bit-
tern (Botaurus atellaris,) the common curlew (Numenius arqua-
ta,) the lapwing (Vanellus cristatus,) the golden plover (Chara-
drius pluvialis,) and the snipe (Scolopax gallinago,) are abundant.
The common wild duck (Anas boschas) hatches here in great
numbers. The wild swan (Cygnus ferus,) and the wild goose
(Anser ferus,) are frequently shot in the Lechar Moss. The
woodcock, the cuckoo, the fieldfare (Turdus pilaris,) and the
swallow are found in their season.
	Botany.--Among the rare plants met with in this parish we may
notice the following, viz. the common mare's tail (Hippuris vulga-
ris,) the water speedwell (Veronica anagallis,) and the greater
bladder-wort. (Utricularia vulgaris,) which are found in the ditches
and stagnant waters in the Lochar Moss. In the meadows we find
also the small marsh valerian (Valeriana dioica,) and the yellow
goat's-beard (Tragopogon pratensis.) In the peat bogs, the cran-
berry (Vaccinium oxycoccos) is gathered in large quantities, and
sold in the Dumfries market. All kinds of forest trees grow to a
large size, but particularly oak and ash,--beautiful specimens of
which are seen around the mansion-house of Rockhall.
			II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Land-owners.--The chief land-owners, with their valuations in
merks Scots, are as follows: Sir Robert Grierson, Bart. 1200;
Earl of Mansfield, 125; Robert Paterson, Esq. 413, 1s. 8d.; Co-
lonel Harvey of Castlesemple, 389; Robert Threshie, Esq. 298,
6s. 8d.; John Morison, Esq. 188, besides his farm of Langdykes,
the valued rent of vhich is included in the valued rent of Robie
what and Raffles; George Cruickshanks, Esq. of Robiewhat, l00;
Philip Forsyth, Esq. of Raffles, 75.
	Parochial Registers.--The register of births has been regularly
kept since about 1771; but that of marriages and deaths cannot be
depended upon till of late years. Yearly average of births, 22;
of marriages 6; and of deaths, 16.
	Antiquities.--The vestiges of five old square buildings are still
visible, which, in former times, were places both of residence and
defence against the depredations of the borderers. One of these
towers, situated at a place called Bucklerhole, or Bucklerhold, had,
till very lately, two stories, and what was called a watchhouse, re-
maining; but the walls are now little more than traceable. The


