
     of Clunie.

have been obliterated by the plough.  The mounds and
trenches are of equal length, alternate and parallel.  At
the south end of each trench or fosse, there is a circular
concave, the centre of which lies in the line of the fosse, and
to this circular concavity the fosse seems to have formed the
entrance.  It is said, that an advanced guard of the Caledo-
nian army was posted here, to watch the motions of the
Romans, when they lay encamped at Inchtuthill, about 2
miles to the southward in the plain below.  The place of
the Steeds stalls seems to be well calculated for such a pur-
pose.  It lies on the north side of the summit of a rising
ground that separates the Highlands from the Low Coun-
try, and it looks directly northwards on those declivities of
the hills, which the Caledonians are supposed to have then
occupied.  By stepping a few yards forward to the summit of
the ground, that covered the redoubt, the Caledonian guard
could distinctly mark the enemy, without the possibility of
being perceived; and the intelligence could be conveyed in
a few minutes to their friends on the north side of the Lu-
nan.  The Steeds-stalls is about 2 miles north of the Ro-
man camp at Inchtuthill*, about 2 1/2 miles W. N. W. of
that at Meiklour*, about 7 miles W. N. W. of that at
Cupar Angus*, and about 2 1/2 miles south of the Heer-
cairns+, or the cairns of the battle.

     3

<FOOTNOTE>

*Mr Playfair, minister of Bendochy, the ingenious antiquary above
mentioned, who has been at great pains to investigate the antiquities of
the Stormont, is of opinion, that when Agricola fought the great battle
with Galgacus, the Roman legions were probably stationed at Merklour.

   +The old Saxon word herr, signifies army.  These cairns lie near the
N. E. boundary of this parish, but within the limits of the parish of Kin-
loch; and consequently the particular description of them belongs to the
history of that parish.  They have long attracted the attention of the an-
tiquary.  Oral tradition affirms them to be the spot where a great battle
was fought in old times; and their appearance indicates them to be the


