
     Statistical Account

of the latter crop, for feeding their cattle, that even the smal-
lest tenants have a portion of their ground in turnips.  Pota-
toes have likewise been employed of late for the same purpose.
A few pease and a small quantity of flax are raised.  Seed-
time commences about the middle of March, and harvest ge-
nerally begins the 6th of September.  Upwards of a third-
part of the parish remains uncultivated, producing little else
except heath.  That it is susceptible of improvement, the ad-
jacent farms, which 20 or 30 years ago were in the same con-
dition, sufficiently evince.  About 200 acres are covered
with plantations; and there is a nursery of forest timber and
fruit trees upon the lands of Auchmull.  The soil is found very
well adapted to the raising of seedlings; and the ground never
having been dunged, the plants are hardy, and thrive re-
markably in England and the southern parts of Scotland, from
whence there is a large demand.  The parish cannot be said
to supply itself with provisions: for, though it exports a consi-
derable quantity of barley to the breweries about Aberdeens and
a great deal of milk, butter, and eggs, is daily carried from
it to that city for sale yet so numerous are the labourers,
mechanics and manufacturers, whose sustenance comes en-
tirely from Aberdeen, that the import of meal alone more
than overbalances exports of every kind.  There are 21 heritors,
3 of whom constantly reside.  About 40 years ago, the pa-
rish contained 50 plough-gates of land, each occupied by one
tenants and yielding about L. 10 of yearly rent.  They are now
subdivided into at least four times as many smaller farms; the
value of each of which, at an average, may be calculated at
L. 8 per annum.  There are likewise 14 large farms in the
parish, most of which are in the natural possession of the pro-
prietors.  The greater part of these has, within a few years,
been gained from the surrounding muirs; and each of them
would, if let, now yield a rent of from L. 60 to L. 100.

     3


