
     Statistical Account

bury within the church*.  In some measure to remedy this
nuisance, the church was lofted some years ago, at the height
of about seven feet from the ground.  To this upper story,
which is the present place of worship, the ascent is by stairs
from without, the open area underneath still serving as a bu-
rying ground.  Notwithstanding this improvement, which is
a considerable one, the church is, from its vast extent and
stupenduous height, a very incompetent house of worship,
being extremely cold, and beyond the powers of an ordinary
voice+.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Around the cathedral is the church-yard, without any fence, and in the
centre of the burgh.  It is the market place.  The county road runs through it.
Some years ago, the heritors of the parish and magistrates of the burgh, enter-
ed into a resolution to prohibit all farther burying there.  A piece of ground,
without the town, was accordingly marked out for that use.  A day was fixed,
beyond which no person was to be admitted to the old ground, and public in-
timations, to that purpose, repeatedly made.  But the prejudices of the people
prevailed, and the project was relinquished.

   +Dornoch was formerly the seat of the Bishop of Caithness.  The precise time
of the erection of the fee is not ascertained.  Andrew, Bishop of Caithness, is
witness to a donation by David I to the monastery of Dunfermline.  He was
bishop here anno 1150, and is probably the first of whom there is any authentic
account.  In the 1222 was consecrated bishop here, Gilbert Murray; who,
while yet a young man, and a canon of the church of Moray, greatly distiguish-
ed himself in behalf of the independence of the Scottish church.  Attempts had
been made to bring the clergy of that church, under the jurisdiction of the Arch-
bishop of York.  The project was not only patronized by the King of England,
but favoured by the Pope's legate, who held a convention on the subject at
Northampton, in presence of the Kings of England and Scotland, anna 1176.
Gilbert was one of the inferior clergy, who attended the Scottish bishops cited
by the legate on this occasion.  After the legate had addressed a speech to the
convention, warmly recommending the measure in contemplation, a long silence
ensued, the bishops of Scotland being intimidated by the legate's presence and
authority.  At length, Gilbert Murray arose, and asserted the independence of
his church, in terms of such manly determination, and vigorous eloquence, as at


