
                          EDINBURGH.                        693

in 1809. Its object is the "promoting and improving the culti-
vation of the best kinds of fruits, of the most choice flowers,
and of those vegetables which are the most useful in the kitchen.
For this purpose a certain number of prize medals or premiums are
awarded annually to such persons as are declared by proper judges
to be entitled to the preference in the production of these, and in
the investigation, by experiment, of subjects proposed by the society.
Communications are also received on any subject connected with
horticulture. Though not directly suggested by the society, such
communications are read at the quarterly meetings, and those papers
deemed of sufficient importance are laid before the public in the
Society's Memoirs." The society consists of honorary members,
ordinary and corresponding. The ordinary members pay an an-
nual subscription of two guineas.
   In 1824 a piece of ground of eight acres in extent adjoining the
Botanic Garden was purchased by Government for an experimen-
tal garden, and this garden war consigned to the Society on a long
and renewable lease. An annual grant of L. 200 a-year was also
bestowed towards the support of the garden; to be continued as
long as the members contribute L. 300 a-year for the same pur-
pose. The garden is furnished with hot-houses and frames; and
is divided into various departments, where experiments in horticul-
ture are carried on. Members and their friends have access to
the garden at any time, and the whole is under the management
of a practical superintendent. Annual exhibitions of garden pro-
duce and public promenades are held here during the summer
months.
   Royal Scottish Society of Arts.-This Society was established
in 1821. Its object is the encouragement of the useful arts by
the bestowal of premiums for improvements and useful inventions.
During the winter months, the Society holds an evening meeting
every fortnight in the rooms of the Royal Institution, where sub-
jects connected with the arts are discussed, models exhibited, and
specimens of new or improved products of manufacture. In 1841
this society obtained a royal charter.
   Botanical Society.-This society was instituted in 1836 for the
cultivation of botanical science, for the formation of an herbarium
of foreign and British plants, and of a library and museum for
general consultation and reference.
   Zoological Gardens.-In 1838, a few individuals began a collec-
tion of living animals, which gradually increasing, an Association


