
830                         AYRSHIRE.

greatest facilities, both for travelling and the conveyance of goods,
and farm produce. It passes through the west end of the town,
where a station-house has been erected, and where the branch
to Ardrossan also meets the chief line. The branch to Kil-
marnock, which is in the process of formation, and is expected
to be completed in the spring of 1843, also passes through the
parish, within a mile of the town; and it was originally intended
to have a short off-shot branch, from the nearest point, stretching
directly down to the Kilwinning station, to facilitate communica-
tion between Kilmarnock and Ardrosran. But this proposal has
been given up in the meantime. Should the railway, however, better
remunerate the proprietors, this plan very probably will be carried
into execution. There is also another railway, with a single line
of rails, from the Doura and Fergushill collieries, which meets
with the Ardrossan branch of the Glasgow and Ayr railway, about
two miles from the harbour. By this railway the coal is conveyed
for exportation. It has been in operation several years.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The parish church is situated in the mid-
dle of the town, and is the most convenient locality for the popu-
lation generally, as considerably more than one-half, live within a
mile of it; and although it be little more than that distance from
the western boundary of the parish, none of the parishioners live
above five miles from it. It was built in 1775, and is in a good
state of repair. When erected, neither the area nor galleries were
seated, and they continued in this state until towards the close of
last century. It accommodates 1030 people. None of the sit-
tings are free, but they are seldom let for more than 2s. 6d. each,
yearly. The seats set apart for the communicants, at the cele-
bration of the sacrament, are placed at the disposal of the session,
who let them at a low rate; and the Right Honourable the Earl
of Eglinton, and the Lady Montgomery, who are the principal
heritors, give the proceeds of theirs to the session also, for the be-
nefit of the poor.
	The manse was built in the year 1773, and has since
undergone several repairs. The globe contains about 6 acres,
but this includes the garden, and site for the manse and
offices. It is worth about L.4 per acre. The stipend is 17 chal-
ders, and L.10 for communion elements. By the Royal Commis-
sioners' Report, the average stipend in money for the period of
seven years previous to 1834, was L.266, 12s.
				3

