
484                            PERTSHIRE.

this ample fund at command, and more, as I have hinted, if re-
quired, we feel that it is, on that very account, the more necessary
t.(i be cautious in this discharge of our duty, lest perchance we
should augment an evil which is already too formidable.  It may
appear extraordinary that, in a rural district, such as that round
Lochtay, with neither large villages nor manufactories, to oc-
casion fluctuations of employment, we should have such a nume-
rous body'of poor.    The proportion is unsualy high, being rather
more than one in twenty of the population.  Nor does the evil
seem to be one of recent origin.  The cause, therefore, is to be
sought for, not in any late change, but in something whose opera-'
tion is permanent.  It l`y not be very obvious what that is.
Perhaps it may have resulted from the excessive subdivision of the
land, which has long existed on the Breadalbane property, and
from the circumstance of the tenant, when no longer solvent, being
permitted to descend to the condition of crofter, or even to a lower
grade, that of cottar without sufficient consideration whether or
not that class of men might be too numerous for the demand for
labour existing, or likely to exist in the country.   To a certain
extent, this has unquestionably happened; and so that class of
the population has become too numerous.  The consequence is
just what might have been expected.  It must not be concealed
that, generally speaking, there is no disinclination to apply for pa-
rochialaid, and that, in too many instances, such application is deem
ed to be no degradation.   Nor is it at all improbable that the
very kindness of their superiors may have tended, if not to generate,
at least to foster, and to help on this unfortunate descent in spirit
and condition.  The policy of the Noble family of Breadalbane,
for many years has been to retain, for the most part, their poorer
tenants and dependents on the property, and to make provision for
them by means of pensions, cheap crofts and otherwise.  Here,
therefore, at the very door, is exhibited a sigoificant exemplifhba-
tion of one of the most important truths of political economy;-
that the more prominently you hold out the prospect of making pro-
vision for people, and do actually provide for them, you tamper
with the salutary spirit of independence, and in so far help to widen
the domain of pauperism.
    One preventive, at least, of the evil seems, therefore, to be, to
have the land so apportioned as to give full occupation to the
tenant as a farmer; to have no more cottages than suffice to fur-
nish labourers for field-work, or such crafts as are required in a
                                 3


