
			GLAMMISS.                                339

velly and sandy loams with a few portions of clay and a consider-
able quantity of moss in the hollows surrounding the sandy and gra.
velly swells,-the greater part of this division being of indifferent
quality, notwithstanding its fine locality in the centre of the strath.
Along the side of the Kerbet water, and after its junction with the
Dean, westerly along the south side of the latter, there is some
breadth of flat and deep alluvial brown loam of fine quality; and
within the middle division, forming the rising grounds southerly,
there is a considerable extent of good soil along its centre,-being
black and brown loams incumbent on an absorbent bottom, and part-
ly of very find puality but also intermixed, both above and below
this central stripe, with damp inferior sands, and a mixture of clay,
provincially called mortar.
	Along the bottoms of the glens of Ogilvie and Denoon, there
is also a fair proportion of sharp gravelly loams of good quality,
but defective in climate; the hills are mostly all of a moorish cast,
and covered with heath, unless some grassy swamps.
	The best soils contiguous to the village rent, in parks, at the rate of
L. 3 per imperial acre, and downwards to L. 1. The average rent
of farms runs from L. I to L. 1, 10s. for the arable land; but the
rent of many of them varies according to the fiars prices of grain.
	The size of farms ranges between 50 and 600 acres of arable
land, with numerous possessions, chiefly from six to ten, held by
manufacturers and labourers.
	The woodlands, which are extensive, have been all planted;
none are natural; the greater proportion are of larch, spruce, and
Scotch fir, of seventy years and under. The park timber around
the castle is a century older, and is chiefly ash and elm, with some
oak, birch, and other varieties. Some of the ash trees measure
15 feet in girth, and contain 200 cubic feet of thmber.
	Much of the largest of the larch and spruce have been of late cut
away, for the behoof of the hard-wood. Some of them measured
60 and 70 cubic fdet of timber, and a few of that size still remain.
	The chief natural production of the lower portion of the parish,
where the soil is inferior and not under cultivation, is brooan with
heath; and in the mosses there is beath with a mixture   of
coarse aquatic grasses; the wood found in them is birch, al-
der and hazel with some oak, but no fir, or very little Along
the higher grounds at the foot of the glens, three is at place a
considerable mixture of whins amongst the broom, which stretch
upon the flanks of the Seidlaw, the higher summits of which are


