
     1102                      PERTHIRE.

     on the other hand, a native of the Lennox, and during some of
     his earlier years resident in the lands of Cardross, in Menteith,
     affirms expressly that Lennox crossed the Forth, not far from the
     foot of the Grampians, and is seconded by Hawthornden.
       One of the principal of the prisoners was Thomas Galbraith
     of Culcreuch, who was executed on or before the 18th instant, on
     which day James IV., at Stirling, granted to his household ser-
     vant,  Adam Hepburn, brother-german of Patrick Earl of Both-
     well, and to his heirs, a charter of Culcreuch, &e. in Stirlingshire,
     of Millegs, &c. in Dumbartonshire, and of some lands in Renfrew-
     shire, which bad belonged to the deceased Thomas Galbraith,
     formerly of Culereuch, and were in the King's hands by the death
     of the said Thomas, who, for his treasons, bad been justly exe-
     cuted.
       The village of Port was, by King James III, on 8th February
     1466-7, erected into a burgh of barony, as appears from the re-
     dord of the Great Seal of Scotland, which contains a charter by
     that sovereign at the above-mentioned date, to Malise, Earl of
     Monteith, and his successors, erecting this village, as above-stated,
     for the accommodation of the King and his lieges, in the bounds
     of Menteith.
       The Priory of Inchmahome was, from before September
     1547, to the end of Fdbruary following, the seat of the Scottish
     Court.  Soon after the disastrous battle of Pinky, the Re-
     gent Arran, by advice of the Queen mother, the Earls of
     Angus Argyle, Rothes, Cassilis, and others at Stirling, sud-
     denly conveyed the infant Queen Mary to Inchmahome, and
     committed her to the joint care of the Lords Erskine and Li-
     vingston. *  This measure was intended to secure, as far as pos-
     sible, the safety of a Queen Mary's person, which now ran great
     risk of falling into the bands of the victorious English.  Of Mary's
     residence in this sequestered spot, the particulars have already
     been some years before the public in the elaborate biography
     of Queen Mary by the author of Caledonia, who from record,
     has fixed the time, as above-stated, of her departure.  Whilst
     here, she enjoyed the company of her mother as her more im-
     mediate guardian.  Lady Fleming, natural sister of Queen Ma-
     ry's father, acted as her preceptress, aided by John Erskine, Com-

<FOOTNOTE> Bishop Lesly's Vernacular History of Scotland, first printed in 1830.  He says
     that this was done whilst the English were at Leith, after the battle of Pinkey, which,
     according to him, they were till the 18th.


