
     of Salton.

years, for obvious reasons, been taken from the farmers.
Two excellent draw-kilns have been erected.  The lime quarries
have been let in lease to a single tacksman, who gives employ-
ment to near 40 workmen, and supplies great part of the
county with limeshell, at 1 s. per boll.  Under this stratum of
limestone, there is every reason to believe, from some slight
experiments made, that a fine seam of coal may be found.
But there are so many excellent coallieries in the neighbour-
hood, it has not hitherto been reckoned an object to work it.
Besides these fossils there is also, on General Flectcher's pro-
perty, an extensive freestone quarry, which is easily wrought,
and of a very superior quality*.

   Miscellaneous Observations.-The inhabitants are decent in
their deportment, frugal and industrious, and remarkable for

<FOOTNOTE>

*Salton is entitled to vie with most of the parishes of Scot-
land, in the honour of giving birth, or affording residence, to
the greatest number of eminent characters.  In the first class,
she is proud to enrol the name of Dunbar, the Horace of his
country.  This favourite of the Muses was born at Salton in
the year 1465.  In the earlier period of his life, he was a friar;
but he soon relinquished the profession of a Monk, for that of a
poet, and by the singular excellence of his compositions, attrac-
ted the royal attention; became a favourite at the Scottish Court;
and was admitted a companion of all their select parties.  The
versatile genius of Dunbar, qualified him completely for shin-
ing in these.  Of all the productions of this bard, his Golden
Terge*, and his Thistle and Role+, have been most generally
admired.
   Burner, bishop of Salisbury, comes next in the list of genius
and merit.  He was not indeed a native of Salton; but he spent
five years of his life as rector of the parish, and it was here his
clerical career began.  In 1669, he was invited hence to the di-
vinity chair in Glasgow.  This respectable office, he filled with

*The design of the Golden Terge, is to show the gradual and impercepti-
ble influence of love, when too far indulged over reason.

+Celebrating the marriage of the daughter of Henry VII.  with James N.


