
760                          ABERDEENSHIRE.

   The parish church is verv well attended.  The average number
of communicants is 575.
   There are two societies for religious purposes in the parish, a
Bible Society, and a Juvenile Missionary Society.  The contri-
butions of both together may average about L.25 per annum.
   The church collections for religious and charitable objects
amount, on an average, to L.42 per annum.
   Education.-There are four schools in the parish, one of which is
parochial, one endowed from the General Assembly's fund, and two
unendowed.  At the two first mentioned, in addition to the ordi-
nary branches,-reading, writing, and arithmetic,-instruction is
given in English grammar, geography, and mathematics, as also
in Greek and latin when required.  In all, the Bible is daily read,
and the Assembly's Catechism taught.
   The parochial schoolmaster has a salary of L.27, and receives
on an average L.16 per annum in the shape of school-fees.  His
income has of late, however, been greatly improved, by his parti-
cipating in the benefits of Mr Dick's Bequest, along with his
brethren in the three counties of Aberdeen, Banff, and Moray.
The present parochial schoolhouse possesses ample and superior
accommodation, having been built a few years ago, when also a
detached dwelling-house was built for the schoolmaster.
   The teacher of the General Assembly's school receives a salary
of L.25 out of the fund for increasing the means of education in
Scotland,and draws about L.14 annually in the shape of school-fees.
He has the usual accommodation stipulated for by the Assembly's
Education Committee, viz. besides school, dwelling-house, and gar-
den, a croft of three acres of ground, rent free, with fuel cast and
driven.  This school has been established for about twelve years,
and has proved a source of immense benefit to the people in the dis-
trict where it is situated, viz. the Glens of Foudland, comprehend-
ing, besides a detached part of the parish of Insch, peopled in a
great measure by quarriers, parts also of the parishes of Forgue
Drumblade, and Gartly, all distant from their respective parish
schools.
   It cannot be said that there is now any real deficiency of the
means of education in any part of the parish.
   The general expense of education is 10d. or 1s. per month, ac
cording to the branches taught for each pupil.
   Children are now generally sent to school by the time they are
five years of age, which was far from being the case in the more


