
372                            AYRSHIRE.

and the sounds of riot are again heard in our streets, protracted on
the morning of the Sabbath even till a late hour.
     The effects produced by this influx of a large manufacturing po-
pulation will be very differently viewed, according to the different
ways in which we may estimate the prosperity of a community. If,
in the utilitarian spirit of the times, we look upon wealth as the
great ingredient of that prosperity, we must no doubt regard this
influx as an unmingled good. Every week brings from Glasgow, at
the present time, in payment for work, from L. 500 to L. 700, every
farthing of which is immediately expended, and this has unques-
tionably had the effect, not only of enriching our shopkeepers, but
also of producing a demand for agricultural produce, which has be-
nefited the farmers, and raised the value of land in every part of
the parish. But if, on the other hand, we regard wealth as a very
secondary object, and view all human events, as good or evil, ac-
cording to their bearing on moral and religious character, we must
make great deductions from the foregoing estimate of its advan-
tages. The great proportion of the population in question are dis-
solute in their habits; few of them attend any place of worship;
they spend the Sabbath in wandering over the fields and on the
sea shore, and desecrate the day by their irregularities. Our na-
tive population have no doubt kept themselves very much apart from
their society,--a circumstance which, if it has tended on the one
hand, to perpetuate their ignorance and immorality, has, on the
other hand, counteracted in a considerable degree the contamina-
tion of their example.
     Considerable exertions, however, have lately been made to ad-
vance, more especially the young among them, in knowledge and
religion; and it is hoped that they may ere long occupy a higher
status in the community.
     Agricultural Association.--There was instituted in the year 1797
an association for the improvement of agriculture, which holds its
meetings at Maybole, and the beneficial influences of which are to
be observed in the good farming and excellent stock of the sur-
rounding district. It is called the Carrick Farmers' Society, and
numbers among its members the nobility and gentry, the great pro-

<FOOTNOTE>Since writing the above, a striking proof of the fluctuating nature of manufac-
tures has been afforded. The supply of webs from Glasgow has been greatly curtail-
ed, and prices lowered. Many of the weavers have been thrown idle, and reduced to
a state of starvation. What they call a dull has set in, and the heritors and inhabi-
tants of the parish have had to come forward for their relief. The statement in the
subsequent paragraph referred to the state of things two or three months ago.
                    		3


