
148                      KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

feet, and generally lie in a direction from north-east to southwest,
with a slight inclination from the perpendicular. There are in-
terposed between them frequent strata of the soft, shivering, ar-
gillaceous stone, which easily yields to the weather, called slate
band; and they are also sometimes interspersed with veins or
dikes of porphyr. Of this there is a striking instance immedi-
ately in front of the manse, where a dike or veins of the hard-
est prophyr, about three feet in thickness, has been forced up
through a bed of slate band. Granite is found in the moun-
tains. There are also several mosses, of considerable extdnt, in
the parish, which exhibit relains of the ancient forest that once
covered nearly the whole of Galloway.
	Soil.--The soil is various, but in general it consists of a thin
light hazel mould, or a brown loam, mixed with sand, or the
debris of slate band. In some places it is incumbent upon a stiff
clay, and occasionally on gravel, but generaly upon the rocks
which prevail in the parish. It is a very fertile, and yields a grate-
ful return for any agricultural improvement.
	Zoology.--Kelton Hill was formerly the great mart for the sale
of horses in the south of Scotland. Many of these animals were,
in consequence, bred in this parish. But the multiplication
of fairs throughout the country, and the free importation of
horses from Ireland, have devested this village of much of its an-
cient importance. A considerable number of horses, however, are
still reared for the market, though the true Galloway, the once-
celebrated native of th e district, is now almost unknown. That
small but beautiful, hardy, docile, and useful animal has given
place to various larger, stronger, and more showy races.
	Much attention is paid to the breed of cows. The native Gal-
loway cow, perhaps the most finely proportioned of the species
known in Scotland, is generally of a glossy black colour, without
horns, of a round and compact body, and capable of being fed to
the weight nf 45 stones. This fine animal, howevdr, has now to
contend for superiority with the Cunningham or Ayshire cow.
Each species has its admirers and advocates ready to assign sub-
stantial reasons for the preference of their favourite. The pro-
duce of the native, though not so abundant as that of the stranger,
is maintained to be superior in quality. Practically, the dispute
is settled in this way;--those who can afford to indulge in luxuries
retain the Galloway; while those to whom quantity is an object
of importance, as the keepers of dairies,--a mode of husbandry


