
                             HADDINGTON.

   The talented and noble of family of Maitland became connected
with this parish so early as towards the end of the fourteenth cen-

schoolmaster, by which he binds and obliges himself "to leir all and sundry the bairnis.
of the inhabitants of the same burgh diligently in grammatik letters, in Latyn tourg
and moralie vertues at his possibilitie, shewing himself by good life, honest behaviour
and conversation, example to others, as well as in his instruction and doctrine, as God
will give him grace, and at his possibilitie during all the days of his lifetime-that he
should receive 70 merks yearly and iiij. shillings money in the year, at iiij. terms, Bel-
tane, Lammas, Candlemass, and Hallowmass; ilk terms xijd. of ilk bairn he learns and
instructs of the inhabitants of the burgh of skolaige silver alanerlie." In 1679, Mr
John Ker is feed as schoolmaster after the same tenor with Mr Cumyn. "To receive
threescore pounds yearly as stipend; and uptake for ilk bairn, 4s. money of stipend
yearly at four terms and to have a doctor under him, to have his meat of ilk bairn,
and 4d. termly as above-mentioned." It appears that the offices of schoolmaster and
minister were sometimes conjoined in the same individual.
   From the minutes of 14th December 1669, it appears that previously the school
had convened every day by six in the morning, both summer and winter, but the
council for the health and welfare of the children fix that from Hallowmas to Candle-
mas, in time coming the school shall only convene by nine in the morning.
   The Ministers of Haddington.-In 1531, Sir James Mauchlyne is mentioned
as curate of the kirk of Haddington, Sir Thomas Mauchlyne as Lady Priest, there,
and Sir Patrick Mauchlyne, Count kirk matter in the same.-It may be observed
that the title Sir was not formerly peculiar to knights; it was also given to priests,
and sometimes to inferior personages. Dr Johnson tUnks this title was applied to
such as had taken the degree of A. B. in the universities who are styled domini, Sirs,
to distinguish them from the M. A.'s who are styled magistri masters.-Percy's Reli-
ques, Vol. 1.
   Mr Patrick Cockburn, son to Cockburn of Langton, was the first Protestant minis-
ter settled at Haddington after the Reformation. Having, when young, entered into
holy orders, he went over to the university of Paris, where he taught the Oriental
languages with great applause. On returning home he embraced the reformed re-
ligion, and officiated as minister of Haddington till his death in 1568. Dempster
characterizes him as the most learned and moderate of all the Scotch reformers. On
31st March 1570, the council ordained John Ayton, Provost, and Barnard Thom-
son, bailie, to pass to Edinburgh to mein to the session for a minister-that is apply
to the session to obtain a minister. On 13th April same year, the council ordained
the Provost and "ane othair honest man with him" to pass to the Assembly of Edin-
burgh, at midsummer next to get an answer to the giving of a minister to the town.
-June 14th. To speik the kirk for obtaining a minister and his stipend.-25 August,
the council ordained John Douglas, bailie, to pass to Edinburgh, to convoy the mi-
nister, Mr James Carmichael, to the burgh against Sunday next, 1571-1572, January
10. The council authorized the treasurer to deliver to Mr James Carmichael, mi-
nister, x. merks, to pay his "charmer maill" for one year from Martinmass in the year
of God 1571 years alanerlie. From the presbytery record it appears that the cure
of the churches of Haddington, St Martin's in the Nungate, and Athelstaneford were
served by Mr James Carmichael from 1592 to 1602. Mr Geo ier was ordain-
ed minister of St Martin's church in 1602. Mr Carmic was also schoolmaster,
for which he received forty pounds (Scots) yearly. But May 28th 1574 the provost,
bailies, and council, with advice of the deacons, stated and ordained, that in no time
coming the minister of the kirk should be admitted schoolmaster of the burgh.-1588,
December 9th, An act was passed respecting a manse for the minister. The highest
stipend of the reformed clergy was L.600 Scots; the fourth minister of Edinburgh
had only L.60, being little more than L.5 Sterling.-1672-73, February 28. The
council conducit Mr Walter M, Canquell (Baleanquell) to read the common prayers
in the kirk at vii. hours before noon in summer, and viii. hours in winter, and that on
Sunday, Wednesday, and Friday, and to be clerk in the session and doctorr in the
school-the council agreeing to pay to said reader 50 merks in the year.
   Members of Parliament. 20 November 1579. The council authorized the trea-
surer to pay to James Cockburn his expenses at the parliament, extending , xxiii.
days; and to William Brown xiii. days; and to John Thomson xxiU days, each day 5s.
   On 5th October 1669, John Hay of Baro, was elected commissipuer to the Par-


