
                          CARRIDEN.                             73

rable importance, being the sea-port of Linlithgow, the county
town. Sir Robert Sibbald, in his "History of Linlithgowshire"
in 1707, describes it as "a harbour for all sorts of ships, where
they have a large custom-house, and warehouses with other accom-
modations for merchants."  "In the range along Bo'ness and the
South Ferry they had," as he knew in his time, "some 36 ships
belonging to them, though in all that tract south of the Frith, there
is no part for ships to lie at but Blackness. They traded with
Holland, Bremen, Hamburgh, Queensburgh, and Dantzic. Many
rich merchants lived there, and the cities of Glasgow, Stir-
ling, and Linlithgow had great trade thence." Now ihe har-
bour is in ruins, the custom-house converted into lodgings ap-
propriated chiefly for the use of sea-bathers in summer, and the
only merchandize known to the place is the shipment of a few tons
of bricks and tiles, and the importation of a few tons, of lime and
manure.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The church stands upon the coast, dis-
tant about two miles from the eastern and southern, and one mile
from the western extremity of the parish; and only one or two
families can be said to be at a distance, of more than two miles
from it. It was built in 1766, the old church having stood about
half-a mile distant, in close proximity to the mansion-house of
Carriden, where the old churchyard still remains. The church
was never properly seated by the heritors, but left to be occupied
very much at the pleasure of the parishioners, so that, though ful-
ly seated, the workmanship is but indifferent; and the sittings,
were possessed. in a great measure promiscuously, as they had been
erected or purchased by the parties till 1826, when a formal di-
vision of it was made by the sheriff among the heritors, according
to their respective valuations. The pulpit, which was transferred
from the old church to the new, and is formed of oak, is said to
have been brought from Holland, having inscribed upon it the
date l655. One of the communion cups is dated 1660, the shape
being the antique form of an inverted candlestick; the other was
procured during the present incumbency. The church, accord-
ing to its present arrangement, will accommodate 458, but might
be seated for 500. There are 28  free sittings allotted to the
poor. The manse was built in 1818, and, though of rather small
dimensional, is commodious, well-finished, and in good repair
The old manse, now in ruins, is situated a few hundred yards to
the east of the present. The glebe is 14,556 imperial acres, hav-


