
532	          GENERAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE

of this district, worth depending upon, may be obtained.  The
difference between the Greenock and Lochwinnoch pluviometers
is very remarkable.  The years of observation are unfortunately
not the same; but we repeat them as follows, for the sake of a few
observations to be engrafted upon them.

<TABLE>

               Greenock.                   Lochwinnoch.
          1836,    -     41.89	       1828,    -     54.94
          1837,    -     32.39	       1829,    -     39.85
          1838,    -     31.75	       1830,    -     55.51

  The pluviometers of Lochwinnoch are said to yield between
themselves very different results; and at Greenock, Mr James
Leitch, merchant, is stated to have remarked that a pluviometer
placed on the roof of the Infirmary, and one in the garden, behind
it, showed in 1836 the one 41.89, and the other 62.10, and in
1837, the one 32.39, and the other 49.15.  When afterwards
placed on the roof beside each other, they nearly corresponded.
In reference to the above statements, it is only necessary to re-
mark, that it has been long known as an established fact in me-
teorology, that if a rain-gauge be placed on the ground, and an-
other at some height perpendicularly above it, more rain will be
collected into the lower than into the upper; a proof that the
quantity of rain increases as it descends, owing, perhaps, to the
drops attracting vapour during their passage through the lower
strata of the atmosphere, where the greatest quantity resides.
Although Dr McFarlane very justly concludes, that the above dis-
crepancies throw "a great degree of uncertainty over the conclu-
sions drawn from a comparison of the quantities of rain alleged to
have fallen in different districts of the country," it is proper, by way
of caveat, to remark, that the results are not always such as above
stated.  Long ago, Mr Copland of Dumfries showed clearly that
the quantity of rain collected in a higher and lower guage, was
regulated by a law, and in particular, that when the quantity of
rain collected in the lower guage was greatest, the rain commonly
continued for some time ; and that the greatest quantity was col-
lected in thd higher guage only, either at the end of great rain,
or during rains which did not last long.  These are important con-
siderations.  It is not said whether the greater quantity of rain
was collected in the upper or under pluviometer at Greenock--it
was probably the under, and that because of the continued mois-
ture of the under strata of the atmosphere.  To make observa-
tions aright, two pltiviometers ought to be kept, at least, the one
much higher than the other; the average struck between both will


