
28                        ABERDEENSHIRE.

Sinking Fund; and Dr Patrick Copland, who was Professor in
Marischal College, at first of Mathematics and afterwards of Na-
tural Philosophy, who enriched the collection of apparatus there
with a great variety of models, made under his own eye, and many
of them with his own hand, so that at his death the apparatus-
room of Marischal College contained a collection probably supe-
rior both in extent and accuracy to any other collection in Scotland.
   It is not necessary to do more than mention the names of such
men as Dr Thomas Blackwell, Dr George Campbell, Dr Thomas
Reid, Dr James Beattie, Dr Gilbert Gerrard, and Dr William
Laurence Brown, all of whom were either natives of Aberdeen, or
for a considerable portion of their lives resident in it.  Neither
would it be seemly in closing this list to say more than that Dr
John Abercrombie is a native of Aberdeen, and that Sir James
Macgrigor received the first elements of his professional education
as the pupil of a medical man in Aberdeen.
   Ecclesiastical State.-Little precise information can be given re-
gardinly the early ecclesiastical state of Aberdeen, except that, for
two or three centuries preceding the Reformation, there were in
the town, houses of Dominican, Franciscan, and Carmelite Friars,
and a monaster dedicated to the Holy Trinity, as well as a parish
church dedicated to St Nicholas; and that there is no reason to
doubt that in Aberdeen, as in other parts of Scotland, "the form
of Popery which prevailed was of the most bigotted and illiberal
kind, and its superstitions and absurdities had grown to an extra-
vagant height." *
   Malcolm having gained a victory over the Danes at Mortlach,
In Banffshire in 1010, founded a bishopric there, which was trans-
ferred to Aberdeen in 1139.  The bishop fixed his residence at
Seaton, on the right bank of the Don, about half a mile from its
mouth and, in consequence of this, the cathedral church was
erected there. +  The church of St Nicholas, as being a depen-
dency of the bishopric, was served by a vicar (who was generally
the sixth prebendary of the cathedral,) together with a curate, and
chaplains, the number of whom was twenty-two in 1491, but in
1519 they were restricted to sixteen.
   The influence of Protestant truth seems to have early begun to
manifest itself in Aberdeen; for, 1521, Mr John Marshall,

<FOOTNOTE>Kennedy's Annals of Aberdeen, Vol, i. p. 109.
          That portion of the Cathedral Church which still entire is used as the parish
church of Old Machar at the present time.


