
                       XILCALMONELL AND KILBERRY.                         409

        cepting along the shore of Loch Tarbert, which is overhung, along
        a considerable portion of it, by the birch, the alder, `nd the oak,
        growing in careless profusion towards the summit'of the abruptly
        ascending hills.  The shore is chiefly sandy.  The sea coast of
        Kilberry presents a bold front to the- billows of the Atlantic.
        The only bay worth noticing in the united parish is Stornoway,
        in the neigbbourhood of which is the headland of Ard Patrick,
        where tradition affirms Saint Patrick to have landed on his way
        from Ireland to Icolmkill.
         Climate.-The climate of this parish is very variable.  The
        exhalations which are constantly rising from the surface of the
        Atlantic are attracted, when the wind blows from the west, by the
        upland of Kintyre.  The prevailing wind is the west, and a sure
        prognostic of rain is afforded by the cloud-capped Paps of Jura.
        When we consider the variableness of our temperature, it may
        be surprising that the climate should be so healthy as it in ge-
        neral is.
         Hydrography.-West Loch Tarbert, a branch of the Atlantic,
        separates the two divisions of the united parish, measuring in its
        length about nine miles, and in its breadth one mile.  The depth
        of the water is by no means uniform, varying from three or four
        fathoms to ten or fifteen.  There are several fresh water locbs in
        the parish, but, neither in regard to magnitude nor adjacent sceneryt
        are they entitled to any particular notice.
         Geology and Mineralogy.-This parish does not furnish an in-
        teresting field to the investigation of the lovers of those sciences.
        The direction of the strata along the sea is from west to east.
        There are beds of limestone from north-east to south-west (but
        of inconsiderable thickness) to be found in several localities in the
        parish.
         Zooloyy.-In addition to the ordinary variety of the feathery
        tribe, we have the wigeon in great numbers every winter, taking
        shelter from the northern blasts, on the comparatively smooth sur-
        face of Loch Tarbert.  The barnacle comes now and then in-
        to close juxtaposition with them ; `nd on a clear frosty morning,
        it is not uncommon to hear the wild melody of the swan ecboin
        from shore to shore.  Some of the Loch Tarbert oysters are of
        great size, and all of good quality.
                             II.-CIVIL, HISTORY.
        Land-owners.- The principal land-owners a-re, John Campbell,


