
                           CRAIL.                              957

   Statistics of the burgh in 1841.-Houses inhabited, 261; houses
not inhabited, 23.  Males, 520; females, 707; total, 1227.
   In the same year there were in the landward 342 males and
337 females, of whom 66 males and 75 females were upon Kings-
muir.
   Marriages in 1844, 13; births, 52; deaths, 42; increase, 10.
   The food of the lower classes is chiefly farinaceous and vege-
table.  Yet butcher-meat is used to some extent in every family;
for there are few householders who do not every year feed a pig
or two for domestic use.
   The people on the whole enjoy in a tolerable degree the com-
forts and advantages of society, and are industrious and content-
ed.  They are justly entitled to be denominated an enlightened,
intelligent, and well-principled community.  In their daily inter-
course, thev are kind and friendly, and in their general conduct
obliging and civil.

  	               IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture and Rural Economy.-In agriculture almost every
species of modern improvement has been tried, with the greatest
activity and attention, so as to bring the land to the highest state
of cultivation and productiveness, and in very few places have the
effects of draining and trenching been more conspicuous than here.
The places which old people recollect of, fifty or sixty years ago,
as dangerous for man or beast to tread on from their boggy na-
ture, are now bearing luxuriant crops of corn-the rough and stony
bawks which intersected almost every field and yielded a scanty
support to the cows, can no longer be distinguished from the sur-
rounding soil.  Nor are the improvements on the land more re-
markable than the change in the implements of husbandry.  At
the period referred to, no farmer was reckoned respectable who had
not two or four oxen with a couple of horses and two men to con-
duct the slow motion of eac cumbrous plough.  Now 115 ploughs
are at work in the parish, each drawn by a couple of horses guided
by a single man;-then wains, or large carts with a pole to which
two oxen were yoked with two horses as leaders, formed the only
mode of carrying manure to the field or produce to the market;
now not a wain is to be seen nor an ox in harness;-then the cattle
fed upon the grass that grew from the roots of the quicken or
couch grass upon the fauchor fallow land;-now labourers may
be seen picking up and carrying away in their baskelts every por-
tion of the roots that had escaped the harrow;-then, too, the


