
508                RENFREWSHIRE.


Young, "of the extraordinary circumstances of this case, was
drawn up at the time it happened, every paragraph of which is
affirmed to have been originally subscribed by witnesses, among
whom we find the names of almost all the noblemen and gentle-
men, and many of the ministers of the neighbourbood."
  Miss Shaw is also celebrated as being the first person that in-
troduced the manufacture of fine linen thread into this country.
"Having acquired a remarkable dexterity in spinning fine yarn,
she concieved the idea of manufacturing it into thread. Her first
attempts in this way were necessarily on a small scale. She exe-
cuted almost every part of the process with her own hands, and
bleached her materials on a large slate in one of the windows
of the house. She succeeded so well, however, in these essays, as
to have sufficient encouragement to go on, and to take the assist-
ance of her younger sisters and neighbours. The then Lady Blan-
tyre carried a parcel of her thread to Bath, and disposed of it advan-
tageously to some manufacturers of lace, and this, was probably
the first thread made in Scotland that had crossed the Tweed.
About this time, a person who was connected with the family,
happening to be in Holland, found means to learn the secrets of
the thread manufacture, which was carried on to a great extent in
that country, particularly the art of sorting and numbering the
threads of different sizes, and packing them up for sale, and the
construction and management of the twisting and twining ma-
chines. This knowledge be communicated, on his return, to his
friends in, Bargarran, and by means of it they were enabled to
conduct their manufacture with more regularity and to a greater
extent. The young women in the neighbourhood were taught
to spin fine yarn, twining-mills were erected, correspondences were
established, and a profitable business was carried on. Bargarran
thread became extensively known, and, being ascertained by a
stamp bore a good price. From the instructions ofthe family of
Bargarran, a few families in the same neighbourhood engaged in the
business, and continued in it for a number of years. It was not
to be expected, however, that a manufacture of that kind could be
confined to so small a district, or would be allowed to remain in
so few hands for a great length of time. The secrets of the busi-
ness were gradually divulged by apprentices and assistants. A Mr
Pollock in Paisley availed himself of these communications, and
laid foundation of the well established and exbensive manu-
facture of thread, which has ever since been carried an in that
                               3


