
			      DOUGLAS.                         483

Anguse, and continued with them until William, Earl of Anguse,
was created Marquis of Douglas, anno 1633; and is now the prin-
cipal seat of the Marquis of Douglas and his family. It is a large
baronie and parish, and ane laick patronage; and the Marquis is
both titular and patron. He heth there, near to the church, a very
considerable great house, called the Castle of Douglas; and near
the church is a fine village, called the town of Douglas, long since
erected in a burgh of baronie. It heth ane handsome church, and
many ancient monuments and inscriptions on the old interments
of the Earl of this place."
	Family of Douglas.--George Chalmers, (Caledonia, i. 579,) traces
the family of Douglas to Theobald, a Fleming, who, sometime be-
tween the years 1147 and 1160, obtained from Arnold, Abbot of
Kelso, a grant of some lands in Douglasdale. Even according to
his account, they were not long in rising to consequence. Wil-
liam, the son and successor of Theobald, was witness to several char-
ters between the years 1170 and 1190. In the letter addressed
by the Community of Scotland to Edward 1. in 1289, we find the
name of William of Douglas among the barons. "But though
the surname and familie of the Douglases," says Hollinshed, "was
in some estimation of nobilitie before those daies, yet the rising
thereof to honour chanced through this James Douglas, the good
Sir James, for, by means of his advancement, others of that lineage
tooke occasion, by their singular manhood and noble prowess, shew-
ed at sundrie times in defence of the realme, to grow to such height
in authority and estimation, that their mighty puissance in main
rents, lands, and great possessions at length was (through suspicion
conceived by the Kings that succeeded) the cause in part of their
ruinous decay." After the forfeiture of the Earls of Douglas in
1455, their possessions were bestowed on the Earl of Angus, by
whose lineal descendants they were occupied till the death of the
Duke of Douglas in 1760. A long plea for the succession then
arose between the Duke of Hamilton and Archibald, son of Sir
John Stewart of Grandtully, by Lady Jane Douglas, sister to the
Duke. To the great joy of Douglasdale, and of the country in ge-
neral, a decision was at length given in favour of the latter. The
title became extinct; but Mr Douglas was created a peer of the
realm in 1790, by the title of Lord (Baron) Douglas of Douglas.
On the death of this nobleman, in the end of December 1827,
he was succeeded by his eldest son Archibald, the present
Lord Douglas. Distinguished as the ancient Douglases were for
their valour and martial achievements, their descendants of the


