202                     BERWICKSHIRE.

is a dusky-white. In texture it is compact, and does not readily
yield to the weather. Of this stone, Sir D. Milne built his man-
sion-house on his estate of Milne Graden. The clergyman's
manse, and several other neat dwelling-houses in the town of Cold-
stream, are built of the same material.
   2. Perhaps, of the whole strata visible at the surface of Cold-
stream parish, three-fourths are, composed of clay and marl. The
thickness of the beds is generally inconsiderable, though in
some places it may be twenty or thirty feet. It is used in some
parts, where it is more calcareous than in others, for spreading
over the soil; but the quantity of carbonate of lime in it is so
trifling that very little benefit can be derived from the practice.
   3. The reddish sandstone, which, after the white sandstone and
marl strata, is the most abundant rock in the parish, lies to the
north of the white sandstone, and parallel with it and under it. The
line probably runs through the Leet, (about a mile above Cold-
stream,) Hirsel Law, and Simprin. It is quarried on the banks
of the Leet, on the south side of Simprin' farm, and still farther
to the east; but at the intermediate points it does not seem to
have been sought for.
   There is another stratum of the same reddish sandstone still
farther north, and running in the same direction as the former.
To the east of Balchristie it may be seen crossing the Leet, where
it is worked; and again at Hawkslaw. This last kind of stone is
used chiefly for drains, walls, and other farm purposes.
   4. The limestone which occurs in the district is rather an in-
durated marl than the compact calcareous rock, which is worked
as such in the coal measures and carboniferous limestone forma-
tion. It consists of beds; which seldom exceed two feet, and are
usually only three or four inches in thickness, alternating with
the clay and marl. We have not heard of its ever having been
burnt for economical purposes, though the same kind of rock was
burnt a good many years ago at Marchmont in Polwarth parish.
   The whole of the strata above-described dip towards the S. E.
under an angle not greater than 10°. Nearer the Lammermoor
hills, the strata begin to rise with a greater angle, till at last,
at the base of the hills, they are seen to rest on the greywacke
series.
   5. The gypsum has been found in this parish only in small
quantities. On the banks of the Leet, about half a-mile below
the house of the Hirsel, it occurs in red nodules imbedded in the
				4

