

			PENNINGHAME.                         195

	Galloway cattle bred in the parish are in the present year about
twice the price they brought at the period 1791-1797. But
their price varies so frequently, and so much, that it is not easy
to fix an average.
	The present system of husbandry continued, will effect much
improvement in the parish, and that improvement will be much
aided by draining both to a greater and less depth.
	Sea shells were much used for manure formerly, and lime has
succeeded them. They produced the most beneficial and endur-
ing effects. After the lapse of many years they are dug up ap-
parently little diminished in size, which seems to suggest that
grinding them would be economical and profitable. If ground,
the same quantity would produce much more effect, and in much
less time, on a larger portion of land. It is rather singular that
such a measure has not bedn adopted,-at least so far as I have
been able to ascertain. The quantity of shells on the shore
in the parish of Kirkinner is very great, and the grinding of
them would be attended with little expense. It could be ma-
naged by a small mill, moved by water, wind, or a horse. The
shells brought as manure to this parish contain  99/100 of mild lime;
when burnt 18/100 of carbonate of lime, and 53/100 of caustic lime.
The lime procured from them forms excellent mortar. It seems
extremely probable that the old houses, castles, &c. were built
with it. Great improvements might be made in the moss of Cree.
The moss might be floated off by the river Cree; and it is ex-
tremly probable that the bottom of it would not be below, but
rather above the adjoining land: it is considerably higher at pre-
sent. The water for carrying it away could be raised by a steam-
engine, or by a wheel moved by the river itself, in sufficient quan-
tities, and at a moderate expense. The moss might be compres-
sed for fuel also; and by that me`ns the present exorbitant price
of coals might be reduced. The gaining of 1200 or 1500 acres of
land would be a great acquisition, in addition to the land that may
be recovered from the sea, on the dast side of the moss.
	The encouragement of home manufacture, particularly of clothes
from wool and flax, would unquestionably be conducive to in-
dustry and economy.
	Nothing, however, can contribute so much to the comfort and hap-
piness of the people as the knowledge and practice of religion; hence
the great importance of giving all countenance and support to re-
ligious education from the earliest period of life.
	December 1838.


