
     Of Dalry.

bandry for carrying on the common method of farming, are
but few:  The old Scotch plough, drawn with 4 horses; a
brake harrow drawn by 2; and common harrows for each
horse.  A few have rollers for breaking of clods and smooth-
ing the ground.  Some gentlemen in the parish who practise
fallowing and turnip-farming, have English, and East Coun-
try ploughs of a light construction, drawn by 2 horses, and
1 man holds and drives the plough.  But till the ground un-
dergo a different cultivation from what it has yet done, and
be cleared of stones, with which it abounds, the old Scotch
plough must be better adapted to the present mode of culti-
vation, than the English plough can be.  As the grain that is
raised in the parish is, in general, consumed in it, and few
farmers have much to want after maintaining their own
families, this cannot be called a corn country, when so
little of their grain is brought to market.  The parish, in
general, is better adapted for grass than for corn.  What a
pity then is it, that better methods were not fallen on to im-
prove the grass?  This will not be done, till the ground be
properly prepared by fallowing, cleansed well from its old.

     VOL. XII. N

<FOOTNOTE>

the ground, at least, 3 different ploughings and harrowings, or till properly pul-
verized, furrows are made with 2 horses at the distance of 3 feet, dung is put
into the furrows, the potatoes are laid, then the furrow is filled up with the
plough, by going down one side and coming up the other, and thereby giving such
a depth of covering as you choose.  An acre of potatoes can be covered in this
way, with a single horse and a small plough, in 6 or 7 hours.  By the cultiva-
tion the ground receives before planting, and 2 or 3 more ploughings after the
plants appear, hereby it receives all the benefit that can result from a fallow,
with a rich crop to the bargain, and the ground in order for bearing some clean
and weighty crops.  I know a field of about 10 acres, that after this cultivation,
has been cropped for above 20 years and the crops, in general, rich and luxu-
riant.  The dung of the farm is mostly employed on the potatoe crop, and the
rotation of crops that follow, are, 1. wheat, 2. beans, 3. barley, and if a little
dung can be spared, the better; 4. oats, and then return to potatoes again.  A.
proper rotation of crops, is one way to secure success to the farmer.


