
104                     FIFESHIRE.

much on the lower parts of the parish, while it was swampy and
often covered with stagnant water, from the overflowings of the
Eden. But for the last fifty or sixty years, this disease has wholly
disappeared, owing probably to the many drains which have been
made in this and the neighbouring parishes. The lower people
are now peculiarly liable to dropsical swellings in their limbs, owing,
perhaps, to the poverty of their living.
   Hydrography.--The Eden, the stream of which in summer is
scarcely sufficient to turn a corn-mill, abounds with excellent red
and white trout, and some pike and eels. As the course of the
Eden is down a low strath, bordered with a range of hills on both
sides at no great distance, as it has very little fall in its course,
and was extremely winding and serpentine, it frequently overflowed
its banks, and rendered the crops in its haughs very precarious.
To remedy this evil, a plan was projected by Mr Cunninghame,
the then proprietor of Lathrisk, about the year 1768, for making
a cut in nearly a straight line, so deep and so wide as to confine
the water, and at the same time give it all the declivity of which
the nature of the ground would admit. But as the heritors on the
different sides of the stream could not agree, this plan could not
be executed in his time. About the year 1783, the late Mr John-
stone having purchased the estate of Lathrisk, and become pro-
prietor of both sides of the stream for upwards of two miles, exe-
cuted the cut on an enlarged scale. A spacious canal was opened
for the water along his property, about 15 feet wide at bottom,
and secured on the sides by banks rising backwards to not less
than 70 feet in width at top, and fenced behind with hedges and
hedge-rows, which both confined the water and ornamented the
property; and had the cut been carried on from where he ended,
in the same capacious manner, and humouring the declivity of the
ground, it would in all probability have answered the purpose in-
tended,--except where, by the rising of the Eden, the reflux of
water up ditches, and up the channels of the streamlets which en-
tered the Eden with very little declivity, caused a very temporary
and scanty inundation over their banks. But it was otherwise :
some heritors next to him did nothing. Hence in floods the water
is dammed back at that part, and overspreads the whole meadows
or corn lands around. And the heritors farther down who en-
tered into the idea could not at once collect the scattered waters
into one channel; and, moreover, by accommodating the direction
of the stream to the convenience of the different heritors with


