
138                           ARGYLESHIRE.

place in 1596, and while the clan Ian were thus weakened by in-
testine broils, the occasion was seized by Argyle to enforce the
not forgotten deed of Moriada.  A negotiation appears to have
been commenced, of which it was the basis.  The title-deeds of
the heir of Macvic Eoin came into the possession of Argyle, tra-
dition says, by his having found them with a burgess of Edinburgh
with whom M'Ian left them as a pledge for a debt incurred in
educating his son.  In 1602, M'Ian became, by a special agree-
ment, vassal of Argyle, and in a few years it would seem that the
swperior acquired the rights of actual proprieter.  The clan were, as
might be expected from their ignorance of feudal rights, refractory.
Mr Donald Campbell of Baslerick, afterwards Sir Donald of Ardna-
murchan, a man of uncommon depth of policy and inflexible resolution,
was appointed by Argyle, his commissioner, to reduce them to obedi-
ence.  Campbell, by a combination of cruelty and insult, soon goaded
the clansmen to violence, and, in 1624, twenty-two years after
the contract with Argyle, we find them driven to absolute despe-
ration, and above 100 of their fighting men, in an English ship
which they had seized, carrying terror as pirates throughout the
north-western coasts of Scotland.  The close of their history fol-
lowed speedily.  They fell under the vengeance of Government
and chiefs whose lands they had plundered, and were either ex-
tirpated by the sword, or driven into exile with an unsparing se-
verity which left not even their name behind.  Sir Donald Camp-
ball became proprietor of Ardnamurchan, and the race of Ian
were no more seen in the roll of Highland clans.  The lands
being thus most effectually quieted, they were repeopled, by Sir
Domald with the clan Ian, and clan Henry, or Hondersons of
Glencoe with their followers, who came in a body to take posses-
sion of Ardnamurchan, while Sunart appears, to have been reple-
nished by families of the clan Cameron.  If we add to these a
sept of M'Kenzies, introduced afterwards by Campbell of Loch-
nell, we have the clans most prevalent to this day in both districts.
   In 1644, the celebrated Alexander M'Donald, son of Coll Ci-
toch, or the left-handed, commander of Montrose's Irish troops,
landed, in Ardnamurchan, ravaged the country with fire and sword,

<FOOTNOTE>it to one of inferior station.  As Lochiel approached, he made a blow at him with
such force as to exit several ant-hills in its sweep, though it missed Lochiel.  The
armour in which he died was long retained at Acharn in Morven.  his shield is still
preserved at Laudal In that district.  An old man in Ardnamurchan, still alive, though
approaching 100 years, has often seen and put on his mail-shirt.


