
428                      ABERDEENSHIRE.

let in the parish; and the rates of grazing cannot be correctly
stated.
   Wages.-The farm-servants are engaged for six months, and,
being chiefly uamarried, they lodge and eat in their masters'
houses, and receive, besides, in money-wages half-yearly, for
ploughmen, L.5 to L.7; for lads, L.3 to L.4; and boys for
herding cattle, &c. L.1, 10s. to L.2, 10s.; women servants re-
ceive in winter, L.2, in summer, L.3; labourers working by the
day, earn 2s. or 1s, 6d. with meat; masons earn 3s. per day;
carpenters, 2s, 8d.; and another tradesmen charge by the piece
of work done.
   Live-Stock.-A great many, black-cattle are reared here, as in
all the, inland districts of Aberdeenshire, principally of the country
breeds, horned and bald; but some breeders are crossing this kind
with the Teeswater or short-horned cattle, and thereby adding
greatly to the size and weight of the carcase, when fed, but not
it is thought, to the fineness of the quality and grain of the meat.
The number of milk-cows, kept by the crofters solely for dairy
produce, and by the farmers for that and breeding, exceeds 500;
and that of other cattle of all different ages, from calves to oxen of
four years growth, 1300.  Very few oxen are here yoked in the
plough, though in the end of the last century it was the general
custom to have ten of these ploughing on each of the principal
farms.  Most of them are now fed at three and four years old,
and sold to the butchers and exporters, weighing from 6 to 9 cwt.
Our horses, though much larger than those of the country breed
of former times, cannot be called heavy; but they are hardy and
active, and fit both for ploughing in pairs and carrying, the grain
so market in single carts, at the rate of four quarters to each horse.
Of these the number used solely for husbandry is 220 ; as pleasure
horses and ponies, 20; young horses bred for sale or use, 40;
making of this kind, 280.  There being no extensive range of hill
or moorland pasture, the number of sheep kept is very limited, not
exceeding in all 440; viz. of the Scots black-faced breed for feed-
ing, 200; and of a large cross-breed, for wool for home use, and
raising lambs, kept in small lots, 240.
   The system of agriculture pursued in this parish, and generally
through the district of Garioch, may be reckoned good, when viewed,
as it ought to be, in relation to the soil and climate, the distance
from sex ports and grain markets, and other local circumstances.
One peculiarity to be noticed is the great variety in the size of


