
180                        ARGYLESHIRE.

wide dominions down till the period of his death in 1164, and re-
mained afterwards, with occasional interruptions, attendant on the
troubles of the times, in possession of his lineal descendants,the
Lords of the Isles.  In Bruce's varied struggles, Angus Og of the
Isles took a prominent part, and accordingly we find Morvern
among other lands, confirmed to him in return for his important
services.  His son, John of the Isles, at a time when circumstan-
ces rendered the integrity of his motives questionable, joined the
standard of Edward Baliol, and thus was he in his turn confirmed
in possessions which mere devoted loyalty had securred to his fa-
ther. Towards the end of thd fourteenth century, the family of
the Isles became connected with the clan M'Lean, and by a char-
ter granted at Ardtornish in 1390, Donald of the Isles conferred
on the chief of that clan, M'Lean of Duart, among other lands,
those of Morvern.  By this and other deeds afterwards duly ratifi-
ed by crown charters, the M'Leans, though not without some in-
terruptions, retained possession of Morvern down to the year 1680,
when, from circumstances well known, it came into the hands of
the dominant family of Argyle.  It is said to have been the ex-
press desire of a member of this illustrious house, that a marked
distinction should appear in the condition of his, from that of any
other tenantry, and it was certainly in accordance with this gene-
rous wish, that the Argyle possessions in Morven appear to have
been managed.  The land was at no period, highly, or even fully,
rented.  In 1731, when the Argyle estates constituted at least
two-thirds of the extent of the parish, the rental amounted to L.318
Sterling only, and though doubtless several augmentations did, at
successive intervals of time, take place, it seems to have been at
all times the desire of the successive members of this illustrious
family to let their extensive possessions with a due regard to the
comfort and well being of the people, and the right organization of
society, thus securing for the smaller possessions, a class of intel-
ligent tenantry, and for the larger, a body of highly educated and
influential gentlemen.
   In 1819, the Argyle estates in Morvern were exposed to sale,
and, to the sorrow of a grateful and happy community, passed at
this period, in all the varied subdivisions of which they now consist,
into the hands of other proprietors.
   Land-owners.-At present there are eleven proprietors.  Three
of these are resident and one partially so.  The old tack leases
have expired, and changes have accordingly taken place, which,


