
                         ORMISTON.                         143

to be about 550, which is nearly double the number at present.
There seems to have been a gradual decrease in the population
till 1811; and from that period, a gradual increase, arising from the
progressive agricultural improvement of the parish. In 1831, the
population of the village amounted to 335, and of the country to
503,-indicating a decrease in the population of the village in the
course of forty years, amounting to 250.
   The annual average of births for the last 7 years is 22; of deaths
13; of marriages 3 1/2.
   An accurate account is kept of the births; but the deaths and
marriages cannot be so accurately ascertained, no measures being
yet adopted to secure an exact return.

<Table>

The number of unmarried men, bachelors and widowers above 50 years of age is  17
                        women upwards of 45 years of age                      49
              families in the parish                                         194
                      chiefly employed in agriculture,                        64
                                       in trade, manufactures, or handicraft, 38

   The number of insane and fatuous persons is 4. Of these two
are kept by their friends, and two are under the charge of the kirk-
session.
   The great bulk of the people are contented and comfortable in
their circumstances. They are, in general, cleanly in their habits,
respectful in their manners, industrious, and attentive, to the ordi-
nances of religion, and the education of their children. There
are some, however, particularly in the village, who, having acquir-
ed habits of tippling, disturb, by their irregularities, the peace of
a place, which, from its beautiful and retired situation, seems pe-
culiarly fitted to be the abode of tranquillity and happiness.
                       IV.-INDUSTRY.
   In consequence of the exertions of Mr Cockburn before noticed,
about the beginning of last century, Ormiston was one of the ear-
liest and best cultivated parishes in Scotland. Some of the per-
petual leases which he granted have fallen into the hands of the
proprietor, but the greater part of them still remain in the posses-
sion of the tenants, and form a striking peculiarity in the parish of
Ormiston. Of late, several of the farms have been let to subte-
nants who reside upon the farms, and are acquainted with the most
improved modes of husbandry. Only one family of the original te-
nants now remains in the parish, and it has the perpetual lease of
four farms.
   The lands that are not on perpetual leases, are let for nineteen years;
those connected with the village, for seven, or such a number of


