
                           RENFREW.                               9


smaller, dimensions. It was wrought, till lately, by the Dumbarton
Glass Company, and was used in their works, on account of its
purity, as being free from sulphur and other obnoxious qualities.
There are at present two pits in operation; one 31 fathoms deep,
and the other 38,--the engine pit being 64. There were origi-
nally three seams of coal;--one 18 inches; another, called the
main seam, 24; and that now wrought, 21. This last seam con-
tains 7 inches of excellent gas coal, each pound yielding 4 1/2 cubi-
cal feet of gas, 4 inches of soft coal, and 10 inches of smithy coal.
A dike, running from south-east to north-west, passes through
the engine pit, leaving the seam on the north side 4 1/2 fathoms
lower, and which is wholly unwrought. Beneath all of these seams,
it is believed, there may be found a continuation of the general coal
field already referred to,--the coal wrought being not only diffe-
rent in quality, but also occupying a higher place in the arrange-
ment of the different strata.
   Botany.--The whole of this parish being either cultivated or
laid out in plantations, and possessing, moreover, a limited variety
of soil, its indigenous botany is comparatively scanty. The fol-
lowing are among the less frequently occurring plants. Ophrys
ovata and O. cordata, Serapias latifolia, Carnpanula rotundifolia
alba, Veronica officinalis alba, Asplenium scolopendrium, A. ruta
muraria, and A. adiantum nigrum. Some of the more tender
evergreens occasionally suffer, and in exposed places they often
fail; but wherever there is sufficient shelter, and especially from the
previous growth of trees and shrubs, not deciduous, they grow
freely enough. In the border of Scotstown garden, there is a
very fine Tulip tree and several Acacias, all of which have been
richly covered with flowers.
   Zoology.--We have now before us, through the kindness of a
friend, a list of nearly seventy species of birds, known to frequent
this parish, about one-half of which are resident throughout the
year. It has been remarked, that the missel-thrush (Turdus vis-
civorus,) which was rare in this country perhaps twenty years ago,
is now so abundant as to cause great annoyance, where there is
small fruit. The starling (Sturnus vulgaris) also regularly breeds
here, and remains with us throughout the season. And the kings-
fisher (Alcedo ispida) is occasionally seen. We are persuaded that
the improvement of the country, and especially by forming planta-
tions of evergreens, is rapidly increasing settlers among us from the
south. And although we have not had the same means of being


