
                     ISLAND OF SKYE-KILMUIR.                    261

       Macleod sent a party of men under a choice leader to destroy
       MacDhonuill's estate in Uist, but they were there met and rout-
       ed with much bloodshed, by MacDhonuill's kinsman alread men-
       tioned, viz.  Donull Maclain 'ic Sheumais.  During these dis-
       astrous conflicts, the estates of both chiefs were very much injured;
       and the natives were reduced to great hardships, by being daily in
       terror of their lives, and by neglecting to cultivate their lands to
       make provision for themselves and families.  At length, affairs
       came to be decided by a pitched battle.  MacDhonuill collected
       his forces, and Macleod did the same.  The two great chiefs at
       the head of their warriors, met in close vicinity to the lofty mount
       Cullin, and after a desperate and bloody conflict, in which both
       clans fought with distinguished bravery, the Macleods were rout-
       ed with great slaughter.
         It would be impossible within the limits of this account to relate
       the various little feuds and differences which disturbed the repose
       of the parish, in common with the rest of the estates of the power-
       ful Macdonald family, down to the period of the battle of Killie-
       crankie in 1689, and of Sheriffimuir in 1715.  No fewer than five
       cousins of Sir Donald Macdonald of the Isles fell on the bloody
       field of Killiecrankie, fighting on the side of Dundee.  Sir Donald
       Macdonald, commonly called Donulla' chogaidh, led forth a strong
       body of chosen men from this and the adjacent parishes, to the
       battle of Sheriffmuir, where they distinguished themselves by their
       wonted bravery.  But neither of these engagements created such
       a sensation in this place as did the Rebellion of 1745.  It is well
       known, that, had Sir Alexander Macdonald and Macleod of Dun-
       vegan joined the standard of the unfortunate Prince Charles Ed-
       ward Stuart, the fate of Culloden would have been differient.
       The joint forces of these powerful chiefs were at the time nearly
       4000 strong.  Clanranold was despatched to Skye to hasten the
       two chiefs just named, to join the Prince's cause.  He found them
       both at Monkstadt, in this parish, the residence at that time of Sir
       Alexander Macdonald.  The envoy's entreaties were in vain, for,
       however much disposed these chieftains might have been at first,
       to assist the Chevalier, they evidently saw by that time that his
       cause was hopeless, and they prudently kept aloof. *

       <FOOTNOTE>It is said, when the Duke of Cumberland met Sir Alexander Macdonald,        after
       the battle of Culloden, that he addressed Him-" Ho! is this the great rebel of the
       Isles?"--and that Sir Alexander instantly replied-"No, my Lord Duke, for had I
       been the rebel of the Isles, your Grace would mot have crossed the Spey."



