
			COUNTY OF WIGTON.                      227

he avers the contrary; but he left behind him several illegitimate
children, who, with their mother, removed to Ireland on the death
of their father. One of his grandchildren suffered capital punish-
ment in that country for robbery, about the year 1760. These two
families, the M'Dowalls and the M'Cullochs, are the oldest in Wig-
tonshire; but there are many others of nearly equal standing;
such as the Agnews, the Kennedys, the Adairs, all of Irish ex.
traction; the Dunbars (descended from the Earls of March,) the
Hannays, the Gordons of Balmeg, Craichlaw, and Culvennan, the
M'Kies, all of which settled in this county about 500 years ago.
The first charter in favour of the Vanses was in 1451. The
Maxwells (from the house of Nithsdale,) were established here
in the same century. The Murrays of Broughton, (of honourable
descent in Dumfries-shire, and now representing in the Stewartry
the Stewarts of Cally and the Lennoxes of Plunton,) the Hays
of Park, the Stewarts, the Rosses, the Blairs of Dunskey, the
Dalrymples of Stair, the Cathcarts of Genoch, the Hawthorns,
first appear in the annals of Wigton in the 16th or 17th century.
The Ramsays of Boghouse, the Nelsons of Craigcaffie, the Chris-
tians or Christies of Monkhill and Drummaston, the Houstons of
Cutreoch, the Martins of Cutcloy and Airies, the Baillies of Dun-
ragget, have either become extinct, or have terminated in females,
or have now no property in Wigtonshire. There are, also,
M'Kerlies, a name common here since the days of Wallace, but
which, so far as we know, occurs in no other district in Scotland.
The M'Taggarts (represented by John M'Taggart of Ardwell,
M. P. for the Stranraer burghs,) have been settled in Wigtonshire

ant religion renouncing all righteousness of my own or any others, relying only up-
on the merits of CHRIST JESUS, through whose blood I hope to be saved, and whom I
trust will not only be my Judge but also Advocate with the Father for my redemp-
tion
  "Now, Dear spectator,as my last request, again and again, I earnestly desire and
beg the assirtance of your fervent prayer, that although I stand here condemned by
man, I may be absolved before the tribunal of the great God, that in place of this
seaffold, I may enjoy a throne of glory; that this violent death may bring me to a
life of glorious rest, eternal in the heavens; and that in place of all these spectators,
I may be accompanyed with an innumerable company of saints and angels, singing
Hallelujah of the great King to all eternity.
  "Now, O Lord, remember me with that love thou bearest to thy own, and visite
me with thy salvation, that I may see the good of thy chosen ones, and may glory in
thine inheritance. Lord Jesus, purge me from all my sins, and from this of blood-
guiltiness, wash me in thy own blood. Great are my iniquities, but greater are the
mercies of God! O let me be amongst the number of those for whom Christ died;
be thou my advocat with the Father. Into thy hands do I recommend my spirit;
come Lord Jesus, come and receive my soul.  Amen.
      "Sic Subscribitur SIR GODFREY M' CULLOCH."


