
                         PAISLEY.                           179

The author in all probability was Sir. James Semple who belong-
ed to a family long known by a sort of hereditary love of the muses,
and who has richly deserved the respect and gratitude of every
Scotsman as the friend of Andrew Melville, in obtaining his libera-
tion from the tower, and afterwards in vindicating his memory. *
The last representative of this family died about forty years ago, at
a very venerable age. +
   On November 8, 1665, the council " concludit," that " in re-
spect the Erle of Rothes, His Majesties commissioner, is to be in
the Abbey of Pasleye this night. that therefore he shall be invit-
ed to have the curtiesie of the town from the baillies and council;
and for effectuating yrof they have appointed John Ewing to go to
Glasgow and bring four punds of raisins, ane pund of confected
cannell, ane pund of confected almonds, ane of coriander, ane of
carvie, ane of anneisse ane of roughe almondes, and half ane pund
of cordesidron, with nine elnes of silver ribbons."
   In 1822, when King George IV. visited Scotland, the magis-
trates of Paisley waites on him at Holyroodhouse with a loyal and
dutiful address in which a kind invitation was given to His Ma-
jesty to visit this " the place of his fathers' sepulchres."
   Ribellions 1715 and 1745.-On both of these occasions the
inhabitants of Paisley were distinguished for thei loyalty.  On
August 5, 1715, the common council of the burgh, " taking into
consideration the imminent danger that the country was exposed
to by reason of the, Pretender's attempting to land in the kingdom
of Scotland, " appointed a regular nightly guard of twenty men,
and " ordained the haill inhabitants to have all their arms in
readiness." Two pairs of colours were also ordered to be pur-
chased for the use of the town, "and to have the town's arms put

<FOOTNOTE>the world seeth."  Clytia and Leucothoe appear in fabulous mythology, as the two
wives of Phoebus; and the "prettie boy" asks his Majesty: " Are not wee then, Sir,
of Scotland your M. own old kindlie Clytia? Are not you Sir our Phoebus, comming
from the east with glorious displayed beams, to embrance us in the mouth of the ocean?
and is not this very place now, Sir, yon weatermost period? Ergo, Sir, your kindliest
Clytia?" " You M. hath passed already her head, neck and armes, you greater townes
and cities, but till now you never came to her heart! Why? because in this very pa-
rish, is that ancient seat of William Wallas, that worthie warrier, to whom (under
God) we owe that you or ours, and Britaine yours!" We need scarcely add, that Leu-
cothoe "that fairest ladye" was "his Most glorious England, most worth ye of all love"
and that when James "went first," to her he went lik himself, busked with his
owne beams, and backed with the best of his Clytia!"  We do not read of his Ma-
jestie's reply.  We suspect that all his "grammie" and all his "madesty" together
    M'Crie's Life Melville, Vol. ii. page 339, 453, &c.
    See New Statistical Account of Lochwinnoch, p. 88, &c.


