
     Statistical Account

The roof of the chancel is both elegant and durable.  It
was erected by George Crichton, bishop of Dunkeld, and
adorned with the arms of that fee, and the initials of his
own name.  Some allege, this was imposed on the bishop
as a penance; but it may be more honourably, and per-
haps as justly accounted for, from his attachment to the
place, in which he originally officiated as vicar, and where
he often resided from his connection with the court, as
keeper of the privy seal.  James V. ordered throne and
12 stalls to be erected in this church for himself and the
knights of the Thistle, intending their banners to be hung
up there.  But his sudden death, after the battle of Sol-
way, and the commotions which followed, prevented the
execution of that, and many more important designs*.
   The town-house was raised in 1668, under the direc-
tion of Sir Robert Miln of Barnton, chief manager of the
burgh.  The roof was originally slat, and of lead, but has
lately been exchanged for a more convenient sloping one+.
   The cross-well was built in 1620, and is distinguished
by a variety of grotesque figures.  It pours forth its streams
in so many directions, that a dozen of people might be
supplied at the same time.

<FOOTNOTE>

*The inside of this church at present does by no means correspond to
its outward appearance.  The E. part might be converted into an ele-
gant place of worship, and would, it is believed, accommodate as many
as the present.  That, or some improvements of a similar kind, will, it
is hoped, be soon made.  Appended to the church on the S. is the bury-
ing-place of the Linhthgow family.  The workmanship is elegant, and
it does not hurt the symmetry of the original building.

+Besides other accommodations, the town-house contains a large coun-
cil-chamber, the sheriff court-room, fitted up in a complete style, a ma-
son lodge, and the apartment destined for Dr. Henry's library.  Affixed
to this, on the back, is a new building, the lower part of which is de-
signed for a coin market, and the upper for debtors, who have hitherto
had no other place but the common prison.


