
              392                         BANFFSHIRE.

              sion; about 400 belong to the Roman Catholic profession; Episcopalians
	      and Independents not above 30 each.
                Education. The parish school is a large and commodious
              house, built for two teachers, and capable of accommodating 260
              scholars.  It was erected at the expense of the heritors, in 1833.
              There is a school-house in Newmill capable of holding 100.
              There are likewise three other school-houses in the parish, erected
	      within these few years by public collections and donations from
              private individuals and the heritors, obtained bx the exertions of
              the minister.  One of these schools is at Achanacy, another at
              Tarrycroys, and another at Oldmore.
                The parish schoolmaster, besides the usual salary from the heritors,
	      enjoys the Dick Bequest; and before the Schoolmaster's
              Act passed, there were mortified for the benefit of a schoolmaster
              in New Reith the lands and estate of Edendrach, the minister and
              kirk-session of the parish being appointed trustees; but, about a
              century ago, a progenitor of the Duff family alleging that the
              land had fallen to him from the non-payment of the teinds,
              which he at that time rented from Forbes of Craigievar, got possession
	      of the land for the yearly payment of 300 merks Scots
              to the schoolmaster-one of the elders at the time protesting
              against the transaction.  About fifteen years ago, an attempt was
              made to reclaim the lands to their original purpose; but the title
              was found to have prescribed.  The late Dr Simpson of Worcester,
	      in the year 1840, left L.500, 3 per cent. consols, the interest
	      of which was to increase.the income of the schoolmaster.  Yet,
              notwithstanding all these advantages, the school-fees are higher
              than in an of the surrounding parishes.  The schoolmaster of
              Newmill receives, conjointly from the Society for Propagating
              Christian Knowledge, the Earl of Fife, and the interest of L.100
              mortified by the late Mr Chalmers, Newmill, an endowment of
              about L.25 annually, besides the school-fees.
                Poor. - There are about 130 on the poor roll who are under
              the guardianship, of the kirk-session, and receive annually L.250
              Sterling, derived from charitable collections, the use of the mortcloth,
	      the sale of burial ground, and the interest of some donations,
              -the heritors making up the deficiency. It is given in sums, varying
	      according to the condition of the claimants, from 3s. a week
              to 4s. a quarter.

              July 1842.


