
996                     ABERDEENSHIRE.

The lofty hall, with its remains of architectural grandeur, is in to-
lerable preservation, and is a fine specimen of the Gothic vaulted
style. The ornaments are elaborate, and this remnant of a struc-
ture, which, in its original state, had been on a magnificent scale,
shows the rank and status which, in a former age, its proprietors
enjoyed.
   Over the once chief entry to the house of Towie is the follow-
ing inscription:-
                  Sir Alexander Barclay of
         Tolly Foundator decessit Anno Domini 1136.
                  in tim of valth all men
               Sims frendly--an Frind is not
               knawin but in adversity, 1593.
Nothwithstanding of the first-mentioned date in the above inscrip-
ti6n, it is believed that the castle was not built before 1593, while
there are dates 1604 and 1695 on the more modem parts of
the building. The Barclays seem to have mingled in the frays of
the time, and are frequently mentioned in Pitcairn's Criminal
Trials. They also produced some learned men, and have risen
to eminence and distinction in Russia, where Prince Barclay de
Tolly, an offshoot from the house of Towie, illustrated and ex-
tended the fame of this ancient Scottish name and family.

                         III.-POPULATION.
   In the town and parish of Turriff, the population has been pro-
gressivelv increasing. According to the census of 1821, it amount-
ed to 2406; in 1891, it rose to 2807; and, by the last survey,
which was taken with the utmost care, it appears that there were
in the town 571 males, 738 females, total 1309; and in the land-
ward part of the parish, 925 males, 912 females, total 1837,- mak-
ing the entire population 3146; so that an increase to the amount
of 740 has taken place within the last twenty years.
   Belonging to the parish there are 2 persons subject to aberra-
tion of mind, but not furious or unmanageable; I person fatuous;
2 blind; and 1 deaf and dumb.
   Character of the People.-In general, the people are moral in
their conduct, obliging and neighbourly among themselves, kind
and charitable to the poor, and attentive and hospitable to strang-
ers.
   The great majority are strongly attached to the Church of Scot-
land as by law established, and, to their credit, we record the
facts, that, while they are regular in their attendance on the public
services of the sanctuary, and the ordinances of religion, they live


