
                               CULTS.                           561

about 90 per cent. of carbonate of lime, and is much esteemed
both for agricultural and architectural purposes.
  Several alternating beds of coal, shale, and sandstone repose
upon the limestone strata. One of the beds of coal is twelve
inches thick, and may be considered as the lowest of the whole
series, of which the coal-field in the county is composed. From
the quarry it may be traced westwards to Front-brae, where it
may be seen cropping out along the road which leads to Coal-
town. Here the whole series have been thrown down several hun-
dred feet, underlying the Burnturk coal metals, and again emerg-
ing at Forthar limework in the parish of Kettle. The other beds
of coal vary from a few inches to about a foot in thickness, and
are not considered of sufficient value to be wrought.
  One of the beds of shale which overlies the main lime bed is
composed almost entirely of shells of the genus Mytilus, the pre-
vailing species being the M. Crassus. These shells appear as
fresh and entire as if they were still reposing on the muddy bed
of the primitive ocean, in which they were produced. Not only
are the external figure and internal texture preserved, but even
the colour and original shelly matter seem to have sustained but
little alteration. One cannot look on these interesting relics with-
out a feeling of adnairation of the wonderful methods devised by
Providence, for preserving so entire bodies of so fragile a kind, and
out of their remains once deposited on the bottom of the sea,
forming the rocks and soil, which now minister to the wants and
comforts of man.
  Of the sandstones reposing on the lime beds, the thickest, which
is about 16 feet, abounds in organic remains. These, however, are
wholly table, being the stems and branches of arundinaceous
plants. Not a trace of animal matter can be detected in any part
of this deposit, while in the inferior bed of sandstone before no-
ticed, the organic remains are exclusively animal; a fact, we be-
lieve, first observed by Dr Anderson, and serving as the basis of
his proposed arrangement of the different sandstones found in
Stratheden. The whole of these alternating beds of coal shale,
sandstone and mountain limestone, have been elevated to the height
of about 600 feet above the level of the sea, and now constitute
what are called the Cults or Pitlessie Hills, being apparently a
continuation of the Lomond range.
  The whole series of rocks in this parih are capped with masses
of overlying trap, consisting partly of amygdaloid, and partly of
  FIFE.                       N n


