

                                LATHERON.                            93

   <TABLE>
	Number of families employed in agriculture in 1831,       1068
        trade, manufhcture, or hapdicraft,                         161

            Number of fatuous persons, 20; blind, 3.
            Language,  Habits, &c.--The Gaelic language is generally
        spoken by the lower class of people throughout the greater part
        of the parish, but it has certainly lost ground during the last forty
        years, and, in proportion as the improved system of education ad-
        vances, it will no doubt continue to decline still more.  In proof
        of this, the presbytery of Cahthness have lately come to the deci-
        sion to discontinue the preaching of the Gaelic language in the
        eastern district of the parish occupied by the mission of Bruan,
        where a missionary was last year appointed, who has no Gaelic.
        Formerly the missionary always preached in both languages, but,
        in all probability, this system is not likely to be again resorted to.
        It is a singular circumstance that, for a long period, the burn of
        East Clyth seems to have formed the boundary between the Gae-
        lie and English languages.  On the east side of it, scarcely a word
        of Gaelic was either spoken or understood, and on the west side the
        English shared the same fate; and this was the more wonderful,
        as both sides were rather densely peopled.  Now, however, the
        English has not only made encroachments upon the Gaelic terri-
        tory, but has extended itself over the whole neighbouring dis-
        trict; and, indeed, were it not that its progress was consider-
        ably impeded by the importation of several colonies of High-
        landers from the heights of Kildonan and other parts of Suther-
        landshire about twenty years ago, when the sheep system com-
        menced there, its triumphs, are now, would have been still more
        extensive.
           A very decided hmprovement has, for many years back, been ob-
        servable both in the external appearance and internal comforts of
        the cottages of the peasantry.  The old hovels are fast disappear-
        ing, and neat substantial houses, having vents and chimney tops in
        one or both ends, are occupying their places.  With  these im-
        provements in the accomodations and comforts of the people,
        there has, as might naturally be expected, been a somewhat pro-
        portional advance in their habits of cleanliness and manner of
        dress, in both of which many of them display considerable taste
        and neatness.  Indeed, there is reason to fear that the youth of
        both sexes are, in the article of dress, rather in danger of exceed-
        ing their means.  The ordinary food consist of oat and bear


