
     of Anwoth.

On the top of a hill, about half a mile S. E. of the church,
is one of those vitrified forts which have lately excited the 
curiosity of modern antiquaries.  It consists of a steep rock, 
elevated about 300 feet above the level of the sea, and is 
fortified on the most accessible places with a double fosse.
The top, which forms a level area 30 paces long and 20
broad, is nearly surrounded with an irregular ridge of 
loose stones, intermixed with vast quantities of vitrisied 
matter.  The stones, consisting of the common blue schistus 
of the country, have been softened, twisted, and partly fused
by the fire.  These heaps of loose stones and vitrified mat-
ter are scattered irregularly over the top of the fort, and
exhibit no appearance of having ever formed a continued
wall.  The vitrification is only partial and supersicial, and 
seems to have been the accidental effect of large fires kind-
led on these high rocks, either for some domestic purpose, 
or for signals to alarm the country on the approach of an 
enemy.  It was formerly believed that these vitrisied forts
were peculiar to that part of the island which is N. of the 
Forth.  But besides the one described above, there are
other two in this country, and they all command a very
extensive prospect of the sea.  On the S. side of this fort,
there is a broad flat stone, inseribed with several waving 
and spiral lines, which exhibit however no regular figure..
Near it likewise were lately found several silver coins;
one of Kine Edward VI.; the rest of Queen Eliza-
beth; each of them seems to contain about one third or

<FOOTNOTE>

exact drawing of this stone has been lately sent by Mr Reid to the Lon-
don Society of Antiquaries.  This moat and stone seem both to have been
formerly either places or objects of religious worship.  And the figure of 
the crofs seems to have been a pious artisice of home Christian millionaries,
in order to sanctify the idolatious worship which their new converts paid
to these perpendicular stones.


