
			DUNNOTTAR.                     229

trustees under an act for the conversion of Statute-labour, and
have greatly promoted the agricultural improvement of the parish.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The former parish church was taken down
and the present one built on the same site in 1782. The manse
was built in 1786. Both are tolerably substantial and commo-
dious, although neither contains the accommodation which is ne-
cessary, and which a very little additional expense would have
afforded. The stipend, excluding small fractions, is 127 1/2 bolls of
meal and 92 3/4 quarters of barley, with L. 10 of money. The teinds
are exhausted. The glebe contains four acres arable, and a por-
tion of grass land in an adjoining den. There are several fine old
ashes in the churchyard, and a good many thriving trees on the
glebe. The situation of the church and manse, surrounded with
plantations and grassy dells, is highly agreeable. The distance
from Stonehaven is about one mile.
	Education.--The parish school is at Stonehaven. The school-
master's salary is L. 34, 4s. 4 1/2 d., with a dwelling-house and the
statutory extent of garden. The number of scholars varies from
20 to 30. There are several private schools in the parish, and
the minister is, ex officio, one of the trustees of a free-school, lately
endowed in the new town, under the will of Mr William Donald-
son, at which this parish has the privilege of placing 20 scholars
from six to twelve years of age.
	Poor and Parochial Funds.--The number of paupers receiving
permanent relief is about 50, and there are five pauper lunatics in
asylums or boarded at the expense of the parish. The annual ex-
penditure in this way, for some time past, has not been under
L. 260, while the income has been as under; weekly collections,
L. 66, 6s.; seat rents, L. 11, 12s.; interest of stock, L. 20; pe-
nalties, &c.  L. 2, 15s.; total, L. 100, 13s.
	The excess of expenditure over income has hitherto been
made up by the heritors by a voluntary assessment, and thus not
only has a sum of L. 400 of stock been kept entire, but the neces-
sity of resorting to a legal assessment has been avoided.
	Burgh of Stonehaven--At what time Stonehaven was erected
into a burgh of barony is not known. Very probably the erec-
tion was contained in a Crown charter in favour of one of the
Earls of Marischal, which is not now to be found. Its existence
as a burgh was at an early period recognized by the Legislature,
and an Act of Parliament in 1607, c. 10, ordains "the said Burgh
of Stonehaven to be in all time coming the head Burgh of the She-


