
168               		 ARGYLESHIRE.

acenery, more especially inland, which present very striking fea.
ture.  Sir Walter Scott has rendered Ardtornish famed in song,
-nor has he overlooked

        ---------dark Mull ! thy mighty Sound
	Where thwarting tides. with iningled roar,
	Part thy swarth hills from Morvern's shore.

   The same distinguished writer, in a note appended to his Lord
of the Isles, has borne testimony to the interesting character of
the scenery, which he has hallowed by his poetical descriptions.
   " The Sound of Mull," be observes, " which divides that island
from the continent of Scotland, is one of the most striking scenes
which the Hebrides afford to the traveller."-" In fine weather,"
he again adds, " a grander or more impressive scene, both from
its natural beauties and associations with ancient history and tra-
dition, can hardly be imagined." Nor is the valley of Unimore,
which intersects the parish, less striking, whether approached by
the aptly-named Lochalin, or by the yet more interesting and not less
beautiful Loch Teagus.  It is overhung on the one side by a range
of bold and precipitous rocks, on the other by the mountains of
Ben-eaddan and Ben-na-hua, while its lakes, as if conscious of the
strong protection thus afforded, rest in quiet serenity underneath,
reflecting the softened and picturesque beauty by which they are
more immediately surrounded.  There are many flowers born " to
blush unseen," and there are many scenes of loveliness which the
rambling tourists of modern times have never yet sought out.  But
Unimore has not escaped notice.  Its beauties have been depicted
by one,-the best qualified of living men to appreciate and deli-
neate the magnificence of Highland scenery,-one whose pen has
hallowed many a once neglected scene, which, in the course of his
interesting but too unobtrusive excursions, he has visited. *

		Morvern and morn, and spring and solitude,
		In front is not the scene magnificent?
		   *         *        *       *         *
		Look over the edge of the bare precipice !
		Forgotten are the mountains ; and your heart
		Quakes and recoils, as dizzying down and down
                Ventures your eyesight, often shut in fear.
	        Nor daring to become familiar
                With that trange world withdrawing from your gaze,
		Most awful in its still profundity.
		Nor of this stedfast earth ! why tremble so?
     		Hold by the rock, lest wild imaginings
		D-D! tempt you headlong oer the battlements
		Plumb down to undiwoverable death
	   	Unto the bottom of that blind abyss.
	        What a terrific distance from the sky!
		There might the floating eagle's self feel fear,
		But look also, and with a steadied gaze,

<FOOTNOTE>Professor Wilson.


