
                            DALSERF.                              733

farm, which was formerly apart of the Broomhill estate, have a tradi-
tion, that they are of French extraction, and that their ancestors,
being Protestants, fled from France, in order to avoid persecution.
Amidst all the changes that have taken place in the lapse of years,
Hamilton is still a prevailing, perhaps the predominant, surname
in the parish.
   The ancient residence of the Hamiltons of Dalserf was Alton,
(or Auldtown,) now converted into a farm-steading. Scarcely a
trace remains to show where the lairds of Raploch formerly lived.
The house of Broomhill, formerly mentioned as havhng been burnt
by Sir William Drury, Governor of Berwick, was, we are told, but
one room wide, and four stories high, with a bartisan. It was
again repaired, and a turnpike added.  It was called the Castle of
Auld Machan.  In I563, a mob came to pull down the old Ro-
mish chapel at Broomhill; but the lady of Sir John Hanilton,
meeting them on the way, assured them that they might save
themselves the trouble, as she meant to make a good barn of it.
With this statement they were satisfied, and the chapel was per-
mitted to remain till 1724, when it fell down of its own accord.
The field where it stood is still called Chapel Rone.  A private
chapel, belonging to the Raploch family, formerly stood at Chapel
Know, between Raploch and the village of Larkhall; hence the
neighbouring farm of Crossgates was also called Chapeltree.
There were two chapels on the east side of the parish,-one at
chapelburn, near the old line of road from Hamilton to Lanark,
by Nethanfoot; and another at Dalpatrick, dedicated to the saint;
of that name, and also sometimes called the Chapel of the Blessed
Virgin.  No traces of either now remain.  Near the village of
Larkball, is a level piece of ground called Bowman's flat, or vul-
garly Bomflat, where, according to tradition, archery was for-
merly practised, after it was reintroduced for some time by the
Stuarts.  These parochial practisinfs were, of course, subservient
to the system of general and stated weaponschawings, of which
Sir Walter Scott gives an account in his novel of Old Mortality.
There is a conical rising ground (Gallowhill) south-east of Lark-
hall, where, it is said, culprits used in; ancient times to be execut-
ed.  If we are to be guided by etymology, local executions must
at one time have been general over the country, us there are few
parishes that have not a Gallowhill, or some place indicating the
former use of the gallows,  The circumstance is, of course, to be
explained by the local an& heritable jurisdictions of former times,


