
                               GALSTON.                  181

of Loudon Hill, though considerably diminished by the repair of
the neighbouring stone-fences. The "rude fortification," how-
ever, which is said in the former Statistical Account to have shel-
tered this hero and his handful of followers, performed the same
office to a much more numerous body of warriors, probably not
less than 1000 years before. It is evidently a Roman camp,
chosen and fortified with all the military science for which that
celebrated people were distinguished. Its ramparts, though much
reduced by time and the depredations of the husbandman, may
be distinctly traced throughout its whole extent, and the Praeto-
rian and Decuman gates are in a state of tolerable preservation.
The original camp to which these remarks apply is 180 yards long
and 114 broad; but there is another enclosure upon a lower level
towards the south, which seems to have been added upon a subse-
quent occasion, to accommodate a larger force, or perhaps originally
designed for the quarters of the allies. This addition lengthens
out the parallelogram to 258 yards. It does not appear that there
have been any gates at the extremities of the Principia, and, indeed,
it is not to be expected from the nature of the ground, which on
the right and left sides slopes downwards for twenty or thirty yards,
with the declivity of a rampart. Upon one of these slopes there
was found in the year 1831, a silver coin in good preservation, hav-
ing this inscription, CESAR AVGVSTVS DIVI F. PATER PATRIE.
This coin is now in the possession of Thomas Brown, Esq. the
proprietor of the estate on which the camp is situated, who is also
in possession of another Roman coin, found along with many more,
a little to the eastward in the parish of Avendale, and inscribed
DIVVS ANTONINVS. These facts and observations taken in connec-
tion with the existence of a Roman military way, which may still
be traced on the opposite bank of the Irvine, furnish incontestable
evidence that the parish of Galston has received at least one visit
from the masters of the world; and it furnishes a striking proof of
the stupendous scale upon which that wonderful people conducted
their affairs, that marches and encampments, too trivial to be re-
corded in their military histories, have thus certified their own ex-
istence during a period of not less than 1600 years.
	In connection with these Roman remains may be mentioned an-
other military station on the Galston bank of the Aven, about two
miles farther to the south. It is nearly surrounded by the river,
and fortified, where it is not so, by a rampart and ditch. Its tra-
ditionary name in the neighbourhood is Main Castle, which, as


