
                          NORTH UIST.                              177

     the change of law, and abolition of duties, is bound, if not to give
     a compensation, at least to give grants of lands, and afford facili-
     ties of locating on them, to an interesting class of people, at once
     moral, peaceable, loyal, and industrious, necessarily getting year
     by year less em' loyment?  While it is a source of sincere sa-
     tisfaction to narrate the well directed exertions of the greater num-
     ber of the large farmers, truth demands that some at least of the
     disadvantages and discouragemeints under which they labour should
     likewise be stated.  Formerly all the kelp ware an their farms was
     allowed them with their other possessions. For some time back, they
     have been deprived of this advantage.  This, perhaps, from the pre-
     sent low price of kelp, is no great pecuniary loss.  But another evil
     attends it.  The small tenants are sent every summer to the farms
     possessed by tacksmen, to manufacture the kelp, with a train of
     horses, which eat up a large proportion of the summer grass' Not
     only is this in itself a grievous loss, but it renders it impossible to
     divide and manage the pasture in a systematic and profitable manner.
     The number of horses might be reduced, and in many instances
     they might entirely be dispensed with.  Measures are now about
     to be adopted for the removal of this grievance
        Fisheries.-The ordinary routine of employment, in which the
     generality of the people are engaged, precludes them from en-
     gaging in fisheries.  In the winter season, the sea around the
     island is too boisterous to admit of their carrying on the fisheries,
     with any degree of regularity or success.  During the summer
     season, the most proper for this employment, much the greater
     part of the population is occupied in the manufacture of kelp, in
     providing fuel, in cutting and securing crops.  And, though many
     might be spared from these occupations, they want the necessary
     capital and skill to attempt to prosecute the fisheries with any
     reasonable prospect of success.  Thus though surrounded by the
     sea and its hidden resources of wealth, we can scarcely be said to
     have fishing.  That large shoals of herrings and other fish annu-
     ally visit this coast, and ling and cod may be found in the proper
     season in abundance around it, which might be turned to prdfit-
     able account, can hardly admit of a doubt.  Under this impres-
     sion, a few patriotic individuals attempted to form liberal subscrip-
     tions, in order fairly to try, whether this might not be nisde avail-
     able for the benefit of the country; but the limited number wil-
     ling to make the experiment, and the smallness of the sum as yet
     subscribed, render the result doubtful.


