
                 PARISH OF CAMPSIE.

    PRESBYTERY OF GLASGOW, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.

               THE REV. ROBERT LEE, MINISTER.

                     ________________


             I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.--WHETHER the word Campsie signifies in Gaelic a
crooked strath, as Mr Lapslie asserts, or, whether as Dr M'Leod
thinks, it means a church in the bosom of a hill, must be left to
the judgment of those who are skilled in Celtic etymologies. The
former definition is certainly descriptive of the parish; and as the
name was given to it before any church appears to have existed,
it is perhaps the more probable of the two.
   Extent and Boundaries.--Previous to the year 1649, Campsie
extended 11 miles from east to west, from the Garrel Glen to
Craig Maddie Muir. The southern bounder was the River Kel-
vin, flowing westward through a morass impassable in winter;
and the western limit was a line running across the country from
that lofty hill in the north-western extremity of the parish, called
the Earl's Seat, to Cadder House. The northern boundary ex-
tended, as it still does, from the Earl's Seat, nearly due east, about
three miles; after which, it follows the course of the Carron Water.
The greater part of the Campsie Fells is thus included within
this parish, though the Mickle Bin, the highest of the range, is
not.  Campsie was thus, in former times, a district very much
isolated, and the people in consequence are said to have been
distinguished by many peculiarities. What these were, I have
not been able to learn distinctly.-- They were probably old cus-
toms, which retained their bold longer here than in places less
secluded from the world.
   In 1649, the parish was reduced to its present dimensions by
the annexation of its eastern extremity to Kilsyth, and of its
southern extremity to Baldernock, then first erected into a sepa-
rate parish. The length of Campsie is about 7 miles, and its
breadth about 6. It is bounded by the parish of Fintry on the


