
     of Dudingston.

of March the whole seams of coal were overflowed and choak-
ed from the communication of the level with the higher
grounds.  Before this period another engine of greater power,
and upon a new construction*, had been erected near the
southern boundary of the parish to work the coal of Brun-
stane which lies beyond its limits.  The shaft of this engine
pit reaches to the depth of 60 fathoms, and intersects three
seams of coal, the first 7 feet thick, the next 9, and the last
15.  The other materials through which it descends, are
chiefly very deep strata of a coarse red free-stone, some of
clay, and nearest to the coal a kind of pyrites schist, which
the workmen call bands of bleas.  The porous quality of the
free-stone rock, the number of cutters, and above all the
inauspicious communication of the fatal level, admit such an
influx of water, as has all along rendered this undertaking
singularly laborious and expensive, and at last reduced it to a
very languishing condition.  The number of coalliers, bear-
ers, and other workmen employed at the coalliery before
1790, used to be about 270.  The number is now great-
ly reduced.  If the working of the Dudingston coal should
ever be revived, it will require the aid of two steam engines
of very great power to carry it on with any success.  If
both these coallieries should be finally abandoned, though
there be still much coal not yet exhausted in the neighbour-

     VOL. XVIII. 3 A

<FOOTNOTE>

*The boilers are of a square form, instead of the usual spherical shape,
which has been supposed to be best calculated to resist the pressure of the at-
mosphere without, and of the steam within, to expose a more extensive sur-
face for the production of steam and the generation of heat.  The cylinder
is 66 inches in diameter, 9 feet the stroke in the cylinder, and 7 in the pumps;
the beam 12 feet inside, 9 feet 9 inches outside.  The working barrel 16
inches diameter.  Ten strokes are made in the minute, and each stroke deli-
vers 60 gallons of water.


