
                           EDROM.                            275

the pulpit is over the Blackader burying vault. Robert Blackad-
er, first Archbishop of Glasgow, whose family derived its surname
from Blackader in Ederham parish, built a vaulted isle to the an-
cient church."-Redpath's Border History, p. 473.
   Part of this ancient vault is still standing. On the south-west
corner of the Blackadder aisle, over which is the gallery already
mentioned, there is a stone with this inscription: "Founded by
Robert Blackader, Archbishop of Glasgow, in the year 1499."  On
the south-east corner of the same aisle, there is a stone with this in-
scription: "Repaired by S. John Home of Blackader, in the year
1696." These two corners are evidently much older than the rest
of the aisle, which probably was built and connected with the church
in the manner already mentioned, when the church was built in
1732, or subsequently.
   "During the minority of James V., the most murderous con-
tests for the lands of Blackader continued between the Blackad-
ers of Blackader, and the Homes, which finally ended in the fa-
vour of the Homes, by violence against right."-Chalmers' Cale-
donia.
   The church may accommodate about 450 persons. A range of
stables has been built on the north side of the church-yard, for
the accommodation of the horses of heritors and tenants during
the time of divine service. It is remarkable that in this church-
yard, as in almost all the churchyards of the neighbourhood, all
the interments are on the south side of the church; and none on
the north side. There seems to have been a prejudice of old
against burying on the north side of a church.
   The old manse and glebe were situated near the church, and
still more near to the mansion-house of Edrom. But the proprie-
tor of Edrom, Mr Breimer, being desirous to have them removed
to a farther distance from his house, effected an excambion in
1760. The present manse was then built, and the repairs since
that time have been trifling. The present glebe is about the same
extent as the old,-namely, ten acres. The exchange was satis-
factory to Mr William Redpath, who was then the minister of
the parish, and it was gone about, so far as I have been able to
learn, in the usual way; but there must have been a mistake; for
the old glebe is of as good land as any in the parish or county,
and one acre of it is worth three acres of the present. The pre-
sent glebe was at the time of the exchange a moor covered with
heath, with a swamp at the lower end; and though it has since


