
                    COUNTY OF RENFREW.                      553

the king in their sermons and prayers, and the people often met
at conventicles.  About the end of the year 1676, a memorable
event befell Renfrewshire in common with the other western dis-
tricts of Scotland, when the Highland Host was let loose among
them to live at free quarter.  Cleland in his poems forcibly de-
scribes the all-devouring rapacity of this famous Celtic Host, so
well represented by the Pandours and Cossacks of more modern
times.  He says,
           They durk our tenants, shame our wives,
           And we're in hazard of our lives;
           They plunder horse, and them they loaden
           With coverings, blankets, sheets, and plaiden,
           With hooden gray, and worsted stuff;
           They sell our tongs for locks of snuff:
           They take our cultors and our soaks,
           And from our doors they pull the locks:
           They leave us neither shools nor spades,
           And takes away our iron in laids:
           They break our ploughs even when they're working;
           We dare not hinder them for durking.
           My lords! they so barass and wrong us;
           There's scarce a pair of shoes among us;
           And for blue bonnets they leave non
           That they can get their clauts upon.
           If any dare refuse to give them,
           They durk them, strips them, and so leaves them.
           They ripe for arms, but all they find,
           Is arms with them, leaves nought behind.
  The Presbyterians, on the other hand, had their poetical foes,
who inveighed with abundant virulence against what they termed
the "Souterkin of Reformation."  In the Bellum Bothwellianum
it is asserted that during the engagement
              Fama refert, stolidƒ captum vertigine coetum
              Sublimem erixisse crucem, de sorte futurƒ
              Non dubium, quae hostes posset suspendere captos.
  Mr Andrew Guild, Colvile, and Meston, were the most promi-
nent of the poets who were hostile to the cause of the Covenant.
Mr Leyden somewhere remarks, that "it must have been a great
satisfaction to a Presbyterian of the old school, to see so much
virulence expressed in such bad language."  In 1682, Mr Andrew
Aitchison was appointed Sheriff of this county, for the express pur-
pose of suppressing the Covenanters; and in the following year
several inhabitants and proprietors of some consequence were pro-
secuted, fined, and brought into great trouble.  About the end
of the seventeenth century, this county was agitated and disgraced
by the celebrated "Impostor of Bargarran," the notorious Christ-
ian Shaw, daughter of John Shaw of Bargarran, who was the di-


