
312                         LANARKSHIRE.

any thing like an endowment. The others are kept by persons at
their own risk.
	Libraries.--There is a good library, instituted in 1809, and con-
taining from 1100 to 1200 volumes. There are also some smaller
libraries, intended chiefly for the young persons attending the Sab-
bath schools.
	Inns, &c.--In the town of Strathaven there are excellentinns, and
the very best accommodation and attendance; at the same time, it is
much to be lamented that so many persons should be licensed to sell
spirituous liquors. The certificate of the clergyman is not essen-
tial, in order to obtain a license; and the authorities have occa-
sionally been less scrupulous than they ought to have been in
granting it. In the town of Stratbaven alone, no fewer than
thirty-five persons are licensed to sell spirituous liquors.
	Charitable and other Institutions.--A savings bank was com-
menced here fully twenty years ago; but, as it did not, meet with
proper encouragement, it was given up. In all probability, this was
owing to the preference given by the people to enter Friendly So-
cieties. There are here five of these; some of them have been in
existence for 100 years. At first, these societies prospered exceed-
ingly, and did much good; afterwards they were not so prosper-
ous; but they are now put on a better footing, and are likely to do
well.
	Poor and Parochial Funds.--The number of persons receiving
parochial aid has for some years past been rather on the increase.
The number on the roll at August 1834 was 98. They were paid
during the year the sum of L. 510; L. 50, besides, were dis-
tributed as occasional aids to about forty poor persons not on the
roll. Our poor's assessment at present is greatly increased in con-
sequence of several of our paupers being in a state of derangement.
One of them is boarded in the Lunatic Asylum of Glasgow; and
some of the others are kept by friends in the parish, at a very high
weekly allowance. The funds necessary for the support of the poor
are made up by the annual interest of mortifications, (amounting
L.800,) which yield at present L. 32 a-year, and compulsory
assessment; the one-half of which assessment is raised from the
heritors, according to the valued rent of their lands; and the other
half from the householders, (including resident heritors,) in pro-
portion to their means and substance. The average annual collec-
tion at the church door is under L. 14.


