
364                        KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

the church were the cloisters, containing a square area of 94 feet.
Still farther south were the lodgings and different offices of the
Monastery, occupying a space of nearly 300 feet square. At the
south end, again, of the western side of these buildings, was a
small projecting erection in the shape of a cross, and very similar
to the church  but inverted--those portions which fronted the east
in the one facing the west in the other.
	There are still some ancient and curious monuments to be
found at Dundrennan. Of these, the most remarkable is the
tomb of Alan Lord of Galloway, sirnamed the Great Constable
of Scotland, who was buried within the walls of the Abbey in the
year 1233. His mutilated figure is rudely represented in alto
relievo, cross-legged, and in mail armour, with a buff coat above;
a belt across the shoulder, and another round the waist. In the
neighbourhood this figure is generally known by the name of
The Belted Knight. There is also a tombstone bearing the
figure of an Abbot in his canonicals, in tolerable preservation ;
but the inscription upon it is so much decayed as to be ille-
gible.
	Although the Abbey of Dundrennan was indisputably annexed
to the Crown in 1621, it was long matter of doubt whether it had
not been included in some of the later Crown charters under
which the lands and barony of Dundrennan have been long held
by the family to which they now belong. This point, however,
was set at rest by the late Mr Maitland of Dundrennan, who
some years ago presented a memorial to the Commissioners of
Woods and Forests, representing strongly the constant dilapida-
tion to which the ruins were exposed, and proposing to abandon
all right of property in the Abbey, provided it should be placed
under the permanent management and protection of the Crown.
After due consideration, this proposition was acceded to ; and
Mr Nixon, the Master of Works for the Board in Scotland, war,
authorized and directed to examine and report upon the state of
the ruins. The result of this inquiry has been an extensive re-
paration of the Abbey, and the enclosure of the building, alone,
with the contiguous burying-ground, within a high stone wall.
The accumulated debris of the ruins has been entirely removed,
the pavement and precincts of the Abbey restored to their ori-
ginal level, and the ancient monuments and many curious frag-
ments of the building cleared and most tastefully disposed--the


