
                           LINTON.                      155

The rent of a few farms is paid in part according to the fiars,-
which mode of payment is deemed the most equitable. The ac-
commodations granted to the tenant, both as regards building and
enclosing, are generally of the best description.
   Draining, though practised to a great extent, is still very im-
perfectly carried on, and presents a large field for exertion, and for
the application of capital. One field only, extending to 20 acres,
has been irrigated. The experiment, however, was successful,
and afforded abundant compensation for the labour and expense.
Considerable embankments have been made on Kale Water, and
on a small stream called the Lake, whose course at one period ap-
pears to have been deepened for the purpose of emptying the
stagnant waters of a lake or morass in its vicinity, of which there
are still some remains. These embankments have proved very
beneficial.
   Produce.-The average gross amount and value of raw produce
yearly raised in the parish, as nearly as can be ascertained, is as
follows:

<TABLE>

 830 bolls of wheat, imperial measure,                           L. 1452  10  10
3560  do.     barley,                                               3204   0   0
5700  do.     oats,                                                 3657  10   0
 758 acres turnips,                                                 3032   0   0
  32 potatoes,                                                       320   0   0
230 cultivated hay,                                                  805   0   0
Land in pasture, rating it at L. 3 per cow or full-grown ox, and at 10s.
 per ewe or full-grown sheep,                                       1904   0   0

                                                               L. 14,375  0  10
                          V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Kelso, which is six miles distant, is the nearest market-town.
The farmers occasionally frequent also the market of Jedburgh,
which is at least eight miles distant. They deal extensively with
the corn-merchants of Berwick, with whom they bargain to con-
vey thither the grain that has been purchased, and they usually
return home with a load of coal or lime from Northumberland;
hence the advantages which they would reap from the execution of
the long projected rail-road between Kelso and Berwick. They
generally drive their stock and fat cattle to the markets of Edin-
burgh and Morpeth, but principally to that of the latter place.
They are almost equidistant from both.
   Means of Communication.-Kelso is also the nearest post-town;
-with which, exclusively of the market-day, there is a regular
communication twice in the week. Most of the roads are good,
and kept in good repair. The fences are in general good, and
chiefly consist of hedge-rows of thorn, interspersed with trees.


