
240                           BANFFSHIRE.

erected, in 1834, at Ord, in the extreme west end of Banff parish,
a chapel, intended, partly, for the accommodation of the remote
parishioners of Boindie, in which a minister has been ordained,
enjoying an allowance of L.20 per annum from the Royal Bounty.
   The whole adult population, with more or less regularity, at-
tend the Established Church, except, attending the chapel of
Dissenters of different denominations, 35; Methodists, 20; Epis-
copalians, 12; Roman Catholics, 2; comprehending in all, 69
individuals, and about 20 families.
   Divine service is generally well attended, except by the farm-
servants, and a certain number of families of the lower classes,
chiefly in the village, sunk in poverty and its attendant evils. We
certainly are strangers to the nearly uniform decency with which
some parochial communities are blessed, whilst, at the same time,
we are not without some development of spiritual good. Two
facts may be stated, well fitted to illustrate the state of society
thus described. During the writer's incumbency there have been
resident in the parish eight women, all except one having fami-
lies, deserted by their husbands. On the other band, there are,
in the village of Whitebills, from twenty to thirty men, who can
conceive and utter an extempore prayer with no less. fluency, and
with little less propriety, than most educated ministers, and of
whom it may be testified, without claiming for them graces in pro-
portion to their gifts, that, on the whole, their conduct is not in-
consistent with their profession. There are several meetings for
prayer and mutual instruction, of which the writer can speak,
among the members of the Established Church; and he believes
they have been the means of advancing true religion in some de-
gree in the parish.
   The average number of communicants is about 400, besides a
proportionate number in the population attached to the Ord Chapel.
   There is a parochial association for religious purposes, partly
subordinatd to a presbyterial association extending over the district.
The funds are collected quarterly. A moiety of tbem, not ex-
ceeding one-half, are applicable to, religious objects within the pa-
risb, as providing books for the Sabbath schools, educating poor
cbildren, providing Bibles for the poor. The remainder is des-
tined to be applied for the support of the Bible Society, and such
of the General Assembly's schemes for propagating the Gospel
it home and abroad, as the contributors may select.  There has
been collected, during the three years of its existence, on an ave-


