
402                        ABERDEENSHIRE.

the lease expires, whether or not they will renew it.  This is of more
consequence to the tenants than the proprietors are aware of.
   Practical farmers agree that the average crop of the whole pa-
rish does not exceed three and a half quarters per acre of oats and
barley.  Wheat husbandry does not suit the climate.  As near as
can be ascertained, the quantity of ground planted with potatoes
in this parish is 120 acres.  The crop is supposed to average twen-
ty bolls of 5 cwt. per acre; perhaps from 1000 to 1200 bolls are
annually exported to Yorkshire for seed.  Reds are principally
planted.  Kidneys have gone into disuse.
   Manufactures.-The only article manufactured in the parish is
kelp ; which, however, of late years, has been little attended to.  A
little is still made on the property of Sir John S. Forbes, more for
the purpose of giving people employment than for realizing a profit.
Twentv or thirty years ago, it was an article of considerable im-
portance, giving employment to upwards of seventy people.  The
quantity made in 1838 was only twenty tons.  Twenty or thirty
years ago, the quantity made was generally about 140 tons.
When the duty was taken off Spanish barilla, a severe blow was in-
flicted upon the labouring classes throughout Scotland, engaged
in the kelp manufacture.
   Machinery is superseding manual labour, wherever it can be
introduced with propriety.  Fourteen thrashing-mills are now in
this parish; six are propelled by water; seven by horses; and one
by wind.  A sowing machine has also been tried this season, and
much approved of.
   Fisheries.-This parish has two good fishing stations, viz. Rose-
hearty, which has a very good harbour for vessels not exceeding
70 tons burden; and Pittulie.  At Rosehearty a considerable her-
ring fishery is carried on, commencing about the middle of July,
and ending about the first of September.  In 1838, forty boats
here prosecuted the herring-fishing with success equal to that
of any other place in the Moray Frith; each boat manned with five
men or four men and a boy, and seven vessels were constantly
employed attending the fishing.  Three vessels belong to this
port.  The fish caught at Rosehearty and Pittulie are cod, ling, had-
docks, skate, and small black fish, commonly called cole, saith, and
poddlies.  The surplus is generally exported to London, Edinburgh,
and Glasgow.  Several of the Rosehearty herring-boats set out
about the first of March, to prosecute the cod and ling fishing off
the Island of Tyree : they carry the produce of their fishing to


