
                              KIRKCOLM.                      113

Pointing the joints carefully with mortar, and coating them with
unboiled linseed oil, over which clean sharp sand, carefully screen-
ed and dried, and in some instances, even used in a moderately hot
state, was immediately cast, proved to be a perfect remedy.  Since
this was done, about fourteen years ago, the walls, which before were
so moist as to threaten the rotting of the lath, were rendered com-
pletely tight.
     The light-room consists of a frame of 16 sashes, and measures
about 7 feet in height, and 12 feet in diameter.  It is glazed with
polished plate glass, in squares measuring about 27 inches each,
and of the thickness of a quarter of an inch; and is covered with
a dome-shaped roof, consisting of an outer and innner shell Of
strong copper, with a space of an inch and a half left between them, to prevent condensation in the interior of the roof.  With-
out such precaution, the reflectors are apt to be destroyed by the
dropping of the water from the roof, especially before the light-
room has been heated by the lamps.  The light is from sperma-
ceti oil, with argand burners placed in the focus of 12 parabolic
reflectors of silvered copper.  So powerful is the effect of these
reflectors, that they require to be screened during the day from
the sun's rays, to prevent the ignition of the lamps.  The fittings of
the reflecting apparatus and light-room generally, together with
the arrangements of this establishment, are very complete.  The
compact and neat state of the machinery and its brass case, and
the very simple and complete manner in which the burners are
withdrawn from the reflectors for the purpose of cleaning them,
are particularly worthy of notice.  The light-room is kept remark-ably clean, and not a drop of oil is to be seen on the floor, while
the roof is entirely free from the effects of condensed water or
smoke.  To distinguish Corswall light from other lights on the
coast, the reflectors here are fitted upon an upright shaft and a
frame or chandelier, constructed with four faces, which are made
to revolve by a train of machinery.  On two of the opposite faces
of this frame, the light is of the natural appearance, but on the
other two sides, shades of red glass are placed before the reflec-
tors.  The revolution of this apparatus "exhibits a light resem-
bling a star of the first magnitude, and one of a brilliant red colour,
alternately.  Each light appears in its brightest state at intervals
of every two minutes, and gradually becoming less luminous, is
eclipsed." * This characteristic effect, produced by the alternate

<FOOTNOTE>British Pharos, p. 67

WIGTON.                                   H


