
                             SCONE.                         1043

       Ale-houses.-Forty years ago, there were 41 housds where spi-
       rits, &c. were retailed.  In 1831, there were 22, and at present
       there are 16.  The evils in connection with such houses have
       been incalculable.

       February 1843.


                             PARISH OF SCONE.

             PRESBYTERY OF PERTH, SYNOD OF PERTH AND STIRLING.

                     THE REV.  JAMES CRAIK, MINISTER,


                    I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
            Name.-THE common name, for a long period, given to this,
         parish is Scone, sometimes written and generally pronounced
         Scoon. Its vulgar pronunciation, Sein, or Skuyn, is frequently
         heard among the older inhabitants, It receives from Slezer, in
         his Theatrum Scotiae, the names both of Scoon and Skuyn.
           Scone, it is well known, became distinguished very early in
         Scottish history. It was probably a royal residence even before
         the subversion of the Pictish monarchy.  Analogy would there-
         fore, lead us to look for its name in the old British language.
         The situation of the old castle, and the grounds adjoining it, to
         which alone, properly speaking, the name of Scone applies, tend
         to confirm this conjecture.  It is a gentle ascent, which, gradually
         rising from the Tay, extends into the interinr of the parish with
         little interruption for a mile or two, when it attains an elevation
         of some hundred feet. In strict accordance with this topogra-
         phical fact, we find that, in the Welsh language, ysgwn, or ysgyn,
         (pronounced iscoon, or isocin,) signifies "a rising," "an ascending."
         "a rising or ascending ground."  This seems the most probable
         etymology of the term Scone, or Scin, as vulgarly pronounced.
           The common derivation of Scone, from the, Gaelic sgain or
         skin, "a rent or chasm," seems altogether inadmissible as it would
         here be perfectly unmeaning.  There is no chasm in the neighbour-
         hood to which such a term could apply.
           Extent, &c.-The superficial extent of the parish may be some-




