
                        CRAIGNISH.                          49

   Springs, Lakes, &c.--There are numerous perennial springs in
the parish, some of which, on the east coast, gush out of the solid
rock.
   There are no fewer than twelve lakes.  These are occasioned
by the numerous inequalities that diversify the surface of the pa-
rish.  There are many rivulets, but only one stream which merits
the name of river.  It divides the upper part of the parish on the
east from Kilmartin.  It takes its rise from a small lake at the
north-eastern extremity, and, receiving numberless tributary
streamlets, it flows, with a gradtial declivity, and somewhat tor-
tuous course, to the head of Loch Craignish.  It is called Amhain
mhor, or the large river, to denote its relative magnitude, for
in reality it is of inconsiderable size.
   Geology.--The geological structure of the peninsular part of
the parish is schistose, the predominant rock being clay-slate, in
many parts sandy, and merging in some places into a very bard
compact bastard sandstone.  The direction of the strata is about
south-west, or nearly the same as that of the peninsula,-occasion-
ally, however, more to the eastward.  The dip is towards the
south-east.
   The slaty strata are in many places shifted by two sets of trap
rocks.  The first of these sets, consisting of a sort of claystone
porphyry, of which the matrix is sandy, with crystals of felspar and
black mica; and, secondly, of common whin or greenstone, which
is found at the highest parts of the bills, in the middle of the pe-
ninsula, and occasionally elsewhere, appearing between parallel
strata of slate, and increasing the angle of dip of the superincum-
bent strata.  The second set of trap rocks is interesting, being
most distinct specimens of basalt and whin dikes. These are at
right angles to the slaty strata, traversing not only thd peninsula
in all its breadth, but the opposite islets in Loch Craignish, and
appearing on its eastern shore.  These dikes are so unbroken,
distinct, and elevated, by the decay of the softer rock, as to form
the boundaries of adjacent farms ; and, on the western side,
where the slaty rocks are exposed to the ravages of the weather
and a tempestuous sea, huge isolated walls of greenstone and ba-
salt, of the height of 100 feet, are seen standing erect amid the
ruins of the softer rocks, and extending from the cliffs across the
narrow intervening strip of flat to the sea.
   The islets belonging to the parish are of a schistose structure.
There is limestone in Reisa-an-tsruth.  Limestone also occurs in
   ARGYLE.                                          D


