812      			AYRSHIRE.

generally a thin clay, not fertile or productive, especially where
the surface water has not been removed by tile-draining, though
nearly the whole is under the plough, except what is occupied by
plantations of forest trees. A better description of clay land is
found on the slopes towards the river Garnock; and along its mar-
gin are some good loamy fields. From the town of Kilwinning
towards the sea, there is a portion of light sandy soil, well culti-
vated and fertile. To the eastward, near Auchentiber, there re-
main probably sixty or seventy acres of a peat-bog, which was for-
merly much more extensive, a considerable part of it having been
reclaimed and improved in the course of the prerent century.
	Climate.--The climate of this parish, like that of the west of
Scotland in general, though mild, is moist and variable. Amongst
the endemic diseases engendered by it, the most prevalent is rheu-
matism, in all its forms. The peasantry who labour during the
winter months at tile-draining, and other field work, often suffer
from it severely, as well as aged and poor people in the town. Con-
sumption is not unfrequent. In the town of Kilwinning, fever,
typhus mitior, very often occurs, and is more endemical than in
the neighbouring towns. Epidemical diseases, which are not more
common than in other places, are generally very mild, and easily
yield to medical treatment. In 200 cases of scarlet fever, attend-
ed by one practitioner during the year 1837, only five deaths oc-
curred. On the whole, the inhabitants of the parish enjoy an or-
dinary length of days, and share of good health.
	Hydrography.--The most considerable stream in this parish
is the Garnock. It rises in the hills above Kilbirnie, about twelve
miles from the town of Kilwinning, which it intersects, and, after
a remarkably circuitous and serpentine course through the low
lands to the west, falls into the sea at the same point with the river
Irvine. The Lugton, a small stream flows out of Loch Libo, in
Renfrewshire, enters this parish near its eastern extremity, and,
after passing through the woods of Mountgreenan and Eglinton,
falls into the Garnock, about two miles from the sea. The Caaf
water, also a tributary of the Garnock, forms part of the boundary
line, for a short distance, betwixt this parish and Dalry. At
Craighead mill, it falls over a rock of considerable height, and
forms a pretty little linn or cascade in a narrow wooded dell.
There is a sheet of water, about a mile and a-half to the north-
west of Kilwinning town, called Ashenyard, or Ashgrove Loch.
It is not of great extent, and part of it is included in Stevenston.


