
     Statistical Account

to 1 L. 10 s.; women from 18 s. to 1 L. 1 s.*  Masons wages
are 1 s. 8 d. per day; wrights, 1 s. 3 d.; tailors, 8 d.; a thatch-
er gets 1 s. 6 d. a-day, a labourer 1 s., and a thresher 8 d. with
their victuals, or 7 d. per boll.  The prices of provisions are
nearly the same as in Perth; but there are rather too many
ale-houses in the parish, there being no fewer than 11, when
3 or 4 might suffice.

   Rivers, Fish, Island, Mills, etc.-The Tay, which washes
part of the northern boundary, is navigable; it affords many
salmon and sea-trout.  The proprietor of Carpow has fishings
upon it, which yield him 100 L. per annum.  In the middle
of this river, opposite to Mugdrum, (which is in the parish of
Newburgh), is an island (called Mugdrum Island) belonging
to this parish.  It is nearly 1 English mile in length; its
breadth varies, but its greatest is 198 yards 1 foot.  It mea-
sures 31 acres, of which 21 are embanked under cultivation,
and produce luxuriant crops; the remaining part is esteemed
valuable as a salt marsh for pasture.  There is a house upon it,
in which the tenant resides with his family; it rents about
68 L. Sterling.  Mr. Hay of Leys, the proprietor, has fishings
in the river that rent at about 200 L. yearly.-The Earn,
which bounds the northern part of the parish, (till it falls into
the Tay, a little below the mansion-house of Carpow), is na-
vigable for several miles, which has been of late years the

<FOOTNOTE>

*About 6 years ago, the best ploughman could have been hired at 4 L. or 4 L.
10 s. Sterling, and women at 2 L. for the year.  Harvest-men at 1 L. and women at
15 s. Farmers loudly complain of the sudden and great rise of wages.  Cottages
are not encouraged; they are even demolished.  By this impolitic measure many
of the lower class of people are forced into towns, and their children trained
to other occupations.  Thus the country is deprived of the best nursery for able
and healthy servants, servants trained from their infancy to sobriety and indus-
try, to skill and practice in the peculiar labours of agriculture.


