
450                      INVERNESS-SHIRE.

been occasioned by the same catastrophe, and at the same time.
From the great length and straightness of the oaks and firs, it is
evident that the forests must have been very dense, and the westerly
winds not so prevalent and strong as at present; for were, it
possible for an oak to grow now on these grounds, it must be at
an angle of 45&deg;, so much changed is the climate and constitution.
There have been several coins found along the banks of the Nairn,
probably dropped by the Royal troops on their march to Culloden,
and of the reigns of James I. and Charles.
   Druidical Circles.-About four miles south of the church is
Clava, in Gaelic Claxalag, remarkable for its many Druidical circles
and cairns. The place is the most dreary and bleak the imagination
can conceive-dark stinted heath, without any other vegetation
whatever. These circles vary frorn 140 to 12 yards in circumference,
and many appear not finished; five of them are of very
considerable size.
   Four of them have been diverted from their original design and
converted into cairns of remembrance of either good or evil. Mrs
General Campbell, Kilravock Castle, lately caused one of tbem to
be cleared of the stones, following a passage from the second circle
to the centre, where a circular convex chamber, 12 feet in diameter,
and about 10 feet in height, was discovered. There was no
cement used in building, and the materials were of the very rudest
description. In the centre of this singular building, and a few
inches from the surface, there was found a vase bedded in blue
clay, containing ashes and calcined bones. *
   With regard to the period when these circles were formed, or
how long they were resorted as to places of devotion or administration
of justice, it is now vain to inquire. One thing is certain, that
they were formed ages prior to the cairns, and converted into cairns
when the original cause of their erection passed away. It may be
that these cairns were raised to the memory of a Druid consigned to
a revered circle. This is more rational than to suppose that they were
raised to perpetuate the infamy of criminals. In the present acceptation
of the word, they are expressive of respect and affection for
a departed friend, as cuividh mi clach ad charn, though it is granted
that some Druidical expressions still lingering among us, counte-

<FOOTNOTE>The following fact is remarkable; in the ensuing spring, young shoots of
rasps grew up luxuriantly on the very spot from which the urn was dug, so that the
seeds or roots of the rasps must have lain in the ground beyond the action of the sun
and atmosphere for probably 2000 years.
				     3

