
308                      RENFREWSHIRE.

"Pro salute animæ sue."  The orthography of the name, in this
chartulary, leads to the conclusion, that Neilston took its origin
from a person called " Neil," its first inhabitant; and the termi-
nation " tun"-now pronounced town-denoting the dwelling of
the proprietor,-naturally enough gave to his place the name of
" Neil'stun," or " Neilstoun-the town of Neill.
  Situation, Extent, &c.-Neilston lies in Latitude 55&deg; 47' 15"
north; and in Longitude 4 21' 35" west.  Its form is that of a
wedge or dovetail expanded, its narrowest part being to the
east, and its broadest to the south and south-west.  Its length,
by measurement is, 81/2 miles, and its breadth 41/2 fully ; it con-
t`ins 36 square miles, or 24,320 imperial acres.  There is
nothing in which those who have written about this parish dif-
fer more than in its length and breadth.  Some make it 9 miles
long from east to west; and three miles broad on an average.
Others make it 7 miles from S. E. to N. W. and nearly half
as much in breadth, in a cross direction.  Some make it to
contain 13,570 Scotch acres; others only 12,500 English acres.
One copies the errors of another, and makes it " 7 and 8 miles in
length; and, across, its averages, about 31/2 miles; containing
19.56 square miles, or 12,500 acres;"-whilst others make it 1O1/2
in length, and 51/4 in breadth.
  All these computations seem to be mere guesses.  The last of
them does not refer to Neilston, as it now is, but as it was in an-
sent times.  In this view, the last measurement, 101/2 x 51/4, is
nearly correct.  Neilston proper, in olden times, included the
baronies of Knockmade and Shutterflat, which, though now dis-
joined from Nellston, and annexed to Beith and Dunlop parishes,
in Ayrshire, are, nevertheless, still in Renfrewshire, and pay into
that county all their public burdens of cess, &c.  Though dis-
joined from Neilston, their civilia still belong to it, being a dis-
junction " quoad sacra tantum."  From the eastern extremity of
the parish, at Robert Young's of Parkhouse, to the Bridge of
Coldstream, or Shutterflat, which separates the old parish from
that of Beith, the distance, by measurement, is 1O1/2 miles fully;
and taking its average breadth from the Long Loch to Cawpla'-
Dam, it will be fully 5 miles.  But the accurate length and
breadth of Neilston, as it is at present,'is that noted above.
  Boundaries,-On the east, Neilston is bounded by Eastwood
parish; on the south by Mearns; on the S. W. by Stewarton and


