
                          PARISH OF ANCRUM.

         PRESBYTERY OF JEDBURGH, SYNOD OF MERSE AND TEVIOTDALE.

                   THE REV.  JOHN PATON,, MINISTER.

          I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
  Name and Boundaries.--THIS parish was originally named Alne-
crumb, from Alne, the ancient name of the river, and Crumb, a
crook or bend, than which there could have been no name more
descriptive of the situation of the village of Ancrum, which is
placed on a rising ground on the south side of the Water of Ale,
where the river takes a peculiar bend, and runs in a circuitous direc-
tion, till it discharges itself into the Teviot, about half a mile below.
The parish is about six miles long and four broad, and is bound-
ed on the south by the river Teviot, which divides it from the pa-
rishes of Jedburgh and Bedrule; on the east by Crailing and Rox-
burgh; on the north by Maxton and St Boswell's; and on the west
by Minto and Lillhesleaf.
     Topographical Appearances, Hydrography, Soil, &c.--The
lower part of this parish is beautifully diversified, presenting every
variety of irregular surface; and though it contains no bills, pro-
perly so called, it rises in some places into eminences of consider-
able height.  On the Water of Ale especially, which is here and
there o'erhung by steep and rugged rocks, partly of naked rock,
and partly clothed in wood, there meets the eye a succession of
scenery in the highest degree romantic and picturesque.  Towards
the upper extremity, however, the appearance of the parish be-
comes less interesting, from the general flatness of the ground,
and the absence of any thing in the landscape peculiarly striking.
The only rivers are the two already mentioned,--the Teviot and
the Ale,--the former being the southern boundary of the parish,
and the latter intersecting it from west to east; and both of these
streams, in addition to their acknowledged beauty, have been long
celebrated as affording abundant sport for the angler.
The soil of this parish is extremely variable, including every
variety, from the most barren to the most productive.  Its average


