
     Of Cargill.

which is among the highest in the range of the Sidla hills.
Both hills are mostly covered with heath, but afford tole-
rable pasture for cattle.

   Minerals.-There is no marble nor slate here; but se-
veral quarries of freestone of an excellent quality, and good
colour, have been wrought to a considerable extent.  Lime-
stone also is to be found, and might, it is said, be wrought
to great advantage.  Those who have tried it assert, that
after counting all expenses of quarrying and burning the
stones, they have the lime much cheaper than what it
costs them at Perth.  It is a pity that a proper experiment
was not made to ascertain this, because even on the sup-
position of its being as dear, yet the saving of such a
long carriage would be an astonishing advantage to the
country at large, and to the proprietors of the limestone
in particular.  Rock marl, of a reddish colour, is found
here in great abundance.  Little use has hitherto been
made of it as a manure; but it is thought that it would
be of service to the light moorish grounds in the upper
part of the parish*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*About 30 years ago, an ineffectural search was made after coals near
the village of Whitefield in this parish.  The trial however, by all ac-
counts, was not carried on with that ardour, nor continued with that
perseverance as to be deemed satisfactory.  The expense of it was de-
srayed by public contribution, and when the money failed, the search
was abruptly given over, leaving as strong an impression on the minds of
the people in the country, that there are still coals there, as before the
trial was made.  As people skilled in these matters allow that this place
has every appearance of having coal, it is to be hoped that a public spi-
rited Company, who are offering terms to the proprietors here for a lease
of their mines and minerals, in order to make a thorough search for coals,
will succeed in their endeavours to discover an article to very clear, and
so much wanted in this part of the country.


