
     Statistical Account

tempt of the popish troops, under the French general D'Oysel,
to reduce St. Andrews and seize the chief leaders of the re-.
formation, was defeated; and by him and his brother Alex.
ander, at the head of their fellow citizens, one of the princi.
pal attacks against the town of Perth was carried on, and the
popish garrison dislodged.  He was provost of Dundee for 33
years.  From gratitude and respect to his memory, his fune-
rals were defrayed at the public expence; and, what was then
reckoned a mark of peculiar honour, his grave was lined on
the tides with mason-work, and arched over, and a monument
erected to his memory.  Dundee has also produced some per-
ions of considerable eminence for science.  It is believed, that
JOHN MAR, the mutual friend of the great Baron Napier, in-
ventor of Logarithms, and of Mr. Edward Briggs, and who
brought about, and was present on their first interview at Mer-
chiston, was one of its native citizens, He appears to have
been distinguished by James VI. before his succession to the
English crown, and to have gone up with him to England in
the royal household.  To another citizen, JAMES MAR, pro-
bably grandson of the former, we owe a chart and soundings
of the whole north sea, so accurate, that, though laid down
about the beginning of the present century, it has hisherto re-
ceived few improvements of importance.  By him, in parti-
cular, the bank, which bears his name, was discovered and deli-
neated; and his native town is peculiarly indebted to him for
his accurate draught and soundings of the enterance into lay,
and the whole passage up the river.  The family of these
eminent persons still subsists.  In other branches of literature,
we count the well known HECTOR BOECE the historian, who
was Principal of the King's College in Aberdeen, and one of
the chief restorers of learning in his time; and, in the literas
humaniores, Dr. KINLOCH, physician to JAMES VI Mr. GLEG,
rector of the grammar school, and Mr. GOLDMAN, merchant.


