
26				BANFFSHIRE.

  The most extraordinary part of the transaction is, that the guilt
or innocence of the " three young rogues" seems to have been
thought a matter not worth inquiring about. There is no appear-
ance whatever of their having been named in the indictment, or
produced in court, or of any endeavour to identify them or charge
them with a crime.  The mere fact of their being in prison, the
good Sheriff seems to have thought " relevant to infer the pains
of law." Very possibly, however, the " young rogues " may have
got substantial, though not formal, justice.
  The two Browns were sentenced, on the 21st February follow-
ing, to be hanged on the 2d April. It appears, however, that
M'Pherson alone of the four was executed.  Probably Gordon was
pardoned.  The Browns are thought to have escaped. M'Pher-
son performed at the foot of the gallows, the "Rant" and Pibroch
of his own composition, and then made offer of his violin to any
one who would receive it as a remembrance of him. The gift
being declined, he broke the violin, and threw the fragments into
the grave prepared for his body.
  The story of M'Pherson's being executed before the time spe-
cified in the sentence, in order to prevent his being benefited by an
expected reprieve, is discedited.
  Antiquities.-The parish is almost wholly destitute of any re-
mains of antiquity.  Two cells of the Carmelite monastery (men-
tioned as existing at the time of the last Statistical Account) have
for several years been removed, and given place to modern houses.
Not far from the site of these, a small vaulted chamber, supposed
to have been a sleeping cell, now affords accommodation to the
boiler of a steam-engine employed at the foundery. Some arches,
apparently parts of similar cells, yet exist behind the inn called the
Royal Oak; and persons alive till a late period remembered of
there having been a continuous line of such cells between the two
points now indicated. This range of cells seems to have terminat-
ed the buildings of the monastery to the east, unless that an hos-
pital, of which there is a tradition as existing about the site of the

<FOOTNOTE> Very little tradition of M'Pherson remains in this the scene of his death. Se-
veral of the above particulars I owe to a notice in the New Monthly Magazine, Vol.
i., and a note to "M'Pherson's Lament" in the Ettrick Shepherd's edition of Burns.
One very old man informs me of being told by his grandfather, who was one of the
guards at M'Pherson's execution, that the verses commonly circulated as spoken by
M'Pherson, on that occasion were really those uttered by him. A few of them that
were repeated by my informant, corresponded most (if I rightly recollect) with the
first set given by the Ettrick Shepherd. -The execution took place on the Gallowhill.


