
             ANSTRUTHER WESTER.                            625

larly to Edinburgh and to all the nel ghbo uring towns of any con
sequence in Fife, such as Cupar, St Andrews. In summer there
is much communication carried on by steam-boats. Those to and
from Dundee, Aberdeen, and Montrose, pass and repass daily to
Newhaven, so that a journey, which, less than thirty years ago, oc-
cupied a whole day, or sometimes two or three, and could only be
accomplished at a great expense, is now performed in two hours
and a half, and for a very trifling sum.
 The fences are commonly dry stone dikes, or, as they are called,
Galloway dikes. In some places, we find hedges; but no great
attention seems to be paid to either.
 Ecclesiastical State.-The church is very conveniently situated
for the greater ptrt of the population, being built in the burgh,
where the bulk of the people reside. It may be nearly two
miles from the north-west corner of the parish, but there is no in-
habited house so remote as that. There does not appear to be any
record as to the period when it was built; but, from the style of its
architecture, it must have existed a considerable time previous to
the Reformation. It was new roofed in 1761, and has been fre-
quently repaired at considerable expense by the heritom At pre-
sent, it is in tolerable order. From its situation almost on the am
shore, and on the bank of the Dreel, it is liable to be dainp and
cold in winter ; a stove, however, has just been erected in it, which
will add much to its comfort. The number of seats is fully beyond
that required by law, and they afford accommodation for all the
parishioners who are able to attend public worship. Part of them
belong to the kirk-session. These are let at sixpence a sitting..
but, even that small 'rent. is,very seldom demanded. The last time
it was so, was during the prevalence of cholera, and the proceeds
were handed over to the Board of Health. Almost all of the'he-.
litors give seats to their tenants and others. , A very conizoodioua-
manse, and what offices were considered necessary, were built fbr.
the late incumbent in 1835. The extent of the grebe is four acre'sj
including fences. It was lately let at L.26 per annum; and, con-
sidering its situation and the rent of the land, around it may still
be worth that sum. There is no grass grebe, nor any, allowance
in lieu of it. The late incumbent, conceiving that he had a right
to one, was at a very considorable expense in endeavouring to esta-
blish his claim; but failed before the Court of Session. All along,
however, he had the impression that his cause was just, and that, if

Fife.                            R r


