
		               MORVERN.                         193

nicated orally, and, notwithstanding the exertions of the Establish-
ed clergy and other authorized instructors, it is not surprising that
opinions handed down from father to son, among, a people " re-
formed," it may be said, more by influence than by argument,
should be tinged by many errors.  These errors are now gradual-
ly disappearing, as the pure source of Bible instruction is more
generally resorted to, and its blessings are fully appreciated.  It
is to be lamented, however, that improvement in morals does not
correspond, to the extent that might be expected, with the increase
of knowledge.
   Number of schools in the parish,-parochial schools, 3; other
schools as referred to, 4 ; general expense of education per
month, 1s. 6d. ; number betwixt six and fifteen years who can
neither read nor write, 252; number of persons upwards of fifteen
who can neither read nor write, 339.
   The branches of education usually taught are, English and
Gaelic, reading, writing, arithmetic, and book-keeping.  One of
the teachers is qualified to teach the higher branches.  Sabbath
schools are regularly taught.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of persons
receiving parochial aid amounts to 45, which number has not va-
ried very materially, for a considerable period of time.  It is to be
observed, however, that the circumstances of the poor are now
greatly altered.
   The poor were not formerly supported by a pecuniary provision.
They lived under the protection of the old established families, and
held accommodations and received other act of kindness from
the more comfortable class of tenantry, on whom they had other
claims in addition to those of humanity.  Matters are now chang-
ed.  Farms are joined and thrown into large tenements.  They
are occupied, for the most part, by persons previously unconnected
with the country, and who, however humane and well disposed,
(and generally they are so,) cannot be expected to minister to the
wants of the poor as was formerly done, or to retain on their te-
nements the same number of destitute families.  Consequently,
numbers who, by the former system, were prevented from becom-
ings are now, under the present system, necessitated to become,
paupers.  They congregate in villages, and, when health fails or
employment ceases, they have no alternative but To apply to the
session, while, from the already-mentioned and other causes, such
as the non-residence of proprietors, and the removal of the te-
 ARGYLE.                                          N


