
                       FALKIRK.  	                  31

of poor children. The munificence of the family also enables
the teachers to distribute prizes for the encouragement of me-
rit. English reading, grammar, Latin, French, writing, arithme-
tic, book-keeping, geography, and practical mathematics, are the
branches taught in the boy's school. The average number of pu-
pils is seventy. The fees vary from 4s. to 6s. per quarter. Eng-
lish, reading, knitting and sewing are taught in the female school;
the average attendance at which is 36. Fees from 3s. to 5s.
Both of these schools undergo examination by the presbytery of
the bounds.
   Besides those two, which are endowed, there are other three at
present in the town, at which the ordinary branches of education
are taught. One of these is intended chiefly for females. The
charges in each are from 3s. to 4s. per quarters The average
number of children who enjoy the benefit of education is 206.
The general evil of early attendance and early withdrawal from
school is much felt here. They enter at four and a-half years, and
withdraw at ten; thus entering before they are capable of profit-
ing, and leaving when they begin to enjoy the benefit of instruc-
tion.
   There is a library in the town supported by subscription. A
public reading-room has also been in existence for many years.
The town is lighted with gas. There are an Auxiliary Bible So.
clety, a Temperance Society, and a Female Missionary Society,
all in active operation.
   Means of Communication.-There are several post-offices,in the
parish, a principal one being in Falkirk, and another in Grange-
mouth. Camelon,Grahamston, and Laurieston, have each its sub-
office. There are two daily posts to and from Edinburgh, Glas-
gow, &c. and also daily posts to Stirling, Alloa, and other neigh-
bouring towns. Letters are delivered in Falkirk twice a day, and
runners are dispatched to the country parts of the parish every
morning. The inhabitants enjoy great facilities for travelling.
During the summer, passage boats ply on the Union Canal to
Edinburgh, to which there are three different opportunities every
lawful day, and an equal number of night boats on their way be-
twixt Edinburgh and Glasgow. In winter, however, there are
only two day bouts, besides the night ones. To Glasgow by the
Forth and Clyde Canal, boats leave Lock. No. 16, a mile from
Falkirk four times a day. Two coaches pass through the-town


