
     of Little Dunkeld.

are coated over with a mixed heavy mould, pretty deep, and
producing, along with heather, various species of plants af-
fording good pasture; they rise no where so high as to be
destitute of all useful vegetation.  There are frequently deep
falls of snow upon these mountains; yet it is seldom that a
very considerable part of their surface remains covered for
three successive week*.
   As there is not a map of this parish, its extent of surface
cannot be ascertained with precision, but from partial surveys
that have been made, an Mr Stobic's excellent map of the
county, there is sufficient ground for stating it at 31,000
Scotch acres.

   Diseases, Minerals, Wood.-Chronic distempers are not fre-
quent: The most prevalent is the rheumatism, and that chiefly

<UNREADABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

*There is no great peculiarity that distinguishes this from the bordering
highland parishes of Dowally, Logierate and Dull, with respect to air and cli-
mate; they are temperate and falubrious throughout the parish in general.
The two districts along the Tay are free from???og and stagnant waters, and
of consequence, from the humidity of atmosphere produced by these circum-
stances.  Their summers are warm, and vegetation forward; bartey is often
stacked in the barn yard within less than four months from sowing of it in
the field.  A great part of this country is exposed to severe and unseasonable
hour frosts, which prove hurtful to lint, potatoes and other crops, even in
May, but more so in August Great ??? of caterpillars ??? this part of
the parish, and large oak woods, have sometimes been entirely stripped of
their foliage, for several months, by these insects.  Dry easterly winds gene-
rally set in from the the beginning of April, to the end of May; but in other
months, these winds are always attended with rains.
   Strathbran is not so???  as other parts of the parish to???-frosts, but
it is much colder, and vegetation later; bailey and lint find always a timely
harvest, but oats often fail of coming to full maturity.  This is not to be
wondered at, when it is considered that the ???  of the Bran is, at an average,
above 200 feet higher than that of Tay

</UNREADABLE>


