
1000			ABERDEENSHIRE.

several of our public spirited agriculturists have, at tbese exhibitions,
brought forward animals of such bone and symmetry as have entitled
them to receive the promised prizes. There is also to be found a
considerable number of an old breed of small-sized horses, for
which this part of the country was at one time famous, and which
were strong, healthy, and long-lived.
	Sheep.--The parish is not a sheep district. Those in it are
mostly of the Cheviot breed. During the winter, shepherds come
from the Highlands of Aberdeenshire with considerable flocks of
black-faced sheep, and occupy the hilly ground in this and the
adjoining parishes, moving from the one to the other as the wea-
ther and keep may direct.
	As a large proportion of this parish is of a dry and open texture,
it would probably be well if a portion of the turnips were consumed
on the ground by sheep.
	Pigs.--Pigs are reared in considerable numbers, and form an
important article of produce. They are mostly of the small Chi-
nese breed, and are sold to pork-curers in Turriff, and by them
sent to the London market. Last season, Mr Alexander Morrison,
who carries on an extensive general business, cured and exported
pork to the value of upwards of L. 3000 Sterling.
	Wages and Rate of Labour.--The wages of good ploughmen,
who are chiefly unmarried, and live and cat in their master's
house, are, for the winter half year, from L. 5 to L. 6; and during
the summer half year, from L. 6 to L. 7.  Foremen, and those
who are expected to have a certain superintendence over the other
servants, though not exactly holding the situation of grieves
or overseers, realize a little more.  The wages of boys, lads,
and other supernumeraries, range from L. 1, 1Os. to L. 3, 10s.
Women's wages vary according to their character, to which, at the
time of engagement, a much greater regard is paid than to that of
the other sex. Notable female servants, either for domestic
or out-door work, may get L. 2, 5s. or L. 2, 10s. in the half
year; and those of an inferior grade about one-half that amount.
It is matter of regret that this very interesting portion of the po-
pulation is by no means in a healthy state, and that a demoralizing
system, adopted, no doubt, for convenience and, perhaps, economy,
has in several of our large agricultural establishments been intro-
duced,--we mean "the bothy system,"--which, if not abandon-
ed, or checked and placed under proper control, must eventually
                                3

