
			PARISH OF KIRKOWAN.
		PRESBYTERY OF WIGTON, SYNOD OF GALLOWAY.
               THE REV. ANTHONY STEWART, M. D. MINISTER. *

                I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
        Extent, Boundaries.-This parish is somewhat of a triangular
form and of very considerable extent. Its length from north-east
to south-west is about 15 miles. Its greatest breadth is between
6 and 7 miles; and its smallest breadth not much above one mile.
On the north and east, it is bounded by the parish of Penning-
hame; on the south and east, by the parish of Kirkinner: on the
south and west, by the parishes of Mochrum and Old Luce; and on
the north and west, by that part of Ayrshire called Carrick.
	The river Bladenoch runs along the north-east side of the pa-
rish, and forms a natural boundary between it and the parish of
Penninghame. This river rises from a lake called Loch Mac-
beary, situated mostly between the two parishes of Kirkowan and
Penninghame; but a small part of it extends into Carrick. This
river, after a winding course of about 24 miles, empties itself into
the Bay of Wigton.
	Tarf is another river, on the south-west side of the parish, which
rises from a bog in Carrick, and, after a course of about 12 miles,
crosses the parish to the eastward, and joins Bladenoch at a little
distance from the church of Kirkowan. +
                        II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
	Parochial Registers.-The session-books were destroyed by fire
about fifty years ago. Hence the comparatively recent date of
the commencement of those now existing. Births, marriages, and
a list of communicants are regularly kept.
        Land-owners.-These are, The Marquis of Bute; James Blair
Esq. of Penninghame, M. P.; W. C. Hamilton, Esq. of Craigh-
law; A. Murray, Esq. of Clugston; John M'Kie, Esq. of Bar-
galie; Stair H. Stewart, Esq. of Physgill; John Milligan, Esq.;
Messrs M'Millan and Milroy.

<FOOTNOTE>Drawn up from Notes furnished by the Rev. Robert H. Whyte, Assistant to the
          Minister of the parish.
          Vide Old Statistical Account.


