
                      EDINBURGHSHIRE.

One object apparently for erecting such high houses was to save
the feu-duty or ground rent; but the practice at the time.
was carried to such extent, that an order of council prohibited
houses from being erected beyond a limited number of stories.
In former times the Cowgate, Horse Wynd, Canongate, and
Castle Hill were the fashionable residences of tbe nobility and
gentry.
   From the middle of the 16th to the middle of the 18th century
the city appears to have increased very little in any direction; but
after the latter date it begam to be extended very rapidly, both to.
the north and south. The first great improvements in the Old
Town owed their origin to a very worthy and public-spirited citi-
zen, Provost Drummond. In 1751, in consequence of the failing
down of an old house six stories in height,--by which a person was
killed, the public attention was called to the state of many of the
other houses, which on inspection were, found in a very insufficient
state; and were accordingly condemned to be taken down. A
scheme was at the same time submitted to the convention of royal
burghs and approved of, for the erection of several public build-
ings on the sites of the old houses. The first projected building
was to  contain apartments for the convention of royal burghs--a
council chamber for the magistrates and other public apartments.
For carrying these improvements into execution, committees were
appointed for each of the public bodies; the Town-Council,
Courts of Session and Exchequer, and the Faculties of Advocates
and the Writers to the Signet.
   The first building erected was the Royal Exchange the founda-
tion stone of which was laid in 1753.
   The next great improvement was the drainage of the North
Loch and the ereetion of the North Bridge, by which a commu-
nication was opened up between the Old Town and the grounds
which were soon to be occupied by the streets of a new city.
   In 1763 the drainage of the North Loch commenced; and the
foundation of the North Bridge was laid. But the building of the
latter did  not commence till the year afterwards; nor, from some
failure in its construction, was it completed or opened to the pub-
lic till 1772.
   In the meantime an extensions of the royalty towards the north,
which had been  formerly opposed by the county proprietors, was
obtained by act of Parlinment in 1767; and the buildings in the
New Town were immediately commenced, after a plan. furnished


