
1018                            PERTHSHIRE.

  Hydrography.-Perennial springs of pure water abound through
out the parish.  There is a petrifying spring on the lands of Devon.
shaw.  But the most remarkable is that which was discovered fif.
teen years ago on the lands of BlairDOlone, which has erroneously
been called "Dollar Water." It has been found wonderfully effica-
cious in healing cuts, lacerations, and several other external injuries.
  The following extract from a letter of Dr Thomson, Professor
of Chemistry in the University of Glasgow, of date 1830, will
show the analysis of the water and its properties':
    "Its specific gravity is 1.0109, and an imperial gallon of it con-
tains the following ingredients:

    Common salt,                          5.87 grains.
    Sulphate of soda,                   170.99
    Sulphate of alumina,                953.18
    Dipersulphate of iron,             1753.10
    Persulphate of iron,                141.55
    Silica,                              58.70

                               Grains, 3083.39

  "It is by far the strongest mineral water I ever heard of, an im-
perial gallon containing rather more than half a Troy pound of
salts.  It is too strong for internal use, but when diluted suffici-
ently with water, it might be of service in the numerous diseases
for which iron and the sulphate of alumina are useful.  As an ex-
ternal application, it would aet powerfully as an astringent."
   The Devon, which rises in the Ochils, and, after a long and de-
vious course, empties itself into the Forth, is the only current of
water connected with the parish that deserves the name of "River."
There are, however, several other streams which have their rise
either in the parich or on its boundary, and which like the Devon,
are well supplied with trout.  The chief of these are the north
and south Queicihs and East Gairney, which run into Lochleven,
and the West Gairney, which joins the Devon below the Caldron
Linn.
  Cascades.-To strangers, the great objects of attraction be-
longing to this parish are the Rumbling Bridge and Caldron Linn.
These are so fully described in the Old Statistical Account, that
it is deemed unnecessary to say much of them here.  With re-
spect to the former, however, it is proper to state, that, while the
original bridge remains entire, there is now another bridge cor-
responding with the turnpike road passing that way, standing di-
rectly above it; and that the adjoining scenery is inspected with
much greater convenience and effect than formerly, owing to the


