
                        BANCHORY-TERNAN 	            347

deep impression. An old man Who died lately, used to refer to
It as his earliest remembrances and called it "the great greeting
in the Kirk o' Banchory." The subsequent events of Dr C.'s life,
and an account of his various writings, will be found detailed in the
account of him prefixed to his "Lectures on Ecclesiastical His-
tory." The incidents we have noticed, minute and trivial as they
may be, are yet, perhaps, not entirely without interest in consi-
dering the character of a man [whom Scotland justly boasts ar
one of her greatest philosophers, and the church regards as one
of her ablest champions and brightest ornaments. "Reid," 'said
Robert Hall of Leicester, "had a more vigorous and original mind
than Stewart, but Campbell, I suspect, was superior to both.  He
could have done all that Reid or Stewart has accomplished, and
neither of them could have written his 'Preliminary Dissertations'
to his work on the Gospels." A sagacious acuteness was a pro-
minent feature in his intellect. It is exhibited remarkably in
some published specimens of his correspondence with Dean Tuck-

dr. A love of truth and fairness was a strong, characteristic of his
moral nature. "Purity, seriousness, and candour," said be, "are
the only sure guides to the temple of religious truth." He had a
high, but not a proud sense of the dignity belonging to personal
worth, and there are evidences, not generally recognized, that at
least at the close of his life, his inward practical sense of religion
was deep and sincere. He died 6th April 1796, in the 77th year
of his age.
        Land-owners.-The principal landowners are, Sir Thomas
Burnett of Leys, Bart.; William Innes, Esq. of Raemoir; Henry
Lumsden, Esq. of Tilwhilly; Lieutenant W. B. Ramsay of Ban-
chory Lodge; Anthony Mactier, Esq. of Durris; Duncan David-
son, Esq. of Inchmarlo; John Mitchell, Esq. of Forcett Hall
and Glassel; and Colonel John Campbell of Blackball. All
these, except Mr Lumsden, Mr Mactier, and Colonel Campbell,
have mansion-houses within the parish.
        Modern Buildinqs.-Crathes Castle, the seat of the family of
Leys, situated on a green bank, at the end of a ridge of wooded
rocks, and embosomed among fine trees, is an imposing baronial
structure consisting of a tall square tower shavings ornamented tur-
rets, in the Scotch castellated style, and of some modern additions.
The walls are massive, and it was formerly considered capable of
defence. The `nbient hall or dining-room is in good preserva-
tion, and contains some family portraits painted by Jamieson.


