
                       NORTH BERWICK.                          321

   Zoology.-It is on the island of the Bass, that the rarer species of
zoology in this parish are to be found. We subjoin the statement of
the birds that breed on the Bass, as furnished to us by the keeper of
the island. "The Solan goose or gannet, measuring 6 feet from tip
to tip of the wings; the large black gull, about 5 feet; the large blue
gull, about 4 feet 9 inches; the kittiwake, about 3 feet 7 inches;
the common marrot or guillemot, about 2 feet 8 inches; the puffin
or Tommy-norrie, about 2 feet; the razor-billed marrot, or common
puffin, about 2 feet 4 inches; the falcon or hawk, the large raven,
the eider-duck, and the cormorant; with innumerable flocks of
smaller birds not peculiar to the Bass."
   The most celebrated of the sea fowl frequenting the Bass is cal-
led the solan goose, or the gannet, a large white bird, measuring six
feet from tip to tip of the wings, of which there are numberless thou-
sands. It is almost peculiar to the Bass and Ailsa Craig; though
occasionally, we believe, it is seen in some of the northern and
western islands of Scotland. It hatches on the bare niches, or
shelves of the rock. Its season of incubation is in the months of
June and July. The keeper assures us it is mere fiction, that the
bird broods with her sole on the egg, whence the name is supposed
to have arisen, for that the egg under the body of this bird, is
hatched in every way just as in the case of the domestic goose. It
is equally a fiction that she lays but one egg. The keeper has
taken more than a dozen eggs successively from the nest of one
bird; but leave her with her first egg and she will lay no more.
It is equally a fiction that the egg is fastened to the rock by any
peculiarly adhesive glutinous substance. The solan goose is a bird
of annual migration. They come to the rock early in February
in successive increasing flocks. It is about the beginning of August
that the young are taken, after which the old begin to depart.
They prepare to migrate as soon as their young are taken from
them. They linger till October, and by December they were
wont to be almost entirely gone, no one knows whither; but with-
in these last three years, hundreds have remained on the rock
throughout the winter,-because herrings have remained; and
they depart and return in correspondence with the movements of
the fish on whom they prey. *  Only the young birds are taken
and sold. Sometimes even 1700 have been taken in a season,
and sometimes not 700. They are taken from the rock by the

<FOOTNOTE>We are assured that, not for forty years, have so many berrings been taken in the
Frith of Forth during last year.


