
     Statistical Account

<UNREADABLE>

tatoes, or pease (of which a considerable quantity) are seavrt
as a preparation for a succeeding barley crop*.

</UNREADABLE>

   The sheep lands, and the ground employed in tillage, are,
in general, occupied by the same persons.  One who has no
sheep, but employs the ground he rents solely in tillage, pays
for some of it 2 s. the acre; but, in general, the arable
ground is not the half of that price, nor worth it.  There are
5 heritors in the parish.  By far the greatest proportion of the
lands belong to the Earl of Traquair, who formerly resided in
it at Traquair House; but the whole family, for several years,
have been on the Continent.  There is only one resident he-
sitor at present.  The greatest part of the parish is possessed
by 10 farmers, one of whom pays above 300 L. a-year, 3 a-
bove 200 L., 5 above 100 L.  There is a number of smaller
tenants.  The whole inhabitants of the parish are employed
in agriculture, except the few following: 6 weavers, 5 joiners,
1 blacksmith and an apprentice, 2 masons, 1 skinner, and an
apprentice, 1 shoemaker; the whole of whom are employed
by the inhabitants, except the skinners, who export their dres-
sed skins to Edinburgh.  There are, besides, 5 tailors, who
are likewise employed by the inhabitants +.  There are 12

<FOOTNOTE>

*Oats are sown from the beginning of march Old Style, to the end of April:
Barley from the middle of April to the end of May: Pease from the 20th of
March till the middle of April:  Wheat from the middle of September to the
middle of October.  The crops are generally cut down early in the season, the
reflexion from the hills causing them to ripen quicker than might be expected.
+The number of servants in the different branches of husbandry vary ac-
cording to the seaton of the year.  Female servants are more numerous in sum-
mer than in winter, being engaged for ewe-milking and harvest work in gene-
ral, at 3 L. and from 1 L. to 1 L. 10 s. in winter.  A male servant at 6 L. Out-
herds are paid by the free grass to a certain quantity of sheep, or the usual wa
ges, 52 stones of meal and a cow's grass.  The married servants, of which there
are a great many, have, in general, 5 L. 10 s., their provisions in their master's
family, a free house and a garden, with as much land as they can manure, to
 

