
                            WALSTON.                        851

feet in height, and enters immediately below a vein of heavy
spar,) are the memorials of abortive attempts to discover lead or
more precious ores.  These attempts were made in all likelihood
in the reign of James V., by a company of Germans, who, in
1526, obtained from that prince a grant of the precious mines of
Scotland for forty-three years, and worked in various parts of
Clydesdale. *  There are appearances of a similar trial on the
hill above Howburn, at a place called the Tours.
   Zoology.-In this department, the parish of Walston cannot
boast of any of the more rare species.  There are found in it the
fox, the hare, and rabbit, the polecat, the weasel.  The otter, the
squirrel, and the ermine are seen occasionally.
   About the beginning of March, or in less favourable seasons,
towards the middle of that month, the whistle of the gray plover
is heard from the mists of the hill, in itself unmusical, yet delight-
ful to the ear, as the note which proclaims that the rigour of win-
ter is gone, and that the season of soft showers and blossoms, and
of the singing, of birds, is at hand.  Next may be heard the wail-
ing sounds of the crested lapwing, and the scream of the curlew.
Lower down, the blackbird and mavis in due time hail the coming
day with their strains.  The cuckoo is generally heard about the
first of May; and the swallow and bat make their appearance
soon after.  About the middle of May, the crake of the land-rail
begins to be heard.  During seed-time, the fields are visited by
the common gull, and also by flocks of wild geese, which at that
period frequent the banks of the Medwin.  Wild duck, teal,
grouse, and partridges are found in their appropriate localities; as
also black-cock, and occasionally a stray pheasant.  The gold-
finch, and chaffinch, the green and gray linnet, the yellow-ham-
mer, redbreast, and common wren, are either resident through-
out the year, or occasional visitants, and the goden-crested wren
may at times be met with. +
   Botany.-No plants deserving the title of rare have hitherto
been observed in this parish.  The following may serve as a spe-
cimen of such as are pbanerogamous:-On the top of Walston
Mount are found the blaeberry and red whortleberry (Vaccinium
myrtillus and Vitis Idea.)  The latter may also be found so low
down as about 900 feet above the sea level.  Wood-sorrel (Ox-

<FOOTNOTE>Vide History of Mynes in Scotland, printed for the Bannatyne Club in 1825.
          In October 1835, the writer of this account found one of these beautiful little
birds, which had found admittance at an open window, perched on the bell rope in
his study.


