
32                     CLACKMANNANSHIRE.

filling the same at the wall-face into the corve is on an average,
1s. 8d. per ton of 20 cwt., and a good workman can earn from 16s.
to L. 1, 4s. per week. Smiths' wages at the colliery are 16s.
and wrights' 17s. per week. Sinkers and miners have about
2s. 6d. per day, and ordinary labourers from 9s. to 12s. per week.
The colliers have their houses and their fire coals free, but they
work the coals.
  In considering the rate of a collier's wages, compared with
other labourers for a century back to the present time, it is con-
cluded that a collier ought to earn double the amount of an ordi-
nary effective labourer or spademan, because to be an expert miner
requires much practice. They are exposed to many casualties aris-
ing from the roofs falling and noxious vapours. Besides which,
they have their lights and tools to uphold.
   With regard to the selling prices of coals in this parish, those
have varied much within a comparatively short period. During
the latter part of the last war with France, the prices were as fol-
low per ton of 20 cwt.,--great coal on the hills, 6s. 8d., chews,
5s. 4d.; great coal put on board at the harbour, 1Os.: chew coal,
do. do. 7s. 6d.
  From the end of the war to Martinmas 1835, they declined
very much, and no coal was sold on the Alloa hills, as all land
sales were made at the Alloa coal-fold and at the New Saueby
collilery, in the parish of Clackmannan.
  The sea sale prices previous to Martinmas 1835 were as fol-
low,--great coal put on board, per ton, 6s. 6d.; chew coal, do. do.
4s. 6d.
   These prices are as low as they were here, a century ago, not-
withstanding the decrease of the value of money, and a more than
double rate of wages.
  This is chiedly owing to the application of the steam-engine for
drawing water from tho mines and the coals up the pit.
  The prices of coals here at present, anno 1837, are as follows:
great coal on the bills, per ton, 8s. 9,d.; chew coal, do. 7s. 2d;
great coal put on board at the harbour, per ton, 10s.; chew coal,
do. 8s. As these coals do not cake, the culm or dross, named here
lime-coal or pan-wood, is of little value. A small quantity is rais-
ed, being generally thrown aside into the wastes as rubbish, to the
extent of many thousand tons The present prices are, per ton,
lime coal on the hill, 1s 8d. per ton; lime coal on board at the
harbour, 46 per ton.
 				6


