
   322                               BANFFSHIRE.

   Castle Grant and Balimacaan, Inverness-shire; Grant Lodge,
   Morayshire.
      Eminent Characters.-Under this head, the name of James
   fourth Earl of Findlater and first Earl of Seafield, claims a special
   notice.  This distinguished statesman and eminent lawyer was
   born in 1664.  In 1689, he was chosen member of the Conven-
   tion of Estates for the burgh of Cullen, in which capacity he ob-
   tained much celebrity, by a reimarkable speech in favour of King
   James VII., and by being one of the five members who dissented
   from the act for forfeiting that monarcle Contrary to what might
   have been expected, his firmness and fidelity to his former sove-
   reign had not the effect of injuring him in the eyes of James's suc-
   cessor; for, after the government was settled in favour of William,
   he became a special favourite of his Majesty.  In 1693, being an
   eminent lawyer, he was appointed Solicitor for the Cromn, She-
   riff of Banff, and, at the same time, received the honour of knight-
   hood.  In 1695, lie was appointed Secretary of State. In 1698
   he was appointed President of the Parliament, and was, at the
   same time, created Viscount Seafield.  In 1700, he held the of-
   fice of his Majesty's Commissioner to the General Assembly of
   the Church of Scotland, and was thrice afterwards preferred to
   the same dignity, viz. in 1703, 1724, and 1727. In 1701, he was
   created Earl of Seafield.  He continued Secretary of State dur-
   ing all King William's reign; and, upon the accession of Queen
   Anne, he filled the same department, until November 1702, when
   be was appointed Chancellor.  In 1703, he was created a Knight
   of the Thistle.  In 1704, he was again appointed Secretary of
   State, and likewise presided in Parliament.  In the same year, he
   was appointed Chancellor for the second time, in which office he
   continued until the Union was completed, having been first Com-
   missioner for Scotland at the treaty of Union, and presided in the
   Scottish Parliament which ratified it.\f* After the Union, he was

   <FOOTNOTE>It is a somewhat remarkable circumstance, that, although his Lordship was main-
   ly instrumental in promoting the Union, it was, nevertheless, in imminent danger of
   being dissolved, several years after the act was passed, through the instrumentality Of
   the same individual.  When the Malt Tax was bxtended to Scotland, his Lordship
   was so irritated at the measure,  considering it an infringement of the articles of
   Union, that, in, the House of Lords, Ist June 1713, he laid open the grievances of
   the Scottish nation' which he reduced to four heads, viz.1. The being deprived of
   a Privy-Council; 2. The extension of the treason laws of England to Scotland; 3.
   The Peers of Scotland. being incapacitated from being created Peers of Great Bri
   tain; and, 4. The Scots being subjected to the Malt Tax, which would be the more
   insupportable to them now, in that they never bore it during the war, and had reason
   to'expect the benefits of a peace,-toncluding, that, since the Union had not been
   productive of those good effects which were expected, he moved that leave be given.'


