
          372                       BANFFSEHUH.

          out, bay is made the fifth year, and the other half is either cut
          green for bouse-feeding, or depastured by the horses and cows.
          The sixth year is always pasture.  Taking alt circumstances of
          soil, situation, climate, and extra pasture into account, this is per-
          haps as good a rotation as could be adopted ; though another year
          in pasture, particularly on the lighter soils, or rather a proportion
          of these devoted to permanent pasture, might seem an improve-
          ment.   In some few instances, the five-course shift has been in-
          troduced, taking only one crop of oatr at the commencement, but
          this rotation is not a favourite, and, indeed, the soil being gene-
          rally a stiff moist clay the second crop of oats is always the more
          productive.   Of late, wheat has been attempted on part of the
          best ground, in consequence of the very low price of oats, being
          substituted for the oats after ley, which is top-dressed for it,
          or for the barley after potatoes or bare fallow; but though it has
          hitherto paid well, it is, unquestionably, an unsuitable and preca-
          rious crop for such a climate.  Tile soil is well adapted for lint,
          but it is not considered a remuneratiDg crop ; a smal I patch, how-
          ever, is almost always sown on each farm for domestic purposes.
          Tares were, a few years ago, introduced for part of the fallow or
          green crop, to be cut green for the horses, and a small portion
          of them for this purpose is now sown on the greater number of
          the farms.  The production of turnips is greatly on the increase,
          in consequence of the use of bone-manure, introduced since 1829,
          but very sparingly used till 1833, when the palpable success of
          the few original experimenters led to its more general application.
          It bids fair in a few years, hf the supply can be continued at its
          present cost, of about 2s. 9d. per bushel, to become the universal
          manure for turnips, and to banish bare fallow altogether, except
          in very wet fields.  At first, the bones were applied in large quan-
          tities, to serve instead of the farm dung for the rotation"and this
          is still the case in some instances, about thirty bushels being thus
          given to the Scots acre, strewed in the bottom of the turnip drills
          but what is now the more common practice, is to dibble in tile
          bones upon the top of the drills, in holes about eight inches
          asunder, giving only from eight to ten bushels per acre, which is
          found quite sufficient to raise the turnip crop, and then, in the
          following spring, the farm manure saved from the turnips is given
          to the barle and grass seeds, much to the improvement of the
          barley and Way crops, and at a very trifling increase of expense.
          In either way, the stock of manure is greatly enlarged and the

                                     6


