
               CRATHIE AND BRAEMAR.                    647

   Braemar was anciently styled the parish of St Andrews, but
after Malcum Ceann Mor, who had a hunting-seat there, threw
a bridge across the Cluney at Castletown, it obtained the name of
Ceann-drockit, that is, Bridgend.  And about the close of Queen
Mary's reign, when the Earl of Mar became proprietor of the
lands about Castletown, the name of the parish was again changed
to the present name of the district.  At what time it was an-
nexed to Crathie is not known, but there is every reason to be-
lieve it must have been far back, as nothing can be learned con-
cerning it, either from the records of session or presbytery.  The
form or figure of the parirh is an oblong, lying from west, north-
west, to east by south.  It contains, according to Robertson's sur-
vey of the county, 199,658 acres.
   It is bounded on the east, by Glenmuick; on the south, by
Glenmuick, Glenisla, Kirkmichael, in Perthshire, and Blair-
Athole; on the west, by Inch, Inverness-shire, Rothiemurchus,
and part of Abernethy; and on the north, by part of Abernethy,
Kirkmichael, Banffshire, by part of Strathdon, and by Glen-
muick.
   Surface, Mountains, Valleys, &c.-This united parish contains
a greater variety of beautiful scenery, and richer display of what
may be styled the grand and sublime, than any other district in
Aberdeenshire.  Its towering mountains, with their bold and shelvy
cliffs, covered by lofty trees of variegated hue and deepening shade,
and its sloping hills diverging into deep valleys and verdant plains,
--afford such picturesque and diversified prospects, as delight
every admirer of the works of nature.
   The principal mountains are Lochnagar, * Cairntoul, Benna-
muickduidh, + Bennabuird, &c.  The first of these is situated on
the south side of the parish, and is partly in Glenmuick.  Accord-
ing to the latest surveys, its height above the level of the sea is
3815 feet.  The other three are on the north-west boundaries of
Braemar, and are respectively in the order stated above, 4220
feet, 4390 feet, and 3940 feet above the level of the sea.

<FOOTNOTE>On the north-east side of Lochnagar, there is a small lake, or loch, from which,
unquestionably, that far-famed mountain must have got its name.  Gar is a contrac-
tion of the Gaelic word garren, which signifies underwood, or small thickets.  This
lake is 2500 feet above the level of the sea, and the perpendicular height of the huge
rock close to it is 1315 feet, which has in awfully majestic and overpowering appear-
ance when viewed from the edge of the lake.
          According to the last geometrical survey by order of Government, this moun-
tain was found to be 20 feet higher than Ben Nevis, which was before considered
to be the highet in Britain.


