

                        CRAIL.                            959

flocks of sheep,and these they generally bring from the High-
lands to fatten for the market.
   Wages.-Young unmarried men livin about the farm get from
L.9 to L. 2 a-year, according to their age and qualifications.
Married farm-servants have from L.10 to L.12, with a house and
garden ; 10 pecks of potatoes planted, 61/2 bolls of meal,half a boll
of pease or wheat, a pint of sweet or 11/2 of skimmed milk a-day,
coals driven, and liberty to feed a pig with their own potatoes,-
all of which are estimated at about L.25 a-year.  Female servants
living in their masters' houses get from L.5 to L.6 a-year.  Other
field labourers are, males, 9s. a-week ; Females, 4s. a-week or 8d.
a-day ; but in harvest the daily wages are higher.
   In very few places, are the farm-steadings so good and the ac-
commodation for man and beast so ample, as they are in general
in this parish, which proves the good taste of the tenants and the
liverality of the landlords.  Leases are in general for ninteen
years.

                        V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Means of Communication.--Only one mail arrives here every
day, bringing letters from every direction, which oftern occasions
serious inconvenience, as letters from St Andrews and other towns
only a few miles off are received here the day after they were
writte, and the answer fares the same.  This might be remedied
byt the post-office re-establishing the runner between Crail and
St Andrews, as it was to 1829.  By this means letter written in
that city could be received here within two hours of the time when
they were posted.  There are turnpike roads crossing the parish
in every direction, and the commutation roads are in good keeping.
   A light van or waggonhas, for many years, run from this to St
Andrews every lawful day, carrying passengersand parcels.  A
parcel carrier goesto and returnsfromAsntruther in the same
manner.  A carrier goes twise a-week to Edinburgh.  There are
also conveyances to Dundee and Cupar for goods.  By sea the
conveyance of passengers and goods is still more complete, as the
Aberdeen, Montrose, and Dundee steamers call; off the harbour,
thus giving always one,and often three opportunities a-day, of
getting to Edinburgh, and, on their return, a conveyance to the
respective ports to which they belong.
   Royal Burgh of Crail.--As a town, Crail is of great antiquity,
and mentioned by the Scottish historians as a place of some con-
sequence so early as the beginning or middle of the ninth century.





