
                          CLOSEBURN.                         85

there is no contract by piece-work the rate of mason, carpenter
and the other mechanical work, is 2s. 6d. for the day. A day-labourer
receives 1s. 8d. in summer, and 1s. 4d. in winter. The price of
coarse black faced wool is 7s., and of Cheviot wool 15s. per stone
of 24 lbs.
   Breeds, &c.--The common breeds of cattle are the Galloway and
Ayshire, to the improvement of which great attention has been paid.
   Husbandry.--The approved course of agriculture followed in
this parish is, the first year, oats upon newly broken up pasture;
second year, potatoes, or turnips, consumed by sheep where they
grow; third year barley and grass seeds; fourth, hay; the two
successive years, pasture. Bone-manure is now much used in the
drill husbandry. It enables the farmer to raise turnips on ground,
of which he could not otherwise avail himself. Till within these
ten years, this highly beneficial crop was comparatively little cul-
tivated in Nithsdale: and perhaps no part of Scotland is better
adapted for it, and for its being consumed where it grows. The
soil being porous soon becomes dry after the heaviest rains. Steam
navigations ha given a great stimulus to this branch of agriculture
in this part of the country. Fat stock can now be conveyed in six-
teen or eighteen hours to Liverpool, where there is always a ready
market. Before this cheap and easy mode of conveyance was prac-
tised, Edinburgh and Glasgow were the only markets of which the
farmer could avail himself, and these attended with many ob-
vious disadvantages. The common method adopted in the im-
provement of waste land is to spread 120 bushels of lime on each
acre; then, at the distance of two or three years, to plough it for a
crop of oats; then to prepare it with manure for follow of green
crop. Sometimes two or three crops are taken from the moorish
soils. There being a considerable extent of poor moorish land on
the estate of improving it, which was attended with complete suc-
cess: Unwilling to deprive the richer grounds of manure, he com-
menced operations on a sterile district, by paring and burning the
surface the first season; he plounged it in the autumn and winter,
and spread on it lime at the rate of 200 bushels per acre in the fol-
lowing spring; in the month of July he sowed grass seeds (York-
shire fog) at the rate of five bushels per acre. This land has re-
mained in pasture for twenty years, and is let annually at from 12s.
to 15s. per acre. In its unimproved state it was not worth 2s. 6d.
The expense of this improvement was about L.6 per acre. Top-


