
                        BENHOLME.                         55

with the trap,-the trap seeming to have overflowed and rested
upon the uneven surface of the conglomerate.
	The contents of the conglomerate in some places are chiefly
silicious, quartz, jasper, &c. usually coarse: in other places, varie-
ties of trap rock prevail. Boulders of granite, greywacke, and of
may other rocks may also be observed.
	The trap rock is not known to contain any minerals worthy of
notice except agates, which have been found in different parts of
the parish.
	But, except along the shore, which is wholly composed of sand-
stone and conglomerate strata, intersected by dikes, comparative-
ly little rock can be seen. This renders the determination of the
relative extent of different kinds of rock exceedingly difficult,-
impossible, if minute accuracy were required. The streams which
intersect the parish expose, in their course, the different kinds of
rock; but elsewhere, rock is rarely visibld. A deep diluvial de-
posit covers almost the whole parish. Sometimes this deposit is
many yards in depth. It is filled with innumerable boulders of
various sizes, which may be seen where it is cut by streams, and
which strew, in vast quantities, the surfaces of fields. These boul-
ders are of very various kinds, some of quartz, some of granite,
some of greywacke, and some of trap rocks.
	The soil, throughout the parish, is of almost every variety. Per-
haps the prevailing kind of soil is a heavy clay. Other parts are
composed of fine loam. Others are light and sandy; but, fortu-
nately, little of the soil in the parish seems to have formed
from the disintegration of old red sandstone. which in other dis-
tricts is so barren and unproductive. In the higher districts, a cold
wet clay prevails, with a slight intermixture of peat-moss in some
parts.
	There are some fields along the shore that present a very bar-
ren aspect, when newly sown out in spring. Nothing then appears
but a plain, densely studded with boulders, which completely con-
ceal the substratum of soil. In ordinary seasons, however, or ra-
ther when there are copious showers at convenient intervals, these
fields produce excellent crops. The proprietor has lately reclaim-
ed and improved a considerable tract of the above description, by
transporting soil from the adjnining fields.
  Botany.-Lying along an eastern shore, this parish is unfa-
vourable to the growth of plantations. Trees within the influence
of the sea breeze have a stunted and unhealthy appearance. Near


