
564                       PFRTHSHIRE.

Saxifraqa oppositifolia, Silene acaulis, Dryas octopetala, Azalea
procumbens, Betula nana, grow abundantly; and it has been said
that the Rubus arctica is to be found there. Convallaria verticil-
lata grows upon the side of the Tilt near the Fender. It is now well
known that the Menziesia carulea has been discovered upon Carnan
Dobhrain, which has obtained the soubriquette "the Sow of
Atholl," to the north of Loch Garry. And Dr Arnott of Arlary, one
of our most learned botanists, states, that Dicranum Schreberi is
found in an old quarry towards the head of Glentilt. Of these
two plants, this parish is the only habitat in Britain.
     The natural wood of the country consists of oak, birch, ash, as-
pens, alder, &c. Oak ceases to grow as a natural wood in Atboll, at
a height of 400 feet above the level of the sea, and at which the
region of the birch seems to commence. This may be owing to
the higher elevation, or to a difference in the soil, which certainly
exists-or to both causes combined. At Aberwainie, and upon
the glebe, about 500 feet above, the level of the sea, there was an
extensive clump of the largest oaks, and where many standard
trees of great dimensions may still be seen. It grew, however, in
a well sheltered spot, and in a bank of excellent soil. To the
north of Killiecrankie, the birch is the prevailing tree of natural
growth, and of which there are numerous and extensive woods.
Along the banks of the Garry, the alder abounds, but it is dwarf-
ish in its growth. Every different estate in the parish has its plan-
tations, though some of them were but lately formed. A conside-
rable portion of suitable ground upon the estate of Lude has been
planted. The plantations of Blair are very extensive, and the size,
age, and quality of the timber render them very valuable. Lime,
elm, and plane trees are unusually large and numerous in the
park. The surrounding grounds and hills are covered with Scotch
fir, spruce, and larch. And though Blair supplied the materials
of which the Atholl frigate was built, many magnificent speci-
mens both of larch and of spruce still remain.

                     II.---CIVIL- HISTORY.
     Historical Events.---To give Pitscottie's account of the magnifi-
cent hunt with which James V., his mother, and the Pope's Le-
gate, were entertained by the Earl of Atboll, on the north side, of
Beinn-ghlo, is unnecessary. It is familiar to all the readers of
Scottish history, and of Scottish tours from the date of Pennant's
Journal to the present day.
     The battle of Killiecrankie cannot be said to be a subject which


