
			 LATHERON.                         111

there is a considerable number who can neither read nor write.
The people in general are certainly alive to the benefits that
arise from a good education, and therefore make considerable ex-
ertions, according to their small means, for supporting schools
among them.  No doubt, several of the unendowed school, are
of very inferior quality, as may be expected from the trifling re-
muneration that some districts can afford, so that what is wanted
is not so much additional schools as additional salaries, and con-
sequently better qualified teachers.  Without the former, it is
hopeless to attempt to raise the charater of the latter beyond
what has already been done.  There are four stations at least,
where Society schools could be most advantageously located, and
for which applications, have frequently been made, though hitherto
without effect. It has already been observed, that the improve-
ment in the conduct and morals of the young people is everywhere
recognized by those who are acquainted with the parish; and that
this change is in a great measure to be ascribed to the additional
facilities and improved system of education, cannot be doubted.
The proprietors have already done much, and it is to be hoped,
that the altered state of society for the better will encourage them
to persevere, until all the scattered hamlets of this extensive and
populous parish, second perhaps to no landward parish in Scot-
land, are brought under the influence of a sound, moral, and re
ligious education.
   Having already noticed the recent improvements of an agri-
cultural nature under thathead, it may not be improper here to
enumerate briefly those of an ecclesiastical and educational na-
ture, which have taken place during the last twenty years, being
the period of the incumbency of the present writer.  The parish
church, remodelled and greatly enlarged,-a Government church,
manse, and glebe, established at Berriedale, and that district
formed into a quoud sacra parish, with an separate minister,-a
new church built at Lybster, with a separate minister settled
there, and also formed into a quaad sacra parish,-the missiom
of Bruan, confined to that station, instead of two as formerly, and
a commodious manse built for the missionary, with, a suitable
glebe attached;-all of these, ministers, actively and laboriously
engaged in communicating religious instruction, and discharging
the duties of pastoral superintendence among the people.  As to
education, there has been a new  parish school, with schoolmaster's
accommodation erected; another parochial school in the course


