
			    BORGUE.  	                     53

also visited at times by boats from Liverpool. These boats fish
principally for soles.
	Amongst the fishes caught in the Dee or off the coast, are,
salmon, gritse, sea-trout and  herling, plaice, soles, and several of
the common kinds of flounders; gurnard, two kinds; mullet, ray
or skate, ling, cod, whiting, bream, fishing-frog, and dog-fish.
Eels of a considerable size are very abundant. Porpoises are
common off the coast. Among those which visit the Dee occa-
sionally are mackerel and herrings. Ust year, several fine had-
docks were caught off the Ross, said to be the first time they were
seen on the Borgue coast. Blochan, as they are here named, are at
times met with in considerable numbers. They seldom remain
above two or three tides. Simpson, who wrote an account of the
state of Galloway towards the close of the seventeenth century,
bears testimony to the excellence of the white fishings of Borgue
in these words: " Upon the coast are many sorts of white fish,
one kind whereof is called by the inhabitants grey beads, which
are a very fine white fish, big like haddocks, some greater, some
lesser."
	Birds.--Under this head may be mentioned, pheasant, par-
tridge, black grouse, snipe, and landrail, wild duck, widgeon,se-
veral kinds of teal, the golden plover, the coot, woodcock, lapwing,
heron, nighthawk, and several of the more common kinds of
hawks:-on the sea coast, five or six kinds of gulls, cormorant,
puffin, sea-pyet, curlew, red-shank, sheldrake, goshawks, which
build on the cliffs at Ross and Muncraig. Ravens also ate always
to be found about the Ross
                             II.--ClVIL HISTORY.
	Antiquities, &c.-Borgue possesses its share of those rude mo-
numents, by which the deeds and character of our ancestors, ante-
cedent to the period of written history, are saved from utter ob-
livion.
	The British forts, or, as are they vulgarly called, moat, are
probably the most ancient of these. Five of them are to be seen
in Borgue,--two in low sheltered situations, having a considerable
stream of water flowing past on the one side. Two others are on
the summits of high hills, and command an extensive view of the
surrounding country in all directions. The following are the di-
mentions of that near High Borgue, called the moat or Dun of
Boreland height from the bottom of the foss, 30 feet; width of
foss at bottom, 12 feet; do. at top, 40 feet; circumference of


