
<APPENDIX>

lx

   In printing the following series, it was on the whole thought preferable,
to preserve their order, in point of time, rather than any other mode of ar-
rangement.

     No I.  Extract of a Letter from the Reverend Dr Robert Henry, the
        Historian, dated the 19th July 1790.

   I had the honour to receive your printed letter, with the inclosed paper,
a few days ago.  A perfect knowledge of the population, and other cir-
cumstances of our country, may be of great utility:  Greater perhaps than
can be at present foreseen.  You are much to be commended, Sir, for your
efforts to obtain that knowledge, and should be assisted by every Scotch-
man, who hath it in his power.  I am sorry, that my retired situation, and
very precarious state of health, make it impossible for me to be of so much
use to you as I wish.-Besides, I am engaged in finishing the sixth volume
of my History of Great Britain, a work of which you may, perhaps, have
heard.

     No II.  Extract of a Letter from George Dempster, Esq; dated 14th
        February 1791.

   The reason of my troubling you at present, is, to return you my thanks
for the specimen of the Statistical observations.  This is a most valu-
able and useful work.  It is a real Dooms-day Book, and promises to be
more read and quoted than any book printed since Dooms-day Book.  The
older it grows, the more valuable it will prove.  The object of this letter
is, to entreat you to go on with it.  Your industry is fully adequate to the
task.  It will also place the intelligence and good sense of our Clergy, in
a very advantageous point of view.  When the general approbation of the
public follows this of mine, which it certainly will do, I pray you to ex-
tend your views to England and Ireland, and give us all the three king-
doms.  The sale will defray the expence, and found an academy at
Thurso.

   No III.  Extract of a Letter from Sir David Dalrymple, (Lord Hailes),
   on receiving the specimen of the four first Parishes of the Statistical
   Account, dated 18th February 1791.

<UNREADABLE>

   I AM much obliged to you for your present.  Your State of Scotland pro
     to be a very valuable work, under the hands of so ardent an in-
quired as you are.  There is much to be learnt, even from the specimen.

</UNREADABLE>


