
                        INVERESK.                          289

plete, success. The expense of draining per acre, the drains 18
feet apart, may be estimated at about L. 8, 15s.
   By this important improvement, by a skillful application of ma-
nures, and by a judicious selection of the best seeds, as well as by
adopting the practice of drilling grain crops, the produce of the
land has been greatly increased. Turnip husbandry is success-
fully practised: the Swedish variety appears to thrive particularly
well. In a good many instances, the crop is eaten off the land by
sheep, a system which is found materially to improve light sandy
soils. The farm-houses and steadings are of a substantial, im-
proved, and superior description, more especially those erected on
the property of His Grace the Duke of Buccleuch, whose truly
patriotic maxim, "live and let live," is here acted upon in the
same liberal spirit as elsewhere. On one farm, possessed by Mr
James Vernor, a steam-engine has been erected for thrashing.*
The following succession of crops is very generally observed: 1.
potatoes or turnips; 2. wheat or barley sown with grass seeds; 3.
if not kept in pasture, the grass is cut green, or made into hay;
4. if made into hay then succeeded by a crop of oats. Besides
lime and dung, and compost of lime and earth, a considerable
quantity of rape cake, and crushed bones, landed at Fisherrow, has
lately been used as manure.
   Coal Mines.--The whole of the coal mines in the parish are
either the property. of Sir John Hope, Bart. or are rented by him.
The total number of persons employed at these works, including
women and children, is about 572. The quantity of coal raised
in the course of one year amounts to 54,000 tons, which, at the
rate of 5d. per cwt., will produce the sum of L. 22,500.
   Fishings.--There is a salmon-fishery at the mouth of the Esk
by means of stake-nets. The quantity taken in a season is small.
The right of fishing, which belongs to the town, lets at a rent of
L. 20.per annum. The season begins on the 1st of February,
and closes on the 15th of September.
   Fisherrow has long been distinguished for its race of hardy and
industrious fishermen. The number of boats employed is 28,
averaging from 18 to 22 tons; they are from 33 to 37 feet long,
from 10 to 13 feet wide, and about 5 1/2 feet deep. Each of these
boats requires five men, which makes the number of fishermen
140. The same owners have an equal number of small boats.
About the middle of July they prepare their boats for the Caith.

<FOOTNOTE>There are upwards of a dozen steam-engines in the parish employed for various
purposes.
   EDINBURGH.                                 T


