
                          ALFORD.                           495

found in the parish.  The bottoms of the hollow themselves are
flat, and the soil in them and the natural vegetation differ from
any to be found above the escarpments.  The deposits within
them consist of horizontal beds of water-worn and rounded frag-
ments of rocks, of all the different sorts to be found along the
whole upper courses of the streams, brought into juxtaposition
within narrow spaces.  On the contrary, the fragments of rocks
found in the deposits above the escarpments are angular, and not
much water-worn, some of them not worn at all; and within a
given space, they consist of few varieties.  The extent and depth
of the river hollows are everywhere regulated by three conditions,
-the magnitude of the stream, its rapidity, and the hardness or
friableness of the materials of the bed; and towards the sources of
the streams they diminish to simple drains for the water.  In addi-
tion to these facts, many localities can be pointed out where it is
obvious that, had the rivers ever run at higher levels than the escarp-
ments bounding the present hollows, they would have taken their
courses, and formed their junctions by lines very different from
those they at present pursue.
   The beds of the streams have been very sensibly deepened
within the last thirty years, presenting us with a measure by which
to estimate the period that may have been required for the exca-
vation of the river hollows; and which, as a detail of particulars
would show, agrees well with the era assigned by historical record
to the last general flood.
   Soil.-The larger proportion of the soil may be called a friable
and dry loam, eminently adapted for the turnip husbandry; but
it varies materially with the nature of the subjacent rocks and the
deposits covering them.  Where these have been friable and worn
into a clay by the action of the weather, the subsoll is more or
less retentive of too much wet to admit of turnips, without much
attention to both under and surface draining ; but the soils in this
condition produce the best crops of oats.  There are also many
spouty places caused by springs issuing from the beds and veins
of shivered granite, which require under draining, often a delicate
and uncertain process where the rocks have no certain order; but
the soil in such places is generally highly productive, when the
springs can be fairly drained out.  The soil of the haugh lands with-
in the river hollows is very friable, and, where separated by drains
from the bounding high grounds, always very dry.  In respect of
staple, all the soils may be called shallow, with the exception of


