
654                        PERTHSHIRE.

to poison the mind, and unhinge the better principles of the
people.
   Poaching.-Poachingv in a game does not prevail to nearly the same
extent, as in former periods.  The salmon is nnv allowed to remain
unmolested, in our rivers during the close season; and, at any other
time, little restriction is laid on those who may have a love for
angling amusements.
			IV.-INDUSTRY.
   According to a late survey, there were in- the parish, 7 resident
proprietors, and 3 non-resident; 1 clergyman, 1 medical practi-
tioner, 7 schoolmasters, 2 bankers, 1 notary public, 1 supervisor,
7 excise-officers, 88 farmers, (40 of these are qualified voters in the
new Perthshire constituency;) 64 day-labourers, 15 weavers, 13
tailors, 13 shoemakers, 6 grocers, 1 innkeeper, 6 retailers of ale,
&c. 12 carpenters, 2 wbeelwrights, 7 blacksmiths, 5 masons, 5
millers, 1 saddler, 2 butchers, 1 dyer, 1 coppersmith and plumber,
1 plasterer, 2 lintmillers, 3 carriers, 11 shepherds, 4 gardeners,
2 ground-officers, 7 mashmen, 1 cooper, 3 road-contractors, 3
sawyers, 2 flax-dressers, 1 sieve-maker, 1 church-officer, 2 man-
tuamakers, 2 straw-bonnet-makers, 2 midwives, 2 schoolmis-
tress. The rest are cottars or householders. The number of
hired male-servantr above the age of twenty is 92, the number un-
der twenty is 73.  The number of hired female-servants above
twenty is 70, under twenty is 46; there are also many more of
the children of farmers and of others who are in the capacity of
servants to their own parents.
   Agriculture.-The.numbdr of acres, standard imperial measure,
in the parish, which are either cultivated or occasionally in tillage,
is about 2719.  Of land in a state of undivided common there is
none.
   It is impossible to say exactly what number of acres may be un-
der wood.  There will be at least 2000 acres and more than the
half have been, planted within the last fifty years. The oak, birch,
alder, aspen, and hazel are indigenous. The general kinds plant-
ed are,oak. ash, beech, spruce, hoese-chestnuts, poplars, silver-
firs, and walnuts.  The  Scotch fir, does: not appear to come to any
great siz ; this however, maybe owing to the want of early atten-
ion to thinning and pruning. These matters seem to be much
better understood now, and more attention is paid to them. Of


