
                        EYEMOUTH.                           323

only one as yet ascertained for it on the east coast of Scotland.
On the authority of the same gentleman, we may mention the fol-
lowing plants as occurring on the banks of the Eye, and in other
situations in the parish, viz.: Thalictrum flavum Epipactis nidus
avis, Arum maculatum, Rumex sanguineus, Listera ovata, Thalic
trum majus, Tulipa sylvestris, Geranium lucidum, Sium angustifo-
lium, Lamium amplexicaule, L. incisum, Sedum Telephium, Daphne
Laureola, Dipsacus sylvestris, Chara hispida, Cichorium Intybus,
Sagina apetala, Astrayalus hypoglottis, Aliu ursinum, A. vineale
Fedia olitoria, Samolus Valerandi, Cardamine amara, &c. &c. Of
these plants, the most interesting are the Thalictrum majus, the
T. flavum, for which only two other stations have been ascertained
in Scotland, Rumex sanguineus, a plant of rare occurrence, and
the Epipactis nidus avis, not frequently met with. The Tulipa
sylvestris to all appearance is decidedly wild; but, as its station is
only a little way from Netherbyres, it may perhaps prove to be an
outcast of the garden at some former period. With the mention
of two other plants we shall conclude this imperfect sketch of the
botany of the parish; the one is the Primula veris, the umbellate
variety, which is frequently confounded with the Primula elatior
or ox-lip; it occurs both on the sea banks and on the Eye in to-
lerable abundance; it is the Primula elatior of Greville's Flora
Edinensis, the true Primula elatior having, so far as we are aware,
no station in Scotland. The other plant is a variety of Geum, in-
termediate between the Geum rivals and the G. urbanum. It is
noticed by Professor Hooker as occurring in the neighbourhood of
Glasgow, and is supposed to be a hybrid between the two species
already mentioned. It grows on the hedge sides between Eye-
mouth village and Eyemouth mill.
		II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   No ancient or modern accounts of the history of this parish are
known to us. The chartularies of Coldingliam priory are the chief
sources from which our knowledge of the early history of this and
the neighbouring parish of Ayton is to be derived, as there can be
no doubt that both of them were dependencies upon that ancient
Establishment. *  As a sea-port, Eye mouth would naturally be re-
sorted to by the monks in their passing to and from foreign parts;
and there can be little doubt that the earliest commercial transac-

<FOOTNOTE>The earliest mention made of Eyemouth in the records of Coldingham occurs
in a Charter issued during the reign of William the Lion, and consequently between
the years 1174 and 1214. By this, Edward, son of Peter de Lastailrig (Restalrig,)
Baron of the King of Scots, gave and granted to God, St Mary St Ebb, Herbert, the
prior, and the monks of Coldinghain, " duas loftos ad Eimuthe et unum ad Leth bo.
norifice, &c. reddendo annualem sibi et heredibus iij. teises de laceo sericeo."


