
64                      DUMBARTONSHIRE.

now carried from Glasgow in great quantity to almost every part
of the parish.
  By the introduction of cotton-spinning and calico-printing, the
village of Milngavie has risen to considerable importance since
the date of the former report, its population having increased about
sixfold. A large circulation of money has thus been occasioned,
and a convenient market created for the disposal of the produce
of the neighbouring farms.
  In regard to the comforts and conveniences of life, the people
of this parish partake in a fair measure of the improvement that
has been general over the kingdom. They are better fed, better
clad, and better lodged than before. At the same time, pauperism
has greatly increased, not only in absolute amount, but in ratio.
On referring to the accounts of the poor's funds for the year 1791,
when the population, according to the former Report, was 1700,
we find that the expenditure on cases of pauperism was only
L. 39, 16s.; whereas in 1831, with a population of 3090, the ex-
penditure was L. 173, 9s. IId. Thus, while the population has
increased in the proportion of L.8 to 1, or somewhat less than
twofold, pauperism has increased in the proportion of 4.3 to 1,
or more than fourfold. This is easily accounted for, without
supposing anv great change in the management. The more
abundant and the more easily attainable the necessaries or luxuries
of life are, the less is the inducement to save, the greater the
temptation to squander; so that, when a family is deprived of its
head, or when individuals are disabled by the infirmities of age, there
is too often no resource but on the poor's funds. And the habits
of full living, which a state of prosperity had produced, eandot be
entirely abandoned even in reduced circumstances; whence it
happens, that not only is the relative number of the poor augment-
ed, but their necessities are likewise increased, and a higher rate
of relief is required. It will tend to confirm these remarks to ob-
serve, that the rate of pauperism is highest among the manufactur-
ing or operative, as distinguished from the agricultural classes; the
improvement in the mode of living having been greatest with the
former. Thus in the year 1831, the manufacturing village of
Milngavie, containing 1162 of the 3090 inhabitants of the parish,
absorbed L. 76, 7s, 4d. of the whole expenditure, which, as already
stated, was L. 173, 9s, 11d. or, the population of Milngavie being
to the whole population of the parish as .37 to 1, the proportion
of pauperism is .44. If a similar increase of pauperism should be


