
18                         RENFREWSHIRE.

in the domains of Renfield, now usually called Blythswood, and
not far from Inchinan bridge, is the "Argyle stone."  The un-
fortunate Earl of Argyle, who made his descent on Scotland in
1685, had his troops scattered in Dumbartonshire,  crossed the
Clyd, and was pursuing his way towards Renfrew in disguise,
when, after fording the Gryfe, a little way beneath the present
Inchinan bridge, he was attacked by some militiamen, wounded,
and taken prisoner.  The Argyle stone was that on which he fell
or probably leant, on being wounded, and which was thus, as
tradition says, stained with his blood.  It is a large block of sand-
stone, weighing probably a couple of tons, and having perhaps some
red veins in it, which caused many so long to believe that it re-
tained the stain of the Earl's blood.  It is now enclosed and se-
cured against damage by the proprietor; while it is judiciously al-
lowed to mark the spot where the capture took place.
   Parochial Registers.-The parochial registers of this parish are
in all four,-the minutes of session, the registers of marriages, and
of births and baptisms, and the sessional cash-book.  The minutes
of session begin with an account of registers and other documents,
belonging to the session, which appear to have been lost during the
time of the latter persecution; or at least not to have been deliver-
ed to the session at the Revolution settlement.  This brief narra-
tive also details some, interesting particulars, respecting Mr Simp-
son, the outed minister, and his congregation, between the Restora-
tion and Revolution. *  From 1690 t0 1696, the minutes are com-
plete; but are wanting from the latter date on to 1731.  From
this, they are regularly kept down to the present time.  They extend
in all to five volumes.  The registers of births, baptisms, and mar-
riages.  They begin with memoranda from 1673, but form a re-
gular  record  from 1692 downwards, and are contained in four vo-
lumes.  The cash transactions of the session are recorded from 1732.
   Land-owners.-The principal the heritors in the parish are the In-
corporation of the burgh; Alexander Speirs, Esq. of Eldersly; Lord
Douglas; W. M. Alexander, Esq. and others, proprietors of Walk-

<FOOTNOTE>Mr. Patrick Simpson to have been an able, acceptable, and faithful minis-
ter.   He was outed in 1662 but continued to meet his people when allowed, down
to 1690, and was then restored.  On attaining the fiftieth year of his ministry, com-
munion cups were presented to him as a token of respect, and they are still used in the
parish church.  I have not yet been able to ascertain whether Professor Simpson, s0
well known in the history of the church as charged with heretical sentiments, was
the son Patrick, but I find that the Professor held a farm in this parish, and that
Patrick mention his son's having written certain documents for him, as if he lived
near to him.


