
148               Statistical Account

spring, the farmers with to get their bear earlier sown,
than in more southern or in less exposed situations, as the
cold nights, and frosty air of October have frequently injured
this grain of late years.  Barley is little cultivated, though
rather coming in; both in and the Chester bear will some-
times answer very well, when the summer is warm, though
not sown till near Whitsunday.  Turnips begin to be sown
after that is over, which thrive very well here, seldom mis-
give, on account of the fly and flugg, as they do in.  Eng-
land, and are universally down with the hand or a machine
in drills, and afterwards cleaned repeatedly with the com-
mon plough.  A good many potatoes, red cabbage, bori-
cole, and some yams for horses, are cultivated with success
in the same way:  These are reckoned a profitable crop, be-
sides preparing the ground for oats.  By this intermediate
produce, and the succeeding one, with the help of manure,
being very plentiful, the farmers reckon themselves greater
gainers than those who raise wheat at the expense of ex-
hausting their land, and losing a crop by sallow.

   Disadvantages.-The improvements in agriculture, and
the parish in general, lie under certain disadvantages, which
deserve to be mentioned.  there is neither lime nor marl
in the parish, and it is a great labour, and occupies a good
deal of the summer's work to bring them from pits or hills
at 4. 6, and even at 12 miles distance.  Another hindrance
to improvement, and a great disadvantages to the parish, is
the kind of fuel and the manner of obtaining it.  There are
few peats; turf is the principal firing.  These are none of
the best, tedious in casting, winning and leading, in wet sea-
sons very difficult to dry; and by the cultivation of waste
lands, the whins, divot and room, are almost worn out.
Thus, the poor householder, after all his fatigue, has some-
times nothing but his labour for his pains, and is obliged to
                                                          buy

