
                         SCONE.                            1049

        portion, was spent in almost constant conflicts with the Danes,
        does there seem to have been any ceremony of inauguration on
        the fatal stone; and the next notice of Scone is as the place at
        which Malcolm Ill., surnamed Canmore, was declared King
        on, according to the best authorities, the 25th of April 1057,
        the Festival of St Mark.  Of the immediate successors of
        Malcolm, Edgar, his son, is said to have been crowned at
        Scone, A. D. 1098. As already noticed, the transference
        of the religious house at Scone, from the Culdees to the
        Canons regular of St Augustine, is said to have taken place
        during the reign of Alexander I. in 1115. According to Keith,
        "the Canons regular of St Augustine were first brought to
        Scotland by Atelwolphus, Prior of St Oswald of Nostel, in York-
        shire, and afterwards Bishop of Carlisle, who established them at
        Scone at the desire of Alexander I. A writer (the author of
        Sconiana, Edin. 1807)) asserts, without quoting any authority,
        that "the Culdees led very profligate lives, and were dismissed
        by Alexander." Sir James Balfour, under the year 1114, has
        the following statement: "After the death of Edgar, his brother
        Alexander, surnamed Ferss, succidit him. Quhill he was a priut
        man, he had at his christening, by the donatione of hes vnckell,
        Donald Bane, Earle of Gowrey, the lands of Liffe and Innergow-
        rey, quher, in the first zeire of his raing, he began then to buld
        a staitly palace and castle, bot was interrupted bv the rebells of
        Meirnes and Murray, quho besett him in the night, and had
        doubtesley killed him, had not Alexander Carrone firmly carried
        the King save away *** and by a small boat saived themselve,
        to Fyffe and the south pairts of the kingdorn, where he raised ane
        armey, and marched against the forsaid rebells of Meirnes and
        Murray, quhome he totally overthrew and subdewed, for which
        great mercy and preservatione, in a thankful retribution to God,
        he foundit the monastarey of Scone; and too it gave hes first
        lands of Liffe and Innergowrey, in Ao 1114."
          This foundation of the monastery, in 1114,  may have paved the
        way for the dismission of the Culdees in the following year.  We
        have no means of ascertaining whether there was any connection
        between this step and the long contest in which Alexander was,
        engaged with the English archbisbops, on the subject of their as.-
        sumed authority over the Scottish church; but after Eadmor had
        been compelled to resign the bishoprick of  St Andrews, and his
        petition to be restored had been rejected by the King, we find




