
318                  ROXBURGHSHIRE.

majestic pile,--the monument of a period when Scotland vied
with its richer neighbours in the splendour of its architectural
edifices,--will long continue to be the ornament of the town and
district
  The form of the abbey is that of a Latin cross,--though, con-
trary to the general practice in buildings of that model, the head
of the cross is turned towards the west, and the longest limb is the
eastern.  The only parts of the building which are still tolerably
entire are,--the western limb (or head of the cross) which con-
tains, among other ornaments, a segment of a most magnificent
archway; the central tower rising over the intersection of the cross
of which the north and west sides remain entire; and the walls of
the transepts, with the northern entrance to them.  Of the choir,
which seems to have consisted when entire of three divisions,--a
centre aisle and two side aisles, all that remains is one of the walls
which upheld the main roof, and separated the main aisle from
the southern side aisle.  This wall consists of two arches with
their piers, and the superincumbent wall, which has within it
the thickness of two tiers of galleries, one over the other, and open
to the interior by an arcade of small round arches.
  The style of architecture is the Saxon ; nor would it be easy to
find better specimens, than occur, in the north and west fronts, of
the deep-splayed Saxon arch, with its numerous mouldings and
enrichments.  But the fabric cannot pretend, any more than the
other ecclesiastical edifices of Scotland, to perfect unity of style.
While the plain undecorated Saxon predominates, the Norman
and old English styles occasionally enter.  The interlacing semi-
circular arches, for instance, which range round the walls within
and without, and which furnish, it may be remarked, as perfect
specimens of this species of arch * as are to be found in the island,
obviously belong to the Norman style, as do likewise the two
arcades of small circular arches, springing from slender shafts,
which appear above the massive Saxon arches in the ruinous wall
of the choir; while the four spacious pointed arches in the centre
of the cross, upon which the lofty square tower or lantern--the
grandest part of the ruin--rests, are plainly of the early English
or Gothic style.  Of the general effect of the whole ruin, whether
as an architectural pile, or as an object in the landscape, no de-

<FOOTNOTE>It is acutely remarked by Pennant, in his description of this abbey, that the in-
tersection of these interlacing circular arches "forms a true Gothic arch, and may
as probably have given rise to that mode as the arched shades of avenues."


