
344                             LANARKSHIRE.

to decay, and finally dies at a premature old age. This melancholy
spectacle is but too common in this parish. Several plantations
on the higher grounds and lighter soils are fast dying out, and
ere long must totally disappear,--an evil which might have been
avoided if, instead of the fir, had been planted the larch, and the
many other kinds of trees which might have been found better suit-
ed to the soil.
			II.-- CIVIL HISTORY.
	Parochial Reqisters.--The oldest register bears date 1700.
The sederunts of session are recorded continuously from that date
down to the present time; but there is no record of births, bap-
tisms, marriages, or deaths, from 1721 to 1737. For this blank
no cause can now be assigned. The whole sessional accounts and
records are contained in five books or volumes. During the in-
cumbency of the Rev. Mr Forrester, ordained in 1700, these do-
cuments seem to have been kept with considerable care; but ge-
nerally speaking, afterwards, very little attention has been bestow-
ed upon them.
	Land-owners.*--Besides Mr White, farmer in Shaw, who jointly
with another person has lately purchased that farm, the land-
owners are the following: David Dickson, Esq. of Hartree and
Kilbucho; Robert Granbery Baillie, Esq. of Culterallers; Adam
Sim, Esq. of Cultermains; William Bertram, Esq. of Nisbet;
Robert Paterson, Esq. of Birthwood, and Robert Bruce Camp-
bell, Esq. of Cornhill. With the exception of Mr Bertram, the
whole of these reside on their respective properties and for the
most part during the whole year.
	Eminent men.--Anthony Murray, minister of the parish dur-
ing the religious persecutions of Charles II. is mentioned by tbt-
historians of these times in terms of the highest commendation.
He belonged to the suffering party, and seems to have been a lead-
ing man. It appears from Wodrow that he was related to the

<FOOTNOTE>The following extract from Chalmers' Caledonia throws some light on the pro-
prietorship of the parish in ancient times. "During the reign of David II. the half
of the barony of Culter was held by Walter Byset of the King in capite, and Byset
stated that it had been so held by his ancestors. In 1367, Walter Byset granted to
William Newbiggin of Dunsyre, all his lands in the barony of Culter except the
lands of Nisbet; and he also granted the patronage of the church with these lands, to
be held by Newbiggin and his son David, of the King. In 1367, Sir Archibald Dou-
glas the Lord Galloway obtained, on the resignation of Walter Byset of Clerking-
ton, a charter of the lands of Clerkington in Edinburghshire, and the half of the
barony of Culter in Lanarkshire. On the 10th of December 1449, William Earl
of Douglas obtained a charter of the half of the land near the parish church of Cul-
ter, and of the advowson of the same church. The right of these was forfeited by
his successor James Earl of Douglas in, 1455."

				3


