
     Statistical Account

lithgow measure), which is rather more than four Winchester
bushels.  The farmers generally bring up the raw lime stones,
and burn them on their lands.

   Inclosures.-The glebe of Alloa was one of the first inclo-
lures of the parish, which was executed by the present incum-
bent in 1761.  It is a light, but fertile soil.  It had been so
much neglected, that it then produced nothing but wild mu-
stard*, and innumerable weeds.  After inclosing and laying it
down in clover, the crop was sold green for upwards of 8 L.
per acre.  Some few people near the town followed the mini-
ster's example, and with good success.  Upwards of 7 guineas
per acre were got for the clover crop of 4 acres of the glebe,
in 1791.

   Farms.-There are various opinions concerning the size of
farms.  In general, small farms are reckoned most advantage-
ous for the country; but it is seldom that any definition of a
large or small farm is given.  They are commonly stated by
the rents; whereas the number of acres, capable of being cul-
tivated to advantage, should be specified+.  People, in gene-

<FOOTNOTE>

*It is a curious fact, that, in some of Mr. ERSKINE'S old rentals, among
the different grains paid by the tenants, a small quantity of mustard seed is men-
tioned, though the cultivation of it here is now totally unknown.
   +Some years ago, the late Mr. WEDDERBURN of St. Germains, in East Lo-
thi an, published an ingenious and sensible pamphlet, on this most important que-
stion, "What proportion of the produce of arable land ought to be paid as rent
"to the landlord?" A book deferving the attention of every landholder and
tenant in the kingdom, as the knowledge of it would greatly tend to their
mutual benefit.  Mr. Wedderburn states, that a farm of 120 Scotch = 152
English acres of good land, is such an one as will enable a man to bring up a
useful family with credit and comfort.  Double that quantity of ground, he
calls a middle sized farm; and three times the size, (360 Scotch = 457 English


