
156                          LANARKSHIRE.

ful, they must dip deeper into the pure science of morals, economy,
and politics, which they can only accomplish by reading less of the
base and selfish ravings of a particular description of the periodi-
cal press; and more of those solid works which calmly, deliberate-
ly, and honestly, treat of the great principles of human nature, and
the essential conventional laws of human society. Great improve-
ment has taken place during the last fifty years in the manners,
habits, and intelligence of the middle classes, and there is nothing
in the moral or physical circumstances of the working-classes to
prevent their making a similar progress, and to their attaining as
high a point in the scale of intelligence and moral worth. Even
now we find many who have attained both, though in the humblest
ranks. Amidst their labours they have quite as much time for
reading as tile generality of men in the middle classes, and it
wants but a resolution, a fashion among them, to lead to the
happy results.
	It is the duty, as it is the interest, of all masters, and all minis-
ters of religion, and of all good men who are worthy the appella-
tion, to promote within their own sphere, by kindly, free, and fre-
quent discourse, as well as by pecuniary arrangement, the consum-
mation and progress of this most desirable object. *

<FOOTNOTE>The following note is from the history of the cotton manufacture of Great Bri-
tain, just published, by Mr Edward Baines Jun. of Leeds, a work distinguished for
great talent and research,--a work which contains more useful information respect-
ing the cotton trade than is to be found in any other,--a work which should be in
the hands of all those who desire a knowledge of that trade which has tended to raise
their country so high in the scale of nations.
	" The cotton manufacture of England presents a spectacle unparalleled in the annals
of industry, whether we regard the suddenness of its growth, the magnitude which it
has attained, or the wonderful inventions to which its progress is to be ascribed.
Within the memory of many now living, those machines have been brought into use
which have made so great a revolution in manufactures, as the art of printing effect-
ed in literature. Within the same period, the cotton manufacture of this country has
sprung up from insignificance, and has attained a greater extent than the manufac-
tures of wool and linen combined, though these have existed for centuries,"
        "Sixty years since, our manufacturers consumed little more than THREE MILLION POUNDS
of raw cotton annually, the annual consumption is now TWO HUNDRED AND EIGHTY
MILLION POUNDS. ln l750, the county of Lancaster, the chief seat of the trade, had a po-
pulation of only 297,400, in 1831, the number of its inhabitants had swelled to
1,336,854. A similar increase has taken place in Lanarkshire, the principal seat of
the manufacture in Scotland. The families supported by this branch of industry are
estimated to comprise A MILLION AND A-HALF of individuals; and the goods produced,
not only furnish a large part of the clothing consumed in this kingdom, but supply
nearly one-half of the immense export trade of Britain, find their way into all the
markets of the world, and are even destroying in the Indian market, the competition
and the ancient manufacture of India itself, the native country of the raw material,
and the earliest seat of the art."
	"The causes of this unexampled extension of manufacturing industry are to be
found in a series of splendid inventions and discoveries, by the combined effect of
which, a spinner now produces as much yarn in a day, as by the old processes he
could have  produced in a year, and cloth which formerly required six or eight months
to blench, is now bleached in a few hours."


