
                SANDSTING AND AITHSTING.                   105

from 40&deg;  to 45&deg;. In several places, the quartz is decidedly unstra-,
tified, and yields to blows of the hammer equally in various direc-
tions; but whether stratified or unstratified, it is resolved by other
seams into polyedrous masses of various magnitudes.
   At the north voe of Clousta, there occurs, resting on the quartz,
a small roundish conglomerated mass of granite, felspar, and
quartz, scarcely, perhaps, more than 150 yards in diameter; a
gradual transition of one rock into the other being observable at
the junction. A few of the conglomerate strata next to those of
the quartz, range at a common angle of 45&deg;. But crossing the
strata for a few yards only, they gradually acquire an inclination
with the horizon of only 10&deg; and maintaining this position, they
are terminated. Now, there is every reason to suppose, that the
lower edges of the strata of the conglomerate rock are in contact
with the surface formed by the upper edges of quartz. This
change of inclination, therefore, from 45&deg; to 10&deg; can be satisfac-
torily accounted for, on the supposition that the strata had acquir-
ed an addition of new matter in their descent, which may either
consist in an increased thickness of the strata, or in an accession
of new strata. It is thus that the increased accumulation of mat-
ter which the strata may possibly have received in proportion
to their depth, would produce an elevation of the uppermost
strata.
   The quartz rock of Aithsting passes into the granite rock of
Sandsting, at the bead of Bixter-voe, by gradually losing its homo-
geneous appearance, and by its ingredients being interspersed
in a distinct form of larger grains or concretions, until the rock
is at length wholly composed of semicrystalline portions of quartz
and felspar. Occasionally, however, an alternation takes place of
the two rocks. To the north of Bixter-voe, the quartz rock is
contiguous to gneiss; but the junction is, for the most part, much
concealed by a deep moss. At Braganess, (to the north-west of
Aithsness,) the line of demarcation between the two rocks is per-
fectly complete, no transition taking place.
   The quartz rock is elevated into numerous irregular ridges, hot
above 600 or 700 feet high, running from east to west, and ioter-
sected by valleys.
   Much of the surface of the quartz rock is concealed by a deep
peat moss; but everywhere, a great display of bog iron is presented.
   The strata of gneiss which, from the island of Papa Little along
the north coast of Aithsting, for a distance of upwards of five


