
74                  KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

himself. She continues to feed, him, and to treat him as her
bantling after he is ten times her own size, and, although so much
his inferior in strength and speed, does what she can to keep up
with him in his rapid and extensive flights, nor quits him till he
is just about to set off on his foreign travels. The "gowk," there-
fore, is the young cuckoo, and the "titling" is the bird that
hatched him. Many people imagine they have never seen the
cuckoo, from their confounding it with a species of hawk which
it much resembles,--an imagination countenanced by the cele-
brated line of the poet,
     "O cuckoo, shall I call thee bird, or but a wandering voice;"
and by the note appended to it, in which he affirms that, although
"the cuckoo is almost perpetually heard throughout the season
of spring, it seldom becomes an object of sight."* The raven, the
hooded-crow, the carrion crow, and the rook, are all found in the
parish.
      To such gentlemen as wish to form rookeries around their man-
sion-houses, I may suggest Ian which I have recently tried
myself, and found to be attended with complete success. A rook-
ery having having been long established in the neigbbourhood, I bad ex-
pected, as there are some fine tall old trees about the manse, that
the rooks would extend their settlement to my premises; but year
after year passed, and still they declined doing so. I therefore
caused two nests, having each four strong young crows, to be
brought from the rookery and fixed on one of the highest of my
own trees. The old birds immediately found them out, and con-
tinued to feed then till they were full-fledged. I observed the
rooks return to the transported nests at certain periods during the
winter, and linger about them for a few days, to ascertain, appa-
rently, whether they continued fit for future use, and to repair the
injuries done by the weather. In March, I had the satisfaction
to see eighteen nests clustered round the tree on which the decoys
had been fastened. A rookery may be formed at any distance in
this way, provided the nests are, not too far removed at a time.
They should be shifted by successive stages, and permitted to re-
main a day or two at each place. The old ones will feed the
young, even although the nest be put upon the ground ; but
by fixing it at each resting-place upon a tree, the success of the
xperiment will be more certain. In the first stanza of "The
Cherry and the Slae," the nightingale is mentioned, along with
the "goldspink" (goldfinch,) as saluting May from the "balmy

<FOOTNOTE>Wordsworth's Works, Yol. i. p. 26, pref.



