
     Of St. Vigeans.

as follows:  The west end of it borders on the sea for about
3 miles from the town of Arbroath, to about a quarter of a
mile beyond the fisher town of Auchmithy.  For about a mile
east of Arbroath, the coast is flat, with a sandy beach; but
within flood-mark, the bottom consists of ribbed rocks, visi-
ble only at low water.  At the end of this extended plain,
the coast rises abruptly, and becomes high, bold, and rocky,
being the western extremity of the rubrum promontorium, or 
Red Head, which extends to about 3 miles beyond the limits
of the parish.  From the point beyond Auchmithy, to the N.
W. corner of the parish, the length is about 7 miles, border-
ing for about 6 miles on the parish of Inverkeillor, and 1
mile on the parish of Carmylie.  From the N. W. point to
the S. W. corner, it is about 3 miles along the confines of
the last mentioned parish.  From the S. W. point to the E.,
the length is about 3 miles, lying on the N. side of the parish
of Arbirlot, and a part of the country parish of Arbroath.
But this last line is not so regular as those on the other sides*.
   The parish, properly so called, is divided into nearly 2
equal parts, E. and W., by the small river Brothock.  The
E. side is by far the best soil, and the most favourable cli-
mate, and consequently the most fruitful.  From the river
Brothock, the ground rises gently for a mile towards the E.,
to the top of a hill called Dirkmountlaw, and afterward
slopes in the same gradual manner towards the sea, where the
coast is about 100 feet above the level of the water.  On the

<FOOTNOTE>

*Besides the extent comprehended within the above limits, there are a
estates entirely detached from this part of the parish, and also from one another.
One called Hospitalfield, so called from being the place where the hospital for
the sick of the Abbey of Arbroath stood, lying a mile W. from the burgh, and
divided from this parish by the burgh roads of said town.  The other estate,
called Inverpeffor, lies about 4 miles from St. Vigeans, was formerly the seat
of the Fletchers, now of salten, and purchased by the family of Panmuir some-
time in the last century.


