
     Of Forgue.

ing those that are grown.  There are about 1000 sheep, most
of them in the southern part of the parish, of the small kind
owing to the peculiar nature of the pasture.  Some of the
English breed, and of a cross breed from them, have been
introduced, and are pastured upon sown grass.  The farmers
are uncommonly attentive to the breed of horses.  They sell
at 20 L. 25 L., and even some of them bring, in the market,
30 L. and upwards.  Cows bred here, have been sold from 8 L.
to 10 L.; oxen at 16 L.:  but the common prices are greatly
below there sums.  Small sized cows sell from 4 L. to 5 L.;
and oxen from 6 L. to 10 L.  The farms are of various sizes,
from 200 acres downwards; and some of these are almost
wholly enclosed, either with stone fences or hedges; and sub-
divided with hedges, The rent varies, according to circum-
stances, from 1 L. 10 s. to 2 s. 6 d. the acre.  Many of our
farm-houses are neat, commodious, and of the modern cast,
and covered with slate.  The highest rent in the parish is
110 L. Sterling.  The valued rent of the parish is 3936 L. 6 s.
8 d. Scots.  The real rent may amount to about 2500 L. Ster-
ling.  There are 14 proprietors or heritors belonging to the
parish; 4 of them reside in it, and one of them occasionally.
Most of them have given evident marks of their taste for
plantations and improvements.  The face of the country here,
is variegated and beautiful.  The proprietors and their te-
nants, in general, extremely active in improving their lands,
in planting their waste grounds, and in covering the rugged
appearance of the barren soil, with various kinds of wood.
   On the property of Mr. Morison of Bognie, there are
many thriving plantations of trees and natural wood.  Upon
hills and wade ground, there are 10 different enclosures, con-
taining about 300 acres, covered with various kinds of fir,
and hard wood interspersed, where the soil admits.  Near to
Frendraught house, and upon an out-farm, occupied by the

     N n 2


