
     Statistical Account

   On the south side of Loch Brora, there is a hill called
Craig Bar, fortified with a ditch of circumvallation.  It is a steep
and rocky precipice, every way unaccessible, but by a narrow
neck of land between it and a neighbouring hill.  It contains
about 8 acres of land, and could be easily defended against
any number of assailants.  It has probably taken its name
from some captain of the name of Bar, who possessed it as a
strong hold.  There are several Pictish buildings on each side
of the loch, forming a communication from the coast to the
northern side of the peninsula.  One village on the north
side of the loch bears the name of the famous Icolumkill,
for it is called Kilchalumkill, it seems to have been a conse-
crated place of interment, and to have derived its name from
some saint or hero buried in it.  In digging some ground at
that place a cemetery was found, that contained large human
bones, upon which a stop was put to the digging there.  At
some little distance from it, a year or two ago, a gentleman
making out part of the high road, found a stone cross, which
was immediately erected in the place where it was found, and
is still to be seen there.  There is another kill or cell on the
same side of the loch, called Killean, which implies that it
was the burying place of John; there are also two other
places above the loch called Killpheader, or the burying
ground of Peter; the word kill or cell in the Celtic language
signifying a narrow place or the grave.  Most of the plains in

<FOOTNOTE>

breaks out, and had made such progress in the work, that the
islanders were obliged to take to their boats in the night-time,
to accomplish their escape; but, being pursued, they would have
all perished, had it not been for the seasonable assistance of the
Clan Gun, who had marched from Strathulie upon hearing of
the danger of their countrymen.  The Caithness men, in conse-
quence of this assistance, met with a total defeat; and the part
of the river, or loch, at which they had been employed, retains
to this day the name of Daman or Davan, which signifies a dam.


