
     of Kilwinning.

of GOD, in Scotland, was, in a great measure, laid aside, or
could with the greatest difficulty be performed, on account of
the noise of the hammers and trowels, which were employed
in erecting monasteries and other religious houses.  It was
during this period that a number of masons came from the
Continent to build this monastery, and with them an architect
or master mason, to superintend and carry on the work.  This
architect resided at Kilwinning; and being a gude and true
mason, intimately acquainted with all the parts of masonry
known on the Continent, was chosen master of the meetings
of the brethren all over Scotland.  He gave rules for the con-
duct of the brethren at there meetings, and decided finally in
appeals from all the other meetings or lodges in Scotland.
From this time, down to the 15th century, very little of ma-
sonry can be known, with any degree of certainty; only it is
said, that at Kilwinning the head meeting of the brethren was
held.  King James I.  of Scotland, eminently distinguished
for his knowledge and taste in polite literature, and in the fine
arts, not long after his return from England, patronized the
mother lodge of Kilwinning; and presided as grand master,
till he settled an annual salary, to be paid by every master
mason of Scotland, to a grand master, chosen by the brethren,
and approved by the crown.  This grand master was to be
nobly born, or a clergyman of high rank and character.  He
had his deputies in the different counties and towns of Scot-
land.  Every new brother paid him a fee at entrance.  As

     Y2

<FOOTNOTE>

annual amount would be at least 20 000 L. Sterling!  This supposition to
be pretty well founded, from the following number of churches, which are well
known to have held of it: Kilwanning, Irvine, Kiltmarnock, Loudon, or New
Mills, Ardrossan, Kilbirney, Kilbride, Beith, Dunlop, Dreghorn, Dalry, Ste-
venstown, and Stewartown, (all these churches are in Cunninghame); Kilma-
ronock and Dumbarton, in Dumbartonshire; South and North Knapdale, in
the shire of Argyll; and Kilmory and Kilbride, in the island of Arran.


