
                          FALKIRK.                           19

extent, as to employ 170 persons, who are paid according to the
quantity of work they perform. They earn on an average L.1,5s.
per week each.
  Quarries.-There are seven freestone quarries working at pre-
sent on a line near the middle of the parish, as far as Castlecary,
for furnishing stones for the railroad and viaducts connected there-
with. In these quarries about 160 men are employed. There is
also a whinstone quarry opened, for furnishing blocks for the rail-
way, in which thirty men are employed. The weekly wages are
from 15s. to L.1, 1s.
  Brick and Tile-Works.-There are three of these in the parish.
The largest is at Lock No. 3, on the south bank of the Forth
and Clyde Canal. It belongs to the Earl of Zetland, who carries
on the work under the direction of a manager, and employs about
a dozen of men. The average weekly wages are 16s. A steam-
engine of six horse power, for grinding clay, was lately erected
here, being an improvement in the process of brick-making. The
other two brick and tile works are about a mile west from the
above, and also adjoin the canal. The one employs fourteen men,
and the other ten. Average wages, 14s. per week.
  Saw-Mills.-Of these there are three. One at Castlecary
employs sixteen men, another at Bonnyside, fourteen. The weekly
wages are from 14s. to 18s. The saws used in both are circular,
driven by water, and cut up wood for staves, packing-boxes, lath,
roofing, an d joisting. Formerly they were corn-mills. The other
is upon a large scale, and is situated on the north bank of the
canal, betwixt Bainsford and Grangemouth. It is constructed on
the principle of Macdowall's patent, and is wrought by three steam-
engines of eighteen, twenty, and forty horses' power. The saws used
are both upright and circular, and cut for general purposes wood
of any length or diameter. About fifteen men and boys are ge-
nerally employed at from 6s. to L.1, 5s. of weekly wages.
   Wood Yards.-There are four wood-yards in the parish. Taken
together, ten pairs of sawyers are employed, who use the frame-saw
for cutting up the wood. They are paid by the foot.
   Pyroligneous Acid Works.-In Grahamston, there are two esta
blishments for distilling wood. In one of them, the distillation is.
used in making iron-liquor for printfields, and in the other for
making vinegar.
   Corn-Mills.-Of these there are six, four of which are driven


