
                               PERTH.                        15

   may be arranged under the heads of, Ist, the Absolute Humidity
   of the air; 2d, its Belative Humidity; and 3dly, the Temperature
   to which the air must be reduced, before the moisture which it
   contains begins to assume the liquid form, or the state of visible
   vapour.  As the subject of atmospheric humidity is still, notwith-
   standing its greatimpottance, very imperfectly understood, we shall,
   before giving the results of our observations, endeavour to lay be-
   fore the general reader a brief explanation of the several points,
   to be determined by hygrometrical observations.
      For that purpose, we may begin with stating that the quantity
   of moisture which can exist in a given volume of air, or in any
   other substance having an affinity for moisture, is regulated, and-
   limited almost entirely by temperature.  Thus when air is per-
   fectly damp, or saturated with moisture, 7320 cubic inches of it
   are capable of holding in the vaporous state, the subjoined quanti-
   ties of moisture, at the temperatures to which they are annexed:
   At 32/d1 it can contain I grain ; at 53/d1 2d. ; at 66/d1 4d.; at 75/d1
   8 do.; 83 1/2/d 16 do.; at 89/d1 32 do.  Hence it appears, that the
   quantity of moisture capable of being held in a vaporous state, by
   a given volume of air, increases in a faster ratio than the tempera-
   ture,-a state of things which enables us to explain a great num-
   ber of meteorological phenomena connected with the humidity of
   the atmosphere. Thus it affords a simple and satisfactory ex-
   planation of the reason why the intermixture of different strata of
   air, by means of mountains, electrical action, or any other phy-
   sical cause, is usually followed b a cloudy atmosphere, and not
   frequently by rain.  It accounts for the increasing dampness of,
   the evening air; explains the cause of the copious rains Which
   fall in tropical climates ; and the reason of the rapid, progress that
   is produced in vegetation by a slight increase of temperature, in
   consequence of the still greater increase of atmospheric humidity.
      The absolute b umidity of the air being the quantity of moisture
   which a given volume of it actually contains, it is quite unnces-
   sary to add anything to what, has been, briefly stated on this bead,
   farther than simply to repeat, that it can never exceed a precise
   and determinate quantity, at a given temperature however long
   the air might rernain',over water;  but the relative, humidity is of
   a variable nature, and depends fally as much upon temperature
   as upon the presence of moisture.  To render the meaning of the
   expressions perfectly  clear, we shall assume a particular case, and



