
       320                             PERTHSHIRE.

       man, who was one of the attendants of Edgar Atheling, Prince of
       England, and his sisters, Margaret and Christian, when, in 1068,
       they took refuge in Scotland, to avoid the insidiour designs of
       William the Conqueror; and who, upon Margaret's elevation to
       the Scottish throne, was, for his eminent services to the royal fu-
       gitives, rewarded with a grant of lands, and distinguished by the
       name of Drummond. * After a continued succession in the l`le
       line from Maurice the founder, through twenty-five generations,
       the estate of Perth and representation of the house of Drummond
       devolved upon the Honourable Clementina Sarah Drummond, the
       only survivor of her father, James Lord Perth.
          In 1807, this lady was married to the Honourable Peter Ro-
       bert Burrell, eldest son of Lord Gwydir, who succeeded his father
       as Baron Gwydir, 1820, and his mother as Baron Willoughby de
       Eresby, 1828; and thus the estate of Perth, and the representa-
       tion of the house of Drummond, belong now to the Right Ho-
       nourable Lord and Lady Willoughby de Eresby, who, with their
       family, are not more distinguished by their rank, than by their
       kindness and liberality to all around them.  Their residence is
       Drummond Castle, when in this country, which merits some at-
       tention.  It stands at the foot of Torlum, in the western part of
       the vale of Strathearn, and has a site of considerable elevation,
       rising gradu`lly from the public road.  It was built in 1490, by
       John first Lord Drummond, one every way distinguished both for
       his virtues and his illustrious deeds.  Some writings of his, which
       reflect honour upon him, may be found in the genealogical account
       already referrdd to.
          The building now exhibits all the appearance of having suffered
       from the hand of time and from violence.  Tradition says, that
       it was besieged, taken, and garrisoned by Cromwell's army; and
       that, at the Revolution of 1689, it was demolished, with the ex-
       ception of some fragments, which are still standing.  The south
       wing was fitted up for a library by the late Lord Perth, but is
       now an armoury.  Respect is paid by the present family to the
       abode of their ancestors, for some repairs were made last summer
       upon the old walls, to preserve their ruins from further destruction.

       <FOOTNOTE>An interpretation is given of this word by an ancestor of the family as follows
       Drum signifies a height--onde, a wave; hence the name Drummond was given to
       Maurice, to exports how gallantly he conducted through the swelling waves the ship
       in which the royal fugitives had embarked for Hungary, when they were forced, by
       stress of weather upon the Scottish coast, where they were received by Malcolm with
       royal munificence.


