
     of Kinnettles.

reside; and 1 of these yields the highest rent.  The circum-
stance of non-residence on these farms diminishes consider-
ably the number of this class.  The number of heritors is
5, and 2 of them reside.  The number of manufacturers
is 58; of handicraftsmen, 20; apprentices, 6. Household
servants are 5 male, 16 female.  There are 76 labouring
servants, 51 male, 25 female; here I have marked only
hired servants.  With most of our farmers, the sons and
daughters of the family supply, in a considerable degree,
the place of servants.  There is 1 artist employed in con-
ducting a flax-yarn mill.  Labouring servants often go
from one parish to another.  We have 2 residing heritors,
Mr Douglas of Brigton, and Mr Bower of Kinnettles,
of Kincaldrum.  Their families consist of 25 persons, exclu-
sive of domestic servants.  Lord Strathmore is one of the
heritors, but has no mansion-house here; also Mr Simson
of Inverighty, who has a mansion-house here, but resides
in Edinburgh.  There is 1 clergyman, 26 Episcopalians, 5
Roman Catholics, 1 Seceder, 589 of the Established Church,
93 married men, 45 bachelors at the age of 21, widowers,
12; marriages, upon an average, may produce 5 14/13.  There
is no account of any having died of want.  No recollec-
tion of murders or suicides, except one suicide committed
by a woman about 20 years since*.  Very few have emi-

     VOL. IX. C c

<FOOTNOTE>

*We have bands of sturdy beggars, male and female or, as they are
usually called, tinkers; whose insolence, idleness, and dishonesty, are an
affront to the police of our country.  These persons are ready for prey of
all kinds.  Every thing that can supply them with provisions, or bring
them money, is their spoil, if it can be obtained with any appearance of
safety.  They file off in small parties, and have their places or rendezvous,
where they choose to billet themselves at least for one day; nor do they
fail generally to make good their quarters, as the farmer is afraid to re-
fuse to answer their demands, or to complain of the oppression under
which he labours.


