
122                     STIRLINGSHIRE.

ries, is still in good condition, is opposite and near to Bankier;
and the Fair-fort, it seems not unreasonable to conclude, once stood
there to guard the terra invicia of Scotland.
  The only other antiquity in the parish is that mentioned in the his-
tory of Stirlingshire. " In digging at Woodgate, (Woodyet), on the
Carron, for the foundation of the newly built house, there, (now cal-
led Headswood Cottage,) a rude stone coffin, made of flags, about
two-thirds of the ordinary length, placed nearly perpendicular, and
containing the bones of an adult person, was found. It is dated, as we
have learned, 1301." The stone is placed in the lobby of the cot-
tage, and is seen by every one who enters it. Some of the bones
found were, for a while, in the manse of Denny. They are suppos-
ed to be the bones of some distinguished person, who fell in con-
nection with the invasion of Edward 1. in 1298.
  Modern Buildings.--The parish church, built in 1813, is the
principal modern building. Next in point of date, is the church
built at Denny Lonebead, for members of the United Seces-
sion. These two churches are very much alike in external ap-
pearance and interior arrangement. They are nearly the same
in size, the latter having only about 40 sittings fewer than the
Established Church. The parish church has a turretted steeple,
about 75 feet in height, which was erected at the east end of the
church by voluntary subscription, chiefly of churchmen. Hag's
Church, opened 19th July 1840, and built by voluntary subscrip-
tion, is the neatest church in the parish, and has about 700 sittings.
   There is a decent place of worship in Denny, of a square form,
belonging formerly to the Burghers, but now to the United Asso-
ciate Synod Members.  It contains nearly 200 fewer sittings than
any of the other two. There are various modern buildings, in all
parts of the parish, erected since this century commenced. Two-
thirds and more of the present town of Denny have been built with-
in that space. The houses are generally of two stories, with garrets,
slated roof of blue slates, and finished with sashed windows, &c.
Around Denny, and also in the village of Hags and its vicinity,
there are different neat cottages as well as some houses of two
stories. The most remarkable erection at Hags is a handsome row
of collier cottages, amounting to twelve in number, terminated on
the east with a large building as,   store for the workers at the col-
liery. These were built in 1836. A manifest improvement is
taking place in the farm-steadings on the estate, of Herbert-
shire. The smaller proprietors have done much, within. these


