
                             CRAIGNISH.                       59


the minister and elders for pious purposes in 1751, by John Camp-
bell, Esq., youngest son of George Campbell, Esq. of Craignish.
The late Major-General John Campbell of Barbreck left in 1795,
the sum of L.60, the interest of which is annually distributed by
the kirk-session among the poor on that estate. In 1835, a sum
of upwards of L.60 was invested by Colin Campbell, Esq. Jura,
in a share of the Edinburgh Old Gas Light Company, the pro-
ceeds of which are to be distributed among the paupers on the
Castle Craignish estate, and should there be none on that property,
among the poor of the parish at large. A right to send a patient
to the Glasgow Infirmary has also been generously conferred by
same gentleman on the kirk-session.
  Stipend.-The stipend is 118 bolls 3 firlots of oatmeal, and
L.10, 7s. 3s. in money, together with L,48, 6s. 6d. allowed by
Government out of the bishops' rents.
  The mause stands on a rising-ground a little to the west of the
church, and is nearly surrounded with trees. Together with offices
and garden wall, it was built in 1834, and is a comfortable and
commodious building.
   The glebe is about 15 acres in extent. Having been much
improved by the last incumbent, it may be valued at L.17 per
annum.
   Education.-There is one parochial school. It is situated near
the church. In the north end of the parish there is a small school
taught on the teacher's own adventure. The branches commonly
taught in both, are English and Gaelic reading, writing, arith-
metic, and bookkeeping. Latin is occasionally taught in the
parochial school, The parochial teacher enjoys the legal accom-
modations. His salary is the minimum, and the average joint
amount of his salary and school fees is L.53. The amoun t of
fees received by the other teacher is L.10.
   The number of persons above fifteen years of age who are illi-
terate is now about 60.
   Poor and Parochial Funds,-The average number of persons
receiving parochial aid is 15. The annual amount of church col-
lections for their relief is L.12; from legacies, fines, &c. L.12.
The laudable desire of independence was till lately, happily pre-
valent, and few persons sought parochial relief until compelled by
imperious necessity.
   Inns.-There are three public-houses in the parish; but they


