
     Of Saddel and Skipness.

earthen sences, formerly used as folds for thier cattle, when
teathing, rest, and watering were the only means of im-
provement.  The two last are still used, but the former is
given up, as being supposed prejudicial to the milk cows.
As a great part of the parish has not yet been measured, it is
impossible to ascertain with any precision, the number of
acres, or the proportion between arable and pasture; but the 
length and breadth being given, a tolerable calculation may
be made of the superficial contents of the whole parish.
   There are 94 merk-lands in the parish.  A merk-land is
supposed to be as much as one plough can manage.  But, in 
a Highland country, it is evident this division must be very
vague, and of very different value, according to the difference 
of the soil, and the proportion of arable and grass contained
in it*.

     Population.-According to Dr. Webster's report, the po-

<FOOTNOTE>

*The origin of this denomination of lands is, by some referred to a very
distant era, and classed with the famous Alpinian laws.  It is now little
consequence, being neither uniform nor universal.  I know nothing regulated
by it, except perhaps, cess, teinds, and some other burdens.  The rent
is fixed by a surer rule, the number of bolls sowing, and soums of cattle of all
kinds it will maintain.  One cow makes a soum, a horse two; ten sheep (and in 
some place fewer) are considered as a soum.  It is evident, that in a country
like this, so infinitely diversified as to the proportions as well as quality of both
arable and grass in every farm, with the accidental variations of stock arising
from the rise and fall of markets, and the consequent preference of one kind of
stock to another, which so frequently happens, no certain account can be given
of the total amount of stock in the parish, neither could it answer any valuable
purpose, and by some, might be considered as an invidious inquiry.  Let it suf-
ice to observe, that the average stock of a merk-land is 4 horses, 12 milk cows,
with their followers, and 40 sheep, with theirs.  The average of sowing is, 15
bolls oats, 1 boll bear, 4 bolls potatoes.  From this calculation, however, which
is applicable only to such farms as are in the hands of common tenants, must be
excepted, such lands as are in the natural possession of the properties, and un-
der proper cultivation, and some others under stocks of sheep and black cattle.


