
                            TURRIFF.                            987

cellent sport to the angler, and is much resorted to by the school-
boy and several of the more aged inhabitants, who show astonishing
dexterity in an art which, in their early days, had been a favourite
recreation.  At one time, the salmon-fishing in this parish was of
considerable value; but, owing to the indefatigable exertions of
the fishermen at the river mouth, and the difficulty of escape by
the construction of the cruive dikes, the fishing is not now prose-
cuted to any extent or advantage.
   Plantations.-There are nearly 3000 imperial acres under wood,
700 of which have been planted within the last thirty years.  The
trees most generally planted, are, larch, spruce, Scotch firs, and
alders, intermixed with several kinds of hard-wood; as beecb, oak,
elm, ash, &c.; while around the more ancient seats of the pro-
prietors, there are some fine old planes, horse-cbestnuts, and elms
of great height and beauty.  At present, there prevails among
the different heritors, a great taste for planting; and there can be
no doubt, from the congeniality of the soil, and its adaptation for
the various species of trees, as proved by their rapidity of growth,
and the thriving condition of the wood, with the judicious situa-
tions chosen for planting, that, in the course of a few years, the
face of the parish will assume a very different aspect, that the
soil and climate will be most materially improved, and the interest
of the proprietors most essentially advanced.  In regard to ma-
nagement, it is pleasing to observe that greater attention is being
paid to the mode of planting at first, and to regular thinning af-
terwards than formerly was the case; that the plants are not so
much crowded on each other; that those of an inferior or of a
less healthy kind are carefully removed in due time; and that the
pruning-knife is freely applied when necessary, and the ground
always properly protected from the inroads of cattle.

                      II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Antiquities.-From the absence of historical documents, it is
impossible to say when the town of Turriff was founded; but it is
evidently a place of considerable antiquity, and had been of some
note in a former age.  "It is highly probable," as mentioned in
the last Statistical Report, "that Lathmon, the Pictish prince,
whom Ossian celebrates, had his seat in this parish.  Not only
do Laithers and Dorlaithers bear a strong resemblance to Lath-
mon and Dunlathmon, but the landscape drawn by nature ex-
actly corresponds with the description of the poet.  We may ob-
serve, on the bank of the river, 'the green dwelling of Lathmon.'


