
742			AYRSHIRE.

feet in height, and is placed upon the altar. A huge bonfire is
kindled, and many of the inhabitants, old and young, men and
women, assemble on the hill and remain for hours, apparently
chiefly occupied with observing a feat performed by the youths,
who are to be seen leaping with indefatigable zeal upon the altar
or turf wall, inclosing the ashes of former fires, and supporting the
present one. It appears from sacred Scripture, that the worship
of Baal consisted in part of leaping upon his altar; "And they
leaped upon the altar which was made." (I Kings, xviii. 26).
Though our translators, following, as regards pronunciation, the
guidance of what is now well known to have been a comparatively
recent contrivance, the Rabbinical or Masoretic points, have writ
ten the name of the false god so worshipped Baal, yet the name
given to him in the original is Bol. So that Tor or Tar or Thor-
Bol-ton or town, is the town at Baal's hill, i. e. the town at the
hill where Baal was worshipped.
	Topographical Appearance.--The parish is characterized by its
undulatory appearance; the waves or ridges rarely reaching an
elevation of 400 feet above the level of the sea, and being all un-
der culture, except where covered with trees. The parish contains
scenes of much natural beauty, particularly on the richly wooded
banks of the winding Ayr. From some of the elevations, popu-
larly called hills, the prospect is extremely interesting, from its
variety, and richness, and extent, comprising the entire course of
the Ayr from its source to its mouth--the great valley of Ayrshire,
which stretches from the Doon to Ardrossan, a distance of nearly
twenty miles. At a greater distance, there are the Cumnock hills,
the Carrick hills, the Frith of Clyde, Ailsa, the Argyleshire hills,
and the Kilbirnie hills. More remote still, in favourable states of
the atmosphere, may be seen Cairnsmuir, in Galloway, the pro-
montory of Fair-head, in county Antrim, Benlomond, and Ben
More; and, surpassing all these in loveliness and grandeur, Arran,
to which Ayrshire scenery is in no small degree indebted for the
impression which it never fails to make on the traveller.
	Boundaries, &c.--The parish is of irregular shape, and is bounded
on the north, by the parish, of Craigie; on the east, by Mauchline;
on the south, by Stair; and on the west, by St Quivox and Monkton.
	The village is six miles, and the western boundary of the pa-
rish three and a-half mile, from the sea-coast. The extreme
length of the parish is seven miles; its greatest breadth four.


