
178                         LINLITHGOWSHIRE.

gow and Edinburgh Railway, and since the opening of the railway
many workmen have removed to other districts.
   There are no nobility, and but few individuals of independent
fortune, residing in the parish. The people are in no respect re-
markable for personal qualities. The language in common use is
the ordinary dialect of the Lowlands.
   The only custom which may be mentioned as peculiar to the
parish is the annual procession of the magistrates, council, mem,
bers of the various corporations, and others, termed the "Riding
their Marches." They visit the village of Linthgow Bridge and
Blackness, of which the town is the superior; and at the place last
named, a court is held by the provost. On the return of the process.
sion to the town, the evening is passed in festivity. Though the
custom might at one time have been necessary, it is now one
which would. "be more honoured in the breach, than in the ob-
servance."

                       IV.-INDUSTRY.

   For the following account of the agriculture of the parish, I am
under obligations to an intelligent agriculturist.
   Agriculture.-The parish of Linthgow contains in whole
11,960 imperial acres, all enclosed and judiciously subdivided.
The whole may be said to be cultivated, as the planted ground,
and a few acres upon hill tops inaccessible to the plough, form the
alone exceptions. The system of culture is of the most approved
description. On the free lands, the five-shift rotation is generally
adopted; upon the clay lands, the six and seven-shifts are followed,
but all conducted in the same style in which the counties of Ber-
wickshire and East Lothian are farmed. The soil of the parish may
be about equally divided between light and heavy. The low dis-
trict is gravelly and loamy, the high division is stiff, thin, wet soil,
lying upon a retentive subsoil.
   Draining.-Thorough draining has done much towards the
amelioration of the high grounds; but still there is much to do.
The expense of this drainage falls almost wholly upon the tenants;
with the exception of those of the Earl of Rosebery, Captain Stewart
of Binny, and Mr Seton of Preston, no other proprietor takes any
part in the expense.
   Farms vary in size from 100 to 400 acres Scots; the average
may be computed at 180 acres. Rents are able partly in
money, and partly in grain, for the most part, from one-half to
one-fourth in cash, the remainder in grain or oatmeal, convertible
4


