
     Of Dysart.

tion says it was built by the Picts.  The architect, if he in-
tended it for preaching, cannot be praised for his contrivance.
It is dark, the side walls low, and the incumbrances of pil-
lars, &c. so many, that it is difficult to make the voice reach
it.  It does not seat above half the congregation*.-The
school-house belongs to the town.  They elect the school-
master, and pay his salary.  The present master is also ses-
sion-clerk.  His salary, perquisites, and wages, amount to
50 L. He teaches latin, english, book-keeping, arithmetic,
and navigation.  About 70 at present attend his school.  There
are several private schools in Dysart and Pathhead, and one
in Galaton.  The masters have no salary nor school-houses,
but depend entirely on the small wages they get from their
scholars, which are often but ill paid.  About 230 attend
these schools+.-Twelve persons go from door to door once

<FOOTNOTE>

*About a year ago, the kirk-session applied to the heritors to make it more
commodious.  An architect was desired to inspect it, who gave in some plans
of alteration, and there the matter rests:  but it is to be hoped the heritors will
see the necessity of doing something soon.  Numbers are obliged to take seats
in neighbouring congregations; some go to the sectaries; others, it is to be
feared, take advantage of this circumstance, to forsake public worship altoge-
ther.  Were heritors eager to promote religion by their influence and example,
they would do much to support government and goad order, and would have
less cause to complain of the corruption of the lower ranks, at least they might
do it with a better grace.  Almost the only sectaries in the parish are Burgh-
ers, Antiburghers, and Relief, amounting in all to 552 families.  The two last
mentioned sects have churches in this parish; the former attend worship in
Kirkcaldy parish.  The animosity between the church and secession, is now hap-
pily much abated.  The people, in general, attend church regularly; but
few are beginning to be so fashionable as to attend only occasionally.
+It is much to be wished some better provisions could be made for the educa-
tion of youth.  Dysart and Pathhead would require each two established mas-
ters, Galaton and Borland each one.  A Sunday school was begun in Dysart two
years ago, supported by subscription.  At first, upwards of 100 attended; but
afterward, many who had come from novelty, gradually dropped off.  At pre-


