
102			BUTESHIRE.

produce requiring at that time to be landed in Britain before it
could be imported into Ireland. The inhabitants of Rothesay
then began to engage in the herring fishery, in which they were
very successful.The town arose as it were from its ruins; and
the harbour was enlarged. In 1778, an English Company esta-
blished a cotton manufactory here, being the first of the kind in
Scotland. It was not long afterwards transferred into Scotch
hands, the celebrated David Dale having become its proprietor.
This contributed much to the prosperity of the place, and to the
increase of the population. The mills have since become greatly
enlarged. For many years Rothesay was resorted to by such sea
bathers as were fond of retirement, but the introduction of steam
navigation in 1814 having rendered access to this place so easy,
it has now become a fashionable watering-place. The demand for
houses has increased so much on this account, that now new streets
have been laid off on each side of the bay, and additional houses
are constantly erecting.
	Ecclesiastical History.--It appears from a charter granted by
Allan, the son of Walter, High Steward of Scotland, to the mo-
nastery of Paisley, of the church of Kingarth and whole parish of
Bute, about the year 1178, that Rothesay was not then erected
into a parish. The patronage of the churches in Bute does not
seem to have remained for any length of time in the hands of that
monastery, as it is not included in any subsequent charter of
confirmation. The first mention of the church of Rothesay that
occurs is, that Gilbert de Templeton, Rector of the church of
Rothesay, appears in the list of those who swore fealty to King
Edward I. of England, anno 1296. In 1320, Allan, Bishop of
the Isles, was entered "in Ecclesia Beatae Mariae de Rothesay in
Buth," where his successor Gilbert was also entered two years af-
ter. It appears from these notices, as well as from many others
down to the period of the Reformation, that the parish church was
dedicated to the Virgin Mary, and not to St Broke, as is Errone-
ously stated by the late Dr M'Lea in his Statistical Account.
"Cilla Bhruic," said by him to be the name given to that church
by the Highlanders, is no better than a nickname, there being no
such saint in the Romish Callendar. The minister's stipend was,
in 1618, described as the "vicarage and small Brokis of Rothesay;"
and it was probably from this term, that the fair held in July,
(which was instituted in 1585), was denominated " St Brux day,"
or " Brux-day Fair." The tithes (fructus) of the rectory of St
Mary of Rothesay were granted by King James IV. to the col-


