                                           BORARM.                     371

              Horses.-Horses of suitable size and strength are kept in the
            proportion of a pair for every thirty-five Scotch acres, and the
            parish rears nearly as many as suffice for its supply.
              Cattle and Sheep.-The black-cattle are rather of a small size,
            which there have been few attempts to raise, as it is fotmd very
            suitable to the climate and pasture.
              The stots and spare queys are generally sold off, when about
            three years old, in the summer markets of the neighbourhood,
            and, at that age, the stots are in great requdst for winterers in
            the feeding districts.   The soil, for the most part, not being pro-
            ductive of heavy crops of turnips, and the markets for fat cattle
            being rather distant, what turnips are raised are chiefly give     n to
            the milk cows and rising stock, and are seldom applied to fattening
            for the butcher, except on some of the larger farms.
              Sheep, as before stated, are few in number, not above 400 in
            all ; about the half of these are Lintons, kept on the skirts of the
            hills; another hundred are also Lintons, kept on old grass by the
            two resident heritors for the supply of their own tables ; and the
            remainder are of the large English breed, kept on the farina
            chiefly for the sake of their wool.
              Swine.-Swine are kept in considerable numbers.  The breeding
            stocks are maintained at the corn-mills, and at a few of the larger
            farms.  Two feeding pigs, at least, are kept at every farm-steading,
            and one or two at each of the cottages.  These are fed for six or
            eight months, till they attain about the weight of six stones each,
            when they are sold to the curers in the neighbouring town of
            Keith for exportation to London.  Even at the present low prhces,
            a large sum of inoney is thus brought into the parish.
              Poultry.-Common barn-door fowls and ducks are numerous
            at every dwelling, but there are few turkeys or geese, except at
            the barn-yards of the mansion-houses.  The eggs of the common
            fowls are bought up by the country merchants, and exported to
            the London market, along with the spare butter from the dairies.
            Eggs alone bring in a sum of about L.500.
              System of Husbandry.-The prevailing system of husbandry is
            a six-course shift.  The grass ground is broken up for oats; a se-
            cond crop is taken, which is called the award (or one-fold) crop;
            then the field is fallowed,-a naked fallow, dunged in spring,
            where the land is wet,-turnips and potatoes, with.'oeeasionally
            some tares, where it is tolerably dry.  Barley or oats are sown
            the fourth year with grass seeds.  From half the extent so sown


