
Modern History and Improvements.-The modern history of
this parish, will appear to the Statesman, to be much more
useful than a minute account of its antiquities.

<FOOTNOTE>

number of tumuli, or burrows, scattered over the field of battle, where the
dead were buried, not raised in any regular order,or in one place, but where
ever the slain fell in the greatest numbers; but they are now almost levelled
with the rest of the ground.  I have seen many of them opened, and the
light ashes found there in great quantities, evince the nature of their contents.
Some of the bones have been dug out quite entire, particularly a large hu-
man skull, the jaw-bone and teeth being entire, in the presence of the late
Dr Boswell, who lodged it in the Edinburgh Musaeum.  In these, and through
the whole field, which may contain near three hundred Scotch acres, there
have been fount hilts and blades of swords, spears, and bitts of bridles.-
Some of these were in the possession of the neighbouring gentlemen, and
there is a house carpenter, who made of them planes, saws, and tools of hus-
bandry.  The field of battle, till of late, was grown over with heath and
brushwood, but is now cultivated, and become a rich field of corn, so that,
in a literal sense, "the swords have been beat into plough shares, their spears
into pruniug hooks, and the desert land has become a fruitful field."  These,
and many other circumstances, too minute to relate, were told, and pointed
out to me, with as much enthusiasm, especially by an old man of the name
of Blair, whose ancestors had been long proprietors in the neighbourhood, as
if they had happened in his own time.  The only remains of the famous
battle now to be seens the last of the tumuli being levelled two years ago,
are the graves where the Danish General and Officers were buried, at the
head of which there are large stones still standing, and a house lately inha-
bited, called to this day Denmark.  To confirm the truth of this ancient
piece of history, we have the uninterrupted tradition of the country, the tes-
timony of our most ancient Historians, the undoubted marks of a battle, the
armorial bearings of the Errol Family, the Bows and the Yokes, as far back
as the twelfth century; and could any pieces of the armour be discovered, of
which there is some probability, showing their origin to be Danish, it would
put the matter beyond all doubt.
   Another piece of antiquity not to be omitted, is the continuation of the
causeway, leading from the Roman camp at Ardoch, which crosses the Tay
at its present conflux with the Almond.  At this place there are the remains
of a Roman station, regularly formed into a square, surrounded with a deep


