
                                 BLACKFORD.                        2991

    places, there are also many tumuli or cairns, showing the frequency
    of conflict between the natives and their Roman invaders. In some
    places, the strife must have been evidently great; as the cairns
    stand close to one another, and are ranged in a semicircular form,
    showing how orderly the combatants stood, how closely they fought,
    and how closely they fell. Beside these, there are two other re-
    mains of ancient warfare. These are the ruins of Kincardine and
    of Ogilvy Castle. Their situation indicates that these castles
    bad been reared for defence, and great strength of masonry was
    employed in their structure.
      There are also a few vestiges of antiquity of another descrip-
    tion. These are the ruins of two chapels, the one at Glen-
    eagles, and the other at Tullibardine. The date of the one
    is not ascertained; the other was built in the fifteenth cen-
    tury. At Tullibardine also, may be seen a few thorn trees that
    may be viewed with a kind of antiquarian interest. They are thus
    referred to in Pittscotie's History: "James the Fourth was fond
    of ship-building, and built the Michael, the largest ship ever seen
    before. She was 240 feet long, 36 feet within the sides, which
    were 10 feet thick; she was a year in building, and took up all
    the oak wood of Fife, except Falkland; she had 300 mariners,
    and carried altogether about 1000 Men. Her length and breadth
    is planted in hawthorn at Tullibardine by the wright that helped to
    make her." Only three of these trees now survive the ravages of
    time and the encroachments of the plough, so that, like every other
    human memorial, they have long ceased to answer the purpose
    which the planter intended.
                            III.-POPULATION.
     In the year 1811 the population amounted to 1666. In 1821,
    it amounted to 1892, and 1831 to about the same number. The
    number of females exceeds that of males by two. 674 of the in-
    habitants reside in the village, where they are employed as weavers,"
    day-labourers, and mechanics.
    
<TABLE>
    Number of families in the parish,                                     391
                   chiefly employed in agriculture,                        91
                                 in trade, manufactures, or handicraft,   140

                             IV.-INDUSTRY.
     Wages.-According to times and circumstances, the wages vary
    from 1s to 2s. a-day; Is. 6d. may be taken as a fair average. Those
    inbabitants not resident in the village are scattered over a wide
    extent of country, and employed chiefly in agricultural pursuits.
    Within the last fifteen years, the industry and skill- of the peo-

