
702                    EDINBURGHSHIRE.

interest of this act." No part was to be applied in encouraging the
manufacture of sail-cloth. The commissioners were yearly to make
up accounts of the moneys; and report proceedings to the annual com-
mittee of the Convention of Royal Burghs of Scotland; and at
Christmas 1753, the commissioners were to lay a plan for the ap-
plication of the said sum before his Majesty, and in any other year,
any other plan for the like purpose.
   In consequence of this Act, the Board established Factories at
three different stations in the Highlands, and appointed skilful
and trustworthy persons to superintend them. And the commis-
sioners did all in their power by money grants, and by the distri-
bution of looms and other manufacturing implements, to lead
the people into manufacturing habits, and so to plant the linen
manufacture in the north. But at the end of the nine years,
when the L. 3000 annuity ceased to be given, the manufacture
gradually declined, and at last finally ceased in those Highland dis-
tricts where the money had been distributed.
   By the act 10 George III., c. 40, seven-fifteenth parts of certain
duties on foreign linens imported into Great Britain were granted
for encouraging the growth of flax and hemp in Scotland, and
placed under the management of the Board of Commissioners of
Scottish Manufactures; the other eight-fifteenth parts of these
duties having been granted to England for the same purpose.
From this source the board for many years derived large annual
sums varying in amount for each year. Then, they distributed
over the country, in public premiums, salaries to certain inspecting
officers, and otherwise for the encouragement of the culture of flax
and hemp, though very little hemp was thereby produced.
   In the year 1787, however, an act was passed (27 George III.
c. 13,) granting in lieu of the fluctuating fund, which was derived
from the above-mentioned duties, a fixed annual sum of L. 2956,
13s. 8d., being the amount of the average produce of the seven-
fifteenths of the said duties. This sum was annually distributed
over the country in premiums for the encouragement of the growth
of flax, in the same manner as that arising from the seven-fifteenths
till the year 1833, when the Treasury intimated that Government
had resolved to withdraw the flax and hemp fund, which was done
accordingly. This appears to have been done solely by an act of
tibe Treasury, and without any legislative repeal of the act by
which the annuity of L. 2956, 13s. 8d. was granted. The Board,
however, acquiesced in the withdrawal of the flax fund, the distri-
                              4


