
			     ALFORD.                   485

Meldrum will consist, in the more extensive communication by
travelling, which will take place on the new road, and in the easier
access to its home markets.  Its inhabitants will also obtain their -
coals at the port of Newburgh, which is six miles nearer than
Aberdeen, where they were formerly supplied with them.  Upon
the whole, Since the publication of the last Statistical Account,
the progress of agriculture has in this parish been rapid and ex-
tensive, the facilities of communication, by new lines of road, have
been greatly increased, and, the general aspect of the country is
very much improved.

   November 1840.

			PARISH OF ALFORD.

	    PRESBYTERY OF ALFORD, SYNOD OF ABERDEEN.

	  THE REV. JAMES FARQUHARSON, LL.D., F. R. S.,
                            MINISTER.

        	I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-The name of the small river, on the banks of which the
church is situated, is Leochal.  In the last syllable of this name, we
recognize the Ale, which, according to Chalmers (Caledonia, Vol. i.
p. 20), is a common Gaelic name for other rivers in Scotland,
signifying "clear stream-;" a name very appropriate to the Leo-
chal.  The first syllable-, Leoch, is the name of the most remark-
able mountain which the river touches in its course.  Alford is
thus the ford of the river Ale, in contradistinction to Waterford,
the old name of a ford of the larger river Don, about a mile dis-
tant.  Owing to the situation of the neighbouring high grounds,
there has always been an important passage over the small river
at the church; and it supports the accuracy of the etymology of
the name now given, that we again, find the Ale in the name of the
most important farm on its banks,-Dursale ; in which the first
syllable-Durs, is, it seems, the Gaelic for oak.
   Situation, Extent, Boundaries, and Figure.-The parish is the
most considerable one, in point of population and extent of, culti-
vated land, in the How (hollow or vale) of Alford; a small dis-
trict nearly in the centre of Aberdeenshire, well defined by natural


