

36                              FIFESHIRE.

advantagesto all parties attending this mode of parochial admi-
nistration.The number of stated pensioners on the poors' roll is
eleven,-3men and 8 women. The highest allowance is 10s. a
month,-thelowest to any pensioner in the parish, 4s.
The average sum collected yearly for the last three years is L. 58.
This includes sums collect6d upon sacramental occasions twice a-
year, and which, for the most part, are appropriated to the tern-
porary relief of such of the poor as are not regular pensioners.
It includes also the amount of annual collections made upon
the first Sabbath of every year, being at an average L. 7 for coals
to the poor. The kirk-session have thus been able to distribute
upwards of thirty cart loads of coals annually, the heritors and
farmers, in addition to their collections, giving the carriage free.
Societiesfor Religious purposes.-Besides these collections for
the temporal necessities of the poor, there is collected at the church
door, for religious purposes, from L. 12 to L. 15 annually. The
money thus raised for promoting Christian objects constitutes
the funds of a parochial society, which are placed at the disposal
of a committee, consisting of the kirk-session, ex officio, and three
other members of the congregation, annually elected. And these
funds have been principally appropriated to the support of insti-
tutions connected with the Established Church.
Education.-The facilities for education in the parish are con-
siderable. There is the parochial school, where the usual branches
are taught. It is attended, at an average, by 65 scholars. The
schoolmaster has the maximum salary; a comfortable and well-si-
tuated house and garden. His fees may amount to L. 23 per an-
num - he has also about L. 5 a-year from other sources. There is
also a female school, a neat and well adapted building in the cot-
tage style, near Collessie village, erected at the expense of the Mel-
ville family, and partly endowed. It is attended by 50 girls, and
a few boys tinder six years of age They are not only well in-
structed in the elementary branches of general education, but the
girls are taught knitting and needlework in its several branches,
and, what is acareely less important, are trained to habits of order
and exactness. Our only other school is a small one at Monkston,
attended by about 25 scholars, the teacher of which is wholly
dependent on the fees of his pupils, and the voluntary kind-
ness of his employers. Some endowment for a school in this
part of the parish would be highly desirable. The number of
children, in all, receiving a public education, is 140, being about
4


