
     1158                          PERTHSIRE.

     twenty-eight miles distance, there are regular weekly carriers, which
     proves a great convenience.  There is also a post-office now es-
     tablished in the parish, by which letters are received on Mondays,
     Wednesdays, and Fridays, and transmitted on the other days of
     the week.
       Ecclesiastical State.--The situation of the parish church is by
     no means convenient to the greater part of the population, being
     placed within a mile and a-half of the eastern extremity of the
     parish, and consequently more than eleven miles from the western
     extremity.  It was built in 1744, and was for many years in a
     very uncomfortable state.  It was thoroughly repaired, however,
     in 1839, and is now a neat and comfortable place of worship,
     having a session-house at one end, and a porch at the other. It
     affords accommodation for about 250 persons.  The sittings are
     all free.
       The manse was built in 1732, and has undergone several re-
     pairs.  A considerable sum was last year laid out by the heritor
     in building a new front, and in altering and greatly improving the
     principal rooms.
       The grebe consists of fifteen Scotch acres of ground of good
     quality, partly arable and partly meadow.  The stipend amounts
     to L.147 in money, together with a chalder of barley and a chal-
     der of oatmeal.
       The parish church is the only place of worship, except a school
     house, where the clergyman generally officiates once in two months.
     Although the population is very scattered, the roads, in some di-
     rections, of the worst description, and the distance great to which
     several families are removed from church, it is generally well at-
     tended.
       Education.--There are two schools in, the parish, one parochial
     school, and one on the foundation of the Society in Scotland for
     Propagating Christian Knowledge.  The common branches of
     instruction only are taught in these schools, viz. reading, writing,
     arithmetic, and the knowledge of the Scriptures.
       The salary of the parochial schoolmaster is L.28 per annum,
     and the amount of school fees from L.5 to L6.  He is provided
     with a house and garden.  The salary of the teacher of the So-
     ciety school is L.15 per annum; the school fees seldom amount
     to more than L.1, 10s.  He is allowed by the heritor a house,
     garden, and cow's, grass.
       It is not believed that there are any persons  in the parish, be-


