
200                               ARGYLESHIRE.

may, though we have, unquestionably less rain here than in the
more mountainous islands, such as Mull and Skye, or the mainland
coast adjacent, still it may be called a moist climate.  The quan-
tity of rain which falls, however, or the temperature and pressure
of the atmosphere, cannot be stated with any degree of precision,
as there are no observations of this kind made, nor instruments
for making them.  The temperature, upon the whole, may be
considered mild.  Snow seldom lies on the ground above a few
days, and there is rarely any long continuance of frost: the va-
pours generally descend in a more liquid form, viz. in cold sleety
rain.  The wintry blasts sweep at timer over the island with great
violence, there being no abstraction sufficient to break the current
or afford protection ; and the winds are extremely keen and pier-
cing, especially in the months of February and March.  The
west is the generally prevailing wind, though we have sometimes
considerable tracts from north-east and south-east, more particu-
larly in winter and spring.
   The weather is frequently so variable as to be almost prover-
bial, and battle the most sagacious prognosis.  In general, how-
ever, persons who are in the habit of attentively studying it will
be able, from the appearance of the sky and other circumstances,
to predict with tolerable accuracy bow the ensuing day is likely
to turnout.  The best time for making these observations seems
to be about sunrise or sunset.  " The evening red and the morn-
ing grey," is a well-known observation, which commonly holds true
in prognosticating fair weather.  It is also remarked, that, before
a regular or heavy fall of rain, the air has a peculiar raw and chill
feel.  Aquatic fowls, and perhaps fowls of every description, are
seen to prune and arrange their plumage for approaching foul
weather; and it has been often noticed, that midges become more
troublesome and venemous immediately before rain.  Cordage is
well known to contract on the approach of moist weather, and
vice versa. t*  I am not aware of any remarkable aqueous or atmo-
spheric phenomena. The most striking are the aurora borealis

<FOOTNOTE>A few yews ago a neighbouring gentleman, not resident in this pariah, who had
a small specimen of kelp, probably not more than a couple of pounds in weight, lying
for a considerable time in the sole ofa window, informed me that this indicated the
state of the weather with great precision.  On the approach of wet weather, even be-
fore actual rain commenced, the kelp became damp, and some moisture oozed out of
it.  When the weather began to ineline, towards fair, this oozing ceased, and the ke
became dry as formerly.  What I thought somewhat remarkable-was, that the piece
of kelp, although repeatedly weighed, as l was told, was not found to undergo any
sensible alteration or diminution of weight.


