
                    ST VIGEANS.                         495

may be there observed, cleft by fractures in the strata, and the
halves of the same pebble separated three or four feet, yet each
half adhering firmly to its mass of cement.
   The second kind, or variegated sandstone, although it has oc-
casionally where lime enters into its composition, hard seams ex-
tending through its beds, is of a texture softer, and quite dif-
ferent from the former more red-coloured sandstone. This
commences where the rocky shore ends, at Whitingness, near
where St Ninian's chapel and burying-ground were, and, taking
a bearing north-west for two miles to Tarry mill, in the interior
of the country, then bends westward, and, serves for a foundation
along the coast side for all that plain which passes through the
parishes of Arbirlot, Panbride, and Barry. It appears conspicu-
ously in all the small streams of the district which have cut it
deeply, exposing its mouldering surface to sun and frost, which
reduce it speedily to sandy mould. But over all its extent there
is a, comparatively level surface, which forms a beautiful platform
for an exhibition of the art of agriculture; and the opportunity
has nowhere been better improved than here, for four or five
handsome independent fortunes have been peacefully and honour-
ably earned, by the labours and care of the farmer. It would ap-
pear as if the waters of the ocean, acting at a level of 90 or 100
feet above the present shore, had abraded this comparatively soft
rock into a level surface, leaving finally on it the debris of its own
sand and clay. Many nodules of sulphate of baryta and calcare-
ous spar are dispersed through it, and there are grayish white
spheres with a black centre, as if the spawn of gigantic Batrachia
had been scattered throughout its substance, and afterwards petri-
fied. This sandstone in its lower strata becomes compact and
durable, and is quarried at Drumyellow and Brax, in this parish-
and at Kelly den in Arbirlot. There are found in Drumyel-
low quarry, appearances of branches of large monocotyledonous
plants, and in the upper strata frequent cavities.
   The subsoil of this parish is of three distinct kinds. The high-
er grounds to the east of the Brothock have but a thin subsoil,
formed of the debris of the sandstone rock,on which it lies. And
the western part has mostly a subsoil of great depth of till or di-
luvial marl, with boulders dispersed of all sizes, from that of a pea
to those of six or eight tons weight, evidently all derived from
northern rocks.
   But there is in the middle plain towards the mouth of the
   FORFAR.                                 K k


