
		GLENURCHY AND INISHAIL.                    87

ing battlements, or looking out through its narrow casements,
you may extend your view westward, (unbroken by the nume-
rous islands that repose like emeralds on. the bosom of the lake,)
to a distance of nine or ten miles, until at length the lake ap-
parently terminates at the ferry of Portsonachan. On the north
side, Bein-cruachan, separated from you by the narrow channel
of the Urchay, which maidway up its summit, rears his lofty brow,
beautifully wooded midway up its summit, rears his lofty brow,
until it is enveloped amid the clouds of heaven. On the South,
and separated from you by a narrow bay, rise the beautiful knolls
of Ardteatle and Kenehraikin,--here skirted with wood, there
mantled with heath and green breckon,--with their lovely glades
opening between, the favourite haunt of the hare and the roe. In
front of the castle opens, towards the north-east, the bleak, dark,
and frowning Glenstrae; and, towards the south-east, and in mar-
vellous and striking contrast, the verdant, soft, and smiling strath
and vale of Urchay, terminating at the base of the lofty and coni.
cal Beinlaoidh. In the centre of this beautiful panorama, em-
bowered in wood, partial glimpses may be obtained of the manse,
and parish church, and inn, awaking far other emotions from those
excited by the castellated pile from which the survey is made, and
whence the eye roams delighted over the noble and lovely scenes
that open away on either hand.
   Caolchurn Castle, at once the memorial and chronicler of
the feudal power and grandeur of,the noble family which still
owns it, is said to have been, before it came into its possession,
the residence and stronghold of MacGregor, Laird of Glenur-
chy. A tradition exists, that, before it came into the posses-
sion, either of the Clan Campbell or Clan Gregor, it was the
residence of an ancient tribe, now no longer existing in the pa-
rish, of the name,of Paterson; and that, while in their posses-
sion, it was designated the White House of Eilaineolain. It
came together with the, lordship of Glenurchy, into the posses-
sionof the family of Breadalbane, either in the close of the reign
of James II. or in the beginning of the reign of his successor. It
is highly probable that the Clan Gregor, along with, the neigh-
bouring Clans of McNab and McNaughtan, became involved in
the wars of Bruce and Baliol, and that their castles and lands be-
came the reward of the distinguished, services of the Knights of
Lochawe. It wa bestowed, with other appendages, as his patri-


