	
       		   NIGG.                               201

three folio volumes in good order, of the register of doctrine and
discipline, the first entry of which is dated December 6, 1757.
	Antiquities.--Abbots Walls are the ruins of a house that be-
longed to the Abbot of Arbroath, on the hatgh opposite to Aber-
deen, where it is said he spent some months in the summer.
	Several tumuli are found on the hills. In such of them as have
been opened, nothing very remarkable has been found.
	Modern Buildings.--A few years ago. a handsome new church
was built in a centrical situation, with a square tower for a bell
and clock. It is built of granite, on an eminence, and seen at a
great distance. It has seats for 900 persons, more than sufficient
for the present population of the parish. It cost L.1800.
	Girdleness Light-House.--A light-house was founded in the year
1831, and finished in 1833, on the Girdleness, near the mouth of the
harbour, by order of the Commissioners of Northern Light-houses
and under the direction of Robert Stevenson, Esq. their engineer.
The building consists of a circular tower, with oil and fuel stores in
the lower part of it. There are two dwelling-houses one storey each,
for the accommodation of the light-keepers. The basement course
of the tower is laid at fifty feet above the medium high water le-
vel; and from that level the tower rises to the height of 116 feet
which, together with the high lantern of 15 feet, makes the ex-
treme height 131 feet above the basement course; and the ex-
treme diameter at the basement is 23 feet 5 inches. In the tower,
there are two lanterns or lights 7O feet `p`rt. The first or lower lan
tern, which is a 28 sided polygon, is placed at 46 feet 6 inches above
the basement course, or 96 feet 6 inches above the sea. The wall
of the tower is here reduced in thickness to 3 feet 4 inches, or 17
feet 5 inches of external diameter, to make room for the lantern
sill, and a balcony, forming together a breadth of 5 feet 5 inches.
The balcony is supported by a strong corbal cornice. The lan-
tern is formed of sashes surmounted by a cornice, all of cast iron,
and covered with a roof of cooper. The lantern is glazed towards
the sea, with plates of glass 28 inches square, and one-fourth of an
inch in thickness, and towards the land with plates of cast iron, or-
namented with characteristic figures. The higher lantern is play-
ced upon the top of a parapet wall of polished sandstone, which
rises above the higher corbal cornice 5 feet 5 inches forming a
balcony of 3 feet breadth on the top of the corbals, and on the
exterior of the light-room parapet wall. This lantern is a 10-
sided polygon, glazed. (as already described for the lower lan-


