
     Statistical Account

of land, and some few acres mortified for pious uses*.-There
is generally a good school in Cullen, where from 40 to 50
boys are taught Latin, English, writing, arithmetic, and book-
keeping; but the schoolmaster's salary is very small: he has
only about 6 L. 10 s. a-year, the greatest part of which arises
from two pious donations, to be afterward mentioned.  There
is a pretty good school-house, and a convenient room for the
accommodation of the master.  School-fees for teaching Eng-
lish 1 s. 6 d., writing and arithmetic 2 s., and for Latin 2 s 6 d.
the quarter.  There is a schoolmistress who has a salary of 5 L.
for teaching girls to read and few.  And there are generally
other two schools, where young children are taught to read
English, and are instructed in the principles of Christianity.
The Earl of Findlater had a bede-house in the town of Cullen,
which accommodated 8 poor men, who had peats allowed
them for fuel, and each had 6 1/2 bolls of meal yearly.  The
bede-house being ruinous, was lately taken down; but the
Earl allows a house free of rent, and the fuel, to such of the
bede-men as incline to possess it, but few of them seem in-
clined to do it; but the meal is regularly given to poor per-
sons, and sometimes divided between two poor families, which
makes it more extensively useful+.-The number of poor re-

<FOOTNOTE>

*Lord Findlater has his chief seat of residence here, called Cullen house.  It
is literally founded upon a rock, which is above 50 feet high, almost perpendi-
cular, hanging over the burn of Cullen.  The situation of the house is romanti-
cally pleasant, having a beautiful prospect to the S., and a fine view of the Mo-
ray-frith to the N. To the W. of the house there is an excellent bridge of one
arch, cast over the burn, 84 feet wide, and 64 feet high, which makes an easy com-
munication with the park and woods, where the ground admits of endless beau-
ty and variety.
+William Lawtie of Myrehouse, appointed a croft of land, with some houses
and a sum of money, with which were purchased some additional acres of land,
which pay of yearly rent for behoof of the poor, 10 bolls and an half of barley,
and 13 s. of money.  This foundation is under the management of the heirs of


