
288			DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

tors and kirk-session, are not apt, therefore, to consider it as de-
grading to do so.
	Inns.--In this parish there are four small inns or public-houses,
which evidently have a pernicious effect upon the morals (of a small
portion of the people.
	Fuel.--Peat is commonly used as fuel; but a considerable
quantity of coal, which is carted either from Canobie or Annan,
is also here consumed. The price of a cart-load of coals, is 10s.
6d.; and of a cart-load of peats, 1s. 4d. Twenty-seven cart-loads
of peats are considered sufficient for a cottager's family, which has
only one constant fire.

			MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.

	That unprofitable mode of cultivation which prevailed in this
parish forty years ago has, in a great measure, been abandoned,
and a more extensive and liberal system of agriculture has been
adopted in its stead. Many acres of moor-ground have been turn-
ed over with the plough, and rendered tolerably productive, and
a considerable portion of flow-moss has been converted into ver-
dant meadow or pasture by drainage and surface-culture. The
improvement, which has been made upon the south-west part of
the parish, and also upon that which lies to the north of the Glas-
gow road, and is bounded by the Langholm road on the north-
west, is most striking. In 1792, the real rent of the parish was
L. 2870, and now it is L. 7369. The houses of proprietors and
farmers, of mechanics and cottagers, have been vastly improved
within the last thirty years. A great change for the better has
also taken place in the language, the dress, and the manner of
living, of the inhabitants. As the soil still admits of extensive
amelioration, much might be done in accomplishing that end by
men possessed of capital, skill, and enterprise. A line of commu-
nication from Sarkshields, near Springkell, to Kirkpatrick church,
by Gilshaw's flow, is greatly wanted. In all probability that
line of road will be formed ere long. Farms here above L. 150
a-year are the bane of the comfort, happiness, and independence
of the lower cl`sses. Proprietors and farmers, by supplying, la-
bourers with constant employment at all seasons, by giving them
a fair remuneration for their industry, and by discountenancing
vice wherever it appears, and encouraging piety and virtue, will,
unquestionably, promote both the welfare of the lower orders, and
the general good.

	February 1834.


