
234                          RENFREWSHIRE.

   Matthew Ramsay mentioned as his successor, on the 2d of Sep-
tember 1669.  Mr Ramsay had been minister of Kilpatrick, from
which office hq was deposes in 1665, " for no cause alleged but
his not attending their prelatical synods and presbyteries." *  He
now, however, accepted of the indulgence granted to the non-con-
forming clergymen, and was appointed by an act of the privy-coun-
cil to the vacant charge of Paisley. + " He was," says Wodrow,
" a person of the most shining piety, stayed gravity, of the great-
est eminency of gift, extraordinary sweetness of temper, and of a
most peaceable behaviour." ++  Mr John Baird, late minister at
Innerwick, also received the benefit of the indulgence, and was
appointed, on the 16th of December 1669, assistant to Mr Ram-
say, who it appears had, from bodily infirmity, become unable to
discharge the duties of his office. S  Mr Baird, it is probable,
would have been afterwards deposed, as he too was cited to ap-
pear before the council, on the 6th of March 1684, for non-con-
formity.  But a testimonial of his sickness having been produced,
his case was deferred until April.  " Whether this sickness car-
ried him to heaven, at this time, I know not," says Wodrow, "but
I find no more about him in the register.  He was a minister of
great learning and piety, and singular skill in medicine."
   To the indulged ministers the first who succeeded was
John Fullarton.  The first sederunt of Presbytery, at which he
appears, is of date 12th November 1684, when he was moderator.
He was ejected at the revolution.  In 1720, he was elected Bi-
shop of Edinburgh on the death of Bishop Rose, and was one of
the first of the post-revolution prelates.  He died in May 1727.
   Anthony Wurray was admitted minister of this charge on the
2d of April 1688.  " The brethren gave him the right hand of
fellowship, having been ane old actual minister."  No notice of
him appears in the Presbytery records after 27th of February
1689. **  His successor was,
   William Leggat from Ireland, who, for the time, was residing at
Fenwick.  On the 22d of August 1689, he accepted of the call
from Paisley, (salvojure eeclesiue Hiberniae,) and received the right

<FOOTNOTE>Wodrow, Vol. i. p. 427, 8vo. ed.        Id. Vol. ii. p. 133.          Id. Vol. i. p. 427.
          Id. Vol. ii. p. 134.          Id. Vol. ii. p. 38           Presbytery Records.
          Murray was a relation of the Duchess of Lauderdale, and in 1677 was asked
by the Presbyterian ministers to use his interest in their behalf, with the Duke.  He
did so, and pressed particularly the relief of the persecuted ministers from the Bass.
Lauderdale sternly refused, " the party," as he said, " being unworthy of any
favour."-Wodrow, Vol. ii. p. 348.


