
     Of Dalry.

   Cows and Horses.-The cows and horses kept by the farm-
ers, are in proportion to the extent of their farms.  To do
them justice, they do not overstock their farms, as in former
times.  They find it their interest, to keep no more cattle
than they can fully maintain, otherwise, their horses would
not rise to the prices they are at, nor their cows give so much
milk as they do.  When once a farmer has stocked himself
with cows, he seldom thinks of going to market again for
more, but raises up young ones to supply the room of those
that are old, and keeps up his stock by his own rearing.  The
breed of cows is greatly improved from what they were.  At
present, the farmer can sell his cows from 6 L. to 10 L. Ster-
ling, and some even at higher prices.  Having so much de-
pending on a good kind, they spare no pains or cost to come
at them.  The young cows, now rearing in the parish, may
be about 500, and milch cows about 1100.  From each of
which, on an average, may be got 12 stones of sweet milk

     N 2

<FOOTNOTE>

middle of October to the first week of November.  I have known it sown later,
and seen a good crop.  The time of sowing oats, beans, pease, and flax, from
the 1st of March to the middle of April; of bear or barley, and planting pota-
toes, from the middle of April to the middle of May, and turnips, from the first
week of June, to the middle of it.  later does not answer well in this country.
The harvest generally begins about the first of September, and the crops are
seldom all got in before the middle of October; and in cold and wet seasons, I
have known crops in the field during the whole month of November.  The farm-
ers, in general, are healthy, sober, industrious, and thriving; and though they
do not indulge themselves in high living, yet they live plentifully on wholesome
fare; and when they appear in public, the dresses both of men, women, and
children, show that they have plenty at home.-Thulage has long and justly
been complained of, as a discouragement to improvement in agriculture.  About
15 years ago, a part of the parish was freed from that servitude by purchasing
its thirlage; but a considerable part still remains subject to that discouraging
burden.-Draining is much wanted in many parts of the parish, and judicious-
ly designed, and properly executed, would be a permanent and profitable im-
provement.


