
			ISLAND AND PARISH OF CUMBRAY.

		PRESBYTERY OF GREENOCK, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.

			THE REV. JAMES DRUMMOND, MINISTER.

		I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	Name.--BIG CUMBRAY is an island in the Frith of Clyde,
four miles east from the Island of Bute; two miles west from
the parish of Largs; and nearly one mile north from the Little
Cumbray. The name is said to come from a Gaelic word, which
signifies a bold or steep coast rising abruptly from the sea;
and this agrees perfectly with the natural appearance of the
island, which presents steep and precipitous banks all round the
coast. There is, indeed, a flat level space round the whole island,
extending from the bottom of those banks to the water's edge, but
the whole of this space has been, at one time or other, completely
covered with the sea. This is evident from the fields sand and
beds of marl which it contains; and if so, its appearance then
would exactly agree with what its name signifies. Its figure is very
irregular. It extends about 3 1/2 miles in length from north-east to
south-west, about 2 miles in breadth, and from 10 to 11 miles
in circumference, and contains upwards of 5120 square acres.
The shore, which is, as already stated, flat and level for some con-
siderable distance from the sea, is, in some places, sandy, as in
Kames Bay, on the south-east of the island, and immediately ad-
joining the east end of the villaae of Millport; and in Fintry Bay
on the west and north-west, extending along the beach for nearly
a mile of pure sand; in some places, also, it is clayey and gravelly,
but in most places it is rocky.
	Topographical Appearance.--There is a range of hills called
the Shoughends, which run from south to north, extending nearly
the whole length of the island in that direction. All the other
hills, which  may be considered as so many subordinate connec-
tions of this range, rise, with gradual ascent, from the extremities
of the island to its centre, where the height above the level of the
sea is nearly 500 feet. From all these, the views are delight-


