
			TORBOLTON.                           749

	Fail was founded in 1252, and belonged to the Red Friars.
They were called Mathurines, from the house of this order in
Paris dedicated to St Mathurine; and "patres de Redemptione
captivorum," as it was a part of their duty to redeem captives from
slavery. The name of the founder is unknown. The chief who
ruled this convent was styled "minister." The minister of Fail-
ford was Provincial of the Trinity Order in Scotland. From being
the head of the order, he had a seat in Parliament.
	John de Graham, Lord of Torbolton, grants by his charter, of
date September 21st 1335, given at Falle, * the patronage of the
church of Torbolton, with the lands of Wnzank, on which the
church is built, to his cousin Robert de Graham of Welston.
	The earliest of the "Friars of Faill" in regard to whom any-
thing has been ascertained is "Brother John," who was the chief
or minister of Failford in the year 1343. There are some docu-
ments extant, relating to this "Brother John" and a "White
Horse," which seem deserving of notice as bringing to light some
of the methods taken by monks and friars for obtaining land and
patronage, and displaying the ignorance and credulity of land-
owners in Scotland in the fourteenth century. In a notarial in-
strument dated November 25, 1343, + "Johannes de Graham-
nuper Dominus de Torbolton, confesses, that, after his grant to
his cousin Robert de Graham, which grant had been confirmed
by the Seneschal of Scotland, and approved by the chapter of
Glasgrow, 'Brother John,' minister of the House of the Holy-
Trinity at Ffele, in the diocese of Glasgow, had given him a
White Horse for the right of patronage to the church of Tor-
bolton, which horse the said 'minister John' had afterwards for-
cibly taken away (manu forti abstulit) from the said John de
Graham. . . . . . . .  This confession was made at Tor-
bolton, in the church of that parish, before Thomas de Gedwrath,
monk of the Cistertian Order, and others."
         Another document, entitiedt ++ "Revocatio Johannis de Graham
filii," sets forth, "that things which are done through impetuosity of
temper and facility of disposition, are revocable; that, being igno-
rant of law, 'Brother John, of the House of the Holy Trinity of
Ffele, in the diocese of Glasgow, had, by his flatteries and most
pernicious present (non sine munere pessinne) persuaded him to
annul his former grant to his dear cousin, Robert Graham of Wal-
ston, of the right of patronage to the church of Torbolton and

<FOOTNOTE>Liber de Melros, Tom. ii. 447.     Ibidem, 457.        Ibidem, 458.


