
			PORTPATRICK.                            133

the Sand-eel-Bay, whilst the other, called Port Kale, contains only
coarse gravel, the debris of the neighbouring rocks, which are blue
whinstone. In the rocky side of the sandy bay, beyond the reach
of the tide, is a cave obscurely reported to have been the residence
of a hermit or monk. Adjoining to it is smaller cave, over the
entrance of which a small rill constantly pours itself. If the in-
dulgence of bathing had been permitted to the hermit, he might
here have enjoyed the benefit of a shower-bath with a dressing
room, besides the excellent plunge bath in the bay. The banks
of a small stream which enters the other bay form a small glen,
the most picturesque in Galloway, though which walks, very taste-
fully cut, lead past a very pretty wild waterfall, and connect the
two bays with the present mansion-house of Dunskey, situated about
a mile distant on the height.
	Meteorology.--The range of the thermometer is less by several
degress in the town than in the higher grounds; and the tempe-
rature of the parish, generally, is reckoned to be neither so hot in
summer, nor so cold in winter, as that of the inland parishes; but
no accurate register is kept either the barometer or thermo-
	Occasionally dense fogs cover the channel of the coast, espe-
cially in the months of May and September or October. They
usually come from the sea with the south-west wind, and seldom
last above a few hours at most; frequently not more than quar-
ter of an hour.
	The prevailing winds vary from south to west. Those which
raise the heaviest seas are from the south-west, It is considered
a favourable sign of the weather, when the light breezes of sum-
mer change during the day, followed by the sun.
	The climate is generally moist; and hence cold is often felt in
a greater degree than is indicated by the thermometer. Upon
the whole, it is a healthful climate; if we may judge from the ro-
bustness of the population, notwithstanding poor living and much
exposure to the weather. But rheumatism, dyspepsia, consump-
tion, fevers, and cancers are not unfrequent. Vegetation is slow
in the early spring, but rapid in summer, so that the harvest are
usually completed about the middle of October. But in Novem-
ber, the young shoots of trees are often found unprepared for the
storms which bedew them with spray from the sea, and cause them
to die from the top to a considerable length down.


