
     of Kirkconnel.

   Heritors and Rent.-Except what was before supposed to
be worth about 130 L. per annum, the whole parish belongs
to the Duke of QUEENSBERRY.  The excepted part is di-
vided among 5 or 6 heritors, who usually reside in the pa-
rish.  One of these portions is so small as not to exceed a
single acre in extent*.
   The Duke's property is occupied, at least rented, by 23 te-
nants, who pay from 160 L. down to 30 L. each, of yearly
rent; besides several smaller farms, of a rent proportionable.
In short, the whole rents of the parish would, it is supposed,
amount to upwards of 2000 L. were entry money out of the
question.

   Ecclesiastical State+.-Of this, as of all the other parishes
in this presbytery, excepting one, the Duke of Queensberry

<UNREADABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

*For this there is a charter, (evidently a whimsical thing
at first), as far back as the year 1444, the reddendum of which,
'unus solidus monetae regni Scotiae', is to paid 'ministro minisa
of clare constat, from Lord WILLIAM CRICHTON of Sanquhar,
to the minister of the parish and his successors in office.

+Anterior to the year 1732, Mr JOHN CARMICHAEL was
the last Presbyterian minister of this parish, who was turned out of
his charge in 1662, when Episcopacy was violently obtruded
upon this kingdom.  In the year 1681, Mr SAMUEL MOAT, the
Episcopal incumbent, was likewise obliged to leave his charge,
because he could not take the oath required by the test-act.
From that period, the vacancy was protracted, to the year 1732;
when Mr PETER RAE, then minister of Kirkbride, was admit-
ted minister of Kirkconnel.  Like the old celebrated Joannes de
Sacro Bosco, or JOHN of HOLYWOOD, in his day, supposed by
his name, to have been also of this country, Mr Rae was an
eminent philosopher and, astronomer, as well as a divines, but
much more learned and enlightened than the other.  His as-
tronomical chime clock, still in Drumlaurig-castle, made and
constructed in all its parts with his own hand, is a continued
striking proof both of his mechanical powers, and of the extent

</UNREADABLE>


