
   128                   ROSS AND CROMARTY.

   Individuals of independent fortune in the parish are few.
   Character, &c. of the People.-The people, in strength, com-
plexion, and size, resemble their neighbours in the Hebrides.
In general, they are more swarthy than the people on the mainland;
but this is occasioned by their being enveloped in the peat-smoke
of their houses. They are capable of bearing great fatigue and a
long fast.
   Gaelic is the language generally spoken. It has lost ground very
little except in Stornoway; and even there, all born in the town
speak Gaelic, though the principal inhabitants prefer the English,
Throughout the parish, the Gaelic is a good deal corrupted, for many
interlard their sentences by introducing English words with the
termination ikuk, such as callikuk and meanikuk, viz. calling and
meaning, &c. The names of farms are evidently derived from the
Danes and Norwegians, as Tolsta, Shadir, and Sheshadir, which
signify six men, or a portion of land sufficient to support six fami-
lies. Bast denotes a farm, as Garrabost, the short rigged farm,
and Melbost, the honeyed or pleasantfarm.
   The principal amusements are the club and shinty, quoits or
discus, and the putting-stone. In the town of Stornoway, the habits
of the people resemble those of their neighbours in the south:
they have neat slate houses, many of which are not only well but
elegantly furnished.  The inhabitants of the town are active and
public spirited, forming a striking contrast to the rest of the parish
and of the island.  The houses in the country, excepting the tacksmen's,
are sordid huts-in general, indescribably filthy. There is
only an annual sweeping of their houses.  The people and cattle
are under the same roof and on the same area. Very few of the
country dwellings have a single pane of glass. There is one hole
in the roof to allow the excess of smoke to escape, and another on
the top of the wall,-the latter at night or during a storm through
the day being stopped with a wisp. Where a sufficient supply of
stones can be found, the walls of the houses are from four to six
feet thick, and consist of an outer and inner face,-the intervening
space being crammed with earth or pounded moss. Wood is so
scarce and so dear, that it cannot be had in sufficient quantity to
make a good roof. A rafter twelve feet long and three inches in
diameter, will cost 3d.; and other timber, in proportion. The
roofs have no eaves.  The thatch, in general, is made of stubble
or potato stalks which are spread on the scanty wooden roof, and
bound by heather or straw ropes, which again are, at each side of


