
				SKIRLING.                          105

	Produce.-As to the average gross amount of raw produce, we
    give the following as a probable approximation to the truth:
	    Raised in the parish of oats and barley, value  -   L. 3088 0 0
	    Potatoes and turnips,                           -       998 0 0
	    Pasture,                                        -       918 0 0
            Rye-grass and meadow-hay,                       -       610 0 0
                                                                  _________
		Total yearly value of raw produce,          -   L. 5614 0 0
       The present rental of the parish is about L. 1500 a-year: but
    as nearly one-third of the parish is let on an old nineteen years'
    lease, a considerable rise may be expected at its termination.

			V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
       Means of Communication.-The length of the turnpike roads in
    the parish is three miles; and there are five bridges. The means
    of communication are good, as we have excellent roads in all direc-
    tions. The nearest market-town is Biggar, distant two miles.
       Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is very conveniently si-
    tuated, the house most distant from it being within two miles.
    At what time it was built it is impossible to say; but it seems to
    have undergone large repairs in the year 1720, and is at present
    in a state of decent repair.  It, has sittings for upwards of 200 per-
    sons: four of these are free; but as the people are very regular in
    their attendance, some families are complaining of a want of accom-
    modation.  Perhaps something might be done to remedy this evil,
    by a slight alteration of the allocation of seats.
       The manse was built in 1803, and is commodious and elegant.
    The glebe is an excellent one, and has been made so chiefly by
    the exertions of the present incumbent.  In the former Account of
    the parish, it is stated that the house of Skirling was surrounded
    by a morass: and when the present manse was erected, it was con-
    idered better to fix its site near to this, than to have it in the vil-
    lage, where the former one stood. In consequence of this, an ex-
    change of land was proposed and effected under the authority of
    the presbytery,-twenty-four acres, from the difference in quality,
    being given for eight, the extent of the old glebe.  This bog, or
    rather quagmire, (for into various parts of it neither man nor beast
    could then penetrate,) came thus into the minister's possession, and
    he, instantly and vigorously commencing a system of draining, and
    drawing the different springs to one point, from which they flow off
    in a considerable rivulet, has succeeded in reducing it to a dry and
    fertile state.  A stronger proof of the improvement effected cannot
    be given, than by the simple statement, that though land generally
    cannot be rated higher, it was valued by good judges at L.24 when


