
                        COLINTON.                            113

assistance was given thame, he causit Pittardis to be brocht to the
house, quhairwith he blew up the dures, entered the dures and
windowes, and after slaughter on both aides, (but much moir to the
Englishes than to the Scottis), tuik all that were in the house
prisoners, tirred them naked, seased on all the money and guides
that were thairin, quhilk was much, be reason that sindry gentlemen
about haid put thair guides their for saiftie.  So this house and
pepil thairin were taken in the sicht and face of our airmie, guha
thocht it dangerous to hazard thameselves in such one expeditioun,
the enemy haiffing the advantage of the ground and hills about
him for his defence." "Efter the enemie had taken the Laird of
Reidhall prisoner, he thaireftir put him to liberty, commending
much his valour and activitie for halding out so stoutlie aganes him
that house of Reidhall."
   The Covenanters came from the west to Colinten village
on 27th November 1666, where they remained all night: on
the 28th they marched by Ingliston bridge, in the point of Pent-
land hills; and the battle of Rullion Green took place thqLt even-
ing.  And in 1745, Prince Charles Edward in his way to Edin-
burgh took up his abode in the farm-house at Gray's mill imme-
diately below Slateford, on Monday the 17th September; whence
he proceeded next day by Buckstane-head and Newington, to the
palace of Holyrood House.
   Family of Foulis.-Foulis of Colinton is the most ancient family
in the Parish. Foulis is supposed to have come to Scotland from
France (as tbe name intimates) in the eleventh century, in the reiga
of Malcolm Canmore. The family acquired the lands of Colinton in
1519. James Foulis of Colinton was made King's  Advocate in 1528,
and Clerk Register in 1531.  He was concerned in all the public
transactions of his time, was one of the  commissioners  appointed,
25th Augost 1543, to negociate a marriage betwixt Mary Queen
of Scots and Prince Edward of England, which negociation, how-
ever, failed; was appointed one of the member of the College of
Justice at its institution in 1532, and acted in every situation with
fidelity and honour.  He acquired considerable property.  In the
beginning of the seventeenth century the James Foulis of that pe-
riod was a favourite with the king, and was, while young, knight-
ed by him.  His son, Alexander Foulis, was created a baronet in
1634.  His son, Sir James became a Senator of the College of
Justice in 1661 by the title of Lord Colinton, and was appointed
Justice-Clerk in 1684; he died in 1688.  His son, Sir James
   EDINBURGH.                           H


