
     Statistical Account

   Schools.-There is no parochial school.  The original
foundation of the grammar-school here is not certainly 

<FOOTNOTE>

patron chooses, are to be prefered.  Each widow is to have a chamber
or house, and 6 bolls of meal yearly; or 3 bolls of oats, and 3 bolls of 
bear at the option of the patron*.

Graham's Mortification.-In the year 1710,600 merks Scotts, (being
the money found in the poors box at the death of the Reverend Mr
Graham, last Episcopal minister of Duntermline), was by the Justices of 
the Peace, heritors, and town-council, mortified in the hands of the town
for the use of the poor. By the bond, the council are obliged to pay
the interest of the above sum yearly; the one half to the poor of the bo-
rough, conform to a list, to be yearly subscribed by the Magistrates and
Town-council, and the other half to the poor of the landward part of 
the parish, conform to a list to be yearly subscribed by the Justices of
Peace, and heritors, or a quorum of them.

<UNREADABLE>

   Reid's Mortification.-John Reid, a shopkeeper in Dunfermline, who,
from small beginnings, had acquired a considerable property, mortified
the whole (a few legacies excepted) to the poor of this parish, especially
to poor householders, and persons who have once been in better circum-
stances.  He committed the management to the provost, two Bailies, and 
Dean of Guild of the burgh, the ministers, and two elders of the Esta-
blished Church, the minister, and three elders of the Relief, and the mi-
nister, and the elders of the Burgher Congregation.  By the deed of
mortification, the managers are accountable to the heritors of the parish;
and it is provided, that in the event of a Poor's House or Orphan's
House being built in the parish, the whole of the estate mortified shall
be applied to the support of said Poor's or Orphan's House.  The revenue 

</UNREADABLE>

<UNREADABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

*In the year 1764, the Presbytery, in consequence of an applications
from the heritors, ministers, kirk-session, and Magistrates of Dunferm-
line, inquired int the management of Pitreause Hospital.  The patron
disputed the jurisdiction of the Presbytery.  The cause came at last be-
fore the Court of Session; and that Court, (notwithstanding in the deed
of mortification, all judges or ministers, civil or ecclesiastic, are dis-
charged from meddling theremouth in any sort), found, that the patron
was accountable to the Presbytery for the management of the mortifica-
tion, and ordained him to account for 40 years backward.*

</UNREADABLE>


