
   216                     INVERNESS-SHIRE.

   back. To accommodate the people of this parish with the requisite
   means of education, three schools are required.
      Few of the natives can either read or write. Most of the Pro-
   testants who come from other places, are, however, able to read
   the Scriptures, either in English or Gaelic. The number of Pro-
   testants in Barray, when the present incumbent came to the
   parish, did not exceed 60 souls; now they amount to about
   380. There is not, perhaps, a single parish in Scotland in
   which the minister is put to so much trouble and expense in at-
   tending to his ministerial duties. The Presbytery seat is about
   forty miles distant, exclusive of fords and ferries; he has to tra-
   vel abdut 100 miles to the seat of Synod, besides ferries; and
   the expense of travelling in the Highlands is very great.
      Poor and Parochial Funds.--The average number of poor up-
   on the roll is about 70. The only fund in the bands of the
   kirk-session for the relief of these, is the interest on an heritable
   bond of L.400, left by two tacksmen, natives of Barray, which is
   distributed among them annually, according to their necessities.
   There is no church collection made, nor has there been any as-
   sessment for the support of their poor as yet resorted to. The peo-
   ple are, in general, very kind to their poor, Who live in small houses
   of their own, where they are supplied by those around them with
   the necessaries of life, and thus they are prevented from begging
   from door to door,or even leaving the parish for subsistence. They,
   however, show no reluctance in applying for relief, nor do they
   consider it as any ways degrading to do so.
      Markets.-The only markets in Barray are held in the summer
   and autumn seasons, for disposing of the surplus cows and horses
   to dealers from the mainland, who carry them to the southern mar-
   kets.
      Inns.--There are no fewer than three inns in the parish, where a
   great quantity of spirits is sold, the effects of which on the morals
   of the people are most pernicious.
      Fuel.--The only fuel used in Barmy is peat, which is procured
   fmm a distance, at great expense and trouble.
		  MISCELLANNOUS OBSERVATIONS.
      The face of the country has undergone a material change for
   the better, since the former Statistical Account was written.
      Them are now excellent roads made through the greatest part
   of the Main Island,where a horse could then hardly walk. These
   roads were executed by the country people, under the Statute


