
                      ST FERGUS.                            211

the Sabbath.  It is intended for the benefit of servants of both
sexes, of young people who have left the Sabbath schools, and of
all who propose to offer themselves as candidates for admission to
the ordinance of the Lord's Supper.  It is well and willingly at-
tended.  The great drawback upon its beneficial operation is
that most reprehensible practice which obtains among servants of
a certain class, of changing their parochial residence every half
year.
   Library.-A parish library was instituted in 1829.  It com-
menced with a capital of about L. 30, raised by shares of 5s. each,
and a few donations.  In addition to the above sum, the com-
mittee of management afterwards borrowed L. 10.  It is now in
a very prosperous condition.  It is managed by a committee of
ten individuals, annually elected or re-elected by the shareholders,
and the minister of the parish, who is ex officio preses.  The
shareholders pay 1s. per annum for reading; persons not share-
holders, 1s. 6d.  The shares were originally 5s.; the are now 7s,
If a shareholder does not pay Is. annually for reading, he forfeits
his interest in the library.  The annual income is upwards of L. 6,
of which L. 1 is paid to a librarian, who attends on the first Mon-
day of every month to take in and give out books, and who is re-
sponsible for the state in which the books are kept; the rest is
applied to the purchase of new books.  The number of volumes
is upwards of 300, but many of these are expensive works.  The
books are well selected, and consist of historical, biographical,
scientific, literary, and religious publications.  Novels, political
pamphlets, and books of a professedly controversial character, are
expressly excluded by the regulations.
   The taste for reading, inspired and gratified by this institution,
is yearly increasing in the parish; and while the rising generation
are pressing around the tree of knowledge, it is matter of congra-
tulation that they are here furnished with its ripe and wholesome
fruit, and not tempted to pluck that which is green and poisonous.
   Savings' Banh.-A savings' bank was established in 1824.
The highest sum to which the collective deposits have at any one
time amounted is L. 760.  The average of the annual investments
for the last five years is L. 190, and of the sums withdrawn L. 110.
The investments are made by male and female servants, trades-
men, and crofters.  Some female servants have upwards of L. 30
deposited-the accumulated amount of annual savings.  The


