
     Statistical Account

tle Shepherd, and in some other poetical productions of those
times.  He was very justly respected for integrity and bene-
volence; and indeed the whole family are said to have been
remarkable for hospitality and public spirit.  Their remains
lie interred in an aisle, adjoining to the church of Eckford, on
the north side of it, with this inscription over the door:-
Hoc monumentum sibi et suis bene merentibus, ponendum curavit
Dominus Gulielmus Bennet, Eques Auratus, Anno Salutis
1724.

   Antiquities.-On the south of the present village of Cess-
ford, the remains of the ancient castle of that name*, are yet
to be seen.  No date is discernible to fix the period of its erec-
tion; but from those parts of the walls yet entire, it appears
to have been a place of considerable strength, both from the

<FOOTNOTE>

*The first proprietor of this castle, mentioned in history, was Andrew Kerr,
who obtained the title of Baron of Cessford, and got a charter of confirmation
from Archibald Earl Douglas, thereafter stiled Duke of Turenne, Douglas and
Longueville.  This charter is dated anno 1446; and in the reign of Queen Eli-
zabeth and James VI. of Scotland, anno 1570, the laird of Cessford was made
warden of the Scottish middle marches*; it became afterwards one of the titles
of the noble family of Roxburgh, which it still continues to be.  Such was the si-
tuation of Scotland before the accession of James VI. to the throne of England,
that every Baron's house was more or less fortified, according to the power and
consequence of its lord, or situation of his castle.  Those especially, at a distance
from the seat of government; and,therefore not under the awe of the law, when
the predatory system prevailed, found it necessary for their habitations, and pla-
ces of residence, to be better defended against the incursions of the neighbouring
plunderers.  Cessford castle, therefore, being only at the distance of 4 or 5 miles
from the English confines, was necessarily rendered a place of security; and ac-
cording to tradition there was a subterraneous vault for concealing both persons
and goods within its walls, to which access was only got by one aperture, which
was opened or shut as seemed necessary by a large stone with an iron ring in it.
This stone and ring have been seen by some persons still alive; but the entrance
to the peel or dungeon is now chocked up with rubbish.
*Redpath's, histroy, p. 635.


