
			  KIRKCUDRIGHT.                     31

visit Kirkcudbright daily from Dumfries; and, exclusive of the
carriers from the adjoining parishes, there are carriers weekly from
Edinburgh, Glasgow, Dumfries, Stranraer, Newton Stewart, New
Galloway, and Gatebouse of Fleet. The London mail arrives at
the post-office twice in the day.
	The roads in the parish are kept in good repair. The turnpike
road, about a mile and three-quarters in length, is perfectly smooth
and level.
	There are only two bridges in the locality worthy of notice, and
both are over the Dee between the parishes of Kirkcudbright and
Tongland. The old bridge, which is still in good repair, was
built upwards of 110 years ago, and cost only between L.400 and
L.500: it has two arches. The new bridge, completed in 1808,
cost L.7350. It consists of one large arch of 110 feet span, and
three small arches on each side.
	Harbours.--The parish of Kirkcudbright contains two good
harbours. In the harbour at the town, vessels often disload at the
beach and load in the dock. One side of the dock is of wood,
and the, other two sides are of stone.
	The river opposite the harbour is 30 feet deep at spring-tides,
and 500 feet in breadth. At neap-tides, its depth is from 20 to
25 feet, and its breadth about 400 feet. Below the harbour is a
ford, by which the river may be sometimes crossed, the depth of
water upon it on some singular occasions being not more than 1 1/2
foot.
	There is another harbour about two miles and a-half from the
mouth of the river, called Torrs' Lake, or Manxman's Lake.
Here almost any number of vessels might lie in safety on a clay
bottom. At four hours of flood, there is generally a depth of from
14 to 16 feet of water. Before reaching it, a bar, which cannot
be crossed by ordinary vessels at low water, extends across the
channel, but at half-flood there are from 10 to 12 feet of water
upon it. Two towers and a lighthouse lately erected on the
island of Little Ross, kept in one line bearing south-west, lead
over the bar in the deepest water. For this harbour vessels fre-,
quently run in bad weather, but before they can gain admittance
to it, they have often to anchor at the Ross-road in from two to
three fathoms water. Many fatal accidents have occurred from

<FOOTNOTE>In the severe winter of 1813-14, the river opposite the town became completely
frozen over, and passengers regularly crossed it upon the ice; even some individuals
went across on horseback. Such an event had never before been heard of.


