
184                    SUTHERLANDSHIRE.

to the every-day charities and kind offices of relatives and neigh-
hours. Yet trifling as the sum given by the session is, the de-
mands on,tbem are increasing, and it is not considered now nearly
so degrading to receive their aid as it was a few years ago.
Besides those upon the poor's roll, there. are a few who receive
permanent in meal or otherwise, to the' annual value of
L.14, Is. W., grunted originally by the late Ducbess-Countess of
Sutherland, and continued by his Grace the present Duke of
Sutherland. Her Grace's kindness to aged widows and to re-
spectable persons in reduced circumstances, was very considerate,
and a most'commendable trait in her character. It deserves to be
noticed that, in 1837, a season of greatscarcity in the Higlands,
she gave meal to the poor of the parish to the value of about
L.60, and supplied the small tenants with a great quantity at the
purchase price,-the arrears of which have lately been remitted,
amounting to about L. 200. The object of putting this meal to
the accounts of the tenants was, not so much the expectation of
ever realizing the money, as the desire that they should not feel
themselves tberein treated as paupers. J6.
Ans.-There are only two houses licensed to sell spirits. One
of these is a Deat comfortable inn in the village of TODgue, which
was considered a large house when built twenty years ago, though
now it is frequently found deficient in the necessary accommoda-
tions.
Fuel-Peat is the fuel COMMODly used bawl classes. From
its long CODtinued and rapidly increasing consumption, the labour
and expense of procurin it is now very great; and the more com-
fortable inhabitants seem resolved to purchase coal in future, as-
sured that it will be found less expensive. Free access to peat,
however, is a mighty privilege to the common people, as it costs
them nothing but their personal labour.

                   MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.

Man changes have taken place in the parish, since the former
Account was drawn up. The first and lost important is the in-
troduction of sbeep-farming. The character of this change will
be variously estimated, as persons are disposed to look at one or
other of its -effects. That it has rendered this country more valu-
able to proprietors cannot be questioned,-for certain it is, that in
no other way could a great part of it be laid out to such advan-
tage it may  fairly be questioned whether, by extending it
too far, they have not injured themselves. If, however, we are to


