
     Statistical Account

raised higher than the rest, which formerly served for the
choir, and still retains the name, though it has been long
used as a burying place.  The remains of a font are still to
be seen at one of the church doors, and other relics of super-
stition, which evidently show that the whole has been built
before the Reformation.  The manse was built about 58
years ago, and repaired in 1791.  The living consists of 128
bolls of bear and oat-meal, in equal portions; 30 L. in mo-
ney, and a glebe of 6 acres.  It is difficult to say what the
original number of Seceders in this parish was; but they
now amount to about 100ll.  The other dissenters belong-
ing to the parish, are, 12 Episcopalians, 2 Bereans, and 1 Ro-
man Catholic.

   School.-The school is near to the church, and well attend-
ed.  Reading, writing, arithmetic, Latin, book-keeping,
and navigation, are all taught by the same master, whose e-
moluments are as follow:

<FOOTNOTE>

llAll the inhabitants of this parish, except a few, who continued their
attachment to the Fpiscopal religion, were regular attendants on public wor-
ship, as established in the Church of Scotland, till about the year 1763.  At
that time, the minister's anxiety to improve the church-music, led him to
adopt the more approved method of singing wihout intermission, or reading
the line, as it is called.  This gave umbrage to many, who had been accustom-
ed to hear every line separately given out by the precentor or clerk, before
the congregation joined in the psalm.  They were forced to acknowledge
that the psalmedy would be improved by singing without interruption; but
they urged, that many who could not read, would, by that mean, be entirely
excluded from joining in this part of public worship.  Whether a regard to
the good of others, was the real, or only the ostensible cause of this opposition;
or whether it proceeded from a dread of innovation, they persisted in it.  They
remonstrated again and again; and when their remonstrances were not at-
tended to, abandoned the church, built one for themselves in Johnshaven, and
invited a minister of the Secession to settle among them.


