
                           PARISH OF GORDON.

         PRESBYTERY OF LAUDER, SYNOD OF MERSE AND TIVIOTDALE.

                  THE REV. JAMES PATERSON, MINISTER.

                  I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name, Boundaries, &c.-THE name of this parish was originally
Goirtean, signifying in Gaelic a little field-a little farm-a little
corn field. It lies in the western part of the Merse, Berwickshire, and
is about 7 miles long, by from 2 to 4 in breadth, containing about
21 square miles. Its form is oval; and it is bounded on the west
by part of the parish of Legerwood; on the north by part of Le-
gerwood, Westruther, and part of Greenlaw; on the east by
Greenlaw; and on the south by Hume, now annexed to the pa-
rish of Stitchel, and by part of Earlston. It contains no mount
tains; and the whole surface is uneven and hilly. The situation
of the parish is high, and the atmosphere in general pure and sa-
lubrious. The district is exposed to no prevalent distempers.
   The small river Eden runs through the parish from north to
south, dividing it nearly into two equal parts. The Blackadder
bounds it on the north-east for upwards of two miles, separating
it from Greenlaw.
   The only species of rock with which the district abounds con-
sists of pieces of whinstone, varying in weight from two tons to
a few pounds. These blocks are thickly scattered over the sur-
face of those moors which are as yet uncultivated; and it is evi-
dent that much of the land now under tillage must have at one
time been encumbered with them. There are no masses of rock.
In some places small beds of red sandstone are to be found, but so
very friable as to be of little or no use.
                       II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Family of Gordon.-This parish at one time contained the re-
sidence and part of the possessions of the noble family of Gordon,
who took their name from the place. They are said to have settled
here in the reign of Malcolm Canmore, and to have removed to
the north of Scotland about three or four centuries ago. It is con-
   BERWICK.                          C


