
                        ST NINTANS.                         305

between the Lennox and the Ochil bills. These are very irregu-
lar in height, rising at some places to more than 100 feet; and
as some of them are bare, and some planted to the very brink, they
have a very picturesque appearance. This is increased by the
deep gorges, or intervening spaces through which the water appears
to have forced its way; their eastern slopes having much the ap-
pearance of being left in their present state by the subsidence of
that element. The dryfield in general slopes to the north and east,
though it is so variegated, that it is difficult to bring it under any
general description. There are in it several level tracks of consi-
derable extent, but it is mostly undulating; and these undulations
occasionally terminate in steep banks or swell up into rounded tops.
Nearly the whole is well cultivated, enclosed, and beautified with
hedgerows and plantations.
  The boundary which separates the dryfield from the carse is still
more marked than that which divides the former from the moor-
lands. It has much the appearance qf the bank of a river or es-
tuary, concurring with many other facts to prove that the carses were,
once under water. As many trunks and mots of trees have been,
and still are to be found in them, they must afterwards have been,
covered with wood. The marks of the axe show that the trees were
not overturned by tempests, nor were they cut down for fuel, else
they would not have been left on the ground. The Romans com-
plain that the natives concealed themselves in the woods, and is-
suing thence, often unexpectedly assailed their wall and forts.
It may, therefore, be reasonably concluded that the forests
were cut down by them ; that the country being laid bare as far
as the Forth, they might be relieved from the. sudden incur-
cursions of their troublesome neighbours. The trees thus left on
the damp ground would gradually form the morass in which the
wholecarses, from Falkirk to Stirling, a said to have been, when
Edward invaded Scotland. A few patches of moss still remain in
this parish, but, in general, the carses are in a state of high culture,
and produce abundant crops. In some places banks are raised
against the overflowing of the Forth, and throughout their whole
extent the land seldom rises more than from twelve to twenty feet
aabove the level of the sea.
  The heaviest rains and strongest winds are from the south-west,

<FOOTNOTE>The woods are supposed to have been cut down at the beginning of the third
hcentury, after the return of Severus from his expedition to the north, in which it is said
be lost 50,000 of his men.

   STIRLING.                                                   U


