
                         OLD DEER.                              161

1788, and the manse in 1832.  The offices are of different ages.
The stipend, as settled and modified by the, proper court in 1824
consists of 16 chalders of victual, one-half barley (Linlithgow
measure), and the other half oatmeal, paid according to the fiar
prices which, whatever be the cause, are almost invariably for the
county of Aberdeen, the lowest by far throughout Scotland.  The
glebe is considerably above the statute and common size ; and,
owing to the improvements it has received from the present in-
cumbent and his predecessors, though in all probability the greater
part of it some time ago was a profitless waste, might be let, si-
tuate as it is, at from L.40 to L.50 a-year.
   A neat chapel, capable of containing about 700 sitters, was built
in 1834 in the south-east extremity of New Deer, by which a por-
tion of this parish lying to the south is so far accommodated, as
well as part of New Deer, Ellon, and Tarves, comprehending al-
together a population of at least 1500 souls, the nearest of whom
to any other place of worship connected with the Establishment
is distant between three and four miles.  The expense of erec-
tion was defrayed by subscriptions from the heritors an tenants
of the district, collections from most of the churches belonging to
the presbyteries of Deer and Ellon, and a liberal grant from the
General Assembly's Committee on Church Extension.  There
is no debt upon the building; and the four clergymen whose pa-
rishes are accommodated have agreed, with the assistance of a
licensed preacher, to have in it every, Sabbath the regular order
of public service, until some better provision than a small sum
arising from seat rents, the only revenue at present, can be ob-
tained for the settlement and support of an ordained clergyman
specially invested with a pastoral charge.  The collections are
appropriated to the benefit of the poor.
   Another chapel was contracted for and built in 1837, on the south
extremity of Lonmay, and near the north boundary of this parish,
from resources similar to those above specified, for the accommo-
dation of the most remote inhabitants of Strichen, and of the
other two parishes just named.
   Could means be procured for building and endowment, there
is also much need of a church, with its requisite appendages, to-
wards the south-east corner of this parish, which would be within
a convenient distance of the remote parts of Longside Cruden,
and Ellon.
   Collections, not illiberal, have been made in the parish church
   ABERDEEN.                                    L


