
                              AYR.                              11

treme, with a thick covering of snow, glittering in dazzling white-
ness from afar, and with dark or fleecy clouds passing in endless
succession over their lofty summits. But the sublimest and most
pleasing aspect which they assume is when the sun has "just sank
beneath the western wave" in a calm clear evening, throwing his
golden beams over their majestic, ridges, so finely and distinctly
marked in the serene azure sky, while all other objects underneath
have already been thrown into the soft and dusky shade of twi-
light.
	Where Arran terminates, the projecting point of Cantyre pro-
longs the boundary of the bay considerably further to the west,
so that with this apparent contiguity of land all around, except at
one point, and that point only seen in one line of view, it looks
like a lake of very large dimensions, diversified everywhere along
its borders with the most beautiful and striking features. With
the exception of the Bay of Naples, there is hardly any thing per-
haps of the kind that can rival it in extent, taken in conjunction
with its beauty, grandeur, and attractiveness. The Bay of Dub-
lin is both inferior in point of size, and tamer in prominent and
magnificent outline. The Wicklow mountains no doubt have a
wild grandeur about them, but they form not the fine marginal
variety that the mountains of Arran and Argyleshire, and the
other scenery around, give to the Bay of Ayr, which is an object,
of admiration to all strangers, and of delight to all who live up-
on its borders. Along the far projecting coast of Cunningham,
to the north-east, may be seen in a clear day, glittering in the
sunshine, the thriving towns of Ardrossan, Stevenston, Saltcoats,
Kilwinning, and Irvine, which give interest and variety to the
scene, and convey the idea of a district teeming with animation,
wealth, and industry. The town of Ayr stands in its south cor-
ner, and derives from it principally its healthiness, as well as its
enviableness of situation. Its waters present a never-ending va-
riety to the view, and every new aspect which they assume, exhi-
bits different phases of interest, to all who admire the grand and
beautiful in natural scenery.
	Geology.--The parish of Ayr, having something of a peninsu-
lar form, by the boundaries of the Ayr and Doon and the sea, on
three of its sides,--is greatly modified by this position in its geo-
logical character. Though undulating in its surface, it may ge-
nerally be described as sloping gradually towards the rivers on
the north and south, and the sea on the west, the inland part ris-


