
654                     ARGYLESHIRE.

black-faced breed, are of a very ordinary kind,--being chiefly in
the hands of small tenants, who keep them as an overstock, and
they are so badly managed as not to prove a source of profit.
   Husbandry.--The duration of leases is for nineteen years. To
such tenants as know the value of land, and are in possession of
capital and enterprise, it may be said, that the conditions of the
leases are decidedly favourable.
   The farms are generally let to a number of tenants who live to-
gether on one spot, cultivating the arable on the runrig system,
grazing the pasture land in common. A change in this system is
being effected, though it still obtains to a considerable extent, and
must continue to endure till the end of the current leases, where all
the parties do not concur in making a regular subdivision. The
obstacles which this mode of holding land presents to persons of
skill and industry, in clearing and improving their lands, need not
be detailed here;--to say that the system obtains is enough to sug-
gest them to every enlightened, and intelligent mind.
   Farm-Buildings.--The farm-buildings, and stone dikes are for
the most part the property of the tenants occupying the farms.
In some instances, they are kept in a state of thorough repair,
though generally this corresponds with the means possessed by
the occupants, and with their ideas of order, comfort, and eco-
nomy.
  The principal improvements which have recently been made, have
been effected by Mr Campbell of Sunderland, whose place of resi-
dence and landed property are situated in this parish. He considers
that, within the last twenty years, by enclosing, draining, and other-
wise improving waste land, he has more than tripled the original
value of his property. In cultivating moss, he has the water taken off
by open and wedge drains; the surface is then delved and levelled;
shell-sand is spread on it at the rate of eight toils the imperial
acre, and it is then manured for potatoes, or sown down with oats
and grass seeds. What, previous to these operations, produced only
heather, or very coarse herbage, has now become a close green
award. Many hundred acres have been improved after this man-
ner, and the operation is still in regular progress. The pasture
land he has had surface-drained and sanded at the rate of eight
tons per acre.
   The increased value obtained from drainage on crop and pas-
ture land appears to be pretty generally understood by the ten-
antry, some of whom have been exerting themselves to render


