
                  CATHCART.					501

teresting work of fiction which one of the most talented authors of
the age gave to the public some years ago, under the title of Adam
Blair.  The matter is alluded to in very few words, and simply
referred to the presbytery--a circumstance which, while it disap-
points the reader, gives the strongest evidence of the tender regard
of the elders to their unhappy and erring pastor, who, after a tem-
porary suspension, during which he gave the most convincing evi-
dence of sincere repentance, was restored to his charge by the su-
perior church court, in answer to the earnest and affectionate pe-
titions of the people, and soon recovered, by increased fidelity and
diligence in the discharge of his sacred duties, a place in the
esteem of his parishioners as high as that which be had enjoyed be-
fore his fall.
  Antiquities.--About thirty years age, on the farm of Overlee,
which lies on the north bank of the river Cart, in the southwest
angle of the parish, Mr Watson, the proprietor, on removing the
earth from a quarry which he wished to open, discovered a great
many subterraneous houses ranged round the slope of a small swel-
ling hill.  Each house consisted of one apartment, from eight to
twelve feet square.  The sides, which were from four to five feet
high, were faced with rough undressed stone, and the floors were
neatly paved with thin flag stones which are found in the neigh-
bourhood.  In the centre of each floor was a hole scooped out as
a fire-place, in which coal-ashes still remained, and seemed to in-
dicate that their occupiers had left the place on a sudden.  That
coal and not wood or peat had been employed as fuel, seemed at
first an argument against the antiquity of the houses, until it was
remembered that many seams of coal crop out on the steep banks
of the river in the immediate vicinity, which may have been pick-
ed out for firing by the aboriginal inhabitants, as is still done to a
limited extent by a few of the poorer classes in the neighbourhood.
Near the fire-places were found small heaps of water-worn pebbles,
from two to three inches in diameter, the use of which it is diffi-
cult to conjecture.  They may have been used as missiles for at-
tack or defence in the rude warfare of ancient days, or more pro-
bably they served the purposes of an equally rude system of cook-
ery, by which meat was prepared for being eaten by heated stones
placed round it, as is still done in many of the South Sea islands.
The floors of the houses were covered to the depth, of about a foot
with a rich black vegetable mould, which was in all likelihood the
decayed, remains of the roofs mixed with soil filtered from the sur-
face.  As was gathered from the different appearances of tack soil,


