
     of Selkirk.

only easy but affluent, make their contributing to the poors
funds an excuse for throwing their near relations a burden up-
on the public.  While the feelings of nature are thus stifled,
and its laws are thus transgressed, it were devoutly to be wish-
ed, that the laws respecting the poor, productive of so many
baneful consequences, would provide this equitable antidote:
"that all who are in circumstances, and who, by law, would
succeed to the property of anyone, were they rich, should be oblig-
ed to maintain them when poor."  The public, as it is only the last
heir, ought to be only the last resort, of those who have none
else to support them.  From these observations, it would ap-
pear, that poors-rates, without a system of management not
yet practiced in the country parishes, is unfriendly to the cause
of virtue in general, and to the best interest of those they are
intended to serve.-It is an undoubted fact that, when peo-
ple are taught to depend upon any means of support, which
flow not from their own laudable industry and economy, the
meanness of the thought degrades every virtue, and opens the
door to every vice, that can debase the soul.  Their only de-
pendence ought to be upon their own labour and exertions,
which, when joined to economy, will always furnish them
with the means of a decent maintainance.  Promoting their
industry is the best provision that can be made for them.  Pre-
miums are chearfully given for the encouragement of com-
merce:  Might not the same means be employed, for promoting
virtue and industry in humble life?  A very small sum, pro-
perly laid out for that purpose, would do more good, than all
that is bestowed on the present system.  With what honour-
able pride would not the poor man's heart swell, and with
what renewed vigour and alacrity, would he not discharge the
duties of his station, when he felts his virtues publicly regard-
ed, and rewarded by his fellow citizen?  With what shame
and remorse, would not the prosligate wretch endeavour to


