
			 MONTROSE.                          287

found to be very beneficial,-many of the young people who work
at the mills attending these schools after working hours. The
teachers of the free schools are bound to teach on Sabbath evening,
and, besides these, there is a number of other Sabbath schools.
        The total number of children attending school is 1634-after
deducting 40 who attend both teachers of the Trades' School.
        Libraries.-A public Library was established in 1785, and con-
tains, `lnng with many ephemeral publications, a fair collection of
standard works in divinity, history, and literature. The subsbrip-
tion is a guinea a year; the number of subscribers is upwards of 100;
and the number of volumes about 7000. There is a library belong-
ing to the Montrose Reading Society, the subscription to which is
4s. 4d. annually, and which contains a pretty extensive collection of
books. The session has a parish Library, consisting chiefly of re-
ligious books; and there is one of the same kind connected with
the chapel.
        Lunatic Asylum, Infirmary, and Dispensary.-In 1779, the at-
tention of the magistrates and of the influential persons of the town
and neighbourhood was directed towards the importance of having
a proper place for the confinement of lunatics, and for the reception
of sick and diseased persons, in indigent circumstances. Contribu-
tions were raised, and a building erected for the accomplishment of
these purposes. The building having been repeatedly enlarged
since then, is now extensive and commodious, and stands in a healthy
and well-aired situation. In 1811 a Royal charter was obtained for
the institution. Its affairs are conducted by 50 managdrs. The
provost and first bailie, and the two parish ministers, are ex officio
managers. Of the others, thirty are required to be inhabitants of the
burgh, eleven landed proprietors, and five clergymen of parishes
in the neighbourhood. Besides a keeper and matron, there is in
the house a resident medical superintendent. In connection with
the Infirmary and Dispensary, the town is divided into six districts,
the poor in which are visited by six of the medical practitioners.
From the report laid before the last annual meeting, it appears that
there were then in the house 65 lunatics, and that in the course
of the preceding year 11 had been discharged cured; that in
the infirmary, there were then 12 patients; that during the year, 58
had been discharged cured, and 15 relieved; and that 489 out-door
patients had received advice and medicines. The institution hav-
ing been originally erected as a charitable institution, by means of
subscriptions, several lunatic patients from the parish of Montrose

  FORFAR.                             T


