
            160                        PERTHSHIRE.

            neral, he takes charge of himself.  In this way, many who com-
            menced depositing their savings in the Methven Savings Bank
            have become annual depositors, to a very considerable amount, with
            the Perth Banking Company; for when they go there at the end
            of the year to have their bank receipt renewed, they add to it not
            only the interest due upon it at that time, but also all that they
            have been able to save for the preceding twelve months.  In this
            way several of these depositors have been enabled to become pro-
            prietors of houses, sufficient, at least, to accommodate themselves
            and their families, and this is evidently a result, which, humanly
            speaking, would not likely ever have happened, had it not been
            for the opportunity which the saving bank afforded them, of com-
            mencing the accumulation of the little fortune which has enabled
            them to acquire this enviable degree of independence.  The be-
            nefits of this institution are open to all, without regard to age, sex,
            or residence; hence, there are somd depositors from a great dis-
            tance, and several females who commenced early to deposit have,
            now, each, the command of not less than L. 60, L. 70, and some of
            them L. 80, while others similarly situated, but less provident,
            cannot perhaps command as many shillings.  The total amount
            deposited up to 1st January 1837 is L. 4316, 8s. 8d.; the total
            number of depositors is 331, and the lowest amount of deposits
            belonging to any individual is 2s.  We could say much more up-
            on this subject, were it not that we would thereby extend this ar-
            ticle to an improper length; but we cannot conclude these remarks
            without expressing our conviction, founded upon our knowledge of the
            benefits which many have derived from this institution, that savings
            banks, properly constituted, and judiciously conducted, are eminent-
            ly calculated to promote the comfort and happiness both of indi-
            viduals `nd families, and that were the working-classes of the com-
            munity once led more generally to embrace the benefits they of-
            fer, we cannot conceive a method better fitted to advance their in-
            terest, nor a plan better adapted to promote their real independence.
               Poor and Parochial Funds.-The funds for the support of the
            poor are derived from two sources; the one is an assessment up-
            on the parish expressly for that purpose,-the other, the collec-
            tions at the church door.  These are kept entirely separate, and
            are appropriated to different classes or lists of poor.  The assess-
            ment or poor's rate was introduced here so early as the year 1775,
            when the church-door collections were found altogether inadequate
            to the wants of the poor, in consequence of by far the greater part


