
                           KINTAIL.                       171

   Topographical Appearances.-Kintail is, in all directions, sur-
rounded with high bills. Few districts are more admirably pro-
tected, or more strongly fortified by the natural bulwarks of moun-
tain -ranges, than the barony of Kintail. Access to it, of old, was
an arduous undertaking,-the country being entirely without
roads, and the principal approaches being through extremely nar-
row glens, where a few individuals might defend the country against
an invading army of many hundreds. This may truly be said of
the pass of Bealach, in this parish. That pass is nor many feet
broad, and is flanked on both sides with perpendicular rocks of
very considerable altitude, apparently overhanging their base. It
is a spot of extreme wildness, and seldom does the traveller realize
the feeling of loneliness with greater power than in the Bealach.
Such as are pleased with scenery of this description, would do well
to visit the Bealach. From whatever quarter Kintail is entered,
whether by sea from the west, or by land from the east, a scene
gradually unfolds itself, which it is impossible to describe. Moun-
tains of immense magnitude, grouped together in the sublimest
manner, with wood and water, scars and bens intermingled, present
a prospect seldom surpassed in wild beauty, and equally interest-
iDg and astonishing in the storms of winter, and in the calm se-
renity of summer.
   Among the mountains, which more properly belong to this pa-
risb, Tullochard holds a conspicuous place, and merits a special
notice. It stands the undisputed monarch of the mountains on the
north side of Locbduich. Legendary traditions represent it as an-
ciently held in high veneration ; but this feeling,'if it really ever
existed, is DOW totally extinct. It commands a pretty extensive
view of many of the western isles, and is by no means difficult of
ascent. Its height has not been ascertained. There are other
mountains in the parish of great altitude, and of picturesque ap-
pearance,-such as Glasbhein, Soceachmaam-an-Tuife, and Ben-
Ulay.
   It might naturally be expected that a district so alpine as Kintail.
would abound with eaves and caverns. The contrary is the fact;
there are only two eaves, and these of an extent too triflmg to
merit particular attention. Neither are there any caves on the sea-
coast.
   Although a considerable proportion of our coast is rocky, yet it
presents no novelty deserving of notice. The general- character of

(FOOTNOTE)Tullochard is the Burning Mount of the Seaforth crest.


