
                                             MOULIN.                 667

     Prisons.-There is no prison: in the parish; but it is said that the
"New Prison Bill" provides Pitlochry with one,--for what pur-
pose I am at a loss to conceive, if lt be not to accommodate the
law-violators of the neighbouring Parishes or to receive the swarms
of idle vagrants and sturdy beggars that prowl, among us from the
south at different seasons of the year. For any other purpose, a
prison in this parish will, be a tenantless erection, and the office of
a jailor a sinecure.
     Fairs.- At Moulin, there is a fair held on the first Tuesday of
March, for the sale of horses and the purchase of seed-corn. 
Pitloebry, there is a fair held for cattle and horses the Saturday,
before the Amulrie market, which is held first Tuesday of may;
and likewise in the same place, on the third Wednesday of Octo-
ber, O.S., there is another for cattle and horses.
     Inn.-There are seven ale-houses in the parish, and, as for-
merly stated, seven licensed distilleries. The influence of these
on the morals of the people is far from being of so demoralizing a
nature as one might be apt to imagine. That there are a few in-
dividuals who are notorious tipplers will not detract from the ge-
neral character of the people, which, in regard to high-toned mo-
rality, may challenge comparison with anv peasantry in Scotland.
     Fuel.-A great quantity of wood is burned by the distillers and
others.  The consumption of coal is considerable, but the princi-
pal fuel is peat, found in the neighbouring hills, and procured at
a great expense.  If it was dreaded fifty years ago, bow much
greater reason is there now, to apprehend a scarcity in this neces-
sary article.  In consequence of the immense quantity used by the
numerous distilleries in the neighbourhood, it is feared that, unless
a more judicious and economical system her adopted of cutting that
mossed than is at present in operation, the peat Will, ere along, be
so exhausted as to add very considdrably to the present outlay.
Should the once-projected railroad betwixt Perth and Dunkeld
go,on it will tend much to remove all grounds of fear, and to di-
minish the expense to which, in the article of fuel we are at pre-
sent necessarily subjected.

                       MISCELLANOUS OBSERVATIONS
     At the time of writing the former Statistical Report, the real
rent of the parish was estimated at L.3000; now, it is upwards of
L.7000. Then, land in the neighbourhood of the villages paid
from L.1, 10s. to L.I, 14s.; now, the same land pays at the rate
of L.3 per acre.  Then, some of the farms were intermixed toge-


