
     of Carnwath.

them constant employment, to carry it down to Cambus-
nethan for the supply of the Glasgow market.  There are two
weekly markets in this place, in which meal and bear are
the principal commodities bought and sold.  There are 5
fairs in the year, but only two are considerable; one on the
last Thursday of June old style; the others about the middle
of August.  The price of labour has been greatly increased
since the introduction of the iron and cotton manufacture.
The wages of a good plowman, who lives in the farmers house,
are from 6 L to 8 L.; the wages of a female servant from 3 L.
to 4 L. per annum; the wages of a day labourer from 1 s. to
14 d. or 16 d.; the wages of a good shearer engaged for the
harvest, for a man from 21 s. to 25 s. for a woman from
18 s. to 20 s. It is a common observation in the place, that
although the wages of servants are greatly increased, they in
general save less than when their wages were smaller, as they
are much more expensive in dress than they formerly were.
The servant men all wear English cloth; and the servant
maids are much better dressed on Sundays and at fairs and
markets than their mistresses were a few years ago.  The
Scotch dialect is spoken here, not without a considerable mix-
ture of provincial peculiarities*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*There are six public houses in the village, in which small-
beer, porter, but particularly whisky, are sold; and it is to be
regretted that this last article should be so cheap, as it is evident-
ly tending in this place to debauch the morals of the lower
classes.  The quantity consumed here is almost incredible; and
those who are least able to spare from their families are most
addicted to this abominable beverage.  Besides these public
houses, the same liquors are sold in every shop in the place; of
such shops there are five in the village, and others in different
parts of the parish.  The innocence and simplicity of the com-
mons in this part of the country are consequently on the decline.
To attain a little smattering of law is also become an object of
attention to a few; and it is to be doubted, not with an inten-
tion that they may be enabled to act with more justice and ho-
nesty, but the quirks of it are rather studied to give them the
advantage of others.


