
                          MERTON.                              27

the Earl of Marchmont, has in consequence of this, in his posses-
sion, a number of letters, papers, pictures, and other documents
relative to Scottish history.
   Land-owners.-The principal, and indeed the only land-owners
in the parish, are Hugh Scott, Esq. of Harden; James Haig, Esq.
of Bemersyde; Sir David Erskine of Dryburgh; Charles Riddell,
Esq. of Musilee; and John Anderson, Esq. of Gladswood.
   Parochial Registers.-The earliest date of our parochial regis-
ters is 1697. They have been very irregularly kept, and contain
nothing of any importance.
   Antiquities.-The Abbey of Dryburgh, so much admired by
travellers, lies in the south-west corner of the parish; but, as an
account of it, written by the late Right Honourable the Earl of
Buchan, is published in Grose's Antiquities, it is unnecessary to
say any thing about it.
   Modern Buildings.-It may be proper to remark, that the late
Earl of Buchan, with a liberality that does honour to his memory,
erected a suspension bridge across the Tweed 261 feet. This
bridge is a great accommodation to the public, as foot-passengers
and single horses can pass at all times with safety. On a little
eminence at this end of the bridge, he erected a circular building,
which he designated the Temple of the Muses. The workman-
ship is well executed; and, taken in conjunction with the adjoin-
ing scenery, forms a beautiful object.
   He also erected at a short distance, upon the brow of the con-
terminous hill, a colossal statue of Sir William Wallace. This is
chiefly remarkable, as being the workmanship of a common stone-
mason who had never been taught sculpture. It is a conspicuous
object from the turnpike road leading to Jedburgh.

<TABLE=III.-POPULATION.>
               Return to Dr Webster in 1755,     502
               Census taken in 1791,             557
                     Do.    in 1811,             614
                     Do.    in 1821,             610
                     Do.    in 1831,             664

   In the last there are 312 males and 352 females. The increase
arises from most of the proprietors and their families being resi-
dent at the time the census was taken, and also from several new
cottages being built for the farmers' married servants.
<TABLE>
1. Number of families in the parish,                                          128
          of families chiefly employed in agriculture,                         86
                      chiefly employed in trade, manufactures, or handicraft,  18


