
228                             ABERDEENSHIRE.

applied to the inferior soils unmixed before the ley is broken up
for white crop.  In certain cases, it is applied to the stubble field,
when a second white crop is taken; and it is universally esteemed
as surface-dressing for pasture.  It is needless to remark, that a
regular rotation of cropping has been long observed.  A seven
shift is now most approved in this quarter.  There is a good deal,
of bear or big, raised after the green crops, and but little barley,
except on some few patches of fine infield near the sea-side.  Rye
has been raised with success on the poorest soils if dry; but there
is no home demand either for the grain, or straw for hat manufac-
ture.  The soil of Lonmay is best adapted for raising grass, (which
is very early,) and turnips.  A small proportion of the soil is ca-
pable of producing above seven or eight returns.
   The best illustration we can furnish of the improvement which
has taken place on the face of this part of the country, is by stat-
ing the number of acres reclaimed from waste, as under:-

<TABLE>
Years               Acres.           In wood or cultivated.   Left uncultivated.
1796,  On Lonmay    }  398 sandy beach,          0                    398
     and Cairness.  }
                       465 links and bent,       0	                465
		           536 moor, bog, &c.	     436	                100
1776, Crimonmogate. * 396 moor and moss, &c.   56                      340

   Besides the above, about 260 acres, styled arable pasture, is now
under the usual rotation of cropping. *  Another test of the in-
creased value of the land is obtained from the comparative rental.
In 1795, according to the former Statistical Account, the rent of
the parish was two thousand guineas, it is now L. 5395.
   There are two water meadows in the parish, one on General
Gordon's, and the other on Mr Bannerman's estate.  The gene-
ral endurance of leases is for nineteen years.  On the supposition
that a seven years course of rotation is the most proper, the term
ought to be extended to at least twenty-one years.
   The enclosures are almost all of stone, of which dikes, without
cement, are built of great strength, and with much neatness.  As,
however, outlying stones are scarce, enclosing is attended with
much outlay of capital.  Where roads intervene a sloping face of
earth is left outside, which is sometimes planted with thorn or

<FOOTNOTE>Much has also been done on the other estates, but the above examples will serve.
          What is called outfield does, not support the sown grasses above two or three
years, after which the inferior and coarser natural grasses return.  This remark ap-
plies to much of the thin land in the parish, which must, therefore, be surface-dres-
sed, with a view to continued pasturage; or else be broken up frequently, and laid
down of view with sown grasses.  Mr Bannerman is now making extensive experi-
ments in burning peat moss, with a view to reclaim waste ground.


