
			    PARISH OF BENDOCHY.

		PRESBYTERY OF MEIGLE, SYNOD OF ANGUS AND MEARNS.

			THE REV. J. S. BARTY, MINISTER.


                        I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
           Name.-THE name of this parish has been written variously.
	In the parochial registers the following different spellings occur:
	In 1642, Bendochie; in 1692, the same; in 1704, Bennathie;
	in 1731, Bendochie; in 1760, Bendochy.  On the communion
	cups the inscription is Bendothy, A. D. 1786.  This last spelling
	is clearly unwarrantable, and without authority, as far as can be
	discovered, and apparently has been adopted from a mistaken
	reading of Bendochy, which is so written in the parish records
	sometimes as to resemble Bendothy.  Bennethy or Benathy best
	"expresses the vulgar pronunciation at the place, and also the
	etymology Nether-Hill," (Old Statistical Account.)  In this lat-
	ter remark I cannot agree with my predecessor.   I do not believe
	that there can be any good precedent for such a hybrid, such a
	compound of Gaelic and Saxon, as the conjecture of the former
	statist supposes; while the existence of two hills implied in the
	etymology seems in a great measure imaginary.  Bendochie ap-
	pears the most ancient and correct spelling; but it has been found
	very difficult to ascertain the true import of the name, arising from
	the great uncertainty of Gaelic etymology.  The curious in such
	matters are referred to a note below.*

<FOOTNOTE> An ingenious and learned friend writes me as follows : "I suppose the name to
	be a compound of three Gaelic syllables, Ben, a hill, do, a verbal particle prefixed to
	the preterite or future, and chi, the future of the verb to see. Ben-do-cbi, the hill
	of the good prospect."  The rising ground on the southern base of which the church
	and manse stand is midway betwixt the Sidlaw (Southlaw) and Grampian ranges,
	and equidistant from Forfar and Perth, the limits of Strathmore proper.  The view
	from it is extensive, varied, and be`utiful.  "It would with the same meaning,"
	adds my correspondent, "admit of being written Ben-a-chi, or Ben-a-thi."  This is
	fortunate, giving authority for the supposed vulgar pronunciation of the natives,
	and meeting to some extent the predilections of my predecessor for "Benathie."' But
	what is to be done with "Bendothy," the spelling on the communion cups, and retain-
	ed by the writer of the former account?  Here is the solution--"To is old Gaelic for
	water, The Tay is water par excellence.  Ben-do or da-tha would be the hill of two waters."
	"Do or da means two, and tha would be the objective case of Ta." The rising ground


