
     Statistical Account

object to a traveller, when the Lothians open to his view,
from Soutrahill.  There are some wood-cocks and pheasants
in it.  It is infested with that distemper, so pernicious to cat-
tle, called the Wood-ill, or Muir-ill; the effects of which
may, however, be certainly prevented by castor oil, or any o-
ther laxative.  The grass glebe is not free from this distemper,
though the natural wood, with which it was covered, has been
rooted out more than 60 years ago.
   This district is well situated with regard to markets for corn,
being at the distance of 8 miles from Haddington, and of 9
miles from Dalkieth, the only ready money markets, Edinburgh
excepted, in Scotland.  The advantages of such markets are
numerous; and, proprietors would essentially promote the in-
terests of agriculture, if they would co-operate with the farm-
ers in establishing them wherever it can be done*.

   Rent.-The valued rent is L. 3991: 3: 4 Scotch: the real
rent about L. 2700 sterling.  The price of arable land is from
12 s. to 30 s. per acre.  The practice of letting farms, by pri-

<FOOTNOTE>

*The wages of servants, of all denominations, have encreased one-third
during the last 20 years.  Day-labourers receive 1 s.  Women, boys, and girls,
when hoening turnips, 6 d. per day:  a maid servant in the house, L. 3 yearly;
a young man capable for managing horses, L. 6.  The whole emoluments of
a married farm servant amount to about L. 14; which, with earnings of
his wife, enable him to rear a family of 4 or 5 children; but, during this pe-
riod, the whole family are very poorly fed indeed.  The first relief he meets
with is from the oldest of his children, who go as early as possible to service,
and give him whatever they can spare for bringing up their younger brothers
the sisters.  In this way have numerous families been brought up, without
the least aid from the public funds.  When their filial exertions are no longer
necessary, the young people turn their attention to dress.  The higher class
go along with the taste of times; and, to say their expences have been doubled
within the last 20 years, is by no means to over-rate them.
 

