
     Statistical Account

the poor guild brethren's children, assist them in purchasing
clothes, and paying their apprentice fees.  The Kirk-Session
pays to 56 paupers annually about 73 L. Sterling, at the rate
of 6 d. per week to each.  From the town's funds, there are
six who receive about 16 L. Sterling annually, at the rate of
1 s. per week.  They also pay for teaching 24 or 30 poor
children to read English.
   To prevent the nuisance of begging poor, a scheme, by annu-
al voluntary subscription, was set on foot some years ago, from
which about 80 paupers receive annually 156 L. Sterling, at
the rate of 9 d. each per week.  Besides all these charities, the
Kirk-Session distributes between 40 L. and 50 L. Sterling a-year
to incidental poor.  Nearly the same sum, or more, is distri-
buted annually by the Burgher Secession; and the boxes of
the different incorporations also give charity to a considerable
extent.  It is supposed, that every 12th person in Stirling re-
ceives charity.
   This may seem surprising; and it will be necessary to men-
tion some of the more obvious causes, why there are so many
poor, and so great consumption of charitable funds, in such a
small place as Stirling.  It is generally said, that Stirling being
so near the Highlands, and known to be rich in funds, a number
of indigent people, while they are still capable of labour, but
have little or no prospect of support at home, should infirmi-
ty or old age come on, emigrate annually into Stirling, and
take up their residence there, till three years are elapsed,
when they give in their claim for support, and are of course
admitted as necessitous poor.  It cannot be denied, but there
may be some truth in the allegation, because the greater num-
ber of poor on the Stirling pension lists, are obviously of Gae-
lic extraction.  Their names are almolst all Gaelic names.  Be-
sides, there can be no doubt, that the report of rich funds has
a strong attraction.  This circumstances of itself, chiefly mul-


