
	328                    ROSS AND CROMARTY.

	taining several large and airy rooms, with all the necessary offices
	and out-houses attached in excellent repair. The extent of the
	grebe is about 9 imperial acres arable; but a considerable portion
	of it consists of land redeemed from the sea by the present incum-
	bent. This part is always subject to encroachments by the sea and
	river; and the embankments require constant repairs. The grass
	glebe consists of one acre of very little value, separated from the
	rest of the glebe by the Skiack, and of a few detached pieces of
	carse ground covered at high water by the tide. The stipend con-
	sists of 16 chalders or 256 bolls, half oatmeal and half barley, for
	which the heritors pay according to the flars prices in the county
	of Ross. All the ministers were settled by a popular call until
	1770. Mr George Watson was, soon thereafter, settled by a Crown
	presentation; as were also his two successors.
	   There is one chapel connected with the United Secession in
	the village of Evantown. The minister is one of three paid by
	that body for preaching in Highland districts, and receives a sa-
	lary of L.80. Without such aid, no minister could live upon the
	voluntary stipport of tbe people, their earnings being barely sufficient
	to support their own families. The chapel can contain 400 ; but
	only about 170 attend regularly: and of these only two or three fami-
	lies are really Seceders. The average number of communicants
	in the Established Church is 28; and of these 14 are heads of
	families.
	   Education.-There are two schools in the parish the parochial
	school at Drummond, and an unendowed school in the village of
	Evantown. In the former, the following are the branches taught,
	and the quarterly fees, as settled by the beritors in May 1838, viz.
	English reading, 2s., with grammar, 2s. 6d., with arithmetic and
	geography, 3s. 6d. ; Latin and Greek, 4s. The schoolmaster's
	salary formerly consisted of I chalder barley, 2 bolls meal, and
	100 marks; but in 1828 it was fixed at L. 30, with a garden.
	The yearly amount of the fees is about L. 20. The heritors fur,
	nish the legal accommodations. The number of the young be-
	tween six and fifteen years of age who are unable to read or write,
	cannot be precisely ascertained; but in the neighbourhood of the
	parish school, they are very few. By far the greater part of the
	people can read the Scriptures , and the few who cannot are aged
	people, who had no opportunity of learning in their youth. Were
	one to form a judgment from the small, number attending the
	schools, it might be thought that the people are not in general


