
358                   FIFESHIRE.

the presence of this miiieral. No coal is at present wrought in
the parish, from -t belief it would not pay the expense; and no-
thing is more difficult to calculate than tl)e profits of coal-working.
The strata unexpectedly may be disturbed by mounds of stone, or
may wholly break off or dip beyond reach. Beside the upland path to
the church from Bridge-end, there is a projection of disintegrated
ti-ap, provincially ratchet or rotten-stone ; across which, are some
narrow vertical veins of felspar. ProceediDg up Dunino burn.
side southward, a few projections of red sandstone, in regular
strata, appear. Farther upward, the bed of the burn becomes
limestone, and in that proximity the coping of the ministers' ott-
field glebe under the surface is also limestone. Here also, a stra-
tum ofcoal, 3 feet thick, has been discovered 32 feet under the
surface, dipping considerably towards the north. The regulation
as to finding coal in glebes gives little encouragement to the incum-
bent. His operations may be suspended by the presbytery or any
heritor, till, after paying expenses, he deposit his profits in some
batik or other sure place, and have only the interest of his deposit
for his pains. Some mineralogists assert that coal under limestone
is not good, but tinder sandstone excellent. Now two-thirds of the
rocks in this parish are sandstone, not of a large grit called con-
glomerate, but small, and often very white, without tinge of ferru-
ginous mixture. The exports from the sandstone quarries of
Mylnefield, four miles west of DUDdee, have brought to the pro-
prietor large su-ns of money. The sandstone quarries of Diinino
are as durable in the material, finer in the texture, and better
coloured than'those of Mylnefield. Were these Dunino quarries
placed within the county of Middlesex, near the great southern
metropolis, their value would be incalculable. Some years ago, on
the farm of Tosh, in this parish, on a search for mar], there was
discovered a considerable quantit of steatites or ioap-rock. Had
this mass of steatites been preserved, it would have contributed to
form a manufactory of porcelain. A mile east from the junction of
the three rivulets alluded to above, as passing through the parish,
and on the south bank of their uiiited stream called the Kenly
Burn, is a cavity containing excellent specimens of;stalactites, or
dropstone. Along the shore ofthe German Ocean, to which the
Kenly surrenders its waters, is a mass of marble rock, that would
suffice to build three of the largest cities in the empire. There
may beseen 11 cockle&- marince," and other shells imbedded in the
limestone rock. -A small part of those marble rocks have been


