
                             MORVERN.                         175

   Botany.-A knowledge of the very interesting science of botany
is not professed ; but there is every reason to conclude that few,
if any, of the rarer species of plants are found in Morvern.  No
doubt there are many plants possessing medicinal properties,
which, from an ignorance of their nature and efficacy, are unno-
ticed and disregarded, just as there are on every hand, sustaining
promises, from which, under a similar unacquaintance with their
potency, we fail to derive comfort.  To some extent, however, a
knowledge of the medicinal properties of plants, at one time very
general, is still possessed in the Highlands; nor is this surprising,

<FOOTNOTE>On his return, he at once resumed his former and more congenial pursuits.  The
red coat was superseded by garments not overly well adapted to his form; sometimes
the shooting jacket of a slender squire, and at other times the cassock of an ecclesi-
astic.  Over these he wore a loose cloak, suspended from his shoulders, while a mi-
litary cap was perched upon his unusually sharp and pointed forehead.  Round his
waist he fastened a girdle, above which, in most enviable proximity, one or two
whelps enjoyed free egress and ingress, and, perhaps, as lawyers say, all other pri-
vileges, while cure " of all degrees" followed in the rear.  Thus attired, Allan, with
the aid of a huge pike staff, moved along with no very measured strides.  When or
where he taught his dogs, no person can well say.  He spent much of his time in the
mountains.  He paid frequent visits to the houses of the resident gentry, presenting
some who had the good fortune to enjoy his favour, with spars and minerals picked
up on his rambles, and giving others, in whom he felt, as in the case of the writer, a
peculiar interest, the benefit of his experience and advice.  At night, he repaired to
the houses of the poor, where, as he archly remarked, he received distinctions which
his wealthier friends denied him,-" a share of the best room in the house, and of
the best food at the table ;" but where, not unfrequently, in utter disregard of the
proverbial caution against lying down with dogs, he found it necessary to assign to
each of his followers his own place in administering to his nightly comfort.  Thus,
though we might suppose, not in the most improving society, his dogs became
"highly accomplished."  He addressed them in no unusual accents, but in the ordi-
nary conversational tone, and yet he secured at all times their most implicit obedi-
ence.  When about to leave a house, one was sent out to judge of the weather, which,
if his report was favourable, returned, giving a most significant grin, as if moving a
departure; but, if he thought unfavourab)y, he crouched under his master's chair.
When a movement was agreed upon, the followers were marched forth in regular
array, not presuming, on pain of the pike staff, to pass in front of any one engaging
the favour of their master.  Such departures were not always of the peaceable kind.
Less mannerly dogs sometimes interfered.  Allan, on these occasions, allowed his
train great latitude, with the exception of one steady determined-looking, old fol-
lower, which, by way of marking a disrespect he was far from feeling, he had named
after the judge ordinary of the district, who had signally overlooked his qualifica-
tions as a wood officer, to the office of which his ambition aspired.   " The Sheriff,"
as the dog was called, was bound to observe strict neutrality, and was never allowed
to interfere till the affray became somewhat desperate.  On one of these occasions,
witnessed by the writer, a young whelp, regardless of what was passing, was frolic-
ing about at some little distance.  Allan, on the restoration of order, despatched one
of his followers to bring, as he said, that " foolish little child" with him.  The dog
set off, but the " foolish little child" could not be induced to relinquish his amuse-
ment.  The messenger returned, and received the imperative orders, " if he will not
come, take him."  He did so, carried the whelp in his mouth, and laid him at his
master's feet, from which, degrading vosition he was immediately transferred to the
" region beyond the girdle."  But poor Allan has departed.  His ruling passion
was strong even in death.  To the last he suffered not his followers to be removed,
assuring his humane attendants that he was uncertain whether or not he could again
return; but, if ever man did, he would, to punish those who had overlooked the
qualifications as a forester.


