
                                    CAMBUSNETHAN.               611

Sandstone of excellent quality is also found in various places. This
parish, in short, wants only some means of communication, with an
available market, to render it one of the most valuable in Scotland.
	Two tile-works, on an extensive scale, are at present in active
operation upon the estate of Wishaw, and one on that of Coltness.
The clay is of excellent quality, and generally ten feet in thick-
ness. The shelves in one of the works are capable of containing
upwards of 29,000 undried tiles, and the stoves dry about 21,000
tiles at once. Both roof-tiles and draining tiles are manufactured
here in great perfection. There are three sets of draining tiles.
The middle-sized are sold at about L.1, 10s. per 1000.
	The Shotts Iron-Works, at the east end of this parish, have two
blast furnaces constantly employed. In consequence of these
works, the population has increased about 2000 ; and nearly one-
third of that population resides in this pariah, at the ancient village
of Stane, which is separated from the parish of Shotts by the river
Calder.
	Here is the principal coal-field; and here the Shotts Iron Com-
pany have planted thirty acres of fiorin grass, which has, for these
twenty years, been very productive. Mr Baird, who superintends
the works, assured me that 3000 stones of grass, amounting to up-
wards of 500 stones of hay, have often been raised from one acre.
It cost L.15 per acre to prepare it for the fiorin grass, and, pre-
vious to that preparation, the ground was worth nothing. The soil
throughout this parish is generally clay, upon a bottom of an older
formation, here usually termed till.
	The clay is in some places so strong, that it is wrought at a great
expense both of labour and cattle; in other places, however, it is
more friable, and in some very fertile.
	The haughs are mostly of transported soil, and bear evident
marks of having formed, at some remote period, the bottoms of
lakes. In the higher parts of the parish, the soil is generally in-
termixed with gravel and black sand; which renders it rather un-
favourable for cultivation. There is, however, much good land
in the parish, and grain of all sorts is raised in great perfection.
	Zoology.--The deep ravines and craggy precipices aboot Garrion
Gill and the banks of South Calder, have been long the favourite
retreats of the fox and otter.
	The badger, though formerly very common, is beginning to be
a rare animal, and the squirrel, formerly unknown, is establishing
itself throughout the whole of this district. The haughs on the


