
326                          FIFESHIRE.

were renewed and confirmed. The origin of this burgb is as-
cribed to Maeduff Tbane of Fife, who, when fleeing from the
usurper Macbeth, was obliged to take shelter in the cave already
mentioned in Kineraig-ness, where, remaining in concealment for
a time, he received great kindness from the fishermen of thisvil-
lage, who afterwards ferried him across the Frith to Dunbar. In
return for these kind attentions, Maed-uff is said to have got Mal-
com 111. betwixt 1057 and 1093, to erect the village into a royal
burgb, calling it Earlsferry, with the privilege, that the persons of
all who should cross the Frith from this place should be inviolable,
or safe from their pursuers, and that no boat should be allowed to
sail in pursuit of them till they were half way across. A consi-
derable trade seem-, at one time to have been carried on here.
By the charter, the provost and bailies are authorized to bold two
annual fairs and two weekly markets, and to levy dues and cus-
toms. The want of a proper harbou-r, however, must always have
been a great drawback to the trade of this place. Since the erec-
tion of a pier, and the formation of a harbour at Elie, which is
just a4joining Earlsferiv, the trade has naturally been transferred
to that port, and these weekly markets and annual fairs have long
been discontinued. The burghs of Earisferry, Falkland, Newburgh,
and Aucbtermu'chty, sometime prior to the UniOD, were relieved
from the burden, as it was then ' esteemed, of sending commis-
sioner,-, whom they were obliged to pay, to represent them in Par-
liarxient. Being thus by their own desire disfranchised as burghs
they are now, with the other villages in Fife, thrown into the county
constituency.
The minister of this parish had his manse and glebe at Earls-
ferry, and resided there till 1717, when land was allotted for a
gleb'e at Kilconqubar, and a manse built upon it. The proprietor
of the estate of Elie gave the grebe at Kilconquhar in exchange
for that at Earlsferry, which he bequeathed to the kirk-session of
Elie, for behoof of the poor of that parish. The circumstance of
the minister residing at Earlsferry, may account for the inscrip-
tion of Maeduffs Cross being engrossed on the title-page of the
first volume of our' roebial register.
   Mansion Houses.-There are six family residences in the pa-
rish, viz. Balearres, Kilconquhar House, Charleton, Lathallan, Fal-
field and Cairnie.

<FOOTNOTE>See this inscription, with an account of it, in a note, page 70, in the Statisical
Account of Newbuigh, by the able and learned minister of that parish.
                                 4


