
     Of Corstorphine.

<TABLE>

Masons       8,   1 Apprentice,    1 Journeyman;
Smiths       4,   2 Apprentices,   1 Journeyman;
Shoemakers   2;
Butchers     2;   Brewers 1;       Baker 1.

</TABLE>

   Dissenters of every denomination from the Established
Church, are 55.  Among these, 1 is a Cameronian; the
rest, for the greatest part, belong to the two sects of Se-
ceders*.-The poor are provided for by the collections
at the church door, the annual interest of some mortifica-
tions, and casual donations from the heritors:  there is no
assessment by rates.  The administration of these funds is
committed solely to the minister and kirk-session.  The
number of poor on the roll is generally about 20.

   Rent.-The valued rent is about 5200 Scots.  From
the advantage of the situation, near the Edinburgh market,

     3 L 2

<FOOTNOTE>

*From the report which I have received from the old people in the village
of Corstorphine, the population there must have greatly decreased since the
beginning of this century; almost whole streets, which were filled with
houses, being now laid out into gardens.  One evident cause of bringing people
to this place, not only for a transient visit, but a permanent residence, hath for
some years been removed.  The mineral spring of this place, whose waters
were much celebrated for their medicinal virtues, hath been in total disrepute
and disuse for a number of years.  It is said by some people, that in attempt-
ing to conduct a drain near the place, that the spring or source of the water was
thereby destroyed.  When it was in repute, Corstorphine was a place of fashion-
able resort for the people of Edinburgh, and had its balls, and other fashion-
able amusements of watering places.  The water of this spring is naturally
cold:  It is impregnated with sulphur, sea, and Epsom salt; and, without ar-
rogating too many, or too great virtues, might evidently be useful in many cases,
in the cure of ulcers, old wounds, and cutaneous eruptions.
   I have no authentic register of the number of births and burials, for any
given series of years; but from those which have taken place within these
18 months, the number of the former will exceed the latter in a very great
proportion.  If there shall be published an Appendix to this work, I expect to
be able to give an accurate statement of these, with other communications.
 

