
   22                    INVERNESS-SHIRE.

   sed by the tenants. The fields are generally enclosed either with
   stone and mortar walls, or stone dikes without cement, or with
   hedges and rows of forest trees.
     Quarries.--Fresh water shell marl is found and dug out for
   manure in several parts of the district, especially on the estate of
   Essich; and that of Nesscastle, in the parish of Dores, adjoining
   the other, abounds in this substance; but there are no mines in
   the parish, and but a small number of quarries wrought, the red
   and gray sandstones of this neighbourhood being much inferior in
   compactness, hardness, and beauty to those brought by sea from
   Munlochy and Redcastle in Ross-shire, and to the white and yel-
   low freestone nf Covesea, in the shire of Elgin.
      Fishings.-- Salmon is the only fish caught within the bounds of
   the parish, the sea shore being unproductive, except occasionally
   that a few small herrings and cuddies, or coal-fisb, are got. For-
   merly the salmon fisheries in the Ness were extremely productive,
   and in ancient times their fish were known as luxuries in many ci-
   ties of the continent. Persons are still alive who recollect having
   seen eighty salmon taken at one cast of the net; but, owing to
   causes not well understood, the value of the fishery has greatly
   decreased within the last thirty or forty years, so that what then
   fetched a yearly rent of L. 1100 is now let for L. 370; and, we
   understand, the tacksmen are calling for a further reduction of the
   sums conditioned to be paid by them.
      Produce.--In the absence of authentic data, we have consulted
   agriculturalists, who regard the rental of the parish as about
   L. 20,000, and the whole yearly produce ought hence to be some-
   where about equal to L. 60,000. Taking the rotation to be five
   years, consisting of two white crops, one green, and two bay crops,
   the result will be that two-fifths of the produce are corn, and the
   remainder green or soft; and, supposing both of nearly equal value,
   we have about L. 24,000 worth of corn, and L. 36,000 of green
   crops. The annual produce of gardens and of the thinnings of
   plantations is inconsiderable.
      Manufacture.--Formerly a good deal of linen yarn and worsted
   thread was spun for the supply of home consumpt in this parish,
   but this is almost wholly superseded by the produce of the great
   manufacturing establishments of the south. Two hemp manufac-
   tories, for the making principajlyof coal and cotton bagging, ex-
   isted for a cmsiderable time in Inverness, one of which was dis-
   continued som years ago. The subsisting establishment, occu-


