
368                         AYRSHIRE.

	Smuggling had at one time made considerable encroachment on
the morals of the people, but it has now for many years been almost
totally abandoned, and beyond a few casks of Arran water from the
opposite shores, and a little soap from Ireland, is unknown.
	The country people upon the whole enjoy the ordinary comforts
of life, and are contented in their circumstances. The popula-
tion in the town is in many respects very different. The intro-
duction of manufactures has raised many in the scale of affluence
and comfort, but it has led many of the operatives into habits of
dissip`tion, and the Irish in particular, although there are ho-
nourable exception, are but too generally drunken and filthy in
their persons and houses. There are a great many poachers. The
number of public-houses is a reproach to all concerned in main-
taining them, and pawnbroking, their invariable attendant, has
increased to an alarming extent, and threatens, with the spirit-shop,
the ruin of the poorer classes.
	The number residing in the town by a census lately taken by
the kirk-session is very nearly 4000. There are no villages of
any consequence, and the rest of the population, amounting to
about 2400, are distributed over the different farms.

	                IV.-INDUSTRY.

	Agriculture.--The extent, variety of surface, and great recent
improvements, combine to render this parish highly important as
an agricultural district.
	The total number of acres, as taken from the returns made by
the different farmers, is,

<TABLE>
	Total imperial acres,			20,681
        Of these arable,                        16,684
        Under plantation,                          943
        Hill pasture and moorland,                2490
        Meadow,                                    564
					  	20,681

	The arable land consists, partly of a light soil, which produces
excellent crops of potatoes, turnips and oats; and partly of a
strong clay soil, which yields upon being thoroughly drained heavy
crops of wheat.
	The hill pasture and moorland occur chiefly, on the summits
and declivities of the Brown Carrick range of hills, and recent ex-
periments have shewn, that even much of these might be profit-
ably improved, more especially with a view to superior permanent
pasture. The farmer occupying them are generally men of in-
telligence and enterprise, and have all done more or less in this
species of improvement. The efforts of the late Mr M'Janet
 	                   4


