
                          MORDINGTON.                        339

tous banks, clad with wood and moss-covered rocks, possess great
beauty.
   Geology and Mineralogy.-There are two divisions of rocks in
the parish, the upper and the under. The upper consists of a
large mass of unstratified rocks, the principal of which are por-
phyry and trap. The lower consists of stratified rocks, which appear
along the sea coast on the north-east, and also on the banks of the
Whitadder on the south. Although there has been considerable
dispute of late years among geologists about what these last are,
it is now generally agreed that they are the lower members of the
coal formation, or the carboniferous series. The strata, as seen
in the ravines and river sides of the lower parts of the parish
consist of numerous alternating beds or strata of share, sandstone,
and indurated marl. The general direction of these strata seems,
to be from west to east, the dip generally at a considerable angle,
but so various, that it is impossible to state the general angle.
Beyond the boundaries of the parish to the south, these rocks are
succeeded by the coal field of Northumberland.
   As a circumstance tending to confirm the conclusion, that the
lower division of the parish belongs to the old coal formation, and
not to the new red sandstone, as has been supposed by several
geologists, we may mention the fact, that coal does make its ap-
pearance at several places near the sea coast of the parish,-that
various attempts have been made to work it,-and that, from its
importance, the present proprietor has lately made several inves-
tigations with the view of working it.
   Some old pits and mines have been cleared, which are believed
to have been wrought half a century ago, and by which two work-
able seams of coal have been discovered an upper and an under;
the former 13 inches thick, and of good quality; the latter
26. It is stated by fishermen, that a third much lower and
thicker is to be seen at very low tides. The proprietor has not
yet completed his investigations, but, from the great depth of the
coal, except when approached below the coast rocks, and near
high water-mark, the working of it, would seem likely to be attend-
ed with some difficulty. Lime in considerable quantity has been
found in the vicinity of the coal, but it is of an inferior quality.
   On this coast, a mile or two south-east of the village of Ross,
the sandstone strata are nearly vertical,-which, indeed, we may
naturally expect from their vicinity to the trap rocks. In other


