
                           PEEBLES.                         17

which they are made, the roads in Tweeddale are generally very
good, but too narrow, and in a hilly country where precipices are
so common, the want of parapets is greatly felt, and adds to the
danger of travelling by night. It is not known when the bridge
across the Tweed at Peebles was built. As the style of architec-
ture in the different arches and piers is not the same, it was pro-
bably built at different times. * It consists of five arches in the
channel of the river, and three small arches on dry ground, for
carrying off the water when the Tweed overflows its banks. The
bridge is inconveniently narrow, being only eight feet wide, admit-
ting only one carriage at a time, but it will probably be widened
in the course of next summer, as an act of Parliament has been ob-
tained for that purpose. An iron bridge for foot-passengers was
thrown across the Tweed a little below Peebles, where it is 108
feet wide, by Sir John Hay, about sixteen years ago, to connect
his pleasure grounds, which lie on both sides of the river. It is a
light handsome structure, and, though much exposed to violent
winds, it is as perfect as when it was built. A survey was made
several years ago by Mr Telford, for the purpose of forming an
iron rail-road between Glasgow and Berwick, but the design was
abandoned.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church was built in 1784, and
Stands at the west end of the High Street, on a small eminence, on
which the castle of Peebles formerly stood. It is a substantial edifice,
built of dark-coloured whinstone, and if a little more architectural
taste had been shown, it would have been very ornamental to the
High Strect. In imitation of Catholic and Episcopal churches, it is
placed due east and west instead of fronting the High Street, which
runs a few points north-east and south-west. The massive steeple
which, by being built inside the church, destroys the uniformity of the
gallery, should have been placed outside of the church, and flank-
ed with a few pillars. The seats in the body of the church, by
running across instead of lengthways, make the audience sit with
their side to the pulpit. Being built on a gravelly mound, and the
whole of the workmanship being of the best order, the church is
extremely comfortable for the audience, and this comfort has been
still farther increased by a stove having been introduced two years ago.
   The stipend, which was augmented in 1821, consists of 139 bolls, 1
peck of oatmeal, and the same quantity of barley, paid according to
the highest rate of fiar prices in the county, and L. 39, 19s. surrendered

<FOOTNOTE>On one of piers are the letter, 1426, which may perhaps, be meant for
1426.
   PEEBLES                                   B


