
62                          AYRSHIRE.

constituted on a principle somewhat similar to that of insurance
upon lives, whereby, on paying a certain fixed rate of entry money,
varying according to the age of the entrant; and that of his wife,
and an yearly payment afterwards, the widows of deceased mem-
bers are entitled to an annuity for life, or while they remain un-
married, and their children also to an yearly allowance, till they
reach a certain age. It may be stated generally, that the entry-
money is L. 6, 6s. for a person aged twenty years, rising gradually
till it reaches L. 10, 10s., that being the sum exacted from an en-
trant of forty years of age. The annual contribution is L. 1, Is.
to be doubled for the first five years after admission; and the an-
nuity is L. 10. The company form a corporate body, by a seal
of cause from the magistrates and council, but they enjoy no exclu-
sive privileges, either mercantile or political. None formerly were
eligible to be members of it, unless they were burgesses and guild-
brethren, but this restriction has lately, we believe, been set aside,
and so has also the allowance before granted to decayed members.
   Incorporated Trades.--There are nine incorporated trades in
Ayr, viz. the squaremen, hammermen, tailors, skinners, coopers,
weavers, shoemakers, dyers, and fleshers. The most numerous
of these are the squaremen, as they include masons, wrights, staters,
and glaziers. They have all separate royal charters of incorpora-
tion, with the exception of the coopers and dyers, who had only a
seal of cause from the magistrates, and they all claim the privileges
granted to the craftsmen of Scotland, by the charter of Queen Mary
in 1564. They possess the exclusive right of carrying on their
separate trades or manufactures within the burgh; but this confers
no great privilege, as the right does not extend to the other side
of the river, where competition with them may exist without their
controL The chief advantage that they receive arises from the
aid afforded from their funds to their widows, or to members them-
selves, when rendered destitute by sickness or old age. The funds
of some of the trades are considerable, and they are derived prin-
cipally from, the entrance-money of members. They are mostly
vested in heritable security, and some of them possess valuable
property of their own. One ot the galleries in the Old Church,
which is called by their name, belongs to the incorporated trades,
from which, it would appear, that, like the Sailors' Society, and
Merchants' Company, they also had been at the expense of fitting
up a loft for themselves, at the time when the church was erected.
This loft has lately been thoroughly repaired and new seated at


