
        				CUMMERTREES.                               245

	Topographical Appearances.--The greater part of the parish
is an inclined plain, rising gently from the south towards the
north. The highest point of land in Cummertrees is the ridge
on which stands the tower of Repentance, being nearly 200 feet
above the level of the sea. From Repentance, the ground de-
scends rapidly for upwards of half a mile towards the N. E. as
far as the river Annan, which forms the boundary between Cum-
mertrees and the parishes of Hoddam and St Mungo. The whole
of the coast is flat, sandy, and uninteresting. The only bay
in the parish is Queensberry Bay, where vessels of a small burden
can be sheltered from the N. and N. W. winds. A small stream
named Cummertrees Pow winds into the Frith through the centre
of the bay, and on each side stands Queensberry village, much fre-
quented during the summer months by bathers from the interior.
	Meteorology, Climate, 8fc.--The climate is moist and variable,
which may be partly attributed to the large tracts of flat and uncul-
tivated moss scattered over various parts of the country, as well as to
the vast quantities of fresh water flowing daily into the Solway from
the rivers Nith, Annan, Esk, and Eden. In showery weather, it is cu-
rious to see how nature replenishes her watery store-houses, by draw-
ing vapours from the Frith, which are collected in clouds along the
steeps and summits of the hills on each side of the coast, and scat-
tered by the first blast of the W. and S. W. winds in shower over
the lower districts of Dumfries-shire. The thermometer in a
room in Cummertrees manse, fronting the S. E. fell in the winter
of 1830-31, as low as 22&deg;, and in the months of June and July in
the same years, rose as high as 84&deg; but the medium temperature
is about 55&deg;. Fah.
	The prevailing winds throughout the year are the S. and S. W.
A clear sky in the E. in the morning, with black clouds in the W.
is considered an infallible sign of rain before night. If the sea-
fowls are observed flying with loud cries, from the sea towards the
land, making sharp curves in the air, lighting for an instant on the
fields, then suddenly rising again,--this also is considered the prog-
nostic of a coming storm. Few parishes in the south of Scotland
are more healthy and subject to less frequent epidemics than Cum-
mertrees. From the variableness of the weather, during the win-
ter months, common colds are not unfrequent; but of simple ty,
phus, there is seldom a case south of Repentance-ridge.  The
land (as has already been observed) rises gradually from the sea
towards the north; and there is little stagnant or standing water


