
        	               KILTARLITY.                           491

	bircb, mountain-ash, and magnificent firs, relies of the old Cale-
	donian forest. These lakes are very deep, and abound in various
	kinds of small trout. Loch Affaric is about seven miles in length
	by one in breadth; Lochnaluire is three miles by one-half; and
	Lochbeinnemhian, four miles by one. These lakes are joined to-
	getber by the river Glass, which takes its rise from Loch Affaric,
	and thence proceeds through the other two lakes, and a consider.
	able part of the country beyond them in a south-easterly direction.
	Near Guisachan, however, it takes a different course, and follows
	the bottom of the valley of Strathglass, which lies in a line from
	west to east.
	  Probably the best trout in any lake in the parish is that found
	in Loch Bruiach, which lies somewhat more than four miles due
	west from the parish church, and is about three miles in circum-
	ference. There are said to be no less than seven. different species
	of trout found in this loch. A great number of the finest char
	are caught here in September, when they repair to the shallows
	for spawning. A small loch, called Lochgarbhreachd, about
	a quarter of a mile to the west of Loch Bruiach, affords excel-
	lent sport, though the trout are smaller and inferior in flavour
	to those caught in the latter. In Loch Neattie, which is about
	a mile and a-half from Loch Bruiach, there is abundance of
	pike. Lochgorm, Lochnambreacdearg, and Lochearnabattan,
	are, among others too numerous to mention, considered excellent
	for angling, though some of them require that a person should be
	able to cast the line skilfully, owing to the quantity of reeds grow-
	ing on their margins.
	  Geology.-The higher and more inland portions of this parish con-
	sist of gneiss and granite rocks, chiefly the former, which is frequent-
	ly traversed by various granite veins of various sizes and different
	ages, being united to the great central masses of gneiss which con-
	stitute the bulk of Inverness-shire. The ridges declining towards
	the north, however, are skirted and overlain by deposits of the

	<FOOTNOTE>In speaking of these lakes, the Messrs Anderson of Inverness, in their ingeni-
	ous and valuable work entitled "Guide to the Highlands and Islands of Scotland,"
	eloquently but justly remark, that "they are surrounded by the relics of an enor-
	mous pine forest; their islands and their shores are almost impervious from the
	crowded stems of the trees; and the far-famed scenery of Loch Catrine and the
	Trossachs sinks into insignificance when contrasted with the similar assemblage of
	rock, wood, and water displayed in this neighbourbood, on a scale so much more
	extended and magnificent.-The dun deer of the forest here, in the centre of isle,
	'where hunters there are none,' have marshalled themselves in great numbers: the
	eagle builds his eyrie unmolested, and soars aloft sole lord of the high and wild scuirs
        which rise up from the west coast, and which bewilder the senses of the spectator by
	their multitude and utter blackness &nu sterility."


