
     Statistical Account

the bleaching of linen, or the printing of cotton clothe+:
But we cannot expect to fee the manufacture of cotton
at home, meet with the encouragement it ought, as long
as the monopolizers of cotton goods from the East In-
dies have such a weight in the public councils of the na-
tion, unless the firmness, and the public spirit of the mi-
nistry interpose, in behalf of the manufacture of their
own country.  In the infancy of any trade, monopolies
may be necessary for its prosperity; but, in its advanced
state, monopolies are its ruin, and that of the country to which
it belongs.  Our states, too, might be carried to the shore of
Stirling, to which we have a sine road.  Markets might
be established for the sale of sheep, at proper seasons, in
the same manner as for cows, and we might have a cow-
market in the fall, the same as on the 15th of May.  A great
many more Scotch firs should be planted.  Such is the pre-
sent scarcity of this wood at Callander, that a cubical foot of
it fells as dear in this place, as that from the Baltic, at the
shore of Stirling.  If the village shall be increased farther,
Scotch firs or latches, of all kinds of timber, are the most neces-
sary for that purpose; and there is plenty of waste ground, unfit
for tillage, and yielding very little pasture.  Inoculation might
be rendered more general, and many lives saved to the public,
if any method were devised for having it performed to the poor
gratis.  The surgeons of Edinburgh deserve great praise in
this respect.  Out of these princely donations, which the Society
for Propagating Christian Knowledge in Scotland, have lately

<FOOTNOTE>

+Since October 1791, when this account was sent to Sir John Sinclair, the
weaving of cotton has been introduced into the village of Callander; and about
100 looms are employed.  Two tambour schools, for the flowering of cotton
goods, have also been established, which afford employment to upwards of 100
girls.  And, had it not been for the check that credit has received in spring
1793, it is probable these branches would have advanced with rapidity, as the
people discover a great eagerness to be employed.


