
314                    ROXBURGHSHIRE.

James II. it naturally took the place, as well as somewhat of the
prominence of the celebrated burgh, whose inhabitants had trans-
ferred to it their residence and wealth.  Of the rapid growth and
early importance of Kelso, one decisive proof has been preserved.
So early as 1323, an attempt was made by the burgesses to exer-
cise a civil jurisdiction independent of the abbot.  By their own
authority, they undertook to make new burgesses, to license brew-
ers, and in other respects to contravene the rights and privileges
of their feudal lord.  This attempt indeed proved abortive, and
the burgesses were compelled to make an apology, and disclaim
all intention of offending their lord, the Abbot.  Yet the very mak-
ing of such an attempt must be held conclusive of the growing
prosperity of the place: such a thing would never have been thought
of by a weak, or a poor, or a scanty population.
  The connection of the town with the abbey necessarily made
it a sharer for evil as well as good, in the fortunes of that ill-fated
house ; nor in truth, is its history from the fifteenth century down
to the Reformation, any thing better than a detail of successive
sieges and conflagrations.  Whenever the abbey was assailed, the
town was sacked; whenever the former was set on fire, the latter
was burnt.  Nor is there any thing in border history more re-
markable than the manner in which its buildings (probably for the
most part of wood,) were continually repaired and restored, so as
to form the materials of so many and closely consecutive conflagra-
tions.  Notwithstanding it was reduced to so low an ebb by
Hertford's bombardment in 1545, as not to be fit for holding a
market in, we find it possessing, at the era of the Reformation,
only a few years after, the size and importance of the chief pro-
vincial town and emporium.  "Non moritur moribunda; sepulta,
resurgit."
  Soon after the Reformation, a new source of prosperity was opened
up in the fostering patronage of the family of Roxburghe, who suc-
ceeding not only to the revenues, but to the seignorial jurisdiction
of the abbots, conferred on the inhabitants all the benefits of a liberal
expenditure, and an impartial administration ofjustice.  Through
this patronage, Kelso became, by the time of the Revolution, not
only the chief resort of the gentry of the district, but a place of
considerable reputation as a seat of learning.  Its schools were
frequented by the sons of the nobility from various quarters; and
the rectorship of the grammar school was, in at least one instance,


