
26                  HADDINGTONSHIRE.

annum, which goes to the poors' funds. The manse was built in
1795, and has never been repaired. The grebe, including garden
and site of the manse and offices, consists of about 8 Scotch acres;
it may be computed to be of the value of L. 5 per acre. The
whole stipend is 18 chalders, with the usual allowance for com-
munion elements. There is one Dissenting chapel in the parish,
in connection with the United Associate Synod, the minister of
which is paid from funds arising from the seat rents and collections
among the members of the congregation. His stipend is L. 90.
There is no Episcopalian chapel in the parish. The number of
families attending the Established church is 360. The number at-
tending the meeting-house, belonging to this parish, is 47. Divine
service in good weather is well attended in both places of wor-
ship. The average number of communicants in the Established
church is 610. There is no society for religious purposes at pre-
sent connected with this parish alone, but there are collections in
the church annually for different religious and charitable institu-
tions, which amount on an average to L. 15.
   Education.-Total number of schools in the parish, 5; paro-
chial schools, 2; one of which is a female school upheld by the
heritors. Private unendowed schools, 2, of which one is female;
subscription school, 1. In the parish and subscription schools
all the ordinary branches are taught, in the private male school
the learned languages are not taught. Besides the above-men-
tioned schools, there was another female school, in which the
higher branches of female education were taught; but the numbers
attending it were very limited. The salary of the parochial school-
master is the maximum; that of the parochial schoolmistress is
L. 3, with a house and school-room; the school fees of the for-
mer amount to L. 40 per annum; the amount of the school fees
of the private schoolmaster will be nearly the same; the master
of the subscription school has a salary of L. 40, and a free school-
house. The parochial schoolmaster has all the legal accommoda-
tions.
   There is a regulation made by the heritors of this parish, that
no hind (or farm-servant) shall pay more than 10s. per quarter,
whatever number, of children he may have attending the school.
The present parish school master was also bound by the heritors when
the granted the last augmentation of hissalary, to keep an assist-
ant, who must be approved of by the minister and heritors.
   All persons in the parish of a proper age can read, and, excepting
                                     3


