
472    		              LANARKSHIRE.

neck of and is strongly fortified across by three high dikes or
walls, curved like the segment of a circle. In some places these
dikes are still entire, in others considerably broken down; they are
distant from each other only about 30 feet; and before the use of
gunpowder, the position must have been almost impregnable.
	About two years ago, as the farmer in Westmains of Stonehouse
was removing a cairn of stones from an artificial mount on the banks
of the Avon near Coat Castle, for the purpose of draining, be found,
after removing the stones, a fine rich black mould some yards deep,
which must have been conveyed thither from a considerable dis-
tance, as there is no such rich earth in the vicinity of the place.
It turned out to have been an ancient Roman tumulus. Upon re-
moving all the stones, and coming to the bottom of the cairn, which
was set round and covered with large flat stones, the workmen
found a great many urns, some of them in a fine state of preserva-
tion, ornamented with flowers and other figures elegantly pour-
trayed on them. They seemed to be composed of a light-colour-
ed clay, the colour being nowise changed by the action of fire;
aIthough, from their hardness and durability, they must have under-
gone the process of burning. They contained pieces of burnt
bones and black ashes, with small bits of half-charred wood. This
tumulus is little more than a mile from the old Roman military
road from Ayr to Edinburgh, which runs through the parish, com-
monly known to the country people by the name of the Deil's
Causey, from some superstitious notion they entertain that the
personage alluded to had a principal hand in paving it.
	This road, in some places, is still entire, very rudely paved with
large stones; in other places, it has been completely erazed by the
country people, for the purposes of draining, building fences, making
roads, &c. There have been other tumuli found in the parish, par-
ticularly one at the upper end of it; which, some years ago, was
ransacked to the centre, and a number of urns found therein.
	Parochial Registers.--There are no parochial records of births
and baptisms much beyond 100 years. There was one volume or
two previous to the present, said to have been lost some way or
other; and it is now ver difficult to ascertain the number either
of births or deaths in the parish. There is a list of proclamation
of banns kept by the treasurer for the poor; but no register of the
marriages that are actually celebrated. The number of proclama-
tions for the last ten years amounts to 200, making an average of
20 couple yearly.


