
                          LINLITHGOW.                               175

In the last Statistical Account, it is said, that, at the bottom of the
Hill of Cocklerue, vestiges of a military station may be traced;
and "that, on an eminence in the southeast of the parish; above
Ochiltree Mill, traces still more distinct of a camp are to be
seen." Some years before that Account was written, above 300
Roman coins were found in the Boroughmuir. *
   "The Carmelites, or White Friars, had a convent at Linlithgow,
which stood on the south side of the town. The eminence bears.
still the name of the Friars Brae, and the adjoining well bears a
similar designation. The application of their revenues cannot
now be traced. This establishment, in point of antiquity, was the
third of the kind in Scotland. It was founded in 1290 by the in-
habitants of Linlithgow, and consecrated to the Virgin Mary.
   "These said also to have been a monastery of Dominicans or
Black Friars, here. Some remains of a religious house, probably
this, may still be discerned in the east part of the town. There
was also a chapel, sacred to St Ninian, at the West Port, though
no traces of it now remain. There was another erection of a si-
milar kind at East Binny, in the extremity of the parish; but no
satisfactory account of it can now be had.
   "St Magdalene's, on the east of the town, was an hospitium, or
place of entertainment for strangers. It had originally belonged
to a set of Lazarites; but, on their extinction or secularization,
it was applied to this purpose, according to the beneficial institution
of James I. The eminence, at the bottom of which this hospital
stood was designed Pilgrim-hill." The Union Canal now passes
over it.
   There are two eminences on the west of the town, on one of
which, Courts of justice are said to have been held in ancient times.
The plain below had, probably from this circumstance, the name
of Doomsdale given, which it still retains.
   To the west of the town, near the bridges is a field which was

<FOOTNOTE>They had been deposited in an earthen urn, which the plough broke, and were
picked up in lumps, by some persons who followed it to gather stones. The town,
as superior, claimed the treasure. The pieces were not above the size of a sixpence,
all silver, and having different dates and impressions. They were probably the collec-
tion of some virtuoso, and, being involved in rust, would furnish a sweet morsel to
antiquaries. Some coins were also found lately in an old house of the town, when
the workmen were digging for sand, about 500 in number,-of which 20 were gold,
the rest silver. Many of them had impressions of the different James's, and some
of Henry IV. of England. Some of the gold coins were about the size of a guinea,
others the half. These had their lustre unimpaired, but the silver pieces were over-
grown with rust.


