
                           DYSART.                              131

what with goods-and what with the merchants who attended them, a
sight of no ordinary splendour. As an illustration of the extensive
commerce carried on in Dysart, and of the general importance which
was attached to it as a commercial port, it may be mentioned, that,
about the year 1640, when part of the eastern pier had either fal-
len or was in danger of falling, money to repair it was not only sub-
scribed by merchants in the parish and neighbourhood, but collec-
tions for the same purpose were made at the church doors through-
out the bounds of the presbytery at Dunfermline, and several other
places in the county.
  The quarrel of the Parliament of England with Charles I. which
took place about the middle of the seventeenth century, and which
extended to this part of the kingdom, suggests a few, particulars
connected with the history of Dysart which, are not uninteresting.
The inhabitants of the parish generally entered warmly into the
views of the ParliamenL Numbers of them, especially of the. sea-
men "amongst whom were thirty skippers" volunteered into the ar-
my of the Covenanters, and were enLaLmed in the memorable battles
of Kilsyth, Philiphaugb 5 Tibbermoor, and Aberdeen. Public pray-
ers were offered up for the success of the army, and public thanks-
givings were returned for every advantage gained. The Solemn
League and Covenant, which at this time was publicly sworn and
subscribed at Kirkaldy, was also sworn and subscribed at Dysart
and if any were known to be indifferent in the national cause, they
were immediately summoned before the kirk-session, and were dealt
with as their case seemed to deserve. The people, of Dysart did not
abandon the cause they had espoused. Not only did they raise mo-
ney to assist in carrying on the war, but furnished their proportion
of horses, carts, and such other things as were necessary. The num-
ber of those belonging to the parish who were killed in the different
battles already mentioned is stated to have been 98, and the num-
her of those who were wounded is mentioned as considerable. In
these circumstances, Dysart appears not to have been behind in its
sympathies. Large contributions were made for the support of the
wounded. Even the parish funds were devoted to the same purpose
and the surviving friends of those who had been disabled or slain
bad their exigencies supplied.
  From the period which has thus come briefly under our review
till the time of the union between the two kingdoms, there is (from
the imperfect information contained in the records) a blank in the
history, which it is'not in our power to fill up, at least with facts


