
296                     BERWICKSHIRE.

of Scotland," says Professor Playfair, "consists of primary mi-
caceous schistus, and extends from St Abb's Head, westward,
till it join the metalliferous mountains about the sources of the
Clyde. * The sea coast affords a transverse section of this al-
pine tract at its eastern extremity, and exhibits the change from
the primary to the secondary strata, both on the south and on the
north. Dr Hutton wished particularly to see the latter of these,
and on this occasion, Sir James Hall and I had the pleasure to ac-
company him.
   "We sailed in a boat from Dunglass on a day when the fineness
of the weather permitted us to keep close to the foot of the rocks
which line the shore in that quarter, directing our course south-
wards in search of the termination of the secondary strata. We
made for a high rocky point or headland, the Siccar, near which,
from our observations on shore, we knew that the object we were
in search of was likely to be discovered. On landing at this point,
we found that we actually trode on the primeval rock which forms
alternately the base and the summit of the present land. It is here
a micaceous schistus, in beds nearly vertical, highly indurated, and
stretching from south-east to north-west. The surface of this rock
runs with a moderate ascent from the level of low water at which
we landed, nearly to that of high water, where the schistus has a
thin covering of red horizontal sandstone laid over it; and this
sandstone, at the distance of a few yards farther back, rises into a
very high perpendicular cliff. Here, therefore, the immediate con-
tact of the two rocks is riot only visible, but is curiously dissected
and laid open by the action of the waves. The rugged tops of the
schistus are seen penetrating into the horizontal beds of sandstone,
and the lowest of these last form a breccia containing fragments of
schistus, some round and others angular, united by an arenaceous
cement."
   "Dr Hutton was highly pleased with appearances which set in
so clear a light the different formations of the parts which com-
pose the exterior crust of the earth, and where all the circumstances
were combined that could render the observation satisfactory and
precise. On us, who saw these phenomena for the first time, the
impression made will not easily be forgotten. The palpable evidence
presented to us of one of the most extraordinary and important
facts in the natural history of the earth gave a reality and substance

<FOOTNOTE>The rock termed primary micaceous schistus by Playfair, Professor Jameson as-
certained to be greywacke, a rock of the transition series.
                                         4


