
78                          ELGINSHIRE.

Tomdow, Kirdals, or any other place towards the top of the Pa.
rish, it would prove of the utmost utility. This important object
well deserves the attention of the landed proprietors, road trustees,
and the commissioners for Highland roads and bridges,- more par-
ticularly should the proposed new line of road from Perth to El-
gin and  Forres be carried into effect.
  Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church of Knockando, situated
about eight miles from the eastern, and seven from the western boun-
dary, is on the whole pretty central for the population. It was built
in 1757, almost close to the site of the former one. It was repaired
in 1832, and is now one of the neatest churches inside, in this part
of the country, but too small for the population. In order to re-
medy this defect, it is intended very soon to have a dwelling-bouse
in the village of Archiestown, at three miles distance, fitted up as
a chapel in connection with the Church of Scotland, in which di-
vine service will be performed once a month, or oftener, by the pa-
rish minister. The collection of L. 11, 13s. Id. Sterling, recently
made in the parish in aid of the General Assembly's Church Ex-
tension scheme is to be laid out for this purpose; the family of
Wester Elebies having kindly granted whatever wood may be re-
quired to promote the object. The parish of Knockando would
make two sufficient parishes, both in point of extent and popula-
tion.
  Several small benefactions are on record, which have been dis-
tributed amongst the poor; and last year, a legacy of I, 19, 19s.
was bequeathed by a foundling of the parish who died in Aberdeen
at an advanced age, and in which city and neighbourhood she
had long resided as a servant. The parish church accommodates
between 500 and 600 persons. The sittings are all free, and are
proportioned to the tenants, according to the valued rents of the
heritors. It thus happens, that for the inhabitants of Archiestown
and for tradesmen, little church accommodation is provided.
  The manse was built in the year 1767, and stands in the im-
mediate vicinity of the church, on an elevated peninsula formed
by the Knockando burn, and distant from the river Spey about a,
mile. The extent of grebe may be about fourteen acres, of which
eleven or twelve are amble. Nearly two acres were destroyed by
the mernorableflood of 1829 The amount, of stipend, includ-
ing communion element allowance, is L. 158, 6s. 8d. and is all
paid in money; Knockando being on the list of, smalL livings
augmented by Act of Parliament. There are about  320 fami-


