
     Statistical Account

less attended to in this country than in other parts of Scot-
land*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*The Roman road from York to the Frith of Forth, after
passing through the north east part of the parish of Jedburgh,
cuts a small part of the north corner of Ancrum.  Upon the
top and declivity of the hill, eastward, on the border of Maxton
parish, vestiges of a Roman camp may still be traced.  The
ridge in the parish of Ancrum, over which the present road to
Edinburgh passes, is at the distance of about a quarter or half a
mile west of the line of the Roman road.  It is called Liliard's
Edge, from a lady of that name, who, upon an invasion of the
English during the regency of the Earl of Arran, sought with
masculine bravery, and fell under many wounds upon this spot,
consecrated to her memory.  As the English, commanded by
Lord Rivers, were repulsed, though their numbers were supe-
rior, courtesy must incline us to suppose, that the high spirited
and animating example of our Scottish Amazon chiefly contri-
buted to the glory and triumph of the day.
   The most venerable fragment of antiquity in the parish is the
Maltan wall or walls, upon a rising ground at the bottom of the
village of Ancrum, close to the side of the river, where it turns
its course towards the S. E.  These walls were strongly built'
of stone and lime in the figure of a parallelogram, and, ascend-
ing on one side from the plain adjacent to the, river, were con-
siderably higher than the summit of the hill which they inclose;
but are now levelled with its surface, and a small part of them
remain.  Vaults or subterraneous arches have been discovered,
in the neighbouring ground, and underneath the area inclosed
by the building.  Human bones are still found by persons
ploughing or digging in the plain at the side of the river, which
is an evidence of its having been formerly occupied as burying-
ground.  The name, which these walls still retain, gives the co-
lour of authenticity to a tradition generally received in this
part of the country, that the building, and surrounding fields,
had been vested in the Knights of Malta, or Knights Hospi-
tallers of St. John of Jerusalem, who, upon account of their
splendid atchievements and meritorious services in the holy
wars, had acquired property even in the most remote kingdoms
of Christendom.  On the banks of the Ale, below the House of
Ancrum, there were several caves or recesses, and not less than
fifteen may be still pointed out.  In some of them there are al-
so vestiges of chimneys or fire places, and holes for the passage
of smoke from the back part of the cave to the outside of the


