
90                     LANARKSHIRE.

There are no chapels of ease, though, from what has already been
stated respecting distance, and considering that the population of
Wilsontown, * Forth, and the corner of the parish beyond them,
amounts to nearly 1000, there is certainly much need for a chapel
of some kind.  In former years this was in some measure remedied
by the Relief chapel already mentioned at Climpy, and by means
of a chaplain in communion with the Established church, kept and
paid by the Wilsontown Company, when in its prosperity.  Climpy
chapel, however, like the houses around it, is fast falling into ruins,
and Wilsontown chapel, though in good order, is seldom opened for
divine service. +
   About three miles north from this, on the road to Wilsontown,
there is a Burgher New Light chapel, which has been of consider-
able service in providing accommodation for our redundant popu-
lation; and there is no other dissenting house in the parish.  The
minister has for stipend, L.90, with a house and a few acres of
land.  The chapel was built and seated for 400 people, but was
contracted some years ago, and there are now betwixt 200 and
300 joined members. ++
   The attendance on the Established church is highly creditable
to the parishioners; for on an average there are upwards of 1100
communicants.  This, with the accommodation originally pro-
vided, rendered our service at the Sacrament of the Lord's Sup-
per very protracted, there being fifteen tables.  For two years back,
however, we have contrived to shorten the service, by obtaining
accommodation for forty additional communicants, at each table,

<FOOTNOTE>
    * The villages are Carnwath, containing upwards of 800 inhabitants, the great body
of whom are employed in weaving, and dependent on Glasgow for employment;--
Newbigging 200,	entirely weavers;--Braehead a mixed Population of 120, weavers
and labourers;--Forth 300, chiefly miners, as being close upon Wilsontown;--and
Wilsontown 400,	miners and labourers of all kinds belonging to the works.
    + One of these chapels might easily be procured, could a stipend be obtained for a
minister.  Climpy is, indeed, now at a distance from the great body of the popula-
tion, while Wilsontown is almost in the centre, of course the latter would be by much
the more desirable situation.  If Government, therefore, would allow even L.50, so
as to procure a preacher there, it would be of immense consequence, not only to the
parish, but to the outskirts of West Calder, and Carstairs.  Since the above was writ-
ten, I am happy to find, that the present company at Wilsontown have resolved to
employ a preacher of the Establishment to teach and preach at the works.  They in-
tend to carry on the works to a much greater extent than they have been wrought
for many years, which necessarily implies a great addition to the population, and
renders the appointment of a chaplain the more necessary.
    ++ Since the above was written, a schism has taken place in this congregation, which
has led to the building of another chapel, in the village of Carnwath, in connection
with the same body.  The consequence of this has been increased difficulties to each
of the congregations.  The portion of hearers in the village of Carnwath, being per-
haps the wealthiest, brought the former minister from Braehead to labour among
them; but, on what account I know not, he soon found it necessary to embark for
America with his family.  The minister at Braehead, I am told, has now only L.60,
and his congregation is, of course, minus, by the portion belonging to this village.


