
                  STRACHUR AND STRALACHLAN                   105

beech, ash, hazeL, alder, birch, fir, elm, and mountain ash. The
oak, fir, beech, ash, and hazel appear most congenial to the soil.

                     II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Land-owners.-The chief land-owners are, John Campbell, Esq.
of Strachur; and Robert M'Lachlan, Esq. of Stralachlan.
   Parochial Registers.-There are no parochial registers in exist-
ence bearing date prior to the year 1753. During the succeeding
twenty-eight years, they were not punctually attended to. Since
then, however, they have been regularly kept.
   Antiquities.-Within the bounds of the parish, and towards that
of Glendaruel, there is a stone remarkable for its locality, the emi-
nence on which it is situated, commanding an extensive prospect.
It is called Caillich-Vearor Vera, or the Old Wife of Thunder.
Beir, being the Celtic word for thunder, and which, from cus-
tom or convenience, was transformed to Vera or Vear. Marvel-
lous properties were ascribed by the superstitious inhabitants to
this thundering lady; it was said that she could, with ease and incre-
dible agility, transfer herself from one hill to another, command ter-
rific thunder and desolating deluges at pleasure; and hence the
dreadful apprehensions of incurring her ire that generally prevailed.
   A hill in Stralachlan, rising in a curious conical shape, is seen
at some distance, towering above the neighbouring ones. It is
called Siene Sluagh, the residence of the fairy people.
   Mansion Houses.-Several of these have been erected since last
Statistical Account was published, viz. Glenshellis, Ballimore,
Glenbrantir, Strachurmore houses, all built and finished with stone
and lime, with slate and the best of timber. A good mill has also
been built with the same materials. Strachur Park is presently
occupied by Lord Murray, whose benevolence and exemplary con-
duct, and that of Lady Murray, exert a beneficial influence around
them. Their temporary residence here is no ordinary acquisition
to the parish.

	                  III.-POPULATION.

<TABLE>
	Amount of population in I801,	1097
	                        1811,	1129
	                        1821,	1204
	                        1831,	1083
	                        1841,	1086

   Gaelic is the language generally spoken; but almost the whole
of the rising generation speak English.

                          IV.--INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.-The cultivated land amounts to from 1000 to


