
			    ORWELL.                         55

served, including the usual organic remains; and, in the lower
grounds, beds of gravel may be seen in many places, all seeming
to indicate that Loch Leven was once a much more extensive sheet
of water tbati now. The central part of the parish contains two
large masses of trap rock, one of greenstone on the east, varying
in its character, and becoming tufaceous on the higher grounds in
some places; and on the west a much larger one of claystone por-
phyry, of a purple colour, extending for several miles, very hard
and compact, where the country is level, but where it rises, becom-
ing softer, amygdaloidal, and in some parts even tufaceous. Be-
tween these large masses of trap, there occur, here and there, com-
pact felspar, clinkstone, and such like modifications of it. There
is no limestone, nor any rock of the coal formation towards the west
of the parish; but near the boundaries on the east, the limestone
and grey sandstone are upraised on the western Lomond and Bi-
shop-hill. No transition rocks appear towards the rise of the stra-
tification on the north-west. Large veins of cale-spar and of sul-
phate of baryta occur in the greenstone. Heulandite, in small
nodules, is found in the porphyry, and pretty large specimens of
mesotype, where it becomes amygdaloidal. Laumonite and anal-
cine abound in the neighbourhood, and therefore probably exist
in the parish, although hitherto not observed. Scales of fish have
been detected in the red sandstone. Iserine is occasionally found
along the margin of the lake.
  Soil.-The soil in the southern or more level part of the parish
is a sandy clay, occasionally mixed with till or gravel, and a few
fields may be termed loamy or alluvial. Upon the more elevated
grounds, called the Braes of Orwell, the soil generally consists of
a sharp gravel of good quality, excellently adapted to the culture
of potatoes and turnips. Of the former, from 100 to 120 Linlith-
gow bolls have been raised upon a Scottish acre. Wheat, ex-
cept upon a few fields of the first quality, has not generally been
raised with success; and the more intelligent farmers prefer a crop
of oats or barley, as affording a safer, and, upon the whole, a more
profitable return. The average produce of oats, per Scotch acre,
may be stated at from 6 to 10 Linlithgow bolls, that of barley
from 5 to 8; although at times much higher returns are made.
The better varieties of oats are generally in use, and the average
weight in ordinary years may be stated at from 13 to 14 stones
per Linlithgow boll. The quality of the barley has of late years
much improved. Formerly it succeeded the oat crop, but, it now


