
                             LINTON.                     153

tenants, which have distinguished his ancestors. The tenantry
are prosperous and happy, and hold him in the highest estima-
tion. They avoid either extreme of extravagance or parsimony.
Their industry, diligence, and zeal in executing those improvements
which experience has proved to be advantageous, are highly com-
mendable; and all of them reside on their farms, each of which is
of sufficient magnitude to occupy the attention of a resident tenant.
The other proprietors are Mr Wauchope of Niddrie-Marishall;
Mr Dawson of Graden; Mr Oliver of Blakelaw, and Mr David-
son of Hoselawmains. None of these are resident.
   Eminent Persons.-The late Mr Dawson, while farmer at Frog-
den, was the first who introduced into Scotland some of the most
important agricultural improvements, such as the turnip husbandry,
and drill system, the laying down of the lime, and harrowing it
in on the land when laid down in pasture, and the sowing of artifi-
cial grasses. Mr Thomas Pringle, author of a small volume of
poems, and of several other useful and interesting publications;
and Dr Clarke, who long enjoyed celebrity as the first physician
in Newcastle-upon-Tyne, were both natives of this parish.
   Parochial Registers.-The registers of births have been pretty
regularly kept; and the date of their earliest entry is 1732.

                       III.-POPULATION.

   Though there are now no remains of the once considerable vil-
lages of Hoselaw and Linton, yet the number of the inhabitants of
the parish has rather increased. This is entirely to be attributed
to the improvements in agriculture, requiring a corresponding in-
crease of labour. The population is spread over a rural tract among
the various farms or hamlets, and is almost exclusively confined to
agricultural employments.

<TABLE=POPULATION>

             Population in 1811,               462
                           1821,               458
                           1831,               462

Of the 462 inhabitants at the time of the last census, only 6 are
employed in trade or manufactures. The average number of mar-
riages, births, and burials is at present nearly the same as that
which was stated in the former Statistical Account; it may be
computed at 5 marriages, 10 births, and 6 burials annually. It
has been remarked that, of late years, there are even fewer bu-
rials than formerly, in consequence of the hinds being less sta-
tionary in a parish of this kind than in those which have villages,
into which they retire when disabled by age or infirmity. On all
the farms, amounting to fifteen, (with the exception of five,) the
tenants reside; but of the residing farmers only four are married.


