
                       ST LEONARDS.                    503

whether it would be more eligible to repair the old parish church,
or to fit up the Chapel of St Salvator's for the use of the parish-
ioners? The latter was situated, indeed, beyond the limits of the
parish, and within the town parish; but the distance between the
two was so small, that it was a matter of but little importance to the
parishioners whether they were accommodated in the one or in the
other. The majority of the masters favoured the idea of the pro-
posed transference, as the other buildings of St Salvator's College
were already appropriated for the use of the United College; and
the sanction of the presbytery of St Andrews to the measure hav-
ing been obtained, the chapel was fitted up so as to accommodate
the parishioners of St Leonards, and the students attending the
United College; and for their use it continues to be appropriated.
The walls of the old parish church still remain in a tolerable state
of preservation; but the tower and spire connected with it were
pulled down soon after the transference. The area of the church
formed a parallelogram of about 70 feet long by 18 wide within
the walls; and the style of its architecture was neat and appro-
priate. The interior still contains several monuments, inserted
into the wall, to the memory of individuals connected with St
Leonard's College, in the earlier periods of its existence; but the
most elegant of them has been constructed of a species of stone
but ill fitted for encountering the vicissitudes of the weather, and
is fast hastening to a state of utter decay.
   The greater part of the population of St Leonards being re-
sident in the immediate vicinity of the city, the present substitute
for the parish church cannot be regarded as inconveniently situat-
ed. But as a distance of between four and five miles intervenes
between this portion of the parish and the distant district it is evi-
dent that this latter division of the parishioners must feel, that
they reside at a very inconvenient distance from the Church.
This, however, is an evil to which a remedy cannot well be applied
so long as they are connected with the parish of St Leonards, as
no site for a parish church could be devisdd that would be suit-
ed to them, in common with the other parishioners.
   The chapel of St Salvator's in which the parishioners of St
Leonards now assemble for publish worship, was erected by Bishop
Kennedy about the middle of the fifteenth centary. The style of its
architecture is the Gothic, and it must have originally been a very
elegant edifice. It appears to have been Stripped of many of its
ornaments of a superstitious aspect, at the period of the Reforma-


