
984                     ABERDEENSHIRE.

frequently traversed by veins of milk quartz.  The imbedded
fragments in the greywacke consist of quartz, felspar, and occa-
sionally clay-slate.  The fragments are mostly angular, rarely
water-worn, and never large.  The basis is highly siliceous and
compact, and never arenaceous, as is the case in the south.  The
greywacke-slate consists of the same minerals; but the fragments
are small, and the basis partakes more of the nature of the clay-
slate, into which the grey-wacke graduates.  Fine sections of this
group occur in the cliffs that skirt the Doveron, in the south-
western angle of the parish, as well as in many of the gullies cut
by the smaller streams, and in numerous quarries, where the rock
is worked as a building stone, paving-flag, road metal, or for
building drains,-a purpose for which its slaty character renders
it especially fit.  The greywacke does not in this district contain
any of these subordinate layers of limestone so common in the
south; and no organic remains have hitherto been discovered in
it.  From the observations indicated on the sketch, it is apparent
that the direction of the dip is very uniform over the parish, being
in almost every instance east-south-east, at angles varying from
20&deg; to 50&deg;, 45&deg; being about the average.
   Old Red Sandstone.-Along the whole eastern side of the pa-
rish, the greywacke is overlaid by sandstone and conglomerate.
Fine sections of these rocks are seen in the various quarries,
opposite to Delgaty Castle, where they have long been work-
ed as a building stone.  Although, in this parish, no single
locality has been found where the denudation is extensive enough
to show the greywacke and old red sandstone in conjunction, there
can exist no doubt that the latter rests unconformably on the up-
turned edges of the former,-a circumstance of which there is abun-
danee of proof in the coast sections of the neighbouring parish, Gam-
rie.  The sandstones are of a dull-red colour often micaceous, and
with small spheres of a pale grey colour scattered throug them.
The conglomerates which are interstratified with the former con-
sist almost entirely of primary boulders and gravel imbedded in an
ironsbot arenaceous basis.  The direction of the dip varies from
north-north-east to west-south-west, perhaps west-north-west is
the most frequent.  The angle of the dip varies from 15&deg; at the
south Delgaty, quarry, to 40&deg; on the Craigston burn.  These
sandstones and conglomerates obviousjy belong to Dr Malcolm-
son's lowest subdivision of the old red termed the great conglome-


