
               ARDCHATTAN.                                      493
unaccustomed to artillery, became panic struck when some pieces
of ordnance were brought against them, and fled, leaving Argyle,
then only eighteen years of age, weeping with indignation at the
disgrace of his clan. In this engagement, Campbell of Lochnell
and his brother fell in the act of gallantly encouraging their men."
The present proprietor of Locbnell is the tenth in succession.
The first of the Barcaldine family was Patrick Campbell, known
by the sobriquet of Patrick Dubh-beg, it being customary then,
as it is in t ' he Highlands to some extent still, to designate individuals
by other than their own names, in order to distinguish them from
those of the clan or family bearing the same name. This Pa4
trick was descended of one of the Glenorebay family. His suc-
cessors were, 2. John, 3. Alexander,t (.41astair Maclainvic
Phtirzibig), 4. Patrick (Paruig-dearg), 5. John (Ian dubh), 6. Dun-
can of Glenure and Barcaldine, 7. Alexander, and S. Sir Duncan
Campbell, Bart. of Glenure and Barcaldine.
The families of Monzie and Inverawe, and of Baleveolan
claim kindred also with the Marquis of Breadalbane.
. The Ardehattan family are sprung from Campbell of Calder,
now Lord Cawdor, a branch of the house of Argyle. They pro-
cured a grant from the Crown of certain church lands attached to
the ancient priory here. John Campbell, of the-house of Calder,
' When, long after this, it was determined that, for suppressing insurrection and
maintaining peace in the Highlands, six independent companies should be rairied, to be
stationed in detacbments over the country, and placed under the command of the more
influential Ilighland proprietors, one of thesd companies was given to Sir Duncan
Campbell of Locbnell. This body, when completed, was known by the name of the
" Black Watch," the first company being given to the notori6us Simon Fraser, Lord
Lovat, who always assigned as a sufficient reason for entering into the Rebellion in
1745, that his company-was taken from him. They were subsequently formed into
a regiment, now well known as the 42d or Royal Highlanders.
t The above named Alexander accompanied to Caithness his relative John Ian
glas), first created Earl of Caithness, afterwards of Breadalbane. This Earl John
was a creditor to a large amount of George Sinclair, sixth Earl of Caithness, who
died without issue, and who, in. 1672, executed a disposition ofbis property and titles
in his favour. He married also George Earl of Caithness' widow, who was the third
daughter of that enlightenedepatriot and Christian martyr, Archibald, Marquis oi,
and good qualities her Ladyship seems. to have inherited.
                    nearest collateral heir, opposed the claims ofthe Camp-
clan. Earl John, therefore, with his follow-
ssion of the lands, orders having been issued
notorious for his cruelties towards the Cove-
Is with a part of his Majesty's troo a. They met and

		p               I
		declared in favour of the Campbells. This event is
	I ously recorded by her L	in one of the blank pages of her Bible, an interest-
	antique, published by Jot	ell and Christopher Barker, anno 1663, and still in
	t e possession of the Barcaldine	family.

T Vide Douglas's Peerage under 11 Caithness" and 11 Dreadalbane."


