
28                          ELGINSHIRE.

tution for the support of old-age, and the education of youth, no
academy, no printing-press, or newspaper published in the town.
A large proportion of the houses have been built within the above
period, and their external appearance and interior arrangements
are vastly superior. The houses then occupied by the most re-
spectable families of the place are now the dwellings of ordinary
tradesmen. The improvements still wanting in the town are, a
more efficient police, water brought into the streets and houses by
pipes, and the removal of that greatest of nuisances, the shambles.
Lossie water filtered could be brought into the town, at an expense
which the inhabitants would not grudge, if they once had experi-
ence of the convenience and comfort of having an abundant supply
at their doors and in their houses.
   Some attempts have been made to remove the slaughter-house
and meat-market, but hitherto without success.  An intelligent
and public-spirited citizen has favoured the writer with the follow-
ing observations on this subject:  "On the advantage, and indeed,
the necessity, of removing from a crowded neighbourhood and the
centre of the town, that sink of impurity and danger, the present
slaughter-house, there cannot be two opinions. The removal of
the present meat-market to a drier and more airy situation is in-
dispensably necessary to the comfort and welfare of the community.
It is too confined, and so filthy, that the mistresses of families are
unable to attend it, and have therefore mostly abandoned the im-
portant duty of personally laving out the money of their families
to the best advantage." This duty is generally devolved on ser-
vants, from the cause mentioned. The shambles are the property
of the town, and the magistrates must take the lead in any plan
for their removal. Surely a central situation for a provision mar-
ket, and a suitable one for a slaughter-house, could easily be found;
and if the town's funds cannot afford the outlay for erecting the
necersary buildings, there is no doubt that, if a well-digested plan
were laid before the public, the capital necessary would very soon
be subscribed by a joint stock company. There is hardly any
other undertaking in which the magistrates could engage, which
would tend so much to promote the comfort and economy of the
community, and to induce respectable families to fix their residence
in a town so desirable on account of its schools, its society, and its
climate.

   April 1835.


