
114                  CLACKMANNANSHIRE.

veral years in pasturage, a second crop of oats is taken; then it is
laid down for potatoes or turnips, or both. After potatoes, it is
sown with wheat or barley and grass seeds, and the fourth year
there is a crop of hay from the rye-grass seeds and clover, sown
with the barley of the preceding year. If the grass seeds sown are
perennial, the ground is sometimes allowed to remain in pasture
for one, two, or three years, and then the same rotation is repeat-
ed; but if the tenant considers pasturing less profitable than til-
lage, and more especially if he- has a short lease, he generally fol-
lows the four years rotation above-mentioned, though there can be
no doubt that tearing up the ground so often exhausts the soil.
   The land in the parish has, for some years past, been greatly im-
proved by liming and draining. The common duration of leases
is fifteen or nineteen years--too short a period certainly for tenants
venturing to lay out money in the improvement of tbe soil. But most
of the proprietors who let their lands are all so eager to get high
rents (for a reason to be mentioned immediately,) that the tenants
find great difficulty in paying their rents, and often congratulate
themselves upon the shortness of their leases. The chief obsta-
cle to improvement in the parish is the unfortunate circumstance,
that by far the greatest part of the property has, for many years,
been under trust, or in the market for sale. The great object of
a landlord, in these circumstances, is to increase the amount of his
rent-roll by every means in his power; and this leads him to ask
extravagant rents for his land, which are seldom paid, but which
involve the tenant in ruin. Old pasture land is sometimes let
for tillage for two or three years, and a great rent is thus obtained;
but the soil is greatly deteriorated. The fences at the same time
are often entirely neglected. Most of the farm-buildings are in a
good condition. Such of the proprietors as farm their own lands,
keep their fences in excellent order.
   Quarries and Mines.--There are two excellent stone quarries,
which furnish well-coloured and durable materials for building.
The chief mines are coal, which are worked to a great extent, and
supply Strathearn and its.neiglibourhood with coals, which are not
found anywhere to the north of Dollar. Copper mines were at-
tempted to be worked in the Ochille connected with Dollar, but
did not succeed.
   Produce.--The average annual amount of agricultural produce,
as near as can be calculated, is as follows.

<TABLE>

  Oats, 3085 1/2 bolls, at 19s. per boll,         -     -    -   L. 2916 18 0
  Wheat, 18-18 bolls, at L. 1, 4s. per boll.      -     -    -      2217 12 0
  Barley, 1799 bolls, at L. 1, 1s. per boll,      -     -    -      1889  9 6
  Cultivated hay, 82,500 stones at L. 3, 10s. per hundred stones,   2887  0 0


