       
                             ST ANDREWS.                               453
	
	being conducted in open gutters.  I notice this, as several authors
	of topographical sketches reckon the stagnation of the putrid water in
	these sewers as the cause of unhealtbiness in many large cities.  We
	have no table of the ages to which the inhabitants live, but I am
	persuaded that the average of years is greater than in most other
	towns.  In 1814, there were alive, within twenty doors of each
	other, not fewer than six persons, the youngest of whom was above
	ninety.  Epidemic diseases are scarcely known in the city.  Dur-
	ing a residence of nearly twenty years, I have not known typhus
	fever epidemic within it, though it has prevailed in the neighbour-
	ing districts.  In 1810, it was very prevalent in the parish, parti-
	cularly in the western division, where, in one small village, I had
	at one time nearly 70 patients, while in the city there were few or
	none.  The same took place in 1818, when St Andrews seemed
	to be the only place in the united kingdom which was not visited
	by that epidemic.  Intermittents are rare, but I have seen several
	cases; all, however, from a distance.  The exanthemata have been
	occasionally prevalent, but seldom have proved very fatal.  In 1816,
	there were about 120 cases of well-marked scarlet fever, of which
	only 8 or 9 died; and, though measles and hooping-cough prevail-
	ed the same year, the number of deaths that year was not beyond
	the average.  In 1826, measles were very prevalent, and the mor-
	tality was much greater, the number of deaths being nearly 40
	above the usual average.  Measles had not appeared in St An-
	drews during the preceding nine years, and a great number of chil-
	dren were affected, many of whom fell victims to the secondary
	symptoms.  Inflammatory complaints, especially of the chest, are
	of frequent occurrence, but do not appear to be more severe than
	in other parts of Scotland.  Rheumatism, in the acute form, is a
	frequent complaint.  I think that the number of cases of haemop-
	tysis and of phthisis is smaller than in the neighbouring districts,
	owing, perhaps, to the want of manufactures.  Catarrh is a fre-
	quent complaint, and I have often seen it contagious.  The amuse-
	ment of golf, which is general with all ranks, is the best prophy-
	lactic in preventing dyspepsia and hypochondriasis, which occa-
	sionally occur,"
	   The following table contains a statement of the amount of the
	rain which fell at St Andrews in 1835 and 1836, as ascertained
	by Dr Jackson's rain-gage, elevated 6 2/3 feet above the level of the
	ground:

