
              PARISH OF WESTRUTHER.

PRESBYTERY OF LAUDER, SYNOD OF MERSE AND TIVIOTDALE.

      THE REV.  ROBERT JAMIESON, MINISTER.


       I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name, Boundaries, &c.-THE original name of this parish was
Wolfstruther. In the old glossaries the word Struther is defined
to be a naked and swampy place, so that from the etymology the
parish appears to have anciently been an extensive marsh, occu-
pied by wild animals, especially wolves. * As these animals dis-
appeared, the first part of the original name fell gradually into dis-
use, and gave place to the prefix West, meant to distinguish this
from another morass which lay to the eastward, and was called
Easter Anstruther, now Dogden Moss.
   It was only of a comparatively modern date that Westruther be-
came a separate and independent parish. It belonged anciently
to the widely extended parish of Home. On a new parochial di-
vision of this district at the Reformation it became a part of the
parish of Gordon, and, down to the year 1647, the inhabitants of
this place had no nearer place of worship than the church of Gor-
don. That church, however, being about eight miles distant from
the most northerly part of Westruther, and there being no communi-
cation but through almost impassable moors, a disjunction was ef-
fected, and the people supplied with religious ordinances at Bas-
sendean, which was selected from the double reason of there being
an old Catholic chapel there, which, though it had been discon-
tinued since the Reformation, was still in good condition,-and of
its being the site of a populous and thriving village. This, how-
ever, was only a temporary arrangement. For in two years after,
the inhabitants of Wedderlie, Thornydyke, and Spottiswoode, at
each of which places there were hamlets of considerable extent,

<FOOTNOTE>This description is confirmed by immemorial tradition, and was adopted by the
author of an old manuscript account of Berwickshire, who, in his notice of Westru-
ther, describes it "as a place which of old had great woods, with wild beasts, fra
quhilk the dwellings and hills were designed, as Wolfstruther, Roecleugh, Hindside,
Hartlaw, and Harelaw."


