
<APPENDIX>

place is of the utmost importance to commerce, we obeyed with all the at-
tention and accuracy in our power, Sir John's orders, and have annexed the
following directions to sailors.
   From Dunnet Head to Holburn Head, failing up the Bay to Scrabster
Road, the course is W. S. W. distance 8 miles.  Holburn Head shore is quite
clean, and about 14 fathoms deep within half a cable's length of the shore.
   From Holburn Head, to a low green point commonly called the Little
Head, the course is S. W. a little more than a quarter of a mile distant.
After passing the Little Head, you will observe,on the starboard hand, a
large house, with three chimney tops.
   The proper anchoring place for large ships, is by keeping the above-
mentioned house of Holburn Head above the land, and to bear N. by W to
keep Holburn Head on the point of the Little Head, the House of Scrabster
bearing W. by S. and the east end of the town of Thurso S. by e.  There
you may anchor in six fathom, good ground, two cable's length from the
shore.
   But small craft are to shut in Holburn Head on the Little Head, and to
come so near the shore, as only to fee the chimney head of the above house,
where they may anchor in 4 fathom water, and moor to rings fixed in the
rocks, where they ride in great safety with winter storms.  The shroe is
steep on both sides, and no invisible rocks in Thurso Bay; and any rock
grounds which exist, are no ways dangerous to shipping, as there are no less
than 7 fathom water on them at low spring-tides; but with strong gales of
wind at N. and N. N. W. the sea breaks on them.  They lie E from
Holburn Head near two miles, and Dunnet head bears from them E. by N.
2 leagues; Hoy Head N. N. E. 10 leagues; the town of Thurso S. W.
by S 3 miles; but in running for Scrabster Road, with hard gales of wind
from N. and N. N. W the Holburn head shore should be kept close on
board, and to anchor with the wind off shore where the small craft are di-
rected; but after going a sweep of cable, to moor to the S. E. agreeable
to the directions given to large ships.
   N. B. The above bearings are laid down by the common magnetic com-
pass, and pilots may be expected either from Thurso or Scrabster, in hard
gales of wind.  At the town of Thurso also, vessels may be supplied with
provisions and other articles they may stand in need of, at reasonable rates.


