
			EDENKILLIE.		             179

   unfrequently called Brae-Moray, which is descriptive of its accli-
   vity from the low grounds of Moray, near Forres, on the north, to
   the range of hills to which it extends, and which divides it from
   Knockando and Cromdale, on the south.  The form of the pa-
   rish is irregular ; its greatest length from north to south is about
   thirteen miles; its greatest breadth from east to west about seven;
   and it contains about fifty square miles.    It is bounded on the
   north by the parish of Dyke, and a narrow portion of Rafford,
   which separates it from Forres; on the north-east and east by
   Rafford and Dallas; on the south by Knockando and Cromdale;
   and on the west by Ardclacb, Auldearn, and Dyke.
   	Topographical Appearances.-In its general surface, this parish is
   hilly, but not mountainous.   The greatest eminence is the Knock
   of Brae-Moray, which is a hill near the southern extremity ofthe
   parish, of a round form, with a ridge sloping to the north-west,
   and from its summit, which is about 1000 feet above the level of
   the sea, it commands very varied and extensive views.         The
   whole of this part of the parish, extending several miles in breadth,
   from Ardelach on the west, all along its southern and-eastern
   boundaries, is bleak and moorisb, diversified by a few small farms,
   or rather parts of farms, which are tinder tillage, or were formerly
   under tillage, but now form parts of sbeep-walks.  From about a
   mile below the Knock, the western side of the parish, comprehend-,
   ing fully one-half of its mean breadth, and extending to its north-
   ern extremity on the left bank of the Findhorn, within a mile of
   the elegant suspension bridge over that river, on the toll-road from.
   Inverness to Aberdeen, is for the most part  under cultivation, or
   covered with wood.  From many points, the views of this part of
   the parish are extremely beautiful.  The picturesque scenery of
   the pleasure grounds of Relugas, the beautiful valleys of Dun-
   phail, Logie, Sluie, and St John, on the banks of the Divie and
   the Findhorn, with the wood of almost endless variety, which rises
   from the gently sloping or precipitous banks of these rivers and
   the finely cultivated fields on all sides of the grounds above, in-
   terspersed with clumps of trees of various forms and dimensions
   present landscapes for richness and beauty, not often to be, met
   with, and to which a considerable extent of the Moray Frith,
   which comes within the range of some of them, not a little con-
   tributes.
  	Climate.-The climate is very different in the two opposite ex-_
   tremities of north and south of this parish, even beyond, perhaps,


