
358             INVERNESS-SHIRE.

lowest meadows, constituting almost the sole stock of the tacks-
men.
   The habits of the upper classes have likewise altered to some
extent. They pay much more attention to literature than it was
formerly customary to do; and the boisterous conviviality which,
thirty years ago, was in very high estimation among them, is now
almost universally abandoned and discountenanced. Their hospi-
tality continues as unbounded as ever, but in the exercise of it the
rules of temperance or decorum are very rarely violated, and
every excess is condemned and discouraged.
   The immensely increased facilities of attaining education make
a great and most beneficial change in the situation of the common
people. Now, there are not more than 200 or 300 children in the
parish who may not, without any very long journeys, attend school
daily. Twenty years ago, there was not that number who could
attend school. Schools have not yet produced the effects which
they are fitted to do. But their influence is felt more and more
each succeeding year; and could the parents be prevailed upon to
keep their children regularly in them for the space of a few years,
they would soon work a total and most beneficial chance in the
condition of the community.
   The people have become less social, but much more peaceable
in their conduct towards one another, and more temperate than
they formerly were. It was, as is well known, customary for
neighbours to visit each other's houses nightly, and to while away
part of the long winter evenings, in reciting tales and traditions,
singing, songs, or playing some musical instrument. Now, all this
is completely given up. It is with difficult that a tradition re-
regarding the once most popular characters or events can be picked
up. "The Tales,"or" Sgeulachdan," seem to be totally forgot-
ten. It is rare to hear a song sung, and still rarer to hear the
sound of pipe or violin. Each family confines itself to its own
dwelling, or, if a visit is paid, the time is spent in retailing the silly
gossip of the day. People certainly may be far more beneficially
employed than the old Highlanders used to be yet we conceive
the change in their habits to be a subject of regret on various
grounds. The traditions of a country-the only source of infor-
mation concerning bygone days in the absence of written records
-are always interesting and instructive; and it is to be lamented
that the traditions of the Highlands have been to a great degree
irrecoverably lost. Still more is it to be deplored that the


