
42                    EDINBURGHSHIRE.

the game-keepers are intimidated, and are consequently of little
service.  Some time since, one of these keepers was fired at and se-
verely wounded by four poachers at eleven o'clock in the forenoon.
Smuggling has been completely abandoned.  As there are con-
stantly two revenue officers at Penicuik, there would be little pros-
pect of practising it with success.  Pawnbroking, properly so cal-
led. does not exist, though there are many melancholy instances
of pledging goods for spirits.
                        IV.--INDUSTRY.
   I have found it impossible to arrive at any thing like a definite
estimate of the amount of cultivated and uncultivated land in the
parish.  The difficulty arises from the width and unenclosed
character of the parish.  The subjoined stament may be regard-
ed as conjectural.  The extent of the parish is estimated to be
20,000 acres.  Nearly 7000 are in the estate of Penicuik, of these
I should say one-half are in tillage, of the remaining 3500, I
should think 1500 might be reclaimed with profit.  The estate of
Logan House numbers 4000 acres, or thereby; these, with the ex-
ception of 50 acres or thereby, are all in pasture.  This is rather
more than one-half of the whole parish.  Of the other half, I
should think that as much as can be profitably reclaimed has been
so already; not more than a third of this, however, is in tillage.
   Agriculture.--There is no undivided common, nor any extent of
underwood.  The woods, which cover upwards of 1000 acres
Scotch, consist of forest trees, and those on the Penicuik proper-
ty are kept in the very best order, under the care of a judicious
forester.  There is a wide extent of unreclaimed moorland to the
south-west of the village of Penicuik, which is, however, being
gradually, though slowly, brought under the plongh.  It may be
expected, however, that this process will now proceed with greater
rapidity and success, as two excellent turnpike roads have lately been
carried through the midst of it.  The most astonishing efforts have
been made by Mr Carstairs of Springfield on 500 acres of per-
haps the bleakest moorland in Scotland.  The most indefatiga-
ble and meritorious individual purchased some years since, this
then most uninviting property, and has continued since then his
efforts to reclaim it, with a perseverance which no difficulties or
discouragements have been able to damp.  He has intersected the
moss, which is nearly a dead level, with railways and a canal, on
which, by carriages and boats, he transports the peat-moss from the
interior to spots where he is able to dispose of it, by selling if for


