
134			DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

the dust and bones which it became necessary to remove at the
last reparation were carefully and decently deposited in another
place on the outside of the church.--5th, In 1803, when a volun-
teer fnrce was of such eminent service for the peace and defence
of the kingdom, this parish met for prayer and conference, and
offered one man for every eight persons of the whole population
to serve as volunteers in arms, above eighty men holding up their
hand to give this pledge, and with hardly any distinction be-
tween church-going people and dissenters. The parish of Moffat
soon after met and offered 120 men. Then followed the parish
of Wamphray, offering 60; and Johnstone thereafter met and
agreed to a similar offer. After the volunteer force of the nation
had risen in arms, there appeared no longer any signs of in-
ternal disaffection. The minister for Scotland, the late Lord Mel-
ville, had foreseen this important and salutary measure, which
prevented invasion as well as disturbance.--6th, When the London
Missionary Society was set on foot, the late minister of this
parish remitted to it a collection of L. 30. This parish has
recommended by a promise of usefulness, and in particular to
such as were supported by the countenance of the General As-
sembly of this church, as the Highlands schools, to which L. 15
were first remitted; the Indian mission, to which L.8 were first
sent, with annual sums thereafter; the colonial chtrches also in
America, to which, and to other charities, various remittances
went from this parish.--7th, The poor had great need of support
in 1800, when oat-meal sold for 7s. per stone,--and also in 1812
and 1817. But the parishioners gave support: and a generous
donation of L.300 to the poor by Mr William Marchbank, at Upper
Murthat, (after deducting L.30 for duty,) afforded L. 76 in 1817
alone, and liberal aid for other seven years following, when employ-
ment was scare; until, as he ordered, it was all applied, and the
special accounts preserved and exhibited.--8th, The late Mrs
Milligan Johnstone of Corehead settled L. 35 as a fund of charity,
which the minister accumulated to L. 90, and which is now lent on
bond to a distinguished family, who allow interest at the rate of five
per cent for it. This is the only fund of the poor at interest here.
--9th, The greatest desiderate in this parish are proper clumps of
trees in the sheep-walks, to shelter the stock, ornament the country,
and furnish weedings and thinnings for use. Some parts appear


