
     of Echt.

   Miscellaneous Observations.-Almost the only fuel used is
peat and turf, both of which are got in plenty in the parish.
The roads were originally made, and are still kept in very
good repair by the statute-labour, exacted in kind .  Little
of the parish is enclosed, except Mr Duff's farm at House-
dale above mentioned*.

<FOOTNOTE>

outer ditch about 36.  There are five different entrances into the area en-
closed within the inner wall; one on the E. one on the S. one on the 
S. W. one on the W. and one on the N.  All the entrances are in an ob-
lique direction.  The outer wall is said to be more modern than the in-
ner, and to have been built of stones taken from the inner wall, as a fence
for trees, which one of the proprietors of the estate of Echt planted in the
last century on the summit of the hill, but of which there are now no ves-
tiges remaining.  This seems not improbable, as it is much more entire
than the inner wall, and besides there is no entrance left through it into
the inner area,although all the five entrances above mentioned are very
perceptible through the ditches and the inner wall.  On the S. of the 
Barmekin, and at the distance of about two furlongs from the foot of it,
there is one cairn, or large heap of stones, and another on the N. at the
like distance.  There are also three other cairns, and a great many tumuli
in different parts of the parish, and the remains of three Druidical temples.

\p
*In the years 1782 and 1783, the parish of Echt was by no means
exempt from the general calamity.  It suffered considerably from late-
ness of the harvest 1782, but less than many other parishes around.  Ow-
ing to the earliness of the soil and climate, most of the barley was ripened,
and a good deal of the oats filled, and tolerably ripened, before the intense
frosts and snow came on; but the latest both of barley and oats was hust
by the frost, and a considerable deficiency found in the crop.  The poorer
of the inhabitants were kept from feeling the extremities of want by the 
exertions of the kirk-session, who bought a considerable quantity of meal,
and distributed it among poor upon the parish-roll instead of money,
and sold it out to other indigent persons in the parish at a reduced price.
The parish received but a small proportion of the meal and pease granted
by Government in summer 1783 for the relief of the poor in the northern
districts of Scotland, viz. five bolls of meal, the two bolls of pease.

