
604                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

                      V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Market-Town.-The nearest market-town is Huntly, which is
about seven miles from the parish church.  We have two turn-
pike roads in the parish,-the one passing from Huntly to Banff,
the other from Huntly to Aberdeen.  On this latter road, a public
coach has, for some time, been running.  The other roads are not
good, especially in winter, though, on the whole, by means of these
two turnpikes and otherwise, the parish is not ill accommodated as
to roads for the conveyance of the farm produce to the principal
market-towns.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The church was built in 1819 on a small
eminence, which forms the church-yard, gradually sloping to the
south.  It is a substantial, chaste, and well-proportioned building,
with Gothic windows; sented for 900, and will hold nearly 200
more.  And, as the external appearance of the church is in excel-
lent taste, so thd internal arrangements are very complete.  The
light is abundant, and the lofty roof is tastefully painted.  The
interior is in the form of an oblong, with the pulpit standing in the
middle of one of the short sides, namely, the gable, and finely sloped
galleries running along the other three sides.  As a wbole, the church
of Forgue gives proof not only of the good taste and liberality of
the heritors, but also of their desire that the best possible accommo-
dation should he afforded to their people when engaged in religious
worship.  The sittings are free.  The manse is handome, large,
and commodious.  It was repaired and enlarged in 1830.  The
glebe may extend to about twelve acres or so, and is worth about
L.18 yearly.  The stipend is now 16 chalders, half meal and half
barley, converted at the highest fiar prices, with L.10 for commu-
nion money.  There is a preaching station, in connection with the
Associate Synod of Soceders, at Bogfouton, in this parish, at the
distance of about seven miles from the church.  The property of
the chapel, &c. as I hear, belongs, to the amount of L.5, to one
of the members; to the amount of L.65, to a Presbyterian farmer
in the parish of Leslie; and to the amount of the balance, which
constitutes only a very few pounds, to the Associate Synod.  For-
merly, the Synod kept a fixed minister at Bogfouton; latterly,
there has been occasional preaching there.  The attendance, es-
pecially in the winter, way be sometimes considerable; but there
are not so far as I am aware, four individuals connected with it
belonging to this parish.
   There is an Episcopal chapel in the parish, within less than a


