
          GLENMUICK, TULLICH, AND GLENGAIRN.                    775

but very agreeable to the taste; and, although injurious to con-
sumptive patients, they are allowed to be beneficial to those af-
flicted with gravelly, scorbutic, and scrofulous complaints.  For
the accommodation of water-drinkers, there are comfortable well-
aired lodgings at these wells, and also hot, cold, and shower-baths;
and, in the summer season, a great many people resort to them
from distant parts of the country.
   There are three lakes in these parishes, viz. Loch Dhuloch,
Loch Muick, and Loch Cannor.  Loch Dhuloch lies in the south-
west corner of Glenmuick, and about three miles east from Mount
Cairntaggart.  It is of small extent, of a cold temperature, and of
considerable depth.  The stupendous overhanging cliffs of Craig-
dhuloch, surpassing in grandeur the celebrated rocks of Lochna-
gar, rise on the south side of it to the height of more than 1000
feet, and, by throwing their gloomy shade over it, give a dark and
sombre appearance to its limpid water, from which circumstance
it probably took its name Loch Dhuloch, or the black lake.  A
mountain rill falls into it from a height of 200 feet, over a project-
ing rock on the north side, which renders it altogether the most
awfully sublime object in these parishes.  A small stream, called
the water of Dhuloch, issues from this lake, and, running eastward,
forms a series of little cascades, till, at the distance of a mile and
a-half below, it falls into the west end of Loch Muick.
   Loch Muick is about two miles long, and half a mile broad.
In some places, this lake is shallow; in others, which have never
been properly sounded, it is said to be more than forty fathoms
deep.  Its temperature is cold, even in the greatest heat of sum-
mer, being fed by several mountain-streams, besides the water of
Dhuloch.  Its scenery is bold find romantic, having Lochnagar
touching its north side, and a high range of the Grampians closely
encompassing it on the south and west sides.  Towards the west
end of it, there is a small island, on which sea-gulls are always to
be found; but there is little wood, either on the island or the mar-
gin of the lake, except some dwarfish birch.
   In the east end of the parish of Tullich, at the foot of Culblean,
and not far from the Vat, there is a third lake, about three miles
in circumference, called Loch Cannor.  This lake is beautifully
skirted with birch wood, and studded with small islands.  On the
largest of one of these, once stood a fortress, said to have been
built, and occasionally occupied as a hunting-seat, by Malcolm
Canmore, whence it probably got its name.  Towards the east end


