
                       BORROWSTOWNNESS.                        131

windows were enlarged, and a staircase was erected at each end.
A wing projecting eastward was erected on the north; and, appa-
rently, a corresponding wing was intended to have been placed on
the south, so as to form three sides of a square.
   Kinneil House is built on the edge of a bank, about sixty feet
above the level of the sea, and is surrounded with a considerable
quantity of natural wood. The approach is from the east, Along
a beautiful avenue of aged trees. From the roof of the main build-
ing, which is flat, and covered with lead, there is an extensive and
beautiful prospect. The admirable situation of Kinneil House,
and the natural beauties connected with it, warrant Sibbald's mag-
nificent description of this "princely seat." But the hand of time
has changed the scene; the natural beauties of the place remain,
but those of art, which Sibbald so much admired, have been ef-
faced, and the internal decorations are gone. The numerous and
spacious apartments of Kinneil House are at present uninhabited.
Though in former times it was the abode of nobles, and the re-
treat of kings, the present generation will regard it rather as the
favourite residence of the philosopher and philanthropist. The
celebrated Dugald Stewart resided here about twenty years; and
from this place he has dated most of those works which are the
imperishable monuments of his genius. The removal of Mrs and
Miss Stewart, who were the last occupants of Kinneil House, was
much regretted by every inhabitant of the parish; and the active
and extensive benevolence of that family will be long and grate-
fully remembered.
  Celebrated Characters. Other names besides Professor Stew-
art's mav be mentioned, as connected with both Kinneil and the
University of Edinburgh. Principal Wishart was the son of the
last minister of Kinneil; and Principal Baird, whose name will ever
be associated with the cause of education in the Highlands and
Islands of Scotland, was a native of this parish.
   A considerable number of clergymen might be mentioned as
connected with this parish by birth or residence. One family has
produced four clergymen of the Churbh of Scotland, all of dis-
tinguished excellence, though perhaps the editor of the last edi-
tion of Wodrow's Church History is best known to fame.
   The celebrated James Watt matured some of his improvements
on the steam-engine, during his residence at Kinneil House. In
1769, Mr Watt, on the recommendation of Dr Black of Glasgow,
entered into an engagement with Dr Roebuck, of Carron Iron-


