
                                  DUNNING.                        717

       height is 79 feet, circumference of the trunk at the ground 23
       feet: do. at 3 feet from the ground, 11 feet, 10 inches; diameter
       of the circle of ground covered by its branches, 60 feet.

                            II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
         Historical Events and Antiquities.--Colonel Miller, in a paper
       published in the fourth volume of the "Archaeologia Scotica,"
       places the scene of the battle of Mons Grampius between the
       Ochil and the Lomond hills; and, assuming Caerpow as the site of
       the city Victoria, founded by Agricola, and Castle Law at Colteu-
       cher, as Lindum, he traces a line of forts along the northern base
       of the Ochils to Ardoch; and from thence to the wall of Anto-
       ninus; these he is inclined to attribute to Agricola, as a protection
       on the north to his newly acquired territory.  Three of these forts are
       in the parish of Dunning, namely, Ardargie, Rossie Law (called by
       Colonel Miller, Garrison Law), and Ternavie.  The latter resem-
       bles the hull of a ship inverted; hence, as is commonly supposed,
       its name (terrae navis.)   Remains of ancient armour, with a great
       quantity of human bones, were dug up a few years ago, a little to
       the east of Ternavie, upon the farms of Rossie.  Of these, two
       helmets, a small hatchet of yellow metal, and a finger ring, are
       preserved in Duncruib House.
         Subsequently to the time of the Romans, the parish must have
       often been the theatre of strife and bloodshed, from its proximity
       to Forteviot, the Pictish capital.   There are vestiges of several
       camps and fortifications besides those already mentioned, and the
       discovery of urns and stone coffins is a matter of frequent occur-
       rence; but whether these are Roman or Pictish, it is impossible
       to determine, as the natives practised the Roman mode of sepul-
       ture, long after these invaders had left the country.
         The family of Lord Rollo is in possession of three banners:
       one measuring, two feet two inches square, that belonged to a body
       of Perthshire militia, at the Revolution of 1688, (which date it
       bears,) commanded by the Lord Rollo of that period; another that
       was wont to be unfurled at the head of a troop of horse, command-
       ed and maintained by Lord Rollo, for the protection of the coun-
       try in troublous times.  It exhibits the figures of two armed men
       on horseback, with the family motto, "La fortune passe partout,"
       measures 4 feet 7 inches, by 1 foot 8 inches, and is witheout a
       date; to the third there attaches an importance, derived from his-
       torical associations, which will render it an object of interest so
       long as that hallowed fire of patriotism and piety which has


