
     of Kilmuir Easter.

   Miscellaneous Observations.-There are 3 public roads in
the parish, running parallel, and nearly at equal distance from

     B b 2

<FOOTNOTE>

erect a stone in the middle with a suitable inscription, to sow down the spot with
grass seeds, and never more to disturb the manes of his fathers.
   In the vicinity of this chapel is an eminence, called Cnot an tagairt, or
Priesthill.  Near this place stood the remains of a cross, at the extremity of a
small village.  Thither all the people belonging to the barony of Delny, which
comprehended a great part of the county of Ross, resorted once in the year,
to pay homage to their superior.  Here also the barons held their criminal
courts; and, if tradition can be credited, the punishment inflicted upon crimi-
nals was, to hang the men and drown the women.  Corresponding to this
tradition, there is a hill within a computed mile of Delny, called Cnot na croich,
of Gallows-hill; and on the summit of this hill is a circular pool of water, ma-
ny fathoms deep, called Paul a bhaidb, or the Drowning-pool.
   In the year 1751, as labourers were digging a bank of earth near the village
of Milntown, they found 4 stones standing erect in the earth, and forming a
circle.  Here the men looked for a treasure:  and, after having with much at-
tention opened the earth, they found a human skeleton, sitting in an erect pos-
ture, on a seat seemingly made for that purpose:  Many credible persons
now living, authenticate this as a fact known to themselves.  Tradition says,
that several persons have been buried alive in this and the neighbouring parish,
by the direction of a cruel and arbitrary landlord, who was proprietor of these
lands in the beginning of last century.
   Till of late years, little barrows or tumuli in the parish, were avoided by
the people with particular cautions.  The traditions regarding them is, that
the plague had once made great ravages in this country, and that all who died
of this disease were buried under these tumuli.  Such was the terror of the
people for the plague, that they would not so much as tread upon one of them,
or suffer their horses or carriages to touch them.  So late as 1768, one of these
tumuli, not much larger than a cart load of earth, was left an impediment on
the middle of the road, at the principal entry of the village of Milntown; and
no argument could prevail with the inhabitants to remove it.  At length, a
certain person, who wished to undeceive the peoplem and cure them of their
prejudices, undertook to remove this little barrow; and, while he was thus
displaying his courage, the whole inhabitants of the village surrounded him,
dissuading him from the dangerous undertaking, and looking every moment
for his falling down dead before them:  he lives, however, to this day, after


