
52                       ARGYLESHIRE.

and retreat up the valley. Opportunely receiving a reinforce.
went they rallied at a place named Sluggan, and renewed the ac-
tion with such vigour that the foreigners were in their turn com-
pelled to give ground. Ulric, a Danish general, was slain here,
and a grey stone still ' marks the spot where lie fell. The Danes,
having in some measure recovered themselves, made an unsuccess-
ful stand where they first joined battle.- Olave and the Scottish
king are here said to have fought in single combat. The former
was slain, and his remains were interred in a tumulus, since called
Dunan Aula, about a quarter of a mile from Drimree, where he
fell. At Drimree, a number of rude monuments were erected in
honour of the warriors to whom the engagement had proved fatal.
Of these,some still remain. One large grey stone, together with
others of smaller dimensions which stood in a circular form, were
removed in order to furnish a proper site for the modern house of
Barbreck.
   Another engagement between the Danes and the natives is
said to have taken place on the western shore of the parish. Two
cairns still mark its scene, and its severity may be argued from the
name which it bears. It is called Dail-nan-Ceann, that is the
field of heads.
   During, the civil wars in the reign of Charles I., Alexander
M'Donald, (son of M'Colonel M'Donald, commonly styled Col-
quitto,) who led 1500 Irish to the assistance of Montrose, and ac-
companied him, in the winter of 1644, into Argyleshire,-is said
ato have entered Craignish for the purpose of laying it waste, put-
its inhabitants to the sword, and driving away its cattle.
Campbell, the chieftain, informed of his approach, took every ne-
cessary,precaution to defeat his object. All the cattle in the pa,
rish he caused to be removed to the islets which lie between the
mainland and Jura, and swelled the garrison of his castle by re-
ceiving into it all of his clan who were fit for arms. M'Donaldo
on his arrival, immediately began a siege; but, after spending six
weeks in vain attempts to take it, found it necessary to abandon
his purpose. When on the point of retiring, a sortie was made
from tbe castle, a number of his men slain, and be himself, toge-
ther with the remains of his party, compelled to quit the parish
with precipitation.
   About half a mile to the northwest of the southern point of the
peninsula, there is a small bay called the Port of the Atbolmen.
This appellation,it received from the -circumstance of several of


