
     of Kilsyth.

   In a variety of places, but especially in the farm of Dun-
trocher, about a mile above the town of Kilsyth, and in the
     G g 2

<FOOTNOTE>

"the drift was horizontal, it could not occasion any danger to cattle.  I had
"it opened for me, just wide enough for me to creep in, on all fours.  I
"found the drift within very narrow, 8 fathoms upon the run of the vein,
"which is north and south.  At the forehead a short cross drift appeared east
"and west, full of a russy clay as it were, upon a cross gossan, or clay vein,
"the thickness of which remains as yet undetermined.  The heavy spar vein
"seems here to he interrupted by it; though it may probably con-
"tinue a good way beyond it.  For it appears clearly, in the face of
"the brae, many fathoms south and south west, the other way: so that there
"is no doubt of its being a regular spar vein of a considerable length and
"width.  In the drift, it is about 2 feet, and in the above mentioned south
"or south west end, rather more than that even at the grass."
   "Considering that this kind of heavy spar is the constant matrix and at-
"tendant of metals of all the veins and works which I have seen and ex-
"amined in the Ochil hills and Highlands;-that the vein is favourably
"situated in high ground, on the very edge of the hill; that consequently, it
"may be undercut very deep by short flanking levels; and chiefly, that
"in some parts, it is thinly sprinkled with copper ore, I think it my duty, to
"recommend a flight trial of it, by a couple of trial pits of 3 or 4 fathoms, as
"also by a couple of costeening pits or trenches, upon and beyond the cross
"gossan, or clay vein in the forehead of the old drift."
   "The cost of this trial will probably not exceed L. 25 sterling.  And the
"result of it whatever it may be, will be satisfactory; whether ore be found,
"or only the nature of the vein ascertained fully, as a road for spirited spe-
"culators to venture upon hereafter."
   The above report is so accurate and important, that I trust it will not be
thought tedious.  And the following clause, I think, merits attention.
   "Higher up in the Halestain burn, I saw large masses of grey, and variegat-
"ed, dull coloured flint; yellow and red jasper, with nodels of agate
"and porphyry.  If the jasper could be traced here to a regular body, which
"is not unlikely, lap daties might be supplied from hence, very cheap; or
"rather, lapidary milns might be set up in the burn, or at Kilsyth, to great
"advantage.  For this jasper is of a very fine grain; and some how or other
"finds its way already to the lapidaries and seal engravers, at Edinburgh
"and London."


