
                   PARISH OF CURRIE.                                   542

PRESBYTERY OF EDINBURGH, SYNOD OF LOTHIAN AND TWEEDDALE.

          THE REV. THOMAS BARCLAY, MINISTER.


         I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-THE name Currie is supposdd by some to be derived
from a Celtic word signifying valley, referring probably to the
dale that serves as the channel of the river; but there is more
weight in the opinion of those who think it a modern corruption
of the Latin word coria, the name given to the place by the Ro-
mans, who seem, from several traces of ancient encampments,
to have had a station in the neighbourhood. But though it is
probable that the name still applied to the parish and the principal
village traces its origin to this remote source, the names of all the
other places connected with it seem to be entirely modern. Thus,
for instance, the village of Hermiston was originally, according to
popular tradition, nothing else than "herdman's town." The
name of Kenleith is reported, on the same authority, to have arisen
from being an elevated mark for ships in sailing up the Forth, by
which they ascertained the direction of Leith; and that of Cleuch-
maidstone is said to be derived from being the pass to the chapel
of St Catharine in the valley below, and having a font of water,
in which the pilgrims washed before entering the chapel of the
holy maid St Catharine.
   Extent, Boundaries, &c.-The parish of Currie, reckoning from
the farm of the Gyle, is situated not more than four miles west
from Edinburgh. From this north-eastern extremity to Buteland,
the remotest point in the opposite direbtion, it extends about eight
miles in length; and its breadth, from Redbeughs to its southern
boundary in the Pentlands, does not exceed four and a-half. Its
superficial character is marked by great irregularity. Undulating
throughout, and in some parts intersected by steep declivities or

<FOOTNOTE>Drawn up by the Rev. Robert Jamieson, late incumbent of the parish-now of
St Paul's, Glasgow.


