
			FODDERTY.                              249

      "The upper spring is more strongly impregnated with sulphu-
   retted hydrogen gas than Moffat wells; but the lower spring is
   a good deal weaker."
      Strathpeffer Spa was brought into great celebrity by Dr Tho-
   mas Morrison of Elsick and Disblair, in Aberdeenshire; a gentle-
   man who had previously tried almost every other spa in the king-
   dom. He gave it as his opinion, that this was the most valuable
   of the whole, and, in describing the climate, his usual expression
   was, "the balsamic air of Stratbpeffer." At his suggestion, the
   proprietor built, in 1819, a handsome pump-room ever the lower
   well, 40 feet long by 20 feet broad, in which there is an excellent
   full -drawn likeness of Dr Morrison, done by George Watson,
   Edinburgh. It cost L. 125 Sterling, and was paid for in subscrip-
   tions of from one to ten guineas by the visitors, out of grateful re-
   spect to Dr Morrison for his able and gratuitous services.
      The season for drinking the water extends from the beginning
   of May to the middle or end of October. it is found to be high-
   ly beneficial in all cases of ill health which result from a relaxed
   state of the system, especially in the great variety of disorders oc-
   casioned by nervous debility; in gouty, rheumatic, scrofulous, and
   cutaneous complaints; in affections of the kidneys and bladder, the
   water being highly diuretic; in cases of dyspepsia, and for consti-
   tutions which have suffered by long residence in tropical climates.
   It is prejudicial, however, to those whose ailments are attended
   with any degree of inflammation or fever. Its specific gravity ap-
   proximates to that of the mineral waters on the banks of the
   Rhine; from which circumstance, large quantities of it can be taken
   without oppressing the stomach, or irritating the system. It is
   quickly digested, and works its way gradually yet thoroughly into
   the constitution, on which it acts as a mild alterative. After tak-
   ing a course of the sulphureous water, it is generally of advantage
   to follow it up with a course of chalybeate, of which there is a
   spring close to the pump-room, and many others in the neighbour-
   hood. There is no doubt but the pure dry, bracing air which cir-
   culates around this district, and the beauty of the scenery, by
   tempting invalids to walk abroad, contribute in a great measure to
   their restoration to health.
      The regulations are, that all ladies and gentlemen put down
   their name upon arrival, and pay 2s. each week during their at-
   tendance ; that those drinking the water at the upper or lower
   well, but not attending the pump-room, pay ls. as above; and that


