
			KILBRIDE.				19

Angus Macsomerled, supposed to have been then Lord of Bute.
Angus and his three sons afterwards fell in battle, leaving, it
would seem, no male issue behind them. On this, Alexander,the
son of the steward, claimed in right of his wife the island of Bute,
and, it is supposed, the island of Arran also. The claim was resist-
ed by Ruaridh, son of Reginald, and grandson of Somerled; but
the Scots settled the dispute for a time by expelling Ruaridh, and
seizing both Bute and Arran.* Hence it seems a fair inference,
that Arran as well as Bute formed part of the inheritance claimed
and obtained by the heir of the High Steward. Complaints of these
and similar encroachments of the Scotr sent to the court of Nor-
way, led to the celebrated expedition of King Haco in 1263.
Alexander III. then King of Scotland, vindicated the aggressions of
his subjects, by claiming the whole of the Hebrides as an ancient
appendage of the Scottish crown, unjustly wrested from his pre-
decessors. In the appeal to the sword which ensued, Haco was
at first successful. He recovered all the isles that had been con-
quered by the Scots, and re-established Ruaridh in all the pos-
sessions from which he had been expelled. He then assembled
all his forces in the island of Arran, whence proceeding with his
land troops to the opposite coast of Ayrshire, while his fleet ad-
vanced along the Frith of Clyde, he for a short time pursued with-
out resistance his desolating career, till his decisive defeat at Large,
and the subsequent dispersion of his fleet by a storm, had so
thoroughly annihilated his power in the Hebrides, that his suc-
cessor was obliged to cede the whole of the Hebrides on easy terms
to the Scottish crown. In the arrangements which ensued, neither
Arran nor Bute is mentioned among the possessions bestowed on
any of the descendants of Somerled. Hence the probability is,
that they both continued in the family of the High Steward.
	During the wars which were occasioned by the attempts of Edward I.
of England to annex Scotland to his own dominions, the island nf Ar-
ran fell into the hands of the English, who, in 1306, held the Castle
of Brodick under Sir John Hastings.  Sir James Douglas and some
other partizans of Bruce made an attempt to surprise the garrison, in
which some say they were successful, though others, probably upon
better grounds, consider that they were foiled, at least till Bruce him-
self joined them. This memorable event occured in the year 1306,
After passing a solitary winter as an exile and fugitive in Rachrin,
in the north of Ireland, Bruce sallied forth in spring from his bid-

<FOOTNOTE>Gregory's History of the Highlands of Scotland.


