
                 WANDELL AND LAMMINGTOUNE.                841

stanchel in the wall.  This apparatus of punishment and disgrace
was named " the Juggs," and I have met with some who had
seen it used. The repairs above-mentioned cost about L.300.  The
number of sittings was calculated for 300; but I have no doubt
even forty more might be accommodated, so that the church could
hold more than the whole inhabitants of the parish.  The num-
ber of communicants varies from 150 to 165.  There are two
grown-up persons within the parish belonging to the Relief, and
1O or 11 who profess to be of the United Associate Synod,-of
the latter, however, only about the half are regular in attendance
upon their place of worship.
   The Manse and offices were built in 1822, and are upon the
Lammingtoune glebe, near to the burn, and about a gunshot
to the north of the Kirk.  The contract price was L. 820, the
lowest estimate being, in this case, as it often happens in similar
cases of a public nature, unwisely preferred. It was considered
by many as much too low for the work to be performed, and the
contractor being in difficulties, the job was badly executed.  The
consequence was, that, (in the first three years after), all the upper
floors had to be lifted and relaid in a proper manner, an entirely new
garret stair had to be made, and the whole roof was stript and properly
slated; and  again, in a few years after these repairs, the whole of
the front windows proved so defective, that they were taken out,
and new ones of a more substantial make put in their stead.  In
short, there cannot have been less than L. 300 laid out in repairs,
since it was built.  There is still something so completely defective
about either the south gable or chimney. stalk, that, (after all that
has been attempted to cure the evil,) what ought to be one of the
principal apartments, viz. the drawing-room, situated in that end of
the house, has been obliged to be left unoccupied, on account of
the quantity of rain water coming from the vent ! Were this only
cured, the manse might, in all other respects, be said to be a most
comfortable house.
   The Glebe consists of 12 imperial acres, including manse, offices,
and garden.  The glebe of Wandell lies on the south-west of the
Kirk, and contains 6 Scots acres, and is enclosed on two sides by
hedges, on a third by a stone dike, and on the fourth by a hedge with
a facing of stones at the root.  Lammingtoune glebe contains  4 Scots
acres, and is enclosed partly by thorn hedges, partly by a wall, and
is bounded on the east by the burn.  Both glebes are arable, and, if
let at the rate of the neighboring crofts, might, exclusive of manse


