
78                      STIRLINGSHIRE.

secondly, to Sir James Kennedy of Dunure, ancestor to the Earls
of Cassilis; thirdly, to Sir William Graham of Kincardine, an-
cestor to the Duke of Montrose; and, lastly, to Sir William Ed-
monstone. By all four marriages she had issue; and, from the
last, the present family of Duntreath are lineally descended.
This lady is interred in a vault beneath the church of Strathblane,
and an inscription was put up to her memory in the family vault
of Duntreath, by the late Sir Archibald Edmonstone.
  At what period the Castle of Duntreath was built, is unknown;
but the whole of the district originally belonged to the powerful
family of the Lennoxes. At the attainder and decapitation of
Duncan, the last Earl of this family, together with his son-in-law,
Murdac, Duke of Albany, and two of his grandsons, on the return
of James I. from his long captivity, the property, some portion of
it at least, was allowed to remain in possession of the Duchess of
Albany, as heiress to her father; and she made a grant of the
lands of Duntreath, erected into a barony, to Sir William Ed.
monstone of Culloden, and Mary, Countess of Angus, his wife,
A. D. 1452, which grant was confirmed by a charter of James II.,
and it has ever since remained the principal seat of the family.
For the next century, the house of Duntreath continued in the
highest degree prosperous. Its wealth and possessions bad con-
siderably increased, and appanages were bestowed on many of its
junior branches, nearly all of which are now extinct. A succession
of honourable alliances, too, had greatly tended to keep up its
respectability. Sir William, (the fourth in descent from the first
Sir William of Duntreath), who was killed at the unfortunate
battle of Flodden, with King James IV., and the flower of the
Scottish nobility and gentry, bad been appointed steward of Men-
teeth, and constable of the Castle of Doune. His son, of the
same name, was continued in the same offices by the Regent,
John Duke of Albany, which he held for eighteen years; but an
heritable grant of them having been conferred by James V. on
Sir James Stewart, (ancestor of the present Earl of Moray), Sir
William and his brother Archibald were much irritated at being
thus deprived of what had now for so many years been in posses-
sion of their family,and a fray ensued in the High Street of Dun -
blane, in which Sir James was killed. This event occurred on
Whitsunday, A. D. 1543. A pardon for this offence was after-
wards granted to the two brothers under the Great Seal by the
Regent, Duke of Chatelherault, and being connected with the
                           4


