
                      CROSS AND BURNESS.                       99

exposed to the frost and the vivifying effects of the air, and after-
wards mixed with small kelp and a sufficient quantity of fresh sea-
weed to melt it, they form compost, by means of which a great ex-
tent of the most unpromising rabbit links is converted into a flou-
rishing turnip-field, where properly selected grass seeds are sure to
thrive with the next crop.  The grass seeds found to suit best for
such land, are two bushels of perennial ryegrass; one bushel of
mixed timothy and cocksfoot ; six pounds of ribgrass; and six
pounds of white clover per acre. The Rev. Walter Traill of Wes-
tove, has cultivated lucerne in such land with success. Cabbages
manured with the sea-weed are also raised to great size ; the com-
mon Scotch grey reaching a weight of fourteen pounds each plant.
   Stock.-The horses used for carriage and draught are good har-
dy ponies of from 14 to 15 hands high ; many oxen are employed
in carting sea-weed; and the cattle generally are improving in
weight and quality.  The Neapolitan, the Berkshire, and other im-
proved breeds of swine have been introduced, and considerable num.
bers are yearly exported alive to Aberdeen and Peterhead. The
native breed of sheep, which are kept on tether during the summer,
and roam at large over the fields and round the shores, where they
eat sea-weed in winter, are not yet extinct, but their numbers, are
much thinned.  They are the short-tailed sheep of Iceland, Shet-
land, and the Hebrides.  In 1808, Malcolm Laing of Papdale
introduced the Merino breed on his property of Stove, and pur-
chased rams at high prices from some of the best flocks in the
kingdom.  They were crossed with Cheviots, and they succeeded
most satisfactorily.  Mr Laing, one year, it is said, received 7s.
6d. per pound for some of his wool. The wool of clip 1811 of the
lambs of some Orkney ewes by a Merino ram, was considered by
a wool stapler from Yorkshire, better worth 2s. 8d. per pound, than
the wool of the Orkney dams of these lambs was worth 8d. ; and
the quantity being about double, made a difference of 9s. 4d.
between the fleece of our Orkney ewe and that of her lamb by a
Merino tup at shearing time ; a sum equal to the value of the
ewe fleece and carcass altogether.  Mr Laing found the Orkney
cross assimilated faster in fleece than the Cheviot did; but the
cross with the Orkney was inferior in carcass to that with the Che-
viot.*
   Poultry of all kinds thrive well, and are numerous and cheaf.

<FOOTNOTE>Agricultural Report of the Orkney Islands, by John Shirreff, 1814.


