
422                          ROXBURGHSHIRE.

about 70 planted with trees of almost every description.  The
average rent both of arable ground and of pasture is about L. 2
per acre.
     Wages.--The wages of agricultural labourers vary with the price
of grain, in which they are most frequently paid.  Ten shillings
per week is about the average amount of what is earned by such
of them as are paid in money, and by day-labourers in general.
Journeymen masons and carpenters earn higher wages.
     Live-Stock.--The cattle are of the kind denominated "short
horns;" and the sheep are principally of the Leicester breed.
Great attention has been paid to the improvement of stock.  Mr
Andrew Thompson, tenant in Highridgehall, in this parish, has
succeeded in rearing a stock of sheep of the purest Leicester breed,
which, on account of its excellence, has attracted the notice of com-
petentijudges from every part of the united kingdom.
     Husbandry.--Either the four or the five shift system of husbandry
is adopted.  The land is thoroughly drained; no part of it is
irrigated; but of late there has been a good deal of embankment.
Leases are for nineteen or twenty years; and the capital and skill of
the tenants, the accommodation afforded to them in farm buildings
and enclosures, and the management of the different properties,
are all favourable to the agriculture of this parish, which is under-
stood to be in a highly improved state.
     Improvements.--Within these few years, cottages upon an improved
plan have been built on two of the farms belonging to Mr Waldie of
Hendersyde.  These cottages do not occupy much ground, but, be-
sides other conveniences, they contain an upper as well as an under
flat; and thus they afford greater facilities than have hitherto been
enjoyed by the labouring classes, for separating the sick from the
healthy, and also for assigning separate sleeping apartments to the
male and female members of families.  The universal adoption of
this improvement would contribute greatly to the health, the clean-
liness, and the comfort of the rural population; and might even be
expected in the course of time to operate with beneficial effect up-
on their manners and morals, in so far as it would probably lead to
a greater degree of reserve than at present obtains in the inter-
course between young persons of different sexes in the humbler
ranks of life.
     Produce.--The average gross amount of raw produce raised in
the parish is, as nearly as can be ascertained, as follows:--



