
346                              ROXBURGHSHIRE.

are in the course of dissolution, in consequence of the erroneous
principales, in respect to the proportion between the rate of admission
and the rate of allowance, on which they were based. Nor is there
any prospect of the spedly formation of new ones on sounder princi-
ples. The only beneficiary schemes of a similar nature now existing
are the "Yearly Societies,"--four in number,--which are formed
with the view of assisting their members when sick, and dissolved and
rreorganized every year. Each member contributes weekly the
sum of ls. 2d., together with 6d. a year for the expenses of ma-
nagement, 6d. on the death of a member, and 3d. on the death
of a member's wife. A member, when laid aside from work by
sickness, receives 4s. per week for the firts three months, and 2s.
for the next three months--the allowance not falling lower than
this. On the death of a member, his widow is allowed, as funeral
expenses, a sum at the rate of 6d. from each. The only
impediment to the beneficial operation of these simple but useful
institutuions is the practice, which cannot be too soon abandoned
of holding their monthly meetings in public-houses, and spending
their fines on drink, instead of applying them to the increase of
the funds.
     Saving Bank.-- The want of benefit societies is, to some ex-
extent, supplied by a Savings bank, which has existed since 1815,
having been the firts that was bank is managed gratuitously by the
agent of the Commercial Bank, Mr John Waldie, who devotes
some hours every week to it. Any sum from L.2 to L. 10 is re-
ceived,--the only limitation being, that whenever and as often as
the deposit amounts to the latter sum it is withdrawn, and depositor's
name. The average sum invested tearly amounts to L. 517, 15s.;
the average sum withdrawn, L. 474, 4s, ld.; the average sum
lodged with the commericial Bank, L.230; the average number
of depositors, 49. The depositors are chiefly servant girls, la-
bourers, and young persons; and it is pleasing to notice, that the
amount of business done is regularly, though slowly, increasing.
The amount lodged at 31st December 1838 was L.908, 9s.; and
the number of accounts open, 223.
     Poor and Parochial Funds.--There are in this parish four
source of manitenance for the poor, viz. assessment, church-col-
lections, mortified money, and charitable donations.


