
				CRAIG.                     255

about L. 3, 3s. ; and the fresh salmon for 2s. per Dutch Stone:
but of late the prices have increased to near double."*  These
fisheries became still more valuable during the period that stake-
nets were employed in the river; and at times the Rossie fishings
have been let at L. 800. More recently these have only brought
an annual rent of L. 650; and the fishing nearer the river mouth
belonging to the estate of Usan, only about L. 50. In the year
1822, a salmon fishery was established on the sea-coast close to
the Boddin point, by the proprietor of Dunninald, which has proved
remarkably successful, and has brought a rent of nearly L. 400
per annum. The greater part of the salmon taken in this parish
is packed in ice, and shipped for the London and Edinburgh mar-
kets, and it is not easy to ascertain here the prices procured through-
out the season. Those which are sold in this neighbourhood cost
in the earlier part of the season, from 2s. to 2s. 6d. per lb.; and
at other times from 8d. to 10d.
   The white or sea-fishing is carried on by the inhabitants of two
villages, Ferryden and Usan,+ to a very great extent. The for-
mer contains a population of 679, and the latter of 142, the greater
part of whom are employed in the fishing,--in the one, 85 families,
or 590 souls; in the other, 16 families, or 85 souls. In Ferryden
25 boats are regularly employed; 18 of these, of a larger size, car-
rying 6 men each ; 2 of a medium size, carrying 5 ; 5 of a smal-
ler size, carrying 5 or 4. In Usan 6 boats, at an average, are em-
ployed throughout the year, carrying 6 men each.
  In the winter season, during calm frosty weather, these boats go
from eight to ten miler from land, nearly due east from the Bell-
rock; but in stormy weather, they rarely venture more than three
or four miles from land. In summer, they go to a much greater
distance, and fish upon two banks called the north and south shold;
the first about eighteen, and the second twenty miles from land.
Four of the larger boats in Ferryden, and the same number in
Usan, use in summer what are called the great lines, and some-
times go thirty miles to sea. The boats with the great lines take
principally, halibut, skate, cod and ling; the other boats, cod and
haddocks. The halibut is in best season from April to July, and
the skate during the same period. The ling is best during the
summer months and the cod during winter, or from November to

<FOOTNOTE>Former Statistical Account.
          In the older records and grave-stones, this village is denominated Ulysses-haven,
probably from some Danish chief of that name.
	FORFAR.					R


