
<APPENDIX>

lxxvii

in Parliament, I pressed much the idea, "that it might be the means of ob-
"taining a Statistical Account of England, and consequently of explaining
"the real situation of the country in every point of view, that could possi-
"bly he wished for by a Patriot or a Statesman.  Such an Account of
"Scotland was already nearly completed, and specimens of it having been
"circulated abroad, it had received the most flattering marks of approba-
"tion.  If, in England therefore, the same plan were executed, it would
"hardly be doubted, that it would soon be universally adopted in every
"other country, and thus the principle of political society, and the sources
"of national improvement, would be more completely ascertained, than
"in any former period of history*".
   Various circumstances have hitherto prevented that idea from being ta-
ken up, though undoubtedly of essential importance; but if ever the Board
should be placed on that respectable footing, to which such an institution is
so peculiarly well entitled, its attention will necessarily be directed to Sta-
tistical Inquiries, on an extensive scale.  In the interim, the Agricultural
Surveys, contain a great deal of interesting information of a similar nature.
   It may be proper here to add, that Messrs Williams, booksellers, Strand,
London, have begun a Statistical Survey of the principality of Wales, and
would probably have made considerable progress in it before this time, had
not the state of the times been extremely unfavourable for such investiga-
tions.

   7. Ireland.-In Ireland, they do not seem to have been very fortunate, in
their attempts to elucidate the state of that country.  A society founded by
Petty and Molyneux, for philosophical inquiries, hardly subsisted for five
years.  Another society was formed about the year 1760, by whom a plan
was drawn up for writing the descriptions of counties; but it is believed
without much success.  In the year 1773, the Dublin Society formed a
Committee, by whom a number of queries were printed; but in four years
time, they only obtained 40 answers, to 4000 copies they had circulated,
many of which were perfectly trifting.  The Committee was therefore
dropped, and the scheme abandoned, even by Major Vallancy, who had
prevailed upon the Society to engage in it.  Indeed a zealous and public,
spirited member of the Irish Parliament, (the Right Honourable William
Burton Conyngham), transmitted to me an account of the parish of Kilro-
nan, in the county of Roscommon and the adjoining district, written by

<FOOTNOTE>

*See Speech in Parliament, 15th May 1793, in the preliminary Obser-
vations to the printed communications to the Board of Agriculture, p. 23.
See also the original plan for establishing the Board, p. 20.


