
              ISLAND OF SKYE-DUIRINISH.                      345

from the superabundant population of the parish is confessedly the
removing of numbers of the people, by emigration, to places where
they may support themselves in comfort by the labour of their
hands.
   This is a measure which is loudly called for by the circumstan-
ces of the country,-demanded more loudly and imperiously each
succeeding year,-and a measure which, if now neglected, will
speedily force itself on the notice both of the land-owners, and the
government of the kingdom, not only by the piteous wailing of
want and of famine,-not only by the sad spectacle of a once mo-
ral people becoming, through the hardening and animalizinq in-
fluence of grinding poverty, the reckless slaves of low passions,-
but by the still more alarming, though not more woeful, spectacle
of a loyal and peaceable people giving themselves up to robbery
and rapine. The flocks of the large sheep-owners are annually
thinned by those who feel the pinching of famine; and to such an
extent is this system carried now, that it has led to the proposal of
establishing a rural police throughout the island, which is ex-
pected to come into immediate operation; a measure completely
unprecedented in the history of the Highlands.
   We do not expect, of course, that the evil is to be completely
cured by emigration: but if the population were once thinned by
that means, education would go far to do the rest. And besides
the improving effects of education on the character and habits of
those who remain at home, it is well known to those who are
acquainted with Skye, that the best educated among its common
people generally, almost universally, have sought a foreign coun-
try where to advance their fortunes; that very few of those who
receive even the rudiments of a good education remain at home;
and were knowledge generally given them, there would be no call
either for the Government or for the land-owners to interfere
with them.
   Habits of the People.-The habits of the people are farfrom being
cleanly. Shaving is only a weekly work, sometimes not so frequent;
water is but sparingly employed for the ablution of the person, while
clothes are very rarely changed. The houses are wretchedly filthy,
so much so, that it is cause of wonder that their ocpupiers enjoy such
a measure of health as they do. These houses have but one door,
opening at the end. Next to the door is the byre, where the
cattle stand every night during the year,-the cows sometimes fas-
tened by a straw rope to one of the rafters in the roof, while the


