
     Statistical Account

greatly from both the viper and the common blind worm.  The
heads of these singular reptiles were so much bruised, in the
killing of them, that it was impossible to dissect them*.-Seve-
ral species of birds, not formerly known in this country, seem
lately to have taken up their abode in it.  Amongst these
are the bullfinch, and gold-crested wren.-But though many
exotic plants grow very well, upon being introduced here, it
has not been learned, that the wind, the tide, or any fortui-
tous cause, has incresed of late the list of indigenous vege-
tables.

   Minerals.-The natural productions of Urr parish need
hardly to be mentioned, differing little from those which are
found generally throughout the stewartry of Galloway.
Shell marl there is in abundance; but that which could be
dug at the cheapest rate being exhausted, the ease of procur-
ing lime from England renders the marl, which lies deep, of
little value.  Lime-stone too there is, but of so hard a na-
ture, that it is not meddled with, the rather as coal cannot
be had to burn it.  For the same reason, the abundance of
iron ore remains an useless gift of nature.  The growth of
wood, more especially of the Scotch fir, the oak, ash, elm, &c.
(trees with which the face of this country was once covered),
is exceedingly rapid+: And if the present unpopular tax on

<FOOTNOTE>

*Were we to state, as natural curiosities, the great number of large bones,
of various animals, now extinct even as to species; the immense heads of oxen,
probably uri; and the horns of deer, larger than any now found in Europe, a
great deal might be wrote, with not much gratification to curiosity.  Suffice it
to say, that almost every marl pit, or peat mofs, in the parish, has at times
produced bones, heads, etc. such as the above mentioned.
   +One instance may be given of this, instead of many.  In the year 1766, Mr.
COPLAND of Colliestion planted about 60 acres, of very waste land, near the
village of Dalbeaty.  For these 4 years now past, Scotch firs, to the value of


