
102                       STIRLINGSHIRE.


about two miles east of the village of Drymen, there are conside-
rable falls. For a quarter of a mile, the channel is scooped out of
the solid rock, and the vexed water forces its way over a series of
precipices.
  There are many fine springs of water to be found in this pa-
rish. St Vildrin's * well, on the farm of Finnich-Drummond,
mav be mentioned as remarkable for the large quantity of water
which it discharges. In Roman Catholic times, and even within
a hundred years, many a pilgrim drank of or bathed in its streams.
An image of the patron saint, carved in stone, still presides over
it. The world has either grown wiser, or these waters have lost
their virtues, since not a knee bows now before the stony saint.
  Botany.--In the higher parts of the parish, there are not found
any of the rare Scottish plants. The Erica vulgaris and cinerea
prevail; and where the heath does not grow, the Aira flexuosa,
Festuca ovina and vivipara are the principal grasses. In many
parts of the muirland, are found the Empetrum nigrum, and the
Vaccinium Vitis Idea and Oxycoccos. In the low marshy parts, the
Myrica gale abounds; also Tofieldia palustris, Carex, Juncus, and
Parnassia palustriS. It is worthy of remark, that, where these last-
mentioned plants prevail, the soil is most congenial to the growth
of Oak coppice, producing bark of the best quality. Upon such
ground, however, hard-wood will not grow to a large size; nor
does the Pinus there outlive forty or fifty years. Pinus larix, e.g.
begins to fail or rot in the heart.
  Wood.--There is no lack of wood in the parish, more especially
in tbe vale of Endrick. But, with the exception of the plantations
belonging to His Grace tbe Duke of Montrose, there is no great
quantity in any one place. At the Park of Drumquhassle, Dal-
nair, and near the manse, there are some magnificent oaks and
beeches; and at the churchyard-gate, there is a noble ash, once
the bell-tree, which has weathered at least 200 years. +
  At the Castle of Duchray, and clustering round its walls, is
some remarkably fine ivy, next, in age and strength, to that at
Kenilworth. In the old orchard at Duchray, there are some aged

  <FOOTNOTE>The writer cannot find this saint in the Calendar. The above is the name cur-
rent in the country.
            This tree is mentioned in the Agricultural Report of Stirlingshire, published in
1812, and it may be interesting to compare its measurement at that date and the
present. Its girth is there stated at 15 feet at one foot from the ground, and 13 feet
8 inches at the middle of the trunk. It now measures 16 feet 7 inches in circumfe-
rence at one foot from the ground, and 16 feet 1 inch at the middle of the stem,
about five feet from the ground.


