
     Of Speymouth.

good government.  Hence may appear, the interest of
government in this matter*.

<UNREADABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

*If the sense of the country on this subject can be of avail in drawing the
attention of government, this may be gathered from the most unequivocal ex-
pression of it lately given, and affords the strongest argument for the effectual
interposition of government in this matter.  Last; year a subscription was set on
foot by the Duke and Dutchess of Gordon, for building a bridge on Spey at
the Boat of Bog, near Fochabers, and in a very short time upwards of 3000 L.
was subscribed in this neighbourhood, or by patrons connected with it.  A
good deal more would have been subscribed; but as the subscription was
undertaken in the confidence that government would give an effectual aid
in seeing the sense of the country as to the utility of the work, so fully ex-
pressed, and as it was soon after found, that this expectation could not be rea-
lised at that time, from the breaking out of the war, as was said, the subscrip-
tion was given up for the time, because of itself it would never be effectual.
It seems there was the like slattering prospect of a bridge at this place before
the American war; but that war, in like manner, banished it.  It is hard that
war should so materially affect the internal and essential improvements of a
country.  It is hoped, that such a small aid can still be spared for so useful and
necessary a work.  But if thus cannot be otherwise granted, it might be done
by means of a small temporary tax on the northern counties.  It is presumed,
that they would readily submit to some small additional burden for such a pur-
pose; and it is supposed, that an additional duty on home spirits in these coun-
tries, would be the most proper in itself, the least felt, and the most readily
agreed to.  It has been proposed to build a bridge over Spey at the Boat of
Bog, about 5 or 6 miles above the Boat of Bog A bridge could be built there,
it is said, at a much less expense, and would, no doubt, be very useful to that
part of the country.  But with regard to publick and general utility it could ne-
ver answer the purpose of a bridge at the Boat of Bog, or suoerlede the neces-
sity of another there.  The road which leads to the Boat of Bog from the S.
and E., is often impassable, and always inconvenient during the winter, so that
it is impossible that it can ever become the post road, or the great line of com-
munication between the S. and N.  On the other hand, the road which passes
at the Boat of Bog, being the coast road, is always passable, and for this reason
is, and ever must be the post road, and the great line of communication from
S. to N.  Nor from the situation of the ground does it; appear possible to make
a patent road between the two places on the S side of Spey.  However useful,
then, a boat may be at Boat of Bog, it can never supply the place or supersede
the necessity of one at the Boat of Bog.  A bridge over the river Findhorn

</UNREADABLE>


