
424                       DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

be sorted with those bred in Galloway that are a year and some-
times two years older than themselves, and passed off as such in
Carlisle and other market towns on the English borders. Hence
the reason, that our stirks are higher priced than many others, and
the reason why very good ones fetch so high a price." The num-
bers reared in the parish have not been correctly ascertained. The
average prices for stock of this kind may be stated as nearly as pos-
sible as follows: Two year old stots from L. 3 to L. 5; three year
old do. from L. 3 to L. 7, 10s. and L. 8, 10s.; four year old do.
from L. 6, 6s. to L. 10 and L. 12. Cows vary in price according
to size, age, and condition, from L. 6 to L. Io. Farm-horses able
for their work, and from three to six years of age, or even eight,
can be purchased at present from L. 18 to L. 30 some fine ani-
mals of the Clydesdale breed brought, at the last Dumfries Rood
fair, the high prices of L. 35 and L. 40. A very considerable num-
ber of swine is fed in this parish, which, when cured, find a ready
market at Newcastle, Longtown, and Carlisle.
	Husbandry.--In the lowlands all the modern improvements in
agriculture, so far as the soil will admit, have been introduced most
successfully by the enterprising tenants of the district. On the
high pastoral grounds, every thing has been done that draining and
enclosing can effect.
	Leases on the Duke of Buccleuch's farms are generally for the
space of nine years. Leases of this length are supposed to be
equally favourable to the landlord and tenant, as affording both the
same opportunities either of a rise or deduction of rent. The
number of acres in some of these farms is 4464; and the rent
about L. 670. The state of farm-buildings and enclosures in this
parish cannot be surpassed, as the Duke affords every facility for
improvements and for the comfort of his tenantry.
	Manufactures.--About forty-seven years ago, a cotton manufac-
tory was established in New Langholm, the machinery of which
contains 3552 mule spindles, with other suitable apparatus. The
original cost was L. 2600; and it employs at present from 90 to 100
persons. Woollen yarns, stockings, stuffs, serges, black and white
plaids, which are worn by both rich and poor, are also manufac-
tured here, but to no great extent. There is a distillery for whis-
ky on a small scale; and a brewery. Langholm enjoys great local
advantages for manufactories, having abundance of coal and peat
in the neighbourhood, besides a copious supply of water fit to turn
very powerful machinery.


