
122                      ELGINSHIRE.

mainder of the season to ls. Grilse of five lb. and under are sold
at 7d.; and if of a greater weight at 8d. per lb. Trout are 9d.
to the 1st of June, and after that are 5d. per lb. The fishing is
with nets and small boats, each with seven men and a "kenner,"
who is princeps of the band. Some alterations are occasionally
introduced in the management of this extensive concern; and the
whole fishing, by the present regulation, is to be conducted in fu-
ture by twelve bands, each consisting of eight men.

                        V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Markets, &c.-Six markets, in the course of the year, for cattle
and horses, but chiefly the former, are held at Fochabers, our prin-
cipal village. The markets are held on the first Wednesday of
January, the fourth of March, and May; the second Wednesday
of August; and the fourth of October and December. The vil-
vulet unites with the Spey. It is a burgh of barony, and is built
on a neat and regular plan, with a large square in the centre,
planted on each side with trees and flowering shrubs.
   Ecclesiastical State.-By far the greater part of the people are
of the Established Church. There are only a few families of the
Episcopal persuasion. The Roman Catholics, who are more nu-
merous, have of late years erected a chapel iu the village of Foch-
abers. They have another place of worship about four miles dis-
tant, on the eastern border of the parish, where their clergyman
resides. He is under the control of a bishop, who has lately built
a very excellent mansion for himself in the neighbouring parish of
Rathven.
   The Enzie mission has just been erected into a parish, quoud
sacra; and the small village of Auchiohalrig, and a large thinly
peopled district of the Braes of Enzie have been detached from
the parish of Bellie and annexed to it.
   The stipend of Bellie is made up, by an annual grant from the
Exchequer, to the minimum allowance of L.150 a year. The
glebe consists of about twelve acres. The Duke of Richmond is
patron of the parish.
   Education, &c.-There are no fewer than fourteen schools
in the parish; viz. one parochial, three partly supported by the
Society for Propagating Christian Knowledge; one infant school
established by the Duchess of Gordon; three that are only par-
tially endowed; two by teachers on their own adventure; three
Sabbath-schools, and one winter evening-school. The parish


