
                           OLD DEER.                             157

<TABLE>
     Imperial quarters of oats sown, 4451,     raised, 20,136
     	                 of barley,      72       do,       447
	                 of wheat,        2 1/2   do.        21

   Rent of Land.-The rent of land, as may be readily supposed,
is still more various than its quality.  Some acres in the immediate
vicinity of a village let as high as L.3, 10s. There are farms of a mo-
derate size above L.1, 10s. per acre at an average; and there are
others, fully a worse bargain, under a third of that charge. Rent
is now generally paid in money, at two terms.  In a few late agree-
ment for leases, a limited portion, not exceeding a half, is allow-
ed to fluctuate according to the fiar prices of victual.  Servitudes,
once very common, are now rarely exacted; and what, used to be
a great and general grievance, when almost every estate was thirled
or astricted to a particular mill, and obliged to pay a heavy as-
sessment, usually from an eleventh to a sixteenth part of the
whole grain crop (with the exception of an allowance for seed and
horse-corn,) whether the produce was sold or ground,-is now hap-
pily removed, the last of the multures having been converted last
year.  There are eight meal-mills, six of them with, and two of
them without, drying kilns attached.  Several of these, lately built,
are on a pretty large scale, with granaries, large meal girnals, and
a separate machinery for dressing pot-barley, so that the tenants
of these mills are enabled to lay themselves out, not merely for
working to the suchen and others who may require their services,
but also for speculating a little themselves in the purchase of grain,
and converting it into meal at their convenience, for a home or
distant market.  Instead of the miller receiving for workmanship,
as was the practice till lately, a specified portion of the produce,
the ordinary charge for drying and grinding oats is now sixpence
per boll of meal.  The only fuel employed to dry the grain is the
sids or husks of what has formerly gone through the process.
This, compared with the old usage, when all dried their victual
at home, and were obliged to keep a kiln on the premises for the
purpose, is a very economical arrangement in several respects.
   Agricultural Live-Stock.-No one has any thing like a flock of
sheep, unless it be the proprietor of Pitfour, who has generally
from 200 to 400 of various kinds, which are pastured upon the
lawn and some contiguous grass fields.  What the family do not
require for their own use, are usually sold fat to butchers.  There
are a few Merinos and Bakewells; but the ordinary animals to be
found about farm towns, or in the custody of crofters, are of mixed
and miscellaneous breeds.  The prevailing species of black-cattle,


