
                            TRAQUAIR.                             51

after what has been said of the liberality of our heritors, that the
salary is the maximum; and the parochial teacher has fully double
the legal accommodations.  The school- fees may amount perhaps
on an average to I. 25 per annum.  Owing to the great length of
the  parish in proportion to its breadth, many of the children can
scarcely be expected to titled regularly, except perhaps for a short
time in summer.  Those in its western division find accommoda-
tion in the schools of Peebles; while a few families on its eastern
borders are more destitute.
   A few years ago a small school library was founded in the parish;
at first it seemed to be very popular, but now it is very much ne-
clected.  The same thing may be said of a Sabbath evening
school, or lecture, established principally for young people after
having left school and gone to ,service, as also for the aged and in-
firm, and mothers of infant children , who could not attend church
in the forenoon, but which owing to the gradual decay of attend-
ance, has in the meantime, been  discontinued.
   Popular lectures on some of the simple parts of science were
delivered grafts in the school-room two perhaps be resumed
occasionally hereafter.
   Friendly Societies.-- Many of our people are connected  with se-
veral of these, especially in Peebles; and there is the Innerleithen
and Traquair society is well supported.  Some of the labouring
classes, when unable to work from sickness, are entitled, we believe,
to as much as 9s. a-week from these societies; but it has been no-
ticed by some, that many of the members of such societies very sel-
dom put anything into the poors' box on Sunday.  We must add,
however, that we are not aware that almost any of them have come
upon the poors' roll, except perhaps when rendered totally un-
able to work, by accidentor by old age, and when the weekly
emoluments furnished by such societies become very small; these
becoming less and less the longer the members continue unfit for
work.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of persons
receiving regular parochial aid is 18.  At present the number is
25.  They consist of I widower, and an old man unmarried; 6
widows, one of them having three children, and one old woman
unmarried, I family, consisting of both parents and three child-


