
                           KENMORE.                              479

sion of the parish, it cannot be alleged that any portion of the in-
habitants is deprived of the means of public worship, or of religi-
ous instruction and pastoral superintendence.  The spirit, if not
the name.of "the Church Extension Scheme," has been in opera-
tion here for a considerable time back.  It is due to the Breadal-
bane family, to put it on record, that, they have been most efficient
church extensionists.  No individual along either bank of Locla-
tay is at a distance of more than four miles from a place of wor-
ship, or the services of a minister of the Establishment.  Besides
the parish church, there are other two places of worship, in con-
nection with the Establishment, having each an ordained and re-
sident clergyman.  These are the chapels of Ardeonaig and
Lawers, the one on the north, and the other on the south side of
the lake, and each midway between the churches of Kenmore and
Killin, which are sixteen miles separate.  The parishioners of
Jdnmore in Glenquaich are attached to the mission of Amulree,
to the chapel of which they have easy access in the line of the
glen, having to travel from four to six miles.  In like manner, those
in Glenlochay are for the most part within a distance, of about four
miles from the church of Killin, being that to which they are near-
est, and at which they receive Christian privileges.  Some few
in that glen may be from seven to eight miles distant.
The parish church was built in 1760, and is in a good state of
repair.  It is a handsome substantial edifice of the form of a cross
with a tower at the east end, and having the centre window in the
south wall, immediately behind the pulpit, of stained glass.  The
church stands in one of the finest conceivable situations, and forms
a delightful feature in the rich, varied, and beautiful scenery in
the midst of which it is placed.  But the interior can hardly be
said to harmonize with either its outside, or its surrounding accom-
paniments.  It has rather a cold, damp, chilling appearance, from
the cirbumstance of the walls having never been lathed and plas-
tered, and from its being causewayed under the seats with-stone
instead of being comfortabl floored with deal. It is besides but
indifferently lighted, there being no windows on the north side,
except one small circular aperture in thd Breadalbane gallery,
It is abundantly capacious for the number of parishioners within
reach,having been seated for about 700. The sitting are all
free, as they also are in the two chapels. The means was built
about the same time with the church. It underwent a very thorough
repair, and had a new wing added to it, in 1882, so that it is now


