
                 462                                ARGYLESHINE.

                 commonly called the Trench, was raised for his reception on a
                 point, at the entrance to the harbour of Campbelton.
                     Ministers before and since the Restoration. - In the first
                 charge, Mr Dugald Darroch, Mr John Cameron, Mr Robert
                 Duncanson, Mr Lachlan Campbell, Mr Charles Stewart, Mr Wil-
                 liam MacLeod, Dr John Smith and Dr Norman MacLeod, Dr
                 Allan MacNaughton, Mr Donald Smith, and Mr Duncan Mac-
                 Nab. In the second charge, Mr Edward Keith, Mr James Boes,
                 Mr John MacAlpine, Dr George Robertson, Dr Allan Mac-
                 Naughton, Mr Donald Smith, Mr John MacDougall, and Mr
                 Daniel Kelly. Of these ministers, two, Dr Allan MacNaughton
                 and Mr Smith, were translated to the first charge, as also Mr
                 Duncan MacNab, who was assistant and successor in the second.
                    By the fifty-ninth act of the sixth Parliament of James IV., in
                 1503, "the Tar-bar of Loch Kilkerran" (Lochhead of Kilker-
                 ran) was declared to be the seat of justice for the South Isles.
                 Previous to the abolition of the heritable jurisdictions, circuit courts
                 of Justiciary sat in the burgb of Campbelton ; but the last held
                 there, was on the 16th December 1712, when Donald Campbell
                 of Clachaig, Sberiff-substitute, and James Cunnison, Provost of
                 Campbelton, sat as COMMiSSiODers of justiciary, and, after a re-
                 gular trial, with an assize, condemned to death the last man exe-
                 cuted in this part of the country.
                    At the south corner of the now roofless Loland kirk are interred
                 the remains of Elizabeth Tollemacbe, Duchess of Argyle, mother
                 of the great Duke John, and Duke Archibald, and Lady Anne,
                 who married the Earl of Bute. She lived for more than twenty
                 years at Limecraigs, during the early part of the eighteenth cen-
                 tury, having Kintyre as her jointure.

                 <TABLE=POPULATION>          III.-POPULATION.
                 The population of whole parish, according to Dr Webster, in   1775, was 4597
                                                              Dr Smith, in     1795,     8706
                                                              the census in    1821,     9016
                                                                               1831,     9472
                                                                               1841,     9539
                       Average yearly births for seven years preceding 1843,              236
                                      marriages                                            60
                                at which males have married, 27; and females, 23.
                    There are twelve heritors in the parish, of whom nine are resi-
                 dent. The Duke of Argyle, who is the principal heritor, and
                 other two, are non-resident.

<FOOTNOTE> A man of varied and distinguished literary talent, as well as a most faithful ministers.
                                                    4


