
712                        ABERDEENSHIRE.

ver and rye-grass, cut for hay; 4. pasture; 5. do.; 6. oats or bar-
ley; 7. do.  Potatoes are grown for home use, and occasionally
for exportation; but, from the great expense of land carriage to
Peterhead or Fraserburgh, they are not reckoned a very profitable
crop.  Turniips are very extensively cultivdted for winter-feeding
cattle, and bone-dust very often employed in raising them.  Fish
refuse is also driven from the fisbing villages at a great expense of
time and labour.  The price of this sort of manure is generally
conveyed from the interior in the shape of peats.  The total num-
ber of ploughs in actual operation in the parish is 79,-a few of
them drawn by oxen.  The various kinds of oats in common use
are the potato oats.-Sandy, Hopetoun, and Kildrummy.  The
last mentioned is generally considered the best adapted for the
soil and climate of Crimond.  Wheat is seldom or never grown
here.
   The usual duration of leases is nineteen years.
   From the general character of the soil and subsoil of Cri-
mond, draining is of incalculable importance.  Much has al
ready been done in this way to improve the land, but a great
deal still remains to be performed ; and proprietors stand much in
their own and their tenants light by not encouraging it to a much
greater extent.  Tile or furrow-draining, by which such beneficial
results have been produced in other parts of Scotland, yet remains
to be commenced in the parish of Crimond. (1838.)   The nearest
manufactory at which drain tiles can be procured is ten miles dis-
tant, with three tolls, which proves a complete barrier to the tenant
undertaking improvements of this kind at his own risk or expence.
Were a tile-work commenced within a short distance, (and there
are on almost every estate most excellent materials), there is every
reason to beleive, that the opportunity would be speedily embraced
to carry on extensive improvements in draining.
   Plantations, Quarries, Fisheries.-Great improvements, in plant-
ing are at present going forward on the principal estate of Cri-
mond; ash, plane, elm, and beech, are found to thrive best in
this climate and soil.  Quarries of excellent materials, both for
building and road-making, are open in various quarters.
   Produce.-The average gross amount of raw produce raised
anually in the parish may be somewhat as follows:

<TABLE>
           Grain of all kinds with fodder;        1,7000  0  0
           Potatoes, turnips, &c.                   3504  0  0
           Hay.                                     1410  0  0
           Flax, none.


