
20			LINLITHGOWSHIRE.

north-westerly, the angle varying from 5 to 60 degrees. The
most remarkable disturbance is seen in the ravine, near the mouth
of the Nethermaill burn. The rocks are the sandstone, shales,
limestone, &c. of the coal-formation, with protrued masses of
trap, such as Binus hill, Priestinch hill, and two or three of smal-
ler extent. The limestone occurs denuded in the central and
eastern portions of the parish; the stratum is about 10 feet thick,
covered with an alluvial deposit of gravel, clay, and rolled stones;
fossil shells, and beautiful impression of ferns, have been found
in the accompanying shales. Coal appears, and clay-ironstone in
the south and south-west districts, but the seams, so far as yet ex-
plored, are of minor importance. Calespar is abundant in the
fissures of the limestone, but the crystals are small and insignifi-
cant. The general alluvial deposits consist of clay, mixed with
some others near the coast, seem to be composed of gravel, and
beds of sand. The soil is varied,-loam on clay bottom is its
most prevalent aspect; the loam is shall, except in hollow and
peculiar localities. Boulders of green stone, weighing several tons,
are occasionally met with. A small coal mine has existed for a
few years past at Priest inch, close to the Union Canal, in the
neighbourhood of which the coal crops out, dipping to the north-
west at an angle of 2ø. The seams are small, the upper one
being eighteen inches, and the under one twelve inches in thick-
ness, separated by three feet of shale, a band of clay ironstone, four
inches thick. Both seams of coal are soft and friable;  the lower
one is used as smithy coal, and yields the better price.
   Zoology.-An otter (Lutra vulgaris) was killed some years ago
in the Nethermill burn. The Hopetoun deer-park, extending to
118 acres, is stocked with between 200 and 300 head of fallow-
deer, (Cervus dama.)  Squirrels (Sciurus vulgaris) abound in the
woods. The weasel (Mustela vulgaris) is common. The stoat
(M.ermines) and the pelecat (M. putorius) are more rarely found.
The seal (Phoca vitulina,) and the porpoise (Delphina Phocaena)
occasionally visit the shore. Sir Robert Sibbald mentions the
capture of a whale, in 1692, at Abercon, of the razor-back specie,
(Ronqualis borealis), measuring 78 feet long, which had infested
the Forth for twenty years, and from a perforation in its dorsal in
by a ball, was known by the name of the "hollie pike." The
fox (Vulpes vulgariae) is tolerated in the coverst for the chase;
hares are numerous, and of late years, the multitude of rabbits has


