
1188                      ABERDEENSHIRE.

   Duncan Liddel, M. D., a native of Aberdeen, became Professor
of Mathematics and Medicine in the University of HeImstadt, and
published several works on medicine, which were long esteemed.
Returning to his native country, he died in 1613, in his fifty-se-
cond year, after bequeathing his books and mathematical iustru-
ments to the college, and founding in it bursaries and the pro-
fessorsbip of mathematics.  A large tablet of brass, with his effi-
gies, and an inscription, is placed in the principal church of the city,
and a monument erected on the lands of Pitmedden in memory,
of hil, has been lately repaired by the magistrates and town-
council.
   Thomas Reid, A. M., was appointed one of the masters of the
Grammar School in 1602, and afterwards became Secretary in
the Greek and Latin tongues to King James VL, and wrote
Latin poems, many of which are preserved in the Delitiae Poeta-
rum Scotorum; and in the same work there is an elegant epice-
dium upon him, by Sir Robert Aytoun.  He bequeathed his va-
luable library of books to the college, and a fund for a librarian
Among them are a fine manuscript of the Hebrew Scriptures, of
which Kennicott had the use when eagagged in his collation; many
folio Alduses; and Reid's transcript of King Jame's work on the
Revelations, with alterations in his Majesty's hand-writing.
   David Wedderburn, A. M., Rector of the Grammar-School
Aberdeen, 1602-1640, wrote several Latin poems, which are
in the Delitae Poetarum Scotorum, and for same years taught a
hurnanity class in the college.
   William Forbes, A. M., 1601, fourth Principal of the college,
1618-1621, and the first Professor, of Divinity, 1616-1625, and
afterwards Bishop of Edinburgh, a see which Charles L, erected
for him, as one of the most learned divines of the time.  He was
one of the first who took the degree of D. D. after the introduc-
tion of that dignity among the reformed clergy of Scotland.
   Rnbdrt Baron, D.D., the second Professor of Divinity, 1625-
1639, author pf "Pbilosophia Theologiae Ancillans" and several
other theological works.
   Patrick Duu, M. D., the pupil md friend of Dr Liddel, was
Principal of the college, 1621-1649, and bequeathed his estate
of Ferryhill for the support of the Grammar school of Aberdeen.
   William Johnston, M. D., of the family of Caskieben, Professor
of Philosophy in the University of Sedan, and afterwards the first


