
                                   DUNNET.                             43

    now opened up, it is folly to think that the land will lie idle, or
    only half-cultivated, for any length of time.
       The next classes are the large tenants and the proprietors' farm-
    servants, who are constantly employed in agriculture.
       There are two retail shops and two public-houses in the parish.
       The extent of the parish is about 17,000 acres, whereof 5000
    are cultivated, and the remainder improvable pasture, moss, and
    links. The links may be stated at 2000 acres; the moss 6000 acres,
    -which leaves 4000 acres still capable of being brought into culti-
    vation. The rent of land varies much according to circumstances.
    It may, however, be taken as an average at 12s. per acre; for arable
    land, varying from 5s.to L.1, 10s.; the average of grazing a cow for
    a year on good land is L.4 on poor soils L.2. Leicester sheep,
    of which there are upwards of 700 in the parish, pay about L.1
    a-head; the sheep kept on the moors by small tenants and on
    Dunnet-Head, are of little value, perhaps 1s. 6d. each per
    annum.
       Wages.-Farm servants' wages are, for men L.6 to L.8 yearly,
    6 1/2 bolls oatmeal, 2 bolls potatoes, with house and fire, and a chopin
    of milk daily. Boys less in proportion. Out-door women get
    L.1, 10s., 2 bolls meal, with milk and potatoes for the half year.
    House servants (women) get from L.1, 10s. to L.1, 15s. half yearly.
    Shearers in harvest, for eight weeks, (men) get L.1, 10s. with a
    stone of meal weekly, a few potatoes, and a chopin of milk daily.
    Women, L,1 wages, half a boll of meal, a few potatoes, and a
    mutchkin of milk daily. Ordinary labourers get from 1s. to 1s. 6d.
    per day; women 6d.; wrights 2s.; masons and blacksmiths the
    same. Mason work, wall height, girth measure, is done for
    L.1, 16s. per rood of 36 yards, all materials found. Wood, iron
    work, and saddlers' are fully higher than in other parts of the
    kingdom.
       The common breed of cattle is an inferior description of the
    Highland, much deteriorated by importations from Orkney. They
    are generally sleek-skinned and coarsely made. In many instances
    they come to a good size, and the cows milk better than pure High-
    landers. In most cases, they are badly kept, and of course the
    great proportion of cattle stock in the parish is bad.  The ordi-
    nary price of small tenants' two year old stots and queys, taken
    off by drovers, has for the last fifteen years ranged from L.1, 15s.
    to L.3; the price of cows from L.3 to L.6. On the large farms
    and mains, where the land is well cultivated, and a regular sys-



