 
73 
                           DUNFERMLINE.                     845

   There are no forests.  The plantations cover about 900 Scotch
acres, and are chiefly on the Pitferrane and town properties; the
former to the west, and the latter to the north-east, of the burgh.
The soil appears to be congenial to almost all sorts of timber, but
not all equally so.  The wood grown consists chiefly of larch and
Scotch fir, with a proportion of oak, beech, elm, plane, ash, and
willow.

                       II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Ancient and Modern Accounts, Maps, Plans, and Surveys, &c.,
of the Parish.-The most ancient and valuable document con-
nected with the parish, in reference particularly to the Monastery
which once flourished in it, is "The Auld Register," or the "LI-
BER MONASTERII DE DUNFERMLIN," commonly called the Chartu-
lary of Dunfermline.  It is a large folio MS.volume, consisting of 169
leaves of vellum, and has long been preserved in the Advocates
Library at Edinburgh.  It is known to have been there at the end
of the seventeenth century; but when the first Earl of Hadding-
ton (a celebrated antiquary), more than two centuries ago, used
it, making a table of its contents, and taking numerous extracts
from it, illustrative of the ancient tenures and forms of convey-
ancing of Scotland, he does not state where the Register was then
deposited.
   At the close of the last year (1842), this Chartulary was
printed by the Bannatyne Club, as the joint contribution of seven
of its members,* under the editorial care of Cosmo Innes, Esq.,
advocate, extending, with appendices and tables of contents, to
561 pages quarto.
   A table of the contents of two MS. registers is printed along
with the Chartulary of Dunfermline, by the Bannatyne Club,
from inventories in Lord Haddington's Collections, preserved in
the Advocates' Library, and collated with the original volumes.
   A History of the Town and Parish of Dunfermline was pub-
lished by the late Rev. John Fernie, one of the parochial minis-
ters in 1815, in 8vo, which contains some useful statistical infor-
mation, collected with much care and accuracy, applicable to that
period.  It is now out of print.
   Another History of Dunfermline from the earliest records down
to 1828, the date of its publication, 12mo, was written by the late

<FOOTNOTE> Duke of Buckingham, Earl Spencer, late Earl of Rosalyn, the Right Honour-
able Thomas Grenville, late R. Fergusson of Raith, Esq., James Loch, Esq., and
John Richardson, Esq. London.


