
906                        FIFESHIRE.

tion with the Manchester Unity. It has assumed 16 Malcolm
Canmore" into its title, in memory of the Scottish monarch, who
was so closely connected with this place.
   8th, Rechabites.-A Tent of the independent new order of this
race of persons, named the "Robert the Bruce" Tent, was
formed in Dunfermline 1841. The principal feature of their
character is, that they will drink neither wine nor strong drink;
and, in a spirit of brotherly kindness, they are associated for the
purpose of granting assistance during sickness and at bereavements
by death.
   9th, Charleston Friendly Relief Society, instituted 1784.
   10th, Charleston Sick Fund, instituted about 1841.
   11 th, Limekilns Merchant Seamen's Fund, a national one, in-
stituted by act of Parliament, in August 1834.
   12th, Limekilns United Seamen's Society, instituted about
three years ago.
   13th, At Charleston and Limekilns, there are also Funeral
Societies-tbe one at the former village consisting of about 200,
and at the latter of 300 members.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-Till 1815, there was a voluntary
assessment laid annually upon the beritors resident and non-resi-
dent, in proportion to their respective valued rents, and made
over to the kirk-session, to be distributed to the poor on their
list, among whom were a few Dissenters. The average amount
of this assessment for ten years, extending from January 1807 to
January 1817, was nearly L.300, and the average annual amount
of collections in the parish church and chapel of ease, during the
same period, was L.71, from which, and the money obtained from
burying ground, along with the rents of a little- property in the
bands of the kirk-session, about 100 paupers were supported,
The Dissenters at that time generally maintained their own poor.
In 1815, a Voluntary Association for support of the poor was
formed, managed by a committee of heritors, ministers, and in-
habitants of all religious denominations; the funds of which were
raised by subscriptions from the heritors and householders, from
annual collections in the chapel of else and dissenting churches,
and from one general annual collection, at a sermon preached for
the purpose, in one of the largest churches. The kirk-session
did not enter into this Association, but retained their own collec-
tions and property, the proceeds of which they distributed among
as many poor of the Establishment as these funds would allow of.

