
766                  EDINBURGHSHIRE.

and occupants whose rents amount to L. 15. The assessment im-
posed is not to exceed Is. 6d. per pound. Leith is supplied with
water by the Edinburgh Water Company; and a Gas Company,
established several years ago, is now conjoined with a company in
Edinburgh, under the title of the Edinburgh and Leith Gas Light
Company.
   Antiquities.-Any former vestiges of antiquities of Leith are
now fast disappearing. St Nicholas's Chapel is said to have stood
on the site on which the citadel was afterwards built.
   King James's Hospital was situated on the east side of the
Kirkgate, at the south-west corner of the church-yard. It was
founded by the session of South Leith in 1614, and endowed with
certain lands and tenements of an older hospital of St Anthony.
   The hospital of the Knights Templars, or the "King's Work,"
was situated at the south-east corner of St Anthony's Wynd. It
was greatly demolished by the English in 1548, but rebuilt in 1647.
   A "Burss or Exchange for the meetings of merchants was in-
stituted during the time of Mary of Lorraine's residence in Leith,
and a wynd or locality near the shore still hears this name. The
Timber Bush is evidently a corruption of Timber Bourse or wood
market.
   An ancient Roman road is reported to have led through the
Weigh-house Wynd, from thence across the Water of Leith by
Cramond, onwards to Queensferry and Stirling.
   Public Buildings.-The Jail.-The, old Tolbooth was situated
at the lower end of the Tolbooth Wynd, and was built in 1565.
In 1825 a new and more commodious jail was erected in the same
place.
   Town Hall.-This building was erected in 1828 in Constitu-
tion Street, for the accommodation Of the Burgh and Sheriff
Courts.
   Royal Exchange Buildings.-A large Grecian building, three
stories high stands at the east end of Bernard Street. It con-
tains a spacious reading room for the accommodation of mercan-
tile men, a hotel, assembly rooms, sale rooms, and library. It
was erected at an expense of L. 16,000.
   New Markets.-These were erected in the year 1818 on a piece
ground which was the site of the old Custom House. The
funds were raised partly by voluntary subscription, and partly by
a loan of L. 2000 from the Merchant Company of Leith.
   Seafield Baths.-These baths are situated at the cast eastern extre-



