
         	  ABOYNE AND GLENTANNER.                     1059

hole in the centre, somewhat like that of a millstone, and suppos-
ed to have been used for the erection of a gibbet-tree. It was,
about twenty years ago, with the view of examining it, placed on
its hem, and, on raising it from the flat bed on which it rested,
there was some difficulty experienced, in consequence of large
stones which had been laid around to firm it. That it was a gibbet-
stone, may be the more readily inferred from its being placed at the
foot of a natural tumulus, which bears the significant name of
Tiremod;" i. e. "the court-ground."
	Six years ago, a canoe, neatly formed out of a single block of
oak, was dug out of the peat-moss at Drumduan, on the south
side of Auchlossan Loch. It was quite entire; but being in an
unsound state, and left on the bank to dry, it was unfortunately
broken by the rude handling of some herd boys.
	On a knoll near Aboyne Castle stands a sculptured stone, six
and a-half feet high. This stone formerly stood on an eminence
nearly fronting the land-end of the drawbridge which had commu-
nicated with Ceanmore's fortified island in Loch Kinord, but, in
commemoration of which of the many eventful occurrences con-
nected with that locality, no evidence, exists beyond its carved
hieroglyphics; and as these contain what appears intended to re-
present a cross, curiously and very laboriously cut, it may be inferred
to have been erected within the Christian era.  It was removed
by the Earl of Aboyne from its original site to that which it now
occupies near a small Druidical circle ; hence its history may, at
some future period, puzzle the antiquary.
	About a mile and a-half north-west from the church, there is
a stone with a cross cut on it, and standing near a well. This
stone, when removed at some olden time, is said to have been
miraculously brought back by Muchrieha, the guardian of the
well. Near the cross formerly stood a stone of considerable size,
with a hollow rudely cut in it, and called Muchrieha's chair.
This chair some masons, about thirty years ago, unawed by Much-
rieha, split into pieces to assist in the building of the neigh-
bouring farm-house.
	On the hill of Little Tullich, overlooking the site of the old
Castle of Cean-na-coil, are the remains of what is called " My
Lord's House," consisting of five courses of a square stone build-
ing, the wall at the base course 12 feet thick, and diminishing
about a foot each course, so that the five courses present, on the
outside, the appearance of a stair of as many steps on each side.


