
456                   ARGYLESIHIRE.

deur of the scene. These, together with a boundless expanse of
the mighty ocean, form the main features of the landscape.
Meteorology.-The medium height of the thermometer, taken
from daily observation, amounts, on an average, to 48&deg;; and also
the pressure of the atmosphere, as ascertained by daily observa-
tions with the barometer, is 29.54 inches. The medium fall of
rain, for the last twenty years, has been about four inches every
month.
The climate,is mild; but we have frequent rains. Snow lies
rarely above two or three days at a time upon the sea-coast, nor
does frost make any long continuance.
Hydrography.-The Frith of Clyde bounds this parish to the
extent of twelve miles from north-east to south-east. The stream
of flood comes from the north-west; the ebb-tide runs with strong
easterly winds nine hours to the westward ; but, in moderate wea-
ther, takes its regular course of six hours. In blowy wet weather,
with streams running into the sea, it assumes a reddish coloor;
depth from 16 fathoms to 24 in channel course; the ground soft
blue clay.
Springs.-There is a delightful spring of water from Crosshill,
situated half a mile above the town of Campbelton, flowing from
limestone, and by which -the inhabitants of Campbelton are al-
most wholly supplied with water, which is conveyed thence in pipes.
Lakes.-There are three small lakes, situated two, three, and
four miles to the north of Campbelton, and one in the hollow of
the high hill of Bengaillin to the south.
Rivers.-There are two considerable streams, one flowing into
the sea at the Bay of Ardnacross, and the other into the Atlantic
at the Bay of Machirhanish.
Geology and Mineralogy.-The principal rocks are, mica-slate,
quartz, ironstone, porphyry, sandstone, limestone, greywacke, and
the trap rock. 'I'be dip of the strata may be stated south and
southeast ; the general direction of the principal formation north-
east and south-west. Great part of the Sound of Kilbrandon
seems to be caused by the rising oithe trap rock, in almost every
form and constitution through a secondary formation. With'
two miles of thd harbour of Campbelton, the trap rock forms,
about a mile and a quarter from the shore, a dangerous marine
reef, about a mile in length, called Smerby rocks, in a north-east
and southwest directioia, and accidents sometimes, although rarely,
occur to vessels by striking upon them. There is a fine quarry of


