
                       RATHO.                              89

Ratho, in testimony of their regard for his worth, and their respect
for his memory, solicited permission to accompany his remains to
the sepulchre, but the merited compliment, for private reasons,
was declined.
   Sir William Fettes.-Sir William Fettes, who died, a few years
ago, leaving his immense fortune for the erection of an educa-
tional establishment, to be called the Fettes Institution, was an
heritor of the parish, and had his country house in it.
   Land-owners.-The land of this parish is now very much sub-
divided.  The following is a list of the proprietors, with the names
of their estates, arranged in the order of their relative magnitude.
The Earl of Morton, holding the lands of Dalmahoy and Addis-
ton; William Wilkie, Esq. of Bonnington; William Davidson, Esq.
of Hatton; the Heirs of the late John Bonar, Esq., of Ratho; Alexander
Berwick, Esq. of Norton; William Hill, Esq. of Hillwood and Ra-
tho Hall; William H. Brown, Esq. of Ashley;  William L. Whyte,
Esq. of Kellerstane Mrs Liston of Milburn; the Heirs of Sir
William Fettes; Edward Lothian, Esq. of Overgogar; Sir Alex-
ander Gibson Maitland; James Sinclair, Esq. of Craigpark; Rev.
Daniel Wilkie of Ratho Byres; Sir James Gibson, Craig; Lord
Meadowbank; David Wardlaw, Esq. of Gogar Mount; James
M. Melville, Esq.
   Parochial Registers.-These are neither of very old date, nor
very complete from the period of their commencement.  They
consist of seven volumes, six of which are in small folio, and one in
quarto; which last has the appearance of more scroll of the
minutes of session.  Two of the volumes form a register of bap-
tisms and marriages, respectively from 1738 and 1741, to the pre-
sent time.  The rest contain the proceedings of the kirk-session
in the administration of the discipline of the church.  Their earli-
est entry bears the date of 1692, four years posterior to the re-
volution.  There is no record from 1721 to 1738, nor from 1760
to 1802.  It appears from the earlier part of these records, that
the catalogue of offences which was taken cognizance of, and made
the subject of judicial procedure, was much greater than-now.  In
some respects, a return to the old methods of procedure would be
advantageous, in others the reverse.
   Slander and neglect of church ordinances appear not unfre-
quently, as the subjects of investigation and correction.  To re-
medy the latter, a committee seems at times to have been ap-
pointed, called the Searchers, whose duty it was to visit, during


