
                            GREENLAW.                             47

that he left funds for building a bridge over the Blackadder, at the
west end of the town.
   Manse, &c-The manse was built in the year 1817, and an ad-
dition was made to it in the year 1829. It is a very commodious
and comfortable dwelling. The stipend is 15 chalders, 14 bolls,
3 firlots, 3 pecks, and 3 lippies, one-half of which is barley, and
the other half meal, with the exception of about seven bolls of oats.
The money stipend amounts to L.31, 7s. 6d. Sterling. The va-
lue of the grain and meal is fixed annually by the county fiars price
of grain and meal. The average amount of the stipend in money
for the last seven years is L.271, 3s. 4d. The glebe consists of
ten acres, and is worth about L.30 of yearly rent.
   Divine service in the Established church is well attended by
about 204 families. The average number of communicants may
amount to about 370. The average amount of church collections
may be stated at L.14 yearly.
   There are two dissenting or seceding chapels in Greenlaw, at-
tended by about 98 families. The ministers are paid by their
hearers.
   A branch Bible society, in connection with the Berwickshire
Bible Society, was established here several years ago, the annual
contributions to which amount to about L.15.
   Education.-There is one parochial, and one private school.
The branches of education taught in the parochial school are
Latin, Greek, French, mathematics, &c. The schoolmaster has
the maximum salary, and a very excellent house, to which is at-
tached the legal quantity of ground for a garden. The average
number of scholars may be stated at 130. The fees actually re-
ceived by him amount to about L.45 Sterling a-year.
   Library.-The inhabitants of Greenlaw have long enjoyed the
advantage of a subscription library, which contains a very good col-
lection of books. There is also a small library in connection with
one of the dissenting congregations, for the use of the children who
attend the Sabbath school.
   Friendly Society.-A friendly society was established in the year
1814, which has been of great advantage to the members. It was
remodelled about two years ago, agreeably to the instructions con-
tained in the table published by the Highland Society. The so-
ciety consists of 150 members.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The heritors and kirk-session meet
twice a-year, about the terms of Whitsunday and Martinmas, for



