
         376                       PERTHSHIRE.

	one, at first, to think that it is the dorsal surface vhich is exhibited
	to view; but when the head is examined, with the arch of the
	under jaw seen distinctly within the parallel margin of the upper,
	no doubt can remain in regard to the aspect presented.  From the
	whole of the statement now given, it need scarcely be added, that
	the position in which the fish was imbedded in the solid rock was
	that in which it was wont to move in its native liquid element.
           After the purposes of science have been served by the thorough
	examination of this fossil relic, we are happy to think that it may
	be deposited for inspection in a public museum not far from the
	locality from which it was taken, a higher interest being thus im-
	parted by each to the other.
	   Some months after the discovery of the specimen now describ-
	ed, a considerable number of small specimens were found, with
	scaly markings similar to the former.  Nothing, however, like the
	impression of an entire animal was met with, except that of a small
	fish, whose general outline bore some resemblance to the order
	Pleuronectes, of which the flounder is a familiar species.  Among
	other specimens, was one containing what seems to be the petrifac-
	tion of the eye of a small fish within its cartilaginous orbit. Be-
	sides all these, there were found about the same time, but not quite
	so deeply situated in the puarry, a large assemblage of specimens,
	each of which has some resemblance to the tapering extremity of
	an ordinary sized haddock, after the tail fin has been cut off. Some
	of them, however, are a great deal narrower, and others a great
	deal broader, but always tapering towards a point, though the broad
	ones are sometimes curved laterally, so as to present a figure some-
	what resembling the falcated extremity of a heavy hedging-bill. The
	substance of them is the dark-red sandstone of the quarry, but they
	have a sort of glazing of red clayey matter, on which are left the
	impressions of diamond-shaped or triangular scales or plates, which
	have partly overlapped each other, and which present a surface
	somewhat like that of a fossil palm.  These singular remains were
	all found intermingled in the same spot, as near each other as though
	they had belonged to one individual animal, but each so like the
	caudal extremity of a fish, as rather to intimate that they had be-
	longed to different individuals.  Whether they belonged to one or
	more, no trace has, yet been found of any other part of the animal
	structures with which they were connected.
	   No ores worth mentioning have yet been found in any of the
	rocks already described.  There are, however, traces of oxide of


