

34                       PEEBLES-SHIRE.

nearest market-town, and is distant about six miles. In the summer
season there is a one-horse chaise daily, and two daily coaches
from the parish to Edinburgh.
    The length of the toll-road down the Tweed is ten miles; and
from Tweed to the source of the Leithen, is above nine miles. In
.summer, there is a dallv conveyance to and from Glasgow and Kelso,
which passes through the village.
    Ecclesiastical State.--The church could not well be better si-
tuate for the convenience of the whole parish. It is a neat small
building, containing seats for above 350 people. It was built in
1786, and is in comfortable repair. The manse was built about
1780.  The glebe consists of 12 imperial acres, and is worth about
L.20 of yearly rent.  The stipend is 15 chalders, half meal and
half barlev, and L. 100 Scots for communion elements, having been
augmented in the year 1821. * Its average amount for the last
seven years has been, exclusive of the allowance for communion
elements, L.234, 6s. The averaue number of communicants is
about 264.
    The dissenters in this parish are very few: fewer perhaps than
in any parish of the same size in this part of the country.
    Education.--There is no school but one in the parish. It is
parochial.  The schoolmaster employs an assistant, and teaches
the ordinary branches and Latin.  His salary is the maximum. The
school wages are, for reading English, per quarter, 2s. 6d.; for writ-
ing, arithmetic, &c. 3s. 6d.; for Latin, 5s: but the actual amount
received will probably not exceed L. 40.  There are no persons in
the parish above ten years of age who cannot read and write.
    Library.--There is a circulating library in the parish, and a
reading-room attached to it.
    Friendly Society.--A friendly society was instituted in 1808 by
the influence of the late Mr. Nicol, minister of Traquar, and on
such sound principles, that its funds have been gradually increas-
ing.  There are 100 members.
    Poor and Parochial Fund.--The collections in the church ave-
rage about L. 21, 10s. a-year, and the assessment upon the heri-
tors and tenants amounts to about L. 80.  The number of poor
is 13, and the average allowance to each 2s. 2d. per week, besides
house rent to several of them, and L. 5 for medical advice. The
people have not now the same aversion as formerly to seek relief
from those funds.

<FOOTNOTE>The stipend was augmented in 1821; but unexpectedly not in the same ratio
as that of the minister of Traquair,--wbich was augmented about the same time.



