
592	                       FORFARSHIRE.

 			   II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
        Eminent Persons.-It would scarcely be proper to pass in si-
lence the name of Mr Robert Edward, who was Episcopal mi-
nister here in the reign of Charles II., though a high rank can-
not be claimed for him among men of eminence. He was a
man of merit, and well versed in classical literature. In the
year 1678, he published a succinct history of Angus, written
in pure and elegant Latin, in which we are presented with an
account of the leading families of the county, and a description of
various places of note within its precincts. In the descriptive part
of this curious and unique performance, he discovers great vivacity
of fancy, and a marked and amusing partiality to his native county,
which he praiser vith unsparing liberality.
        Land-owners.-The number of proprietors is five: Thomas Fre-
derick Scrymsoure Fothringham (a minor) of Powrie; John Guth-
rie, Esq. of Guthrie; Frederick Lewis Scrymgeour Wedderburn,
Esq. of Wedderburn and Birkbill; John Millar, Esq. of Bal-
lumbie; and George Ogilvy Ramsay (a minor) of Westhall.
        Parochial Registers.-The register of births and baptisms com-
mences in 1746 and that of marriages so late as 1808. The re-
cords of the kirk-session extend back to the 30th March 1698,
on which day Mr James Marr, the first Presbyterian minister af-
ter the Revolution, was inducted to the pastoral care of this parish.
They appear to be kept with tolerable distinctness and regularity.
The cases of discipline, it may be remarked, which were pretty nu-
merous in the earlier part of the last century, are set down with a
needless and offensive particularity. The morals of the people
in those days were not so pure and irreprehensible as some "lau-
datores temporis acti" are willing to believe.
	In the eventful year 1715, the leading heritor of the parish, as
appears from the records, made a bold and extravagant display of
attachment to the ill-starred House of Stuart, and predilection for
Prelacy. The parochial minister having refused, as was to be expect-
ed, publicly to pray for the Pretender, ar the legitimate sovereign of
these realms, and to recognize King George in his capacity of Elec-
tor of Hanover, only drew down upon himself the high displeasure of
this flaming Partizan, who resolved to make him feel the effects of
his resentment. He despatched, accordingly a body of armed men,
hy whom the refractory minister was excluded from his church, and
a clergyman of the Episcopal persuasion introduced into his pulpit,
                                   4


