
     of Fraserburgh.

   The only manufacture is linen yarn.  Dutch flax, to the
value of from L. 1500 to L. 2000, is annually imported for
that purpose.  The greatest part of the yarn is exported to o-
ther places, and wrought up there, which is a strong proof
of the cheapness of labour; a circumstance which affords the
best grounds to hope, that whatever new manufactures may
be introduced here, will have a very fair chance of succeed-
ing.

   Population.-Population has been increasing sensibly for
more than ten years past.  In 1780, there were about 2000
souls in the parish; at present the number amounts to about
2200.  Of which, about 1000 reside in the town, 200 in the
fishing village of Broadsea, and the rest in the country part of
the parish.  The return to Dr. Webster, in 1755, was 1682;
consequently there has been an increase since that period of 518
souls.  Since 1784, at an average, the baptism have annual-
ly been 37, the marriages 14, and the deatbs 19*.

     Vol. VI. B

<FOOTNOTE>

voided; and the proprietors of these mosses would thereby acquire a market
for an article, at present of little value, and even cumbersome to their pro-
perties.  This is also probably the case in other paris of Scotland.

*Antiquities.-In the parish are the ruins of two chapels; one, proba-
bly, a seminary of learning of considerable repute, as it is called the college;
at which some monks, belong to the abbey of Deer, resided.  Near this
is a well, where the superstitious practice of leaving some tristle, after drink-
ing of its waters, full exists.-In the west end of the town of Fraserburgh
is an old guadrangular tower of three stories, a small part of a large build.
ing, intended for a college, by Sir Alexander Fraser, who, in 1592, obtained
a charter from the crown, in which, powers were given to erect and endow
a college and university, to appoint a rector, a principal, a subprincipal, and
all the prosessors for teaching the different sciences they should think proper and
necessary; to make laws for the preservation of good order, and to enforce them.
Every immunity and priviledge of an university is granted, as the charter runs,


