
110                      CAITHNESS-SHIRE.

when required; but only the elementary branches in those unen-
dowed; and many of the latter, being in remote districts, where the
people are very poor, are kept open during only six months of the
year, viz. winter and spring.  In all the schools the Scriptures
are read daily, and the catechisms taught.  The salary of the pa-
rish, teacher is the maximum, and the fees may amount to from
L. 20 to L. 30 a year.  That of the Society teachers is from L. 20
to L. 25 each, and their fees from L.8 to L.1O.  The unendowed
teachers are by far the worst paid; their emoluments may average
from L. 3 to L. 4, including fees, though usually they have their
victuals in addition.  From the smallness of their emoluments it will
readily be conceived that the acquirements of these teachers can-
not be great.  They are selected from the most talented and pro-
mising of the scholars in attendance at the parish school, where
they are again to be found in attendance how soon their own schools
close in the beginning of summer. Here they spend the sum-
mer and harvest in revising their former studies, and adding as
much as possible to their stock of already acquired knowledge.
By these means they return with fresh vigour and increased re-
sources to their former stations in winter.   Thus they continue to
advance  in the higher branches of education, until qualified for the
Society  or even parochial schools. But to these schools again,
the different districts look  for other young men to supply their
places, so that the district schools are a kind of nurseries for the
more advanced seminaries, which in their turn liberally repay the
debt they have incurred.   There have been five of these district
teachers prosecuting their studies most creditably at the university
for several years back.
   It is proper to notice that there is another parochial school
being built at Dunbeath, in connection with the Government parish
of Berriedale.  Mr Sinclair of Freswick, at the recommendation
of his curators, has, in the handsomest manner, agreed to
bear the whole expense of furnishing the necessary accommodations.
These will at least cost L.300 ; they are upon a scale more
than ordinarily liberal and will be finished this season.  The benefits
to result from such an establishment in that quarter, it is
difficult to calculate, and the example of Mr Sinclair and his liberal
minded curators cannot be too highly recommended. From
the exertions made in furnishing the means of education, there
are few  of the young who cannot read; the grester number also
learn to write; but a among those who are far advanced in life,


