
82      			DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

forthwith. The parishes continued disunited until the year 1697,
when Dalgarno was again annexed to Closeburn.
   Accounts of the Parish.--There is a history in manuscript of
each parish in the presbytery of Penpont, drawn up, above a cen-
tury ago, by a Mr Rae, minister of Kirkconnel. He has unfor-
tunately done little more than commence that of Closeburn.
   Eminent Men, &c.--Among the literati to whom this parish has
given birth is the venerable Dr Hunter of St Andrew's, unques-
tionably the first philologist of the age.
   Few parishes in proportion to their population have furnished
a larger number of successful candidates for the ministry, there
being at present no less than nine parochial clergymen of our na-
tional church to whom this parish has given birth.
   Land-owners.--The chief land-owner is Mr Stuart Menteath,
the male representative of the ancient Earls of Menteath. The
estate of Closeburn after having been for several centuries in the
possession of the family of Kirkpatrick, * well known in history,
was purchased by the present family, at the termination of the
American war, when agricultural improvements may be said to have
commenced in this part of the country.
   Parochial Registers.--The date of the earliest entry of the pa-
rochial registers is, 1726. From 1754 to 1777, there appears to
have been no register at all. This omission has been in some
measure supplied by a register of baptisms, from 1765 to 1776,
kept by an individual who was church officer, during that period,
for his own use. This little volume is now in the possession of the
kirk-session, and in some important cases has furnished the infor-
mation required. At present, the parochial registers are regular-
ly kept. There is also an obituary, with a corresponding register
of every disease that proves fatal.
   Antiquities.--Closeburn Castle is a vaulted quadrilateral tower
about 50 feet high, 331/2 long, and 451/2 broad. There is a ground
floor, the walls of which are 12 feet thick, and three series of apart-
ments, all separated from each other by arched roofs. An arched
roof crowns the whole. As it bears no date or inscription, its age
cannot be correctly ascertained. From the plan of the building,
and the style of the mouldings of the doors, it cannot be less than
800 years old. It is at present occupied by Mr Menteath's land-
steward, and is a very comfortable residence.--A few years ago

 <FOOTNOTE>For an account of this ancient family, see parish of Keir.


