
210                          ARGYLESHIRE.

and complaints. It must be confessed, that a tendency towards
intemperance is still pretty apparent,-the consequence of the
Ad custom of smuggling and illegal distillation: yet it may be
added, that a great change in this respect has already taken places,
and that there is not, moderately speaking, one-fourth of the quan-
tity of spirituous liquors now used, which was formerly consumed
among them.  I cannot affirm that they are very exemplary in
the performance of their religious duties, or punctual in their at-
tendance on divine ordinances.  Some apology, no doubt, may be
found for many of them.  The parish church is inconveniently
situated, and distant from great numbers.  Scantiness of clothing
also deters many from attending public worship.
   On solemn occasions, such as a communion Sabbath, nothing can
exceed the propriety and decorum with which they invariably con-
duct themselves.  They are extremely civil and obliging in their
language and manners, very tractable and easily managed, kind
and hospitable to strangers, and uncommonly humane and charita-
ble to the poor.

                            IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.-Though Tiree has been a good deal noted as an
agricultural island, and though a considerable quantity of produce
is annually raised and exported, yet the crops in general are light
and of inferior quality, the bear seldom exceeding 45 pounds
weight per bushel.  Several circumstances, some of which admit
of remedy, contribute to this result.  The greater part of the soil
is light and sandy, and scarcely capable of carrying a heavy crop.
Sea-weed is chiefly used in its simple state, which is not con-
sidered a good manure, and though it may stimulate the ground
to produce a crop, by laying it on in abundance, it is not thought
to enrich or impart much substance to the soil.  The possessions
in many cases are so small, * that nothing like a regular rotation
can be observed, and the same spot is necessarily kept in con-
stant tillage till it is quite out of heart, and becomes unpro-
ductive.  The seed of all kind is sown much thicker than is
common elsewhere, nor is it changed sufficiently often to
prevent its degenerating.  The sowing season is late, es-
pecially of barley, which is not finished till the middle of June.
The wetness of the ground may indeed be an apology to many
for adopting the practice of late sowing, but it is not the univer-
sal cause.  It is likely that, in consequence of this, the crops

<FOOTNOTE>There are several crofts paying only L. 1 rent, and at least one under that sum
                                 4


