
2			AYRSHIRE.

south-west, in the somewhat bolder and higher range of Brown Car-
rick, which projects into the sea in two or three precipitous rocky
capes called the Heads of Ayr. In hardly any part of this ascend-
ing boundary, is the swell so abrupt as to render the soil inca
pable of cultivation, and every part of it is under tillage, with the
exception of what is occupied by plantations, and some small
patches on the brow of Carrick hill, which are better suited for
pasture. The valley which is thus surrounded consists of the pa-
rishes of Ayr, Monkton, and St Quivox, together with a small
part of the parish of Maybole, and forms a district of country,
which, for richnesr of soil and cultivation, and finely wooded and
diversified scenery, is hardly equalled by any other in the country.
The river Ayr runs through nearly the middle of this beautiful
strath, and its banks for several miles are very picturesque and
finely variegated and adorned by the plantations and pleasure-
grounds of Craigie and Auchencruive. Scarcely any part of it
is barren, except a small extent of sand hillocks, in the neigh-
bourhood of Prestwick, and it too is fast disappearing in the pro-
gress of improvement. Not many years ago, the Glasgow road,
for upwards of three miles in the vicinity of Ayr, ran on both sides,
through accumulated wreaths of barren sand, which gave the tra-
veller a very unfavourable impression of the approach to the county
town. Now, however, nearly all this has vanished from the sight,
and the eye is gratified with small well-cultivated enclosures, neat
cottages an gardens, and handsome villas with ornamented ave-
nues and shrubberies.
	Boundaries.--Of this valley which has now been described, the
parish of Ayr forms a conspicuous portion, to the extent of more
than one-third part of its surface. It is bounded on the north by
the Water of Ayr, which divides it from St Quivox; on the east by
Coylton; on the south by Dalrymple; on the south-west by the
river Doon, and on the west by the sea. It extends betwixt 5 and
6 miles on its south-eastern boundary, about 3 1/2 miles along the
river Ayr to the north, four miles along the Doon to the south,
having two miles of sea coast on the west, and about 4 1/2 miles of
extent from the town to its most distant limit. It consists of the
united parishes of Ayr and Alloway, which are nearly equal in
point of extent of surface, a small rivulet called Glengow burn
forming the boundary betwixt them. They were united about
the end of the seventeenth century, and both are put on the same


