
                             AYTON.                          143

get rid of the old houses at the upper end of the village, which
trenched close upon the mansion-house. It has also led to the
formation of an almost entirely new village, distinguished alike by
the superiority, regularity, and general cleanliness of the new dwell-
ings. Nor is it unlikely that it will eventually lead to the reduction
of the number of paupers, many of whom occupied the old hovels
which have been recently pulled down, and some of whom still linger
in those which remain. A few handsome villas have lately been,
and more are likely to be, erected in the extremities of the village.
These already seem to have the effect of drawing respectable in-
habitants to the place. As a useful substitute for the fairs, a
monthly cattle market has very recently been established in Ayton,
and is likely to succeed remarkably well,-this being a good central
tuation for the purpose.
   Means of Communication.-The means of communication are
here ample. There is a post-office in Ayton, and a daily post. The
London road, always in the highest state of repair, passes through
the village, the centre of the parish; and another road, not inferior
in quality, leads from Eye mouth to Ayton, and into the interior of
the county,-each bisecting the parish nearly at right angles to the
other. On the former road two London coaches ply daily, viz. the
Mail and the Union, each with four horses,-and another with two
horses, also daily, betwixt Edinburgh and Newcastle. There are
four good stone bridges, one within, and the other three leading
into the parish. The first is at Ayton over the Eye, upon the
London road, handsomely ornamented with embrasures. The next
is near Eyemouth, over the same stream. The other two cross the
Ale Water, one near the junction of the two streams, leading to
Eyemouth, and the other on the road leading from Ayton to Cold-
ingham. A ruinous bridge over the Eye, (which formed part of a
very old road to London, and in the use of which as a kirk road,
the parishioners every Sabbath day ran the risk of losing their
lives,) fell down a few years ago, fortunately without doing hurt.
   A boat-harbour has been erected lately at Burnmouth, strong
enough to resist the heavy seas of the German ocean. The ex-
pense of erection was L. 1600, three-fourths of which were supplied
by the commissioners for the fisheries, and the other fourth was
contributed by the fishermen and others. It seems to afford good
security to the boats; but the fishermen are of opinion, that an
additional land pier also is necessary to complete the security, by
contracting the mouth of the harbour, and breaking the swell of
the sea.


