
                 DALKEITH.                497

the finely wooded banks of the North Esk, and commands a beau-
tiful and extensive prospect to the west and north.
     The town of Dalkeith stands upon the peninsular ridge which
slopes abruptly on the north side, and more the side of the town are
to the respective waters.  The banks on the side of the town are
adorned with gardens, plentifully stocked with fruit-trees; and on
the opposite sides are clothed with the loftier woods in the plea-
sure-grounds of Dalkeith Palace, Woodburn, and Newbattle Ab-
bey.   Nothing can be more beautiful than the scenery with which
the town is encompassed.  In the fine summer evenings, the luxu-
riant foliage of the woods,--the varied hues and fragrance of
flowers,--and the rich notes of the blackbird and the thrush con-
spire to invest these lovely banks with the most attractive charms.
    The pleasure-grounds *\f connected with the palace of His Grace
the Duke of Buccleuch comprise in all a space of 1035 imperial
acres, and extend into the parishes of Newton and Inveresk.  That
part of them especially which belongs to the parish of Dalkeith
possesses much natural beauty.  The rivers on entering the park,
pursue a winding course under the dark foliage that overhangs
their banks, presenting at every turn diversified scenery of the
richest beauty, till they unite their waters at the distance of about
three miles above their influx into the sea.  The banks of the
rivers, as well as the rest of the park. are tastefully laid out in
walks, carriage-ways, shrubberies, and plantations.  The ouk fo-
rest. with its venerable moss-covered trunks and guarled branches,
--numerous herds of deer ranging the woods, or grazing on the
open ground at some distance from the palace,--the cawing of
clouds of rooks that have for ages appriated the oakwood for
their residence,--and the solitary heron from the adjacent heron-
ry, watching in the stream for its prey, or spreading its ample
wings on the slightest disturbance,--all tend to heighten the ro-

     <FOOTNOTE> That the pleasure grounds of Dalkeith Palace were formerly an object of admi-
rations, might be shown from the journals of Defoe, Pennant, and others who visited
them.  We shall subjoin an extract from a poem published in 175, and antitled
"Dalkeith, a Poem, occasioned by a view of that delightful Palace and Park, the
seat of His Grace the Duke of Buecleuch," &c. By a Scotch Gentleman.  London,
1792.--The poem contains about five golio pages.
After the procemlum, it goes on as follows:
     Classped in the folds of two embracing floods,
     Compassed with gentle hills and rising woods,
     On a green bank the beauteous palace stands,
     And the subjected streams with pride commands.
     What though no lofty domes project in air.
     Or lengthened colonnades with pride appear:
     Yet is the whole in single state designed--
     Plain and majestic, like its Monmouth's mind, &c. &c.
  EDINBURGH.             iI


