
14                        FORFARSHIRE.

at the school of Dundee, and in this situation to have begun his
exploits by putting to death the son of the English governor.
	Among men of science and literature, Dundee can boast of
John Marr, who received particular attention from James VII.,
and who went with him to England as one of the royal household,
and to whose grandson we owe a chart and soundings of the North
Sea, remarkable for its accuracy, though made more than a hun-
dred years ago. Dundee produced the well-known Hector Boece,
the historian, who was principal of King's College in Aberdeen, and
one of the restorers of learning in his time; Dr Kinloch, physician
to James VI; Mr James Glegg, who resigned his professorship in
St Andrews College for the rectorship of the grammar-school of
Dundee; and also Mr Goldman, a merchant. Some Latin poems
of the three last-mentioned persons are still extant," and which,"
Dr Small says, "for taste as poems, and for elegance as Latin
composition, are inferior to no modern production."
	One of the most eminent citizens of Dundee during the last cdn-
tury was its provost, George Yeaman of Murie, who represented
the burgh in the last Scottish Parliament, and who sat as repre-
sentative for the district of burghs in the first British Parliament,
and who rendered this town and county Singular services, in re-
sisting and defeating some attempts in the way of taxation on
hides, barley, and coal.
	Nor must we omit in this account Dr Blair, an eminent
physician in Dundee. A memoir which he drew up concerning
the dissection of an elephant is to be found in the London Phi-
losophical Transactions.
The Rev. John Willison, an able and zealous minister of
the Gospel, whose fame has been long spread throughout the
kingdom by his religious writings, and, in particular, by his "Mo-
ther's Catechism," was an inhabitant and minister of Dundee.
	Among eminent natives of modern date, is to be noticed George
Dempster, Esq. of Dunnichen, a gentleman who represented
this district in Parliament for many years, and whose patriotic
character was such to have obtained for him the appella-
tion of Honest George Dempster. It was he who first suggest-
ed the plan of sending fresh salmon to the London market pack-
ed in boxes filled with ice, instead of being pickled as formerly,
--an invention which has been the means of raising this fishing
to a lucrative trade.
	The late Admiral Duncan was born in Dundee: he distin-


