
                     FORTINGAL.                            547

freshment to his men; when M'Gregor, in the true spirit of an-
cient hospitality, sent his servant with a fat cow, which pleased the
Chief of Appin so well, that he desired an interview with M'Gre-
gor; and proposed that he should accompany him next day, and that,
should they be able to extirpate or banish Clann Jain Blauidhe
from Rannoch, he should have all their lands to himself. This
proposal was readily accepted; and next day L'Gregor with
his servants marched along, with the Stewarts. On the farm of
Dunan, near the side of the river Gamhair, they were met by the
Clann Jain Bhuidhe in full muster to receive them. In the battle
which ensued, most of the Clann Jain Bhuidhe were slain, the rest
were hemmed in by thd victors, and obliged to swim the river;
and the few that escaped fled to other districts. A small rill, call-
ed by old people Caochan-na-Fola (the rill of blood), points
out, to this day, the place where the action was fought. The chief
of Appin, having now had his full revenge, quickly retraced his
steps to Argyleshire, after bidding adieu to his new ally, and wish-
ing him joy of his newly acquired possessions. M'Gregor had
now as much land as is chieftain of Roro; and the family of
Dunan for many generations was among the most respectable of
the clan Gregor in these districts.
   Many other battles might be mentioned, such as that of Lag-
gan-a-chatha, fought betwixt the Stewarts of Garth and the M'Ivors
of Glenlyon; that of Glen-Sassun,-fought betwixt King Robert
the Bruce and Edward's adherents;-of which a short notice was
given in the former Statistical Account.
   A long and severe feud existed betwixt the clan Cameron and the
Macintoshes, -whereof this parish was occasionally the scene, and
which continued, it is said, for 350 years; during which, many acts
of cruel retaliation took place, until the latter submitted to Sir
Evan Cameron in the seventeenth century. *
   Remarkable and Extraordinary Leaps.-These are,-1st, Don-
nacha Reamhar's leap over the river Erochd, when he was pur-
sued by the M'Dougals, as alreadx related. The river is confined
by the opposite rugged rock into a breadth of about 16 feet, where
the torrent rushes through with irresistible fury; and this chasm
the hero is said to have cleared at one spring,-the bank of the
stream at that place being so steep and uneven that it could not

<FOOTNOTE>Details of these feuds are given in the MS.


