
                        ALVIE.                                   87

property in this parish, commonly called Davochs of the Head, are a
part of the compensation given for the head of William the 15th
laird of Mackintosh, who was beheaded by order of the Earl of
Huntly in the year 1550, when he was paying a friendly visit at
Huntly Castle. The lands of Belleville, purchased by the tradsla-
tor of Ossian, were formerly the property of Ned Mackfntosh of
Borlam, the leader of an infamous gang of robber,,;, who was ap-
rehended, but fled from justice upwards of sixty years ago. The
properties of Itivereshie and Belleville were held in feu of the Duke
of Gordon, till a few years ago, when the superiority was purchased
from the late Duke.
   Parochial Register.-The oldest parochial register of this pa-
rish commences in the year 1713, has been very irregularly kept,
and throws little or no light on the civil history of the parish. Du-
riiio, the periods in which it was kept with tolerable regularity, it
is filled up with disagreeable narratives of sexual immoralities and
public exhibitions of feigned repentance on the cutty-stool.
   Antiquities.-Contiguous to the barrows or tumuli mentioned
in the former Statistical Account, there is an extensive plain on
which a bloody battle is said to have been fought; but with respect
to the cause of the battle, the time when it was fought, the clan
or clans of which the conflicting armies were composed, and the
leaders that commanded them, tradition is silent.
   At Delfour, about a mile west from the church of Alvie, are to
be seen the remains of a Druidical cairn, inclosed by a circle of large
stones closely set up on end, 55 feet in diameter. Within this
circle, and concentric to it, is another circle, similarly inclosed, with
stones less in size, 25 feet in diameter. At the distance of 25
feet west from the cairn stands an obelisk, 8 feet 6 inches high,
5 feet broad at the bottom, and 15 inches thick, diminishing gra-
dually in breadth from the bottom, till it terminates at the top in
6 inches. Whether this obelisk had any connection with the ido-
latry practised at the cairn contiguous to it, or whether it was
placed to mark the grave of some distinguished personage, is not
known., Such, however, is the veneration in Which these relics of an-
tiquity are held even at the present day, that although both the
cairn and the obelisk stand in the middle of an arable field, and oc-
casion a considerable inte"uptioii to the operation of the plough,
no attempt has been hitherto made to remove the one or the other. *

<FOOTNOTE>Within a clump of-larch trees, planted about halt a mile southwest frorn the
house of Belleville, and contiguous to the public road, a beautiful marble obelisk


