
                            DRUMBLADE.                        305

ners; and their charity, not always discriminating in regard to wan-
dering poor, seems to be dictated pretty much by a simple feeling
of humanity.  Though not inferior, it is believed, to the other
districts around, the standard of religion and morality cannot be
rated very high.  Impurity and intemperance, though both, it is
hoped, are on the decline, are still not unfrequently to be met with.
In the class of farm-servants, the former vice particularly has
been very prevailing.  The ordinances of religion, and the services
of the sanctuary, are generally well attended, as also those of a
more private or local kind, on week-days.
   The practice of advertiring sales, &c. by proclamation at the
church-doors, after divine service, is now abolished, as also all
fines or penalties formerly levied by the session in cases of disci-
pline,-this being left to the civil magistrate.

                      IV.-INDUSTRY.
   The inhabitants of this parish, with very few exceptions, are
employed in agriculture, as farmers, crofters, labourers, or farm-
servants.  The only considerable works of a public kind carried
on in the parish are a distillery, bleachfield, and two potato-flour
manufactories.  At the distillery there are 13 persons employed,
and there are annually sent from it upwards of 40,000 gallons of
superior spirit, made from malt only, and thus yielding to Govern-
metit about L.10,000 a-year. in duty.  There are also two meal-
mills, a barley-mill, a lint-mill, and two wool-mills in the parish.
Mills had at one period been more numerous, as the names of se-
veral farms still denote where no mills now exist.
    Of handicraftsmen, &c. there are only 2 masons, 1 square-
wright, 1 cooper, 1 weaver, no tailor, 5 shoemakers, (including 3
workmen,) 3 blacksmiths, (including 1 workman,) 1 baker, 4 mer-
chants or shop-keepers, one of whom retails spirits; 4 publicans
and 1 maltster.  There are thus not more than from 60 to 80
individuals, reckoning both parents and children, that are not
either directly employed in agriculture, or have their depend-
ence chiefly upon it-and of those even here set down as ar-
tisans, many of these cultivate a small croft besides attendiag to
their other business.
   Agriculture and Rural Economy.-The superficial extent of
the Parish may be estimated at 6400 acres (Scots,) 5000 of which
are arable, 1000 unimproved, and about 400 under plantation,
consisting for the most part of larch and Scotch fir, with occa-
sionally an intermixture of spruce and beech.  Of the unimpowered
   ABERDEEN.                               U


