
                              ELLON.                         921

pants of farms under L.50 of yearly rent, even although such oc-
cupants should not be contributors to the funds.  The Formartine
Society is, on the whole, perhaps the most thriving agricultural
Association in Aberdeenshire; and the benefits resulting from it,
particularly in bringing improvements in the department of breed-
ing within the reach of all classes of the agricultural communi-
ty, are universally felt and acknowledged.  It has tended, in
no mean degree, to impress on the whole stock reared in this dis-
trict that highly improved character, which, by the most compe-
tent judges, it is now admitted to possess.  The efficacy of the
Association has of late years been increased by the liberal patron-
age of the Highland and Agricultural Society, part of whose
funds have been applied in placing at the disposal of the asso-
ciation additional premiums.  In proof of the improvements ef-
fected on the breed of the district by the Formartine Agricul-
tural Association, it ought to be stated, that, among many other
premiums awarded to parties connected with this body by the
Highland and Agricultural Society, at their general exhibition of
stock, held at Aberdebn in October 1840, one of the members,
Mr Hay of Shethin, had adjudged to him the premium for the
best ox of any breed.  The same individual, it ought farther to be
observed, was a successful competitor also at the last show of stock
held at Smithfield.

                   V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
  Markets, Means of Communication, &c.-There is no regular
market for provisions held in the village of Ellon, but, as we have
generally one or two resident fleshers, fresh butcher-meat can be
procured at all seasons, at least once a week.  Fish also is abun-
dantly supplied from the neighbouring villages of Collieston and
Newburgh, the female part of the fishing population carrying them
almost daily into all parts of the adjacent country.  The other
articles usually furnished by a provision market are seldom in de-
mand, as most of the Ellon feuars either occupy as much land as
enables them to keep a cow and some poultry, or obtain a ready
supply of butter, eggs, &c. from their nearest neighbours.  There
is a monthly market for black-cattle and grain, which, in the win-
ter season, particularly, is well attended, the Aberdeen butchers
drawing a considerable proportion of their supplies from this dis-
trict, and the sales of grain shipped at Newburgh being chiefly ef-
fected at Ellon.  In addition to the monthly markets, there are


