
192			AYRSHIRE.

trees cover the summits of many of them; and it were desirable
that these were more in number, both for shelter and ornament.
From this ridge towards the north-east, the ground declines some-
what, but still presents a considerable inequality of surface.
	Coast.--There is a sea coast of three miles, taking the direct
line from Saltcoats to Kilbride; but following the curvatures of the
shore, considerably above four miles. The general character of
the shore is flat. Between Saltcoats and Ardrossan there is a
beautiful sweeping bay, about three quarters of a mile in length,
with a fine sandy beach, which forms a favourite promenade to
strangers in the sea bathing season. At Ardrossan the shore be-
comes more irregular and rocky. Ridges of shelving rocks stretch
out to a considerable length on both sides of the Inch, an islet at
high water. Beyond Ardrossan on the north-west, there is an-
other bay of greater extent than the one on the south side. From
this to the junction of the parish with Kilbride, the coast presents
little indentations: the shore becomes more stony and uneven; oc-
casional ridges of rocks are visible at low water; and a few spe-
cimens of boulder-stones may be seen.
	Islands.--About a mile off the harbour of Ardrossan town
the north-west, there is a small islet, called the Horse Isle, which,
according to Pont, takes its name, not from horses being pastur-
ed in it, "bot from ye surname of Horsse of ye Philipe Horsse,
sone-in-law to Sr Richard Morwell, who, in old evidents, wes
stylled Phillipus de Horssey, Janitor Comitis Gallovidiae." It
contains about twelve acres of good pasture, with a tolerable sup-
ply of fresh-water. It lies very low, and there is a beacon-tower
erected upon it for the benefit of seamen, by the late Earl of
Eglinton. It is to be regretted that a light-house had not been
established instead of it. With a view to procure one, petitions
from all the towns on the coast were, some years ago, forwarded
to the Commissioners of Light-houses, but their prayer has not yet
been granted.
	Climate.--The climate is in general mild and pleasant, the
sea breeze moderating both the heat of summer and the cold of
winter. There is no disease which may be said to be peculiarly
prevalent in this parish. The dryness of the soil, the absence of
marshes, and the constant sea breeze, tend to render it very healthy.
Cholera, which was so fatal in the neighbouring towns of Steven-
ston, Dalry, and Kilbride in 1832, never appeared here. Typhus
and other epidemics occur occasionally, but they are always


