
246                     ROXBURGHSHIRE.

of Springwood-Park, Bart.; The Duke of Roxburghe; William
Ogilvie, Esq. of Chesters; Earl of Minto; Honourable J. E. El-
liot; Captain Brown of Park; John Sibbald, Esq. of Pinnacle;
Major Pringle, of Rawflat; The Marquis of Lothian; John Rich-
ardson, Esq. of Kirklands; John Purvis, Esq. of Whitehouse.

                       III--POPULATION.
     The total amount of the population in this parish is 1454, of
which about 550 are inhabitants of the village of Ancrum, and the
remainder scattered throughout the other districts.  The return
to Dr Webster in 1755 gave 1066; and at the date of the last Sta-
tistical Account, there were 1146 souls.  The increase of the po-
pulation since these periods is to be attributed to the gradual im-
provements in agriculttre, and the additional demand for farm-ser-
vants and labourers.

<TABLE>
Number of families in the parish,                  284
     chiefly employed in agriculture,              154
          in trade manufactures or handicrafts      61

     Character and Habits of the People, &c.--The people of this pa-
rish are in general well-behaved, industrious, and contented with
their situation and circumstances./F*  The cottages of the working-
classes are cleanly and comfortable, their food, though plain, is
sufficiently plentiful, and almost all of them have the means of
gratifying that laudable desire, so characteristic of the peasantry
of Scotland, of appearing at public worship on the Sabbath, re-
spectably attired.  But their several degrees of comfort vary, of
course; according to the number of their family, the rate of their
wages, and their habits of economy: and we have doubtless among
us many instances of indigent old age still exerting its remaining
strength in the praiseworthy pursuit of an independent though
scanty livelihood, or wholly subsisting on private and parochial
charity.
     There is no species of amusement to which the parishioners are
especially attached, with the exception of the game of "ball," which
is played only on one particular day of the year, in the month of
February, the young men of one district being pitched against
those of another.  Similar games are also held annually, and about
the same season, in some of the neighbouring parishes, and seem
to create a considerable interest amongst the young men of the
district.

<FOOTNOTE>*
      It must, however, be admitted, that this commendation cannot be applied to all,
---there being not a few whose character is not only unworthy of praise, but whose re-
probate conduct is much to be regretted, as well on their own account as on account
of the morals and reputation of the parish generally.
                                3


