
244                       INVERNESS-SHIRE.

processes of seasoning will be accelerated, and that the sap, or na-
tural juice, weeds, &c. will more speedily decay.
  Diseases.-The diseases to which the inhabitants are most liable,
and from which they suffer most, are of an inflammatory kind,
proceeding from their being continually exposed to damp and
cold. During the spring and part of the winter, they are daily
in the fields in all weathers, cultivating their patches of land;
consequently they are but seldom either dryly clad or shod. The
complaints most prevalent are, acute rheumatism, pleuritic dis-
orders, typhus fevers, pneumonia, asthma, * dyspepsia, erysipela-
tous affections, and a diseased action of the lymphatic system.
Small-pox, and other contagious diseases, at times make their ap-
pearance, being generally brought to the parish by the labourers
who frequent the towns and cities of the kingdom in quest of
employment. Vaccination has been partially introduced, and the
prejudice which the people had against it for a length of time, is gra-
dually vanishing. There is no medical practitioner nearer than
the village of Portree, upwards of twenty miles distant; and the
consequence is, that he is never sent for but in cases of extreme
danger. Three or four individuals lately died at the age of 100.
In the district of Steinscholl, a man died about twelve years ago,
named John Nicolson, or MacCormaic, at the very advanced age
of 105. There is one circumstance connected with this old man's
history worthy of notice, which is, that he could repeat the most
of Ossian's Fingal, Temora, &c. with great fluency and precision.
The writer of this heard him say that he committed these beau.
tiful poems to memory, from hearing them repeated, when a boy,
by his grandfather. If this fact be not sufficient to establish the
authenticity of these unparalleled poems, it must surely establish the
truth, that they existed before the time of Macpherson, who attempt.
ed to translate them into the English language. The silly allegation
by some, that Ossian's poems were Macpherson's own production,
is palpably confuted by MacCormaic and others, who could repeat
them before Macpherson was born. But should that not have
been the case, and should none have been found who could re-
hearse them before Macpherson's time, the allegation, that they
were either by Macpherson, or by any other in the age in which
he lived, appears ridiculous in the sight of such as know the con-
struction and beautyof the Celtic language.
  Hydrography.-Kilmuir, as has been already stated, is bounded
on the one side by the channel called. the Minsh, and on the


