
     of Ferry-Port-on-Craig.

side of the river, where the passage boats might ship passengers
or horses, it was the custom to boat horses at the point of a
craig, or rock, whence the name Ferry-Port-on-Craig.

   Ferry.-Before the bridge was built over the Toy at Perth,
this passage was much frequented by persons of all ranks;
but since that period, fewer people travel this way, and the
road has become almost deserted.  The drovers, however, still
frequently pass here, having good conveniency for their cat-
tle on both sides of the river.  It is, indeed, esteemed one
of the safest passages over the Tay, there being no instance
(in the memory of the oldest man alive), of a passage boat
being cast away crossing from the village of Ferry-Port-on-
Craig to Bruchty Castle; though the river at this passage
is reckoned two miles broad.  The present freight for a man
is 2 d.; and for a horse 4 d., when they go in the birth boat*.
It was often found so inconvenient and dangerous to boat
horses from a ragged craig, that the Legislature interposed
their authority, ordaining the ferriers to make Brigges to their
boats, (by which is meant a kind of timber platform, to be
laid from the most proper part of the craig, to the gunwale of
the boat), for shipping horses with more ease and safety.
These briggs were always used at this passage, till some time
ago, that piers were built for the convenience of passengers,
and security of horses; but the brigges are still kept, and
used occasionally at times, when high winds and tides oblige

     VOL. VIII.   3 M

<FOOTNOTE>

*There is an act of the 7th parliament of King James III. held at Edin-
burgh, May 9th 1474, regulating other passages, and extended to this in these
words:  "And at the Part-in-Craige, ane penny for the man, and the horse ane
"penny:  And quhat ferriers that dois in the contrarie, fall pay fourty shillings
"to the King, and his person prisoned at the will of the King:  And that the
"ferriers make brigges to their boates, after the forme of the acts maid of be-
"fore, under the paine conteined in the samin."


