
                    SANDSTING AND AITHSTING.                    127

     The native breed of sheep in several places are beginning to
be crossed with black and white-faced rams. Where the pasture
is sound, either of the crosses answers very well, as both mutton
and wool are improved in quantity; but, wherever the pasture is
deep and wet, they are invariably found not to be so hardy, or to
thrive so well as the original breed. Such of the lambs as are
strong, whether of the native or crossed breed, are allowed to fol-
low the ewes during the winter; but those that are not considered
strong enough to stand the winter out, are taken into the house
and fed till about Whitsunday, when they are again driven to the
hill. Some build small houses for the purpose of keeping their
lambs in during the night, and in which theY feed them, night and
morning, with hay or cabbage, and occasionally with a few coarse
seeds and cut potatoes; but the more general practice is to keep
them around the fire in the dwelling-house. No shelter is pro-
vided for the sheep to which they might resort when inclement
weather sets in; and no provision is made for their support, when
snow and frost prevent them from obtaining their ordinary scanty
fare.
     When food is not to be obtained on the hills, instinct seems to
direct them to another quarter. I have seen them when the tide
began to ebb, hastening to the sea-shore, feeding upon the sea-
weed growing on the rock or cast upon the beach, and when it be-
gan to flow, returning to the hills again.
     An ewe for slaughter will sell for 4s. or 5s.; a wedder from 6s. to
8s.; a ram lamb for 1s. 6d. to 2s,; and a ewe lamb, of the mid-
dling size, from 2s. to 2s. 6d. The cross-breed sell considerably
higher, but their mutton is neither so delicate nor their wool so
soft. The wool is of various prices, from 6d. to 1s. 3d. per 1b. of
sixteen ounces. It is not shorn, as in other places, but torn from
the sheep's back by an operation called "rooing." For the most
part, two, and sometimes more persons pull the wool from the
poor animal at one time. Sometimes, this is done with little
trouble and as little pain; but at other times, it may be said to be
indeed a painful operation. *

<FOOTNOTE>It would appear, as Dr Edmonston, in his History of Zetland, remarks, that the
sheep-flocks must have been much greater,at an early period than they are now. In
a translation from the original Danish, in the Bibliotheca Topographica, Britannica,
Antiquarian Society, are these words "Observe, that in the year of our Lord 1328,
the 25h day of July, did Giafaldr Ivarson of Hialtland, pay to the Reverend Lord
Audfin, the Lord Bishop of Bergen, and Swein Sigurdson, Comptroller of the King's
household, the tenths due to the Pope, viz. 22 cwt. of wool, less than 16 Pounds, ac-
cording to the standard of Hialtland, being 36 span Hialtland weight of wool."


