
			      PERTH.                           16

cylindrical glass vesse, or a common tumbler, with cold water and
observe if the outside of it become dim with moisture; if a deposi-
tion take place very quickly, the water is too cold, and must be
allowed to stand for a few minutes to receive and increase of tem-
perature from the air, after which the experiment must be repeat-
ed, either with another tumbler, or with the one already use;
provided its surface be previously wiped with a dry cloth. When
the water is brought to a temperature barely sufficient to cause a
deposition of moisture on the external surface of the tumbler, that
temperature is the point of deposition, and may therefore be as-
certained by suspending a thermometer in the water. On the
other hand, if the temperature of the water is not low enough to
occasion a precipitation of moisture on the surface of the tumbler,
it must be reduced by artificial means, by ice for example, when
it. can be procured,) or by any of the ordinary frigorific mixtures
used for the purpose, till an incipient deposition of moisture is just
perceived. When due precaution is employed, the point of de-
position, may be ascertained by the method we have described,
(which was first proposed by Dr Dalton,) with greater accuracy,
than by means of the costly and troublesome instrument called
Daniell's hygrometer. Thus, suppose it had been found that a
deposition of moisture ceased to take place, when the temperature
of the water was 48&deg;, but that it was perceptible when it 47&deg;
the latter might be regarded as the point of deposition, and since
it lies between 32&deg; and 53&deg;, it would be found by an easy calcu,
lation, even from the scanty table we have given, that at 470&deg; air
in a maximum state of vaporization, ought to contain about 1.7
grains of moisture in 7320 cubic inches. Let it be farther sup-
posed that the temperature of the air at the time of the experi-
ment was 53&deg;, at which temperature the same volume of air could
hold in solution two grains of moisture and the relative humidity
would be expressed by 1-7\2 or .85, * complete dampness being de-
noted by unity.
   Having thus explained the means by which the absolute quan-
tity of moisture in a given volume of the air; its relative humidity
and the point of deposition, may all be easily determined, we shall
now proceed to give the results of observations, connected with the
mean hygrometric state of the air, for a period of three years, viz.
from, the beginning of the year 1818 to the end of 1820.

<FOOTNOTE>The most rigid calculation would give the relative humidity in the circumstan-
ces stated, at 824.
    PERTH.                                        B


