
			PARISH OF TORBOLTON.

		PRESBYTERY OF AYR, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.

		THE REV. DAVID RITCHIE, A. M., MINISTER.

		I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	Etymology.--TORBOLTON or Tarbolton, also in charters written
Thorbolton, the name both of the parish and village, appears de-
scriptive of the situation of the village, and of the use to which
the beautiful round hill, close to which the village is built, was
anciently applied. Tor means a round hill, on which Thor was
worshipped. It has also a more general signification, and denotes
any round hill, as is ordinarily the import of the word when ap-
plied to places in Britain. Tor or Thor of the Goths is the same
God, whose name receiving a different pronunciation from the
Celts, forms the first syllable of the names of many celebrated
persons and places, as Tar-quin, Tar-entum, Tar-tary. * Tor, or
more correctly Thor, is the Saxon, Tar, the Celtic pronuncia-
tion of a word descriptive of the most remarkable and beautiful
object in the neighbourhood, the hill mentioned by Burns in his
poem of Dr Hornbook--" I had gaen round about the hill."
Bol is the name of the god of the Druids. + Some super-
stitious rites, anciently observed in honour of this eastern god,
are annually performed on the hill. On the evening preceding
the Torbolton June fair, a piece of fuel is demanded at each
house, and is invariably given even by the poorest inhabitant.
The fuel so collected is carried to a particular part of the hill,
where there is an altar or circular fire-place of turf, about three

<FOOTNOTE>The Thor of the Celto Scythians of Germany was the Tar-anis of their neigh-
bours of the south. In the ancient language of the Scots, both the names of this
divinity are retained to this day. Macpherson's Dissertations, page 341. See also
Histoire de Dannemarc par Mallet, Tom. ii p. 88.
          The name of this Pagan divinity is pronounced in the Gaelic Bal, Bel, or Bol
indifferently. It is Bol on the ancient coin in the possession of the Earl of Morton,
of which an engraving is given in the Phil. Trans. Vol. ivii Part I. page 267. In
the Palmyrine Inscriptions it is Bol, sometimes Bl; and so becomes Bal, or Bol, or
Bol, according to the vowel which is supplied. See Swinton on the Palmyrine In-
scriptions, Phil. Trans. Vol. xiviii. Part II. page 736--and Dawk, Mar. Palmyren.


