
302                          STIRLINGSHIRE.

                      MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
  In 1755, the population of the parish seems to have been 755
souls. In 1792, 1381 souls; of this number there was in the vil-
lage 981. In 1793, the population was 1581; of those in the
village there were 1181. By the returns of 1831, the population
seems to have been in the whole parish, 2057; of these there were
in the village, about 1700.  By census of 1841, the population
is 1968. Since the publication of the last Statistical Account,
1793, our roads have been certainly improved, though much in
this way remains to be done. Since then, too, our means of in-
tercourse with other towns particularly with Glasgow, have in-
creased. In those days, there was no post; the nearest office
was Glasgow. There were no regular carriers for the convey-
ance of goods. When the first caravan for the conveyance of
goods and passengers, many years after this, was established
on the road, it constituted quite an era in the history of the vil-
lage. Now, tbe post arrives and departs daily, and we have
our London letters on the third day. Now, we have daily car-
riers for goods, and a neat light daily coach in summer for the
accommodation of travellers. And now, too, for the accommoda-
tion of all, there is a branch of the British Linen Company's
Bank amongst us, under the active agency of the Messrs Robert-
son. All these are, no doubt, changes to the better; but, with
all these, we cannot say that the village is in a state of thriving
prosperity, but the reverse. The Endrick does not, at all seasons,
even with the reservoir in Dundaff, afford constant and steady sup-
ply of water for the mill; and as we have at present to drive all our
coals from Kirkintulloch, a distance of seventeen or eighteen miles,
steam power is out of the question. The situation with all its beauty,
therefore, is ill adapted for a manufacturing village. The popu-
lation has increased since 1792, but not so, we fear, in comfort nor
in happiness, in an equal ratio. On the contrary, there is in it
very much misery arising from poverty and destitution; and if some
new impetus be not given, by some means or other, in a few more
years,

             "Far away, our children will bave left the land."

   June 1841.


