
     of Campbelton.

The perilous trade, which the people of the place pursue,
occasions yearly the loss of many lives; and, of course, a
number of poor widows and helpless orphans.  A charity
school, (supported by the Duke of Argyll, and the Society
for Propagating Christian Knowledge,) which, for many years,
contained above a hundred children, could never receive all
the objects.  Besides the poor left by the loss of lives, the
sailors who survive soon grow old; and then many of them
have no resource but begging.  Economy is not the virtue
of a sailor; and if it were, it would be hard to practise it, on
an income of 10 L or 12 L with the burden of a numerous
family.
   Unprofitable, however, as this business has been, especially
for some time past, it is certainly of great importance, when
viewed in the light of public and national utility.  What-
ever is gained from the sea is all clear profit; and the fish-
eries form a nursery for seamen, which, both as a commer-
cial and warlike nation, we ought to keep up.  Besides the
number furnished to the Clyde and Liverpool traders, it is
said, that, from this ports no less than 800 went to the navy,
during the course of the late American war.  Their encou-

<FOOTNOTE>

common people, keep their collections to themselves; and many
of the affluent and upper ranks, neither come often to church,
nor send their offerings.  The great family, to which more than
half the parish belongs, resides elsewhere, and joins to its other
virtues, an exemplary attendance on public worship there.  The
time has been when our residing heritors did so here, nor thought
it beneath them to act as elders, in looking after the concerns of
the poor.  But the present generation is more enlighted than
the former, and philosophy is making progress.  Those, however,
who have any thing valuable to preserve or to lose, even in the
present world, should inquire, whether a regard to religion and
its institutions be not their great palladium.  Neglect this, and
what must follow?-France will tell.  Behold this Pharos, and
be wise in time.


