
     of inverbervie or Bervie.

   Miscellaneous Observations.-By a map of the country,
it appears the parish contains exactly 1660 Scots acres, or
2339 English.  There once existed in Bervie a religious
establishment, of the order of White Friars, but nothing now
remains, nor has tradition handed down any thing concerning
them but the name.  Opposite to the town of Bervie, stands the
rock of Craig David, in the parish of Kinness; it is a conspi-
cuous land-mark for mariners, and is seen at the distance
of 15 leagues.  I mention it here, because it is generally
known by the name of Bervie Brow.  Bervie water is the
only river in the parish.  It rises in Glenbervie, (about 8
miles from the Sea), and meanders in a variety of beauti-
ful curves.  A view from the bridge of Barvie towards the
house of Allardice, about a mile up the river, affords an
agreeable and pleasant prospect, but not remarkably pictu-
resque.  By the projection of the rocks on each side of Ber-
vie bay, when an easterly from sets in, the sea rolls in moun-
tainous billows, and presents a picture truly sublime.  The
crashing of the waves on the shore is heard at the distance
of 10 or 12 miles.  The air is wholesome and salubrious,
perhaps more so than in several of the inland parishes; but
when the wind blows, from the east, it is exceedingly sharp,
and is the cause of many of the inhabitants being seized
with rheumatic complaints, which are every year becoming
more prevalent, and generally attack people in the spring
or autumn.  As a trait of the character of the people of
this parish, they are by no means addicted to litigation; are
too wise to give their money to lawyers, and neither plague
their heads with politics nor religious.  There may be one or
two Differenters in the parish, but they are not natives.  They
live tolerably contented with their situation, no wise enga-
ging in the political squabbles of the present day, perfectly
unacquainted with Thomas Paine or Edmund Burke.  Tra-
dition hands down a sanciful account of the name of Guth-


