
326                     DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

1684, he was created Duke of Queensberry, Marquis of Dum-
fries-shire, Earl of Drumlanrig and Sanquhar, Viscount of Nith,
Torthorwald, and Ross, Lord Douglas of Kinmount, Middlebie,
and Dornock. Duke William died at Edinburgh 1695.
	James, the Second Duke of Queensberry, married lady Mary
Boyle, daughter of the Earl of Burlington, by whom he had three
sons. He was honoured by Queen Anne to be her Majesty's High
Commissioner to the Parliament of Scotland, which agreed upon
the articles of Union with England, anno 1707; and by her he was
afterwards created Duke of Dover, Marquis of Beverly, and Baron
of Rippon. He died at London the 6th of July 1711.
	Charles, the third Duke of Queensberry and second of Dover,
(born at Edinburgh 1700,) married Lady Catherine Hyde, daughter
of Henry Earl of Rochester, by whom he had two sons and a daugh-
ter. Duke Charles died on the 22d October 1778, without any
issue surviving him, and was succeeded by William Earl of March,
who enjoyed his property and titles till his death in 1810, when
the Duke of Buccleuch succeeded as heir of line and entail.
	Family of Menzies of Enoch.--Among the ancient families in the
parish of Durisdeer, that of Menzies of Enock is considerable. The
barony of Enock lies on the east of Drumlanrig, betwixt Nith and
Carron; and the mansion-house stood on a point of the ground
betwixt a deep ravine and Carron. On the lintel of the gateway was
carved the year 1281. James Menzies of Enock was married to
Catherine Douglas, daughter of Colonel William Douglas, second
son of William Douglas, the first Earl of Queensberry. He dis-
poned to his eldest son James, who had then got a captain's com-
mission, the barony of Enock, with the reservation of his own and
his lady's liferent of some part of it; and his son Captain James
sold it to James Duke of Queensberry anno 1703, and bought the
estate of Stenhouse.
	Family of hunter of Balagan.--Anotber ancient family in this
parish was that of Hunter of Balagan, (who was also proprietor of
Drumcroul, and some s`y of Auchensel.) The house stood two
miles north-west from Drumlanrig, on the west side of the Maar-
burn. As to the antiquity of this family, it is reported, with what
truth I know not, that, when King Robert Bruce was lying with
the Scottish army near Glenwharne, and the English army at the
moat in Balagan Holm, a man named Hunter, carrying a trumpet,
and another, named M'Gachen, bearing a pair of colours, came
from the Scotch army to the head of the glen called Balagan;


