
                    LYNE AND MEGGET.                        173

money otherwise obtained, combined with the aid of the resident
farmers, who assisted in collecting materials for so useful an edifice.
   Mr Mitchelson, who was minister of Lyne above a century ago,
bequeathed to the parish a sum of L. 50 Sterling, the interest of
which was designed for the promotion of literary and religious
knowledge among the parishioners. This interest was given to
the schoolmaster before the establishment of a legal salary, and
has always been employed in accordance with the will of the be-
nevolent donor.
   The stipend is L. 149, 5s. 9d., with L. 4, 3s. 4d. for communion
elements. The glebe is about fifteen Scotch acres, but in a con-
siderable part of it the soil is inferior, and it was augmented to its
present extent in the time of the preceding incumbent, who re-
ceived an increase of glebe in exchange for a servitude or right of
pasturage on the lands of Lyne.
   There are 18 families that attend the Established church, and 8 that
are connected with dissenters. Of the latter, 2 are adherents of the
Cameronians; 2 of the Seceders; and 4 of the Relief body. Both the
members of the Established church, and those who belong to other
denominations, show a becoming regard to public worship and reli-
gious instruction. The dissenters have no place of meeting in the
parish, and almost the half of them are so extremely distant from
congregations with which they are connected, that they have very
few opportunities of hearing preachers of their own persuasion.
About 50 communicate in the parish, and some who are prevent-
ed by requisite attention to flocks and houses, attend in the neigh-
bouring parishes at their sacramental occasions.
   The people take an interest in the diffusion of religious know-
ledge, and in the removal or alleviation of human suffering; but
as the parish is extremely small, and as the one-half of it is at a
considerable distance from the other, it is customary for individuals
to co-operate with the societies which exist in the more populous
parishes that are contiguous to them.
   Education.-There are two schools in the parish,-one at Lyne,
and another at Megget. The parochial school is at Lyne. The
salary is the minimum,-L. 25, 13s. 3 1/2d. The school fees are,
for English reading, 2s.; for reading and writing, 2s. 6d. : and for
reading, writing, and arithmetic, 3s. 6d. per quarter. They may
amount to upwards of L. 12 annually; and the teacher's other emo-
luments may amount to L. 2, 10s. a-year. Reading and spelling,
English grammar, writing, and arithmetic, are taught. The Bible
is used. The national catechism, psalms, and paraphrases, are


