
	100   			ELGINSHIRE.

	mill, almost close to Elgin, and upwards of two miles from Quarry-
	wood, they find it much more convenient to attend the churches in
	Elgin.  In good weather, however, a good many from Bishopmill
	attend the parish church.  For eight months past, a sermon has
	been preached monthly in Bushopmill, on Sabbath evening, in the
	school rooms, chiefly for aged and infirm, some of whom are un-
	able even to attned the churches in Elgin.-The glebe, including the
	garden, consists of about 6 acres, inclosed with stone dikes; and
	its annual value may be about L.14.  By a private agreement
  	with the heritors, the present minister receives L.8 yearly, during
	his incumbency, in lieu of a grass glebe.  The amount of the sti-
	pend is 91 bolls of meal, 91 of barley, and L.3 of money.
	The 91 bolls of meal, deducting one-ninth part for difference of
	weight, are equivalent to cwt. 113.7499.  The 91 bolls barley,
	deducting one twenty-first part for difference of measure, are equi-
	valent to quarters 66.2907.
   	   There is no Dissenting or Seceding chapel in the parish; but
 	about 36 persons, chiefly inhabitants of Bishopmill, are Dissenters,
	and 10 of them Episcopalians.  There are Roman Catholics in
	the  parish.  Divine service at the Established Church is generally
	well attended, and the average number of communicants is about
	100.
	There are three Sabbath evening schools in the parish, and an
	annual collection is made in the church for defraying the expense
	of them.
	   Education.-There are two schools in the parish, viz, the pa-
	rochial school at Quarrywood, and an unendowed school in Bishop-
	mill.  The branches of instruction generally taught in each are,
	reading, writing, arithmetic, English grammar, book-keeping, and
	Latin.  The parochial schoolmaster's salary is the maximum, viz.
	L.34, 4s.  The amount of the school fees is about L.16, 8s.
	The schoolmaster has merely the legal accommodation.  The ge-
	neral expense of education per annum for English reading is 6.,
	for reading and writing, 8s., for reading, writing, and arithmetic,
	10s., and for the traditional braches of English grammar and La-
        tin, 12s.  With very few exceptions, the people are alive to the be-
	nefits of education, and there are scarcely any individuals upwards
	of twelve years of age  who cannot read and write.  There are two
	female schools, one at Quarrywood, and one in Bishopmill.  In
	these are taught reading, sewing, and knitting.  They are justly
 	considered valuable institutions.

					   3


