
                         BOHARM.                           373

advantage is very considerable. Within these few years, a farmer
from Aberdeenshire has introduced the practice now followed by
some others, of growing turnip seeds on a large scale; the turnips
are transplanted into the field for green crop; this practice is
troublesome and expensive, but is said to pay well. Oats are un.
questionably the staple gmin. They are raised of excellent quality,
while the barley and the small produce of wheat are generally
inferior. The value of the oat-straw, too, for fodder, where so
much depends upon cattle, is so much more, as to be held to
compensate even for the present inferiority of the price of the
grain. They are driven in large quantities to the various harbours
on the coast, about ten or twelve miles distant from the
centre of the parish, for exportation to London and Leitb, and a
considerable quantity is sent to the Elgin district for meal. The
little quantity of wheat is sold at Elgin, and barley finds a ready
market at the various distilleries, of which there are four in the
neighbourhood of Craigellachie, and two at Keith.
   Lime brought from the large calcining establishments in the
parishes of Keith and Mortlach, or calcined from the lime rock
within the parish, is abundantly applied as manure, and is considered
essential to successful husbandry.  On the old arable ground,
known to have been limed before, a fresh dose, of about thirty
provincial bolls of shells, equal to ninety-six bushels imperial, and
producing, of powdered lime, 240 bushels, is given to each acre
once in every currency of a lease of nineteen years, and as near
as possible to the commencement of the lease. On ground newly
taken in from the waste, as much as 400 bushels imperial of powdered
lime is given, and on old arable, not limed before, the first
application is about 320 bushels imperial. On the arable fields,
it is commonly applied during the process of following, or along
with the grass seeds. On newly improved lands, it is given before
they are put under their first crop. The price per provincial boll
of shells is about 1s. 6d.
   The farm-buildings have of late been much improved both in
appearance and accommodation, particularly on the property of
Auchlunkart; but, in too many instances, they are still mean and
inconvenient. There are few permanent enclosures either by
stone-dikes or hedges, except in the neighbourhood of the mansion
houses, and more would be very desirable, as leading too longer
continuance of the dry fields in pasture; but the want is less felt,
that wood is so abundant and cheap for paling, the use of which
for temporary enclosures, is very common.


