
628                        EDINBURGHSHIRE.

multitude of persons who openly resorted thither gave great of-
fence to the people, who assembled in a tumultuous manner, in-
terrupted the services, and intimidated those present. Two of the
ringleaders were apprehended ; but, in consequence of the pre-
ponderating interest of the authorities, who were on the side of
the reformed religion, they were again released without a trial.
So jealous were the town-council, at-this critical juncture in the
infancy of a great reform of religion, that they enacted a law ex-
cluding all but persons of the Protestant faith from filling any of-
ficial situation in the city.
They also ordered the figure of St Giles to be cut out of the
town's standard, and the thistle to be inserted in its place.
In 1566 and 1567 occurred the atrocious murders of Rizzio
and Darnley. Rizzio was murdered in the Queen's apartments in
Holyrood ; and Darnley in a house called the Kirk-of-field,
which was situated where the university now stands. One of
the clergymen of the city, true to his sense of duty, and with
that stern abhorrence of guilt which did honour to his principles,
boldly and publicly denounced the murderer of the King, and the
shameful alliance of Mary with the murderer. Voices were
heard on the streets at midnight calling aloud for vengeance ; and
at last a confederate body of the nobles, entering Edinburgh, com-
pelled the Queen to surrender; when she was carried to Loch-
leven Castle as a prisoner.
During the regency which after this occurred, the city of Edin-
burgh was frequently convulsed by the two parties into which the
country was divided, the one espousing the cause of the imprison-
ed Queen, the other that of the partisans of the infant King.
Kirkaldy of Grange, the leader of the Queen's party, obtaining
possession of the Castle, held it for about two years, supported by
the Earls of Huntly. Home, Herries, and other chiefs, and aided by
succours from, France. He planted a battery on the steeple of St
Giles; repaired and fortified the city walls; and, although the in-
clinations of the citizens were, decidedly hostile to his cause, it was
not till the Regent obtained succours from Queen Elizabeth that he
was forced to surrender. Kirkaldy and his brother were execut-
ed at the cross of Edinburgh; and, with the death of these men,
the Queen's party sunk never, to recover.
On James VI coming of age to resume the monarchy, he received
a body guard of 100 of the choicest young men, citizens of Edinburgh,


