
     Statitistical Account

   The care of the poor is laid on the Kirk Session.  A com-
mittee is appointed to enquire into the circumstances of those
who petition for supply; and more or less is granted, accord-
ing as the case seems to require.  Few have less than half a
crown per month; while, four, five, six, and in some cases,
even ten shillings are distributed to those, who are absolutely
helpless.  A person must reside in the parish, at least three
years, before he can be entitled to the public charity.
   No public begging is allowed.  We are often harrassed by
vagrants from other places; but they are not permitted to ac-
quire a residence in the parish.  One seldom gives them any
thing, without having cause to repent it.  They spend every
thing they receive at the first ale-house; and for the rest of
the day they become a public nuisance.  The constables are
called, who see them out of the parish; but this does not
operate as a punishment, while they are still at liberty.  It
would be of great advantage, if in every parish, there was
some place of confinement for people of this description, to
keep them in awe, when they might be inclined to disturb
the peace of the town, or of the neighbourhood.

<FOOTNOTE>

though without making any application for assistance from the parish.  One
of them at last, applied to be received on the poor's list; and as no doubt
was entertained of her poverty, she received four shillings per month.  She
died about six months after the commencement of her pension.  On examin-
ing her bed-cloaths, one purse (of gold and silver), was found after another,
till the sum amounted to upwards of forty pounds sterling.  Some old chests
and barrels were found stored with beef, meal, cheese, and various other
kinds of provision; and it was evident that the poor women had lived in great
affluence.  The relations of the deceased, on hearing of the discovery, came
from a distance, to lay claim to her effects.  But according to the settled
rule of the parish, she had bequeathed all her effects to the poor, at the
time she was received on the poor's list.  One half was allowed to be the
property of the sister, who had received no pension from the parish.  The


