
			CALSTAIRS.                          559

This operation, although expensive, has hitherto done more than
double the value of the land; and the proprietor is amply remu-
nerated for his outlay by the two succeeding crops, besides getting
his land laid down in a superior state, being quite level, and without
furrows.
	The reaping-machine was introduced in 1836. It does its work
very neatly in favourable circumstances, viz. when the ground is
level, free of stones, and the corn not lodged ; but, owing to the
climate and exposure of this parish, it is not likely ever to be
generally adopted. The machine was made at Carstairs Mains,
and constructed on the principle of Mr Smith's invention, which
has been generally known throughout Scotland for the last ten
years.
        Leases and Rotations.-Leases, in general, run nineteen years;
but many farms in this parish were let for fifty-seven years by the
late Mr Fullerton, and at amazingly low rents, which in the pre-
sent day bear no proportion at all to the advanced price of land.
The low rate at which farms were formerly let tended to foster
indolence and slovenliness, and operated as a direct hinderance to
every species of improvement; while, on the contrary, upon farms
where the rent has been more than doubled, the tenant is found
to be in much better circumstances,-thus affording a certain de-
monstration, that the rise has only stimulated to more useful and
profitable exertion. The rotations in general practice are as fol-
lows:-1st, From lea, one or two crops of oats; 2d, a green crop,
viz. potatoes or turnips; 3d, oats or barley, sown down with grass
and clover-seeds; 4th, a crop of hay. Some persons at this stage
most injudiciously turn up the land for a fresh crop, while the
more skilful allow it to remain in pasture for two or three years.
The rotation occupies at the farthest eight years; at the least six,
if regularly followed out.
        Rent.-The valued rent of the parish is L.2150 Scots; and
the real rent, as given in by the former incumbent in 1794, was
upwards of L.2000 Sterling. It has now advanced to nearly
L.5000; and when the long leases of the former proprietor of
Carstairs estate shall have expired, a much greater advance will
take place.
        Manufactures.-This is wholly an agricultural parish; no ma-
nufactures of any kind being carried on, except what is termed
" customary work," executed by a few weavers, who are also em-
ployed by the Lanark agents for some manufacturing houses in


