
     of Bedrule.

churches in this country, neither proceeds from the genius
of Presbytery (the Established Religion) the temper of the
people of Scotland, nor the taste of the Established Clergy,
who all feel, and often express the hardship of their situation
     VOL. XV. 4 E

<FOOTNOTE>

of the establishment of parochial churches and schools.  And that this is the
case, is evident from this, that none do more heartily accord with the com-
mon, and perhaps, in too many instances, well founded outcry against the late
frequent annexations and suppressions in different parts of the country.  And,
therefore, the only difference on that head is, as is natural and supposeable, that
each would wish the clergy and schoolmasters, settled in the parish churches
and schools, established by law, of their own sect or profession.  But all must
see, that in this, as in a few speculative opinions, in which sects differ from
each other, they are not only opposed to all who at present adhere to the E-
stablished Church, by far the major part of the community, but are also there-
by equally in opposition to the inclinations and wishes of one another.  Nay,
farther, when the matter is duly considered, the annihilation of an Establish-
ed Clergy, as it is against the inclination, so, obviously, it would be contrary to
the secular interest of the people.  For there is not, perhaps, a popular com-
plaint better founded, and, in the justice of which all descriptions of men are
more agreed, than that against the modern custom of the the money raised in
the country by the non-residence of many of the landholders, different from
the practice of their fathers, being spent so much at a distance from it.  Now,
by our excellent Constitution, the clergy of Scotland are all without excep-
tion bound to reside.  By this means all that they receive in stipend, out of
the lands of their respective parishes, etc. is, thereby, not only kept in the
country, but, most of it, spent in the several parishes and nearest market towns
to these parishes, in which, both by the laws of the church and the stare, they,
the clergy, are bound to reside.  Whatever, therefore, be the wish of those
(we trust they are but few) who are equally inimical to order, to law, and to
good government, as they are to religion, we are satisfied, that few, if any;
of any description, even of Dissenters, at least in this part of the country, have
so far degenerated from the well known principles of their pious and virtuous
ancestors, as to wish national religion altogether abolished, but only, that it
were of that sect or party of which they are members.  But supposing it o-
therwise, we would ask such, What they would think of a Government or
State, suppose Great Britain, that would seize upon all that has been disponed
by individuals for the support of religious worship and public instruction, it


