
                       STRATHDON.                         543

ago, on leaving India, the natives, as a testimony, of respect and
affection, presented him with a service of plate of the value of
L.1500; and in gratitude for the important part he has taken in
exalting their position in society, obtaining their admission to the
offices of justices of the peace, and grand jurors, the natives of
Bombay have subscribed for a statue of him, for which he is now
sitting to Sir Francis Chantrey.  Sir Charles claims to represent
the Lords Forbes of Pitsligo as heir-male.
   Rev. Dr Forbes.-Another member of this family, intimately
connected with the parish for the greater part of his life, well me-
rits notice.  Dr Forbes, the immediate predecessor of the writer,
was for twenty-five years minister of Strathdon.  Although very
early in life called to the discharge of the ministerial office, be zea-
lously performed its duties, and, under the Divine blessing, his la-
bours were attended with eminent success.  No man could be more
devoted to the best interests of his people and none ever more
fully enjoyed their confidence and affection.
   Dr Forbes died suddenly of an affection of the heart in 1834.
No event ever caused a stronger sensation in Strathdon,-deep
grief reigned in every cottage, and his memory is still affection-
ately cherished by the people, as their best and kindest friend.
   Land-owners.-Tiie landed proprietors are, Sir Charles For-
bes, Bart. of Newe and Edinglassie; Major-General Sir Alexan-
der Leith, K. C. B. of Freefield and Glenkindy; Robert Ander-
son, Esq. of Candacraig ; the Earl of Fife; Mrs Forbes of Inver-
erna ; General Forbes of Dunotar and Auchernach ; and Robert
Farquharson, Esq. of Allargue.
   Parochial Registers.-The parochial register of births and mar-
riages from 1674 to 1710 is carefully filled up, but the volume is
in very bad condition. *  There are no regular books from that
date till 1741, when a register of baptisms commences, but down
to 1830, it has been very irregularly kept.  A regular register of
baptisms and marriages has been kept from the year 1830.  No
register of burials has ever been in the parish.
   Antiquities-Old Castles.-From Kildrummy to the head of

<FOOTNOTE>The following quaint entries occur. " Anno 1666, September 22; William El-
phinstone of Bellabeg (his first wife Jean Johnstone, a discreet, modest, and virtuous
gentlewoman being dead, the twenty day of October last bye-past,) gave up his name
to be proclaimed with Isobel Forbes, second lawful daughter to William Forbes of
Skellater, and were married October 1."
   " Anno 1705,	September,22.  Maister John Robertsone, parsone of lnvernochtie,
a son baptized by himself called James, wit. James M'Farlan in Brux, and Maister
James Mitchell, schoolmr. who held up the child.


