
     Marischal College and University of Aberdeen.

of the students as were sick, or occasionally dissecting such
subjects as could be procured.  The present professor, how-
ever, who has been but lately admitted, proposes, as soon as
the necessary arrangements can be made, to deliver regular
courses of lectures on anatomy, and other branches of medi-
cine.  He is one of the physicians and surgeons to the infir-
mary, where there is a great deal of practice to be observed
both in surgery and medicine, and, as well as the professor
of chemistry, and several other physicians, receives a few pu-
pils, who are instructed in the various departments of these
arts. The number of students in medicine amounts to about
thirty, who besides receiving the instructions, and seeing the
private practice of their masters, attend daily the infirmary,
and frequently enjoy the benefit of public dissections.  They
have also formed among themselves a society, under the di-
rection of their masters and some of the professors, from
which they derive considerable advantage in the prosecution
of their studies.  Here the members are obliged in rotation,
at a weekly meeting, to deliver discourses upon medical sub-
jects, which at a subsequent meeting are submitted to general
discussion, every member being required to deliver his opi-
nion concerning them.  They have likewise collected a very
considerable number of books on medicine, and subjects con-
nected with it, which are the property of the society.  Along
with these advantages, they farther enjoy that of attending
the professor of chemistry, who gives a regular course of lec-
tures on that subject, every year during the session of Col-
lege.  The course, however, is by no means confined to medi-
cine, particular attention being also paid to the application of
chemistry for the purposes of agriculture, manufactures, and
the arts.  The same professor likewise gives a course of lec-
tures on chemical pharmacy, after the conclusion of the
other.  The medical student too, has an opportunity of at-


