
                        KILMORIE.                            51

ander III., who wrested it from the Danes, by the defeat of Haco,
continued in the crown till the reign of James III. The greater
part of it seems to have been kept as a hunting domain for the
Kings of Scotland, whose residence was the Castle of Lochranza.
In 1334, Arran is mentioned by Boethius as the property of Ro-
bert, the great Steward of Scotland, afterwards Robert II. When
ravaged by Donald, Earl of Rothes, and the Lord of the Isles, in
1456, it was the possession of James II.--James III. on the mar-
riage of the Princess Margaret to Sir Thomas, son of Lord Boyd,
erected Arran into an earldom, and gave it as a dowry to his
sister. After her discreditable divorce from Sir Thomas, she was
married a second time to Sir James Hamilton, and the same por-
tion given her as on her first marriage. Arran thus became, in
1474, the property of the family of Hamilton, in which it has con-
tinued till the present day. The unentailed part of it, extending
from Iorsa to Lochranza, was bequeathed by the late Duke Dou-
glas to his only daughter, the Honourable Mrs Westenra, to whom
it now belongs. The only other proprietor in the parish is John
Fullerton, Esq. of Kilmichael, who holds the property of White-
farlan, by the grant of King Robert.
	Eminent Characters.--The Rev. William Shaw, author of the
first Gaelic Grammar and Dictionary that were published, was
born at Clachaig in this parish. In this arduous and patriotic,
undertaking, he was honoured with the patronage and advice of
the then Earl of Eglinton, and the celebrated Dr Samuel John-
son. As it claims to be the birth-place of the first Celtic scholar,
so also it claims to be the death-place of the first Celtic bard.
Ossian is said to have died here.
	Antiquities and Natural Curiosities.--There are a few Danish
forts, Druidical circles, obelisks of unhewn stone, and tumuli of
considerable magnitude, scattered through the parish,
	By far the largest and most important of these fortification is
the Doon, on the farm Drumidoon. The sea-cliffs in front
form a defence 300 feet perpendicular. On the land side, the as
cent is steep, and round the summit, on the edge of this inclined
plane, there is a wall, extending from the cliffs on the one side, to
the cliffs on the others side, enclosing a level area of several acres
containing what appears to be the ruins of rude habitations. The
wall, which was dry built, is now  fallen, and great quantity of
the stone, carried away for drainr, dikes, &c; but still the ruins of
very extensive, and the gateway distinctly discernible.


