
     of Haddington.

about the beginning of the last century by the Earl of Hadding-
ton, and is now the property of the Earl of Hopetoun.  The Park
of Leithington contains about 400 acres, formerly sorrounded
with a stone wall 12 feet in height, the work of John Duke 
of Lauderdale; and was occasioned by the Duke of York telling
him before his first journey to Scotland, that he heard there
was not so much as a park in Scotland; a few years ago Lord
Blantyre reduced the height to seven feet.  Amisfield parks
contains about 700 acres, and are esteemed the best pasture
grounds in the county.
   The whole of the parish is arable, except a few hundred a-
cres of the summit of the ridge called Garleton-hills, and a-
bout the same extent of woodlands on Gladsmuir and the es-
tate of Coalstown.  So extensive a tract as this parish, must
naturally be supported to be composed of a variety of diffrent
soils, which is the case.  The whole district, however, is in
a state of high cultivation, and all inclosed, except a few fields
in the neighbourhood of the burgh, which being either bur-
gage lands, or let by the neighbouring heritors to labourers
and other poor people, are sometimes managed in a very slo-
venly manner.  There are 109 ploughgates of land in the pa-
rish, divided into 30 farms.  The valued rent is L. 14,645
Scotch, and the real rent, including the lands in the natural
possession of the proprietors, above L. 8000 sterling.  Lands
near the town are generally rented at L. 3 to 50 s. per acre,
whilst others of equal quality, at the distance of two miles from
the burgh, do not fetch a third part of that rent.  The price
of provisions is nearly the same as in Edinburgh, and the price
of labour just the same as in the neighbourhood of that city. The
air is temperate and serence, consequently healthful; instances of
longevity are frequently to be met with.  A very extraordi-
nary instance occured in one family, Mr. Alexander Maitland
and Catharine Cunningham were married August 6th 1657.

     Vol VI. 3 Y


