
                        CARESTON.                             537

  Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is conveniently situated
for the population; its site being centrical, and not more than a
mile distant from the remotest dwelling-house.
	The church was built on the erection of the parish in 1636;
and had a tolerable repair in 1808.
	At the erection of the parish, the patron mortified a sum of
money, the interest of which was especially for the behoof of the
clergyman serving the cure in all time coming. This sum was
4000 merks Scots, or L.222, 4s. 5d. Sterling, and the interest
arising therefrom is L.11, 2s. 2 1/2d., which is now considered as
forming a portion of the present money stipend. Likewise, during
the present minister's incumbency, L.250 were bequeathed by
the late D`vhd Skene, Esq., merchant in London, and brother
to the late George Skene, Esq. in aid of the funds of the kirk-ses-
sion.
	The church of Careston would afford ample accommodation
for all the parishioners, were they considerably more numerous
than they are, as the sittings have been constructed for about
200 hearers, and all the seats are free. The kirk-session formerly
was considered as having a right to two seats in the church, and,
as proprietors, drew rent for them; but no rent has been exacted
since the incumbency of the present minister.
	The manse was built in the year 1802, just two years after the
present minister entered on this charge. It received a small ad-
dition about three years ago. The glebe consists of about ten statute acres,
and may be considered worth about L.1, 5s. per acre.
	The stipend is one of those termed the small livings, being
L.150 Sterling. It is, however, a little more, as part of it is paid
in grain. It consists as follows: 37 bolls, 3 firlots, and 2 pecks
of oatmeal; 23 bolls and 2 3/4 pecks of bear or big, or equal to 61
bolls and 3 lippies of grain. Money stipend from the Careston
estate, L.24, 14s. 3d.; from the Exchequer, L.82, 19s. 2d.;
total of money stipend, L.107, 13s.s 5d.
	Besides the above stipend, there are also paid to the incumbent
4 bushels and 2 pecks of barley from the landr nf Balhall, an es-
tate in the adjoining parish of Menmore, as an equivalent for a
servitude over a piece of moor ground. This, like the victual sti-
pend, being converted at the fiar prices of the county, varies con-
siderably.
	Our parishioners are all members of the Established Church,


