
                           GAMRIE.                           277

Aberdeen. This granite is occasionally worked, but not hitherto
to any great depth; neither have the workings afforded any in-
formation respecting the changes produced by it upon the strati-
fied rocks through which it breaks. In the eastern part of the lo-
cal section are found sandstone, conglomerate, and shales of the
old red sandstone. These rest unconformably on the upturned
edges of the slates, but faults and dislocations are so numerous as
render it almost impossible to determine the exact order of succes-
sion of the sandstone and conglomerates.
   On the farm of Findon, the Gamrie fish-bed crops out in two
ravines. Prestwick's description of the locality is in the main cor-
rect. The chief organic remains are contained in calcareous no-
dules. They are principally of fish, belonging to Agassiz's divi-
sion, Ganoids; and many of the species are described and figured
in his Poissons Fossils, while several species subsequently dis-
covered remain undescribed. Vegetable remains, also undescrib-
ed, have been found, both in the nodules and imbedding.
   The Gamrie fossils are, for the most part, identical with those
occurring in the Caithness and Pomona schists, and in the nodules
and limestone found at Cromarty and various parts of Moraysbire.
In the upper alluvial layers shells occur, but, so far as has yet
been ascertained, similar to those existing on the coast at present.
  The soil of that part of the parish which rests on the sandstone
and conglomerate is more fertile than that which rests on the
slates, and the springs indicate a greater amount of calcareous
matter.
  Zoology.-There was lately a goodly show of pheasants in the
Troup plantations; but they have been greatly thinned of late
years by vermin in the unprotected state of the woods. Active
means are now employed against their enemies, and it is likely
these elegant inhabitants of the woods will soon multiply again.
   But what distinguishes the ornithology of this parish from every
other in the county is the annual migration of sea-fowl to it, for
the purpose of hatching and rearing their young. The following
account of these birds, taken from the Magazine of Natural His-
tory, is by a gentleman who carefully visits them, for the purpose
of ascertaining their habits, generally once a year.
   "The rocks of Gamrie are annually resorted to by immense
numbers of those birds which are properly denominated sea-fowl,
and it is remarkable that the various tribes of which the general
body is composed, are most punctual with regard to the particular


