
576                        EDINBURGHSHIRE.

to Dalkeith, and from the latter to Musselburgh-each of these
for a distance of two miles and upwards. There are also cross
roads which are turnpike, uniting these in different directions, be-
sides parish roads, which in general are kept in good repair, and
leave nothing to be desired in point of accommodation under this
head.
   Besides coaches between Dalkeith and Edinburgh several times
a-day, there are a number of others from Edinburgh to greater
distances, such as Lauder, Dunse, Newcastle, &c. which pass daily
on the same turnpike; and the Dalkeith Railway, which affords
much more accommodation to the inhabitants in their intercourse
with the metropolis, passes diagonally through it, giving opportu-
nities for going and returning at least eight times a-day. The
post-office is in Dalkeith.
   Eeclesiastical State.-The church is nearly in the centre of the
parish, and very conveniently situated for the parishioners, there
being none more than one mile and three-quarters distant; while
the great body of the inhabitants is within a circuit of a mile. It
was built in 1742, (the site having been changed as already men-
tioned,) was reseated in 1819, is in excellent repair, and rendered
comfortable in winter by a stove. It is seated for 430, allowing
18 inches to a sitting. The sittings are allocated among the be-
ritors according to their respective valued rents, but it ought to be
mentioned, that when built, the then proprietor of Edmonstone
added an aisle solely at his expense, which, besides a gallery for
the family, and a retiring room immediately behind, afforded ac-
commodation beneath for the servants and immediate dependents,
as well as collier population on his property. A gallery was also
erected by the then Duke of Buccleuch, with the consent of the
heritors for The Sheriffhall colliery, in addition to the share of the
sittings effeiring to his property. It deserves to be recorded to
the honour of the collier population at that period, that they ap-
pear to have beenAt the expense of fitting tip the part of the area
allotted to them, and in evidence of their right to the sittings, had
tablets affixed on the walls, with the motto of their craft and the
names of the parties inscribed, which exist to this day. Probably
they had a part of the area thus given them as a compensation for
what they enjoyed in the old church of Newton, in which, on ap-
plication, as the records bear, to the heritors and kirk-session,
(given in 4th April 1725), they obtained permission (2d May


