
                             GLADSMUIR.                          191

ing belts for shelter, shrubberies, and ornamental planting; 34 impe-
rial occupied with houses, offices, gardens, and common patches
in villages; and 71/2 with roads, making in all 5353 Scotch or 6751
imperial acres in the parish.
   Rent of Land, and Wages.-The rent of land varies from L. 5
an acre to less than L. 1. The average of the whole, this present
year, the price of wheat being very low, will be nearly L. 1, 12s.
per Scots acre, Farm-servants are hired by the year, and paid
partly in money and partly in kind, as follows: 61/2 bolls of meal,
4 bolls potatoes, 2 bolls barley, 1/2 boll pease, 2 stones pork, when
pigs are not kept, a cow's grass, and L. 8, 10s. money, with a
house, for which the servant furnishes 9 shearer in harvest for
twenty days. When a cow's grass is not given, L. 5 money addi-
tional is allowed. In some farms, there is a little difference with the
articles which make up the wages; but the amount is nearly the
same all over the parish, being equal to from L. 21 to L. 24 money,
this present year. In some instances, they are paid in money, and
receive 9s. per week. The farm-servants are generally bound to
keep bondagers, as they are called, that is, persons to work in the
barn and fields when required. They are females or boys, and if
the binds have none of this description in their own families, they
must hire them. It was long the practice to hire farm-servants at
Christmas or the end of the year, but a resolution was entered
into by the tenantry lately, not to hire them till the beginning
of February. The average rent of grazing, as near as can be
computed, is L. 3 per ox or cow, and 15s. per ewe or full-grown
sheep, pastured for the year.
  Draining, &c.-Draining is carried on not only in the parish,
but in the neighbourhood, to a very great extent. There is little
under water, and therefore the object of the farmer is to prevent
water from lodging on the surface and injuring the crops. Tiles
are chiefly employed, and the drains are, frequently made in every
alternate furrow, and sometimes even in every furrow. They vary
in depth from eighteen to twienty-four inches, and the expense of
making the drains and furnishing the tiles is from 10d. to 1s. the rood.
Sometimes, the proprietor furnishes the tiles as an encouragement
to the tenant to use them in draining his fields. At other times, the
whole expense is borne by the tenant himself. The universal opi-
nion among farmers seems to be, that the increase of the crop soon
repays all the expense of the drains. Stones also are used, but
rarely since tiles have been introduced, they having been found to


