
     of Longforgan.

feeding bestial, both horses and cattle, after the first crop of
clover, and to continue in succession until the second crop

<FOOTNOTE>

Dr MONRO has, since that time, contrived an instrument of iron, made
likewise by Mr Still, for keeping open the mouth of the animal; by the
use of which, it will be found much easier to pass the tube into the sto-
mach; which will give a better chance of success, than any thing hitherto
recommended, and, in most cases, may render fibbing unnecessary.

The success of all those remedies, however, depend upon their being in-
troduced into the stomach, which is in many cases difficult, and in some, if
the disease be gone too far before it is observed, it becomes impossible: 
There then remains no other hopes of relief, but by making an opening in
the stomach from without.  This operation is here very common,
and is frequently performed without much anatomical skill in the ope-
rator, and who in general is not very nice in the choice of his instrument,
taking the first knife he can lay his hand upon; but what is most recom-
mended, is a knife of about four or five inches long, and about one inch
broad, with a sharp point and fixed in a handle.  He then marks the place
for the operation, by measuring with his finger and thumb extended,
a span from the prominent point of the hip-bone forwards, and a little
downwards, so as to meet another span measured from the spine or back-
bone outwards, and at the point where these meet, with one bold stroke of
his instrument, he penetrates the stomach; the imprisoned air immediate-
ly rushes out, and the animal is relieved.

This, although a coarse operation, is certainly so far effectual, as it saves
the animal's life:  but if a milch cow, no more milk can be expected from
her that season; and it is sometimes very long before any description of cat-
tle recover the effects, either of the disease or the operation, or perhaps of
both.  Sometimes it is necessary to keep the wound open for some time, be-
fore all the air be let out; and sometimes it suppurates, and becomes very
troublesome to heal.  It would seem to be a very great improvement on this
operation, were a trocar used instead of the knife, and made on purpose lar-
ger than common, and which every man who has cattle should be always pro-
vided with.  The operation then might easily be performed, and with great
certainty.  The trocar itself might be withdrawn immediately after the ope-
ration, while the tube remained to give a free passage to all the air in the
stomach; and the wound, in all probability, would give no trouble, but heal
directly.

Cattle or subject to other diseases; but they are little understood in this
part of the country.  A cow 8 years old was taken ill July last.  The first
symptom of disease was her loathing her food; and on examination it was


