
64                     SELKIRKSHIRE.

minister of the parish. He was educated st Selkirk school. and
originally destined for the church. During the reign of George I.
he was appointed Minister to the State of Venice, and retained his
functions from 1715 to 1720. Long after his death his Latin his-
tory came into the possession of Dr Hollingberry, Archdeacon of
Chichester. The original has not been published, but a spirited
translation, executed by William Thomsom, LL.D. made its ap-
pearance under the title of "The History of Great Britain from
the Revolution in 1688 to the Accession of George the First" 
Lond. 1787. 2 vols. 4to.*
  In an old house at Ettrick Hall, about a quarter of a mile from
the church, with its gable standing to the road, and  a broken win-
dow, through which a traveller may peep into the dark damp in-
terior, was born and nursed " the Ettrick Shepherd."

                   " Here first I saw the rising morn;
                     Here fist my infant mind unfurl'd,
                     To judge this spot where I was born
                     The very centre of the world."


   In this parish the truly patriotic and benevolent Lord Napier has
his usual residence. "This nobleman, the descendant of the great
Napier," to use the words of a popular writer, "has, for some years
past, employed his time and talents, together with much money, in
improving the stock on the hills, and introducing into a district, hi-
therto bound up in its own natural wildness, all the attributes and
amenities proper to the most civilized regions,"-"His enthusiasm
has been one of benevolence, and from the full half of the beautiful
cottages he has planted in this wilderness, the prayers of the widow
and the orphan nightly ascend to Heaven in his behalf."
  In this parish rest the remains of the Reverend Thomas Boston,
sometime its minister. On his monument, on a white marble ta
blet, is the following inscription:- " As a testimony of esteem for
the Reverend Thomas Boston Senior, whose private character was
highly respectable; whose public labors were blessed to many;
and whose valuable writings have contributed much to promote the
advancement of vital Chistianity, this monument (by the permis-
sion of relatives) is erected by a religious and grateful public, A.D.
1806. He was born ar Dunes March  17, 1676. Ordained to
the pastoral charge of SiImprim  September 21, 1699; removed

<FOOTNOTE)* Of this history Dr Thomsom says, " We shall find reason to pronounce it a just
and legitimate composotion, and perhaps to rank its author inthe first of our his-
torians."


































