
     of Longforgan.

theft.  From this cone, wooden pipes are laid across the
stack when building, and are cut to vits shape.  These are
made of three rough fir boards, very partially fitted to each
other, so as to let the air pass in all directions amongst the
sheaves of corn.  But the principal use is to draw the air
up through the cone in the centre, and guide it through
every part of the stack.  By which means, corn may safe-
ly be taken much sooner in, than when no such precau-
tion is used*.
   Formerly the small farmers and acremen had no tacks,
(leaves), but were tenants at will, and were also bound down
to all the severe conditions, as already mentioned; and so
little was the interest of the landlord understood, or the te-
nant regarded, that so lately, as between the year 1750 and
1760, it was an established custom, that the Earl of Strath-
more's officers, (who was the proprietor at that time), ac-

<FOOTNOTE>

*There is still another method, lately introduced by a very respectable
gentleman+, not far from hence, but not in this parish, which is probably the
best means of preserving and taking in corn ever thought of; which is, by
building frames of wood to any extent, upon which the corn is laid,
the breadth of two sheaves only, and a binding one in the middle, as upon a
shelf, with the heads inwards, and for a depth of about 3 feet:  Another shelf
of wooden spars is laid and fixed into the perpendicular stoops (uprights) in
such fashion as to prevent any pressure from the superincumbent sheaves.
Upon this shelf or frame the corn is again placed, in the same manner, and
over that another, and so on, as high as you please; so that the sheaves be
loosely laid, and receive from all quarters such a body of air as to dry and
win the corn completely, even if taken in immediately from the hood, (fickle),
provided it be cut down dry.  Whether this be a new thought or not is of no
consequence.  The gentleman who has introduced it has great merit; and
although the expence of building the apparatus may prevent the method from
becoming general soon, especially as in those situations where the climate is
favourable, or the season dry, it is by no means so necessary, yet there are
many places in this country, where some such plan of preserving the \u+corn\u-
would be always useful; and there are sometimes seasons so unfavourable, as
would make such a resource a very fortunate circumstance for all concerned,
especially in small or middling farms.  In very large farms it may not be so
easily attainable.
   +Captain Drummond of Cardrum.


