
				CAWDOR.                      23

released. The narrative is deeply interesting, both as containing
an authentic account of some of the proceedings of those days,
and also, and more especially, as indicating a mind not only im-
bued with the deepest piety, but of superior power, and very con-
siderable accomplishment. The language is more that of the
present, than of the seventeenth century; and the sentiment and
style not unfrequently rise to great elevation and pathos.

				III-POPULATION.
  By the Government census taken this year (1841), the popu-
lation of the parish is 1150, being a decrease of 37 since the
census of 1831. The number of families is 270; of inhabited
houses, 259. The average number of births per annum about
30. No register of deaths is kept. There are 5 fatuous persons.
The decrease in the population is small, and is confined to the
Highland part of the parish.
  This parish forms the extreme limit of the Gaelic district in
this direction, there being nothing but English spoken beyond its
eastern boundary. Both languages, as might be expected from
its position, are in very general use, although in their intercourse
with each other, and in the services of religion, the peasantry still
sbow a decided preference for tbe Gaelic. Notwithstanding the close
neighbourbood of English, the increased opportunities of instruc-
tion, and the rapidly growing intercourse with other parts of the
empire, it is a remarkable circumstance, that the two languages
seem to occupy relatively to each other nearly the same ground
that they did from a remote period; a fact which would seem to
put the day far off, with regard to the Highlands in general, when
the mountain-tongue shall, to any great extent, give place to the
more cultivated, but not more expressive, language of the plain. ,
  The population is altogether rural, and engaged in agriculture;
and, the land not being too much subdivided, on the one band,
nor thrown into too large farms, on the other, the people enjoy
the comforts and advantages common to their class elsewhere.
They are on the whole cleanly in their habits, and their dwellings
have been of late years much improved. Their general character
is that of a sober, regular, and well-disposed people, among whom
no open vices prevail to any extent, and over whom religion exerts
a considerable influence.

				IV.-INDUSTRY.
  As already observed, agriculture is here the chief employment;
and it is gratifying to observe the rapid improvement which is tak-


