
     of Tongland.

They took 4 or 5 crops, without putting on any manure.
In dry season, they could scarely gather their corn in har-
vest, upon account of its shortness.  They sowed nothing
but poor grey Scots oats; their poor land would bear no o-
ther species of grain.  This kind of oats yielded little meal,
and of a dark colour.  When their corn came above the
ground in the spring, they had constant herding of their
cattle day and night, till the harvest was finished, and the
corn gathered into their corn yards.  They built turf folds
in summer in the fields, into which they put their cattle in
the middle of the day, when annoyed with the heat; and
also at night, to preserve them from destroying their grain.
In the night they put all their cattle into these turf folds,
and one or two persons watched them every night in sum-
mer and harvest, till their corns were got in.  By over-
stocking their farms, the poor animals were starved for
want of grass.  In the spring, their cattle were so weak,
that when they lay down, they could not rise of themselves
till they lifted them up.  They fell into mosses and quag-
mires through weakness, and were drowned.  In the spring
season, it was a constant custom to gather their neighbours
together, to assist in lifting their cows and horses, and to
drag them out of moss holes.  At that time, and for long
after, there was not a cart in the parish.  They led home
their corn and hay in cars, and in trusses on the backs of
their horses, and their peats in creels and sacks.  They led
out their dung on cars, or creels coupled and hung over
the horses backs.  The women carried out dung in creels
on their backs, and the men filled the creels at the dunghill,
and lifted it upon their shoulders.  This resembled the sa-
vage state of society, where all the drudgery of the domestic
labour fell to the department of the female sex.  At that time
there were no saddles nor bridles, and they rode to church
and market upon brechams and pillions placed on the


