
     Statistical Account

used, is, 1st, turnips, potatoes, pease, or fallow; 2 d, in a light
soil, oats; and, in a strong, barley, each with artificial grasses;
3 d, hay; 4th, 5th, 6th, and 7th, pasture; 8th, oats: 9th,
sometimes oats, which finishes the rotation; sometimes bear;
and, in that case, 10th oats.
   Nearly the half of the arable ground in he parish is in na-
tural or artificial grasses.  About a 5th part of the remainder
is in potatoes, turnips, pease, or other green crop.  Every
tenant, for the most part, has a greater or lesser quantity of
flax, chiefly for family use.  What remains, is in oats and bar-
ley.  The turnips are used, partly in feeding cattle for the
butcher, but chiefly in rearing young cattle.  The parish will
produce nearly, on an average, 6000 bolls of grain annually;
of which from 1000 to 2000 are exported; the remainder is
needed for seed, and the supply of the inhabitants.  The va-
lue of cattle sold yearly, including a few sheep, amounts to
more than the grain exported.  Very fine cattle are reared
and fed here.  The number of black cattle is rather above
800.  There are but few sheep.  About 20 years ago, horses
used to be brought from other places, to supply the farmers in
this and the neighbouring parishes; but now good horses are
reared and exported.  The number of horses in the district is
exactly 205.  Some farmers also dispose of a little hay.
   Some time ago, in this district, the plough was drawn by
6 horses, or 10 or 12 oxen; now 4 horses, or 4 oxen, and
sometimes 2 horses, are used.  The Scotch plough is general-
ly employed.  There is scarcely any of the parish inclosed,
which is partly compensated by the practice of winter herding.
About 16 or 20 years ago, many of the tenants began to in-
close with earthen fences; and perhaps a third part of the pa-
rish was inclosed in that manner.  But as there fences soon
mouldered away, and became insufficient, a stop was put to
that manner of inclosing, and the earthen fences were gene-


