
                   CORSTORPHINE.                       231

union of the parishes of Gogar and Corstorphine was not carried
into effect for several years after this period.
   In August 1598, the Presbytery appointed visitations of both
churches, with the special object of bringing about this union.
On this occasion the Laird of Corstorphine, in name of the parish-
ioners, in addition to Gogar craved the Presbytery to unite to
Corstorphine the estates of Saughton, Saughtonhall, and Brum-
houses.  From the reports of these visitations, it appears that the
church of Corstorphine had then a mitister, elders, and deacons,
while the church of Gogar had merely a reader, who resided in
Edinburgh. After these preliminary examinations, the presbytery,
on 9th January 1599, proposed a temporary union of the parishes,
and having obtained the concurrence of the three leading heritors
of Gogar, they next proceeded to carry their- proposal into effect,
by transferring the reader from Gogar to Corstorphine, and di-
recting the minister to preach alternately at Gogar and Corstor-
phine per vices. This arrangement was not satisfactory to either
parish, but it was enforced by the authority of the Presbytery,
and every remonstrance against it was met by a promise to sanc-
tion. separate charges, whenever ample provisions should be made
for the maintenance of separate clergymen.
   In the beginning of 1600, the Presbytery appointed two of their
number Commissioners to enquire at the Abbot of Holyroodhouse,
what provision he was willing to make for the "kirk of Corstor-
phine, as ane of the kirks of his abbacy." The only result of
this enquiry was an explanation that the "teinds of the kirk had
been set in 1597, for twenty-two years for the task duty of L.40
per annum, and under the burden of sustaining and upholding the
queir, and reserving the manse and gleib to the minister."
   In April 1602, the parishioners of Corstorphine agreed to con-
tribute a sum of L.30 additional, yearly, to the stipend of their
clergymen, on condition of his confining his ministrations to Cor
storphine church, and this agreement was acceded to by the pa-
rishioners of Gogar, and enforced by the Presbytery, on the under-
standing that the parishioners were to have "the benefit the kirk
of Corstorpbine until they should be in a situation to provide a mi-
nister for themselves.* This time, however, never arrived and it tid
the arrangement then made has never, since beenn disturbed.
   On the establisment of the Bishoprick of Edinburgh in Se-

<FOOTNOTE>Presbytery Register, Vol. iii.


