
      26                     INVERNESS-SHIRE.

      year, the cutting of the canal was partially commenced; but it was
      not until the year 1805 that the works were put in full operation.
      The north-eastern portion of the canal, as far as Fort-Augustus,
      was opened for navigation in the summer of 1818, a regular pas-
      sage between Inverness and Fort-Augustus was established by
      means of steam-boats in 1820, and on the 23d and 24th October
      1822, the first voyage was made from sea to sea.  Since this period
      it has been regularly navigated, with scarcely any interruption, al-
      though not completed to the full extent of the original design,
      which contemplated a depth of 20 feet water.  The depth at pre-
      sent afforded is 15 feet,-a further deepening of the summit level
      being the principal work required to attain the former depth, as
      almost the whole of the buildings and banks are constructed of the
      full dimensions to receive it.  The total expense of construction has
      been about one million of pounds Sterling, to which is to be added
      the expense of maintenance, since the opening of the navigation.
      The latter has hitherto exceeded the produce of the tonnage rates,
      which are extremely moderate.
         The canal extends about eight miles from the tide lock at
      Clachnaharry, to the north-east end of Loch Ness, being all in the
      parish of Inverness.  It ascends in this distance a height of about
      46 feet.  The whole length of the canal from sea to sea is
      62 miles, of which 40 miles pass through natural lakes (Loch
      Ness, Loch Oich, and Loch Lochy,) and there are 22 miles
      of cutting.  From the singularly uniform direction of these
      lakes, and of the valley which they partially cover, the whole,
      length of the canal when extended on a map, measures only four
      miles longer than a straight line drawn from one extremity to the
      other.  There are twenty-eight locks on the line, fourteen ascend-
      ing to, and fourteen descending from, the summit level in Loch
      Oich, which is about 95 feet above ordinary high water at Inver-
      ness.  The dimensions of the locks are 170 feet in length by 40
      feet in width; and the who16 of the other works are on a scale of
      proportional magnitude.  The present rate of tonnage duty levied on
      sailing-vessels or steam-boats, laden or unladen, passing along the
      canal in either direction, is one farthing per ton per mile, there be-
      ing no dues chargeable upon goods of any description.  The pro-
      duce of these extremely low rates has averaged form L. 2000 to
      L. 3000 per annum; and the aggregate tonnage passing through,
      inclusive of the steam-boats, may be rated at about 30,000 tons.
        Immediately on the opening of the canal, a regular communica-
                                  4

