
288                    EDINBURGHSHIRE.

Dalkeith Park, the soil is almost all under cultivation.  The farms
are all well enclosed, and subdivided with stone walls, or well
kept and thriving hedges; and are in a state of the highest cul-
ture.  A common of considerable extent was many years ago di-
vided, and is now private property.  There is no meadow land.
The ordinary length of leases is nineteen years.  The principal
crops sown are wheat, barley, and oats, with a small proportion of
pease and beans; potatoes and turnips also are extensively culti-
vated.
  Rent of Land.--The rent of land is from L.2 to L.5 per acre,
according to the quality and situation of the ground.  In some
instances a part of the rent is paid in grain at the rate of the fiars'
prices of the county.  Only a small part of the land is let for
grazing.  The price of grazing for a cow is L. 6. The rental of
the parish is L. 16,123.
  Rate of Wages.--The ordinary rate of wages is from 10s. to
12s. per week for common labourers; and from 16s. to L. I for
artisans. Colliers are paid so much per ton of coals excavated.*
The annual wages of a hind are L. 16 in money, 61/2 bolls of meal,
3 bolls of potatoes, a house and garden, and one month's meat in
harvest.
  Price of Provisions.--There are excellent butcher-markets, and
the supply of fish is abundant; but from our proximity to Edin-
burgh the price of provisions is high. Beef sells at 7d. per
pound; mutton at 7d.; veal from 7d. to 8d.; pork at 6d.  Had-
docks are sold at 1/2d. and Id. each; cod from 10d. to Is.; her-
rings from 3d. to 8d. per dozen; oysters from Is. 6d. to 2s. per
hundred.
  Live-Stock. --There is no particular breed of cattle reared in
the parish.  The horses commonly used are of the Clydesdale
breed.  Sheep are of the Cheviot and Leicester breeds.  Lambs
of all descriptions are reared for the markets.  A considerable
quantity of mutton has, of late years, been sent by steam to the
London market.
  Husbandry. --An improved system of husbandry prevails.
Some of the farms are of large extent, under the management of
enlightened. enterprizing, and skilful tenants.  Tile-draining has
recently been practised to a considerable extent, and with com-

<FOOTNOTE>The system of paying the miners' wages on alternate Saturday nights, appears
liable to objections,--the following day being devoted by many, not to their re-
ligious duties, but to intemperate indulgence; Monday also being consequence
not unfrequently spent in a total relaxation from work.


