
         		LANARK.				   23

tience. The following fact will illustrate the Melancholy depres-
sion of this branch of industry. On Martinmas fair day 1812, a,
general strike took place, and continued for nine weeks, because:
a certain description of work, 1200 policuts, fell from 8d. to 6d.
per yard. For the last three years, the same description of work
has been, upon an average, at 1 1/2d. Accustomed at the former pe-
riod to better days, the weaver believed that 6d. was too low a rate
to afford him a livelihood, and it is only because it came upon them
gradually that they have been able to survive the present depres-
sion. Forced by the pressure of immediate want, they are accus-
tomed to put their children of both sexes upon the loom at the
early age of nine or twelve, by which means their numbers are con-
tinually augmenting, and the evil is increased.
	Shoemaking, &yc.--There are in the parish 96 shoemakers. This
trade is at present in as flourishing a condition as was ever known.
The weekly wages which a tradesman actually gains average 8s.;
but, with steadiness and skill, he may easily increase them to 12s.
Boots and shoes for foreign export are occasionally made here.
	The tailors are 24 in number, and their wage is about 9s. per
week. There are 51 wrights and 34 masons, who gain about 14s.
per week. Occasionally more are required than live in the placed,
but they are easily procured from the adjoining parishes. Build-
ing is rather expensive, in consequence of the distant carriage of-
the materials. There are in the parish 13 smiths, 14 bakers, a
butchers, 45 young females emploved in mantua-making, 120 in,
embroidering gymp lace. Three brewers carry on business to a;
considerable extent in the town. There are three mills, two of
which are for grinding flour.

			V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Town and Villages.--The town of Lanark stands in nearly the
centre of the parish. It is under the government of magistrates,
who employ five or six town-offie-ers. A large body of constables
can likewise be called out when occasion requires. Here the prin-
cipal business transactions of the surrounding district are carried
on. There are markets on Tuesday and Saturday; the former in
general is very numerously attended. In Lanark, as the county
town, the Sheriff and Justice of Peace courts are held, and the elec-
tion of the member of Parliament for the county takes place.
	New Lanark is a large and handsome village, lying on, the south-
west from, the town. It stands-low upon the river side, and is com-


