
                              TYRIE.                    721

than break his plighted word.  It is pleasing to record, that this
honourable man died in peace and in honour at an advanced age,
at his chateau in Cremar.
   3. Mr John Forbes, second son of Sir William forbes of Mo-
nymusk, resided at Pitfichie near the Hill of Bennachie, but pur-
chased the estate of Ladysford in this parish ; was out in 1715 ;
occupied the official station of collector of cess for the rebel army ;
was, after the issue of that ill-planned and timidly executed enter-
prise, obliged to leave his native country, embarking, after having
collected what property he had time to realize, on board of a ves-
sel bound for Holland ; but was heard of no more.  Suspicions
arose that he had not received fair play at the hands of the crew,
as one of them was seen a few years after, wearing a part of the
dress which an aged and attached servant of the family recognized
as having once belonged to her master.  He left a widow, with a
family of ten or more children ; but who provides for the wi-
dow and the fatherless in their afflictions, raised up friends and
protectors to them, and, in course of time, one of his daughters was
married to her cousin, Sir William forbes, and from her is descend-
ed the present family of the Baronet of Pitsligo. *
   4. Connected with this parish, though not by birth or burial,
yet certainly by occasional residence, was the venerable and at-
tainted Lord Pitsligo, whose memory is still cherished, and whose
hair-breadth escapes from the hands of his pursuers are dwelt upon
with entusiasm by those dwelling amidst the scenes of his wander-
ings and perils,-whose piety is attested by the thoughts which he
has left,-and whose character and history are embodied in that
interesting record which his relative, Lord Medwyn, has recently
drawn up and made public.
   5. Connected, too, with this parish by property are the Earl of
Aberdeen, Lord Saltoun, and the late Sir William Forbes, the au-
thor of the Life of Beattie.  These are, indeed, historical person-
ages.  The annais of diplomacy and of estate policy will immortalize
the name of the first ; the history of the campaigns of the Penin-
sula under Sir John Moore and the Duke of Wellington, and the

<FOOTNOTE>There is in the possession of his great-grandson, the present proprietor of Boynds-
lie, the original cess-book which he used for levying th cess-money.  It is hardly
written, is well preserved, is a curiosity in its kind, contains some curious statistics
of conract between the ancient and present, proprietary and estates of the county.  It
proceeds on the principle of making an enemy pay double of what is expected from a
frined,-for those who were against what it would account the good cause are repre-
sented as charged double cess.  There is a picture of him and of his wife in the pre-
sent House of Boyndlie.
   ABERDEEN.                                           Z z


