
                         NEWBATTLE.                           73

in the parish. Dalkeith is in the immediate vicinity; and Edin-
burgh at six miles distance.
   There are 4 villages in the parish, some of them but small.
Means of communication are turnpikes and private or parish roads.
LCDgth of the former within the parish is about twelve miles.
Public carriages of all kinds travel on them.
   There is no post-office within its limits; but those of Dalkeith
Fushie Bridge, and Ford, are all immediately upon its borders.
There are four bridges upon the South Esk besides the railway, all
in excellent condition. The only rail-road in the parish has al-
ready been mentioned; and the purpose for which it was intended
described. It was finished a few years ago.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The church is situated in the village of
Newbattle, which, being nearly at the western extremity of the pa-
rish, renders it inconvenient for those in the opposite parts; as
some of them have to travel nearly three miles and a-half before
they reach it. It was built in 1727, and is in a tolerable good
state of repair. It has a spire about 70 feet high. It affords ac-
commodation for about 420 persons. In regard to the sittings,
they may all be said to be free, for none pay rent for their seats.
   The manse, as it now stands, has been built at different times
There is still a part of the old manse remaining, but the time when
it was built is uncertain. The new part or front was erected dur-
ing the incumbency of the Rev. James Brown. It was completely
repaired in 1813. The glebe consists of 6 Scotch acres of ex-
cellent ground, independent of the manse and garden. It is let
for L. 3, 10s. per acre, which is a fair rent. The stipend consists of 77
bolls 2 firlots 1 pecks of barley; 77 bolls 2 firlots 1 pecks of
oats; and 19 bolls, 3 1/5 pecks of wheat. There is also L. 20, 13s.
3 3/4 d. of money. The teinds are exhausted.
   In this parish there are no Dissenting houses or chapels of any
description whatever.
   The number of persons of all ages belonging to, and attending,
the Established Church, is 1562, and those belonging to the Se-
cession amount to about 265. The parish church is generally
well attended, although it must be acknowledged, and is deeply to
be lamented, that there are some in the lower ranks, especially
among the colliers, lately brought to the parish, who pay little re-
gard to public worship of any kind.
   The average number of communicants at the Established Church
is about 310.



