
100                       SHETLAND.

to the crops.   If the corns are filling, and the potato haulms are
green, they never recover.
   Heavy and long-continued rains frequently fall in every season
of the year, but more especially in winter and spring.  The hea-
viest rains are from the south and southwest.  Yet, while the
climate is justly characterised as variable and uncertain, the best
proof that these changes are not prejudicial to the health is, that
many of the inhabitants enjoy this blessing almost uninterruptedly
till an advanced age.  I may mention tbattbere are eighteen per-
sons now living in the parish, whose united ages amount to 1552.
   Voes or Bay.-The principal voes or bays on the north-west
and west are, Gruting, Airs of Selivoe, and Olla's Voes, which
lead in between the south point of the Island of Vaila, in the pa-
rish of Walls, and the well known land-mark, the burgh of Culs-
wick.  The entrance is narrow, but deep; and within, there is
nothing to fear, -these three voes or bays being completely land-
locked.  They are also very extensive, capable of affording an-
chorage to ships of any burthen and in any number.
   Several miles to the southward and eastward, along a bold
shore, are the two voes of Skeld.  The more westerly voe opens
to the south, and in it vessels seldom come to an anchor.  The
entrance to the more easterly voe is narrow, but inside it enlarges
into a fine bason with excellent anchorage.
   By rounding a pretty high headland a little farther east, the
entrance into Selivoe and Sand-Voe opens.  These voes are se-
parated from each other by a small island called Kirk-holm, and
a neck of land called Kirk-ness.  The more westerly is Selivoc,
(which, in the Norwerian language, signifies Herring-voe), which
extends a considerable way inland.  In any part of it, a vessel
may ride in perfect safety.  Not even a swell from the ocean is
felt here; and if the anchors and cables are good, the bottom
being a stiff blue clay, blow high, blow low, nothing is to be feared.
   Sand-Voe, on the contrary, is so very open to the south-west,
and the ground so very loose, that no vessel would anchor in it
unless in fine summer weather, and would hardly risk lying in it
over night.
   Leaving Selivoe, crossing the mouth of Sand-Voe, and passing
through a narrow sound between the peninsula Foreness, and the
small island Foreholm, Sandsound-Voe opens on the left, and
winds in a northerly direction between five and six miles inland.
                               3


