
234                      HADDINGTONSHIRE.

east by the German Ocean; on the east, by the parish of Oldham-
stocks; on the south, by those of Cranshaws and Longformacus;
and on the west and north-west, by those of Spott and Dunbar.
   Topographical Appearances.-The coast, which is about 2 miles
in length, is rocky, but somewhat tame, being characterized neither
by those rugged precipices which occur in the adjoining parish of
Dunbar, nor by those still more elevated crags which, farther to
the east, in the parishes of Cockburnspath and Coldingham, form
such noble barriers to the sea. From the shore the land slopes
gradually upwards towards the Lammermoors. The part of the
parish which lies between that hilly-boundary and the sea pre-
sents a scene of fertile and cultivated fields, but might be improv-
ed, in respect of picturesque beauty, by an addition of wood skil-
fully disposed over the now bare surface that intervenes between
Thurston and Branxton, and stretches from the village of Inner-
wick downwards to the shore. The very want of objects to inter-
cept the eye, however, contributes to give a peculiarly free and
lively character to the view which that village commands of the
neighbouring sea, while of this lower district, considered as a whole,
the otherwise monotonous character is somewhat diversified and
relieved by the plantations of Thurston and Branxton. Along
the line where the northern and more fertile district of the pa-
rish passes into that hilly tract which constitutes its southern di-
vision, a good deal of picturesque scenery occurs. There may be
little in that locality to satisfy the taste for nature in her more
graceful or majestic forms-but the lover of simple and seclud-
ed beauty may there find wherewithal to be gratified, in the ra-
vine with its wild and wooded sides, that stretch precipitously
down to the rocky bed of its gurgling stream-the dell with its
blooming banks-and the outstretching valley, from whose verdant
slope the shepherd's hut looks peacefully down upon the travel-
ler beneath. That part of the parish which, commencing at this
hilly boundary, stretches southwards for about seven miles towards
Berwickshire, is bleak and desolate-besprinkled, however, with
cottages and farm-steadings; affording both pasture for cattle, and,
here and there, a soil capable of producing crops, and now under
cultivation; and occasionally enlivened by the verdure of the val-
ley, and the freshness of the stream.
   Hydrography.-The inhabitants of this parish are copiously
supplied with water, and much of what is used for domestic pur-
poses is remarkable for its excellence. There is no large river
                                3


