
			     STEWARTON.                       737

large manufacture of spindles far cotton and woollen mills. There
have been introduced mills for carding, wool and tow, and also for
wauking or fulling of bonnets, besides machinery for spinning wool
and worsted. It is supposed that these works and the carpet-works,
of which there are only two at present, might be still further ex-
tended. The most of the trades' people here have gardens at-
tached to their houses, in which they cultivate vegetables, fruits,
and flowers; which circumstance lately gave rise to a Horticultural
and Florists' Society. They generally rent small pieces of ground
for the purpose of growing as many potatoes as serve their families
during the year. These habits are very conducive to health, and
yield both recreation and profit. A tile and brick-work was erect-
ed in the spring of 1839 by Mr Deans, on his property of Peacock-
bank, which affords employment to a number of people, and con-
siderable facility to the farmers in the neighbourhood, in draining
and improving their farms. It is in the centre of the parish, and the
quantity of tiles made in one year is supposed to exceed 500,000.

			V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Town, and Means of Communication.--The town of Stewarton
is situate in the centre of the parish, on the banks of the Annock,
about six miles north from Kilmarnock, and eight north-east from
Irvine. About 150 years ago, it consisted of a few houses near the
church, which gradually extended to the cross; and now it is
three-quarters of a mile in length, with several streets intersecting
one another. There are not a few handsome buildings, and a
town-house. The land around is fertile. Tradesmen and labour-
ers of almost every description get employment, and abundance of
every kind of provisions is supplied. The roads are kept in the
best possible order. Caravans go daily to Kilmarnock; twice-a-
week to Paisley, distant fifteen miles; also twice-a-week to Glas-
gow, distant eighteen miles. The weekly market is held on
Thursday, but now little attended. The post from Kilmarnock
arrives in the morning, daily, and returns in the evening.  There
are stated fairs. A Justice of Peace Court is held here once a
month.  A Baron-bailie is appointed by the superior; he has of-
ficials under him; and there is a jail to confine delinquents.  As
yet there is no police. Gas was introduced in 1832, at an expense
of about L. 1200. A printing-press for bills, &c. has been in
operation since 1835.
	Ecclesiastical State.--For the convenience of the whole parish,
the parish church could not be better situate. It was widened on the
	AYR.                          3 A


