
          1286                           PERTHSHIRE.

          cinity, containing a population of about 820. , Public-houses were
          at one time more numerous than at present; and the diminution
          of their number has had a beneficial effect upon the morals and
          the pecuniary circumstances of the people.  There being now less
          temptation to drink, instances of extravagance, idleness, and dis-
          sipation are fewer, the class of publicans is more select, and their
          houses are more orderly and their example better than formerly.
          The community are deeply indebted to the justices of the peace
          for their judicious attention to this and other subjects'of police.
           Fuel.-Coal and peat are both used in this parish for fuel.  The
          coals at Greenyards and Bannockburn are generally preferred,
          and the price is about 14s. per ton, including tolls, carriage, and
          custom at Stirling.  There are three tolls between Kincardine
          and Bannockburn.  The road is in two counties, and the distance
          is nine miles.
           The population of the Moss have generally used peat for fuel,
          of which, from their situation, they have had great abundance,
          and of excellent quality.  At the commencement of reclaiming
          the moss, the peat was very cheap to themselves and to the sur-
          rounding district ; but latterly, the steady demand for it at Stir-
          ling and the neighbouring villages, and especially at the distil-
          leries, has raised the price to fromAs. to 7s. per cart-load, accord-
          ing to the. quality of the peat, and the distance to which it is car-
          ried.

                        MISCELLAN90US OBSERVATIONS.
          By attending to; the preceding Account, it will appear that the
          variations betwixt the state of the parish at present and at the date
          of the last Statistical Account are of importance.
          Thus from 1600 to'1700 acres of excellent land have been re-
          claimed from moss, capable of producing- from seven to eight bolls
          per acre of all kinds of grain.  A new system of draining and im-
          proving land has been extensively adopted.  Several miles of new
          turnpike roads have been made, and are well kept for the bene6t
          of the whole district.  Three new bridges have been built, which
          add. greatly to the advantage of the public.  There have been
          rected a new ch urch and nuins and new offices; and also a great
          number of new farra-bu'ildings and elegant cottages.   Above a
          hundredacres have been planted on the estate of Blair-Drum-
          mand. , Several acres, have also been planted on the estate of
          Ochtertyre.  The population, which, for some time, had greatly


