
                       MID AND SOUTH YELL.                        85

of there being but few families of the labouring classes altogether
free from a constitutional taint of scrofula, those who are carried off
by pulmonary complaints are more numerous than are the victims of
any other single disease. For the cure of this fatal disorder no-
thing even at the present day, is deemed so effectual as the
Royal touch And as a substitute for the actual living finger of
royalty, a few crowns and half-crowns of the coinage,of the first
Charles, careftill hainded down from father to son, bave been,of-
feettial both here, and in every other parish in Shetland, tow.itrds
removing this disease, and that to an extent which may appear
somewhat incredible to many whose minds, in reference to the, lieal
ing virtue still inherent in royalty, may be in a more sophisticated
state, than those of her Majesty's subjects in this latitude. . Be
this as it may, them are few localities in Shetland in which a living
evidence is not to be found of one said to have been 11 cured by
the coin," and who would instantly be pointed at as a sufficient
evidence to warrant confidence iii its efficacy, rhouid it happen
that a doubt at any time rested thereon.
Hydro.qraphy.-All the springs fall under the denomination of
perennial, and the temperature of those least affected in quantity
by the summer drought, is from 44' to 45o, their water being not
unfrequently impregnated with iron.
Geology.-In Yell the prevailing strata are gneiss and micas
ceous rocks, traversed by veins of granite, and occasionally having
masses of quartz and wbinstone imbedded in them. The direc-
tion of the, strata is nearly north and south, their dip being from
35&deg; to 90&deg;.
The only ore ever found in Yell is that of iron ; and in no
known instance, has it been found in a shape. different from bog
iron ore. In Yell, as well as in several other parishes in Shetlan(l,
and in such situations as the banks of burns, or that of the sea
side, there is frequently to be met with under a mass of peat moss,
sometimes not less than 10 feet deep,  and immediately above thd
prevailing rock, a layer of fine rich loaxn, from one to two  feet
thick, on the top of. which are always found the remains of wood,
generally birch and occasionally oak.
The soil throughout Yell. partakes, moreor,loss, of the quality
of moss, mixed either with clay or  particles of the decayedtrawki
on which it rests-,and in instance is,it found to be sandy, un-
less here sand bag been thrown up by A the violence of the sea
during winter, and carried over it, by the action of the winds.


