
502                           AYRSHIRE.

  Rent of Land.--The valued rent amounts to L. 3829, 4s.
8d.; the real rent to L. 9330. The rent of good haugh
land is about L. 2, 2s. per acre. The grazing of a cow for
the season is L. 3, 3s.; of a sheep, 8s. The general duration of
leases is nineteen years. Furrow-draining is extending as the good
effects of it are observed. The farm-steadings are, in general,
slated, comfortable, and commodious.
   Agricultural Improvements.--It is worthy of mention, that the
person who, forty years ago, gave the first stimulus to farming en-
terprise in this place, was the Rev. John Ramsay, the incumbent
of Kirkmichael. He was the founder and the first President of
the Carrick Farmers Society, which flourishes to this day, rich in
funds, and numerous and respectable in members. Although many
local Associations of this nature now exist in the country, this one
deserves special notice, from its early formation, and from the emi-
nent success that has attended its exertions, in exciting an honour-
able emulation among farmers, and in otherwise promoting the in-
terests of husbandry in the district.
   As an enlightened and enthusiastic agriculturist, this parish sus-
tained an irreparable loss in the premature and lamented death of
the late Earl of Cassillis. The same activity and ardour which
made his name so illustrious in sporting life, were no less conspicu-
ous, when turned to more useful and important purposes. In a very
short time, the whole appearance of the lands under his manage-
ment was changed; new breeds of cattle and sheep were introdu-
ced; the most approved modes of farming in all its branches were
adopted; and improvements, in a style and to an extent never be-
fore attempted in Carrick, were skilfully and successfully prosecuted,
when death put a sudden stop to his operations. No event of the
kind ever produced, in the neighbourhood, so sincere and universal
lamentation.
   Mr Ritchie holds the first place, in this part of the country, as
an improver of land; and his experience unites with that of other
enlightened land-owners, in establishing the fact, that no outlay of
capital yields so high and certain a return, as what is judiciously
applied to the purposes of agricultural improvement.
   The estate of Kirkbride, the property of William Niven, Esq.
on coming to its present proprietor, was a wild, bleak, barren
moor. By means of suitable enclosures, numerous belts of wood,
ample facilities for lime, drains, &c. the soil has been brought com-
pletely under cultivation, and now produces most luxuriant crops,


