
			    LANARK.			       9

terpillar, by searching the centre of the bush near the ground at
the time when the leaves expand, and picking off such as are
found riddled, and full of holes.  The apple and pear caterpillars
are of two kinds, the one a small green worm, with a black head,
that breeds in the blossom-bud and consumes its heart; the bud
does not expand, but soon turns brown, and then the tree is said
to be fired.  The cobweb, or, as it is called in some places, the
cotton caterpillar, is sometimes so very destructive, that the trees
in the month of June appear as bare as in January; if picked off
once a-day at the opening of the season they may be destroyed;
as they surround themselves with a round ball of cobweb, they
are easily seen, and a few boys would soon clear an orchard.  The
small black-headed caterpillar is less easily overcome; it does its
mischief before the blossom expands.  Mr Sinclair, late gardener
at Bonington, discovered a method, by which for many years he
effectually saved his trees and bushes from these destructive insects.
It is to mix sifted lime in a tub with water, and by means of a
gardener's engine to project this with force upon the plants; in
this manner, the moss upon the branches in which insects barbour
is destroyed.
   Botany.--The recesses of Cartlane Craigs present a rich va-
riety of plants to the botanist; among which may be named
Berberis vulgaris, Pyrola rotundifolia, Pyrola minor, Saxifraga
oppositofolia and granulata, Prunus padus, Bird Cherry or Hawk-
berry, Spirea salicifolia, Rubus saxatilis, Cistus Helianthemum,
Aquilegia vulgaris, Cardamine impatiens, Geranium lucidum, Oro-
bus sylvaticus, Vicia sylvatica, Doronicum pardalianches.  There
are said to be a considerable variety of mosses of rare species above
the falls.
   There are several large plantations in the parish, consisting
chiefly of Scotch, larch, and spruce fir.  The grounds of Lee, Bo-
nington, and Cleghorn are ornamented with fine old trees, such as
oak, beech, larch, and lime.  The banks of the Clyde and Mouss
are covered with natural wood of various kinds, viz. oak, ash, hazel,
birch, alder, hawkberry, hawthorn, and mountain-ash.
   Close to the House of Lee are two trees which deservee par-
ticular mention.  The first is an oak of prodigious size.  Accord-
ing to a late measurement, it was found to be 60 feet of perpendi-
cular height, and 30 in circumference, and to contain 1460 cubic
feet of wood.  It is called the Pease tree; is understood to be a
relict of the ancient Caledonian forest, and still continues to ve-


