
     of Glenorchay and Inishail.

   Schools.-The school of Glenorchay has long been in great
repute, and is well attended.  Besides the natives, many
children, both from the East and West Indies, have been, front
time to time, rent for their elementary education to this se-
minary; where, freed from that contagion of vice and bad
example, which too often corrupts the morals of the youth
in towns, they form early habits of virtue, and acquire a har-
diness and vigour of constitution, less common at their years,
in warmer climates.  Many of these, who, in the early period
of life, have been brought up at this school, have become
distinguished as useful professional men, in the various situa-
tions of society.  The salary of the master is 15 L. paid by
Lord Breadalbane; which, with other fixed and contingent
emoluments, makes the total income, at an average, to be bet-
ter than 40 L. a year.  During winter, the scholars amount
to 100, and then an assistant is employed:  and even in the
summer months, when many of the poorer children are obli-
ged to leave school and go to service, the number attending
is seldom under 60.
   The office of a schoolmaster is an useful and laborious em-
ployment.  It is a pity, that the encouragement to this class
of men, should in general, be so inadequate to their utility.

     Y y 2

<FOOTNOTE>

murmur of indignation.  Twelve armed men, with drawn swords, surrounded
the astonished intruder.  Two bagpipes founded the March of Death.  Unmov-
ed by the tears and remonstrances of Mr. Lindsay, in this hostile and awful
form, they proceeded, with their prisoner, to the boundary of the parish, and of the
county.  There, on his bended knees, he solemnly engaged never more to enter
the parish, or trouble any person for the occurrences of that day.  He was al-
lowed to depart in peace, and he kept his promise.  The Synod of Argyll were
much incensed.  Time cooled their ardour.  The proprietor was indulgent, Mr.
Lindsay deserving, and the people loved him He continued in the undisturbed
possession of his charge till his deaths more than 30 years after the foresaid
event.


