
30                          FIFESHIRE.

                        III.--POPULATION.
     It appears from the account of this parish, published in the for-
mer Statistical Account, that in the year 1791, the population was
949 souls.  By the last census of 1831, the population amount-
ed to 1162, viz. 559 males, and 603 females.  The increase is to
be reffered to the steadily advancing prosperity and improve-
ment of the country.  Besides the village of Collessie, which con-
tains 180 inhabitants, there are several villages and ham-
lets in the parish.  Three of these are of recent erection, viz.
Gifferton, Edenston, and Monkston.  the houses of which they
are formed are well arranged, neat, and bonfortable.  That a
greater increase nof the population has not taken place in conse-
quence of the recent erection of these villages, is accounted for
by fthe almost entire removal of the village of Kinloch, which, not
many years ago, was the largest in the parish, containing 191 in-
habitants.  A considerable number of the families formerly resid-
ing there now occupy Monkston.  This village consists of twenty-
four houses forming one line, with an interval of twelve feet between
every four houses, so that the whole is divided into six squares.
The place originally called Monks-moss takes its name from the
district where it is situated, having been granted to the monks of
St Mary's at Lindores Abbey to supply them with heather and
moss for fuel.

<TABLE>

Number of families in the parish                                            247
                   chiefly employed in agriculture,                          73
                                       trade, manufactures, or handicraft,  104

     Upwards of 100 of the families live in the several villages, the
rest in the country part of the parish.  The yearly average, as ap-
pears from the sessional books, which have recently been kept with
considerable occuracy, is, for the last seven years, of births, 18; of
deaths, 14; of marriages, 9.
     Resident Land-owners.--This parish has the advantage of the
permanent residence of most of its landed proprietors.  To begin
at the western extremity:--John Cheape, Esq. of Rossie; Miss
Arnot of Lochie Head; Charles Kinnear, Esq. of Kinloch; Wil-
liam Walker, Esq. of Pitlair; D. Maitland Makgill, Esq. of Ran-
keilour; of whom the two last mentioned gentlement are also elders
in the parish,--all reside upon their estates.

<FOOTNOTE>teenth part wud be o'er greedy, to ask the fourth part would be cheaten mysell, I'll
o'en strike between the twa and ask the aught.  In consequence of this decision the
eighth part of the lands of Ballomill was measured off tn him, which long remained in
the miller's family.  The description in the title deed still runs " All and whole of
the one-eighth part of the lands of ballomill."  The royal charter by which it was
conveyed is still preserved in the parish.
























































