
                           CULLEN.                              349

   ing an evening class, for the instruction of farm-servants and young
   tradesmen.
     In addition to the above, there are three schools, (one of which
   has an endowment of a salary of L.5, the joint gift of the Earl of
   Seafield and the town-council of Cullen,) taught by dames, and
   attended by children from three to ten years of age, who are in-
   structed in reading, knitting, and sewing.  These humble setni.
   naries are of much consequence to the labouring classes, and are
   highly deserving of encouragement, were it for nothing more, than
   their utility in relieving mothers of much trouble during the day,
   and keeping their children out of barm's way.
     The people in general are fully alive to the advantages of edu-
   cation, as is apparent from the fact, that the average daily attend-
   ance of scholars throughout the year is 330, or upwards of one-
   fifth of the whole population.  There is no portion of the parish
   so distant from school as to prevent regular attendance, and the
   circumstances of the parishioners at large are such as enable them,
   without difficulty, to pay the school fees.  Formerly, education
   was much neglected by the fishing population, but a marked change
   for the better has happily taken place, and is on the increase.  On
   the whole, it may be said of this parish, that the interests of edu-
   cation are in full; as prosperous a state, as in any of the -provincial
   parishes of Scotland.
      Sabbath Schools.-Of these there is one in Cullen proper, and
   another in the annexation, which are under the immediate super-
   man intendence of the minister, and usually attended by from 200 to
   300 scholars.  During the greater part of the year, the minister
   teaches two Bible classes weekly, which are well attended.  They
   are designed for the bene6t of adults of both sexes, whether single
   or married, of young persons who have left the juvenile Sabbath
   schools, and of all who propose to offer themselves for admissioa
   to the ordinance of the Lord's, Supper.
      Bursaries.-In 1675, Mr John Lorimer, town-clerk of Cullen,
   bequeathed a croft of land, containing about one and a, half Scotch
   acres, with the buildings upon it, for the education of a boy at the
   school of Cullen, of his own name, or related to him, and appointed
   the town-council and kirk-session of Cullen, joint patrons of the
   bursary. In  'consequence of the removal of the old town of Cul-
   len, the bursary land is now within the'preeiricts of here Cullen
   House policy, and is held in tack by the Earl of Seafield, who
   pays an, annual rent of 5 qrs. 3 bushels, 3 pecks, 1 8/4 lippies, bear,


