
                      BOTHWELL.                              765

extent.  In regard to all the improvements indicated in these re-
marks, it may with safety be anticipated, that, if matters go on as
they are doing at present, the next Statistical Account of this pa-
rish, given at a similar interval, will present contrasts still more
striking and satisfactory than those between this and the last.

April 1840.

                          PARISH OF BOTHWELL.

          PRESBYTERY OF HAMILTON, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.

             THE REV. MATTHEW GARDINER, D. D. MINISTER. *

	         I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-IN the " Rotuli Scotiae," (temp. Edward. I.) preserved
in the Tower of London, and now published by order of Govern-
ment, this parish is mentioned under the form of Botheville.  It is
variously written in subsequent reigns, as Bothuel, Boethwell,
Bothell, and Bothwell; and in a charter granted to Dame Marga-
ret Leslie, Countess of Angus, in 1581, it assumes, apparently
for the first time, the present form of Bothwell.  According to
Bullet, (M‚moires sur la Langue Celtique), the name is derived
from Both, an eminence, and wall, a castle, and was given to the
Castle of Bothwell, as standing considerably elevated above the
Clyde.  A more probable conjecture is, that it is a compound of
the two Celtic words both, in its signification of a dwelling, and
ael or hyl, a river, a habitation on a river, which is strictly descrip-
tive of the castle in this parish, as it is also of the Castle of Bothell
or Bothall, in Northumberland, the one situated on the Clyde,
the other on the Wentsbeck.
   Situation and Boundaries.-The parish of Bothwell is situated
in the middle ward of the county of Lanark, on the north-east
bank of the Clyde.  In form, it somewhat resembles the figure 8,
or a sand-glass, being narrow at the centre, and widening spheri-
cally towards both ends.  Its extreme length from Tilleris Burn,
on the east, to Calder Bridge, on the Glasgow and Carlisle road,
oil the west, is about 8 miles and 5 furlongs; the breadth in the

<FOOTNOTE>Drawn up by the Rev. William Patrick, Hamilton.


