
                           LEOCHEL AND CUSHNIE.                      1113

century, when they were acquired by the Lumsdens, of whom we
have had occasion to mention Robert in 1479 as proprietor of
Easter Fowlis, and John and Robert in 1628, as proprietors of
Cushnie, and to whose descendant, the Rev. Henry Thomas
Luinsden, vicar of St Peter's, Ipswich, they now belong.
    Hallhead.-Towards the end of the fourteenth century, this
property was acquired by George Gordon, fourth son of Thomas
Gordon, in Daach of Ruthven, whose descendants, in uninterrupt-
ed succession, have possessed it to the present time. The relict
of the last proprietor, Major Gordon, now by a second marriage
Mrs Ferguson, is the present proprietrix.
    In addition to the proprietors above-mentioned, the Honoura-
ble Walter, Master of Forbes, has a small part of his estate of
Brux in the parish. The valued rents of the different properties
are,

<TABLE>
	Sir John Forbes, for Craigievar,                      L.1318  13  4  Scots.
          Do.        Do.       Corse.                             432   4  6
	The Rev. H. T. Lumsden, for Cushnie,                     586  17  6
	William M'Combie, Esq., for Lynturk,                     360   0  0
	Mrs Ferguson, (late Gordon), for Hallhead,               166  17  6
	The Honourable the Master of Forbes, for part of Brux,    90   0  0
                                                                -------------
                             Total, (exclusive of Corse),       L. 2522  8  4

    Eminent Men-Patrick Forbes, Bishop of Aberdeen.-William
Forbes of Corse, already mentioned, a most zealous supporter of
the Protestant Reformation, as his father Patrick had been,* had
seven sons, four of whom were remarkable men. Of the second,
William, the founder of the family of Craigievar, we have pre-
viously given a short account. The eldest was Patrick, born in
1564, and educated first at the grarnmar-school of Stirling, under
Thomas Buchanan, a nephew of the more celebrated George,
and afterwards both at Glasgow and St Andrews, under the fa-
mous Andrew Melville, his cousin, where he made distinguished
attainments in learning. On succeeding to the family estate
about 1598, he did not allow its cares to put a period to his stu-
dies; and being accustomed to read and expound the Scriptures
in his own family, the great dearth of religious instruction then
prevalent, and the solicitations of the Aberdeen clergy, induced
him to transfer his ministrations to a vacant church in the neigh-
bourhood, in all probability that of Leochel. This was con-
demned by Archbishop Gladstanes, and, in 1610, Patrick Forbes
addressed a letter to the King in his own vindication, from which

<FOOTNOTE>* "Guid, godlie, and kynd Patrick Forbes of Cons."-Melvill's Diary, p. 18.
Wodrow Soc. Ed.




