
			DALRY.                              213

and rocky dell, and rushes through among immense blocks of free-
stone, and over a succession of rapids, till it is precipitated over
a considerable fall, forming a fine cascade, about 24 feet in height
by 20 in width. Two large rocks rise upon each side of the cas-
cade, while the adjacent banks are clothed with wood.
	Geology and Mineralogy.--The strata on the east of the Gar-
nock incline to the south, and partly to the east. Sandstone, lime-
stone, and secondary trap greatly shattered, are the prevailing rocks.
A field of limestone crosses the parish, south of the Dusk. North
of this, a dike of trap rock stretches from near Blair House to the
boundaries of Beith parish. Betwixt this and the Garnock is the
coal formation; the intervening strata are sandstone, limestone,
shale, and indurated clay. The coal lies at a depth of 12 to
30 fathoms. The seam is about 5 feet in thickness and dips
to the south 1 foot in 7. Various "steps" cross and derange
the strata; one of these raises the coal twelve fathoms, and an-
other 8 fathoms. Various dikes of shale or "till," as it is provin-
cially termed, also cross the strata. A dike of trap crosses the
Barkip coal-field, in a direction from north-east to south-west.
It is about 18 feet in thickness, and, for about the same distance on
each side of the dike, the coal was completely charred. On the
west of the Garnock two seams of coal are found. Dikes cross the
strata chiefly south and north, and are formed of porphyry. Lime-
stone is most abundant on this side of the parish. A field of lime-
stone traverses its whole breadth, and is supposed to stretch from
Ardrossan to Johnstone. The strata are less uniform than to the
east of Garnock. The hills are composed of claystone porphyry,
felspar porphyry, greenstone, wacke, and basalt. In the upper
course of the Caaf, old red sandstone is abundant. Jasper is
found among the porphyry rocks, and ribbon jasper is very abun-
dant. Hornstone is found in the channel of the Caaf, in a bed of
about 10 inches thick, resting on a species of limestone. Agates
have been found in the water of Rye. Carbonate of lime is found
imbedded in the greenstone trap rocks of Rye. Ironstone is found
in various parts of the parish. Bands of ironstone are found in the
roofs of the coal pits at Swinridgermuir.* Near the summit of
Baidland Hill, at a height of 800 feet above the sea, a vein or
dike of cannel coal is found betwixt two walls of carboniferous

<FOOTNOTE>
	* A valuable field of ironstone has been discovered since the Account was sent to
press, on the estate of Blair, containing several seams, varying from two feet to six
inches in thickness.


