
                  KINCARDINE IN MONTEITH.                 1283

in Doune and Stirling. The attendance of the people in general
on divine service in the Established Church is regular and devout,
and they are attentive to the duties of family devotion. The
number of communicants in the church of Kincardine is about
300 in winter, and about 400 in summer.
     The Chapel of Ease at Norriestoun stands-in this parish, and
is four miles distant from the parish church. Gabriel Norrie of
Norriestoun, a descendant of the ancient family of the Norries in
this parish, gave the church-yard and the site of the church there,
upwards of 170 years ago, for a burying ground and a place of
worship, in connection with the Established Church of Scotland.
The minister of this chapel receives his stipend from the rent of
lands which were purchased by public and private collections,
which were made by the authority of the General Assembly. The
Presbytery of Dunblane are appointed by the Assembly to ma-
nage this fund called the Norriestoun fund, with authority to let the
lands, keep in repair the farm buildings, pay the public burdens,
and the stipend of the minister at Norriestoun. The stipend va-
ries from L. 80 to L. 95 per annum according to the state of the
buildings and the amount of rent the land prodtces. He has, in
addition to this sum, six acres of glebe, a garden, and also a
good house, but the hous, like the farm buildings, is built and kept
in repair out of the rent of the land.
     There is a Bible Society in this parish for Bible and mission-
ary purposes, whose annual contributions to the General Assem-
bly's Schemes have been about L. 15.
     Education.---There are five schools in the parish; one parochi-
al school, one General Assembly's school in Thornhill, one in
Kincardine moss, one unendowed in Thornhill, and another
near the bridge of Drip. In these schools the branches taught
are, English reading, writing, arithmetic, practical mathema-
tics, book-keeping, geography; and English grammar; and in
the Assembly's school, in addition to these, the Greek, Latin, and
French languages, and mathematics are taught. There is also a
well attended Sabbath evening school.
     The parochial schoolmaster's salary is the maximum, and in
all respects he enjoys the legal accommodations. His school fees
amount to about L. 14 per annum, and in addition, he receives as
session and heritors' clerk, and from a mortification, about L. 12


