
     of Graitney.

English or Rotheram plough only, with the curved mold-
board.  It is drawn by two horses, without a driver, and
commonly ploughs about an acre a-day.  The rotation of
cropping, in general, is, first year; wheat or oats; second
year, oats; third year, turnip or potatoes; fourth year, bar-
ley, sown out with clover and rye-grass.  The land, sown
out in this manner, is usually mown for one year, then
pastured two years, find and afterwards ploughed, and under-
goes the same rotation of crops.  The parish is the pro-
perty of 4 heritors, the Earl of Hopetoun; Earl of Mansfield,
Sir William Maxwell of Springkell, Bart and Mr Graham
of Mossknow; none of whom reside.  No part of the pa-
rish is commonty.  Every proprietor knows the precise
limits of his estate.  The farms in this district are in ge-
neral of small extent.  There is, however, one farm let at
L. 300, and another at L. 186.  All the rest are consider-
ably smaller.  The land here lets from 5 s. to 20 s. the
acre*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Prices, Wages, Expenses, Earnings, etc.-The average price of
wheat is 5 s. 6 d. of barley, 2 s, 8 d. and of oath 2 s the Winchester bushel.
Meal is from 1 s. 6 d to 2 s. the stone of 17 1/2 lb.  The present average
price of beef and veal, is 3 1/4 d the lb; of mutton and lamb, 3 1/2 d. and of
pork 4 d. the lb. of 16 ounces.  A turkey is sold at 3 s. a goose at 2 s 6 d.
a hen at 8 d. a duck at 8 d. cheese at 3 d and butter at 6 d. the lb. of 16
ounces.  The prices of provisions of all kinds are greatly increased of
late years.  The farmers here live less on butter and cheese, than they
seem to have done formerly.  They think that they find an advantage in
selling these articles, and in buying butcher-meat.  There is an exceed-
ingly good flesh-market in the village of Graitney Green, where upwards
of L. 700 worth of butcher-meat of all kinds, and of the best qualities,
is killed and sold annually, the greatest part of which is consumed in this
parish and neighbourhood.  In consequence of our vicinity to England,
as in other bordering parishes, wages and the price of labour are generally
high, as many of the young people of both sexes 80 into Cumberland,
where a male servant can have from L. 8 to L. 12 and upwards, and a fe-


