
        	  LISMORE AND APPIN.                   229

Robert Downie, Esq. of Appin.  Ships frequently come to anchor
in the Sound of Shuna, and ride safely in every weather.  The
Bay of Cuil, about five miles north from the Sound of Shuna, is
of a beautiful semicircular form, the cord being about a mile in
length.  It has a fine sandy beach, and is often frequented by
large shoals of herrings, whose visits to that quarter are of the
greatest benefit to the inhabitants along the shore.  The Bay of
Kentailen, still farther north, is a small creek that runs into the
lands of Ardsheal, and is well sheltered by high lands which are
covered with wood, and affords the safest retreat to small vessels.
On the coast of Kingerloch is Gerloch, otherwise called Loch-
chorey.  It is from this loch that the district receives its name,
and it is by far the most commodious harbour in the parish, being
about a mile in length, and half that extent in breadth, being
narrower still at the mouth; and, as the holding ground is exceed-
ingly good, vessels of any burden may find in it a safe retreat
from whatever quarter the wind may blow.  At the head of this
loch stands Coineach House, the residence of the proprietor,
Charles N. Forbes, Esq.  The grounds are limited, but the view
from it is good.  Some improvements have lately been made, and
it is capable of being made a very pretty spot laid down in the
bosom of mighty hills.  On the west coast of Lismore, and near
the north-east end of it, is the Harbour of Portramsa, large and
commodious, and considered one of the best anchorages on the
coast of Argyleshire, being protected by several small islands
in the offing, which serve as so many breakwaters or protection
walls, and vessels may enter and depart by three different ways
through straits between these islands.  To strangers entering
Portramsa, there is some danger, arising from some rocks in the
neighbourhood, which are scarcely seen even at low water, and
which disappear entirely at high water.  A little to the west of
Portramsa is the Harbour of Lochoscar, called in the mariners
chart Oscar's Bay.  Tradition says that this bay received its name
from the circumstance of a party of Fingalians coming on one
occasion to enjoy the pleasure of the chase in Lismore, (which,
in the days of Fingal, is said to have been the habitation of red-
deer and other wild beasts) and anchoring their vessel in the bay;
and, as presumptive proof of this fact, it may be mentioned, that
the landing-place is called Portnamurlach, i. e. Port-na-mor-laoch,
or landing-place of the great heroes, and that there is in the im-
mediate neighbourhood, a ridge or rising ground, where the Fin-


