
130                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

lately, there has ever been a marked reluctance amongst the poor
to apply for sessional relief, but it is to be regretted that this feel-
ing is in some instances beginning to diminish.  The causes of
this changd, although extremely important, and sufficiently ob-
vious, are too multiplied, and too much involved in the general
history of the country to admit of being detailed here.  We may
only remark in general, from consequences already observable to
a limited extent, that, if this honourable feeling of independence
among the poorer classes continue to decrease or altogether dis-
appear, a legal assessment (so much dreaded by some) will be
one of the most trivial evils to be apprehended.
   Inns.-There is only one inn in the parish, which, lying on the
high road, is chiefly frequented by strangers.
   Fuel.-Coals are almost the only fuel used.  The poorest class
occasionally use broom and whin bushes, for fuel during the winter.
The price of English coals in Aberdeen varies from 3s. 2d. to
4s. 6d. per boll, a third larger than the imperial boll.  They may
be conveyed to this parish by a canal boat, for 7d. or 8d. ad-
ditional.

                   MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   Nearly a  third of the whole arable land in the parish has been
reclaimed within the last thirty years, so that, making allowance
for the difficulties to be encountered from poverty of soil and other
causes, there are few parishes within the county which can rival
Dyce in the extent of improvement which has taken place since
the last Statistical Account was published.  The estate of Cas-
kieben rented at that time L.212, it is now worth L.1000 per
annum.  Dyce rented L.350, it is now worth nearly L.1100 per
annum, and the extensive improvements still in progress on this
estate must, in a few years, greatly enhance its value. *  Upwards
of three-fourths of the wood in this parish has been planted with-
in the last twelve years.

<FOOTNOTE>These improvement have been, in a great measure, suspended (since the above
was written,) in consequence of the lamented death of Mr Gordon of Pitlurg, the
propritor.  His heir being minor, many years must elapse before the result anti-
cipated in the above passage is ever likely to be realized.  So uncertain are (what
appear to be) the best founded expectations of human beings!

   January 1840.


