
          KILFINICHEN AND KILVICEUEN.                       317

there happens to be a little snow, it is by the lowness of the land,
the warmth of the sea and of the sandy soil, quickly dissolved.
There is, however, a great dealof broken weather, even in the midst
of summer. On the whole, the mildness of the climate is more
evident in winter than in summer; but such is the beat of the
summer and the warm nature of the soil, that Iona produces more
early crops than most parts of Great Britain; for although the
inhabitants do not conclude their barley-sowing until iifter the
middle of June, they have harvest in August.
  Springs.-The island is supplied in abundance with the finest
springs. They are very small: yet a number of them collected
form a rivulet that runs past the ruins of the ancient nunnery.
There is no lake of any consequence; bitt on a plain adjoining
the gardens of the abbey, and surrounded by small hills, there are
vestiges of a large piece of artificial water, which has consisted of
several acres, and been contrived both for pleasure and utility.
Its banks have been formed by art into walks, and though now a
morass, the remains'are to be seen of a broad green terrace passing
through the middle of, it, which has been raised considerably above
the water. At the place where it had been dammed up, and where
there are the marks of a sluice, the ruins of a mill are still to be
seen, which served the inhabitants for grinding their corn.
  Mineralogy.-Dr Garnet remarks, that the greater part of Iona
is formed of limestone, and that the strata are all of secondary
formation. Jameson is not inclined to be of that opinion; and the
investigations and experiments made by him bear him out in this.
Jameson is also supported in his views by Professor.Walkees ob-
servations. The rocks opposite Ross appear to be composed of
quartz pretty intimately combined with cblorite and horoblende.
It is, however, subject to much variety; passing, on the one hand,
to hornblende rock and clay slate - and, on the other, into a silice-
ous talcaceous slate. The rocks are traversed by veins of the
Granites garbenbergensis of Linnaeus. These strata continue to

<FOOTNOTE>Adomnan, in his Vit. Columb. Lib. iI. cap. 2, relates, that Columba having
ordered a quantity of barley to be given to some person, in compensation for a damage
which he had sustained, desired him, at the same time to sow it, though it was then
about midsummer, assuring him, contrary to his expectation, that he would,the same
season reap a plentiful harvest. In obedience to this mandate , the man commited
the seed to the ground on the 12th of June (which now answers to out 24th of that
month,) and he reaped a crop from it in the beginnings of August. Although this
fact is regarded by Adomnan with admiration, and recorded by him as one of Co-
lumba's miracles, yet it is not surprising that it happened in Iona, considering the
nature of its climate and soil.


