
     Statistical Account

   Antiquities.-On the farm of Yetbyre, is a very complete
encampment of an oval form, named Castle-o'er, or Overbie.
The general opinion is, that it is a Roman camp which com-
municated with those of Middlebie and Netherbie; and that
the difference of form may have been occasioned by the situa-
tion; it being placed on the top of a hill where the square
form could not be adhered to.  The name of Overbie, or Up-
per Station, favours this opinion.  As Mr. Crawford is at
present taking a survey of this parish for his intended map of
Dumfries-shire, and will insert a sketch of this, among other
remains of antiquity, any farther description of it would be
unnecessary.  There is scarcely a hill within sight of it, on
which there is not some vestige of an outer encampment.
From Castle-o'er, a communication by encampments of this
kind can easily be traced down the Esk to Netherbie, on the
one hand; and down the Water of Milk to Middlebie, on the
other.  A Roman causeway has also been traced from Nether-
bie to near Langholm; and there are reports that it has been
discovered at the head of this parish near the farm-house of
Over-causeway.  One thing is certain, that immediately be-
fore the house of that name, a pretty strong outer station is
easily discernible.  On the farm of Coatt, there are two cir-
cles of erect stones, in the form of Druidical temples, the one
entire, measuring about 90 feet; and the other, having a part
of it worn away by the Esk, measuring about 340 feet*.  In
mentioning the remarkable things in this parish, it would be

<FOOTNOTE>

*As for the rock on the farm of Twiglees, commonly called the Letter
Stones, from the appearance of letters that some think may be traced on them,
and of which they tell so many fabulous stories, they are scarcely worth notice;
being evidently nothing else than the effects of time on the rock, which is com-
posed of two kinds of stone, the one of which is harder than the other.  Fully
as strong an appearance of letters may be seen on the Watch-craigs, which are
a part of the same range of rocks, and he about a mile and a half nearer the
White Esk.


