
96                      RENFREWSHIRE.


visible trace remains. The castle of Castle Tower gave place to the
present mansion-house of Castle-Semple. Its foundations were this
year laid bare in forming some drains about the latter house. Bel-
trees is mentioned as one of the stone-houses or castles in Renfrew-
shire in 1612, by Monypennie in his Chronicles of Scotland. The
celebrated and literary Sir James Sempill was then proprietor of
Beltrees. Cloak Castle stood a little to the north-west of the pre-
sent mansion-house. The foundations of Lorabank Castle were
dug up by Mr Robert Orr, late proprietor of Langyard and Lora-
bank.
  There are visible the remains of a camp or fort on the farm of
Castlewaws, in the eastern part of the parish, not far from the scene
of the battle of Muirdykes. It is on the top of one of the highest
hills on the south side of the loch, which, on account of its ele-
vation, is visited by strangers for the sake of the extensive and
delightful prospect which it commands, as well as for the sake
of examining the camp. Towards the west the eye lights on
the sombre Misty Law and'adjacent hills, from whence it turns
southwards towards the beautiful country of Cuninghame, the
Frith of Clyde, the Island of Arran, and the Craig of Ailsa. The
entrenched hill is a superficies of about 80 falls in length, and
about 25 in breadth. It consists of a mass of trap rock, precipi-
tous on both sides; it is highest on the east side, which is 40 feet
high. The precipice had no need of a wall for defence, but some
parts of the eminence are sloping in the ascent, and are defended
by a rampart of turf and stones, something like a feal-dike. The
north and south sides are somewhat departing from the form of a
precipice,and therefore are fortified. On the southend,there are still
the remains of an entrenchment, which is 5 feet high. Within the
entrenchment there is a circular wall or intervallum of the same
rude materials, about 60 feet in diameter toward the west.
  This fort has been supposed to be the remains of a camp formed
by Sir William Wallace in his wars with the English; but more
probably it was one of the hill-forts formed by the ancient Britons,
of which there are many remains in the country.
  The bridge of Bridgend across the Calder, a little to the north-
west of the village, is worthy of notice, chiefly on account of its anti-
quity. It is mentioned by Montgomery of Westlands in 1650.
The adjacent property is called Bridgend, probably from this
bridge, and this property is mentioned by this name in a charter of
Lordship of Paisley, by James VI. in 1626, and in the rental of the


