
     of Dornoch.

blish this fact, is not known.  At present, the field alluded
to is held in property, in the same manner as the rest of the
estate, with which it has been so long connected; the present
proprietor having purchased the whole, without any reserva-
tion, from his predecessor.

   Ecclesiastical State.-There are no sectaries here, at least
no avowed feceders from the established church; one man
only, who is not a native of the parish, declines joining in the
public religious services.  The stipend is 80 bolls of bear,
and 700 merks Scotch, including communion elements.  The
glebe is considerably under the legal standard.  The manse
was built about 16 years ago, but was never substantially ex-
ecuted, or properly finished, and therefore stands in need of
repairs.  Three aisles of the ancient cathedral, form the pre-
sent church; the fourth has been long in ruins.  The church
has undergone different repairs, and at a considerable expence.
The Countess of Sutherland*, is patron.  Most of the fami-
lies, of any distinction, connected with the parish, continue to

     B 2

<FOOTNOTE>

*The family burying place is within the church.  A neat monument has
been erected over it to the memory of the last Earl and Countess, of Suther-
land, the parents of the present Countess, who both died in the flower of youth,
within ten days of each other, at Bath, and were buried in one grave in the
church at Holyrood-house, anno 1766.  His Lordship had only attained the age
of 32, and her Ladyship that of 26 years.  This amiable pair were not less en-
nobled by their shining virtues, than by their high rank.  Their humane dis-
positions and condescending manners had greatly endeared them to all orders of
society.  No wonder, then, that their untimely death was deeply felt, and uni-
versally deplored.  The monument bears the following inscription, borrowed
from David's affectionate lamentation over Saul and Jonathan:

     "They were lovely and pleasant
     "in their lives,
     "And, in their death, they were
     "not divided.


