
410		FIFESHIRE.


Salvia verbenaca,	Bank facing the harbour.
Cakile maritima,	East of the town.
Glaux maritimurn,	Do.
Salsola.kali,	Do.
Geranium sanguineum,	Hills east from Burntisland.
Erytbraea centaurea,	Do.
Parictaria muralis,	Opposite the harbour.
Euphorbia exigu-i,	Cornfields.
neseda lutea et luteola,	Between Burntisland and Pettycur.
Drassica campestris,	Near Starly-burn.
Aster Tripolium,	Salt-marsh,we-st of Burntisland.
_Tnula helenium,	Hills east of do.
Chrysanthemum segeturn,	Cornfields.
Sparganiurn natans,	Dunearn Hill.
simplex,	Do.
i'1'e`o'c"h'a"ri's"fluitans,   Do.
Litorella lacustris,	Do.
Diantbus deltoides,	Do.
Mercurialis annual	Waste ground near the church.
Veronica anagallis,	Ditcbes.
Phleum arenarium,	Between Burntisland and Pettycur.


Poa rigida,	Old -alls.
Carex extensa,	Starly-burn.
curta,	Do.
i'u'p-a't'oria cannabinum,     Do.
Aspleninni marinurn,	Do.
Blysmus rufus,	Do.
Cynoglossum officinale,	Pastures near the sea.
Rurnex marititnus,	Sea shore.

The following also occur, but we are not in possession of their
localities
Triticum loliaccuin,
Erytbrea littoralis,
Sium angustifoliurn,
Gentiana campestris,
Origanum vulgare,
Sinapis alba.
Solidago virgaurea,
Trifolium scabrum,
Tragopogon majus, (or pratense,)
Zostera marina.
In the parish, generally, there is a great deficiency of wood.
Within the last two or three years, some attention has been paid
to the remedying of this defect ; but there is still ample scope for
improvement. The soil appears most congenial to hard -wood, oak,
ash, elm, &C.

It may be mentioned that there grew last summer in the manse
garden, a Scots thistle, which produced 713 heads, exclusive of
about thirty which were scarcely developed.

<FOOTNOTE>With regard to the department of Natural History, it may not be out of place
to record here the suggestion so often ur d by Professor Jameson, and also b an
intelligent friend, that, in connection with every parochial school, it would be very
desirable to have a parochial museum. A certain knowled of natural history, would
ge.
ofcourse, be requisite in the parish teacher ; the scholars and others might be en-
-Couraged to collect specimens; and in almost every parish, there would surely be
und some individuals who would take an interest in the matter, a:nd bear part of
the expenses, whichwould be very trifling. The scheme, if carried into effect, would
lead to a very complete knowledge ofthe Natural History of the country. To those
who have not reflected on the subject, it is almost incredible what an interesting Col-
lection might'be formed out of the productions of a single parish.


