
		    REDGORTON.                          169

   We have six out of the twelve Aspidia which are natives of
Scotland, viz. Spinulosum of Hooker, and his var. a * the true
spinulosum of Smith. Oreopteris, very common, but dwarfish
in Mullion, rarer but more magnificent in the lower part of the pa-
rish, with a variety having the sori very sparingly placed upon the
margin of the pinnae, far from confluent; dilatatum, and Filix-mas,
and faemina. We have all the three Polypodia; Asplenium adian-
tum nigrum, Blechnum boreale, and Lycopodium clavatum. We can-
not but regret that we have no station for the very pretty Adian-
tum capillus veneris, and the no less curious Hymenophyllum Tun-
bridgense; and that the magnificent Osmunda regalis is not to be met
with in all this country. It would be needless to enumerate all
our fungi, of which we have a great variety, but we may mention

that we but too frequently meet with Phallus foetidus, the most dis-
gusting of all nature's productions.

                       II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Antiquities.-Chalmers has shewn, in his Caledonia, that the
Roman station, Orrea, was situated at the confluence of the Tay
and the Almond, in this parish, + and there are still circumstances
existing that afford pregnant presumptions of the fact. The Ro-
man road from Ardoch, of which the remains are so distinct and
well known, on the ridge of Gask, leads upon this station;
and is again discovered on the opposite side of the Tay, a little
above the parallel of the Almond. The piers also which support-
ed the bridge by which they crossed the Tay, are still to be seen
in the bottom of the river at this place; and Roman urns have
been found in the banks of the Almond, containing ashes and

<FOOTNOTE>Neither of these two plants, the latter of which is the most beautiful of all
the Aspidia, not even excepting the finely pinnatified Filix.fiemina,-is mentioned
in Hooker's Flora Scotica; and the first is not noticed in Sir J. Smith's Flora
Britannica.
    The remains of the camp at this place are not yet qaite obliterated.  Although
it has been levelled by the plough, the direction of the mound, which formed the de-
fence on the north and west sides, are distinctly visible, by the remarkable elevation
of the ground. The length of this mound on the north side is 860 feet.  Nearly on
the centre of this side there is a small space, which is not raised, like the line both
to the east and west of it, and which it is not difficult to recognize as the gateway.
Along the whole of this line, at a little distance from it, and parallel to it, there are
the remains of a road, some parts of which, when the ground was ploughed some
years ago, were found to be quite closely paved, corresponding exactly to other Ro-
man roads, and the people themselves remarked that every one of the stones had a
smooth face on the upper side.  There can be no doubt that this is the remains of
the iter which conducted to the bridge across the Tay, the piers of which are still
in the river exactly opposite the camp. The remains of the fortification are not so
distinct on the west side, though still visible. The length of this line is only 437
feet, nearly half the space, which must have been occupied by the camp, having been
washed away by the encroachment of the Almond, which, as is well known, now
empties itself into the Tay considerably to the north of its Former embouchure.
The whole camp, when complete, must have contained about twelve acres of ground.


