
124                          SHETLAND.


   The cows, when compared with those of a more southern lati-
tude, are small; but, when on good keeping, give much more
milk than could be expected from their size. Some of those on
the glebe give about five quarts in the morning, three at mid-
day, and five in the evening. The general food of the cows in
winter consists of a small "hallow" or "wap" of straw between
two, night and morning; and if they are confined to the house by
bad weather, they get as much at noon. The cows in calf,
in addition to their stated diet, as above, get a few cabbage
or potatoes cut down and mixed with a little bear-chaff or
coarse seeds; and frequently, in room of these, a little meadow
hay. All the cows are horned, and of every colour; but no at-
tention whatever is paid to the rearing of a proper breed. Though
the cold, bleak, and unsheltered pastures, and the want of a suffi-
ciency of food, stint the animal in its growth and alter its form;
yet much good would result from the lairds taking an active in-
terest in the concerns of their tenants, by offering small premiums
for the best stock in general, or the best bull; or by not allowing
any animal to be kept as a breeder, which had not previously been
approved of.
   The weight of a cow, when fed for slaughter, may be from 11/2
to 21/2 cwts. Cattle bought for slaughter are not considered a good
bargain, if the beef exceeds 11/2d. or 2d. per lb. A cow in calf,
at Whitsunday, if she can be recommended as a good one, will
sell for L.3 Sterling, and sometimes a little more. A farrow cow
at the same season, Whitsunday, will sell from L.1, 10s. to to L.2. 5s.
Sterling; but at Martinmas they may be purchased cheaper. Al-
lowing on an average only three milk cows to each family, there
will be in the parish not fewer than 1122.
   Those who keep four or more cows on their farms, churn once
every day during summer; but the quantity of butter obtain-
ed is not in proportion to tbe frequent churning. The cream is
never gathered and churned.  When the operation of churning
is advanced to a certain stage, an heated stone is dropped into the
churn, by which means the labour is shortened, and an addition
made to the quantity, though not to the quality, of the butter.
Part of the curd thus becomes incorporated with the butter, and
presents a spotted (white and yellow) appearance. By very few,
indeed, it must be acknowledged, is any attention paid to the dairy.
This may arise partly from a portion of the rents being made pay-
able in butter, and partly from want of proper milk-houses, and


