
			PARISH OF PORTREE.

		PRESBYTERY OF SKY, SYNOD OF GLENELG.

		 THE REV. COLL MACDONALD, MINISTER.

		I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
      Name.--THE ancient name of the parish is Ceilitarraglan.
   In the Gaelic language, Ceill signifies a burying-ground, tar,
   bottom, and qleann, a glen; Ceiltarraglan then signifies a burying-
   ground placed at the bottom of a gleu, and no name can be more
   appropriate.
      The modern name of the parish is Portree, compounded of two
   Gaelic words, port signifying a harbour, and righ, a king, the
   King's Harbour. This name was given to the parish in consequence
   of King James the Fifth, when on an aquatic excursion through
   this northern part of his dominions, having anchored and remained
   for some time in the harbour of Portree.
      Extent.--This parish is about 17 miles long, 12 miles broad, and
   contains 204 square miles. It is bounded on the north by the pa-
   risb of Snizort; on the south by the parish of Strath; on the east by
   that arm of the sea which separates it from the parishes of Gair-
   loch and Applecross; and on the west by the parish of Bracadale.
      Topographical Appearances.--It is an oblong figure, and none
   can possibly be more irregular, being indented in various places
   and at short distances by arms of the sea. From the southern to
   the northern extremity, a glen runs through nearly the centre of
   the parish, and on each side of this glen, and along the whole length
   of it there is a range of hills of various heights and dimensions.
   The most remarkable of these, is that which is distinguished by
   the name of aite suidhe Fhin, the sitting place of Fingal; where
   tradition Says that hero sat, directing his followers at the chase.
   This hill rises with an ascent less or more gentle from the head
   of Loch Portree to the height of upwards of 2000 feet from the
   level of the sea; and on the east side of the harbour of Portree,
   and nearly as high, stands the hill  of Peindinavaig the name of which
   signifies the hill,of protection. To the south of this hill, and to the
   north of Loch Sligichan, stands the hill of Beinligh, which is not


