
58			FORFARSHIRE.

tained in manufacturing labour, removed into towns, and the di-
vision of labour effected a more complete separation between our
town and country population.
	The yearly average of births in the united parish for the last
seven years is 50; of deaths, 17; of marriages, 27. The average
number of persons under fifteen years of age is 766; upwards of
seventy, 41.
	The number of unmarried men, bachelors and widowers, up-
wards of fifty years of age, is 13; and of unmarried women upwards
of forty-five, 6. The number of children in each family is from
4 to 5. There are two insane persons in confinement. There is
also one fatuous, and one blind.
	The number of families in the parish is 354; whereof 89 are
chiefly employed in agriculture, and 204 in trade, manufactures,
and handicraft.
        Land-owners.-The number of proprietors of land of the yearly
value of L. 50 is ten. Only Sir John Ogilvy, Baronet, of Inverquha-
rity, and Mr Laird of Strathmartine, have mansion-houses in the
parish; and at the present time there is not a resident proprietor.
        Char`cter, Manners, &c. of the People.-A considerable im-
provemeiit has taken place in the language of the people within the
last forty years. Many Scottish phrases are becoming obsolete; and
a number of trades-people speak English with considerable propriety.
The low price of cotton and other stuffs has enabled the people to
effect a great improvement in their dress. Their houses, with few
exceptions, are white-washed in the inside, once, and many of them
twice a-year; and there is an appearance of comfort wherever there
are habits of industry or virtuous conduct. It would have been satis-
factory to add, that there was also an improvement in morals, and
in the discharge of religious duties; but, while there are many in-
stances of zeal and real piety among the labouring classes, it must
be admitted, that there is also much coldness and neglect.
	The introduction of bothies, or apartments where servants are
lodged by themselves, though advantageous in an economical point
of view, has an opposite effect in regard to moral and intellectual
improvement. The natural intercourse that subsists between the
members of the same family ought to be very cautiously interfered
with, or the young will inevitably suffer. A boy, when training to
the labour of husbandry, and lodged in the same apartment with
others of riper years, has often to listen to conversation which is
but an indifferent substitute for parental instruction, prudent dis-



