
                            ECCLES.                           61

by, Greenlaw traverses the parish from north to south, (by which
the mail passes daily) and that from Edinburgh to London by
Kelso, with the road from Kelso to Berwick crosses it from west
to east. A London coach passes by the south road, and there are
two coaches from Berwick to Kelso. All these turnpikes are kept
in excellent order, and, notwithstanding its extent, there is not a
toll in the parish.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is situated about a mile
from the western side of the parish, and is therefore not so con-
veniently placed as it might be. It is a large spacious building,
furnished with a handsome spire, and was built after the model of
the St Cuthbert's Chapel of Ease, Edinburgh. Its length is 78
feet 6 inches, and its breadth 34 feet. It was erected in 1774,
and conveniently holds 1000 people. The expense was 48 months'
cess, or L.999, 15s. 7d. All the sittings are private property. The
stipend is 16 chalders. The manse and glebe formerly lay to the
south of the mansion-house of Eccles, but their situation was chang-
ed at the expense of Sir John Paterson. The present manse is
placed about a quarter of a mile to the east of the church, and was
built in 1813. The glebe, formerly called Birgharn Park, lies in
front of the manse, amounts to 21 acres, and consists of good land.
Since the Revolution there have been five clergymen whose names
and dates of ordination or admission are as follows:-John Lauder,
1691; Matthew Sandilands Dysert, 1731; Adam Murray, 1774;
James Baird, 1797; James Thomson, 1805.
   The average number of communicants for five years preceding
1829 was 549, but in 1831, in consequence of the emigration, the
number was only 505. As to the number of Dissenters in the pa-
rish, no exact statement can be given, as they vary every year from
the annual emigration and immigration of hinds.
   Education.-There are five schools in the parish, but only one
of these is a parish school, the remainder being entirely supported
by school fees. The parochial schoolmaster teaches Greek, La-
tin, English, writing, and mathematics, and has two chalders of
salary. Mr Waddel, the present schoolmaster, has the merit of
having established, at his own expense, a library for the use of
his pupils, and he finds that they are much benefited by private
reading. He has the maximum salary.
   Charitable Institutions.-An association termed the "Eccles
Friendly Society," was established on the 31st March 1808, for
the purpose of relieving its distressed, infirm, and indigent mem-



