
			LITTLE DUNKELD.               1013

	characters, who have no real business to transact, and are of no
	use but to swell the number of dram-drinkers.
	  Villages, Roads, &c.-There are from twenty to thirty villages
	or hamlets in the parish, with a population in each varying from
	30 to 180 inhabitants. There is a good turnpike road in each of
	the three districts of the parish; that in Strathbran is ten miles
	long; the one in the Bishoprick the same; and in the eastern division,
	about four miles, and all in excellent condition. There is,
	a new bridge across the Br`n, nearly half-way between Dunkeld
	and Amulree.  It crosses the river at a romantic bend of the
	stream, opposite to a beautiful copse of birch which skirts a pretty
	cottage, or shooting-lodge erected by the Murthly family.
	  Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is situated near the
	south bank of the Tay, nearly opposite to Dunkeld, and was built
	in 1798.  It is commodious and comfortable.  The situation is
	fine.  It is nearly surrounded by trees; and for its neat and simple
	appearance, may be considered a model for Scottish country
	churches. In respect to the population, however, the site is not
	the most eligible. Though seated for upwards of 800, there is
	not the half of that number within three miles of it. The people,
	however, who reside in the different extremities of the parish,
	usually attend the nearest church in the neighbouring parish,
        The mission of Amulree, at the west end of Strathbran, is connected
	with this parish, and to which a district of it, comprising
	500 or 600 of Highland population, is attached quoad sacra. The
	sittings are all free.
	  The manse was built in 1820, and is rather a handsome modern
	house. There are two glebes; one at Little Dunkeld, the other
	at the old church of Laganallachy; the former contains about
	eight acres, the latter about four, but not very valuable; both
	may be valued at L.20. The stipend is 10 1/2 chalders nearly, partly
	meal and partly barley, and L.8,6s. 8d. for communion elements.
	The teinds are said to be exhausted.  The stipend is paid according
	to an interim locality, and is considerably less than in the
	time of the late incumbent, between whom and one of the heritors
	(Logiealmond) a process had been going on for years. Soon after
	the admission of the present incumbent, and for whom no appearance
	was made in court, an interlocutor wan pronounced in favour
	of the heritor.
	  There is another church in the parish, that of Laganallachy,
	which name may signify "the valley for burying," from the two



