
952                  GENERAL OBSERVATIONS

Cadder, rose through the earth, and even the water on its sur-
face.  It was easily kindled with a match, and burned brilliantly
on the surface of the water.
   Freestone, another concomitant of coal, is found in every part
of the coal district.  It is of very varied appearance and quali-
ties; and it is a fact not unworthy the attention of the geologists,
that, on the south and west of the Clyde, white freestone predomi-
nates ; while, on the east of the river, it is more generally red, parti-
cularly towards the surface.  To this general fact, however, there are
some exceptions.  Mr Patrick informs us that a stratum of the new,
or upper red sandstone, stretches along the whole of the western
parts of Bothwell, and penetrates into several of the neighbouring
parishes, covering a great part of the south-west edge of the coal
basin of the Clyde.  This freestone is in general compact, and
well suited for building ; and its range is pretty distinctly marked
out to the eye of the traveller, by the general colour of the houses
and other buildings.  Where both red and white freestone occur,
the former is near the surface, and the latter at a considerable
depth beneath some of the seams of coal.  In Dalserf, Lesmaha-
go, and Douglas parishes, freestone of a beautiful white colbur
abounds; and at Nethan foot, in Lesmahago, there is a quarry of
freestone of a white ground, and so beautifully veined and clouded
as to resemble marble.  A yellow freestone, which Mr Patrick
thinks of the same sort as what is found in Dumbartonshire above
the old red sandstone, occurs in Wiston, on Kennox water in
Douglas, and near Monk's head, on the confines of Douglas and
Lesmahago.  In Dalziel parish, is found a very hard rough-grain-
ed freestone, abounding with unequal grains of quartz, unequalled
for resisting the action of both weatber and fire.  Of this stone
the bridge near Hamilton was built.  Tinto-hill, rising between
the parishes of Carmichael, Covington, Symington, and Wiston,
presents rocks of old red sandstone conglomerate ; but the predo-
minant rocks are compact felspar, and felspar porphyries, with
subordinate masses of greenstone.  In the other parishes, on the
eastern verge of the county, greywacke is the predominating rock.
   Organic Remains.--The organic remains of Clydesdale, as might
be expected from the account given of its minerals, are numerous
and interesting.  Shells of various kinds corals, and fossil trees, are
found among the strata of limestone.  One fossil tree, discovered
eight or nine years since, in the lime quarries of Wiston, was sent
to Edinburgh, and was found to be of a species unknown before.


