
     Statistical Account

nants, are annually exported to the S. and W. of Scotland.
When the price is low, bear-meal sometimes finds a market
in Norway.  The brewery of ale and porter at Banff, and
the small licensed whisky stills in the neighbourhood, afford a
good market for barley: These last, besides increasing the con-
sumption and price of barley, and supplying us with whisky,
of a quality greatly superior to what we have from the large
stills in the southern districts, as well as cheaper, and no less
wholesome than foreign spirits, have given a great check to smug-
gling, and, in every point view, are a reciprocal advantage to
the farmers, and the country at large*.  Extending the pa-
sture, and rearing cattle for the grazier and drover, are at
present the principal objects of the farmer; for this purpose
turnips are more frequently applied to, than feeding for the
butcher.  A high proportion of rent in kind is sometimes an
obstruction to this mode of farming, as it lays the tenant un-
der the necessity of keeping more land in village, than he can
properly manure, which must prevent him from having ei-
their so much grass or corn, as he might have, at less expence,
if not so restricted.  But the conversion of such rent into

<FOOTNOTE>

*In 1782, some farms of an early soil produced what was necessary to pay
master and servant; but the deficiency of the crop of that year, was such, in
general as to make the importation of grain from England necessary.  It would
be doing injustice to the principal proprietors of the parish, not to mention that
they voluntarily shared the calamity of that, and the following year, by supply-
ing the people with meal and grain at a reduced price, accepting bear-meal in-
stead of oat-meal for part of their grain rent, and a moderate conversion in mo-
ney for what they could not afford to pay in kind.  By these acts of humanity
on the part of the heritors, disbursement of 80 L. extraordinary from the
poor's fund, and 15 bolls of meal sent by Government, the wants of the poor
were supplied, and the unfortunate assisted.  An advance in the price of black
cattle, and the plentiful crop. 1784, still more effectually repaired the lost sus-
tained by the two preceding years, which would otherwise have been more
deeply felt.


