
               	            INVERNESS.                           13

  Heritors.--The parish contains about seven or eight principal
heritors, whose estates in it yield each from L. 1000 to L. 2000 a
year, while there are about 25 proprietors with smaller rentals.
   Registers.-The records of the proceedings of the kirk-session
extend back to August 1602, between which year and 1655 they
were irregularly kept; and afterwards down to 1673 no minutes
have been preserved. Since then, they are pretty regular, and
registers of marriages and baptisms are kept separately, and latterly
with great care and accuracy.
   Antiquities.--Our limits prevent us from doing little more than
barely enumerating the objects of antiquity in this parish, and this
is the less to be regretted, as they are fully described in the more
recent works to which we have already referred. Commencing on
the west side of the parish are seen, Ist, the rocky eminences
above the village of Clachnaharry (signifying the watchman's stone,)
and on which in ancient times the magistrates of Inverness had a
guard stationed to give notice of any hostile approach from Ross-
shire or Strathglass.  This spot is further marked by a large
column erected by the late H. R. Duff, Esq. of Muirtown, com-
memorative of a desperate battle fought here (A. D. 1333,) be-
tween the Clanchattan and the Munroes of Fowlis. 2d, The
summit of the hill near the base of which these rocks occur, is
crowned with the celebrated vitrified fortress of Craig Phadric,
which is double walled, the ramparts exhibiting heaps of boulder
stones strongly cemented together to the depth of three or four
feet by fire, and which commands within sight of it a chain of si-
vitrified structures, about ten in number, extending in every
direction into the central districts of the county, and by means of
which signals by beacon fires were in ancient times carried across
the island to the opposite coast. * 3d, Below it is the detached hill,
already alluded to, called Tomnahurich, or the Watchman's Hill,
some of the fields adjoining being called Balliefearie, or the Watch-
man's Town, and which, besides being thus a "ward hill," was also
celebrated in the olden time, according to local belief, as the fa-
vourite and chief resort in the north of the tiny race' of fairies, and
was further used by grosser mortals as a great moat, or gathering
hill, on Various occasions of public importance. The magistrates
Of Inverness used also in ancient times to patronise horse-races run
round its base. 4th, Close by, and a little to the west of, this cu-

   <FOOTNOTE>The height of Craig Phadri, ha, been often greatly overstated as exceeding 1100
feet. Its barometrical elevation above the sea is only 435 feet.


