
     of Carluke.

is about 5 measured miles from Lanark, on the road leading
to Glasgow; about 10 from Hamilton, 19 from Glasgow, and
33 from Edinburgh.  The parish itself is about 7 miles in
length, from the Clyde to its boundary on the east; and fully
4 1/2 in breadth.  It must therefore contain upwards of 30
square miles.  It mast be observed also, that the higher part
of the parish of Carstairs, (Mossplat), was originally in this
parish, and still continues to pay stipend to the minister of
Carluke.

   Surface, Soil, etc.-This parish rises considerably above the
level of the sea, its higher grounds being nearly equal to the
Kirk of Shotts, while its lower grounds are little higher than
the Holms of Dalziell and Hamilton.  It has, on this account,
a great declivity, and, in the upper parts, is very much wash-
ed by the heavy rains from the S. and the S. W.  From the
opposite side of the river Clyde, this parish is seen to the
greatest advantage; and the numerous orchards, natural
woods, and modern inclosures, which enrich its banks, afford
a pleasant prospect of cultivation.  As the proposed road
from Lanark to Hamilton, on the south bank of the river, is
soon to be carried into execution, these beauties and improve-
ments will be more accessible to the eye of the public.  The
Clyde, as far up as the Fall at Stonebyres, used formerly to

     VOL. VIII. Q

<FOOTNOTE>

or the Kirk of the Forest.  Accordingly, in the lower part of this parish, there is
still a large district much interspersed with natural woods, called the Bradwood;
and the surname Forest abounds more among the people here, than in any other
parish perhaps in Scotland.  At that time, the kirk stood in a forest, near the
Clyde, on a piece of rising ground, where the present farm house of Maulds-
lie-mains stands, and which, among the old people here, still retains the
name of Abbey Steads.
It need hardly be observed, that the Scotch word Kirk, for a place of wor-
ship, approaches nearer to the original Greek, Kualos, Dixos, than the English word,
Church, and ought perhaps to be made use of, at least in Scotland.


