
     Statistical Account

   Population.-According to Dr Webster's report, the
number of souls was then 1590.  It may be supposed, from
several circumstances, that the number of inhabitants in
this parish has rather decreased.  In almost every part of
the parish ruins of dwelling-houses are seen; and the small
farms which belonged to these, annexed to others.  The
villages, as might have been expected, have not much in-
creased; also most of the young men, having an inclination
for a seafaring life, leave this place, and settle where they
are employed.  From these reasons, it is to be conceived,
that the inhabitants are not so numerous as formerly.
From an account taken in the 1792, the number appears to
be of families 344; of souls 1280.  Of these, almost in each
of the villages, Daff and Gourock, is 1-3 d; the other third
in the country part.  Males and females are nearly equal.

<FOOTNOTE>

much owing to the increase of labour, as to the decrease of hands.  Ever
since small farms and cottages became parts of larger possession, the num-
ber of hands, who work for hire, has diminished.  The effect of this was
considerably felt formerly, but of late more sensibly.  The country is now
so much drained of its useful labourers, by the different manufactures,
that the farmer can hardly either find servants, or afford the high wages
Any advance he has upon the different productions of his farm, with dif-
ficulty balances the rise of rents.  A ploughman's wage is from L 9 to
L. 12, with victuals; a woman's, from L 3 to L. 4, a mason's 2 s. a car-
penter or house-wright, 1 s 8 d. a-day; a day-labourer, 1 s. 6 d.  There
are some both higher and lower than these.  The necessaries of life, that
cannot be brought from a considerable distance have greatly increased,
and are still increasing, meal excepted.  Oat-meal of this country produce,
rates commonly from 11 d. to 1 s. 2 d. but seldom above 1 s. the peck;
beef, from 6 s. to 6 s. 6 d. the stone; mutton, from 5 d. to 6 1/2 d. the pound;
fresh butter, from 10 d. to 1 s. the pound; salt butter, 13 s. the stone; po-
tatoes, at a medium, 6 d. a peck.  White fish, haddocks, and cod, new
taken, are sold at 1 d. the pound; salmon, 4 3/2 d.


