
                          LASSWADE.                           329

business, greater, perhaps, than that possessed by any other indi-
vidual in the world."
   Mr Dundas resigned his place of Treasurer of the Navy in May
1800, of Principal Secretary of State in March 1801, and of Pre-
sident of the Bourd of Controt in May following, going out of of
fice with Mr. Pitt.  In testimony of the approbation of his sove-
reign, he was constituted Keeper of the Privy Seal in Scotland in
1800; and, in further testimony of the royal approbation, he was
created a Peer of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ire-
land.  In 1804, he returned into power with Mr Pitt, and was
appointed First Lord of the Admiralty.  These illustrious col-
leagues then prepared for the vigorous prosecution of the war,
which has since happily accomplished the object for which it was
carried on,--the liberation of Europe.
   While Lord Melville was occupied in placing the naval affairs
of the country on the footing which led to the splendid and deci-
sive victory of Trafalgar, an unexpected occurrence deprived the
nation of his services.  It appeared that his Lordship, while trea-
surer, had given a verbal permission to the paymaster of the navy
to draw, from the Bank of England, money for the service of the
navy, after the assignments and heads of service had been made
by the proper boards, in terms of the statute, and to lodge the
same in the hands of Messrs Courts & Co., the bankers of the
paymasters till it was demanded.  The commissioners appointed
to investigate this matter gave in a report concluding thus, "that
the withdrawing of the public money from the Bank of England,
in the manner and for the purpose before related, was, in our judg-
ment, a disobedience to the law."
   The trial of Lord Melville took place in Westminster Hall, oc-
cupied sixteen days, and terminated on the 12th of June.  His
Lordship, in accordance with tire solemn legal opinion of the
judges, to  whom the points of law were submitted trium-
phantly acquitted.
   On the change of administration his Lordship was sworn a privy
councillor 8th April 11807 without any ministerial office, and had
the dignity of an earldom offered for his acceptance but this
spontaneaus, mark of the  regard, in he was held by his royal
master, was respecfully declined.  Lord Melville was also the first
named in the commission for inquiring into the administration of
justice in Scotland.
   The early part of the year 1811 Lord Melville spent in his na-


