
     of Liff and Bervie.

peculiar attractions of this spot to manufacturers, besides its
being in the country, and at a convenient distance, either for
carrying what they can spare to market in Dundee, or for
bringing necessaries from thence, are these:  1st, The pro-
mise of a fixed residence, almost the whole land having 
been subdivided into smaller feus and possessiosn, a famil-
ly, according as they are able, may either purchase or rent,
what will serve for a commodious habitation.  2 d, Every
web of cloth, as soon as it comes from the loom, may here
be disposed of, without the trouble and expense of convey-
ing it for sale to a distance.  The first merchant weavers
were, a family of the name of Coock, who continue still in
the same line, with much credit and advantage to them-
selves, and to whose industry and example this district is
principally indebted for its present flourishing condition.
But 3 d, What above every other advantage has tended to
enhance the value of this spot to manufacturers, and without
which it might have remained still in its original unim-
proved slate, is a small brook or stream, that passes from
Milehouse westward, through Locheye, and furnishes a sup-
ply of water for boiling and bleaching, as much as is ne-
cessary of the cloth manufactured in the district.  These
causes combined, point out Locheye and Milehouse as a
highly convenient station for manufacturers.  The house-
hold linen made in this district is not worth mentioning,
and the number of Osnaburghs is comparatively small.
The staple manufature is coarse linens, which are carried
to London, some of them for consumpt in Britain, others
for exportation.  They are named from their breadth,
as yard wides, 3 quarter wides, and wide thin linens, and
the price of each sort is regulated by the quality of yarn
of which it is made, according to the market.  A very 
small proportion of the yarn made use of, is spun in this dis-
trict, though several women apply themselves to it; every

     VOL. XIII. P


