
		ISLAND OF SKYE-KILMUIR.                   243

  There is scarcely any thunder except in winter and spring, when
it is very prevalent. Lighthing is to be seen at all seasons, and
some of the oldest inhabitants prognosticate the weather with a
wonderful degree of correctness, both from the colour of the elec-
tric fluid, and the time of day when it appears. It is generally observ-
ed, that when vivid flashes of lightning are seen early in the
morning, the ensuing weather will be unfavourable; but while seen
towards the evening, better hopes are entertained. It is remark-
ed also, that when the aurora borealis is seen ascending high into
the heavens, and when some rays have a reddish appearance, and in-
stantly vanish to give place to others of a darker hue, then the
weather will certainly change, and continue to be unfavourable for
a length of time.
  The forms and colouring of Nature are frequently magnificent-
ly grand. Scenes at times present themselves which are both in-
teresting and impressive. Who can behold without a pleasing
elevation of mind, the tempestuous Atlantic battling with the fury
of the elements? What can be more beautiful than to witness
the clouds of mist receding, in thickening folds, from the moun-
tains, to the higher regions of the atmosphere, and leaving the
landscape again to rejoice in the brightness of sunshine! At
times, they present phenomena like celestial mountains tinged with
the riches and variety of prismatic colouring! The splendour of
the morning and evening drapery frequently baffles all descrip-
tion. The aurora borealis, or polar lights, are often exceedingly
brilliant; as are likewise the solar rainbow, and the lunar halo.
Such luminous meteors, certainly surpass in magnificence any ap-
pearance of the kind in other parts of the kingdom. The natives
prognosticate the weather in various ways. It may be noticed also,
that they attribute much importance, not only here, but in most parts
of the Highlands, to the phases of the moon, not solely in regard
to the weather, but likewise to the season best fitted for performing
many acts of labour. They imagine that an increasing moon com.
municates a growing quality to most substances, while a decreas-
ing moon has an opposite tendency, and causes such substances to
decay or wither. Actuated by this supposition, they avoid in ge-
neral, slaughtering animals in the wane of the moon, as then, ac-
cording to their idea, the meat will shrink and decrease while in
process of cooking. On the other hand, they prefer cutting tim-
ber, mowing hay, casting turf, and delving ground, between full
and new moon, as they are under the belief, that by so doing, the


