
20			BUTESHIRE.

ing-place, to hazard another stake for his crown and kingdom, and
landed in Arran with few but faithful followers, in a small fleet
of thirty-three row-boats. History dwells with minute fondness on
this part of the monarch's adventurous career; his landing on the
west side of the island; his waiting with Douglas and those of his
partisans who preceded him, by whom he was recognized by the
blowing of his horn; his occupations during his stay; and his en-
terprising voyage to the mainland, on beholding the fire on Turn-
berry Head, which, though not the signal light which he deemed it,
proved in the result the dawn of his prosperous fortunes, in esta-
blishing the liberties and independence of his country. Several me-
morials of the Bruce still remain in the island of Arran. The
King's Cove on the west coast; Dalry, or the King's plain; Toran-
righ, or the King's mount, and King Cross, wbence he embarked for
the coast of Carrick, are places said to have all received their
names from their connection with Bruce. Some of the names may
perhaps be otherwise accounted for. But other and less doubtful
traces of Bruce are furnished by grants of land which he lade to
several of the natives, for services rendered him while in the island.
Mr Fullarton of Kilmichael is the lineal descendant of one of
these, Feargus Macloy or Maclewis. He still possesses the char-
ter for his lands given to his ancestor, which is signed by Robert
II. and dated Arnele, 26th November, in the second year of his
reign. The lands granted to others on the same occasion have
passed long ago out of the hands of their descendants, and now
form parts of the property of the Duke of Hamilton. For rea-
sons already adverted to, it is probable that the principal proprie-
tor in Arran was at this time the High Steward of Scotland. At all
events, it unquestionably belonged to him in the next generation,
when, by the failure of male heirs to Bruce, the High Steward,
under the title of Robert II., ascended the Scottish threne. Arran
by this event became part of the patrimony of the crown; and its
inhabitant, having taken up arms on this occasion in behalf of their
master, they were freed from the annual tribute of corn which they
formerly paid, and granted many other privileges. In conjunction
with the men of Bute, they constituted the celebrated Brandani,
who afterwards acted as the King's body guard. The island of
Arran was at that period  mostly covered with wood, and richly
stocked with deer, foxes, and other animals of the chase. Hence
it became a favourite resort of the Stewart kings in their
hunting excursions. The castle of Lochranza, the walls of which
still remain  sufficiently entire to attest its former magnificence, was


