
				LOCHMADEN.                       385

with which the heart of the walls was filled up, is as hard and firm
as at the time when the castle was built,--the weather having no in-
fluence upon it whatever. In former times, there were a dear park
and an oak forest of considerable extent around the castle.
	Spedlin's Tower.--This old tower stands on the north of the pa-
rish, and was formerly the residence of the Jardines of Applegarth.
It is strongly vaulted with walls of an immense thickness flanked by
round turrets at the angles. The entrance is on the north side, near
the north-east angle, through a circular door, and has on dach side a
transverse loop-hole. Over the centre, at the top of the tower, is a
square tablet containing the coat of arms of the Jardines, and the
date 1605, probably the last time it was repaired. It is surround-
ed by a number of fine trees, and on two of its sides it is closely
mantled with ivy. *
	Rockhall Mount or Moat.--This moat, in particular, is of very
remote antiquity. It is a fine mound of earth perfectly round, and
terminating in a sharp point. It is the largest and most entire of
any in the parish or neighbourbood, and is situated upon the side
of a ridge of hills which overhang the castle, and separate Annan-
dale from Nithsdale, and overlook an extensive plain at the foot of
the river Nith, part of Galloway, and all the Solway Frith. It
is generally believed that the people met on these moats to enact
laws and administer justice. We are rather of opinion that this
moat, or, as it is more frequently called, the " Beacon-hill," was
used as a place for keeping watch against the border marauders,
and upon which fires were kindled to put the inhabitants of the
lower grounds upon their guard against predatory incursions.

<FOOTNOTE>This tower is rendered famous over the country by a story of a ghost. Sir Alex-
ander Jardine, in the reign of Charles II., bad confined in the dungeon of his to
of Spedlins, a man named Porteous, by trade a miller, suspected of wilfully having
set fire to his own premises. Being soon after suddenly called to Edinburgh, he car-
ried the key of the vault with him, and forgot the prisoner till he was passing through
the West flort of Edinburgh. Sir Alexander immediately sent back a servant to
liberate Porteous, but, in the meantime, he died of hunger, and in the extremity of
his sufferings he had devoured one of his hands and feet. No sooner was the man
dead, than his ghost began to torment the household, and no rest was to be had within
the tower of Spedlins by night or by day. In this dilemma, Sir Alexander summon-
ed a number of ministers to his aid, and by their prayer, Porteous was confined to
the scene of his mortal agonies, where he continued to scream occasionally at night,
and to flutter like a bird against the door of his vault, and to remove the bark from
any twig that was thrust through the key hole. The spell which forced the spirit to
remain in bondage was attached to a large black letter Bible used by the exorcists,
and afterwards deposited in a stone niche in the wall of the staircase. This Bible
requiring to be rebound was sent to Edinburgh, but immediately upon its removal,
the ghost getting out and crossing the river, made such a noise in the new mansion-
house, hauling the Baronet and his lady out of bed, that the Bible was recalled and
placed in its former situation. It was printed in London, by Robert Baker, in the
year 1634.


