
24                      BERWICKSHIRE.

Earlston. It is almost in one extremity of the parish, and is five
miles distant from the other. It has hitherto been unable to af-
ford accommodation to more than 450 persons, of whom none,
with the exception of the heritors, have free sittings; but, besides
the repair, it is now also receiving an enlargement, which will be
capable of holding nearly 200.-The manse was erected in 1814,
and repaired in 1824.-The stipend is 16 chalders.-The glebe,
which is between 7 and 8 acres in extent, is so valuable, as to let
at upwards df L. 5 per acre.
   Among benefactions for religious and charitable purposes, the
following may be mentioned as the most interesting and import-
ant, viz. L. 50 by the late Honourable Mrs Baillie of Jerviswood,
for the more frequent dispensation of our Lord's supper; L. 200
by Mr Tod of Kirklands, for coals to the poor; L. 86 for the
same purpose, by a person whose name is at present forgotten;
L. 600 by J. Wilson, Esq. surgeon, Bombay, for the benefit of
the parish school, and L. 30 for teaching the children of the en-
rolled poor.
   There are two dissenting chapels in the parish, one of which,
belonging to the Antiburgher Seceders, has existed almost from
the commencement of the Secession, while the other, connected
with the Relief church, is not more than fifty years old. The sti-
pend of the minister of the Antiburgher chapel does not exceed
L. 100, nor does that of the Relief minister amount to more than
L. 120, and both are raised from the seat-rents. and from the
weekly collections on the Sabbath. In the former congregation
there may be a few more, and in the latter a few less, than 300
communicants. The number of persons of all ages connected
with the Established church is about 800. The number regularly
attending is about 400. The number of communicants at the last
dispensation of the sacrament was 404. And the average amount
of church collections yearly may be stated at L. 22.
   Education.-There are at present three schools in the parish,
two of which are endowed; one of these is at Mellerstain, where
the teacher has a salary of L. 5 from Mr Baillie, and where the
ordinary branches are taught. The other is the parochial school,
where the teacher's salary is L. 28, and where the branches of in-
struction taught are, English, reading, and grammar, writing, arith-
metic, practical mathematics, algebra, geometry, plain and sphe-
rical trigonometry, Latin, Greek, and French.
   The people, in general, are alive to the benefits of education;


