
                            GOVAN.                          691

below the surface of the ground, and placed within a few feet of
one another. Some of them are 14 inches high, 10 inches in dia-
meter at the top, and 4 inches at the bottom. The others are
smaller, but of the same form. The fragments of bones which
were found in them were placed irregularly one above the other.
They contained likewise a small portion of hair. *
  Haqgs Castle.-This is a very picturesque ruin.  It was built
in 1585 by one of the ancestors of Sir John Maxwell of Pollok,
and " D. Margaret Conyngha, his wyfe."  There is an inscription
over one of the doors to that effect, which is nnw read with diffi-
culty.  On the 6th of November 1667, information was received
by the presbytery of Glasgow, or the ecclesiastical body, which,
under an Episcopal form of government, continued improperly to
take that name, that a conventicle had been held in the Haggs,
in the parish of Govan.  They therefore gave orders that the per-
sons who were reported to have been present should be summon-
ed to a meeting, which was appointed to be held on the 20th of
the same month.  On that day John Logan, one of the persons
arraigned, manfully "confessed that he was present at ye forsaid
conventickle, and not onlie refused to give his oath to declare
who preached, or wer then present, but furder declared he wold
not be a Judas, as otheris, to delate any that wer ther present.?
His name and those of the other recusants were ordered to be
given up to the Archbishop, along with an account of the proceed-
ings.  Their sentence is not recorded.  Wodrow says, that, in
the year 1676, Mr Alexander Jamieson, who had been ejected
from the parish of Govan, because he refused to conform to Epis-
copacy, "gave the sacrament in the house of the Haggs, within two
miles of Glasgow, along with another clergyman.  Mr Jamieson
did not again drink of the vine till he drank it new in the Father's
kingdom." +  The family of Pollok suffered severely for thus keep-
ing and being present at house and field conventicles. By a de-
creet of the privry-council, December 2, 1684, Sir John Maxwell
had a fine imposed upon him of L.8000 Sterling.  When he re-
fused to pay this arbitrary and opressive exaction, he was com-
mitted to prison for sixteen months, though all, it appears, he
could be charged with was, that he had received into his house

<FOOTNOTE>Among the Romans the practice of burning the dead arose from its being dis-
covered, that the bodies of those who were slain in their distant wars were dug up by
their enemies.  Plin. Nat. Hist. lib. vii. cap. 53
          Woodrow's Hist. Vol. ii. p. 318.  Glasgow, 1830.


