
			SORN.                                    145

tains about 730 sittings, will, it is expected, in a short time be con-
stituted a parish church, and the village of Catrine be assigned to
its minister as a parish quoad sacra.
	The present manse was built by the Rev. William Steele, to
whom allusion has already been made, soon after be was settled
minister of the parish, and that chiefly at his own expense,--the he-
ritors having only granted him a small allowance for the purpose.
Some additions have been made to it by succeeding incumbents,
and, if thoroughly repaired, it might prove a comfortable manse for
sometime to come. The glebe, including the ground on which
the manse and office-houses stand, is about 9 Scotch acres. The
stipend is 123 bolls of meal, 52 bolls of bear, of the old weight
and measure of the county, and L. 37, 6s. 9d.
	A meeting-house in connection with the United Secession
Church has recently been built at Catrine, but as yet no minister
has been appointed to it. This meeting-house has been erected,
not in consequence of any recent accession in the parish to the re,
ligious denomination with which it is connected, but chiefly, it is
supposed, for the accommodation of those persons belonging to that
body who have been in the babit of attending the meeting-bouses
at Mauchline and Curnnock.
	The number of persons in the parish belonging to the Esta-
blishment is 3360, of whom l299 are communicants, 760 belong
to other denominations, chiefly to the United Secession.
	Education.--There is one parochial school in the parish, with
the legal accommodation and the maximum salary, situated close by
the church, within about a quarter of a mile of the village of Sorn.
There are, besides, in the rural district four teachers, and in the
village of Catrine seven teachers, all of whom, with one exception,
depend entirely on the school wages, which average about 3d. per
week. The exception is the teacher employed by the Catrine Cot-
ton Company, who receives from them L. 50 a-year for teaching
in the evening, the more advanced young persons engaged in their
works, and about L. 30 annually for instructing during the day
those who are under thirteen years of age, in terms of the factories'
regulation bill. The number of the persons in the parish attend-
ing scbool is about 500.
	Libraries.--There are four libraries in the village of Catrine
ane, called the Public Library, was instituted in 1814, consists
of upwards of 600 volumes, and h`s 70 members, who pay L. 1 of
entry money, and 2s. 3d,. annully. The second is the New Pubs
	AYR.  			K


