
ORPHIR.                                 23

precision, the quantity of grain raised.  Suffice it to say, that, b6-.,.
sides supplying the demands of the parish, there are. upwards of
240 bolls of meal and grain frequently sent, annually, to Kirkwall
and Stromness; andin plentiful years, the tenants of the large
farms send grain to - the Leith market.  The average price of oat-
meal is 2s. per stone of 171 lbs.  Avoirdupois, and ofbear meal, Is. 6d.
Both sometimes sell for less; but after bad crops, both kinds of
meal are imported, commonly from Leith, to Kirkwall and Strom-
ness, to which supplies even some of the farmers are obliged to
have r;course.
When there is an extraordinary demand for black-cattle, from
sixty to seventy head are sold, early in the summer, chiefly to far-
mers from Caithness, at a price from L.2, 10s. to L.3. A, few
horses are sold at the Lammas market at Kirkwall, commonly to
Caithness people, at from L.8 to L. 10; and some, in rare cases,
bring double this price.
Kelp Manufacture.-When kelp was in demand, there were
-about seventy tons manufactured annually.  The tang,,on the same
part of the shore, was.    cut only once in the two years.. . Only
about twenty tons have been manufactured annually for some
years past, as the price has been small, being only L-5 per ton
at market, whereas it used to be from L. 10 to L. 12. . This is
a great loss to tile proprietors, and also to the tenants who were
employed in the manufacture.  This loss is on the increase, as the
tang, which is not cut once in two years, is apt to be so completely
torn from the rocks by the winter storms, that it does not veggetate
"Jerain.
Navigation.-There is no      .sloop belonging to the parish. Be-
sides the eight herring boats, and one4obster boat, there are 43 em-
ployed in taking sillocks, kewtbs, and other fish ; 52 in all; they
are also employed in carrying farm produce to Stromness.
V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
Means of Communication.-The post 'crosses from Huna,                in
Caithness, to South Ronaldsay, where there is a post-office, and
proceeds by a runner to Kirkwall and Stromness.  There was no
public road, by which a cart could pass, until about twenty years
ago.  Since that period, the- statute labour has been emploved
in forming a public road; and this has for some time past been
formed, and the greater part kept in a good state of repair.- There
is only one- harbour, and it is situated in the Bay of Houton,


