

                         DUNFERMLINE.   	                 885

      Approved of as it once was, except for top-dressing on pasture.
      Bone-dust is occasionally used for turnips, and is reckoned suita-
      ble for free soils, and rape-dust for fallow ground and retentive
      soils.  One farmer has employed rape-dust with great effect, hav-
      ing had four full successive crops after its application. Guano is
      also coming into use.
        Live-Stock.-Few or no sheep are bred in the parish. Tees-
      water and Fife breed of cattle are most approved of at present;
      but a difference of opinion exists as to which is best for the ge-
      neral breed of the parish or county.  Teeswater cattle, or short-
      horns, as they are called, are said to come sooner to maturity, with
      more weight, but require better keeping than the native breed,
      and are not so well adapted as the other for the high lands.
        Husbandry.-A general spirit of improvement at present pre-
      vails over the parish in the reclaiming of waste lands, and espe-
      cially in draining, both by stones and tiles, which is the founda-
      tion of all good husbandry, and when properly executed, is a per-
      manent advantage. Perhaps more has been done in this way for
      the success of agriculture during the last ten years, than during
      the preceding generation.
        There are two high-pressure steam engines in the southern sec-
      tion of the parish, for driving thrashing-machines, both of recent
      introduction.
        Rotation of Crops.-This varies very much in the southern dis-
      trict. Ttiat which is most practised and approved of in strong
      clays, is, 1st, summer-fallow ; 2d, wheat ; 3d, beans; 4th, bar-
      ley ; 5th, hay; 6th, oats.  On loams, Ist, potatoes ; 2d, wheat;
      3d, barley; 4th, hay ; 5th, oats ; or, Ist, turnip; 2d, barley sown
      with grass-seeds ; 3d, grass, and pastured two or three years,
      where the land is fenced ; and then oats. The proportion of land
      employed in raising ttirnips is much increased of late years. While
      at the period of the last Stati-,tical Account it was 200 acres, and
      in 1814 is reported to have been very inconsiderable, it was, in
      1838, as appears from the table, 308 acres.
        Sowing and Planting .-The period of this is generally, for
                
	      1st, Wheat, from 1st October till the middle of December;
              2d, Barley, from 1st April till 26th May;
              3d, Oats, from 20th March till 20th April
              4th, Beans, from 1st March till the middle of April;
              5th, Turnips, Swedish, from 1st May till Ist June;
                      ...     Globe, from 26th May till 10th July
                      ...     Yellow, from 26th May till lbth June.

        Potatoes are planted from the first till the middle of May;  but
      not generally with success after the 15th.


