
				NIGG.                                  23

	two strata of sandstone are highly inclined, and stretch in the same
	direction as the hill. 2. Passing along the top of the hill towards
	the north-east, the gneiss is succeeded by conglomerate, and this
	again by sandstone highly inclined, and subsiding at Shandwick,-
	where the different strata inclined be classed as follows, in an ascend-
	ing order, viz. 1. Hard red sandstone. 2. Soft white sandstone,
	containing coal apparently of woody origin, several veins about a
	foot broad, appearing just at the surface, and not easily distinguish-
	ed on account of the shingle. 3. Greenish clay passing into sand-
	stone, and containing fragments of shells and impressions of bivalves.
	4. Hard greenstone containing many belemnites. 5. A series of
	shales and limestones.
          The strata are inclined at an angle of about 30&deg;, in the form of
	a curve, with the chord towards the hill, and dipping towards the
	south-east, under the sea. The shells are chiefly arnmonites, be-
	lemnites, and Gryphea giqantea and Gryphea incurva.
	  Nigg is very barren of minerals. Iron enters into the composi-
	tion of the gneiss in some places, and ironstone is found associated
	with the lias beds. Lime appears in the form of a crystallized
	carbonate in small veins at Shandwick, and of stalactites on the
	roofs and sides of the caves; and when associated with some of the
	springs, petrifies the mosses, over which their waters flow. Garnet
	is, frequently after a storm at sea, spread in small fragments over a
	considerable extent of the shores, and so thickly, as to give the sand
	a deep purple colour.
	  Soils.-The soils are various, and apparently transported. The
	west end of the parish, which has a very bleak appearance, consists
	of light sand. But a foot or two under the sand, there is a deep
	layer of fine loam intermixed with blue clay; and there is a tradi-
	tion, on which some dependence may be placed, that the covering
	of sand is not of older date than the seventeenth century ; and that
	previously to that period, the west end of the parish of Nigg, vhich
	is now a sandy desert, was a fertile field. The sand is said to have
	performed its destructive work in the course of one night, as hap-
	pened in the cases of Culbin in Morayshire, and Morichmore near
	Tain. The wickedness of the laird of Dunskeath is said to have
	been the occasion of this calamity. In various parts of the parish,
	the soil is clayey. But the greater part of the arable land consists
	of remarkably fine black loam on red sandstone, the loam varying
	from one to four feet in depth.
	  Zoology.-The neighbouring friths abound with fish of va-



