
608                     ARGYLESHIRE.

zie. This village has also risen rapidly into considerable extent;
and though its appearance, and the disposal of the houses of which
it is now composed, might have been much more advantageously
arranged had the whole been done under the eye of a proprietor
owning the whole of the lands adjacent, as well as the space now
feued, still the village of Kilmun forms a favourite summer resort,
and is rapidly increasing. While the territorial aspect of the
united parish has thus undergone, both by the erection of villages
and by agricultural improvements, a very remarkable change,
during so brief a period as little more than twenty years, the
whole must be attributed to the wonderful powers of the steam-
engine applied to the purposes of navigation. Previously to the
era of this discovery (not of steam power, but of steam navigation,)
the access from this parish and from the neighbouring districts to
the low country and towns on the Clyde was tedious, uncertain,
and sometimes dangerous. *
  The passage by steam from Dunoon to Glasgow is now made
on average in three hours. And the same marvellous power of
steam now applied to inland travelling, the transit from Dunoon to
Glasgow is accomplished in two hours, and to Edinburgh in four.
  Parochial Registers.-These consist of several manuscript vo-
lumes and scattered fasciculi of scrolls and portions of minutes and
registers, irregularly kept, down to a comparatively modern date.
The session book of the parish of Dunoon commences December
6, 1692, and, while designated as the session record of the parish
of Dunoon proper, some of its sederunts show the heritors of the
parish of Kilmun to have been also present, indicating that Kil-

<FOOTNOTE>The contrast in facility of intercourse between the two periods may be best il-
lustrated by an instance or two. The late minister of the parish of Rothsay men-
tioned to the writer, his having, in the summer season, not longer ago than twenty-
four years, been three days nearly in making good a passage from Rothsay to Green-
ock. A gentlemen resident in Glasgow has also mentioned, that, about thirty-two
years ago, desiring to convey his family for summer residence to the village of Gou-
rock, three miles beyond Greenock, on the Clyde, they set out from Glasgow in the
morning in one of the passage-boats at that time plying on the river, and denomi-
nated, not very appropriately, "Flies." The whole of that day they were occupied
in making good their way the length of Bowling Bay, not nearly half way from Glas-
gow to Greenock, and there came to anchor for the night. Weighing next morning
and proceeding to sea, the wind being contrary, after spending the whole day in buf-
feting the waves of the Clyde they were forced to put back, returning the second
night to Bowling Bay. The third day they made the next attempt and succeeded
in making Port- Glasgow, in the afternoon, where he took post-horses, leaving the fly
in disgust; and having seen his family housed in Gourock, he returned by land on
the fourth day to Glasgow, weary, sick, and exhausted, the voyage and journey, he ad-
ded, costing him L.7, 14s. At present, any modern steamer makes the passage from
Rothsay to Greenock in two hours, and the passage is made from Glagow to Gou-
rock in a qaurter more than two hours, in any weather not absolutely tempestuous;
and the expense of either passage is not more than one shilling.


