
                                DYCE.                            125

state of crime at the present time with that in any other portion of
our parish history during the course of the seventeenth century.  The
superrtitions which, from the same authority, we find to have then
infected both clergy and people, are now generally ridiculed.  If
any trace of superstition still remain, it is rather practical than
speculative, as in observing festival days, or concealing a child's
name until the baptism, and seems rather the result of habit than
of any religious prepossession.
   Poaching in game prevails to a considerable extent, but much
more among quarriers and manufacturers than the permanent inha.
bitants of the district.  There is no poaching on the salmon-fish-
eries, which in this parish are of very little value.

                            IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.-There are 2910 acres, standard imperial measure,
of cultivated land in the parish; 581 acres of waste land, of which
perhaps 237 or thereby might, with a profitable application of ca-
pital, he added to the cultivated land.  There are 1176 acres un-
der wood, amounting to rather more than a third of the whole pa-
rish.  Indeed, the hill of Tyrebagger, (with the exception of a
narrow rim round its edge,) is unfit for any other purpose.  The
plantations are wholly Scotch fir and larch.  In some places they
are thriving; but on the extensive level forming the top of the
hill, they have hitherto made but little progress, chiefly in conse-
quence of the poverty of the soil, `nd their exposure to the sea
blast.
   Rent of Land.-The average rent of arable land is L.1 Ster-
ling per imperial acre.  The average rent of grazing is at the rate
of L.2, 10S. Sterling per ox or cow, grazed during the summer
season.  Turnips during winter amount to about the same sum.
   Wages and Rates of Labour.-Ploughmen get about L.10 per
annum; women from L.2 to L.4; day-labourers, with victuals,
from 10d. to 1s. ; harvest men from L. 1, 10s. to L. 2, 5s. ; har-
vest women from L. 1, 5s. to L. l5s. ; carpenters and masons from
1s. 3d. to 1s. 6d. per day, with victuals; a smith receives for all
the iron-work on a farm of two horse labour (price of iron includ-
ed) L. 4, 10s. Sterling per annum.  Smiths are never employed
here by the day.
   Prices.-A doublehorse cart costs from L. 8 to L. 10 Sterling;
plough for two horses L.2, 10s. to L.3 Sterling; harrows 12s.
each; mason-work from L.1, 5s. to L.2 per rood; best park
timber from 8d. to 10d. per cubic foot.


