
                             ALVA.                             185
<TABLE>

	In 1831, the, number of inhabited houses, was     .    .     218
                                 houses uninhabited or building,        8
	The average of marriaged for the last 9 years is     .    .   18
	               births registered for the last 7 years is   .  25
	               deaths registered for the last 7 years is  .   28 5/8
   It appears from the above tables, that a very rapid increase in
the population has taken place of late,-it having been almost doub-
led in the last thirty years, and an evident cause for this is the great
recent improvements in manufactures. In 1801, only one woollen
mill was established, and now there are eight mills, besides many
lesser places of manufacture. Formerly, the manufacture of the
district was confined to serges, plaidings, blanketings, and coarse
stuffs for the West India negroes; now, in addition to these, car-
pets, shawls and trowser cloths, are made for foreign and home,
consumption.
   At present, the village Contains 1 surgeon, 2 schoolmasters, 13
retail shopkeepers, 2 bakers, 2 butchers, who kill once a week, 4
blacksmiths, 5 shoemakers, 2 wrights, 2 tailors, 11 masons, 5 car-
ters, 1 slater, 1 tinsmith, 1 turner, 1 cooper, 1 engineer, 2 mill-
wrights, 18 mechanics, 7 licensed retailers of spirits. About 50
bands are employed in agriculture in the parish, and nearly 600 in
the woollen manufactures. The land is divided betwixt 4 farmers
and 2 sheep-farmers, and the number of woollen manufacturers;
having factories, is 7, and 24 have a business on a smaller scale.
A carrier goes to Stirling and Glasgow once a week, and there is
a post-office supported by private subscription, for the convenience
of the manufacturers.

                         IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.-From the description given of the lands of. Alva,
it will be seen that they naturally divide themselves into arable and
pasture grounds. The arable soil of this parish may be distin-
guished into four kinds. That which extends southward:from the
bottom of the hills, consists of a rich hazel mould, intermixed with
gravel and small stones. This is succeeded by a stratum of moss
over a bed of clay, and extending from 50 to 100 yards in breadth,
and in some places this moss is found 7 feet deep. Next to this
is a strong clay, extending a considerable way towards the Devon.
Then follows what is called haughing ground, such as is usually
found on the banks of rivers, and the inundations of the Devon,
which occur twice or thrice a-year, leave great quantities of sand
behind.  The soil at the river's bed appears to be in many places
more than 20 feet deep. The grounds produce the usual crops
of wheat, barley, pease, beans, oats, clover, potatoes, and turnip.


