
                           ALLOA.                              7

tons burden come  up as far as Alloa. The windings of the Forth,
commonly termed " links," are  very remarkable, and are well
described by the old Euglish poet, Dryton, in the following lines,
applicable to another serpentine. river:-

	Ouse, in measured gyres, doth whirl herself about,
	That, this way, here, and there, back, Forward, in and out;
	And, like a sportive nymph. oft doubling in her gait,
	In labyrinth-like turns, and twinings intricate,
	Through those rich fields doth run.

The distance from the quay of Alloa to that of Stirling, measured
in the middle of the stream, is about 16 miles, and to the old
bridge of Stirling, nearly 20 miles; whereas the distance by land
between these towns does not exceed 7 miles by the turnpike-road,
and is about 5 in a direct line.
   Tides.--The spring-tides at- Alloa harbour rise about 22 feet,
the neap-tides about 15 feet; and in the harbour there is about
3 feet deeper water than in Leith harbour.  It has been asserted,
upon unquestionable authority, and from levels actually taken, that
the top of the pier at Leith is upon a level with the bottom of the
quay at Alloa. Hence, the level line of high-water, between Leith
and Alloa, is an inclined plane, rising towards Alloa: Otherwise
the town of Leith would be deeply flooded at full tide,*
The Devon, or North I)evon, rises in the parish of Blackford,

<FOOTNOTE>There is a singular circumstance connected with the tides in this  district.
There are what are called the double or 11 leaky tides," chiefly observed at High and
low water, during spring-tides. Their nature is this; when the tide has followed ap-
parently to its full height, it ebbs and flows downwards, until it has sunk from a foot
to 15 inches perpendicularly The flowing then returns, and frequently overflows
the first Rovring, above a fcot in height, so that veswls which may have grounded in
leaving Alloa harbour during the first tide, have floated Off freely with the second tide.
Hence, it is a common question at Alloa harbour, when the spring-tides 	begin to ebb,
"Is the tide away for aft tides" A similar ebbing and flowing takes place at low
water Lduring the springtides. This singular phenomenon has not been thorouhtly
investigated in a philosophical manner; but the apparent cause is the very narrow
part of the river si Queenferry, with the sudden great expance of the north and south
shores, both above and below that point.
  These "leaky tides" were taken notice of by Sir Robert Sibbald to his History of
Fife and Kinrom in which is inserted an interesting letter respecting them, (with-
out date), by the Rev. Alexander Weight. then minister of Allos.
  There is A curious traditionary and Superstitious account of these double tide--
which  is, that when St Mango, ande tutelary saint of the district, was
sel with some of his ecclesiastics to Stirling, the vessel van a ground and could not be
got Off. from the failing of the tide; that,while be and his friends  ardently wishted for
the return of the tide it ,did return with an overflow. so that the saint proceeded
upon his mission, and the double tides have returned Poriodically over sinca.
  A somewhat simflar phenomenon ocurs at Southampton and permouth, where
there is a kind of " double tide" every time the sea flows. owing to the Isle of Wight.
which is opposite to them ; for when the first tide it the flow comes in by a place
catled the Needles, at the west end of it,- and by the time it great round the insted
it is beegining to ebb  so when it tomes to St Helen's at the not end of it, that
makesa kind of second tide, though not no high as the time usless a strong wind
comes along with it.


