
448                            FORFARSHIRE.

<TABLE>

Number of acres under wood, planted, in Cortachy,                    880 Imp. acres,
                                             Clova,                   40
                               indigenous, in Cortachy,               40
                                                Clova,                30
                               in the united parish,                 990

	The kinds of trees generally planted are, larch, Scots fir, spruce,
white and black American, silver fir, Weymouth pine, pinasters,
oak, elm, ash, mountain-ash, plane, beech, chestnuts, birch, alder,
and shrubs.
	The yearly thinning and pruning of the woods are particularly
attended to, and under excellent management. A report on the
planting Of lands on the Airlie estates, to the extent of 3000 acres,
in Forfarshire and Perthshire, under the management of Mr Wil-
liam Anderson, was submitted to the Highland Society of Scot-
land in 1830; and the Society's gold medal was adjudged to the
Earl of Airlie. * In no other parish has there yet been such an
extent of land planted as in the parish of Cortachy, on the estates
of Airlie.
	Rent, &c.-The average rent of arable land in the united parish
may be from 15s. to L. 1. The avdr`ge rent of grazing, per ox
or cow, is L.1, 10s. The average rent of pasture, for ewe or full-
grown sheep for the year, is 2s.
        Price of Raw Produce.-The average price of barley per im-
perial quarter for the last seven years, has been L. 1, 7s.; oats, per
imperial quarter, L. 1, 2s.; potatoes, per boll of 32 stones, 9s.;
hay, per stone, from 7d. to 8d.
        Live-Stock.-The cattle reared in the united parish are chiefly
of the Angus breed. They are of middling size, thrive very well,
and are disposed of, when two or three years old. Some of the
farmers, besides the cattle which they rear, are in the habit of
purchasing an additional stock in the spring markets, which they
feed during summer, and dispose of in September and October,
when the pastures begin to give way. The horses which are used
have, for the greater part, been reared in the parish. They are
of the ordinary size, well-shaped, and durable. Owing to the
great extent of mountainous pasture, the farmers attend particu-
Iarly, to the rearing of sheep. There are two kinds of sheep rear-
ed, the black-faced and the Cheviot breeds. Some hundreds of
the former are annually bred here, but the greater number of both
kinds are brought when lambs, from Linton, Lockerby, and other
marketsin the souther. Although sometimes kept on, until they are

<FOOTNOTE>Quartdrly Journal of Agriculture, No. xii.  February 1831.


