
480                         EDINBURGHSHIRE.

and others, he acknowledged that he had been made aware of the
plot to assassinate Durnley; but he denied that he had any hand in
forming it, or in carrying it into execution;-- and, while he solemnly
disclaimed all participation in the crime for which he sufferred, he
confessed that he merited death for many other sins. On the 2nd
of June he was brought to the scaffold.  He met his fate with
magnanimity and resignation.  His head was cut off by the axe of
the maiden, an instrument of execution which he himself had in-
troduced, and next day was fixed upon the top of the most con-
spicious gable of the Tolbooth;* and his body, wrapped up in a
corase cloak, was carried under night by porters to the grave, and
secretly buried in the Greyfriars churchyard.
     By the condemnation and death of Morton, his estates and ho-
nours were forfeited to the Crown.  Aubigny, his accuser, re-
ceiving his estates, was created Lord Dalkeith, and shortly after-
wards Duke of Lennox.  He resided a short time at Dalkeith;
but, as he had incurred the great displeasure of the nobility, the
King was prevailed upon to order him to leave Scotland on pain
of treason. He went therefore to France, and died, as was sus-
pected, of poison, in 1583.
     On the decease of Aubigny, the honours, offices, and partiali-
     ties of which he had so largely participated, were soon transferred
by the King to his youthful son, Ludovic; and, among other re-
venues, the Lordship of Dalkeith was continued to him, till an
opportunity should occur of providing for him otherwise. Nor was
the delay long.  By the death of Lord Methven, in 1584, without
issue, the vacant Lordship was bestowed upon young Lennox, and
the lands of Dalkeith reverted to the heirs of the House of Dou-
glas.
     The Earldom of Mortno had been, however, consituted anew
in 1581, and conferred by royal charter upon John Lord Max-
well, grandson of the third Earl of Morton. But the act of at-
tainder of the late Regent being repealed in 1585, Lord Maxwell
was deprived of his new dignity; though, when afterwards created
Earl of Nithsdale, he was allowed to count his precedency from
the time when his former title was conferred; and the estates and
honours of Morton  developed upon the Regent's nephew, Archi-

<FOOTNOTE>* Melville's Diary, p. 127.  Edin. 1842. Wod. Ed.  James Melville was an eye-
witness of what he here describes.  Morton's head was taken down, by order of the 
King, on the 8th December 1582.
            A full account of the lands and possessions of Morton is given in the infeftment
and charter embodied in the act of ratification made in Parliament on the 19th day
of April 12577.--Acts of Scottish Parl. Vol. ii. pp. 562-565.

 

