
     of Forfar.

hands so great, that almost every young man here betakes him-
self to it.  He receives a part of the profit of this work from
the very day his apprenticeship begins; in a year or two he is
qualified to carry on business for himself, and able to support a
family, and so be marries and multiplies; and this facility of
acquiring a living at an early period of life is one great cause of
the rapid increase of population.  To this also it is owing, per-
haps, that other professions, less profitable and more difficult
to acquire, are selsomer pursued by the young men of this place;
and it is a fact worthy of notice, that there has not been above
one or two apprentice taylors in Forfar these seven years past.
   The Osnaburgh trade is indeed a fluctuating one, and when
the demand for that fabric slackens at any time, it brings ma-
ny of the young and unprovident into difficulties, and often-
times adds to the number of the poor.  But when the trade is
good (and it has been for sometimes past more stable and more
flourishing than ever it was known before), the profits of it,
with the government bounty, are sufficient to support the sober
and industrious weaver against the influence of a falling mar-
ket.-Manufacturers are just now giving from 15 s. to 20 s. for
working the piece of ten dozen of yards, which a man of good
execution will accomplish in nearly as many days; and a man
working his own web, has been known to produce 18 such pieces
by his own hands in the space of 19 weeks.-This however is
allowed by all to be extraordinary, though it shews what sobrie-
ty and diligence may do.
   The trade and wealth of Forfar having increased so rapidly
since the year 1745, must naturally be supposed to have pro-
duced great alterations in the appearance of the place and the
manners of its inhabitants.  Accordingly their bulidings, their
expence of living, and their dress are almost totally changed
since that period.  And there is a remarkable difference, even

     3 T 2


