
     of Cambuslang.

"than ordinary concern about their souls, but have since fallen away,
"and turned as bad, or worse than they were before."  Since Mr
M'Culloch's death, some day about the same time, and for the same
purpose, is still observed by the fellowship meetings in the parish.
   To what cause this memorable work ought to be ascribed, was a que-
stion which occasioned much debate and great diversity of opinion.
Some ascribed it to the influence of the Holy Spirit; others to the in-
fluence of the devil; and others to the influence of fear and hope, of
sympathy and example, aided by peculiar circumstances.  Those who
entertained the two first opinions, agreed in thinking that this work
ought to be ascribed to supernatural agency, but dissere widely as to the
agent to whom it ought to be attributed; the one considering the agent
as the best of beings and the other as the worst.  Those who entertained
the last opinion, thought this work might be accounted for by natural
causes, and consequently that there was no occasion for having recourse
to supernatural agency.

   1. That this work ought to be ascribed to the influence of the Holy
Spirit, was the opinion of many of those, who are commonly known by
the name of the high party in the Church of Scotland, and especially of
those clergy, who attended and assisted at Cambuslang, while it was
goin on.  The fruits of it in the hearts and lives of men were such, ac-
cording to them, as might be expected from the renewing and sanctify-
ing influences of the Holy Ghost.  Zeal for the glory of God and the ho-
nour of the Redeemer, shone with perculiar lustre.  The lives of the pro-
sane were reformed.  Relative duties, where they had been neglected,
were conscientiously discharged.  Harmony and peace succeeded strife
and contention.  Families, once the synagogues of Satan, became tem-
ples where God was worshipped.  Persons of all ranks formed them
selves into societies, which met frequently for prayer and experimental
conversation.  With regard to the external effects, by which this work
manifested itself on the bodies of men, they acknowledge them to be un-
common, but not singular.  The scriptures furnish instances of similar
effects of an awakened conscience: such as St Paul at his conversion;
the jailor at Philippi; and Felix who trembled as St Paul reasoned of
righteousness, temperance, and judgment to come, Instances of similar
effects have happened at the conversion of many particular persons; nay
of great numbers at once even in our own country; such as in several
parishes of Cunningham about 1625, and in the parish of Shotts in 
1630.


