
				EDENKILLIE.                         193

   is none of their houses within less than seven and a-half miles from
   the parish church. Their places of worship are Forres, and Bog-
   hole in the parish of Auldearn.
     Education.-There are fivei schools in the parish, exclusive of five
   Sabbath schools, viz. the parochial school; one at Conicaval, and one
   at Tullydivie, both of which are supported by the Society for Pro-
   pagating Christian Knowledge: one female school at Half-davoeh,
   on the property of Sir William Cumming, who allows to the teach-
   er a salary of L.5 per annum; and one female school at the Knock
   on the teacher's ovn adventure. The parish school,  and the
   schools supported by the Society for Propagating Christian Know-
   ledge, are each attended by about 100 scholars in the course of
   the year. The number present at all the schools, at the annual
   examination by the presbytery last spring, was as follows: parochi-
   al school, 60; Conicaval, 60; Tullydivie, 54; Half-davocb, 36;
   the Knock, 30. About one-half of the number of scholars attend-
   ing the school at Conicaval is from the parish of Dyke; and
   about 8 from Rafford of those attending the school at Half-davoch.
   The salary of the parish schoolmaster is the maximum, L. 34, 4s.
   4 1/2d.: the school fees amount to about L.16 per annum; and the
   Trustees of the late Mr Dick's bequest to the parochial teachers
   of the counties of Aberdeens, Banff, and Moray, havef allowed
   to the schoolmaster of this parish, for the present year, L. 38, 5.
   ld., which allowance may be expected to be continued so long as
   the teacher shall act in conformity to the regulations, and merit
   the approbation of the trustees.
     Library.- There is a parish library consisting of 160 volumes,
   chiefly of religious works. It is supported by a contribution of ls.
   per annum from each of the subscribers, of whom there are at press
   sent about 40.
     Savings Bank.-A savings bank was instituted here last year,
   in connection with the Forres and Nairn Savings Bank; and, from
   the manner,in which a considerable number have already-availed
   themselves of it, it prolises to be highly useful.
     Poor and Parochial Funds.-The regular number on the poor's
   list is about 34, and the number who receive occasional aid is about

<FOOTNOTE>From the last Statistical Account it appears that there is a claim for three schools
   in this parish from the Society for Propagating-Christian Knowledge, in consequences
   of a donation by Dr Cumin, son of James Cumin, Esq. of Rolugas. This gentle,
   man was physician to King William III. at the battle of the Boyne, in 1690. In
   1714, he sent the sum of L261, 13s. 7d. Sterling to the Society, with a recommen-
   dation that they should keep always three schools in this parish.
      ELGIN.                                   N


