
                           EYEMOUTH.                         331

Smeaton, "lies at the corner of a bay, in which ships can work in
and out at all times of the tide, or lie at an anchor secure from all winds,
except the northerly or north-easterly. From this circumstance,
its situation is very advantageous." At his recommendation, and
agreeably to a plan furnished by him, a break-water pier was erect-
ed in 1770, by which the harbour is defended from the north-east
gales, to which it was previously exposed; and since that time, by
the clearing away of rocks, removing of shingle, erecting of wharf
walls, &c. the depth of water has been much increased, and the
accommodation for shipping considerably enlarged. The flow of
tide is nearly the same as at the other harbours on the coast, ave-
raging 10 feet at neap tides, and 16 feet at spring tides. Be-
ing situated at the entrance of the Firth of Forth, and easily
accessible, it is much frequented by vessels prevented by contrary
winds from prosecuting their voyages to the several parts within its
limits, as also to those in the north of Scotland; and there can be
no doubt that every improvement effected upon it will increase the
resort of such vessels, and thus afford additional accommodation to
the trade of the country, and give increased security both to pro-
perty and life. It is under the management of a board of trustees
appointed by act of Parliament.
   Water was brought into Eyemouth some years ago, by means
of iron pipes; and the streets, which at that time were by no
means in good repair, have all been recently re-paved.
   Thrashing-Machines, &c.-There are two thrashing-machines
driven by water in the parish, and in the same building that con-
tains one of them there is also machinery for sawing timber from
the log, grinding bark, &c. There is a mill upon the river Eye,
which is generally employed in manufacturing pearl barley, oat-
meal, &c. for the London market. At Millbank, just without the
limits of the parish, there is a paper-mill, at which a number of our
labouring-people find employment, and for which the supplies of
coals, rags, &c. are imported here; and Gunsgreen distillery, at
which business to a very considerable amount is done annually,
may also claim a notice from us, as it immediately adjoins the har-
bour of Eyemouth; and, both as to imports and exports, it is close-
ly connected with this place.
   Means of Communication.-Eyemouth enjoys the advantage of
a daily post, the office here being a sub-office to that at Ayton (two
miles and a-half distant) through which the great London road
passes. A runner is employed, who conveys the letters both to


