
     Of Kilmuir Wester and Suddy.

ed on this coast, the mason work is fallen to decay.  The cave
could easily contain, I am told, a whole ship's cargo*.
   There is a good deal of sea ware or wreck along the coast,
which is seldom converted into kelp.  The farmers use it for
barley and potatoes, though a bad manure for the latter, as
the potatoes are always soft and watery that grow upon it.  I
am told, it is excellent manure for raising kail.  There are 8
mills for grinding corn in this parish; 2 of these are wrought
by the salt-water.  There are but 2 lakes, one of them con-
siderably above the level of the sea, is called the loch of Pit-
lundy.  The neighbouring people allege that there have been
water cows seen in or about this lake; but it is of too small
an extent to give any shadow of credibility to such an assertion.
In several parts of this parish, quarries of freestone have been
found, and wrought with success, and all the moors abound
with plenty of grey stone fit for building houses and stone
fences.  For an half mile to the W. of the village of Mun-
lochy, which lies at the head of the bay, there are evident
traces of the sea's having once covered that rich and fertile
flat, such as beds of shells, etc.; but there is none now liv-
ing who remembers to have seen that ground overflowed by
the sea at any period.

   Prices, Wages, etc.-Mutton sells from 3 1/2 d. and 4 d. down to
3 d. and 2 1/2 d. the pound.  Beef and pork sell at the same rate.

     M m 2

<FOOTNOTE>

*In this cave, there is a spring of water to which the superstitious part of
the people attribute a medicinal effect, and still repair to it on the first Sunday
of every quarter, for a cure to any malady or disease under which they happen
to labour.  The water is said to be particularly famous for restoring the sense of
hearing, by pouring a few drops of it into the affected ear; but this, in my
opinion, must be owing to the cold and piercing quality of the water forcing
its way through the obstructions of the ear.  The coldness of this water is
greater than any I ever tasted, and no wonder, for the sun never shines upon it,
and it oozes through a considerable body of rock.


