
456                   EDINBURGHSHIRE.

about eighty-two feet in thickness for the whole of the carbona-
ceous matter considered as united in one stratum;-an immense
mass of vegetable remains, from whatever sources they may have
been derived, and under whatever circumstances they way have
been accumulated.
   The vegetable origin of coal is now almost as generally admit-
ted as that of peat; and, by the help of the microscope, the ve-
getable structure may he easily detected in both the slate and
cannel coal. It is by no means an improbable supposition, inde-
pendently of chemical analysis, that the different qualities of coal
are chiefly owing to the different kinds of vegetables which enter
into their composition. Both in the shale and sandstone of this
formation, as might have been expected, the vegetable fossil re-
mains are abundant, and embrace various species of Lepidoden-
dron, Stigmaria, and Sigillaria. A beautiful stem with leaves, re-
ferrible to the Euphorbiacea, was recently exposed in the sand-
stone quarries. Very distinctly charactered specimens of Grami-
nea have also been found in the clay ironstone at Smeaton; and
Ammonites in the limestone of Darcy quarry, besides such animal
relics as the Producti and Encrinites. In many instances indeed,
the external character of the vegetable remains is preserved with
a delicacy and freshness which it would baffle art to imitate. A
fresh cast taken of the stem of a Zamia, a Cycas, an arborescent
fern, or sugar-cane, would not give a more correct idea of their
respective modes of growth, or indicate more clearly the vegeta-
tion of a warmer climate than that of Britain, though it would be
somewhat difficult to say under what suns, and in what forests
these remains of an age so distant flourished; or by what currents
they were imbedded in the soft sand or clay which closed them
up in safety, and now preserves their form entire in the solid rock.
   A comparatively recent but interesting calcareous formation is
to be met with on the southern boundary of the parish, near the
farm-house of Wet-holm. From the branched horns and woody
fragments which are found imbedded in this deposit, it appears to
belong to a period as remote as when the different Apecies of deer
ranged the neighbouring forests. It lies immediately under, or
rather is skirted by, a surface stratum of two feet of peat. Some
of this deposit consists of the carbonate of lime in, oft state,

<FOOTNOTE>"I have known in my experience a coal bored, which the borer by time, (viz. by
what the instrument seemed to Pierce), hath judged four feet in thickness, yet,
when it came to be sinked hath not given one."


