
                       DALKEITH.                            529

dent minister was settled in this town.  Since that time Dal-
keith has been regularly incorporated with the Edinburgh Circuit,
and supplied by the preachers sent to Edinburgh, one of whom
has generally been located here during the period of his ap-
pointment.  In the year 1789, their present place of worship was
finished, previously to which public worship was conducted in a
place which bad for some time been occupied by an Episcopalian
minister, but was then vacant.  The congregations are not so large
as they were some years past; there having been a manifest de-
crease of bearers since the Dissenting congregations opened their
places of worship for service on Sabbath evenings.  The number
of regular members in the society is about forty.
   Congregational Church.-The Congregational Church in Dal-
keith was formed in the year 1804.  This body is connected with
the Congregational Union of Scotland, and holds the same gene-
ral views of doctrine and discipline which the Independents, both
of Scotland and England, are known to entertain.  They meet
in a chapel of their own, which seats about 400 persons.
  Mr Alexander Arthur, their first minister, was ordained in the
spring of 1805.  He died in 1829.  He was a man of modest
and retired habits, and was highly respected. *
  Mr Edward Napier, the second minister, was ordained in Au-
gust 1831.  He died on the 16th March 1842, in the tbirty-ninth
year of his age.
  Mr Anthony T. Gowan, the third minister, was ordained on
the 9th June 1843.
  Free Church.-This congregation was formed on the 28th May
1843; and the Rev. John Macfarlane, formerly minister of the
parish of Collessie, Fife, ivas admitted their Minister on the 19ih
January 1844.
  Literature.-A circulating library has existed in this town
since 1768 It consists at present of upwards of 3000 volumes.
A subscription library was established here in 1798;-it con-
tains at present about 2400 volumes in the various departments
of miscellaneous literature.  A scientific Association was formed
here in 1835, for the purpose of providing popular instruction
in science, for the inhabitants of the town and neighbourhood,
at a moderate expense.  Nothing could be more gratifying

<FOOTNOTE>He was the author of two anonymous works, viz. 1. Winter Evenincel Conver-
sations between a Father andhis Children, on the Works of God, Edinb;rghi 1824,
second edition. 2. Family, Conversations on the Evidences and Discoveries of Reve-
lation, Edinburgh, 1824.

  EDINBURGH.                      L l



