
874                      ABERDEENSHIRE.

sequence of its southerly inclination, the rays of the sun beat upon
it intensely, and quickly dry up any moisture which might have
lingered about the plants.  To add to this disadvantage, less rain
seems to fall here than on places in the vicinity, for the clouds
which appear on the west pouring out their watery treasures on
the high grounds of Banchory and StracHan, instead of continu-
ing their course down the valley, which a stranger would think in-
evitable, are often attracted by the Grampians on the south, and
the Hill of Fare on the north; so that the anxious farmer fre-
quently sees, day after day, heavy rains falling in the immediate
neighbourbood, while his parched crops, unrefreshed by a single
shower, languish beneath the sun's unclouded influence.  This
inconvenience, indeed, is partially remedied by the sea-fogs, which,
towards the evening of a sultry day, creep up the course of the
river from the east, and roll over the Grampians from the south,
filling the valley with a refreshing mist, which continues spread
over it through the night; but as this, although very beneficial, is
quite inadequate to raise a luxuriant crop of straw, the smaller
farmers, unable to purchase and drive it from a distance, are fre-
quently in dry seasons obliged to bruise whins for their cattle to
supply the deficiency.
   CLimate.-The air, especially on the south side of the parish, is
pure and dry, and its temperature mild and salubrious.  No ende-
mical diseases are known : and the most common complaints are,
rheumatism, affections of the bowels, and disorders proceeding from
a scrofulous habit.  A satisfactory proof of the great healthiness
of the parish is furnished by the fact, that in our small population,
there are at present, (1840), twenty-individuals alive upwards of
eighty years of age, six of whom are above the age of ninety.  The
oldest are two sisters, who have attained the respective ages of
ninety-six and ninety-four; both are in the enjoyment of very
good health, and have the comfortable use of many of their fa-
culties.
   Hydrography.-Perennial springs, issuing generally from gravel,
supply the parish with abundance of excellent water.  We have
also two chalybeate springs of considerable strength, but, as they
have never been analyzed, their virtues are as yet unknown to fame
-one, called," The Parson's Well," is near the House of Park,
and the other, (which is the stronger of the two), is in the neigh-
bourhood of the Loch of Drum.
   The river Dee, which flows along the southern boundary of the


