
                                        ALVES.                    103

   is found to be harder than usual, and not easily wrought, but very
   durable. There is, besides, one quarry for millstones at present
   worked,-from which the mills in the neighbourbood have for several
   years been in part supplied. In the low ground, in several places,
   there is still a considerable depth of peat moss. At one time, the
   inhabitants were abundantly supplied with fuel from the moss
   grounds. The best portions, however, are now drained, and brougbt
   into culture. The peat procured from what still remains uncul-
   tivated, emits, when burning, a very strong sulphureous vapour; and
   as no coal has been found in the county of Moray, the poor are at
   times but ill provided with fuel. They make great efforts of eco-
   nomy, that they may be able to purchase a small quantity of En-
   glish coal,-of which several cargoes are imported yearly from Sun-
   derland, and sold at Burghead, and Findhorn betwixt Is. 8d. to 2s.
   per barrel. Occasionally, the poor have been assisted in purchasing
   that comfort, in the winter months, by the donations of benevolent
   individuals connected with the neigbbourbood.
      Botany.-Ash and fir, and all kinds of flowering shrubs and com-
   mon fruit-trees seem to thrive in the soil. The following plants,
   named according to Hooker's British Flora, have been found grow-
   ing spontaneously in this parish and vicinity, viz. Acinos vulga-
   ris, Chrysosplenium, alternifolium, Cerastium arvense, Fedia denta-
   ta, Goodyera repens, Hippuris vulgaris, Linnaa borealis, Petasi-
   tes vulgaris, Silene anglica, Solanum dulcamara, Teesdalia nudi-
   caulis, Thlaspi arvense, Trientalis Europaa.

                              II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
        Ancient State of Property.-It appears, from Shaw's History of
    the Province of Moray, that at the beginning of last century, the
    landed property of Alves was more subdivided than at present.
    There had been then four mansion-houses of resident proprietors,
    if not more. There are now only two. One farmer occupies as
    his dwelling-house, the old mansion-house, which had been occu-
    pied by the proprietor, Lord Lyon, and afterwards by the family of
    Brodie before the property was sold to the late Earl of Fife. Some
    years ago, there were to be seen the remains of three castles, of
    the smaller size, built as places of defence. The materials of two
    of them have been used in the building of farm steadings.  A con-
    siderable part of the third is still standing, (called the castle of As-
    leisk), indicating in several parts that it bad been formed to hold
    out against a strong body of assailants. The other two are report-
    ed to have been of similar construction; they were at first occu


