
      144                      SUTHERLANDSHIRE.

      beg, the youngest of the surviving brothers of the Guns, proposed
      that they should follow the Keiths, and endeavour to obtain revenge,
      even by stratagem such as the Keiths bad, recourse to; but his
      brothers considered such a step as leading to their certain,destruc-
      tion. Henry, however, could not be restrained from his purpose,
      and swore that he never would rest until he should kill a Keith,
      and recover possession of his father's sword, helmet, shirt of mail,
      and broach of office, which the Keiths had taken off the dead
      body of the crowner.   Two of the brothers were so severely
      wounded that they could not move to any great distance, but the
      other two accompanied Henry, who arrived at Dilred Castle soon
      after nightfall.  On approaching the castle, its wooden windows
      or shutters were found open, and around a large fire in the low-
      est apartment, the survivors of the Keitbs were quaffifig bumpers
      of ale, and Henry, who went close to one of the windows, heard
      them narrate, with boisterous delight, the losses sustained by the
      Guns.   The chief of the Keiths, not apprehensive of any danger,
      accidentally approached the window where Henry stood, and the
      latter then bent his bow, and in another instant Lis arrow pierced
      the chieftain's heart; Henry at the same time boldly accompany-
      ing the deadly flight of his arrow with the exclamation (afterwards
      used in the North Highlands as a proverb) of " The Gun's com-
      pliments to Keith." *  The old chief dropped down dead ; a panic
      seized the other Keiths; and the three Guns, having darted for-
      ward to the door of the castle, slew some of the first persons who
      ventured out by it; but finding that they could not retain their po-
      sition long, Henry and his two brothers retired silently under co-
      ver of the darkness of the night, and hurried back to the assistance
      of the other brothers, who had been unable to accompany them.
        The crowner thus killed by the Keith, was, according to Sir
      Robert Gordon, " a great commander in Catteynes in his tyme,
      and wes one of the greatest men in that countrey; because when
      he flourished there was no Earle off Catteynes; that earldom being
      Yit in the King's hands and wes thereafter griven to William Sinck-

      <FOOTNOTE>This tradition was obtained in'Gaelic, and Henry's exclamation of" lomachgar
      n'Guinach gu Kaigh, is,more emphatic in that language than in any translation of
      the words.
                Crowner, Crownare, at, according to Dr Jamieson, was first an officer to
     matters pertainining to the Crown; and the distinction between the office of crowner
     and that of sheriff was anciently thus explained:  " All attachments perteines to the
     Crowner, quher the accuser makes na mention in his accusation, of the breaking of the
     Kings peace.  Otherwies gif he makes na mention  there of the attachment pertenes
     to the sheriff." 2dy, the crowner was be who had the charge of the troops railed in
     on county.   The first certain proof of the existence of the office ofccrowner occurs in
     the reign of David II.



