
                                     BARRAY.                          209

        lies who hold no lands whatever. Of the last, 70 persons are upon
        the poor's roll; 3 are fatuous: 4 deaf and dumb; and 2 blind.
        The average of births, deaths, and marriages, cannot with accuracy
        be ascertained, for want of a parochial register, and from the great
        majority of the population being Roman Catholics.
           Very few attain the age of thirty before they marry, and some-
        times they enter into that state at twenty. This may account for
        the fewness of illegitimate children born in the parish,-instances
        of which are very rare.
           Habits, &c. of the People.-The inhabitants are of the middle
        size, patient and hardy in enduring cold and fatigue. They are expert
        seamen, and considered the best boatmen in the Western Isles.
        No instance has occurred of a Barra boat being lost for upwards
        of twenty years, although boats are generally at sea both summer
        and winter. Gaelic is the language universally spoken, and it is
        very pure and still unmixed with many English words. The Eng-
        lish language has made little or no progress, because schools have
        been wanting. The people of Barray have no games or amuse-
        ments but what are common to the surrounding islands. Dancing,
        with music of the bagpipes, is a favourite pastime. They are not
        remarkable for cleanliness in their habits or dress in general, yet
        on holidays their appearance is decent enough. The men dress
        in jackets and trowsers of home-made or south country cloth; the
        women wear clothes made by themselves, and, at times, south
        country droggets or prints. They wear a handkerchief about their
        head instead of a cape, and a petticoat about their shoulders for
        a cloak. The women are slovenly in their manners, and not very
        active or cleanly. The people are so very poor, that many of them
        are destitute of bed-clothes.
           Their ordinary food consists of barley-meal, potatoes, and milk,
        and at times fish, with which those placed in the more favourable situa-
        tions are abundantly supplied. All the fishermen export their cod and
        ling to Glasgow and other markets, and reserve such, fish as is not
        marketable for the use of their own families. In very same years,
        such as l836 and 1837, they subsist, in a great measure, upon cookles
        and other shell-fisk, with very little bread and milk. Under all
        these destitutions, it is surprising how contented they are with
        their lot. With regard to their intellectual powers, little can be
        said. Their want of education, together with their seclusion from
        the society of other countries must confine the exercise of their


