
		PARISH OF KINCARDINE.

	PRESBYTERY OF TAIN, SYNOD OF ROSS.

        THE REV. HECTOR ALLAN, MINISTER. *

       I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
  Name.-THE name of this parish is of Celtic origin, being de-
rived from Cinn-na'n-Airdean, signifying the extremities of the
heights: several lofty ranges of bills coming to a termination here.
The etymology of Kincardine, in the former Statistical Account,
is said to be Cinn-na'-Chairdean, or the heads of the friends; the
reason for giving that derivation being, that "the chief of the clan
Ross, and his most powerful and confidential friends dwelt here,
and fixed the name Kincardine to the place where, they resided."
But this is not nearly such a probable etymology as the first.
  Extent, Boundaries, &c.-The parish extends from east to
west upwards of 35 miles, and varies in breadth from 5 to
20. It is bounded by the parishes of Creich, Assynt, and
Lochbroom, on the north and west; and by Eddertoun, Rosskeen,
and Fodderty, on the east and south. At the east end, where
the church and manse are situated, it is very narrow, but it widens
gradually to the western extremity, where the boundary between
it and Assynt, and the counties of Ross and Sutherland, is a small
rivulet called Alltan-na'n-Cealgach, or the burn of the deceitful,
which flows from a long lake, with low and uninteresting banks;
called Loch Boarlan. The reason of this rather extraordinary
name having been given to the burn, was, that, in determining the
boundary between the parishes of Assynt and Kincardine, the wit-
nesses encroached considerably on the Assynt side, and made oath
that they stood on Ross-shire ground, having earth from Kincar-
dine in their shoes! At this extremity the "forest of Balnagown"
(a leafless one 1) is situated; it is a, hill of great extent, and re-
markable for the large size of its deer. The parish of Kincardine
is partly in the county of Ross, and partly in that of Cromarty.

<FOOTNOTE> * Drawn up by a Parishioner, at the request of the Committee superintending the
New Statistical Account.


