
                        CARSTAIRS.                           553

continued to be held by the see of Glasgow till the Reformation.
By the general annexation in 1588, when all the church lands were
annexed to the Crown, in order to aid the public, revenues, James
VI. bestowed this fine barony, extending to a forty-eight pound land
of old extent, with the advowson, vicarage-lands, and heritable ju-
risdictions, upon Sir William Stewart of Monkton, third son of
Lord Ochiltree.
	In 1589, Sir William sold the whole to Sir James Hamilton of
Avondale. On the re-establishmnent of Episcopacy in 1603, the
King gave to the Bishop of Glasgow the superiority of this ba-
rony. Sir James afterwards sold the barony to Sir James Lockhart
of Lee, who gave it to his eldest son by a second marriage. From
that family the barony and patronage passed to the late William
Fullerton, Esq. of Carstairs, and from his heirs it was purchased
by the present proprietor, Henry Monteith, Esq.
	Antiquities.--The parish retains the vestiges of a Roman camp
upon the farm of Corbiehall. The camp measures six square
acres. Though it has been considerably injured by the plough and
the spade, the walls of circumvallation are still easily traced, the
pretorium is visible, and the causeway to and from the camp, run-
ning in a direct line, can be traced for many miles. To lay down
the exact line of this Roman road has been the subject of deep
and serious research, and after the most patient investigation, it
has been found that " Gadanica" in the ninth Roman Iter, " Cola-
nica" of Richard's map, and the " Colonia" of Ptolemy, a town of
the Damnii, are the same. From this post, which corresponds so
exactly with the Damnian town on Little Clyde, the Iter must have
proceeded in a north-east direction, along the south-east side of
Clydesdale, till it reached the remarkable turn which the river
makes a little to the west of Biggar. From this point, following
the course of the river, the Iter would naturally proceed in a
northerly direction, along the eastern or right bank, till it reached
Caer-stairs, the Coria, or Corium of the Iter, another town of the
Damnii, which is twenty,-four miles from the Colonia on the Little

<FOOTNOTE>or his successors, by occasion of the said castle being begun without our license, or
will as aforesaid, is by us, or our heirs, or our bailiffs, or our servants whatsomever,
be quarrelled, or in any way aggrieved. " Witness the king, at Berwick-on-Tweed
the 15th of July."
	It is remarkable that in 1292 the castle and manor of Carstairs was possesed by
one of our most public-spirited bishhops, a citizen of Glasgow; and now, after a lapse
of more than 500 years, the magnificent mansion and estensive manor of Carstairs are
possessed by a citizen of  Glasgow, alike distinguished for public spirit and active be-
nevolence, whether engaged in mercantile enterprise, employed in the senate, or en-
joying honorable retirement.


