                   UNIVERSITY AND KING'S COLLEGE.             1149

hours.  To the four or five best answers in each class, prizes are
awarded, and these are publicly delivered by the Principal to the
successful students on the last day of the session.
   On Monday mornings, during the session, the whole students
and professors meet in the public school ; when the Sub-principal
enforces the discipline of the college, by levying the fines for ab-
sence from prayers or misconduct, and reprimands such delinquents
as may seem to him to require reproof.  The students meet in the
public school every morning under one of the regents, who, with
the humanist, take this duty, styled that of Hebdomader, by turns,
weekly.  The roll is called and absentees marked, and the fines,
as above stated, are levied on the Monday mornings.  The fines
for absence from the classes are inflicted and levied by the profes-
sors, each in his own class.
   All students, except those of divinity and medicine (who have
already completed the curriculum of Arts) wear a scarlet gown and
a uniform cap, the latter lately adopted by order of the Senatus.
Students of Arts are hence called gown students.
   Bursars, or those students who enjoy bursaries or scholarships,
formerly wore a black gown, and were made to perform menial. ser-
vices about the college.  But for a long time past there has been
no distinction in dress or duties between them and other students,
with this exception, that the bursars in each class act by turns as
censor, calling the roll and marking absentees, &c.
   The fees paid by students in the four chief classes are L. 3,'3s.
but the holders of the smaller bursaries pay much less, and these
form generally about a-fourth of each class.  The fee in the Latin.
class, and in that of oriental languages, is only L.1, 1s., and in
the chemistry, L.1, 11s. 6d.;  the holders of the smaller bur-
saries, as before, paying much less.
   At the commencement of the session, all bursars who had at-
tended during the preceding session are examined on printed
questions, and if found deficient, the payment of the bursarier is
suspended till the student shall prove, by his examination at the
end of the session, that he has made the desired progress.  No.
session passes without several bursaries being suspended in this
manner.
   Those presented to bursaries by lay patrons are also examined,
at the beginning of the session in which they produce their pre-
sentations, and are only admitted if found habile, that is, properly


