

       1104                 PERTHSHIRE.

       ray and Rednock.  The tutor of Appin, favoured by the shades
       of might, escaped with but a single attendant. *
          Under 6th September 1653 in the Government newspaper of
       the period, the following notice occurrs, from a correspondent at
       Dalkeith: "Colonel Reid yet lies in a field near Port, by the
       Isle of Menteith, near which the engagement was." The conflict
       alluded to seems to have been at the Pass of Aberfoyle, of which
       a well known memoir of William, nint Earl of Glencairn, gives
       an account.+
          The largest of the islands in the principal of the lakes of this pa-
       rish, seems to have very anciently been a seat of the Culdees.  This,
       which in itself is highly presumeable, appears from what David
       Camerarius says of St Berchan, that he was renowned in Stirling-
       shire in the eighth century, and spent part of his youthful days in
       the Convent of St Columba, not far from Stirling; an assertion
       applicable to Inchmahome.
         Whether the Culdees-ceased to have a footing in Inchmahome,
       when the monks of St Augustine were planted here, is unknown.
       Middleton, in his List of the Relhgious Houses of Scotland,
       says that Augustinian monks were planted here by King Ed-
       gar, probably about 1107, the year of that sovereign's death. *
       Conformably to this intimation, an authentic document, dated
       A.D. 1288, being a warrant to Walter Camin, Earl of Mentehth,
       for building a church in this island, states that the edifice is in-
       tended for the religious men residing there, meaning, obviously,
       that they had already been settled.  Connecting this information
       with that given by Middleton, we are led to the inference that
       the monks of Inchmahome had no suitable place of public worship,
       according to the Romish ideas, during at least a hundred and
       thirty years from their settlement, and were confined to the hum


<FOOTNOTE> See the History of Donald the Hammerer by Sir Walter Scott, Burt., inserted
       in the Fifth Edition of Captain Burt's Letters.
         +A most illustrious author, in a foot-note to his edition of Duchray's Memoir,
       says that "Graham of Duchray's Castle, situate about a mile to the eastward of the
       Pass, was burnt by the English the morning before the action.  "This statement is
       probably meant for Duchray's Castle of Rednock, which, however, is seven miles
       the Pass, and was the point whence, as his hdad quarter, Glencairn marched to en-
       counter Read.  (See Sir Walter Scott's Edition of Memoir of the Earl of Glencairn's
       Expedition in 1653, by John Graham of Duchray.)
         Appendix to Archibishop Spottiswoods History of the Church of Scotland, 4th
       edition.  None of the previous editions have it.  This account of the Religious
       Houses of Scotland is also printed in a duodecimo pamphlet apart.  It has no name
       prefixed, but is known as have been written by Professor Middleton of Aberdeen,
       who cites no authorities, but is believed to write from authorities.


