
     Statistical Account

annually.-The number of inhabitants has continued for
these hundred years past, nearly what it is at present.  The re-
turn to Dr. Webster, however, was 666 souls*.

   Miscellaneous Observations.-The people here are, in general,
of a contented mind, not given to any peculiar vice, and regular
attendants on public worship; and, though few of them are gau-
dily dressed, yet most of them appear at the church in clean
and decent apparel.-About 30 years ago, there were only 3
hats, and 3 watches in the parish, being those the proprietor,
the minister, and the schoolmaster; but now almost every la-
bouring servant has his hat, and watch, his English cloth coat,
his white thread stockings, etc.  The ordinary fuel is peat,
and turf; and the making of tether bindings, and ropes from
moss-fir, is common all round this part of the country+.
   Mr. Walter Goodall, a native of this parish, assisted Mr.
Thomas Ruddiman, in several of his productions; and, about
the year 1750 published 2 vols. 8 vo. in defence of Mary Queen
of Scots.

<FOOTNOTE>

*The price of labour here is much increased of late; as is also that of every
thing.  About 30 years ago a labouring servant would have been got for
L. 2: 10, and now he cannot be had under L. 6 sterling a year.  Female ser-
vants earn from L. 2 to L 3 sterling yearly.-The surplus grain, which annu-
ally amounts to some hundred bolls, is generally carried to Portsoy, or Banff,
the nearer sea port towns; to which places, also, and Cullen, most of the o-
ther surplus products are carried for sale.

+There is a woman in this parish, that has the perfect use of all her facul-
ties, though she has not been above half an hour at once out of bed these 30
years.  A disappointment in love is thought to have been the cause; for, a-
bout 33 years ago, upon her father's discouraging a young man's paying
his addresses to her, she went to bed, and has never left it since.  The strug-
gle, it seems, between love and fibal affection, ran so high, as materially to
affect her active powers.


