
			CARMICHAEL.	                     531

<TABLE>
112 horses, partly grazed when not working, say L.2 each,	       L. 224   0  0
 37 colts, from one to two years old. The same observation applies
   to them as to the queys call the averagd 30s.	                   55  10  0
The revenue arising from the thinning and felling of trees not known.
Coal and lime quarries,  	                                          230   0  0

                                                               L. 10911  10  0

From the above gross amount of produce, ought to be deduct-
ed the value of the seed, whether grain, potatoes, turnips rye-
grass and clover, the grain consumed by horses, the expense of
servants' food and wages, and several other items, and the remain-
der will be the amount of sales for rent, interest of capital, and re-
muneration to the tenant for management.
	Manufactures.--The same tan-work, which was begun nine years
before the last Statistical Account was written, is still skilfully
and successfully carried on. One of the partners of the original firm
still survives, with his mental faculties active and unimpaired. The
currying of leather is also carried on with similar skill and success.
There is a foundery, which was established several years ago by Mr
James Paterson, at Carmichael-mill. Most of the iron work for
thrashing-mills and other machinery in the neighbourbood, is cast
by the proprietor, who has a talent for contriving, and hands for exe-
cuting, work of this kind, surpassed b few in the same profession.
There are thirty-two weavers, including apprentices and journey-
men.
			V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

	Market,Town, &c.--The nearest market-town and post-office is
Lanark, five miles distant from the church. There are about
seven or eight miles of turnpike road, and upwards of twenty miles
of parish roads, kept in very good repair. Bridges are thrown over
the streams which cross the parish roads, in a certain proportion
out of the county funds, and out of the parish road fund.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The parish church is nearer the eastern
than the western extremity of the parish. The most distant house
is about four miles from the church. The church was built in
1750, has been often repaired, is at present in a good state of re-
pair, and can accommodate between 400 and 500 persons. The
sittings are all free, as should always be the case in country
churches.
	The manse was built in the same year with, the church, and a
few years ago received a very handsome and commodious addition.
The glebe contains about ten acres, and may be worth L. 24.
The soil is naturally bad, but it has been greatly improved. The


