
                        MARYKIRK.                            307

ritable purposes, made in the parish church, is for the Montrose
Infirmary. It is made annually, and amounts, on an average, to
L.6.
        Ddubation.-Besides the parish school, there are five pri-
vate schools, which, with the exception of one, which is endowed,
are on the teachers' own adventure. The parish school is at
present vacant; but the usual branches of English reading, writ-
ing, arithmetic, mensuration, geography, and Latin have been
taught. The average number of scholars for the last few years
has been 50, and the average amount of fees L.20 yearly. The
salary is L.30, with a house, garden, and about four acres of
ground. In 1840, a handsome school and school-house was erect-
ed in Luthermuir by the liberality of Sir John Stuart Forbes,
Bart., and by subscriptions from the heritors and others, which is
endowed by the Society for the Propagation of Christian Know-
ledge, with a salary of L. 15 per annum; besides which the teacher
has about three acres of land rent free from Sir J. S. Forbes. It
is attended by 60 scholars, and the average amount of fees may
be L.22 yearly. In the private schools, English reading, writing,
and arithmetic are generally taught. They are attended by about
160 scholars. The number of children attending school in the
parish amounts to about 270. All the teachers, except one, are
members of the Established Church, and, in all the schools,
great attention is paid to the religious instruction of the pupils.
There cannot be said tn bd any children in this parish between the
ages of six and fifteen years who can neither read nor write, and,
with the exception of a few old people, there are few above that age
who cannot do so. In the parish generally, parents seem very
anxious that their children shall enjoy the benefits of education;
but in Luthermuir, where children of tender years are of some
usd to their parents in their ordinary employments, their education
has been much neglected; and this is very visible in their conduct
in after years. From the number of schools, there is every oppor-
tunity for the instruction of the children, within a reasonable dis.
tance of the abodes of the parents.
        Library.-There is a library consisting of about 200 volumes,
chiefly religious, which was presented to the parish by Patrick
Taylor, Esq., son of the late John Taylor, Esq. of Kirktonhill,
before he left the parish for Australia. It is highly valued by the
people, and, in the winter season, much read.
        Friendly Societies.-There is a sort of Friendly Society or rather


