
     of Callander.

pians, they are divested of the sullenness of those, in the same
rank, who inhabit the champaign country farther E. and S.,

     412

<FOOTNOTE>

tongues.  Of these facts every person can quote instances for himself.  No great
tribes of mankind appear ever to have been more jealous of others, or more de-
sirous of preserving themselves a distinct people, and every thing distinct, that
Belonged to them, than the Celts and Hebrews.-But I hasten to drop this sub-
ject.
   The Gaelic, being the language of a people by no means refined, must ne-
cessarily appear as defective as the languages of other nations in the same state
of society.  Languages are not invented by philosophers, and formed from theo-
ries, nor by nations in the more polished stages of society; but by men engaged
in the busiest scenes of life, and in the infancy of society.  In the rude ages,
the wants of men are few, and their ideas limited:  Their language corresponds
with their situation.  They have no use for words to express, either circumstances
which do not occur, or ideas which they have not acquired: Their language is
abundantly copious for themselves.  In the progress and shore refined stages of so-
ciety, when arts and sciences, and commerce and luxury, are introduced, a nation
must have new words to express these; and they generally borrow the words
and phrases, from the people who are their instructors in the innovations intro-
duced.  They also learns, by degrees, to express themselves with more precision
even with regard to tune:  Hence not only a multitude of new words, but a
greater variety of moods and tenses, in their verbs.
   Even the Greek and Latin, which are accounted the most perfect languages,
and abound in modes of expressing time, have fewer original tenses than one
would at first suppose, Their compound tenses are nothing else but certain
participles, coupled with an auxiliary verb.  And there compound tenses in the
passive voice, and some of their derived tenses in the active, together with such
a variety of moods, were not, in all probability, invented at the time of forming
the language, but when the language was improved, and-while the society was
advancing from barbarism to refinement.  The same structure takes place in
French and English; and may be owing to the same cause.  The Greek that
was spoken by Jason and his Argonauts, in quest of the golden fleece, and the
Latin spoken by the Romans, in the Sabine war, may have been as defective, in
all respects, as the Gaelic, in the days of Offian.  This poverty, therefore, is not
a fault of the language, but the unavoidable lot of every language, spoken in
the same state of society.  And a language must continue for ever barren, when
books are not written in it, to bring it upon the anvil of the critic, or when the
tide of fashion runs in favour of another language, whenever the state of society
begins to be improved.


