
90                         PEEBLES-SHIRE.

were in the days of our forefathers. Profane swearing is less fashion-
able, and fighting not so much in vogue. Few people enjoy the
comforts of life and advantages of society more than the inhabitants
of this district of country. They are equally remote from the re-
fined luxuries of metropolitan life and the rusticity of clownish ig-
norance. They are social, convivial, hospitable, fond of reading,
though without parish libraries,-the wealthy having small select
libraries of their own, and the poorer the Bible and shorter cate-
chism. Many of them are subscribers to a public library in Biggar.
  Poachers are diminishing in nubers. Some fines have of late
been imposed, which may operate as a check, and smuggling is
greatly on the decline. A few years ago private distillation was
practised among the neighbouring mountains.
  During the last three years, there have been 9 illegitimate births
in the parish.

<TABLE=IV-INDUSTRY>
                        IV.-Industry.
  Agriculture and Rural Economy.
This united parish contains 20,00 imperial acres, and one-fourth is in lea or under
  the plough,                                                  5000
And one twentieth part capable of being cultivated,            1000
Capable of being cultivated with a profit,                     100
The rest is meadow and hill pasture,                           14000
In undivided common,                                           40
Under wood,                                                    250
  The plantations consist chiefly of Scotch fir and larch, a con-
siderable number of oaks, ashes, elms, beeches, limes, birches, al-
ders, mountain ashes, and all the willow tribe are intermixed with
evergreens, such as spruce and siler fir.
  Rent of Land.-The value of the arable lands varies from L.3
to 10s., and the average may be stated at L.1, 5s. per acre. The
highest rent of grazing per ox for the season, L. 6; the highest
rent of grazing per cow, L. 5; sheep for the year, 7s.
  Rate of Wages.-A ploughman's wages, L. 9, 15s., six bolls of
meal, a cow's grass, and four carts of coal driven; shepherd's wages,
cow, meal, and coal, as above, forty sheeps' grass, half a boll of
potatoes planted; if a singel man, he has only the sheeps' grass,
with victuals and lodging in heu of the rest. Maid-servants from
L. 2, 10s. to L. 3, the half year; a day-labourer in summer,
1s. 6d. per day, with victuals; wrights, masons, and other artisans
2s. a day, with victuals also; in winter a reduction takes place;
tailors who go to families to work receive 1s. 6d. a-day and their
food; weavers, 2d. 3d. 4d. 5d. 6d. and 7d. per yard, according to
quality; peat-casters 1s. 6d. a day, with victuals,-women get only


