

156                                 BANFFSHIRE.

below what we.conceive to have formed the probable boundaries
of this ancient donation, which, if our conjecture be right, will
point out the northern boundary of the parish.  We need only
farther remark at present, that the boundary of the donation which
we have attempted to trace, comprehends almost the whole of the
lands possessed by the present Earl of Fife, within this parish,
west of the river Doveran; and if, (as the best accredited genealo-
gies affirm,)his Lordship be descended from the Atholl family, it
is a very curious fact, that be should be in possession, at the pre-
sent day, of the lands which were given away by his ancestor at the
distance of 524 years.
  It was the writer"s intention to have traced the succession of
landed property in the parish from the date ofthe above-mention-
ed charter down to the present time : but materials accumulated
to an ex  tent so incompatible with a work of this description, that
be has found it necessary to present only a few detached fragments
of the more interesting and less generally known portions of this
part of our history.
  In the " Registrum Magni Sigilli Regum Scotorum in Archi-
vis publicis asservatum,", is found (at page 250,) the confirmation
of a grant, of date 1410, by Alexander Stewart, Earl of Marr and
Garviaeb, (Garioch,) and Dominus de Dufle in Brabant, to his
brother Andrew Stewart, of the lands of Sandlialcb., (Sandlaw,) in
the barony of Montblairy.  This Earl of Marr and his brother
Andrew, were two of the five natural sons of Alexander Stewart,
Earl of Marr, better known by the appropriate name of the Wolf
of Badenoch.  In 1426, Douglas, Lord Balveny had a grant of
Stratbalvah confirmed by King James 1. After the forfeiture of
Douglas, the Lordship of Balveriv, reverting to the crown, was in
a deep and. extensive pond, the place at An early period may probably have obtained
the name Or Bludypotts., Thus have we arrived at the place from which we set out,
namely, the Stanemannisbead-a place already identified with what is now called
Craighead. . This Craighead, as already mentioned, stretches in a line from the 13tir-
guspet, stains at 13)udypotts or Cairnelpie to the river Doveran. and this line across the
upper end of the deer-park is now pretty generally considered the northern boundary
of the parish of Alvah, although there are some who positively maintain that the pa-
rish it ends a considerable distance further to the north. If a few in ore of the Bur-swt stains were
discovered between Cairnelpie -nd Doveran, the boundary, perhapsgu                                                                                      I
might be determined,with greater certainty. In regard to the boundary which we
have now traced, it need only be farther remarked, that the ascents and descents, the
heights and hollows, the points ofthe compass, and the course ot the strearns, all cor.
respond with the terms of the charter-circurnstances, which, taken in connection
with the names still extaut, render it highly probable that the above outline is pretty
aamrately Aelineated.  The northern boundary of the Data n'emannishead is the only
point about which any doubt can be entertained.  Mr Cowie has the principal merit
if ttacilig the boundaries of this ancient donation.


