
     Statistical Account

have ever carried their arms; so that unless they be
found near their colonial towns, or to their military
roads, or acknowledged vestiges of their encampments
and stations, they are more likely to be the funeral de-
posits of the Britons than of the Romans*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*But, independent of the vestige of a Roman highway, which is not
discoverable in any part of the country, but very apparent in the neigh-
bouring, and more inland one of Tiviotdale, about Jedburgh or Caerton
Common, we have the best authority, (that of Tacitus, in his life of Agri-
cola), to assert, that this famous commander of the Roman legions marched
in this tract of the east coast, when, after having invaded Scotland in one
campaign, he entered it again with more powerful forces.  His land ar-
my, says that historian, was conducted by him so near the sea, as to keep
fight, as much as possible, of his fleet, that sailed along the coast.  This could
not possibly be done by him in this pass of the country, to any advantage, if
he marched his army northward, at a greater distance from the sea, than
that of Chirnside Hill.  In a mile or two beyond it, the hills of Lammer-
muir arise, and are so cast, as to allow only of some peeps of the sea.  With-
in its distance, almost every eminence, shows it in more extended views;
besides this passage into East Lothian being shorter, and less mountainous.
But, we shall suppose, that he kept still closer to the sea, which is most
probable, and directed his march on this side of the Tweed, so near as the
towns of Ayton and Coldingham now stand, yet it is hardly to be thought,
that he would have no detached party of his troops, to cover the flank of
his army on that side, when he was entering into a pass of the country,
unavoidable and difficult.  If such a necessary detachment was made only
at 2 or 3 miles distance, to observe the enemy, their route, a little west-
ward from the main body, would either bring them to Chirnside Hill, or
very near its border.  Accordingly, in favour of this supposition, what do
we meet with, hardly so far as the throw of a javelin from its south extre-
mity, but, on the other side of Whittadder that bounds this parish, and on
the ground of the Allanbank estate-a place called Chester-knows, a
name of auspicious import to the antiquary, when he investigates the
progression of the Roman arms in Britain.  In that place, he might have
beheld (as the writer of this account did 30 years ago), the conspicuous re-
mains of an ancient, or very old military entrenchment.  Mounds of
earth, in signal elevation, and evidently artificial, appeared to the eye, at a
   

