
     Statistical Account

roads are now going on, which will prove highly service-
able.  The Duke of Gordon has made one uncommonly
good cross-roads, from Glenmore to the Spey, for his Eng-
lish Company.  There is one excellent bridge, built about
25 years ago, by Sir James Grant on the river Nethy, at
his own expense, and 2 smaller bridges to the east by him,
with some assistance from the country of Inverness.  An
other bridge is begun, on a very troublesome rivulet, near
the church of Kinchardine on the Duke of Gordon's property,
with assistance from the country of Inverness.  The heritors of
the county of Inverness assess themselves, with much spirit,
for building bridges, etc. which cannot indeed be said for the
proprietors of the low parts of Elgin.  Sir James Grant has
lately made about 7 miles of a very difficult and expensive
road, from Castle-Grant, past his own march in the hills to
shorten the way, at least to open new communications with
Forres and Elgin, and this at his own private expense*.

   Manufactures.-There are no manufactures in these
parishes, but that of wood, as has been already mentioned.
A woollen manufacture, for Scots serges, stuffs, tartans, etc.
might be tried with a prospect of advantage in some part

<FOOTNOTE>

*And yet, the people concerned in the trade of the these towns, and the
numerous proprietors of the lower estates, seem to be in danger of forget
ting to come forward to meet him.  They have hitherto done nothing of
their part of it; and while they continute so inactive, his great expense
and labour will be lost.  The time was when Highlanders were said to be
averse to have any roads made in, or to their country.  But it is a little
singular to see the inhabitants of the west of Morray, who always pre-
tended to superior civilization to the highland people, so outdone here.
It is hoped therefore they will come forward next season to save their re-
putation.  The advantages and satisfaction of the private roads here,
and of the King's high road from Fort George to Perth, through the east end
of the parish, with its numerous bridges, are so many and so sensibly felt,
when contrasted with the state of the country some years ago, that it
is unnecessary to take up room here in relating it.


