
     of Harris.

Harris, and the greater part of the Isle of Sky, besides the
whole W. coast of Rossshire, and a considerable part of the
western coast of Invernessshire on the continent.  Macleod of
Lewis, chief of the branch discended from Torkill, forfeited
his property.  Some gentlemen of the family, however, have
retained a considerable portion of the ancient inheritance.
The principal of these are, Macleod of Raasay in Inverness-
shire, and the Macleods of Cadboll, and Geanies in Ross*.
Macleod of Macleod, or Harris, has preserved, though not
the whole of his hereditary possessions+, a very extensive pro-

<FOOTNOTE>

*It appears from a note now in my possession, under the sig-
nature of `the Chevalier de Mackleot', dated at Lisle Novem-
ber 12. 1787, that a considerable family of this name, whether
of the Macleods of Lewis or Harris it is not now material to in-
quire, has been settled in France since the year 1530.  The note
gives a genealogical account of the family down from a George
Macleod, Esq; who, by letters patent from King Robert II. of
Scotland, dated 5th December 1388, obtained a gift of certain
lands in the county of Tweeddale, forfeited by Humphrey El-
phinston, for his adherence to the interests of Richard, King of
England.  These lands were bestowed on George Macleod for
services rendered in the patriotic cause, and particularly for hav-
ing distinguished himself at the battle of Otterburn.  On this
possession the family flourished for near two hundred years.  The
progenitor of the branch settled in France was David Macleod;
who went over about the middle of the 16th century in quality
of gendarme of the Scottish guard.  Since 1560 they have been
settled in the duchy of Lorraine.  The present head of the fami-
ly is Jean Nicolas de Mackleot, Seigneur de Terreigne Pierville,
Ville Forest et Soumazeur, before the late revolution gentil-
homme ordinaire du Roi.

+Notwithstanding that the immense estates of the Hebridian
chiefs, generally acquired by right of conquest, during the Dan-
ish invasions and the subsequent feuds of the clans, which the
powers of a feeble government were not able to restrain, have,
in the lapse of time, been split down into lesser properties, we
cannot help thinking that the great extent, as yet remaining in
the power of a few families, is extremely prejudicial to the in-
terests of the country at large.  It has established over the High-


