
     of Inveresk.

falt, etc. are generally the wives of weavers, shoemakers, 
tailors, or sievemakers, who, being confined by their em-
ployments within doors, take charge of the children and
family, while the females trudge to Edinburgh about their 
several branches of busines, long before day in winter, and 
return by mid-day, or later, according to the time spent in 
selling their commodities.  Their usual daily profits may
be computed at from 8 d. to 1 s. 3 d. which, besides the
free, social, and disengaged life which they lead, is a greater 
addition to the income of the family, than they could earn
by any other branch of industry.-The women, who carry
sand to Edinburgh, have the hardest labour, and earn least.
For they carry their burden, which is not lefs than 200 l b.
weight, every morning to Edinburgh, return at noon, and 
pass the afternoon and evening in the quarry, digging the 
stones, and beating them into sand.  By this labour, which
is incessant for six days in the week, they gain only about 
5 d. a day.

   The Fish-wives, as they are all of one clafs, and educated
in it from their infancy, are of a character and manners 
still more singular than the former, and particularly di-
stingushed by the laborious lives they lead.  They are the
wives and daughters of fishermen, who generally marry in 
their own cast, or tribe, as great part of their busines, to 
which they must have been bred, is to gather bait for their 
husbands, and bait their line.  Four days in the week,
however, they carry fish in creels (ofier baskets) to Edin- 
     VOL. XVI. C

<FOOTNOTE>

on their heads, which require two men to lift up.  The wife yields not in
strength to the husband, not the fisher to the brother; and after a cheer-
ful glass, though heavily loaded, they move on with alacity, returning
home in the evening without the appearance of lattitude, often arm and
arm, dancing and singing to the taser and pipe.  This is a very exact pic-
ture of the fifh-wives here; to fimilar are the manners of human creatures 
in fimilar circumstances. 


