                                  MOFFAT.                  117

    Manufacturers- There is a good corn-mill at Moffat; also a
sawing-mill for timber, and a fulling-mill for cloth ; with various
looms for making stockings; and the necessary proportion of skilful
tradesmen in the various branches required for the village and
neighbourhood.
    The straw-plait for bonnets was recommended for trial at Mof-
fat, and no situation appears more promising.  The prices have
fallen much, but still the manufacture would be of some use, both
for sale and for wear. The material is cheap, and the labour is
manual, so that it well deserves to be tried, and to meet encourage-
ment.  In the cleanly houses at Moffat, the young women might
do something at bonnet-making, while the elder females worked at
spinning and netting into stockings of strong woollen yarn, of-at
any otber work that can be furnished, so as to give them the credit
and comfort of doing something for their own support,-an object
of great importance and of growing necessity.
    Agricultural Society. - There is a farming association here,
which, by stimulating attention to the improvement of stock, has
been very useful, even at a time rather inauspicious.  When the
value of stock had sunk so far in proportion to that of money. as to
render the payment of rents, without considerable abatement, hard-
ly practicable; even in there circumstances the intrinsic value of
stock has been considerably improved, in consequence of the pub-
lic notice excited by this Association.

                     V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

  Town, Market, &c.-The police of the town was lately very
inadequate; but has been improved by the nomination of special
constables and peace-officers.  There are two residing magistrates
in Moffat, and the court of Justices meets there once a-month.
There is a weekly market ; but it were better if it were to be held
only once a-month, when, of course, it would be more  fully at-
tended.
    Means of Communication.-The means of communication are
excellent in the directions of Glasgow and Carlisle, and also
towards Dumfries and Edinburgh.  The road also to Selkirk by tbe
lakes is good ; but though another line has been opened by Hut-
ton, branching to Eskdalemuir, or to Dunnabie, the road to Loch-
maben is still imperfect, and a direct line to Closeburn is wanting
An assorting Post-Office at Moffat is well kept and very useful, but
a post conveyance by Lochmaben to Annan is still wanted.  The


