
12                      ABERDEENSHIRE.

last winter scarcely a night passed in which it was not seen in a
greater or less degree.
   Thunder storms are by no means very common in this parish,
and when they do occur they are scarcely ever very violent, and
it is not above once in two or three years that any injury is done
by lightning to either buildings or lives in Aberdeen or the vicinity.
   Springs, Wells, &c.-There are few springs of any consequence
in the parish, and although a supply of water can be got in most
places by digging from ten to thirty feet, it is generally rather
hard, and therefore comparatively of little value.  Close by the

boundary of the parish, on the west side, are two springs closely
contiguous which have been long known under the name of the
Well of Spa.  Both of these springs, but especially the least co-
pious one, are impregnated with carbonate of iron, and they have
been noted as medicinal on account of this quality.  In 1615, an
account of the properties and powers of these springs was published
by Dr William Barclay, under the title of "Callirrho‰, commonly
called the Well of Spa, or the Nymph of Aberdene."  A building
which at that time protected the spring having fallen into decay,
was repaired by the celebrated painter, George Jamieson, but was
not long after demolished by a flood of the Den-burn, which runs
close beside.  In 1670, another building was erected over the
spring, which still remains, consisting of a stone enclosure with
steps or benches, and an entablature bearing these inscriptions:-

                   "As heaven gives me, so give I thee."
              "Hoc fonte derivata salus in Patriam populumque fluat.'
                             "Spada Rediviva, 1670."

These springs have disappeare and been recovered several
times within the last two centuries, but until of late their chaly-
beate virtues seem to have been always retained.  Within these
few years, however, in digging on the adjacent eminence for the
foundations of the west wing of the New Infirmary, it would seem
as if the course of the water had been disturbed, or some other
change produced, the consequence of which is that now the larger
spring scarcely appears to possess any chalybeate impregnation,
and tire smaller one is much weaker than it formerly was.
   It is generally concluded among geologists, that where granite
rock forms the bed of a district, the attempt to obtain water by
sinking Artesian wells would be vain ; and Messrs Richards and
Co., when they wished to obtain a supply of water for their manu-
factory in the neighbourhood of Aberdeen, were dissuaded from
incurring the expense of boring, as not likely to be attended with
success.  Messrs Hadden and Sons, however, about three years


