
86                   DUMBARTONSHIRE.

the border counties, Dumbartonshire was seldom agitated by the
events that belong to the page of national history. To the parish
of Cardross this want of historic interest belongs in a remarkable
degree, as it ritrely was the scene even of those petty struggles,
by which rival chiefs of robber clans occasionally disturbed the
peace of the neighbourbood. Its peasantry were not unfrequently
visited by these mountain marauders, at the expense of their cattle
and stock of all sorts, but their pacific habits prevented them alike
from defence and retaliation upon their lawless visitors. It is,
therefore, from family records and private incidents that the course
of events in this parish during past ages must be traced ; and
among these the genealogist will find enough to reward his re-
searches.
   Eminent Men.--The families particularly worthy of notice are
those of Dennistoun of Dennistoun, Spreul of Dalquhurn, Napier
of Kilmahew, Bontine of Ardoch, Noble of Ardardan, and Smol-
lett of Bonhill. * The last has been illustrated by Sir James
Smollett, a commissioner for the union in 1707, and a politician
of considerable Adroitness and still more by his grandson, Dr
Tobias Smollett, one of the greatest names in Scottish literature.
A Tuscan column connects his memory with his native vale, and
an authentic memoir, prefixed to Dr Anderson's edition of his
works, will supply to his admirers those particulars of his life,
which want of space compels us here to omit. No portrait of
either of these distinguished men is found in the possession of
their representative, and unfortunately the family papers contain
very few remains of the author of Roderick Random. The family
of Mr Dunlop of Keppoch, although recently settled in Dumbar-
tonshire, has given to the Church and universities of Scotland, a
perhaps unexampled succession of distinguished ornaments. Prin-
cipal Carstairs was nearly related to them by marriage, and Mr
Dunlop possesses manv of his original papers, which are not no-
ticed in the published selection. He also has at Keppoch an ori-
ginal portrait of Carstair,-, and the thumbikins by which he was
tortured. +
    Atiqiuities.--Did our limits permit us to enter at large upon

<FOOTNOTE>The famelies of Dennistoun, and Spreul, and Napier have now left the parish;
and  to this list may be added Campbell of Camis Eskan, Geils of Geilstoun, and
Buchanan of Drumhead
          From the correspondence of Principal Dunlop, the curious fact appears, that in
the name of the. Darien Company, he bargained with the surrounding proprietors to
retain Keppoch Bay as the harbour for their shipping.


