
     Statistical Account

   Antiquities.-Among the few antiquties in this parish, may
be mentioned a square tower, which was the ancient resi-
dence of the family of Benholme, and is still kept in repair,
though not inhabited.  From its peninsular situation, thick-
ness of walls, and battlements on the roof; this building
seems to have been originally intended for a place of
strength; and before the use of artillery, was probably not
ill calculated to resist the sudden attack of an enemy.  When
this strong hold was built is uncertain.  On the summit of
the nearest hill to the sea, except one, bordering with the
parish of Cyrus, and commanding an exrensive prospect
stands a rough stone, in the circumference of a strony circle,
commonly called the Cloach Stone.  It is more than a foot
thick, measures 8 feet along the ground, and rices nearly 6
above its surface in an inclined direction towards the North.++

<FOOTNOTE>

++As there is no place in the neighbourhood, except one at the South corner
of the parish, close by the shore, where stones of the same quality are found,
it appears to have been brought from thence, not without considerable diffi-
culty, the intervening space being a pretty sleep ascent of more than a mile.
It would seem therefore to have been erected for some useful purpose, per-
haps with a view to perpetuate some memorable event.  Tradition says, a bat-
tle was fought near the place, and the number of flint heads of arrows, found
on the side of the hill where it stands, affords some reason to credit this re-
port.  Between this and the coast, a great quantity of human bones has been
dug up, in the course of improving the land, for nearly the space of a mile a.
long the rising ground above Johnshaven.  The bottom and sides of the graves,
containing these bones, were all lined with rough stones.  It is difficult to ac-
count for so great a space being occupied by dead bodies, on any other sup-
position than that of an engagement:  At the same time, it seems doubtful
whether such a degree of attention would be bestowed in burying all the dead
slain in the field of battle, unless we consider it as mark of regard from the
survivors, to those who had probably fallen in defence of their country.
There were no arms in any of these graves; but one or two have been found,


