
			CADDER.                                405

of the kirk-session of Cadder, and their successors in office, and
about a rood of land for a yard,--under the express condition, that
the schoolmaster teach the youth literature and Christian know-
ledge. The ground has been considerably encroached upon by
the adjacent feuars; and a new and superior house was erected in
1826, chiefly by the late Charles Stirling, Esq. assisted by the late
Archibald Lamont of Robroyston, Esq. and others.
	It is notorious, that the curate of Cadder intimated the sentence
of ejection to the Rev. William Guthrie, Minister of Fenwick, on
24th July 1664; and it is said he never returned again to his cu-
racy.
	Thomas Muir, Esq. advocate, who was banished in 1793 for
advocating the principles of Reform, was brought up at Hunters-
hill in this parish.
	James Boyd of Trochrig, minister of Kirkoswaid, was the first
regularly appointed Protestant archbishop of Glasgow. He was
raised to the see in 1572. He feued the lands of Bedlay to Lord
Boyd, afterwards Earl of Kilmarnock.
	The estate of Garnkirk belonged to the Dunlops, also a respect-
able family, of whom Colin Dunlop, Esq. lately one of the mem-
bers of Parliament for Glasgow, is the representative. Both pro-
perties were held for a short time, and transmitted to the present
possessors, on whom they are now entailed, by the late John Mac-
kenzie, Esq. The Peters, late of Crossbasket, were the last pos-
sessors of the estate of Carderroch, now, with other lands, an un-
entailed part of the estate of Cadder. It was the practice of the
respectable families in the parish, to bury in the aisle or middle
passage of the church, and some of them below their own seats.
	Land-owners.--The chief proprietors are Archibald Stirling,
Esq. of Keir, Cadder, and Kenmure in Scotland, and Hampden,
and other large estates in Jamaica;* Mark Sprot, Esq. of Garn-
kirk; Alexander Campbell, Esq. of Bedlay; and--La-
mont, Esq. of Ardlamont and Robroyston. These four proprie-
tors possess above L. 400 Scots valuation. The properties of
the two last, and by far the lowest, yield about L. 1000 Sterling,
anually.
	James Denniston, Esq. of Golfhill, banker in Glasgow, proprie-
tor of Easter Muckcroft and Langrig, part of the lands of Chrys-
ton; Robert Buchanan, Esq. of Drumpeller, proprietor of Gartin-

<FOOTNOTE>In 1533, the estate of Cadder came into the possession of Keir by his eldest
son marrying the heiress of Cadder.

	LANARK.                        D d


