
400                   RENFREWSHIRE.

number of horses was 120, and of cows 756.  There are about
4000 old sheep in the parish, besides a proportional number of
Young ones.  The horses increase in the spring when the ploughing
begins in March; but the smaller farmers sometimes join two and
two to make up the number of horses necessary for ploughing their
lands, which, in the language of the country, is termed marrowing.
The Glasgow market supplies those who purchase in spring, or
beginning of the working season, and sell again when the labour is
over.  In the higher parts of the parish, however, the tenants
plough little.  Their great dependence, as formerly stated, is on
sheep, and the rearing of cattle.  In the lower part of the parish, where
the soil is drier, and the climate more favourable, when the land
is allowed to lie four years, it produces two excellent crops of oats,
with a very sligbt application of lime or manure, and Gdnerally re-
pays the labour of the farmer.  The farmers in that quarter only
plough a fourth part of their arable ground, and oats is the princi-
pal grain they raise.  Ever since Glasgow has risen to its present
importance, the great dependence of the farmers in this quarter,
as in Kilbride, and the neigbbouring parishes, is on their milk,
butter, and cheese, particularly on their buttermilk, which, with
the butter, is driven into the Glasgow market, once or twice, or
oftener a week.  On this account they have few horses, but a great
many cows, all  of the Ayrshire breed, but, owing to the soil and
climate, not of the largest size.  In the beginning of winter they
are fed chiefly on oat straw ; but, in the latter end of winter, and
till the pasture springs up, with hay, and a little grain or oats once
a day.  Milch cows are generally set a bowing at from L.8 to
L. 9.  The rate of grazing a cow about the village is L.5, but less
farther up the county; a sheep is about 5s.  The rent of arable land
varies from L. 5 to 10s. per acre per annum.  Some of the lower
parts of the parish let at L. 2 per acre, as Millhall and Borland.
A great deal lets at L. 10 and 15s. per acre.  Ploughmen are hired
at from L. 9 to L.10 for six months, or from L. 18 to L. 20 per
annum, with board and washing; female servants at from L. 6 to
L. 9 and L. 10 per annum.  In 1791, the fees of men-servants
were from L. 6, to L. 9, and of female servants from L. 2, 10s. to
L. 4, 1Os. per annum.  The number of farmers at the same pe-
riod was 63; at present the number is nearly the same.  The ge-
neral duration of leases is nineteen years.  A good deal has of late
been done by way of improving or reclaiming waste lands, particu-


