
636                     FIFESHIRE.

and a high opinion of his learning and abilities, knowing his desire
to have Presbyterianism established throughout the British domi-
nions, entered into a correspondence with him regardin the com-
parative merits of Episcopal and Presbyterian' modes of church
government, but was not induced to agree to the abolition of Epis.
copacy in England.
  Henderson was a man of amiable dispositions, naturally averse
to violence, and desirous to unite the friends of true religion ; and
he was possessed of a sound discriminating judgment., which, while
it led him to endeavour to prevent. those ruinous excesses to which
"some fiery spirits" of his own party would have carried tbem,
led him also, where necessary, to adopt strong measures in order
to remove grievances, and to accomplish a reformation.
  He was an enlightened, able, and temperate defender of Pres-
byterianism, and so continued to the last moment-of his life.  His
death, which took place in 1646, was deeply regretted as a great
loss to the Church and to tha kingdom. Principal Baillie pro-
nounced a high eulogium on his character in the General Assem.
bly of 1647 : and the Presbyterians, in general, hoinoured his me-
mory by every expression of their esteem and regard.
  Family of Bethune of Creich.-The first proprietor of Creicb
of the name of Bethune was David, second son of John Bethuner
Laird of Balfour, and of Marjory Boswell, daughter of the Laird
of Balniuto. He was highly esteeiried by King James IV., who
created him Great Treasurer of Scotland, and Keeper of the Pa-
lace of Falkland. 11 He conquest and acquired the lands of Creich
from the Littles or Liddels, in 1502." He was married to
Duddingston, daughter to the Laird of Sandford in Fife. Jane4
their eldofdaugliter, from whom many of the chief nobility and
gentry in . Scotland are descended, was married, first, to Sir Ro-
bert Livingston of East Wemyss, and after his death to James,
the first Earl of Arran of the Hamiltons, and nephew to King
James III Of the issue of this after marriage was Jame Earl
of Arran, who was also Duke of Chatelberault, and Regent of
the kingdom. Mary, the younger daughter, was married to Lord
Lyle.-Sir John Bethune,,the second proprietor of Creicb, suc-
ceeded his father, and was married to Janet Hay, daughter of
John Hay, provost of Dundee, and niece of the Laird of Naugh-

<FOOTNOTE>See Acts of General Assembly, 7th August 1648.
          For a full and impartial account of this eminent individual, see Dr Aiton's
         " Life and Times of Alexander Henderson."



