
76                      SUTHERLANDSHIRE.

of fifteen and twenty tons burden. During the herring-fishing
season, ships from the south ports of Scotland, from England and
Ireland, come to the coast to land cargoes of salt and barrels, and
to carry the cured fish to market. There are no ships belonging
to the parish.

                   V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Means of Communication, fc.-The nearest market-town is
Thurso, thirty-two miles from this place. There is a post-of-
fice here connected with that of Tburso; and a mail diligence,
drawn by two horses, and carrying four passengers, which runs
three days in the week from Thurso to Tongue, and alternately
back; and there is a weekly carridr from Tongue to Thurso.
There are no turnpike roads in the parish; but a considerable
extent of the Parliamentary road from Bonar Bridge to Tongue
passes through the heights, and about sixteen miles of the ge-
neral line from Tongue to Thurso run near the sea-coast. On
the roads in this parish there are two bridges of three arches each,
twelve of one arch, and a chain-boat on the river Naver. There
are no regular harbours. The safest landing-places for boats are
Kirtomy and Armidale.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is conveniently situat-
ed for the population who are now attached -to it, since the erec-
tion of the Government church. It stands close to the sea-coast,
and is about thirty miles from some parts of the interior. But
these remote parts are occupied only by a few shepherds in the
employment of the sheep-farmers. The parish-church was built
in 1774, is a commodious and substantial building, and is kept in
good repair. It is seated for about 750. The communion table
is, on ordinary Sabbaths, free to the poor, and accommodates
about 64.
   There is a Government church and manse at Strathy, ten miles
east from the parish church. This church was built in 1826, and
its present minister was appointed to it in 1828. It accommodates
about 350 sitters. Thus, in a parish, the population of which is
about 2100, wts have church accomniodation for 1160 persons.
   The manse was built in 1818, is a commodious house, and kept
in sufficient repair. There are about six acres of arable land, some
meadow-pasture, and a considerable extent of hill ground, with a
right to. peats,-legally designed as a glebe. The value of these
way be estimated at L. 25 per annum. The stipend is L. 166,
14,s. Sterling, including L.8, 6s. Sd. Sterling for communion ele-


