
74                   LINLITHGOWSHIRE.

ing been received in excambion for the old glebe in 1817. The
stipend, inclusive of communion elements, is 128 bolls meal, and
as many of barley.
   In 1834, there were 259 families, amounting to 1104 indivi-
duals who might be reckoned as attached to the Established
Church, 22 families containing 96 individuals belonging to the
United Associate Synod; one family and part of another who
were Reformed Presbyterians, and there were 5 Episcopalians.
The average number of communicants is nearly 200.
   Religious Society.-A Parochial Bible Association was instituted
in 1826, in connection with the West Lothian Bible Society, with
a special provision, that the wants of the parish should, in the first
instance, be supplied. The rate of contribution was a penny a-
week, and in this way, from 1826 to 1833 inclusive, L.51, 17s. 11d.
were collected for the purpose of promoting the distribution of the
Scriptures. This society has now merged in a general association
lately established in support of the schemes of the General As-
sembly, and for circulating Bibles through the parish.
   Church Collections.-The amount of church collections for re-
ligious and charitable purposes for the seven years ending in 1834,
averaged L. 38, 4s. 11d.
   Education.-Besides the parochial school, there are three other
schools in the parish, two of them under the patronage and su-
perintendence of the Carriden family, one an infant school, the
other for the education of female children, the third dependent
upon the personal efforts and success of the teacher.
   The parochial teacher's salary is the maximum. He possesses
the legal accommodations as to school and dwelling-house, and
in lieu of a garden, two bolls of oatmeal are allowed him.
   Library.-In 1821, a library was instituted in the parish, to
consist of books of a religious and instructive character, and to
remain in perpetuity for the use of the inhabitants. A number
of donations set it at once on a respectable footing, and the ac-
cession of subscribers was at first promising, but latterly they have
not been so numerous.
   Friendly Societies and Savings' Banks.-Some years ago, a Sa-
vings' bank was established, in the hope that it would speedily and
largely improve the character and domestic comfort of the labouring
classes; but the experiment did not succeed. Few embraced the
opportunity of entering deposits and those few not altogether the
class of personal for whose benefit it was designed.


