
432                        ABERDEENSHIRE.

monly worn by labouring men and boys, which are also knitted
with wires, and afterwards milled.  This is the common employ-
ment of all the aged, and many of the young women in the dis-
trict of Gazioch; and at the rate of 3d. to 4d. for knitting a
jacket, and 1d. to 2.d. for a bonnet, it will yield, with some
coarse stockings, to those of this parisb alone, about L.600 per
annum.

                       V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
    Market-Town.-There is no market-town within the parish,
and the one nearest to it is Inverury, a small royal burgh about
eight miles distant, on the turnpike road to Aberdeen.
   Means of Communication.-There is a post-office in Old Rain,
two miles from the church, and the Royal Mail from Aberdeen to
Inverness passes and repasses near to it every twenty-four hours,
as does also another daily coach, on the same road, so that tra-
vellers are well accommodated.  A new line of turnpike was late-
ly opened, from the Huntly road at Garden's mill, to Old Mel-
drum, joining the line from that to the port of Newburgh.  This
turnpike is made through Rayne, about three miles from west to
east, and though not yet much frequented, it may, from its vici-
nity to the slate quarries, become very beneficial to the country.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The church is situated most conveniently
for the parishioners, being nearly in the centre of the parish, and
not more than two miles distant from the extremities of it.  It was
built in 1789, and made to contain in the area and two galleries
500 hearers, a number too limited when the population exceeded
1100; and though by the addition of two other galleries, the sit-
tings have since been augmented to 700 they are still too few for
the parishioners, now above 1500, besides about 30 persons an-
nexed quoad sacra from the large adjoining parish of Fyvie.  All
the seats in the area being divided among the land-owners, in
proportion to their valued rents, are by them apportioned to their
tenants. free of charge, according to their real rents; and a few
sittings are set apart for the poor gratis.  Three of the galleries,
having been erected by the curators for the poor, are annually let
by them to the parishioners, at the very moderate rate of 1s. each
sitting, and yield above L.14 Sterling yearly to the poor's funds,
besides affording some free sittings to those who require them.
   The  manse was built in 1751 for L.1000 Scots, and was last
repaired and enlarged in 1826.  The arable glebe contains six
imperial acres of good ground, and there are above two acres of
                               3


