
	250                   ROSS AND CROMARTY.

	all strangers taking only one glass in the pump-room, pay 6d. The
	allowance to the well-keeper is voluntary. On week-days the
	pump-room is open from 6 to 9 A. M., 12 to 2 P. M. and 5 to 7
	in the evening. It is shut on Sabbath days from 9 A. M. to 5 P.
	M. The poor have the water gratis, and are accommodated with
	a comfortable room attached to the upper well. They receive unremitted
        and disinterested attention from John M'Kenzie, Esq.
	M. D., Kinellan, who acts in this quarter in his professional capacity
        of consulting physician.
	   The public prints are regularly supplied by the proprietor.
	Within the last four years a penny-post has been established.
	Bread, meat, poultry, eggs, vegetables and fruit are to be got in
	the neigbbourhood. During the drinking season, a coach runs twice
	a day to Dingwall, which is connected with another that goes to
	Inverness in the morning and returns in the evening.
	   Since the spa has come so much into repute, a number of respectable-looking
        buildings have been erected for the accommodation
        of visitors.  Through the benevolent exertions of J. E. Gordon,
        Esq. late Member for Dundalk, an institution has also been
        established for the benefit of the poor who resort thither from a
	distance. It is capable of accommodating fifty at one time, and is
	to be opened inthe course of next year.  The hotel at Blar-na-ceaun,
        which has been recently built, within half a mile of the pump-
	room, is not surpassed by any in the country ; and there is also a
	comfortable inn on the east side, where strangers receive every
	convenience and attention.
           Geology.-As is usually the case, in the high grounds of the pa-
	rish, which present a bold front and outlines only the primary rocks
	are to be met with, and of these the most frequent is gneiss. The
	south side of the valley abounds in red sandstone and conglomerate,
	while on the north, the rock is bluish and slat exhibiting in many
	places swinestone of a blackish brown colour, which on being
	rubbed gives out a fetid urinous odour. In the direction of the
	spa, the rock begins to assume the appearance of a dark calcareo-
	bituminous schist, soft and foliated, and mixed with beds of
	shale abounding with pyrites. On the north-west and north, are
	several appearances of coal. Some extracted about seventy years
	ago was found to be of a clear black colour, and remarkably in-
	flammable. Neither of these places, the one lying in the vicinity
	of Castle-Leod, and the other near the river Sgiah, at the foot of
	Wyves, have been considered worthy of being worked, as the coal


