
576                    GENERAL OBSERVATIONS

Teinds formerly possessed, and it is more necessary than ever that
it be now restored.
	19. It would then be a simple matter to consider all the surplus
teinds in Scotland as one general fund, out of which to grant ne-
cessary endowments; only respecting vested rights, in the minis-
ters to be preferred to augmentations, and in heritors Who had pur-
chased lately, to be allowed for the remaining years not compen-
sated; giving to all persons due compensation, in so far as they
could show it to be due to them bona fide for payments legally
made. In this way, endowments could be settled out of the gene-
ral fund of surplus teinds, by decree of the proper court, without
calling on government, or burdening the public whth yearly grants.
On this plan, also, heritors would be no parties against ministers,
and augmentations might be sued for, simply by petition, without
litigation: and in this case, the whole of the annoying, expensive,
and unsatisfactory striking of the fiars, in order to ascertain the sti-
pends yearly, would be superseded as unnecessary; provided that, by
legislative act, the amount of stipends already fixed by decree were
ascertained in money, once for all, by the average fiars of Linlith-
gowshire, for a proper number of years preceding: And it would
then, of course, fall to the Court to award stipends to all parish mi-
nisters, including those of the smaller livings, that justice might
also be done to them, as to all others, without litigation, and con-
sequently without bad feeling or expense.
	20. About thirty years ago, a movement was made among the land
proprietors in several counties of Scotland against the jurisdiction of
this church; but it was not encouraged by men in power, and it soon
passed away. A statement, simply and shortly drawn up, of the land
bers, duties, and stipends of the ministers was published in 1807,
and, being mostly founded on undoubted facts, no answer to it was
ever made. On the contrary, various the important suggestion contained
in it were carried into effect by the Legislature, and yet it still re-
mains to be declared, 1st, that when the teinds are exhausted, the
expense of communion elements may be awarded out of the stock;
and 2d, that when a grass glebe has not been obtained, the fair
compensation may be granted, instead of the trifling equivalent of
former times, now quite illusory. As to processes for augmenta-
tions of stipend, and the proper fund out of which to grant them,
it will be seen to be more and more just and reasonable, to pro-
vide for all these out of the general fund of free or surplus teinds
to be modified by the Court of Teinds on simple petitions. Exten-
                                4


