
	100                          PERTHSHIRE.

	Seaforth, 800 merks; Prarsthalt, 800 merks; Lorton, 800 merks;
	Linlithgow, 500 merks; Melrose, 800 merks; Lauderdale, 800
	merks; Cranston, L.100.  The scheme was ultimately abandoned.
	  There are no canals or rail-roads in the parish. Between Perth and
	Dundee there is one passage steam-boat, and sometimes two, which
	ply daily. The river not being deep enough in several places to admit
	of their passing at all hours, their arrivals and departures are regulated
	by the flowing of the tide.  There is at present an iron steamboat
	constructing to ply on the river, through the enterprise of Messrs
	A. M'Farlane and Sons, iron-founders. It is of 70 horse-power,
	112 feet long, and will draw from 33 to 36 inches water when loaded
	with 500 passengers. From the present spirited exertions made
	to remove the fords and deepen the channel of the river generally,.
	it is expected that the boat will make the passage twice each tide.
	  A rail-road between Perth and Dundee is projected; surveys
	have been taken, and some subscriptions raised to carry the project
	into effect.  But it does not meet with the concurrence of several
	of the proprietors, through whose parks and pleasure-grounds
	it would require to be carried; and some obstacles will stand in
	the way of bringing it to the city, which it will not be easy to surmount.
	It is not, therefore, probable that the work will be at present
	proceeded in; and the more especially, as the improvements
	in the river navigation promise to make water conveyance both
	more rapid and more frequent
	  Harbours.-In the royal charter now adverted to, there is an
	inhibition on all sea-vessels, small and great, coming within the
	water of Tay with merchandise, from disloading or breaking bulk
	till they come to the bridge, i. e. the bridge at the east end of the
	High Street, now called the "Old Shore" and "Old Light." Here
	was the harbour-at that time, 1600; but it is now removed from
	the town down the river to what is called the Lime shore.  This
	removal appears to have been gradual, in consequence of an accumulation
	of gravel in the bed of the river impeding the navigation.
          The removal was first to the south shore, opposite to the Grayfriars
	burying-ground; and, finally, in 1752, to where it now is.
	What was in 1600 the principal, the only harbour, receiving vessels
	of the greatest burden that could come up the river, and even
	ships mounting great guns, (as appears from the account given by
        Buchanan of an attempt to storm the town in 1544 from the river
	or eastern side,) is now frequented by small craft only.
	  The citizens of Perth and the inhabitants of the surrounding coun-


