
90                                ELGINSHIRE.

   By act of Parliament, the statute labour of Birnie has been con-
verted, and yields only L.14,-a sum quite inadequate to keep the
old in repair, and of course unfit for the construction of new roads;
so that the parish roads have become almost proverbially bad.
Much reliance, however, is placed on the liberality of the Ho-
nourable Colonel Grant of Grant, and on his long experienced
attention to the wishes of the Seafield tenantry; and it is confi-
dently expected, that the making and repair of roads in this district
will keep pace with his other territorial improvements. An earnest
of this is afforded in his having lately ordered a survey of the main
line, upon a plan which, when completed, will secure to the pa-
rish of Birnie a properly conducted and well-made road from north
to South.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The church, the only place of public wor-
ship within the parish, is not centrically placed for the population,
being six miles distant from the southern boundary.  There is no
tradition as to the time when it was erected; its'interior was repaired
in 1817, and affords legal accommodation for 253 persons.  The
whole of the seats, (except a gallery, erected by the kirk-session,
and let for behoof of the poor,) are allocated to the different farms,
and are often found to be given not in proportion to the number of
individuals that reside on these divisions of the parish.  The manse,
the walls of which are of an old date, underwent considerable al-
terations in 1811, but cannot be said to be in a state of good re-
pair.  The extent of the glebe, including garden, &c. is about
eight acres of good land, which would rent for about L.2 per acre.
By decreet of the Court of Session in 1813, the stipend is 14 bolls,
3 firlots, 2 4/5  lippies victual, 3 pecks and 4/5 of a lippy meal, and
L.102,4s. 5 8/18d. Sterling money.
   The average number of communicants is 90; of whom 39 are
male beads of families.  There is no missionary or catechist; and
the parishioners are seldom called upon to contribute to religious
or charitable purposes carried on beyond their own immediate sphere.
There are 5 individuals in the parish, Dissenters.
   Education.-There are two schools, the parochial, and a female
school.  The parochial schoolmaster has the legal accommodation
and L.26 of salary, with about L.4 for school fees.  The school
expenses of the pupils for the year may run from 6s. to 8s.  There
are some parts of the parish so distant from the parochial school
that young children residing there cannot attend; but this has of
late been in some measure obviated by the endeavours of the school-
mistress to support herself by teaching in the southern district of


