
                      CROY AND DALCROSS.                    447

clearly demonstrate their marine origin. They follow the slight
inclination of the valley of the Nairn, and of the plateau of sand-
stone on the north, but have no angular relation to the gneiss
ridge on the south,-indicating that they were thrown out of the
sea bythe same convulsive movement which elevated the sand-
stone. That they are upheaved beaches does not admit of a doubt,
and the mode of their original formation is equally obvious. The
rains of the atmosphere, and the tides, waves, and currents of the
sea are incessantly wearing down lines of coast, and depositing the
detritus at high water-mark in the shape of a terrace. This ter-
race is thrown tip by an earthquake, another is formed at the low-
er level by a similar process, and is destined to undergo emersion
in its turn. This is the actual economy of the earth, and there
can be little doubt but the same laws prevailed at the period of
the formation of the terraces under notice. That the whole of the
parish was under the sea, appears from the shape of the surface;
where soft gravel or sand occurs, it is there, undulated like the bo-
som of the deep during a severe tempest, and frequently rises in-
to conical mounds, apparently the result of vertical agency at the
confluence of currents on tides.
  Old Red Sandstone:-The old red sandstone is nowhere much ex-
posed, but it probably consists, as in adjacent localities, of strata of
conglomerate cornstone, limestone, and fine quartzose sandstone.
It forms a very extraordinary plateau to the north of the valley of
the Nairn, which extends all the way from the south-west part of
the parisb of Dores, along Loch Ness, to a short distance from the
town of Nairn, in length about 34 miles. This plateau presents
from the summit level at Culdutbel moor, a very gentle inclina-
tion towards the east, and nearly the same to the west, probably
no more than a few yards in a mile; the whole being covered by
thick beds of gravel and sometimes lias, which are all along, with
part of the sandstone, exposed by the river on the south. No ich-
thyolites of determined character have been found in the parish.
  Lias.-Liasitic limestone of a blue colour, and clays have been
found in several insulated localities in the north of Scotland, such
as at Ethie, on the north side of the Moray Frith. To the east of
Clava, we likewise discovered a detached portion of that forma-
tion: the lime has been burnt for economical purposes. No am-
monites have been found, but septaria, or ironstone are numerous,
and mistaken for organisms.
  Unconsolidated Strata.-Above the last-mentioned rock, nu-


