
			BORTHWICK.                          165

the distinguished family of Arniston.  It passed afterwards, by
purchase, into the family of Dalrymple of Cowsland,-from them
to the family of Mitchelson of Middleton,-and is now in possession
of John Borthwick, Esq. of Crookston,-a branch of the ancient
family from which the ruins derived their name, and who " is
equally interested in their preservation, and disposed to attend to
it."
    We may now look back on a few remarkable incidents which
are ascertained to have occurred during the period of which we
have been treating.  The following whimsical incident occurred at
the Castle of Borthwick in the year 1547.  We give it in the
words of Sir Walter Scott, who has published his authority in an
extract from the Consistory Register of St Andrews: the story
may therefore be relied on as a fact.
   "In consequence of a process betwixt Master George Hay de
Minzeans and the Lord Borthwick, letters of excommunication had
passed against the latter, on account of the contumacy of certain
witnesses.  William Langlands, an apparitor or macer (bacularius)
of the see of St Andrews, presented these letters to the curate of
the church of Borthwick, requiring him to publish the same at the
service of high mass.  It seems that the inhabitants of the castle
were at this time engaged in the favourite sport of enacting the
Abbot of Unreason, a species of high jinks, in which a mimic pre-
late was elected, who, like the Lord of Misrule in England, turn-
ed all sort of lawful authority, and particularly the church Ri-
tual, into ridicule. This frolicsome person with his retinue,
notwithstanding of the apparitor's character, entered the church
seized upon the primate's officer without hesitation, and dragging
him to the mill-dam on the south side of the castle, compelled him
to leap into the water.  Not contented with this partial immersion,
the Abbot of Unreason pronounced, that Mr William Langlands
was not yet sufficiently bathed, and therefore caused his assistants
to lay him on his back in the stream, and duck him in the most
satisfactory and perfect manner.  The unfortunate apparitor was
then conducted back to the church, where, for his refreshment
after his bath, the letters of excommunication were torn to piece,
and steeped in a bowl of wine; the mock abbot being probably of
opinion that a tough parchment was but dry eating.  Langlands
was compelled to eat the letters, and swallow the wine, with the
comfortable assurance, that if any more such letters should arrive
during the continuance of his office, they should 'a' gang the same


