
     Statistical Account

   Antiquities.-There are no remains of antiquity in this pa-
rish, but a long stone set on end, no person knows how or
when*.

   Proprietors, Stipend, School, etc.-The Earl of Kintore,
who is proprietor of two extensive farms, and Alexander Bur-

<FOOTNOTE>

ter, when he furnishes his own provisions; and 6 d. in summer, and 4 d. in win-
ter, when he eats in the house of his employer.  The wages of women servants
have not as yet exceeded 2 L. 10 s. a-year; but they are likely to rise.  Women
ordinarily get 1 L. in harvest.

Expenses of a Labourer's Family-There is no day-labourer here who does
not rent a small piece of ground, either of the proprietor or of a tenant, which
enables him to keep a cow or two, to supply his family with milk, and to rear
some young cattle almost every year.  As it is not easy to estimate the advan-
tages he derives from his little farm, it is difficult to ascertain exactly either his
income or his expense.  His wife and children are commonly fed and clothed
with as much frugality as is consistent with any degree of comfort; and the
children of both sexes are very early taught to knit flockings for the manufac-
turer.

   Price of Provision.-It is from the Aberdeen market chiefly that the parish
is supplied with the little butcher-meat which is consumed in it.  Meal is ge-
nerally 1 d. or 1/2 d. the pack cheaper than in the Aberdeen market, and the or-
dinary price is regulated by the quantity to the sold in the country in general.
Hence, it is of very great consequence, both to the sellers and consumers, that
we have judicious corn-laws, if we must have corn-laws, the propriety of
which is very disputable.  Butter sells commonly for 7 d. the pound, of 28 ounces.
Hens from 6 d. to 10 d.

<FOOTNOTE>

*This stone measures about 11 1/2 feet above ground; how much below, can-
not be ascertained, without incurring the risk of selling it.  Its mean girth is
9 feet.  There is no figure nor inscription upon it, and no appearance of hewing.
The smaller end is uppermost, unlike another stone, of much the same descrip-
tion in all other respects, which has been erected near the border between this
parish and Cluny, and stands on the smaller end.  As these stones cannot be sup-
posed to have been parts of Druidical temples, it is not improbable that they
have been erected in memory of some illustrious persons or events, or as monu-
ments of solemn treaties between hostile nations or tribes.  Tradition is entire-
ly silent upon the subject.
  

