
     Statistical Account

   Among other grievances, it must not be omitted, that the
inhabitants in this, and the contiguous districts, descant with
melancholy declamation, on the heavy and increasing taxation
imposed by Government.  Salt, leather, and iron,  whether it
be, in order to increase the revenue, they are, as it were,
farmed out, and have become a kind of monoply, or that an
additional tax is laid upon them; whatever be the cause, they
bitterly complain of the unusual and exorbitant prices of these
articles.  It is pleasant to hear them observe, that from the
tax upon leather, in particular, they will derive one advan-
tage:  it will diminish the number of beggars, by confining
them in winter to their booths to die at leisure, without the
trouble of exposing them, as the Scythian Alani did their in-

<FOOTNOTE>

and makes the prices vary here, according to the changes and fluctuations which
is produces.
   Male servants receive 3 L. Sterling, in the half year, the period for which
they usually engage; boys, 20 s. and 30 s.; and maids, 20 s. and 25 s. Sterling,
in the half a year.  The price of day's labour, to men, is 8 d., 10 d., and 1 s.; and
to women 6 d., and sometimes 8 d.  In these, their meat is sometimes includ-
ed, but in harvest, these wages are given, exclusive of their victuals.  The
advanced price of labour, is one of the grievances of which farmers chiefly com-
plain.  They feel, from experience, that, in point of ease, comfort, and inde-
pendence, the condition of servants, is more eligible than that of their masters.
The short term of engagement, wages immoderately high, inspire them with a
pride, insolence, and indifference, that would frequently require a meek and
patient spirit to brook.  Nice in the choice of their food to squeamishness, it
must neither fall short, nor exceed that exact proportion of cookery, which
their appetites can relish.  Care too must be taken, that no offence shall be of-
fered them.  They must sleep in the morning as long, and go to bed at night as
soon, as their pleasure dictates.  Expostulations are opposed by rudeness.  If
their behaviour is disagreeable, their masters are at liberty to provide them-
selves with others, against the first term.  And seldom do they fail to give
scope for this liberty.  When the term arrives, then, like birds of passage, they
change their residence, or migrate to distant countries.  In the present period
of their history, in this and the neighbouring countries, they seem to be the
only class of subjects who enjoy the most, and abuse the freedom of the English
Constitution.


