
192			FORFARSHIRE.

tity of rain falls; and, owing to the elevation of the parish above
the level of the sea, there are frequently heavy falls of snow during
winter. The rainbow, halo, and particularly the polar lights,
sometimes make a brilliant appearance. During spring, the wind
blows generally from the east; and during winter, from the north.
	Hydrography.--In this parish there is a vast number of fine
springs, whose waters, for their medicinal virtues, are not excelled
by any in Britain, and have been found extremely beneficial in cases
of strangury and gravel.
	The loch or lake before referred to is formed by the cavity of
high rocky mountains, which encompass it on all sides except the
east; and is supplied with water by rivers, springs, and streams.
Its length is a mile and a quarter; and its mean breadth half a-mile:
the depth towards the middle, twenty fathoms.
	The principal rivers are the Lee, and the Unick, which joins
the Lee a mile above the west end of the loch. The water which
issues from the loch at the east end retains the n`me of Lee. The
Lee, the Mark, and Brany,--all three unite opposite the new
church, and form the North Esk. This river in its course through
the parishes receives the Effock, Tarf, Keeny, and Turret, with
many tributary streams: it runs very rapidly until it emerges from
the Grampian mountains at the Gannachy Bridge, and falls into
the German Ocean three miles north-east of Montrose. From
the sources of the Mark and Lee, including its windings, it runs
about fifty miles.
	Geology.--The strata generally dip in an easterly direction, fol-
lowing the course of the North Esk. The mountains and hills
are composed of primitive rocks, of mica-slate, trap, limestone: and
granite forms the summits of the highest mountains.
	A vein of lead-ore runs through the parish in a direction nearly
east and west. In the year 1728, a company of miners were em-
ployed in making trial of it, but the quantity was so small, that it
would not defray the expense of working. Since that time no other
trial has been made.
	The mountains and great part of the valleys are covered with
heath, strong benty grass, and peat-moss.
	The soil through the whole parish rests on a tilly gravelly bot-
tom; is thin, but when lime is applied, becomes tolerably produc-
tive, provided the crop be not blasted with early frosts, which often
happens. In that case, it is of lhttle or no use, except for the straw.
This has taken place four times within the last twenty-five years.


