
			GLASGOW.                       227

		MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.

Abstract view of the State of Society in Glasgow at various periods.
	From 1500 to 1550.--Prior to this time the inhabitants of this
city and neighbourhood were governed by churchmen, who kept
them in such a state of ignorance and superstition as was truly de-
plorable. Towards the end of this period the principles of the
glorious Reformation began to be acknowledged, when it pleased
God to raise up powerful agents in Edinburgh and Glasgow in the
persons of Knox and Melville.
	From l550 to 1600.--During this period the Reformation took
place. The great body of the people, however, still retained their
fierce and sanguinary disposition. This is strikingly marked in their
being constantly armed. Even their ministers were accoutred in the
pulpit. The number of murders, cases of incest, and other crimi-
nal acts which were turned over to the censures of the church, but
too plainly point out the depraved character of the people.
	From 1600 to 1650.--The distinguishing character of the
people during this division of time is marked by a certain malignity
of disposition. Their belief in and treatment of witches, second-
sight, &c. afford strong symptoms of superstition grounded on ig-
norance; and the profanation of the Sabbath, by working and riot-
ing on that day, displays gross profanity.
	From 1650 to 1700.--During the beginning of this period and
the end of the former, the people, who had become more civiliz-
ed, and paid more attention to moral and religious duties, were
dreadfully harassed and persecuted by an intolerant government,
who seemed determined to enforce a form of religion which was
inimical to the people. The abdication of James II., and with him
the exclusion of the Stuart family, brought about the happy Revolu-
tion, which put an end to the religious troubles.
	The union with England, which took place soon after this period
opened up a spirit for trade hitherto unknown in this city, and
the increase of population is truly astonishing. In 1774, at the
induction of the Rev. Dr Burns, the Barony parish did not con-
tain 8000 souls,--its population now amounts to 85,385. This
venerable and justly respected minister, (who it is believed is now
the father of the Church of Scotland,) has exercised the ministerial
functions in the Barony parish for a period of sixty-five years, viz.
four years as assistant to Mr Laurence Hill, and sixty-one as the mi-
nister of the largest of the parish in Scotland. Dr Burns has served a cure
for a longer period than has fallen to the lot of any Presbyterian or


