
			GIRTHON.                              293

is no less than 170 acres, now forming one of the most fertile and
productive farms in Girthon. At the mouth of Fleet Bay are two
small islands, uninhabited, but pastured by sheep, commonly call-
ed Murray's Isles (in honour of proprietor), but more pro-
perly the Isles of Fleet. The shores of Fleet Bay and Irish Sea
are generally sandy or alluvial, though, in some places, they are
rocky; but there are, properly speaking, no headlands.
	Climate.--The air and climate vary with the soil and surface.
In the high lands, they are cold and severe; in the low lands,
mild and agreeable. Rain is frequent. But, on the whole, the
climate is regarded `s salubrious; and instances of longevity are
common. There are no diseases peculiar to the locality. Cho-
lera made its appearance in 1832; but there were only three
deaths.
	Geology and Mineralogy.--Girthon resembles, in these particu-
lars, the adjoining districts,--the upper part of the parish being
composed of granite,--the lower part of slaty schistous rock,
easily decomposed, having many granite boulders lying on the sur-
face, or slightly imbedded in the soil. The junction of the gra-
nite and schistous rocks runs across the parish. A slate quarry
was opened about twenty-seven years ago on the farm of Culreoch
by the proprietor, and the parish church, built in 1817, is covered
with slate from that quarry; but it has not been worked, because
slate from Westmoreland, Lancashire, and Wales can be had as
cheap, if not cheaper, than from this source. About twenty-five
years ago, a vein of copper ore was accidentally opened on the
lands of Enrig, of a rich quality. A lease of it was taken by a
company from Wales, who expended a considerable sum of mo-
ney on works there. No vein of any magnitude has yet been hit
upon, but numerous crests of rich ore discovered, several cargoes
of which have been sent to Swansea, where it is used as a flux in
smelting purer copper ores.
	Zoology.--Char, a very rare species of fish, abounds in Loch
Greanoch. It is not caught dither with bait or fly, but with tbe
net. Loch Skero is remarkable for pike. Salmon is caught in
the Fleet, but only to a trifling extent. Flounders abound in the
river, and at its mouth. The isles of Fleet are productive of
excellent oysters. The cows are of the well-known Galloway
breed. The sheep are, with few exceptions, of the small moor-
kind. Various sorts of game and wild animals abound;--grouse,
blackcocks, partridges hares, rabbits, woodcocks, badgers, foxes,


