
     of Kilwinning.

laries of parish schoolmasters.  A common tradesman, or day
labourer, if sober and industrious, will earn a great deal more
than the generality of schoolmasters can possibly do.  Is it to be
imagined, that a man having any thing like a liberal education,
and, in other respects, of an unblemished character, will en-
gage in an office, the duties of which are so extremely labo-
rious, for the miserably narrow, scanty pittance at present
annexed to it?  Should trade and commerce make the same
rapid and extensive progress, which of late they have done,
parish schools, it is to be teared, will be filled with persons
wretchedly ignorant, or of grossly indecent and immoral
lives.  The consequences of this, to the rising generation, are
too painful to be dwelt upon.  Some evils, in order to be re-
dressed, need only to be mentioned.  A sense of duty, and genu-
ine patriotism, it is hoped, will strongly and effectually impel
parents, and the friends of humanity and virtue, to unite in
applying to the legislature, to make a far more decent and
comfortable provision for parish schoolmasters, than is done at
present.

   Monastery.-This monastery was founded in the year 1140,
by HUGH DE MOREVILLE, a very opulent and powerful baron,
Lord of Cunninghame, and Lord High Constable of Scotland.
It was dedicated to St. Winning.  The monks were brought
from Kelso*.-In 1560, ALEXANDER Earl of GLENCAIRN,

     VOL. XI. Y

<FOOTNOTE>

*They were called Tyronenses, from Tyron, in the diocese chartres.  There,
ROTROUS, Earl of Perche and Mortagne, gave a settlement to St. BERNARD,
their first abbot.  From him they, as well as the Costertians, were called BER-
NARDINES.  They followed the rule of St. BENEDICT, or Bennet, but reformed
and enlarged by St.  Bernard.  King ROBERT I.  gave to this monastery the lands
of Halland juxta burgum de Irvine; as also viginti solados, quos annuation de terra sua
de Kilmernoch beredibus de Baliolo reddere solebant.  JOHANNES de MENETMETH
DOMINUS de ARRAN et de KNAPDALE, grants to the monks of this abbey jus pa-


