
        		LINLITHGOWSHIRE.

fit for burning.  Close by this work on the property of Balbar-
die, a third one is situated in the same stratum.  Between them is
interposed a whinstone dike, the effect of which is very great.
It changes the dip from 10° to 45°.  The thickness of the work-
able bed is here about 40 feet, 'with the same proportion (3 to 4
feet) of waste.  The tirring here is only about 15 feet, and be-
tween the surface earth and the lime, nothing but a little loose sand-
stone is interposed.  Dikes of very various thicknesses, it should be
added, occur very frequently in this lime, often within every hun-
dred yards.  The Silver mine work, opened originally in the pa-
ish of Torphichen, has, in the course of time, extended into that
of Bathgate.  It has been wrought as a lime-work about 100
years.  It lies higher in the hills, and is wrought in a different
stratum, or, at least, cut off from the other by a wide mass of whin.
The bed of lime, which dips to the northwest at the rate of I in 3,
is about 55 feet thick.  Of this 40 feet are wrought, the other 15
feet being generally so much coarser as to be neglected. The
tirring is from 60 to 70 feet, consisting chiefly of blaes, with 8 feet
very hard freestone. Toads have been found in this lime.
   The lime produced at all these works is good.
   Coal has been wrought long and extensively in this parish.  On
the western slope of the hills, and round the town are many old
workings, which have been abandoned for a considerable time.
Of works at present open there is, 1. Barbauchlaw.  The earth
is here about 24 feet deep, succeeded by common freestone, a black
blaes, (bitumuinous shale,) faikes, (thin beds of friable sandstone,
intermingled with shale and clay), twenty inches of red sandstone,
grey, blaes, (common shale), very coarse ironstone, 18 inches of
coal fire-clay, grey blaes, 6 to 8 feet of freestone, fire-clay of va-
riable thickness, averaging 3 feet, but sometimes wanting altoge-
ther and then at the depth of 161/2 fathoms the main coal, 4 feet
thick.  2. In the Hardhill coal-work, the first workable seam is
found at the depth of 16 fathoms.  There is nothing between it
and the surface earth butfaikes.   The coal seam presents first 3
feet 2 inches of coal, then 3 inches of clay, and then 10 inches
more of coal.  The next seam of coal presents 2 feet 1O inches
of coal, 4 inches of blaes, and 9 inches of coal.  It lies 4 fathoms
deeper than the first seam, and between them lies some excellent
and very white sandstone.  From 4 to 6 fathoms deeper lies a par
rot coaL, which is not yet wrought.  The coal here dips to the north-
wept, at the rate of about 1 in 14. 3.  In the Colinshiel coal-work,


