
              		  CAMBUSLANG.                    429

where he died 24th May 1751, at an advanced age. He is well
known as the friend and poetical correspondent of Allan Ramsay.
	Dr Claudius Buchannan, celebrated for his Asiatic researches,
was also a native of this parish. His father was schoolmaster of
Cambuslang and was appointed session-clerk 1761. During his
time, the school fees were raised from a merk Scots per quarter, to
1s. 6d. for reading, and 2s. for writing and arithmetic.
	The Rev. Robert Fleming, the author of "Scripture Truth con-
firmed and cleared," was for many years minister of Cambus-
lang. He was the son of Mr James Fleming, long minister at Ba-
thans or Yester, and after undergoing many trials and persecu-
tions, and residing for some time at Rotterdam, was finally called to
fill the charge at Cambuslang, where be died July 25th 1694.
His works are now chiefly remarkable for having foretold, with great
accuracy, the revolutions which occurred in Europe and America
towards the close of the last century. George Jardine, Esq. the late
excellent and laborious Professor of Logic in the University of Glas-
gow, had his summer residence at Hallside, in this parish, where
he was universally beloved and admired.
	Land-owners.--The chief landowners are, the Duke of Hamil-
ton, Mr Graham of Westburn, Sir James Montgomery of Stan-
hope, Mr Jackson of Spittalbill, Mr Jardine of Hallside, Mr Bain
of Morriston, and Mr McEwen, Calder Grove.
	Parochial Reqisters.--The parochial registers, at present, con-
sist of twenty volumes; some of tiese are small, and twelve of them
are in a dilapidated condition. Some older ones were destroyed
by a fire about 1724, and a few have got into private hands, but
may yet be recovered. The oldest date in the registers of pro-
clamations and baptisms is June 14th 1657. From this date they
have been regularly kept.
	Antiquities.--About a mile east from the church, there is a
small ridge, terminated, on the west, by a circular mound level on
the top, about 20 feet in height, and 140 feet in diameter. It
is evidently a work of art, and resembler those artificial mounds
on which the ancient Britons and Saxons built their fortresses. It
was here that the Castle of Drumsargard formerly stood. Drum-
sargard or Drum-searg-aird in Gaelic, signifies the dry ridge or
height; a name descriptive either of the particular spot where the
castle stood, or of a long ridge, at a little distance from it. The
situation was doubtless well chosen for a place of security, in dis-
orderly times; and though only about sixty or seventy feet higher
than the adjacent ground, the prospect from it must always have


