
298                      BANFFSHIRE.

larly wild and magnificent. The towering sides of Bein-bord, Bein-
macdui, Cairngorum, and Bein-bainac, rise all around it, and their
rugged bases skirt its edges, except at the narrow outlet of the Avon,
at its eastern extremity.  Its water is quite luminous, and of great
depth, especially along its northern side.  It abounds in trout of
a black colour and slender shape, differing much in appearance
from the trout found in the limpid stream of the Avon, which is-
sues from it.  At the west end of the lake is the famous Clach-
dhian or shelter stone.  This stone is an immense block of gra-
nite, which seems to have fallen from a projecting rock above it, ris-
ing to the height of several hundred feet, and forming the broad
shoulder of Benmacdui. The stone rests on two other blocks
imbedded in a mass of rubbish, and thus forms a cave sufficient to
contain twelve or fifteen men.  Here the visitor to the scenery
of Lochavon takes up his abode for the night, and makes himself as
comfortable as he can, where " the Queen of the storm sits," and
at a distance of fifteen or twenty miles from all human abode.
There-are various other small lakes called na-du-lochan or the
black lochies, a little to the south-east of Lochavon, towards the
forest of Braemar.  These also abound in trout, and afford good
sport to the angler.  Loecbuilg lies between Inchrory and the
Garron on the Beallach-dearg road.  It is upwards of a mile long
and about half that breadth, and abounds also in trout.
   Geology.-The whole range of the Grampian Hills is compos-
ed of granite rock. There is a bed of sandstone of rather soft and
friable quality, running across the whole breadth of the parish
at Tomintoul ; and farther down, there is a bed of slate-stone,
also running across the parish near the parish church.  There is
a slate quarry wrought in this bed close by the banks of the Avon.
It produces excellent gray slates and pavement slabs, not inferior
perhaps to any in Scotland.  Limestone abounds in almost every
part of the parish.  Ironstone is found in the south-eastern extre-
mity of the parish, in the Hill of the Leacht.  About a century
ago, the iron ore from this place was transported sixteen miles
across the country on horseback, and manufactured with charcoal
from the woods of Abernethy by an Iron Company established
there.  The ore is considered rich, and is to be found in great
abundance.\f* Fluor spar is found in the Braes of Avon, and there

<FOOTNOTE>Specimens of it have been analyzed and found to contain 85 per cent. of iron. It
is also interspersed  with rich veins of manganese, of which a considerable quantity
has been dug out, in the course of last summer, by workmen employed by the Duke
of Richmond.  It is proposed to carry on the mining of this valuable mineral, which

                                  4


