
                444                RENFREWSHIRE.

                there be any exception to this remarks, it is to be found in the
                sugar refining, which, it is alleged, has suffered materially from
                legislative interference, and perhaps has been over done.  Two of
                the largest sugar refineries have ceased working for some time past.
                  Tanning and straw-hat making are the only occupations of
                those which have been mentioned which are unfavourable to
                health.  Habits, of intemperance are not necessarily connected
                with; any of- them ; although it cannot be doubted that these are
                more frequently to be found in some of our manufactories than
                in others; and particularly among those workmen who receive
                the highest wages.  It is satisfactory, however, to be able to state,
                that intemperance, as the vice of the working-classes, is on the
                decline; and that many of the masters are exerting themselves,
                with the most praiseworthy activity and perseverance, for the en-
                cotragement of sober and industrious habits. *

                Navigation.-In the Literary Rambler for October 1832 there
                are some curious excerpts from a manuscript in the Advocates'
                Library, purporting to be a report by Thomas Tucker, one of
                Cromwell's servants, wbo was appointed to arrange the customs
                and excise in this country; from which we mav form some con-
                ception of the state of commerce in Greenock and the neighbouring
                towns two centuries ago.  The report is addressed 11 To the Right
                Honourable the Commissioners for Appeals," and is dated No-
                vember 20, 1656. After describing Glasgow as "a very neate
                burghe towne," all whose inhabitants except the students were
                traders, "some for Ireland, with small smiddy coales in open
                boates from four to ten tonnes .... some for France with plad-
                ding, coales, and hering"-and some venturing as far as Barba-
                does, but discouraged by the loss they sustained " by reason of
                their going out and coming home late every year" the reporter
                proceeds to describe the towns of Port-Glasgow and Greenock in
                the following terms:

                  "The number of ports of this district are, lot, Newarke, (Port-
                Glasgow.) a small place where there are (besides the laird's house
                et the place) some four or five houses. but before them a pretty
                good- roade, where all the vessells doe ride, unlade, and send their
                goods up to the river Glasgow in small boats; and at this place there

                <FOOTNOTE>Several branches of manufacture have greatly increased since the preceeding ac-
                account was drawn up. The increase has taken place chiefly in ship-building.  There
                are now on the stocks five members building for the "Royal Mail Stem Packet
                Company," so large and substantial as to be able in, addition to carrying gund of
                ordinary dimensions, to  mount each four 68n punders- September 1840.                                                             on


