
			GARVOCK.                         27

land called Bervie Brow or Craig David, commonly pronounced
Craig-evie, said to derive its name from its being the place where
David II. with his Queen landed from France to reclaim the
Scottish crown in 1341. Its elevation is 421 feet, and is a land-
mark from sea in this quarter.
   From this, directing your eye along the coast toward the south,
you have a partial view of Benholme House, the seat of the late
R. Scott, Esq. A little below this is very conspicuous the farm-
steading of Knox, the property of -- Fitzmorice, Esq.; the
neat church of Benholme; the neat farm-steading of Stone of
Benholme, (the property of J. Scott, Esq. of Brotherton.) Then
the rising ground between Garvock and Benholme covers the
coast side till you come to the village and neat-spired cburch of
St Cyrus. The first object in Angrus-shire is the town and royal
burgb of Montrose, with its spacious bay at the mouth of the
South Esk. On the other side of this river, you see the church
of Craig, surrounded by a finely cultivated country, beautified
with plantations and numerous hedge-rows, for several miles up the
right bank towards Brechin. Next, along the coast, you see Lu-
nan-Bay, the Red-Head, Bell-Rock tower, Isle of May, the Bass
in the mouth of the Frith of Forth, North Berwick-Law in East
Lothian, Lammermuir-Hills, St Abb's Head in Berwickshire, and
the Cheviot-Hills in Northumberland. All these, with a very
few exceptions, may be seen from one station,--the Tower of
Johnston.
   Along the top of the hill of Garvock, where it is of some
breadth, there are several alternate ridges and valleys, the paral-
lelism of which, from one end of the hill to the other, perhaps-
marks the diluvial current. The direction of these, likewise, ex-
actly corresponds with that indicated in other parts of Scotland, be-
ing from north-east to south-west.
   Climate.--Garvock had long the misfortune to be reckoned the
native land of fogs, and mists, and rains, and, consequently, the
most inhospitable spot of the whole surrounding district. Its un-
cultivated surface being spongy, had a strong tendency to retain
the water which fell upon it; and its impervious subsoil prevented
the water from sinking; so that having no open ditches nor water-
courses, a constant evaporation was going on, and consequently
there was a constant state of cold and humid atmosphere, with fre-
quent rains, which never failed to bring with them their conco-
mitant diseases, particularly ague, from which very few had the


