
       172                 INVERNESS-SHIRE.

       Of those above, ninety, there are 2; and last month one main died
       aged 102 years.
          It has been already stated, that Lord Macdonald is sole proprie-
       tor of the parish.  He does not reside in it The number of fa-
       milies in the parish is 838.  Inhabited houses are 797; uninha-
       ted and now building, 17.  Number of fatuous persons, 9;
       dumb, 2; deaf, 2; deaf and dumb, 1.  There are 3 blind, two
       of whom support themselves by their own industry.
          Language, &c.-The language spoken is the Gaelic, which the
       people speak with uncommon fluency and elegance.  One fifth of
       the whole population above the age of twelve years understand and
       speak English.  Such of them as are in the habit of going to the
       south of Scotland for trading or for working, are fond of inter-
       larding some English or Scotch phrases with thbir own beauti-
       ful and expressive language.  This bad taste is confined to so
       limited a number, that it has but slightly affected the general cha-
       racter of their native tongue.  There are only five individuals in
       the parish who do not understand the Gaelic, and some of these
       have made considerable progress in its attainment.  It was for-
       merly noticed, that taste for song is, among the lower order, fast on
       the decline; so also is that for music, of which they were remark-
       ably fond.  At funeral processions, which bad been, and still are
       conducted with re markable regularity, the pipes, in strains of pathos
       and melody, followed the bier, playing slow, plaintive dirges, com-
       posed for and used only on such occasions.  On arriving near the
       church-yard, the music ceased, and the procession formed a line
       on each side, between which the corpse was carried to its nar-
       row abode.  But the custom of accompanying burials with music,
       is now almost universally abandoned; and there are some indivi-
       duals-doubtless with good intentions-whose zeal has not been
       wanting to put down the practice.
          The people are remarkably cleanly in their habits.  Though
       far from woods, their houses in general are more capacious, and,
       in every respect of a better description than the habitations'
       of many of the same class in more favoured, situations.  Many of
       these have their chimneys and their glass windows, and their beds
       boxed with timber at the back, on the top, and at both ends;
       and all sweep and sand their earthen floors daily. They dress, too,
       in a style superior to that of most of the islanders; and are even
       fastidious in this respect, and will not appear in public places,
       without being well dressed.  The men dress in kelt or cloth of


