
	1010                      PERTHSHIRE.

		There has been a gradual decrease in the population since 1821;
	perhaps partly owing to the decay of the linen trade, which gave
	employment to a great many persons, and perhaps also from the
	system adopted by some of the proprietors, since the passing of
	the Reform Bill, of converting small farms into large.
		The great bulk of the population reside in villages, of which
	there are about twenty-four, the principal of which are Inver, Dal-
	guise, and Balnagard.
	  The average of births for the last seven years about 70 ; of mar-
	riages, 16.  There is no record kept of burials.  The number of
	persons under mental imbecility, 12; deaf and dumb, 1.
	  The number of proprietors of land of the yearly value of L.50
	is 6. There is only one of these resident in the parish at present.
		Languaqe.-The language generally spoken in the two most
	populous districts, viz.  Strathbran and the Bishoprick, is the Gae-
	lic, which does not seem to be losing ground, though the English
	is more generally understood than formerly.  About four-fifths of
	the inhabitants are a Gaelic population, and much attached to
	their vernacular tongue.

				IV.-INDUSTRY.

	<TABLE=Aqriculture>
	The number of imperial acres of uncultivated land about    7511
                constantly waste,                                 12500
        which might be improved,                                    367
        under wood,                                                3204

	Live-Stock.-The people are chiefly engaged in  grazing and
	agriculture.  There are a good deal of black-cattle reared in the
	parish, which are sold in the southern markets. It is not a sheep
	country, though there are considerable numbers kept by some of the
	tenants, chiefly the black-faced, and some also of the white.  The
	breed of cattle cannot be expected to improve while the people
	keep more than their, small portions of land can well support,
	though this is chiefly done with the landable view of mdeting the
	yearly demand for rent.
                Rent.-The average rent of land may be stated at L.2, 5s. per
        acre, some of it so high as L.3 and. even L.4 per acre.  This
	must be far beyond the ability of the people to pay, even
	with that frugality and industry for which they are remarkable,
	When the present low price of producers considered, the uncer-
	tainty of the crops in this district from unfavourable and late
	seasons, the inferior quality of the grain produced, and the great
	distance from market (eighteen to twenty-four miles), the land in


