
 198                           ORKNEY.

breadth from two to three miles. 'There are dangerous shallows
in the centre. In some places, it becomes suddenly deep, which
causes what is called in this country a 14, roast." When the tide
ebbs over the submarine precipice, the surface is violently agitated,
even'in calm weather, and still more so when the wind is blowing
contrary. In this sound, and likewise in that which bounds Ren.
dall on the east and south-east, the tide ebbs and flows with a
current at the rate of six to eight miles in stream-tides, and three
to five miles in neap-tides, per hour. The water is strongly sa.
line, and so beautifully transparent, that objects lying bellow can
be distinctly seen at the depth of three or four fathoms.
   There are numerous springs of fine water in both parishes.
Most of them are perennial; but a few flow only in winter. In
the grass parks adjoining the manse, there is a spring which never
dries up. 'The water is chalybeate; but not so strong as to be
unpleasant. The marshy ground in the vicinity furnishes evidence
of a connection with iron, from the scum that settles on the small
pools, and from the colour given to the drains which have been
cut. I have not beard of any other spring that can be denomi-'
nated mineral.
   The only lake or loeb lies on the boundary line betwixt Evie
and Birsay. It extends nearly two miles in length, and is about
balfa mile broad. There is a small island in the centre, which
has been found, by a late decision of the Sheriff-Court, to belong
to a Birsay proprietor. But it is admitted that one-half of the
loeb is common to Evie. There are plenty of excellent trout in
it; and although the depth of water is not great, yet it is of es-
sential use in driving a meal-mill in summer, when the other mills
are at a stand. The locality of this loch of Swana is exceedingly
pleasing; and, were the surrounding hills partially clothed with
trees, the landscape would merit the title of beautiful.
   Geolqqy and Mineralogy.-The mineralogist finds these pa-
rishes a very  unfruitful field.- The rocks here are all of the se-
Condary formation, parsing from blue slate to white sandstone.
The colour,and consistency of strata differ widely; some being
almost as hard as flint, and as dark as lava; and others quite- soft,
and, of a brownish-grey. The rocks are all in horizontal strata,
with a gentle dip towards the sea; and I am not aware of their
suffering any derangement from cross veins or dikes. Indeed,
wherever the soil is removed either by water-courses or the pur-


