
                           TRANENT.                        285

or cannel-coal so much esteemed for gas-works, has-lately been
found, and is now worked in the lands of Falside; it is supposed to
be the seam of coal next to the limestone.
   The geologist is referred for farther and more scientific infor-
mation to a very able paper, "on, the Mid-Lothian and East-
Lothian coal-fields," by David Milne, Esq. recently published in
the 14th Vol. Part I. of the Transactions of the Royal Society of
Edinburgh,-where the learned author has, with admirable indus-
try, brought together a great mass of facts, furnished by practical
men, and illustrates the important conclusions he has drawn from
them by valuable plans and sections.
   From the seams of coal cropping out, or coming to the surface,
in many places round Tranent, there can be no doubt that this in-
valuable mineral must have been known to the earliest inhabitants
of the district, and we are therefore not surprised to find written
evidence of coal having been wrought here as early as in any other
place. Chalmers, in his Caledonia, Vol. ii. p. 400, notices a grant
by Seyer de Quincy, Lord of the manor of Tranent, to the monks
of Newbattle, about the year 1202, of a coal-pit and quarry on their
lands of Preston, which then formed part of the parish of Tranent,
and, from the cropping out of the seams of coal, must probably
have been situated in part of the present parish of Tranent. From
the thirteenth century downwards, we have abundant evidence from
numerous charters, the working of coal in the neighbourhood of
Tranent, and in the middle of the sixteenth century, (1547), the
workings seem to have extended a considerable distance underground,
as Patten, the graphic narrator of Protector Somerset's invasion
of Scotland, gives an account of many inhabitants of the district
taking refuge in the coal-pits a few days before the disastrous
battle of Pinkie. The English, finding it impossible to dislodge
them, closed up the pits which gave air to the workings, and placing
fires at the entrance, endeavoured either to drive them out by
other apertures, or to suffocate the miserable creatures within; and
the narrator coolly remarks, "forasmuch as we found not that they
dyd the tone, we thought it for certain thei wear sure of the too-
ther: wee had doon that we came for, and so lefte them." *
   At this period, the mode of relieving the coal workings from
water, was by what was called "damming and laving", that is,
having followed the seam of coal as far as they could for water,

<FOOTNOTE>The Expedicion into Scotland of Edward Duke of Somerset, by W. Patten,
Londoner, page 44. Published in Fragments of Scottish History.
   HADDINGTON.                                T


