
278                        LANARKSHIRE.

ed; and when seen from the higher grounds on the east of the Clyde,
appears like a large well-stocked orchard or garden. The coarse
and waste lands are chiefly on the outskirts of the parish, in the south
and west. The principal woods are Bar-Michael wood, (Michael's
Fort,) near Bothwell Bridge, Ross wood on the Clyde, and Hamil-
ton wood on the Avon, and Barncluith burn. Spontaneous coppices
rise every where, near the sides of the rivers and burns, and where-
ever the banks obtain a sufficient elevation, they are entirely veiled
in a mass of foliage. Forest trees of all kinds, capable of standing
the blimate of Scotland, thrive, especially in the lower parts of the
parish. Some of them attain to a great age. On poor land in
high exposures, the larch, since it has been introduced, has thriven
better than any others. Next to it is the Scots fir. The silver
fir, the spruce, the Pinus balsamea or Balm of Gilead fir, the pitch
pine, and the Pinus Canadensis are also often planted. In one
place the Pinus cedrus, or cedar of Lebanon, has attained a good-
ly size. But in Hamilton wood there is little or no fir, and the hard-
wood is abundant. The "old oaks" behind Cadzow Castle cover se-
veral hundred acres, and are evidently of great antiquity. * Many of
the trees have attained an enormous size, measuring 36 feet in cir-
cumference. One near Wood House, called the "boss tree," is ca-
pable of containing at one time eight individuals of the ordinary size.
The chase in which these venerable combaters of time are now vege-
tating is browzed by about four-score white cows of the ancient Bri-
tish breed. Their bodies are milk-white, their ears, muzzles, and
hoofs black, and the shin in front, above the hoof, is mottled with
black. They are perfectly. docile, except when they have calves. On
these occasions they manifest an uncommon attachment to their
young, by carefully concealing them when dropt, and defending them
when attacked. The varieties of the ox are very numerots, and may
be multiplied to almost any extent. This variety bears the greatest
resemblance in colour to the Madagascar, Tinian, and African ox.
A good many fallow deer are fed in a field on the opposite bank
of the Avon.
	Orchards.--The cultivation of the orchards, although not carried
to such a length, nor perhaps so well understood as in some of the
neighbouring parishes, is still not entirely neglected. A great pro-
portion of the houses both in the town and country have gardens

<FOOTNOTE>Some of these are English oaks, supposed to have been planted by King David,
first Earl of Huntingdon, about the year 1140.


