
                    PARISH OF POLMONT.

     PRESBYTERY OF LINLITHGOW, SYNOD OF LOTHIAN AND
                        TWEEDDALE.

               THE REV. JOHN KER, MINISTER.

                       _____________


	 I-Topography and Natural History.
   Name, Boundaries, &c-THE etymology of Polmont is uncer-
tain. Most probably, it is derived from a Celtic word, signify-
ing pool of the moor, in allusion to the ancient state of the low
part of the parish, which, though now highly cultivated and very
fertile, bears abundant traces of its once having been covered with
water. Its greatest length is about six miles and a-half, and its ut-
most breadth about 3 miles. It is bounded on the north, by the
Frith of Forth; on the east, partly by the river Avon, which sepa-
rates the county of Stirling from the county of Linlithgow, and
partly by the parish of Muiravonside; on the South, by Muiravon-
side and Slamanan parishes ; and on the west, by the parish of
Falkirk.
  Its general appearance is rich, varied, and beautiful. It is di-
vided usually into two parts. The lower portion, which forms the
Carse, is flat, and too valuable to bear any thing but grain; but
the higher portion, which is termed the dryfield, is undulating,
well-wooded, and adorned with many handsome villas, and man-
sion houses. The Carse is on a level with the sea, and would
still be flooded by the tide, were it not protected by a strong em-
bankment. The dryfield rises gradually, till it reaches the ex-
treme height of about 553 feet, where is obtained a very extensive
prospect, and remarkable both for its beauty and grandeur.
   Meteorology.-The yearly depth of rain, on an average of se-
venteen years, from 1821 to 1837, is 31.31 inches. The district
is very healthy. Though in one part of the parish, the cottages
are far from being comfortable, being built generally of turf and
clay, and the population considerable, if not crowded, there is
very rarely any epidemic, even when prevalent in the villages of
some of the adjoining parishes.


