
124              KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

  The Martyrs.-- The Glen of Trool was, in 1685, the scene
of one of those atrocities which have affixed so indelible a
stain in the reign of the profligate Charles II.  On a Sabbath
morning in the month of January, a few of that persecuted
remnant, who, for their adherence to the cause of the Covenant,
were compelled to workship the God of their fathers in the lonely
glen and solitary moor, had assembled for this purpose, undeterred
by the rigour of the season, when they were suddenly surprised
by Colonel Douglas and a party of dragoons.  After a brief re-
sistance, six persons, James and RObert Dun, Alexander M'Aulay,
John M'Lude, Thomas and John Stevenson, were murdered, one
dragoon being killed, besides Captain, Urquhart, who was shot
by a countryman.  He had that morning, on account of the diffi-
culties of the road, sworn a dreadful oath, that he would be re-
venged upon the unoffending Covenanters.  Tradition asserts
that he had dreamed that he would be killed at a place called
The Caldons, and, while aproaching the cottage of a sheperd
in search of fugitives, he inquired the name of the place; on being
informed, he gave utterance to a fearful oath, and, with the su-
perstitious feeling of the age, drew up his horse, but, ere he could
determine whether to advance or retreat, a shot, fired from the
window, brought him to the ground.  The window is still
shown from which the shot is said to have been aimed.  A low
stone wall encompasses the resting-place of the sufferers, who
were interred near the scene of conflict.
  Battle of Craigencallie.--King Robert Bruce having been de-
feated by the English in Carrick, retired to the wilds at the head
of Loch Dee, in this parish, accomponied by the cottage of a poor
woman at Craigencallie, he was suspected in the morning of being
a person of superior rank, on account of certain ornaments which
be worä.  She inquired if he was her liege lord, to which he re-
plied in the affirmative.  He asked if she had any sons who could
serve him in his distress.  Her answer was, that she had three
sons by three several husbands, all of whom would be at his ser-
vice, of she were confirmed in the truth of his being their sove-
reign.  He then asked if she could give him any thing to eat.
She answered that there was little in the house but a grist of meal
and goats' milk, which, however, she would speedily prepare for
him.  While the woman was engaged in preparing the humble


