

       1118                       PERTSHIRE.

       the Roman Invasion.  Like other places of the same kind, it, is
       the scene of innumerable legends, which agree in representing it
       as the residence or prison of the infamous Vanora or Guinevar,
       the wife of Kino, Arthur, who appears in the local traditions under
       the more homely appellation of Queen Wander, and is generally
       described as a malignant giantess.  This tradition perhaps arose
       from the vicinity of the celebrated sepulchral stones at Meigle,
       which are generally considered as remains of the monument of
       Vanora.  Even with respect to these famous tombstones, the le-
       gendary account, which connects them with the Vanora of tradi-
       tion, is certainly more than doubtful.  A more satisfactory account
       of them has been suggested by Captain T. P. Mitchell, a gentle-
       man distinguished by his research and sagacity in investigations
       of this nature.  He considers them as neither more nor less than
       the monuments of the Knights Templars, who unquestionably
       bad a burying-ground at Meigle.  At the top of the south face
       of the largest stone, the armorial bearings of the kingdom of Je-
       rusalem may be distinctly traced, and the group of figures, now
       almost obliterated, whibh has been supposed to represent Vanora
       torn in pieces by wild beasts, (and on which the popular tradition
       was very probably founded), may be considered, with great pro-
       bability, as an allegorical representation of Judea rescued by the
       Crusaders.
         In the b`rony of Alyth, on the south of Barry Hill, there are
       several rude obelisks, or "standing-stones," probably intended to
       commemorate some long-forgotten conflict.   They are referred
       by tradition to the time of King Robert the Bruce; but there
       can be no doubt that they belong to a much more reniote period.
       On the most remarkable, about three miles to the east of the vil-
       lage, there is the mark of a large horse-shoe, rudely cut out with
       indistinct traces of other figures.  There is no vestige of sculpture
       on any of the others.  Stone coffins, containing human bones, are
       said to have been occasionally turned up; and about fifty years
       ago, an artificial cavity, of considerable size, partly filled up with
       ashes, was discovered in a field on the farm of Loyall.
         The ruins of the old Castle of Inverquiech are situated at the
       junction of the Burn of Alyth with the Isla.  In a charter granted
       by Robert II. in 1394, to his nephew, James de Lyndesay, it hs
       mentioned as "the Kines Castle of Inucuyth,' and appears to
       have been even then in ruins.  At Corb, on the north-west of the
       forest, there are also the remains of a castle, probably a hunting-
       seat of the Scottish King, or of the Earls of Crawford.


