
					PERTH.                    13

	spring; and the temperature of August and September seems to
	be still more fluctuating; a circumstance that occasions the late
	and early harvests, which happen in different years.  The lowest
	temperature, as indicated by Six's thermometer, within the period
	to which these observations refer, was on the 26th of December
        1830, when the instrument stood at 16&deg; and the greatest heat,
        as ascertained with the same instrument, was 79&deg;, that temperature
	having occurred on the 28th of July of the same year; the great-
        est annual range being thus 63&deg;.  The mean annual range, however,
        is only 57.5&deg;.
	   The most abrupt change of temperature occurs between Octo-
	ber and November, and to this we must, probably, ascribe, the in-
	crease of pulmonary complaints, which take place at that gloomy
	and disagreeable season.
	   The causes which conspire to produce a diminution of tempera-
	ture, like those which tend to occasion a low state of the barome-
	ter, seem to operate to a wider extent than the causes which give
	rise to an elevation of temperature; and accordingly we find, that,
	for a given period of observation, the thermometer is generally de-
	pressed further below the mean temperature, than it is elevated
	above it.  Thus if the mean temperature of Perth be estimated
        at 47&deg;.95, which is the mean of the different results already given,
	the, greatest heat by Six's thermometer, for a period of twenty
        years, was in no instance observed to exceed 79&deg;, or 31&deg;.05 above
	the mean; whereas the greatest cold within the same period was
        found to be-10&deg;, or 57&deg;.95 below the mean.  This very reduced
	temperature took place on the night between the 17th and the
	18tb of January 1820, when the thermometer, in a northern ex.-
        posure, sunk to-10&deg;.  During the whole of the following day, the
	instrument remained under zero, except for a short interval at noon,
        when it rose to 1&deg;.  The effects produced by this great reduction
	of temperature were such as are usually observed to accompany
	the most intense cold, in high latitudes.  The evaporation from
	the surface of the ice, which then covered the Tay, being conden-
	sed in the air almost immediately after its formation, produced over
	the river a partial fog, which being gently waited to the neighbour-
	ing trees, attached itself by degrees to the naked braches, and
	gave birth to innumerable and diversified exfoliations of the most
	singular beauty.  And so great was the i intensty of the cold
	within doors, that the windows of apartments, where a constant
	fire was kept up, were covered with a thick coating of ice, which


