
340                       FIFESHIRE.

advantage has been taken in forming the harbour, afterwards no-
ticed.
Coal.-There are said to be six seams of coal in the barony of
St Monan's, splent and cherry. Those seams range in thickness
from 18 inches to 7 feet. In former times the coal here was
wrought to the depth of ten fathoms; but it had been given
up for twenty-five years, when it was resumed, -about nine years
ago, the shafts being driven to the depth of 27 fathoms. For
eighteen months, the working of the coal has been wholly aban-
doned, owing to the tacksman not having capital to meet the re-
quisite outlay, and the engine not having been 'udiciously placed.
Wrought in an effective manner, it might have afforded employ-
ment for one hundred persons. The number actually employed
is said not to have exceeded thirty. It is believed that a person
or company of capital and enterprise, might make the coal here a
very profitable concern.
There are understood to be several seams of coal in the lands
of Abercrombie.
Limestone.-There is abundance of limestone in the immediate
vicinity of the village. and held to be of excellent quality. So
rapidly, however, is it found to dip to the south-east, and so deep is
the tirring required, that the working of the limestone has not been
found to pay. It was also much against the burning and sale of
the lime, that the working of the coal came to be finally abandon-
ed.
The limestone rock, or dike, as it is technically termed, goes very
deep, and is understood to be continued under and across the vil-
lage, till it reappear,' with very prominent features, running like the
other ridges on each side of it, on to the sea.
Ironstone.-Ironstone is found in considerable quantities upon
the beach. There are regular bands or bars of ironstone imbed-
bed in the till; but it is chiefly found in the form of small stones,
of one or two pounds weight. The proportion of iron to the whole
of the ironstone is from 18 to 12 cwt. in the ton. The tacks-
man of the ironstone -receives for it,, when shipmasters take it as
ballast, Vs. per 24 cwt.
Soils.-The nature of the soil is well -described by the late in-
curnbebt. It is a light loam, and friable, with very little clay, au
quite free of stones, and ver fertile and manageable. It is pe-
culiady. VM11 adapted for green crops but yields all the usual crops
in abundance.


