
704                           ABERDEENSHIRE.

   Hydrography.-The character of the springs is generally mine-
ral, and they contain a large proportion of pure oxide of iron; but
they are seldom, if ever, used for medicinal purposes.  There is a
scarcity of soft spring water in the parish.  The running streams
are few and insignificant, and never rise above the character of
burns, of which the burn of Savoch, dividing Crimond from Lon-
may, is the largest.  They all terminate in the Loch of Strath-
beg, which comprises an area of about 600 or 700 Soots acres,
and is situated chiefly in the parish of Lonmay, but partly in Cri-
mond.  Although not more than half a mile from the sea, and
separated only by a sandbank or bar, the water of Strathbeg is
wholly fresh.  This bar of sand is gradually accumulating by the
action of the sea, and rendering the prospect of thoroughly drain-
ing this loch every year more distant.  An attempt of this kind
was made about the year 1790, but it proved a fruitless one, chief-
ly, from the want of funds to complete the undertaking, and from
the sand, perpetually drifting into the channel of communication
with the sea, and thus preventing the egress of the water.  It is
remarked, however, that the depth of this loch, which is rarely more
than 3 1/2 feet, is gradually decreasing, owing to the great quantity
of alluvial matter or detritus brought down from the interior by
the winter floods, and left to vegetate in summer by the heat of
the sun; and that, although the prospect of completely draining
it is distant, yet by the outlet to the sea being kept unimpeded,
its level might be much reduced, and thus the low-lying lands
along its borders so far drained as to produce in dry seasons the
most abundant grain crops.  In the former Statistical Account of
Crimond the formation of the loch of Strathbeg is described as
follows: "At the beginning of the present century, 1700, this
lake was of much smaller extent than it is now.  It was confined
to a small part of the east end, and had a communication with the
sea there, so that vessels of small burden could enter it.  People
born about 1700 well remembered the overflowing of the west part
of the loch; but the particular year is not now known, though it
must have been about 1720.  Previous to that, there was a hill of
sand between what is called the Castle Hill at Rattray and the
sea, and still higher than it.  A furious east wind blew away this
sand-hill in one night, which stopped the communication between
the loch and the sea, by forming a sand-bar.  The low-lying
ground to the west was soon overflowed, and the extent of the
loch must increased."  From the great extent of sand which has


