
328                       ROXBURGHSHIRE.

being either old or very young wood, no opportunity is at present
afforded for following any specific rule in management, with re-
gard to thinning, felling, pruning, and the Iike.
  Rent of Arable Land.--The rent of land varies greatly in diffe-
rent parts of the parish.  This is due partly to difference of soil,
and partly to greater or less vicinity to the town.  Whilst the
northern section of the parish consists of a rich black loam with a
subsoil of gravel, and lies close around the town, the southern por-
tion is both inferior, generally speaking, in quality, and of less va-
lue, as being more distant and cut off from free access to the town,
by the pontage on the Tweed.  Accordingly, the annual rent of
land on the north side of the river varies from L. 5 to L. 2, 10s.
while that on the south takes the lower range of from L. 3 to 7s.
The average of the whole may be stated at L. 2, 5s.
  Rent of Grazing.--The average rent for grazing a full-grown
ox or cow is, L. 4 to L. 4, 10s.; and for each ewe or sheep, these
being here of a large description, 10s.
  Rate of Labour.--Masons and joiners receive from 2s. 6d. to
3s. per day ; farm-labourers from 1s. 6d. to 1s. 8d.  Spade labour
upon farms is for the most part performed by contract or piece-
work ; in which way a good labourer frequently earns from 2s. to
2s. 6d. per day.  Ploughmen (in this parish generally married per-
sons) are engaged by the year, and receive as follows: in cash,
L. 3, 10s. ; 10 bolls oats, which may be estimated at L. 9 ; 3 bolls
barley, L. 3, 6s. ; 1 boll pease, L. 1, 8s.; cow's grass and win-
ter keep, L. 6 ; potatoes planted, L. 1, 10s.; coals driven, L. 2,
10s.;,L.27,4s.  The ploughman is furnished with a house on the
farm; but for this he provides a labourer in harvest, (very often
his wife,) generally estimated at L 2,; and he is also taken bound,
in virtue of the above allowances, to maintain a female-labourer,
distinguished on the marches by the name of a bondager,) for
whose services, when employed, he receives from 8d. to 10d.
per day.
  Stock.--The usual breed of sheep-reared and grazed in the pa-
rish is that known as the improved Leicester, for which the sur-
rounding district is famous.  The cattle most common are of the
short-horned or Teeswater breed.
  Husbandry.--The system of agriculture pursued is necessarily
various in a parish where there are so many, great and small, as
seventeen farms with homesteads, besides a number of smaller pos-
sessions occupied by cowfeeders, carters, and the like.  The sys-


