
152                        KINCARDINESHIRE.

James Farquhar, Esq. of Johnston, many years M. P. for the
Aberdeen district of burghs, left to the kirk-session, in aid of the
poor funds, the handsome sum of L. 500. Agreeably to the known
views of the generous donors, the managers of the funds consider
that it is only the interest arising from these sums that they are
warranted to apply annually in aid of the poor.

			MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
	Since the former Statistical Account was written, the popula-
tion of this parish has increased very considerably, having been at
that time about 1200, and being now nearly 2000. The whole
of this increase, and more, has been in the village,--the rural po-
pulation having diminished about 100. It is from this accession
of inhabitants that the parish now takes its character. Its inte-
rests are more closely connected with trade and manufactures, than
with agriculture; but such improvements as would hncrease the
comforts of the tenantry and of their servants, would benefit the
villagers, by producing a greater circulation of money in the neigh-
bourhood, and enabling them in turn to pay a better price for their
food. It is, however, to be feared, that the employment of ma-
chinery necessary, in the artificial state of this country, to pre-
serve its commercial prosperity, must prevent any rise in the wages
of hand-loom weaving, on which so large a part of the population
of this parish are dependent. Formerly, little weaving was done
except by the order of private customers; now there is little done
in this way. Almost the whole work is sent by the companies in
Aberdeen, and any depression in the trade is first and most sensibly
felt in a place such as this, at a distance from the seat of employ-
ment, and possessing no natural advantages for its prosecution. In
these circumstances, it would be beneficial if any means could be
devised for checking the number of young people that annually
flock to this profession, which, in a great degree, unfits them for
any other in future life, and which, while they are encroaching on
the profits of others, affords but a scanty pittance for themselves.
And it is desirable, that no inducement should be afforded to per-
sons to come from other quarters for employment here, by which
work ir taken from those who are already settled in the place, and
have some claim upon it, and an encouragement is given to persons
who are careless about their character and conduct, and unsettled
in their habits, and who, leaving undischarged many of the obliga-
tions of social life, migrate, as they list, from place to place.
   Revised April 1838.


