
                        BORTHWICK.              161

ally with observing the gambols of the young ones, who come to
the hole's mouth about the time of the setting sun, and frolic with
much apparent want of suspicion as to their obnoxious character.
The mother is commonly on the watch at the same time, and screams
fearfully if she thinks her young ones in danger. The old foxes, at
certain seasons, come down, after it is dark, to the side of the
stream, and amuse us with their barking.
  At this moment there is a litter of young badgers in the same
place, (the Chirmat). The country is much overrun by rabbits.
The white weasel, with its tail tipped with black, is sometimes seen
hastening to its bole in the old stone walls. Hedgehogs are very
common-a fact of which I was not aware, till I observed the num-
bers caught by my dog in his rambles-and squirrels gambol on all
the trees of the larger woods.  Rats are in great plenty along the
course of all the streams-but they too are better known to my poodle,
who has studied their migrations, among all the tree roots and by the
water courses, with great assiduity, and sometimes very profound-
ly, by day and by night, for the last ten years.-I know not whe-
ther the popular opinion be well founded, that rats will not come
where goats are kept, but certain it is, that, though they have occa-
sionally been troublesome to my neighbours- they have never come
near my house, on the braes beside which a picturesque white
goat has long browsed.
The glow-worm, which has probably been seen by but a few of
the inhabitants of the neighbouring metropolis, and which is not
often met with in Scotland, is one of the most attractive objects
to persons who occasionally visit our valley in search of what is
beautiful and rare. During most of the summer evenings it may be
seen in considerable numbers along the valley which intervenes
between the castles of Borthwick and Crichton,-although from
the extensive drainings which have lately taken place in this glen,
the worms are less abundant than they were in former years. Their
beautiful greenish light among the dewy grass or by the sides of
the footpath, never fails to awaken the admiration of all observers,
and would form a treat worthy of a visit on purpose-were it not
that the later hours of the evening are the only time for witnes-
sing the sight-to a great many persons, who have never actually
witnessed one of the most lovely spectacles presented by the
minuter works of nature; though there are few persons who have
not some pleasing impression gained from reading, and especially
from poetic descriptions with this phenomenon.*

<FOOTNOTE>The glow-worm (Lampyris notiluca), when seen by daylight, is a short and
EDINBURGH.                          L


