
                           LARGS.                               805

into; an act of Parliament applied for, and obtained in May 1832;
the foundation stone laid with masonic honours, 10th January
1833, after the work was in considerable progress.  It was first
used, Ist December 1834.  The cost was L.4275, which is held
in L.50 shares.  The number of shareholders is 31.  The ave-
rage revenue, for the last six vears, has been six per cent.  The
benefit it affords, in landing and shipping passengers and goods,
&c. is very great.
   Ecclesiastical History.--The church of Largs was dedicated to
St Columba, the celebrated Abbot of Iona, and was a rectory, the
patronage of which belonged to the lordship of Largs.  We have
evidence that this church existed long prior to the battle of Largs,
in 1263; and in the Norwegian account of that expedition, we
are told that a number of the dead were buried at the church.
On 30th January 1318-19, as has been previously mentioned,
Walter the Stewart, for the safety of his soul, and that of his
spouse, Marjory Brus, granted to the monks of Paisley the church
of Largs, in pure and perpetual alms, with all the tithes thereto
pertaining.  This grant was to take place at the death, or resig-
nation, or promotion, of Sir William de Lindsay, the rector of
the said church.  On the 3d of February following, the chapter
of Glasgow, during the vacancy of that see, gave to the monks of
Paisley, formal possession of the church of Largs, and the chapter
of Glasgow granted a charter of confirmation to the monks of
their title to the church of Largs, from Walter the Stewart.
John Wishart, who was made Bishop of Glasgow in 1319, granted
and confirmed, to the monks of Paisley, the church of Largs, and
the chapel of Cumbray, with all their pertinents.  This chapel
was in the island of Great Cumbray, opposite to the southern
part of the parish of Largs, but in the shire of Bute.  The church
of Largs continued to belong to the monastery of Paisley after
the Reformation.  At that epoch, the tithes of the church of
Largs, with those of the churches of Inverkip atid Lochwinnoch,
in Renfrewshire, ih all produced to the monks of Paisley, L.460
a-year, having been let in lease for payment of that sum.  In 1587,
Lord Claud Hamilton, the commendator of Paisley, obtained a
grant of the patronage and tithes of the church of Largs, with the
other revenues of the monks of Paisley, the whole of which was
then created a temporal lordship, for him and his heirs, with the
title of Lord Paisley.  He was succeeded, in 1621, in all those
estates, revenues, and titles, by his grandson, James Earl of Aber-


