
     of Gigha and Cara.

which are owing the frequent emigrations that take place
from that part of the kingdom) and consequently it prevents
a number of refills from being employed in that trade, which,
in time of peace, would be a means of supporting many fami-
lies, and, in case of war, a source of increasing the number
of those brave men, to whose intrepidity and courage Great
Britain owes her consequence as a maritime power, and her
prosperity as a commercial nation.

   Wood.-Another inconvenience here, in common with all
the Western Isles of Scotland, is the want of wood.  This in-
convenience, however, may, by due attention, be removed in
this island, for it foetus to have been once well stocked with
trees.  Several oak trunks are dug up in the mosses, and some
house timber, the natural growth of the island, still remains.
Many of the inhabitants remember a good orchard, which
produced excellent apples; and the place is still marked by a
plane tree, the only one left of fix that were there in spring
last.  About 60 years ago, somesash trees were planted, and
a few of them likewise remain, sufficiently large fo the com-
mon purposes of building and farming utensils*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*It is a common opinion, that wood will not thrive in the Western Isles of
Scotland.  This opinion is ill founded and contradicted by facts.  Even in the
smaller isles there has been plenty of trees once, as appears from the trunks
which are still found in their mosses.  Hence there is good reason to believe,
that they would still grow, would proprietors persevere in making experiments,
beginning on a small scale, and, by degrees, enlarging their plan as they found
it become successful.  As to the larger islands, there are undeniable proofs, that
they formerly abounded with wood; and that the want of it now, is not owing
to any thing unfavourable in the soil, climate or situation, but wholly to the
negligence of the inhabitants.  For, besides the large trees, that are yearly
found in their mosses, there are fine sprouts of oak, ash, and other wood, grow-
ing in the vallies, or upon the sheltered tides of the hills, which, in wood, grow-
neglected and allowed to be eaten up by the castle.  Were such places inclosed,


