
                       ALNESS.                                345

country. Though there are still some of the older inhabitants
who, in consequence of their not being able to read, and from their
having spent the greater part of their lives in the use of the Gaelic
language exclusively, have not become acquainted with the English,
it may be stated generally, that there is now no individual in the
parish, under twenty years of age, who does not understand the
more modern language in a greater or less degree.
   Character of the People.-The people of this parish cannot be
said to differ greatly from  the rest of the population of the coun-
try. They are sober, and, upon the whole, industrious, attending
strictly to the ordinances of religion. There is a difference, how-
ever, very strikingly marked, between the village population and
that of the rural and more northern districts. The character of
the latter is decidedly the more favourable one. They still pos-
sess many of the traits peculiar to the character of the ancient
Highlanders, while among the former, there is scarcely a trace
left to remind us of the race from which they sprung. As one
striking characteristic of the poorer classes in these rural districts,
it may be remarked, that they have a decided reluctance to apply
for charitable aid, either public or private.
   Smuggling and Poaching.-Some years ago, illicit distillation
was carried on to a considerable extent, especially in the more
Highland districts. It is now, however, totally abolished. The
practice of salmon poaching during close season, by means of the
spear and torch light, is also in a great measure discontinued.

                                IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Half a century has now nearly elapsed since the former Statis.
tical Account was written, and in that space of time, changes more
or less must have taken place in all parts of the country. In this
parish many important improvements have been effected. That
a great change for the better has taken place in the method of
cultivating the soil, is sufficiently attested by the fact, that, wlthin
the period alluded to, it har more than doubled its value.  This
is to be attributed, partly, perhaps, to an improvement in the im-
plements of husbandry, but principally, we believe, to a  better
and more regular alternation of cropping , to the use of lime, be-
fore unknown, and to the more general introduction of drainage.
   A change no less marked has also been effected in the, means of
communication throughout the parish; for where not many years
ago, there existed only imperfect tracts, impassable in winters from
their forming the channel to some mountain torrent, and almost


