
     of Alloa.

invented, and not well known in Scotland.  The engine pit
of the Collyland is about 46 fathom deep; and the coal is
drained by a steam engine, supposed to be one of the belt of
the old construction.  This was erected in 1764*.

     VOL. VIII. 4 I

<FOOTNOTE>

   *It has often been asserted, that there have been more crates lost than made,
(especially in Scotland) by working coal mines.  There probably has been
some foundation for such an assertion.  The expences of winning and keeping up
a colliery are considerable, and the commodity will not bear a great price;
so that it is only a large quantity, that can produce a profit adequate to the ex-
pence.  While the coals of the barony of Alloa were brought to the shore in
small carts by the tenants, the quantity was uncertain, and often not very con-
siderable.  In 1768, a waggon way was made to the Alloa pits, which proved to
be so great an advantage, that it induced the proprietor to extend it to the Colly-
land, in 1771.  The sales were by these means increased, from 10,000 or 11,000
chalders, to 15,000 or 16,000.  In 1785, the Alloa waggon way was worn out, and
required to be renewed.  This was done on a new plan; and it is now acknow-
ledged to be the most complete in Britain.  A description of it may therefore
be thought useful.
   The sleepers are very broad, and only 18 inches from centre to centre.  A
rail of foreign fir, 4 inches square, is pinned down to them; and another rail,
of the same dimensions, is laid over it, and the whole well beat up in good clay;
on the top of the upper rail is laid a bar of malleable iron, of 1 3/4 inches breadths
and nearly six-8ths thick.  The waggons have cast iron wheels, 27 1/2 inches diame-
ter, and are supposed to weigh altogether about a ton.  A waggon carries 30 cwt.
of coals, and 3 waggons are linked together by chains; so that 1 horse draws
4 1/2 tons of coal at once; and the declivity of the way is so gentle, that the same
horse draws with ease the 3 empty waggons back to the coal-hill.  The advan-
tage of putting the weight into 3 waggons, in place of 1, is very considerable:
They are caller to fill and empty; and the throwing the weight over a greater
surface, does less damage to the waggon way, and is likewise easier for the
horse as it is well known, that almost the only stress a horse has, on a good
waggon way, is in the first starting of the waggon; therefore, if the whole 4 1/2
tons were put into one waggon, the difficulty would be great; but as the wag-


