
                                WILTON.                         77

behind him.  Dr Charters, minister of the parish, was also a cler-
gyman of no common pulpit eminence, and the author of Sermons,
which, in simplicity of language, elevation of sentiment, and excel-
lent practical morality, have few to excel them among the modern
publications of this kind.
   Land-owners.--His Grace the Duke of Buccleuch and Queens-
berry is patron, and principal heritor in the parish.  He is also
Titular of the teinds, and his property is rated in the cess-books of
the county at nearly one-half of the valued rent.  Besides his
Grace, there are ten or eleven landed proprietors, whose interest
in the parish is, individually, from L. 100 to L. 1000 Scots ;  also
a considerable number of minor heritors.
   Parochial Registers--The session records commence in 1694.
They are voluminous and well-kept.  The minute-book of the
heritors, also a well-kept record, extends from 1723 to the present
time, and contains an account of transactions realating to the poor,
and the economics of the parish.  The only remaining register is
that of births ;  but, as in many other parishes in Scotland, it ex-
hibits nothing like a punctual or regular registrations,--parents
often disregarding every admonition to record the nativity of their
children.*
   There is in this parish no register of deaths, and nothing in the
shape of a record of marriages, excepting only a record of the
names of those who have had proclamation of banns in the church.
                        III.--POPULATION.
   According to the former Account, the populatiuon in 1755
amounted to 936.  The average number of marriages for the three
years immediately preceding the date of that Account was 13 ;  of
baptisms, 20, and of deaths 8.  " But these numbers," adds the
writer, "cannot be accounted precisely accurate, as all are not re-
corded."
     In 1801, by census,        -       -       -       -       -       -       1307
     In 1811,           -       -       -       -       -       -       -       1527
     In 1821,           -       -       -       -       -       -       -       1673
     In 1826, the date of the present minister's connection with the parish,    1712
     In 1831,           -       -       -       -       -       -       -       1870
   Of marriages, or rather proclamations, the average number for
the last seven years amounts to 114.

<FOOTNOTE>  * The expense of registration is so trifling, and the benefit which results from it
is often so great, that it is surprising to find such universal negligence in this matter.
No doubt there are statutes in force to compel this observance, but it is an invidious
task, and not worth the session-clerk's while to enforce them ;  and, unless the power of
registration be lodged elsewhere, it is much to be feared that the present irregular
practice will not soon be corrected.



