
212                    ROXBURGHSHIRE.

                    II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   There is no event, in our knowledge that deserves to be noticed
under this head.  The abbey of Jedburgh possessed lands in the
parish; and probably some facts in its history might be learned
from monkish records.  The remains of numerous fortifications
testify that this, like other border districts, had been the scene of
frequent conflicts.  Queen Mary traversed this parish on her way
from Jedburgh to Hermitage Castle, when, a little beyond its ex-
tremity, she got entangled in the Queen's Mire.
   The Rev. Robert Riccalton, minister of the parish from 1725
to 1769, was a man of considerable talent, an independent thinker,
and an author. of two volumes of essays and sermons.  With him
the poet Thomson spent part of his early life, and is said here to
have formed the plan of his Seasons, and taken many of his descrip-
tions from scenes in the neighbourhood.
   Land-owners.--The chief land-owners are, Sir W. F. Elliot,
Bart. of Stobs and Wells; Robert K. Elliot, Esq. of Harwood;
Walter Scott, Esq. of Wauchope; Hon. J. Sinclair of Green-
river; and James Elliot, Esq. of Wolflee.  Altogether there are
but nine heritors in the parish.
   Antiquities.--On Bonchester Hill, there are remains of a citadel,
with numerous encampments, both round and square; and in some
places, modern circumvallations may be observed intersecting the
more ancient.   The situation is commanding, and seems to have
been regarded as a place of great strength and convenience.  The
estimation in which it was held by the Romans no doubt procured
it the appellation Bonchester, i. e. Bona Castra, or the good camp.
Hand mill-stones, arrow-heads, and other implements of former
times, have been found in the vicinity.  On Rubberslaw, at Wau-
chope, and in several other places, there are likewise vestiges of
encampments or fortifications.  In digging, some time ago, at Lang-
raw, a quantity of ashes and partly-consumed bones were exposed
within a circular area about eighteen feet diameter.  On these being
removed, four holes drilled in the dent or sandstone shale were dis-
covered, in which posts had been secured by small stones crammed
in from above.  Whether these posts had supported a canopy or
a funeral pile, or what had been the purpose of the erection, we
are unable to determine.  Several urns have been dug up in
different situations.  Two cairns have been removed within the
memory of the present generation ; one on the east side of Rub-


