
     Statistical Account

and bounded on three sides by the sea, most situations admit not
the culture of trees; and but few, extremely well sheltered,
are found to bring them to maturity.  Proprietors of land are
doing a good deal in the planting line; and the Scotch
fir, the pine, the larix, the ash, the elm, the plane, and the
lime, hold the chief rank in their plantations.  But though
trees have long ceased to be a spontaneous production, and
though they require the utmost attention in rearing, yet the
mosses abound with large logs of fir, and of venerable oak.
   When improvement commenced, the number of sheep di-
minished.  A taste for them, however, begins to revive, and
there are now in the parish above 1300; of which 200 are an-

<FOOTNOTE>

if the copious magazines, particularly of pease, provided for the navy, had
not been brought to fale,-what a dire scene of desolation and horror would
have been exhibited in this country!-From there magazines, the exertion of
heritors and people derived regular supplies.  Cattle sold extremely well.  By
the divine blessing, health in an eminent degree prevailed.  The efforts of in-
dustry were redoubled.  Many a precious hoard of gold and silver was unlock-
ed; and temperance, stern, but friendly, established her reign on the solid
base of necessity.  Though oatmeal, therefore, sold from 18 s. to 22 s. per boll,
and pease-meal from 16 s. to 18 s. yet the essentials of life, though sparingly,
were provided, so that not one victim of famine fell in this parish.  At
this gloomy period, charity was awake:  The minister of Montquhitter re-
ceived, under cover from an unknown hand, L. 20 sterling for the benefit of
the poor.  The coat of arms on the seal was justly inscribed with this motto,
" Fusti ut sidera fulgent."
   It deserves notice, that the crops from 1783 were greatly blasted by bad feed:
The feed, which was purchased from there early spots of inland country, where
the oat was almost, if not altogether, ripened before the 5th of October 1782,
generally failed; whereas the feed of this parish, which, on that fatal day, was
scarce advanced beyond a watery or fluid milky substance, but which the ne-
cessities of some obliged them to adventure, laid the foundation of a tolerable
crop.  The reason seems to have been, that the germ of all the grain, nearly
ripened, was materially injured, unless where the rigour of that memorable frost
was softened by the vicinity of the sea.


