
204                       ROXBURGHSHIRE.

from giving a regular attendance on the public duties of the Sab-
bath. The want of a legal division of the church seats is also felt
to be an evil, and the apportioning anew the seats would tend much
to promote the comfort and convenience of the congregation. It
affords accommodation for 225 persons, allowing 1 1/2 feet to each;
and the sittings are all free.
   The manse was built in 1776, but is placed too near the river,
and consequently in a damp situation. It was never very sufficiently
built. It underwent a repair in the year 1832, when an addition of
two rooms was made to it, which have rendered it a tolerably con-
venient house. The extent of the glebe, exclusive of garden ground,
with policy attached to the manse, is about six and a-quarter acres
arable, and two and a-half acres pasture, fences, &c. which are in
very bad repair, included. Its yearly value in rent may be about
L. 11 Sterling, which is considerably below the average value of
the other glebes in the presbytery.
   The stipend, from the Revolution to 1791, amounted to L. 75,
5s. 10d. in money, including L. 3, 6s. 8d. for communion elements,
and 21 bolls of victual. In 1791 the victual stipend was augment-
ed to 63 bolls, Tiviotdale measure. In 1805, the victual stipend
was fixed at 3 chalders meal, and 3 chalders, bear, Linlithgow mea-
sure, together with the above L. 75, 5s. 10d. money stipend. By
the last augmentation, commencing with crop and year 1820, the
stipend, as then modified, amounts to 14 cbalders, half barley, half
oatmeal, Linlithgow measure, payable at the rate of the county fiars,
and L. 8, 6s. 8d. is given for communion elements. On an average of
the last seven years the stipend amounts to L. 204, Is. 2 1/2d. Sterling.
It may also be stated, that there belongs to the minister a servitude
for turf and peats from Mainside-fell.
  There are no chapels or dissenting meeting-houses of any kind
here, though there are eleven families of dissenters connected with
the United Secession, who attend public worship in the seceding
meeting-house chapel at Morebattle. The parish church is, upon
the whole, pretty well frequented and attended by the greater part of
the inhabitants. A few families are divided among themselves,-part
going to the church and part to the meeting-house. The sacrament
is dispensed once in the year, and usually to about 47 communicants,
not including strangers from other congregations who join in that
ordinance.
   No societies for religious purposes exist in the parish. The
average-yearly amount of ordinary church collections for the last


