
			ARTICLE GLASGOW.		919

   In several of the other new churches subscriptions are raising
for the erection of schools.  And money is of course raised, at least
to a parallel amount with the grant.  Several of the schools are
little more than opened ; but, including the parishes where
schools, though not built, have been rented, and which have for
years dispensed all the advantages of a cheap and excellent edu-
cation, the whole number of children in these different schools in
strict connection with the Establishment cannot be much under
5000.  To which may be added for four schools on the maximum
salary in the Barony, and ten besides, which receive from L. 2 to
L.15 for teaching poor children, 1235 ; total 6235.
   It may be noticed that all the new churches, with the exception
of St Stephen's and Milton, which are situated so near to the Nor-
mal Seminary as to be able to avail themselves of its schools, are
provided with schools of their own, or have the prospect of them ;
and that in all the schools, without exception, the most improved
modes of teaching, are employed.
   With regard to the Gaelic churches, should it be asked whether
any schools are set apart for the education of the Gaelic popula-
tion, we are glad to have it in our power to state that two large
charity schools,--the Highland and M'Lauchlan's, are intended
for children of Highland origin, and teach 570 children, at an
annual cost of L.1400.  In one of the schools, the children
are clothed and apprenticed out at the expense of the insti-
tution.  It may be added, that the other leading charity
schools, such as Hutcheson's Hospital, Millar's, and Wilson's,
were all founded by members of the Established Church, and
where additional bequests have been made, proceeded from
the same quarter.  In these five great charity schools alone, near-
ly 900 children are taught, besides many clothed, at an annual
expense of L. 3013.  Wilson's school cost originally L.2054.
Its expenditure on education from 1818 to 1837, has been not less
than L. 5000.  In several of the others, the sum has been much
larger.  Such institutions are highly creditable to the enlightened
patriotism and Christian spirit of Glasgow.  It need scarcely be
added, that all are under the direction of the ministers of the
Church, in some cases aided by the elders, and that the education
is based upon religion.  Several additional charity schools are in
the course of being raised.
   From a Parliamentary return on the application of the sum


