
                              LONMAY.                            221

of Park, Blairmormond, and Kinninmonth.  There is, however, a
very small portion, indeed, of a loamy nature, and little or no marl
has been found.  There are no mines of any kind within the
parish.
   Fishes.-The loch of Strathbeg abounds with trout, both red
and yellow; with perch, (first introduced by the present proprie-
tor from the late Mr Ferguson of Pitfour's pond); also with fresh-
water flounders, and eels of great size and in great numbers.  The
sea affords on this part of the coast the finest cod, both white and
red; ling, and sometimes tusk, haddock, whiting, skate, holi-
but, turbot, sea-trout, flounders, including plaice and soles, which
last, for want of the trawl-net, are but rarely caught.  Cat-fish
and John Dories, both of fine quality, are occasionally taken,
though rarely.  Herring are met with, but the fishing ground is
chiefly within the Moray Frith.  Shoals of dog-fish are seen dur-
ing the herring-season, and the whale called Finner; also the
grampus and porpoises in considerable number.  The coal-fish
is in swarms, and in two of its first stages of growth is tolerably
good food.
   Botany.-The writer of this is indebted for a very extensive,
and, it is believed, correct list of the indigenous plants proper to
this parish, to a medical practitioner residing in this neighbour-
hood, (Dr Cow,) who is proposing to publish a work on this sub-
ject, comprehending the district of Buchan.  There are 237 plants
mentioned in this list, but, as the greater portion of them are com-
mon to all parts of the country, and none peculiar to the parish,
it is not thought necessary to insert it.  A few specimens of the
sea holly have been found by the above-mentioned gentleman.
   Forests and Plantations.-Although the soil in this parish, when
disturbed to any depth, almost universally affords proof of the con-
tinuity of the forest bore in olden times, yet there were not forty
trees to be seen above ground within its bounds, fifty years ago.
There are now 222 Scotch acres under wood, a large proportion
of which has been planted within the last twenty years, and a good
extent within the last three or four years.  Scotch firs were first
tried, being thought best adapted to the soil and climate; but
experience has proved that idea erroneous, where there is but little
previous shelter.  Alders, willow, elder, and poplars, should  be first
planted, and thickest on the outer borders of the plantation.  The
other kinds proper for this parish are found to be larches, ash,
elm, and especially beech, which last is unquestionably the tree


