
                       CAMBUSNETHAN.                      619

of Edinburgh. He was bred to the Bar, and was one of the most
eminent lawyers of his time. He died in 1713, in the office of
Lord Advocate, and was succeeded by his son, the third Sir James
Stewart of Goodtrees and Coltness. He was born in 1681, and
married Anne, daughter of Sir Hugh Dalrymple of North Ber-
wick, Lord President of the Court of Session. He was an Advo-
cate, and became Solicitor-General for Scotland.
	His daughter, Margaret, born in 1715, married Thomas Cal-
derwood of Poltown, whose eldest daughter, Anne, married James
Durham of Largo, father of the present General; and of the
Admiral Sir Philip Durham, K. C. B.
	Agnes, born in 1717, married David Earl of Buchan, father to
David, the late Earl, Henry Erskine of Ammondelle, and Thomas
Lord Erskine, Lord Chancellor; and Marion, born in 1723, mar-
ried Alexander Murray of Cringletie, father of James Wolfe Mur-
ray, late Lord Cringletie.
	Sir James died in 1727, and was succeeded by his son, born in
1713, who married Frances Wemyss, eldest daughter of David,
Earl of Wemyss. He, too, was bred to the Bar, and earl dis-
played superior abilities and commanding eloquence. In the Re-
bellion 1745, he was believed to have been Prince Charles's con-
fidential agent at the court of France. He resided there for
eighteen years. In 1763, he was allowed to return to Scotland;
and eight years after, a formal pardon was procured for him.
 	He died 1780, and was succeeded by his only son, Sir James
Stewart of Coltness and Westshiel. He married Alicia, daughter
of Blacker of Carrick, in Ireland. He is a General in the army,
and represented the county of Lanark in three successive Parlia-
ments. *
	The estate is now in the possession of Thomas Houldsworth,
Esq. M. P. for Nottingham, who is erecting extensive iron works
at New Mains, and setting a pattern to his tenantry, by draining
his estate in the very best manner.
	Family of Stewart Of Allanton.--The lands of Allanton belong-
ed of old to the abbey of Aberbrothic, and have for centuries been
in the possession of a very ancient branch of the Darnley Stewarts.
	"Allan Stewart of Daldowie," (Crawford's Description of Ren-
freshire, p. 469,)" early attached himself to the house of Doug-
las, under the celebrated Sir James, commonly called 'Black
Douglas,' and married into that family. From his bravery in head-

<FOOTNOTE>Sir James Stewart died since this account was drawn up.


