
     of Wattin.

same spirit is observable during the harvest season.  In sum-
mer and winter, it must be allowed, the like praise is not due
to them*.

   Seasons.-Vegetation here makes but flow progress during
the first part of the season.  Until towards the summer sol-
stice, both corn and grass make but a poor appearance.  In-
deed, as to the latter, few think of keeping off their cattle
before they finish their labouring; and many still permit them
to traverse, and feed even upon the sown land, till the bear
feed is begun.  But, when once cattle of every kind are care-
fully kept off, and the night begins to lengthen, it is sur-
prising what vigour vegetation assumes, and what quick pro-
gress it makes+.

     L 1 2

<FOOTNOTE>

*About 20 years ago, few, if any, thought of plowing before the middle
of March, even when the season was favourable.  And, when they did begin, it
was, for the most part, with giving the first furrow to their bear land.  They ne-
ver thought of laying down their oats before the middle of April; and every
one was desirous that the seed should follow the plough as fast as possible, But,
ever since the year 1783, they turn out at any time when the ground is fit for
plowing, and are anxious to have the seed sown as loon as possible; from a con-
viction, that an early laying down is both safest and most substantial.

<UNREADABLE>

   +Our harvest are not so late as might be expected, considering how far
north we lie.  For several years past, they have not been either so early, or so
good, as they were wont to be.  But this has not been peculiar to us.  Less
damage is sustained here, by a rainy season, than in most countries.  High
winds sometimes break down a good deal of corn, about the time they are
nearly full; but any thing considerable of this kind seldom happens, our grain
being of a hardy quality.  To prevent loss by rain, great care is taken to se-
cure the corns, when cut, as soon as possible.  Little attention is paid, by the
general run of farmers, to win the grain in the stook.  They are careful to cut
when dry; and, if possible, before it gets socked with rain, they put it together
in very small stacks, allowing it to lie in that state for several weeks.  When
deademed by lying in this manner, they lay it open a second time, by building it.
a new in stacks, considerably larger than the former, and fit ot stand the winter

</UNREADABLE>


