
          DUNOON AND KILMUN.                           579

southern extremity, and running a course of nearly four miles
along the valley bearin its own name, -empties itself into'the
Holy Loch. It is joined in its short course by its two tributary
streams, the Massan, which, isuing from the glen of that name,
joins the Eachaig near the place of Benmore, and the stream call-
ed the Little Eachaig, issuing from Glenlean, which joins the
Eacbaig immediately before its junction with the sea at the'iniand
extremity of the Holy Loch.
The parish abounds, as may be supposed from its central, hilly
and mountainous aspect, with minor streams and rivulets, all siib-
ject to sudden rises in rainy weather, and many of them, when
flooded, formitig cascades, though none of these can be termed
perpetual ones ; except where the Massan9 passing through the
gorge of that glen, and over a ledge of rock, has worn out for it-
self a rugged and diversified course, where, especially when flood-
ed, this stream presents a very pieturesq'tie'and impotuous fall.
  There are no springs in the parish meriting any particular no-
tice, though excellent spring water abounds in every part of it.
    Geology.-The whole parish consists of the mica-slate and clay-
slate system, which stretches across the breadth of Scotland, from
Kincardineshire on the east, to. Argyleshire, Bute, and Arra'n, on
the west. 'The oldest and most extensive formation in the parish
is mica-slate. With the exception of the southern part of the Kil-
mun hill, from the old mansion-tiouse on Mr Campbell of Monzie's
lands, near the church of Kilmtin, to the point of Strone, the
whole of Kilmun parish, extendid' from near the entrance of
Lochgoil, including Glenfinart, the bold and rugged sides of Loch
Eck, Glenmassan, and Glentean, consists of'this rock. The mi-
ca-slate is highly indurated, contorted into curves and every va-
riety of form, and is traversed by veins of compact quartz. It
radges generally from north-northeast to south-southwest, and
dips south at various angles from 85" or nearly vertical, as 'at.In-
verchapuil, ndar the entrance to Loch Eck, and at Benmore, to 70&deg;
and 45&deg;. The mica-slate passes into clay-slate, which forms the
southern portion of the Kilmun hill, and by far the greater' por-
tion of the parish of Dunoon. The transition from mica to 'clay.
slate is well marked by the aspect of the territory ; the former
forming the bold, broken, precipitousoand highly picturesque
outlines of Loch Eck, Glenfinart, and Glenmassan hills,' andthe,
latter, the more even and regular outline of the hills behind Dun-
oon. The clay. slate is greenish, grayish, and bluish in colour,-


