
67                             MELROSE.

the profits they could realize in their youth by the labours of the
spinning-wheel. Coeval with, and perhaps contributing to, the fall
of this manufacture, was the introduction of cotton weaving from
Glasgow, which at one time employed hundreds of hands, many of
whom went to country work when required, and were profitably
employed in weaving during the intervals in which no country work
could be procured. This resource, which was a great benefit to the
people, in compensating the irregularity of the demand for rural
labour, which requires many hands at one season, and compara-
tively few at another, ceased with the diminished demand for weav-
ing in Glasgow, from which no work has been sent to this place
for many years. The population being, nevertheless, greatly upon
the increase, owing to causes stated in the last head, we have "the
still loom and silent wheel, "the cold hearth." As for the wool-
len manufacture, it has not left the country, but only withdrawn a
few miles west to the banks of the Gala.

                V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

Market-Town, &c.--Melrose is a market-town, and has 689 in-
habitants, who are chiefly employed as retailers, handicrafts, and
labourers. As to the police of the place, it was a Burgh of Rega-
lity before the abolition of the hereditary jurisdictions; and under
the present system, it is the head of its district, having a fiscal act-
ing under the Justices of the Peace, who hold a court in its town-
house on the first Saturday of every month. The people fre-
quently settle their differences among themselves by arbitration,
which is called "referring them to men," or "setting me on
them." There were formerly magistrates called Birly men, who
used to hold what was called a Birly court; but this, a relic per-
haps of some old Saxon or feudal institution, has fallen into dis-
use, and all cases not carried before the higher courts are now
settled either by a reference to men, or by the decision of the
justices.

There are six other villages in the parish, Darnwick, Gattonside,
and Newstead, each about a mile distant from Melrose, and in the
same valley, having severally a population of 297, 290, and 230;
Newtown, three miles to the sout-east, having a population of 161;
and upon Gala water, four miles to the west, Darling's-haugh, which
has 762 inhabitants, and Buckholmside, which has 317, both ap-
pendages of Galashiels.

Means of Communications.--The means of communication en-
joyed by the parish are ample. There is a post-office in Melrose,



