
232                         ABERDEENSHIRE.

of them, no seats in any other church of the Establishment, others
but one sitting, and a considerable number have even taken sit-
ting in a place of worship, belonging to a body not only uncon-
nected, but disagreeing, with the Church of Scotland; having often
no choice between this occasional departure from their own church,
or absenting themselves wholly from a place of worship.  That the
number of Dissenters in this district from the Established Church
is, at present, exceedingly small, but will undoubtedly increase de-
plorably, unless an additional church shall be forthwith erected in
connection with the Church of Scotland.  That your petitioners
have, therefore, joined together in subscription to contribute to
the expense of erecting a suitable building, capable of containing
from 350 to 400 persons." &c. &c.  By means of the aid afforded
by the Church Extension Committee of the General Assembly,
amounting to L.150, and local contributions, L.250 and upwards, a
church has been built; the whole expense defrayed; and a preacher
located having a neat cottage hard by the church; and the gratifying
spectacle may now be seen of groupes of families every Lord's day,
passing thickly to and from this additional house of God.  In the ori-
ginal parish church every vacant sitting is taken, and this new church
is filled, illustrating in this part of the country the benefit of church
extension.  The present parish church was built on a new site in
1787.  The old church stood on the present burial-ground since l6O8,
previous to which the parish church was by the sea-side, hard by
where the village of St Combs now stands.  It appears to have
been of small dimensions.  The present church is in good repair.
All the public buildings are annually inspected by competent
tradesmen, and defects supplied, in consequence of standing reso-
lutions of the heritors.  The church was originally seated for 860.
There are once every year 800 persons within its walls.  Seats were
allowed by the heritors to be fitted up in the centre of the area,
at the expense of the kirk-session, by whom they are annually let
for sums of from 1s. to 4d. each, for behoof of the poor.  A good
many of the tenants are accommodated with seats free of rent.
Others, I understand, are charged by their landlord a small sum
per seat,-a practice which ought to be discontinued, for obvious
reasons.
   The present manse was built in the year 1824, and has already
undergone some overhauling, and will soon probably require more,
as is common with cheap manses.
   The glebe consists of 13 acres, two of which have been reclaim-
                                 3


