
	1236                       PERTHSHIRE.

	action of a fanner, and is thus blown to the open air, ridding all
	the processes of that annoyance which used to be so hurtful to
	health.  The cotton is now in the form of a web-is next wound
	on rollers-and put to the carding-machines, whereby the fibres
	of the cotton are completely separated, and any remaining lumps
	or refuse are taken out.
	   "The machines used  here are of a peculiar construction, in which
	a process formerly done by hand is now performed by mechanism,
	and for which Mr Smith holds a patent.  By the variously im-
	proved construction of this machine, the saving of labour in this
	process will amount to about thirty per cent.  Some peculiar and
	beautiful movements are introduced, but it is impossible to de-
	scribe them.  The next process to which the material passes, is
	the drawing machine, wherein the fibres are drawn into a parallel
	and longitudinal position, by means of successive pairs of rollers,
	the first pair holding the material, and allowing it to pass with a
	slow progress, whilst the second pair lay hold of it and pull it in
	the same way as a man draws straw for thatching.  When the
	fibres have been sufficiently brought to parallel (which is done by
	repeating this process three or four times in the same machine),
	the material is carried to what is called a roving frame, where it
        is drawn to a much smaller grist, and then twisted into a thready
	form, and is wound upon bobbins.  These bobbins are carried to
	spinning machines, when the grist is still more reduced, until the
	thread reaches its desired size, when it is twisted sufficiently firm
	to become thread fit for weaving.  The thread intended for warp
	is spun upon a machine called a throstle, which is a modification
	of Sir Richard Arkwright's original machine, and at this work a
	recent American invention has been adopted; it admits of great
	velocity in the twisting process, and, consequently, produces a
	much greater quantity of work in the same time. The bobbins,
	by the movements of which the twist is thrown into thread, go at
	the `mazin velocity of 8000 revolutions per minute!  The effect
	is magical.  These machines are attended by children, chiefly
        little girls, who are sing larly dexterous, and they are.superin-
	tended in divisions by grown-up women-one male superintendent
	having the general charge of a department. The work is light
	and easy, but requires constant attention and great cleanliness and
	order, and thus it may be said to form an excellent school for train-
	ing the young to habits of attention and industry.  These little
	girls follow the employment with spirit and cheerfulness, from



