
164                      ROXBURGHSHIRE.

be a Roman camp, and the Romans were undoubtedly in this im-
mediate neigbbourhood.-On the farm of Mindrum, in Northum-
berland, on the very borders of the parish, was lately ploughed up
a vase or bottle of brass containing 500 Roman silver coins.-On
a little spot of ground, now a peninsula, but at one time probably
an island of Yetholm Loch, there formerly stood one of those old
towers or castles so frequent in the south of Scotland.  It was the
baronial residence of the Kers of Lochtower, a branch, probably,
of the Kers of Cessford, or the Roxburgh family.  This ancient
tower and the surrounding scenery suggested to the author of Wa-
verley the picture he draws of Avenel Castle in the Monastery.
(See Note at the end of the 7th chapter, Vol. ii.)
    Land-owners.-The number of beritors or proprietors in this
parish is five.  Of these, Mr Wauchope of Niddrie possesses
nearly one-half of the parish, and is patron, also of the church.
The Marquis of Tweeddale is the second heritor, and now pos-
sesses what was formerly the property of Sir William Bennet of
Grubbet, the friend and patron of the poet of Ednam and of Allan
Ramsay, whose "Gentle Shepherd" has sometimes been ascrib-
ed to Sir William Bennet, and sometimes regarded as a juvenile
production of Thomson.
    It is unfortunate that there is only one heritor who resides in
the parish, and therefore only one mansion-house.  The grounds
of Cherrytrees are very tastefully ornamented with wood. The
house is a small, modern, but handsome building.
    Parochial Registers.-The earliest parochial registers extant
are from 1690, and from that period to the present they have been
kept with considerable regularity.  There is little doubt but
earlier registers did exist; and there is a report that, accidentally
suppose, they were destroyed by the family of one of the former
ministers of the parish.  They consist of three large folio volumes
completed, and a fourth is now adding to their number.  There is
nothing particularly interesting in them.

			III.-POPULATION.
    In the former Statistical Account, the parish is supposed to have
doubled its population during last century; and the cause of this
rapid increase is stated to be the destruction of several villages in
the neigbbouring parishes of Hownam, Morbattle and Linton,
the inhabitants of which had withdrawn to the two villages of Yet-
holm, encouraged, perhaps, by the easy rate at which the proprie-
tors of these villages had granted them feus.  Another probable cause
might be the practice of uniting many small farms into one large one.


