
706                   EDINBURGHSHIRE.

which are effectively seconded by their zealous and able Secre-
tary, Sir Thomas Dick Lauder, Bart.
   The Board for the Protection and Encouragement of the Fish-
eries of Great Britain has also its apartments within the Institu-
tion building. This board takes a general superintendence of the
herring and cod fisheries. It also appoints officers at the various
stations for inspecting the fish, to see that they are properly cur-
ed, and for affixing the stamp of the Board on such as are found
to be so.
   Association for the Promotion of the Fine Arts in Scotland.-
This Association was projected in 1834. The members, by sub-
scribing one pound per annum, raise a fund which is expended in
the purchase of the most meritorious paintings exhibited at the
Royal Scottish Academy during the season. These pictures are
then disposed of by ballot among the members, and, besides each
member's chance of a prize, he is, also presented with an engraving
of some picture of excellence which has been selected and engraved
at the expense of the Association. The number of subscribers to-
this Association is now very great; so that with a large annual sum
at their disposal, they have been enabled to extend a degree of pa-
tronage to the Fine Arts of the country hitherto quite unprecedent-
ed; and which, even during the few years of the society's exist-
ence, has had a marked effect on art. The amount of subscrip-
tions for the last three years has been, 1840, L. 6396; 1841,
L. 6767; 1842, L. 6590.
   Since the commencement of the Society, there have been realized
upwards of L. 31,000. Of this sum about L. 22,000 have been ex-
pended in the purchase of paintings and sculpture; and L. 9000 ap-
propriated to the dissemination of engravings, and to the machi-
nery necessary to awaken and keep alive an interest in the pro-
ceedings of the Association, and of Art throughout the country.
Those who recollect the time when, instead of L. 6000 being col-
llected in, one year for the encouragement of the fine arts, there
were not L. 1000 distributed among our native artists in. six years,
will best appreciate the importance of the change which has taken
place.
   A New Association for the encouragement of Art was started
subsequently to the other; with this difference, that the amount
of annual subscriptions was divided into various sums, and these
sums being appropriated among the members by ballot, each
holder of a prize exercised his own individual judgment in the


