
     of Loth.

there is only one crew, and the remains of another; and
though they go sometimes to sea with small lines, their sub-
sistence does not depend on their success in fishing; there are
several other small boats, in which the tenants and cottars fish
occasionally with hand lines, near the shore, when the wea-
ther and their other bussiness permits them to be so employed.
For the two years past, the inhabitants derived little advantage
in the way of fishing from their vicinity to the sea, as they had
not their usual success; but appearances begin now to be
more favourabble.-It is an ordinary custom with the fishers
on the south side of the Firth, and on the Firths of Inverness
and Cromarty to repair to the coast of the parish of Loth to
fish in the spring and summer seasons, whence they generally
carry home their boats fully loaded.  The coast is in some pla-
ters, rocky, in others, a sandy beach.  There are several boat-
harbours on the shore, but that of Colgour is accounted the
best.  Connoisseurs say, that a pier for ships could be erected

<FOOTNOTE>

"account, than by letting them for occasional services.  But where there
"are neither populous towns nor villages in a neigbourhood, nor manufac-
"tures of any kind introduced, except perhaps a little spinning of lint, and
"where the country is at the same time populous in proportion to the de-
"mand for labouring and to the means of subsistence, I see no other alter-
"native in the power of small proprietors or tacksmen, take other to al-
"low there poor to people to continue in there possessions as in merely equi-
"table terms, or by removing them from and depriving them of, present
"means of subsistence, to force them to emigration or or beggary.  Which of
"these is alternatives is most consistent the feelings of humanity, of most
"likely to be conducive to the public interest, is not difficult to determine.
"It is devoutly to be wished that manufacturing villages were established in
"every corner of our country, so that the lower class of people might have
"it in their power either to continue as they are, or to earn their livelihood
"entirely as dry labours, or by carrying on some useful branch of manu-
"facture."  After all, few only are so indulgent to the poor as many corre-
spondent, yet they seem to enjoy life under those that treat them with
severity.


