

                      FALKLAND.                                   937


       a clerk\f-a number greatly disproportioned to the present size
       and importance of the burgh.  The corporation possessed at
       one time a very considerable extent of property, but by mismanage-
       ment and law-suits, it has dwindled down to very narrow dimen-
       sions.  The revenue in 1844 amounted to L.56, 2s. 5 1/2d., the ex-
       penditure to L.79, 15s. 3d., the debt to L.323, 6s. 7d.
         Falkland still bears some faint traces of its former greatness,
       -among other things, in the names of its streets, one of which
       is called "Parliament Square," another "College Close," and a
       third, the "West Port."  Some of the houses which belonged
       to officers of the household in the time of James VI. still remain.
       The town is exceedingly healthy.  Its site at the foot of the
       East Lomond is airy, and the people enjoy an inexhaustible sup-
       ply of the purest spring water, brought into the town in pipes from
       the neigbbouring hill.  This was effected by the town-council in
       1766, at an expense of L.400.  The town, however, does not ap-
       pear to have been healthy in former times, for it is mentioned in
       an old record, that the followers of the Court, when residing in
       Falkland, sent their children to be educated in Cupar, on account
       of the greater salubrity of the place.  The fertile plain to the east
       of Falkland was then marshy, so much so, that when James VI.,
       in 1611, issued a mandate, enjoining the presbytery to hold their
       meetings at Falkland instead of Cupar, they refused to Com-
       ply, on the ground that Falkland could not be approached in
       winter, nor after heavy rains in summer.  But the marshes
       have been drained long ago, and the air, ever fresh from the Lo-
       mond Hills, is so healthy, that the inhabitants are somewhat re-
       markable for longevity.
         Ecclesiastical State.-The church stood originally at Kilgour,
       in the western confines of the parish, and before the Reformation
       belonged to the Priory of St Andrews.  The Earl of Fife made
       a grant of it to the priory in 1318.  The deed of mortification, as
       well as another curious old charter, bearing date 1224, which
       throws light upon the ecclesiastical state of the parish at that early
       period, may be seen in the book of the Priory of St Andrews,
       lately published at the expense of Mr Bruce.
         It is difficult to ascertain when the church was removed to Falk.


<FOOTNOTE>It would appear that Falkland could formerly boast of a provost, for, says Pits.
       cotie, (Hist. 1814, p. 535,) "Patrick Learmonth provost of Falkland, came with
       ane guidlie companie of fyve hundereth horsemen to the congregation to meet the
       queen at Falkland."



