
                           PARISH OF UDNY.

               PRESBYTERY OF ELLON, SYNOD OF ABERDEEN.

                    THE REV. JOHN LESLIE, MINISTER.

                  I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-UDNY derives its name from a family, which, for many
centuries, has possessed the barony of Udny, on which the kirk
stands.  The etymology of Udny is not known.  It was erected
into a parish by act of Parliament, passed 19th December 1597,
entitled "Ratification-Ane Act anent Christ's Kirk of Tdny"
being separated from the parishes of Ellon, Tarves, Logie Buchan,
and Foveran.  The lands taken from Ellon and Logie Buchan still
pay small sums out of the teinds of these lands to the ministers of
Ellon and Logie Buchan.
   Extent and Boundaries, &c.-The parish is almost circular, ex-
cept on the north-east, where it juts out to a considerable extent.
It is supposed to contain about 16 square miles.  It is situated in
the district of Aberdeenshire called Formartin, and is bounded
on the north and north-west, by Tarves; on the west, by Bour-
tie; on the south-west, by Keithhall; on the south, by New
Machar and Fintray; on the south-east, by Belhelvie; on the
east, by Foveran; and on the north-east, by Logie Buchan and
Ellon.
   Three small streams run from west to east till they terminate in
the river Ythan, about six miles distant.  Two of these streams
bound the parish,-the one on the south, the other on, the north.
   Abundance of granite, and a vein of limestone runs from south-
west to north-east in a zig-zag direction.  In many places the vein
is covered with a stratum of grayish slate, and the lime-rock is all
more or less mixed with the slate, which injures the quality of the
lime.
   Lime-work's have frequently been started; but are never work-
ed to any extent, as the water breaking in upon the quarry, and
thd hnferior quality of the lime, render them a losing concern.
   The soil is for the most part loamg on a bottom of granite, and
sometimes on clay.  The granite bottom is under the best soil.


