
		               PAISLEY.                         187

was deemed necessary, but afterwards it became permanent.  This
guard, of which the magistrates bad the sole direction, consisted of
thirteen householders, warned in rotation, who made choice of their
own captain, and attended from ten at night to five or six in the
morning.  The captain reported to the sitting-magistrate the oc-
currences of the night, and on public occasions, such, as fairs, and
sometimes for a whole year, the number was increased to eighteen.
This system of police answered the purpose tolerably well for many
years; but as the town increased in population, in wealth, and in
vice, it was found at last to be very defective.  The wealthy in-
habitants, in place of attending personall , paid porters, or menial
servants, to act as substitutes.  On some occasions, in place if sup-
pressing riotous conduct, it was encouraged, or at least not report-
ed to the magistrates, and they frequently did not perambulate the
streets at all.  Many of the councillors and magistrates, with other
inhabitants, being of opinion that a police bill was necessary for
the safety and comfort of the inhabitants, the burgesses were ap-
plied to for a meeting to take the proposed measure into conside-
ration.  At this period there was no fund for lighting the town,
and it was customary for the corporation, to furnish sixty or seventy
lamps during a few months in winter.  This mode of lighting only
tended to make the darkness more visible.  Foot-pavements, be-
sides, were become absolutely necessary, and regular police officers
were imperiously required for the protection of property. Meet-
ings of magistrates, council, and inhabitants were repeatedly held,
and, after much deliberation and discussion, a bill for a police
establishment was framed; carried without opposition through both
Houses; and received the Royal assent in 1806.
   The police establishment, as at first constituted, consists of a
master of police, two sergeants, four corporals, and twelve night watch-
men; but they may be augmented as the fundsmay allow.  There are
at present (Jan. 1837,) five corporals, and fourteen watchmen.
   The burgh is divided into nine districts or wards, and two com-
missioners are chosen for each ward, by such householders as pay
L.5 or upwards of yearly rent.  The magistrates are commis-
sioners by office, and have the general superintendence of the
establishment.  The suburbs are divided into six wards, with one
commissioner to each; the sberiff-substitute being always a com-
missioner ex officio.  The powers  duties of the commissioners
and officers are the same as in other establishments of the kind.


