
     Statistical Account

mur of the sea and the echo of the rocks, form a concert by
no means disagreeable.  The real game hawk is laid to nestle
here.  This rock has a great deal of iron ore in it; and in
one place, which was struck with lightning several years a-
go, large pieces were thrown down, which seemed to be
mixture of copper and iron.*

   Caves, Sail, Etc.-Close by this part of the Maoil, there is
a cave 40 feet long, 5 broad, and 5 high+.  At the end there
is a small opening which communicates with another cave,
measuring 37 feet in length, 9 in breadth, and 9 in height.
This cave is open at the side, which admits a good deal of
light, and from the top dreams of clear water fall down.  The
same kind of plants grow here as in the caves of Gigha.  The
N. E. end abounds with rabbits, where the soil is a mixture
of shells, sand, and earth.  The rest of the island is mossy, and
the greater part might be cultivated, but it is found more pro-
fitable to keep it for pasture.  There is enough of peats for
the inhabitants, and care is taken in cutting them to preserve

<FOOTNOTE>

*A person who has lived above 36 years in the island, fays, that the
rock fell in Autumn 1756:  That the night on which it happened, there was
dreadful hurricane, accompanied with thunder and lightning:  That the
noise of the rock falling was heard, and the shock felt, in their boules:  That
the lea rose so high against the rocks on the west side of the island, as to be
carried over the whole breadth of it in heavy flower:  That the boules were
all unroofed, and the stacks of corn overset; and that all the people were ob-
liged to extinguish their fires, and take shelter in the only Rated boule on the
island, which fortunately suffered no damage.
+A parcel of goats, belonging to the tacksman of the island, confider this
cave as their inviolable place of residence, and discover no small surprise when
strangers visit them.  The appearance of there animals, sometimes running in
the face of the precipice, and sometimes looking down from the highest pinnacle
of the rock; occasions in the spectator's breast a mixture of pleasure and pain,
which is more oddly felt than described.


