
330                      BERWICKSHIRE.

ed with much dangerous delay, and no small expense." This
grievance is now remedied, the principal officer of the customs
here being impowered to enter and clear all vessels, except those
to and from foreign ports.
                      V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Market-Towns, &c.-Eyemouth, the only town in the parish,
and, it may be added, the only sea-port in the county of Berwick,
is also the market-town of the surrounding district. As may be-
seen by referring to the former Statistical Account, grain to a consi-
derable extent has, for many years past, been shipped here,-but
the trade in corn, like that in herrings, having seriously declined,
it was proposed by several persons interested in the prosperity of
the place, to establish a weekly stock-market for that article. At
a meeting of farmers and dealers in grain, convened here in the
beginning of January 1832, it was resolved that the market should
be held weekly on Thursday; and it is no slight proof of the pro-
priety of this resolution, and of the benefit conferred by the mar-
ket, both on Eyemouth, and on the surrounding district, that, dur-
ing the first twelve months of its existence, grain to the value of
L. 20,000 was sold in it. Considerable facilities were afforded for
its establishment by the fact, that Eyemouth possessed an excel-
lent harbour, and that the port charges were exceedingly moderate.
   The revival of the corn trade has led to the erection of spacious
granaries upon the quay within these two years, and a large build-
ing at the north end of the town, which was used during the late
war as a barrack for soldiers, and near which a battery was erect-
ed for the protection of the town and harbour, has also been em-
ployed of late for the storing of grain. To the same cause we are
also indebted for the recent establishment of a branch of the Com-
mercial Bank.
   When not engaged in the cultivation of their lands, the smaller
tenants, who all reside in the Town of Eyemouth, are generally em-
ployed in supplying the Edinburgh and Glasgow markets with
fish; and in winter, when tempted by the prospect of high prices,
instances are not unfrequent of their finding their way even to
Dumfries and Carlisle. As the Coldingham and Burnmouth
boats generally rendezvous at Eyemouth, these land carriers are
unable to transport the whole produce of the fishery to market;
a considerable part of it is, in consequence, sent by sea to New-
haven and Port-Dundas. Eyemouth is a burgh of barony. Mr
Home of Billie is the superior.
   Harbour.-"The harbour of Eyemouth," says the celebrated


