
     Statistical Account

cuniary donation is given by the scholars to the teacher, as-
a token of the approbation of the parents.

   2. Sunday School.-It was instituted in July 1789, under
the patronage of the late Jane, Duchess of Atholl.  The
Regulations, approved of by her Grace, for conducting it,
are subjoined*.  The fees of the master the determined as
follows: L. 1, 1 s. to be paid yearly by herself, as patro-
ness, and 6 d. per quarter besides for 30 scholars.  The same
rate of payment was to be made by the session for 10; and
by the parents of each for the rest.  The Duke of Atholl's

<FOOTNOTE>

*I. That the school meet every Sunday during the year.
   II. That every meeting of the school begin and close with a prayer, by
the master.
   III. That before the last prayer, some verses be sung from the Psalms,
or from the Parapharases and Translations of Sacred Scripture.
   IV. That the scholars be catechised on the first principles of religion.
   V. That a portion of the Bible, or a printed sermon, be read at every
meeting, and that the master, in the course of proceeding, make such re-
marks as may explain and enforce what is read.
   VI. That on Sunday the scholars walk in regular order, with the master,
to hear sermon, and take their seat in the part of the church which is al-
lotted to them.
   VII. That once, at least, every year, a public examination of the school
be held, on a week day; and that some books be then distributed to such
of the scholars as have been most remarkable for improvement or good be-
haviour.
   VIII. That a journal of the proceedings of the school be kept by the
master, in which he is to mention the sermon or the portion of the Bible
which is read at the meeting; and in order that justice may be done to
every scholar, in the distribution of the rewards, he is to mention the
names of those who are absent on any occasion, with the excuses for their
absence which they afterwards bring; and the names of those who particu-
larly excel, whether in answering questions, in reading, or in repeating
what they have been desired to commit to memory.
   IX. That a sermon be preached by the minister of Dunkeld at the said
public examination, and the money collected be applied for the purposes of
the school.


