

       150                         ELGINSHIRE.

of the destructive power of those warring elements which it has so
long withstood; but its fall, though distant, is approaching; the slow
consuming influence of wind and tide has not only narrowed but per-
forated its base, and its heavy, flat, projecting top threatens, by its
weight, to accelerate its ruin.  On the western side of the lawn is
a cave, once the cell of a hermit, but degraded to a stable by Sir
Robert Gordon, who concealed his horses in it in the Rebellion
of 1715.  On this verdant vale, parties sit down to pick-nick din-
ners, where all the rarities of the season are gathered together.
Everything around them contributes to their pleasure, the novelty
of the scene, the different plants of variegated colours, creeping or
hanging in festoons from the rocks, the noise and flight of fright-
ened gulls, daws, and pigeons, the hoarse murmur of the sea, and
the melody of song, cheer and gladden every heart.  Farther west
the rocks are' more lofty and rugged, the caverns numerous, and
all looking to the sea; some of them are yet unexplored, and it
would be difficult and dangerous to explore them.   To visit
these, gentlemen and ladies, pleased with the scenery, and more
pleased with each other, scramble hand in hand over slippery
rocks, and rounded boulders, at the risk of breaking their necks
and limbs.
                        II.-CIVIL HiSTORY.
the history of Moray, little is known prior to the reign
of Malcolm II. and that little only records incessant insur-
rections and rebellions.   Of Danish or Norwegian origin, the
Picts of Moray hated and resisted the Celtic dynasty.  In the
southern provinces, the Picts, subdued by force, or bribed by
favour, were sooner reconciled than the northern, who were at
a greater distance, and feared them less.  The murders of Mal-
colm, Duff, and Duncan, attest that they never scrupled as to the
means of attaining their end.  Unable of themselves to regain the
throne, or preserve their independence, they called in the aid, as
they bad often formerly done, of their brethren the Danes.  This
called down the vengeance of Malcolm II. III. and IV.  The
punishment, though deserved, was severe.  To weaken the power
of the turbulent barons, some were killed, others banished to the
south,and their estates confiscated.  The bishopric of Moray,
the fourth in order, was tben erected, and the strong fortresses of
   Kinnedder, Spynie, and Plewland, since called Gordonston, were
put into the peaceable but unwarlike hands of bishops, of whom
Gregory, who hold them anno 1120, was first Bishop of Moray.


