
846                         AYRSHIRE.

the bodies which they once inclosed, and a few cutting in-stru
ments made of stone. Whether this tumulus was the monument
of those "who fought in battles long ago," or is to be classed un-
der the comprehensive and inexhaustible head of "Druidical re-
mains," it is not easy to determine.
	Three vessels of Roman bronze were dug out of the moss in
the farm of Braidlee, a few years ago. These vessels were a
large and smaller pot, and a kettle, or rather jug, supported by
three legs. The two latter vessels were found inside of the large
pot, and are now in the possession of Mr Brown of Waterhaughs.
They were very probably a cooking apparatus used by the Ro-
man soldiery. From the remains of large oak trees which are
occasionally found imbedded in moss in the upper district of the
parish, in which these Roman antiquities were discovered, it is
likely that it was at one time an extensive forest.
	Modern Buildings.--The only building in the parish of any note
is Loudoun castle, the imposing and magnificent mansion of the
Loudoun family. One of the square towers, with its battlement of
unknown antiquity, was destroyed when the castle was besieged of
General Monk.* Another tower, larger and higher, was built
about the fifteenth century, and is still entire. A large addition was
built to the castle by the Chancellor Loudoun; but the greater and
most stately part of the building was completed in 1811. The li -
brary contains upwards of 11,000 volumes. The old castle of
Loudoun was destroyed by fire about 350 years ago.+

<FOOTNOTE>It was defended on this occasion by Lady Loudoun,who capitulated on honour-
able terms.
	The c1urrent tradition regarding the burning of the old castle, ascribes that
event to the clan Kennedy at the period above-mentioned, and the remains of an
old tower at Achruglen, on the Galston side of the valley, is still pointed out as
having been their residence. The following fragment of a ballad, known among the
pessantry from time immemorial, would assign a different author and later date to
this foray. The same ballad, however, with the alteration of a few names, entitled
Adam of Gordon, recording the burning of Towie Castle, in the north of Scot-
land, in 1571, was published about a century ago by Lord Hailes in Glasgow, has
since appeared in Percy's Reliques, in Chambers and in Pinkerton's Collection of
Scottish Ballads. In a note to the ballad in Percy, it is said that the wandering
minstrels changed the names in their songs, to suit them as far as possible to similar
events in the histories of the different families which they visited.
					1.
			It fell about the Martinmas time,
			When the wind blew snell and cauld,
			That Adam o' Gordon said to his men,
			Where will we get a hold.
					2.
			See not, where yonder fair Castle
			Stands on yon lily lee,
			The laird and I hse a deadly feud,
			The lady fain would I see.

