
                               HAWICK.                          399

vice itself which is peculiarly impressive and solemnizing, and we
doubt not, that when observed, as it is in many instances, with a
devout and becoming  spirit, it is productive of impressions very
much suited to the solemnity of the occasion.
  The practice of riding the marches is still observed in this pa-
rish.  This ancient ceremonial takes place on the last Friday of
May, old style, which is considered by more than the youthful por-
tion of the population as one of the most important days of the
year.  The honour of carrying the standard of the town, the ori-
ginal of which ir said to have been taken from the English shortly
after the Battle of Flodden, devolves upon the cornet, a young man
previously elected for the purpose, and he, with the magistrates
of the town on horseback and a large body of the inhabitants and
burgesses, set out in regular procession, for the ostensible purpose
of riding round the property of the town, and making formal de-
monstration of their legal rights,--a ceremonial, which, however
necessary in ancient times, when written documents were in con-
stant danger of being destroyed, may now be considered as a use-
less form, but which, notwithstanding, is kept up with much spirit
by the great body of the people, as well from the influence of an-
cient associations, as from the holiday amusements with which it is
invariably attended. *
                          IV.-INDUSTILY.
   The following table exhibits the number of families, and their
respective employments, at different periods:

<FOOTNOTE>The following are a few stanzas from an ancient song, which seems to embody
the spirit of the inhabitants on these occasions, and which is sung by the cornet and
his attendants from the roof ofan old tenement belonging to the town, and loudly and
enthusiastically joined in by the surrounding multitude :

                         " We'll a' hie to the muir a-riding,
                         Drumlanrig gave it for providing
                         Our ancestors of martial order,
                         To drive the English off our border.

                         At Flodden-field our fathers fought it,
                         And honour  gained, though dear tbey  bought it;
                         By Teviot side they took this colour,
                         A dear memorial of their valour.

                         Though twice of old our town was burned,
                         Yet twice the foemen back we turned,
                         And ever should our rights be trod on,
                         We'll face the foe to Tirioden.

                         Up wi' Hawick, its rights land common,
                         Up wi' a' the Border bowmen!
                         Tiribus and Tirioden,
                         We are up to guard the common."


