
406                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

out in keeping the family tomb in repair; and the surplus to be
given to poor persons who bad been servants or cottars in Boghead.
The trustees are the minister and schoolmaster of Pitsligo, and
the farmer in Boghead for the time being.

   October 1840.

                           UNITED PARISHES OF

                          AUCHINDOIR AND KEARN.

                 PRESBYTERY OF ALFORD, SYNOD OF ABERDEEN.

              THE REV. JAMES REID, A. M. MINISTER.
              THE REV. WILLIAM REID, A. M. Assistant and Successor.

                    I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name, &c.--THE parishes of Auchindoir and Kearn were united
by the annexation of Kearn to Auchindoir in 1811.  Previous to this
period Kearn was in union with Forbes; but circumstances of local
conveniency having led to a disjunction of these parishes, Forbes
was united to Tullynessle, and Kearn annexed to Auchindoir.
The name Auchindoir, by which both these parishes are now
usually designated, is of Gaelic origin and is said to signify the
"field of pursuit."  This derivation is supported by the historical
fact mentioned by Buchanan, that "Luthlac, son of Macbeth,
was slain by Malcolm in the valley of Bogie."  Tradition refers
to several tumuli on an extensive moor (now improved), about two
miles south of the church, as the scene of battle where Luthlac
was defeated, and also points out the spot, about four miles north-
east from this, in the parish of Rhynie, where he was overtaken
and slain.  The circumstance of his being pursued through the
valley of Auchindoir to the place of his death, may have given rise
to its present appellation.  Kearn is understood to be a corruption
of cairn, there being a remarkable cairn or tumulus in that pa-
rish but of the historic of which there is no tradition.
   Extent, &c.--These united parishes form an irregular figure, the
length of which is about 7 miles, and the breadth about the same
extent.  They are bounded b Kildrummy on the south; Rbynie
on the north; Cabrach on the west; and Clatt and Tulleynessle


