
			KEIR.				       465

high. In 1810 it measured, at 4 1/2 feet from the ground, 9 feet 2
inches. It now measures 9 feet 8. The lower branches drooping
to the ground form a large tent. Of the six beautiful larches plant-
ed by Lord Tinwald, the largest now measures, at 4 1/2 feet high,
8 feet 10 inches. In 1796, when sixty-five years old, it contained
74 feet of timber--it now contains 190.
			II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	An account of the parish will be found in Macfarlane's MS.,
preserved in the Advocates' Library. There are also in the li-
brary of Barjarg, Notes for the History of the county of Dumfries,
collected by the late F. H. Arundell, Esq. containing some no-
tices of its history.
	"This paroch was anciently a pendicle of the Abbacy of Holy-
wood, or (as some say) a viccaradge belonging to the paroch of
C`rlavrock, which was a parsonage belonging to the said abbacy,
and so had at least a mediate dependence upon it. After the
Reformation from Popery, the fews which us'd to be paid to the
church, were gifted to the Earl of Morton; but he having dis-
oblig'd the Soveraign, they were afterwards disponed to the Earl
of Nithsdale."--Rae's History, MS.
	"Kire of old, a pendicle of the abbacy and part of the parish
of Holywood, and since the Reformation served by a substitute
who supplied both places in the absence of the minister, but late-
ly divided from it and erected into a parish by itself, and after-
wards annexed to the presbytery of Penpont."--Macfarlane MS.
	"It is not taxed in Bagimont's Roll, and therefore must have
belonged to some monastery."
	"The estate and baillery of Porterstoun was a separate juris-
diction till their final abolition, which the Douglases of Drum-
lanrig had acquired in this parish."
	"Barndennoch is conjectured by Hornby to have been the
Carbantorizum of Ptolemy."--Pennant's Tour.
	Land-owners.--The heritors of the parish are the patron,
the Duke of Buccleuch; Sir Thomas Kirkpatrick, Bart. of Close-
burn; James Hoggan, Esq. of Waterside; Godolphin Hunter
Arundell, Esq. of Barjarg, now a minor; and  William Copland,
Esq. of Blackwood.
	"The chief heritor of the parish was the Earl of Nithsdale till
1702, when James Duke of Queensberry purchased the barony of
Keir from William Earl of Nithsdale."
	Family of Kirkpatrick of Closeburn.--Various purchases have


