
                          LASSWADE.                        331

the Four Sisters, and is about 24 feet in circumference at the
base. It was under this tree that Drummond the poet was sitting
when his friend Ben Jonson arrived from London, and hence it is
also called Ben Jonson's Tree. Observing his friend approach-
ing Drummond exclaimed--
               "Welcome, welcome, Royal Ben;"
To which Jonson replied with his usual readiness--
              "Thank ye, thank ye, Hawthornden."
   Adjoining the ruin is a comparatively modern house. Over the
door of this house, in marble, are the armorial bearings of the late
Right Reverend Dr William Abernethy Drummond, Bishop of
Edinburgh; and near it is the following inscription:--Divino mumere
Gulielmus Drummondus Johannis Equitis aurati filius ut honesto
otio quiesceret sibi et successoribus instauravit. Anno 1638. In the
lobby of the house there is a table with a marble slab, having on
it the date 1396, and the initials of King Robert III., and of his
Queen Annabella Drummond. On this table is a large two-
handed and two-edged sword, said to have belonged to King Ro-
bert the Bruce. There is also in the lobby a clock, said to have
belonged to the family since the time of Robert the Bruce. ln
an upper room are a pair of antique shoes, and a silk dress which
belonged to Annabella Drummond, Queen of Robert III.; also
a dress worn by Prince Charles Stuart during his Scottish cam-
paign of 1745.
   Below this house are two tiers of caves, the lower tier not being
now accessible. Various conjectures have been made regarding the
origin and use of these caves. The most probable opinion is, that
they were made during the destructive wars between the English
and the Scotch in the thirteenth century. In these caves, Sir
Alexander Ramsay, who performed many memorable- exploits dur-
ing the contest between Bruce and Baliol, used to conceal himself,
and so great was his fame as a warrior, that the most aspiring can-
didates for military renown in those days did not consider their
education complete till they bad served some time under him. The
most ancient entrance to these caves was by a door in the centres of
the perpendicular rock that overlooks the river, and which was ac-
cessible only by a flight of steps and a narrow pathway now de-
stroyed. The present entrance is by a door on the south side, by
which visitor  descend a few steps, and pass along a narrow pas-
sage called the King's Gallery 75 feet long and 6 feet broad.
The first cave on the left, to which there is a descent of two steps,


