
1056			     ABERDEENSHIRE.

of Cowie, and from the Frasers to Lord Keith, progenitor of the
Earl Marischal. Lord Keith's daughter, Elizabeth, was married
to Sir John Gordon of Huntly, and with her the lands and castle
of Aboyne passed to the Gordons, with whom they have since re-
mained. Sir John was killed at the battle of Otterburn, 1388,
and his only daughter and heiress was married in 1408, to Sir
William Seaton of Seaton Mallonally, descended from a sister of
Robert I.
	Their son Alexander was, in 1449, created Earl of Huntly,
and resumed the surname of Gordon. This Earl Alexander was
succeeded by his son George, in favour of whose second son Adam
(who afterwards became Earl of Sutherland,) it is stated, in Gor-
don's history of the clan, that James 11. granted a novodamus of
the lands of Aboyne. They seem, however, to have reverted to
the Earl of Huntly, and to have been bestowed successively on
the second sons of that noble house, first, on John, who was cruel-
ly burned to death at Frendraught, on 30th April 1630, and se-
condly, on James Viscount Aboyne, on whose death they passed
to his next brother Charles, who was created Earl of Aboyne, and
of whom is lineally descended the present Marquis of Huntly.
	In 1671 the castle was repaired or rather part of it rebuilt, by
Charles first Earl of Aboyne, and in 1801, his great grandson, the
present Marquis of Huntly, added the east wing or half to it, cor-
responding in appearance and architecture to the west, on which
occasion, the old foundations, which had been laid on brandered oak
above peat moss, were raised of what had once been the baronial
hall. The old mansion-house of Balnacraig, * in which the for-
mer proprietor resided, is in the parish, and on the Balnacraig pro-
perty is also the House of Carlogie, now occupied by Admiral Sir
Arthur Farquhar. At Tillphoudie, once the seat of a branch of
the Gordons, but now forming part of the Aboyne property are
to be seen the ruins of the proprietor's house.
         Antiquities.-On Knockbeg, or little hill of Tillfoudie, are the
remains of a circular building,+ (diameter 83 feet,) composed of

<FOOTNOTE>While a party of military were preparing to burn the house of Balnacraig in
1746, a soldier thrust his head into a jar of honey, from which he could only, anoid
the jeering of his comrades, be extricated by breaking part from the mouth of the jar,
-during this scene a counter order to save the house arrived. The honey jar, with
its broken lip, has been preserved by the representatives of the family.
     The writer has seen the remains similar stone buildings, extending in a line
across Sutherland. The most entire one he has met with is on the Blackwater,
Strath Brora, and called "castle Coull."
     There are also a few of the round " turf forts or pits" close to the turnpike road,
two miles east from Fort George.


