
BURNTISLAND.                            423

the benefits of education. Very few above six or seven ate unable
to read, and most can both read and write. There are two Sun-
day schools, besides a class connected with the congregation of the
parish church.
Literature- There is a subscription library of between 500 and
600 volumes. Along with the proportion of trash which is usual-
ly found in such libraries, it contains a good deal of the standard
literature of the country. It has not, of late, been in a very flour-
ishing conditi6D. There is also a parish library, chiefly for the be-
tiefit of the poorer classes and of the young. It consists of about
300 volumes, chiefly of a religious nature. The books are given
out gratis, and the number of readers, both old and young, is very
considerable.
Charitable Institutions.-Watson's mortification, already men-
tioned, is the only thing in the shape of an endowment for the
poor. In January 1829, a society was formed called 11 The Burnt-
island Funeral Insurance Society." It is divided into three classes;
thefirst, including those who insure a sum of money to be paid at
their death; the second, those who insure a sum to be paid at the
death of their wives or husbands; and the third, those who insure
a sum to be paid at the death of any of their children under eight-
een years of age. Any person qualified may enter any one or
more of these classes. By the original regulations, it is provided
that persons under forty years of age shall pay 2s. and those above
that age 4s. on their admission as members; and that at each quar-
terly meeting, each member of one' class shall pay 3d.; each mem-
ber of two classes, 6d.; and each member of three classes, 9d. On
the death of a member of the first or second class, L. 5 may be
drawn from the funds of the society by the party having a right;
and on the death of a child of a member of class third, if under
three months, L. 1, 10s. may be drawn; if above that age and
under three years, L. 2; if between three and eighteen years, L. 3.
On these regulations some slight changes have been made,. the
sums payable on the death of members being now somewhat smaller.
This society has proved of considerable benefit to the working
classes, and now numbers upwards of 300 members.
There is no savings bank in the parish. An attempt was made
to establish one, some years ago, but it unfortunately failed.
-Poor and Parochial Funds.-The number at present on the
Poor's roll is 35. Individuals receive 64. Is. or Xs. 6d. per week,
according to their circumstances,-some, who have children to sup -


