
                                     EAGLESHAM.                      403

       tinct, and has been entirely replaced by the weaving of cotton
       goods, the materials for which are furnished by the Glasgow and
       Paisley manufacturers. The village is about nine miles from Glas-
       gow, eleven from Paisley, and twelve from Hamilton. There is
       a two-horse coach to Glasgow every Wednesday and Saturday,
       from the head of Main Street, Gorbals. There are also a car-
       riers to Glasgow on the same days. The village has also a post-
       office and daily post. There are about seven miles of parish
       roads, and seven of turnpike. The bridges on the great thorough-
       fares are all good. So far back as the end of last century, the
       enclosure of farms had been begun, and now nearly the whole of
       the lower part of the parish is well fenced.
         Ecclesiastical State.--The parish church is situated on the
       south side of the village, near the middle of it. It is of an octa-
       gonal form, very compact, and well fitted up within. It was built
       in 1790, and contains 550 sittings. The lower part, containing
       350 sittings, has never been divided, but, by the kindness of the
       Noble Earl, is not rented, and is left free to the villagers. The
       liberality of the Eglinton family in this respect ought to be pub-
       licly recorded as an example worthy of imitation. The manse
       was built in 1832, at an expense of about L.1200, and is very ele-
       gant and commodious.  The glebd consists of 7 1/2 acres, and is let
       at L.25 per annum.  The stipend is 17 cbalders, half meal, and
       half barley, with L. 10 for communion elements. There is also
       a congregation belonging to the United Associate Synod. The
       church was built in 1782, and contains 480 sittings. The con-
       gregation is collected Dot only from this parish but also from Kil-
       bride, Carmunnock, and Fenwick. The present incumbent, the
       Rev. William Carswell, was ordained in 1827. There isalso a con-
       gregation belonging to the Reformed Presbyterian Church. The
       meetinghouse was built about 1825, and contains about 400 sit-
       tings.  The present incumbent, the Rev. Robert Winning, A. M.
       was ordained in 1826. Divine service is remarkably well attended

           The patronage of the chtrch of Eaglesbam has belonged to the Eglinton family
       from the middle of the twelfth century. Thomas de Arthurlie, perhaps a relation'a
       wallace, was rector of Eaglesham, 1388. In 1429, the parish church was constituted
       a prebend of the Cathedral of Glasirow. It was taxed L.3 yearly for the use of the
       diocesan church.  In Bagimont's Roll it is taxed at L.10, 13s. 4d., which, being a
       tenth of the estimated spiritual revenues, the whole would-be L.106, l3s., 4d. At
       the Reformation the parsonage of Eaglesham produced 14 chalders, I3 1/2 bolls, which
       were let for L.186, 13s. 4d. yearly. A small Popish chapel was used for the parish
       church before 1790.


