

PARISH OF DUNINO.
]'RESBYTERY OF ST ANDREWS AND SYNOD OF FIFIR.
THE REV. JAMES ROGER, MINISTER.
I.-ToPOr-RAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
Name and Etymoloqy.-THE parish of Dunino, pronounced by
the inhabitants Dununle, is of more consideration for its antiquity,
neighbourhood, and recent rapidity of improvement, than for its ex-
tent,orvalueasasectionofitscounty. There ortertoSii-JohnSin-
clair on this parish first assumes that its name is Den-ino, which
it is not; and then proceeds to account for its derivation from
words signifying 11 a village on a large and deep den." But there
has not been, time out of mind, any thing which can be called a
village in the parish: and the 11 den, so deep and larfe," is no-
thing more than the beds which have been formed by two little
streams, which after their union are able to turn a saw-mill. For
fifty-four years after the commencement of the parochial register
in 1643, the Dame of the parish is uniformly spelt Duynvno, Du-
nynow, or Dunnonow, the first syllable always being Dun, till 1697,
when it was first corrupted into 11 Dennino."
The highest eminence in the parish is 1,13 furlong north of the
church, scarcely 300 feet above the level of the sea, and on which
tradition relates there was a nunnery; and the foundation stoiles of
it were removed, twenty-two years ago, during the present minister's
incumbency.There is as much evidence that the parish received
its name fromthe nunnery, as can generally'be obtained iu cases
of this kind.The register of the priory of St Andrews, append-
ed to the second volume of Mr Pinkerton's History, and drawn up
about the year 1250, shows that the ancient names of places in
this parish and neighbourhood dre Gaelic. Martine of Clermonty
Secretary to Archbishop Sharpe, in his 11 Remains of St Andrews,"
written in 1685, calls the parish of DuniLio, 11 the Rectory of
Dunn ' enaucht," or the hill Of Young women, evidently referring to
the nunnery. The same author gives a copy of a charter granted
by the Archbishop of St Andrews, so far back as October 4, 1479,


