
622                         LANARKSHIRE.

	The number of illegitimate births during the last three years,
is 13.
	I am decidedly of opinion, from many years of laborious experi-
ence, that nothing would conduce more to the moral and religious
interests of this extensive population, than infant and juvenile
schools, erected in the most populous parts of is; as from the habits
of the females, who are principally devoted to tambouring and sew-
ing muslin, their maternal and domestic duties are too much ne-
glected.

                         IV.-INDUSTRY.
	Assuming that in this parish, there are altogether 26,000 im-
iperial acres, I learn from the most diligent inquiries, that 10,000
of these are either cultivated, or occasionally in tillage; that the
remainder have never been cultivated; but that 10,000 more
might, with a proper application of capital, be added to the culti-
vated land of the parish; and that about 6000 acres are in woods,
roads, quarries, &c. and incapable of being rendered arable.
	Lord Belhaven has lately erected at the west end of the village
of Wishawtown, a very large and extensive distillery. The whole
buildings are of the very best mason-work, and completely slated,
and, besides, there are extensive shades for feeding cattle, annexed
to it, in complete unison with the other buildings.
	Much has been done, within these few years, regarding draining.
But as yet, the process to the tenantry is still expensive, as it re-
quires 3050 tiles to drain an acre. But from the nature of the soil
throughout the parish, viz. a cold wet clay, the most extensive
draining is necessary to render the soil either fertile or productive.

                     V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Ecclesiastical State and Education.--The stipend of this parish
is 18 chalders, half meal, half barley, at the fiars price for Lanark-
shire; together with L. 100 Scots for communion elements. There
is a glebe of 4 acres, but it and the manse are two miles from the
church. The number of families connected with the Establish-
ed Church, is 419.
	There are three endowed schools in the parish. The parochial
schools, at which Latin, English grammar writing, and arithmetic
are taught, has attached to it the maximum salary, a free house
and garden, and the usual fees, which do not exceed L. 20 a year.
At Stain, a school was built and endowed with a salary of about
L. 20, by Mr Wilson in Whitburn; and at Muiryett, ground was


