
478                           FIFESHIRE.

   The city functionaries consist of a provost, four bailies, a dean
of guild, and a treasurer; and the town-council consists of these
office-bearers, and twenty-two councillors. Before the passing of the
late Burgh Reform Bill, the dean of guild ranked next to the pro-
vost, and president at the meetings of the council in his absence;
but since that period, the bailies have acquired the precedency.
The latter hold courts from time to time, in which matters of liti-
gation with citizens are determined, and in which also delinquen-
cies are investigated, and a judgment on them pronounced. The
council have under their management the revenues of the city,
which amount to above L. 1300 Stdrling a-year, but there is a debt
affectinlr them, which amounts to nearly L. 5000. In addition to
this they have since 1831, in consequence of a clause of Dr Bell's
trust-deed, been invested with the disbursement of the interest of
L. 9798, 13s. 4d. of 3 per cent. government annuities, destined
for the purpose of promoting the moral and religious improvement
of the community, and for such other useful and permanent works
connected with the city, as might be judged most eligible; under
the superintendence, however, and with the approbation of the
Lord Lieutenant of the county of Fife, and the Trustees of the Ma-
dras College.
    Markets, &c.- St Andrews is the only market-town in the parish.
It has three fairs annually, besides a weekly market for the sale of
grain, which is held on Monday and a market twice a-week, viz.
Wednesday and Saturday, for butter, poultry, eggs, vegetables,
&e. There is a post-office in the city, which has a daily commu-
nication with Dundee and Edinburgh. The length of the turn-
pike. roads in the parish is about twenty miles, and of the roads sup-
ported by the statute labour, six to eight miles.  The bridges are
kept in a good state of repair. The only one deserving of particu-
lar notice is the Guard or Gair Bridge, which affords a passage
across the Eden, at the point where the roads from Dundee and
Cupar to St Andrews meet. It was constructed four centuries ago,
by Bishop Wardlaw, the founder of the University. It consists of
six arches, and the only inconvenience attending it is its narrow-
ness, which is such as not to admit of two carriages passing each
other. There are no canals nor railroads in the parish.
    Harbour.--The harbour is merely what is denominated a tide-
harbour ; it is dry at low water, with the exception of a small stream,
which runs through it.  There is in general a sand bar at its
mouth, which prevents large vessels from finding admittance. To
remedy as far as possible this inconvenience, a flood-gate has been


