
46                    	CLACKMANNANSHIRE.

towards early maturity,--two-years-olds now being equal to what
threes were formerly.
   The husbandry pursued is generally more of a cropping than a
breeding character. Upon carse soils a sixth rotation is general-
ly adopted, viz. 1. fallow or green crop; 2. wheat; 3. beans; 4.
barley; 5. grass; 6. oats. Some approve of, 1. fallow or green
crop; 2. wheat; 3. grass; 4. oats; 5. beans; 6. wheat, barley or
oats. The latter rotation is supposed to produce better grass,
and is more sure after wheat than after barley which succeed-
ed beans. The dry-field is cultivated much in the same way,
only a few years of pasturing is sometimes introduced ; and
barley is taken when the soil is not adapted for wheat, and also a
mixture of pease or vetches among the beans. The principal im-
provements to be recommended are, more thorough draining, more
particular attention to stock, and a more practical application of
the artificial manures, which might prove very advantageous on
the dryfield soils when properly drained. For the advancement
of these improvements, a greater sympathy between landlord and
tenant is necessary. Irrigation has not been tried, although there
are situations in which it might be profitably introduced. The
embankments on the river Forth, extending about six miles, are
all of a substantial nature, and prevent about 300 acres from be-
ing overflowed. The banks of the Devon are also embanked to
the extent of about five miles, preventing its overflow upon about
200 acres; and provided these are kept in good repair, nothing
farther seems necessary, than the reclaiming of the twelve acres
already referred to. The general duration of leases is nineteen or
twenty-one years. The state of farm buildings is, by no means,
in accordanece with the improved state of husbandry. Inclosures
have been made to a fair exitent; but, in some instances, they are
ill attended to.
   The improvements recently introduced have been in draining, as
formerly stated, whereby an additional quantity of green crop has
been raised, instead of fallowing; but, not so as to supersede the
necessity of the latter. After the great depression which took
place on the termination of the late war, and also from the
change of the currency in 1819, agriculture received an impetus
from the attention of the Highland Society being directed to Clack-
mannanshire by the Right Honourable Lord Abercromby. The
first premium which was offered by them for the greatest extent of
wedge-drained land in Scotland, was gained by one of his Lordship's


