
     Statistical Account of the

vellum MSS. together with some few of the classics, Horace,
Lucan, Martial, etc. also in MSS.  It afterwards received a
considerable addition from Dr Duncan Liddell, of the ancient
physicians and mathematicians, Greek, Latin, and Arab, and
of the most eminent moderns who had written on these sub-
jects in his own times.  Its chief benefactor, however, was
Mr Thomas Reid, secretary for the Latin language to King
James the VI.  In his travels through the greater part of
Europe, he purchased the best editions of all the classics, that
were printed from the time of Aldus Manutius, until the year
1615, including the philosophers, lawyers, Greek and Latin
fathers, with the works of the chief critics, the Scaligers,
Casaubon, Lambinus, etc. who flourished during that period;
also several curious MSS. and particularly an Hebrew Bible,
of most beautiful writing, supposed by Kennicott to be the
work of the 12th century.  This entire collection he left to
the Marischal College, together with a salary for a librarian
of six hundred merks per annum, under the management of
the magistrates of Aberdeen, but which was afterwards re-
duced to 14 l. 3 s. 4 d. sterling.  It has since received consider-
able additions by the libraries of several private persons, par-
ticularly the Rev. Mr Dunlop, Dr Alexander Reid, Mr Lo-
rimer, and the Rev. Mr Primatt, with other donations of
curious or valuable books of drawings, antiquities, etc. from
various noblemen and gentlemen connected with the Uni-
versity.  Among others, are the ancient Popish service book
of the cathedral church of Salisbury, finely illuminated, left
by Bishop Burnett, with several other MSS. breviaries, mis-
fals, etc. full of miniature paintings, and other ornaments.
In 1782, the Earl of Bute, then chancellor, made a present to
it of about 1400 volumes, chiefly on medicine, and subjects
connected with it; and since that period, has also been re-
ceived, the medical library of the late Sir William Fordyce


