
			 PENCAITLAND.                           347

of Carboniferous limestone in this parish, which is wrought to con-
siderable advantage. A great variety of the fossil remains that
frequently characterize this class of rocks, is to be met with. These
are not confined to the quarries, but are sometimes to be found in
the fields. The most common of the fossil shells belong to the
genera Echinus, Productus, Terebratula, and Orthoceratite.
   Botany.-As the ground in this parish is for the most part ara-
ble, any interesting plants to be met with are chiefly confined
to the woods. In these and along the banks of the Tyne, the
following plants are not uncommon.

Tragopogon pratenis	Epilobium birsutum	Verbascum nigrum
Listera ovata		Cirma lutetiana		Parnassia palustris
------nidus avis	Valeriana officinalis	Juniperus communis.
Solanum nigrum		Scirpus lacustris

   The old trees in the grounds of Winton, and in the woods of
Fountainhall, are covered with splendid specimens of Fungi, belong-
ing to the genus Polyphorus, and in the same places are also to be
found a few specimens of the rare and beautiful Fistulina hepatica.
  There are occasionally discovered on the upper layers of the coal
wrought at Huntlaw in this parish, distinct impressions of leaves
belonging to plants not now growing in this country, but which
are to be found in more southern regions.

  		     II.-CIVIL HISTORY.

  This parish is very ancient. During the reign of William the
Lion, the manor of Pencaithlan was possessed by Everard de Pen-
caithlan, who assumed a surname from his place. Everard
granted to the monks of Kelso the church of his manor of Pen-
caithlan, with the tithes and other rights belonging to it in pure
alms for the salvation of his Lord, King William, from whom it
is probable he obtained the lands. In the ancient Taxatio the
church of Pencaithlan was rented at forty marks. Before the ac-
cession of Robert the Bruce, the church of Pencaithlan had
ceased to belong to the monks of Kelso; from what cause is not
known. The manor of Pencaitland, soon after the succession wars,
came into the possession of John de Maxwell, younger brother
of Sir Eustan Maxwell of Carlaverock, who granted an annuity,
from his lands of Pencaitland to the monks of Dryburgh, besides
the advowson of the church of Pencaitland, with the chapel of
Paystoun and the church lands, tithes, and profits. The church
of Pencaitland and the chapel of Paystoun remained with the ca-
nons of Dryburgh till the Reformation. The cure was served by
a Vicar,


