
674			FORFARSHIRE.

along the southern side. The whole of this, however, from the
advantages of situation which it enjoys, is now kept regularly un-
der tillage. When allowed to remain in grass above a few years,
it becomes completely overspread with broom, which prevails here
to a great extent, and speedily makes it appearance on neglected
grounds.
   A margin of deep alluvial loam, extending in some places to
upwards of 300 yards in breadth, streches, with few interruptions,
along the whole course of the Dean. It is very productive; but
the western parts of it, with the rising ground immediately conti-
guous, are extremely subject to mildew. The greater part of the
mosses and marshy grounds have now been brought under cultiva-
tion, and bear good crops, particularly where shell marl is found.
   Botany.--The vegetation of the parish is geologically associated
with the old red sandstone formation, which as has been already
mentioned, assumes a conglomerate character in the Den of Air-
lie, a locality rich in interest, not only tn the botanist, but to the
admirer of romantic scenary, and the lover of old Scottish story.
To the botanical student it is classic ground, as a favourite resort
of the elder Don, and the scene of some of his earliest discoveries.
   There are few places where so great of a variety of rare or inte-
resting plants are to be found within a space so limited in extent,
and so easy of inspection. The Ribes petraum or rock-currant,
a rare plant, originally discovered by G. Don, is to be found a lit-
tle below the Low Garden. The Orubus niger, originally dis-
covered by Drummond, grows immediately behind the castle. This,
too, is a rare plant, though it is a mistake to suppose it peculiar
to Forfarshire, as stated in Watson's Geographical Distribution
of British plants, p. 89. We know certainly that it is to be found
in Perthshire, and we believe likewise in Inverness-shire. The
curious Paris quadrifolia, rare in Strathmore, may be gathered
on a projecting ridge of rock by the side of the Isla, a short dis-
tance below the Low Garden; and, in the same vicinity, the Lis-
tera ovata, and the still more interesting Nidus-avis. The Con-
vallaria majalis (the lilly of the valley,) we hope "truly indige-
nous," occurs on the side of the upper walk. The Vicia sylvatica,
with its trailing festoons of lovely flowers; the Lonicera Periclyme-
nul, the Lysimachia nemorum, Hyacinthus non-scriptus, Saxifraga
hypnoides and granulta, Ranunculus auricomus, Teuerium scoro-
donia, Lychnis viscaria, Geranium lucidum, Trollius Europaeus,
Arenaria trinervis, Allium ursinum, &c., are likewise to be found;


