
       240                     ROSS AND CROMARTY.

         To the pleasures of the sportsman, who ranges unmolested over
       moors and mountains, the inhabitants of Contin were long accus-
       tomed, in common with their Highland neighbours. But these
       days are past: and the people are now utter strangers to such
       amusements, for where the game is not let to English sportsmen,
       it is very carefully preserved. Poaching of any kind is therefore
       little practised. Indeed, he who possesses the proper independent
       feeling that animates the breast of a true Highlander, scorns thus
       to take what the lord of the soil denies to him.
         For many years smuggling prevailed to an alarming extent,
       throughout the interior of the parish, and must have been hurtful,
       as it always is, to the morals of the people ; but it has been so com-
       pletely suppressed, that illicit whisky has now become almost as
       rare as foreign spirits.
         In the course of the last three years, there were 4 illegitimate
       births in the parish.


                              IV.-INDUSTRY.
       <TABLE>
       By last census the number of males employed in agriculture, was	               271
                                                   in manufactures,	                 0
                                                   in retail trade or handicraft,	50
                                    educated men, &c.                                   13
                                    labourers,	.                                       45
                                    retired tradesmen not included above,       	16
                                    female servants,	                                97

       The precise extent of arable and pasture lands it has been im-
     possible to ascertain; but the want of this information is of less
     consequence, from the greater part of the parish being mountainous,
     and therefore chiefly adapted to pastoral purposes. It may, how-
     ever be remarked, that the arable land in the several valleys is of
     an active and fertile description ; and in the eastern or lowland di-
     vision, there are several farms entirely arable, averaging 140 or 150
     acres each, the soil of which is of a superior kind, and farmed after
     the most improved system of modern husbandry.
       Rent of Land.-The average rent of arable land per acre is
     L. 1, 10s. ; of grazing an ox or cow, about the same; of a sheep's
     grass, from 1s. 9d, to 2s. per annum.
       Rate of Wages.-Labourers have commonly 1s. a day in sum-
     mer, and 10d. in winter with victuals, or 1s. 6d. and ls. 4d. with-
     out victuals; a farm-servant receives from L. 7 to L. 8 of yearly
     wages, besides his victuals. Masons and carpenters earn 2s. 6d.
     and 2s. per day.
       Cattle and Sheep Stock.-Several farms are stocked both with
     Cheviot and black-faced sheep: and those reared on some graz-
                                    1


