
                              LAGGAN.                                 427

           Modern Buildings.-These are, Cluny Casile and Glentruim
	House. There is a very splendid shooting-lodge, built by the Mar-
	quess of Abereorn, on the margin of Loch Laggan, at Ardveirge,
	on Cluny property. The scale on which this lodge is erected, may
	be inferred from the fact, that it is taxed for sixty windows. It is
	erected on a fine romantic spot. Mr Baillie of Kingussie and
	Glenelg has built another, though not on so large a plan, at Glen-
	shirra, on the margin of another lake.

                           III.-POPULATION.
	   At the date of the former Statistical Account, the number of
	people in this parish was 1512. At thd census of 1831, it had
	decreased to 1196. This decrease may be accounted for by
	the introduction of sheep, and throwing several small farms into
	sheep-walks. Many of the inhabitants have emigrated into Ame-
	rica; and many more are preparino, to go to Australia. In some
	parts of the parish, where, about eighty years ago, there was a
	dense population, there are to be found now only a few scattered
	shepherds' huts.
	   Lauguage.-The language of the people is Gaelic; but many
	understand English, which is always spoken by the better sort of
	people. The English is gradually gaining ground. The people
	are most anxious to acquire a knowledge of it.
	   Games and Amusements.-There is one amusement, to which we
	are called on to allude. It is called camac, or shinty matches. It
	is conducted as follow: A gentleman announces that he is to give a
	shinty play, on a certetin day, in a certain place. The meaning of
	this announcement is that a certain quantity of whisky is to be dis-
	tributed, at the place, to the players and spectators. The quantity

        <FOOTNOTE>churches. The following story is reported, and firmly believed at this day in that
	Part of the country: About the middle of the last century, a man was buried in the
	island. For several nights after, the dead man disturbed the whole neighbour.
	hood in Glenco, calling in a most dolorous strain, on a certain individual,to come
	and to relieve him. The man at last set off for the island, in the dead hour of night,
	and having arrived at the grave, found the dead man with his head and neck fairly
        above the ground: "What is your business with me," says the Glenco man "and why
	are you disturbing the neighbourhbood with your untimely lamentations. after this fa-
        shion?" "I have not," says the dead man, "rest night or day mince I lay here, nor shall
	I as long as this head is on my body; I shall give you the reason. In younger
	days I swore most solemnly, that I would marry a certain woman, and that I never
	would forsake her, as long as this head remained on my body. At this time I had
	hold of a button, and the moment we parted, I separated the head of the button from
	the neck, thinking that then all was right. I now find my mistake.  You must.
	therefore, cut off my head." The other, fetching a stroke, cut off the head close to
	the surface of the ground; and then the dead man dragged the rest of the body back
	to the grave, leaving the head to shift for itself. This story is as firmly believed in
	Glenco this day, by some people, as any truth of holy writ.



