
                            CONTIN.                            243

      generally taught in each of the schools; and in the parish school,
      if desired, instruction may be also had in geography, Latin, Greek,
      and mathematics.
        The parochial schoolmaster's salary is L. 30, and the amount
      of fees varies from L. 8 to L. 10. Probably the other teachers re-
      ceive from L. 15 to L. 20 each, including salary and fees.
        Generally speaking, the people are sensible of the value of edu.
      cation.
        Poor.-The poor are maintained entirely by church collections,
      and the interest of a small fund, amounting to L. 71, 3s. 8d. which
      has been made up out of the remains of an old legacy bequeathed
      to them, and savings added occasionally thereto by the kirk-ses-
      sion. Of persons who receive parochial aid the ordinary number
      is 43, and the average sum allowed to each is 8s. Church col-
      lections average L. 7, 9s. a-year.
        The poor in this parish do not apply for relief, until compel-
      led by necessity,-in any other case they regard it as a degradation.
        Markets.-A market, established time out of mind, still conti-
      nues to be held at Contin Inn, twice every year. At one period,
      the site being favourable, the business transacted was considerable.
        Inns.-There are three inns along the line of the Parliament-
      ary road, besides two or three drain-shops, which last are to be
      deprecated for their immoral influence.
        Fuel.-Such as can afford the expense of coals, burn them; but
      the ordinary fuel is peat.
        It does not appear necessary to add any thing further on the
      statistics of the parish ; and the writer regrets that the foregoing
      account contains so little which he can hope to have any interest
      for the general reader.

                      MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
        The increased value of land in the parish is worthy of remark.
        In 1792, the rental amounted at the utmost to L. 1400 only;
      now, after a lapse of forty-two years, it approaches to nearly L, 6000.
      As regards the arable land, the value has, arisen from the addi-
      tions made to it, as well as from the improved system of husband-
      ry which has been adopted. The facility of access to market has
      also had an effect: and the high prices of sheep and wool for
      many years sufficiently account for the extraordinary increase in
      the rents of pasture farms. As an instance of the latter, the grazing
      of Fannich, which let fifty years ago, at L. 12, brings the present
      proprietor a yearly rent L. 200. The value of game is no less


