
718 		            ARGYLESHIRE.

rearing and management of cattle, the staple trade, is carried to
A high degree of perfection. In the fishery the principal changes
that have taken place of late are the great length of the trains
now used, and their being manufactured in the loom. As to the
coppices the principal change is the great fall in the price of bark
consequent upon the peace, and the opening of the continental
ports. This year the price of this article was L.7, 10s. per ton,
whereas during the war it was more than double that amount. But
the most striking variation between the present state of things and
that which existed a few years ago, is occasioned by the arrival of
steam vessels in the parish itself, and in the neighbourhood.
Black-cattle and sheep, instead of being driven a long distance,
greatly to the deterioration of their condition, are put on board a
steamer, and arrive in a few hours in Greenock and Glasgow.
The herrings fished near the head of Lochfine, instead of being
"carried by horses in creels to Lochgoil-head, a distance of eight
or ten miles, and injured by frequent handling," are now sent in
boxes by steam to the market, which they reach on the same day
they were caught.
   These boxes, again, are put on board the Liverpool steamers in
great quantities, and the fresh herrings of Lochfine are sold there
on the following day. From Liverpool they are sent by the rail
trains to Manchester, &c. The fishermen are sanguine, and
not without grounds, that herrings will always continue in great
demand in these lochs from the growing conveniency of dispos-
ing of them. This year they averaged 2s. 6d. per hundred. As
to the convenience of travelling, the favourable change is well
known to the public. Formerly persons going to the low country
required to climb the Duke of Argyle's bowling green, or to sail
in an open boat from one headland to another, exposed to all the
vicissitudes of the weather. In was in fact, a serious undertaking,
especially in the winter season, to go by water to Greenock; but
now peopld not only go with ease, but can calculate upon the number
of minutes they will spend on the way. Progress might be made,
without great expense, in improving in some places the internal
communication of the parish. It is fortunate for the peace and
contentment of every new generation that it sees itself so far in
advance of those which came before it, and does not possess the
means of comparing its condition with that of those which are to
follow. There is truth also in the doctrine of compensation,
                                  "In balance true
          Weighing the mischief with the promised gain."
    January 1845.


