
590                    ARGYLESHIRE.

and the cuckoo, to the music of the gladsome seasons of the year.
The blackbird levies tribute, which horticulturists consider oppres-
sive in the fruit season; and the spurious breed of it, described by
the author of ''the Manse Garden," has, of late years, become
so abundant, as to be considered a positive annoyance. The com-
mon rook, though not inhabiting the parish, frequents it, in the
seasons of spring and harvest particularly, in great numbers, and to
such a degree as to render its visits' scarcely welcome to the agri-
culturist.
   Insects.-There are no species particularly destructive to vege-
tation or cultivated crops, except the caterpillar, to small fruit and
other kinds of garden produce. Midges,during the earlier autumn
months,are considered to be both numerous and offensive, espe-
cially in the more wooded and sheltered localities along the coast.
The glow-worm is frequently seen in the autumn evenings, fre-
quenting sheltered banks along the public roads, and appears to
have predilection for soft herbage, as its retreats are in the neigh-
bourhood of marshy grounds. Bees are cultivated, but not very
generally, throughout the parish; and though, in some seasons,
they prosper abundantly, the general humidity of the atmosphere
seems to prevent their regular prosperity.
   Reptiles.-The common viper is sometimes seen, but is by no
means frequent. The common lizard is also a native of the dis-
trict, but is far from being numerous.
   Ichthyology.-The fresh water species in this department are
generally those common to all parts of the country. Salmon has
free access to Loch Eck, along the river, Eachaig, from the Holy
Loch, and does not ascend that stream in any number till a com-
paratively late season of the year, towards the end of June, in
July, and August. The fishing of this river is owned by Mr
Campbell of Monzie, and that of Loch Eck by the respective pro-
prietors along its banks. The resort of Salmon to this stream
and lake must be considerable. The fishing at the entrance of
the river into the sea, at Kilmun, is usually let to a tenant ; and
the unhappy river itself is sadly punished, day by day, during the
open season at least, by innumerable aspirants to the triumphs of
this species of sport, not all certainly of the Isaac Walton school;
and yet considerable numbers of the noble fish, braving, no doubt,
many a fright on their way to the lake, fall there to the drag-net
and the rod. Grilse and sea-trout are taken on the Eachaig at
				1

