
                              OXNAM.                         255

deep cover, and at a great distance from coal; and hence the ex-
pense necessarily attending its preparation for agricultural and
other purposes, renders it wholly unavailable at present. In the
southern quarters, sandstone of the coal formation abounds, be-
tween which and the corresponding strata of the Carter, an inti-
mate connection may be found to subsist. What has been worked
is of a durable quality and white colour; but it has been employed
for building, only to a very limited extent.  The same parts of the
parish are traversed by a great whinstone dike,running in a lineal
direction from east to west. It is upwards of thirty feet wide, and
extends to a considerable distance on both sides of the border. On
the one side, it is said to be perceptible in the environs of Milton;
at any rate,it may be observed passing the Kink, Tofts, Brundin-
laws, Phaap, and the top of the hill opposite upper Hyndhope;
and on the other,it goes onward to Blindburn, Cartecroft, Cars-
hope, Linshiels, Rothburry, and near the mouth of the Coquet.
In the lower situations, greywacke prevails, having seams of slate
clay,or dent, not unfrequently interposed between the strata, which
run from north-east to south-west; and dip from south to north
at an angle of from 40 to 60 degrees. It is rock of the trap for-
mation, of which the hills chiefly consist. Hence the extensive
distribution of clay porphyry, which affords excellent metal for
roads, those parts of it being commonly used that are most super-
ficial, and in which the process of disintegration has partially taken
place. It is copiously interspersed with quartzy veins, and pos-
sesses cavities lined with finely crystallized incrustations of the same
substance.  The greenstone sometimes observed protruding from
rock of this species may prnbably be portions of dikes penetrating
the general mass.  But the hills eastward of Swinside are evident-
ly intersected by numerous veins of jasper. Of these, five have
been laid open.  One of the hills has a quarry on its brow, in
which a vein is exposed of from three to twelve inches in thick-
ness, adhering to the perpendicular face of the rock, which has
been cleared to a large extent.  There is one of a finer quality on
the east side of the adjoining summit.  But another still richer
and of ampler dimensions was lately detected, when cutting a drain
on the contiguous farm of Middlesknows.  Here different kinds of
agate, as well as sundry varieties of jasper, from which beautiful
and valuable specimens might be selected, are found either inter-
mixed with the soil, or cast loosely upon the channel of the Ox-
nam water.


