
940                  GENERAL OBSERVATIONS

which divides the parishes of Douglas and Lesmahago from Ayr-
shire.  From Avondale it runs through the parishes of Kilbride,
Cambuslang, and Carmunnock to the county of Renfrew.  Here
the wilds are much more extensive than on the east of the Clyde,
--tracts of many miles producing little else than mosses, bent-
grass, or heather.  The arable land of Avondale, but a small pro-
portion of the whole, lies in the lower part of the parish.  It is
mostly a gravelly soil, in many instances fertile, and producing, in
particular, when laid down after proper tillage, abundance of good
grass.  Of the parish of Kilbride, more than three-fourths are
arable.  On the south-east the soil, lying upon a hard open rock, is
free and pretty fertile; to the north and west it becomes a stiff clay;
on the west boundary, it is a happy mixture of these two kinds,
and extremely productive.  The parishes of Stonehouse and Glass-
ford, along the banks of the Avon, are mostly arable, and the soil
is good.  In Stonehouse a considerable portion is sandy, and "of
a pleasant improveable quality."  In Glassford it is more generally
gravelly, and mostly dry, although springs sometimes occur.  As
the land recedes from the Avon on both sides, the argillaceous
bottom approaches nearer the surface, and is covered either with
a grey moorish soil, or with a soft clay, frequently thin and moist.
In the high parts of Glassford, there is a considerable extent of
moss.  The remaining part of the Middle Ward, comprehending
the lower part of Cambusnethan, the parishes of Dalziel, Both-
well, and West Monkland on the east and north of the river, and
Dalserf, Hamilton, and Blantyre on the west and south, a track of
upwards of twelve miles in length, and averaging nearly six miles
in breadth, may vie in beauty and interest with any tract of similar
extent in Britain.  The soil and climate are peculiarly favourable
to the growth of wood; and spontaneous copsewoods everywhere
adorn the hanging banks.  There, too, are those beautiful and rich
orchards, for which Clydesdale has long been so deservedly cele-
brated, embosomed in woods by the foot of the rising slopes; while
the opening vales, rich and well cultivated, present to the admiring
spectator, wherever a glimpse of them is to be caught, the sweet-
est verdure or the most luxuriant crops.  In this track, clay is the
predominating soil; sandy and gravelly soils are rare, except in
West Monkland, in which parish, too, at its greatest distance from
the Clyde, occur the only mosses in this interesting track.  On
sme of the higher grounds, we meet with that loose heaving soil,
to which we have already adverted, of a qualify peculiarly bad.


