
182			EDINBURGHSHIRE.

laid down in pasture for rearing lambs of the improved breed, and
feeding of stock generally.  This change of system has produced
a corresponding increase of turnip husbandry. The prices of
cattle, grain, hay, and all kinds of farm produce are regulated
by the Edinburgh and Dalkeith markets.--The greater part of
the arable land is enclosed with thorn hedges.
    Wages.--Married ploughmen, or hinds, as they are called, are
usually hired by the year; and the wages are, for able man
L. 8 in money, 61/2 bolls of oatmeal, 2 bolls of grain, commonly
barley and pease in equal quantities, a cow's keep, 1000 lineal
yards of potatoes planted in the field, carriage of fuel, and a house
and garden.  By way of rent for the house, some person, provided
by the hind, shears to the master for twenty days, or during the
harvest; the master furnishing victuals only, but paying no wages.
The hind also furnishes a person to carry the corn from the stack.
yard to the barn to be thrashed.
   The wages of ordinary labourers are from 9s. to 10s. per week;
but able labourers, accustomed to work in quarries drains, and the
like, receive from 12s. to 149s. per week.
It is now very much the practice to execute by contract all kinds
of work that will admit of being properly carried on in that way.
   The bye-roads in the parish are in a very imperfect state; the
amount of the legal assessment for statute labour being very in-
adequate to keep them in repair.
   Quarries and Mines.--Freestone is abundant, and one quarry is
wrought for sale.  Limestone also abounds, and I lime-burning is
extensively carried on. Part of the lime is sent to Edinburgh for
building; but the principal part of it is applied to agricultural pur
poses in the, neighbouring districts.  The lime usually sells at the
rate of Is. 9d. per boll of the 1 old barley measure.
   Minerals.--Coal, on the property of James Dewar, Esq. of
Vogrie, is extensively wrought. The principal seams are from
three to four feet in thickness.  The Vogrie coal is reckoned of
superior quality, and sells at a higher price than most of the coal
wrought in the neighbourhood. The great coal, sells at from 8s.
to10s. per ton. The smaller coal or chews, much used as fuel by
the labouring classes, sell at from 5s. to 6s. per ton. Very little of
the coal goes to Edinburgh; the chief consumpt of it is in the
south country, towards Galashiels, Selkirk and Peebles.

<FOOTNOTE>The proceeding account of the Industry and Agriculture of the parish was fur-
nished chiefly by the late Alexander Innes, land steward to James Dewar, Esq. of
Vogrie. It has also been revised and enlarged by an intelligent tenant in the neigh-
bourhood.


