
                            PERTH.                               29

them was, who should be first to cross the ditch, and, by scaling-
ladders, which they had carried with them, mount the wall.  The
gallant and perilous enterprise succeeded.  The King himself was
the second to enter the city. *
  Historical Events of Importance.-When Edward I. subdued
Scotland, towards the close of the thirteenth century, be took the
most effectual means in his power to destroy every evidence of its
former independence.  He caused the chartulary of Scone (the
plabe where, since the time of Kenneth M'Alpine, the Scottish
Kings had been crowned,) to be carefully ransacked, for the pur-
pose of getting possession of whatever might be found at variance
with the King of England's pretensions.  And when he left, Scot-
land, he carried with him to London nnt only the crown and
sceptre surrendered by Baliol, but even the sacred stone on which
the Scottish monarchs were placed when they received the royal
inauguration-which inauguration every one knows took place at
Scone, in the immediate vicinity of Perth.  Perth was a chief seat
of royalty at that time.  We are warranted, therefore, to believe
that the documents of public value there kept he would be parti-
cularly desirous to take possession of, and this may account for
there not being such records of public characters and interesting
events as might naturally be looked for, in a city so prominent in
the nation's ancient history.  His grandson, Edward III. is said
to have restored to Robert the records which he had abstracted.
But it is more than probable that the spirit, in which he perpetrat-
ed the violent deed, would instigate him without delay, to make
away with some of the most important of the papers; and report
says that the vessel that was conveying some of them was lost.
But these are matters of probability only, or conjecture, and not
of historical fact.-See Hailes's Annals.
  In early times, the city was surrounded with castles, the resi-
dences of powerful proprietors, who were often at war with each
other and with the magistrates.  Ruthven Castle was the seat and
fortress of the Ruthvens; Aberdalgie and Dupplin of the Oli-
phants; Craigie, of the Rosses; Kinfauns, of the Chartres'; Gas-
conhall and Fingask, of the Bruces and the Thrieplands, &c. &c.
When they quarrelled with the magistrates, they caused their
tenants to withhold from the town provisions and other necessaries,
which was retaliated by the magistrates, who issued out at the head
of the citizens, who were all trained to arms, and burned or de-

<FOOTNOTE>Heron's History of Scotland.


