
18                 	FIFESHIRE.

and families towards the well-deserving of their poorer neighbours.
Twice during the last ten years, the heritors of the parish have
been called upon to subscribe a sum in aid of the funds of the
session, and at each of these times have subscribed L. 100, ac-
cording to their valued rent. Altogether, the sums distributed
by the kirk-session from church collections and poors' box among
the poor upon their roll amount yearly to L. 326, 9s. O 1/2d. or there.-
by. They make no distinction between the members of the church
and dissenters, even though the latter do not contribute to their
funds, and they allow to each pauper a sixpence or a shilling, or
sometimes more, a week, according to their circumstances, making
their distributions, in as far as they can, auxiliary to the industrious
exertions of the individuals. The female society distributes about
L. 35 annually, and the magistrates out of Gray's fund distribute
L. I8 annually.
   The number of the poor upon the roll of the session who re-
ceive a weekly allowance is 61. The number of those who re-
ceive occasionally is 68. Those that receive from the female so-
ciety amount to 30 females; and those that receive from Gray's
fund to 16 males and females. As many of those that receive
from one fund receive also from another, the nunber of poor alto-
gether may be rated as amounting to 150, and the total sum dis-
tributed among them, as amounting to L.379,9s.0 1/2d. The amount
raised by church collections is L. 261, 9s. O 1/2d.; by the poors' box
L. 65. As the kirk-session do not hold themselves liable for house
rents, these are often raised by private application made by the needy
themselves for subscription; and there is generally a distribution of
coals during the winter, procured by subscriptions or donations.
Upon the whole, it may be said that they are well provided for.
They are at the same time contented and industrious, and grate-
ful,-very different from what the poor are found to be in parishes
where the system of assessment is followed. Several cases have oc-
curred of individuals refusing to take parochial aid, even when offer-
ed and pressed upon them. And some have occurred, of individuals
declining the allowance which has been for a time made to them,
after they found themselves so improved in their circumstances as
to be able to do without it.
     Prison.-There is a prison in the parish for the use of the town
and county. The number of prisoners confined in it last year was
37. Of these, 15 were for debt, and 22 for stealing, assault, and
such crimes as commonly occur in a populous country. The com-


