
                         AUCHTERTOOL.                         251

The first is the most productive; some parts of the second, which
have been drained and well cultivated, are little less fruitful; but
by far the greater part of this kind, remaining in its original wet
and sour state, is much less productive. By far the greater part
of the mossy is entire moss, and has never been cultivated: from
its great depth, and the impracticability of draining, it seems in-
capable of cultivation. The loamy soil lies ciiietly on the south
side of the parish, where the climate is best; the clayey and
mossy on the north and west sides of the parish, where the climate
is worse. The loamy soil varies from less than a foot to five feet
deep. Its subsoil is what is commonly called rotten rock, which,
when trenched and exposed to the varieties of weather, is soon
converted into soil apparently of the same kind with the surface.
   Zoology.--There are few species of animals here which are not
to be found in the parishes bounding the north and west sides of
this. The only species here not common to all other parishes,
are a few grouse at the west end of the parish, and lapwings much
more numerous. The heron, too, sometimes makes its appearance
in winter. The live-stock consists almost wholly of horses and
black-cattle. Of the former, few are purchased; almost the whole
of them are bred and reared by the farmers, for their farm pur-
poses, rarely for sale; and what are retained for farm-work are
kept in high order, with full feeding and full work. Almost all
the black-cattle in the parish are bred or reared in it; few com-
paratively are purchased for feeding; but as most of the farmers
cannot have bred on their farm as many as are required to be rear-
ed for feeding and for sale, the deficiency is supplied by purchas-
ing calves wherever they find them, in consequence of which the
stock is invariably mixed; but with regard to what is bred on the
farms, the greatest care and judgment are exercised to obtain the
best kind. The Fife breed is the kind generally preferred, and
sought; but if that breed exist pure, it is rarely if ever to be seen.
There are many very good cows in Fife; but it is doubted whether
there be a pure Fife cow in the county. But though what would
be preferred may not be obtained, yet the care and skill in breed-
ing the choicest kinds to be had, appears in the value to which
the animals are brought. One farmer has of late years preferred
the Teeswater; a kind not known to be bred or reared in the pa-
rish before. They came to great value; some rising three years
old have been sold at L. 20, when markets were low.
   There is only one farm in the parish, on which any sheep are


