
448                      FIFESHIRE.

beans sown. Oats are sown in March or beginning of April, and
early oats in the first of May; barley is sown in April. The most
approved rotation is one crop of oats, then a green crop, and the
third a crop of oats or barley, with grass seeds. The next crop is
hay, and then pasture for some time. The different estates in the
parish are bound thirle to Inchgaw mill.
   Coal and Limestone.-In this parish two good coals are now
working, which have an extensive sale. The limestone here is not
good, and none of it is wrought at present. Lime is brought here
from a distance of some miles.
                   V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Ecclesiastical State.-In 1831, a commodious church was built,
sufficient for the inhabitants. The number of families attending
the Established Church is 53, and that of Dissenters 16. The
stipend was decerned by the Court in 1810, to be nine chalders
of victual, half meal and half barley, and such a further quantity
of victual as shall be equal to L. 45, 11s. 4 8/12d. Sterling; but the
full amount has not been drawn, as a process is still pending about
the valuation of an estate in the parish. The amount of stipend
converted into money is L. 209, 14s. 10d.  The glebe extends to
8 1/4 acres.
   Education.-A school and a house for the teacher, who has the
maximum salary, was built in 1825. His school fees may amount
to L. 7 Sterling yearly; and he has besides L. 2, 2s., and two bolls
of oatmeal in lieu of garden ground.
  Poor Funds.-The poor sustained a loss by exchanging their
land for what was not so good as what they had. Their land is
feued at L. 21 Sterling yearly. The collections at the church
doors may average about L. 7 Sterling a-year. The number on
the roll has been nine for some years, who receive from 3s. to 7s.
a-month.  A late proprietor left a legacy of L. 100 Sterling to
the poor's fund. There is an infirm woman, who is very reluctant
to be put on the roll, although she needs assistance. This is a
singular case.
  Inns.-There are two houses in which malt and spirituous
liquors are sold by legal license, but in ond of them none is given
to such as are intoxicated. This laudable example is worthy of
the imitation of all engaged in the sale of ardent spirits. Were
it universally followed, society would derive the greatest benefit
from it. The inhabitants are generally sober and industrious.
  December 1837.


