
			CRAWFORD.                             331

in the parish except the old church, yet it is evident, from various
circumstances, that there were at one time many houses or places
of worship. One place, in particular, is pointed out as an ancient
burying-ground, and lies on the bank of what is called the Chapel
Burn.
	There are two or three apparently old Roman camps in the pa-
rish. The one that is most entire, and the largest, is on Boads-
berry hill, the property of George Irving, Esq. The other is on
the farm called Whitecamp, and lies towards Tweedsmuir. The
two great Roman roads by Moffat and Dumfries had their junction
in this parish, which, when formed into one great road, passed on
towards Lamington.
	The old Castle of Crawford or Tower Lindsay bears every mark
of having been strongly fortified and surrounded by water. There
are various traditions regarding it, but none of these appear parti-
cularly interesting. The farm-houses in ancient times were gene-
rally vaulted, and served as small fortifications. This was neces-
sary during the times when the Douglas family and Johnstone of
Annandale were carrying on their petty wars, and when the bor-
derers were committing their ravages.
	Some years ago an earthen vessel or urn was dug up on the
castle farm, which contained something like small pieces of bone.
This urn is in the possession of Mr James Watson, the present
tenant.
	Mansion-House.--The only new modern building is Newton
House. It was built a few years ago by the late Lord Newton,
wholly on a plan formed by his Lordship, and is both substantial
and commodious.
			III.--POPULATION.
	It appears that the population of this parish was in former
times much greater than at present. At the time of Dr Web-
ster's Report in 1755, the population was 2009; at present it is
1850. The practice, which now so generally prevails in this coun-
try, of uniting many small farms into one, is no doubt the chief
cause of the decrease. There is, perhaps, no parish, where this
practice has so generally prevailed as in this; and, indeed, nearly
the half of this extensive parish is in the hands of non-resident
tenants,--the resident tenants occupying only two or three farms
In the memory even of the present generation, fifteen families lived
where there is now scarcely the vestige of a ruin. Other parts of
the parish show the same marks of depopulation.


