
     of Wattin.

contrary to their interest.  Still, however, the generality are
against winter herding.  And it is matter of great regret to
every friend of improvement in agriculture, that the laws re-
specting that practice are not universally enforced and observ-
ed.  The active enterprising farmer can never avail himself,
of all the advantages to be derived from his possession, unless
he be at liberty to use and lay it out as he pleases.  He can
never benefit himself, either by fallow or green crops, so long
as cattle of every kind, his neighbours as well as his own,
are at freedom, for 8 months, nearly, out of 12, to traverse
his fields, day and night, wet and dry.  Such a custom may,
and, no doubt does, profit the sluggard.  His cattle are half
maintained almost at the expence of his neighbours.  But
men of this description ought not to be supported, at the ex-
pence of the willing, industrious farmer.  His spirited endea-
vours to provide for himself, and serve the public, ought
not to be rendered abortive, merely to gratify the indolence
of the sloven; who, rather than exert himself in constant acts
of industry, is contented to live in a hovel, to be clothed in
rags, and to feed upon bread and water.

<UNREADABLE>

   Roads, etc.-Another circumstance, which greatly retards
the improvement of this place, is the want of good roads.
Some attention, indeed, has been paid to this first and most essen-
tial step towards improvement.  Our roads, in general, have
been lined out, and something done upon them, reluctantly,
by the statute labour of the people.  By there means, we have
a more plain and direct tract, during the dry season of the
year, to the ports of Wick and Thurso, for travellers, as well
as riders and carts: But from this neglect, and the insufficient
manner in which they are executed, they become so lost after
rain, and are so blown by the frost, that in many places, dur-
ing winter and spring, the best horses are to drag a cart

</UNREADABLE>

     VOL. XI. M m


