
172                     PERTHSHIRE.

It is natural to think that the ever-watchful Romans would not
permit a camp, so situated, and so fitted to annoy them, to remain
undisturbed in the vicinity of so important a station as Orrea. Ac-
cordingly, judging from the number of tumuli, or cairns, the vici-
nity of this camp would seem to have been the scene either of a
succersion of contests, or of one great and bloody battle. No ac-
count, or even tradition, indeed, concerning this camp, or these
tumuli, has come down to us. But this is perhaps the most con-
clusive circumstance that removes their date to the time of the
Romans. For, had such transactions as thdy unquestionably in-
dicate taken place in more recent times, we may conclude that
some tradition, at least, about them would have come down to us,
as has been the case with the battle of Luncarty with the Danes.
   That these tumuli or cairns were erected over native chiefs, and
not over the leaders of the Romans, or other enemies, is establish-
ed by one circumstance, besides the practice of our ancestors,
which of itself, however, might appear conclusive on the subject,
whilst the same circumstance, as well as the magnitude of the prin-
cipal cairn, bespeak the quality of the person intended to be com-
memorated, and at the same time connects these cairns with the
camp in question. The circumstance to which I refer, is the name
which is given to the lands on which the camp stands. The names
of places are one of the best evidences which we possess of ancient
historical events, in the absence of historical records. The lands
on which the camp stands are called Pitcairn, that is to say, the
cairns of the graves; pit, in Gaelic, signifying a grave. This name
then connects these cairns, which stand on the lands of Balm-
blair and Bridgeton, with the camp, which stands on the lands of
Pitcairn; and therefore proves that the persons buried under these
cairns perished in battle.
   The same name, which is compounded entirely of Gaelic ety-
mons, proves that these tumuli were the burial places of native
chiefs.  For had they been erected over Romans, the name would
have given some indication of its Roman origin.  And, the cir-
cumstance that these cairns have given the name to the adjacent
lands, proves that the principal person intended to be commemo-
rated was a great landed proprietor in the country. For if he had
been any inferior personage, or even any person of equal import-
ance from a distance, though he might have given his name to the
place of his burial, it is not likely that lands, which had never be-
longed to bin), or with which he had no connection, would have
taken the name which is given them in tenures, from the circum-


