
     Glenorchay and Inishail.

To the honour, however, of all classes of people in this coun-
try, it may be said, with justice, that no where are the ordi-
nances of religion more respected or better attended.  Persons
of the most cultivated understanding, and of the first rank in
society, are not ashamed to join in the public offices of devo-
tion.  Here, cold and cruel infidelity, has not yet reared her
baneful banner.  Here, "the rich and the poor meet toge-
"ther" in the house of God.  Public worship is alternately
performed at the churches of Glenorchay and Inishail, (or
Innudrynich,) 5 measured miles from each other.  For the
benefit of the people, in the conjoined extremities of the pa-
rishes of Glenorchay and Killin, the late Lady GLENORCHAY, in
concurrence, and with the aid of the Earl of Bresdasbane,
established a perpetual mission, with suitable appointments to
the incumbent.  This was a humane and necessary institution,
and will remain a lasting monument of the piety and benefi-
cence of the noble foundress, when the millions squandered in
dissipation are gone, without leaving one consoling thought to
their former possessor, or entailing honour on his name, as the
benefactor and friend of man.  By act of parliament, the two
farms of Ichrachan and Phanans are annexed, quoud sacra, to
the parish of Muckairn, as "maist ewart thereto." And for
the same reasons, the three farms of Leatters, Corries and
Druhaig, are disjoined from Ardchattan, and annexed quoad
sacra, to Glenorchay.  In the records of the synod of A gyll,
there is an abstract of this act of designation and annexation.

   Stipend, Patron and Heritors.-The living is 67 bolls of
meal, and 43L. 6s. 8d. Sterling in money, exclusive of a manse,
and two glebes, containing from 16 to 20 acres, mostly arable.
The minister enjoys the privilege of pasturing 8 cows, the
whole year, if he chooses, on 4 contiguous farms.  To this
may be added, the convenience and advantages which the

     VOL. VIII.   Y y


