
				MONTROSE.                           289

	From the above statement, it will be seen that the ordinary ex-
penditure of the session greatly exceeds its income. The de-
mands upon the funds have of late been rapidly increasing. In
order to meet them, and, if possible, to avoid the necessity of hav-
ing recourse to a compulsory assessment,-an evil to be deprecated
in any case, and which may eventually be rendered altogether un-
necessary, when the prospects there are of considerable additions
to the funds for the support of the poor in this place shall be rea-
lized-the inhabitants have with great propriety agreed to a vo-
luntary assessment, for the present year, of sevenpence a-pound
upon the house rents. By the sum which this, if levied, will amount
to, the session will be enabled to meet the demands upon it without
increasing its debt. One great cause of the increase of pauperism
in towns is the shortness of the time requisite for acquiring a legal
settlement. Many men, with their families, after they are unable
for the heavy work in the country, come to the town, and contrive,
as day-labourers, to support themselves for a few years, when they
find it necessary to apply for parochial `id. The dissolution of
the Friendly Societies already referred to, and the unnecessary in-
crease of public-houses, have also tended to increase the demands
upon the session funds.
	Besides the funds under the management of the session, there is
the Hospital Fund, consisting of certain lands and teinds granted
to the town of Montrose by King James VI., 1587, out of church
lands annexed to the Crown. From that fund, which is under the
management of the town-council, monthly pensions are paid to a
number of poor people. The sum divided last year was L. 160.
From the guildry funds small collections are made to decayed bur-
gesses, and to the widows of such.
        Mortifications.-The family of Hedderwick mortified a small
sum to the poor at large, both in the town and country Parish, and
another to purchase for the poor in the country parish Bibles and
New Testaments.
	There are several sums of mortified money, the interest of
which is annually divided by the trustees, who are generally some
Of the magistrates and the ministers:-Miss Stratton's fund, the
interest of L. 900 to 10 poor gentlewomen; Mrs Innes' do. the
interest of L. 1000 to 10 poor widows; Mr White's do. the inte-
rest of L. 800 to 2O householders; Bailie Auchterlony's do. the
interest of L. 560 to the poor in general; Miss Mill's do. the in-
terest of L. 467; Lirs Graham's do. the interest of L. 100; Mr


