
		               GIRVAN.                     399

of a nineteen years lease. The gross rental of the landward pa-
rish may be stated at L. 12,000. The old valued rental, as en-
tered in the county cess-books, is L. 4639, 3s.
	Rate of Wages.--The wages of farm-servants are lower than
they were fifteen or twenty years ago. Then, L. 20 a year, with
bed and board, was quite common for able experienced servants,
whereas now, the same description of persons can be easily had
for L. 14 or L. 16 a year. Lads, again, able for most kinds of
men's work, can be readily hired at from L. 9 to L. 12. Girls,
fit for managing a dairy, get about L. 8, and house-servants, par-
ticularly in the town, get from L. 4 to L. 7 a year. In harvest,
shearers are mostly hired by the day; and, on an average, get
about 1s. 6d. without victuals. At times, however, such as when
the harvest is late, or when there happens to be a great deal of
ripe grain, and a prospect of bad weather, they get 2s. or 2s. 6d.
But such wages are rarely given; and the chief reason why har-
vest-work is fully as low hdre as in most parts of the country,
seems to be, that a great many of the cotton weavers prefer a few
days of the healthful labour of the reaping-field, to their ordinary
airless and sedentary occupation. Tradesmen generally work by
the piece, and, like the farm-servants, are getting less wages than
formerly. When employed by the day, wrights and masons get
about 2s. 6d. without victuals, and tailors from 1s. 3d. to 1s. 6d.,
with bed and board.
	Breeds of Live-Stock.--The live-stock is very different from
what it was forty years ago, both as to quantity and quality. At
that period, there were about 1700 head of black-cattle, and 214
scores of sheep in the parish; whereas now there is only about
the one-half of either. The cattle were then almost all of the
Galloway breed, and the sheep of the small black-faced kind.
These have been succeeded, the former by the Ayrshire breed,
chiefly for the dairy, and the latter, by a much larger boned
stock of the black-faced, and, in some instances, by Cheviots.
The reasons of the decrease in the numbers of live-stock, there-
fore, are obvious. In the first place, the animals are both heavier
and better fed than formerly; and, in the second place, there is,
now a much greater proportion of the land bearing grain, than
there was at the period above alluded to. It has become a prac-
tice with farmers, who have from a dozen tn twenty cows, and up-
wards, particularly on out-farms, to let what is called a booing of
them for the season. They bind themselves to give a reasonable


