
       138                      PERTHSHIRE.

             The Sheriff-Court is divided over two districts, those of Perth
          and Dunblane.  At Perth the court is held every Wednesday and
          Friday of the sessions. At Dunblane, it is held every Wednesday
          of the sessions.
             Fairs.-There are two weekly fairs or markets in the city, on
          Wednesdays and Fridays. That held on the Friday is the princi-
          pal one. The chief business is among the farmers of the neigh-
          bourhood, who convene at the cross, give and receive intelligence
          on the subject of current prices, or of whatever in any way affects
          the agricultural interests of the country. It is the day when but-
          ter, eggs, &c. `re brought in for sale, and when, as was particu-
          larly the case in former times, housewives lay in their stock of
          provisions for the week.
             But there are also what may be called great fairs or markets in
          the course of the year. 1. The first of Luke, (the first hail ouk
          of March.)   It is held on the first Friday of that month.  Horses
          and cattle are sold at it. *-2. Palm-sun-even. It is held on the first
          Friday of April.  Cattle, barley, lintseed, and grass seed are sold
          at it.-3. Midsummer.  It is held on the first Friday of July. It
          is a season of holyday enjoyment among the peasantry, when they
          repair to the town to meet with one another.  Farm-servants were
          formerly hired on this day.  The sale of horses and cattle is usual-
          ly great.-4. St John's day. It is held on the first Friday of Sep-
          tember.  The principal articles sold at it are salted butter and
          cheese.-5. Little Dunning or St Dennis.  It is held on the third
          Friday of October. + It also is a butter and cheese market, and
          is the understood time for hiring servants for the year.-6. An-
          drew's Mass.  It is held on the 11th day of December. It is at
          this season that tenants of houses give up their leases, or enter on
          new ones for the following year.
             Inns and Alehouses.-The number of these in the parish is 249.
          As to their effects on the morals of the people, I have no hesi-
          tation in saying that they are  most lamentable.  Inns and ale-
          houses in every such town are necessary.  But when there is an
          excess of them, and license is given without a scrupulous attention
          to the character of the applicants, the morals of the place must
          suffer; and Perth affords a most distressing demonstration of the
          fact.  In the public streets, and in the private lanes and closes,

          <FOOTNOTE>The right to hold this market or fair was granted by Charles on his visit to
          Perth 1633.
                    There is in the town record for 1670 an account of expenses incurred by the
          Provost in procuring from Parliament a fifth mercat, to be held on the 9th of October
          on the North Inch, for cattle.


