
                         DYCE.                              129

work was executed in a very substantial manner.  The glebe mea-
sures a little more than 5 acres, and may be of the yearly value
of L. 10 Sterling.
   The teinds amount to L.113 Sterling per annum, and the ba-
lance of stipend is supplied from the Exchequer allowance.
   Notwithstanding the nearness of this parish to Aberdeen, by
which it is placed completely within its vortex of agitation, not a
single Seceder is to be found in it, and only three Dissenters of
any description,-one female who is a Roman Catholic, and an
aged pair who are Episcopalians, but occasionally attend the pa-
rish church.
   The average number of communicants is 230.  The average
amount of church collections for all purposes, is about L.32.
   Education.-The parochial is the only school in the parish.
The branches there taught are, reading, writing, English gram-
mar, arithmetic, and Latin.  All the pupils are daily examined on
the principles of religious truth.  The schoolmaster's salary is
L.26 Sterling, and the school-fees average about L.8 Sterling
per annum.  The schoolmasters of this district are, however, now
receiving a large addition to their salaries from a fund left for that
purpose by the late Mr Dick, a gentleman from Morayshire.
The school-fees are, reading, 2s.; reading and writing, 2s. 6d.;
reading, writing, and arithmetic, 3s.; mathematics, 6s.; Latin,
4s. per quarter; they are, on the whole, regularly paid.
   The people in general are fully alive to the benefits of edu-
cathon, and there are extremely few in this parish who cannot
read, and do not avail themselves of the opportunities they enjoy
for educating their families.  The west and north-west districts of
the parish are from three to four miles distant from school.  Va-
rious attempts have been made to remedy this inconvenience, but
hitherto unsuccessfully.  The population of these districts is very
considerable.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of persons,
receiving parochial aid is 16.  The average sum allotted to each
is 1s. 2d. per week, or L.3, 1s. 11d. per annum.
   Annual amount of contributions for the poor: Collections,
L.29, 19s. 3d.; interest of money, L.6; Wilson's mortification
for aged females, L.7, 2s.; legacies, donations, &c. L.7; total,
L.50, 1s. 3d.  The above is the whole sum annually distributed,
although there is little probability of its continuing adequate to
meet the demands of an increasing number of claimants.  Until
    ABERDEEN.                              I


