
                118                  ROSS AND CROMARTY.

                The water in Loch Ui seems to be one continued sheet with the
                Broad bay.  Several vessels have been wrecked in consequence of
                this illusion,-supposing they were sailing all the while between the
                Schante islands and the Harris land.
                    The loch or bay of Stornoway is a safe harbour; two hundred
                vessels of any burden can safely anchor in it. The ground is good,
                and no heavy sea can injure vessels. The hills and town, which sur-
                round the harbour, shelter them from the west and north; the
                Point of Amish and Island Gowell, form a breakwater and sbel-
                ter, on the south.
                    The headlands are five, Tolsta head, Kneess near Gress, Tu-
                impan-bead, Chicken-head, and Holm-point.  There are no islands
                of any size on the coast, in the parish; but there are two small ones
                at Holm and Island Gowell, at the mouth of the harbour of Stor-
                noway.
                    Meteorology.-The temperature of the atmosphere is variable,
                the climate very rainy,-and the air extremely moist, insomuch that
                when a person walks by the sea side, in a hazy atmosphere and un-
                der a cloudy sky, the saline particles rest like dew on the pile of his
                coat. The dampness of the air is such, that in rooms wherein fires
                are not constantly kept, the walls emit a hoary down of a brinish
                taste, resembling pounded saltpetre, when brushed off. The cli-
                mate is an enemy to polished iron and to books.  Fire-irons rust in
                the space of twenty-four hours without constant fire; and books are
                covered with a greyish-yellow mould, unless frequently wiped.
                Frequent and heavy rains fall at all seasons, especially after the
                Lammas term, whereby the hopes of the husbandman are often blast-
                ed, and the fruit of his toil and industry in a great measure lost.
                But such a climate may be naturally expected in an island lying so
                far north, in latitude 58&deg;, and surrounded by the Atlantic on the
                west and south; and by the Pentland Frith on the north-east. And
                though there are few high hills on the north-east part of the island
                to break or attract the clouds, still the extensive and deep tract of
                moss, many miles in length and breadth, with ihe combined in-
                fluence of a hundred fresh-watef-lakes, continually emitting exha-
                lations, attract the passing clouds as effectually as lofty mountains
                do in other places,
                    The drapery of the morning and evening clouds is strikingly
                rich and grand. The luminous meteors are uncommonly splen-
                did. The halo around the moon is sometimes of a very large
                diameter, and is almost weekly visible, during the winter. The Au-


