
510                            AYRSHIRE.

of the pasture-hills, have of late years much improved the climate,
so that these diseases have now almost disappeared, and the parish
is now remarkably healthy.
	Hydrography.--Springs, notwithstanding the hilly surface of
the parish, are not very numerous; several of them are strongly
impregnated with iron. There are three small lakes in the parish,
each about half a mile in circumference. The first, close upon
the border of Old Cumnock, is remarkable for emptying its waters
in two opposite directions. The other two, in a straight line
south, lie at the distance of about a quarter of a mile from each
other. They are of no great depth, and possess but little interest,
except for the perch and pike with which they abound, the water-
fowls whhch frequent them, and the excellent fields of ice which
in winter they afford for the sport of curling.
	The River Nith rises in the south-west extremity of the parish,
and, after running for about two miles in a northerly direction,
turns directly eastward, and, at the foot of Corsancone, falls into
the parish of Kirkconnel, where what is called Nithsdale com-
mences. It is about fifteen feet broad, generally shallow and slug-
gish, and its colour deeply tinged with moss. It has a course
within the parish, of about twelve miles. The Afton a rapid and
beautiful stream, rises at the southern boundary of the parish,
and, flowing in a northerly direction, after a course of eight miles,
falls into the Nith, at the east side of the village of New Cum-
nock.
	Geology and Mineralogy.--The following account of the geo-
logy and mineralogy of New Cumnock has been furnished by a
gentleman who has given much attention to the subject, and who
has had the best opportunities of prosecuting his inquiries.
	The parish is a large valley or basin, in which the river Nith
has its source. It is joined at the village of New Cumnock by
the water of Afton; and the united streams enter the county of
Dumfries, through a narrow ravine at Corsancone-hill. This val-
ley is bounded on the south by a ridge of hill, composed of transi-
tion-rocks, of considerable altitude, as the Nippes, Blackcraig, &c.-
which are chiefly graywacke. This ridge of graywacke runs along
the south side of the river Nith. On the east, the valley is bound-
ed by a ridge of volcanic breccia, or tuffa, consisting of large and
small rounded balls cemented together, which commence at Cor-
sancone, running east into Dumfries-shire, and also forming a ci-
cle towards the north, through the upper parts of the parish of
                    		4


