
                         PAISLEY.                            301

lished, forty-five years ago, Paisley has made an astonishing pro-
gress.  In agriculture, those improvements which were then com-
menced, had rapidly advanced by the time (1812) in which Mr
Wilson of Thornlv published his excellent agricultural survey of
Renfrewshire, to which reference may be made for farther infor-
mation on this important branch of statistics.  Since that period,
again, improvements have been carried to a still greater extent;
additions have been made to the land under cultivation ; draining,
in its different styles, has been introduced, fences are more parti-
cularly attended to, the most approved rotation of crops has been
adopted, the most improved implements of husbandry are in use,
and the recently erected farm-steadings greatly surpass those of
former days, in neatness, commodiousness, and comfort.  We have
therefore every reason to conclude, both from what has been al-
ready done, and from the spirit which prevails among our farmers,
as well as from the encouragement which the Agricultural Society
holds out, in all departments of rural economy, that no improve-
ment will be introduced into any county of Scotland, without find-
ing its way to the parish of Paisley.
   But the change appears still greater, when from the rural dis-
tricts we turn to the town.  Its population has nearly trepled.  Its
public buildings, its private dwelling-houses, its streets, its whole
appearance as a town, indicate the advance of wealth, of refinement,
and of public spirit.  We have now a police establishment, well de-
fined and effective.  Paisley is no longer a mere village, of no
weight absolutely in the political scale of the nation,-it has its
own representative in the supreme legislative assembly of the em-
pire, to express its mind, and to watch over its municipal and
commercial interests.  We have now our " castle," with all its ex-
tensive and valuable offices for the public business of the county
and the town.  We have our bridewell, one of thei best construct-
ed and best managed in Scotland.  We have our Coffe-room,
reading-rooms, libraries, book-clubs, and weekly periodicals of
intelligence.  In addition to the " Public Dispensary," which
existed in an infant state when the last Statistical Account was
published, we have now a commodious and well managed Infir-
mary or house of recovery.  We have now, also, our societies or
public associations for law, for medicine, for philosophy and the
arts.  In place of one banking, establishment on a small scale, we
have now two of well-established credit, and which the town claims
as properly her own; three branches of banks which have their prin-


