
			   ARDERSIER.	                           471

In its western aspect, the wall is nearly straight; the area is circu-
lar. Its circumference is about 120 yards. The	approach to the
fort was from the south-east. The earthen mound which led to
it, has been long ago carried away; the agricultural eye, which di-
rected its abduction, seeing compost in every thing. The work
of demolition did not end here, for with the raised approach was
excavated a slight section of the rampart. Whilst this does not
materially injure the venerable pile, it has exposed to view a horizon-
tal layer of small loose stones, on a level with the area within. At
some points these stones exhibit marks of calcination or decompo-
sition, and fragments of charred wood are found in the superin-
cumbent earth.
  There were, some years ago, on the heath of Balnagown, two
parallel lines of circular earthen mounds; each tumulus in the
rear line, covering the opening between two tumuli in the front
line, and the distance such that an enemy could not pass between
any two, or break the line with impunity; being within a dart's
throw of each other. Many of these fortlets or enclosures have
been carried away as compost by the small farmers; and others
have been destroyed or mutilated by the line of road, which passes
through the encampment, but several of them still remain. It is
considered of Danish origin. Danish stone-axes have been found
in the neighbourhood.
   " At Ardersier, which is situated on the southern shore of the
Varar, twenty-four miles west south-west from Ptoroton (Burgh-
head), there were dug up, more than twenty-five years ago, a very
curious Roman sword and the head of a spear." Roy's Military
Antiquities, Vol. i. p. 88.
   Modern Buildings.-Fort-George, a model of a fortress, occu-
pies the limit of the peninsula, called Ardersier Point. The fol-
lowing description of it, from " Anderson's Guide to the High-
lands," we adopt, on account of its concise correctness: " It is an
irregular polygon, with six bastions, mounting 18 twenty-four,
25 eighteen, 22 twelve, and 4 six pounders, and 4 tbirteen-inch
mortars. It was founded in 1748, under the direction of General
Skinner, who continued director of engineers in Scotland till 1757.
The land-front is defended by a ditch, covert way, and glacis, two
lunettes and a raveline mounting 8 twelve-pounders. The north
and south curtains are casemated, each containing 27 bomb-proof
apartments. The grand magazine is bomb-proof, and will hold
2474 barrels of gunpowder. The staff buildings lie towards the


