
     Of Kilfinichen and Kilviceuen.

   Present State of I.-The ruins of I, by the generous
care and attention of the family of Argyll, are kept,
perhaps, in better preservation than most ruins of the
kind in Scotland.  Since the Reformation, one of the
Earls of Argyll roofed the cathedral steeple, and built
up most of the doors with stone and lime, to prevent
cattle getting through the ruins.  Duke Archibald of
Argyll built a wall round the whole abbey, to prevent
the building's being hurt.  But this wall being thought
insufficient, the present Duke of Argyll built it anew;
got a lock and key to it, and made it an affectual fence.

     VOL. XIV. C c

<FOOTNOTE>

greatest sway, not only in the kingdom of the Gauls or Scots, where he
lived, but also among the Irish, Picts, and Saxons.  He died, in an ad-
vanced age, in the beginning of the 7th century.  His life is written
in a prolix and confused manner, by Adamnan, who was Abbot of I.  The
celebrated abbey which he founded, had very extensive jurisdictions,
and, for many ages, held the chief sway among the Scottish and Pictish
monasteries.  It was liberally endowed by the piety and munificence of
the kings and great men of the kingdom of Scotland.  Buchanan mentions
several islands that belonged to it.  The fertile island of Tirii once did, as
the name indicates, and the divisions of it being still called Monk's por-
tions.  The same spirit of piety, which so liberally provided for the sup-
port of the monks, reared also stately buildings, both for devotion and
accommodation, as their ruins still show.  Such was the reputed sanctity
of the place, that not only the kings of Scotland, but some Irish kings,
and the petty Norwegian princes of the Isles, ordered their remains to
be buried in this hallowed ground.  Their tombs, with inscriptions
pointing out to whom they belonged, were entire in Buchanan's days;
but there is no inscription now, though the place is pointed out.  All
the great families in the Western Isles had their burial places in I; some
of their grave-stones are very well carved.  The burying ground sur-
rounds St. Oran's Chapel.  A few hundred yards from the abbey, is the
nunnery.  It was also liberally endowed.  Some lands in Mull are still
called the Nun's Lands.  Here the abbesses were buried.  One inscrip-
tion is still legible.  Till within these few years, all the females were
buried at the nunnery, and all the males at the abbey.  With few ex-
ceptions, it is still the case; such is the force of custom and prejudice.


