
442                        ABERDEENSHIRE.

tainous range already mentioned.  The largest of these is the
Esset.  Its course, after reaching the cultivated part of the pa-
rish, and before it discharges itself into the river, is only about
two miles and a-half; and in this short passage, it works three
meal-mills, one flax-mill, and six thrashing-machines.  On two
occasions, viz. in 1829, during the great flood in the north of
Scotland, and in 1835, owing to a water-spout near its source in
the hills, it became flooded to a degree almost incredible: the
inmates of a cottage upon its bank, in the immediate vicinity of
the manse, were, on both occasions, so sudden was the irruption
of the overwhelming torrent, with difficulty extricated from their
perilous situation.  Were Tullynessle and Forbes nearer to Aber-
deen than it is, or to any great manufacturing city, the value of
its burns, as a substitute for steam in driving machinery, would
be very great.  In many respects, they are highly advantageous
to the farmer, and, in particular, by enabling him to thrash his
grain without the labour of horses, they save this most valuable
part of his stock from the most tearing labour to which they can
be put.
   Geology and Mineralogy.-Under this head little can be said,
as the substances to which it relates, are in this parish probably
few in number, and little varied in their nature.  The rocks, it is
believed, are all of a primitive character : granite, with its allies,
gneiss and mica-slate.  The second is not often to be seen in its
most characteristic stratified form; and the most prevaling rock
may be said to be one intermediate to gneiss and mica-slate.
Perfect enough specimens of mica-slate are, however, to be met
with, both in its common form, and in that of the undulated and
slaty varieties of Jameson.  There are two quarries of this na-
ture, which are worked to a considerable extent, for the purpose
of furnishing pavement to halls and kitchens.  The slabs found
in them, more particularly in the one situated in Coreen, can fre-
quently be procured of a very large size.  One or two porches to
farm-houses, which the writer has seen, and where each of the
side walls consists of a single slab of about five feet in breadth
and nearly double the height, with a pavilion roof of the same
material, have a very light and handsome appearance.  The slabs
are often used in place of wood for the water-courses of thrashing-
mills, and sometimes in byres for the cattle's stalls.  There is
likewise a granite quarry upon the Forbes property, near the ri-
ver, of excellent quality, which has been wrought for several years;


