
                            EDDLESTONE.                    153

schoolmaster has the maximum salary, amounting to L. 34, 4s. 4 1/2d.
and the school fees from the children of the parish amount to L. 42
per annum. The actual emoluments of the schoolmaster, however,
are very great, as there is a large boarding establishment attached
to the parish school, and the number of boys attending it from va-
rious parts of the kingdom average in general from 30 to 40.*
   The school fees are 2s. per quarter for English reading; 3s. for
reading and writing; and 3s. 6d. when arithmetic is conjoined.
The fees for the other branches are at the discretion of the teacher.
The people in general are alive to the benefits of education; and
there is not one person in the parish between six and fifteen years
of age who cannot read and write.
   The northern extremity of the parish is too remote to admit of
the children attending the parish school. A private school was
kept there for several years, and was attended by about thirty
children; but as there was no salary to the teacher, the emoluments
from the school fees were so small, that it has lately been given up.
An additional school might be established with great advantage
near the northern extremity either of this or the adjoining parish
of Newlands, which would afford all the additional accommodation
that is required for both parishes, without materially diminishing
the numbers attending the parochial schools.
   Charitable and other Institutions.-There are none in the parish.
Almost all the men, however, are members of some of the neigh-
bouring friendly societies, from which much benefit and comfort
are derived in sickness and old age, and a spirit of independence
excited and maintained. There was a saving bank established at
the time they were first introduced into Scotland. It was conti-
nued for five or six years with very considerable success. The
servant-girls drew from it, when about to be married, upon an ave-
rage, L. 10. At length it was considered expedient to transfer the
deposits to the neighbouring bank at Peebles. A considerable
prejudice at first existed in the minds of the people against these
banks. Many were of opinion that they were established from a
desire on the part of their masters to ascertain how much they
could save, and that ultimately there would be an attempt made to

<FOOTNOTE>The expediency of such an appendage to a parochial school is very doubtful.
 Before the boarding system commenced, the number of children belonging to the parish
 attending the school amounted to 100; but as the number of boarders increased, the
 number of the parish children gradually diminished, till nowthey do not exceed 70
 although the population of the parish is as great as formerly. The people have an
 idea, although probably there is no just foundation for it, that their children must
 be neglected for that part of the establishment which is so much more productive.
 The consequence of this impression, however erroneous, is that the children are
 neither sent so young, nor continued so long at school as formerly.








