
     Statistical Account

stances.  Yet it is unquestionable, that the comforts of the
labouring poor, and even of those immediately above them,
are diminished by the increasing weight of taxes; particu-
larly by that upon malt, of which they are not insensible,
though they submit to it, as to an evil they cannot remedy.
In the course of the few years I have been among them,
many have found it necessary, from the high price of malt,
to give up the use of malt liquor, even in the winter sea-
son, when milk is not to be had.  Statesinen have no op-
portunity to observe such things; but, perhaps, they are
not unworthy of their attention.  It were much to be wish-
ed, that they who labour the soil, could be allowed to taste
a little more of its fruits than what is absolutely necessary
for a mere subsistence.  Our hired servants enjoy the plen-
ty of their master's family; but it is our poor householders
of the labouring class I would (if I could) plead for.
They merit every thing of their country.  While they
toil for the present generations, they rear, nurse and edu-
cate labourers, artisans and defenders for the succeeding;
and this at the expence of hard drudgery, even to the last
stage of existence, with few rewards but those of family-
affections, when they are so happy as to enjoy them.  It
is not thus I preach to them, because I would neither ex-
cite nor foster discontent in their breasts; but it is thus,
methinks, that the ministers of a benevolent religion should
preach to senators and to statesmen.
   Are there means by which the condition of the people
could be ameliorated? is the most amiable of the Statistical
Queries.  I hope there are, though I may not be well qua-
lified to point them out.  The introduction of the coarse
woollen manufacture is that which should seem to bid the
fairest for the better providing of poor families.  Small at-
tempts of this kind have been made, but hitherto have al-
ways soon failed.  It must ever be difficult to introduce


