
			LITTLE DUNKELD.                          1011

	this parish may be set down as among the highest rented in
	the kingdom. The people are so attached to their native soil,
	that they frequently offer more than the land is worth, which
	keeps them poor, and deprives them of many of the comforts of
	life. In the Strathbran district, until very lately, most of the te-
	nants bad no lease but from year to year, nor did tbey care for any
	lease, considering themselves sure of their lands while they lived
	under their late kind and indulgent landlord, Sir George Stewart;
	and, in many cases, the same farms were possessed by the same,
	families for three or four generations. Within the last sixteen
	years, a great extent of waste land has been reclaimed by the in-
	dustry of the tenants, which must have added very considerably to
	the value of the property. Such tenantry deserve encouragement
	and kind treatment from their landlord. Yet it may be observed,
	that letting land only from year to year can be beneficial neither
	to tenant, landlord, nor property. The system of giving leases
	has now been adopted, varying from twelve to nineteen years; and
	the larger farmers follow a rotation generally of five years. The
	crops raised are barley and bear, oats, turnips, and potatoes.
	Wheat growing is hardly ever attempted. The quantity of pota-
	toes raised in this parish is very great, and the quality excellent,
	and, from the preference given to them in the, London market,
	vast quantities of them are shipped, for that place.  The potato
	trade is indeed the great stay of the farmer, though the carriage
        to Perth, the shipping-port, is expensive.
		There are a few as good practical farmers in this parish, per-
	haps, as in Scotland, among whom may be mentioned Mr Grant
	tacksman of Claypotts, and Mr M'Naughton, tacksman of Inch,
	both on the Duke of Atholl's property.  In Strathbran there is
	some very good land, especially in the flats, and on the north side
	of the Bran, where there is a southern exposure; but on the south
	side, the land is spouty and cold, producing late crops.
		The present proprietor in this district (Sir W. D. Stewart) is
	converting the small farms into large ones. The consequence is,
	that many of the small tenants are turned out of their possessions,
	to shift for themselves and families the best way they can. Some
	of them have sought farms in other parishes, and some have emi-
        grated to Canada, never again expecting to return to the land
	of their nativity, and of their early associattions.
		Orchards.-In the Bishoprick, there are several orchards, which

