
     of Thurso.

   The want of a prison is likewise a serious evil.  It
weakens the hands of the magistrate, however willing he
may be to do his duty.  For at present the smallest misde-
meanor cannot be punished by imprisonment, without send-
ing the offender to the county jail of Wick, at the distance
of 20 miles from Thurso, which necessarily occasions a hea-
vy expence to the prosecutor, public or private, and, of
course, is the cause of many offences passing with impunity,
which would otherwise meet their due punishment.

   SECT. III. General Result.-We have thus exhibited,
what appears to us, a model, well calculated for drawing up
the Statistical Account of a district, where the commerce
and other circumstances connected with a town, are the sole,
or even the principal objects meriting attention.  In a coun-
try district, however, a different arrangement must be fol-
lowed, and the number of heads or articles will of course be
fewer.

   On the whole, in regard to this district, it must furnish
the reader, who resides at a distance from it, with no incon-
siderable degree of satisfaction, to have thus laid before
him, so minute an account, of so remote a parish; and to
see, that a foundation is there laid, for promoting the im-
provement of the country, and the comfort of its inhabi-
tants*.-What important effects, it may be added, may not
be expected, should a similar spirit be excited in, and spread
over, every other part of the kingdom? It would soon ren-
der Great Britain, not only the richest and most powerful,
but also the happiest country in the universe.

<FOOTNOTE>

*It was the success which attended the Author's agricultural pursuits,
in so remote a part of the kingdom, which first impressed him, with a full
conviction, of the improvements that might be made, in a better climate,
and where other advantages were attainable.  Hence, in a great measure,
proceeded, the establishment of a Board of Agriculture, and all the advan-
tages which will probably result, from that important institution.


