
           ARDERSIER.                                       467

has a locality on Cromal mount, as has likewise the Myosolis co-.
lina, (a plant rare in this neighbourhood.) That magnificent aquatic,
the white water lily, (Nymphaea alba,) grows in gorgeous profusion
in Lochineghtac. The surface of this miniature lake is literally
obscured by the plentiful display of this splendid flower.
Of the other plants found in the parish, the following, as not being
very generally distributed, may be mentioned:

Agrimonia eupatoria    Erythraea littoralis   Reseda luteola
Astragalus hypoglottis Fumaria capreolata     Rhinanthus major
Cakile maritimum       Hyacinthus nonscriptus Senecio viscosus
Centaurea scabiosa     Knautia arrensis       Solidago virgaurea
Chenopodium maritimum  Lithospermum maritimum Saxifrga gramulata
Drosera Anglica        Malva rotundifolia     Vicia sylvatica.
Echium vulgare         Primula valgaris

   The Erythraea littoralis is much extolled by the country people
as a tonic; it is rather a pleasant bitter. The shores abound in
marine vegetation.  Many speciesof the order Algae, mixed with
Zostera, are driven ashore in great quantities by the surge, and
are readily gathered and used as manure. Dulse (Halymenia palmata)
is found on the north coast; and laver ( Ulva umbilicalis
and Ulva lactuca) is likewise found on the black scalp. It is
known by the people as slake hail, and is considered, when dressed,
good in consumption and scrofula. From the fact that iodine
is obtained from this class of sea-weeds, this opinion is not
unfounded. Irrespective of its sanative virtues, the laver is sought
after as a delicacy. Another of the Algae, the Carrayheen moss,
is found on the shore, and is an economical substitute for isinglass.
The Cynosurus cristatus is very common in pastures and
waste places. We have seen a bonnet made of this grass, in appearance
and quality much resembling the Leghorn or Tuscan,
which was plaited under the direction of a lady at Fort-George.
It is called in Ireland, Traleen grass.

                    II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
Of the early history of the parish not much is known. A considerable
part of Ardersier belonged to the diocese of Ross.
Among the documents in Cawdor Castle is a disposition dated
1574, " of the lands and barony of Ardersier, fishings of salmon,
and other fishings whatsoever; Over Brouster House and Nether
Brouster House, with their crofts and pertinents, and the croft
commonly called Fisher's croft, by Robert Lesly, brother of David,
Bishop of Ross, and commendator of the monastery of Cambuskenneth,
with consent of the Dean and Chapter of Ross, in favour
of John Campbell of Calder," (now Cawdor.) Earl Caw


