
242                      PERTHSHIRE.

	Craighall is a very singular place.  The house is seated on the
	top of a rock, about 214 feet almost perpendicular above the Ericht.
	A balcony on the outside of the drawing-room windows, secured by
	an iron railing, serves as a parade, whence the river, and rocks, and
	surrounding scenery may be viewed.  Craighall is accessible only
	in front, which is from the south; and on each side of the entrance,
	a little in advance of the house, are two round buildings, evidently
	intended for protection, with some openings for missile weapons,
	as if for the rise of archers, a mode of defence very common in for-
	mer ages.  The old house of Craighall, the date of which is not
	known, was greatly altered about five yeare ago, by the late Baron
	Clerk Rattray.  Without enlarging the premises, he new-modelled
	the apartments within, and added turrets to the corners without,
	which serve considerably to ornament the building.
	   Land-owners.-The principal proprietor in the parish is Robert
	Clerk Rattray, Esq. of Craighall, son of the late worthy Baron,
	who succeeded to the estate on the demise of his cousin, Miss Janet
	Rattray, in 1817.  The present proprietor, with his family, reside
	at Craighall during the greater part of the year.  The other he-
	ritors are, the Earl of Kinnoul; John Rattray of Coral-Bank; the
	Rev.  George Whitson of Parkhill; Colonel Chalmers of Glene-
	richt; Lord Wharncliffe; Miss M'Donald of Easter Bleaton; and
	Mr Crichton of Mains,-besides a number of feuars of inferior note.
	Rattray is comparatively a small parish, the whole valuation being
	L,2575 Scots.
	   Parochial Registers.-The parochial registers are of consider-
	able antiquity.  They commence about the Restoration in 1660,
	and, with a little interruption in the Revolution 1688, have been
	filled up and preserved with tolerable care.

				III.-POPULATION.

	   The population of Rattray must have undergone great altera-
	tion.  In the time of Dr Webster it was reekoned 751; in the re-
	turn made to Sir John Sinclair it was stated at 500: the number
	of the inhabitants at present is 1375,-a large increase in the space
	of forty years.  This population resides chiefly in two villages, cal-
	led Old and New Rattray, the latter of which did not exist at the
	date of the last report.  The new village is seated on both sides
	Of the road to Blairgowrie, and extends almost to the Ericht,
	which divides the parishes.  The ground for houses and gardens
	is fixed by the proprietors to persons from the country, and parti-
	cularly from the Highlands, who, finding it necessary to change their


