
			LUNDIE AND FOWLIS.                      465

of the elevation. Oats and barley thrive well; and both districts
yield the most abundant green crops, which are largely cultivated,
to the entire exclusion of summer fallow, which is now scarcely
seen. There is, however, on account of the elevation of Ltndie,
a difference of about six days in the time of commencing harvest,
Formerly it was much more; but drainage, improved general farm-
ing, and better seed have done much to lessen it.
	The usual rotation of cropping is what is called fives, that is,
oats, green crop, wheat, barley, or oats, according to circumstan-
ces, and two years grass, the first year partly cut for hay.
	It has been already stated, that the parish is wholly agricultu-
ral, and of course it includes only the tradesmen necessary for the
service of this inhabitants. Of these it has a fair supply. Nor is
it necessary to make an exception of the very few who act as la-
bourers during the summer, and employ the winter in weaving for
the Dundee manufacturers; or of the females, who have a loom in
their cottage, to which they betake themselves when out-door
labours scarce. This is on so limited a scale, that it is not
worthy of farther notice.

                        V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	There is no market-town, and not even a village in the parish
The nearest is Cupir-Angus, distant six miles. But Dundee,
though distant from Lundie nine miles, and from Fowlis six miles,
is the market-town, both for buying and selling; and for either
purpose it is one of the best in the kingdom. The Dundee and
Cupar-Angus turnpike intersects the parish, and affords an excel-

lent communication with both towns; and Fowlis is approached
on the south by the Carse of Gowrie turnpike, from which it is
a little more than a mile distant. The parish roads are deserving
of no commendation. They are by far too numerous, especially
in Lundie, and the lines not well chosen; but Lord Camperdown
and his tenants have for some years subscribed liberally for their
improvement, and they will soon be in a better condition. No-
thing, however, has yet been done to supply the want of a post-
office. Dundee is the post-town, and a distance of nine miles is
a great inconvenience.
        Ecclesiastical State.-Contrary to the custom in lowland, and,
more especially, in small parishes, there are two churches in this,
each very conveniently situated for the district of the parish where
it stands, and from which it takes its name, but neither of them
convenient for serving the whole parish. They are distant from
one another four miles, and in them the incumbent preaches on


