
				LOCHMABEN.                       383

parish as his birth-place. It may, however, be remarked, that there
are at present six ordained elorgyrnen in the Church of Scotland,
two Dissenters enjoying livings, six licentiates, four parish school-
masters, and seven surgeons who were educated at Lochmaben by
one master, who is still pursuing his vocation, but, unfortunately.
for himself, not in the parish where be taught for many years with
so much success.
	Land-owners.--Within the burgh roods there are no fewer
than 141 small proprietors, and in the landward part of the parish
106, making in whole 247, who pay stipend to the clergyman.
The principal land-owners are Andrew Johnston, Esq. of Halleahts;
John Dickson, Esq. of Elshieshields; Sir William Jardine, Bart.
of Applegarth; William Murray, Esq. of Castlemains; The Most
Noble Charles Marquis of Queensberry; John Brown, Esq of
Broad Chapel; John Maxwell, Esq. of Esbie; His Grace the Duke
of Buccleueh; David Farisb Junior, Esq. of Todhillmoore, and
Sir James Broun, Bart. of Mayfield. Four only are resident,--
Mr Dickson, Mr Brown, Sir James Broun, and Mr Farish.
	Parochial Registers.--The earliest date of baptisms and mar-
riages is 1765. These registers have been most carefully and re-
gularly kept from the above date to the present time. In this pa-
rish, the Dissenters shew as much anxiety for the registration of
their children as the members of the Established Church.
	Modern Buildings.--The principal mansion-houses are Hal-
leaths, Elshieshields, and Newmains.
	Castles.--There is the site of an ancient castle close to the town,
on a mound of considerable height, called the Castle-hill, which
is surrounded by a deep moat and fosse. This castle was built in
the twelfth century, and formed the chief residence of Robert
Bruce, Lord of Annandale, previous to that family coming to the
throne of Scotland. This noble family bad two other seats in the
Annandale district, one at Annan, the other at Hoddam, on the
east bank of the river, with a large estate which continued in their
possession long after they came to the Crown.
	The other Castle of Lochmaben, which stands upon a peninsula
on the south-east side of the Castle-loch, was by far the largest and
strongest of any, either upon the English or Scotch borders; and
before the invention of gunpowder was deemed impregnable. It
was built by Robert Bruce, the first of that name, King of Scot-
land, towards the end of the thirteenth century. Tradition says
that the stones of the old one were taken to build this, and the


