
     Of Fenwick.

   Language.-The language is that which is common
in the Low Country of Scotland.  The names of places
are sometimes taken from their local situation.  Many
are plainly Gaelic, and many more, perhaps, from the
same spelling, is forgotten and lost*.

   Birds.-The moor grounds are stocked with plenty of
moor-souls, and are much frequented at the season.
The curfew and lap-wing are also in abundance.  The

     H 2

<UNREADABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

*There is a house, the principal stage for travellers between Glasgow
and Kilmarnock, called the King's well.  Tradition says, that it got this 
name on the following occasion.  One of the James's came W.  to settle
some disputes at a place called Pothelly-hall where are the vestiges, and
no more, of an old tower.  At the spot where the house now stands, his
horse drank out of a well, afterward called the King's Well, and also went
into a quagmire, which still is known by the name of the King's Stable.
On that occasion, he is said to have caused to be harged 1s  of them who
were in fault, upon an hawthorn tree, which is still pointed out, and, in-
deed, has the appearance of being very old.  It stands single in a field of
one of the farms above Pothelly-ball.  Pothelly-hall at that time, was 
inhabited by a family of the name of Cochrane, a branch of the family of
Dundonald.  They had confined the prisoners in a vault, till his majesty
came.  Being very hungry, as even kings will be, in a country inha-
bited, and ill supplied with provisions, it is said, that he went into an 
house, not far fom Pothelly-hall, and sat down.  The gude-wife gave him
bread and milk, the best fare which she probably had.  After he had made
his breakfast, she told him, that her husband was one of his prisoners, and
that it would be hard to hang a man, after having eat his breakfast
sitting in his arm chair.  When he came to the place, he called first
for that man, and desired him to go home, and be a better bairn, before
he proceeded to judge the rest.  Another tradition says, that the Kings'
Well got its name fron the things having happened there when his Majesty
was on his way to attend the marriage of one of his own relations at Sorn
Castle, some miles farther S.  ; and that he should have said, from the dif-
ficulties which he met with in passing through such bad roads. "that if 
"he were to play a trick on the devil, he would send him to a bridal at
"Sorn."

</UNREADABLE>


