
			KILMORIE.                           65

worship is performed by the parish minister every third Sabbath.
It was rebuilt on its original site at Clachan in 1805, at the expense
of the parishioners and others, among whom it is divided, and by
whom it is upheld according to their respective subscriptions. It is
seated for about 640. There is another church at Lochranza, built
in 1795, and seated in 1835 to accommodate about 300; chiefly at
the expense of the people. A licentiate of the church regularly offi-
ciates in it, and acts as catechist or assistant to both the ministers
of Arran, taking charge of the northern extremities of both parishes,
from Iorsa in the one, to Corrie in the other. He is paid by a mor-
tification made for that purpose by the Duchess Anne of Hamilton
about the year 1700, amounting to L. 27 per annum. Small
as that sum now seems, and inadequate as it now is, to produce more
than the mere necessaries of life, it was, at the time it was given,
fully equal to the stipends of the beneficed clergy of the island.
The farm of Coillemore, on which the incumbent resided, was at
a later period attached to it, at a nominal rental; but during a re-
cent lengthened vacancy, it was let to another tenant, and has not
since been restored, nor any equivalent given in this room. All that
now, therefore, the incumbent has to subsiston, is the original sum of
L. 27, with the interest of accumulated vacant stipend, amounting
to L. 13, 11s., which, being at the disposal of the kirk-session of
Kilmorie and Kilbride, is generally, though not always, given to
the officiating minister at this station. Unfortunately, the deed
of mortification expressly prohibits the ordination of the assistant,
and, being engrossed in that of entail, cannot be altered. This
want of ordination is felt to be a very great grievance by the inha-
bitants, who must travel a distance, many of them of twenty-four
miles, before they can obtain sealing ordinances. The Lord's
supper has been but twice dispensed in the district,--first in 1814,
during the incumbency of the Rev. Neil M'Bride, and in 1839,
by the Rev. A. Macmillan.
	The manse of Kilmorie is the original one, built shortly after
the Revolution, and is said to be the oldest now inhabited in Scot-
land. It was at first roofed with thatch, but, being burnt in 1710,
it was repaired and roofed with slate. With that exception, it has
received little repair, and no addition, since its erection. It is in
very indifferent condition, but though condemned upwards of forty
years since, no application has ever been made for a new one. The
glebe is about 11 acres and 3 roods, inclusive of church-yard and
garden, and is worth about L. 14 per annum. The stipend is 15
	BUTE. 				Z


