
                ISLAND OF SKYE-DUIRINISH.                        323

secrated to the Virgin Mary; but Durinish is the name by which
it is generally known.
   Extent.-The extreme length of the parish from Unish to
ldrigil is 19 miles; breadth, from Vaterstein to Lynedale, 16
miles. Its extent in square miles is about l00. But these dis-
tances convey no idea of the difficulty of traversing it, it being in-
tersected by arms of the sea, by hills and morasses, which render
travelling through it a very arduous task.
   Boundaries.-It is bounded on the west by what is called
the Minch, the channel which separates Skye from the Outer
Hebrides; on the north and north-east, by Loch Griesbernish, or
Arnizort, a branch of Loch Snizort (except that a small strip of
land to the east of this loch belongs to it); on the south and
south-east, by Loch Bracadale, and one of its branches called
Loch Carroy, and on the east partly by the parish of Snizort, and
partly by that of Bracadale.
   Fiqure.-The form of the parish is as irregular as may well
be conceived, and defies all power of minute description. On a
general view, it presents the appearance of a large promontory, or
rather peninsula, separated from the rest of Skye by a neck of
low moorish land, about four miles in breadth, stretching from
Loch Carroy to Loch Griesbernish already noticed. But this penin-
sula is first subdivided by Loch Follart, or Loch Dunvegan, which,
branching off the Minch, stretches due south to within less than
two miles of Loch Carroy. These two large subdivisions are again
cut up by Loch Bay and Loch Poltiel, each of which is near two
miles in length, and by so many creeks and inlets as would be te-
dious to enumerate.  Of the two larger divisions, the western one
is known as Duirinish proper, while the northern portion of the
east one is called Vaternish or Waternish, and forms a separate
parish quoad sacra, being one of the recent Parliamentary erections.
   Mountains, &c.-The only mountains in the parish deserving
the name, are two which are situated in the western peninsula, and
known to the country people as the Greater and Lesser Helvel
(probably a corruption of sealbh mheall, the charmed or fortunate
hill; and evidently of the same derivation with Helvellyn in
Wales.) These rise each to the height of 1700 feet, and are, re-
markable for the verdure of their surface, and the regularity of
their slope, while their summits are perfectly level. This last
peculiarity has procured for, them, esocially among sailors, the
name cf Macleod's Tables; and I believe that they are more


