
              2                         INVERNESS-SHIRE.

              coast, gradually decrease in height and asperity; and those on the
              southern side especially, as they enter this parish, subside into a
              smooth elevated ridge about 400 feet high, which ultimately tapers
              off, and loses itself among the flat sandstone plains of Nairnshire.
              On the opposite side, the granitic mountains which occur at the
              north-eastern extremity of Loch Ness are succeeded by an ex.
              tremely rough but picturesque group of sandstone and conglome-
              rate hills, which reach to the adjoining frith, and end in the well-
              known vitrified site of Craig Phadric, lying immediately to the west
              of the town of Inverness, and distinguished by its beautiful tabu-
              lar summit, and a succession of bold rocky escarpments along its
              acclivities.
                The environs of Inverness are well cultivated, and adorned with
              a profusion of woods and young plantations, and the distant view
              is in all directions (except towards the east, where the eye is greet-
              ed by the waters of the Moray Frith,) closed in with screens of
              mountains greatly diversified in height and outline.
                The coast-line of this parish takes several extensive bends or
              sweeps; and the adjoining flats are throughout highly cultivated,
              presenting a considerable breadth of corn land, with the exception
              of a portion westward of the village of Clachnaherry, where a rocky
              cliff rises abruptly from the shore, leaving but a narrow slip of ground
              between it and the sea.  Two large bays lie to the east and west of
              the town of Inverness, and between them the River Ness empties
              itself on the right of the narrow strait called Kessock Ferry, which
              separates Inverness from Ross-shire, and the Moray Frith from
              the inner basin of Loch Beauly, or the Beauly Frith.
                 Meteorology.-The climate of this parish, which is much influ-
              enced by the nature of its soil and position, is on the whole dry and
              salubrious.  The lower parts of the parish are warm, being well
              sheltered by trees; the heights are cold and exposed, but they have
              been much improved of late by drainage and planting.  As the moun-
              tains, which lie to the south and west, intercept much of the va-
              pour which rises from the Atlantic Ocean, and bestows a peculiarly
              damp character on the climate of the west coast, so in like man-
              ner the inland position of this parish, with respect to the German
              Ocean, protects it from suffering so much as some of the adjoin-
              ing districts by the raw and boisterous easterly winds which pre-
              vail in this country during spring, and the first months of summer.
              The west wind is here the most frequent and warmest, and yields
                                             4


