
     Statistical Accout

   Manufactures.-The weaving manufacture is carried on to
a great extent in this parish, there being at present upwards of
3000 looms employed.  Within these 10 years, however, this
branch of manufacture has undergone an almost total change.
Before that time, they were employed in lawns, shirting,
check, and handkerchiefs, linen handkerchiefs for printing, and
blounks, consisting of linen-warp, and cotton-weft, which were
printed for neck-handkerchiefs, gowns, and bed-furniture.
But now they are almost wholly in the muslin line, very few
lawns or checks being manufactured in this place.  Though
the muslin trade has been but lately established, yet it has al-
ready risen to great perfection.  And were the importation
of East India muslins in some measure restrained, and the fine
cotton wool brought home, it is impossible to say to what ex-
tent this branch might be carried, and how much this coun-

<UNREADABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

have been set up in the neighbourhood of Glasgow.  There are several strata or
seams of coal of different thicknesses, and at different distances from one an-
other.  These all lie nearly parallel to each other, but not parallel to the sur-
face of the earth, having their dip, as it is termed by the colliers, or their de-
clination towards the river Clyde, and rising, as you rete from the river, near-
er to the surface of the earth till they crop out.  And what is very remarkable,
the seams of coal on the other side of Clyde, also have their dip towards its
bed; so that the strata on the different sides of the river, instead of lying in the
same plane; are inclined to each other at a certain angle.  In some pits, the
strata of coal are of the following thicknesses: 1 ft, The upper coal from 4 to
4 1/2 feet thick: 2 d, Ell-coal from 2 1/2 to 3 feet: And 3 d, Main coal from 4 1/2 to
5 1/2 feet.  These are the only seas that have as yet been wrought.  Above the
coal there lies a thin but very rich stratum of iron-stone.  Till within these
few years that the Clyde iron-works were erected on the borders of this parish,
the whole iron-stone in this part of the country was disregarded, and sometimes
proved a great incumbrance.  Now, it is a source of wealth, and gives em-
ployment to several hands in this parish.  Besides coal and iron-stone, there are
beds of very good free-stone, particularly at Possit, much used in the city of
Glasgow for building and stagging the sides of the streets.  And on the east side
of the fir park adjoining, to the city, there is a large whinstone quarry, where
all the stones used for paving the streets have been brought.

</UNREADABLE>

     2


