
     Statistical Account

   That the people may have nothing to divert their attention
from their own business, all the services performed by them and
their cattle, to their superiors, are commuted into money; and thir-
lage to the mills of the baronies is also abolished.  Measures are
taking to give the people secure possession, (for their own lives
at least,) of their houses, gardens and arable buds, with full
liberty to cultivate as much of the ware land as they please.
Their cattle are suffered to pasture on the other waste lands,
as long as they shall remain in a ware condition; but the pro-
prietors reserve to themselves, the power of inclosing and
planting all such parts of the ware lands, as are fit for no
other purpose.  Some plantations of this kind have been al-
ready made, and the trees seem to thrive very well on the
lightest soils.  The trees are principally the larch, the Scotch
fir, and the birch, intermixed with beech and mountain ash.
The rest of the ware land is open to every settler, who shall
incline to cultivate them.  Twenty or thirty new settlers have
already exhibited strong proofs of what Highlanders can do, in
the improvement of their own country, when secured in the
enjoyment of the fruits of their labour.  It may be worth
while to mention the nature of this security.  The first set-
tiers may improve as much land as they find waste around
them, for which they pay only 1 s. a-year during their lives.
When they die, their heirs have the refusal of their father's
possession, at an apprized value, to be fixed by arbitrators mutu-
ally chosen.  This rent is invariable, till the next generation, when
the valuation is to be repeated; and so on every generation.  A
little iron for tools, wood for their houses, and seed potatoes
and corn, is furnished to them for the first 2 years.  They are
exempted from every species of personal service.  Those, who
have visited the mountainous countries of Switzerland, Wales
and Norway, have seen what liberty and security can do, to-
wards rendering them fertile.  In addition to the general free-


