
                             DUMBARTON.                        9

only being 3116.* This decrease can be accounted for thus: In
1831, when the last Parliamentary census was taken, the trade of
the town of Dumbarton was in a very flourishing state. A large
quantity of crown-glass and bottles was made annually, which em-
ployed a considerable number of men. Shortly after the census
of 1831, the manufacture was stopped, and the workmen of course
were all thrown out of employment. These men were obliged to
leave Dumbarton to seek employment elsewhere, chiefly in Eng-
land. Since that time, no glass has been made at these works.
At the time of taking said census, two large ship-building concerns
were in full operation. One of them was not situated in the pa-
rish, although most of the men there employed lived in the parish
of Dumbarton. Like the glass-works, they were unfortunately stop-
ped, and the men were all thrown idle. Subsequently, they re-
sumed work, but not to the same extent as formerly. The num-
ber of inhabitants in the landward part of the parish is about 300;
the rest live withing the town of Dumbarton.
   The average number of births in the parish for the last seven
years has been about 69, and the number of marriages during the
same period about 30. It is impossible to give any thing like a
correct statement of the average number of deaths, as no register
of deaths has been kept for more than forty years. According to
a private note kept in 1837, the number buried in that year was
127; but from this we cannot form a fair estimate, as, during
that time, typhus fever prevailed to a most alarming extent, and
many of the people buried were strangers.
   There are only about five proprietors in the parish possessing
lands above the yearly value of L.50 Sterling,-besides the burgh
of Dumbarton, which possesses extensive property within the parish.
The annual value of real property, as assessed in 1815, was L.4695
Sterling.
   In 1831, there were 804 families in the parish; 367 inhabited
houses, and 6 uninhabited.
   The English language is pretty generally spoken. A conside-
rable number of Highlanders reside in the parish; but, with a few
exceptions, they are all able to converse in the English language.
   A considerable quantity of game is destroyed by poachers; but
the salmon-fishings are not much poached, as the tacksmen are
almost constantly on the spot. Illicit distillation was, some years

<FOOTNOTE>All the statements made as to population are according to the census of 1831,
unless where specially excepted. 


