
     of Crimond.

pleasant situation, there is a small hill, of a circular form,
whose top is exactly half a Scotch acre in extent, called the
Castle-Hill.  It rises 38 feet a above a small plain on the N. E.
but is only 12 or 14 feet above the higher ground on the oppo-
site side.  The famous Cummine Earl of Buchan, had a seat
here, but after his defeat at the battle of Inverury, by King
Robert Bruce, this castle fell into ruins.  By the blowing of
the light sandy ground in the neighbourhood, which very
frequently happens, it is now covered with a deep soil, and
produces crops of grain an grass.  Such is the instability of
human affairs*.  About a quarter of a mile s. of the Castle-
hill, the walls of a chapel, surrounded by a burial place, are
mostly entire+.  Around this chapel formerly stood the
burgh of Rattray.  It is said to have had the same privileges
as a royal burgh, except sending members to parliament.
The burgage lands are of considerable extent+.  This district

     3 G 2

<FOOTNOTE>

hill of sand, between the hill above mentioned and the sea, and still higher than
it.  A furious E. wind blew away this hill of sand in one might, which stopped
the communication between the loch and the sea by forming a sand bar.  The
low lying ground to the W. was soon overflowed, and the extent of the loch much
increased.  An attempt has been made to drain this loch the operations for
draining it were begun in 1787, and are still continued, though hitherto unsuc-
cessful.  The proper method of draining it does not appear to be yet discovered.

*About 60 years ago, Mr. Arbuthnot, then of Broadland, caused dig up an
eminence at the S. E. side of the Castle-hill, where be found a great number of
stones, supposed to belong to the kitchen of the castle, as the workmen found
very large hearth-stones covered with ashes.

+It is supposed to have been a private chapel for the use of the Earl's
family.  The length is 45 feet within the walls, the breadth 18 feet, the thickness
of the walls 3 feet, and the height of the end walls, still above ground, 32 feet.
In the E. end of the chapel are 3 arched windows; the largest, which is in the
middle, is 11 feet high and 2 feet wide.  The other 2 are each 7 feet high, and
2 wide.  The walls are built of very small stones firmly cemented with lime.

+There are now only 2 seus, or rather 1 seus divided into 2.  The oldest char-


