
                 STRATHBLANE.                           81

Wilbraham Booth of Lathorn House, in the county of Lancas-
ter, Esq., and by her bad a son and daughter; and, secondly, the
Honourable Louisa Hotham, daughter to Beaumont, second Lord
Hotham, by whom he had four sons and two daughters. Sir
Charles represented the county of Stirling in Parliament, for se-
veral years previous to his death, which took place on the 1st of
April 1821, in the fifty-eighth year of his age. He was succeed-
ed by his eldest son;
  Sir Archibald, the present Baronet, twelfth in lineal descent
from Sir William of Culloden, the first of the branch Of Dun-
treath. Sir Archibald married, in October 1832, his cousin, Em-
ma, daughter of Randle Wilbraham of Rode Hall, in the county
of Chester, Esq.
  The Castle of Duntreath stands on the north side of the Blane
water, near the opening of the narrow and beautiful strath to which
that stream gives its name. To the south rises the conical hill of
Dungoiach, covered with natural wood; and across the valley op-
posite, is another hill, clothed likewise with wood, called the Park
hill. Tradition asserts that it was once intended to have built the
castle here, instead of the valley below. The top certainly has
been levelled, and a regular way formed up to it. The noble
range of the Campsie Hills, which intersect the western end of
the county of Stirling, is finely terminated above by the bold
beads of Dumgoyn and Dumfoyn.
  The castle is approached from the west through a detacbed
gate-bouse, and is rather of a rude construction, built round a
quadrangle. The north and east sides are completely in ruins,
having been unroofed and left to decay about a century ago. In
the former of these sides, is the cbapel, of which, according to tra-
dition, the gallery once gave way during the service, and several
Persons were injured. The southern front was never finished. In
the south-eastern part of it, is the Dumb Laird's Tower. The castle
is surrounded by a park or policy, of moderate extent, but very
agreeably varied; and the scenery of the whole unites cultivation
and romantic beauty, in no common degree.
  Parochial Registers.-In consequence of the recommendation of
the General Assembly, 1816, correct registers have been kept, since
that time, of marriages and births. There is no register of deaths,
and, prior to 1816, the registers of marriages and births were ex-
ceedingly irregular. The first entry in the register of baptisms is
dated ApriI 1685. Registers had been kept long before that period;
   STIRLING.


