
                         MONQUHITTER.                           769

in this district of the country which have been worse provided
than this with roads.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is conveniently placed
for the greater part of the population, being close to the village of
Caminestown, and not more than a mile from the village of Gar-
mond.  It is situated upwards of seven miles from the most dis-
tant part of the parish; but since the erection of the chapel of
ease of Millbrex, in the parish of Fyvie, which was built in 1833
for the accommodation of remote districts of Monquhitter and Fy-
vie, there are few houses more than three miles distant from one
or other of these places of worship.  The minister of the chapel
of ease is ordained, and is paid partly by an annual grant from
the royal bounty, and partly from the seat rents of the chapel.
He has also an extensiv4e glebe, which is given rent free by the
Earl of Aberdeen, on whose property the chapel is situated, and
who not only affords this liberal accommodation, but also subscrib-
ed L.100 toward the erection of the chapel.  In 1835, a comfort
able manse and offices were also erected; and the whole of the
funds needed for the building of these and the chapel were raised
by voluntary contribution within the parishes of Fyvie and Mon-
quhitter, with the exception of L.70 obtained from the Church Ex-
tension Fund, and about L.30 of a presbyterial collection.
   The parish church was built in 1764, but in a very insufficient
manner, and is now in considerable disrepair. An addition was
made, and is now in considerable disrepair.  An addition was
made to it the 1792, and it accommodates about 1000 sit-
ters.  There are no free sittings in the church, but the proprietor
of Auchry charges no rent for the seats occupied by the villagers
of Cuminestown and Garmond.  The manse was built in 1778,
and was thoroughly repaired in 1830, and then cotisiderably added
to. The grebe contains about nine acres, and may be valued at
about L.15 per annum. The stipend consists of 15 chalders,
one-half oatmeal, and one-half barley, payable accordin to the
fiars of the county, besides L.10 for communion elements.
There is one Episcopal chapel, which is the only dissenting place
of worship in the arish.  There are 1808 individuals attached
to the Established Church, and of other denominations, 236, be-
sides about 50 who cannot be said to belong to any denomination.
The Lord's Supper is dispensed twice in the year, and the number
of communicants, by the last survey, taken a few months ago,
amounts to 946.  There are no Societies specially established for
religious purposes, but collections are made annually for the va-
   ABERDEEN.				      3 c


