
                         ISLAND OF SKYE-FORTREE.                 231

        of its immensely redundant population, already sunk in the low-
        est degradation of misery and poverty? This is a matter high-
        ly deserving the most serious attention: and consideration of all
        those having influence and power; and it cannot fail to af-
        ford the highest satisfaction to every well-regulated mind, to
        see the efforts now made by noblemen, proprietors, and others
        connected with the Highlands of Scotland, for transferring the
        poor and labouring classes of the community in these districts to
        the British colonies in North America, and more especially to Ca-
        nada. This appears to be the most eligible resort to the poor
        expatriated Highlander, in order to escape from his misery, to ac-
        quire comfort and independence, and where be will find employ-
        ment congenial to his babits and pursuits at home. The highest
        praise is due to Lord Macdonald for his liberality in this beneficent
        and patriotic enterprise,-he having this and last year expended
        large sums of money in conveying the poor people, on his proper-
        ty (tenants or not tenants) to North America, And it is a matter
        devoutly to be wished, that other landed proprietors would follow
        his beneficent example, is well as the Legislature of tbe country, and
        thus provide comfortably for a noble race of men,-strengtthen the
        hands of the local government in the American colonies,-and for
        ever put an to disaffection to the state in that quarter.

                             V.-PAROCFIIAL EcoNomy..
            Market.-The village of Portree is the only place in the pa-
        rish in which markets are held for the sale of black-cattle. The
        population is nearly 300, including those in its immediate vicinity.
            There are several shop-keepers in the place who import meal
        and other commodities for the use of the country people. To the
        village of Portree there is a steam-boat plying from Glasgow once
        a-week, with a short cessation in the winter season. An e-icel-
        lent road has been constructed from one extremity of, the parish
        to another, under the direction of the Parliamentary Commission-
        ers for building bridges and making roads in the Highlands and
        Islands of Scotland. This road is kept in repair by an amessment
        on the heritors of the county of Invernees.
            In the village there is a post-office, to which there is a post
        three times a week.
            Than the harbour of Portree there can hardly be a better. It is
        spacious enough to contain several hundred sail. It is shelter-
        ed on all sides, and from every wind that blows. From the very


