
680                             FIFESHIRE.

science; nor have they wanted able vindicators. But discussion
were here out of place. Suffice it to remark, that so fixed and firm
was the attachment of our forefathers to the revered institution of
monarchy in the State, and presbyterial order in the Church, that
neither the example, nor the caresses, nor the menaces of the
"English sectaries" availed to repress, much less to vanquish them.
  A system grounded on principles so holy, and aiming at results
so salutary,-a system so deeply rooted in the habits and affections
of a whole people,-none but the most licentious-monarch, and the
most unprincipled administration that ever swayed the destinies of
the British empire, would have wished, or ventured to assail. After
the re-establishment of Episcopacy the altered state of matters is
lamentably manifest. The meetings of session are no longer stated
regular,-no fasts are ordained but those which precede the
communion-no days of thanksgiving set apart, but the 29th of
May " for his Majestie's happie returne."  Yet the Sabbath-day
ministrations never seem to have suffered any serious interruption
during the long and troubled night of Episcopal domination; nor
is the most distant allusion made in the Minutes of Session to any
change of form, under the new order of things, unless the follow-
ing may be so interpreted: "30th November 1662, reading befor
and after sermones did begin again." In the course of the suc-
ceeding year, the names of those elders who were landed proprie-
tors are no longer found, as present at, or concurring in, the deli-
berations of the session; they devolved on meaner men those
duties which the arbitrary temper of the times rendered it dange-
rous for them any longer to discharge. The acts of their succes-
sors are no longer bowed to with deference and submission; threats
are held out of making "applications to my Lord St Andrews for
purchasing of a warrand" in "mitigatione" of the required "satis-
factione." "My lord St Andrews, through his commissary, en-
joins the "mitigatione" prayed.  But our limits do not permit to
enter more minutely into details. If similar instances of arbitrary
interference served to weaken the bonds of discipline, and to lessen
the respect due to the immediate pastors and rulers of the church,
they served to prepare the minds of all good men and true patriots
for welcoming the glorious dawn of civil and religious liberty usher-
ed in by the Revolution of 1688.
  After the Revolution-settlement, when civil and religious liberty

<FOOTNOTE>The fines imposed on Parishioners of Markinch for nonconformity t this period
amounted to 5000. See Wodrow's author's  preface.


