
			HADDINGTON.                           13

lel streets, running east and west, and a long cross street which
bounds one of these and intersects the other nearly at right angles.
The high or main parallel street, which is a continuation of the
road from Edinburgh, is spacious, and the houses in general regu-
lar and handsome. The appearance of the town has of late been
greatly improved by the erection of a lofty spire to the town-house,
150 feet in height, by side pavement on the streets, and gas lights,
and by county buildings on a large and elegant scale, for the better   -
accommodation of the Sheriff's court, meetings of the county, and
suitable apartments for the public records.
   The approaches to the town from the west and east are orna-
mented by a number of beautiful villas with gardens and nursery
grounds adjoining.
   The church is a venerable Gothic fabric, 210 feet in length,
supposed to be of the thirteenth or fourteenth century. Fordun
styles it Lacerna Laudonia, the lamp of Lothian on account of
the beauty of its structure, and because being lighted at night, it
was visible at a great distance. The quire and transept are now
in a somewhat dilapidated state; but the square tower which
surmounts the building, and is ninety feet high, is entire. The west-
ern part of the cross has been lately fitted up in a superior style,
and is used as the parish church.
   The municipal affairs of the burgh are now managed by a council
of twenty-five persons, elected according to the provisions of the
Burgh Reform Act, by a constituency of 174, at present qualified
to elect, the greater part of whom are also qualified to hold office.
The magistrates consist of a provost, three bailies, a treasurer, and
dean of guild. The council annually elect a baron bailie ever the
adjoining village of Nungate, and also one over their dependencies
in Gladsmuir, consisting of lands mostly feud from the town.
   There are nine incorporated trades, having exclusive right to ex-
ercise their several crafts within the burgh.
   The funds of the burgh arise from land, mills, feud, customs, and
amount to about L.1400 a-year.
   Haddington joins with Jedburgh, Dunbar, Lauder, and North.
Berwick in electing a Member of Parliament.
   There are no manufactures in town, but there are two breweries
and two distilleries in the vicinity; an iron forge and coach-work;
a considerable trade in wool, in tanning and currying leather, in
preparing bones and rape cake for manure, and in supplying the


