
                               PAISLEY.                            271

ant of which was the introduction of the " ten box lay," in 1812,
by which a weaver can work with the greatest facility with ten
shuttles without shifting them.  The original " fly lay" could be
wrought with only one shuttle.
   The machine for the singeing process in bleaching was first
brought into use in this part of the country by the late Mr Wil-
liam King of Lonend.  It was first applied by him in the case of
book-muslins which, about the vear 1788, were in very great
vogue, and preferred by many to India productions for fineness of
fabric.
   Among the most ingenious men whom Paisley has produced,
Messrs Robert and John Burns, brothers, stand pre-eminent Mr
Robert Burns, of the firm of Houston, Burns, and Company, was
the inventor of many curious and useful pieces of mechanism in the
departments of Dynamics and Hydro-dynamics, as noticed parti-
cularly by Sir David Brewster, in these articles of his truly scien-
tific Encyclopedia. *  Mr John Burns invented the plan of rollers
to facilitate the harness-work of webs; a plan universally approv-
ed of, and adopted by the operatives.  He also suggested the ma-
chine for drying bleached goods by metal rollers heated by steam,
a plan which has been universally adopted by the bleachers, and
which is capable of application indefinitely in the field of manu-
facturing industry.  In another and very different field, the same
most disinterested gentleman produced twelve of the best potatoes
reared from the plum, and exhibited at a public competition;
for which he received a medal from the Agricultural Society.
   In 1823, Mr Alexander Buchanan produced the first specimen
of cheneille shawl in this country, for his ingenuity in the invention
of which he was honoured with a premium of twenty guineas from
the Trustees in Scotland for encouraging Manufactures.
   About eight years ago, Mr Claud Wilson, weaver in Paisley, in-
vented a species of machinery, which has proved extremely useful
in the manufacture of carpets.  His genius not finding its reward
in this country, he went to the United States, by special invita-
tion, and is now at the head of a large carpet manufactory in that
country.
   Mr Alexander Lang, following up the plan of Mr Wilson, has
improved upon his machine, so as to supersede in the manufacture

<FOOTNOTE>Vol. xi. pp. 552, 554.


