
294                  ROXBURGHSHIRE.

  Waqes.--The wages of a common labourer, without victuals. are
Is. 8d. in winter, and 2s. in summer.  A gardener receives Is. 6d.
per diem, with his victuals, and a dram after the labours of the
day are finished.  A joiner receives 2s. 6d. and a mason 3s. a day.
The gains of a farm-servant, or hind, consist of the following
items in money and victual; L.3 Sterling, 5 bolls of oat -meal,
280 pounds to the boll, barley, 10 firlots or 15 bushels pease 4
firlots, 1200 or 1400 yards of potatoes planted; a cow's main.
tenance summer and winter; allowed to keep six hens, or 10s.
in lieu; also a pig; (for house and plot of garden ground, the
hind must furnish a shearer during, harvest;) the driving, of five
or six single horse cart load of coals, for which he pays prime cost
at the pit.  He has, besides, a month's victuals during harvest,
whether engaged in the reaping department or otherwise.
  The gains of a shepherd, as might reasonably be expected, are
greatly above those of a bind, but fluctuate with the value of stock,
which constitutes a chief part of his gains.  Shepherds have in some
instances thirty sheep, and are allowed to keep a cow, and one or
more pigs--besides a certain quantity of potato ground.  Some
shepherds, who are industrious and economical, realize conside-
rable property, and there are instances, in the neighbourhood, of
their being able to take an extensive farm.
  Gardens and Orchards.--There are good kitchen gardens in
the parish, and a considerable quantity of fruit raised; but the cli-
mate does not suit the production of the finer kinds of fruit.  Ap-
ple treer thrive better than pear trees, and plums better than
either,--especially that small yet most valuable plum, called Dam-
son.   There is an orchard consisting of several acres of ground at
Knowsouth; * but the trees are old, and many of them decayed,
and do not appear to be productive.  There are also the remains
of an orchard at Newton.
  Arable Land and Produce.--The number of arable acres in the
parish is 1600.  The average quantity of grain raised per acre is
five bolls.  Of these 1600 acres arable land, one-fifth is regu-
larly cropped with turnips and potatoes, with the exception of a
small part in plain fallow.  Of the grain raised, about tbree-fourths
are consumed in the parish.  The number of acres sown with turnips
is about twenty-five, the average value of which per acre is nearly

<FOOTNOTE>Since tbis account was put to press, the greater part of Knowsouth, containing
the elegant mansion mentioned above, has been purchased by George Pott, Esq. of
Dod,--Rewcastle and knowsouth being thus again united one proprietor.


