
172                       KINCARDINESHIRE.

thony Mactier, Esq., late of Calcutta. The proprietor is patron
of the parish church.
	Parochial Registers.--The parochial register of baptisms be-
gins at the year 1717, as does also the register of discipline: and
for upwards of forty years, the registers of baptisms, marriages,
and deaths appear to have been accurately kept. There is also a
separate register kept for the annual distribution of a mortification
to certain poor and to other purposes, left by a native of this pa-
rish of the name of Hog, in the year 1787, under the manafelent
of the kirk-session, which will be noticed more particularly under
another head.
	Antiquities.--The parish cannot boast of many antiquities of
great interest. There are, however, several tumuli or cairns of
stones, now partly overgrown with heath and whins. About six
years ago, a farmer, in trenching out the foundations of some old
houses and dikes on his farm, found a number of small copper and
silver coins, but none of them in a state of good preservation.
From their appearance they were supposed to be Danish.
	It may here be mentioned, that after the great flood in 1829,
the writer of this account, in taking away a large round cairn of
stones for the purpose of preventing the encroachments of the
River Dee, found, when the stones were removed, that they had
merely covered a hillock of earth of exactly the same shape, and
evidently artificial. His curiosity was excited to know the con-
tents of this hillock; and on breaking it up, some bones, partly
burnt, were found, and a number of sharp flint stones of different
sizes. The hillock has very lately been more particularly examin-
ed; and at the depth of three feet under the surface of the ad-
joining field, a large trench or grave, upwards of seven feet long,
built with stones on the sides, and covered above with three very
large stones, was discovered. It contained htm`n bones mixed
with charcoal; and it was observed, that part of a skull, contrary
to the usual mode of interment, was placed at the east end of the
grave.
	Immediately overhanging a pretty steep bank of the River Dee,
and about a quarter of a mile below the church, is a small hill,
called the Castle Hill. It has a ditch at the bottom, and is com-
monly supposed to have been a place of strength, or military posi-
tion. A small rill of water runs close past its base, which could
easily have been made to fill the ditch. And on the top, which is
quite level, several small hollows or cuts are yet to be seen, which
				 3



