
			ABOYNE AND GLENTANNER.                 1063

will add a stone to your cairn, is still a complimentary-expression
among Highlanders.
   Parochial Reqister.-The parochial register only extends back
to 1752. It contains minutes of the kirk-session meetings, and a
record of marriages and births, but not of deaths.  The births
have been very irregularly entered, from the neglect of some pa-
rents, and the disinclination of others, to have their children's
names recorded.

<TABLE=Population>

     			    III.-POPULATION.
		In 1755, the population amounted to 1695
		   1831,                            1169
		   1841,                            1138

	This falling off may be accounted for from the increased size of
the farms and a diminution of the cottar system.
        The people are orderly and industrious, shrewd and intelligent,
well informed in the principles of religion, and regular in their
attendance upon its ordinances. A very intelligent and respect-
able farmer of the name of Gillanders, who, since the in-
cumbency of the writer, died in the parish, was the eighteenth
oldest son of the family, who, in succession, had been born on
the same farm. The adjoining farm is now rented by his oldest
son; and others in the parish are possessed of evidence that they,
and those they represent, have lived under the Earls of Aboyne
from the time that noble family succeeded to their honours, and
were ever ready to follow their feudal chief to the field.  In more
recent times, though the Earl of Aboyne did not formally embark
in the unfortunate risings of 1715 ind 1745, yet did his tenants
zealously support "the Prince" with their services. *

                           IV.-INDUSTRY.
         Agriculture.-The arable land in the parish is 2178 Scotch
acres ; and the gross rental is L.3300, (exclusive of shoot-
ing-grounds), which would be at the rate of about L.1, 10s.
per Scotch acre. If, however, the arable were let without the
extensive moorlands and natural pastures attached, the average
rent of the arable would perhaps range from L. 1 to L. 1, 5s.

<FOOTNOTE>In 1715 the Earl of Mar, to mature his plans and collect his hounds, invited his
sporting friends to a deer-hunt in Glentanner, and to meet him at Cean-na-Coil.
Thence, with the men of Aboyne, he proceeded to Braemar Castle, and there un-
furled the banner of James VII. In 1745-6, a battalion, named by Lord Lewis
Gordon "the Aboyne battalion," and commanded by Farquharson of Monaltree, beat
the Macleods at Inverury; and, in the fierce onslaught at Culloden, cut through
" Burrell's Bluc." The survivors who returned from that eventful field are all now
beyond the din of war. The writer remembers seven or eight of them, and has often
heard from them an account of their disastrous adventure.


