

      120                       WIGTONSHIRE.

      centre of the parish, but at one side of it, about half a-mile from
      Loch Ryan equidistant from the north and south ends of th pa-
      rish, and near the village of Stewartown.  A great majority of
      the population are within three miles of it: few houses are more
      than four miles from it.  It was built thirteen years ago, was
      very substantially executed, and is in good repair.  It was calcu-
      lated by measurement to accommodate 650 persons; it has no gal-
      leries.  If three galleries were erected, which the plan admits, it
      would accommodate 300 more; but the accommodation originally
      provided has as yet been sufficient.  The feuars in the village
      have no property in the kirk: seventy sittings were reserved for
      them by the heritors, which are let to them at 1s. 3d. each sitting,
      and the proceeds go to the poor's funds.  Besides those thus ac-
      commodated, many of the villagers have sittings in the kirk as
      small tenants, or as farm-servants. There are a few free sittings.
      It is believed that every person desirous to have a sitting in the
      kirk can obtain it somewhere.  The want of a sitting is an excese
      for not attending church, made very rarely: the want of decent
      clothes in a parish where so large a proportion of the population
      are Irish, is an excuse made very often, and with too much truth.
      Divine service is in general well attended.  The number of com-
      municants at the Established Church is 450.  The manse was
      built above thirty years ago, and is in good repair; the offices are
      bad.  The glebe is in extent 10 acres.  It might be let for about
      L. 15. The stipend is 15 chalders, half barley, half oatmeal
      and L. 8, 6s. 8d. element money.  There are no dissentin cha-
      pels; the Dissenters go to the Dissenting meeting-houses of their
      several persuasions in Stranraer.  There are forty families of Dis-
      senters.  They belong chiefly to the two congregations of the
      United   Secession, and to the Reformed Presbyterian congrega-
      tion; a few belong to the Relief congregation.  Heads of families
      professing themselves to be Dissenters, their children of all ages
      who have not conformed to the Established Church, a few indi-
      viduals who live alone, a few who live in families that are not
      Dissenters, and those families of poor Catholics, make a total of
      191 persons not belonging to the Established Church.
        Education.- There is one parochial school: there are at pre-
      sent three unendowed schools; sometimes there are more.  The
      branches of instruction generally taught in them are, reading and
      writing, English grammar, arithmetic, book-keeping, mensuration,
      and navigation; Latin is also taught in the parochial school.




