
156                  LINLITHGOWSHIRE.

on the brink of the Barbauchlaw water.  A few pairs of the ring-
ouzel (Merula torquata) breed every year about the rocky ground
on the top of Bathgate hills.  The black-headed gull (Larus ridi-
bundus), the coot (Fulica atra), the gallinule or water-hen (Galli-
-nula chloropus), and wild-duck  (Anas boschas) breed-about the
banks of Balbardie loch, and Bathgate water.  The same si-
tuations are visited during autumn and winter by the redshank
sandpiper (Totanus calidris), the heron (Ardea cinerea), the teal
'(Querquedula crecca,) the wigeon (Mareca penelope), the crested
grebe (Podiceps cristatus), the little grebe (Podiceps minor), and
the bittern(Botaurus stellaris).  The great cinereous shrike(Lanius
excubitor, Linn.) the ruff (Machetes pugnax, Cuvier,) and the kite
(Milvus regalia) have been occasionally observed. Golden orioles
(Oriolus galbula) were once observed, and the turtle-dove(Columba
turtur) once killed in the parish. Most birds that are reckoned
game are found in this parish.  Black and red grouse, pheasant,
and partridge * all breed in it. The golden plover (Charadrius
pluvialis) appears in large flocks during winter, and a few breed
with us.  Small flocks of the dotterel (Charodrius morinellus) an-
nually visit our hills in April and May. The quail has also been
seen.  The common snipe, curlew, and lapwing breed with us.
Woodcocks, jack-snipes, fieldfares, and redwings visit its in winter.
So do also flocks of snow-buntings, mountain finches, and starlings.
In summer we have the spotted fly-catcher, the redstart, the wheat-
ear, the whinchat, the sedge warbler, the black-cap warbler, (rare,)
the greater and lesser pettychaps, the white-throat, &c.t  There
am two rookeries in the parish; one, which is extensive, in the
wood close by Balbardie House; the other, which is but the scanty
remains of a large one, is on the estate of Boghead.

<FOOTNOTE>A few years ago partridges were very abundant. The inclemency of the last
two or three seasons has thinned their numbers to such an extent that there seems a
danger of their becoming altogether extinct. in the very cold and wet summer of
1836, several pairs were found dead in the fields with their broods under their wings
-striking proof of the strength of their parental affection.  There are at present
two to be seen on the estate of Barbauch law with beautiful white wings.
    It is impossible to, notice the more common birds.  From MR Weir's notes
however, the following facts may be added: Goldfinches have repeatedly built their
nests in trees in the town of Bathgate.  On one occasion, a pair selected for this pur-
pose a poplar growing on the side of one of the most frequented streets.  They be-
came so tame, as to alight in the gutters with the sparrows in quest of food.  A fe-
male goldfinch was known, twice at lease, to pair with a male linnet in the wild state.
The produce from this union were not admired as songsters.  It is well-known that
bullfinches commit great devastation among the buds of fruit trees and bushes.  Mr
Weir caught a male and a female on their nest in the act of feeding their young ones.
He found their mouths full of small maggots.  It is not improbable, therefore, that
in destroying the buds, the birds are in fact destroying a far worse plague to the gar-
denere than they themselves are imagined to be.


