
                        SCOONIE.                             275

last three years is L. 226, 9s. 8d. with L.10 for communion ele-
ments. 
  There is one Independent and one Relief chapel in the parish,
the ministers of which are paid by the seat rents and the Sabbath
collections. Divine service in the Established Church is regular-
ly and fully attended; but the writer has no means of knowing
the state of the dissenting chapels. Number of families belong-
ing to the Established Church, 384, or 1751 individuals; com-
municants, 738: number of families of dissenters of all denomina-
tions, 156, or individuals, 827; communicants, 410. There are
2 Episcopalians, and 62 who attend no stated place of worship.
  A society for general religious purposes, under the direction of
the ladies of the parish, has been in existence for several years,
and the average annual amount of its contributions for the last
three years is L. 20. There is also a ladies charitable society,
whose expenditure for the last three years has averaged L. 24 per
annum. The church collections for religious and charitable ob-
jects, independent of the regular collections, have, for the last three
years, averaged L. 8, 7s. 2d. per annum.
  Education.--Besides the parish school, there are three unendow-
ed schools, where, in addition to the usual branches, are taught
Greek, Latin, French, and mathematics. There is also a Female
school, where the more ornamental branches of education may be
acquired. The emoluments of the parochial schoolmaster are:
salary L. 34, with L. 2 for deficiency of garden ground; school
fees about L. 70; and from other sources, as session and heritors'
clerk, L. 20. He has also a very superior dwelling-house. The
other teachers are supported entirely by their school fees. The
average number of scholars attending the different schools is about
380, which shows that the inhabitants are sufficiently alive to the
benefits of education; but, though these benefits are within the
reach of all, yet no adequate change for the better has been produ-
ced on the conduct and morals of the people.
  There have been three illegitmate births in the parish during
the last three years.
  I am not aware of any individual above six years of age being
altogether unable to read, except two, and they are imbeciles.
  Literature.--A subscription library, consisting at present of about
650 volumes, has been in operation in this parish for many years;

  <FOOTNOTE>It may be worthy to remark, that the present incumbent is only the third Pres-
byterian minister since the Revolution, the Episcopalian chergyman having been al-
lowed to retain the benefice till his death, which happened about 1717.


