
530                             FORPARSHIRE.

possession, (during which be made considerable exertions in
the way of ornamenting the manor-place), resold this estate unto
Major Skene, a cadet of the family of Skene of Skene.
	On the death of Major Skene, this estate next passed into the
possession of the Laird of Skene of that Ilk, and the twelfth of
the chieftains of the Skene family, who, from father to son, bore
the pronomen of George, Mr Skene acquired this valuable pro-
perty in the following singular manner: Major Skene had two
daughters, the elder of whom was married to the above laird of
Skene, and her younger sister to Sir John Forbes of Foveran.
Both ladies were married at the same time, when their father de-
clared, that he would bequeath his estate to either of his daugh-
ters who should first have a son. In due time, Mrs Skene bore
the heir to this property, which be thus inherited in right of his
mother, as, in that of his father,he enjoyed, from a long paternal
line of ancestors, the estate of Skene. *
  Eminent Men.-The three last Messrs George Skenes were all
eminent for their skill in music. They were also men of great
mental endowments; in consequence of which, and the high
status which they deservedly occupied in the counties of Aber-
deen and Forfar, they took a leading part in all the public cnn,
cerns of these shires. The son of that Mr Skene who was
married to Major Skene's daughter was a great improver
of his estate. In his time, a better mode of agriculture came
into use, such as the cleaning of the ground before cropping,
as well as the application of marl or lime; a new and better ro-
tation of crops, and the raising of esculent plants, were all begun
to be attended to as most requisite branches of husbandry.
	His oldest son, the last George Skene, Esq. was not only
eminent, for his musical talents, but was also an able lin-
guist, being versant in the ancient and several of the modern
languages. He represented the largre and important county
of Aberdeen in three different Parliaments. Long aftewards,
he sat in the House of Commons as Member for the Elgin

<FOOTNOTE>It may be mentioned here, that, very early in the morning of the 5th day of
April 1645, the famous Marquis of Montrose, along with his army, rested for a short
time on the lawn of Careston, during their basty retreat from Dundee before the Co.
venanters, and on their way to the Highlands. Afraid that they should be overtaken
by far superior munbers, the Marquis continued his march incessantly in the gloom
of night, as not deeming it safe to halt for the shortest time until he should pass
the river Esk, which thus formed a seasonable protection from the pursuing
enemy. The royalist army, after ashort respite, resumed their march northwards,
and in passing Balnamoon, breakfasted there with its bountiful landlord; for which
hospitality, that good man was fined by those then in power.


