
     Statistical Account

   Canal, Roads, etc.-Instead of the projected canal at Cri-
nan, to save the navigation round Kintyre, it was in contem-
plation to have one at Tarbert, by cutting through the above
mentioned isthmus, which is only one mile in breadth, while
the distance from Crinan to Lochgilphead is not less than
five.  The saving of expence, with the superiority of east
and west Tarbert lochs as harbours, and for good anchoring
ground, would more than compensate the difference of navi-
gation saved by the Crinan canal.  There are three good
lines of road in the parish, kept in repair by an equivalent
paid for the statute labour.  One of them intersects the pe-
ninsula of Kintyre, at the distance of six miles from its isth-
mus.  The other two are on the opposite shores of Loch

<FOOTNOTE>

water by a submarine passage in pipes across the harbour; a cir-
cumstances which, is true, shews that our ancestors were bet-
ter acquainted than we suppose with the laws of hydrosta-
tics.  Tarbert was in the last century the seat of a sheriffdom
of the same name.  There are the remains of many other old
sorts in the parish, particularly one with vitrified walls, and
another with a very thick wall of dry stones, both built on the
hill of Dunskeig, which commands the opening of Loch Tar-
bert.  There are many cairns in the parish.  Some years ago,
a cottager found, in a moss on the estate of Lord Stonefield,
several pieces of ancient brass armour.
   Partly situated in the Kilberry division of this parish is Sliabh
Gaoil, The Hill of Love, celebrated in ancient story as the
scene of the death of Diarmid, the Achilles of the Fingalian
heroes, and the great progenitor of the family of Campbell,
who are known to this day by the name of Clann Diarmid,
The children of Diarmid.
   Among the curiosities in this parish are immense banks of
oyster shells in Loch Tarbert, with which the inhabitants ma-
nure their lands; and potatoes found growing spontaneously on
the estate of Largie, in different parts of the same farm, one of
which is distant half a mile from any place where that root ever
had been planted.  The fact is certain.  How they came there,
is left to the investigation of the curious.  Might they not be
natural to a soil so favourable to their growth, as well as to
America, or the islands in the Pacific Ocean?


