
                        AUCHTERHOUSE.                       649

3567 acres are under cultivation, 1406 under wood, and 475 are
hill pasture.
   The cultivated land is in general a black mould, mixed in some
places with sand, over a stratum of till or clay, or a bed of marl,
and incumbent on rock. Under judicious management, it pro-
ducess good crops of turnips and potatoes, and oats and barley;
but wheat has been found, for several years, not to afford an ade-
quate renumeration, and has, on that account, not been exten-
sively sown.
   The uncultivated ground is, with the exception of a few small
patches, a thin surface of moorland over a bed of retentive till,
resting on rock; but, to the elevation of about 900 feet, some
kinds of forest trees grow on it very freely, and to a considerable
size. Scotch fir and spruce thrive well on thhs soil; but larch,
from some cause not yet well ascertained, has for several years,
been found subject to disease and decay, within a few years after
being planted on it.
   Sandstone rock lies at or near the surface of almost the whole
extent of this parish, and is raised and prepared for several useful
purposes at a moderate expense. The Hill of Sidla is a mass of
the oldest series of sandstone, intersected in some places with trap
dikes, and in others overlaid with trap. In some places, the sand-
stone is in thick beds, and of gross texture, with a dip to the west
of about one foot in six, and affords durable materials for building;
in other places, it is in thin beds, and of the texture, and is
formed into pavement and coarse slates. In these thin beds are
found wedges of calm, and impressions of organic remains of the
vegetable kingdom.
   Rivulets.-The rivulets in this parish have their source in the
loch of Lundie, on the west, and in the spring near the base of
Sidla, on the north. One of these rivulets runs five miles from
west to east, along the whole line of the south border of the pa-
rish, and is called, for part of its course, the Burn of Dronly;
but, at the village of Dronly, where it receives the Burn of Auch-
terhouse from the north-west, it assumes the name of Dighty
Water for the rest of its course eastward through the parishes of
Mains and Strathmartine, and Monifieth, till it falls into the Tay,
near the influx of that river into the German Ocean. The Burn
of Dronly, before its juction with that of Auchterhouse, is the
moving power of one yarn washing-mill; and the Burn of Auch-
terhouse, its junction with that of Dronly, is the moving


