
                         DALSERF.                         739

at that date, with the proportions of the poor and working-classes
belonging to the the denominations:-

<TABLE>
                          Established        Other	 Of no religious   Total.
                            Church.	denominations.	  denomination.
                             2294        552               28        2874
Poor and working classes,    1986        503               27         2516

   The persons (28 in number), described as being of no religious
denomination, were nearly all nominally of the church, and would
probably have been very averse to being returned as above.  But,
baving ceased for some years to attend public worship anywhere,
they were excluded from the list of persons belonging to the Church
of Scotland.
   The number of proprietors of land of the yearly value of L. 50
and upwards is 8 or 9.  The principal heritors are mostly non-
resident.  Their mansion-houses, however, are, in general, let to
respectable tenants, which makes their absence the less felt. Four
families of independent income reside in the parish.  About the
same number of families live on their private means, less or greater,
without following any industrial occupation.
   The people of the parish may be described in general terms as
a well-favoured race, of light and florid complexion, and in point
of size and strength fully equal to the average of the district.
There are 2 deaf and dumb persons, 3 blind, and 6 who are
weak or disordered in mind.  Of this last class 4 may be described
as fatuous, while 2 are liable to fits of violence, and require occa.
sional restraint.
   A disease resembling the goitre of alpine countries is rather
prevalent in the parish, especially among females, 10 or 12 of
whom are affected by a large and unseemly swelling of the throat.
The disease of late years has been on the increase.  There is
probably, some local reason for it; but the medical men who have
been applied to have not been able to give any explanation of the
matter.
   In point of intelligence and general character the inhabitants of
the parish are, at least, upon a level with their neighbours around
them.  Not a few natives of the parish have realized fortunes in In-
dia and elsewhere.  Several of these have, at various times, pur-
chased estates in different parts of the country, and founded fami-
lies, now ranking among the landed proprietary and gentry of
Scotland.  In Stating the general character of the people, moral
and religious, the same set of remarks will not apply equally to the
agricultural and manufacturing population.  The former, or rural


