
                 KILMORE AND KILBRIDE.                       533

miles.  The scenery along the road by which the coach travels is
seldom surpassed for grandeur and romantic beauty.
   A good hotel and several boarding-houses afford comfortable
accommodation to the numerous travellers who visit Oban.
   Post-Office.--There is a post-office, where a mail arrives and is
despatched daily.
   Banks.--A branch of the National Bank of Scotland has been
in operation bere for about fifteen years, and a savings' bank has
been established for two years.  The deposits in the latter in
1840 amounted to L.415, of which was withdrawn L.58, 2s. 6d.
In 1841, the sum deposited amounted to L.1193, 6s. 3d., of which
L.199, 15s. 6d. was withdrawn.
   Oban is a parliamentary burgh, and, along with Ayr, Irvine,
Campbetton, and Inverary, returns a Member to Parliament.
   There is a Sheriff-court for small debts, held quarterly, and a
Justice of Peace court monthly.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The number of paupers in the
whole parish (including, Oban) an the roll is about 60, who re-
ceive at an average about L1, 10s. yearly from the collections
made in the parish churches and chapel of Oban, and from do-
nations by the heritors.  They are principally supported by beg-
ging through the parish.  The heritors at present support three
pauper lunatics, one of whom is in the Royal Lunatic Asylum,
Glasgow; another in the Town Hospital, Paisley and a third
in the parish.
   Inns.--In the landward parish there are four inns, wbich do
not seem to have, to any extent, an injurious effect on the morals
of the people.
   In Oban, in addition to the principal hotel, which is well and
regularly kept, there is a number of public-houses, some of which
afford too many facilities for indulging in the use of ardent spirits.
   Fuel--Coals, brought from Glasgow and the coast of Ayr, at
an expense of about 13s. per ton, and peats found almost on every
farm, afford a sufficient supply of fuel

                MISCELLANNEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   Since the last Statistical Account of this parish was written,
land has beea much improved; a better system of cultivation
adopted; and a considerable extent, of ground planted.  The
rental of the parish is more than double what it then war.
The mansion-houses of the proprietors, are enlarged and more
comodious, and the people in general are more comfortably
lodged than formerly.
  January 1843.


