
278                   HADDINGTONSHIRE.

nearest market-town is Haddington, distant nearly two miles from
the lower part of the parish, and two miles and three-quarters from
the church. Besides what is sold in Haddington, a considerable
part of the produce is carried to the Dahkeith and Edinburgh
markets.
   Means of Communication.-The great road from London to
Edinburgh by Haddington passes within the distance specified in
the last particular. The road from Edinburgh to Dunse, by
Tranent, Pencaitland, Salton, Yester, and across the Lammer-
muir Hills, traverses the parish near the centre, where it is nar-
rowest, being there scarcely a mile in breadth. There is another
road tolerably good for a considerable part of its length, which
crosses that last mentioned nearly at right angles, and runs through
the whole length of the parish. Several of the statute labour
roads are in a rather indifferent state of repair. There is no post-
office in the parish. It is accommodated by the office at Had-
dington, and part of the upper part of the parish by that at West
Salton.
   Ecclesiatical State.-William de Vetereponte, before-mention-
ed, granted the church of Bolton, with its lands, tithes, and perti-
nents to the canons of Holyrood; and this gift was confirm-
ed by a charter of William the Lion. It remained in the bands
of the canons of Holyrood till the Reformation. In 1633, the
epoch of the Episcopate of Edinburgh, it was annexed to the new-
ly created bishoprick, which was itself subverted in 1641. In
the ancient taxation, the church of Bolton was rated at the incon-
siderable value of 20 merks. *
   The present church was built in 180.9. It is a handsome
building in what has been called, whether properly or not, the
modern Gothic style, with a square tower at the western end. It
can accommodate nearly 300 sitters, and, consequently, is larger
than is necessary for the population. The situation is very incon-
venient for the upper part of the parish, being near its lower ex-
tremity. The manse was built a few years before the church; is
suitable to the parish, and in good repair.
   The glebe contains 6.286 acres, and was let during the greater
part of the writer's incumbency for L. 25; but is not worth so
much now. The stipend is the minimum, with L. 8, 8s. 10 1/2d.
in name of grass mail and communion elements, though now
quite inadequate for both purposes.

<FOOTNOTE>Caledonia, Vol. ii. P. 531.


