
                           AVONDALE.                             305

soft that the horses of the dragoons were unable to pass. In en-
deavouring to cross this little stream, the military were exposed to
the deadly aim of the country people, who from all accounts be-
haved with uncommon coolness and steadiness. Claverhouse him-
self was in imminent danger. He was the first to carry the news of
his own defeat to Glasgow.--Auchengelloch in this parish was
also famous for its conventicles; but as it is quite inaccessible to
cavalry, it does not appear that the people ever experienced any
interruption. At this latter place, a small stone monument was
lately erected, pointing out the place, where the "remnant of the
covenant," far out in wild and the waste, met together to hear
the glad tidings of salvation proclaimed to them.
	I grieve to be under the necessity of noticing--a "rising" here
of a very different description in 1819, --a rising in open re-
bellion against lawful authority, and intended against both the
altar and throne. I refer to the attempt of a few deluded persons
calling themselves "Radicals" who, with something like weapons in
their hands, marched from this place towards Glasgow, under the
command of a James Wilson, whose life was soon after forfeited to
the outraged laws of his country. It does not appear that Wilson
ever contemplated carrying matters so far as to become an open re-
bel against the laws of his country; but he had infused a spirit into
his companions which he was unable to control. This rising was in
the utmost degree contemptible, for it comprised no more than
thirteen individuals, deluded by a false report that a general rebel-
lion had taken place in Glasgow. It has been remarked that none of
those who joined in the ludicrous crusade afterwards experienced
any thing like prosperity.

			III.--POPULATION.
		In 1801 the population was	3623
		   1811,			4353
		   1821,			5030
		   1831,			5761
Population of the town in 1831,						3597
Number of families in the parish,					1246
		chiefly employed in agriculture,			 311
			in trade, manufactures, or handicraft. 		 672
	The number of weavers in both town and parish may be said to
amount to nearly 800. Many of the weavers are proprietors of
their own houses, and upon the whole are diligent and industrious.
There are several extensive dealers in cheese and cattle. In these
two departments there is perhaps more business done in Strathaven
than in all Lanarkshire, with the exception of the, city of Glas-


