
	982                          FIFESHIRE.

	The great bulk of the population attend the Established Church
	with the exception of some Dissenters, not amounting to a hun-
	dred. The average number of cominunicants for several years
	past has been upwards of 620.
	   Education.-There is one parochial school. There are also a
	female and an infant school, mostly supported by the school fees
	and partly by subscription. There are other two schools upon the
	teachers' own adventure.  The female teacher assembles a class
	every Sunday morning for religious instruction, and a Sabbath
	school is taught in the evening, which is numerously attended
	by both boys and girls.  The branches of instruction generally
	taught in the parish school, are, English, English grammar, writ-
	ing, arithmetic, geography, French, Latin, matbematies, and na-
	vigation. The salary of the schoolmaster is the maximum, and
	the school fees are 2s. 6d. for English, 3s. 6d., for arithmetic, and
	5s. for Latin, &c. per quarter.
           The house occupied by the teacher has more than the legal
	accommodation, but the garden ground being deficient, an allow-
	ance is granted by the lieritors. The people in general being
	alive to the benefits of education, it is believed that there are
	comparatively few who cannot read or write.
	   The only circulating library in the parish is one connected with
	the Sabbath school, which consists of religious publications.
	   Several Societies at one time existed in the parish, but they are
	mostly broken up, with the exception of one which the fishermen
	maintain for the support of the aged, and widows and children;
	and another which a few benevolent individuals some years ago
	organised, for administering a little relief to aged females.
	    Poor and Parochial Funds.-The funds for the support of the
	poor are procured froni church collections, seat rents, interest of
	money, &c. and volui)tary assessment on the heritors. The ave-
	rage number of poor on the roll for the years 1840, 1841, and
	1842, is 15 ; average expense of their maintenance per year, L.97,
	0s. 3d.; average sum expended yearly on the occasional poor,
	L.19, 7s. 9d.; total yearly expense of maintaining the poor,
	L.116, 8s., including two lunatics.
	   The average amount of church collections for 1840, 1841, and
	1842, is  L.29, 18s. 6d.; Do. seat rents for each of these years,
	L.31, 11s. 8d.; De interest of money, &c. yearly, L.5, 5s.; Do.
	voluntary assessment yearly, L49, 12s. 10d.; amount of contri-
	butions for relief of the poor yearly, L.116, 8s.


