
               NEILSTON.                                        343

nances in the parish. At. last, they laid their heads together
in 1826, a year of -bad trade, when most of them bad  nothing to
live upon, and no money to pay for seat rents,-and reso I Ived,-that
none of them would take one another's seats'; and that next Sabbath,
the day after the public roup, they would go to their seats as usual.
Hearing of this determination of the seat-holder.-, the heritor-o pro-
cured an inte7-dict from Sheriff Dunlop, ',against aM and sundry
from entering the seats of the church without the heritorv autho-
rity,"-which could only be obtained by paying seat-renl
. On this, the church was deserted, and the minister, unwilling to
preach to bare walls and empty benches, went to the tent in the
churchyard, and there, in the open air, summer and winter, for
eight years, preached unto his people. Litigatioin, oppressive
and keen, in the church courts, commenced against him.  But ha
never ceased to defend himself and his claim for free sitting, till
he obtained a triumph by the subjoined judgment of the General
Assembly in 1830, drawn up by that eminent law er, John Hope,:
                      y
Esq. Advocate, then Solicitor-,General.*
In the face of this declaration, which is sufficiently plain and
explicit, the heritors of Neilston continued the interdict, and let the
seats as usual by public roup,,to whomsoever would take the-in.
By the Act of Assembly 1828, the minister was ordered back
to the church to give sermoii. This he did. In the forenoon he'
preached to the heritors, their families, and tenants, and in the, af-
41 Parties being fully heard, were removed. After reasoninc, the General As.
setnbly, without a vote, pronounced the following deliverance: --'I%e Genetal As-
sembly having hqd this petition under consideration, feel bound'and called upon. ail
e guardians of the spiritual interests and ecclesiastical rights and privileges of the-
people of Scotland, solemnly and firmly to amert the right of Oarishioners ;npftting
church accommodation, to the full extent to which they are dntitled to the =me,-Uil".
der the established constitution of the Church of Scotland. The General Ais;eml)lk
do assert and nointain, as one of the undoubted rights and Privileges'of the church,
     t                                         e tie sub
that accomnio& ion in parish churches cannot be mad                 feet of profit or in-
come of any sort by the beritorr, to whatever purpose they may be applied: and the
General Assembly do distinctly assert, i vindicatio of the privilqpw of the
                    n       , 'a                             pwpik-,
               that in parish churches, re ularly built by beritors in country parishes. in implemelt
t.p
of those legal obligatin.Impo;*don the Possession and etdoyment- of tbei re_
pprty, the surplus Area &Uotted to heri ts, after, accommodating hemsov,-, 04r
tenants, and others residin on their estates who have a right to accom odation in
9
the same,, is destitied" for the acwmmodation of other parizin, d Ought to6e
go, appropriated, subject, to the fair allotment and distribution to stwh Paxitlioners an
mai be preferred by the' hectors and the Ge' neral AsstibIy dg solenly prqtesk
agaitistanyclx'tworprotension7ofright,onthopwtofbadtorsto&,tsuchourab*
;Lrem, or any,pao of' the area of the church in such cases, or to draw an ITICome from,

the same,"'D whatever otijo--cts 1             and do ..T.Z MiidWi
that amb pretension is oontra           emlesimtical ftm6titutipp,-
and inconsistent with the r	the	of 4cotland,;w orig
iotooded and secured lborlbtr,


