
			KINCARDINESHIRE.

very thick, and full of arrow-holes, and the stones in many parts
appear much worn by the lapse of ages. There is every appear-
ance of its having been surrounded by a moat, over which there
had been a drawbridge with a portcullis near the outer gate
of the court. Several additions appear to have been made to this
castle at different periods. Above a door in the court, there is the
date 1687, with the initials of a proprietor, Mr Raitt, who then
occupied this mansion, and bad made a considerable addition to
it; and there is in one of the principal room, on the stucco-ceil-
ing, a coat-of-arms, with the words Spero meliora, and the date
1683. There are also some paintings on the old wainscots which
lines the walls, which look like Dutch paintings, viz. two landscapes
and a flower-piece. The modern part of this building is habitable,
and is presently occupied by a family.
	It may not be improper to notice here some other evidences of
the antiquity and consequence of the burgh of Inverbervie, such
as the existence of a spacious mansion, surrounded by a high wall,
having an arched gateway, in front, of fine workmanship. This
edifice, it is said, originally belonged to the Marischal family, and
latterly became the property and was the town residence of the
noble family of Arbuthnott. No part of the building now remains.
It was taken down, and the foundation cleared out, about twenty
years ago, to make way for feuing and other improvements. There
are several other old buildings pointed out as the town residences
of the neighbouring lairds. All these circumstances shew that
this place bad attracted early notice, and had been a favourite place
of resort for the gentry,
	The townhouse is a building of two storeys. There are two
dates above the door, the one is 1569, and the other 1720, with
the word below it rebuilt. It consists of a ball and small council-
room in the upper floor, and the lower contains the flesh and
meal-market, to which there is attached a small arched vault, vul-
garly called the Black Hole. This place is quite unfit for the re-
gular confinement of prisoners, but is found sometimes very con-
venient when vagrants become troublesome, and give annoyance
to the inhabitants for they are shut up in it for a few hours by
order of the magistrates. There is a handsome belfry on the town.
house, containing a bell, which is rung four times a-day for the
benefit of the public, viz. at six and nine o'clock in the morning,
at two in the afternoon, and at nine at night.
	Modern Buildings.--The new parish church, which was opened


