
   12                   KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.


   of Kirkcudbright, erected by one of the Lords of Galloway, to
   Walter De Courry, and afterwards to Richard Seward, who, on
   the mandate of the English King, delivered it up to John Ba-
   liol, to whom the kingdom of Scotland was nominally awarded.
     After his defeat at Falkirk, the partriot Wallace took shipping
   at Kirkcudbright, and sailed to France with Maclellan of Bombie,
   ancestor of the noble family of Kirkcudbright, and about fifty
   faithful adherents. Edward L., in his career of conquest, reach-
   ed the town of Kirkcudbright, and took up his abode in the
   castle, where he remained with his queen and court for ten
   days, and made his usual  oblations in the priory church.  From
   the port of Kirkcudbright he sent into both England and Ire-
   land large quantities of wheat, to be made into flour for the use
   of his army.  The Archbishop of Canterbury, attended by his
   learned dignitaries, clerks, and servants, followed Edward to Kirk-
   cudbright with a Papal bull; but before his arrival the king had
   departed from the town.  Bakers from Carlisle, and experienced
   fishermeu with suitable nets, attended the royal army.
     Edward Bruce having subdued Galloway, received from his
   royal brother, as a reward of his important services, the Lordship
   of Galloway, with the castle of Kirkcudbright, and all Baliol's
   forfeited estates. This ruler granted to the priory of Whithorn
   the half of the salmon fishery of the Dee, near Kirkcudbright.
     In the reign of James II. Sir John Herries of Terregles applied
   to Douglas of Threave Castle for compensation for some robberies
   committed by the dependents of the powerful chief.  The appli-
   cation was unsuccessful; and he, aided by Maclellan of Bombie,
   made an inroad into the territories of the Earl, but his party was
   routed, and he himself taken prisoner, and executed in defiance of
   the king's command.  The encounter is thought to have taken
   place about a mile and a-half from the town of Kirkcudbright,
   on the old road to Dumfries, at a place still called " Herries
   slaughter."
     The tutor of Bombie sonn shared the same fate.   Admittance
   having been obtained, either by force or treachery, into his castle
   of Raeberry, the principal residence of the family, he was seized,
   carried to Threave Castle, and beheaded, although Sir Patrick
   Gray, the King's messenger had arrived to demand the custody
   of the prisoner.  Douglas was stabbed by the king's own hand in
   the castle of Stirling on the 20th day of February 1452.
     In about three years after this event, James visited the town of



