
200			  LANARKSHIRE.

duced here. A large steam vessel for the Mediterranean trade was
lately launched at Glasgow.
	Application of the Steam-Engine in propelling vessels.--The
application of steam in propelling vessels long engaged the atten-
tion of men of mechanical genius. In 1736, Mr Jonathan Hulls
obtained a patent for "a new invented machine for carrying ves-
sels of ships out or of into any harbour, port, or river against wind
and tide, or in calm;" but this scheme did not succeed. In 1781,
the Marquis de Fouffroy made some unsuccessful experiments in
propelling vessels by steam on the Saone at Lyons. In 1785, Mr
James Rumsey of Virginia, and Mr John Fitch of Philadelphia,
made several experiments, which were also unsuccessful. In the
same year, Mr Patrick Miller of Dalswinton, Dumfries-shire, made
several experiments with paddles, on twin and triple vessels, work-
ed by men and horses, an account of which he published in February
1787. Soon after this, Mr Miller, built a boat with two keels,
between which he introduced a propelling paddle; and Mr Wil-
liam Symington of Falkirk, applied the steam-engine to it; and
in 1788, Mr Miller and Mr Symington made an experiment with
it on Dalswinton ponf. But after several attempts, it was found
that the engine and wheel were so inefficient, as occasionally to
require the assistance of manual labour at a windlass. Some time
after this, Mr Miller caused a larger engine to be made at Carron
Works, and an experiment was made with it on the Forth and
Clyde Canal, which, though answering better than the former did
not succeed. In 1794, the Earl of Stanhope constructed a steam-
vessel with paddles under her quarters, but with no better success.
In 1801 and 1802, Lord Dundas, then Governor of the Forth and
Clyde Navigation, employed Mr Symington to construct a steam-
boat for that canal, but this boat, from what Mr Symington called
the "opposition of narrow minds," was laid up in a creek near
Bainsford Bridge, where it remained as a wreck for many years.
Mr Taylor and other ingenious individuals also failed in their
laudable attempts.
	The whole race of steam propellers having thus left the field
one by one, without being able to effect their object, the ground
was occuphed by Mr Henry Bell, * who, having a turn for mechanics,
made a steam-engine of three horse-power, and employed Messrs

<FOOTNOTE>Mr Bell was born in the parish of Torphicken, Linlithgowshire, on 7th April
1767. He died at the Baths, Helensburgh, Dumsbartonshire, on 14th November


