
142                  HADDINGTONSHIRE.

the Tyne, are the remains of an old camp of a circular form, sup-
posed to be Danish or British. Its form sufficiently indicates, it
was not Roman. And as the Danes, according to Chalmers, (Ca-
ledonia, Vol. ii. p. 465,) never penetrated into the county of East
Lothian, it was probably British. Twenty years ago, before the
field where it is situate was ploughed up, two trenches with which
it was surrounded were very distinctly marked: for several years,
however, the field has been under the plough, and they have al-
most disappeared. In a few years more, it is likely not a vestige
will be seen.
   East and West Paiston are about half a mile distant from each
other. The whole of the intervening space in ancient times seems
to have been occupied with houses forming a considerable village.
According to tradition, there were once seven farm-houses in that
tract. A burying-ground was attached to it, situate betwixt Pais.-
ton and Templehall, in which a former tenant is said to have
removed several large grave-stone. It has been planted, and the
trees are now pretty well grown, and seem to be stronger upon
the site of the church-yard than elsewhere. I have not been able
to ascertain whether there was a church there. It is probable
there was, and that Templehall was the house belonging to the
church.
   Modern Buildings.-The chief modern building in the parish
is Ormiston Hall. The old house in which the family resided, is
about 200 yards to the west of the present, and forms part of a
court of offices and servants' houses. A part of the principal stair-
case still remains, leading into an apartment which has been con-
verted into a carpenter's shop. The present emallsion-house was
built by Mr Cockburn in 1745. Three additions have since been
made to it at different times,-the last of which was two years ago,
when it was fitted tip for the accommodation of the Dowager Coun-
tess of Hopetoun, who now inhabits it as her jointure house.

                       III.-POPULATION.

   There are no data by which the ancient state of the population
can be ascertained. About the middle of the last century, it was
810.

<TABLE>

                  In 1790, the population was    863
                     1801,                       766
                     1811,                       727
                     1821,                       779
                     1831,                       838

   In an account of the parish given into the Presbytery in 1649 by
Mr John Sinclair, minister, he states the number of communicants


