
84                        ELGINSHIRE.

they may be traced in a westerly direction through the parish of
Birnie, in the northern half of which they form the underlying rocks.
The southern half lies on gneiss, destitute alike of such metallic
veins and calcareous beds as this rock in many other places is found
to contain.  The lowest beds of the old red sandstone here present
a very hard, compact and flinty appearance, very different from the
overlying conglomerates, which are comparatively easily disinte-
grated bythe weather, and cut into deep ravines by the smallest
rivulets.  With the exception of a few detached patches of lias,
which are met with between the town of Elgin and the frith, the
old red sandstone formation (including some rather unusual subor-
dinate strata of cornstone and yellowish gray sandstone, destitute
of fossils,) comprehends all the secondary rocks of the lower part
of Elginsbire, so that, notwithstanding the traditional and long
cherished hope, the true coal measures need not be looked for in
it.  Neither the gneiss nor harder strata of the sandstone have
been quarried in this parish, the outliers or boulder stones being
abundant enough for all the building required.  The softer con-
glomerates and upper beds are unsuitable for this purpose.
   Over the rocks that lie in situ, there is generally such a depth
of sand, gravel, and other alluvial matter, that they have little or
no influence on the soil.  However, when the softer varieties of
the conglomerate approach the surface, the soil partakes much of
the component parts of the rock, and thereby becomes one of the
most fertile and productive. The productiveness of the soils here
seems to depend as much, if not more, upon the character of the
subsoil, than upon the proportion in which their own ingredients
meet.  The prevailing soil in cultivation is of a gravelly or sandy
nature; but examples present themselves at no great distance from
each other, not unfrequently on the same farm, running from a
deep retentive clay, through the rich haugh loam, up to the light
sandy soil of the gravelly bank.
   Several large granitic boulder stones are to be met with here, as
in other places, far from their parent rocks, and are lasting monu-
ments of the impetuosity with which the floods and currents of
water, in a bygone period have swept the surface of the globe.
Peat of good quality, with imbedded trunks and roots of fir and
other trees, is found near the top of the Manoch-hill, and in a
hollow near the glen of Rothes.  Formerly there I was much of it
carried to and sold in Elgin; but the more general use of coal
has superseded in a great measure the use of peat as fuel.


