
212                         PERTHSHIRE.

	   To the welfare of the parish, and more especially to their reli-
	gious instruction, he was equally attentive.  He feared God, and
	honoured the King.  He remembered the Sabbath day, and was
	never absent from church, except from necessity.  His example
	was highly useful in his own time.  Still more useful must such
	praiseworthy conduct be in our times, to put to shame, if possible,
	increasing impiety, and to stem the overflowing tide of iniquity.
	Lord Dunsinnan died 22d of March 1812, being upwards of eighty
	years old, and was buried within the walls of the old church of
	Collace, now converted into a mausoleum for the Dunsinnan fa-
	mily; and to which there is access by a large arched gateway of
	uncommon beatty, and of the rare and ancient order of Saxon ar-
	chitecture.  Lord Dunsinnan was succeeded by our present sole
	heritor, James Mellis Nairne, Esq. who has followed the exam-
	ple of his predecessor, and has laid out a great deal of money in
	improving and beautifying his estate, though it is strictly entailed
	on heirs-male.
	   Modern Buildings.-Dunsinnan House, situated in the north-
	west corner of the parish, with a fine southern exposure, and screen-
	ed from the winter blast by extensive plantations, has been lately
	greatly enlarged and modernized by Mr Nairne.  No pains have
	been spared to render this mansion not only elegant, but capable
	also of containing the largest family.  The offices have been re-
	built on the newest and most approved plan, and are uncommonly
	spacious and convenient.  The new church, which was finished
	in 1813, is a handsome Gothic structure, with a square tower sur-
	mounted by minarets.  Built on commanding ground, and sur-
	rounded with venerable trees, it is highly ornamental, and much
	and deservedly admired.
	   In 1825 a new school and school-house were erected, furnish-
	ing ample accommodation for master and scholars.  This build-
	ing, combining every desirable requisite, with a prudent regard to
	economy, may be safely recommended as a model for all such pa-
	rochial new structures when they are required.  The garden, partly
	surrounded bY a substantial wall, eight feet high, is tastefully laid
	out, and the whole premises are kept in excellent order.
	   Quarries.-Two quarries, which have been long wrought on the
	estAte, furnish freestone in abundance, and of thd best quality, for
	all the houses and other mason-work in the parish.
	   Antiquities.-Of these the most remarkable is the far-famed
	hill of Dunsinane, which rises nearly 800 feet above its base, and


