
	1002 				PERTHSHIRE.

	very much to the circumstance, it is thought, that, although there
	was a session-clerk, there was no session for the greater part of
	the above period.
		Land-owner.-These are, Andrew Gemmel, Esq. of Lethendy,
	valuation L.830, 15s. Id. Scots; Sir John Muir Mackenzie,
	Bart. Delvine, L.264, 12s. Scots; David Kinloch, Esq. of Gourdie,
	L.165, 4s. ld.
	  Antiquities.-The tower of Lethendy, the property of Mr
	Gemmel, is a very old building. It is supposed to have been a
	stronghold, before the use of fire arms was introduced into this
	country; but, upon the whole, it does not appear to have been well
	defended by its situation, especially on the east and south.
		A few years ago, a pot was found in the peat moss at Blacklock.
	It is supposed that it was one of the camp pots used by
        the Romans. It is made of a compound metal, something like
        our brass or bell metal. It stands upon three feet, is about 17
	inches high, is 3 feet 4 inches in circumference, and capable of
	holding about six Scotch pints. It was found about 6 feet under
	the surface.

			III.-POPULATION.
		The population in 1841 was 287, viz. 132 males, and 155 females.
	It is altogether rural.
		The number of illegitimate births in the parish within the last
	three years, 3.

			<TABLE= IV.-INDUSTRY.>

		Number of acres, standard imperial measure, in the parish, which are
			either cultivated or occasionally in tillage, about 		1486
		Number of acres which never have been cultivated, and which remain
	  		constantly waste or in pasture.				          16
		Number of acres that might, with a profitable application of capital,
		        be added to the cultivated land of the parish, whether that
			land were afterwards to be kept in occasional tillage or in
                        permanent pasture, about                                           3
                Number of acres in a state of undivided common,                            0
                        under wood, whether natural or planted,                          128

	Average rent of land per acre, about L.1, 5s. Real rental of
	the parish, L.1797.
		Live-Stock.-There are only about 70 horses in the parish.
	The number of black-cattle in the parish, young and old, is now
        about 270. On some farms, the number of young cattle kept
	three years for sale (that being the general selling time) is one-
	third of the whole stock; on other farms, one-half; and on our
	largert farms, they form five-sixths.


