
280                   HADDINGTONSHIRE.

for the master are provided. The dwelling-house has just under-
gone extensive repairs. The school-house was built a few years
ago, and is very neat, substantial, and commodious. The school
is well attended. The present teacher has had upwards of 100
scholars in winter. The average attendance is about 72. But
this school cannot in future be expected to attract so many child-
ran, as some of the adjoining parishes are now better appointed in
teachers than they were during the greater portion of the period
to which the above statement refers. It is not believed that there
are any above six years of age who cannot read more or less accu-
rately, and few who cannot also write. The parents, in general,
seem anxious to have their children educated according to their
circumstances, although in some cases they are not kept sufficiently
long at school, nor so regularly as is necessary.
   There is, besides the week-day school, one on the Sabbath, ex-
clusively for religious instruction; and a more advanced class taugh
in the minister's house on the Sabbath evenings.
   Libraries.-There is a small parochial library; and for a good
many years past, there has been stationed here one division of the
Itinerating Libraries, established by Mr Samuel Brown of Had-
dington.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of persons
receiving parochial aid for the last ten years is 4, nearly one in
every 70. The allowance to each for a year is from L. 3, 5s. to
L. 3, 18s., although in extraordinary cases more is given. The
average expenditure for the last seven years has been L. 26, 8s.;
but this includes several small fees, for which there is no other
provision. The income to meet this arises from the weekly col-
lections, the interest of L. 120 of accumulations, the hire for a
hearse and mortcloths, and an assessment averaging for the above
period L. 8, 13s. 21d. per annum.
   Our experience here accords with that of all the parishes where
recourse has been had to assessments for any length of time,-
namely, a diminishing reluctance to apply for parochial aid, and
less of that honourable and amiable anxiety in children to share
their gains in promoting the comfort of their aged parents, who
submitted to many privations on their account, before they were
able to provide for themselves. It must, however, in justice be
recorded, that there are honourable and laudable exceptions to
this common remark. There are some children who struggle hard
and submit cheerfully to many privations, for the sake of their aged


