
476                          FORFARSHIRE.

			 II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
        Antiquities.-About a mile from the old church of Eassie, there
is a large circular mound, on which the farm-house of Castle
Nairne is built.
	The ground, to a considerable extent around, is quite flat. Si-
milar remains of antiquity are found in various parts, not only o.
Scotland, but England and Ireland, and have bad new light thrown
upon them by a recent and very curious book, entitled "the Doc-
trine of the Deluge," by the Rev. Vernon Harcourt, son of the
Archbishop of York. He connects them with that great fact
of Scripture history, and calls them "Memorials of Arkite
Worship." He observes, "These Arkite memorials abound
along the Grampians, for the Arkite worship clung most te-
naciously to islands and mountains." To this origin he traces,
and upon this principle he explains, other antiquities of the
country. Those curious cells under ground, of which there
are specimens in the parish of Tealing and elsewhere, and which
are generally supposed to be Pictish, he pronounces to be "Ar-
kite cells for penance and purification." They were so small
that the devotee could hardly stretch himself on the floor. With
regard to the ancient mound in this parish, whatever might
have been its original purpose, it has evidently been at some Pe-
riod a military station. The deep and broad moat that surrounded
it still remains. Traces of a draw-bridge were at one time visible.
Some years ago, several coins of Edward I. were found on it, and
still more recently, a spear-head, evidently of great antiquity. In
the immediate neighbourhood is the farm of Ingliston, on a part
of which, at one time, could be distinctly traced the outlines of
an encampment.
	It is highly probable, under these circumstances, that the Eng-
glish army under Edward had occupied this position. The works
of former ages often came in the course of time and change of
circumstances to serve purposes different from the original one.
That which was intended for worship has been converted to war;
and thus the mound in question, with equal truth, may be viewed
in the light of a military station, and a "diluvian" mount.
	Another curious remain of antiquity is a large sculptured stone
that stands near to the old church at Eassie. It is less known than
those at. Meigle and Aberlemno, owing to its having lain for many
years neglected in the stream. But it belongs to the same class,
and possesses the same characteristics as those more celebrated


