

        1124                     PERTHSHIRE.

        firs, sometimes without any other kind of trees, but more frequent-
        ly interspersed with the dofferemt kinds of hardwood generally cul-
        tivated.   A great part of the wood in the parish has been recent-
        ly planted.  The younger larch plantations have suffered severely
        by the prevalent blight, and threaten in many instances to disap-
        point the hopes of the proprietors, who naturally expected that
        they would become in a few years, a shelter and ornament to their
        estates, as well as a direct source of profit.
          Rental and Wages.-The average rent of arable land is about
        L. 3s. per abre, some of it near the village being let as high as
        from L.3, 10s. to L.4, 10s.   The valued rental of the parish is
        L. 8233, 14s. 4d. Scots.   The real rental, by a valuation made
        in 1837, amounted to little less than L. 12,000, including the
        value of the houses in the vhllage.  The land cannot be looked
        upon, in ordinary times, as excessively rented, although in the pre-
        sent depressed state of agricultural markets, several of the tenantry
        have some difficulty in fighting their way.  The rate of wages has
        been lately reduced in consequence of the low prices of agricultu-
        ral produce.  The wages of a farm servant at present, ranoe from
        L. 8 to L. 12 per annum, with lodging, meal, and milk.  Ordi-
        nary day labourers make from 1s. 4d. to 1s. 6d. per day; masons
        in full employment, 12s. ; and carpenters, 10s. per week.  The
        general duration of leases is nineteen years, except on the estates
        of the Earl of Airlie, who is prohibited by the terms of the entail        '
        from granting leases for a longer term than fourteen years.  The
        greater part of the cultivated land is now enclosed, but there is
        still room for improvement in this respect.
          Manufactures.--There is no manufacturing establishment, but
        a great part of the inhabitants are employed in weaving coarse or
        brown linen for the Dundee trade.  This branch of manufacture
        has been established here for more than a century.   The quan-
        tity made annually is about 10,500 webs, of 150 yards each.  The
        depression of the linen trade has been severely felt in this village.
        The present average weekly gain of a weaver is only from 2s. 6d.
        to 3s.; of a winder, 1s. 2d.  Many families have, in consequence,
        great difficulty in providing themselves with a supply of the bare
        necessaries of existence; and a great number would be in a state
        of melancholy destitution, if they had not an opportunity of eking
        out their scanty means by assisting in the harvest work on the
        neighbouring farms.  There is a fulling mill in the village, and
        one at Inverquiech,


