
254                       EDINBURGHSHIRE.

this district of the province of Valentia, but the discoveries of con-
secutive ages have demonstrated the existence, not only of a Ro-
man fort and station, but of a civil colon of that people in this
parish. Driving out the Ottadini and the Gadeni, the British
tribes, that  had  possessed the shire for a thousand years, the
Romans took possession of the land, towards the end of the first
century, and  retained it for nearly four centuries. The only traces
of the aboriginal  inhabitants, in the names aill existing in the lo-
cality, are to be found in Esk, and Carberry (Caerbarrin).*
   When the Romans abdicated the possession of this district, they
were succeeded by the Anglo-Saxons from Northumberland; and
their seat of population here was designated by the name of Esk-
muthe.  These again were displaced by the Scoto-Irish from the
west; and, by them, the present name of Inveresk was substituted.
Without reverting to the British, the Roman, or even the Saxon
inhabitants, we are therefore carried back by the Gaelic affix In-
ver to those remote Celtic times, ere yet the Crown of Scotland
submitted to lineal succession in the issue of Malcolm Canmore.
   Musselburgh, the town of the district, is also of very considera-
ble antiquity, and is mentioned in our national chronicles 800 years
back.  The Anglo-Saxon word Burgh probably fixes its origin
upon that people.
   Of the original British, who inhabited the district, no traces, as
we have just said, are now discoverable, save in the names still at-
tached to one or two places within the parish; but the Romans
have left many monuments of their presence, in bridge, harbour,
road, and encampment; in altar, bath, and sepulchre.
   Repeated excavations, and casual exposure of ruins, from age
to age, prove the existence of Inveresk, not only as a Roman mi-
litary station, but as a Colonia Romana, or Municipium.  The
whole northern slope of the hill, bounded by Pinkie-burn on the
one side, and by the river Esk on the other, appears to have been
covered over with buildings; and many circumstances concur in
assuring us, that the site was one of importance.  Even the spot
where the Praetorium was built, can be distinctly ascertained to
have been the apex of the hill, where the church now stands,--its
fosse, which was visible within the last fifty years, comprehending
also the villa to the eastward, now known as Inveresk House.
   In 1547, a cave and altar were discovered here, and a descrip-

<FOOTNOTE>In the vicinity, however, we have the British Cockpen, Dreghorn, Dalkeith,
Nidref ( Niddry,) Roslin, &c.
				    4


