
     of Callander.

man Ocean.  STUIC-A-CHROIN, the Peak of Rutting*.  There
has lately been discovered here an iron ring, fixed by a staple
to the rock.  This ring is said to be very old, and corroded
with rust and the lapse of time.  Many opinions have been
formed concerning the use to which it was applied.  There
are several accounts of rings found in rocks, and of anchors
and shells dug up, in places near the level of the sea: oyster
shells are found in abundance, several feet below the surface
of the earth, betwixt Callander and Stirling+.  Benvenu has
been already described.  Binean, and other hills of less note,
will be taken notice of afterwards.

<FOOTNOTE>

Druids.  Two of them have been lately discovered, on the farm of Aney, at the
chapel of St. Bridget, (a Danish lady of the 13th century, or an Irish lady of
later date); probably the saint and her dog, which, from the quality of the stone,
seems to have been imported into this country.  If the Druid priests and their
people assembled on the top of Benledi, there can be little doubt of their hav-
ing acted in a similar manner in other countries, although the tradition of this
practice may be lost.  Their circles of stones, their veneration for the sun and
for fire, their meetings on the tops of hills, and their worshipping in the open
air, might afford ground for many probable conjectures concerning their ideas of
the perfections of the Deity, and the source from which they borrowed their rites
and modes of worship, which seem to have had an Asiatic origin; but the brevity
necessary in this sketch forbids disquisitions of this nature.  We must be con-
tented with giving short hints:  And therefore we shall leave the Druids, by
only remarking, that the same expression, which the people then used for their
place of worship, is still used to this day; as the Highlanders more frequently
say, "Will you go to the stones?" or "Have you been at the stones?" than
"Will you go to, or have you been, at church?  Mankind, in this instance,
as they do in many others, retain the ancient name, while the thing signified by
that name is entirely forgotten, by the gradual influence of new habits, new
manners, and new modes of thinking.

*Coir-o-chroin, the valley of rutting, is just below the peak.  Coir when
applied to land, is properly a valley, shut at one end, in the form of an amphi-
theatre, more or less oblong.  Gleann is a valley which leads quite through, and
is open at both ends.  Few other languages, excepting the Gaelic, distinguish
these two kinds of valleys, without a circumlocution.

+This circumstance makes it probable, that the ocean, by its constant flux,


