
			LOUDOUN.                            837

approach of Claverhouse to Drumclog, Nisbet was sent for to Hard-
hill, and arrived in time to head the successful charge of the Cove-
nanters across the morass. On his way to Drumclog, when passing
through Darvel, he induced John Morton, the smith, to accompany
him to the field of battle, where his brawny arm would find suffi-
cient occupation. John followed Nisbet in the charge. A royal
dragoon, who was on the ground entangled in the trappings of his
wounded horse, begged quarter from John, whose arm was uplifted
to cut him down. The dragoon's life was spared, and he was led
by the smith as his prisoner to the camp of the Covenanters. But
the life which was spared on the field of battle was demanded by
those who saw, in the royal party, not merely cruel persecutors but
idolatrous Amalekites, whom they were bound in duty to execute.
The smith declared, that, sooner than give up his prisoner's life,
he would forfeit his own! The dragoon's life, thus defended by
the powerful smiths was spared, but the smith was banished from
the army as a disobedient soldier. The dragoon's sword is now in
possession of John Morton's representative, Andrew Gebbie in
Darvel. Captain Nisbet was afterwards executed at the Grass-
market in Edinburgh, in 1685. His life is in the Scots Worthies. *
	The Reverend John Nevay.--His life also is given in the Scots
Worthies. In Sir James Turner's Memoirs of his own time,
it is stated that Nevay, then minister of Loudoun, and chaplain
to David Leslie's army, was the chief instigator of the bloody
massacre of Dunaverty in Cantyre, where the whole garrison of'
300 were put to death, in cold blood, whose bones may even now
be seen among the sand banks, on the beach near the fort.-- "I
hope," quoth David after the massacre, "you have had enough of
blood to day Maister John." Nevay, and thousands who acted
with him, we believe, had no love for such deeds, but their argu-
ments were first wrong, then their actions.
	James, second Earl of Loudoun, then Lord Mauchline, was fly-
ing for his life, having been, with his father, exempted from the
general amnesty granted by Cromwell to Scotland. He took re-
fuge in the farm-steading of the Hag-house, which formerly stood
on the rising ground near the lime and coal road, below the wood.
He had just changed his dress and put on the cloths of a labour.

<FOOTNOTE>An autobiography of Captain Nisbet's son is mentioned in Macgavin's edition
of Howie's Scotch Worthies, (p.479 note,) as being in NS.,but never published.
A copy is now before me, printed at Bombay in 1889,and now in the possession of
Mr A. Brown, shoemaker, Newmills.


