
322                       ARGYLESHIRE.

ed to them by an interpreter, which is a furious fact with respect
to the dubious origin of that memorable people. It argues their
language to have been different from the ancient Britishi which
was the language of Columba, and they themselves of some other
original. Usher supposes the Picts and Caledonians to have been
the same people. Cambden, and other great antiquaries of the
present, as well as of former times, consider the Picts only as the
remote part of the uncivilized, unreduced Britons; but Bishop
Stillingfleet seems rather to be (according to Dr Walker) better
founded in thinking them a separate nation.
 All the inhabitants of Scotland are said to have been converted
during the life of Columba; and, according to Spottiswoode, he
founded 100 monasteries and 365 churches, and ordained 3000
priests or monks. This is asserted by Jocelin and other writers.
It is certain that the greatest respect was paid to him at the Na-
tional Council or Parliament of Drumceat, in Ireland, where he
appeared as the representative of the clergy of North Britain.
 Aidanus, the lineal heir of the Crown of Scotland, was brought
out of Ireland by Columba, in the reign of Kinatellus, at whose
death he was by Columba installed King of Scots in the Island
of Iona. Full of ears and of honour, this great man died in
Iona upon Sabbath night, on the fifth dav of the Ides of June
596, in the thirty-fifth year of his ministry, and seventy-sixth of
his age, and was there buried. Here, too, are buried the remains
of forty-eight Scottish kings, four kings of Ireland, eight Nor-
wegian kings, and one king of France; most of the Lords of the
Isles and other chieftains of note ; so that a sepulchre in it be-
came generally coveted by the great families in Scotland, and the
grandees of Norway and Ireland. Iona being thus viewed as con-
secrated ground, it became as one vast cemetery, to which the
illustrious characters of ancient times were carried for inhumation
by their own desire, or the pious wish of surviving relatives.
 Among the honours bestowed by the king of Scotland on Iona,

 <FOOTNOTE>This preference given to Iona, as a place of Royal sepulture, may be accounted
for generally by its early reputation for sanctity, and to an ancient Gaelic prophecy,
which has been translated and paraphrase by Dr Smith of Campbdlton, thus,-
         Seven years before that awful day,
          When time shall be no more,
         A watery deluge will oersweep
          Hibeinia's mossy shore.
        The green clad Isla, too, shall sink;
         While, with the great and good,
        Columba's happy Isla Will rear
         Her towers above the flood.


