
                       DUNFERMLINE.                          841

tion, the one heaped above the other, and closely and regularly
compacted, with the outer ends pointing southward. On the north
side the pillars are vertical, on the east arched downwards, on the
south inclining or dipping in a bending form to the north, and on
the south-west corner dipping to the north-east. Some parts of
the greenstone are amygdaloidal, having the cavities filled with
carbonate of lime, and some of the fissures are coated with calca-
reous spar.
  There is a great deal of trap-rock, also, on the range of hills
lying between the Redcraigs toll and the Roscobie lime-works.
  Freestone or Sandstone Quarries.-There are several of these
in the parish. The chief ones are at Berrylaw and North Ur-
quhart, a mile north-west ; at Millhills, a quarter of a mile south-
east; and at Sunnybank, three miles south-east from the town ;
and at Pittencrieff within it, between Pittencrieff and Golf-Drum
Streets. The stone at all these, except the last, is of good qua-
lity, and much used in building.
  Fossil Remains in the Sandstone Quarries.-There have been
found at the Berrylaw and North Urquhart quarries many large
fossils of the three kinds already named as occurring in the coal-
formation, the Lepidodendron, the Stigmaria Ficoides, and the
Sigillaria. The writer lately obtained a very excellent specimen
of the first of these, about 3 feet in length, and one in diameter;
and two of the third, one having three branches, the stem and one
branch of which are 2 1/2 feet, and the other, having two branches
the stem and one branch of which are 1 1/2 foot long, and both
about 8 inches in diameter. The bark, which is turned into coal,
still retains in all of these in some places the black coally struc-
ture and substance. On the east side of the Berrylaw rock, and
completely imbedded in it, is a large root of the Sigillaria, about
4 feet high, nearly upright, apparently standing where it grew,
but probably, according to the more prevalent opinion of geolo-
gists, transported from its native site by the inundation of some
river, and meeting with an obstacle, deposited in its present posi-
tion, the sedimentary matter of the agitated waters accumulating
around it, as well as replacing its own inner substance, which, it is
well known, in all fossil trees decayed first, and now forming the
sandstone.
  In the adjoining North Urquhart rock there was lately seen
closely imbedded in it the stem or  branch of a fossil tree, 6 or 8

