
			PARISH OF BERVIE.

	PRESBYTERY OF FORDOUN, SYNOD OF ANGUS AND MEARNS,

		THE REV. JOHN GLEGG, MINISTER.

	      I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	Name.--THIS parish takes its name from the small river that
runs along its north-east boundary; and, according to Chalmers,
in his Caledonia, the water of Bervie derives its name from the
British Beru to flow, Berw, Berwy, a boiling or ebullition. This
etymology corresponds exactly with the character of the stream.
A distinction between the name of the parish and the burgh may
be marked by the Gaelic word Inver, which indicates the situa-
tion of the town by its signification, and ought to be applied to the
burgh only.
	Extent, &c.--The extent of the parish in length is about 2 miles,
and in breadth about 1 1/2. Its figure is quadrilateral. It is bound-
ed towards the south and south-west, by the parish of Benholme;
the north-west, by the parish of Garvock; the north and north-
east, by the parish of Arbuthnott; the east, by the parish of Kin-
neff; and its boundary on the south-east is the German Ocean.
	Topographical Appearances.--The parish has a gradual ascent
from east to west, with two ranges of hill running nearly parallel.
There is a considerable extent of flat land towards thd routh and
east boundaries of this parish. There is a small fertile valley
along the eastern boundary, through which the water of Bervie
runs to the sea. The ground on either side is high, and presents
a variety of surface. The extent of the coast is about a mile and
a-half, being the breadth of the parish; and it appears rocky, ex-
cepting that part of it immediately opposite the town. The rocks
are not high, being nearly all covered at high water. It would
seem that the sea had receded considerably from the high land
towards the south-east boundary of the parish, as there are several
projecting rocky eminences of considerable height, which evident-
ly appear to have at one time been washed by the ocean. There
	KINCARDINE.                       A


