
     Of Speymouth.

higher rent arises from the populousness of the town of
Garmouth, and the consequent greater demand*.

     VOL. XIV. 3 C

<FOOTNOTE>

*The above account of the small extent of our farms, will appear
surprising to most people.  But it is to be observed, that the greater
part of the North of Scotland, about 30 years ago, was let in small
farms.  And there can be little doubt, that farms, of a moderate
extent, are the most favourable to the population of a country.  The
farmers of this parish, who only labour from 14 to 20 acres, and pay
only from 6 L. to 9 L. of rent, support families of healthy children, have
them taught to read, and generally to write a little, and train them
to industry and virtue.  They will also perhaps accommodate a cot-
tager with a house on their small farm, some poor or infirm relation,
or a tradesman, or day-labourer.  Six such farms may support per-
haps 40 persons, young and old, besides accommodating cottagers and
their families.  But all these together, would be reckoned but a small
or moderate farm in many places, and would not probably support
above a dozen of persons.  If, then, the number of the people be the
strength of a nation, there seems little room to doubt, in answering the
question as to the propriety of large or small farms, that in a public or
political view, as well as that of humanity, the latter are to be preferred
to the former.  The mode of cultivation, and of laying out the lands, will
not probably be in so improved a taste in small as in large farms; but the
produce, on the whole, it is probable, will be equals and even much great-
er in the article of grain, which is the most valuable.  And even as to the
cropping and laying out of the ground, the proprietor may take care
that this be done in a proper manner, by a little attention in laying down
regulations in the tenant's lease, and seeing that these regulations be fol-
lowed.  And as to the improvement of new grounds, he may also secure
that point as effectually, by binding the tenant in the same way.  And
even with respect to the proprietor's interest, which must always be a
leading consideration, it is presumed, that small tenants can afford to pay
as high a rent as greater ones, from their superior industry and attention;
and if one should now and then fall in arrears, the risk is not so great as
when the same thing happens to a greater tenant; or if the proprietor's
interest should suffer a little, for it cannot be a great deal, yet he has the
satisfaction of giving support to a greater number of people, which, it is
hoped, will always be an object of no small consideration with many.
The extent of farms should vary, according to the quality of the soil,
and the circumstances of the country.  The best general rule seems to


