
160                      BERWICKSHIRE.

for dropping gradually into the water,-one end of which is tied to
the boat, and the other is dragged with a rope by the men on shore;
and by taking a considerable sweep, an endeavour is made to sur-
round the fish. When thus discovered joining up, they seldom es-
cape. The fish caught on the Tweed are sent from Berwick by sea to
the London market, packed in boxes with ice. The fisheries are
chiefly rented by salmon coopers in Berwick, who carry on this
trade. For some years past, there have been general complaints
of the want of fish. No adequate cause has been assigned for this,
but the fact is well known, and has been severely felt. Much pe-
cuniary loss has been sustained by the proprietors and tacksmen,
and the value of this kind of property has been deteriorated to a
great extent. Some waters do not let now at above a third of their
former value. A new act of Parliament has lately been obtained
for regulating the fisheries of the Tweed. It is hoped that the
provisions of this statute may contribute to prevent the fish from
being destroyed in an illegal manner, and at improper seasons.
The yearly close time now commences on the 15th of October,
and terminates on the 15th of February. The weekly close time
begins on Saturday evening at six o'clock, and ends on Monday
morning at the same hour. These are considered as improvements
upon the old act, and it is expected that this useful branch of in-
dustry, which gives employment to so many persons, and provides
a supply of such wholesome and excellent food, may yet recover
from its present state of depression, and afford ample remuneration
to all concerned in it. The proprietors of fishing waters in this
parish are Mr Wilson of Whitsome-hill, and Mr Home of Pax-
ton. Their value cannot be ascertained, as the waters which be-
long to Mr Wilson are not let, but are in his own possession. The
rent of Mr Home's water has been very much reduced.
   Manufactories.-There is a manufactory on the estate of Pax-
ton of bricks and tiles, which meet with a ready sale in the adjacent
district. Tiles for drains are also made, and much used. Business
to a considerable extent is transacted by three corn-mills in the
parish. Large quantities of corn are purchased from the farmers
in the neighbourhood, which is manufactured into flour, meal, and
pot-barley, and exported from Berwick to London. Flour is also
sent to Berwick for home consumption.
   Agricultural Association.-An association was lately formed by
the proprietors and tenants in the parish for the purpose of en-
couraging and rewarding skill in the management of the plough.
A competition took place, and prizes were awarded to the most ex-
                              4


