
     Statistical Account

   Seasons.-The seasons are always wet in this place, but
within these few years they seem to be turning worse.

<FOOTNOTE>

   He laboured for 47 years among them, and his labours were eminently
countenanced by his Lord and Master.  Sinners were brought under a 
concern for their salvation and their language was that of the jailor,
"What shall we do to be saved?"  Mr Sage did not build with untem-
peres mortar; he did not make them to heaven though they were stran-
gers to a work of the Spirit.  He preached the doctirnes of the  new birth,
the corruption of human nature and the necessity of the influences of the
Divine Spirit, to break the power of in the foul,  The effects were
correspondent.  People did not then reckon themselves to be good Chri-
stians, because they abstained from such actions as exposed them to the
last of the law.  They were persuaded that they must have a principle of
grace in the heart before they could please God.  This made them not to
rest satisfied till they experienced th power of religion upon their souls.
   They were warm Christians; and such as made a public profession,
evidenced their sincerity by a suitable practice.  They were animated with
love to God, and to their fellow men.  Kenneth Mackenzie, one of his
first converts, used to kill a cow in the scarce time of the year, which he
divided among the poor.  The rest of the professors of religion in Loch-
carron were equally zealous of good works in conformity to their cir-
cumstances.
   Mr Sage's character is inscribed upon his grave-stone in these words:
"He fought the good fight of faith, and finished his course; exclaiming
with the Apostle Paul, for me to live is Christ, and to die is gain."  A
carnal minister may say with Balaam of old: Let me die the death of
Mr Sage and let my latter end be like his.  His successor, Mr Donald
Munro, lived but a short time among them.  He was an agreeable man,
and preached the gospel in its purity.  As Mr Sage made tha parish very
orthodox, the people seem to think, that they have at least as much reli-
gion as their neighbours. They seem to have a strong attachment to reli-
gion, and yet they would be the better for little more. They appear
willing at times to hear what they shall do to inherit eternal life.  They
are hospitable , charitable, engaging, and obliging.  Although many of
them do not dislike the present world, it cannot be said that they have
entirely forget the next; but it maust be owned, that very few of them
would refuse a dram if it was offered them.  There is a great appearance
of religion in Lochcarron; and as the fire of God's word is hereafter to try 
every man's work, there is cause to hope that some of it will bear the trial.


