
                            LEITH.                              761

     and these continued to foment and increase down to the time of
     their final separation by the act of Parliament of 1838. Thus,
     in 1650, the merchants, traders, and inhabitants of the town of
     Leith sent a petition to the Protector Oliver Cromwell, "setting
     furth that the sad condition and most grivous opressions they lay
     under from the magistrates of Edinburgh forced them to apply to
     his Highness for redress; that they having formerly chosen their
     own magistrates once a-year, and by them ordered their own af-
     fairs, were then denied that liberty by the magistrates of Edin-
     burgh, (whose malice was so great to the interests of the English
     nation); that they not only imposed rulers over them, but also laid
     what arbitrary and unlimited taxes they pleased upon their lands
     and houses-exacted a merk Scots upon every ton of their goods
     imported-laid high imposition upon anchorage, shore-dues," &c.,
     with a long list of other exactions and petty and vexatious griev-
     ances.* The Protector referred these grievances to the conside-
     ration of General Monk, and any two judges of Scotland that
     he might summon to his assistance. Answers were given in by
     the town-council of Edinburgh, denying the grievances complain-
     ed of, and asserting their rights of superiority; and nothing more
     seems to have come of the remonstrance.
         Leith appears early to have enjoyed a considerable trade, but
     its prosperity frequently suffered checks during the wars with Eng_
     land. In the invasion of the English fleet in 1541, the town was
     set fire to, and almost entirely destroyed. In 1549 it was taken
     possession of by the French troops sent to the assistance of Mary
     of Guise; and in 1560 was besieged by the English forces who
     were sent by Elizabeth to assist the army of the reformations.
     During this period the Queen-mother took up her residence
     in Leith, and was followed thither by many of the bishops and
     persons of her party. She signified her intention of granting the
     burgh an independent charter, with magistrates for its exclusive
     government; but her death soon after occurred, and put a stop to
     those fondly cherished expectations of the inhabitants.
         Cromwell repaired Leith Fort, which had been previously de-
     molished, and erected a citadel, with five bastions. This citadel
     was again demolished at the restoration, and the site bestowed
     on the Duke of Lauderdale, from whom the city of Edinburgh
     repurchased it for the sum of L. 6000. The present fort now

     <FOOTNOTE> Excerpts from "Writs relating to the great and contest between the
     town of Edinburgh and Leith anent the superiority of Leith, before Oliver Cromwell
     and his council."




