
             124                     CAITHNESS-SHIRE.

             water of fifty horse-power into Pulteneytown for various industrial
             purposes. This loch is supplied chiefly from the Loch of Yar-
             rows, two miles and a half distant to the south-west, into which
             runs the water of the drained Loch of Brickigoe. Two trifling
             lochs, one of which is named Wairows, among the hills of Yar-
             rows, send out, towards the sea, a little stream, which divides into
             two streamlets, one of which runs into the Loch of Sarclet, lying
             half-way between Sarclet and Ulbster House; and the other
             falls into the sea at Falligo, southwards of Ulbster. The Loch of
             Sarclet, which is not above three-fourths of a mile in circumfe-
             rence, discharges its waters into the sea, a little to the south of
             the village of that name. The waters of the valley of Camster
             fall away, to the south, into the parish of Latheron.
                Except a few rather pretty braes towards the mouth of the River
             of Wick, the scenery, both on the lochs and on the brooks of the
             parish, is as tame and unpicturesque as it possibly can be. Most
             of the well-water of the parish of Wick is impregnated with lime
             or iron. Chalybeate springs of considerable strength occur a
             little to the south of the Castle of Auld Wick, and on the face of
             a low bank to the north of Proudfoot, the north-eastern extremity
             of the Bay of Wick.
                Geology.-Of the hilly ranges on the south and west of the pa-
             rish, the formation is principally composed of greywack‚ and grey-
             wack‚ slate, with a few limestones, sandstones, &c. Towards the
             summit of the Yarrows Hills, a gneissy formation abounds. With
             these exceptions, the rock-formations of this parish consist almost
             entirely of the coarser kinds of the clay-slate or flagstone, so pre-
             valent in the flatter grounds of Caithness. This is an immense
             formation of alternating beds of silicious and calcareo-silicious flag-
             stone or slate-clay; dark, foliated, bituminous limestone; pyri-
             tous shale; sandstone, &c. The silicious beds predominate in
             the lowest position in this formation, and the calcareo-bituminous
             bed gives the type to the intermediate part, becoming more silici-
             ous and arenaceous at the upper posture, and so graduating into
             the superior division. The aggregate thickness of these deposits-
             is very great.
                The Cliffs along the coast to the north of Keiss are chiefly com-
             posed of grey,  brown, and greenish sandstone in thin layers, alter-
             nating with pyritous shale, which disappear in the Bay of Keiss.
             At the Castle of Girnigoe, there is a remarkable section of the


