
                     HAMILTON.                             259

9d. a-ton. Here horses and donkeys are employed to cart it into
the town,at from lOd. to l5d. per tom. The donkey carts are
great service to poor people, who get ten or twelve cwts. laid down
at from 2s. 3d. to 2s. 6d. Upwards of 10,000 tons are here sold
annually. About half that quantity is disposed of at Quarter to peo-
ple on the Strathavon and Stonehouse side of the parish. There
are various other collieries in the neighbourhood.
	There are two principal beds or posts of lime, namely, a 4 feet bed
below the 6 feet coal; and about 12 fathoms farther down, a 6 feet
bed. The 4 feet bed crops out at Crookedstone, and the 6 feet
bed at Boghead, in the south-west of the parish. This last is a
dark lime of excellent quality, and is that which is chiefly made
use of in building and agriculture. The tenantry on the Hamil-
ton estate obtain it on very liberal terms.
	A seam of ironstone, about 18 inches thick, occurs below the 4
feet lime, but it has never been wrought in this parish. It crops
out at Crookedstone, and at Boghead. A similar seam, 15 fa-
thoms below the splint coal, is wrought exactly at the same eleva-
tion near Newhouse in Bothwell, on the opposite side of the Clyde.
Balls of ironstone, from the size of a pea to several inches in dia-
meter, abound in the fire-clay connected with the coal formation.
Rich seams of this valuable material are disclosed by the cutting
of the railway on the Avon.
	The above strata are the depositories of many organic remains.
The following are a few of the most common and interesting.
Turbo Urii, Paludina fluviorum, Phasianella angulosa et minuta,
Bellerophon Urii, in limestone, Terebratula affinis, and probably
many more of the same genus; Productus Martini et Longispi-
nus,--the under valve has a few spines like mother of pearl; Pec-
ten papyraceus in shale; Gryphoea minuta in a thin bed of
clay above the lime; Nucula attenuata and gibbosa, in till on
the banks of the Avon. Small pieces of black mineralized wood
(Phytolithus trunci) are found above the lime, so hard as to strike
fire; and yet the component parts so distinct, that the bark, the dif-
ferent years growth, and the pith, can be easily distinguished
They seem chiefly of the pine genus. Impressions of several ge-
nera and species of ferns (Phytolitha totalis) are found in the bed
of the Avon near the coal mines. These am inclosed in pieces of
water-worn schist or blaes, which ought to be carefully broken in
order to obtain the impressions entire. The plants thus procured
are chiefly exotics. There are several potrifying springs, partien-


