
     of Kiltarlity.

   The parish does not produce as much grain of every
kind, as is sufficient for the maintenance of the inhabitants.
The common tenants make use of the old Scotch plough,
some of them use it upon on improvement plan.  The gen-
tlemen make use of the English and Lord Kame's plough
with a chain.  The number of ploughs in the whole pa-
rish may be about 214.  Much less than half this number
would be sufficient to turn up all our arable ground, were
they properly employed.  There are 376 carts, 40 coups
or small waggons, and 361 sledges employed in the parish.
About 50 years ago, there was not a wheel-carriage of
any kind in the whole parish, Lords Lovat's coach except-
ed.  At this period, even the gentlemen employed only
sledges, in carrying home their peats, and in the other bu-
siness of the farm.  What manure was used was carried
to their fields in keallachs a creel in the form of a cone,
with the base turned upwards, place upon a sledge.  Ma-
ny of these keallachs are still used in the heights of the
parish.  There is a considerable number of fruit trees in
this parish, which, with favourable seasons, are perhaps as
productive, as in any part of this north country.
   The principal proprietors have very good gardens.  Lo-
vat's principal garden measures about seven Scotch acres.
It is fenced with a wall 18 feet high lined with brick.
The wall is contrived to have a great variety of curves, so

<FOOTNOTE>

Flax, from the middle of April to the beginning of May.  Turnip, from
the middle of June to the middle of July, and a small quantity of wheat
is sown from the 20th October to the 10th of November.
   Harvest seldom begins before the month of September, and is generally
finished before the end of October.  In the heights of the parish, our har-
vests were formerly very late and precarious; but since the year 1783,
early oats have been introduced into the higher parts of the parish, which
has been of infinite service to the inhabitants, as their harvest is now
almost as early as in the low grounds, and consequently not so precarious
as in former times.


