
                           CULTS.                          563

in Pitrachnie den. The Caltha radicans is by no means uncom-
mon on the hills. The Galeopsis Ladanum, var. B, Smith, which
he had never seen, is found; and also the beautiful G. versicolor,
called bee-nettle, from a resemblance to that insect. (The day-
nettle, by which the reapers are so severely stung, is the Galeopsis,
including more than one species of it, and not the dead-nettle, or
Lamium, as stated by Dr Jamieson in his Scottish Dictionary. The
severity of the wound is caused by a poisonous liquid contained in
the plant.) The dark variety of Euphrasia officinalis is found on
Hospital Mill farm. The Talaspi arvense grows in the southern
part of the parish, on the farm of Skelpie; the Cardamine hirsuta
on the banks of the Eden; the Nasturtium officinale in the ditches;
and the Barbarea officinalis near Pitlessie. The Sinapis alba oc-
curs occasionally; the other two sorts are very common. The
beautiful Geranium protense is found in several places, as also the
G. dissectum. The Malva moschata, not uncommon in the county,
grows near Crawfurd Priory. The Spartium scoparium and Ulex
europeus, from the extent of ground they occupy, (there having
been till very recently a fox cover of seventy acres on the farm of
Skelpie) would lead one to doubt the truth of the statement, that
they are of foreign origin, and were introduced by the Scottish kings,
who had their hunting seat at the neighbouring palace of Falk-
land. The Anthyllis vulneraria grows on the hills, as also the
Orobus tuberosus, the roots of which have been recommended as a
substitute for coffee. The beautiful Ornithopus perpusillus has
been found near Clushford bridge; the Lotus major near the lime-
hills; Hypericum quadrangulum and H. pulchrum, the latter very
common in the marshes, as also the Leontodon palustre. The pa-
rish is rich in the genus Hieracium; the H. murorum is found in
the rocks and walls, the H. sylvaticum in the woods, and the H.
palustre on the lime hills. Cichorium Intybus is found occasional-
ly. The Cnicus eriophorus is found near Crawfurd Priory gar-
den, and in other places. The Gnaphalium dioicum is by no
means uncommon. The Inula Helenium grows near the farm of
Bunzeon. The Centaurea scabiosa, not uncommon in the east of
Fife, does not seem to have reached farther west than the eastern
part of the lime-hills. The Orchis bifolia and O. mascula are not
rare on the hills. Pitlessie Mill dam affords the Sparganium sim-
plax with leaves from 6 to 8 feet long, very different in appearance
from the diminutive plant of the same species of 1 or 2 inches,


