
74                    CLACKMANNANSHIRE.


work for making machinery. There is a post-office, and a post
daily passes between Alloa and Muckart.
   The public roads to Alloa, Stirling, and Kinross, are all good,
and the materials for keeping them in repair are abundant, and of
excellent quality. The bridge over Devon, which formerly was
narrow and uncomfortable, was widened about twenty years ago,
and is now spacious and secure. There is a wooden bridge for
foot-passengers, below the village of Tillicoultry.
   Ecclesiastical State.--An elegant church, which does honour to
the liberality of the heritors, was built in 1828. It contains 650,
and is conveniently situated near the centre of the parish, and at
no great distance from the villages. About three-fourths of the
population belong to the Established Church; the rest are connect-
ed with the United Secession meeting-house in the village, the
Relief, the Original Seceders, the Episcopalians, or the Unita-
rians. There are many who are regular and exemplary in attend-
ing Divine ordinances, although there is reason to lament that too
many seem to consider the Sabbath as merely a day of cessation
from labour, and spend it just as inclination or companionship may
dictate.
   The manse, erected in 1811, is good, and the offices are com-
modious. The glebe is about 13 acres. The minister is under-
stood to have a right to pasturage in the hills, which the present
incumbent, has never enjoyed. The stipend is 15 chalders, half
meal half barley, with L. 8, 6s. 6d. for communion elements.
  Education.--Besides the parish-school, which is not well at-
tended, there are two subscription schools in Tillicoultry, one
taught by a member of the Established Church, the other by a
Dissenter. There is also an academy taught by the Rev. Mr
Browning. There is a school in Coalsnaughton, connected with
the Church, built by Mr Wardlaw Ramsay. The parochial school-
master's salary is L.25, 13s'. 3 1/4d. The subscription school in
Tillicoultry connected with the Church has a salary of L. 8, paid
by Mr Ramsay and Mr Johnstone of Alva, besides the school-fees;
and the school in Coalsnaughton has a salary of L. 5, paid by Mr
Ramsay, with house and garden, besides the school-fees. There
is a small library attached to this school. The people generally
are sensible of the advantages of education.
   The children employed in the factories attend evening-schools
in both villages. A Sabbath evening-school was taught in the
                          6


