
                         TWEEDSMUIR.                              59

shaws, at the upper extremity of the parish, gives rise to the far-
famed river Tweed, which runs ten miles through the parish, in a
north-westerly direction, and, after pursuing a beautiful meander-
ing course for ninety miles farther, loses itself in the German
Ocean at Berwick.   The source of the Tweed is half a mile from
Lanarkshire, on the west, and the same distance from Dumfries-
shire on the south, and it is not a little remarkable, that from the
base of one and the same hill, the three celebrated rivers, Tweed,
Annan, and Clyde, take their rise.   It may with truth be said, that
though the origin of the Tweed be humble, it is not lowly, as the
spring whence it flows is fully 1500 feet above the sea's level.
Almost innumerable are the tributary streams in this parish which
the Tweed begins to receive from within two miles of its source,
and which cause it to swell and to amplify as it rolls along. These
have the names of waters and burns applied to them according to
their relative degrees of magnitude or importance.   The Core,
Fruid, and Tala, three waters in this parish, run into the Tweed
from the south-east. The first rises on the lands of Earlshaugh,
and, after running three miles, fills into the Tweed a mile below
Tweedshaws.  The second has its origin three miles cast from the
source of the Core, and, after a course of seven miles, joins the
Tweed a mile above the church.  The third originates in a small
spring, a half a mile west from Loch Skeen, and descends from the
hills seven or eight miles, when it loses itself in the Tweed below
the church, where a good stone bridge has been erected.   There
are in this parish nine burns, larked by the following naiyies, viz.
Tweedhope, Glenecraigie, Badlie,  Old Fingland, Menzion, Glen-
riska, Moat, Harestone,and Polmood.   These all run in a north-
easterly direction to the Tweed, in which they empty themselves.
The only other of the any consequence is Gameshope burn, which joins
Tala water four miles above the spot where it mingles with the
main river. These different streams, great and small, have an
abundant supply of trout, par, and cels; and in Tweed at spawn
ingr time, which commences, about the end of autumn, salmon of
considerable size often fall victims to the snares of the poacher,
which are commonly the light and the leister. At the bridge over
Tweed is Carlow's Linn, a small but interesting,  water-fall, formed
by the rocky bottom over which the river here passes.
   There is a like in the parish worthy of notice, not on account
of its extent, for it is only 586 yards in circumference, but as
being, perhaps, the highest sheet of waters in the south of Scot-


