
274                    HADDINGTONSHIRE.

tyre, in 1702, in whose family the property remains." The money
for this purchase was left by Frances Teresa Stuart, Duchess of
Richmon'd and Lennox, who was grand daughter of the first Lord
Blantyre. The name was by this Lady's will changed from Leth.
ington to Lennoxlove, not certainly a happy change so far as the
sound is concerned.
   Land-owners.-The only residing heritor in this parish is the
Honourable General Patrick Stuart, Commander of the Forces
in Scotland, whose place of residence is Eaglescarnie, pleasantly
situated near the stream already mentioned. Eaglescarnie was for
several centuries the residence of a branch of the Haliburtons,
Lords of Dirlieton. In 1747, Patrick Lindesay, Esq. of the Lind-
says of Kirkforthar, (descended from the Lords Lindsay of the
Byres), marded Margaret, daughter and heiress of Thomas Hali-
burton, Esq. of Eaglescarnie, and she being heir of line, Patrick
Lindesay, Esq. was designed by that title. Their eldest daughter,
Katharine, married Alexander, tenth Lord Blantyre; and the Ho-
noarable General Patrick Stuart, before-mentioned, is their se-
cond son, and acquired the estate of Eaglesearnie by a deed of
entail of his grandfather, Patrick Lindesay. The other land-
owners in the parish, are, Lord Blantyre, the Marquis of Tweed-
dale, the Earl of Dalhousie, Lord Sinclair, Fletcher of Salton,
Bogue of Kirkland, and Grant of Pilmuir.
   Parochial Registers.-These consist of several volumes, the
earliest of which commences anno, 1641. They comprehend the
records of the kirk-session and registers of baptisms, marriages
and deaths. The register of deaths has not been very regularly
kept, and the first volume of the records is a good deal tarnished.
   Antiquities.-Chalmers, in his Caledonia, Vol. ii. p. 404, says,
"The most prominent objects which next attract the antiquarian
eye, are the hill-forts of the earliest people. Of this nature, pro-
bably, is the camp in Bolton parish, comprehending five or six acres,
and is called Chesters."  In Vol. i. p. 163, 164, he says, "from
St Abb's-head, along the coast, no Roman camp has yet been
discovered, whatever antiquarians may have supposed."
   Chalmers is certainly incorrect in this conjecture and assertion.
The camp in Bolton-muir, though now greatly defaced, has evi-
dently been quadrangular, whereas the British strengths, it is be-
lieved, were almost uniformly circular, unless when unavoidably
otherwise, from the, nature of the situation, which is not the case
here, as the ground is level, bounded on one side only by a ravine
      				4


