
			KIRKCUDBRIGHT.                         21

The tide seems to have flowed into the fosse, and consequenty at
high water to have completely surrounded the town. Houses
stood with their gables to the street, and closes radiated from each
side of it. At the cross are the old jail and steeple: the steeple
contains the bells which are used on ordinary occasions, and a clock
of no modern workmanship.
	Churches.--Within the modern parish of Kirkcudbright, were at
one time eight places of worship, with their respective church-
yards. The town contained two churches, namely, that belong-
ing to the convent of the Greyfriars, near the site of the present
castle, and St Andrew's Church, which stood on the ground oc-
cupied by the new jail. The General Assembly which sat in
Edinburgh during the summer of 1564, petitioned Queen Mary
to grant the Friars' Church of Kirkcudbright to the magistrates,
to be used as a parish church. The Queen was pleased to com-
ply with this request, and the building then contained for the first
time a Protestant congregation. The convent itself, having suf-
fered from the fury of the populace, was bestowed upon Sir Tho-
mas Maclellan of Bombie, to afford him a site for a new residence.
This castle was erected in 1582: it is now in ruins, but the walls
remain almost entire. The building retained its roof until 1752.
In the year 1570, Sir Thomas Maclellan sold the Friar's Church
and the church of St Andrews, with their churchyards, to the ma-
gistrates, council, and community of Kirkcudbright, for the sum
" of twa hundredth merks, usual money, and ane hundredth bolls
of lym." The late church of Kirkcudbright, built in 1730, stood
upon the spot previously occupied by the Friars' Church. Below
the portion of it called the Old Aisle, still remaining, is the tomb
in which the mortal remains of the Maclellans were deposited.
	The landward portion of the parish contained five churches. St
Cuthbert's parish church stood about a quarter of a mile to the
east of the town, surrounded by a church-yard, which is still used
as a burying-ground by nearly all the inhabitants of the parish.
It is well suited for the purpose, being a place of great beauty and
solemnity. It was lately enlarged by a contract entered into be-
tween the magistrates and presbytery. A portion of the glebe,
containing 1724 square yards, was given in exchange for 3247
square yards of the town's land: the addition to become the pro-
perty of the burgh. This church appears to have been about 60
feet long and 30 broad. Its site is still visible, though the walls
have been long ago removed. It probably ceased to be used as a


