
                           GALASHIELS.                        25

other half barley, according to the highest fiars of the county,
and amounts on the average of the last seven years to L.242,
11s.9 1/4 But by a strange inconsistency as to this and some
other counties, only one average is taken in striking the fiars; and
ministers have not the means of ascertaining, and, consequently,
are prevented from drawing the amount of stipend as decreed by
the court of teinds. The allowance for communion elements is
L.8, 6s. 8d. The glebe consists of somewhat less than 6 acres
of good land, contiguous to the manse; and there are paid by
the proprietor of Lindean and Bridgeheuch, 9 bolls, 3 firlots of
barley, Linlithgow measure, or 7 quaters, 3 pecks,1/2 gallon im-
perial, as annual rent of glebe lands, lying within that property.
The number of families in the parish that attend the Established
Church 184; but there are twenty-nine families attached to no
place of worship, and the remainder are Dissenters.  The number
of communicants at the Established Church is now upwards of 600.
     There are three Dissenting chapels, attended by 88 fami-
lies; one belonging to the United Associate Synod, one Baptist,
and one Independent. The stipulated salary of the  first is L.100
per annum, paid by seat rents, and the contributions of the hearers;
but, so far as I know, the minister of the other two receive no re-
muneration for the labour.
     A Bible and missionary Society has for some years been
established, and it, is supported by the contributions of Seceders,
as well as of persons belonging to the Establishment. Its proceed
may be taken at L.12 or L. 15 per annum. When Cha -
rity sermons are preached, not annually, but occasionally, and for
a specific object, the amount of collection is from L.15 to L.20
      Education.--There are five schools in the parish; whereof
one is parochial, with a salary of L.30 and fees to the amount
of about L.60 per annum, besides the legal accomodations;
one subcription, with no other benefit than that of school fees
and a free school-room; one private, and depending solely on
fees; two in the country parts of the parish, of which the one has
a salary of L.8 and the other L.2.  Of the one salary of
L.8,L.6 are said to be part of the old parish salary of Lindean,
and the L.2 to each were granted by the heritors when the pa-
rochial salary came to be augmented by the present act. In the
parochial school, long celebrated as an academy, every branch
taught in the best seminaries is conducted in the most approved                                                 every branch


