
                             ROSENEATH.                          129


instead of enlarging, resolved to convert into a quarry for the pre.
sent edifice.
  153 families attend the Established Church; and 3 are Dissent-
ing or Seceding families.
   Education.--The different branches of a commercial and clas-
sical education are very efficiently taught by the parochial school-
master; and every day the children under his care are instructed
in the principles of religion. The average attendance may be rated
at 70, although in the winter season upwards of 100 sometimes
are at school. The school-house was built a few years ago,a very
handsome and commodious structure, superior to any in the county,
reflecting great credit, at once upon the liberality and taste of
the heritors. The schoolmaster's house is at a little distance
from it, immediately contiguous to the church, with accommoda-
tions much superior to what the statute provides for that class of
most deserving men. His garden is much less than the legal di-
mensions, but he enjoys an allowance in lieu of that deficiency.
The salary is the maximum, which, with the fees, 2s. 6d. for read-
ing, 3s. for writing, and 3s. 6d. for arithmetic, may constitute an
income of between L.70 and L.80 per annum.
   The only other school in the parish is at Knockderry, on the
shore of Loch Long. The teacher there has a salary of L.35
a-year, guaranteed to him by Mr Lorne Campbell, his Grace's fac-
tor; and although the parents pay at the rate of 5s. per quarter
for each child, the fees fall greatly short of the sum guaranteed,
from the circumstance of the school commanding pupils from a
very limited population, but whose distance from the parish school
rendered its erection necessary,--the expense of which was solely
met by the Duke of Argyle. Although less, it is built upon the
same principle as the parochial school-house. Both houses are,
much more commodious than at present is needful, and may be
considered as anticipating any probable increase of population in
their respective district, for a century to come.
   It may be stated, that the people areuniversally anxious to have
their children educated.  All the natives of the parish, male and
female, are taught at least to read and write; and although indi-
viduals from time to time are found that can do neither, they are
generally natives of Argyleshire, servants to the different farmers,
   Poor and Parochial Funds.--There are nearly 30 on the poor
list; tbese chiefly desolate widows, and frail lone women--Only
two men, indeed, the one blind, the other lame, receive any relief
DUMBARTON.                              1


