
390                           AYRSHIRE.

with the preceding branches, 1s. 4d.; Latin, with the preceding,
1s. 8d.
	The benefits of education are duly prized by all the inhabitants.
Their children are sent to school, and are instructed at home at a
very early age, so that in all probability there is not one of six
years of age who has not begun to read. Almost all take lessons
in writing. Whatever may be the case in some parts of Scotland,
it is a mistake to suppose, that the education of children in this
quarter is to any extent neglected. The data upon which this
opinion has been formed have been taken from the numbers ac-
tually attending school at a given time. But because these num-
bers do not come up to the proportion that should be receiving in-
struction in a well ordered community, it does not follow that the
remaining children are growing up in total ignorance. A labour-
ing man cannot afford to send to school at one and the same time
all his children who are at an age for attending it. But he gives
a year's schooling to one, and then a year's schooling to another,
and then revives the education of the first by an additional quarter
for him; and so on vith the others, till the whole of his children
are enabled to read tolerably well, and do accounts. Many of the
young people, after they are grown up, attend the evening-schools,
which the teachers are in the practice of keeping during a part of
the year. From the situation of the different schools, there is
easy access to one or other of them, from all parts of the parish.
	Literature.--A parochial library was established in 1819, and
now contains 162 volumes. The rate of subscription is very mo-
derate, and a payment of L. 2 at once constitutes a free member,
or gives a right to the use of the library for life. The pressure of
the times, or some other cause, has prevented the funds of the li-
brary from increasing to any extent.
	Friendly Societies.--A friendly society was instituted about
twenty-five years ago. During a part of that time, it was in a
flourishing condition, but there were obvious defects in some of
its rules; these have been partially removed. The terms of ad-
mission, as compared with the allowances granted to the sick, are
still too small. But various means have been adopted to prevent
its funds from being materially injured. The benefit which it has
conferred in providing for a period of sickness is well understood, and
very highly appreciated. A female friendly society was instituted
ten or twelve years ago. It is composed at present of 40 mem-


