
        2                               SHETLAND.

        commences in tile year 1751, and seems to have terminated in the
        year 1777; but the latter year has been torn away. It appears
        to have been kept in a very regular and accurate manner, and is
        in very good preservation. Births, marriages, and deaths are all
        recorded. The third volume commence's in the year 1778, and is
        that still in use, being only about half exhausted. It contains a re-
        gister of births and marriages-the latter probably complete, but
        the formpr, from its being optional with Dissenters to register, has
        probablybeen much neglected. The people of all sects are now,
        however, it is believed, alive to the importance of registration.
        This volume contains -no register of ddaths till the year 1817;
        and from the want of some imperative regulation for ascertaining
        and communicating the facts, they have necessarily been entered
        in a very irregular manner. The session-clerk, apart from his
        own observation, is almost entirely indebted to the sexton for his
        information respecting these.
            Land-owners.-The land-owners of the parish are, Sir Arthur
        Nicolson, Bart.; William Hay of Laxfirth ; James Greig of Sand-
        sound; Earl of Zetland; Charles Ogilvy of Seafield; Francis
        Heddle of Helerness, and others. Sir Arthur Nicolson is the prin-
        cipal landowner. This enumeration does not embrace the town
        of Lerwick, which contains many considerable owners of house and
        park property, besides those above-mentioned.
            The valued rent of Zetland is L,28,275, 14s. 61/2d. Scot; but no
        apportionment of it upon the lands was ever made,-owina to which
        the Zetland landholders, until the late extension of tbe.francbise,
        were excluded from qualifying as freeholders.  All public assessments
        are levied, and divisions made, acdording to the number of merk lands
        in the parish. All arable. lands were anciently, under the Norwe-
        gian law, fated as merks a merk containing eight ures. These
        merks are quite indefinite as to extent. It is, indeed, clear that
        the ancient denomination of unerk land had not reference to super-
        ficial extent of surface, but was a denomination of value alone, in
        which was,included the proportion of the surrounding commonty
        or scattold.  Merks land are of different values, as sixpenny
        ninpenny, twelvepenny--a twelvepenny merk haveing formerly
        at least heop considered equal -to two sixpenny merks; and in
        Solna old lands are described as 30 merks sixpenny,
        otherwisw 15 merks twelvepenny land. All assesments have
        however, for a very long period, benn levied, and all privileges ap-
        portioned, according to merks, without relation to wheter they
        were sixpenny or twelvepenny.  The ancient rentals of Zetland


