
                            PARISH OF CARNWATH.

           PRESBYTERY OF LANARK, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.

                     THE REV. JAMES WALKER, MINISTER.



                  I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.

   Name, Extent, &c.-The parish of Carnwath is situated in the
upper ward of Lanarkshire, 27 miles S. E. of Glasgow, and 25
miles S. W. of Edinburgh.  In some of the old writings belong-
ing to the family of lockhart of Lee, who is now the proprietor
of, the estate, I find it frequently written Cairnwath.  The name
is descriptive of the situation of the place, as there is a cairn im-
mediately west of the house and village nf Carnwath, (which will
be noticed more particularly afterwards) and near the bottom of
that cairn there is a wath, which, as my predecessor remarks, means
in the Saxon language a ford.  Such is probably the derivation of
the name.  The oldest people in the place report, that the wath
or ford at the cairn was almost the only pass across the burn of
Camwath at all practicable before it was confined by a cut being
made within a narrower space, and bridges thrown over it.  The
parish is very extensive, being 12 miles from south to north, and 8
from east to west.  Its form is pretty regular, (an oblong square,)
and it is bounded on the west by the parish of Carstairs; on the
east by Dunsyre; on the south by the parishes of Libberton and
Pettinain; and on the north by West Calder.
   Topographical Appearances.-There are no mountains, or even
hills, which deserve the name, though there are two ranges of high
ground which run through the parish, but which, even at their
highest point, do not exceed 1200 feet above the level of the sea.
The low and flat lands consist either of flow-moss, of which we
have still a large extent, or holm, which stretches along the banks
of Clyde and Medwin, marking the south boundary of the parish
The climate is such as is experienced throughout Scotland at the
same altitude above the level of the sea,-about 600 feet being
the lowest eldvation of any part of the parish; and though there
are still cases of rheumatism to be found among the inhabitants,
they are certainly fewer than they were, owing, no doubt, to the
drainings which have been executed to a great extent in every


