
			KIRKMAHOE.                            59

        Antiquities.-There are several motes in this parish, but they
are of a circular and British, not of a square and Roman form.
In the appendix of Dr Singer's Survey of the county, No. 18,
there is notice taken of a Roman road, which is described as
having passed through the northern part of this parish, and the
remains of forts barrows, and tumuli, are still to be recognized
in several parts of it.-In a shoemaker's garden at Duncow an
urn was lately dug up, with something in it like ashes, but it was
broken by the spade.-In digging for a foundation to our new
church, the workmen found a human skeleton lying in a different
direction from that of other dead bodies in our burying-grounds,
with its head towards the south, with an axe, very like a common
one, and a lamina, apparently of iron or steel, like a sword-blade,
deposited by its left side. The axe handle and the bones when
touched crumbled into dust, being entirely rotten, and the axe's
head, and the sword-like blade, were almost totally consumed with
rust,-" exesa rubigine scabra!"
	Mr Allan Cunningham, who spent his boyish days near the
spot where it stood, remembers to have seen the rains of Cumin's
castle at Dalswinton. He says, in a letter to the writer, "when
Comyn was slain in Dumfries" (when Bruce had given him the
"perilous gash," and Kirkpatrick "had makit sicker") "Bruce, it
is said, burnt his castle;" and adds, "that a part of the walls
was standing in 1792." They were, he says, l2, and, in one
place, 14, feet thick, and "bits of burnt wood" were still cling-
ing to them. He notices the old cow-house of Dalswinton as a
great curiosity, and says, that he had seen it entire, with its
"heavy stone vault," its "outer door of wrought iron," and
"its inner door traced with broad iron bars, fastened with iron
rivets."--" Three distinct lines of entrenchment" were seen and
carefully traced by Mr Cunningham and his intelligent father, en-
compassing "summit of Moloch hill," above Dalswinton vil-
lage, when they were measuring the land with a chain. These
lines were "composed of earth and stone, forming room for an ar-
my to encamp." He also says, that below, "on the south side of
the same hill," there had been "defences of the mine sort on a
much smaller scale."
	"The Nith," Mr Cunningham remarks, "instead of circling
the Scaur of Ellisland, and running nigh the Isle, directed its course
by Bankfoot, and came close to the castle;" and he remembers "a
pool near the old house of Dalswinton called Comyn's pool, which


