
				GARVOCK.                     49

consists already of 330 volumes, all purchased, except a few do-
nations, with the proceeds of a single sermon, which the minis-
ter published by subscription for that purpose. They consist
chiefly of religious, but include several good moral and historical
books. And it is hoped aud earnestly wished, that it may prove a
great and lasting benefit to the parish.
        Poor and Parochial Funds.-About fifteen years ago, the num-
ber of persons receiving regular aid from the poor's funds was not
above 2. But the number soon rapidly increased; so that, four years
ago, there were no less than 14 on the roll getting regular or occasional
supply. This arose from two causes. First, old age, sickness, widow-
hood, and orphanism. Secondly, the rapid disappearance of that
honest pride and spirit of independence which used to make our
people struggle hard and long with poverty, before they would ap-
ply to the kirk-session. The number on the roll is now consider-
ably reduced by deaths and growing up of orphans. Regular pau-
pers get from 2s. 6d. to 6s. a month. The whole fund arises from
three sources. First, church collections, amounting to about L. 12,
10s. annually ; secondly, occasional donations from some of the
heritors; and thirdly, from interest of former savings, which two
last fltctuate,-in all about L. 27 only; and consequently, as the
heritors would not all join to keep up our funds, by the pressure of
late years they have been reduced nearly L. 50. There has been
as yet no assessment here, and long may it be so; for although
the poor must and ought to be supported, yet legal assessments are
always attended with pernicious and demoralizing effects. They
have a strong tendency to diminish the industrious habits of the
lower classes, and to banish from their minds all proper feelings of
independence, gratitude, and contentment.
        Fairs.-There is only one fair in this parish, held annually in
July, on the summit of the Hill of Garvock, about half a mile from
the church, called St James' fair. It was formerly one of the most
frequented in the county, being a general feeing market; but
since markets for the sole purpose of feeing were instituted, just
at the terms of Whitsunday and Martinmas, St James' fair is much
reduced. It begins on third Tuesday 0. S. July, for sheep; on
Wednesday for home made linen, which, being now superseded by
the manufactory, that day is vacant; on Thursday for cattle and
engaging harvest shearers; on Friday for horses; but little busi-
ness is now done on that day. The ground on which it stands be-
	KINCARDINE.            D


