

                             SALTON.                      115

clergyman who acted as his substitute at home. Many social of-
fences, of a much less serious nature than those which now gene-
rally form the subject of church discipline, appear to have been
visited by the censure of the kirk-session; and rebukes in the pre-
sence of the congregation, even for such comparatively trivial de-
linquencies, seem to have been universal.
   Antiquities.-In the south-west part of the parish, and close to
the brink of the stream, are the remains of an enclosure of an oval
form, supposed to be a Pictish or Danish camp. It consists of
two walls or dikes running parallel to each other, and having be-
tween them a fosse, now almost filled up, of about 10 yards in
width. The circumference of the inner enclosure may be about
500 yards. No tradition exists by which any light is thrown on
the history of this remnant of antiquity.
   In the park at Herdmanston, and close to the present mansion-
house, are the remains of part of a chapel erected in the thirteenth
century by John de St Clair. All that now exists of this ancient
building is a portion, apparently of its western extremity, measur-
ing within the walls, 30 feet in length, by 14 in breadth. A part
of the eastern end appears to have been recently removed, and the
gable rebuilt with fresh stone. It is now used as the burying
vault of the Sinclair family. Within, are two flat tombstones co-
vering the remains of William de St Clair, and Sibilla, his wife,
bearing date 1598. A few yards to the north of this cemetery is
an old arch, a fragment obviously, of the ancient castle of Herd-
manston, having the date on the keystone.
   Herdmanston is now, and has for many years, been occupied by
the Honourable Adam Gillies, one of the Senators of the College
of Justice, the noble proprietor himself residing almost entirely in
England.
   There are no documents in the possession of resident individuals
which are calculated to illustrate the antiquities of the parish it-
self. There is, however, in the charter-chest of the Fletchers an
interesting historical document, to which I cannot forbear advert-
ing. It is the original letter written by the Marquis of Argyll to
his son, on the morning of his execution. Its brevity, indepen-
dently of its intrinsic interest, will justify me in inserting it at length
below. *

<FOOTNOTE>"DEARE JAMES,                         Edr. Castle, 30th June[16]85.
           "Learn to fear God: it is the only way to make you happie here and
hereafter. Love and respect my wife, and hearken to her advice. The Lord bless
you.-I am, your loving Father,"           (Signed)            "ARGYLL."



