
                            CARNOCK.                          697

ried into effect in the following year.  Sibbald, in his History of
Fife says, that "the Lord Lyndsay of Byres got this parish by
marriage of a brother daughter of Dalhousie; and they kept it
till King Jame VI.'s time, that Sir George Bruce, the predeces-
sor of the Earls of Kincardine, got it."  The Acts of the Parlia-
ment of Scotland 1609, inform us that the lands of Pitdinnies
were conveyed to Edward Bruce of Kinloss, and his wife, along
with the patronage of the kirk and parish of Torrie.  The char-
ter conveying the barony of Carnock, with the patronage of the
kirk thereof, to Sir George Bruce, is dated, as appears from the
same Acts of Parliament, the 4th May 1602.  From the same
writing we learn, that the church of Carnock belonged originally
to the ministry of Scotland-well, and was disjoined from it when
Sir George Bruce received infeftment of the barony.
   Chalmers in his Caledonia says, that "in the year eighty-three
of the Christian era, Agricola the Roman general, in endeavour-
ing to conquer the northern parts of Scotland, passed the Forth,
and encamped his army in the now parish of Carnock."  And the
circumstance that the name Camps is given to one of the localities
in the parish, and that several Roman urns were dug, up some
years ago on Carneil hill, renders his statement probable.  He
says again, "Upon Carneil hill, near Carnock, the Horestii ap-
pear to have had a strength, as we might learn from the prefix of
the name; the caer of the British signifying a fort."
    Eminent Men.-The connection of the Bruces with this parish
appears, from what has been already mentioned, to have commen-
ced in the year 1602.  Edward Bruce, the first Lord Kinloss,
"was a man of superior talents, learning, and integrity," and was
eminently instrumental in the peaceable accession of James VI.  to
the throne of England.  His second son, Thomas, third Lord

<FOOTNOTE>The people of Carnock were formerly staunch Covenanters.  The following no-
tice regarding the first sweating of the Solemn League and Covenant is worthy of be-
ing recorded.  It is extracted from the earliest of the session records, and is in the
handwriting of John Row." The 5 of November 1643.  The covenant of thir three
kingdom, Scotland, England, and Irland, was solemnlie sworne to, and subscribit
be the parishioners of Carnock, and all that cude wreat subscribit their names in the
book grin the printed covenant was, and the rest of the parishioners yt culd not sub-
scribe themselves subscribit be Jhone Anderson.  Notar pvblik Dunferlyne, he
touching their hands as the use is, at the communion table in the kirk of Carnok, as
the book qlk is in my possession will testifie.  Qlk action was done verrie solemnlie
after I had taught the historie of Joshua's covenant, Josh. 24 cap. fra the 14 verse
to the 29."  Again, during the ministry of Mr Belfrage, we find the following entry.
"Dec. I7, 1648, The quhilk day the Solemne League and Covenant was renewit
and sworne, and the public confession of sins was read over againe.  The fast was
lykewise solemnlie kept this day.


