

                   BOTHKENNAR.                           203

of sowing is always about the month of September. The average.
of beans is from four to six quarters an acre. Barley and oats
much the same as in the neighbouring districts. The hay raised
in the parish is of a very superior quality, and brings readily 3d.
per stone, in the Edinburgh market, more than dryfield hay. The
average produce may be stated at 300 stone of 22 pounds per
stone an acre. There are fourteen orchards in the parish ; and the
first of them appear to have been planted by the monks of Cam-
buskenneth, who understood gardening better than any other
part of the community at the period in which they lived.  The
soil is particularly adapted to pear trees, which bear more abund-
ant crops than in any part of Great Britain. The golden-nap,
which appears to be indigenous, grows with all the luxuriance of
a forest tree, and never cankers. Its value is so great, that single
trees have, in some particular years, brought from L. 10, 10s. to
L.12, 12s. ; and a single acre has in some years given L.100.

                   V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
  Villages.-There is no village in the parish, except a small por-
tion of Carron Shore, the greater part of which is in the:parish of
Larbert.
  Means of Communication.-The roads are, in general, kept in
good repair by the Statute Labour; and there is easy access to
every part of the country.
  Ecclesiastical State.-There have been only five Presbyterian
ministers in this parish since Episcopacy was abolished, viz. Mr
Lindsay, settled here in 1721; Mr Penman, in, 1744; Mr Nim-
mo, in 1765; Mr Dickson, in 1783; and the present incumbent,
in 1796. There is a circumstance worthy of notice, that, while
in every other parish in Scotland there was a great aversion to
Episcopacy, this parish was so much attached to it, that they kept
their minister, Mr Skinner, a most worthy man, from 1688.till
1721 ; and, had he not then resigned his situation, it is probable
he would have died among them in the full exercise of his minis-
terial functions. While the law of patronage was established in
every other part of Scotland, the inhabitants of Bothkennar have
enjoyed the invaluable privilege, from the days of the Revolution
to the present time, of choosing, their own ministers, through the
indulgence, in the first instance, of the Crown, and latterly, the
Grahams of Airth, into whose hands it came. The consequence
of this indulgence is, that the people, are much attached to the
Established Church, and there ara not above six or seven fami-
lies of Dissenters in the parish, all of whom, except one, have


