
                        MOREBATTLE AND MOW.                    447

the names of the two rivers. Liddal and Hermitage.  Hermitage
Street is nearly half a mile in length.  Castletown has three hir-
ing days, the first held in April, the second in May, and the
third in November.

     October 1839.



                        PARISH OF MOREBATTLE AND MOW.

          PRESBYTERY OF KELSO, SYNOD OF MERSE AND TEVIOTDALE.

                    THE REV. WALTER MORISON, MINISTER.



                I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
     Name.--THE origin of the name, Morebattle, is not certainly
known.  In the most ancient records it is written Merbotle and Mere-
botle, and the most probable supposition is, that it is a compound of
the Saxon words, Mer or Mere, a marsh or loch, and Botl, a hamlet
or village, thus signifying, the village on the loch or marsh.  This de-
irivation is not supported by present appearances, but there is reason
to believe that it was sufficiently appropriate at an earlier period.
The vale of the Kale, (on an eminence on the south side of which
the village of Morebattle stands,) for an extent of upwards of two
miles in length, and nearly one in breadth, exhibits obvious indica-
tions of having been at one time under water, and of having formed
a loch or marsh which has been drained by the waters of the Kale,
(which flowed through it,) gradually deepening their outlet through
the barrier of rising grounds at its lower end.  Another conjecture
concerning the origin of the name is that it signifies the village on
the moor.  It is found sometimes written Mitirbatle and Moorbattle.
But this spelling never occurs in any of the earlier writings.  Nor
is such a derivation peculiarly applicable either to the present or
former locality, at least not more so than to the majority perhaps of
the villages of Scotland.  Besides, it is liable to the objection of
making the name partly Scottish and partly Saxon.  Of the name
of the other parish, Mow, (which lies on the upper part of Beau-
mont water, and is the highest portion of the united parish,) an-
ciently written, Mol and Moll, the only derivation which has been
proposed, is from the British Moel, which signifies bare, bold, also


