
208			AYRSHIRE.

by public roup. A few free sittings are reserved for the poor. The
number of communicants on the roll at present is 835; and the
average number communicating at each dispensation of the Lord's
supper is about 654. Precise ecclesiastical state, as reported to
the Church Commissioners, November 1836: belonging to the Es-
tablishment, 2170; belonging to Dissenters of all denominations,
1223; not known to belong to any stated place of worship, 441;
total population, 3834.
	Religious Societies.--The Saltcoats Female Bible and Mission-
ary Society has existed above twenty years, and still continues to
exert itself with much zeal. It contributes to the funds of diffe-
rent religious societies. Its annual income since 1813 averages
L. 38.
        Ardrossan and Stevenstan Parochial Society.--This society was
established in the spring of 1833, and is supported wholly by the
contributions of people belonging to the Established Church. Its
object is to supply the poor with Bibles at a cheap rate, or gratis,
and to educate the children of widows and tradesmen in reduced
circumstances. The average yearly expenditure is L. 23, 6s. 8d.
and the average number of children on its list at school is about
35 quarterly.
        The average yearly amount of extra collections for religious and
charitable objects is between L. 40 and L. 50.
        Education.--There are nine schools in the parish. Six, includ-
ing the parish school, in Saltcoats; two in Ardrossan; and one
in the country. The parish school is too small, and the situation
confined and unhealthy. The heritors, however, have agreed to
build a new one, greatly enlarged, and on a more eligible site.
There is also a large and commodious school-house now being
built in the town of Ardrossan, at the cost of L. 335; the money
has been raised by subscription, Government contributing L. 150
The parish schoolmaster's salary is 1 3/4 chalders. The average
amount of fees about L. 25; and the amount of other emoluments
about L. 15. The school fees are, 3s. for reading; 3s. 9d. for
reading and writing; 4s. 6d. for arithmetic; 6s. for Greek and La-
tin per quarter; 10s. 6d. for one course of book-keeping; and
L. 1, 1s. for navigation. There is much need for a good school-
house with a small endowment for the country part of the parish.
	Literature.--There is a subscription library in the town of Salt-
coats, consisting of a good many well selected works, to which sub-
scribes only have access. The terms, however, are very mode-


