
30                     INVERNESS-SHIRE.

Highlands," which erected a central or model school in Inverness
of a large size, and which is generally attended by about 300 scho-
lars. It has been of much use to the poor of the town, especially
of the suburb on the Green of Muirtown, and the society's opera-
tions extend beyond it to the establishment of schools in the more
remote and thinly peopled parts of the Highlands, twelve of which
sort it supports at present; and towards the maintenance of schools
already existing, and supported partly by local funds, by giving a
small aid or allowance to the teacher. In these aid schools, which
have been of incalctlable use in encouraging the efforts of the
people, the society has under its protection upwards of 1000 chil-
dren during the winter half of each year. The sums expended
by this society for the education of the poor, from its institution in
1818 to the 30th September 1834, amount to L. 8023.
Raining's School, &c.-In the year 1747, Mr John Raining of
Norwich bequeathed L. 1000 for building and endowing a school
in any part of the Highlands the General Assembly should ap-
point. The Assembly fixed on Inverness, and soon afterwards de-
volved the management of the school on the Society for Propagat-
ing Christian Knowledge, transferring the residue of the money to
that body. At present it is conducted, as it has been for many
years, by two excellent teachers, (having under their charge about
250 pupils) on salaries of L. 48 and L. 40 a-year besides their
lodgings and gardens. The society last mentioned support two
other schools in the landward part of the parish, allowing to the
teachers salaries of L. 17 and L. 15 a-year. The-suburb of In-
verness called Merkinch has also been supplied by subscription
with a large public school for the poor, which is attended by from
200 to 300 scholars. There is also a school at Docbgarrocb, sup-
ported by the Committee of the General Assembly; and both in
the town and country there are many private elementary schools,
(besidds an infant school opened in the year 1832, and which is
generally attended by about 90 children,) in some of which the
classics and the principles of geography, mathematics, and naviga-
tion are taught. There are also several ladies' day and boarding
schools in Inverness; and the Sabbath evening schools for religious
instruction in the burgh are attended by about 450 children, there
being likewise a few of the same description in the landward part
of the parish.
In the year 1792, an academy was opened in Inverness, for the
education of the families of the upper classes in the Highlands ge-


