
                          ST VIGEANS.                        513

miles, about one mile of which runs through that detached portion
of this parish which lies along the coast to the westward of Elliot
water, in the parish of Arbirlot. Another line of railway was
opened in January 1839, connecting Arbroath with the county
town of Forfar, distant fifteen and a-quarter miles. The depot,
at the Arbroath terminus of this railway, is situated in the parish
of St Vigeans, which it intersects for a distance of nearly four
miles. These great works are destined to cofer inestimable ad-
vantages, not merely on the towns with which they are more im-
mediately connected, but on the county generally. The number
of passengers annually conveyed along them is much beyond the
calcuations of their most sanguine projectors; and for the con-
veyance of flax, yarns, cloth, coals, lime, agricultural produce,
payement, and other articles, they are found to offer such obvious
advantages, that they now command the exclusive traffic for these
and almost all other goods and merchandize.
	The present harbour of Arbroath having been found quite in-
sufficient for the increasing shipping and trade of the place, an act
of Parliament was obtained in 1840, for the improvement and en-
largement thereof. A new harbour is, accordingly, now inthe
course of erection; and, when completed, cannot fail, in connec-
tion with the railways, to increase and extend the commercial im-
portance of the town, and its populous and industrious suburb, St
Vigeans.
  Fisheries.-The only fishery worht mentioning in this parish
is the sea fishing, carried on by the villagers of Auchmithie.
Salmon-fishing has been tried on the shore by staker and bag nets,
but never so successfully as to clear the expenses. In the white
fishery, there are twelve boats employed, containing five men
each. It would be difficult to ascertain the weight of fish
taken by each. The cod are taken by contractors, at prices from
5d. to 7 1/2d. for each of full length, that is, seventeen inches from
the breast fin to the root of the tail. Under that size they are
only half price. The higher price is the winter one, and the lower
the summer. The former are salted and barreled; the latter are
chiefly salted and dried. *
	The number of cod fish caught, from October to the end of
February 1840, 1841, was 10, 268; and thd number from the be-
ginning of March to the end of June, 8702.  There were for-

<FOOTNOTE>Private families obtain from the contrator, nod, per favour, as la. le 6d. ac-
cording to the season.


