
170		    EDINBURGSHIRE.

common in Scotland during the times of the Jameses, and which
still seem to adhere in gloomy colours to the ruins that awaken our
interest.  Even the festivities of Mary, with her profligate para-
mour, were but acts of friendly and liberal hospitality to the distres-
sed on the part of the noble family by whom that hospitality was
afforded--and it deserves to be remarked, that the warning note of
insurrection and of coming vengeance was first heard amidst the
hospitable festivities of this place, as if it had been intended to in-
timate that its long course of domestic respectability must no long-
er be sullied by such a contrast. Scarcely any recollection, ac-
cordingly, haunts the visitant of this castle, but such as is genial
and pleasant to be indulged.
   Eminent Men.-The person whose connection with this parish
will probably in all future times be considered as its highest ho-
nour, was the late learned and celebrated Principal Robertson.
He was born in the present manse of Borthwick in the year 1721,
and retained to his last hours an affectionate recollection of the
scene of his boyish sports and early aspirings after fame.
   Few families in any country have bad the good fortune to give
rise to such an unbroken series of distinguished men, as those
which have sprung from the house of Arniston.
   Sir James Dundas the first Baron of Arniston, Governor of
Berwick and knighted by King James V., was the third son of
George Dundas of Dundas, by Katherine, daughter of Lawrence
Lord Oliphant.
  His son, Sir James Dundas of Arniston, though not bred to the
law, was made a Judge of the Court of Session in 1662.  He lost
his seat in the Court of Session for refusing to abjure the Nation-
al Covenant, except in so far as it had led to deeds of actual re-
bellion.  He retired to the family estate of Arniston, where he
spent the remainder of his days in domestic happiness-and in
cultivating a taste for polite learning.  He died in 1679.
   Robert, his eldest son, filled the situation of one of the Judges of
the Court of Session, during the long period of thirty-seven years,
with great honour and integrity.
   His son became ultimately President of the Court, and is al-
lowed to have been a person of surpassing talent both for elo-
quence and for legal business. He conducted the, celebrated case of
Carnegie of Finhaven,  and established the right of Scottish juries
to return a verdict on the guilt or innocence of the accused.  He
died, 26th August 1753.


