
			GALSTON.                           189

tion. Without doubt this universal capacity of reading, exercised
as it is by a public library, containing a considerable number of
useful and entertaining books, must have a powerful influence in
increasing the enjoyments, and improving the morals of the people.
	Yet, notwithstanding the ample provision thus made for the
education of youth, the state and prospects of the manufacturing
community in Galston have for several years been such as to excite
strong apprehensions that the education of their children would for
the future be neither so general nor so complete. The wages of
the hand-weavers have been so very low as to render it impossible
for many of them to pay for the instruction of their children, even
at the moderate rate of 10s. a-year. In these circumstances, the
inhabitants of Galston have great cause to congratulate themselves,
that the late Mr Charles Blair of Longhouse, one of the heritor
of the parish, bequeathed the whole of his property, amounting to
nearly L. 4000, for the erection and endowment of a free school.
It is expressly ordered in Mr Blair's will, that no steps be taken
for this purpose, till the free annual rent of his bequest amount to
L. 200 a-year; and on this account the parish will not begin to
reap the actual benefits of this laudable institution till after the ex-
piration of six or eigbt years. In the meantime, however, it is pro-
per to state, that a legacy of L. 1000, left by John Brown, Esq. of
Waterhaughs, for a similar purpose, has for many years furnished
the means of clothing and educating six children from the parish
of Galston, and as many from that of Loudon. It is scarcely ne-
cessary to add, that these two charitable bequests have been put
under the most judicious regulationr, and that they promise to pro-
duce the most extensive and beneficial effects upon the intellectual
and moral state of the community.
	Poor and Parochial Funds.--The average number of persons re-
ceiving parochial aid for a period of seven years prior to 1832 was
24 annually. The average allowance to each per year is L.4, 18s.
ditto per week, 1s. 10 1/2d. The annual sum expended in their sup-
port, L. 117, 4s. 9d.; of which there arose from collections, &c.
L.48, 18s. 9d.; from assessment upon the heritors (alone,)
L.68, 6s. It must be remarked, however, that the number of
poor, and the sum expended upon their maintenance, has greatly
increased within the two years lately expired, so that the assessment
for the poor alone amounted, in 1832, to L. 215. The great mass
of the people are sufficiently sensible of the degradation that is in-
separable from a state of dependence, and are sufficiently backward


