
     Statistical Account

<TABLE>

                                               Acres.
Arable ground                                   4439      31
Links, arable, but not allowed to be plowed,     435      50
Moss                                             795      52

</TABLE>

   Soil and Surface.-The soil in general is a rich clay, and
when properly cultivated is abundantly fertile.  The appear-
ance of the parish is an alternate succession of little rising
grounds and valleys, but no moor or barren ground.  The
piece of ground called the Links of St. Fergus, is perhaps
one of the most pleasant plains in Scotland, extending along

<FOOTNOTE>

dour, Pitsligo, and Rathen, (which last comprehends the greatest part
of Strichen parish,) together with several lands in the parishes of Turriff
and King-Edward.  This, together with the whole estate of Ross, was en-
tailed by WILLIAM Earl of Ross, on his eldest daughter Eupham, who was
married to Sir WALTER LESLIE, and the hairs of her body, whom falling,
to Janet his second daughter who was married to Sir ALEXANDER FREASER.
of Cowie, ancestors of Lord SALTON.  By this marriage Sir ALEXANDER
FRASER got this barony, a considerable part of which continues to be the
property of Lord Salton.

   A part of the ancient Earldom of Buchan was situated in the Thanedom
of Formartine, which is that district of Aberdeenshire, that is bounded by the
river Don on the South, and the Ythan on the North.  This part of the
Earl of Buchan's property, remained with the Crown, until DAVID II.
gave it to his brother in law WILLIAM, the 5th Earl of Sutherland, as
appears by a charter of that King, dated at Dundee, 30th July, 1366.
Totam illam-thanagii nostri de Formartine, cum pertinentibus, jocen.
in vice-comitatu de Aberdeen, etc.  Thereafter the Earl disposed of these lands
to William, eldest son of William, the 4th Earl of Orkney, as appears by
an insestment produced in Parliament, given by James II. Dilecto consan-
guineo suo, Gulielmo de Santo-Claro, filio & baredi apparenti comitis Orcada & Ca-
thania, of the land and barony of Newburgh, and several others in Aberdeen-
shire, together with the salmon fishing on Ythan, 16th March 1459, (Records
of Parliament) This WILLIAM was progenitor of Lord SINCLAIR, whose
family enjoyed these lands for 200 years, and then disposed of them to Udny
that ilk, of Foveran, and others.


