
758                     EDINBURGHSHIRE.

to carry this necessary of life up the long winding stairs of the
high lands or houses in the old town. In thk way the supply was
very deficient, not only as regarded diet, but as bearing upon clean-
liness in every respect, and consequently on the health and com-
fort of the community.
   Edinburgh Gas Light Company.-So early as 1554, some very
imperfect attempts were made to light the principal streets of the
city by hanging out borcets or lanterns from certain places fixed
upon by the magistrates, which were to be kept lighted for four
hours. In 1684, by another order of the magistrates, a lantern
with a burning candle, as already noticed, was to be bung out at
the first story of every house, under a penalty of five merks. In
later times, the streets were pretty well lighted up by means of oil
lamps till the introduction of coal gas.
   About the beginning of the present century, the practicability
of using coal gas for the purpose of illumination was proved at the
engineering establishment of Messrs Boulton and Watt, Soho,
Birmingham, and subsequently introduced into London. In
1817, a gas company was formed in Edinburgh, gas works
were established, and in the spring of the following year, the
shops on the North and South Bridges were lighted up with this
brilliant light. Next winter the theatre and public streets were
lighted up, and, in a short time, gas was very generally introduced
into private houses. The works of this company, erected in
the Canougate, are extensive, and contain eight gasometers.
Upwards of 202,000 cubical feet are manufactured daily. In
1825, another manufactory was established at Tanfield for the
purpose of manufacturing gas from oil; but this did not suc-
ceed, and ultimately the works were purchased by the coal gas
company. Here four gasometers are kept by the company for
the supply of the northern portion of the town. Gas pipes, with
a diameter from fifteen to one and a-half inches, extend through-
out all the streets of the town, the estimated length amounting to
eighty miles.
   Edinburgh and Leith Gas Company.-In 1839 a new gas com-
pany was formed, the subscribers to which purchased the Leith
gas works. They were incorporated by act of Parliament; and
pipes being laid by this company throughout the streets of Edin-
burgh, while the works are carried on at Leith, they thus afford a
supply to both towns.


