
       			    GALSTON.                          185

in an inverse proportion, from 6s. 6d. to 5s. per acre. It is scarce-
ly necessary to state, that the drains are placed in the furrows, and
that, after they have been made, the breadth and position of the
ridges is not allowed to be altered. If this improvement had been
left to the spontaneous and unaided exertions of the farmers, it
would in all probability have gone forward very slowly, owing to
the want of capital and enterprise, and still more to the proverbial
caution of that class of men. In fact, the mere example of a simi-
lar system of draining, which had existed in Ayrshire sometime be-
fore the commencement of his Grace's operations in Scotland, had
been found insufficient to give an impulse to the industry of the
farmer. But upon the liberal system above-described, which re-
moves every considerable risk from the tenant to the proprietor,
the operation of draining has been found so easy and beneficial,
that the tile-works cannot supply the rapidly increasing demand.
Nay, such has been the impulse given to agricultural enterprise
by the extensive practical evidence of the advantages of thorough
draining furnished from the estates of the Duke of Portland in
Ayrshire, that tile works are now rising in all quarters, and it is
probable that in a very few years these advantages will be shared,
by the whole county.
	Many and great improvements have also been made upon the
estate of Lanfine by the late and present proprietor, particularly
in the formation of many miles of good roads, in draining and re-
claiming waste lands by bounties given to the tenants, and in ex-
tensive and judicious plantations. On this estate alone there are
now upwards of 800 imperial acres of thriving plantations, which
promise to be highly beneficial as well as ornamental to that exten-
sive property. The wood most commonly planted by Mr Brown
is larch and otber kinds of fir, with a mixture of oak, ash, elm, &c.
in places adapted to their growth.
	Nothing can be more strikingly at variance than the methods
which are followed by the Duke of Portland and Mr Brown in the
management of their planations. The latter puts in the plants
at first at distances of not less than a yard every way, an care-
fully thins them as they advance in size; while the former plants
at less than half a yard, and allows no thinning, at least for many
years, but what is accomplished by the stronger plants killing the
weaker.
             "  Non nostrum inter vos tantas componere lites."
	Experience has not yet fully decided, at least in the parish of


