
			LUNDIE AND FOWLIS.                         467

very comfortable church, capable of being made to accommodate
between 300 and 400. *
	The manse, which is at Lundie, was built in 1797, and is small
and inconvenient. An excellent set of offices was built in 1890. The
globe contains six acres of good land. The teinds are valued and
exhatsted; and the stipend, L.200, is all paid in money. The Earl
of Camperdown is sole patron. There are very few Dissenters in the
parish,-not more than 30 when the census was taken last winter;
and the attendance at church is very good, especially when the
distance to be travelled once a fortnight by considerable propor-
tion is taken into account. The average number of communicants,
280; and in all extraordinary collections, whether for the Dundee
Infirmary or for the schemes of Christian philanthropy now con-
ducted by the General Assembly, the parish is noted for its libe-
rality. These annual collections seldom fall under L.9, and often
exceed it.
        Education.-There are two public schools in the parish, one at
Lundie and another at Fowlis, at which all the ordinary branches
of education are taught, each having a good dwelling-house and
school-house, and a rood of land, with L. 30. of salary, and the
school-fees may average L. 25 a-year more. The schools are
duly prized and well attended; and, except one adult, who cannot
read, and will not learn, it is not known that any are uneducated;
nor are there any so situated that they cannot profit by the means
of education. There are also two Sabbath-schools in the parish,
which are very well attended, not only by mere children, but by
young persons, even years after they have bdcome communicants.
The means of education are at present as complete as there is
reason to expect in a parish of this description, and the heritors
show every disposition to encourage it. Prizes are given at both
schools at the annual examination; and in addition to the usual
ones, a splendid quarto Bible is given to the best male and the
best female scholar at the school of Lundie.
        Library.-There is a subscription library in Fowlis, of which
the schoolmaster has the charge, containing 600 volumes, tolerably
well chosen. The subscribers are not restricted to the parish.
Perhaps nearly the half of them belong to the neighbouring pa-
rishes. It is making considerable progress, though the subscrip-

<FOOTNOTE>1842. Since the above was written, this church has been beautifully fitted up with
in, and now a very commodious and handsome place of worship. Excellent accom-
modations have also been erected for the minister when officiating there.


