
240			KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

crop of clover or seeds, may pay about 15s. per Scotch acre.
The average rent of the grazing land which never comes under
the plough, is about 9s. 6d. per Scotch, or 7s. 7d. per imperial
acre. A considerable portion of it being bad, is not worth more
than 4s. per Scotch acre, although some of the best grazing land,
which is reserved for permanent pasture, is let at.  L. 2, 2s.; the
very best is let at L. 3. The meadow land averages about L. I
per Scotch, or 16s. per imperial acre, a great part of it not being
good.
	The hill pasture upon Criffell carries a good stock of Cheviot
ewes, and rents upon a lease at about 4s. 9d. per ewe, and 2s. 8 1/2d.
per Scotch, or 2s. 2d. per imperial acre.
	Wages.--The rate of wages paid to good ploughmen, without
washing, is about L. 11, 10s. per annum; and to benefit our mar-
ried men, about L. 8 in cash, a house, 65 imperial stones of oat-
meal; 3 bushels of barley, 2 tons of potatoes, and 14 measures of
coals, amounting in all to about L. 19. The day-labourers are
paid 1s. 4d. per day in summer, and 1s. 2d. for three months in
winter; women, 9d. per day throughout the year, harvest except-
ed. There are very few day-workers in harvest, the harvesters be-
ing generally hired for the whole harvest. Men get L. 2, 2s.,
women, L. 1, 12s., with board and lodging.
	Husbandry.--There are two dairy farms in this parish, which
keep about 40 Ayrshire cows each. No more of their calves are
kept than are, required for keeping up the stock.
	Upon the whole, great attention has of late been paid to the
improvement of all kinds of cattle, which are generally in a state
highly creditable to their owners.
	The mode of husbandry followed is a five years' rotation upon
good arable land, and a six or seven years' rotation upon what is
inferior. The turnip system has recently been introduced, and
is practised very successfully, and to a great extent.  Bone and
other artificial manure has enabled the farmers to raise a third
more grain and pasture than could have been raised fourteen
years ago.
	The general duration of leases is eighteen years.  The farm-
houses and steadings are very commodious, and in good repair.
The fences are generally good and well kept. The obsta-
cles to improvement are not great, as the farmers generally are
fit for their farms, which are always taken at a money rent, with
the understanding that the landlord is not to expend any money
			       4


