

860                            PERTHSHIRE.

commodious school-house and school-room, and provided a garden
for the schoolmaster.  The present incumbent, who is now old and
infirm, has withdrawn from teaching, and his place has, for some
years, been filled by a teacher selected by the minister and some
of the beritors, who provide a salary in addition to the school fees.
The average number of scholars attending the parochial school for
the last three years has been about 80; and the school fees may
amount to from L.20 to L.25 per annum.
  The rates of fees are, 2s., 2s. 6d., and 3s. for the ordinary and
elementary branches of education; and 5s. for Latin, book-keep-
ing, practical mathematics, &c.
  The schoolmaster retains all the fixed emoluments, which
consist of the maximum salary, and the interest of L.190, being a
sum mortified by the Earl of Mansfield for behoof of the parish
teacher.  He has besides the perquisites as session-clerk, which
may amount to L.10 per annum.
  Besides the parochial school, and a school in Abernethy con-
nected with the Secession congregation, there is a third school in
the village of Aberargie, under the patronage and superintendence
of Joseph Murray, Esq. of Ayton, who gives the teacher se-
lected by him, besides the fees, an annual salary, with a
school-room and house.  The teacher is a member of the Esta-
blished Church, and has his school annually examined by the
presbytery.  In this school, the average attendance may be about
60, and here, as in the parochial school, the mnst approved modes
of tuition are introduced.  The heritors of the parish of Aberne-
thy are entitled to much praise for the sacrifices and exertions they
have made for the education of the people, and the fault is with
parents themselves if they neglect the ample provisions made for
the instruction of their children.
  There are Sabbath evening schools both at Abernethy and
Aberargie, conducted by the teachers and assistants, and under
the superintendence of the parish minister.  Libraries are con-
nected with these schools, from which books, chiefly of a religious
character, are circulated among the children attending the schools,
farm-servants, and other classes of the population.
  Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of paupers
on the roll for the last three years is 33, and the allowance given
to each individual varies from 2s. 6d. to 9s. per month.  Addi-
tions, however, are occasionally made to these allowances in cases of
distress, &c. Relief is also sometimes given to persons who are


