
834                       LANARKSHIRE.

new built and partly repaired, and the whole slated. These build-
ings at Loanhead cost L. 600.  The only two storey farm-house
in Lammingtoune, and by far the best upon the estate, is that
built within the same period at Beatlaws, about half a mile up
the glen of Lammingtoune Burn, above the village.  It has a
wing or projection in front, and another to the back,-and consists
of an excellent large kitchen, with chimney range in the gable,
after the modern form;-a dining room, drawing room with marble
jams, and a parlour on the ground flat, and five bed-rooms on the
second floor.  The whole is finished and furnished in such good
taste and style, as might vie with the generality of farm-houses in
East Lothian itself, even in its best days of agricultural prosperity.
The cost of these buildings was L.620, exclusive of repairs upon
the offices, which are suitable.  All the farms have thrashing-mills
upon them;-some of these are driven by horses, others by water,
and one, at Langholme, is wrought by steam.  Some of the farm-
houses are exceedingly neat and cleanly about the doors.  At
Beatlaws, the front is gravelled and tastefully laid out.  Others of
them, however, could "thole"' amendment,-such, for instance
as protecting the front from all access by cows and pigs, &c. and
removing dungbills, and other offensive though useful objects,
from the approach to the house, into a situation of greater con-
cealment.  Surely, such little attentions to outward appearances
cannot be incompatible with good management, or successful farm-
ing.  A great improvement to the farms nearest the river has
been effected, by an embankment of the Clyde, along the whole
extent of Lammingtoune, executed in 1835-6,-stretching not
less than three miles, and at an expense of about L.2000.
   Since Mr Baillie came to the management of his estate in No-
vember 1837, a handsome fancy cottage has been erected for his
game-keeper, on the steep and beautifully wooded bank of Lam-
mingtoune Burn, opposite the ruins of the old mill, and upon
what was formerly called the Millands.  It has excellent dog ken-
nels attached; and I am told the whole cost about L.300.  He
has also erected a1arge and elegant building in the village, now
nearly finished, and intended for an inn,-the contract price of
which was L.800.  It is of the cottage style of architecture, such
as one frequently sees in the south of England, having a steep
roof with projecting eaves over gables and side walls; and it has also
lattice windows,-those of the two public rooms, on the ground
floor, not only projecting beyond the line of wall, but being also
                               3


