
     of Tarbat.  

   Miscellaneous Observation.-There are only two public hou-
ses in the parish, and these little frequented but by strangers.  In-
dustry is not confined to the work of the farmer without doors,
but within also, the mistress of the house and the other females
are employed in preparing webs from the wool and lint rai-
sed on the farm, partly for family use, and partly for sale, and
there is scarce a house inhabited by the inferior class of people,
in which does not go on spinning of hemp or flax, given out
by persons employed for the manufactures of fail cloth and
linen yarn established at Cromarty and Inverness.  The ex-
pence of supporting a family has, within these forty years, ris-
en to more than double what it was before that period.  Meal
of every kind draws nearly three times the money for which
it could have been purchased, and fish has risen in a still high-
er proportion.  A shilling is paid for what till very lately could
have been got for a penny.  The increase of the expence of
clothing is still more considerable, and more heavily felt by
persons in the middle and lower ranks of life, who, to appear
decent, and comply with the fashion of the times, must have

     VOL. VI. 3 I

   Thus will be a memorable ‘ra in the history of this country, and it is al-
ready marked by the people, in their calendar, with the epithet of the Black
Year.  One agreeable circumstance attended to much misery, that not a sin-
gle person died merely of famine, though deseases followed, which cut off many,
whose constitution had been enseebled by what they suffered at that period.
The case was different during a scarcity which prevailed in this country in
the summer of the year 1741.  Many were then found dead on the highways
and in the fields; and others, through long fasting, expired as loon as they tas-
ted food.  But the planting of potatoes in the field was not at that time known
in this country; in place of importation, the rents paid in corn were a great
part of them carried out of the country, till the mob put a stop to this, by
breaking up a stoop laden with oat meal for Greenock; and the calamity, how-
ever heavily felt in this corner, was not so general as to draw the notice of
government or bring public aid.


