
     of Old Cumnock.

was under culture, notwithstanding the slovenly mode of agri-
culture too generally followed, it is apprehended the parish
could not only supply itself with provisions, which for the most
part it is supposed to do at present, but might furnish consi-
derable quantities of meal, as it now does, of butter and cheese,
and occasionally some barley (big), to the great works of Muir-
kirk and Catrin, both which are in its neighbourhood; the
former at 10, and the latter at 5 miles distance.  In most years
the inhabitants bring meal from Dumfries-shire, and pot
barley from Lothian.  Part is consumed in the parish, and part
is carried to the above mentioned works at Catrin and Muir-
kirk.  Flax was of late only cultivated in this parish, and there
are now lint mills all over the country.  Its culture in conse-
quence was increasing, but has of late been checked by the
prevalent taste for, and use of cottons.  Few grass seeds are
sown, except by the gentlemen who have the property and
reside in the parish, who may have a few hundred acres under
sown grass.-For the reason already mentioned, the bulk of a-
rable land is under pasture.  Peas and oats are sown in March
and April, and big in May, and reaped in September and
October.  The crop most attended to is potatoes, of which
the people all over the country make great use.  There are
varieties of marble and clays.  One porcelain, ochre, etc.  as
reported from an actual survey lately made.  The wetness of
the climate is one of the chief disadvantages.-The distance
from markets is now happily removed by the works of Muir-
kirk and Catrin; the influence of which on this country in ge-
neral, the parish shares in*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*As Airshire formed a part of the antient Gallovidia, throughout which the
Gaelic was universally spoken, it may be expected that traces of it should be found
here; and these are yet found in the names of many of the farms. As
Auchingibartte, Mellzioch, Barlonaiban etc. all which are supposed to be of
Gaelic original.


