
			GRAITNEY.                          265

vigorous measures were resorted to, and many of them were dis-
persed over the country, or transported into Ireland. Since that
happy consummation, the inhabitants of the whole surrounding dis-
trict, laying aside their mutual jealousies and hostility, have gra-
dually advanced to a degree of civilization,--and the lands once
desolate, though naturally fertile, to a state of cultivation,--far
superior to many of the more central parts of the island. It must
be confessed, however, that the progress of the people towards
this amelioration was gradual, and, in its early stages, exceed-
ingly slow. About fifty years ago the occupations of rural life wdre
but little attended to. The tiles of the exploits of their forefa-
thers, and the scenes of so much rapine and bloodshed, tended to
keep alive, and to cherish a restless and wayward spirit, which
reluctantly yielded to the restraints of law, and settled down into
the condition of the farmer and the artisan. Game was abund-
ant, and the Isle of Man, under a separate jurisdiction, held out
strong temptations to illicit traffic. Their bands were devoted to
the unprofitable amusements of the field, or to the pernicious prac-
tice of smuggling. Their families and farms were matters of but
secondary consideration, and, it must be admitted, that, with mul-
titudes in the adjacent parishes, a life of predatory warfare was on-
ly exchanged, for a considerable period, for that of vicious idleness
and a sort of lawless independence. Daring bands of smugglers
continued to infest the border. Tea, tobacco, brandy, and gin,
were the chief articles of their contraband trade, which they landed
in every creek along the coast, whence their ready friends convey-
ed them with horses to places of safety. These were found for
the most part deep sunk beneath the kitchen floor, or some of the
offibe-houses, or amid wastes of furze, or sometimes, when the
men were hard pressed by officers of excise, even in ditches or
morasses. These circumstances are still fresh in the memories of
many, and some individuals are yet alive who took part in transac-
tions resembling, in their extent at least, the systematic establish-
ments of regular commerce. During the last forty years, however,
the improvement has been great. The land-owners of the parish,
Lord Mansfield, Sir Patrick Maxwell, Bart., Colonels Maxwell
and Graham, have given great encouragement to the industry of
the farmers; and farm-houses have been erected, and the fields
inclosed in a manner that reflects much credit upon proprietors
and tenants.
	Antiquities.--The sites of several towers are still discernible in the


