
				PARISH OF AVOCH.
		      PRESBYTERY OF CHANONRY, SYNOD OF ROSS.
			 THE REV. JAMES GIBSON, MINISTER.

      I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name, Boundaries.-Avoch (a name which in the opinion of an
ingenious etymologist, signifies "shallow waters,") is bounded on
the east by the parish of Rosemarkie ; on the south-east,south, and
south-west, by the Moray Frith, and that branch of it called Mun-
lochy Bay; on the west, by the united parishes of Kilmuir Wester
and Suddie ; on the north-west, by the parish of Urquhart ; and on
the north, by the united parishes of Cullicudden and Kirkmichael,
   Extent.-The greatest length of the parish of Avoch, in a
straight line from the coast of the Moray Frith to the Folds of
Auchterflow, is 4 1\4 miles; its greatest breadth along its northern
boundary, 3 miles. But this measurement, from the irregularity
of its figure and boundary, would give an area much beyond, the
true one, which is only about 10 1\2 square miles. This extent
may be strictly said to form a portion, of the southern side of one
great hill, called the Milbuy  Maol Buidh, (yellow headland,) which,
although only about 500 feet high, extends from the Muir of Ord
to the town of Cromarty, and divides  the  two great arms of the
Moray Frith which wasb, the one the shores of Dingwall, and the
other those of Beauly.
   Topographical Appearances.-Although, however, this range
presents in appearance a regular activity from the sea to its sum-
mit, there are several ridges of sandstone and conglomerate over,
the lower half of the parish, running parallel- to that main range,
which occasion an agreeable diversity of  hill and dale.
   The extent of the coast along the Moray Frith from the Craig-
land Burn to the Bay of Munlochy, is exactly three, miles; and
the shore of Munlochy Bay, with which the parish bounds almost
the whole  way, on one side  measures one mile and three-quarters
more. Along the coast, from the east boundary to the village of
Avoch, there is a steep romantic ridge of conglomerate, covered


