
	       APPLEGARTH AND SIBALDBIE.              181

tember and October at the time of migration. In 1819 they
bred here, and produced large bevies.
	Water Birds.--The common heron (Ardea) frequents the ri-
ver from the heronry at Halleaths, a mile or two distant.
	The bittern (Botaurus stellaris) once frequented this parish, but
has not been observed of late years. It is still found, however, in
Lochmaben and Johnstone.
	The water-rail (Rallus aguaticus) is met with in ditches and
about Perch-hall Loch. The spotted gallinule, or water-crake,
(Crex porzana), is found around the same loch. The common
coot (Fulica chloropus) breeds there also, but leaves it on the ap-
proach of winter.
	The common curlew (Numenius arquata) is very abundant in
the upland pastures, where it breeds, retiring nn the approach of
winter.
	The green sandpiper (Totanus ochropus) occasionally seen on
its migratory pasage. Common sandpiper (T. hypoleucos), dur-
ing summer abundant both in Annan and Dryfe. Greenshank
(T. glottis) is seen sometimes on the Annan. Common woodcock
(Scolopax rusticola), and snipe (S. gallinaqo), and jack-snipe (S.
gallinula), all common,--the latter migratory.
	The lapwing (Vanellus cristatus) abundant. Golden plover
(Charadrius pluvialis) breeds in the parish, and is found in large
flocks during winter. The common dotterel (C. morinellus) was
met with last spring in a flock of about twenty birds. A few pairs
of the ring dotterel (C. hiaticula) breed annually on the Annan.
	Common cormorant (Phalacrocorax carbo) has been seen strag-
gling up the Annan as far as Jardine-Hall.
	Golden-eyed duck (Clangula vulgaris) ascends the river during
winter in small flocks, most of them in the plumage of the first
year; they swim up the shallow streams, and destroy considerable
quantities of spawn. The scaup (Fuligula marila); the tufted
duck (F. cristata); pochard (F. ferina); pintail (Anas acuta); and
wigeon (Mareca penelope), are all found here. The first four are
met with but seldom; the last more abundant.
	The common wild-duck (A. boschas), and teal (A. crecca), are
abundant, but diminishing in numbers yearly.
	The wild swan (Cygnus ferus) is sometimes seen in severe win-
ters. The bean goose (Anser ferus) in flocks frequent the flat
moors and holms in the same season. The white-fronted goose
(A. erythropus) is sometimes seen in small flocks. The goosander


