
                          HAMILTON.                        291

3000 volumes. For many years it prospered exceedingly; but
since the managers began to be chosen by popular election it has
been gradually on the decline. There are several other public
libraries, but all of them are on a smaller scale.--A mechanics'
institution was established about eight years ago, a good library
collected, and lectures delivered regularly once a fortnight on a
variety of interesting topics; but as soon as the novelty of the thing
ceased, its supporters gradually dropt away. But the inhabitants
of this parish are not singular in preferring that sort of knowledge
which costs the least trouble and expense. It has revived again
with great spirit.
	Poor.--The charitable institutions and other provisions made
for the poor of this parish are considerable.
	1. The Duke's, Hospital. This is an old building, with a bel-
fry and a bell, at the Cross of Hamilton, which was erebted in
lieu of one which formerly stood in the Netherton. The pen-
sioners used to reside here, but it is now more profitably let out
for their behoof. It contributes to the support of 12 old men,
at the rate of L. 8, 18s. each per annum, with a suit of clothes once
in two years. It is proposed to increase the number to 15.
	2. Aikman's Hospital. This hospital was built and endowed
in 1775 by William Aikman, Esq. proprietor of an estate in the
parish, and some time merchant in Leghorn. The house stands
in Muir Street. Four poor men have here a free house, L. 4 per
annum, and a suit of clothes every second year.
	3. Rae's Mortification. Mr John Rae, and a few other well-
disposed people, formerly inhabitants, mortified money to the care
of the town-council, the interest of which, L. 9, 2s. 4d., appointed
for the relief of poor householders, is mostly paid to the poor
yearly.
	4. Robertson and Lyon's Mortification. Mr Robertson was a
native of Hamilton, and sometime sheriff-clerk of Lanark. It con-
tributes L. 4 yearly to nine poor men.
	5. Miss Christian Allan, who died in 1785, bequeathed to the
care of the kirk-session, for the behoof of the poor, L. 50, the in-
terest of which is paid yearly.
	Besides the above, the kirk-session have,--
	1. An orchard at Fairneygair, left some years ago by Mr Wil-
liam Torbet, which lets at L, 10 per annum.
	2. A Iegacy nf L, 50, the interest of which is to be divided
among five poor female householders named by the kirk-session.


