
				ALFORD.                         509

the system is that of rearing lean stock for the English mars-
kets; the beasts being sold off to the dealers in driving condition,
when they reach the age of three or four years, and comparatively
few being fed for the shambles.  A bullock three years old
brings at present from L.7 to L.9; and one four years old from
L.11 to L.14.
   The whole cattle are turned out to pasture about the beginning
of May, and the milch cows kept as much separated from the
others as the facilities of the farm will admit.  The milch cows
are all housed during the night, and receive cut grass in addition
to their pasture.  The yeld beasts are allowed to remain day and
night in the enclosures, where these are completed ; or, where there
are no enclosures, are turned during the night into the dung courts.
In this latter case they are herded during the day by a boy.  In
the month of October, the cattle are all housed and bound up in
stalls, where they are with turnips and oat-straw, so as to keep
them in a growing condition, but no more.  New calved cows get
in winter and spring a little hay, in addition to the turnips and
straw.
   Many hundred acres of waste land have been reclaimed,
chiefly by the plough, within the last thirty year.  The method
of proceeding is this : As the waste land is all more or less
cumbered with stones, these are all first removed when they
are seen, or can be dug out with the pick-axe ; and those that
are large are blasted with gunpowder.  The land is then ploughed
with a strong plough, drawn by four strong beasts, attended by
three or four men, according to the difficult of the work.  Oxen
are more patient and fitter for, this work than horses.  Besides
the men in immediate attendance on the plough, a gang of three
or four men is stationed round the ploughed land with tramp-
picks and spades to clear out the tones exposed in the furrow,
and throw them on the ploughed land, and also to clear up the
furrow itself where the plough has occasionally been thrown out,6
All this, im lies great, labour; but the expense incurred in this
way does not equal half of that of trenching with the, spades
   After the land has remained a year in a ploughed state, the
stones are removed, and it is cross-ploughed, reduce with the,
harrow,, and laid up in proper ridges, after receivimg dung, if any
can be affored to it from the farm.  A proper quality of lime
is thep applied, and harrowed into the surface of the ridges - before
winter.  In the succeeding spring, oats are sown and harrowed


