
			BALMERINO.                           583

sed, after its forfeiture to the Crown, into the hands of the York-
Building Company, from whom it was purchased bv the family of
Moray, and is now in the possession of Francis Stuart, Esq., ne-
phew of the present Earl. The other individual alluded to is
Andrew Gullan, who was also a native of this parish, and was
hanged on Magus Muir as an accessory to the murder of Archbi-
shop Sharpe, being convicted of the crime "of holding Halker-
stone of Rathillet's mare," while the principal conspirators were
engaged in that bloody deed.
  A name of less questionable distinction than either of the above
remains to be noticed,-Mr Peter Hay, son of the laird of Meg-
ginsh, and who became proprietor of Naughton about the begin-
ning of the seventeenth century. This gentleman was author of
a work entitled "The First Blast of the Trumpet," printed in
1627, and which is well known to have bad considerable influence
on the stirring events of that reforming age. It excited the spe-
cial displeasure of Archbishop Spottiswood, as appears from the
records of the synod of St Andrews, in which the following allu
sion to it occurs: " The Synod haldin at St Androis, 2d October
1627, my Lord Archbishop desyred that the purpose concerning
Mr Peter Hay of Naughton his buik, suld not be mentioned in
the Publict Synod, and declaired that his Lordship would not be
present if the sam war spoken of."*
  Parliamentary Constituency.-The number of persons who are
qualified to vote for a Member of Parliament, in consequence of
the Magna Charta of 1832, amounts to 22.
  Land-owners.-The principal proprietors in the parish are, Mrs
Bethune Morison of Naughton; Henry Scrimgeour Wedderburn,
Esq. of Wedderburn and Birkhill; and Francis Stuart, Esq. of
Balmerino. There are five additional heritors, whose properties
are comparatively small. Two of the principal, and three of the
small, heritors reside in the parish.
  Parochial Begisters.-The earliest records of the session, in-
cluding births and marriages, date from 1652, and have been to-
lerably well kept.
  Antiquities.-The ruins of the Abbey of Balmerino constitute
the chief object of attraction under this head. The site of the
building has been admirably chosen, as a place at once of beauty,
comfort, and convenience, standing on an eminence in the imme-
diate vicinity of the Tay, and commanding a full view of that

<FOOTNOTE>  The Synod of Fife, printed for the Abbotsford Club, 1837.


