
                                COMRIE.                             583

         ran from it eastward, down through Strathearn. It has been sup-
	posed that the battle described by Tacitus between Agricola and
	Galgacus took place on the plain of Dalginross, or, at all events,
	that it was in this camp that the ninth legion sustained their disas-
         trous night attack from the Caledonians. These suppositions re-
	ceive some countenance from local traditions and etymologies of
	the names of neighbouring places.
	   The noted outlawry of the clan Gregor originated in this pa-
         rish. The Reformation, though then triumphant in the south of
	Scotland, had evidently benefited this district as little, as to this
         day, the south of Ireland. Drummond of Drummondernoch, a
	forester of James VI., having in 1588 cut off the ears of some
	M'Gregors whom he had found trespassing in the royal forest of
	Glenartney, they, with the aid of clansmen, soon after murdered
         him,* and after savagely exhibiting his head to his sister, Mrs Stew-
	art of Ardvorlich, upon her own table, carried it to Balquhidder
	Kirk, where the M'Gregors assembling on the Sabbath, and each
	man laying his hand on the bloody head, they swore to make com-
         mon cause with the murderers. This outrage and contempt of
	Royalty, at the time when James was on his marriage excursion
	to Denmark, brought upon the clan Gregor, by royal proclama-
	tion, the vengeance of neighbour clans, and the proscription of
         their very name. To this day, there are many of the clan in this
	parish who are known both by their original surname, so long pro-
	scribed, and by their adopted names of Murray or Drummond.
	   Sir James Campbell, Lord Aberuchill, and the first Viscount
	Melville, were connected by residence with this parish; the for-
	mer a Presbyterian, and defender of the Whig government at the
	British Revolution of 1688,-most of the gentry of Strathearn be-
         ing then Episcopalian or Popish Jacobites. A very handsome
	and conspicuous monument has been erected on the hill over the
	village of Comrie to the memory of Lord Melville, by his friends
	in Perthshire.  Dunira was his favourite residence during the in-
	tervals of parliamentary duties, and by him the extensive mansion
	house was erected.  Mr Menzies, the minister of this parish in
	1745, rode to Carlisle, and, by his intercession with the Duke of
	Cumberland, is said to have saved the lives of many of his pa-
	rishioners who had joined the Pretender's army under the Earl of
	Perth.

         <FOOTNOTE>Vide the Royal Proclamation, which distinctly states that the murder was commit-
	ted by the clan Gregor.


