
				OCHILTREE. 		   107

alluvial deposit carried into the lower places, which has formed
meadows and marshes; but, being of a clayey nature, it continues
soft, and induces the growth of rushes, sprets, and other grasses
usually found in wet places. The greater part of the land consists
of a clayey loam, resting on a sitff clay subsoil, and , without drain-
ing to a great extent, unfit for the new mode of husbandry, we where
green drilled crops enter into one of the rotaions. The uplands
are generally mossy, resting on clay of a yellow colour, covered
by moss of vrious depths, which often break into what are called
hags, or flow-moss.
			    II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	The author of Caledonia mentions, "that, as early as the year
1498, there had been a feud between Hugh Campbell of Louden,
the sheriff of Ayr, and Sir william Colville of Uchletree, Knight,"
when the king granted an exemption to Sir William Colville and
his tenants and servants from the jurisdiction of hugh Campbell
and his deputies, "because it was notoriously known that there is
a deadly feud betwixt them." Again, "after the disastrous bat-
tle of Flodden, many violent acts were committed in Scotland,
particulary in the south. In Ayrshire, the strong houses of Cum-
nock and Ucheltree were both violently taken possession of; their
owners having fallen on Flodden field."
	From the same author we learn, "that in 1296, Symon de
Spalding, the parson of the church of Ochiltree, swore fealty to
Edward I. at Berwick. during the reign of Robert I. Eustace
de Colville granted to the monks of melrose the church of Ochil-
tree with all its pertinents--a grant which was confirmed by a
charter from Robert de Colville of Oxnan and of Ochiltree in
1324. Down to teh Reformation, the monks of Melrose enjoyed
the tithes and revenues, whilst the cure was served by a vicar, who
had a fixed salary from them. In 1527, James Colville of Ochil-
tree granted an annualrent of L. 10 for the support jof a chap-
lain to officiate at St marys's altar, in the church of Ochiltree, and
the grant was confirmed by the king in 1527-8. In 1530, Sir
James Colville transfered the barony of Uchletree to Sir James
Hamilton of Finnart, in exchange for the barony of East Wemyss
in Fife. In 1534, Sir James Hamilton transfered the barony of
Ochiltree to Andrew stewart, Lord Evandale, in exchanged for
the barony of Evandale, and in consequence of this exchange,
Stwart was, in March 1542-3, created Lord Stewart of Ochil-
tree."



