
486                      RENFREWSHIRE.

ber of paupers in the latter, cateris paribus, ought to have been ex-
actly in the same proportion; whereas both (we speak of the poor
on the permanent roll) are more than doubled.  Nay, if we look
to the assessment in 1818, and add to it L. 600 as the income
from other sources, the expenditure at least appears to have more
than doubled in eight years.  And, if it was right that the expen-
diture should be doubled in 1818, when the population was 20,000,
assuredly it ought to have been much more than doubled in 1837,
when the population had risen to 28,000. The writer of this `r-
ticle is fully aware that the current of public opinion is running
strong in favour of assessments, and that there are many who would
plead for a much larger increase of expenditure. He, on the
other band, is humbly of opinion that the error is in the assess-
ment principle.  Its tendency is to increase the number of pau-
pers without adding to the comfort of those already on the roll--
to weaken or extinguish the manly independent spirit which in for-
mer periods distinguished our Scottish poor and to substitute for
the fruit of their honest industry the miserable deceptive allow-
ances of a parochial assessment. The difference between the
average allowance in 1810 and 1837 is only 5s. 11d. ; or, if we se-
parate L. 192, the sum expended in 1810 on 5 insane persons and
21 orphans, and the sum of L. 1174, 3s. 1d., expended in the last
of these years on 178 orphans and 24 insane paupers, the average
allowance to the other poor on the permanent roll was, in the first
of these ears, L. 2 nearly, and in the latter, L. 1, 8s. 2 1/2d.
   It is not pretended that any inference can be drawn on either
side from the extraordinary may we not say, the monstrous in-
crease on the number of poor receiving occasional relief, as appa-
rent from the preceding statements. The error here is in the ad-
ministration. One of the best parts of thd Scottish system is its
pl`n of occasional or temporary relief in other words, the prac-
tice of giving pecuniary aid to families in time of sickness or other
emergencies, to enable them to weather a passing storm, with the
distinct understanding, or the express announcement that the al-
lowance is to be withdrawn when the occasion of giving it has
ceased. On this ground, occasional relief, if given at all, ought
to be given liberally. With all deference to his fellow-workers
in Greenock, the writer is of opinion that nothing can be more
abused than to gvve to 981 persons in the way of occasional relief,
pittances so miserable, that the average scarcely exceeds eight shil-
lings per annum. One thing, however, may be pressumed from the


