
94      			WIGTONSHIRE.

tions may be stated as follows: Church collections, L. 43; pro-
clamations, L. 3 2s. 6d.; mortcloth, L. 4, 16s.; fines, L. 5, 4s.;
donations, L. 12, 15s.; interest of funds left for the poor, L. 20,
16s. 8d.; total, L. 89, 14s. 2d. There is a disposition among the
Scottish poor to refrain from seeking parochial aid. There is no
disposition of this kind among the Irish settlers.
	Fair.--There is a monthly cattle-market from April to Octo-
ber, held within the bounds of the parish. Though held in the
parish of Inch, it is called the Stranraer cattle-market.
	Inns, &c.--There are nine inns or public-houses within the pa-
rish. Three would be sufficient. The part of the parish where
public-houses are most numerous is the lowest in point of morals.
	Fuel.--The fuel in general use in the parish is peat. Peats
can be cut and prepared for from 5d. to 7d. per cart-load. What-
ever coal is used in the parish is imported from Ayrshire.
	January 1839.

			PARISH OF STRANRAER.

	     PRESBYTERY OF STRANRAER, SYNOD OF GALLOWAY.

		  THE REV. DAVID WILSON, MINISTER.

		I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	Name, Boundaries, &c.--ACCORDING to Chalmers, in his ac-
count of this parish, the name is of difficult derivation. Of old the
name appeared under different forms, Stranrever, Stranraver, and
Stronrawer. He says, "this name is obviously Celtic." Stron appears
as the prefix of many appellations in the Scoto-Irish language of
North Briton, and is from the Gaelic Sron or Stron, which signi-
fies a nose or promontory, and is usually applied to projections
from rising grounds. There is here such a projection, or nose, to
which the Stron was probably applied. The annex raer may be the
Gaelic Reamhar, which is pronounced Reavar, signifying thick,
clumsy. So Stronreaver would signify the "thick nose or clumsy
projection." The general opinion, however, and perhaps the best
founded, is, that it derives its name from the strand or rivulet which
divides the row, raw, of houses on its banks. Strandraw became in
time to be named and spelt Stranrawer, and afterwards Stranraer.


