    CRATHIE AND BRAEMAR.   653

population attend the Established Church pretty regularly, and
the number of communicants is generally from 750 to 800.
  Education. - The total number of schools in the parish is nine,
and at all these about 250 boys and girls attend during the winter
season, of which number nearly 40 come from the adjacent parts
of the parish to Tullich and Glenmuich. The parish schoolmaster
has the legal accommodations and the minimum salary. Five of
the schools above-mentioned are on the first and second patents
of the Society for Propagating Christian Knowledge, that is, two
for boys on the first, and three for girls on the second patent. The
schoolmasters have each L.15 of salary, with the usual accommo-
dations of a house, garden, and fuel, &c. required by the society.
The female teachers have from L.4 to L.5 each. The school at
Inverury is from the Committee of the General Assembly, with a
salary of L.25, an allowance of L.5 by the heritor in lieu of fuel,
and an excellent croft of land capable of keeping two cows sum-
mer and winter. The other Protestant school is only kept during
the winter season; but it is hoped that a permanent school may
be soon established. The other two schools are kept by the Ro-
man Catholics in Braemar, for three months during winter.
  Friendly Society. -  There is one Friendly Society in the parish,
which was instituted in 1815, and being remodelled in 1830, it
was designated the Braemar Highland Society; of which the
Earl of Fife and James Farquharson, Esq. of Invercauld, are joint
patrons, and The Honourable Alexander Duff, and James Duff,
Esq. of Innes House, are presidents. It consists of two funds; the
ordinary fund is for the support of sick and aged members, and
for granting annuities to widows and orphans. The annual
payment by each member is 4s. The honorary fund is for the
encouragement of the ancient games of the Highlanders, and is
supported by donations from noblemen and gentlemen frequenting
the district during the shooting season. The annual meeting of
this society, held always in the month of August, is generally
countenanced by many noblemen and gentlemen of the first re-
spectability from all parts of the united kingdom. The funds
are in a prosperous state.
  Savings Bank. - A savings bank was established here in 1816,
and how far its investments exceed the withdrawings will appear
from the present amount of its capital, which is L.1290, 10s. The
contributors are generally tradesmen and servants, with a few of
