
28                       LANARKSHIRE.

of a child. The sum is gathered as occasion requires, the socie-
ties accumulating no funds.
	There is a society in Lanark for the relief of sick, aged, and
indigent females. It is supported by subscriptions, &c. amount-
ing to about L. 40 annually, and has proved of signal benefit, in
distributing pecuniary relief, coals, and clothing. This society
is well conducted, and the objects carefully selected by the re-
spectable females of lanark.
	Savings Bank.--In 1815, a savings bank was instituted, in which,
for each of the last three years, there has been invested about
L. 200; withdrawn L. 342. The deposits are all made by the
working-classes, chiefly maid-servants. There is a sum amounting
to L. 1400 in the bank belonging to about 410 depositors.
	Poor and Parochial Funds.--The number of the poor amounts
in the in-parish to 71, in the out-parish to 36. In virtue of a mu-
tual agreement made seventy-five years ago between the two classes
of heritors, each to support their own poor, the management of
the former is in the hands of the kirk-session and in-town heritors,
while that of the latter is in the hands of the kirk-session and out-
heritors. Paupers in the burgh are paid from 1s. to 10s. per month.
The contributions at the church does now amount ?
according to circumstances; country paupers on an average, 5s.
per month.
	The contributions at the church door now amount annually to
no more than L. 37. Of this, L. 8 are, by agreement, paid to the
landward heritors for the support of their poor. What remains
after that and the other drawbacks, together with an annual assess-
ment of L. 230, goes to maintain the poor of the in-parish; besides
L. 70, the annual rent of the hospital lands, is distributed by the
magistrates among the poor of the burgh, and L. 40 by the cor-
poration of shoemakers to the poor belonging to them.
	The landward paupers are maintained by the L. 8 received out
of the church collections, and an assessment amounting to L. 100
annually, which has been levied for a period of seventy-five years,
without undergoing any considerable increase.
	Mrs Wilson morthfied a sum which yields about L. 32 per annum,
for the aid of indigent persons not upon the poor's roll; and for the
same class of persons, the late Mr Howison of Hyndford, left
L. 700, which is to be invested in land, and the produce annually
distributed. Formerly it was considered disgraceful to receive pa-
rochial relief, but for some years past, this honourable feeling has
been gradually wearing away.


