
300                    EDINBURGHSHIRE.

by the landlord and the other half by the tenant. When the pro-
perty is houses one-fourth is deducted from the real rent. The
rate of assessment in 1836 was 1s. 1d. per pound; in 1837, 11d.;
in 1838, 10d. The, highest rate to which the assessment has ever
reached was 1s. 2d. per pound, which would produce nearly L. 1400.
This unusually high rate was rendered necessary by the severe vi-
sitation of cholera, which, besides adding greatly to the number
of paupers, left many orphan children chargeable on the parish.
The heritors, since 1834, have taken the chief management of the
poor, a committee of their number being appointed for that pur-
pose, with whom the members of the kirk-session are expected to
co-operate. This committee holds monthly meetings for revising
the roll and transacting other business in connection with the poor.
No indisposition but the reverse is manifested towards receiving
parochial relief, and what is bestowed is in most instances regard-
ed by the poor not so much as charitable aid, as a debt to which
they have a direct and undoubted claim.
   About ten years ago, a society was formed for the suppression
of begging, which, during the short time it was in operation, did
much to correct the evils arising from the influx of vagrants and
common beggars, and clearly demonstrated the great benefit which
might be reaped by a strict adherence to the plan of supplying,
through a trustworthy person, the immediate wants of the necessi-
tous, accommodating them if necessary with a night's lodging, and
then, without permitting them to solicit charity, seeing them out
of the town. During the first year, there were thus relieved of
men, women, and children, 1036, and that at an expense of only
L. 8, 10s. 3d. The salary of the officer was, of course, the chief
expense, and as the public both neglected to contribute to the
funds, and also returned to the practice of giving indiscriminately
to persons of whose characters and circumstances they were igno-
rant, the society was unfortunately broken up.
   Bruces Fund.-This charitable endowment, which, under a con-
tinued system of proper management, will undoubtedly prove a
great permanent benefit to the poor of the burgh, was instituted
by the late Charles Key Bruce,  Esq., M. D., sometime of Phila-
delphia, United States, who had received his education in Mus-
selburgh. By his settlement, dated in 1826, he bequeathed
"L. 2000 Sterling, as a permanent fund, the interest of which to
be applied to, the relief of the poor of the town of Musselburgh."
This sum was placed by Dr Bruce's executors in Chancery, from


