
                          NIGG.                           35

able circumstances many years ago, while prices were high; And
now they go on in the ordinary way, careless about improvements.
   4th, The roads have been much neglected. Thousands of pounds
have been taken from the parish of Nigg to make and repair roads
in the parishes of Tarbat and Fearn, the three parishes being con-
stituted into one district, and the heritors of Tarbat and Fearn taking
care of their own interests to the neglect of the parish of Nigg.
   5th, There is no encouragement given to cottars to build and im-
prove. Their comfort has been too much neglected, and their
superiors seem to have forgotten how useful cottars might be ren-
dered in cultivating waste ground, if properly directed en-
couraged.
   6th, There is no market for hay, nor much demand for fat cattle;
consequently the land is not allowed to lie long enough under lea.
   Fisheries.- During the last twenty years, about 16 boats have been
annually employed in the herring fishing in various parts of the Mo-
ray Frith. The herring fishing season is confined to the dog-days.
The expense of boats, nets &c. has been great; and, though per-
haps each man may have, in favourdble seasons, averaged above
L.20 of profit, it is questionable how far the herring fishing has
been in reality a benefit to the parish. It is true, indeed, that
many of the fishermen were enabled by their success, occasionally,
a few years, since, to build nice cottages, and improve their furni-
ture (and there was abundance of need;) but the ordinary fishing
for haddocks, cod, &c. was a good deal neglected,-debt was in
many cases incurred,-high ideas were raised,-and now there is
a lamentable degree of poverty, in consequence of the almost total
failure, for some years back, of the herring fishing on this part of
the coast.
   There are stake-nets for salmon it Dunskeathness; but their
success is not great, and few lament the failure. The rent is said
to be L. 5.
   Produce.- The average gross amount of raw produce, raised in
the parish may be as follows:

<TABLE=PRODUCE>

           Grain of all kinds,             L. 10800  0  0
           Potatoes and turnips,	           2240  0  0
           Cultivated hay,	                 1250  0  0
           Grazing cattle and sheep,	      850  0  0
           Gardens and woods,                   240  0  0
           Fisheries,                          1000  0  0
                                           ______________
                                           L. 16380  0  0

   Navigation.- There are about 32 large and small boats in the


