
86	      		     BANFFSHIRE.

	Thlaspi bursa-pagtoris  	Stellaria gramines
	Sonchus arvensis	                uliginosa
	Thymus serpyllum	        Anemone nemorosa
	Tormentilla erecta	        Primula veris
	Stellaria media	                Oxalis acetosella
	          holostea	        Junei.

	   The forests and plantations are chiefly composed of the Scotch
	fir and larch, which seem to be most suitable to the soil and cli-
	mate; but oak, beech, plane, elm, Spanish chestnut, horse chest-
	nut, and ash, are here and there interspersed.

	                  II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
	   Land-owners.-There are only three heritors in the parish:
	Lady Abercromby, who possesses the patronage of the church;
	Alexander Grant, Esq. of Carnousie; and Alexander Morrison,
	Esq. of Mountblairy.
	   Ancient Charters.-There are several very ancient charters in
	the hands of the Forglen family, connected with the transference
	of property to and from the family of the Ogylvies of Banff, of
	which the present Lady Abercromby is a descendant. From these,
	it appears that the lands of Forglen at one time belonged to the
	abbey of Aberbrothick, as well as the patronage of the church.  The
	writer of this article has inspected a deed conveying the lands of
	Forglen, and power of presenting to the living, from Irvine of Drum
	to the Abbey, and another re-conveying them to the family of Irvine.
	These deeds are dated as far back as the beginning of the fif-
	teenth century.
	   Parish Records.-The records of church discipline begin in
	1659, and have been. regularly kept till the present time, with the
	exception of five years after 1754.  The register of baptisms and
	marriages is very imperfect.  In these registers we find some
	notices which are worth recording, as exhibiting some interesting
	differences between the former and present age.  It was usual at
 	one time, before the celebration of the Lord's supper, for the mi-
	nister to inquire of his session if there was any variance existing
	in the parish, and if there was, they took steps to have it suppres-
	sed.  On one occasion it is stated, "that there was variance be-
	twixt neighbours" in a certain district of the parish, whereupon the
	minister promised to travel that week among them and see what
	could be done.
	   It was enacted by the AsIsembly 1641, that every presbytery
	consisting of twelve members should maintain a bursar of Divinity,
	and where the number was fewer than twelve it was to be joined


