
     Statistical Account

rious soils. The most common, in the richer ground, is
summer-fallow, wheat, pease, beans, barley, oats.  Of late
it has been found, that both wheat and barley have suc-
ceeded as well, this after turnip, and that after cabbage, as
after a summer fallow, when the ground is properly dres-
sed.  Rye grass and clover are sown with wheat, oats, flax,
but most commonly with barley.  Wheat has lately been
introduced into the moors with promising success, where it
never was seen or attempted before.  A great deal of milk,
butter, cheese, eggs, poultry, veal, is daily exported and
sold in the Edinburgh market.  The real produce of the
parish cannot be ascertained, as there is a great importation
as well as exportation, chiefly to and from Edinburgh, of
which no distinct account has ever been kept*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Labour and Wages.-The want of cottagers and day-labourers is of-
ten smartly felt by the farmer, especially in harvest; and if then place
were not supplied by the Highlanders, upon whom they so much depend
for cutting down their crops, they would be reduced to the use of the
scythe, or some such more expeditious method than that of the sickle.
The first threshing machine in this parish was erected by Mr Waugh of
Easter Newton.  The use of there has lately become general m this coun-
try.  The common wages of a day-labourer, for a man, are from 1 s. to
1 s. 2 d. in summer, and 10 d. in winter a day; for a woman, 6 d.; for
an hired man-servant, from L. 6 to L. 10 a-year, with a pair of shoes, and
a cart of coals, in the half year.  If he live in his own house, he has 6 1/2
boils of meal, besides L. 1, 6 s. for what is called kitchen money.
(This is an allowance of money, at the rate of 6 d. a-week, in place of
milk, butter, beer, etc ) He has also sometimes a cow's grass, with as
much ground as may sow a firlot of barley.  The wages of a maid ser-
vant are generally L 3 a year.  Masons and bricklayers receive from
1 s. 8 d. to 2 s. a day; slaters, 2 s. 6 d.; tailors, 8 d. with victuals.  A-
bout 50 years ago butter sold at 4 d. a-pound, a good lamb at 3 s.; beef
1 1/2 d and 2 d.  The poultry in rentals was valued at half a-merk.  All
these articles are now more than doubled in price.  The people, however,
in general, enjoy a competent share of the comforts of life and every man
who is able to work, and who is industrious, may decently maintain him-
self and a family.  In the year 1782 much distress would have ensued
to the lower people, had it not been prevented by a liberal contribu-
tion of the heritors for their relief.


