                           WICK.                          135

	ball on the green. "Do you know," said he, "that one of my
	corbies," so he called his pistols,  "missed fire this morning
	and drawing. it from the holster as if to look at it, shot him through
	the head.
	     In 1588 the Earl of Sutherland, in revenge for the slaughter
	of one of his dependents by the Sinclairs, made an inroad into
	Caithness and advanced as far as Wick, which be took and burn-
	ed. One of his followers,. having entered the church, found the
	leaden box enclosing the heart of the late Earl of Caithness, and,
	disappointed in his expectations of treasure, broke the casket open  .,
	and flung the corrupted heart into the air.  Proceeding onwards,
	the Sutherlands laid siege to the Castle of Girnigoe, from which
	tbey retired, after having beleaguered it in vain for twelve days.
	Next year the men of Caithness having killed the Earl of Suth,
	erland's herdsman, that chieftain sent an army of 300 men,
	who marched almost as far as Girnigoe, and cruelly ravaged the
	country. In this inroad, they spoiled the ship, and plundered
	the goods of one Andrew Wardlaw, a merchant in the town of
	Wick.
	     In 1606, the Earl of Caithness, by purchase of some estates,
	became proprietor of almost all the parish of Wick; but his infa-
	mous conduct, which has procured for him in the traditions of this
	parish, the cognomen of the Wicked, involved him in inextrica-
	ble difficulties.  To recruit his exhausted resources, be harbour-
	ed at Girnigoe a coiner called Arthur Smith, who filled the coun-
	try with bad money.  This, and his turbulence brought down upon
	his head the vengeance of the Court; and Sir Robert Gordon,
	the first Knight-baronet of Scotland, was despatched with ample
	powers to chastise the-treasonable earl.  Lord Caithness fled;
	but Sir Robert laid waste his estates, and took possession of his
	castles of Girnigoe Ackergill, and Keiss.  The earl at length
	submitted himself, and was alimented by his creditors with an an-
	nuity out of his dilapidated estates.  He died in 1643, and was
	succeeded by his great-grandson, George, who sold in 1672, the
whole earldom, title, and all, to the Laird of Glenoreby, and died'
in 1676.
Gle'norchy, who thus had become propnetorof the greater paa'
of the parish of Wick, having married the Coutitess, assumed the
0 is put title of Earl of Caithness. His right to this h Hour wits 4          -
ed by George Sinclair. of Keiss, To vindicate his:i-,14hv, Ghe.
orchy having obtained letters from the Council, raised a troop, of


