
         850                          FIFESTURE.

      or lash, the emblem probably of discipline, and it] his left a scroll
      proceeding towards the Virgin, on which is inscribed part of the
      salutation to her in large old Roman capitals, " Ave gratia plena
      Dns. Tec." (Dominus Tecum,) 11 Hail full with favour, the Lord
      be with you." Before the Virgin is a table with an open book on
      it, containing her answer, also in Latin, and with some abbrevia.
      tions. The words are not very legible on the cast, but having
      seen them as taken in 1812 by a zealous antiquary of that day, I
      can partly trace them, and am satisfied that they are all there, al-
      though the space is but small. They are in small Roman capi-
      tals, as exhibited in the engraving, and are as follows : Ecee ancilia
      di (domini.) Fiat micki (mihi) S. V. T. (secundum verbum tu-
      um,) " Behold the handmaid of the Lord. Be it unto me ac-
      cording to thy word." At the top is a human head and face with
      a crown of glory, the emblem of God the Father, and to the left,
      a dove, the symbol of the Spirit, descending amid rays of light,
      proceeding from him upon the bead of the Virgin. In front of
      the table before the Virgin is a pot with a lily in it, the emblem
      of purity, and the usual accompaniment of the Virgin, and in front
      of it again, at the lower centre of the stone, is a coat armorial,
      consisting of a shield bearing a cheveron between three crescents.
      The arms are those of the Duty family, ancient possessors of the
      lands of Dury in Fife, in the reign of Alexander II., and of whom
      George Dury, a descendant, was the last abbot and perpetual com-
      mendator of the abbey of Dunfermline, and arch-dean of St An-
      drews at the Reformation, and for about twenty years previous.
         At the bottom of the whole device is the date II00, in Arabic
      numerals, the cyphers being of the form of diamonds, and before
      it is some contracted word not easily legible on the cast, which has
      hitherto been given as CHI. the abbreviation for Christi; but the
      probability is that it is XPI. the Greek letters, which are the
      usual contraction for the name of our Lord.
         The date 1100 has _ given great trouble to antiquaries. The
      question is, whether this date was engraven at the time specified,
      and whether it be meant to indicate the period when the palace was
      built.  From various considerations my own opinion is that the stone
      in its present state could not have been sculptured at that period.
      As to the time of its execution, my conjecture is, that it was at
      the close of the reign of James V. and the commencement of the
      Abbotship Qf George Duty, probably between 1539 and 1541, and
      perhaps contemporaneous with the execution of the coat of arms,

