
                      PETTIE.                               377

shore of the Moray Frith; or from about a mile from Fort George
till it comes to within four miles from the town of Inverness. It
varies from 2 to 3 miles in breadth, and extends about 9 miles on
the interior side, connecting the parishes of Nairn and of Inverness.
   Boundaries and Figure.-The boundaries on the eastern and
western extremities were, at one time, two brooks or burns, the
courses of which can yet be traced, although the compulsory spirit
of modern improvement no longer admits of their " wandering at
their own sweet will." That which separates Pettie from Inver-
ness, a little beyond the fourth milestone from th`t town, is called
Ault-ax-fhiler, or fiddlers' burn. It is now no better than a small
drain, if it was ever much more, except after a heavy fall of rain
or snow. That which separates Pettie from Ardersier on the east,
formed at one time the boundaries between the properties of the
Earls of Moray and Cawdor, where the villages of Stewarton and
Campbelton now rise together. That burn has been, however,
beyond the recollection of any one now living, turned to supply a
mill, and to empty itself into the sea, on the west, instead of, as
originally, on the east side of Stewarton. On the south, the parish
is bounded by Croy, and by the Moray Frith on the north.
   Topographical Appearances.-Though situated in the High-
lands, and the entire population, till recently, speaking the Gaelic
language, the parish is the reverse of mountainous. The land
rises like a broken wave from the sea, in some places with a bank
of considerable steepness and height, then sinks into a vale of moss
land, (from which, till reduced to cultivation, the town of Inver-
ness used to be supplied with rushes):  thence it ascends again to
the parish of Croy, and the Moor of Culloden, which extend
along the ridge. Towards the sea the sail is of a clayey sand
or of a light  character. The Braes, as they are called, form-
ing the ascent from the moss to Croy, are of a stronger and m
more fertile puality of soil. Several brooks fall over a bed of
rocks into the vale; and from the advantage, of these streams,
some of the farmers in the braes and low grounds have thrash-
ing-mills which are wrought by water. From this advantage,
smuggling was very common, formerly, among the small farmers in
the braes; and when they were removed, one of the first tennats
of the enlarged farms, a Mr Collie, established a  distillery, which                                                           is           .
was carried on, for several years, till his death. Even the greatest
winding along the shore scarcely deserves the name of bay. It is
between Altirlie Point, where a commodious harbour could be
   INVERNESS.                         B b


