
118                      ELGINSHIRE.

Colymbus grylle       Anas clangula         Turdus viscivorus
Ampelis garrulus      Lanius excubitor      Scolopax calidris
Pelecanus carbo       Sterna birundo        Turdus iliacus
Certhia familiaris    Scolopax glottis      Charadrius Hiaticula
Loxia curvirostra     Alcedo Ispida         Anas glacialis
Tringa alpina         Colymbus arcticus          crecca
Motacilla regulus     Alca alle             Rallus aquaticus
Mergus merganser      Mergus serratur       Sturnus cinclus.

   Botany.-The Listera or tway-blade, the Goodyera repens and
Linnaa borealis may be reckoned the rarest of our indigenous
plants. The Trientalis Europaa (or chickweed winter-green,)
also unfolds its beautiful stars in our copses and glens, mingling
with the flowers of the Oxalis acetosella or wood sorrel; and the
Asperula odorata or sweet woodroof, is found in great abundance,
growing wild in a small glen on the south-eastern border, of the
parish. Our prevailing forest trees are the Scotch fir, with a few
thriving plantations of larches and birch. Some majestic limes,
horse-chestnuts, and planes, with stately rows of beeches and elms,
and a great variety of ornamental trees, adorn the extensive lawns
and scenery at Gordon Castle. And one delightful spot has long
been known by the name of the "Holly Bank," from the superior
growth and profusion of this beautiful evergreen, with which it is
chiefly covered.
   A magnificent lime-tree on the south lawn of the Castle usual-
ly attracts the admiration of strangers. It has the appearance of
three stems incorporated into one, and its pensile, branches, which
are enclosed with a tasteful rustic pallisade, cover a space of the
immense circumference of 300 feet.
                       II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Antiquities.-To the north of Gordon Castle, are the re-
mains of a military station, which early tradition assigned to the
Danes, but which in later times has long been known by the
appellation of the "Roman camp." Those who ascribe it to
the Danes suppose it to have been connected with a battle
which they fought with the Scots in the neighbourhood of Cul-
len; but, as the Roman Eagles were once certainly displayed
upon the banks of the ancient Tuessis or Spey, it is generally
supposed that this encampment was formed by a detachment of
Agricola's troops, when he traversed the coasts of our island, and
may have been intended to cover the ford of the river, which at
that period probably ran along the base of the bank where the
station is placed. Its quadrangular form, with its rampart and
ports, seem also to indicate, with some degree of certainty, that it


