
146                     ABERDEENSHIRE.

extent, of pretty well grown Scotch fir, interspersed with some
hard-wood, and some larch more recently planted.
   Beech and spruce seem to be the kinds of wood that generally
thrive best; but there are to be seen in different places, fair spe-
cimens of most other species of trees, natural or domesticated, in
the north of Scotland, particularly ash, elm, silver-fir, larch, and
our own native pine.  The cold saline piercing blasts from the
sea, meeting with little to temper or turn them aside as they
sweep over the surface, are undoubtedly adverse to the growth of
wood.
   Zoology.-There is not much curious or rare in the zoology of
this parish.  It may be noticed, however, that rabbits have so mul-
tiplied within the protected grounds, as to have become a pest to
farmers and foresters.  Their number and prolifickness may in part
be judged of from this fact, that, notwithstanding about half a
score of years back, they were scarcely known to exist in a wild
state; nearly 12,000 were shot or snared in the course Of one year,
principally in the policies and woods that lie round the house of
Pitfour.  In the north, which is the best wooded side nf the pa-
rish, roe-deer and fallow, the progeny of a few that escaped from
a neighbouring park, now become wild, are also pretty numerous.
Hares, where care is bestowed in protecting the game, are, Mally
think, more than sufficiently plentiful for all useful purposes, while
in several respects they are obviously destructive.  The cultiva-
tion of moors, mosses, and bogs has not favoured the increase or
preservation of grouse and snipes, so that of these there are com-
paratively few.  Several varieties of wild ducks are far from being
scarce.  Wild geese occasionally visit the country in seed-time.
Partridges in good seasons are abundant.  Of woodcocks, many
scores have been shot in the course of a winter.  The ordinary
birds of passage, cuckoos, plovers, corn-rails, swallows, &c. never
fail to come and go at their stated times.  Captain Ferguson some
years ago introduced a brood of pheasants, which, from being well
attended to and protected, have prospered and spread in the quar-
ter.

                       II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Deer, if not the first, was probably one of the first places in
Buchan where a Christian church was erected.  There is a le-
gend, that when some pious, individuals formed the design of build-
ing a house for the worship of God and selected such spots, one
after another, as, their own judgment, inblination, or convenience


