
	                             LOTH.                            191

	outer edge of the rock, and without any protection from the pre-
	cipice that overhangs the sea, could not, with any degree of safe-
	ty, be passed in stormy weathers and never failed to inspire indi-
	viduals not accustomed to such passes, with great dread; and
	among other travellers of the last century who describe the ter.
	rors of the passage across the Ord, the Rev. John Brand, in his
	Description of Orkney, Shetland, and Caithness in the year 1701,
	says, ``The Ord which divideth Caithness from Sutherland is a
	high mountain, as the name Ord, which in Irish signifieth an height,
	doth imply, down which our way from Caithness to Sutherland
	dotb lie. The road is but narrow, and the descent steep, and if
	any stumble thereupon, they are in hazard of falling down a pre-
	cipice into the sea at the bottom of the rock, which is very terrible
	to behold; but who pass it for the more security, use to lead, their
	horses, to the foot of the bill, which is about a short mile in length,
	and no other way there is from Sutherland to Caithness, or from
	Caithness to, Sutherland, but this, except we go 12 miles about."
	   The Glen of Loth is a narrow opening of about three miles in
	extent, surrounded by the highest hills in the parish, and is one
	of those wild glens, characteristic, of a Highland district, which the
	superstition of former ages invested with traditional tales of wonder
	and terror. The glen, at the foot of an abrupt and prominent
	hill called Drumderg, was the scene of a bloody conflict between
	the men of Strathnaver and those of Loth in the sixteenth cen-
	tury; and it possesses several objects to which the traditions of
	the country have given celebrity. Thus, a large cairn, called
	Cairn-Bran, marks the place where Ossian's dog Bran is said to
	have died, and been buried. At Cairn-in-uag, an ancient hunt-
	ing-bouse stood. Tober Massan is the name of a well of excel,-
	lent water, which, in former ages, was resorted to as a specific for
	almost all diseases, provided silver or gold was, left in the water
	for the officiating priest. Clach Mac-meas is a huge upright
	stone, which a precocious youth, 'at the tender age of one month,
	in that interesting period of the world's history, when ``giants of
	mighty bone and bold emprise," dwelt in the land, hurled to the
	bottom of the glen from the top of Ben-Uarie. Carriken-cligh
	are four stone pillars on an elevated barrow, that point out the
	resting-place of some leading men of a remoto period; and con-
	nected with this glen and forming the very close and singular
	sides of a small burn that runs into it, are the lofty cliffs called
	Craig-Boddich and Craig-Bhokie, remarkable not only for their


