
                 LEWIS-STORNOWAY.                             137.

       Ship-carpenters are daily employed; and each shipowner has his
       dock.
         Ecclesiastical State.--The parish church is situate on Kirkhill,
       in the town of Stornoway.  It is only convenient for the population
       in and near the town.  From the farm of Tolsta, which contains 250
       souls, the church is twelve miles distant; and six miles of a pathless
       moor are very rugged.  Tong, where the manse is built, is by the
       new road four miles from church, and between the manse and Tol-
       sta, there is a population of 1200 without a seat in church, and
       destitute of any place of worship, viz. Drum-bheag and Aird of
       Tong, containing 200 souls, Garra-Ghuism, 50, Upper and Nether
       Coll, 222, Vateikis and Back, 399, Gress, 122, and Tolsta 250,
       --in all 1253 souls.  The present church was built in 1794.  It is
       mentioned in the last Statistical Account, thus: "A very elegant
       church was lately built at Stornoway.  The internal economy is
       very nearly finished."  Three years ago, the people of the parish
       became alarmed about the insufficiency of the front wall, and the
       weight of the roof,--when partial repair was given to it; but this
       did not remove the alarm, the front wall was still off the plumb-
       line several inches; the wall receded from the seats in the gal-
       lery, and no consideration would make the people enter to attend
       divine service.
         After the present incumbent's petition was laid before the pres-
       bytery, the feuars in Stornoway, conjointly with the ministers, laid
       the proceedings of presbytery before Messrs Mackenzie and Cock-
       burn, trustees for the Seaforth property.  They agreed that all should
       be assessed, according to their several interests.  The repairs tbere-
       upon commenced, and are now on the eve of being finished.  When
       these are completed, the church will not be surpassed by any in
       the Western or Northern Hebrides.
         The feuars generously and unanimously voted to the present
       incumbent, a session-house or vestry adjoining the back wall of the
       church,--wherein he can rest, during the interval between the Gae-
       lic and English services.
         The original sum expended in building the church was L. 900;
       the present repair amounts to nearly L. 600,--to which the feu-.
       ars contribute nearly one-half.  The benefactions on record are
       four: Colonel Mackenzie, formerly mentioned, gave L. 100 Ster-
       ling, Miss Mary Mackenzie Cam, his sister, L. 140, Mrs A.
       Nicolson, L. 100, and Mrs Macauley, South Carolina, L. 50
       Sterling.


