
     of Newhills.

   The valued rent of the country part of the parish, (for part,
belonging to, or held of the town of Aberdeen, has no valua-
tion), is L. 1313: 6: 8 Scotch.  A kind of valuation, suppos-
ed to have been the real rent of the parish, amounting to
L. 4653 :6 :8 Scotch, was given in to the presbytery of A-
berdeen by the heritors, in 1679.  The mean rent of land is,
about 15 s per acre; but, it must be observed, that every farm
has a proportionable quantity of pasturage and moss annexed
to it, the benefits of which, the tenant enjoys without any ad-
ditional expence.  Some of the best land is let at L. 2 per acre.
The large farms are all inclosed with stone fences: the Eng-
lish plough is used on them, and is drawn by 2 or 4 horses.
The principal manure is shell lime, brought from Aberdeen
from whence, likewise, considerable quantities of street dung
are procured.  Improvements upon one farm, which produ-
ces great crops, have been made by means of soap ashes, and
other manure of a saponaceous nature.  The soil also requires
to be frequently laid down in grass, that it may acquire a con-
sistency or body.  This, however, proves no unprofitable ma-
magement, as the grass fields are rented by butchers at a very
high price.  The lesser farmers still employ the Scotch plough,
to which they frequently yoke oxen and horses together.
Their infield, which is seldom allowed to remain in grass, is di-
vided into three portions, which alternately receive the ma-
nure: barley is always sown in that part which is dunged,
and the other two are cropped with oats.  There are 88
ploughs in the parish; of which, 49 are drawn by horses, 7
by oxen, and the rest by both.  The number of carts is 139*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*A male labouring servant receives L. 2: 10; a female servant L. 1 the
half year.  Common labourers are hired at 9 d: a day, in harvest at 1 s.
and in time of mowing hay, at 1 s. 6 d.  Many earn 1 s. a day by working in
the quarries, and in making stone fences, being paid by the piece.  The day


