238                           DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

the means of improving reading not only to the children connected
with them, but also to their parents, of which they eagerly avail
themselves.
	Charitable and othert Institutions.--There are two friendly socie-
ties in the parish, the one for males, and the other for females,--
the former of which has been in existence about thirty-six years,
and the latter upwards of thirty. They are both in a flourishing
condition in point of numbers; * notwithstanding the members have
been so imprudent as to make a division of part of their funds on
two several occasions during years of searcity,--a measure which
the minister, who has always taken a leading interest in both in-
stitutions, did every thing in his power to prevent. Where the ne-
cessity of relieving the pressure of immediate want was so strong,
it was scarcely to be expected that his remonstrances should have
been effectual, especially as the example was set by almost all the
neighbouring societies. It is, however, to be hoped that the wise
provisions of the Friendly Society Act passed in 1829, will operate
as an effectual check on such improvident conduct for the future.
How far such institutions serve to promote industry, it may be dif-
ficult to say,--but that they are productive of other advantages of
great importance, cannot be doubted. In this parish, they have
been a powerful means of preserving in the minds of the people a
spirit of independence, and of restraining the evils of pauperism,
which in other places the circumstances of the times have contri-
buted so largely to extend.
	Savings Bank.--A parish or savings banh, has been established
in this parish since the year 1810.+ The funds of the institution

<FOOTNOTE> There are about 130 members in the male society, and about 90 in the female.
	+ The circumstances which led to the formation of this institution are thus detail-
ed in an essay on parish banks, published by the author in 1815; "About the be-
ginning of the year 1810, the founder of that establishment had been anxiously em-
ployed in examining the different plans which had from time to time been suggested
for ameliorating the condition of the lower orders; and in the course of his inquiries,
he happened to meet with a pamphlet giving an account of a scheme called by the
inventor, (John Bone, Esq. of London), "Tranquillity," of a nature perhaps too com.
plicated for general adoption. One of the proposed provisions of this plan, however,
was an economical bank for the reception of the small savings of the industrious.
The benefit which might result from carrying a plan of this latter kind into effect imme-
diately appeared to the writer in a very strong light and he determined, as the best means
of ultimately introducing it to general notice, to try, in the first place, the effect of
its operation in the very contracted sphere of his own parish. In this attempt there
were discouragements of a peculiar kind, which it will not be improper to state, that
the success of the experiment may appear in its true light. In point of local circum-
stances, indeed, there are perhaps few parishes in Scotland where the scheme might
					4


