
                              BELHELVIE.                         247

middle between its south and north extremities.  About fifty years
ago, its situation may have been the most convenient for the largest
proportion of the inhabitants, because the western side of the parish
was little cultivated and thinly inhabited; but at present, the eastern
side is let in large farms, and thinly inhabited while the western
is let in small farms, and contains a great many inhabitants, so
that a considerable number of the parishioners live at five miles
distance from the church.  The church is in good repair at
present.  The church contains 519 sitting-rooms, giving the
legal measure to each; but it is often or commonly packed to
contain between 600 and 700.  The seats were divided among
the heritors by the Sheriff of Aberdeen in the year 1790, and the
heritors have again divided them among their tenants, and some
of the heritors receive from 1s. to 2s. for each sitting-room.
There are no free sitting-rooms; and many say they would re-
gularly attend at church if they had a seat.  The manse was
built in 1768, and is in a good state of repair at present.  The
glebe contains 5 acres of good land, which may be valued at
L.3 per acre.  The stipend is L.53, 11s. 2d. money; 106 bolls
of oatmeal, at 8 stones per boll, old weight, equal to nearly 10
stones per boll, imperial weight; and 42 2/5 quarters of bear.
   There is one chapel in the parish belonging to the United As-
sociate Secession Church.  The minister's stipend is paid by sub-
scriptions and seat-rents, and amounts to L.70 annually.  The
whole number of Dissenters of every denomination in the parish is
about 200; consequently, those who belong to the Established
Church amount to 1400.  The average number of communicants
for several years past has been 550.  The average amount of
collections for behoof of the poor at the church has been L. 57
per annum.
   Education.-There are four schools in this parish.  1. The
parochial school, where the teacher receives all the legal emolu-
ments.  The amount of his school fees may be L.12, 10s. per
annum: and he has L.25 a year from Dick's Trustees.  His salary
payable by the heritors is L. 27 per annum.  The branches taught
are, Greek, Latin, geography, mathematics, navigation, arith-
metic, writing, reading, English.  There is one school endowed
with a few acres of land; and two schools, the teachers of which
depend entirely upon the school-fees.  There are about 120 scholars
attending these four schools.  Very few persons between the age


