
     of Clatt.

are now become general all over the parish; only the horses are
still of too small size to render carts as useful as they might
be.  In good seasons, the parish has been found to produce
more grain than supports the inhabitants; but since 1782,
the crops have often proved short; and had it not been for the
money received, by the sale of black cattle to the south coun-
try dealers, the tenants could not have regularly paid their
rents.-A branch of the stocking manufacture, from Aber-
deen, employs several of the women servants; but it is too in-
considerable to be much depended upon.-Although some of the
farmers are getting into a better form of ploughs and farming
utensils, yet the old methods are still followed by several.
Dung, mixed into a fort of compost with common earth, or
seal from pasture ground, is still the common manure, al-
though the ground agrees perfectly well with lime, which
is to be had, at the distance of 10 computed miles, by an ex-
ceeding had road; and very little attention is paid towards mak-
ing it better.  There are only 3 or 4 tenants, who have at-
tempted fallowing or watering; though such trials, as have
been made, have answered well.  In particular, a summer fal-
low of exhausted outfield land, with the addition of a little lime,
has produced excellent crops of barley and grass, which be-
fore afforded neither.  The fact is, little can, or will be done,
in the improving line, till the heritors or landlords take the
lead, and encourage their tenants, either by premiums, or long
leases; by abolishing servitudes, and mill multures*, which

     VOL. VIII.   3 Y

<FOOTNOTE>

*In some parts of this parish, the mill multure is computed to be 1-13th of
the whole product of the ground; and, in a neighbouring parish, it is said to
be the 11th part; besides the expence of upholidng the mill-house and machinery.
Whereas a liberal and sensible heritor, who wishes the improvement of his
estate, and the prosperity of his tenants, will fee the propriety and necessity of
abolishing such unreasonable exaction, and of laying no other restrictions upon
the manufacturing of grain, than barely that of upholding the mill, and giving
wages for a miller to work it.


