
702                        FIFESHIRE.

tember. In the discharge of his pastoral duties while in Car-
nock, Mr Gillespie showed great diligence and fidelity. And
though there are few now alive who have any personal recollec-
tion of him, yet his memory is still cherished throughout the dis-
trict. Having, with other members of his Presbytery, refused to
attend, or to acquiesce in the settlement of Mr Richardson at In-
verkeithing, he was summarily deposed by the General Assembly
of 1752. This sentence of deposition he received with the Christ-
ian meekness which uniformly marked his demeanour. And
whatever opinion may be entertained of that part of his conduct
which constituted the sole ground of the sentence pronounced
against him, no one will question but that he was actuated by a
sense of duty. His deposition, however, gave rise to a new sect of
Dissenters. But be himself continued " partial to the Establish-
ment to the end of his life; and of this be gave a striking proof,
when, on his deathbed, he advised his congregation to apply to
the church after his decease, to be restored to her communmion:
which they afterwards successfully did." His death happened in
the beginning of the year 1774.
  Before closing these notices, it is right to mention the name of
Mr Thomas Marshall, who was a minister of Carnock in the time
of Episcopacy, and who seems to have suffered for his adherence
to it. The following entry regarding him is found in the session-
record of the period: " Sep. 4, 1689, Mr Tho. Marschal, minis-
ter, was silenced by the counsell, in not giving obedience to qt

<FOOTNOTE>An idle report has been circulated, and gained credit in certain quarters, that
Mr Gillespie, before his induction, subscribed the confession and formula with re-
servations and explanations regarding the power of the civil magistrate. Whatever
opinions he may have entertained on this subject, it is certain that he tendered no ex-
planation regarding it to the presbytery, when he adhibited the usual subscription.
And we believe that he wis too single-minded and honest a man to subscribed with
any mental reservation. The following extracts, however, from the minutes of Pres-
bytery, and from the book which contains the usual autograph signatures to the for-
mula, should, it is thought. set the matter at rest. After narrating certain circum-
stances connected with Mr Gillespie's residence in England, &c. the minute of Pres-
bytery proceeds: " After all which, the Presbytery being satisfied with what had
been offered, Mr Gillespie was called in, and having declared his adherence to the
doctrine Worship, and government of this church, and judicially signed the Confes-
sion of Faith and formula, the moderator put the call from Carnock into his hand,
which he judicially accepted of, upon which Mr Wardlaw took instruments, and the
Presbytery appoint the settlement to take piece, Friday, 4th September." Then
in the book containing the formula is the following entry in Mr Gillespie's own
handwriting: " Dunfermling, August 19th 1741, l, Mr Thomas Gillespie, minis-
ter of the gospel, do subscribe the above written Confession of Faith as the confession
of my faith, according to the above written formula. Witness my hand at Dunferm-
ling, the 19th day of August one thousand seven hundred and forty-one. Thos.
Gillespie."


