
1094                                 ABERDEENSHIRE.

its waters; while a large extent of rich alluvial soil, added to the
estates of the surrounding proprietors, would amply repay them
for the expense* of executing the work.
	If, in addition to this drainage, which might be easily effected,
as the average depth of the loch is only five feet, and as its level
is considerably higher than that of the Burn of Drumdouan when
it approaches the Slog of Dess, the hills which surround Mr Far.
quharson's estate were clothed with wood, few spots in the county
of Aberdeen would surpass in beauty the valley of Lumphanan.
         Woods.-The average sum which has been realized from the
fellings and thinnings of the woods in the parish, which consist
chiefly of larch and Scots fir, has been for some years about L.1O.

                           V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
         Means of Communication-The means of communication are
ample. The turnpike from Aberdeen to Tarland runs through
the parish from east to west, while the rude military road, made
about the year 1746, and the finely kept one, executed under the
authority of the Parliamentary Commisioners for Highland Roads
and Bridges, cross it from north to south.
         Ecclesiastical State.-The church, which was built in 1762, and
is placed in as centrical a situation as it could well be, contains
383 sittings.
	The manse, which was built in 1782, was repaired and enlarged
in 1828.
	There are about 7 1/2 imperial acres in the glebe. The stipend
consists of L.112, 17s. 3d. money; 51 bolls, 1 firlot, 2 pecks,
8 3/5 lbs. of meal, and 1 boll, 1 firlot, and 3 1/5 pecks of bear.
	Divine service is well attended in the church. The average
number of communicants is 509. There are four Dissenters in
the parish.
	Collections are annually made for the General Assembly's
Schemes, and the Aberdeen Infirmary.
         Education.-The following branches are taught, and fees ex-
acted in the parochial school. English reading, 2s. per quarter;
English and writing, 2s. 6d; arithmetic, 3s,; Latin, 4s.; ma-
thematics, 4s.; elements of Greek, 4s.; book-keeping, per set,
15s.; English grammar, 3s. 6d. The schoolmaster has a garden.
His salary is L.27. He shares in the Dick Bequest. There is
a school at Camphill, the teacher of which receives the interest
of L.150, bequeathed by James Hunter, Esq. of Darrahill.

<FOOTNOTE>L. 1500 according to Mr Walker's estimate.



