
     of Edderachylis.

the masters orders cannot be disputed, but at the risk of being
turned out at the term, when, with the character of being re-
fractory, no other tacksman will be ready to receive them, and
they must be set a-drist, which is a dreadful situation to a poor
man with a wife and family.  A tacksman, whose lands are
extensive, has it in his power in this manner to ease himself of
a good deal of expence in the way of hiring servants to do his
work, which is a great advantage, especially in such a place as
Edderachylis, where servants are scarce by reason of so many
of them being employed in kelp, fishing, and the management
of cattle.  The rents therefore each of these subtenants will
have to pay, must not exceed what will be barely sufficient for
his circumstances, 20 s. or perhaps 10 s. and often nor so much,
that the tacksmen may have as many hands to work for him as
possible; but as he gives them commonly their maintenance
when he employs them, to ease himself in this article he calls
them out the seldomer.
   Servants being scarce in this country, some tacksmen have
fallen upon a way of providing themselves, by giving a piece
of land equivalent to the wages of a servant for a year to a
man with a family, on condition of giving him his service for
one half of that time, by alternate weeks, and paying half the
rent of the land along with this service.  But the fittest and
best kind of servants for this country are the domestic kind, hav-
ing no family of their own.  About 30 years ago, and later,
the best men servants here were hired for 7 or 8 merks in the
half year; but now, they must have 20 s. with perquisites:
-the best maid-servants then were satisfied with 3 merks wa-
ges in the half year; but now they get 6 or 8 merks, also
with perquisites.  Many servants of both sexes have of late
fallen into a way of going to the southern parts of the nation,
where menial service stands higher; and yet, when distress
overtakes them there, they often make their way back to their


