
342                      HADDINGTONSHIRE.

in bank. Every member pays 1s. weekly, with 2d. for sick and
funeral money. The sick money ensured to him is, for the first
thirteen weeks, 5s. a-week, for the second thirteen, 3s., and for
the remainder of the year, 1s. 6d. a-week. If a member dies, his
heirs receive L. 2, 10s.; for a member's wife, L. 1, 10s. is paid;
and 15s. for a member's child under twelve years of age. Each
member pays 1s. at the end of the year to the treasurer. Its ex-
istence is annual. At the close of the year, the savings, with due in-
terest, are paid, and the balance of sick and funeral money is dis-
tributed to the members. The arrangement has been pursued
for many years, and has essentially promoted the industry, the
comfort, and the independence of the people.-There is also the
"North Berwick Benevolent Society," established for the mainte-
nance of two distinct funds,-the "Funeral Fund," for allowances
upon the death of members, their wives, or widows; the other the
"Cow Fund," for giving mutual relief and assistance to members
losing their cow by death;-to either or both of which funds the
members of the benevolent society may contribute. It "disclaims
every thing that bears the name or appearance of charity;" and the
allowances exigible, it is declared, "shall be claimed and paid as
a right." The whole is under wise and generous management,
and continues to prove beneficial and praiseworthy.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of families
receiving parochial aid during the last three years is 25, and of
persons 32. The annual amount of contributions to the poor's funds
has been an assessment on the heritors and tenants of L. 104, 10s.
at the rate of L. 2 per ploughgate, the church collections about
L. 15, an ancient mortification to the poor yielding L. 9, 3s. 4d.,
and the mortcloth fees. The highest relief to persons on the pau-
per roll has been L. 5, 14s. per annum, and the lowest L. 1, 16s.
The highest individual monthly allowance is 8s. The gross an-
nual sum paid to paupers for 1838 may be correctly stated at L. 95,
with an additional sum of L. 9 for house rents, and L. 10 of occa-
sional donations sessionally given to relieve temporary indigence.
But claims are multiplying and enlarging, and the present assess-
ment, though recently augmented, will not be able, probably, to
meet the increasing and urgent claims of parochial necessity. In-
dependent of necessary claims on public charity, however, it can-
not be concealed that disinclination to enrolment as a pauper, for-
merly so strong, is now sadly decreased, and is still decreasing.
Probably owing to the compulsory assessment, collections for the


