
         358                      BANFFSHIRE.

         After blowing strongly for a day or two, these westerly gales often
         end in rain or snow.  It is observable, that, when very violent,
         they always send the river down more or less flooded, partly, per-
         haps, from their own action on the stream, but oftener, it is sup-
         posed, by bringing the rains to the upper part of the river before
         they reach us, or where they are exhausted without reaching us at
         all.
            As spring advances, this district is often visited with cold east-
         erly haars, frequently accompanied with frosty fogs, extremely
         prejudicial to early vegetation.  In the early part of summer, the
         wind not unfrequently sets in from the north, for a considerable
         tract of time steadily dry. In summer, thunder is frequent; and, from
         the proximity of the hills, the accompanying rains are very heavy
         and destructive.  Contrary to what might be expected, the parish
         is singularly free from early frosts in autumn, and this much miti-
         gates the lateness of its vegetation and harvest.  There is always
         one considerable flood, sometimes two or three in the early part
         of autumn, and the cold winter rains commence generally about
         the middle of November.
           The climate, except in the strip along the river, where the ele-
         vation is small, and the soil gravelly, is cold and moist.  The
         rains are frequent, and the soil is very retentive of moisture, yet
         the parish is healthy.  Its inhabitants are generally vigorous and
         hardy, though spare, and live long, without affording many in-
         stances of extreme longevity.  Agues by the recent drainage of
         the marshes seem to be altogether removed.  Fevers, except scar-
         latina among children, are rare.  Measles are seldom fatal; and
         universal vaccination appears to have altogether banished small-
         pox.  Consumption at the age of from eighteen to twenty-two is
         rather frequent. Of late, cancers have been common, cutting off
         at least one victim yearly.  The chief complaint of more advan-
         ced age is failure of digestion, owing, perhaps, partly to the na-
         ture of the climate, but mostly to the almost exclusive use of ve-
         getable food, the large quantity of which necessary for support
         being easily discussed in the days of vigorous youth, but proving
         burdensome to the organs when their powers become less active.
            Hydrography.-There is abundance of spring water in the pa-
         rish, except in the northern extremity.  There are several very
         strong chalybeates.
           The River Spey separates the parish from Rothes on the west,

