
     Statistical Account

ship in the parish-church, greatly exceed that a number, it is
to be remarked, that they are chiefly composed, not of the
original inhabitants of the parish, but of those who have
removed either from other parishes; nor can it be expected
that the present generation will return into the bosom of
the Established Church.  The examination roll of the Esta-
blished Church contains only 260 persons, while that of
the Secession contains 673.-The King is patron.  The sti-
pend is 10 chalders barley, with the vicarage-teinds, which,
about 30 years ago, are said to have amounted in value to
from L. 16 to L. 20 Sterling; but at the admission of the
present incumbent, they amounted only to from L. 6 to
L. 7, and are still sinking in value, from the decrease of
sheep in the parish; so that it is likely they will soon
be inadequate to defray the expense of collecting them.
There is a good manse, with offices, which have been 
lately repaired, and a glebe of rather more than four
acres of good quality.-There is a parochial school, but no
school-house at present; the heritors, however, have ordered
one to be built.  The salary is only L. 8:  6:  8; a paltry
consideration to induce any young man, who has been at
the expense of a liberal education, to undertake an office of
all others the most slavish and fatiguing.  The Society for
Propagating Christian Knowledge have been pleased, of
late, to appoint a school-mistress for this parish, to instruct
young girls in the different branches of education necessary
for that sex, which, it is believed, will prove of singular
benefit to the place; as heretofore it was impossible for pa-
rents to get their children educated, but by sending them
to towns, which, by reason of their poverty, and the high
rate of boards wages, very few of them only were able to
do.-Here, as in most other parishes in the North, the
poor form a considerable part, who have no funds but what
arise from the weekly collections in the church, and the in-
terest of L. 20 Sterling, which was lately mortified for the


