
			   REDGORTON.				   179

the kirk of Redgorton "ane Sabbath in lynen clothes," "and confess
that he did the minister wrang in the manner foresaid." *
   The other case referred to is more extraordinary still. On the
23d November 1619, Colin Pitscottie, eldest son of John Pitscot-
tid, of Luncarty, which was then a barony, was charged before
the Presbytery with having murdered Alexander Lamb, in Ben-
chill, under cloud of night, in the house of Walter Whytock,
smith, within the parish of Redgorton. No notice was taken of
this murder by the civil authorities. But, after v`rious procedure,
Colin Pitscottie appeared before the Presbytery, and confessed
himself guilty of the murder. Yet the only punishment inflicted
on him for this crime, was, that he was ordained "to make his
public repentance for the murther of umquhil Alexr Lamb, in the
hirk of Redgorton, in lyninq clothes ane Sonday afoirnoon." The
details of these very singular proceedings will be seen in the ex-
tracts from the presbytery records given at the foot of the page. *

<FOOTNOTE>Extract from the Records of the Presbytery of Perth.-The presby of Perth
halden in the revistry, 12th Septr 1620. Quhilk day William Young, minister
of Redgorton, complains to the brethren upon Harry Shaw of Pitmurthly, of the
qubilk complaint the tenour follows, bearand in effect, that the said Wm upon
Thursday the 7 of Septr instant, he being among the stooks upon his own
gleib, in ane solitar and quyet place, callit the How of the Park, at his meditations
in quyet and sober manner, thinking of na evil to have been said or done to
him of person or persons, but to have lived under God's pace and our sovirane
Lord's. In the meantime, the said Harry Shaw of Pitmurthlie haveing conceivit ane
dedly haterit againest the said Wm Young, for citing him before the Presbytery
of Perth, upon an sclander of adultery committed by him wt Janet Mar, the spouse
of John Patone, sometime in Pitmurthlie, of set purpois, provision and forethought
fellonie wt crueltie invadit and pursuit him of his lyfe, haveing in his hands ane rung
with ane long durk, or else ane dalger, and the said Wm Young seeing him in ane
rage, and threatning him of his lyfe, ran away, the said Harry followed him ane great
spaice, and cryed theif thy 'feit shall not beir the from me,' the said Wm Young being
ane eagit man, and feiring he sould have fellit him wt the rung, cryed many tymes
God's mercy, the said Harry overtaking him that was fleeing callit him traitor, and
askit quhat be said of him to the presby, and quhen the said Wm answerit be might
speir at Mr Johne Straquhan, his good friend, the said Harry Shaw commandit him
to sweir that be sould neevir speek of him again to the presby, or be the blood of
Jesus he sould presently die. And wt greit difficultie was steyed from farder trouble
ling him, be some puir men that cam from sheiring of the corns, and immediately
thereaftir the said Harry made vant of his doing to his ain scheiriris, and expressly
declared that he had causit the minister swair, and cry many times God's mercy. The
presby ordains information hereof to be sent to my Lord Archbishop of St Andrews,
to rais ane summonds to summond the said Harry Shaw before the hie commission
for the said violent and barbarour fact.
   At Perth, 8th day of October 1620.-Quhilk day compeirit Harry Shaw of Pit-
murthlie, and being accusit of the wrangis done be him to Wm Youhg, his minister,
and being demandit in special gif he boistit the said Wm Young, and cheisit him and
cryit 'theif thy feit sail not beir the from me.' And when the minister cryit God's
mercie, gif he said then to the minister, theif quhat said thou yesterday of me to the
presby, and bade the minister sweir that he sould never speak of him any moir to presby.
The said Harry Shaw with great humilitie confessit the samyne and every poynt thereof.
   The presby ordains him to mak his public repentance in the kirk of Regorton ane
day in lyning clothes, and thair exprimlie confess he did the minister wrang in man-
ner foresaid.
   The Presby of Perth hauldin in the Revistry of the paroch. kirk thereof, the first


