
                      CHAPEL OF GARIOCH.                        575

ter, with victuals.  In the time of harvest, men's wages from
L.2 to L.2, 10s., and women's from L.1, 10s. to L.2, with victuals,
Common labourers have from 1s. 6d. to 2s. in summer, and from
is. to 1s. 6d. in winter.  A mason and carpenters wages is about
2s. 10d. in summer, and 1s. 10d. in winter.  An excellent wooden
plough fully mounted costs L.3; a cart, L.10; and a pair of har-
rows, L.1.
   Live-Stock.-To the improvement of the breed of cattle in this
parish, great attention has been paid.  A great proportion of them
are of the Aberdeenshire and Buchan polled breeds, with a cross
betwixt both.  There are very few of the old Aberdeenshire horn-
ed cattle in the country; but the proprietors of this county pro-
pose next year to give premiums, in order to encourage farmers to
rear a greater number of this breed, which were always much ad-
mired, both for their symmetry and many valuable qualities; and
which would make their total loss a matter of serious regret to the
agricultural interest.  Aberdeenshire cattle are held in high esti-
mation by the English graziers, who fatten for the Smithfield mar-
ket, and during the winter a great many in this parish are fed upon
turnips and straw, and are either sold to the butcher, or sent by
sea to London.
   Husbandry.-The system of husbandry pursued is, in most
eases, a seventh rotation.  In breaking up the lea or pasture
ground, which has lain in grass for three seasons, the first crop is
oats; 2. oats; 3. turnips or potatoes, having the soil well manured;
4.oats, bear, or barley, sown down with rye-grass, and clover seeds;
hay; 6. pasture ; 7. pasture.  A few acres of wheat are also
sown annually after potatoes or summer-fallow, and good crops of
it are produced.  It has not been hitherto much cultivated; but
as there have been such fine seasons of late, and the climate hav-
ing been much improved by extensive drainage, farmers are find-
ing the culture of it profitable, and several of them have town
small patches of it, this year, who never before attempted to raise
such a crop.
   Turnips have been for many years cultivated largely in the pa-
rish, and the introduction of bone-manure has enabled the farmer-
to raise a greater quantity of them, and by this means to improve
his grdund, and also to rear and fatten more cattle for the butcher.
   A large extent of waste ground has been reclaimed within the
last fifty years, and a considerable proportion of the fields have
been enclosed with stone dikes.


