
            158                        PERTHSHIRE.

            benefits bear to each other must always be such, that for every
            shilling a member's weekly allowance in sickness consists of, his an-
            nuity must be L. 2; that is, if his allowance in sickness be 5s. per
            week, his annuity after seventy must be L. 10; if the one be 8s.
            the other will be L. 16, and so on.  But no member is allowed to
            contribute for a weekly sick allowance higher than 10s., nor for
            an annuity above L. 20.  As to the second scheme, any member
            is allowed to subscribe for an annuity of any amount not exceed-
            ing L. 20, to commence with the 61st, 66th, or 71st year of his
            age, without reference to any of the other schemes.  By this
            scheme also, a present single annuity may be purchased by ad-
            vancing, in one payment, a sum corresponding to its value at the
            time of entry, according to the age of the annuitant.  The third
            scheme is merely a life insurance, and to this department, as well
            as to the single annuity portion of the sebond scheme, both males
            and females are admissible.
               Any one or all of the benefits which this society is intended to
            confer, may be secured either by annual contribution, or by a single
            payment.  The rates of contribution chargeable in all the rchemes
            are regulated by a set of tables constructed for the purpose, which
            were submitted to, and approved by, the most competent judges,
            previously to their being adopted.  By means of these tables,-
            the number and ages of the members being known,-the affairs of
            the society can at any time be investigated, and its ability or in-
            ability to answer all the demands to be made upon its funds, can
            be readily ascertained, in a manner similar to that practised by re-
            gular Insurance Companies.  This society, therefore, as may be
            supposed, is in a very prosperous condition; its members are nu-
            merous, and its funds are amply sufficient to meet all its engage-
            ments.  Such is a brief outline of the Methven Friendly Society,
            -an institution well calculated to answer all the purposes for which
            associations of this nature are intended.
               Savings Bank.-A savings bank was instituted here in the year
            1815, chiefly under the direction of Robert Smythe, Esq., the
            principal heritor.  It would be a difficult task to estimate the be-
            nefit which has already been derived from this institution, not only
            by many individuals and families bdlonging to the parish, but also
            by a very considerable number of persons in the neighbouring pa-
            rishes, where either no attempt has been made to establish a si-
            milar institution, or where the attempt has been unsuccessful.  It
            is true, that in several of the surrounding parishes, savings banks
                                              3


