
652			AYRSHIRE.

minerals vary in diffierent parts, although there are some of the
same nature uniformly found throughout this coal-field.
	Strata of ironstone, from 4 to 6 inches thick, are seen at dif-
ferent parts in the bed of the Coyl. There is a layer of about 4
inches between the 3 and 11 feet coal. And in different parts of
the same region, small beds or "doggers" are met with. The
quality is not the best. In the year 1800, a plumbago mine was
discovered on the farm of Laigh Dalmore, on the banks of the
Ayr. It was opened and wrought for sale in 1808, and sold in
the London and Bristol markets at L. 10 per ton. The work
continued till the close of the war, in 1815, when the importation of
black-lead of superior quality from foreign countries, and also that
discovered in the Borrowdale mountains in Cumberland, drove it
from the market. An attempt was made in 1835 to renew the
work, and from two to three tons put out; but this not finding
sale, operations were abandoned. Limestone was discovered, about
fifty years ago, at the east end of the Craigs of Coyl, on the pro-
perty, now of Lord Dudley Coutts Stewart. The stratum is from
six to seven feet in thickness. It varies in quality. Traces of
shells are distinctly seen in it. Close by this mine, there is
coal wrought; but, being of an inferior kind, it is only used for
burning the limestone. Fire-clay is also found in the neighbour-
hood of the limestone quarry, in great abundance. Clay-slate, or
the famed Water-of-Ayr stone, used for hones, was raised for
some years on Knocksboggle farm; but, being found in greater
quantity, easier wrought, and of better quality, in the adjoining
parish of Stair, the Coylton stone has been deserted. Moss and
peat are met with in different parts.
	Mr Burnett of Gadgirth, in searching for tile-clay, a year or
two back, discovered a bed of marl from four to six feet thick,
under a layer of clay from two to three feet, and a stratum of moss
from three to five feet in depth. The marl is supposed to extend
through two or three acres. It contains 40 per cent. of carbonate
lime, 10 parts of animal and vegetable substances, and 50 of
earthy and other particles, such as clay, sand, water, &c. It has
not yet undergone the test of experiment as a manure, although
some has already been bought for this purpose. Marl was found,
many years ago, on the estate of the Marquis of Ailsa, but it
was not found suitable to agricultural purposes.
	Soil.--The soil varies, but its general character is that of an


