
666                    ARGYLESIHIRE.

about twenty years ago, and is in pretty good repair. It affords
accommodation for 450, and all the sittings are free. The manse
was built about fifty years ago; but there was an addition made to
it about twenty years ago. The glebe contains sixty-five acres,
some of which are very good; but a considerable portion is rock
and wet land. The value of it may be reckoned about L.30 a-
year. The stipend is L. 150, with L. 8, 6s. 8d. for communion
elements. There is a Government manse and church in the west
division of the parish. Divine service is generally well attended,
though it must be admitted that many still show a lamentable in-
difference to this ordinance. The average number of communi-
cants is 350. The average amount of church collections is
L.23, 10s.
   Education.-There are eleven schools in the parish; one paro-
chial, eight unendowed schools, and two supported by Societies.
   The people are in general very much alive to the benefits of
education, and most desirous to get proper teachers. There are
three places in the parish where schools are very much required,
namely, Kenture in the north end of the parish, Glenigidale
and Portellen. In both these places, the people engage young
lads to teach their children, who are very seldom possessed
of the necessary qualifications, but they cannot afford to get pro-
per ones. The parochial teacher has the legal accommodations;
the school fees amount to from L. 8 to L. 10 a-year.-Number of
young betwixt six and fifteen years of age who cannot read or
write, 93; number of persons upwards of fifteen years of age who
cannot read or write, 129.
   Three additional schools are wanted to supply the rising gene-
ration with the proper means of instruction.
   Poor.--The average number of persons receiving parochial aid
is 40, who receive from 2s. 6d. to L. 1 per quarter, according to
their necessities. The annual amount of contributions for their
relief is L.28, 5s., in which is included L.4, 15s., being the inte-
rest of L.100 Sterling bequeathed to the poor of the parish by
Major M'Neill of Ardnacross. Church collections are the only
regular mode of procuring funds; but Mr Campbell gives free
houses to many of the poor, and liberally contributes to the sup-
ort of those who are represented to him as proper objects of his
charity.
   There is a strong feeling of reluctance to apply for parochial
relief, still displayed by many ; but it is yearly diminishing. A few


