
                                TEALING.                             379

light gravelly soil; but when the descent has been continued, and
the general character of the land been examined, clay and a dark
loam blended in various proportions, and sometimes occurring al-
most without any intermixture, are found to be the prevailing in-
gredients.  The depth of the soil may be said to range from one
to three feet and the substratum is hard and cold, being either
rock or till.
	From the description which has been given, it might be infer-
red that the soil and climate would be naturally somewhat cold
and humid; and in former times, a cold humidity seems to have
been a distinguishing characteristic of both.  But the practice of
draining having been for many years carried on very extensively,
and with much judiciousness, the general, character both of the soil
and climate has been greatly ameliorated.
	In some of the more elevated and remote districts of the pa-
rish, grouse, black-cock, and deer may be found.
 		II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Mr Glass, the founder of the " Glassites," was minister of the
parish of Tealing, at the time of his deposition; and another clergy-
man, while in that situation, evinced a decided attachment to the
views of the Independents; but, notwithstanding, there are now
only one Glassite and one Independent in the parish.
	Land-owners.--The chief land-owners are, Mr Scrymseour of
Tealing, and Lord Douglas.  There are four farms which belong
-to four other heritors.
			III.-POPULATION.
			Population in 1811,     779
                                         1821,     725
                                         1831,     766

	In former times, the population seems to have been rather more
numerous than at present.  Any change which has occurred in
this respect may be ascribed to the enlarging of farms, and to the
tendency which the improved mode of manufacturing certain
kinds of cloth unquestionably has to attract individuals to our
populous towns.
	There are in the parish four or five hamlets, the united popu-
lation of which may be estimated at 270; and the remaining 500
inhabitants occupy the farm-houses, or reside in the cottages.
	The yearly average of births for the last seven years may be
said to be about 17 ; deaths, 8; and marriages, 5.


