
     Statistical Account

were very few houses in Lockerbie; but at that period, the
late laird of Lockerbie, with consent of his then surviving fa-
ther, granted many feus of house steadings and yards, on the
west side of the street, and long tacks of the same sort on the
east side, for fourscore times 21 years.  Since that time
the town has been yearly enlarging.  There are no public
manufactures established as yet; but a great deal of foreign
and inland flax is given out to be spun from the shops.  I
remember one of them once told me, he has had in the
course of a year more than 500 spinsters of factory-lint on
his books, partly from the country, and partly from the
town, the yarn being exported to Kendal, and other manu-
facturing towns in England.  There are in Lockerbie, 12
large shops, 6 less ones, 2 surgeons and apothecaries 2 mid-
wives, 2 writers, 2 messengers, 6 weavers, 10 tailors, 5
wrights, 3 blacksmiths, 1 nailer, one principal inn, where
carriages and horses may be hired, 3 lesser inns, 2 watch-
makers, 2 bakers, 3 butchers, 2 barbers, 11 carters, 3
wheel-wrights, 1 gardener, 2 claggers, 2 saddlers, 2 tanners,
and in the town and parish jointly, there are about 80
ploughs, 3 millers, and 200 horses.  The parish-church stands

<FOOTNOTE>

wife on the Thursday thereafter; the next, 3 weeks after the last, called
the Martmmas market; the next 14 days thereafter; and the 10th, on the
Thursday before Yule, or Christmas O. S.  The hiring market for ser-
vants for the summer half year is in April.  For the winter ditto is the
14 days one after Michaelmas, and the aforesaid, for the greatest part of
Annandale.  At those hiring markets, the wage of a man for the half
year is about L 3, 10 s. of a woman L. 1, 15 s. but varying according to
circumstances.  In the markets, and at the proper seasons, there is a vast
variety of young cattle, cows, horses, etc. exposed to sale.  There is an
old square tower still standing, called the Mains, which was the site or
mansion-place of the ancient family of the Johnstons of Lockerbie, being
a branch of the old Laird Johnston's of Lochwood, the ancestors of the
late Marqus of Annandale.  Lockerbie lies 12 miles E. from Dumfries,
4 from Lochmaben, 16 miles S. from Moffat, 16 miles W. from Langholm,
12 miles N. from Annan, and 6 from Ecclesechan.


