
	160			ORKNEY.

	tide, while the greater part of the upper division still appears above
	water.
	  It may be observed, that this ancient pier has been scarcely, if
	at all, mentioned by former writers.  And tradition says nothing
	as to which of the ancient proprietors of these islands it is to be
	referred to.
				III.-POPULATION.
	   There are no records of an early date, from which to give any
	account of the ancient population of these parishes.  In 1781,
	they contained 1494; and in 1831, 1827 souls.  This increase
	is to be ascribed to the more extended cultivation of ground for-
	merly lying in a state of nature, and also to the improvements in
	the fishing of lobsters, cod, and herrings.
	   The people in these parishes enjoy a competent share of the
	comforts of life.  Besides meal and potatoes, most of them have
	some butcher-meat during the year.  But their principal animal
	food is fish, such as cod, especially herrings in their season, as well
	as cooths and sillocks during two-thirds of the year.
				IV.-INDUSTRY.
	   Agriculture.-As there is no proper survey of these parishes, it
	is impossible to specify the relative proportions of ground in dif-
	ferent conditions.  As to Stronsay, however, it is supposed that
	about one-third is arable, one-third green pasture attached to the
	various farms, and one-third heath,-most of which is undivided
	common.  And as to Eday, about 1000 acres are arable, 720 green
	pasture, and the remainder is heath, but not undivided common.
	   The kinds of grain commonly raised are bear or bigg, and grey
	or, black oats, the latter having awns as well as the bear.  Pota-
	toes also are everywhere cultivated.  Various farmers have raised
	white oats and pease, as well as turnips and artificial grasses.
	And Mr Laing of Papdale, in addition to these, has raised bar-
	ley with much success.
	   From time immemorial,.the ordinary mode of cultivation in
	Orkney has been to sow bear and grey oats, alternately in the same
	field.  And the ground is enabled to hold out with this severe
	rotation, by the great profusion of sea-weed which is everywhere
	found, and assists in manuring for the bear,-the ground seldom
	receiving any manure for the oats.
	   A great proportion of the horses, cattle, and sheep, are of the
	small Orkney breed.  But many excellent horses and cattle have
	been introduced from Angus-shire, and other southern counties;


