
358                        STIRLINGSHIRE.

Oven from its shape. But it does not appear in what way the name
of the British Prince Arthur, famed in romance, could reasonably
be applied to it. The name is therefore supposed by Gordon
(Ititierariurn Septentrionale, 1726,) to be derived from the
Gaelic Ard nan suainhe, i. e. the high place or temple of the
standards. As Arthur's Seat, near Edinburgh, is derived from
Ard nan saidhe, the hill of the arrow, other authors say that Ar-
thur's Seat signifies the lofty seat, and Arthur's Seir between Ross
and Moray is Ard nan seir, the height to launch ships from. The
latter part of Gordon's derivation of Arthur's Oon, viz. suainhe
is improbable. Ard and Arthur in Cymric nr Welsb, from the same
root as Arduus, Latin, signify high, and also the Most High God.
Arthur's Oon, therefore, may signify the oon, i. e. the cupola
or dome of the Most High God. The Cymri or Cambro-Britons
are considered to have possessed this part of the country as far as
the vallum of Antoninus about the year 600. The name Arthur's
Oon, therefore, may, be Cymric.-
  This building, considered to be the most entire Roman building
in Britain, was demolished in 1743. All the stones were carried
away, and employed in repairing a dam across the Carron for an
adjacent meal mill. The dam was afterwards washed away by the
river, and some of the stones probably now lie buried in the mud
of the Carrion. The curious will regret that the owner of Sten-
house and of Stenhouse Mill was so destitute of all regard for an-
tiquity. He certainly was no dilettante, neither real nor pretended.
He was not one of the admirers of the beautiful and of the rare in
the material world, but a country gentleman who had other things
to mind, and never moved much out of the parish where he was
born, and died there an octogenarian. Notwithstanding all this,
the building might have escaped demolition, bad he not been poor,
possessed a numerous family of children, hisincome small, and a con-
siderable part of it derived from the mill. These circumstances moved
him to employ the stones, and turn them to profit in repairing his
dam; so that he pulled down this interesting fabric, which had
stood fifteen centuries, and took the stones, that he might avoid
the expense of quarrying stones from the sandstone rock, only two
or three miles distant.
   There is an accurate drawing of Arthur's Oon in Camden's
Britannia, 1607. A drawing of it, made in 1720, by Mr Jelf, who
was employed in the Ordnance Department in Scotland, is pub-
lished in Dr Stukeley's description of Arthur's Oon. Jelf was ac-


