
                           KINTAIL.

There are two catechists. There is a Popish priest resident in the
parish, and his visiting bishop resides in Baliffshire.
  Education.-Besides the parish school, there are two Society
schools, where the ordinary.  branches of education are taught:
Gaelic, English, grammar, writing, arithmetic., church music, &c.
The salary of the parish schoolmaster does not exceed L. 27, in-'
eluding allowance for garden; and he does not posseSs" the legal
accommodation, from the great poverty of the inhabitants. There
are hardly any school dues paid; it is almost vain to exact ally.
In all probability, there are not forty shillings of school dues an-'
ntlally paid in the parish.
  Poor and Parochial Funds.- The average numberof paupers re,
ceiving parochial aid, may be stated at 30. The highest annual
rate is 9s. Begging is considered a' nd felt as a degradation by the
natives, although this feeling, from the growing poverty of the
country, is not so strofig as it once was - but even still it is only
when dire necessity urges, and every other resource falls, that parish
relief, or the bounty of their neighbour's is sought; and it is only
on occasions of unusual and peculiar distress, that they go a-beg'-
ging to other districts. The annual amount of collections at the
church door, averages about L.9. The paupers are arranged in
three classes ; the lowest class seldom receive more than 4s. an-
nually. The small-amount of our collections may be accounted for,
by the circumstance of there being no resident heritor,-bv our
churchgoing illation being, with few excleptions, extremely poor
-and the parish funds having received no aiA 'but once, (on a late
oceasion,) from any of the non-resident heritom The evils attend-
ing non-residence are greatly felt here.

             MISCELLANEOUS OBSIERVATOIONS.
  A great change has certainly taken place in the worldly cireum-
stances of the people, since the last Statistical Account of this pa-
rish was drawn up. Then, almost every respectable householder
paid rent to the laird, and all were in easy, happy, and compara-
tively affluent circumstances. The contrary is now too often
the case. Rents were raised, the people bee-am, e poor, they were
either deprived of, or voluntarily gave up, their possessions; and
many who, then, were in good circumstances, with from six to
ten and even sixteen milk cows, with horses, goats, sheep, &c.
have since died in poverty, or now live in penury - and yet,
strange as it may seem, in manners and dress, there is the 'greatest
improvement. Formerly, parents and children wore nothing but


