
                    DAVIOT AND DUNLICHITY.                      521

and liming, and carrying forward a proper rotation of husbandry.
He was the first to raise wheat in the parish of Dunlichity.
     Some of these gentlemen, and one or two of the other proprie-
ters, have given encouraging leases to some of their tenantry, who
are now following the example of the above spirited gentlemen,
by draining and liming. Earthen embankments, or flow-dikes, as
they are usually called, have also been made to a considerable ex-
tent along the river Nairn; by which means a great quantity of
land which it overflowed in time of speat, is now preserved, and
the crops rendered safe and secure.
                    V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
     Market-Town.- The roval burgh of Inverness is the port and
market-town to which the produce is sent for sale, distant from
some part of the parishes from five to twenty miles.
     Means of Commuinication.- The parish of Dunlichity and part
of Daviot enjoy a good district road to Inverness. In the east end
of the parish of Daviot, the Great Highland Road, from Perth to
Inverness, passes through it for nearly three miles, upon which
there is one toll-bar in the parish. The Highland coach, from
Inverness to Perth, travels on this road. The Inverfarigag road,
under the charge of the Parliamentary Commissioners, formed
about twenty-four years ago, branches off from the Great High-
land Road, near to the church of Daviot, runs through the pa-
rishes to the westward for nearly thirteen miles, and continues on
through the parish of Boleskine to Inverfarigag Pier at Lochness,
a distance of six and a half miles.
     The bridges in the district are kept in good order, and the
fences are in proper condition, but frequently injured by the
sheep in winter.
     Ecelesiastical State.- These parishes were distinct and separate
charges until about the year 1618, when they were united; and
there is still a parochial church and glebe in each. Neither of
these glebes is of the legal extent,- and upon that of Dunlichity
an encroachment was made, many years ago, by the building of a
meal-mill, and making a water-lead to it, which cannot now be re-
moved. The distance between the two churches is computed to
be seven miles. The church of Daviot is four miles from the east
end, and that of Dunlichity, about twelve miles from the west end
of the parishes. Public worship is alternately performed in each
church every Lord's Day, but only at Dunlichity in winter when
the weather permits.


