
                      CLOSEBURN.                                  79

similar scene to the retreat of Balfour of Burleigh, is Lanark-
shire.
	Geology and Mineralogy.--The strata in the parish of Close-
burn, forming a part of a considerable basin of strata, tens miles in
length, and nearly four in breadth, arise in a south-eastern direc-
tion, and dip to the north-west and west. The prevailing rocks
are transition rock or greywacke, transition limestone, a coarse
gray quartzy freestone and old red sandstone, of which the moun-
tains, hills, and plains are composed. The red sandstone is the
uppermost stratum in the low parts of the valley, and is nearly
three miles in width from the river Nith, in an eastern direction.
From under the red sandstone the gray freestone rises nearly a
mile in width in the same direction; in someplaces the transition
limestone; and last of all, the transition rocks, upon which the
foregoing strata are deposited, rise to the height of 1200 feet above
the sea. The only genera and species of organic remains are in
the transition limestone; they consist of cornua ammonis, belennites,
and orthoceratites, and are the largest found in the island.
	The limestone quarry worked in the parish, chiefly for agricul-
tural purposes, consists of two beds. The upper bed is 16 feet
thick, and is composed of 40 parts of magnesian limestone, and 60
parts of carbonate of lime, and contains no organic remains. The
lower bed is Is feet thick, and contains 88 parts of carbonate of
lime, 8 of clay and sand, and 4 of iron. It is therefore peculiarly
well adapted for building, as it takes a strong band, and hardens
under water. This lower bed consists of a number of lamina,
divided by horizontal fissures, between several of which a kind of
stone marl is interposed, having impressions of shells, apparently
dissolved. This stone-marl consists of about 10 parts of carbonate
of lime, and has been successfully employed as a top dressing upon
the light sandy soils in the neighbourhood. None of the upper
bed or magnesian limestone is worked, as it is a long time before
it loses its caustic qualities, by the absorption of carbonie acid. It
is found to heave or loosen the soil when used for the growth of
corn, and to produce an abundant crop of day nettle, (Lamium
album.) These two beds are separated from each other by about
18 feet of bastard or impure limestone, and indurated clay em-
ployed for making bricks, after undergoing the operation of bruis-
ing, by passing between cast iron rollers. The alluvial deposits
are sand from the debris of the old red sandstone, and quartzy free-
stone and gravel, consisting of water-worn greywacke and basalt,



