
382                         FIFESHIRE.

     Rent of Land.--The rent of land varies from 15s. to L.3.  The
average may amount to L.1, 10s. per imperial acre.  the ave-
rage rent of grazing an ox or cow is about L.3.  Till of late
there were few or no sheep in the parish; but Mr Robert Ballin-
gall, an intelligent and enterprising farmer, who is tenant both of
Wester Treaton and of Newton of Kingsdale, has, within these
two years, introduced them, and has at present a flock of between
13 and 14 acres.
     Wages.--the wages of the best day-labourers, until about six
months ago, when they were considerably raised, had continued
for eight or ten years past, both in winter and summer, at 1s. 4d.
a day.  Masons' and wrights' wages, during the same period, va-
ried from 12s. to 14s. a week, in summer, and from 10s. to 11s.
in winter.  The wages of farm-servants have continued, for a long
time, very stationary.  Married men of this description recieve from
L.9 to L.10 in money, 6 1/2 bolls, of meal, a pint of milk a day, as
it comes from the cow, 8 bolls of patotoes, a free house and gar-
den, and coals driven.  Young or unmarried men recieve from
L.9 to L.11 in money; and get their meals in hte farm-house.
When these latter are in a bothie, they recieve 6 1/2 bolls of meal,
and a pint of sweet milk a day.  Women employed in farm-work
recieve from 7d. to 8d. per day of nine hours.
     The cattle reared in the parish are generally the native breed
of the country.  The chief characterictics of the fife breed are
their being mostly all black, with white horns, rather long inthe
legs, long and straight in the back, with broad hooks; their hav-
ing a fine silky skin, and  prominent eyes.  They are generally
kindly feeders; and are much esteemed by the butcher for the
excellent qualuty of the beef, as well as for the great quantity of
tallow to the size of the carcase.  The cows are for the most part
profitable milkers; producing a great quantity of butter from the
milk.
     Some attempts have been made to improve the Fife breed by
crossing the cow with a Teeswater bull.  The offspring of this
cross are nearly as valuable at three years old, as the pure Fife
breed is at four.  They are more easi;y fattened, and when kept till
five years old, they are as heavy as the pure Teeswater breed at
the same age.
     The crops generally cultivated are wheat, barley, oats, potatoes,
and turnips, with a small porportion of beans.  the rotations com-
                                  3























































