
                           DUNDEE.                        53

flowers over the ashes of those she deplores. The example of
this ought to influence those in other parishes who allow the rest-
ing place of the departed to remain covered with a desolation which
is loathsome and sickening to the imagination and the heart.
Why should they who believe in the immortality of the soul and
the resurrection of the body, be rebuked in this respect even by
the savage, and not love and honour the place where the ashes of
their dead repose?
	In concluding this account of the parish of Dundee, it seems un-
necessary to add any farther remarks of our own. To draw a compa-
rison betwixt what it is now, and what it was forty years ago, when
the last Report was published, would almost be to repeat what we
have written. Its population has been more than doubled; its cha-
ritics have risen from L. 1900 to L. 7000; its shipping has increas-
ed fourfold; and its linen trade been almost entirely called into ex-
istence. But the reverse side of the picture must not be conceal-
ed. The assessment for the poor has advanced tenfold. In 1791
it was L. 400; it is now L. 4000. This, perhaps, is an evil inse-
parable from prosperous communities. The poor generally flock
to, or are rapidly increased in them; and where multitudes are ga-
thered together at various employments, example does not always
favour economy, industry, and virtue. Nor is it easy, amidst the
spirit of enterprise which is abroad, to suggest any improvement for
the town, which is not in the course of being attempted. A new Jail
and Bridewell, or perhaps House of Refuge, a supply of water, and a
new burying-ground-the present one beinf fearfully over-crowded,
-are generally believed to be indispensably necessary; and measures,
as before intimated, are in progress to procure them. In population,
manufactures, and trade; in the luxury and comfort which prevail,
Dundee has perhaps advanced faster than any similar town in the
kingdom. There are men alive in it who remember when its po-
pulation was only one-fifth of what it is now; when its harbour
was a crooked wall, often inclosing but a few fishing or smuggling
craft; when its spinning-mills were things unknown and unthought
of; and its trade hardly worthy of the name. And curious would it
be could we anticipate the future, and tell what will be its state,
when another generation shall have passed away, and other hands
shall perhaps be called to prepare a record of its progress or decline.

	Drawn up in 1832-Bevised Dec. 1833.


