
722			AYRSHIRE.

lation, it is to be hoped that, instead of being supplanted, it will
be found capable, when required, of receiving a satisfactory en-
largement. Altogether, it is at present capable of easily accom-
modating 500 sitters. The whole of the seats with the exception
of five table ones and thirty-two free sittings, belong to the heri-
tors. The table seats, which accommodate 55 sitters, having been
erected or repaired by money borrowed from the poor's fund, are
annually let for their benefit.
	The following are the only benefactions ever made to the poor
of this parish. Though neither of great amount nor very interest-
ing, they certainly merit being recorded--a justice which has not
yet been awarded them, at least in the usual manner that similar
bequests are elsewhere acknowledged. In 1794, the Rev. Malcolm
Brown bequeathed L. 10; in 1813, James Orr, farmer in Cock-
ston, L. 20 the interest annually to be given to the poor; in 1823,
William Kirkwood, a native of this parish, and late farmer in
Knockside of Largs, L. 20; in 1829, the late James Gavin, re-
siding in Glasgow, L. 50; * in 1831, John Kirkwood, a native of
this parish, and late farmer in Baidland-hill of Dalry, L. 5; in
1834, Andrew Wilson, a native of this parish, and late merchant
in Paisley, L. 5.
	 The manse is pleasantly situated about a quarter of a mile south-
east of the church, and within a few yards of the water of Gar-
nock. It is sufficiently commodious and substantial, having, along
with the offices, been built in 1796. The glebe, consisting of
eight acres and three roods of excellent land, lies conveniently
around it, the yearly value of which is about L. 24. The stipend
is eighty-four bolls, one firlot of oatmeal, and L. 127, 4s. 8 3/4d.;
communion elements included. The Earl of Eglinton is patron.
	There is a neat and commodious chapel in the village belonging
to the Reformed Presbytery, of which the Rev. James Ferguson
is minister. It was built in 1824, and has accommodation for 480
sitters, but, as many of the members of this congregation belong
to the adjoining parishes, the usual attendance does not probably

<FOOTNOTE>The words of Mr Gavin's deed of settlement relative to this bequest are as
follows:--"To the parish of Kilbirnie, Ayrshire, fifty pounds after the heritable
property is disposed of, the interest of which to be paid for the education of honest
poor people's children, each child to be allowed two years' education, and the ma-
nagement to be always under the direction of the kirk-session; and which session is
to dispose of the original sum here bequeathed, in such a way that it may yield the
highest interest, always secure that it may not be lost, and at the same time may
never be aliented from the object already specified, namely, the education of as many
honest poor people's children as can be accomplished by the yearly interest of the
same."


