
     of St Andrew's, Lhanbryd.

the Episcopal chapel in Elgin.-The only language of the
parish is Scots.  The names of the places, in general, are of
that language; such as Hornhead, Hairstones, Hollow-wood,
and Cockstown.  These are beauties peculiar to this lan-
guage, in energy, brevity, and animation; which would be
more natural ornaments in the English tongue, than any of
its exotic importations.  These, therefore, as well as the
Scoticisms, might be also collected and published.-The peo-
ple, over all this country, are most strictly oeconomical, and
as little expensive or luxurious as possible.  They are dis-
posed to every kind of humane and generous section, as
much as their circumstances will admit of.  The lower
rank of farmers and labourers, though not content perhaps
with their situation, and though they do not enjoy all the
comforts of life, yet do not complain more than their opu-
lent neighbours.  There are numbers of them, however, who
are generally without small beer and milk, and almost none
of them have meat, butter, cheese or spirits, and all their
poultry and eggs are sold in the Elgin market.  Their
dress, furniture and habitations are still of the cheapest kinds
which can be procured.  They use no candles; and urine
they substitute for soap.  Funerals are conducted without
expense; there is no company or dancing on the occa-
sion of a wedding; nor at baptisms, in general, is there
any kind of entertainment.  Almost the only pleasure
they indulge in, is meeting occasionally, to the number of
15 or 25, for the purpose of converting about some of the
abstrusest doctrines of Calvinism, in which they display
their eloquence in the only kind of spouting of which they
have any notion, that of a theological oration and a prayer,
varied by occasional reflections on the degeneracy and op-
pressions of the age.  It is probable, the ancestors of the
present generation of peasants possessed at no period, a
much larger stock of knowledge; but since, by the altera-

     VOL. IX. Z


