
                       DREGHORN.                       525

mansion-houses built on the banks of the Annock Water, and
pleasantly situated. Of these the most delightful residence is that
of Annock Lodge, belonging to Mrs Montgomerie, widow of Wil-
liam Montgomerie, Esq. brother of the late Earl of Eglinton. It
is truly Arcadian in its character. The house is built on the south
side of the Annock, is shut in behind by a high wooded bank, and
overlooks a plain of the richest verdure, stretching out in front as far
as the eye can reach, and flanked on both sides with gently rising
hills partially covered with wood. The other residences in the pa-
rish are Peirceton, belonging to Mr Mure M'Credie; Righouse, a
ferme ornee, the property of Colonel Fullarton of Fullarton;
Cunninghamhead, possessed by Mr Snodgrass Buchanan; and
Warrickhill by Mr M'Dougal Ralston.

                       III.-POPULATION.
	The population of the parish, according to the census 1831,
amounted to 888 persons, of whom 419 were males and 469 fe-
males. All these persons were engaged in agricultural pursuits,
with the exception of two individuals employed as manufacturers,
34 as retail traders and handicraftsman, and 8 proprietors and pro-
fessional men. It has since been nearly stationary.
	Number of illegitimate births during the last three years, 9.
	Character and Habits of the People.--The people of this parish
seem to be of sober and industrious habits. They possess to a limit-
ed extent the means of improvement, as the inhabitants of all coun-
try parishes must do; since they enjoy none of the advantages of
literary societies, libraries, reading-rooms, and close and frequent
intercourse with each other, which are so easily obtained in towns.
They, however, possess the superior advantages of religious habits
and uncontaminated morals, which are so easily destroyed where
there is a purely urban population. It has been remarked that a
clannish feeling still exists in this parish, which unites the people in
strong bonds of attachment to each other. *
                       IV.--INDUSTRY.
	It is estimated that two-thirds of the soil of this parish consist
of a deep loam, resting upon a retentive subsoil. The land of
this character was originally cold and wet, but has of late years

<FOOTNOTE>In reference to what is here stated, the folloving anecdote is told: A good wo-
man of Dreghorn, who had lost her husband, not seeming very disconsolate in her
state of bereavement, was remonstrated with by her neighbour on her apparent hard-
ness of heart,and want of sensibliity. She pleaded guilty to the charge,but excused
herself by saying, "Its true, Janet, am no so muckle o'ercome as I ought to be; but
you see John, puir man, was no o'our parish."


