
                           BUCHANAN,                               93

donee, the Risk (a bare knoll) of Drymen. Many of the Bu-
chanans have settled and prospered in Glasgowl, where they esta-
blished a charitable society for the poor members of the clan in
the Lennox and elsewhere, which distributes the interest of their
capital, amounting to upwards of L. boo per annum, among all
their branches, whatever be their name. The family of Bu-
chanan, though it flourished for upwards of 500 years, while Scot-
land remained a separate kingdom, was never distinguished in po-
litical transactions.One evident cause was the smallness of the
family estate, whichincluded onl the lower part of the present
parish. Their fame rests on their literary eminence. Besides
'the classical Buchanan, they can, boast of Dr Buchanan, already
mentioned, celebrated for his valuable works on the civil and na-
tural history of India, (obiit 15th June 1829); and Dr Claudius
Buchanan, who is entitled to respect and gratitude for having, by his
writings and,labours, excited the British nation to send the bles-
sings of education and religion to their Indian empire, (ob. 9th
February 1815.)
Family of Montrose.-At the death of the last Buchanan of
that Ilk, in 168t?, the estate was sold by his creditors, and pur-
chased by the family of Montrose. They, too, claim high anti-
quity. Without asserting the existence of the Caledonian, who,
in the fifth century, is said to have broken down Agricola's Wall,
and to have given it his own name of Graham's Dike, it may be
stated, that the present Duke of Montrose is the twentieth lineal
descendant from Sir Patrick de Graham, who fell, regretted by
friend and foe, in the battle of Dunbar, in 1296. This family,
unlike their predecessor, is famed for their military achievements ;
and numbers among their sons, Sir John de Graham, the com-
panion of Wallace; the Marquis of Montrose, who flourished in
the civil wars; the Viscount Dundee, who fell bravely, but vainly,
attempting to support the tottering throne of James 11. ; and the
present Lord Lynedoeb, who distinguished himself by his chival-
rous exertions in the wars of the French Revolution. The late
Duke (ob. 30th December 1836) must be mentioned as an able,
persevering patron of agriculture. During alonglife, he was un-
wearied in embellishing his residence at Buchanan, in improving
and extending his plantations, and in introducing superior bree I ds
of farm stock.

The Clan Gregor.- The history of the Maegregors is now

<FOOTNOTE>Miles's Annals of Scotland, anno 1296.


