
640                            PERTHSHIRE.

the parish are the classic Garry and Tummel. The Garry, "Gath-
ruith," the flight of the dart, or more probably "Garaidh," a den,
takes its rise from a lake of the same name in the north-west of
the parish of Blair Atholl. It is perhaps one of the most furious
and impetuous rivers in Scotland; and when flooded, the rapidi-
ty of its stream, and the rumbling noise of its many waters, tear-
ing up every thing that obstructs its progress, is terrifically grand.
It has several striking cascades in its course, and its banks, after it
enters this parish, are richly wooded. After flowing nearly thirty
miles, and receiving in its course many tributary streams, it unites
with the Tummel, near the celebrated falls of that name.
  The Tummel, teth-thuil, a hot or boiling flood, or rather teamh-
thuil, a dark flood, or perhaps teamh-thuill, a gloomy den, issues
from Loch Rannoch, in the parish of Fortingal. Its current is ra-
pid and turbulent, until it unites with the Garry, after which it
becomes a majestic stream meandering through a fine and fertile
vaHey. The scenery of the Tummel in point of beauty and mag-
nificence is seldom equalled.  After running a course not exceed-
ing twenty-five miles," its name and its waters are alike swallow-
ed up by the all-devouring Tay at Logierait."
  Cascades.-In a parish abounding in so many large streamlets
rushing down with an impetuous current from mountains of conside-
rable altitude, the formation of cascades is to be expected as a mat-
ter of course. But, with the exception of the beautiful and pictu-                                                                              Pictu-
resque cascades at Edradour, * and at Urrard, and that of the Tum-
mel, they are all, I believe, unsung and uncelebrated. " The fall
of the Tummel is truly a fine object: whether to the more admir-
ers of waterfalls, or to those who know better in what the main me-
rit this class of scenery consists. It is a peculiar and rare
merit hn the cascade of the Tummel that it is beautiful in itself,
and almost without the aid of its accompaniments. Though the
water breaks white almost throughout, the forms are so graceful, so
varied, and so well marked, that we can look at it long without

<FOOTNOTE>name of the river and of the district. The grave of Prince Ardle is still pointed out
on the property of Dirnanean in this parish. The Briarachan has an equally roman-                                            in i.      1! Th..B _
tic origin, which will meadily suggest itself to him who is conversant with Gaelic an-                             of Dimantem th pari                  riarachan has an dpually r-nm-
tiquarian lore. If he be at a loss, Ossian's characters will help him. The banks
of the Arnete and Ardle are covered with alder or Scotch mahogany, and it is singu-
lar enough that none of it grows upon the banks of the Briarschan. The only growth                                                                                          Y groith
of the arboisous description which finds existence there is thd brier, and that in great
abuadance. There is an abaslet Gaelis word Briar, a brier or thorn: does that                                                                                 &rest
word form any part of the composition of Briarachan? if so, it would not inapplica-                                                                                  tb,#
bly represent what the district may have been at one time,-" fields of briers."                                                                                  heath,
Edradour- cadar. da-dhobhar, between two waters-urrard-ur-ard, high heath.


