 
                              ETTRICK.                       75                                                             

teacher is the first in the parish who ever received a classical edu-
cation.  All the brances usually taught at a parochial school
may now be obtained here.  The school salary is the maxi-
mum, and the amount of school fees, &c. may be about L. 15 a-
year.  The schoolmaster has all the legal accommodations allow-
ed to teachers, if by this be meant school-house and garden.  The
people are alive to the benefits of education; and we believe, that
they are not far inferior to those of any parish of the same kind in
the south of Scotland.
   Library.--A parish library was instituted between twenty and
thirty years ago.  It was long in a weak state, but still it stood
and gained strength; now it is vigorous and progressing.  There
are belonging to it between thirty and forty members, and it con-
tains nearly 600 volumes.  A list of its proprietors, with the laws
of the society, and a catalogue of the books, were printed in 1824,
a donation of five guineas being presented by Lord Napier for that
purpose, who is also himself a member, and who, with two or three
other proprietors of the parish, have presented to it some very va-
luable volumes.
   Poor.-Regular assessments appear to have been introduced in
1725, and have continued ever since.  In 1791 "the number of
persons receiving alms was fifteen: the assessment upon the heri-
tors for their support L.37, per annum."  The number of persons
at present on the roll is five, among whom is a well known charac-
ter, the original of the "Davie Gellatly of Waverley."  The assess-
ment for the present year (1833), is L.23, 19s. 1d. with an addi-
tion of L.4, allowed as collector's fee.  But the average number
of paupers for the last seven years is 7, and the average sum
of assessment for the same time is L.41, 15s. 2d.  The church
collections have been generally appropriated to assist the indus-
trious poor.  For the last year, these collections have amounted to
nearly L.16, but the average sum of the last seven years may be
stated at little more than L.10.
   Prisons.-Though there be no resident magistrate or lawyer
generally in the parish, or ready way of getting legal redress, yet
there is a small prison "the round house," near the fair grounds.
It is placed there, however, perhaps more in terrorem than in paenas.
     Fairs.-Here there are four fairs held annually.  One in the end
of March for the sale of grit ewes; for the hiring of servants, and
especially for the hiring of shephers.  Another held in the end
of July, called the lamb fair, where wool and lambs are disposed


