
888                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

supplied with food.  The wall here is 11 feet thick.  The, other
inner door opens into the second storey, which is 82 feet by 20 feet
6 inches, and 22 feet 9 inches in height.  Upon the right of the
common entrance, and near the door of the dungeon, is a narrow
stair, wbich winds up through the centre of the wall to the third
storey, which is 24 feet 9 inches high, and of much the same area
as the one just described.  In the east end of its vaulted roof is a
small door, which leads out to the battlement, access to which was
obtained from the apartment below by means of a moveable lad-
der.  This ancient edifice is kept in complete repair, and its walls
are apparently as entire as when newly erected.
   Under this head may also be noticed a carved stone, which was
removed from the farm of the Gallow-burn (now called Bakebare)
by the workmen employed in building, the House of Park, and
which, although much defaced, was happily saved from destruction
by the interference of the proprietor.  It would be difficult to de-
termine the purpose for which that stone was erected, as there ex-
ists no tradition regarding it to throw light upon its history.  Its
original situation was on the west end of the Keithi's moor, not far
from the spot where, in times of baronial jurisdiction, the gallows
stood; but it can scarcely be supposed to have bad any connec-
tion with the latter circumstance, and must be of a much earlier
date than that defeat of the Keiths by the Irvines, which occasioned
the field on which the battle was fought to be called the Keiths'
moor. The remains of it now stand beside a summer-house, on
the top of the Hawk-hillock, within the policies of Park.
   Many tumuli still exist in different parts of the parish, but no-
thing uncommon has been observed in anv which have been open-
ed, except in one which had been raised on the top of the Hawk-
hillock, and was levelled to afford a site for the summer-house al-
ready mentioned. During that operation three stone-coffins were
disinterred, containiing an urn and the ashes of the dead, which,
by order of the proprietor, were again carefully buried in the place
where they were found.
   Arrow-heads are occasionally picked up by the inhabitants, and
one, beautifully formed of yellow flint, was lately found on the
Keiths' moor.  A few silver coins were discovered about thirty
years ago on the farm of Dalmaik ; but as they had all disappear-
ed, except one, before the writer of this Account became connect-
ed with the parish, he can give no description of them,-the one,
however, of which he has obtained possession, is a coin of Mary
Stuart's, Queen of Scotland.


