
144 		            LANARKSHIRE.

a flat of his mills in Manchester soon after. The mechanism being
complicated, no practical spinners ventured to give the machine a
trial.
	In 1825, M. de Jonge, an ingenious French gentleman, who has
been long resident in this country, contrived a machine of more
simple construction, for which he obtained a patent. This he
had in operation at Warrington in Lancashire, and in Yorkshire;
but they have never made farther progress. The spinners of Man-
chester and neighbourhood having been much annoyed by the union
of their spinners, applied to Messrs Sharp, Roberts, and Company,
celebrated machine-makers, to allow their Mr Roberts, a man of
great ingenuity, and of much skill and taste in mechanism, to en-
deavour to perfect a self-acting mule. This Mr Roberts under-
took; and having devoted himself to the pursuit, succeeded, after
several years of experiment and at the expense of a large sum of
money, (upwards, it is said, of L. 10,000,) in producing a machine
which has been found to work well in the spinning of yarn, not ex-
ceeding forty hanks in the pound. In the construction of this ma-
chine there is a display of great ingenuity, skill, and taste, and it
has been adopted to some extent by several extensive spinners.
Still, however, there are objections to these machines, on account
of the complexity and expense of the mechanism; and from the
peculiar style of the movements, the machine is still liable to break-
age, and to considerable tear and wear. About the year 1826,
Mr Buchanan having to renew the mules at Catrine Work, re-
solved to attempt again a self-actor; and with some suggestions
from his nephew, Mr James Smith of Deanston Works, and with
much ingenuity and perseverance on his own part, he succeeded.
in contriving an effective machine. He has had his whole work in
operation on this plan for six years past and under his peculiar
good management, the machines perform very well in low num-
bers. In 1820, Mr James Smith of Deanston Works had con-
trived and constructed the mechanism. of a self-acting mule; but
his attention having  been required to other more extensive and
important operations he laid it aside, it is believed, without trial.
In 1833, Mr Smith seeing the desire that existed for a simple and
efficient self-acting mule, and more especially such as  could be
applied to the mules of various constructions at present in general
use in the trade set about contiving one; having made some
progress,he came to hear of a very simple contrivance for facili-
tating the process of backing off (one of the most difficult to ac-


