
     Statistical Account

they have in general increased their little stocks: Yet unhap-
pily, too many by a more expensive mode of living and dress,
lately introduced, have hurt themselves very much.  Even ser-
vants, both male and female, though their wages are almost the
double of what they were some time ago, expend so much on
dress, that they are in general poor.  No natural wood grows
here; but the mosses abound with oaks of a large size; some
in such a state of preservation as to be fit for many useful pur-
poses.  Some small plantations of wood have been made here
since the commencement of this century; and in these the
ash, in particular, is of an excellent quality.-A very ex-
traordinary land flood happened on the 18th of July, 1789;
supposed to have been occasioned by a water spout breaking
upon Mormond-hill, and swelling the water of Rathen to a
pitch that was not remembered by the oldest person in the pa-
rish.  Several bridges were broken down; and sundry patches
of meadow buried deep under stones and gravel.

<FOOTNOTE>

builg: And Sir Alexander then transferred its former name to another house
that belonged to him, about a mile to the westward, which it still retains; and
has been the seat of the Saltoun family ever since.
   Inverallochie appears to be inferior in strength to Cairnbuilg.  No date is
seen about either of them.  Till of late a stone above the entry to Inveral-
1ochie bore, with the Cumine's arms, the following inscription: "I Jordan
"Cuming gat this house and land for bigging the abbey of Deer."
   There are also two mounds, or hillocks of earth, near the church, and not
a mile asunder, that seem to have been formed by the hands of men.  They
are nearly circular, and slope towards the top, forming there an horizontal
plain, somewhat circular also, of about thirty yards diameter.  Both are pretty
steep all around; except that access to the top is tolerably easy on one
quarter of each, by means of the rising ground adjoining.  The one is called Tre-
for hill, and the other St Oyne's.  Some think they have been old encamp-
ments.

