
                  INVERNESS                                  31

nerally, as well as of the town and neighbourbood, the funds for
that purpose having been collected by subscriptions at home and
abroad; and its directors, consisting of the magistrates of Inver-
ness, the sheriff of the county, the moderator of the presbytery of
Inverness, with five commissioners of supply, to be named annual-
ly by their own body, subscribers of L. 50, and the heirs of sub-
scribers to the extent of L. 100, or upwards, being incorporated
into a body corporate and politic, by royal charter. The old gral-
mar school of Inverness has merged into this institution, to which
the burgh transferred its annual grant for the support of the for-
mer,and it is generally provided with from four to six teachers, includ-
ing a rector, whose salary, besides a free house and garden, amounts
to L. 90, and the other teachers' salaries from L. 30 to L. 40 a-
year. All the branches of a good commercial and classical edu-
cation are taught in this seminary, with the elements of mathema-
tics and philosophy, there being a prospect also of the natural
sciences being added to the branches taught, in consequence of a
society established in the year 1825, and denominated the Northern
Institution for the Promotion of Science and Literature, having made
over to the academy directors their valuable museum of books, an-
tiquities, and objects of natural history. For some years this aca-
demy was the only seminary of the kind to the north of Aberdeen;
but, in consequence chiefly of similar institutions being opened in
many of the neighbouring towns, the numbers attending it have
somewhat decreased, the average amount of pupils being formerly
upwards of 300, while at present it is only attended by from 200
to 250 scholars. Inverness, thus already more amply provided than
many other towns with the means of education and improvement,
has been further enriched by a munificent bequest of L. 10,000,
3 per cent. consols, left by the late Rev. Dr Bell, the ingenious,
author of the Madras system of education, and committed by him
to the charge of the magistrates of Inverness, who contemplate,
we understand, erecting another large charity school, and relieving
the Education Society of the burthen of supporting their central
or model school on the Green of Muirtown.
Libraries, &c-Besides its scientific and literary institution
above-mentioned, Inverness has also a mechanics institution, a va-
luable parochial library, under the direction of the kirk-session, se-
veral subscription and circulating libraries, two public reading-
rooms, several printing-presses, two weekly newspapers, and four
banking-offices.


