
     Statistical Account

waters assuage; importing that passion should be restrained till
the voice of reason be heard*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*The several branches of the Celtic now existing in Europe, are a venerable
monument of antiquity.  Independent of the intrinsic excellence, were all the
words contained in them digested and formed into a dictionary, it might throw
considerable light upon the history of a people, whose manners, customs, arts,
and sciences, the revolution of ages has snatched from authentic records.  Mr.
Gibbon in his Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire, observes, that there is
room for a very interesting work, to lay open the connexion between the lan-
guage and the manners of a people.  Few languages are better calculated for
this purpose than the Celtic.  Every one acquainted with it, and enduced with
a taste to relish its beauties, must acknowledge its energy and descriptive powers.
Equally adapted to melt, or to rouse, it has a style appropriated to the various
passions.  Instead of conveying feeble ideas, it exhibits lively pictures.  Sono-
rous and impressive, when the occasion requires, it penetrates the inmost re-
resses of the soul.  When the Greek and Roman languages were in their in-
fancy, the Celtic lent them its aid; for, many words of the two former are ob-
viously derived from the latter.  In a period then of such enterprise and im-
provement as the present, when philosophic curiosity explores the remotest cor-
ners of the globe, to enlarge the circle of human knowledge, it is somewhat
extraordinary, that a language so ancient, and once so wideley diffused, should
be consigned to its fate, without one public effort to preserve its relicks and
tansmit them to posterity.  To accomplish such a desirable object, would not
be unworthy of the patronage of the Highland Society of London.  As that re-
spectable body consists of noblemen and gentlemen of independent fortunes, a 
small share of the superfluity of their affluence, might be successfully employed
to arrest what still remains of the Celtic, and retrieve it from oblivion.  Several
attempts of this kind have been made, but they have beem partial and im-
perfect.  There is still wanting a work to embrace the whole, and which
cannot be accomplished without the patronage and munificence of the great.
If the Empress of Russia has sent learned men to collect and explain the jar-
gons spoken by the various tribes of barbarians inhabiting the inhospitable Cau-
casus, should not such a liberal example engage the attention, and excite the
imitation of a more refined and civilized people?  A dictionary of the Gaelic
is now in contemplation in Argyllshire, and the letters of its alphabet are di-
vided among an equal number of elergymen; but as these gentlemen are con-
fined to a particular county, and consider their own as the standard dialect of
the Highlands, they make little injuiry concerning the modes of speech that
prevail in other countries; consequently many pure and genuine Celtic words


