
268                  EDINBURGHSHIRE.

mily. In September 1649, John, the Earl of Lauderdale, was
served heir to his father in this lordship and regality, with supe-
riority over the vassals of the same lordsbip." et jure".Iregalitatis
ejusdem."*
   In the year following, 1650, Musselburgh was taken possession
of by Oliver Cromwell, who encamped part of his foot on Mus-
selburgh Links, where they remained for nearly two months--the
site of his own tent being still pointed out opposite Linkfield
House.  During the same time, the church of Inveresk, being
cleared of its sittings, was made use of as a cavalry barracks, and
the mounds in the churchyard were mounted with cannon.  On
the demolition of the venerable shrine dedicated to St Michael, a
quantity of gunpowder, said to have been deposited on this occa-
sion, was found in a vault beneath.
   Before the commencement of the seventeenth century, the lord-
ship of Inveresk, which had belonged to the Dicksons of Carber-
ry, was sold by the then proprietor, Sir Robert, to Anne, Duchess
of Monmouth and Buccleuch; and in 1709, the regality of Mus-
selburgh was also purchased by the same Noble lady, from the
Earl of Lauderdale.  Certain parts, however, of this regality and
parish have been since disjoined, and annexed to Cranston, New-
ton, and Dalkeith.  We should also add, in alluding to the supe-
riority of the Lauderdale, family over Musselburgh, that, in 1670,
the Duke confirmed to the burgh all its ancient rights and privile-
ges by a charter, which is still carefully preserved in the charter-
room of the town-hall.  The Lordship of the parish of Inveresk,
as well as its ecclesiastical patronage, still remains in the bands of
the Noble family of Buccleuch.
   The ancient feudal system of "the Riding of the Marches"
by the burgesses, still holds here, once within the fifty years.  They
appear mounted on horseback, and armed with swords. The se-
ven incorporated trades, each headed by its captain, follow in the
train of the magistrates and town-council ; the whole cavalcade
being preceded by the town-officers, with their ancient Brabant
spears, and a7 champion armed cap-a-pie.  A gratuity is also al-
]owed to a minstrel, -who attends at the succeeding feast, and re-
eites in verse the glories of the pageant . Since the commence-
ment of the present century, these marches have been twice rid-

<FOOTNOTE>Inquis Special, XX. 150.
          From a MS. in the Royal Exchequer we find that Musselburgh paid of old to that
          fund the yearly sum of L. 2.


