
                        CAMBUSNETHAN.                      613

haven, and latterly of Sir David Stewart of Coltness. About the
year 1649, the house and mains of the barony of Cambusnethan
were disponed to James Sommerville of Drum, and by him in
1661, to Sir John Harper, Advocate, who rebuilt the mansion
house of Cambusnethan.
	"Upon the death of Sir John Harper, the lands of Cambus-
nethan were sold to the Lockharts of Castlehill." The barony of
Cambusnethan now goes to the second son of the Sinclairs of Ste-
venson and Murcle; but the propreitor is always to assume the
name of Lockhart. The estate of Cambusnethan was left by the
first purchaser of the name of Lockhart to his sister, Martha, spouse
of Sir John Sinclair of Stevenson. It was incorporated into a
free barony, called the Barony of Cambusnethan, in favour of
James Lockhart of Castlehill, by a charter under Great Seal,
dated 26th July 1695. In the year 1764, these lands came into
the possession of Captain James Lockhart, second son of Sir Ro-
bert Sinclair of Stevenson, Bart., who succeeded his uncle, George
Lockhart, Esq. of Castlehill, one of the Senators of the College of
Justice. The superiorities, &c. of the estates in the parish of
Stonehouse, which formerly belonged to Martha Lockhart, were al-
so formed into a barony by a charter under the Great Seal, called
the Barony of Castlehill; which is the title that the family of Cam-
busnethan still retains.
	Chalmer says, that the church of Cambusnethan, with its
tithes and other rights, was granted to the monks of Kelso, dur-
ing the twelfth century, by William Finemund, the Lord of the
Manor; and it was confirmed to them by Malcolm IV., and by
William the Lion. From Radulph de Cler, who seems to have
succeeded Finemund, as Lord of the Manor, the monks of Kelso
obtained a confirmation of the church of Cambusnethan; and he
granted to them, and to the said church, the title of all the
multure, and his produce of the mills of Cambusnethan; and a
right of priority in grinding their corns at the said mill; in return
for which, the monks granted him a license to have a private-cha-
pel within his manor house. (Chart. Kelso, No.278.)
	The monks also obtained confirmation of this church from
Walter, Bishop of Glasgow, in 1232. Before the end of the
thirteenth century, the church of Cambusnethan, with its tithes
and other property, was transferred from the monks of Kelso to
LANARK.                                R r


