
	                     CARLUKE.                        571

	6, 7, 8, 9. Above the cannel coal lie the Maggy bands, four in
number, averaging in all about 12 inches.
        10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19. Between the caumy *
and foul bands of limestone, lie ten bands of ironstone commonly
called the Raes gill bands, averaging 4 feet in all.
	20, 21, 22. Between the foul and main bands of limestone three
bands of ironstone occur, averaging in all about 15 inches. Be-
sides these there are several other bands, making in all about
thirty. A beautiful natural section of the ten bands is seen at
Raes gill, on the estate of Milton-Lockhart, near the western
boundary of Carluke basin, dipping north-east and at Hillhead,
near the eastern boundary of the same basin, they are found on
edge, dipping west. These bands are found also in Braidwood
lands, at Nellfield, Leemuir, Birkfield, &c.
	The geological locality of the black band, of great value in the
Airdrie field, lies within our boundary, but as yet it has not been
discovered.
	Minerals.--The following minerals are common in the district.
	Quartz in great abundance in the conglomerates of the old red
sandstone, and the boulders of the alluvial clay, &c. A flag stone
of two feet six inches, lying under the first Kinshaw limestone,
consists almost entirely of quartz. Agate, in the old red sandstone;
mica in layers in freestone rocks, and abundantly diffused through
these rocks; calcareous spar, in fissures of the limestones; heavy
spar in the fissures of the old red sandstone; iron pyrites in fis-
sures of the coal limestone, ironstone, &c; galena among the
ironstones at Belston-place and Brockshole.
	Calcareous tufa is found in almost every glen and gill in the
track of the limestone. Bitumen, or mineral caouchouc, is found
in the fissures of the coal, and some of the limestones.
	Organic Remains.--This is certainly the most interesting
branch of our subject; but we are little qualified, we find, to do
it justice.
	From the foregoing sketch, the domain of the collector will be
see to be rich and extensive; but his labours have hitherto been
necessarily very much circumscribed. The extensive operations,
however, lately begun for the supply of the Castlehilliron works have
removed many impediments, and with so few labourers, the collec-

<FOOTNOTE>A band of limestone, of from 3 to 9 feet, not before particularly noticed, as it is
not wrought, nor is it as a limestone worth working; it is the first lime above the
foul hand (3), the distance between, them being 54 feet.


