
				BOINDIE.                   229

situated on the west side of the burn, on it precipitous rock by the
brink of the sea, below the mansion, to which, under the influence
of advancing civilization and refinement, it had given place.
   Ogilvies also possessed, probably as wadsets, the smaller estates
of Baldavie, Culfin, and Buchragie. The foundation of the man-
sion-house of the last family, with the garden adjoining may be
traced on the rocky eminence, to the west of the old church.  The
estate of Reattie belonged to a family of the name of Dunn.
  This was one of the first parishes in the north of Scotland in
which the alternate husbandry was practised. It was introduced
here about 1754, upon the farm of Craigherbs, by the father of
the last Earl of Findlater, at that time himself Lord Deskford,
and beir-apparent to the estates.\f* It is stated in the old Sta-
tistical Account, however, that, even at the date of its pub-
lication, at the distance of about fifty years, it had not come
into general practice. The same Nobleman laid out the older
plantations in the parish. Those in the eastern part of the parish
and along the coast side road, (partly now removed), with the nu-
merous clumps adorning the bills of Boindie to the soutb-east
were designed to bound the grounds of a mansion projected by
Lord Deskford about the present site of the manse. An excam-
bion had been nearly effected with Lord Banff, in order to acquire
the hills to the south-west, with the view of completing an amphi-
theatre of ornamental plantations from three to four miles in dia-
meter, the whole extent of which would have been in view, from
the commanding situation of the house. Circumstances, however,
led to the abandonment of this grand project. It is understood
that the common furze or whins with which the parish is now over-
run, was unknown here until sown by this Earl of Findlater, for
the use of the fishermen in curing their fish.\f**

<FOOTNOTE>fence, if he be removed from Deskford conform to the rules of this Church, he do not
decline any civil right consistent with the principles of the Church of Scotland, and
so does accept of said presentation, as giving him a legal right and title to the stipend
of that paroch. " This is a remarkable record, on the one hand, of the views enter-
tained by a patron at that period of the effect of his right in extinguishing the influ-
ence of the congregation, and, on the other hand, of the view under which our fore-
fathers were able to reconcile the acceptance of a presentation to their principles.
   An anecdote is often related as illustrative of the liberal views of this distinguish.
ed  improver. The overseer of the above farm complained that his labours and anxie-
ties for the success of the turnip field were frustrated by the thefts of the neighbour-
hood. " That precisely answers my purpose," was the answer, " having learned
their value in this way, they will not fail to sow a few for themselvew." It is appre-
hended that his Lordship's enlightened views had not extended to the necessary con-
nection between the " right moral and thd right economic condition of society." By
the way, this Nobleman did not maintain his character for liberality in all things
having acted on the principle of tolerating no Roman Catholic tenants.
   + The green shoots, when bruised, are occasionally used as a winter food for horses


