
208                           FIFESHIRE.

hood, amusing their captors with their mimic song. A few years
ago, a fine specimen of the Strix flammea, or white owl, was caught
in this vicinity, and is now stuffed and in possession of the author.
It is so very rare in this quarter, that no person could give it a
name, or say they bad ever seen such a bird before. The speci-
men, however, though full-grown, is evidently a young bird; and
we have no doubt that the white owl, which is very common in
many parts of England, and not by any means a stranger in Scot-
land, had bred in the woods both of Dunbog and Ayton, when
there was more shelter for it than there is now. A few roe-deer
frequent the hills and plantations, and are known to breed here;
but they are so destructive to the young corns that they will not be
permitted to increase to any extent. Besides these, we have the
usual sorts of game, but not in such abundance as to hurt the in-
terests of the farmer.
   Botany.--There is very little wood in the parish. Did it pos-
sess the benefit of a resident proprietor, this glaring defect would
speedily be remedied. The greater portion of the parish belongs
to Lord Dundas, who has of course little personal interest in or-
namental improvement. But it is impossible to look on the naked
hills, overrun with gorse and bracken, without indulging a wish to
see them clothed and beautified with forest trees. In their present
state, they are comparatively worthless, but were they covered with
wood, they would not only become of much greater value to the
proprietors in the course of a few years, but they would afford shel-
ter both to the flocks and subjacent fields, and sensibly ameliorate
the climate. At no distant period, the valley of Dunbog was pretty
well wooded; but now little remains except within the pleasure
ground of the old mansion-house. Even there, the trees are ra-
pidly decaying, and a few years more will witness their total disap-
pearance. The kinds that seem to thrive best are the plane, the
ash, and the elm.

			II.--CIVIL HISTORY.

   The only historical notice of this parish that we are acquainted
with, is contained in Sibbald's History of Fife, first published in
1682. In a book entitled "Reliquiae Divi Andreae," by Martine
of Clermont, who appears to have been secretary to Archbishop
Sharpe, there are allusions to persons and places in the parish,
which are of some use in illustrating its condition at that distant time.
   Family of Barclay of Collairney.--The most ancient and ho-
nourable name connected with the history of Dunbog is that
of the family of Barclay, who seem to have been proprietors


