
540                        FORFARSHIRE.

of the mills and works on it. Salmon formerly frequented it; but
the bleaching ley has effectually scared them away, as well as
greatly thinned the numbers and deteriorated the quality of the
excellent trout in which it previously abounded.
  Soil.-Rising somewhat abruptly from the links on the snuth,
and extending to the aminences in the middle of the parish, lies a
tract of land of the richest description, and highly cultivated, pro-
ducing heavy crops of every kind, and drawing rents equally heavy.
The northern district labours under the disadvantage of a cold and
tilly subsoil; but extensive draining is ameliorating both soil and
climate, so that the crops produced yield a fair average return to
the cultivator.
  Mineralogy.-Towards the south, a whinstone rock prevails;
but along the northern boundary, runs an excellent seam of pave-
ment, obviously the same as that which appears at Auchterhouse,
Carmyllie, Turin, Kinblethmont, $c. One quarry of it is wrought
in this parish, with much advantage, on the estate of Well-bank,
and two others might probably be opened,-one on the estate of
Omachie, the other on the estate of Kingennie. The Well-bank
or Legsland quarry must have been in operation for nearly 300
years, as appears from the following entry in the sessional record:
"3d June 1574, Donald Robartsone ni Laigislande fand ye Lard
of Umoquhy cation, yt, gif ye witnesses convicks hym, he sall pay
ane thousande sklaittis."
  Zoology.-During particular seasons swans elder-ducks, great
northern divers, and other rare aquatic birds visit our coast. Se-
veral pairs of that beautiful bird, the stock-gannet, yearly build nn

the links. Quail also used formerly to be plentiful there, but
have now totally disappeared. The starling in the south, and the
goat-sucker in the woods towards the north, are not uncommom.
It is worthy of remark, that, about ten years before the publica-
tion of the former Statistical Account, haddocks began to leave
this coast, till at last they totally deserted it; but now all kinds
of white fish are caught in abundance. Herrings used to be
plentiful in the frith; but, for a series of years, they also have
deserted it. They, however, seem to be returning, as great num-
bers have been caught upon the coast this season. During neap-
tides, at the proper season, a small but excellent crab is gathered
among some shelving rocks in the river, opposite the village of
Monifieth; and, on a bank at the mouth of the estuary, called
"Drumley sands," a coarse shell-fish, named "Drumley buckies,"
                              4


