
     Statistical Account

<UNREADABLE>

On the S. E. it is bounded by the Murray frith, on the S.
and S. W. by the bay and frith of Cromarty.  In the S. E.
side of the parish, there is a hill, commonly called the hill
of Nigg, which rises at a place called Shandwicke, and ex-
tends about 5 miles along the shore of the Murray frith,
terminating at a place called Dunskeath nearly opposite to
Cromarty.  Some parts of this hill are now covered with
large plantations of firs in a thriving condition, other parts
are let out in grass to pasture cattle.  The face of hill,
hanging over the Murray frith, is, in some places, covered
with grass and heath, abounds with medicinal herbs, where,
some time ago, a number of goats were kept, whose milk,
from that circumstane, was remarkable for its good quali-
ties in restoring health.  But a great part of the face of the
hill is rocky, and accessible only to the birds of the air.
The eagle, all the different kinds of hawks, build their
ness in these rocks, some of which are several hundred feet
in height.  In them also great flocks of cormorants and o-
ther sea-sowl take up their residence, in their return from
Caithness and the Northern Isles, whither in the summer
season they repair to hatch their young.  On the declivity
of this hill, and exposed to, the north, lies a considerable
part of the arable grounds of this parish, and which are rec-
koned of the best quality, being a rich loam, with a clay
bottom.  At both extremities of the parish, the foil is light
and sandy.  During the winter season, a great part of the
parish is wet, occasioned by the rains, which, salting on the
hill, and distilling through the earth, ooze forth in springs
in many parts even of the arable grounds.  Towards spring
these dry up, and feed time generally commences about the
of March.  In the one end of the parish they begin to
few barley in the beginning of April, in the other end they
begin not till about the middle of that month.  During the
spring months, vegetation is rather flow, owing to the

</UNREADABLE>


