
     of Leochel.

would become more industrious, and keep a better table.-
There are in the parish and lands of Corse 44 ploughs; great-
est part of them drawn by oxen, from 4 to 12 to a plough.
The crosters yoke their cows and young cattle in the plough.
There are now 53 carts in the whole district: in 1772, there
were only 4, of which the minister had two.

   Black-Cattle, Horses, and Sheep.-According to the best in-
formation, there seem to be in the parish and lands of Corse
from 750 to 800 black-cattle, 1300 sheep, 140 horses of small
size, and about 30 or 40 swine.  About 200 cattle are sold
annually, either in the country to graziers, or to dealers in the
southern counties.  A great many horses, within these 8 years
past, have been carried to the south; and sold there from L. 3
to L. 10 each.  The oxen commonly give from L 3 to L. 6;
-sheep from 5 s. to 10 s.-and swine from 20 s. to 40 s. each*.

     VOL. VI. E e

<FOOTNOTE>

*The language spoken in this parish is English, or rather a particular dia-
lect of the Scottish, called the Aberdcenshire dialect No Gaelic is spoken
here, or nearer than Tullich and Corgars, about 15 English males distant;
though it seems to have been formerly the language of this country, the names
of several places being evidently derived from it; thus, Craigivar, or Creg-a-
Mharr, the "rock of Mar;" Tullicorn, or Tullich-eorna, the "barley hill;"
Cnockannach, or Cnoc-Choinneach, "Kenneth's hillock, or know," etc.-
The inhabitants, since 1745, are much civilized, and little disposed to quarrel-
ling.  In general, they are peaceable and well-behaved; not addicted to drink-
ing, which may account for there not being a public-house in the parish.
The people have no military turn, and when any of them enlist in the army,
they return as soon as they can get their discharge.-The men dress plainly
in short clothes and breeches of home-spun cloth, with tartan or shepherds
plaids.-The women appear at church as decently dressed as their cir-
cumstances will permit, in tartan plaids and duffle cloaks.
   Wrights wages are from 10 d. to 15. per day, without victuals, and from
6 d to 8 d. a pay with victuals.  Taylors, with victuals, from 4 d. to 6 d. per day.
Servants are very scarce; and their fees double what they were 20 years ago.


