
	                    LOTH.                           201

	   In the west side of the steep bank of the Kintradwell Burn, an
	artificial opening or cave, and built and roofed with stone, called
	Cosk-geavag, now shut by an accumulation of soil and rubbish, is
	said to lead to subterranean apartments, which, from descriptions
	given by persons who entered them, before the mouth of the cave
	became impeded, are supposed to have been places of refuge or
	sepulchre.  At a remote period, a chapel, called after St Ninian,
	stood at Navidale, and another, called John the Baptist's Chapel,
	close to the present bridge of Helmsdale ; and at both these places,
	there are burying-grounds, still used as such.  Another of these
	chapels stood at Easter Garty, the ruins of which are still recol-
	lected ; and it is said that a fourth stood at Kintradwell, called St
	Trullew's Chapel, although the existence of this last one is not
	certain.  Several barrows and tumuli are scattered throughout the
	parish, and the heads of ancient stone battle-axes have been found
	in some cairns supposed to point out the resting-place of persons
	slain in conflicts ; and at Strone-Rungie, a low-lying point of the
	coast between Culgower and Wester Garty, a number of battle
	cairns still mark the place where it is said foreign invaders were
	successfully opposed and overcome.

 		         III.-POPULATION.
	   The population of Loth has been, for several years past, and is
	rapidly increasing.  The early state of its population cannot be
	traced,satisfactorily; but some occasional facts have been ascer-
	tained, which warrant the conclusion, that the number of inhabi-
	tants was stationary for the last two hundred years, until about the
	year 1811. Thus, in February 1651, the " Committee of War," for
	the shire, in fixing the number of men for a militia regiment,
	allocated those from the parish of Loth as follows:

	<TABLE>

           "Clynetraidwall and two davochs of Lothbeg,                                  7 men.
           The three davoch lands of Cracaik and ye davoch of Lothe and ye glen,        7
           Lothermore and Eister Helmisdaill                                            7
           Culgor, West Garthie, and West Helmisdaill,                                  7
           Marle, Midgarthie, and East Garthie,                                         7
           Navidaill,                                                                   2
                                                                                       ___
                                                                                       37
	   These numbers of selected fighting men bear about the same
	proportion to the strength of the regiment then raised,  which the

        viz one on each side, and a third by way of covering.  These are made with the
     	vast flags this country is famous for.  As the extremity, is a larger apartment, of an
	oval figure, probably the quarters of the chieftain.  The passage or gallery is without
  	a roof,-a proof that they were only temporary habitations.  Their length is from
	fifty to sixty feet.  These buildings are only in places where the great flags are plen-
	tiful.  In Glen Loth are three, and by the country people Uags."

            SUTHERLAND.                         O


