
     Statistical Account

tis, the business was not conducted with advantage.  It is 
still, however, carried on, and the present occupier has the
same encouragement which his predecessors enjoyed.  The
want of spinners is what he principally complains of, which,
in a great measure, may be accounted for, by the time ta-
ken up in so moist a climate, in preserving their peats.  That
is almost the only fuel at present in the country.  In pre-
paring them, females are chiefly employed, and they are of-
ten the principal work to be attended to for several months.
This unavoidably interferes with, and retards the business
of the whole year, and is, in fact, a very great obstacle to all
improvement in this country, the best part of the season be-
ing thus consumed in providing fuel*.

   Commerce.-The quay, scarcely deserves that name, as it
does not at present answer the intended purpose.  Were
there, however, a little addition made to it, it would be a
safe and commodious harbour.  There is one vessel belon-

<FOOTNOTE>

*In the year 1754, a company from Lancashire, under the sum of the
Argyll Furnace Company, erected a blast furnace for smelting of hon
ore, by means of woo charcoal, in the southern extremity of this parish.
They were much encouraged by the late Archibald Duke of Argyll, who
gave them a tack of three cuttings of his woods, in this and some other
parishes, upon very reasonable terms.  The Company import are and iron-
stone in vessels of their own, from the west of England, which they return
loaded with pig iron of very superior quality, timber, oak-bark, etc.
The establishment of this Company was particularly advantageous to this
country, in raising the price of woods, and serviceable, in giving employ-
ment and bread, to a considerable number of hands, both male and female,
annually employed in cutting and peeling the woods and making char-
coal.  The business of this Company, is believed to be carried on, much to
the advantage of all concerned, and with the good-will and to the great
satisfaction of all who had any dealings with them.  For many years past
it has been conducted by Mr Joseph Latham, proprietor of a consider-
able share in it, whose attention, candour, and humanity, have gained him
universal esteem as a valuable member of society.


