
6                             AYRSHIRE.

they can easily be reached not far below the surface of the earth.
The spring water, however, is generally hard, and particularly in
the town. It is very unfit for detergent and certain culinary purposes.
It holds in solution carbonates of lime and magnesia, sulphates of
lime and magnesia, and chlorides of lime, magnesia, and soda, but
the salt most predominant is carbonate of lime. Traces of iron in
combination, or as an oxide, are generally to be found, although in
some wells they cannot be detected. It is obvious, that, however hard
the water may be from these saline matters which it holds in solu-
tion, it is not deleterious or hurtful, as, from their laxative nature,
when iron is in solution, it is rather tonic and corroborative to
the system than injurious to it. A plan has been for some time
in agitation for bringing an adequate supply of pure spring water
in pipes from Carrick-hill, for the use of the inhabitants. This
plan has now been matured, and the money necessary for the un-
dertaking subscribed; and a bill is about to be brought into Par-
liament immediately to give it effect, so that the town is likely ere
long to have in abundance, and in its purest state, one of the most
indispensable and beneficial elements of life.*
	Lakes.--There are two small lochs in the country part of the
parish, one towards the south, and the other on the eastern bound-
ary; but neither of them is of much extent or importance. The
one to the east is the larger of the two, but it does not exceed a
mile in circumference. It is called Loch Fergus, and is mention-
ed in the charters of the burgh, upwards of 600 years ago, as one
of the limits of the regium donum of territorial property, made
over to the burgh of Ayr. It has a small island in the middle,
and abounds in pike, but in few, if any other fish, as this shark of
the fresh waters is too voracious a tyrant to allow any of the small-
er finny tribes to exist in the same element in its neigbbourbood.
There were, it is said, till lately, the remains of an old ruined castle
near its margin, which probably was used as a shooting station by
the Cassillis family, to whom the property belongs. The ma-
terials have been used in building and repairing farm steading and
dikes in the vicinity. Herons, wild ducks, and other erratic fowls,
occasionally frequent it, and its situation is sufficiently wild and
lonely to encourage them.
	River Ayr.--This river takes its rise in the eastern extremity

<FOOTNOTE>
	 Since the above was written, we have learned that this plan has been in the
meantime defeated, in consequenoe of some, disagreement as to terms, on the part of
the Marquis of Ailsa, the proprietor of the springs.


