
     of Kilmarnock.

   Potatoes.-There may be about 30 acres in the parish plant-
ed annually with potatoes, which yield, at an average, about
30 bolls per acre, and may be worth from 8 s to 10 s per boll.
The principal part of his crop is raised on spots adjacent to the
town, gy the inhabitants of Kilmarnock.  Every tradesman
takes as much ground for 3 d. or 4 d. per fall, as he can pro-
perly manure, and plants the potatoes with the spade.  This, to-
gether with the hoeing and dressing them through the summer,
and digging them up in the autumn, affords a healthful and
agreeable exercise to the trades people, who are so much
necessarily confined to their houses; and the produce makes a
considerable part of their provision for 3 or 4 months at the end
of autumn, and the beginning of winter; which, exclusive of
the value of their labour, they have at a pretty reasonable rate.
After potatoes, it has now become a pretty general practice
to sow wheat, which usually makes a very good return.  Lit-
tle wheat indeed is raised in any other manner; though some
of the farmers have tried it after fallow, and when the sea-
son answers, have had very good crops.  Yet here it must al-
ways prove very precaroius, owing to the great autumnal rains, 
which the soil, in most places, does not quickly enough drain

were generally sown about the end of April, or beginning of May.  In
consequence of the particular nature of the pea, and the late sea-
son of sowing, there were little pease produced, but there was
a complete and close covering given to the ground by the straw, which
lying upon it all the season, cleaned and meliorated the soil to a
surprising degree; and they scarce ever failed to have, from what
was before the poorest ground, two excellent crops of oats, in the
two succeeding years; and the land, after it had rested 6 years,
was in very good order at the next break.  This practice is now
mostly given up, as the ground has all been brought in, but it was
considered as the best method of improving a poor soil.


