
94                      RENFREWSHIRE.


  Antiquities.--I have already mentioned the Peel and Collegiate
Kirk, and shall now notice the remains of other ancient buildings.
   The Barr Castle is the most remarkable of these. It is entire,
but without a roof. It is a high oblong tower, must have been
a place of considerable strength, and is a respectable piece of archi-
tecture for the time in which it was built, which seems to have been
in the fifteenth century. It has both slits for arrows and ports for

Peebles in 1647. He was a pious and able man, and one of the many Presbyterian
ministers who sufFered during the reign of Charles II. Of the 400 ministers who
refused to conform to Prelacy, there were 14 in the presbytery of Paisley, and Mr
Hew Peebles was one of them who was deposed in 1663. For teaching in his own
family on Sabbath evening, he was brought before the High Commission, where
he pled his cause with great freedom as well as force of reasoning. Notwithstand-
ing of this he was required to remove to Forfar, and to confine himself to that
town. He was again brought before the council in 1670, and required to confine
himself to Dumbarton and a mile around it. When the act of indulgence was pas-
sed at Glasgow in 1672, Mr Peebles at first refused to avail himself of it, but after-
wards complied, and was restored to his charge about 1676. With some interrup-
tion he continued his labours till the Revolution in 1688, when he was fully restored
to his office and emoluments, and died in 1691. His receipts for stipend from 1660
to 1665, are still in the possession of an inhabitant of the parish.
   During the suspension of Mr Peebles, there were at least two Episcopalian mi-
nisters or curates here:--Mr Robert Aird in 1666, and Mr William Cuninghame
to 1683. One of them was very strict in requiring the parishioners to conform to
Episcopacy, and in reporting against those who were irregular and refractory,
but the other was easy and indulgent, and if they appeared to answer to their
names at the commencement of public worship, he connived at their retiring, with-
out requiring them to remain and join in the service:--and therefore he has left
a favourable impression behind him in the parish. 6. Mr John Paisley was or-
dained 15th September 1691, refused a call to Foveran in Aberdeenshire, in 1693,
and died in l728. There is still evidence of his fidelity and diligence in the records
of sessions during his incumbency. 7. Mr John Pinkerton was ordained l5th De-
cember 1728, and died 3d January 1750. The impression of his worth and fidelity
still remain with the inhabitants of the parish. 8. Mr John Couper is said to have
been licensed at the same time with his predecessor, and after a long probation was
ordained at Lochwinnoch in September 1750, and died in September 1787, at the
age of 81, after an incumbency of 87 years. He was the only minister of this parish
who belonged to what is called the moderate party in church politics. I mention
this, simply as a fact of which neither be; nor any of his family, would have been
ashamed, and have much pleasure in being able to add, he was an excellent scholar,
And an irreproachable character,--was most attentive to his parochial duty, and the
education of his family, of which they have reaped thebenefit in the prosperity which
it has helped to secure for them in the world, and for which they have evinced their
gratitude in their high respect for the memory of their father, and peculiar attach-
ment to the palce of their navity. After the death of Mr Couper, the patron, Mr
McDowall of Castle-Semple gave the people of this parish a choice of their own mi-
nisters. The first chosen was, 9. Mr James Steven, who was translated from a chapel
in,Albion Street, Glasgaw,to Lochwinnoch, 15th August 1788, and died 21st June
1801. He was very popular preacher. 10.-Mr James Crawfurd was translated
from the Port-Glasgow chapel, 18th December 1801, and died 7th May 1814. He was
an excellent man, as well as an acceptable preacher. Immediately before the death
of Mr Crawfurd, the patronage of this parish was sold by the trustecs of the late
William McDowell of Graftland, Esq., and purchased by a number of the heritors.
None but heriters were permitted to have a share, and no one heritor could hold
more than five shared. The patronage being bought for L. 1550, was soon disposed
of amoungst seventy-seven heritors holding more or less shares from one to five, and
having vores proportioned to the number of their shares. Each share cost L. 10.
These patrons chose, II. Mr Robert Smith, in October 1814, who was ordained 2d
March 1815, and is the present incumbent.


