
                                    ERROL.			385

     elevated and conspicuous situations ; the one in the west, near
     Clashbennie, and the other in the north-east, near Inchmartin.
     They are both quite solitary, and without any mark of art; so large
     as nnt to have been easily conveyed to their present situation by-
     hunian contrivance ; and yet in such a position as to lead to the
     inference, that they were intended to be monumental-intended to
     mark a place of importance, or to perpetuate the remembrance of
     some memorable event.
       Hn the public burying-ground, there is one small monument
     sculptured over with emblematical representations, many of them
     taken from scripture, but so decayed and effaced, that neither
     name nor date can be found.  It contains in a scroll the creed in
     Latin, and, in the same language, a translation of Rev. ii. 10.  In
     the wall around the burying-ground, is seen the rude figure of a
     warrior in chain-armour, hewn in white sandstone.  The arms are
     beat up on the breast, the palms of the hands having originally
     been made to meet, in the attitude of adoration.  The figure has
     evidently been meant to be in a supine position, but when built
     into the modern wall, chiefly, it would seem, for the purpose of
     preservation, it has been stuck into it in a vertical position ; and
     as, for the sake of stability, it has been sunk in the ground, nearly
     up to the knees, the appearance which it thus exhibits is exceed-
     ingly grotesque.  Two of the ministers of the parish, Mr Omey
     and Mr Bell, have been buried, each under a stone sarcophagus.
     Of these humble monuments, the first is adorned with various se-
     pulchral emblems, and both of them are covered with inscriptions.
     Mr Bell bad formerly been minister of the parish of Dron, in
     which parish hd left, under the charge of the Presbytery of Perth,
     a few acres of land, the rental of which is devoted to the mainte-
     nance of a student of divinity in St Mary's College at St Andrews.
     He died in 1665, and on the south side of the cover of the sarco-
     phagus, under a scroll containing these words,-Mors patet, hora
     latet,-there is a brief historical record of his ministry. *
        About three miles and a half from the village of Errol, there are

     <FOOTNOTE>On the north side, we have an inscription which afords a carious specimen of
     that grave quaintness of expression which is so characteristic of the taste of the age:-
                   " Death craekt this Bell, yet doth his pleasant chiming
                     Remain with those who are their lamps a trimming ;
                     In spite of death, his word some ( ?) praie still sounds
                     In Christ's church, and in Heaven his joy abounds."
      The top of the cover contains other two lines of the same description:-
                     " Here ceast and snout lies sweet sounding Bell,
                     Who unto sleeping souls rung many a knell."
       PERTH.                               B b


