
     of Aberdeen.

The disadvantage by which this, and of consequence the
cruive-fishing, is most apt to suffer, arises from the precarious
state of the river's mouth.  Many year's ago, the river near
the sea took a long turn to the south, which rendered it so
shallow, that often the salmon could with difficulty enter it.
The proprietors of the fishings were anxious to deepen the
mouth of the river,by making a straight cut through the sand-
bank, at the turn of the river, between it and the sea.  This
was undertaken for a small sum of money by Dr Gregory,
then one of the prosessors of King's College.  He accord-
ingly built a stone bulwark, part bf which is still extant,
almost across the old channel of the river, just where it
turned to the south.  This caused the stream to push di-
rectly, and with great force, against the sand-bank, which
lay immediately between it and the sea.  Embracing an
opportunity of a great flood in the river, he made a small
cut across The sand-bank, which the flood water soon entering,
swept away for itself an excellent channel directly into the
sea.  Having effected this important service to the Don
fishings at an expence considerably below the stipulated
sum, the Doctor generously gave the remainder of the mo-
ney as a fund for the support of superannuated salmon-
fishers, and some of them now draw from that fund L. 2
Sterling annually.-Though there is now little danger of
the river resuming its old circuitous and shallow course, as
it still enters the sea through a large bed of loft sand, its
mouth varies almost every season, and often with every
violent hurricane of wind.  It is still sometimes so shallow
at low water that no large fishes can enter it.  The only
method of deepening it, is by causing it to run into the
sea in as straight a stream as possible.  For this purpose, as
its tendency is still to turn to the south, though at a place
much nearer to the sea than its former winding, the pro-
prietors of the fishing have erected a new bulwark of stakes


