
                         BOINDIE.                      235

   The most spirited improvements, have gone forward on the
farms of Reattie and Little Reattie, extending to about 400
acres Scots, during the occupancy of the present tenant, An-
drew Longmore, Esq. Within the last nineteen years, besides
building houses to the amount of L.2000, be has executed the
following improvements; 50 acres of waste land reclaimed, at
an expense, he estimates, of L.12 up to L.24 per Scots acre;
30,000 ells of stone draining, for 10,000 of which the stones
were quarried; 8000 ells of tile-draining; 8000 ells of thorn
hedges planted last season; 6000 additional to be planted next
season, plants furnished by the proprietor; a formidable improve-
ment in blasting and removing above 3000 tons of bornblende
blocks sunk in the soil, the removal of some single stones costing
above L.5; an expensive but productive improvement on the
haugh land, in connexion with the cutting of a new course for the
burn. The climate upon Little Reattie is sensibly improved, and the
harvest considerably earlier, since the draining was executed. Turf
drains have been employed on this farm and elsewhere, but have
been found very temporary in their operation, being destroyed es-
pecially by moles. The system of frequent draining now com-
menced, if carried forward, promises to effect a great transforma-
tion on the agricultural character of this parish, a large part of
which is rendered infertile by wetness. A vast quantity of fish re-
fuse, bone-dust, and sea-weed is annually added to the self-pro-
duced manure of the farms. The burning of kelp was prohibited
by Lord Deskford, with a view to the agricultural improvement of
the parish. Irrigation is practised on the meadows at the mouth
of the burn of Boindie; and as that stream has considerable flats
along its course, and its waters are of a fertilizing nature, perhaps
the practice might be advantageously extended. Not a little slo-
venliness is still displayed in the management of farm-yard dung.
   The lhberal encouragement afforded by the celebrated improver,
Lord Findlater, (Lord Deskford), has doubtless bad an important

good farming. It extends to nett 60 acres Scots, with 20 acres of pasture, chiefly
links. The soil is chiefly very light, though dry and kindly. For several years after
1830, when it fell into the hands of the present tenant, he sunk more than the rent
annually. It now yields, on an average, not less than 200 quarters oats and barley,
the former weighing, per boll, 42 to 44 pounds, the latter 54 to 56. 2000 stones of
bay, partly consumed on the farm; above 50 bolls of potatoes. The stock of cattle
grazed and kept on turnips and straw is, 1 Teeswater bull, 8 Buchan cows, and 30
rising stock, 10 of which are fed off annually for the London market, weigbing from
45 to 60 Dutch stone; 12 sheep, 2 pigs, 4 work-horses, 1 riding do. The course of
cropping is a five shift, with two grasses. There is careful drying, early labouring,
and abundant manuring.


