
        	            SLAMANAN.                               279

   Ecclesiastical State.--The church was rebuilt in the year 1810,
and its site is nearly central for the parish in general, and for the ac-
commodation of the annexation. It contains upwards of 700 sitters.
The manse is old, and bears the mark of being at least 150 years
old. It received an addition about forty-five years ago. The glebe-
consists of upwards of 13 acres arable, and 2 grass. The stipend
amounts to L.247, 18s. and L.8, 6s. 8d. for communion elements.
Mr Waddell of Balquhatston, and Mr Ralston of Ellrig presented,
three years ago, two very handsome communion cups for the use
of the parish, in addition to two which were given by Messrs Mit-
chell of Balmitchell 130 years ago. There are no other places
of worship in the parish. The population is a church-going peo-
ple, with very few Dissenters.
   Education.--There are two schools in the parish, the parochial
and a private school. The branches of education taught in the
parish school are, English, writing, arithmetic, book-keeping,
mensuration, Latin and Greek. The salary is the maximum, and
there is a glebe of one acre attached to the school. The fees are
from 2s. 6d. to 5s. per quarter. In the private or Easterdykebead
school are taught the common branches, reading, writing, and
arithmetic. The school fees are 3d. a week. The number of
scholars at an average is about 45 in the winter season, but less
in summer.
   Poor.--The number of poor persons who receive monthly charity
are at an average from three to four, and the sum allotted varies ac-
cording to circumstances. The three at present on the roll receive
each 6s. 9d. per month. There are no public markets in the parish.
And the fuel is most abundant, both of coal and excellent peat.

		      MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.

   There are few parishes where so little change has taken place
Since the last Statistical was drawn up, as in this parish. There
have been no new roads, no public works, and no manufactures of
any kind in the parish. Agriculture, however, has undergone a
most decided improvement. The railway being now finished, and
a year nearly in operation, the minerals have become an object of
acquisition, the parish will increase in population by the erection
of villages, and thereby an additional stimulus will be given to agri-
cultural pursuits. It would contribute greatly to the prosperity of
the parish, if, in the act of boring, limestone could be found, as
there must be limestone in the parish, from occasional stones
being found in the different streamlets, and from a property in


