

DUNINO.

and where linen is wanted, fabrics of that kind from Ireland can
be purchased at a far lower price by the farmer, than by home ma-
nufacture., Everv advantage which can be derived frorn good agii-
cultural seeds is studied. The eleven thrashing-mills and other
implements of husbandry are generally of the best construction.
The breed of black-cattle, neat-limbed, horned, and of a dark
colour, common at Dunino and over the county, and called the
Fife breed, is celebrated. This race is known to have originated
from the bounty of James VI. of Scotland. That monarch, on
his accession to the English throne, had drawn largely on his for-
mer neighbours at Falkland, to support his royal dignity; and to
remunerate them, he selected ai-id sent down a race of excellent
black-cattle, from the early cultivated region of south Britail),
which have been improved f6r two centuries, in the luxuriant pas-
tures of Fifeshire. At Dunino, cattle of the yellow or spotted Ayr-
shire breed, may also be found; but the Fife breed is most ap-
proved for fast feeding in grass parks, during summer, and the
cows of that race are distinguished as milkers. In the parish, about
190 sheep of the Linton and Biggar or Northumberland breed,
are fatted for the owners' tables, or sold to the butchers in the
neiglibourliood.
Except in Kingsmtiir, there are ODIY two farms under L. 50 of
rent, the rents of tl)e otlicr farms running from L. 100 to nearly
L. 600. On Kingsmtiir, the rents of farms proceed in a regular gra-
dation from L. 5 to L. 33. A domain like Kingsmuir, beginning to
emerge into agricultural importance, may be well cultivated as at
'present by small tenants. A man and his family with twelve acres
will raise far more corn and cattle in proportion, than he, who rents
ninety-six acres, because lie must employ strangers to assist him.
A tacksman on a large scale on the east part of Kingsmuir has recent-
ly exhibited such proofs of enterprise,.as to show, that if he and a
few other similar tacksmen had the whole $44 acres in their hands,
thev would improse them, more quickly at least, than small te-
tiants. Seventy years have not elapsed since the best farmers here
bad but a thin partition between their bedrooms and bestial. Now,
the principal- tenantry either inhabit houses of two stories, or a
handsome house of one storey; in both cases, with a suitable es-
tablisbment of offices. Straw roofs for cottages are going into
disuse, and slate or tile roofs are generally adopted.
The great promoter of agricultural improvement in the pwish
FIFE.                            A a


