
     of Gigha and Cara.

church does not amount to much yearly, and therefore is not
an adequate fund for the support of the poor*.

   Language.-The language of the common people is Gaelic, but
not reckoned the purest, on account of their vicinity, to Ireland,
and intercourse with the low country, by which many corrup-
tions have been introduced into their phraseology.  They under-
stand English, and several speak it well enough to transact lu-
siness; but very few of them can understand a connected dif-
course in that language.  It nay not be improper here to ob-
serve, that in Gaelic the letters C and G found always hard;
ch like the Greek x; bh, and mb like v; dh and gh like y, in
the beginning or a word.  By attending to this, one who is
a stranger to the Gaelic language, can more easily understand
what follows, as well as what was formerly observed respect-
ing the origin of the name of Gigha.  Most of the other
names are also Gaelic, and compounded of some of the fol-
lowing words, which are expressive of the nature, situation,
or appearance of the places.
Ach', Acha', or Achadh, a field, as Acha' mor, large field.
Ard, High; as Ard Achadh, high field.
Aird, Height; as Aird Glamie, i. e. Height Point, or promon-
tory of Glamie, from a rock called Glamie.
Ceann, Head; as Ceann tire, i. e. Head land, now corrupted in-
to Kintyre.

     VOL. VIII.   I

<FOOTNOTE>

*During the scarcity in 1782-3, barley meal sold at 1 s. 6d. the peck (10 lb.
dutch weight).  Oat-meal was very scarce, and while it luffed fold at 2 s.  Po-
tatoes at 1 s. the peck.  With the help of their fish and milk they were better off
than the people on the main land, and bought little.  Though the grain was
poorer that year than usual, there would have been no scarcity of meal, had
the farmers kept all their barley; but before they were aware of the scarcity of
provisions, they malted and fold off a great part of it.  They were, however,
very favourably dealt with by the proprietors:  as well as the poor in general


