
554            GENERAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE

rect cause or accessary to the legal murder of three men and four
women, who were tried, convicted, and executed, for the crime of
witchcraft.  The people of Renfrewshire cordially fell in with the
Revolution of 1688; but were hostile to the Union, the greatest
blessing ever conferred on Scotland.  Since that period, Renfrew-
shire has been chiefly remarkable for the rapid strides she has
made in arts and manufactures, in her foreign and domestic trade,
her turnpikes, railways, her harbours and shipping.  Under these
and other favourable combinations of causes and circumstances, the
descendants of the ancient Celts, who, on the arrival of Walter,
the son of Allan, among them had neither churches, castles, or
charters for their lands, have now scarcely their equals any where
for industry, skill, and the application of capital to trading and
mercantile pursuits.  At the present moment, however, a sad
blight has come over Paisley and some of her most busy and en-
terprising neighbours, such as Barrhead and Kilbarchan.  In these
three places alone the number of the unemployed amounts to not less
than 14,138.  The individuals who feel the distress most are those
connected with the shawl trade, and weavers of all descriptions.
In Paisley 12,703 are entirely without employment; in Kilbarchan
976; and in Barrhead, 456.  Many of the most respectable and
influential houses in the manufacturing line in Paisley have stop-
ped payment.  Munificent donations from all parts of the country
are pouring in for the relief of the present distress; the latest is
L. 1000, the product of a lady's bazar in Glasgow.  To add to
the distress, two bubble banks, termed savings banks, planned and
puffed into repute by the present magistrates of Paisley, are now
at a stand, by which the poor and industrious of the town and
neighbourhood are in danger of losing about L. 19,000.  The
corporation of Paisley itself has become bankrupt.  The debt at
last balance was L. 43,086, 14s. 9d.; and as matters now
stand, the expenditure exceeds the income of the burgh by about
L. 500 per annum.  This does not include the last defalcations.
In Paisley, out of twenty-seven respectable firms twent failed;
and out of fifty-two houses, with but one head, thirty-six have
failed, in all fifty-six failures.
    Population.--As few of the parochial accounts contain the po-
pulation of the several parishes and principal towns, as taken up
at the periodic census of 1841, the following tables will prove in-
teresting:--
                                   4


