
444                       FIFESHIRE.

quired except for this distance, which makes one in the north-west
district very desirable; but a more liberal remuneration would be
a great boon to the unendowed teachers, who often suffer from non-
payment of fees.
  Library.-A subscription library has been established for a num-
ber of years, containing about 500 volumes. It has been less pa-
tronized of late than formerly, probably because there is a much
greater number of periodical publications circulating at a small ex-
pense.
  Wood's HospitaL-There is only, one charitable institution,
-Wood's Hospital. John Wood, a cadet of Sir Andrew's family,
by deed of mortification, dated 7th July 1659, bequeathed L. 68, 418
Scotch, to build and endow an hospital within the parish, for the
maintenance of thirteen indigent and enfeebled persons of the
name of Wood, besides a gardener, a porter, and a chaplain, with
L. 17 a year. He appointed the Earl of Wemyss, the lairds of
Largo, Lundin, and Balfour, together with the minister, and rema-
neat members of the kirk-session, as patrons. The hospital was
built in 1667, at an expense, Lamont says, of 9000 merks. This
hospital was found in a state of great decay in 1830, and the pa-
trons erected a new one, which is not only a commodious, but a
very handsome and ornamental building, after a design by Mr
James Leslie, civil-engineer. It cost in all L. 2000. It is fitted
up for sixteen inmates, each having a sitting and a sleeping apart-
ment. In the centre is a large hall, where they are convened to
prayers, morning and evening; above which, is a room for the meet-
ings of the patrons. The annual allowance to each hospitaler is
L. 15 paid monthly, and vegetables. The funds arise from the
interest of L. 2000, and a farm, the rent of which averages L. 280.
  Societies.-There were two Friendly Societies, but they were
lately dissolved, having been found, like many in the neighbour-
hood, to be calculated on too low a principle.
  Savings Bank.-A savings bank, gratuitously managed by the
parochial teacher, has been in active operation since 1815. The
average of the whole deposits is about L. 1200, and about L. 250
is annually invested and withdrawn. The investments are made
by servants, labourers, weavers, and mechanics.
  Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of persons
receiving parochial aid, and regularly on the poor list, is 40, and
their average allowance 1s. a week. The annual amount of col-
lections at the church door for five years has been L. 37, L. 46,
L. 35, L. 36, and L. 31, and of mortcloths L. 3 per annum. The


