
                    DALKEITH.             493

privilegio Regali."  A perfect fac-simile of this poem in black letter
was printed at Edinburgh by the Bannatyne Club in 1837.
     2. Sir William Calderwood, Lord Polton, one of the senators
of the College of Justice, was born at Dalkeith in 1661.  He was
the son of Alexander Calderwood, Bailie of Dalkeith, nephew of
Dr William Calderwood, minister of Dalkeith, and grand-nephew
of the famous historian of that name.  He was admitted advocate
on the 1st July 1687, and became one of the before 1707; took
his seat as a Lord of Session, under the title of Lord Polton, on
the 6th November 1711; and died on the 7th August 1733 in
the seventy-third year of his age.*\f
     During the latter part of the seventeenth, and the whole of the
eighteenth centuries, the Grammar School of Dalkeith attained
very high celebrity.  It was numerously attended; and some of
the pupils rose afrerwards to the highest literary and professional
eminence.  It may be sufficient to mention the names of the cele-
brated Archbald Pitcairn, M.D., whol left school or before 1688;
--Principal Robertson, the historian, who left school at the autum-
nal vacation in 1733;--Henry Dundas, afteewards Lord Melville,
born in 1741, who became First Lord of the Admiralty, and one of
the most eminent statesmen of the age;--Alexander Wedderburn,
son of Lord Chesterhall, born in 1733, who became Lord High
Chancellor of England, under the title of Lord Loughborough, and
was the first Scotchman who held that office:--Dr John Hope,
Professor of Botany in the University of Edinburgh;--William
Creech, Esq. bookseller, and Lord Provost of Edinburgh, &c. &c.
     Mr. John Veitch, minister of Westruther, died at Dalkeith go-
ing home from the Commission, and on the 18th December 1703,
was buried there, + among his ancestors, who had a considerable
estate in and about that town for a hundred years together.  The
tombstone erected to his memory in the churchyard of Dalkeith,
the inscription of which was copied by Monteith in his Theatre of
Mortality, is not now to be found.  Nor is there any proprietor of
the name of Veitch now belonging to this parish.
     Mr Robert Mushet, late master's first clerk, melter and refiner,
of the Royal Mint, London. was born at Dalkeith on the 12th
November 1782.  He received in his native town the usual course
of school education.  In 1804, he obtained a situation in the Mint,

     <FOOTNOTE> Haig's Catalogue of the Senatorsd of the College of Justice, page 492.
+ Register of Burials.  Also M'Crie's Life of Veitch.  Edinburgh, 1825,p.3,&c.



