
     Statistical Account

house near the village of Abbeygreen to Hamilton, 12 miles
distant, and after having done his little business, returned the
same day also on foot.  He lived 5 or 6 years after; and en-
joyed some degree of health and vigour almost to the last.

   Fossils.-There is a great variety of minerals in this parish,
which might furnish ample field for the investigations of the
mineralogist and the philosopher.  The rocks and stones in the
bed of the river Clyde, opposite to Stonebyres, and indeed al-
most all the stones which appear in that neighbourhood, are
of the colour of burnt bricks, and look as if they had suffer-
ed the action of fire.  The strata of rock in the bed of the
Nethan, which mostly lie in a situation very much inclined,
have a different appearance, and seem to be of a different
quality, at every few paces as one passes along.  Among
these, a gentleman of some skill in mineralogy, who was,
some years ago, on a visit in the parish, asserted that he dis-
covered the real porcelain earth in a petrified form.  In this
river are found large masses formed of small stones of diffe-
rent kinds, united by a substance which seems to have been
in fusion; and also various petrifactions, particularly pieces of
wood of different sizes.  The Cumberhead mountains are
known to contain veins of lead, which are said to be very
rich.  Attempts were made to work them in the year 1720,
and again in the year 1758; but, from some mismanagement,
misgave.  Coal is found in different parts of the parish.  Pit
coal has been wrought at Stockbridge, Coalburn, Gunsgreen,
and Westown; and is sold at the pit from 2 s. 6 d. to 3 s. per
ton.  There is also wrought at Woodshouse, belonging to
the Duke of Hamilton; at Auchenheath, belonging to Mr
Weir of Blackwood; and at Blair, belonging to Lord Dou-
glas, beds of an inflammable substance, having some resem-
blance of jet, here called candle-coal, or light coal, much va-
lued for the strong bright flame which it emits in burning.


