
     Statistical Account

strangers journeying between Dundee and Arbroath, must
not be interpreted to the disadvantage of the parishioners,
who are industrious in a high degree, and in their money
engagements are punctual to a proverb.  Vulgar report
has sometimes involved, along with the inhabitants of the
surrounding country, the people of Barrie in a charge of
inhumanity to shipwrecked mariners; but more truly may
they be characterised as dupes, by their compassion to 100
pretendedly shipwrecked.-The oppression must be grie-
vous indeed, which can drive them from their native soil.
A fort of maladie de pais rivets them to the place of their
birth.-Through the houses, dress, style of living, etc. of the
parishioners, indicate nothing disproportionate to their real
wealth, a considerable alteration in there different articles
has taken place within a period of 20 years.  Instead of
the turf-built cottages of former days, the eyes of the ob-
server are sometimes pleased with mansions, neat commo-
dious, almost elegant.  Leeds, Manchester, Spittalfields,
unite to furnish the apparel of those who were formerly
contented with clothing wholly manucfactured on the north
side of the Tweed.  The persons, however, of this descrip-
tion are not numerous.  The bulk of the people are easily
distinguished from those of the surrounding parishes, by a
rejection of the sopperies of drefs, and a becoming attach-
ment to articles made in their own families  The improve-
ment in the style of living may be characterised, not by a
rapid transition from sordidness to luxury, but rather by a
gradual remove from meanness to a comfortable mode of
life.  A strict attention to economy, joined with a pride
of inheriting unimpaired their paternal acres, prevents, a-
mong the heritors of Barrie, that functuation of property
which has lately remarked many parts of Scotland.  Some
lands, however, have within these few years changed their
masters.  The price about 25 years purchase.-The size of 


