
	               KIRKMICHAEL.                   495

miles and a half below Patna. Passing the house, pleasure
grounds, and gardens of Skeldon, the village of Dalrymple, and
the old and stately mansion of Cassilis, it strikes to the west,
dividing the parishes of Maybole and Dalrymple.
   The little stream of Dyrock takes its rise from Shankston loch,
has a small tributary from Barnshean, and the main one from Spa-
lander, and thence flowing by the church and village of Kirkmicbael,
it empties itself into the Girvan above the farm of Mackailston.

                        II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
  Land-owners.--The land-owners of the parish, according to the
order of valuation, are: The Marquis of Ailsa; Colonel Shaw
Kennedy of Kirkmicbael; Sir Charles Dalrymple Fergusson, of
Kilkerran, Bart.; Sir David Hunter Blair, of Blairquhan, Bart.;
Henry Ritchie, Esq. of Busbie; William Niven, Esq. of Kirk-
bride; the Honourable Mrs Leslie Cumming of Skeldon; Wil-
liam Bell, Esq. of Threave.
  Parochial Registers.--The sessional records were kept some-
what irregularly, till about the year 1711. The date of the
earliest entry is 8th July 1638. The following extracts from
the session books are given. Some of these possess merely local
interest, while others serve to illustrate the sentiments of a former
age, in matters of religious observance and church discipline.
  " In 1692, Mr Gilchrist, after the persecution, having consti-
tuted a session of elders that had held office during Mr Cockburn's
ministry, he then enquired into the old session book, which had
been taken by the late curate, who had been apprehended in a
rebellion in the north, imprisoned, and then escaped to France,
and taken with him the register, which it was supposed he had
destroyed."
  "Session, September 24, 1693.--The session appoints John
Forgan to employ a Straitown tailor to make a coul or covering of
sackcloth for the said Jonat Kennedy, like unto that which they
have in Straiton; there having been no such thing here for these
many years, it's thought none of the tailors of this parish know
how to make it."
  "Session, October 16, 1693.--The minister told the session,
that he was appointed by the synod to goe to Aberdeen against
the first of November next, and to preach in that city the space
of a quarter of ane year."
  "Session, June 26, 1710.--Likewise it was concluded by the
session, that there should be a collection gathered for repairing of


