
                          ABERCROMBIE.                       341

                       H.-CIVII. HTSTORY.

Ancient or Modern Accounts- The most ancient original docu.
ment connected with the parish that I have seen, is a charter
granted to the feuars of St Monan's by Sir William Sandilands, of
date 1622. One of the most important clauses in this instrument,
is that b which the 11 said bailies council, feuars, and inhabitants
of our said town of St Monance, their heirs and s , uccessors, shall
be holden and restricted to repair, beet and uphold the kirk and
kirk-yard dikes of St Monance, in timber, slate, lime, and glass,
sufficiently, as effeirs, in all time coming." This clause, as we shall
see, was not lost sight of by the heritors of future days.
Occurrences, . The -most memorable occurrences with us
are losses by sea, from swamping of boats and other accidents. In
the course of the present incumbency, now running thirty-three
years, four boats have perished with five valuable lives in each, one
with four, and another with three.
. Theseboats'crewsaregenerallycomposedofnearrelations,and
henee the catastrophe becomes the more afflicting to survivors.
It often falls to the minister to intimate such disasters. Sus-
picions have probably been already awakened; and his appearing
at an unusual hour, confirms the worst fears, and produces the
most heart rendin- lamentations.
It would seem a sanctifying of these severe dispensations, that
they awaken and bring into substantial exercise a great deal of
good feeling,-not only among the parishioners, but throughout the
country at large. Upon occasion of a late signal catastrophe, in
which our neigbbours at Pittenweem deeply shared, there were up-
wards -of L. 700 subscribed for the families of the sufferers. Gen-
tlemen in the neighbourhood not only gave their money, but their
humane and particular attention, to the best disposal of the funds
'Which were raised. Much praise is due on this account to Sir
Ralph Anstruther, Colonel Lindsay, Mr Smythe, Mr Nairne, and
others.
Aminent Characters.-There is one person of note in Bri-
tish history, connected with the parishY if not by birth, by
idence and burial, Lieutenant-General David Leslie. He
resi was son of Lord Lindores in Fife, and, accordiw to Sibbald,
Mistory of Fife, Cupar edition, 1803, p. 385,) created Lord
Newark by Charles IU The name of Newark bad belonged to the
residence of Sir Janies Sandilands, who was also designed of' St


