

                         ETTRICK.                       65

from thence to Ettrick, May 1, 1707; and died May 20, 1732
leaving a widow and four children."
   Land-owners.-The following nobleman and gentleman are the
chief properties and land-owners at present. His Grace the Duke of
Buccleuch and Queensberry, proprietor of Buccleuch Easter and
Wester, Anelshope, Crosslee, Deephope, Gair, and Roplaw Shiel.
The right Ilonourable Lord Napier of Thirlstane, Gamesleugh,
Scabeleugh, and Craighill. The Reverend T.G. Torry Anderson
of Tushielaw and Caerabank, &c.
   Parochial Register.-The parish register of Ettrick commences
in 1693. The Reverend James M`Mihan stands on the first page
surrounded with his twelve elders. Each of these elders had his
proper ditrict assigned him, and the religious duties pointed out
which he was to perform. One part of the duty was, that " two
should watch in their turn on the Sabbath, to see that none with-
drew from public worship, and that there might be no disorder about
the doors, &c." The records during the ten years of Mr M`Mihan's
incumbency are interesting.* Four years after his translation to
Hownam, Mr Boston was called to the parish. He has rangedthe
birhts and baptism by themselves,-has kept a separate portion
for proclamations and marriages,-and we have his thickly written
quarto-"the book of discipline." The records show he was a dis-
ciplinarian indeed. +
   Antiquities, &c.-This parish has been sometimes called the unit-
ed parishes of Ettrick and Buccleuch. If we were to take the ex-
tent of territroy, indeed, belonging to the Buccleuch portion as a
reason for entitling it to the name of parish, these lands are together
as extensive as the lands of ancient Ettrick; but, in "a decreet of
disjunction of certain lands (viz. the lands of Deepup, Mount com-
mon, Gemmelscleuch, ettrick-side, Anelshope, Buccleuches Easter
and Wester, Tushielaw, Caerabank and the Corslies,) from the


<FOOTNOTE>* Something of the history of the people and the times may be gleamed from the
records. At one time we find with the greatest  difficulty obataining heather, thack
and divots, to keep the kirk and manse in repair; at another he is seen "scraping" for
the poor; and anon amking collections for the Bursars,-for the captives of Barbary,-
for the harbour of Cullen,-for the bridges of Lanark and Melrose,-for the Church of
Holland, &c. We read also that Tushielaw should buy a mort-cloth with th ecollec-
tion made at the sacrament,-and'speak for a bell if it be cheap."
<FOOTNOTE>+ The registration of baptism is regularly kept as far we have been able to learn,
from 1693 to 1711. But there is a blank between 1711 and 1725, which we cannot ac-
count for; the baptism of 1725 being immediately after the baptisms of 1711 in the
samevolume. This may be one reason why there has been in a certain quarter, and
still is, and may yet be, much fruitless litigation!!

    SELKIRK.                                  E













