
78                     ARGYLESHIRE.

men are employed in them, producing from four to five millions
of slate annually. Under the superintendence of the present ma-
nager, James Robertson, Esq. the improvements made in machin-
ery have been taken advantage of in these works. The labour,
formerly done by horses add carts, and wheel-barrows, is now per-
formed by steam-engines and railroads.
   There are, altogether, four quarries wrought at present, viz.
the principal one at Easdale, one at Balvicar in Seil, and two in
Luing. One quarry at Easdale is 120 feet below the level of the
sea.
  The quarriers are paid for the slates at certain rates per thousand.
They generally earn from L.30 to L.35 each in the year. The
men employed in cleaning out the slate rubbish are paid at the
rate of 1s. 3d. to 1s. 8d. per day.
   In Luing and Seil, there are appearances of lead ore and ziuc, but
these have not yet been discovered in such quantity as to encourage
the working. There is also a marble quarry near Ardmaddy, which
was wrought for some time, but has been discontinued, being found
unprofitable.
  Fisheries.-Tbe herring fishing was at one time very productive
on this coast; but of late years, those who follow this occupation
have not been very successful. At the south end of Luing, how-
ever, considerable quantities are taken with the fly in May and
June, and sell at a high price. Last year, Lord Breadalbane gave
lines to about forty of the Luing people, for the purpose of encou-
raging them to fish for cod and ling. It is hoped their endeavours
will be successful, as this sort of fishing has been too much ne-
glected in this quarter.

                V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

Market-Town.--The nearest market town is Oban, which is
sixteen miles to the north.
   Villages.-There are five villages in the parish, the largest of
which is Easdale. This village is built on both sides of the Sound
of Easdale and contains a population of about 800 individuals.
The houses of the quarriers are only one story high, and slated,
`nd they all have a neat and comfortable appearance. All the
steamers which ply between Glasgow and the northern ports pass
through the Sound of Easdale. There is thus a frequent and
speedy conveyance both to the north and south. The following
note was taken in 1825, of all the vessels that entered the Har-
bour of Easdale in the course of a twelvemonth: 7 brigs, 15


