
     Statistical Account

been in the practice of begging, and they have done so from
time to time, since that period.-But at the last meeting of
the heritors and the kirk-session, it was carried to drop the plan,
whenever the money already levied should be exhausted, which
it will in a few weeks.-The first and highest assessment was
11 s. 6 d. upon each hundred pound of valued rent.-The 
number of poor upon the roll in 1775 was 12, it has now de-
creased to 3.-The weekly allowance varies from 6 d. to 1 s. 8 d.
for each person.-The sessions funds (including the propor-
tion of the collections at the chapel ordinarily given to the
poor of this parish) amount to L. 24 yearly*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*It will I believe appear singular, that a poor's rate has been established in
a parish and given up without occasioning much complaint or much hardship
to the poor.  It has been done perhaps a little prematurely; but things were
in such a train, that a short time longer might have made them ripe for it.
   As whatever tends to diminish the number of persons dependent upon pub-
lic charity, promotes the prosperity of the country, sobriety, and, of course, do-
mestic comfort, among the labouring poor, I shall mention what I think the
causes of such an uncommon occurence.
   It is no doubt partly owing to the constant employment and higher wages
that are given to handy craftsmen and labourers; but these circumbstances, un-
less combined with other causes, might perhaps have produced an opposite ef-
fect.
   Less money, it has been observed, is saved in general by those whose revenue
is certain and unvariable, than by persons whose gains are uncertain:  And
high prices of labour, if proper attention be not paid to the management of
the poor, has frequently the effect of heightening the poor's rates.
   The labourer and mechanic, if certain of constant employment, when in
health and vigour, and secure of being supported by the parish in sickness or
old age, is but too apt to accustom himself to a mode of living correspondent to
his wages, and when he needs supply from the parish, he expects it to be ade-
quate to the habits of expence he has acquired, and is clamorous it he is dis-
appointed; and the less deserving he is of favour, the more clamorous he is.-
This is evidently one cause of the height of the poor's rates, where they have


