
     of Kilsyth.

excepting in the year 1740, as that was a year not only of
want approaching to a famine, but of great sickness and dis-
tress, the session very judiciously took advantage of the act of
parliament 1672.  In the terms of that act, they called a
meeting of the heritors, gave up a list of all the poor within
the parish, and a state of the funds for their supply: calling
upon them to assess themselves to make up the deficiency.
Yet after all, the sum exacted was only L. 5 on each 100 lib.
Scots valuation, which was certainly very trifling: and little
felt either by heritor or tenant, as it was equally paid by
both.
   The above, however, is only an account of our parochial
fund. Besides these, the weavers and masons have each a
friendly society, and a common fund for the support of their
brethren.  These societies have given considerable relief to
multitudes; insomuch, that without them or something simi-
lar to them, this parish must have been assessed long before
this time to a considerable amount*.
     K k 2

<FOOTNOTE>

*The society of weavers was instituted in the year 1760.  At that time the
manufacturing business was only in its infancy.  And of course, the operative
weavers were not numerous; yet their numbers every year increased, and
multitudes joined the society, who knew nothing of the craft; so that there
are now upwards of 350 belonging to it.  Each member either pays 7 s. 6 d. up-
on admission, and one shilling yearly; or one pound two shillings ster at once,
and he is for ever exempted from any future contribution, except a voluntary
one, and entitled to all the privileges of the society.  These priveleges are con-
siderable: if confined to bed by sickness, every member receives 3 s. weekly;
if only unable to work, though walking about, he receives 2 s. besides.  At his
death, there are L. 2 sterling allowed his widow or family, or friends, for fu-
neral expences.  These and all their other regulatious, seem to be wisely and
well calculated to promote the common interest of the society: especially
as every member has an honest pride in supporting himself and his
family, and a great aversion to come upon the funds, unless when
necessity urges him.  The funds though small at first, have by proper


