                                                                        421
                                SOUTHEND.

     at the margin Of tlIC mica slate emerging from the surface. It
     sometimes happens that a great fall of rain swells the Glen
     Breckry water, and if this happens at low tide about the end of
     autumn, the river of Glen Breckry forces its way to the sea in the
     middle of Strathmore bay; and this course it generally retains, at
     feast during the rainy and boisterous months of winter.
       There is a bank of fine coral between the farm of Keil and
     Machribeg, which, if made use of by the farmers, would be found
     to be a superior manure to lime for cold clayey soils. This trea-
     sure has been much neglected, and its value will never be fully or
     properly estimated, until a demand arises for it from other places.
     A great, deal has been said of the advantages which have been
     derived from the use of b one as a manure. The quantity of that
     material which can be had in this country, or even imported
     from abroad, is extremely limitdd; but corals, to which there is
     scarcely any limit, inight be found more valuable than even bones.
     They are both of them animal substances, and consequently con-
     tain much value in a small compass. Tried as a manure, the
     quantities of corals found on the shores of Machribeg and Keil.
     has been and would be found highly useful for gardens and outfield
     lands, and cold soil of every description.  After beincr scattered
     on the land, it takes a long time to dissolve; but the good it does
     from year to year is permanent, and nothing is more excellent for
     grass.
       No mines of any value have been discovered in the parish. We
     have excellent quarries of limestone and whinstone for building
     dikes.  It is of infinite benefit to the progress of agriculture, that
     the parish abounds with limestone, which the farmers make use of
     as manure upon ley ground, finding it very profitable in decom-
     posing heath and other vegetable substances upon outfields which
     were never before subjected to the operation of the plough. By
     following this mode of cultivation, the farmers are annually en-
     larging the extent of their cultivated soil, and bulk of stockyards.
       In the neighbourhood of the minister's manse, there is a large
     bank of Fuller's earth, which is exposed to view by the depreda-
     tions of the river during heavy rains, but has never been made use
     of either in an agricultural or commercial point of view.  It is found.
     in some of the glens, and particularly at Auchnaclach and Lagna-
     craig partly white, but generally a mixture of white and brown.
     The white, however, is the best.  Like the coral mentioned above,
     its value is not sufficiently appreciated, although the kind to be


