
       182                              BANFFSHIRE.


       the wilds of the Grampian hills. From the appearance of this
       limestone, there is some reason to believe, that were it quarried to
       sufficient depth, it might be of value, and used as a marble. The
       most interesting rock, however, on this side, is a beautiful dis-
       play of graphic granite, so called from its exhibiting when polish-
       ed, characters in many respects resembling those of the Hebrew
       alphabet. It lies half way between Portsoy and the mouth of the
       Boyne; and, next to the serpentine, lias made this place so well
       known to the geologist. Nn one having the Opportunity should
       neglect to visit this rare and interesting rock. Imbedded in it are
       found in some places large crystals of schorl, and also mica in firm
       radiating masses.
         Throughout the interior of the parish, there is but little oppor-
       tunity for minute geology; there being an almost universal and
       thick covering of alluvium to obscure the subiacent rocks. Care-
       ful examination, however, shows that the most of the interior is
       composed of those variations of trap, which are comprehended un-
       der the names of common greenstone, syenitic greenstone, hyper-
       stbenic greenstone, and augitic greenstone. Quartz rock forms
       the round-backed eminence of the Durn hill. It is distinctly stra-
       tified, and is inclined at a high angle. Boulders of syenite, of con-
       siderable size, are to be found around the foot of the Durn and
       Knock hills, and in some other parts of the parish. The soil is
       partly a strong clay, partly a clay loam, and partly a light loam;
       and generally highly productive along the sea-coast, but cold and
       wet towards the south.
         Zoology.-This parish is not distinguished, at present, by any of
       the rarer species of animals. Its general breed of cattle is a cross
       between the old Banffshire and the Buchan hulble breed. The
       pure Banffshire is now seldom to be seen.* The sheep are of the
       Cheviot breed, with a few of the small black-faced.

<FOOTNOTE>In 1770 a remarkable murrain broke out amongst black-cattle in this parish, to
       which It may not be uninteresting here to refer. It is still remembered by some of
       the oldest inhabitants, and is spoken of as "thePlague." It is said to have been im-
       ported into Portsoy, by means of some tainted hay brought over in a vessel from
       Holland, (where it was raging at the time,) and given as food to the cattle here.
       It produced great excitement in the place, and soon attracted the attention of the go-
       vernment, who, to prevent the contagion from , spreading, sent down orders to have
       all the black-cattle, within a certain distance, immediately slaughtered on their show-
       ing any symptoms of the disease. The owners, however, were indemnified by the
       government, according to the value set upon their cattle by judges appointed for that
       purpose. The place of slaughter is still pointed out; and for a season, a party of sol-
       diers was stationed at Portsoy to enforce a kind of guarantine in regard to all the cat-
       tle connected with it. The first appearance of the disease was heaviness, watering
       of the eyes, and he`t in the horns. This was succeeded by flux, which soon termi-
       nated in death.
							3


