
30                          SHETLAND.

greater progress.  The ling-fishing has been long carried on, and
formerly to greater advantage than of late years.  The grievous
catastrophe of 1832 seems greatly to have damped the spirit of
our fishermen.  The ling-fisbing is carried on from Funzie on
the east side of Fetlar, and from Gloup, on the north side of Yell,
the former open to the Eastern, the latter to the Northern Ocean.
But there are various other stations, in both parishes, where her..
rings are cured.
Though innumerable shoals of herrings yearly traverse our seas,
and though our neighbours, the Dutch, have for centuries been
battening on our wealth, it is but of very late years that Shetland
has begun to avail herself of her own stores.  There is not a more
commodious station for the herring-fisbinz in the whole of Shet-
land, than the Island of Fetlar.  About the end of June or begin-
ning of July, the herrings set into our bays, and continue with us
till the middle of October. - Some suppose that they remain all
the winter, but this I will not affirm.  Blow from - whatever airth
the wind may, the boats have shelter, for the fish surround the
whole island.  Boats from other parishes fish herrings in our bavs,
and are often obliged, by stress of weather, to land in our island,
and sell their fish to any curer that will buy them, and at any
price be chooses to give.
There are three berring-curing stations in Fetlar, viz.  Urie,
Strand, and Aithbanks, and two in North Yell, Cullivoe, and
Bayanne: the North Yell boats coming out every evening to
our shores, and returning in the morning when the weather per-
Mits.
Formerly, it was the custom in Fetlar for every tenant to keep
up one-sixth of a boat for the ling-fisbing, furnishing lines and
other materials himself, and to give his fish to the landlord or
tacksman at a certain rate.  For a few years back, the mode here
has been for the fish-curers to give boats and lines free to the
fishermen, and to receive their fish at a reduced price.
 In North Yell, most of the tenants still keep up boats and lines
for themselves, giving their landlords or tacksmen their fish at
the current price; but they are prohibited from selling their fish
to any but the landlord or his tacksman.  In the berring-fisbing,
again, the Fetlar men furnish their own boats and nets, and are
obliged to deliver their herrings to the tacksmen at the current
price.  The North Yell men generally use their own boats, re-


