
494                           EDINBURGHSHIRE.

London, as assistant in the melting of gold and silver.  Mr Musbet
soon acquired a thorough knowledge of this department of the busi-
ness, and was entrusted with the whole responsibility of conducting
the operations of the melting house, which, at that time, were carried
on in the Tower, as had been done gfor ages before.  Shortley after this
the new Mint was finished, and, being provided with enlarged fur-
naces and more powerful machinery, the coinage of gold and sil-
ver was increased to a greater extent than had formerly been prac-
ticable.  In 1816 and 1817, the great silver recoinage took place
under the direction of Lord Maryborough, on which occasion Mr
Mushet was appointed first clerk and melter,--including gold,
silver, and copper, at certain prices, at the dictation of his Lord-
ship, at least 25 per cent. lower than had been formerly paid at
the mint.  To this office was sfterwards added that of refiner both
of gold and silver;--all which operations Mr. Mushet personally
superintended for many years with so much fidelity and skill, that
he was now considered by all connected with the mint establishmet
as a most useful and efficient public servant.  As a proof of the
great responsibility of this office, it may be mentioned, that, dur-
ing the progress of the great coinage. Mr. Mushet had frequently
under his lock and key not less than half a million of bullion.
     In the course of twenty-three years, Mr Mushet had acquired
a hanfsome competency; but, from his close application to busi-
ness, and his frequent exposure to the noxious atmosphere of the
melting house, his health, which had long been delicate, became
now so seriously affected, that, in the winter of 1827, he found
himself unable to continue his personal services.  He died in
February 1828, at his country residence near Edmonton.  He
was buried in the church in the Tower, in compliance with an
anxious wish expressed by him on his deathbed, that his remains
should be deposited there near the scene of his early labours.*\f
     Mr. Mushet's evidence before the Lords' committee upon the
subjects of the new silver coinage, was, at the time, of considerable
value, and was though to have had weight with the Duke of Wel-
lington and Lord Liverpool, in consenting to the measure after-

     <FOOTNOTE> Mr Mushet was author of the following works:--
1.  Inquiry into the Effects produced on the National Currency and Rates of Ex-
change by the Bank Restriction Bill.  London 1810, &vo.
2.  A Series of Tables, exhibiting the Gain and Loss to the Fundholder, arising
from the Fluetuations in the Value of the Currency, from 1800 to 1821.  London,
1821,&vo.
3.  An Attempt to explain from facts the Effect of the Issues of the Bank of Eug-
land upon its own Interests, Public Credit, and Country Banks.  London, 1826, &vo,
215 pages.





