
                             ERSKINE.                          507


to call for a separate history, if only we except the proceedings of
the witches in the end of the seventeenth century, at Bargarran
House, which have been published along with a narrative of their
trial in a small duodecimo volume, entitled "The Witches of
Renfrewshire." As the event refered to forms one of the only
interesting antiquities connected with the parish, the leading par-
ticulars may be shortly mentioned, although they have been al-
luded to in the former Statistical Account. John Shaw of Bar-
garran had a daughter called Christian Shaw, who appears, from
her earliest youth, to have been a person of a very delicate con-
stitution, which naturally led to a state of irksome weakness and
ill health, and as these did not readily give way to the common re-
medies, it was concluded in these times, when the mind was still
considerably under the influence of superstition, that she was be-
witched. The suspicion of bewitching her unhappily fell upon
three men and four women who lived in the neighbourbood, one
of whom, Margaret Lang, or "pinched Maggie," * as she was
called, lived at a hamlet called Cartimpen, the site of which is
still marked out by three trees growing in a field next to the pa-
rish school-house, on the north side of the Greenock road. These
unhappy creatures, (who seem by their own confession to have
borne no good character,) were brought to trial at Paisley in the
year 1697, and after a solemn inquest, they were found guilty of
the crime of witchcraft, and sentenced to be burnt alive, which
sentence was carried into effect at the Gallow Green of Paisley on
Thursday the loth June 1697, in the following manner: They
were first hanged for a few minutes, and then cut down and put
into a fire prepared for them, into which a barrel of tar was put, in
order to consume them more rapidly.
  Miss Shaw's case excited very general attention, and produced a
deep sensation, more particularly in the vicinity of the place where
she lived. Several ministers were sent for in succession to converse
and pray with her; and the most influential persons in the county
were either directed by government, or were invited to pay atten-
tion to the case. "A particular account, or journal," says Dr

  <FOOTNOTE>From a pinch said to have been administered by the devil to each of them, as
they gave themselves up to his service, called in the course of the trial his "invisible
mark." Her arm chair with initials is now in posesion of the governor of the Glas-
gow jail, and stands in the entrance to the court-house.
  The thread-mill and pirns used by Christian Shaw were preserved at Bargarran for
upwards of a century, and have only fallen into complete decay within the last six
years, and some bedsteads marked with the initials J. 8, 1640, the last memorial
of that family, were set up to the hammer last spring.


