
342     		   LANARKSHIRE.

have all the appearance of having undergone a regular process of pe-
trification. But upon a closer examination, it is found that the moss
has by no means been converted into stone, but only been cover-
ed over with it, having received a deposition of the incrusting car-
bonate of lime. The only stream of any consequence is Culter
water, which, after dividing the parish lengthways nearly into two
equal parts, falls into the Clyde, about half a mile beneath the vil-
lage. The Clyde itself forms the western boundary for about
two miles. At the point where it leaves the parish, the river makes
a remarkable bend, changing its course from N. E. to N. W. and
this is the first of the many great curves which it makes in its pro-
gress to the sea.*
	Geology.--Sandstone does not occur within our bounds, al-
though conglomerate or puddingstone is found in some places.
The hills are composed chiefly of greywacke, the common blue
whinstone of the peasantry, so prevalent all over Tweeddale. The
soil is of great variety, as is generally the case where the surface
is very uneven. In the lower grounds it is a sandy loam, not very
deep, but dry, and when all managed never fails to yield the hus-
bandman an ample return. On the braes and hills it is much
lighter; and towards the eastern or Kilbucho part of the parish
it inclines to clay. Moss may be seen on the tops of the highest
hills, and in some particular spots of the lower grounds; but the
general character of the soil is that it is hard and dry. Foot-rot
among the sheep is altogether unknown, and in few places are they
so seldom exposed to diseases of any kind.
	Botany.--the plants at all worthy of being called uncommon
are extremely few. The following, with their several localities, are
given as a specimen: Cistus Helianthemum, found at Cultergraigs
and several other places; Geum urbanum, growing abundantly in
a ditch at Hartree; Ononis arvensis, seen scantily near Cornhill;
Rubus suberectus and Primula veris, both found in Culterallers

<FOOTNOTE>At Wolfe-Clyde, the point above-mentioned, a curiosity may sometimes be seen
viz. the Clyde running into the Tweed. The value of Biggar-water, which here
stretches between these two rivers, is but slightly elevated above the bed of the Clyde.
During a top-flood, part of the latter river sometimes finds its way into Biggar-water,
and is thereby carried into the Tweed, and this happens once perhaps in three or four
years. Hence it will be seen that it were a very easy matter to send the CLyde to
Berwick instead of Glasgow. Indeed a common tradition is prevalent here that the
famous magician Michael Scott had nearly accomplished this. The story is, that he
was marching down the vale of the Biggar, with the Clyde following at his heels,
but that, beig alarmed by the soud of the water as it came roaring behind he
wanted channel. Of course little were the Glasgow folks dreaming of the peril to
which their city was exposed.


