
     of Aberdeen.

   The extent of this parish is great, and its form irre-
gular.  Its south-east corner forms the north and west
boundaries of the city of Aberdeen, or parish of St Nicho-
las.  It extends about three miles up the Dee, by which
river it is bounded on the south, and divided from the pa-
rish of Nigg, and county of Kincardine.  The western
boundary stretches in a crooked line from the Dee to the
Don, at the distance of about two miles and a half from
the parish-church.  By this line it is divided from the
parishes of Nether Banchory and Newhills, Crossing the
Don, it extends a mile and a half farther up the river, ma-
king in all four miles from the river's mouth.  On this
part, the Don divides it from the parishes of Newhills and
Dyce; its northern boundary passes by the parishes of
New Machar and Belhelvie, till it joins the sea at the
Black Dog*, forming a sweep, every part of which is di-
stant from the parish-church at least four miles.  On the
east it is bounded by the sea from the Black Dog to Aber-
deen, the extent of coast being about five miles.  Its great-
est length from north to south may be from seven to eight
miles, and its greatest breadth about four miles.
   This parish rises in a gentle slope from the sea, and though
there is no eminence in it that deserves the name of a moun-
tain, its surface is beautifully diversified by rising grounds.
The windings of the Dee and the Don, the manufactories,
and the woods on the banks of the latter, some detached
clumps of planting on the rising grounds, interspersed with
a number of gentlemens seats and villas; together with
the various prospects of the sea, the rivers, the cities of Old

     VOL. XIX. T

<FOOTNOTE>

*The Black Dog is a solitary rock of a black colour, in the sands of
Belhelvie, within high water mark.  When the tide is out, one may walk
round it on the sand; but when the tide is in, the summit of it appears
above the water like the head of a black dog, and to this circumstance it


