
                         CROMARTY.

the regular contributions made in the parish, and partly through
legacies bequeathed for their support, are more largely pro-
vided for than the poor of most of the neighbouring districts;
but it ha-, been observed that every new addition to their funds
has bad the effect of adding less to their comforts than to their
number. There is a continual influx of strangers who settle in
the outer skirts in the parish, and who, after residig in it for the
legal term, have recourse for support to its Session; and that ex-
cellent spirit of independence which so ennabled the Scottish poor
of the last age, and inspired them with so wholesome a dread of
being indebted to aught save their own exertions, seems to be fast
evaporating under the influence of a lower toned morality than
that which characterized our fathers. In some degree, however,
the spirit still survives among the more intelligent of the people;
and we owe to it the establishment of several friendly societies,
which have the merit of ministering to the wants of the individuals
which compose them, when overtaken by age or sickness, without
trenching on their self-respect. One of these in particular, 11 The
Cromarty Friendly Society," which has been established since
1801, has distributed for the last ten years from L. 90 to L. 100
annually, among decayed and ailing members.
  The average number of persons receiving parochial aid is 150;
and the average annual amount of contributions for their relief is
L. 172. The amount arising from church collections for the year
ending April last was L. 70: the amount of voluntary assessments
for the year 1835, was I- 27, 9s. 3d. The annual amount from
alms or legacies, seat-rents, mortclotb, &c. L. 75.

                    GENERAL REMARKS.
  The people of Cromarty in general eat and dress rather better
in the present day, than at the time of the last Statistical Account.
Their employments, too, though affected by occasional depres-
sions, are in the main less interrupted; they work harder, are more
ingenious, and more freed from the influence ofsuperstition; their
information embraces a wider range; they are better acquainted
with the princi les of agriculture and of trade; and they have
learned to identify their interests as a body with these of the
people everywhere. Their intelligence, too, is of a different cast
from that of their fathers, and derived from a very opposite source;
it is much less pectiliar to them as Scotchmen and Presbyterians.
Formerly, when there were comparatively few books and:no peri.
odicals in this part of the country, there was but one way in which
   ROSS AND CROMARTY.                   B


