
                            COLLESSIE.                        29

mill of mica slate, a mineral not belonging to Fife. A number of
coins also, belonging to the reign of Edward I. of England, were
here turned up by the plough. They are the coinage of different
towns, as London, Canterbury, and York, but are evidently all of
same reign.
  The western fort is called the Maiden Castle. A clump of trees
planted by the late proprietor, Mr Thomson, points out its situa-
tion. The tradition as to the origin of this name is, that during
a siege laid to this station, the governor died, and that his daugh-
ter, concealing the event, gave the necessary orders in his name,
and that the castle thus defended held out till the enemy was
obliged to retire. There is scarcely any thing in the external ap-
pearance of the grounds in either of these places that would ar-
rest the attention of an observer unacquainted with these tradi-
tions. But in the fields adjoining, and particularly in the inter-
vening space between these two stations, there are many traces, in
the human bones, stone coffins and urns, which from time to time
have been dug up,-that point out this place to have been, at a re-
mote period, the scene of battles and of sepulture.
  Among the most entire of these remains may be mentioned two
urns, said to be perfect specimens of the ancient Celtic urn, for de-
positing the ashes of the dead. One of these, still to be seen at
Kinloch, is made of bluish clay. Its height is about eighteen
inches, and its diameter at the widest part about fifteen inches, like
a bee's cap, a little more conical. It was found at the depth of a
foot below the surface, in an inverted position, on a flat slab of
stone, and enclosing several human bones which have been partial-
ly burnt. The other urn, which has been carried away in frag-
ments by different visitors, was in every respect similar, only its
dimensions, somewhat smaller than that described.*

<FOOTNOTE>From its proximity to Falkland, the frequent residence of James VV, this parish
is recorded to have been the scene of some of the eccentric feats and munificent acts
of that facetious prince. The following is one of the most authentic. It is related
that in the disguise, which he often assumed, of a poor travelling man, he knocked
one evening at the door of the miller's house of Ballomil. After some little difficul-
ty he obtained quarters for the night. He joined the circle round the miller's fire-
side, and partook of their social glee, as well as of their homely cheer. The miller's
frank and honest bearing gained upon the good opinion of the King, his hospitality
and kindness increasing as he became more inthmate with the stranger. In the morn-
ing, accompanying his unknown guest in familiar converse to the extremity of the
farm, they were met, according to previous appointment, by the royal guards. The
miller then saw with astonishment that he had had the honour of entertaining the
King. At parting, to reward his hospitality, and at the same time to try his know-
ledge of fractions, his Majesty asked the miller, whether he would have the fourth
part, or the eight part, or the sixteenth part of the lands on which they stood. The
miller pondered a little a question so important, and said to himself, to ask the sax-



