
     of Dyke and Moy.

   Valued Rent.-Valued rent by the county books, L. 5674,
6 s. 6 d. Scots.

   Real Rent.-Real rent in victual, money, fishings, mills,
customs, and wood, L. 2900 Sterling*.

   Average of Rents.-The average of rents cannot be sta-
ted under 19 s. per Scots acre, for corn fields.

   Prices of Grain.-The average of grain, for several years
prior to 1793.  Wheat, 20 s.; oat-meal, weighing 9 stone

<FOOTNOTE>

*It is but a small proportion of the present rents that are paid in victual.
The bolls have been mostly converted into money-rents, and these money-
rents, at different times, augmented.  But I have seen a computation of the
land-rents and fishings, made by the last minister, about 40 years ago, where
the victual rents are valued at L. 5 Scots, equal 8 s. 4 d.; and the salted
salmon at L. 32 Scots, equal L 2 : 13 : 4 Sterling per barrel, of 4 cwt.  By
this calculation, including but very little money-rent, the amount of the
rents of the parish are computed at L. 14,866 13 4 Scots money, or
L. 1238 : 17 : 9 4/11 Sterling.  Since that time, till now, the rents, computed
on a money scale, appear to be more than doubled.  But, computed on the
scale of produce, their increase appears far less considerable, in regard the
number of bolls and fishes then paid, would, according to their present va-
lue, fetch the double of what they were then worth.  And, in general, it is
evident, that in corn parishes along the coasts, where every soil fit for corn
was brought under culture many centuries ago, the rents paid in kind, whe-
ther of corn or fish, being a proportion of the produce, must have nearly
reached their ultimatum at a very early period, so as to admit of little rise,
except it were on the money scale.  In such maritime parishes whose pay-
ments were made in produce, the rents would seem to have been heavier
about 1633, than at any period since that time.  When the valuation of
tithes was then introduced, the substitution of one-fifth of the rent, as an
equivalent for one-tenth of the produce, seems to warrant a supposition or
inference, that the proprietors (whom the Legislature wished rather to ease
than to injure) had, in those days, to the amount of value of half the pro-
duce on account of rents.


