
                   PARISH OF DOLLAR.

  PRESBYTERY OF STIRLING, SYNOD OF PERTH AND STIRLING.

        THE REV. A. MYLNE, D. D. MINISTER
                 ______________

        I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
  Name.--THERE can be little doubt that the name Dollar is of
Gaelic origin; but there is some difficulty in ascertaining what is
the meaning of the word in that language. Some say that the
name is derived from Dal, a valley, and ord, a hill or lofty ground.
But these terms scarcely apply to Dollar. Some derive the name
from the Gaelic word, Doilleir, which signifies dark, sombre, or
gloomy.*
  Extent and Boundaries.--The parish of Dollar is about a mile
and a quarter in length from east to west. The breadth from
north to south is considerably greater, being about three miles;
bnt as the boundary to the north extends far into the Ochills,
where there is no population, its breadth from the southern foot
of the Ochills to the boundary line of the parish of Clackmannan,
scarcely exceeds a mile and a-half. The breadth of the parish is,
however, considerably enlarged by a piece of angular ground, al-
most detached from the rest of the parish in the south-east, called
the Seik and Well-hall, near to Blair-ingone. The same thing
occurs in the north-east of the parish, where Hill-foot and its farm-
steadingd form also a detached corner. The boundary of the pa-
rish on the east is well defined by Kelly-burn, which separates it
from Muckhart.The northern boundary is in the centre of the
Ocbills adjoining the parish of Blackford.
  In the northern extremity of the parish, about two miles above

  <FOOTNOTE>This opinion is founded on the following well known tradition: It is said, a
daughter of one of the Kings of Scotland (who them resided at Dumfermline, a royal
seat in the neighbourhood of Dollar) was, as a punishment for some improper con-
duct, immured in the cells of the royal fort, now called Castle Campbell ; and that
while confined there, she gave names to certain places and streams adjoining the eas-
tie, corresponding to the depressed state of her mind at the time. The place of her
confinement she called Castle Gloom. The hill on the east of the castle she called
Gloom hill, which name it sill! retains. to the two streamers which glide by on
the east and west sides of the knoll on which the Castle is built, she gave the names
of the burns of Care and Sorrow.


