
1002                         ABERDEENSHIRE.

ingredients of his Lordship's drain-tiles are, lime, sharp sand, and
gravel or small stones, and in the following proportions: one bu-
shel of lime-shells, two and a-half bushels of sand, and four
bushels of gravel, will give eight bushels of the composition
(allowing half a bushel for the swelling of the lime by the appli-
cation of water), and will make 120 tiles of one foot in length.
These tiles can be easily and cheaply manufactured, and come
recommended by every consideration that the agriculturist could
desire.
	Farm-Houses.--The farm-houses and buildings have been
greatly improved of late years, many of them being built with
stone and lime, and slated. The internal accommodation has
also undergone a favourable change. The arrangements between
the proprietor and the tenant in regard to houses are not uniform.
In some instances, the tenant, is allowed a sum equal to two years'
rent; but as this is either not paid till the termination of the lease,
or if advanced by the proprietor at the commencement, interest is
charged at the rate of five per cent., such encouragement cannot
be considered great. A more common practice, however, is, that
the heritor allows the necessary rough wood, while the tenant exe-
cutes, at his own expense, all the other parts of the work, receiving
an obligation for payment at the end of his lease, according to the
valuation at that time. By this plan, much the larger amount is
advanced by the tenant, which, if he has sufficient capital, may
perhaps answer as well for, him, but if he has not money at com-
mand, it may be the means of crippling him at the outset, and
creating a burden which he is ill able to hear. The cottages
shattered up and down the parish scarcely correspond with the
comfortable dwellings of the farmers. They are in general built
of mud, ill-constructed, ill-ventilated, and ill-roofed; and when a
Mrs M'Clarty, as snmetimes happens, is the presiding inmate,
neatness and cleanliness are not their characteristics.  There are
however, exceptions to be found even among the most lowly habi-
tations, and the tidy mother and healthy offspring, with the well-
swept hearth and white-washed wall and sanded floor, give an air
of comfort and contentment exceedingly pleasing.
	Leases, &c.--The ordinary duration of leases is nineteen years,
and the rents paid generally in money, with a small proportion of
meal, sometimes in kind, but now very commonly at the fiar prices
of the county.  The tenant is bound to the rules of good hus-


