
                               CULTS.                            573

therefore, cannot be considered as at present affording by any means
an adequate remuneration for the labour employed in it.
  Some of the webs being warped in the parish, there are twenty-
four old women regularly employed in winding the larger bobbins
for the warp,-at which they may earn at an average 2s. Id. Per
week.  While in winding the smaller bobbins for the woof, the
weavers usually employ their wives or children.  At this latter em-
ployment, if done for hire, from 2s. 6d. to 3s. may be made per
week.
  Tow Spinning.-At Hospital Mill, there were formerly a corn
and a flax-mill, which, in 1821, were converted into a mill for
spinning tow, at a cost of about L. 4000.  The wheel when fully
supplied with water, (as it always is except for a few weeks in
summer,) works with fourteen horse power.  The mill has six card-
ing engines, with the other necessary preparing machinery, and
ten spinning frames, containing 368 spindles.  The size of yarn
spun varies from four to fourteen pounds imperial per spindle.  The
quantity spun annually is from 160 to 180 tons, and its average
value is L. 7000.  The principal market to which it is sent is
Dundee.
  In this factory, there are employed 50 persons, viz. 7 men at
wages from 15s. to L. 1 per week; 31 women, 5s. 6d. to 6s.; 12
children, 3s. 6d. to 3s. 9d.
  There is another factory (Russell Mill) in the parish of Cupar,
a few hundred yards beyond the boundary,  which also gives em-
ployment to some of the inhabitants of Cults.  These two esta-
blishments are under the same management.  In both of them, a
most laudable attention is paid to the comfort, morals, and educa-
tion of the working people, who are distinguished at once by their
intelligence and their morality.
  Mills.-Besides the spinning-mill, there are in the parish of
Cults 3 mills for flour, barley, malt, and oatmeal; 1 for cleaning
Yarn; 1 saw-maill driven by water; 1 saw-mill to be driven by Steam
in the course of being erected; 3 thrashing machines driven by wa-
ter; and 6 thrashing machines wrought by horses.
  Tradesmen.-The different tradesmen in Cults are as follows,
(masters, journeymen, and apprentices being all included): 7
wrights, 14 masons, 9 shoemakers, 4 tailors, 2 turners, 7 black
smiths, 2 bakers, 2 brewers, and 5 grocers.
                    V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
  Market and Post-Town.-The nearest market and post-town
                               3



