
                    SANDSTING AND AITHSTING.                 121

    never once been thought of, either by landlord or tenant. The
    want of enclosures, and the small size of farms, are adverse to
    such a practice.
       Obstacles to Improvement.-It must appear, from what has al-
    ready been advanced, that this parish, and the islands in general,
    are very far behind in agriculture. Both soil and climate present
    great obstacles to improvement. None of the lands of the parish
    lie upon limestone, and no lime is used as a manure, either simply
    or united with other substances. The lands are all laid in run-
    rig, whether they are the property of one or more proprietors, and
    this is the cause of much private, as well as open strife among the
    different possessors. While this system is continued, an insur-
    mountable obstacle is raised against every attempt at improvement.
    To obviate this, I have suggested to several of the landlords to
    lay off a certain portion of land to each tenant, in one spot, and
    to build his house on his own ground, and in a situation the most
    convenient. If this system was to be adopted, the tenants would
    soon see the necessity of division dikes between their little farms,
    and, I am convinced, would soon raise them. The lands also would
    be better drained, and rendered capable of a more improved system
    of husbandry. While a spirit of emulation would then be excited,
    small enclosures would spring up, enriched with a regular succes-
    sion of healthy and luxuriant crops. If the laird could be prevailed
    upon to adopt this course, his astonishment at the change that
    would soon be perceptible would be great.
       Among the obstacles to improvement, must not be omitted the
    present ring-fences. These are, nowhere, efficient; and it is only
    during the summer and harvest months that they are kept in to-
    lerable repair. As soon as the corns are put into the yard, every
    "grind" or gate is set open; the dikes, in many cases, pulled
    down and suffered to continue in that state, till the young corn
    appears several inches above the ground. In the meantime, cows,
    horses, and sheep, are allowed to pasture at freedom, and swine root
    up and destroy what years of the best husbandry could hardly re-
    pair. There is little labour spent in draining; and the few drains that
    are, being only surface drains, are filled up in winter, and the lands,
    of course, become a complete mire; so that, were it not the great
    quantity of new earth yearly carried from the hill or common, and
    formed into a compost with cow's, dung and sea-weed, and laid
    plentifully on the land, no crops could be expected.
       The farms, in most cases, are very small, not exceeding three


