               			RENFREW.                        5

this head than would otherwise be necessary.  In the middle of the
seventeenth century, there were between the Point House (oppo-
site Govan) and Erskine Ferry, a distance not exceeding perhaps
eight miles, not fewer than eight islands, four of which appear to
have been within this parish.  The largest of these was called the
King's Inch; it had in it a large castle, once a royal residence; and
it now forms the principal domains of Eldersly House.  Another,
the Buck Inch, or, as it is vulgarly called, the Packman Isle, now
forms part of the lands of Scotstown.  A third, called the Sand
Inch, still bears the name of "the Isle," and is part of the com-
mon near the ferry of Renfrew.  And a fourth, the Ron or Ren,
lay in the mouth of the Gryfe.*  When the river was thus divided
and broken by so many islands, the different channels were full of
banks.  These naturally interrupted the currents, and caused the
adjacent lands to be often flooded to a great extent.  One of the
channels passed immediately under the burgh, so that the gardens,
along the street called Townhead are still described in deeds of
property, as bounded on the north by the Clyde, though they are
now distant from the river probably half a-mile.  About seventy
or eighty years ago, a square-rigged vessel, which afterwards sail-
ed in the Virginia trade, is said to have been launched into this
channel from a building yard, which must have been over the pre-
sent green, near Eldersly west gate.+  This ancient channel may
still be traced from the Marlin Ford above Braebead House, through
the grounds now of Eldersly, along under the burgh and through
the cnmmon.  During the earlier part of this course, it formed the
boundary line between the counties of Renfrew and Lanark; and
having received the Mill-Burn at the east end of the burgh, part
of it is still partially open, under the name of Puddough,--a name
most probably derived from the appearance of this channel when
the other had been so deepened as very much to withdraw the
water, leaving it comparatively small and muddy.  From the burgh
down to the ferry, there is a navigable canal, which was opened
about fifty years ago, and which is partly in the old bed of the
river.  Towards the ferry, however, it is cut across what was at
one time an island.  To furnish some idea: of the improvements
which have been going on in the present channel, it way be stated,

<FOOTNOTE>
   * These may be seen in a map of the county, published originally in Amsterdam
in 1654, and republished with the last edition of Crawford's History of the County
in 1818.
   + At that period much smaller vessels were employed, we understand, than at pre-
sent.

