
                          TRANENT.                          293

10th of September, when 14,000 Scots are said by Patten to have
been slain in the flight.
   The scene of the battle of Preston on 21st September 1745
lies about half a-mile to the north of the church of Tranent. The
King's army, amounting to about 3000, was drawn up nearly parallel
to, and a little to the east of the present line of railway from the coal-
pits to Cockenzie. The excellent Colonel Gardiner was stationed
with his cavalry on the right flank, and was killed when endea-
vouring to rally a small body of infantry near the west end of the
village now called Meadow Mill, but which was not in existence
at the period of the battle. Colonel Gardiner thus met an ho-
nourable death within a quarter of a mile of Bankton, his own resi-
dence. His servant was unable to convey him thither, as the flight
was in that direction; but it is said, having borrowed clothes from
the miller at the neighbouring mill, he conveyed his dying master to
the manse at Tranent, where he soon after expired, and was buried
in the west end of the Church; but no tablet marks the grave of
this gallant soldier and admirable Christian.
   The slain were buried near a farmhouse called Thorntree Mains,
erected since the battle; and towards the close of last century, in
making some drains to the north-east of the farm steading, the work-
men came upon the bodies, when the clothes were said to be so en-
tire, that they could distinguish between the royalists and the re-
bels. The military chest of the royal army was found at the house
of Cockenzie, and was there divided by the unfortunate Charles
Stuart.
   A few coins, of the reigns of James V. and Mary, were dis-
covered in 1828, while making improvements on the post road to
the west of Tranent, and might probably have been concealed
there about the time of the battle of Pinkie in 1547. One or two
cannon balls have also been found in the fields near Cockenzie,
which, in all likelihood, were among the few that were discharged
at the disastrous battle of Preston.
   There is a massive square tower at Elphingstone, said to have
been built about the year 1300, and a modern house was added to
it in 1600, which is still inhabited, and was formerly surrounded by
very fine trees, but they are now all cut down.
   The only mansion-house in the parish, inhabited, by a proprie-
tor, is St Germains, the seat of David Anderson, Esq, which had
formerly been an establishment of the Knights Templars, but after


