
     Statistical Account

deserve most notice.  About 4 miles from the source of
Dryfe, the water makes a right angle from E. to S.; in
this angle the hill Carthur rises almost perpendicular 400
or 500 feet; on the summit, or pinnacle of it, there is one
of these enclosures, which appears to have been strong; and
on one side of it there has evidently been a well sunk in
the rock, which still holds water.  On the hill, on the op-
posite side of the water, there has been a similar sort, but
no well is observable; and between them, near the water,
there has been two strong square enclosures.  Of known
old buildings, the residence of the lairds of Corrie is
the most distinct.  It stands on the brink of the water
of Milk at Corrymains; it is called the Lun.  Part
of the walls are still of a considerable height, but it has pro-
bably been little inhabited since the family of Johnstone
acquired the estate of Corrie, by marriage with the daughter
of Sir Thomas Corrie, near 300 years ago.  There are still
some visible remains of their deer-park, which almost sur-
rounds the farms of Penlaw and Parkcleughfoot*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*The Grahams of Gillesbie had their residence as a place called Mas-
herfa, of which there is some remains and appearance of strength on the
farm of Closs.  But they removed from it near 300 years ago to a tower
on the brink of Dryfe, which, by the thickness of the walls, and the sosse,
appears to have been strong; but having been treated like many others of
the same kind, and converted into a quarry for other buildings, there are
now only a few yards high of the walls remaining.  The descendents of
this family still retain property in the neighbourhood.  In this tower it
was, that the President of the Court of Session was lodged, when taken
away to prevent his giving a second decision in a suit, in which one of
the parties though the President bad too much influence.  It is said, he
was watched by a party of horsemen, and apprehended when on the way to
his house near Leith, and carried off blindfolded, without stopping, till he
was brough to the water of Gillesbie; he was also blindfolded in his re-
turn, and set down at the place he was taken up.  It is said, he was ig-


