
738                                FIFESHIRE.

ship all the year round ; and these, for the most part, are remark-
ably well attended. We trust that an increasing value is being at-
tacbed to public worship as a Divine ordinance. But, for a long
period, the views, in regard to this, of a considerable part of the
population in the west of Fife, appear to have been extremely
low. Many seem never to have thought of attending public wor-
ship, unless as hearers or spectators on a communion Sabbath.
This must have been the case in Torryburn during the earlier
part of the last century, when, with a population greater than at
present, there were no Dissenters. So, also, it must have been
in the adjoining parish of Dunfermline, where, before the Seces-
sion took place, the only place of worship was the old parish
church, capable of accommodating a congregation of from 1200
to 1400, while the population of that parish was then about 8000.
  There are no regularly constituted societies for religious pur-
poses.A few individuals contribute to defray the expenses of a
monthly distribution of tracts. The number of copies distributed
annually is about 3400. Yearly collections are made in aid of the
General Assembly's schemes for promoting the cause of Christ.
These in 1839 were, for colonial churches, L. 3; for church ex-
tension, L. 3, 2s ; for education, L. 3, 8s.; for the India mission,
L.4, l6s.; for the Jews, L. 5, 4s. ; in all, L. 19, 12s. ; besides
L.14 contributed by individuals to particular exertions in connec-
tion with the Church Extension scheme.
  Education.-Besides the parochial school there are three others.
Two of these are partly sewing-schools, taught by females. The
instruction in the parochial school consists of English reading and
grammar, writing, arithmetic, geography, and Latin when requir-
ed. The schoolmaster is qualified, in addition, to give lessons in
Greek and French. His salary is L. 34, 4s. 4 1/2 d. The fees,
with other emoluments, may amount to L. 46. The house pro-
vided for him is far from commodious. The school-room, which
is merely rented by the heritors, is unworthy of the parish. The
number of children attending the several schools in the parish may
be about 140. The number of children between five and fifteen
years of age, who have been taught to read, is 351 ; and taught
to write, 194. The total number attending school, including those
who frequent schools in the adjoining parishes,isabout 210. There
are three males and three females, grown up, who admit that they
have never been taught to read. On the whole, the benefits of
education do not appear to be so generally appreciated as could
be wished; and by many the school-fees are very irregularly paid.


