
878                        LANARKSHIRE.

the northern and southern portions being considerable, while it is
very much diminished towards the centre.  A line drawn across
the northern half of the sand-glass, through its centre from east
to west, would give a breadth of very nearly five miles.  From the
north-western corner, near which the road from Kilbride to Bus-
by enters the parish of Carmunnock, to the north-eastern corner,
which is not far from being in a direct line eastward, the distance
is about five miles and a half; the breadth is no where else so great.
At one part of the southern half of the sand-glass, the distance is
about five miles from a point on the east, at which a bye-road,
leading from the direct Strathavon and Kilbride road towards a
place called Blackburn, crosses the Powmillon rivulet, to the point
on the west where the road from Alderstocks to Eaglesham enters
the parish of Eaglesham.  In the centre of the parish, at the nar-
rowest part, the breadth is not so much as two miles and a half,
and, at the south end, it is only three miles.  From the most
southern point beyond Browncastle, a place considerably farther
south than Strathavon, to the most northern already mentioned,
the distance is nine miles and three-quarters, being the extreme
length of the parish.  The number of square miles is 35.50.
   East Kilbride is in the middle ward of Lanarkshire, and is
bounded on the north by the parishes of Carmunnock and Cam-
buslang ; on the east, by Blantyre, Glassford, and Avondale ; on
the south, by Avondale and Loudon ; and on the west, by Lou-
don, Eaglesham, and Carmunnock.
   The least elevated ground in the parish is at Crossbasket, the seat
of Alexander Downie, Esq. which lies on the road leading from Kil-
bride by Blantyre to Hamilton, about half a mile from the north-
eastern corner, close to the border of Blantyre parish, and about
200 feet above the level of the sea.  The highest ground is the
top of Eldrig, a hill situated about the centre of the western side
of the southern half of the sand-glass, extending into Eaglesham,
and about seven miles distant from Crossbasket in a direct line.
Its height is at least 1600 feet above the sea. From Crossbasket
to Eldrig there is a gradual ascent, consisting of a regular succes-
sion of small hills, with very little level ground between them.  A
considerable part of the parish is moor-land, which commences
about two miles to the north of Eldrig, and continues a conside-
rable way down the south side of the ridge where Kilbride borders
with Loudon.  Eldrig is the highest part of that ridge formed by
the hills in Eaglesham, Mearns, Neilston, &c.


