
     of Croy.
by the neighbouring parishes; and in others, including the
waste ground, it is 7 or 8 miles broad.

   River, Fish, Woods, Surface, etc.-The river Nairn, so call-
ed from the aller trees growing on its banks, runs through
this parish for about 8 miles; so that part of the parish is in-
cluded in the district of country called Strathnairn.  In this
river there are salmon and trout of a good quality.  To the E.
of Kilravock, there is a small salmon sishing, the property of
Mrs. Rose of Kilravock.  The salmon are sold in the neigh-
bourhood.  In the course of 12 years, the price of this article
has been raised from 1/2 d. to 4 d. per lb.  The banks of the
river are well cultivated, or, when they do not admit of cul-
tivation, covered with wood, natural and planted; which,
with other circumstances to be afterwards stated, has a very
agreeable appearance, and forms a scene of true rural amenity.
The other part of the parish, lying to the N. and N. W. of
the Nairn, is almost one continued ridge* from one end of
the parish to the other.  As it consists almost entirely of waste
moor ground, with small spots of land indifferently cultivated,
the appearance is rather bleak and disagreeable.

     VOL. XI. 4 B

<FOOTNOTE>

*On this ridge, and near the middle of it, on the side towards the Nairn,
was fought the famous battle of Culloden, memorable for the complete defeat
of the adherents of the house of STUART, in their last attempt to replace that
deluded family on the British throne.  The circumstances and consequences of
that action are so well known, as to render it unnecessary to give any account of
them here.  Strangers still visit the field of battle, though there is little to be
seen on it, excepting the graves of those that fell in the action, which are dif-
cerned by the green surface, while the rest of the ground is covered with black
heath.  Bullets, and fragments of armour, that are picked up by people in the
neighbourhood, are anxiously fought after, and carefully preserved, by the vir-
tuosi, as curiosities and valuable relics.


