
                              PARISH OF SELKIRK.

             PRESBYTERTY OF SELKIRK, SYNOD OF MERSE AND TEVIOTDALE.

                     THE REV. JOHN CAMPBELL, MINISTER.

                  I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
     Name, Boundaries, &c.--The name Selkirk, according to Sir
James Dalrymple, is derived from two Celtic words, schelch and grrech,
signifying the kirk in the wood or forest.  This derivation receives
considerable support from the fact, that this part of the country
was formerly covered with wood, and formed a royal chase; and it
has been adopted in the former Statistical Account of this pa-
rish.  It is elsewhere asserted that the name is written in old char-
ters Seleschirche,* Selechyre , or Selchire, meaning the great or good
church.
     From the great irregularities, and the capricious windings of tis
boundaries, in which no regard is to the natural features of
the country, it is impossible to convey in words any idea of the
figure of this parish.  It is not even all contiguous, for there are
two portions of it in the shire of Roxburgh,--the one on the north,
and the other on the south, of the neighbouring parish of Ashkirk.
The extent of the princiapl division, from Cadonlee on the north,
to the source of Wolburn on the south, is about seven miles and
a-half; and from Easter Kershope on the west, to Whitmoor Loch
on the east, about eight miles.  Including the two detached parts,
and deducting considerably for numerous indentations, the area may
be computed in round numbers ot be about ten square miles.  The
principal division is bounded on the north by the parishes of Gala-
shiels and Stow, or rather by the river Tweeed, which separates it
from them; on the south, by those of Yarrow and Ashkirk; on the
west, by that of Yarrow.

<FOOTNOTE>* In a charter of William the Lion it is written Seleschirke.--Registrum Mo-
nasterii de Passelet, p. 89.  Printed by the Earl of Glasgow for the Maitland
Club.--T.
   SELKIRK.                                 A



