
102                            FIFESHIRE.

from any pit is about tent miles. That at Largo ward is inacces-
sible by the muir road during winter; and from Ely the expense
of tolls greatly increases the value. Land coal, in fact, is only at-
tained by the farmers and their servants having the cartage free
of expense. The general supply is by sea, brought in during
summer, and delivered at the shore. A small quantity of English
coal is also brought in from Newcastle. The larger quantity of
the article used comes down the Frith from Charleston, &e. Dysart
Coal is one of the heaviest articles of family consumption in this
quarter. The summer price of the smaller kind, called chews, is
from 5s. to 6s. per boll of 60 stones, and of great coal from 6s. to
7s. In winter the price is heightened considerably. Were the
road which passes through the parish from east to west, properly
made through the Kingsmuir to the coal districts, the distance and
Conveyance would be much reduced. There is happily at pre-
sent a prospect of the coal on the Kingsmuir itself being wrought.
Were this the case, I know not anything that would more essen-
tially contribute to the comfort of the lower orders of the people.

   Revised April 1836.

                    PARISH OF KING'S KETTLE.

               PRESBYTERY OF CUPAR, SYNOD OF FIFE.

             THE REV. PETER BARCLAY, D. D. MINISTER.

         I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
  Name.--In the times of Episcopacy, as appears from old charters,
the name of this parish was Losresk or Lathrisk. The origin of the
name is uncertain. In old writings, it is called Catul or Kate].
  The low grounds upon the Eden, a small stream which bounds the
parish on the north, are supposed to have been the King's cattle-
walk, or pasture ground,-where also is the King's goose-dub. And
about half a century ago, there was near the village, on the land of

  <FOOTNOTE>The church then stood at Lathrisk, near the west end of the parish, and had as
appendages two other places of worship, one at Chapel  Katel, about the centre of
the parish, another at Clatto, in the east end of the parish. About the year 1636,
the parish church, with the manse and glebe, was removed and brought to the vil-
lage of Kettle, and from that time the village seems to have given name to the pa-
rish.

                                      4


