206                     KINCARDINESHIRE.

	Manure.--A manure commonly used by farmers in the neigh-
bourhood of the Bay of Nigg, is sea-ware. It consists of green
slake washed down the river, and of various marine plants, torn
from the rocks by storms. It is brought to land in the Bay of
Nigg, at the mouth of the river, and at the Bay of Grey-Hope,
after a storm. The wind which blows from the land, and which
would carry out to sea a substance floating on the surface, brings
into the shore this substance swimming at the bottol, in a con-
trary direction. Another manure used is street dung, which is pur-
chased at Aberdeen, from 3s. to 5s. a load, according to the qua-
lity.
	Substantial and convenient houses of stone and lime, and cover-
ed with slate, are now built for the tenants, with excellent steadings
of the same materials. Several of these were built on the lands of
south and north Loirston some years ago. And Mr Ferguson is
at present building houses of that description on his lands of Altens,
and enclosing his fields with substantial stone dikes.
	Recent Improvements.--The principal improvements which have
recently been made in this parish are the following: Between
thirty and forty years ago, an Act of Parliament was procured
for a turnpike road to the south, with a gradual ascent from
the bridge of Dee, on the south-west part of this parish.  And
about five years ago, another turnpike road through the middle of
the parish, for about three miles from north to south, was made.
At the north extremity of it, a suspension bridge, which connects
it with Aberdeen, was erected. The bridge and the road were
made at the expense of the heritors, and cost about L.10,000
Sterling. A pontage is collected to pay, in part, the interest of
that sum. There are several other cross roads in the parish, one
particularly, which was made many years ago, from thd old Bridge
of Dee to the Bay of Nigg, and which is kept in repair from
the commutation money. And last year, Mr Ferguson of Altens
made, at his own expense, a new road for the benefit of his te-
nants, extending from the middle turnpike to the sea-coast, above
a mile.
	Quarries.--There is only one kind of quarries in the viz.
stone quarries. The stone of the mountains and sea-coast of this
parish is a very hard granite. The stones are principally wrought
for the London market for pavement, called causeway-stones.
They are formed into oblong squares of it wedge-like form, 6 to
12 inches long, 6 broad, and 9 deep. They are much better


