
                              KIRKCOLM.                     115

greater part of the year: Two proprietors of land of the yearly
value of L. 50 and upwards reside in it always.  Of the labouring
population of the whole parish, nearly one-third are Irish, or de-

scended of Irish parents.  The number of persons who are now,
or at some period of their lives have been, subject to insanity is 9;
of idiots, 5; of deaf and dumb persons, 2.
     Character of the People.--The people are in general sober, in-
dustrious, and regular in their conduct. The excessive use of
spirits by many is to be lamented: but this evil does not appear
to have increased in proportion to the increase of population dur-
ing the last forty years.  Petty thefts are not unfrequent, and
there is some poaching; but smuggling, which once existed to
considerable extent, has long ceased.  There has been, especial-
ly during the last twenty years, a marked improvement in the ha-
bits of living, and the general advancement in the country has
been fully participated.  The people are contented with their cir-
cumstances, and cheerful.  Every winter there is a farmer's ball,
attended by a very respectable company; there is also a small
farmer's ball, a ploughman's ball, and sometimes a sailor's ball.
The neatness of the appearance of the congregation at church has
long been noticed by strangers.  From the situation of the pa-
rish, many of the natives become sailors.  Their character as sea-
men is held in estimation; and in the Regattas at Stranraer for
the last three years, the Kirkcolm boatmen have always gained
the prize as rowers.

                           IV.--INDUSTRY.
     Agriculture.--
Nn. of acres, imperial measure, in the parish, which are either cultivated, or
     occasionally in tillage,                                   10,384
No. of acres which have never been cultivated, and remain constantly waste
     or in pasture, including 260 acres of meadow, is about     1,261
     These pasture lands are steep banks, some extent of moss, and
a narrow selvage, extending along the rock-bound shore which
surrounds the greater part of the parish, consisting of a poor thin
soil, scarcely covering the rocks. The mosses are at present
chiefly used for fuel.  About 120 acres of moss might be brought
profitably into cultivation for cropping or meadow ground.  Of
the remaining pasture lands, from their quality and exposure, only
a few patches could be brought into cultivation.   It is conceived
that the most profitable application of agricultural capital in this
parish, would be in draining and cultivating in a better manner


