
364                GENERAL OBSERVATIONS

heavy rains, and from the moist and cold nature of the climate.
The well known fact, that, in the best districts of this county, a
considerable breadth of land is annually sown with wheat after
turnips, sometimes so late as the month of April, and that fair
crops are the result, is a criterion, and by no means an unfavour-
able one, of the character of the climate.
   Soil.-A great variety of soils exists in the county; some districts
being remarkable for a stiff and stubborn clay, others for a mix-
ture of clay and loam; a rich loamy soil characterizing one part
of the county, while another is distinguished for a mixture of sand,
gravel, and loam, in various proportions; and on the same soil all
these diversities are sometimes amalgamated. When it is consi-
dered that, not unfrequently on the same farm, all these varieties
occur, and sometimes even on the same field; and that all these
kinds of soil are modified b the character of the subsoil, which
also exists in as great diversity,-to classify the varieties of the soil,
or to ascertain with any degree of accuracy the extent to which
these endless peculiarities prevail, would be almost if not alto-
gether impossible. It may, in general terms, be observed, that
clay forms the discriminating character of the lands in the " How
of the Merse ;" loam that part of the soil which skirts the chief
rivers; while turnip soil is found in those parts of the Merse where
there is not too great a preponderance of clay, and in the arable
portion of the Lammermoor district. The lands on Tweedside,
and along the banks of the Whitadder and Blackadder, generally
consist of a fine deep loam, well fitted for raising luxuriant crops
of almost every description, resting commonly on a gravelly subsoil,
though sometimes on a stiff tenacious clay. These tracts of land
are the most valuable in the county, and have been long under a
course of skilful management. In the intermediate tract betwixt
these rivers the land is less valuable, and degenerates into a stiff
and hard clay, difficult to work, and from resting on a subsoil of
stiff till, liable to be saturated with moisture, and long retaining it
when thus saturated. The remainder of the arable part consists
of a sharp sandy and gravelly soil, well adapted for raising turnips,
combined in different proportions with loam and clay, easilywrought,
and varying in quality and value according to the nature of the sub-
soil on which it is incumbent. This species of land is highly valued,
and those farms which contain a considerable proportion of turnip
soil are generally preferred by the tenantry. In the Agricultural
Report of this county, published by the late John Home, Esq. W.S.


