
24                    CLACKMANNANSHIRE.


strong heat is required, being only suitable for ordinary light work,
so that smithy coals for heavy work have to be imported from a
distance. The only cannel or parrot-coal found in the parish is
about four inches thick, and is of so little value, that all the cannel
coals for the Alloa gas-works are brought by sea-carriage from a
considerable distance.
  No workable coal has been found farther west than this parish,
upon the north side of the Forth; nor even farther west than the
estate of Mar. Many attempts have been made by boring in Lord
Abercromby's estate of Tullibody to find coal, without success.
From these borings and the quarries in the vicinity, there appears
to be a very thick body of whitish sandstone underlying the work-
able coals of this parish.
   The only appearance of limestone in the parish is found at the
western boundary in the river Devon, near the village of Cambus.
Its situation prevents it from being wrought, and very little is
known of its quality or thickness. There is, however, every rea-
son to conclude, that, in the lower series of rocks connected with
this coal-field, there is a bed of mountain or carboniferous lime-
rock, and that this rock lies under all the workable beds of coal,
as is generally the case in Scotland, England, and Wales; and it
is inferred that this is the moutain-limestone.
   Organic Remains.--In the old alluvial cover which chiefly over-
lies the rocks of this parish, no organic remains of any kind have
been found. In the recent alluvial cover of the rocks formed by
the river Forth, they are found in the lower part of it, not only
very many large common oyster shells, but also the greater part
of those species of shells which are found in the sea near Leith,
inclding the shells of crabs, and also the bones and horns of deer.
   In the coal formation, there are immense quantities of impres-
sions of the vegetable kingdom, and of oysters, which naturalists
consider as belonging to the fresh-water class. These organic re-
mains are found chiefly in the coal slate, and in the bands and
balls of ironstone. In the sandstone the petrifactions are compa-
ratively rare, but they are in general found of a larger size than in
the other strata, and chiefly of the vegetable kingdom.
   The chief organic remains in this coal-field are of the following
classes:
   Animal.--Unio, a fresh water bivalve, also Mytilus, and other
molluses. Of fishes, remains of the genera Gyracanthus, Mega-
licthys, (the species Hibberti); also teeth, scales, and spines of
otherfishes. Coprolites found in nodules of iron clay stone.


