
                                REDGORTON.                           181

          formation,-was formerly the parish to which the barony of Hun-
          tingtower belonged.  Abbot Milne, in his History of the Bishops
          of Dunkeld, gives a curious account of the reason why that church
          was abandoned as the place of worship of the ancient family of
          Ruthven, to whom the barony of Huntingtower belonged, and
          who had their residence at that ancient castle, on the opposite
          side of the River Almond.  He tells us, "that a son of Lord
          Ruthven, having come to this church to be baptized, was drowned in
          the River Almond in returning home, and that from that time the
          church of St Mary's, at Tippermuir, became the parish church
          of the whole lands on that side of the river."
             But the lands whose history is most interesting are the lands
          of Benchill.  These lands were long the property of the Gowrie
          family, vho were generally provosts of Perth.  After the Gowrie
          conspiracy, they were forfeited to the Crown, along with the rest
          of the family property.  They subsequently came into the pos-
          session of the Arnots of Benchill, who also, for a long time, were
          provosts of Perth.  They next came into the possession of the
          family of Nairne, and after the Rebellion 1745, were a second time
          forfeited to the Crown, with the exception of Nether Benchill,
          which a few years before had been disponed to Graham of Bal-
          gowan, and concerning which a curious historical notice is given
          below.
             The Chief Land-Owners.-The principal landed proprietors
          are, Lord Lynedoch, who possesses two-thirds of the whole pa-
          rish; the Duke of Athole; Mr Smythe of Methven; and Sir J.
          Stewart of Murthly.
             Modern Buildings.-Almost the only modern building worthy
          of notice in the parish is the Chapel of Ease, now formed into
          the Ecclesiastical Church of Stanley.  It is a very handsome
          structure, with a tower 85 feet high on the northern end.  It is
          capable of containing 1000 bearers, and was erected at the ex-
          pense of L. 3000, laid out solely by Denniston, Buchanan, and
          Bompany, for the benefit of their work people ernployed at their
          extensive cotton-mills at Stanley.  Being situated on the top of
          a bank, of considerable elevation above the river, it forms an ob-
          ject of interest and ornament for a great district of country round it.
             There are also at present buildings, and nearly finished, a mill

          <FOOTNOTE>Presby, ordains him to mak his repentance ane day in the kirk of Ragortoun,
          on one Sonday afoimune, conforme to the ordinance set down in the buik of disci-
          pline anent, murtheris, quhilk be promises to do.


