
     of Shotts.

than in the country round the church.  An impenetrable till,
lying at the bottom of a thin spungy black soil, keeps the sur-
face generally moist; this, with the want of shelter from in-
closures, and belts of planting, renders the air more penetra-
ting and chill than in other parts of the country, even of
the same height, where these improvements have been so
happily introduced The inhabitants, however, of Shotts are
equally, if not more healthy, than those who live in a warm-
er climate*.  From the quantity of fuel with which people
of all ranks are here so plentifully supplied, dampness with-
in doors produces none of these rheumatic disorders, so pre-
valent in warmer climates, where this necessary article is,
from its expence, almost denied to the bulk of the people.
The renowned and immortal DR CULLEN, (who began his
career in this parish,) when talking upon this subject, used
to say that Shotts was the Montpelier of Scotland.
   Collieries.-By several late trials, connected with former
discoveries, it now appears, that the whole country along the
South side of the great road, from the confines of Whitburn
parish, is, for 10 miles West, and 6 South, all covered with
coal.  In the parish of Shotts, which occupies a considerable
part of this great space, there are 4 collieries.  The first of
these is Benhar, the property of Sir John Inglis of Cramond:
with this coal, which is of the best quality, the whole country
west of Edinburgh upon the great road is chiefly supplied;
nine miners have here constant employment.  These bring
annually from the pitt 12,000 carts, weighing each cart near-
ly 7 cwt.  The price at the hill, within these few years, has
risen from 1 s. to 18 d. a cart; the total annual product of
this work is 900 L. Sterling, of which sum, at 6 d. each cart,
     H 2

<FOOTNOTE>

*Within these 4 years, three old persons have died in the parish of Shotts;
the first, at his death, was entered into the 90th year of his age, the other in
the 92 d, and the third in the 88th year of his age.


