
                  596                          PERTHSHIRE.

  tartan, has given place to handloom cotton weaving.  The coarse
	woollen manufactory, desiderated in the last Statistic`l Account,
	has been set up and is useful.  The small whisky stills that con-
	sumed 1200 bolls of barley, have all been put down, and a large legal
	distillery performs their functions.  Wages are doubled, and pau-
	perism has increased fourfold.  The small old and ruinous parish
	church has been replabed by a commodious erection, and the
	chapel at Dundurn has been renewed and supplied with regular
	preaching.  The attendance at the Established Church has in-
	creased ; education has continued stationary in quantity, but greatly
  improved in quality ; the "Papists" have disappeared, and the
  "Antiburgber Seceders in the village," have become Voluntary
	Dissenters.
	  As to the improvements of which the parish is susceptible, a
	canal or railroad, chiefly for the import of coal and export of lime,
  slates, cotton goods, and farm produce, might, if practicable, benefit the parish.  A road to Loch-Tayside through Glen-Lednock would
	be advantageous.
	  If an endowment could be procured to supply the inhabitants
	of Lochearnside with an ordained and resident minister, and if
	at least one endowment were given for an additional school in the
	village of Comrie, and if the Dissenters could be persuaded to co-
	operate as brethren with the Established Church, and an endowment
	procured for their minister, so as that there might bd as formerly
  three endowed ministers freely chosen by their congregations, and
  three parishes each with a population of about 1000 souls,-tbe in-
	terests of religion, education, and morality would be greatly pro-
	moted in this large district, the pressing danger of compulsory pau-
	perism averted, sectarian and party bitterness wnuld be greatly re-
	moved, and while a better system of preparation for eternity would
	be thus instituted, present benefits of great value would, under the
  Divine Blessing, be largely reaped-according to the promise,
  "Seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and
	all other things shall be added to you."

         June 1838.


