
                  DUNOON AND KILMUN.                         597

station in two minutes, and whence a clear and extensive view of
the frith is commanded, both seaward from its entrance, and in-
wards uninterruptedly to the rock of Dumbarton. The spot cho-
sen would thus have suited the purposes of a modern military
picquet far better than Dunoon Castle, which, though commanding
the best seaward view of the frith, does not command the inland
view so far as to Dumbarton Castle.
   Dunoon Castle.-There is ample evidence on record of this castle
having been in existence in the twelfth century, when the influence
and power of the Scottish monarchy, properly so called, began to be
practically exercised in this portion of the Scottish dominions. But
we are inclined to ascribe to it an origin by many centuries earlier
than that period. Were we to follow conjecture, or to form a
theory founded upon tradition, language, and local usages,-not
always in inquiries of this kind without their value, we would assign
to this fortalice, as the probable latest date of its foundation, the
period of the Dalriadic colony obtaining possession or sovereignty
in Cowal in the sixth century. *

<FOOTNOTE>The uses of the word D-n, in the native language of Scotland, are sufficiently
well known. Nor can it be questioned, whatever may have been the origin of the
building or its remote date, the native language would so designate any defensive
erection as well as the rock itself. One theory of the etymology of Dunoon has been
already offered. But it may now be ventured, on grounds to be stated immediately,
to fix a particular signification to the word "aoidhean," here, i.e. strangers. With-
out any prejudice to the theory already submitted, it is considered that foundation
exists for supposing that "aoidhean," strangers, of a particular class, did at one time
obtain possession or mastery over this D-n. They have fixed, in local history and
usage, traces of themselves. While in the Scottish dialect of the Gaelic language, a
stronghold of this kind is called D-n; in the Irish dialect, the word M\u3r, or M\u3r,
has the same signification. Both the terms, no doubt, occur in ancient writings,
unquestionably Irish; but it in sufficiently known that the term M-r, for a fortress,
was never, so far as known, the appellative popularly used in Scotland. Another
word constantly occurring in Irish writings, and never, so far as known to us, in
the popular Scottish dialect of the Gaelic, is lann, signifying in the Irish dialect
any inclosure, such as a garden or field. And we cannot doubt but the term bord-
land, or borde-land, occurring in several charters connected with Dunoon, is derived
from, or rather in a corruption of the Celtic m-r-lann, the labial consonants m and b
continually interchanging even in the same language. This term bord-land is found
in charters, designating certain lands around Dunoon Castle, as in the charter
under the Great Seal, granted January 18, 1472, "to Colin Earl of Argyll, Lorne,
and Campbell, Master of our Housdhold, granting him the keeping of our Castle of
Dunoon, with power to appoint constables, janitors, jailors, and other officers for the
keeping of the said castle, "and granting and conceding "the lands of Bord--land and
their pertinents, extending to twenty-seven merks current coin of our realm." This
term appears to have puzzled certain of our Scottish antiquarian etymologists not a
little; whereas its meaning in Gaelic, or at least in the Irish dialect of that language,
is perfectly obvious,--M-r-lann, i.e. the enclosures or fields attached to the castle,
or appropriated to its more immediate uses. It also appears by similar evidence of
charters, that the same term was extended to designate a still wider range of lands
in and near Dunoon, than those meant in the particular charter cited. These lands
being held of the castle or its occupants, the occupiers of the lands would paturally
fall to be considered vassals. And what decides, to our apprehension, both the ety.


