
                         	GARTLY.	                                      99

   The average number of children in each family is nearly 3; the number of blind
in the parish, 2; of deaf and dumb, 1.
Number of families in the parish,                                             215
	           chiefly employed in agriculture,                           143
                               in trade, manufactures, or handicraft,          50
   During the last three years there have been 12 illegitimate births
in the parish.

                             IV.-INDUSTRY.

   Agriculture.- The parish contains about 14,627 Scotch acres, of
which 4325 are under cultivation, and 10,302 in pasture, wood,
moor, and moss. Many of the moors are well calculated for grow-
ing wood, and, were they planted, would tend not only to beautify
the country, but also to afford shelter and improve the climate.
The onl undivided common in the parish is the Malshach hill and
its adjoining moors, which are common to all the tenants in the
barony; but few of them avail themselves of this privilege, as the
pasture is rather poor.  A considerable part of the moor, however,
might be cultivated with advantage. The average rent of arable
land is about L. 1 Sterling per Scotch acre.
   Wages.-Men-servants receive from L. 5, 5s. to L. 6, 6s. in the
half-year; women for summer, from L. 2 to L, 3, and in winter
from L. 1, 5s. to L. 1, 15s.; herds from L. 1 to L. 2, all with victu-
als.  Country wrights, who go from house to house, receive from
1s. 3d. to 1s. 6d. a-day; masons are generally employed by the
rood, and their charge is from L. 1 to 1,. 1, 14s. per rood for plain
ruble work: staters charge from 12s. to 15s. per rood; blacksmiths,
when they afford material, charge from 4d. to 8d. per lb. for made
work, and 1s. a-day with victuals.
   Husbandry.-Since the introduction of turnip husbandry, cattle
have been much improved, and more attention than formerly is
now paid to the best breeds. The old Aberdeenshire breed cros-
sed by the Argyleshire is undoubtedly best suited for the district.
There are only a few fariners about the hill-sides who keep
sheep ; and it is not believed that there are above 1600 or 1800
sheep in the parish, which are generally of the black-faced kind.
The common duration of leases is nineteen years, which is consi-
dered as sufficiently favourable to the occupier. Much improvement.
has been recently made upon many of the farm-steadings, and a
considerable part of the waste land has been drained and improved.
In the year 1828, George Gordon, Esq. in Buchard, obtained the
Highland Society's honorary gold medal, for 160 acres of land im-
proved on that farm, during the seven preceding years. This gen-


