
     Statistical Account

threatening precipices, and numberless objects of the like
kind, but by far of much less magnitude.  Along the sides,
and stretched out from the base of these grand appearances,
are extensive tracts of heath and moss.  Such parts of these
tracts as are in some degree elevated, afford safe pasturing
ground for yell cattle.  Such as are low, overgrown with
soft and deep moss, quagmires here and there interspersed,
prove often fatal to quadrupeds of every kind; beneath all
these mountains, tracts of heath and deep moss, are narrow
glens, vallies, and small plains, beautified with little natu-
ral mounts, ridges, and hollows; all these are wholly green,
affording plentiful pasture, during summar and harvest, for
milk cows, some goat, and sheep.  By the close of harvest,
or beginning of November, cattle are sent to winterings*,
where they continue till the beginning of February or
thereby, at which time they are taken thence, housed, and
fed; the milk cows, in preference to all, are pastured
through the day, if possible, in the moors, or, if prevented by
one or more bad days, are supported sparingly within doors.
As to the lower part of this parish, called in Gaelic Fo-
Un.  Assint, the surface is much the same; it has its hills, etc.

<FOOTNOTE>

" Unt and Af-Unt, (i. e. freely translated), the man of peace, and the
" man of discord; that they, in days of old, fought for the mastery of
" Assint; that Unt was slain, of consequence the conqueror.  Af-Unt, gave
" his name to the parish."  And further," That imaginary spots, where
" the scene took place, was at Ry-an-Unt, a small plain on the farm of
" Little Assint, presently possessed by Lieutenant John Scobie."  But the
writer of this narrative fully convinced that Gaelic original names are de-
scriptive of what is most striking, or remarkably observable, has ventured
what is set forth, as above, rather than mere fable.

   *Certain grazing preserved during the whole three harvest months,
to which the cattle are sent, and continues there for the winter quarter
without being housed.


