
                            LUSS.                            157

remarkable for the great number of very old yews which are grow-
ing in it. It contains about 150 deer.  It is inhabited by one fa-
mily, who board persons that have been addicted to drinking. Inch-
tavanach,or Monk's Island, about three-quarters of a mile long,
lies not very distant from the west margin of the loch, between
Ross-dhu and the village of Luss. It is steep and mostly covered
with copse-wood. It is inhabited by one family, who farm part of
it, and admit as boarders persons given to intoxication. The sum-
mit of the island is called Tom-na-clag, the Bell Height or Crest,
because, according to tradition, the bell was here elevated, which
the holy occupants of this island. employed in summoning to
prayers the inhabitants of the two parishes of Luss and Inchcail-
liach. lnchconachati or Colquhoun's Island lies beyond Inchta-
vanach, and parallel to it on the north-east. It is not inhabited.
Inchmoan or Moss Island is but little elevated above the surface
of the lake. It lies to the south-east and south of the two last,
and is of considerable extent. It supplies the villagers with peat
for fuel, and is of little importance in other respects. Near this,
on the south, is Inch Galbraith, occupied only by a few trees, and
the ruins of an ancient castle, once the residence of a family, from
whom it has received its Dame. Inchfriechlan, shaggy (that is,
fern) Island, is a rock opposite the village of Luss. The other
islets included in this parish are of no note whatever.
   Lakes-From what has been already said of the rivulets of Luss,
it might be inferred that there is no deficiency of springs. Those
proceeding from rocks generally of clay, slate furnish, for the most
part, limpid and pure water. There is no lake in this parish or
adjoining to it except Loch Lomond, anciently called Lyncaledur
(i.e. the lake of the woody water) in one of the Roman itineraries;
-and this is the earliest mention of it. It did not receive its pre-
sent name till the fourteenth century, when it was thus named from
Ben Lomond. Lummon signifies a beacon in the British language,
and occurs elsewhere in Scotland, as well as in Wales. Its pre-
vious name was the lake of Leven, so called from the smoothness
of its waters. This lake being twenty-four miles long, extends
along the east of this parish for about a third of its whole length.
Its greatest breadth, which is nearly opposite Ross-dhu, is almost
eight miles. From Luss parish northward, Arrochar extends round
the one end of it, and Bonhill southwards round the other. Along
the eastem bank, lies Buchanan from the boundary of Arrochar
till it meets Kilmaronock at the influx of the Endrick,-which last


