
340                       BERWICKSHIRE.

parts of the parish, it is impossible to perceive the junction of the
trap and the sandstone, on account of the thick covering of soil.
   It may be mentioned, that in the strata of shale and indurated
marl below Edrington House, a few vegetable fossils have been found.
   Zoology.-There are no animals are, wild or tame, peculiar to the
parish. The rarer wild animals are, otters on the banks of the
Whitadder, wild ducks on the high grounds, and herons. Foxes
abound in the lower parts of the parish on the Edrington estate,
and badgers are met with among the sea rocks. The common
kinds of game, as hare, partridge, black-cock, dotterel, and wood-
cock, are plentiful. These last are sometimes found in the early
part of the season, weak and exhausted, probably by their long
flight across the German Ocean. Brown and silver pheasants are
occasionally found in the woods of Edrington.
   This coast has long been famed for white fish, every variety of
which is to be found on it, and is sent chiefly to the Edinburgh
market by sea. Cod, ling, and haddock are the most common
kinds. Salmon are also found on the coast, and have been fished
with bag-nets. There are no oysters nor muscles; but lobsters
and crabs are plentiful; the former are sold chiefly for the Lon-
don market to smacks which pass the coast at stated intervals.
The Whitadder contains trout and salmon, which ascend the river
in spawning time.
   Botany.-For the more common plants in this as in the adjoin-
ing parishes, the reader is referred to the "Flora of Berwick-
on-Tweed," by Dr Johnston. The following habitats of some
rarer plants additional to those given in the Flora may be men-
tioned; Fedia olitoria, found by Mr Carr, surgeon, Ayton, in
the ravine above Ross: Parietaria officinalis, on the side of the
old aisle of the former church, in front of Mordington House, by
the same: Rosa rubiginosa, on the sea banks half way between
Ross and Lamberton Sheills, a single shrub, but perfectly wild, by
Dr Johnston: Senecio tenuifolius, in the lane between Edrington
and Cocklaw. *
                          II.-CIVIL HISTORY.

   Antiquities.-The church or chapel of Lamberton, which was
either at one time a parish church, or, as seems more probable, a
chapel of ease to Ayton, and an adjunct of the Abbey of Cold-
ingham, is celebrated as having been the place where King

<FOOTNOTE>Dr Johnston, although very extensively employed as a medical practitioner, finds
leisure to cultivate, and with eminent success, several departments of natural history.


