
     Statistical Account

   Scarcely any part of this parish is enclosed, but what is in
the immediate possession of the principal landholder.  The
farms are, in general, rather small, and rent from 60 L. down
as low as 6 L.  I do not mean that they are small in point of
extent.  If all the grounds in every farm were improved, that
are capable of improvement, several of the farms would be

<FOOTNOTE>

much the appearance of winter as it does in the end of December, after a fall
of snow.  I was informed, upon good authority, that the hail, at the foot of the
wall of Castle Fraser, which is in the parish of Cluny, measured 5 feet in depth
on the evening of the 30th.  It lay there, and in many other places in this
neighbourhood, for several days.  It did not occur to any body to measure or
weigh the hail-stones; so that I cannot say any thing particular respecting the
size of them.  After the thunder and lightning ceased, the hail was succeded
by small drizzling rain, which continued to 6 o'clock in the afternoon.  All end-
ed at night in a most intense frost, attended by a mildew, which blasted almost
every thing which the lightning and hail had spared.  The bear and oats being
in the ear, and the most forward of them beginning to fill, a great deal of the
grain was knocked from the ear by the hail On the first clear day after the
storm, the bear began to put on a brown colour, and in less than a week, the
ears were almost all white.  The straw continued green and juicy, till it was
cut down on harvest, and proved excellent food for the cattle.  I remarked,
that some grains in the blasted ears continued to vegetate after the storm, and
came to perfection.  But they were very few.  To give some idea of the general
failure of our bear crop, in consequence of this storm, I must state, that from a
small field of something more than half an acre, which I had limed and dressed
with turnips in 1789, I reaped not quite half a peck of bear in 1790.  The oats
not being so far advanced as the bear, suffered less.  But, in general, it was es-
timated that we lost at least three-fourths of our crop of oats. The potatoes
likewise failed, the stems having been first shattered by the hail, and then en-
tirely destroyed by the succeeding frost.  Some Surinam potatoes, which I had
planted that season, did, indeed, put forth again with great vigour; but it was
too late.  The cabbages, greens, turnips, and all broad leaved vegetables, were
much torn, and consequently checked in their growth.  The grass, both natu-
ral and artificial, was greatly damaged.  In a word, every vegetable suffered by
the ravages of this destructive storm.  Yet as they did not extend over a space
above 24 or 26 miles in circumference, we felt none of the the hardships of scarcity.
Grain was to be got in great plenty in our neighbourhood, and at a moderate
price.  No lives were lost by the storm.


