
   334                           BANFFSHIRE.

   perial acre.  The rents of the small lots, occupied by the town's
   people, are higher than could be obtained for land in a different
   locality, and let in farms; but land such as that in this parish
   would be valuable in any situation, being for the most part
   a rich deep loam of fine quality, a description which, with slight
   exceptions, is applicable to the other arable lands of the parish.
   In the more elevated parts, the soil is incumbent on gravel.  Here
   it is comparatively thin, but sharp and productive.    The greater
   part, however, has a subsoil of clay, which, in some places, renders
   the land wet, where the evil has not been remedied by drainage.
   A small portion of the arable land towards the south end of the
   parish, occupied by the town's people, is a poor stiff clay soil;
   and port of the farm of Seafield, on the high grounds adjoining the
   moor, chiefly ground which has been reclaimed from waste, is ex-
   tremely light and thin.  But, with these exceptions, the arable
   land of the parish is of very superior quality, and the climate, be-
   ing good, it produces abundant crops of wheat, barley, oats, pota-
   toes, and turnips ; and it is particularly noted for yielding fine
   grass. The large quantity of fish offals, procured as manure from
   the fishing village of Cullen, and the other fishing stations in the
   neighbourbood, tends much to the fertility of this and several ad-
   joining parishes.  The inhabitants of Cullen generally follow a
   short rotation of crops, with a view to having a considerable por-
   tion of their lands in green crops, for the keep of their cows.  On
   the farms five and six shift courses are the rotations adopted.
     The only cattle kept by the town's people are cows.  These
   are, for the most part, of the common breed of Banffshire, and
   are selected chiefly with a view to their qualities as milchers.  The
   bredd of cattle on the farms is a cross between the Banffshire
   and Teeswater breeds.  This cross was introduced into the pa-
   rish about thirteen years ago, and has been attended with advan-
   tage to the farmers, more particularly of late years, since the ship-
   ping of cattle from the neighbouring port of Banff, for London
   and other places in the south, has given encouragement for high
   feeding; these crosses being found to take on fat more quickly, and
   to arrive earlier at maturity than the old breed of the county, al-
   though not so well fitted for the former state of the markets, when
   the cattle were sold to drovers, and had to perform a long over-
   land journey to the southern fairs.  The sheep kept on tbe pasture
   of Seafield farm are of the Cheviot breed, but the range for them
   is consider too small, to admit of their being turned to great ad-


