
          		LISMORE AND APPIN.		     243

centre, into which an upright slab was put down and so made to
stand.  It was at this cross, that marriage banns used to be pub-
lished, and the custom was continued until about twenty or thirty
years ago. The friends of both parties assembled at the cross,
to the number of perhaps forty or fifty people, on Sabbath morn-
ing, and it did not signify whether there was a sermon in the
church or not the clerk issued the proclamations amid the huz-
zas of the company, after which they all retired to the public-
house, and spent the remaining part of the day in drinking, and
frequently concluded the scene with a battle.  Happily the last
incumbent succeeded in abolishing this unseemly practice, and
the cross of Lismore is now only a name. Near the cross there
was, at some remote period, a small church or chapel built; and
close to the place where it stood, there were dug out of a
grave, about nine years age a pair of brazen candlesticks, of
plain workmanship, and in good preservation, and as they were
found by some of Lochnell's tenants, they were carried to loch-
nell House in the parish of Ardchattan.  In a piece of new trench-
ed ground near the church, there were found, within the last few
weeks, two silver coins ; the one is about the breadth of a four-
penny piece of the present day, but very thin.  On, the one side
there is a cross, formed by lines intersecting one another at right
angles at the centre, and extending to the rim, and the point of
intersection is the centre of a circle smaller than the coin, and
formed, as it were, of a string of beads.  On the reverse there is
a smaller circle enclosing a head wearing a crown, and on the
space between the circumference of these circles and the edge
of the coin there are some characters, but so much corroded
that it is impossible to decypher them.  The other coin is
nearly similar, but larger than a sixpence, and the head on it wears
a large wig under the crown.  There were also found some cop-
per pins resembling small skewers, and a small copper key, ex-
ceedingly simple and of a very rude form, and a stone needle
about four inches long and four-sided; the eye is quite entire and
considerably worn, as it would appear, by the thread.  These
things are now in the ministees possession.  There were also
found among the trenches, querns, grindstones, and pieces of red
deer's horns, and along a certain line  there were spikes of black
oak about the shape and size of a ploughshare driven  headlong into
the earth at about three yards distance from one another.  There,


