
946                  GENERAL OBSERVATIONS

the Pentlands.  These hills present an interesting field to the stu-
dent of geology, particularly as connected with the mineralogy of the
county in general.  According to the scientific view given by Mr
Patrick, to whose able accounts of several of the parishes in this
and some of the neighbouring counties this work is so greatly in-
debted, " if we take the granite rocks of Galloway as the base, we
have superincumbent upon them, 1. the greywacke of Leadhills
and Wanlockbead," and he might have added of the mountain range
in general to the south, south-west, and south-east of the county;
" 2. the red sandstone over which the Clyde is precipitated at Lanark;
and 3. the coal formation of the Middle and Lower Wards, con-
sisting of bituminous shale, coal, grey limestone, grey sandstone and
clay ironstone, thus affording a beautiful illustration of the transi-
tion and carboniferous epochs."
   In the high regions of Leadhills and the vicinity, the sterility
of the surface is compensated by the precious minerals which
the earth contains in her bosom.  Rich veins of lead, which have
been wrought for centuries, still yield annually about 700 tons.
Silver is contained in the lead, but in too small quantity to
repay the expense of extracting it.  Gold is found disseminat-
ed in minute particles through the till or clay nearest the
rocks, and also occasionally interspersed in quartz.  The search
for this precious metal was at one time conducted on an extensive
scale.  James V. employed miners from Germany in this work,
and had the gold thus procured, which was of very fine quality,
wrought out into an elegant coin, bearing an effigies of himself,
wearing a bonnet, and thence called the bonnet-piece.  Copper
ore has likewise been found here, and a vein of antimony was dis-
covered towards the close of the last century.  In the mineral dis-
trict of Leadhills, which occupies a space of about three miles in
length by two and a half in breadth, the strata of greywacke and
greywacke slate are associated with transition clay-slate, in a verti-
cal position, through which the metalliferous veins pass.  A basaltic
vein, from 50 to 60 yards in breadth, crosses from east to west, pre-
senting detached masses on the surface, which have in many instan-
ces a pentagonal form.  A thick and vertical bed of flinty slate, de-
generating on each side into a clayey substances and through which
the metallic veins do not penetrate, occurs also among those transi-
tion rocks, and points north-west and south-east.  Irregular beds
and masses ot felspar rock are likewise to be met with.  The
principal lead veins run southeast and north-west with a dip to the


