
     of Urrray.

excise officer resides in the parish, but no physician, sur-
geon*, or man of the law.-There are no instances of un-
common longevity.  There are many vigorous men of 70,
and a very few turned of 80, but none who have reached 90.

   Heritors and Rent.-There are 11 proprietors in the parish,
of whom 3 have their seats in other parishes, and 8 in this.
Of these last, 4 only reside constantly, and 4 occasionally.
Brahan Castle is in this parish, the principal residence of Mr
Mackenzie of Seaforth.-The valued rent is 2574 L. 8 s.
Scotch.  The real rent approaches to 2000 L. Sterling.  Few
of the estates have been measured.  From a gross computa-
tion from the quantity of seed sown, the average rent will be
about 10 s. an acre.  The greater part of the rent is reckon-
ed in barley and oat-meal.  Few, however, choose to pay in
kind.  Hence the rent varies as the price of victual rises or
falls.  Some proprietors, of late, have passed from payment
in kind for a fixed rent in money.  The proprietors who
live in the parish occupy land of the annual value of 500 L.
Sterling.  Their families, including servants and labourers,
do not exceed 80 persons.  Hence there are about 1800
persons to be maintained on the produce of 1500 L.'s worth
of land, besides paying that rum as rent.

<FOOTNOTE>

*There being no villages, and few mechanics who follow
sedentary employments, the people work in the open air, and
are, in general, lively and healthy; except when infectious dif-
tempers occur, as happened in the year 1789, when a putrid
fever was introduced into a poor family; whence, as from a
centre, it spread through this and the neighbouring parishes,
thence to the west coast, and at last to the Hebrides, marking
its progress with dreadful havoc.  The gentry inoculate their
children for the small-pox with success, but the great body of
the people have not surmounted their religious prejudices against
that innovation.  The gout and gravel are not known.  Rheu-
matisms are frequent, for which they apply strong spirits to the
part affected.


