
			OLD MONKLAND.				653

bounded on the west by the Longmuir road, onward to the canal
at Cuilhill, and from thence to Whitehill, near the parish of
Cadder.

<TABLE>
            Total males and females,   .   1182
            Under 7 years of age,     .     292
                  12 years of age,	  .     438

   3. That part of the parish included within a line beginning at
the south-east corner of the narrow parish road opposite Breadies-
holm gateway, crossing the turnpike near Rhins, onwards to Seving
Bridge, round by Netherhouse, Commonhead, Cuilhill, Long-
muir, Dykehead, and terminating with Mainhill.  Also all within
a line beginning at Bailiestone Toll, including all on the west of the
road, which leads from Bailiestone Toll towards the banal, and all
on the south side of the canal to the western extremity of the pa-
rish, near Glenduffhill, and all on the north of the Edinburgh road
from Barrachine to Bailiestone Toll.

<TABLE>
            Total males and females,   .     1009
            Under 7 years of age,   .         278
                  12 years of age,	    .     412

   4. This district is bounded on the south, by Dundyvan or Lug-
gie Burn (except one house south side of it); on the north, by the
Glasgow and Edinburgh road from the east, and of Coats Bridge to
the west end of Langlone ; on the east, by the lands of Coats and
Dundyvan Canal cut; and on the west, by the mill or church road.
In this district fourteen new houses were inhabited between the
time that this census was begun and concluded.

<TABLE>
                Total males and females,  .    1943
                Under 7 years of age, 	 .      435
                      12 years of age,     .    633

   5. This district includes all to the east of Blair Bridge road, on
to where the Kirkintilloch Railway joins the parish of Cadder; and
all from Blair Bridge road to the north of Edinburgh road, on to
Coats west gate, and all on the west of a line drawn from Coats
House, on to where the railway joins the New Monkland parish.

<TABLE>
            Total males and females,   .   1928
            Under 7 years of age,     .     527
                  12 years of age,     .    753

   6. This district includes all to the east of a line from Coats
House to Luggie Water near Dundyvan iron-works, to the south of
Luggie Water or to Langlone Mill Bridge, to the east of the road
from Luggie Mill Bridge, onward to Old Monkland Kirk, and in a
line due south to the Calder, and all to north of the Calder, from
that point to the eastern extremity of the parish.

<TABLE>
                Total males and females,   .   1751
                Under 7 years of age,     .     447
                      12 years of age,      .   569


