
     Statistical Account

   Soil and Appearance.-The parish of Dundonald present as
great variety in point of Soil and external appearance as is to
be met with in any part of the kingdom.  The Claven hills
and Shoualton moss, which lies immediately under them to
the north, divide it almost into two equal parts; upper and
lower.  The former being inland, is, in general, of a fertile
clay, though some farms are more inclined to a loamy, and
two or three to a light texture.  This part of the parish con-
sists of gentle eminences, adorned with clumps and belts of
planting.  The lower part, between the hills and the sea, is
very flat.  Some barren sandy hillocks are to be seen in dif-
ferent places by the shore.  Cutting the bent, which grows
upon them, no doubt, adds to their barrenness, and renders
them a better sport to the winds.  However, there is a great
extent of arable, and especially of good pasture, ground near
the sea, and particularly about the Troone.  Half a mile in-
ward, and along the skirts of the hills, is a mixed soil of ex-
cellent quality; very proper for culture, and which, after re-
gular tillage, runs immediately into rich grass.
   The Claven hills consist of various heights, and extend a-
bout three miles from south-east to north-west, and a mile
and an half from north-east to south-west.  Many of these
heights are arable, all of them afford pasture, and some
of them have their shelving sides ornamented with oak, ash,
birch, alder, hazle, etc.  None of them are so elevated as
to require critical measurement, or comparison with many
hills in the county of Ayr, yet they have long been distin-
guished by particular names.  The two highest are stiled the
Lamont and Warley hills.  Perhaps the latter, which over-
tops the rest, is a corruption for warlike; the lines of two
encampments being still distinct upon it.  These are usually
designed Roman encampments, though their form appears
sufficiently to confute that designation.  The largest contains,
within a circular embarkment of loose stones and earth, ten


