
			AYR.                                   67

as well as the county generally, both in the way of trade and tra-
velling. *
	Ecclesiastical State.--Ayr has been a collegiate charge since the
days of Queen Mary, who made provision for a second minister.
As to the junction of Alloway parish, there is almost nothing dis-
tinctly known, in regard to the mode or the terms by which it was ef-
fected; there being little or nothing mentioned about it in the records
of the town about that time, nor in those of the kirk-session. We
have already stated that it took place about the end of the seven-
teenth century, and that the stipend, amounting only to L. 32,
with the teind all exhausted, was divided equally betwixt the two
ministers of Ayr. The glebe was annexed to the second charge,
for no other reason that can be discovered, than that the first liv-
ing had been previously provided with one. This glebe was feued
along with the lands of Alloway, by the magistrates, with the con-
sent of the presbytery, and yields only the yearly sum of L. 3, 6s. 8d.
there having been no more than the statutory extent. No provi-
sion seems to have been made, as in some other junctions of a simi-
lar kind, for having divine service performed at Alloway, and indeed
there was little cause, the distance from Ayr to where the old
church stands being little more than two miles. The same rea-
son as to distance, however, would apply still more forcibly as to
the union of Monkton and Prestwick, when it was stipulated to
have public worship performed at the latter place every third Sab-
bath, though the distance betwixt them is scarcely a mile. But
the case was very different with respect to Ayr, where the magis-
trates were the only party having power in the matter; whereas in,
the other case, there were different bodies treat with. But, in
fact, it is impossible to say whether there had been any thing of
this kind stipulated for or not, as the decree of annexation by the
Court of Teinds has either been lost, or purposely withheld, since
no such deed could ever be made forthcoming. We have heard
that the Ayr ministers continued to preach in Alloway, every third
Sabbath, for some time after the union of the parishes; but whe-
ther this was voluntary, or by positive stipulation, cannot now be
ascertained. If the latter had been the case, it is not likely that
the practice could have been so easily relinquished. For a long
period after the junction, the old church of Ayr seems to have been
perfectly adequate to accommodate the whole population of the

<FOOTNOTE>The Bill has been passed by the House of Commons, and is now in progress
through the Upper House, since the above was written.


