
			LUNDIE AND FOWLIS.               463

a while, has fallen off. But both the one and the other can
be satisfactorily accounted for. Both districts of the parish are
wholly agricultural, and the fluctuation in the populations depends
on the greater or smaller number employed on the cultivation of
the soil. Now Fowlis was one of those places where agricultural
improvements took place at an early period, and it was long what
is termed a grain district, requiring, of course, at all seasons of
the year, many labourers. Of late the fall in the price of grain,
and the comparative increase in the price of cattle, have caused a
change in the mode of management, and a much greater propor-
tion of grass, and thus considerably fewer hands work the farms,
and the labourers, no longer employed, have removed elsewhere,
and hence the decrease.
	In Lundie, again, from the extensive existence of liferent leases,
and other causes at an earlier period, improvement was late in
commencing. Recently, it has gone on with much spirit;-a great
demand has existed for manual labour, and hence the population
has increased.
	Like most districts of Scotland, where the population is wholly.
agricultural, the people are quiet, orderly, and religious generally
contented with their situation and circumstances, which are steadi-
ly improvhnf, and happily free to a great extent from the spirit of
discontent, and the habits of low debauchery which threaten to
uproot society in most of our large towns and manufacturing vil-
lages. In many instances the inhabitants show a strong attach-
ment to the place; and some famihes, both of farmers and cot-
tars, can trace an unbroken connection with Lundie for more than
two hundred years.
	There are no resident proprietors, nor any prospect of their be-
coming such. Nor are we aware of any great change in the con-
dition of the parish likely soon to arise, unless advantage shall be
taken of some waterfalls in both districts to introduce manufac-
tures. But to this all concerned seem at present to have a well-
founded aversion.
                        IV.-INDUSTRY.
        Rent.-The valued rent of Lundie is L. 1540, and of Fowlis,
L. 1640; total, L. 3180. The real rent of the former, about
L.2400, and of the latter, L.3100; * total L.5500. This is about
the present average; but the exact sum fluctuates, owing to the
rent being in part or wholly regulated by the price of grain.

<FOOTNOTE>A few Years ago the rental of Fowlis was L.4500. The decrease arises from
grain rents.

	FORFAR.                                     H h


