
     of Kenethmont.

   Antiquities.-There is a barrow, or cairn of stones, which
has never been opened, on Old Glanderston, a farm be-
longing to Mr Gordon; a Druidical temple on Ardlair, a
farm of Colonel Hay's, another less complete on Cults, and
two or three stones in a leaning position on the lands of
Craighall, said to be recorded in the presbytery books of
Alford.  The only other article is the stone alluded to a-
bove, commonly called Kenneth's grave-stone.  The tradi- 
tion of the parish is, that this stone, which in shape resem-
bles a coffin, was removed from the church yard gate, (the
grave of one of the Kenneths), into the church, where it
now lies, by a family of the name of Gordon*.

   Fairs.-The proprietor of Rannes has a title to two an-
nual fairs, one at Kirkhall in October for cattle, timber,
and merchant goods, and the other at Christ's Kirk in the 
month of May.  This fair was kept on the Green, and in
the night; hence it was by the people called Sleepy-mar-
ket.  About 35 or 36 years ago, the proprietor changed it
from night to day; but so strong was the prepossession of
the people in favour of the old custom, that rather than
comply withh the alteration, they chose to neglect it alto-
gether+.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Its dimensions are, length 6 feet 2 inches; breadth at the head, 22
inches, and depth 15 inches.  There is a shield on it, on one quarter of
which a boar's head is visible.  Under the shield are the initials H. G. in
large capitals; and under them a mort-head, saud-glass, bones, and cof-
fin.  Then there is a cross with I. H. S.; and below all, the date 1685.
   +The name of this place naturally enough brings to recollection, the
celebrated ballad of Christ's Kirk on the Green, commonly ascribed to
James I. King of scotland.  The scene of it never has been ascertained 
with any degreee of precision.  Christ's Kirk, in my apprehension, has no
small claim to that honour.  It is well known, that James visited the most
distant parts of his kingdom, to hear complaints and redress grievan-
ces.  And it is not impossible, nor even very improbable, that, in his


