
               SOUTH KNAPDALE.                            259

in many parts are impassable, and even the smallest assumes a
formidable appearance.  Most of them afford some amusement
to the angler, but the best trouting streams are the Ormsary and
Lochhead rivers.  Such of them as pass in the direction of the
principal roads, have bridges thrown over them.
   Lochcaolisport is an arm of the Atlantic, which intersects the
western part of the parish for five or six miles.  The western
shore of the loch is bold, abrupt, and rocky; the eastern side rises
gradually from the water's edge ; and both side's are richly clothed
with copsewood.  There are several beautiful bays in the loch,
which afford safe anchorage.  The best anchorage, however, is at
the head of the loch, within Ellanfada.  This island affords shel-
ter from the heavy swells occasioned by the south-west gales.
From the northern blast, the anchorage is protected by the am-
phitheatre of hills which surround the head of the loch.  The
water is shallow, and the beach extends a considerable distance
from high-water mark, and is still receding.  This appears from a
stratum of shell-land, which is met with in the glebe about two feet
under the surface.  The same stratum is distinctly seen on the
banks of the Lochhead river.  By an artificial embankment, a
considerable addition might be made to the arable lands of Balla-
gheamhragan, and Clachbreck, the properties of Mr Campbell of
Ormsary and Mr Campbell of Kilberry respectively.  There are
several islets in the loch and on the coast off the point of Knap,-
Ellan-fada, already mentioned, Ellan-na-muick, and Lea-Ellan.
Close to thd point of Knap, there is a rock, on which the M'Mil-
lan's charter to the lands of Knap is said to have been engraved
in Celtic characters.  Of this no trace now remains, nor do the
M'Millans possess any part of the lands of Knap.  To the south-
west of the point of Knap, there is a dangerous sunk rock called
Bow-Knap, the top of which is seen at low-water during spring-
tides.  Near the coast, on the northwest side, is Ellan-na-leek.
All these are the property of Duncan Campbell, Esq. of Ross.
There are also Ellan-more, Ellan-na-gamhna, and Core-Ellan,
the property of Neil Malcolm, Esq. of Poltalloch.  All these
islands are famed for the quality of the beef and mutton produced
by them.  In this loch, a great variety of fish is caught, viz. sal-
mon, trout, haddock, whiting, sethe, ling, skate, turbot, hallibut,
flounders, sole, &c.  The John Dory is occasionally caught in it.
Formerly herrings regularly frequented the loch, but, for some
years part, they have mostly deserted it.  When they do appear,


