
 472 			  PERTHSHIRE.

or the higher dainties of tea and sugar with which not a few con-
trive to regale themselves. I believe little or no poaching of any
kind takes place in the parish; and it is the same as to smuggling,
though it is spoken of as a practice which was at one time very
common. Independently of what many families import themselves,
there are, within the parish for the convenience of the public, ten
small retail shops, where such articles as tea, sugar, tobacco, snuff,
oil, cutlery, woollen, linen, cotton, and even silk stuffs, may at any
time be procured. And, as if all this were not enough, two rival
bakers from Aberfeldie penetrate, twice a-week upon an average,
a considerable way into the parish with well-stored carts, to sup-
plant our oaten cakes by the substitution of the luxury of wheaten
bread.

                          IV.-INDUSTRY.
  Agriculture.-As this is confessedly the most important, so is it
the most difficult part of our Statistical task. There are no ac-
curate plans or maps of the parish to aid us in our calculations;
neither has the land hitherto been let at a specific rate per acre.
In the statements, therefore, about to be made, whether regard-
ing the extent of ground in tillage, or but occasionally so, or re-
garding the annual amount and value of, live-stock and produce,
we must be considered as presenting only approximations to the
truth.
  The soil, the primary source of wealth all the world over,
may be described as being, in general, a light brownish loam with
a slight mixture of clay; such a loam as appears when hazel, birch,
and the sort of underwood usually associated with these, have been
grubbed out, and which has never been either richly or skilfully
medicated with manure. "The hilly land," according to the
statement of my predecessor, "chiefly consists of a light mossy
kind of soil, which naturally is not unfriendly to vegetation. Heath,
bent, and coarse grasses are the general product of the hills and
muirs; but the vallies, and water-carried soils in the glens, &c.
produce good, crops of excellent grasses." To the enumeration of
the articles of produce mentioned in that Account,  I have to add
the cultivation of turnips and sown grasses: a part of husbandry
attended to, more and more every year. It may safely be said,
that there cannot, with a profitable application of capital, be made
much addition, if indeed any, to the existing cultivated land.
  The error here rather is to toil on, from year to year, trying to
keep in tillage a great deal of land manifestly unfit for that pur-



