
122			     AYRSHIRE.

small brick, stones, or tile has come into general use. On the state
of Blackhouse, above 15,000 falls of drains of various descriptions
have been laid within the last two years. The expense is incurred
by the proprietors, who indemnify themselves by a small addiotional
rent, or receive assistance from the tennants in the leading of the
materials.
   The lease of land are generally for nineteen years. On the
estate of Auchencruive, the tenants are rarely changed, and the
proprietors seeks rather to retain men of spirit and industry, and to
enable them to cultivate the land with success, than to let the farm
to the highest bidder. The farm-building in the whole of the pa-
rish are commodious and in good repair; and the thorn hedges,
which form the enclosure are kept, and have been gradually
improving by the practice which prevails of dressing them when
green, with the hedge-hook, in the month of August.
   Quarries.--There are several quarries of excellent freestone in
the parish, and three coal-pits constantly worked, which produce
coal of good quality.
   Produce.--The amount of raw produce raised in the parish may
be stated as follows;

<TABLE>
produce of grain of all kinds, being 480 acres of wheat at L. 11, and
  566 acres pf oats at L. 8, 10s. per acre,                          L. 10091  0  0
Green crop,                                                              4704  0  0
Hay,                                                                     1150  0  0
Land in pasture at L. 2 per acre,                                        3018  0  0
Gardens and orchards,                                                     100  0  0
Thinning and filling of wood,                                            1130  0  0
Produce of coal mines and quarries,                                      3405  0  0

                                                                      L.23598  0  0
   In the above statements grass lands are estimated at too low a
rate, as they actually produce much more with dairy stock than if
they were employed in grazing at the usual rate of cattle. It is
difficult, however, to render this part of the estimate more accurate,
as the produce of the dairy stock arises also from the consumption
of turnip, carrot, pntatoes, &c, which are already valued sepa-
rately.

      V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
  Market-town.-The whole of the parish being near to Ayr, and
the most populous part of it forming a suburb of that town, it en-
joys the advantage of a convenient market for all commodities, and
of a daily post. The thriving village of Whitelets is situated a mile
and a-half from Ayr, and the roads from Ayr to Mauchline and to
Galston, which are kept in excellent repair, pass through the whole


