
     of Kilmaurs.

has some strength*.  The length of this parish from E. to
W. is 6, and the greatest breadth from N. to S. 3 miles.

     Rivulets, etc.-A rivulet, which rises in Fenwick, and
running the whole length of the parish from E. to W.
divides it nearly into two equal parts.  This rivulet has
several names given to it, taken from the most remark-
able places through which it passes.  Here it is known
by the name of Kilmaurs water.  A little lower it is call-
ed Carmel, which it retains, till it loses itself in the Irvine.
In its course, two mills belonging to the parish are sup-
plied, but in the drought of summer, and frost off winter,
it becomes almost dry; a circumstance which deprives this
part of the country of the advantages from machinery, ap-
plied to the spinning of cotton by water.  The inhabitants
of Kilmaurs town might find in it a sufficient quantity to
answer the purposes of bleaching thread, and it is surpri-
sing, that some of them have not turned their attention to
this article.  It produces some trout and eel.  The Irvine

<FOOTNOTE>

*A small figure of a man, cut on one side of a stone cube, and
placed in a notch made in a wall of the church, was found by the ma-
sons employed in making repairs, and which, in contempt of Poperv,
perhaps had been plastered up at the introduction of Episcopacy.  This
figure is in a fitting posture, dressed in a robe or cassock, which is tucked
up before as far as the knees, leaving the legs and feet naked.  The hands
appear from under the folds of the robe, holding something like a mace,
which is carried as high as the head, resting upon the right breast and
shoulder.  The head is covered with a cap or hood, resembling a coro-
net, having 2 crescents in front.  The beard is long, and falls in ng-
lets on the breast.  When the practices of superstition and idolatry are
considered, into which former ages had fallen, we are led to conclude
that this can be nothing else but the image of the person, in honour of
whom the church and parish have their name.  As power and influence
command adulation, so there is reason to believe that this Saint had been
eminent, when such a tribute of homage was paid to him.  It is said that
the order was Cistertian; an order which became so powerful, that they
governed almost all Europe, both in spirituals and temporals.


