
138                           PEEBLES-SHIRE.

days  being frequently appointed to avert the impending calamity;
and  the Sabbath day itself was often set apart for that purpose.
Intimations are given from the pulpit to the militia to meet at cer-
tain places of rendezvous, and thence to proceed to the Scotch
army, wherever it may be at the time. After the defeat of the en-
gagers under the Duke of Hamilton, I find that Sir Michael Na-
smith in Drochil appeared before the kirk-session, and upon his
knees confessed his conviction of the sinfulness and unlawfulness of
the late engagement, whereupon he was again received into the So-
lemn League and Covenant. During Cromwell's administration,
the session seems to have kept remarkably quiet. After the Resto-
ration, and during the persecution of the Covenanters, great anxiety
seems manifested against any persons being received into the parish
without sufficient testimonials, attesting, it may be presumed, that
they did not attend conventicles; And great alarm is also expres-
sed when a placard was found affixed to the church threatening re-
taliation on the part of the persecuted. The session seems to have
assumed great censorial powers, and informations were listened to
and sought after in regard to the slightest irregularities, which were
made matter of impeachment and judicial trial, with citation and
examination of witnesses, so that discipline seems to have been
strict in the parish. The session record is not now so voluminous;
no record is kept of scandals, nor of marriages, nor deaths; and
even that of births is not completely regular, there being no suffi-
cient compulsitor to enforce registration.
			III.-POPULATION.

		In 1801, the population was          950
		   1811,     -    -                 1163
		   1821,     -    -                 1041
		   1831,     -    -                 1078

	Number of families in the parish,      -     -    -    -     205
	  of families chiefly employed in agriculture,    -    -     109
		in trade, manufactures, and handicraft,               38
	  of other families,   -       -        -    -    -    -      58
    There are 2 fatuous persons, and 1 deaf and dumb in the pa-
rish.
    During the last three years there have been six illegitimate births
in the parish.
				IV.-INDUSTRY.
		Agriculture and Rural Economy.-

		    Land now or occasionally in tillage,   -  3341 acres.
	            Never cultivated,  -     -     -       -  7659
		    In undivided common,     -     -       -     0
		    Under wood,        -     -     -       -    337


