
 94                            EDINBURGHSHIRE.

   Habits and Character of the People.-The habits of the peo-
ple are cleanly rather than otherwise, and there is an increas-
ing taste among them for flower-plots, shrubs, and other means
of beautifying, the exterior of their cottages.  The food of the
peasantry is generally vegetable and farinaceous, butcher-meat
being used but occasionally, in which case it-is boiled with broth
for dinner.  Enjoying few of the luxuries of life, the people are in
general contented, as they are industrious, honest in their dealings,
civil, respectful, and obliging in their manners.  The cutting of
the Canal had at one time a very injurious effect upon the charac-
ter of the population, from the scenes of riot and dissipation among
the Irish labourers, of which the village was the centre, and after
the work was finished, from the number of Irish who took up their
residence it.  But time has produced a marked change to the
better.  Most of the families who at first settled have departed,
and those 1hat remain have come under the humanizing influence
of good neighbourhood and Protestant institutions.  Still, however,
there is room for improvement with not a few on the score of in-
temperance, which is the crying evil among the Scottish population.

                         IV.-INDUSTRY.
   The parish of Ratho may be regarded as entirely agricultural,
there being only a few families who are not either directly or in-
directly dependent for their subsistence upon the cultivation of the
soil.
   The followingly may be regarded as a close approximation to
truth in reference to the condition of the land.
   Number of acres, standard imperial, measure, which are either cultivated or
      occasionally in tillage,        .           .        .       .   4978
   The number of acres which remain constantly in pasture, .       .    444
   Number under wood,		      .           .        .       .	396
                                                                       ____
                                                         In all,       5818

   Rent of Land.-The rent of land varies from 15s. to L.4, 10s.
and will on an average to L.2, 12s. per Scotch acre.  Rents,
it may be remarked, have fallen considerably since 1808, the period
when land was at its height, and have, besides, been generally con-
verted from money into grain within the last fifteen or twenty
years.  Grazing is at the rate of L.5 for a cow from Whitsunday
to a Martinmas; 5d. per week, or 10s. 10d. for the half years, is
about the price required for pasturing a full-grown sheeps.
   Rate of Labour.-The rate of labour for day labourer is 10s.
in summer, and 9s. in winter; females, at out-door work, receive
1d. an hour, or 10d. a-day; children from 6d. to 8d. a day; farm-
                              4


