
                COLDSTREAM.                      209

Purves Hume Campbell; Mr Rocheid; Mr Dickson of Belches-
ter;  Mr Mason; and Mr Williamson.
   Character and Habits of the People.-Education may be said to
be universal in the parish,-at least I believe that very few have
attained the age of fifteen who are unable to read. This, of course,
serves to raise both the intellectual and moral powers of the peo-
ple,-although, from the local situation of Coldstream, vice, in some
of its worst shapes exists to a considerable extent. The greater
part of the immorality of the people may be traced to smuggling,
for which there are great facilities, and temptations too strong to
be easily resisted. The difference of duty on each gallon of whisky
in England is, 4 1/2. While this continues, the severity of legal pe-
nalties, and the power of moral and religious instruction, may mi-
tigate, as they have done of late, but they will not be able com-
pletely to eradicate this demoralizing practice. Poaching, the
concomitant of smuggling, is also prevalent, both in game and in
ther salmon fisheries: it is very hurtful to the industrious habits of
the people, and trains them to the commission of other crimes.
   From the session-records it appears there have been eight ille-
gitimate births during the last three' years in the parish.

		        IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.-The number of acres in the parish unoccupied
by wood is 8100; all of which are under cultivation. It is not
easy to specify the number of acres under wood, but the value of
the timber has been estimated at about L. 18,000. The greater
part of the wood is on the Hirsel estate, and it is managed with
very great care by the noble proprietor.  The principal kinds of
trees planted are, ash, beech, elm, larch, oak, plane Scotch fir, and
spruce, most of which grow to a large size.
   Rent of Land.-The rental of the parish being within a trifle of
L. 12,000, the average rent of land may be taken at L. 1 10s.,
which, from the present low prices of most kinds of agricultural
produce, must certainly be reckoned its full value. Unless some
change, indeed, shall take place, more favourable to the interests
of the farmer, it is not likely that land will bring such a high rent
upon the expiry of the present leases.
   Husbandry.-It cannot be said with truth that there is any de-
fect in the management of land; for the farmers are almost all
men of capital and enterprise, and possess great skill in their
calling:  The land is therefore in a high state of cultivation, and
great improvements have been introduced of late years, particu-
larly in draining and enriching the soil. Turnip husbandry is car-
   BERWICK.                          o


