
                             ABERCORN.                        19

Priestinch. Its altitude is inconsiderable. The summit is nearly
flat, of an oval form, and has been rudely fortified at some remote
period. The shore is clayey, intersected at several points by low
ranges of rock: near high water-mark, the beach is covered with
rolled stones and boulders of greenstone. The bottom is flat to
seaward, the tide receding a great way, but inland the ground rises
abruptly, presenting a steep, though not precipitous bank, from 80
to 100 feet high. The line of coast, extending about four miles,
is of singular beauty. Seen from the terraces and rides judici-
ously conducted along the heights,-a series of irregular promon-
tories with receding bays and steep undulating banks, clothed with
trees to the water's edge, except where a few green slopes and
winding glades occur, just sufficient to break the uniformity of the
wood,-form a rich foreground to the varied views of mountain,
shore, and flood beyond.
   Meteorology.-The average temperature for seventeen years, ob-
tained from a register kept by Mr Smith at Hopetoun House, is
46 1/6ø.
   Hydrography.-The Frith of Forth is here about 21/2 miles
broad, the water is much discoloured from the particles of impal-
pable mud suspended, and prevented from subsiding by the action
of the tides and winds. The degree of saltness is not materially
lower than that found nearer the mouth of the Frith. The springs
are perennial, but neither frequent nor very abundant, flowing
chiefly from the coal measures; they are more or less tinctured
with iron and sulphuretted hydrogen. One spring has been used
medicinally, but its qualities are by Do means powerful; its waters
have not been analyzed. There are several artificial sheets of wa-
ter of small extent, two of them employed as mill-ponds; the others
are ornamental. The only streams are mere rivulets; the largest,
the Midhope, or Nethermill burn, rises in the parish of Linlith-
gow, about seven mlles-from it's mouth, entering this at the
south-west angle; it flows easterly through a deep wooded glent
and reaches the coast a few hundred feet below the church, being
joined near the sea by the Cornie burn, a still smaller rivulet.
Blackness burn, which separates Abercorn from Carriden, and the
Linnmill burn, which devides it from Dalmeny, both flowing north,
and neither them above one mile and a-half in lenght, exhaust
the slender hydrography of the district.
   Geology.- The strata are much deranged and interrupted; the
prevailing direction is from north-east to south-west, and the dip


