	
	456                        FIFESHIRE.

	tains, and which, at a time when the iron trade was more profit-
	able than it is now, were sometimes collected and sent off to the
	Carron Ironworks.
	   At the place to the north-west of the town named the Witch-
	lake, the phenomena now described may be observed.  But it is
	chiefly on the coast to the eastward that geological phenomena
	of interest are displayed.  Of these, the constant varying direc-
	tion of the strata and character of the rock are very remarkable.
	But what seems most worthy of notice in this place is a curious
	mass of trap tuff, about a mile and a half from St Andrews, of
	which the remains constitute the rock well known by the name of
	the Rock and Spindle.  Besides this mass, other portions of trap,
	as might be expected, occur in various quarters of the parish,
	but as they present nothing peculiar in their character, it were
	needless to describe them minutely.  That the Rock and Spindle,
	however, is possessed of no small interest, will be perceived from
	the following account of it extracted from a paper on the mine-
	ralogy of the neighbourbood of St Andrews, by the Rev. Dr Mem-
	ing, and found in the second volume of the memoirs of the Wer-
	nerian Society.  " The most curious circumstance which attract-
	ed my notice in examining this bed of tuff, was the rock which is
	well known in the neighbourbood of St Andrews, by the name
	of the Rock and Spindle.  This rock is about 40 feet in height.
	Towards the base there is a spherical concretion of basalt in the
	form of five or six-sided pyramids meeting at the apex, giving to
	the mass a stellate appearance.  The mass is likewise divided not
	in concentric layers.  The basalt contains crystals of augite with
	olivine and glassy felspar.  This concretion of basalt is surround-
	ed with the tuff, into which it gradually passes, and must have been
	completely enveloped in it previous to its partial wasting away by
	the action of the sea, and of the atmosphere.  It may be mention-
	ed in this place, that the regular basaltic columns at Ely, are a
	portion Sf a spherical concretion contained in trap tuff.  Here
	the concretion is only about ten feet in diameter ; at Ely it is seve-
	ral hundred feet." P. 153.  This statement and explanation of
	Dr Fleming, it is proper to add, is by a later observer, Mr R. H.
	Cunningham, held to be incorrect: that geologist maintaining that
	the basalt of the Rock and Spindle is not a contemporaneous con-
	cretion of basalt, but part of a vein, and of after formation to the
	tuffa.
	   Zoology.-Of the animals which formerly existed in this parish,
	and which have now disappeared, the wild hog or boar was the

