
     Statistical Account

human body.-The last man of genius, born in the parish,
whom we shall mention, is Mr. ROBERT GRAY, who bid fair
to shine, had he lived; but, being born with a delicate con-
stitution, he literally fell a sacrifice to his thirst for literature.
He died at Edinburgh, 6th January 1791*.

   Advantages and Disadvantages.-The great extent of sea
shore has been already mentioned as an advantage to the pa-
rish; nor are the mild winters, and the easy communication
with other parts of the world, among the least of them.  The
parish, in general, is well provided with excellent peats, which
is the chief fuel that is used.  Fort-William, however, is ill
supplied with this necessary article.  And, indeed, were the
duty taken off coals, none who live upon the shore would burn
any other fuel.  Thus, much time, that is now unavoidably
taken up in procuring the article of fire, would be saved; and
many hands might be employed in fishing, and other useful
occupations, that, at present, are neglected.  Another great
disadvantage, but not peculiar to this parish alone, is the duty
upon salt.  There are other inconveniences and disadvanta-
ges, that are peculiar to this parish, especially to Fort-William
and Maryburgh, but which could be removed without any
great expense.  Some of these are, the want of a quay, of a

<FOOTNOTE>

*In a few days after, the following character of him appeared in the papers:
"On Sunday last died here, at the age of 20, Mr. Robert Gray of Loss, late
"president of the Royal Medical and Royal Physical Societies, Edinburgh, most
"sincerely lamented by the whole University.  It is difficult to say, whether
"more admiration was excited by his acquisition in every branch of science, at
"so early a period, or more love and esteem by the sincerity and disinterestedness
"of his friendship, joined to the most amiable and engaging manners.  The
"heart-felt grief of his fellow students, who have often been delighted by his
"eloquence, and instructed by his erudition, is the most unequivocal testimony
"to his worth, and will long continue to be the most flattering tribute to his me-
"rit, though it may embitter the loss sustained by his relations."


