
                             CRIEFF.                         519

   tings for their own useOR for that of their tenants; but the feuars
   let as many as they do not themselves require; and during the
   last five years, the prices of sittings have ranged from 2s. to 5s.
   each. There are no free sittings provided for the poor, with the
   exception of a few that are gifted by Lady Baird Preston, of Fern-
   tower; but there are temporary forms and stools in the different
   passages, which the poor have procured for their own accommo-
   dation. Divine service is generally very well attended in the pa-
   rish church.
      The manse, which is very inconveniently situated at the distance
   of more than a mile from the town, was built and declared a free
   manse in 1701, and frequently repaired since that time. It is
   now in any thing but a comfortable condition, and whenever a new
      The glebe contains about eight acres imperial; it may be worth
   about L. 10 annually, and the stipend, which arises principally from
   teinds, averages L. 175 per annum. There are ten chalders,
   (two-thirds of which are oatmeal, and one-third barley,) with
   L. 48 in money. The teinds are exhausted.
      There is no other place of worship in connexion with the Church
   of Scotland; but the new church will be finished by-and-bye,
   and will afford ample accommodation to all classes of the inhabi-
   tants, who are at present destitute of it.* The General Assem-
   bly's Church Extensioia Committee have voted a most liberal
   grant of money towards its erection.
      An assistant minister has been employed and paid by the heri-
   tors and parishioners for many years, who has shared the labours
   of the pulpit with the minister, and aided him in the discharge of
                            
   <FOOTNOTE> The want of church accommodation in Crieff has for years been a subject of re-
   gret to many of the inhabitants. As far back as the year 1822, a public meeting  of
   the feuars under Lord and Lady Gwydir, called by order of the baron builts upon.
   the estate of Perth, deemed it to be their indispensable duty to submit the
   urgency of their claim (for an additional church and minister in Crieff,) to Dr John
   Inglis, convener of the Government Committee for the erection of new churches and,
   endowments in Scotland." They grounded this urgent claim upon the facts that, in
   1811, the consus of the town and parish of Crieff was about 3300; that in 1921, it
   was 4216; and that the population was then rapidly increasing. An application
   was accordingly made in due form by the Managing Committee for obtaining a grarie
   from Government, and an answer was returned by Dr Inglis, which is ingrossed in
   expected. The matter, however, was allowed to drop. On looking over the list of
   the Committee at that time, we find the names of several individuals who are not only
   unable now to discover any need of additional church accommodation in this parish,
   but who are entirely opposed to eccelsiastical endowments and  establishments of re-
   ligion altogether.


