
1166                          ABERDEENSHIRE.

society, the menial services to be performed by the founded bur
sars to the other students, the prohibition of bearing arms of every
description, the profession of adherencd to the Confession of Faith
then sactioned by law, at least once a year, dum albo Universita-
tis inscribuntur; together with other provisions, most of which
have been altered or discontinued in the changes of time.  Other
parts regulate the mode of electing, annually the rector and dean
of faculty, and prescribe the qualifications and duties of the uni-
versity officers, which, as in, the courses of study above-mentioned,
are the same as were given in that age to the other colleges of
Scotland, with which, in all these respects, the new establishment
was-placed on a footing of equality.
   In the General Assembly which met at Dundee in April 1593,
the foundation charter was approved and confirmed by the church
and in July following, an Act of Parliament conferred upon the se-
minary all the usual freedoms, privileges, and jurisdictions of the
other colleges in the realm, with the exception of preserving the
jurisdiction of the magistrates of the burgh over its members "in
all thingis to be done or comitted be thame out the wallis of
the said college, and within the territores or freedome of the said
burgh,"-a provision which is nearly the same with that proposed
in the First Book of Discipline, many years previously. *
   In the year following, the deed of foundation was formally pre-
sented by Earl Marischal to the magistratds and council of Aber-
deen, who immediately delivered it in a solemn manner, to Mr Ro-
bert Howie, one of the city ministers, who entered upon the duties
of principal, and who signs as one of the witnesses of the charter.
Howie was an eminent divine, and in a few years succeeded An-
drew Melville at St Andrews.  Of the other witness to the deed
of foundation, Peter Blackburn, who acted as one of the first re-
gents, and was afterwards Bishop of Aberdeen, Principal Baillie
says, that "his hand was chief to order your Marischall Colledge
just after our orders of Glasgow." *
   The new establishment demanded and received much attention

<FOOTNOTE>Other Acts of Parliament referring to Marischal College, or confirming its pri-
vileges, are, A.D. 1617, (Vol. iv. p. 577,) Liddel's endowment; 1641, (Vol. v. p.
565) and 1644, (Vol. vi. p. 129,) Bishops rents; 1661, (Vol. vii. p.69,) New con-
firmation of priveledges, and abrogation of the United or Caroline University;
1663, (Vol. vii. p. 465,) power to send a commissioner to a National Synod; 1695,
(Vol. ix. p. 465,) allowing the College to apply the vacant stipends of churches in
Lord Marichal's patronage to their buildings then erecting ; 1698, (Vol. x. p. 168.)
the same subject.
          Letter to Professor W. Douglass.-Baillie's Letters, edited by D. Laing, Vol.
iii. p. 402.


