
658                           	LANARKSHIRE.

cipal causes of the high degree of cultivation into which this parish
has been brought is its vicinity to the city of Glasgow.  When a
merchant or trader has made a little money, he purchases a piece
of land, builds an elegant villa, and improves his property at the
dearest rate.  The parish is also greatly indebted to a patriotic
and extremely well conducted and successful agricultural associa-
tion, the "Old Monkland, Bothwell, Barony, and Cadder Farm-
ing Society."  This institution was set on foot about ten years ago,
under the name of the "New Farming Society;" and the first
premium was awarded to Mr Robert Law, 26th February 1830.
At the last ploughing match, 15th February 1839, on Mr Baird's
farm at High-cross, 28 ploughs started, and various prizes were
awarded to the successful competitors.  Among one of the pre-
miums was 1500 drain tiles.  The whole parish is divided into
87 ploughgates.  The rate of labour in Old Monkland, as proved
to the trustees of a late meeting of heritors, was as follows: eight
hours labour for an able man, and able horse, and proper cart, 6s.
per day.  Wages for a labourer ten hours, 2s per day.  The total
gross produce from land, including the portion for landlord, tenant,
and for working the ground, is about L.36,000, the houses about
L.4000.
   The parish is generally well fenced with thorn hedges.  Trees
of all sorts thrive well, but the Scotch fir does not stand the smoke,
which seems to fill up its pores.  No species of fir or pine en-
dures the smoke from the collieries, and even furnaces for a length
of time.  Hard-wood, however, suffers but little from it.
   Manufactures.-The great, the all-engrossing manufacture of
this parish is the iron trade.  Out of the eighty-eight furnaces for
the manufacture of iron, which at present exist in Scotland, sixty-
five are in this parish, or in its immediate neighbourhood.  The
furnaces new in operation in the parish are,--

<TABLE>

Names of                                                                Contem-
Works.              Owners            In blast. Out of blast. Building.  plated

1. Gartsherrie,   W. Baird and Co.       7     -    0     -     1     -     6
2. Dandyvan,      Dunlop and Co.         5     -    0     -     1     -     4
3. Monkland,      Monkland Iron Co.      5     -    0     -     0     -     0
4. Clyde,         James Dunlop,          4     -    1     -     0     -     4
5. Summerlee,     Wilsons and Co.        5     -    0     -     0     -     2
6. Carnbroe,      Alison and Co.         2     -    0     -     2     -     2
7. Calder,        W. Dixon and Co.       6     -    0     -     0     -     0

   This last is on an elbow of Bothwell parish, and Monkland iron-
works are upon its borders, but both are intimately connected with
the parish of Old Monkland.  There were, at the time when this
estimate was taken, thiry-four furnaces in blast, but by the time this
account meets the public there wil be many more.  Supposing


