
     Statistical Account

have lately emigrated from their native country.  Their cler-
gyman officiates in the Gaelic language, is yet unordained,
and they have not been able to afford him any higher salary
than 30 l.  All these churches and chapels are considered as
in one and the same parish, and all their ministers and elders
compose only one Kirk-Session.
   The dissenting congregations, with the numbers of persons,
belonging only to this parish, of which they are in part com-
posed, including their children and all ocasional attendants
from the parish, according to the accounts by their own mi-
nisters or principal managers, are as follows, 1. One meet-
ing, of the Scottish Episcopal form, consists of a clergyman, and
370 persons.  The clergyman is titular Bishop of one of the
districts into which the people of his persuation are distribut-
ed, 2.  One Independent meeting, of the sect denominated
Glassites, from the late Mr. Glass, has several pastors or
preachers, and 1160 persons.  The preachers are distinguish-
ed in the congregation by the names of Bishop and Elders.
3.  One meeting of the English Episcopal form, consists of one
clergyman and 420 persons. 4.  One meeting of Seceders, of
the Burgher form, has one clergyman, and 784 persons. 5.
One of the Antiburgher sect has one clergyman, and 650 per-
sons.  Besides these, there are also other separate societies, of
Roman Catholics, Anabaptists, Bereans, now said to be split in-
to three sects, Methodists, Unitarians, and Independents of ano-
ther form.  The attendants of all these together, cannot exceed
400, so that the whole number of dissenters, including chil-
dren, in this parish, amounts to 3784.  The principal Inde-
pendent congregation affords a decisive proof of the impor-
tance of early marriages to population.  It was formed by
Mr. Glass, about the year 1732, and at that time consisted
of no more than 71 members, men and women.  It has now
collected 1160, and the increase is much more the effect of an


