
182                         ORKNEY.

Wages -There are, but few cases, in which farm-servants are
hired,-the farms being generally small, and the members of the fa.
ml ily sufficing for the accomplishment of the necessary work : so
that an estimateof theirwages would be drawn from asmall induction
of particulars; and as the terms of service are often- short, and pe-
culiar to the country, little information of general utility could be
obtained even from these particulars. A man's wages, however,
for a year, may be from L. 6 to L. 8, exclusive of board; and a
woman's, from L. 2 to L. 4, according to their capabilities. The
barvest-fee, for a period understood to extend to six weeks, is from
L. 1, Is. to L. 1, 10s. for 'a man; and for ` woman, 15s. or upwards.
Hiring persons by the day for farm-work, is not yet so common as
to enable us to say any thing decisive as to the rate of expense.
But men may be hired for- quarrying or breaking stones and
other ordinary purposes at little more than Is. per day. Mowers,
master-masons, and regularly bred workmen, receive from Is. 6d.
to 2s. each per day.
Produce, The kind of grain called bear or big is sold, when
raw, by the wey, a quantity equal to 16 stones Dutch or 18-L stones
imperial; and when dried, then called 11 melder-corn," by the
meiV which is near] 11 3stones Dutch or 14,1 imperial. These
quantities of raw and dried grain, respectively, are considered of equal
value, and may be purchased at a sum varying from 149. to L. I Ster-
1iDg. Oats, which are generally of very inferior quality, are sold af-
ter the same manner; only that the above mentioned denonlinatiou4
when applied to this sort of grain, signify about a fourth less than
whenappliedtobear. Thellmeii"ofoatssellsattherateoffrom8s.
to 16s. Both kinds are frequently sold unthrashed, and the prices
vary chiefly. according to the demand for fodder. Potatoes sell at
from 8d. to Is. per anker, i. e. from 2d. to 3d. per peck. Turnip
and bay are not raised in sufficient quantities to become general
articles of purchase. Cattle sell at from L.3 to L.6. But the
avdrage price of a cow either for milk or beef, may be stated at
L. 3, 10s. ; of a sheep of the common kind, 8s. and of the larger
breeds, L. I ; of geese, great numbers of which are reared here,
Is. 9d. or 2s. each; of common fowls, 7d. or 8d.; eggs, 21d. to
4d. per dozen; and butter, 6d.- or 7d. per lb. Beef varies in price
at different seasons of the year, from 2id. to 5d. per lb. And
most other things are in proportion.
.Live-Such.-The species of horses most esteemed here, for or-
diukry purposes, is that called the 11 garron," supposed to be of


