
			LOCHBROOM.                               79

Mr Robertson was born about the year 1701; and soon, after ob-
training license as a preacher, was appointed assistant to the Rev.
Donald Ross, minister of this parish.  On the translation of Mr Ross
to Fearn, Mr Robertson was recommended as his successor, by the
Duke of Athole, to the Earl of Cromarty, the patron of the pa-
rish.  His Lordship, however, was so much occupied, at that time,
in preparations for the Rebellion which  broke out in 1745,
that the presentation was not Iodged with the Moderator of the
Presbytery till after the expiry of six months from the commence-
ment of the vacancy; in consequence of which, the presbytery pro-
ceeded on the jus devolutum, and bestowed the living on Mr Ro-
derick M'Kenzie, a native of the parish, and nearly related to se-
veral of the heritors.  But the influence of the Duke of Athole and
of the Earl of Cromarty, at that period, was not to be resisted
The presbytery was obliged to yield.  Mr M'Kenzie was deprived
of the parish, and Mr Robertson was inducted in his place.  He
was a powerful and evangelical preacher, and laboured, with much
earnestness and zeal, among his numerous and semi-barbarous pa-
rishioners,-whose grosser delinquencies he had often occasion to
visit with the weight of his tremendous arm, as well as with the,spi-
ritual weapons of his Christian warfare.
   Soon after his settlement, Mr Robertson, while on a visit to his
predecessor at Fearn, was present in the church of that parish, a
Gothic building, covered with large gray flags in place of slates,
when, during Divine service, the roof came suddenly down upon the
congregation, throwing out the walls. with irresistible force.  Mr
Robertson remaining unhurt, made directly for the principal door,
and seeing the lintel ready to give way, he placed his shoulder
under the end of it, and stood in that position till as many of the
people as could move,escaped.  He tben extricated his friend,-al-
most suffocated under the canopy of the pulpit, and a mass of stones
and rubbish.  For this extraordinary feat of strength, he was always
afterwards called,  "Am Ministeir la\3idir," the strong  minister.
   When the Rebellion of 1745 broke out, he had the misfortune
to find that his patron and other heritors were decidedly favourable
to the exiled family,-by which means, the far greater number of his
parishioners, in spite of all his remonstrances, became involved in
the guilt of their superiors and landlords. His own loyalty, how-
ever remained, unshaken, and by his persuasion and influence,
many were deterred from throwing off their allegiance.
   On the return of the victorious Highlanders from the battle of


