
270			AYRSHIRE.

The trap is formed into thick strata, very distinctly marked, rising
like steps of a stair upwards, declining, however, at a considerable
angle from the north. On its summit, near the centre of the is-
land, is seated a circular tower of about 30 feet in height, the re-
mains of a former lighthouse--a very conspicuous land-mark from
all points in the channel. The present lighthouse, referred to as
building in the former Account, stands on the edge of a precipice,
overhanging the sea, on the west side of the island, opposite Bute,
and presents, with the keeper's residence and garden on the little
plain adjoining, an interesting and beautiful object, in contrast with
the wild crags amidst which it is placed. The caves formerly al-
luded to are mere fissures in the rocks. They all occure low down,
and near the south end of the island, where the stratification is more
distinct and columnar. The largest of them, which is on the east
side, is dignified with the name of King's Cave; and, in the tales
of the place, is said to communicate, by a submarine passage, with
the opposite island of Bute--such have ever been the speculations
of credulity and unguided fancy.
	For a long time past, this rocky islet has been principally occu-
pied as a rabbit-warren,--about 450 dozen being taken annually;
but there are besides a few sheep and some young cattle grazed
on it. Cultivation is wholly confined to a few potatoe gardens.
The number of families resident on it is four, including the tacks-
man's, who rents the whole, and the lighthouse keeper's. In for-
mer times, no fewer than eight or ten families are said to have been
located here, who all shared in the occupancy of its surface; but
it is evident they must mainly have subsisted by fishing; yet many
traces of cultivation are to be discerned on the scanty soil of the steps
of the rocks, where alone any thing could ever have been forced
off it. Except a few ash trees near its north east corner, and pret-
ty large patches of elder bushes on the opposite shore, the island
is wholly destitute of wood.
	Both of the Cumbrays were undoubtedly included in the do-
mains of the Stewart family, ancestors of the Kings of Scotland.
On the erection of the principality of Scotland by Robert III., in
favour of his eldest son, in 1404, the smaller Cumbray was includ-
ed in it; and a century afterwards, it appears to have been kept as a
royal preserve of some kind. In the registry of the privy-seal, the
following entry occurs:--
	October 28, 1515.--Lettre to Hew Erle of Eglintoune, mak-
and him and his assignais, keeparis, oversearis, correkaris, and sup-


