
420                           FIFESHIRE.

The extension of the piers would be a vast improvement, and
could be effected at a moderate expense, as the necessary mate-
rials are abundant in the neigbbourhood, and the other natural fa-
cilities are great. Were this effected, the harbour could easily
be entered at any state of the tide. With reference to the im-
provement of the ferry, Sir Thomas Telford has suggested the
construction of a landing-pier a little to the eastward. In his re-
port on the subject, he gives a decided preference to Burntisland
as a landing-place on the north shore of the frith,-stating, that
Cc whether the expense of construction, or the distance, facility,
and regularity of passage, is considered, it appears quite clear that
Burntisland should be adopted."-" It is, indeed," be says, 11 most
fortunate that a place so well calculated should afford the shortest
passage, and be otherwise so favourably situated."
Doch.-Connected with the barbour is a -dry dock belonging
to Mr Farnie.It is 200 feet in length, the width of the gates is
44 feet, and thedepth of water at high spring tides 161 feet.
The gates are ofa peculiar construction, being circular in the
bottom. A Russian frigate Of 1000 tons, and the steamship, the
United KiDgdom, are the largest vessels that have ever been in
this dock.
Roadstead.-The roadstead of Burntisland possesses great ad-
vantages, and is accordingly much resorted to in stormy weather.
The anchorage is good ; there is great depth of water very near
the shore; and ample shelter is afforded by the high ground to
the north, and by the sand-bank to the east, which projects a con-
siderable way into the sea.
At Starly-burn there is a small harbour where the limestone be-
long ing to the Carron Company is shipped, and where'vessels occa-
sionally take in water, of which there is a copious supply. For this
latter purpose, it was frequently resorted to by the KiDg'S ships
during the last 'war. About half a mile to the eastward of the
town, there is also a pier for the shipping of lime
Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church stands on the ridge
which rises from the sea. It was built in 1592, on the model, it
is understood, of the North Church of Amsterdam, and is thus an
Indication of the ancient intercourse which subsisted between this
port and Holland. It was erected, not by the heritors, but by
the inbitbitant's of, the town, who began to find it inconvenient to
go ove'r1o.the old church at Kirktoun. They asked nothing of
the heritors but their consent; and, as an inducement, offered them


