
     Statistical Account

   Lakes and Rivers.-Loch-Archaig, which is 16 miles long,
and one broad, is the only fresh-water lake, in the parish, of
any consequence.  From it flows the River Archaig, which,
after running about a mile, discharges itself into Loch-lochy.
This lake is partly in the parish, and is the fountain of the
river Lochy; which, near its found, joins the river of Spian,
and thus loses its name.  Spian, runs through the parish of
Kilmanivaig.  These lakes are very deep:  there are some
others of inferior size.  The length of the river Lochy is
about 10 miles; and the medium breadth, about 200 feet.  It
is fordable in many places; yet, excepting at Torecastle, small
boats are sometimes rowed up to its fountain.  It disgorges it-
self into the sea, near Fort-William, with such rapidity and
force, that it preserves its streams entire, for a long way, with-
out any great mixture or taste of salt water.  No other
stream, in the parish, merits the appellation of river.  Nevis,
indeed, after great falls of rain, and when the snow is dis-
solving upon Benevis, and the surrounding hills, swells to a
great height; but, in dry weather, it is no more than an in-
considerable rivulet.  After performing a circuit of about 10
miles, and forcing its passage betwixt rocks and mountains, it
sweeps along the walls of the garrison of Fort-William, and
then resigns its waters to the ocean.

   Fresh-Water Fish.-In those rivers, and in some of the lakes,
there are salmon, finnacks, white, black, and yellow trouts.
Even the lesser lakes, in the hills, abound with fine yellow trouts;
and in some of them there are a few char.  May, June, and

<FOOTNOTE>

his inquiring what her disease was, answered, "I am entirely ignorant of it;-
"it is such as I never heard of; neither did you, I am persuaded.-It is some
"low-country disorder."-It cannot be denied, however, but that the army have
frequently introduced this same too fashionable diseases, into Fort-William and its
neighbourhood.


