
84                      KINCARDINESHIRE.

Kenneth III. in 994, for it was occcupied by that monarch at the
time of his murder by Finella. This palace or castle seems to
have been a place of considerable strength. A morass surround-
ed it, a great part of which has been drained within the last thirty
years. It stands on the termination of a small ridge, at an eleva-
tion of about sixty or eighty feet above the adjoining meadows,
and has a very commanding view of the most beautiful part of the
How o' the Mearns. It appears to have been of a quadrangular
shape, of which little now remains except the foundations of some
walls, built with all the solidity common in former age. It was
in Kincardine Palace, as Lord Hailes says, (Note, Vol. i. of his
Annals, page 293, 3d edition,) that John Baliol resigned his
crown to Edward 1. of England, July 2, 1296; and be quotes the
record of this in Rhymer's Foedera, Tom. ii. page 718. As this
is the last event of importance on record connected with the his-
tory of this palace, it is not improbable that it was destroyed in the
wars betwixt the Scotch and English which followed that event.
The village of Kincardine, now diminished to a few houses, once
extended from the ground at the foot of the castle to near Fetter-
cairn House. It was the county town, and the residence of the
sheriff, who held his court there until the reign of James VI,
when it was removed to Stonehaven. The village had its chapel,
and its burying-ground near the chapel, its west-port, and its east,
port, and its cross, the site of which is still marked near to where
the chapel stood. The cross was removed to the market-place of
Fettercairn about a centtry ago. The names of the fields con-
tiguous to the castle or palace still retain an allusion to a royal re-
sidence. One park is called "The King's Park," in which, some-
time ago, a falcon's head was found. Another, as tradition says,
Was called. "The Chancellor's Park;" and a large tract of ground,
extending from near the castle to the Grampians, and part of the
enclosures of which is still visible from the road which leads to
the top of the Cairn o' Mount, is known by the name of `The
Royal,' or `King's Deer,' or `Hunting-Park,' and probably
was the park in which Kenneth was assassinated. Opposite to
the Castle of Kincardine, and at the distance of a few hundred
yards only from it, is the farm of `Gallowbill,' commonly called
`Gallowhill Stone,' from a large stone which is said to mark
the place where criminals were executed. A road lay from the
castle across the morass to this place; and in enlarging the roads
through that farm, several stone chests have been found, of coarse
                                     4


