
10                      INVERNESS-SHIRE.

this parish are generally about two weeks later of coming into
bloom than the same plants are about Edinburgh, and about an
equal period earlier than in the north of Caithness and Orkney.
Our woods and meadows yield much the same species as the
neighbourhood of our Scottish metropolis, with some rather pecu-
liar ones, such as Prunus padus, Paris quadrifolia, Linnaa bo-
realis, Pyrola rotundifolia, media, minor and secunda, together
with Orchidiae, in great number and variety ;-while the herbage of
the upper plains contains very many truly Alpine plants. The
woods and rocks abound with mosses, fungi, and lichdns; but the
algae and other marine productions are here few and stunted,
owing to the inland position of the coast and the freshness of the
water, occasioned by the influx of the rivers Ness and Beauly.
The following is a list of the herbaccous plants found within the
wooded region about Loch Ness, which to the botanist will be
sufficiently characteristic of the warmth and fertility of our soil and
climate. Pinus sylvestris, Betula alba, Taxus baccata, Crataegus
oxyacantha, Fraxinus excelsior, Populus tremula, Quercus robur,
Ilex aquifolia, Ulmus campestris, Corylus avellana, Prunus padus,
Lonicera periclymenum, Viburnum opulus, Rosa canina, tomen-
tosa, villosa et spinosissima; Rubus idaeus, suberectus, saxatilis;
Chamaemorus; Asperula odorata, Paris quadrifolia, Circea lute-
tiana et alpina ; Fumaria claviculata, Vicia sylvatica, Bumex
dyginus, Sanicula Europaea, Geranium sylvaticum, lucidum, et san-
guineum ; Saxifraga hypnoides et aizoides ; Rhodiola rosea, Alche-
milla alpina, Digitalis purpurea et alba ; Arbutus uva ursi, Vac-
cinium uliginosum, et vitis idea; Pyrola'rotundifolia, * media, minor
et secunda ; Trientalis Europea, Epilobium angustifolium, Habe-
naria viridis, albida, et bifolia; Aquilegia vulgaris.

                     II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
During the reign of the early Scottish monarchs, subsequent to
the union of the Picts and Scots, their power was but little known
or respected in the Highlands; and it was not till the reign of James
L, (A. D. 1424,) that the districts north of the Grampians were
subjected to any thing like due obedience to kingly or national laws.
Under the exclusive dominion of separate independent Celtic
maormors and Saxon and Norman feudal warriors, but little is
known of the condition or history of the Highland tribes, except
from brief records preserved chiefly by ecclesiastics, of their in-
roads upon the more settled inhabitants of the low countries, or

<FOOTNOTE>The edges of Kingsmills dam, near Inverness, are the best habitat for this rare
plant, Pyrola rotundifolia.


