
784                          LANARKSHIRE.

brought from the field of Waterloo.-Cairnbroe, i. e. the cairn
of stones, the property of James Meiklam, Esq. ; St. Enoch's
Hall, the property of William Hozier, Esq. both on the north Calder.
 Cleland, probably Clayland, the property of North Dalrymple,
Esq; Carfin, the property of Robert Stewart, Esq.; Jerviston,
the property of Mrs Drysdale; Douglas Park, the property
of Mrs Douglas, all on the South Calder, are large and elegant
seats.  The grounds around them are extensive and picturesque,
deriving great beauty from the bold and richly wooded
banks of the streams on which they are situated.  Bothwell Park,
the property of Mrs Hamilton, is a large and handsome building.
It commands a beautiful and extensive view of Hamilton haugbs,
and the vale of Clyde to the east.
   At Cleland the united Presbytery of Hamilton and Lanark
seem to have held their first meeting.  The first entry in their record
is as follows, " At Cleland, September 6th 1687, Session I.
Mr Andrew Morton, moderator."  A little above the house in
a rock'on the bank of the Calder is a cave which is said to have
been a hiding place for the persecuted, in the " troublous times."
   Bothwell Haugh, celebrated in history as the residence of James
Hamilton who shot the Regent Murray, is now a farm belonging
to the Duke of Hamilton.  It is situated on the Clyde, about a
mile to the east of Bothwell Bridge.
   On the night before Hamilton left Scotland for France, he took
refuge at Lauchop, a property in the east district of the parish,
belonging now to J. Roberton, Esq. but then to a family of the
name of Muirhead.  The proprietor was a brother-in-law of Hamilton's :
and for the shelter afforded to his relative, his house was
burnt to the ground, iDd he was amerced in a large sum by government.
   There are several other handsome residences in the parish,
which, did space permit, might with propriety be particularized.
   State of Property.-The property of the parish is possessed
by 45 heritors.  The number of acres possessed by each-the
valued rent in Scots money-the poor's stent from Lammas (1st
August) 1835, to Candlemas l836, and the statute labour money
for the same period, are as follows.  The poor stent and the statute
labour money are for six months only.
                                  4


