
        			CLOSEBURN.                          89

the scholars generally,--a circumstance over which the rector has
no control,--tends much to impede their progress. This defect
might have been in a great measure remedied, had he been per-
mitted to exact a small fee from each. It is, however, a great
blessing to the parish, and has been the means of rescuing many
from obscurity who have risen to eminence and adorned the situa-
tions they occupied. The present rector has expended a conside-
rable sum in building a large and commodious dwelling-house, and
otherwise improving the endowment. His annual income, after
deducting public burdens, and the salary of the assistant, L.356.
   About a quarter of a mile from the free school, there is a female
school, at which are taught needle-work, sewing, reading, writ-
ing, arithmetic, and geography. Mr. Menteath pays a handsome
salary to the teacher. He has fitted up and furnished a commo-
dious dwelling-house for her. The fees are very moderate, and
suited to the circumstances of the parents. There are other three
schools situated in districts too distant to reap advantage from the
free school, at which the same branches are taught as in the free
school, with the exception of the Greek and Latin. The school
of Wallace-hall being in the centre of the parish, renders a legal
one unnecessary. There being no parochial school, the heritors
voluntarily assess themselves in the sum of L.35 annually, which,
with the addition of L.5 paid by the rector of the free school in
terms of the deed of endowment, affords to each of the teachers
a salary of about L.13 a-year. The general expense of education
at these varies from 6s. to 12s. a-year, according to the
attaintments of the children. The annual amount fo school fees
does not exceed L.24. There is not an individual in the parish,
so far as I know, who has not received the elements of a common
education.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.--The average number of persons
receiving parochial aid is 21, and the average sum allotted to each
is L.3 a-year. A few indigent families get an occasional supply.
The sum at the disposal of the kirk-session for behoof of the poor
is L.71 annually. This arises from  the interest of L.225, be-
queathed at different times, and lent at four per cent., the weekly
collections at the church door, amounting to L.52, morthcloth and
marriage dues. In general, none apply for parochial aid until for-
ced to do so by necessity. Such is the feeling of independence
on the part of the people generally, that, did their age and infir-


