
                            FODDERTY.                              257

         The morals of the people have, in several respects, undergone
       improvement.  In former times, cases of theft, especially, were by
       no means uncommon. *
         Many superstitious notions still prevail among the common peo-
       ple.  They are firm believers in dreams and warnings-the taisq
       or wraith-and also in a kind of fairies or cursed spirits who resid-
       ed in a small knoll directly opposite Knock- Farril; by whom chil-
       dren were often stolen or changed, before they were christened.
       Here, the old inhabitants say that, even in their day, unearthly mu-
       sic has been beard and unearthly lights seen ; but that the cursed
       spirits have been, long since, laid under a restraint which prevents
       them from making their appearance, or doing mischief as for-
       merly.  There is a small spring which rises in a circular hol-
       low in a solid rock on the west side of Rhoagie, called Tobar-na-
       domhnuich, the water of which is believed to possess the virtue of
       indicating whether a sick person shall survive or not.  It is taken
       from the spring before sunrise, and after the patient has been
       bathed or immersed in it, if the water appears of a pure colour, it
       foretells his recovery; but, if of a brown mossy colour, that he will
       die.  About six years ago, a mother brought her sickly child a
       distance of thirty miles, to this spring.  On approaching it, she was
       startled by the appearance of an animal with glaring eye-balls
       leaping into it.  The poor mother considered this as a fatal omen.
       Her affection for her child, however, overcame her fear.  She dis-
       lodged the animal and bathed the child, after which it slept more
       soundly than it had ever done before.  This seemed at first to
       confirm the sanitory virtue of the water, but the child has since
       died.  Within the same period, two friends of a parishioner whose
       life was despaired of, went to consult the spring in his behalf, and
       to fetch some of the water.  On placing the pitcher in it, the water
       assumed a circular motion from south to west.  They returned with
       joy, and informed the patient, that there was no cause to fear, as the
       motion of the water, being from south to west, was a sure indica-
       tion that he should recover,-whereas, if it had been from north to

       <FOOTNOTE>One man, it is said, had become so notorious for this crime that, whenever a sheep
       was missed, he was sure to be suspected of having stolen it.  lt happened on one oc-
       casion that the theft was discovered before he could dispose of the sheep.  Perceiving
       this, he, on entering his hut, sent his wife and child out of the way, cut the throat of
       the sheep, placed it in the child's cradle, which he covered with a cloth, and sat down
       to rock it.  Scarcely had he done so when the party in search of the sheep entered and
       found him seemingly in a great passion at his wife's having left him to act the part
       of a nurse in rocking the cradle.  He was asked if he knew any thing of a sheep
       which has just been missed?  Do you suspect me, says he "Scho luath churrin sgian
       ans na tha's a chreal's a ghaoidin a chaora," i. e. "I would as soon stick a knife in
       what is in the cradle as steal the sheep."  The party, after a fruitless serch, retired
       without once suspecting it was not the child he was rocking in the cradle.
          ROSS AND CROMARTY.                                    R


