
290                        LANARKSHIRE.

number of families Dissenting, or Seceding is 907; of Roman
Catholic families, 45.
	Education.--Number of schools in this parish at last examina-
tion, and the number of scholars attending each.

<TABLE>
							Scholars.
		Grammar-school,				    35
                  13 English schools,                      722
                  BoardiLng-school for young ladies,        20
                       Do. do.                              50
		Writing school,				    80
		English School,	Low-Waters,		    33
                       Do.   do.  Earnock,                  12
                       Do.   do.  Darngaber,                45

	The salary of the graminar-schoolmaster is L. 34, 4s.: and his
fees may amount to L. 50. As session-clerk lie has about L. 30
per annum. The fees paid at the grammar-school are 7s. 6d.
for Latin, and 10s. 6d. for Latin and Greek, per quarter. The
ladies' school fees are from 5s. to 10s. 6d. per quarter. The
grammar-school of Hamilton is of ancient date, and has no doubt
been instrumental in producing that superior civilization, courtesy
of manners, and ardent pursuit of literature, for which many of
the inhabitants of the place are supposed to be distinguish-
ed. In 1588 we find Lord John Hamilton granting a bond, still
in possession of the corporation, settling for ever on that school
the yearly sum of L. 20 pounds Scots. The present school-house
is a venerable pile, near the centre of the town, containing a long
wainscotted hall, emblazoned with the names of former scholars,
cut out in the wood, as at Harrow. Many of these are from fo-
reign climes, and from all parts of Britain. Pillans, Whale, Gil-
lies, and other eminent teachers have been masters of this school;
and the present teacher, the Rev. George Shaw, is not inferior in
classical attainments, assiduity and success as a teacher, to any of
his predecessors. The ladies' schools have also been of great ser-
vice in instructing the understandings, and in contributing to the
accomplishments, useful and ornamental, of the female sex.
	The Hamilton Sabbath School Society has under its charge 7
schools and 238 scholars. The number of scholars attending the
Societies' schools are not so ntmerous as formerly, as a number of
the town clergy have commenced Sabbath schools connected with
their own congregations. These schools include above 300 young;
persons.
	Library, &c.--There is a public subscription library in the town,
which was instituted in 1808, principally through the instrumen-
tality of the late Dr John Hume. It now contains upwards of


