
			LOGIE PERT.                     269

munion elements. All the families in the parish belong to the
Establishment, except 15, of whom 5 are Episcopalians, and the
rest attend neighbouring Dissenting meeting-houses. When the
weather permits, attendance on Divine service is generally very
regular and good. For the last five years, the average number
of communicants has been 500. There are no societies for reli-
gious purposes in the parish. But the people, when appealed to
publicly, as they frequently are, in behalf of such purposes as the
Assembly's Highland Schools and Indian Mission, seldom fail to
respond in a very liberal manner, and for the last three years the
average amount of church collections yearly, for special religious
and charitable purposes, has exceeded L. 10.
   Education.--Besides the parochial, there are two unendowed
schools, recently built, one at each of the mills, and also three smal-
ler ones, taught by females, in different parts of the parish. The
usual elementary branches are taught in them all. The parochial
teacher's salary is the maximum, and his school fees amount to
about L. 10. He is provided with all the legal accommodations.
With the exception of the blind boy, and the two fatuous persons
formerly mentioned, it is believed there are none in the parish
above six years of age who cannot read or write. The people in
general are much alive to the benefits of education, and exert
themselves to procure for their children the best teaching in their
power. The total number of scholars attending all the schools in
the parish is about 200.
   Literature.--There is a small parochial library, and also one at
Logie Mill, the volumes of which, consisting of religious and in-
structive books, are eagerly sought after by the young, and many
of the older people.
   Savings Banks.--At each of the mills there is a bank kept ex-
pressly for the accommodation of the work people. Besides which,
there has been a savings bank established in the parish, since
1815. For the last eight years, the deposits have averaged L. 29,
and the sums withdrawn L. 24 per annum. It is chiefly the la-
bouring class by whom the investments are made, and there can
be no doubt of the advantage which they derive from so doing.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.--The average number of persons
on the poor's roll is 15, and the average sum allowed to each is
1s, weekly, besides one or two extraordinary allowances during the
year, and assistance in times of sickness. There are about 15
more who receive occasionally. In addition to which, exclusive of
other less onerous demands, there are at present two imbecile ob-


