
     Of Kemnay.

has been introduced into the district.  The Aberdeen hosiers
take in the manufactured stockings, and give out wool once a-
month.  A woman who is considered as a good knitter, will
finish 2 pairs in a week, if the worsted is spun to her; for
which she receives from the hosier 2 s. 4 d., or 2 s. 6 d.  The
spinning costs 8 d.  So that the utmost that a woman employ-
ed in this manufacture can earn, is 2 s. 2 d. a-week.  Several
of the men, when they become old, and unfit for working in
the fields, employ themselves in spinning and knitting.  Some
of the boys likewise are so employed in winter.  My ac-
quaintance with my parishioners commenced very early; for I
was born in the parish, and, unless when I attended the uni-
versity, resided constantly in it, till I was 17 years of age;
and I have always observed them to be, with few exceptions,
sober, frugal, and industrious, very decent and serious in what
regards religion, but far from being wild or fanatical; much
attached to their ministers, of whom they have had six with-
in the last 40 years, and much beloved by them; peaceable
in their intercourse with one another, and, in general, honest
in their dealings.  No person remembers to have heard of an
inhabitant of this parish undergoing a criminal trial*.  There
are two public houses; but they are very little frequented,
unless by travellers, and about 5 or 6 of the inhabitants of
the parish, the only persons in it who have not a good title
to the character of sober.  Several of the natives have, in my
memory, inlisted in the army; but the people, in general, are
not fond of a military life.  They are all Scotch, most of them

<FOOTNOTE>

*There was, indeed, a murder committed in it about 30 years ago.  It was
the consequence of a drunken quarrel.  The murderer, who, by the by, was
not a native of the parish, and had been but short time in it, evaded a prosecu-
tion by an immediate flight.  If any suicide has ever been committed in the
parish, it must have been long ago, for no such event is remembered by the old-
est now living.


