
                              BOWDEN.                         43

is 6s. 6d. per annum, and for a young sheep of the same breed 5s.,
without turnip in both cases.
     Rate of Wages.--The wages of principal ploughmen are from
L. 9 to L. 10, 10s. per annum, with board; of maid-servants, for
the summer half-year, from L. 4 to L. 5, and for the winter half-
year from L. 1, 12s. to L. 2, with board; married men-servants,
or hinds, get 100 stones oatmeal; 15 bushels of barley; 6 bushels
of pease; from L. 2 to L. 3 of money; a cow kept; 1200 yards
of drill, lineal measure, for potatoes; a cap of lint sown; and a
house and garden, for which they furnish a shearer, who receives
meat from the employer, but no wages.  This is the usual prac-
tice; but sometimes they have a cow's milk allowed them, or a cow
of their own kept, potatoes as before described, 52 stones of oat-
meal, a free house, and from L. 9 to L. 10 of money.  In both
cases the servant gets 48 cwt. of coals, for which he pays the charge
at the coal-hill, and the master brings them home to him, paying
every other charge.
     A rood of mason work, furnishing all materials, costs from
L. 5 to L. 6, 10s. accnrding to circumstances; for labour only, from
L. 1, 14s. to L. 2, 4s.  The rood contains 36 square yards, from
18 inches to 2 feet thick.  Full-grown fir wood costs from 9d. to
1s. 2d. per cubic foot; hardwood from 1s. 6d. to 2s.; wood work
of a plough 17s.; of a cart L. 2, 4s.; of a pair of harrows 14s.;
of a pair of cart wheels L. 2, 3s.; paling of two bars made from
full-grown fir wood, with four stakes to the rood, of six yards, costs
1s. 6d. per rood, and, when made from young wood, 1s. per rood.
The above prices are for the wood when sawn and ready to be re-
moved from the plantation.  The charge for sawing such timber
is 4d. per rood for full-grown, and 3d. for young wood, and for
putting it up and furnishing nails, 2d. per rood.  Blacksmiths, fur-
nishing iron, receive for shoeing a pair of horses, and keeping
every thing connected with them, including carts, plough, and har-
rows, in repair, L. 3 per annum.
     Breeds of Stock.--The breeds of sheep reared in the parish are the
Leicester and Cheviot, and sometimes a cross between them.  The
rearing of sheep has met with considerable attention, and is now
in a fair state of improvement.  The cross breed is rather on
the increase.  The only breed of cattle reared by tenant far-
mers is the short-horned.  The small feuars and married farm-
servants have frequently a mixed breed of milk cows, such as a
cross between the Ayrshire and short-horned, or the Galloway and


