
74                          ROXBURGHSHIRE.

collections were made in their name, and for their behoof,  and all
distinction between the public and private relief,-the permanent
and the occasional poor, was lost.  On the effects of this inju-
dicious measure it is unnecessary to enlarge.  But it is proper to
state, that its evil effects were mitigated by this, that the heri-
tors could not claim, nor the elders give up, the management of
the private donations which they continued to receive from time
to time,-that after a trial of twelve years the new system has been
abandoned,-and that the kirk-session is now restored to the full
exercise of its old functions.  The amount of the church collec-
tions has in consequences greatly increased; and it is not impos-
sible that the legal assessment may in time be brought down nearly
to what it formerly was.
   The legal assessment ought on no account to be abolished, both
because it enables parishes to derive aid from the non-resident pro-
prietors, and for the sake of distinction between the public and pri-
vate distribution of charitable relief.  The kirk-session ought not to
have the power of assessing the heritors, or the elders of Scotland,
hitherto characterized by humble piety and unassuming worth, might
come to degenerate into the arrogant and oppressive churchwarden.*
But neither ought this excellent and most useful court to be inter-
fered with in the exercise of its own proper functions.  Under this
system the poor do not apply for aid,-they are sought out,-they
receive a friendly visit from the elder of the district, who inquires
kindly into their circumstances, and speaks comfortably to them,
giving them a little aid from time to time; and if at length the
circumstances of any shall have gone down into irrecoverable pau-
perism, he states their case to the heritors, and applies for them.
The old Presbyterian kirk-session, wherever it exists in perfection,
as it really does in this parish, may be truly described as one of
the best institutions that ever was devised by the wisdom and be-
nignity of man, for relieving the distresses, and soothing the feel-
ings of the poor.
     Prions.-There are no prisons in the parish, except a single
cell, seldom or never used, similar to, and similarly situated, with
another for receiving the feudal grain of the Duke of Buccleuch,
which seems to have been built chiefly for the sake of uniformity.
     Fairs.-There are three fairs held in this place, the May fair,
named from the old style, and held in the beginning of June; the

<FOOTNOTE>
     * The evils with which the English poor-laws are attended seem wholly owing to
this, that the proprietors do not, as in Scotland, assess themselves, otherwise there
would have been no danger that the assessment would rise too high.


