
	190                         BANFFSHIRE.

	recently erected. The farm enclosures are but few; nor can it be
	said that there is not much room for improvement in regard to the
	farm-buildings. All the later erections, however, have been much
	superior to those which preceded them. The general duration of
	leases is nineteen years ; and it is believed, that few tenants are
	more indulgently treated than those on the estates in this parish.
	   Quarries.-There are three lime quarries; one at the mouth of
	the burn of Boyne; another on the Glassaugb estate, near to Sand-
	end; and a third close by that village. The last has not been
	much wrought for some time. There are annually produced at
	the first about 13,000 barrels of lime, and at the second, about
	7000. There is also a quarry of beautiful quartz on the north side
	of the hill of Durn, from which exports are made for the use of
	the potteries in England. It is considered to be peculiarly suit-
	able for this purpose, and to be much superior to the English
	quartz.
	   Fisheries.-There are ten fishing-boats in Portsoy, and seven in
	Sandend, with four men to each boat.  When the fishermen go
	to a distance to the cod fishing or herring fishing, they use a lar-
	ger boat, with from five to seven men. Each crew of four men pays
	an annual rent to the proprietor of L. 4, 3s. 4d.; for which he
	supplies them, if required, with a new boat every seventh year.
	They will realize on an average to every man, from L. 27 to L.30
	annually; but the amount will be more than this, if the herring-
	fishing has been very successful. Salmon-fishing by the bag-net,
	is also carried on at a station near to the mouth of the burn of
	Boyne. The rent to the proprietor for the part of the coast in
	this parish, is L. 12, IOS. The average number of salmon caught
	for last two years was 147, and of grilses, 410.
	   Amount of Produce.-The average gross amount of raw pro-
	duce raised in the parish, as nearly its that can be ascertained, is
	as follows:--

	<TABLE>

 Produce of grain of all kinds,                    L. 24955
         of potatoes, turnips, &c.                     7362
         of hay and pasture grass                      5347
         of fisheries, sea and salmon,                 2220
         of quarries,                                  1229
         of fiax and other miscellaneous produce,       146
                                                   --------
        Total annual value of ravv produce,          41,25O

	   Manufactories.-There is a small rope manufactory in Portsoy,

<FOOTNOTE> The calculation here made is for the number of boats only belonging to the parish,
           and does not include any extra boats during the barring fishing.


