
58                       STIRLINGSHIRE.

18 were converted on a Fast-day by a sermon preached by their
aged pastor, the Rev. John Warden.  Prayer-meetings were
then held in several places of the parish, which continued for some
time.  The preaching of the Gospel and other means of grace
have, through the Divine blessing, built up the people of God in
their most holy faith; and have been instrumental, from time to
time, in bringing many to Christ.  During the last two years, the
Lord has been pleased, in answer to many prayers, to pour out
his Spirit on Kilsyth.  This wonderful event made the people of
God more anxious and more earnest in prayer for the Spirit; and
the ministers whose parishes were visited in the year 1742, were
very desirous that the Lord would again manifest his power and
grace among them ; and accordingly, in this parish, many week-
day sermons were preached, which excited an interest in the
people.  Several of the neighbouring ministers were invited, and
kindly came and preached on these occasions.  The Rev. Charles
F. Buchan, a devoted servant of the Lord, now minister of North
Shields, was engaged last year, in the month of March, to assist
the minister of the parish, during the summer months, in the ear.
nest hope that the Lord would be graciously pleased to accom-
pany with his effectual blessing the means employed.  And it is
with much gratitude mentioned, to the praise and glory of God,
that several individuals have been brought to see their lost condi-
tion by nature, and to flee to Christ, the refuge set before them
in the Gospel.  Prayer meetings are again established in the pa-
rish; and it is humbly hoped, that this day of small things may
be the beginning of a more plenteous effusion of the Holy Spirit!
   Education.--There are three schools in the parish, one paro-
chial and two unendowed schools.  One of the unendowed schools
is near the village, and is numerously attended; the other school,
two miles distant, is attended by a small number.  It is taught
chiefly in winter, for the accommodation of the children in the neigh-
bourhood.  The parochial schoolmaster's salary is L.25, 13s. 31/2d.,
which is the minimum.  The plan of teaching in the parish school
is excellent.  The average amount of fees of the largest unendow-
ed school is L.40 per annum.  An infant school was begun in the
manse six years ago, and is taught by Mrs Lawrie.
   Literature.--A parish library was established ten years ago.
There is also a library for the Sabbath school.  A Tract Society
was formed in February 1835.  The tracts are distributed every
montb, one to each family.


