
                       NORTH BERWICK.                            333

   The island is let to the keeper for L. 30 yearly, on a lease of nine-
teen years. He resides at Cantry Bay, an opposite hamlet on the
shore, a mile and a-half from the rock, where boats are always to
be had in the season for the conveyance of visitors. The best
season for visiting the Bass is June and July, during the incuba-
tion of the geese; and the best hours are early in the morning or
evening. The tenant of the Bass alone possesses the key of the
Castle; and it is to the honour of the keeper to record, that the
Sabbath is kept inviolate, and on week days alone the Bass is to
be visited.
   There are about seven acres of grassy surface on the rock, which
afford pasture for about thirty sheep. The pasture rent is from
L. 5 to L. 7 annually. The sheep are in high estimation for their
very peculiar excellencies, and bring a high corresponding price.
   It is a curious remnant of olden ecclesiastical privilege, that
twelve solan geese, entire, with the feathers on, are annually paid to
the minister of North Berwick,-the vicar of the Bass.
   Baldred's Well.-About half a mile south-west from Tantallan
Castle, there is a plentiful spring of water of peculiar excellence,
substantially and tastefully enclosed, called Baldred's Well, which
immemorially has supplied the inhabitants of Castleton, and even
of Auldhame. It is held in high modern estimation for its quali-
fications to make tea.
   The ancient House of Fenton Tower is also in this parish, the
property of Mrs Hamilton Nisbet Ferguson of Raith. It is a pro-
minent object, on a very elevated and exposed situation, close to
Kingston Hill, but the walls of the building alone remain, in bare
solitary desolation.-Adjoining is the ancient place of Sydserf,
said to be named from St Serf, the revered instructor of St
Mungo or Kentigern, to whose memory, as is well known, was de-
dicated the beautiful and magnificent Cathedral of Glasgow. The
mansion-house has long ceased to be the residence of its proprie-
tors, and is now occupied by servants in charge of the property.
   Mansions.-Among the mansions of the parish, North-Berwick
House, or Leuechie, built in 1777, finely embosomed among old and
young extensive woods, and commanding views of great richness and
grandeur. It is the property of the chief heritor. The garden is
extensive and fruitful; large sums from time to time have been ex-
pended on its enlargement and decoration.-Balgone, the property
of Sir George Grant Suttie, Bart.,-and Rockville, the property of
Sir Edward Thomas Troubridge, Bart., with their ample woods and
   HADDINGTON.                    Y


