
     of Alva.

acres, they can hardly be deemed so large, as to place the
farmer in a respectable situation.
   From the description already given of the situation of the
lands of this parish, they are naturally divided into arable and
pasture ground.  The three hills are incomparably the most
beautiful in every respect of the whole range of the Ochills,
from Glen-devon on the east, to their termination, near the
bridge of Alloa on the west.  They are cloathed with the
richest verdure, at all seasons, and produce grass of the finest
quality, and in the greatest variety.  They are not so steep,
so rugged or inaccessible, as those immediately westward in
the parish of Logie; and they present a more regular, nobler,
and bolder aspect, than any of those that lie immediately on
the east.  They have been now for many years, divided into
two separate farms, for sheep; one comprehending the West-
hill, the other the Middle-hill, together with that part of
the Wood hill, which lies behind the fence, or wall, that sur-
rounds the brow of that part of the hill, immediately above
the house of Alva.  'Tis supposed that the former of these
is capable of maintaining about 100 score of sheep, and the
latter from 90 to 95 score.  The rent of the West-hill, has been
greatly increased, since the year 1759*.  On the highest and
back-lying ground, where the parish of Alva marches with,
an crate belonging to Mr Murray of Abercairney, in the

<FOOTNOTE>

*The rent of the West-hill in the year 1759, was very inconsiderable.
There was then little demand for butcher-meat in this country; and the pro-
fits of grazing were very low.  When the next lease was granted in 1775,
when the demand for sheep and wool began to increase, the tenant was
taken bound to pay more than twice the former rent.  From the rapid pro-
gress, of manufactures and of luxury, and from the high character of the
wool and of the sheep fed on the Alva hills, it is believed that those fine
sheep-farms are still capable of a considerable advance of rent.


