
     Statistical Account

some peculiar property, for which the town or village is re-
markable.

   The parish is 13 computed miles in length, and 7 in
breadth.  Its figure is almost circular, though, in some
places, indented.  The extent of the sea coast is more than
double the number of miles, that the public road passing in a
direct line can measure.  The shortest road to the ferries
to the Orkney islands, being evidently by Wick, and not by
Thurso, a regulation took place, in 1791, by which the
course of the Orkney post was altered, so that it now goes by
the former, instead of the latter, town.

   Sea coast, Rocks, Caves, etc.-The coast of this parish con-
sists principally of high rocks, particularly along the line ex-
tending from Clyth in Latheron parish, towards Ulbster, the
property from which Sir John Sinclair derives his family
title.  These rocks are prettily diversified by various creeks,
where fishing boats can harbour*.  The fishermen, on this

<FOOTNOTE>

*The names of the different creeks, (in the provincial dia-
lect, goes,) are numberless.  They seem to be partly of Danish,
and partly of English derivation; as Whalegoe, from whales
having been cast a-shore there, a circumstance that has happen-
ed on different parts of this coast,-Regoe, from a slimy mine-
ral water dying the face of the rock-Ravengoe, or the creek of
ravens-Heathegoe, abounding with heath-Todsgoe, or the shel-
ter of foxes, etc.  There is also a rock near Ulbster called Le-
chan ore, a name which, according to tradition, it obtained from
the following circumstance:  Gun of Clyth, a gentleman of
Caithness, going over to Denmark, prevailed upon a Danish
princess to marry him.  In returning home, to make preparations
for the reception of the lady and her attendants, the vessel,
with the expected guests, was wrecked upon this rock, and
every foul perished.  A pot full of gold, the remains of the
wreck, having been found upon the rock, it hence obtained the
name of Lechan ore, or golden flags.  The body of the Princess


