      of Stow.        425 (135)
	  
	  Tweed, there grows the richest and most delicate grass, in-
	  terspersed with a variety of plants and flowers.
	  This country is well adapted for pasture of sheep and
	  goats. These last are now entirely given up, in consequence
	  of the increased growth of corn. Upon a general survey,
	  it would appear that the tops of the hills near the water
	  sides were the only spots cultivated by the plough, while the
	  lower ground was covered with trees, chiefly alder and birch.
	  When they began to clear the ground, no medium was ob-
	  served; not a tree left for building, or country use, all of
	  which must be brought from a distance. Of late, some of the
	  proprietors have begun to plant; and it is to be hoped, in a
	  few years the country will assume a different appearance.
	  
	  Improvements. - Anno 1754, the turnpike roads from Edin-
	  burgh to Selkirk were made. This produced a total change
	  in the system of farming. No lime had been brought to this
	  country but for building, and on horse-back. The expence
	  of this mode of carriage prevented the use of lime as a ma-
	  nure. A carriage-road being now opened to Middleton lime-
	  kilns, the farmers, who before had only used sledges and
	  tumbler carts to lead in their corn and earth-elding, (the
	  winning and leading of which was the whole summer work of
	  their servants and horses), to improve this advantage, now were
	  induced to increase the number of their horses, and change
	  the construction of their carts, to lead coals instead of peats,
	  and lime for their land. The old lees, and hitherto unculti-
	  vated heath-land, were now broken up, and produced great
	  crops, as is always the case with new land. But, as lime
	  was a new and more expensive manure, the farmers in gene-
	  ral resolved to make the most of it by repeated crops, not
	  considering the fatal consequences of scourging the limed soil,
	  or the advantage of laying down their land in good condition
	  for

