
                        PARISH OF LAIRG.

           PRESBYTERY OF DORNOCH, SYNOD OF SUTHERLAND AND
                           CAITHNESS.

               THE REV. DUNCAN M'GILLIVRAY, MINISTER.

         I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
  Name, Extent, &c.-THIS parish seems to take its name from
the Gaelic word "Loeg," signifying a "footpath." This defini-
tion agrees well with its situation, as the road from the northern
to the southern parts of the county, which till recently was only
a footpath, passes through Lairg. Its length may be stated at
thirty miles from E. to W., and its greatest breadth is about four-
teen miles. Its extent in square miles, inclusive of the lake, is
about 240 miles.
  Topographical Appearances.-It is an inland parish, distant
from the sea about twenty miles; it is bounded on the north by the
parish of Farr; on the west by Assynt and Eddrachillis; on the
south by Criech; and on the east by Rogart. There are hills of
various elevations in most parts of the parish, and on its northern
boundary stands Ben Clybric, the highest mountain in Suther-
land.
  From the elevation of the parish above the level of the sea,
which,though not minutely ascertained, is very considerable, the
air is always pure, and in winter exceedingly cold. But though a
good deal of rain and snow fall during the year, the climate can-
not be called rainy: it is all events a healthy one, and there are
no distempers peculiar to the district.
  Hydrography.-There are about twenty lakes in the parish, of
various extent and depth; but the principal one is Lochshin, which
runs very nearly from one end of the parish to the other. It is
about twenty-four miles long; its mean breadth is at least one mile,
and its depth in some places thirty fathoms.-There are five rivers
in the parish, some of them very rapid. Four of these fall into
Lochshin, and the fifth discharges its waters into the sea.
  Geology.-The geology of the parish has never been surveyed,
but the principal rocks are coarse granite and trap. There is al-
so at the side of the lake a large bed of limestone.


