
		           GLASGOW.                        131

Atlantic by the Clyde, and on the other with the North Sea and
the German Ocean, by the Forth and Clyde Canal, and the
river Forth, it possesses facilities peculiarly favourable for trade.
Notwithstanding these local advantages, Glasgow was not remark-
able for trade until a considerable time after the union with Eng-
land. Its importance in a commercial point of view may be great-
ly attributed to the improvements on the Clyde, and to the enter-
prising spirit of its merchant and manufacturers during the last
seventy years. In 1420, a Mr Elphinstone is mentioned as a
curer of salmon and herrings for the French market; and Princi-
pal Baillie mentions that this trade bad greatly increased between
the years 1630 and 1664. As an encouragement to trade, then
in its infancy, an act was passed, in which it was stipulated that
the whole materials used in particular manufactures should be ex-
empt from duty; and in the same Parliament it was enacted,
for the better encouragement of soap manufacturers, that oil, pot-
ashes, and other materials for making soap, should be exempt
from duty. On 31st of January 1638, " Robert Fleyming and
his partners made offer to the town-council, to set up a manufac-
tory in the city, wherein a number of the poorer sort of the people
may be employed, provided they met with sufficient countenance.
On considering which offer, the council, resolved, in consideration
of the great good, utility, and profit, which will redound to the
city, to give the said company a lease of their great lodging and back
yard in the Drygate, excepting the two front vaults, free of rent,
for the space of seventeen years. On 8th May thereafter, the
convener of the trades reported, that the freemen, weavers were afraid
that the erecting of the manufactory would prove hurtful to them.
On which, Patrick Bell, one of the partners, agreed that the com-
pany should not employ any unfree weavers of the town."
	Printing.--Letter-press printing was introduced into Glasgow by
George Anderson in the year 1638; and one of the first works print-
ed by him was an account of the General Assembly, which met there
the same year. Anderson came to Glasgow in consequence of an
invitation from the magistrates. It appears from the records of
the town-council, 4th January 1640, that the treasurer was direct-
ed to pay him 1000 punds, in satisfaction of his expenses " in trans-
porting his gear to this burghe," and in full of his bygone salaries
from Whitsunday 1638 till Martinmas 1639. It also appears from
the records of the council, 1Oth June 1663, that Anderson was
succeeded by his son, Andrew, as ordinary printer to the town and


