
     of Inveraven.

self into Aven, near the ruins of an old castle called Drum-
min.  From the confluence of Aven and Livet, the parish
extends S. E, up both sides of Livet about 7 miles nearly*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*All this part of the parish is called Glenlivet.  About a mile from
the confluence of Aven and Livet, Tervy, a rivulet, (which has its source
in Belrinnas, a high mountain, intervening between the parish of Aber-
lour, and a part of the parish of Inveraven), after running through the
Davoch of Morange, and a little way through the lower part of Glen-
livet, falls into Livet. Morange lies eastward from the lower part of
Glenlivet, and between it and a part of the hill of Belrinnas.  From the 
mouth of Tervy, up Livet about half a mile, lies Achbrake, where the
Protestant meeting house is built, the itinerant minister officiates, and the
Protestants in Glenlivet and Morange attend divine worship.  At the dis-
tance of half a mile eastward from Achbrake, the burn or rivulet of Al-
tachoynachan fall into Tervy; and about 1 1/2 mile, almost up this burn,
and S E. from its mouth, the battle of Altachoynachan in October 1594
was fought between Huntly and Argyle, in which the latter was de-
foated.  About 2 miles from the Protestant meeting-house, and up Livet,
Cromby a rivulet, falls into it on the south side.  Cromby rises between
two hills on the south side of the head, or higher part of Glenlivet, and
after running a short way, passes by the Scala, (or Scalan, as it is common-
ly called), a Popish seminary or college, erected upward of 50 years ago.
As Scala is the Latin word for a ladder, it perhaps got that name from a
steep road, (called the ladder), leading from the head of Glenliver, up-
steep hill to Strathdon.  Be that as it may, there are 8, 10, and sometimes
12 children of Popish gentlemen taught at the Scala; and there also (I
have been told) some priests were educated and put into orders.  There
Mr George Hay, a Popish bishop, at present resides, and there is a mailer
besides, who teaches the youth.  From the Scala Cromby runs northward
for 1 1/2 mile, to the foot of the Bochle, (a little hill), on the S. F. side of
which is Bedavochle, where is a school-house for one of the Society's
schools,and in which the itinerant minister also preaches one Sabbath
every six weeks.  From the part where Cromby first washes the Bochie,
it runs northward with a little winding about 1 1/2 mile, till it meets with
Livet.  From the entrance of Cromby eastward, and up Livet more than
a quarter of a mile, is Caanakyle, where the Popish priest resides, and 
where on the bank of Livet, about near 20 yards from the priest's house,
is lately built a new mass-house, with stone and lime, and slated.  From the
mass-house to the Sowie, a small farm not far from the head of Livet, are
long 3 miles.


