
                 364                  ROXBURGHSHIRE.


                 these families, the estate of Minto was purchased by Walter Riddell,
                 second son of Walter Riddell of New-house, and by his daughters
                 who were coheiresses, it was sold, previously to the Union, to Sir
                 Gilbert Elliot, ancestor of the present family of Minto. This eminent
                 person, born in 1651, was a younger son of Gawen Elliot of Midlem
                 Mill, who was the fourth son of Gilbert Elliot of Stobs, commonly
                 called "Gibbie with the gowden garters," by Margaret daughter
                 of Walter Scott, of Harden, better known by the sobriquet of
                 "Maggy Fendy." Being the second son of a younger branch,
                 Gilbert was destined to the profession of the law; but in that stir-
                 ring period of history, he appears also to have taken an active in-
                 terest in political affairs, as, on the 16th July 1685, he was found
                 guilty of treason, and forfeited for being in arms with Argyle,-
                 the process describing him as a writer in Edinburgh. He seems,
                 however, to have been soon pardoned by the King, for in little
                 moere than two years afterwards, he applied to be admitted an ad-
                 vocate, when his examiners, it is said, "stumbled to meet with him,
                 till he first showed his remission lest it might infer converse against
                 them." He was one of the deputation of Scotch gentlemen who
                 waited on King William in Holland, to concert measures for his
                 coming over to England, so that at the Revolution, from the pro-
                 minent part he had taken, the act of forfeiture was rescinded, and
                 of sixty vears thereafter, in a letter of the privy-council to the King, as to the deadly
                 Fued between the Earls of Eglinton and Lord Sempil, this sentence occurs: "August
                 27, 1606,. We had likewise in hand the process of Glasgow, wherein we have found
                 very great insolence and riot committed by Mynto and a number of the commons of
                 the town, and have committed the persons guilty to ward within the burgh of Lin-
                 lithgow, till yotr Majesty's pleasure be known. "Sevdral scattered notices of the
                 Turnbulls likewise occur. There is a remission, dated 5th April 1499, to William
                 Turnbull of Minto, and Archibald Turnbull, son to umquhile John Turnbull, for
                 the slaughter of uniquhile John of Rutherford, and for their treasonable passing and
                 remaining in England. "Only three years afterwards, however, in 1502, the Turn-
                 bulls of Minto were again engaged in several acts of violence, destroying the place of
                 Barnhills, and burning twenty-six bolls of bear, and forty bolls of oats, pertaining to
                 George Rutherford of Langnewton, in his place of Sandystanes, so that, on account
                 of these outrages, we find, in 1506, William Turnbull of Minto, along with Mark,
                 Edward, and Walter Turnbull, his accomplices, set forth as "rebels, and at the horn."
                 The same lawless habits still continued a century later, for Thomas Turnbull, appa-
                 rand of Mynto, was concerned in the sltughter of Thomas Ker of Crailing and his
                 servant, which took place on the 14th September 1601. There was, indeed, at this
                 time, as we learn from a contemporary document, "a deadly feud standing betwixt
                 the haile name Trumbill in the ane part, and the laird of Pharnihirst, the haile Kers,
                 and the haile inhabitants of the towne of Jedburghe on the other."

                 <FOOTNOTE>Fountainhall, in his Notices of the Transactions of 1685, says, "As to the stock
                 with which Argyle furnished his sjips and arms, Rumbold said that he thought it
                 did not exceed L. 12,000 Sterling; how he got it, some said ane English widow in
                 A msterdam, called Mistress Smith, advanced him considerably; others say that Pol-
                 wart, terwoodly, and Mr Gilbert Elliot went to Geneva, and to the Protestant
                 churches of Germany, begging supply to the poor afflicted Protestant of Britain."
                   -Historical Observations, i.p. 191.



