
204			AYRSHIRE.

<TABLE>

                  For year ending 30th September  1834,            700
                                                  1835,         21,000
                                                  1836,         29,061
	The majority of the travellers by the railway are of the middle
and lower classes, to meet whose convenience the fares are at the
very lowest remunerating rate, being only one penny per mile.
In consequence of the great increase, both of goods and passen-
gers, a single line is found to be insufficient to afford the necessary
accommodation. To remedy this the company have applied to
Parliament for an act, to enable them to raise funds to lay a double
line of railway, and to adopt locomotive power thereupon. There
is now every probability that the great Glasgow and Ayr railway
will go on; an excellent junction between which and the Ardrossan
railway will be effected, at a trifling expense, at Kilwinning--and
thus the communication between Ardrossan and Glasgow be com-
pleted. Were this accomplished it could not fail to prove a great
public benefit. The projected line passes through a large tract
of country rich in the most valuable minerals, and containing se-
veral large and populous villages. The whole of the manufactur-
ing and shipping towns in the west of Scotland would thereby be
brought into immediate connection with Paisley and Glasgow, and
perhaps ultimately, if the Edinburgh and Glasgow railway be car-
ried through, with Edinburgh; and thus a direct communication
be opened up between the two seas. The advantages of this great
line of railway are fully set forth in the Mining, Railway, and Steam
Navigation Gazette of the 31st December last, from which the fol-
lowing extract is made: "The position which this harbour (of
Ardrossan) occupies is very favourable, being situated at the
mouth of the Clyde, and within thirty miles by railway of Glasgow.
Parties requiring to travel from Glasgow or Edinburgh, and the
north of Ireland or Liverpool, when this railway is executed, will
be able to accomplish the journey in at least eight hours and a-half
from Edinburgh, and five hours from Glasgow, less time than what
is required in sailing at present from Ardrossan to Belfast. In most
instances a night passage will be avoided. The time required to pro-
ceed at present from Glasgow to Belfast by water conveyance, is from
fourteen to fifteen hours, while from Edinburgh at least twenty hours
are required. The passage from Ardrossan to Belfast is from six to
six and a-half hours, so that the whole time required to travel from
Edinburgh and Glasgow to Belfast would not exceed seven and a-
half hours from Glasgow, and nine and a-half from, Edinburgh. Ar-
drossan is one of the most fashionable watering-places on the west
				   3


