
                           KIRKMICHAEL.                       303

   spinsters. There are 313 under twelve years of age, and 187 under
   seven years. There are 187 who usually employ themselves
   as servants,--being 120 more than the number of individuals in
   that capacity which the parish requires.
     The number of illegitimate births for the last twelve years is
   somewhat under an average of 3 each year.
     There are 362 families in the parish. The average number of
   individuals in each family is 5 1/6 in the landward part of the parish,
   and 3 3/4 in the village. There are two fatuous persons, and two
   dumb.
     The language gendrally spoken is the Gaelic, but it has decreased
   very considerably within the last forty years. There is
   not an individual between twelve and forty years of age who cannot
   speak English. They all read English, and there are many
   of the rising generation who cannot speak Gaelic.
     The people have improved much of late years in the habits of industry
   and cleanliness. Amidst many difficulties and privations
   they enjoy, in a reasonable degree, the comforts and necessaries of
   life, and are a contented and happy people, enthusiastically at
   tached to their kindred and country, of unshaken loyalty, and
   firmly adhering to the civil and religious institutions of the land.
     Upon the whole, the inhabitants of this parish may be said to
   be an intellectual, moral, and religious people.
     Poaching in game and salmon, though Touch on the decrease, is
   not wholly exterminated.  Private distillation, and smuggling in
   ardent spirits, which not many years ago prevailed universally,
   and which tended much to the demoralization of the people, are
   now wholly unknown.

 	                       IV.-INDUSTRY.
     The number of acres, standard imperial measure, which is cultivated
   within the parish, is about 2400. The number of acres
   which never have been cultivated, and which remain constantly
   waste or in pasture, ir uncertain, but of great extent; it is estimated
   in the last Statistical Account at 80,000, exclusive of the,
   forest of Glenavon, which is not less than 60,000, say 140,000 in,
   whole.
     There is not an acre of planted wood in the parish but the,
   greater  part of the valley of the Avon is interspersed with natural
   growing birch and alder, which adds much to the beauty of the
   scenery; but the wood is of little value, as no care is bestowed upon
   the management of it. The average rent of arable land per imperial


