
346                      KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

the relief of the poor, besides a donation of L.40 a-year from Mrs
Hugham of Cotswold House. The poor's funds are supplied in
the following manner: church collections, L.48 yearly; procla-
mation dues, hearse hire, &e., L.7; voluntary assessment from the
heritors, L.40;--L.95.* There is now but little disposition among
the people to refrain from seeking parochial relief except amongst
a few of the old residenters.
	Prisons.--Tbere is an excellent lock-up in Creetown, and it is
to the praise of the people that it is now but seldom used.
	Inns and Ale-houses.--There are eight inns and public houses
in the parish, which are in general well kept; consequently they
are much less injurious to the morals of the people than they
otherwise would be; although half the number would be quite suf-
ficient for the entertainment of travellers and the convenience of
the population.
	Fuel.--Both coals and peats are very much used. Coals are
in general brought from Whitehaven, and cost about 16s. per ton.
Peats are procured from the mosses in the parish, and cost from
2s. to 2s. 6d. a-cart. The practice referred to in the old Statis-
tical Account, of the poor people cutting whins and brushwood for
burning, is still common. Coals are Pow (1844) only 13s. 4d.
per ton.
			MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATINS.
	Since the last Statistical Account was written in 1794, the po-
pulation has increased about 500; wages and prices have risen
about 50 per cent.; the rental of the parish has greatly increased,
the style of husbandry has improved, and a great many fences have
been built. Schools have become more numerous, and church ac-
commodation more abundant. The quarry has been opened, and
new fisheries established; and although the manufacturing and
shipping have diminished, yet the "political economy" of the pa-
rish may be represented as in a prosperous and improving condi-
tion; and my beares desire and prayer is, that the piety which
adorned this corner of the vineyard in the days of Rutherford
Dalgleish, and Peacock, may adoru it still.

<FOOTNOTE>The number of paupers has lately increased considerately. There are at present
57 regular paupers on the roll, and it will now require above L. 200 per annum to
pay their aliment.

	Drawn up in 1840.
	Revised April 1844.


