
584                         FORFARSHIRE.

hand-hoe and lift the crop, while the farmer furnishes manure,
the use of his plough for the requisite drillings, and of his carts
to lodge the produce.
	For some years past, dairy husbandry has been gaining ground.
On each of two farms in the parish, about forty cows, chieflx of
the Ayrshire breed, are kept, and almost all the tenants adopt the
system to a certain extent.
	The North Highland sheep and Angus cattle are most com-
mon in this district, but no attention is paid to the breeding of
either.
	The rotation of cropping most commonly followed (for there
are exceptions) is that of five, viz. two years grass succeeded by
oats, and then potatoes and turnip: wheat is most frequently sown
after potatoes, and barley after turnip; grass seeds being joined
with both.
	Farm-buildings, both in regard to dwelling-houses and farm-
offices, are, in general, sufficiently large and commodious. Land-
lords are desirous to furnish their tenants with suitable accommo-
dation, of which the following fact is a sufficient proof, that, within
the last six or seven years, two steadings have been entirely re-
built, and four more partially rebuilt, and thoroughly repaired and
enlarged.
	The ordinary duration of leases is nineteen years.
	The only garden in the parish which merits particular notice
is that at Comperdown, situated on a sloping bank, within a quarter
of a mile of the house. It contains about two Scots acres within
the walls, which are from fourteen to fifteen feet in height. Against
the north wall stands a magnificent range of hot houses, 230 feet
in length, containing 6800 square feet of glass. Thd range con-
sists of five vineries, three peach-houses, with conservatory, &c.
all in the best condition. The garden and surrounding shrubbery
embrace an area of about sixteen acres, and the whole extent of
glass is about 8400 square feet.
	In the glen to the east of Balruddery, above-mentioned, about
nine acres are laid out as orchard and garden, well stocked with
fruit trees, &c. having a fine stream of water running through the
grounds.
	At Benvie, there is an orchard, containing three acres, which
was originally attached to the manse, a part of which building
still remains, and forms a section of the dwelling-house on the
farm of Benvie. the autumn pear, generally known in this part


