
148                      RENFREWSHIRE.

tails. The high land of the parish is composed of secondary trap
rock, while the low land of the parish is uniformly composed of
rocks belonging to the coal formation, and these are in general
deeply covered with diluvium, containing many bouldered pieces
of primitive and transition rocks.  But secondary trap is the lowest
rock seen in situ within the parish.  This trap is composed of un-
stratified masses of porphyry, amygdaloid, hornblende rock, green-
stone, and basalt ; but the junction of these rocks with each other
is for the most part hidden from observation.
   Porphyry of a grey or greyish blue colour constitutes the great
mass of which the hilly division is composed.  It varies in hard-
ness in different places, but is for the most part compact, and
abounds with crystals of quartz, and pretty large rhomboidal plates
of felspar.  In many situations this rock assumes an amygdaloid
structure, enclosing calcareous spar, arragonite, zeolite, stilbite,
chabasite, &c. and occasionally large druses occur lined with preh-
nite in mammaloid masses of a green or straw-colour, sometimes
smooth, and in other instances crystallized on the surface.  Preh-
nite too is frequently found imbedded in, or constituting an integral
part of the rock.
   Hornblende rock, with quartz and felspar, frequently occurs in
detached masses both on the high and low grounds, and on the
road to the farm of Braehead, about 400 feet above the level of
the sea.  Hornblende occurs almost without admixture with any
other minerals.  Its colour is- dark green approaching to black, and
it is so friable as to be easily reduced to its crystalline form by
the slightest stroke of the hammer. In this localit , it seems to
separate a mass of porphyry from a more amygdaloid rock, having
a base similar to clinkstone.
   Greenstone is quarried in several places on the table-land. It
is traversed by numerous veins of jasper and chalcedony, and con-
tains several varieties of the zeolite family.  Basalt is found mas-
sive towards the western extremity of the range, nearly of a black
colour, and replete with crystals of augite and olivine.
   The second or lower division is highly interesting on account of -
the value of the minerals to the manufactures of the district.
These consist of sandstone, limestone, coal, aluminous shale,
ironstone, fire-clay, bituminous shale, and trap rock. The sand-
stone which abounds in the parish is that belonging to the coal
measures.  It is uniformly stratified.  In some places, the rock is
exposed on the surface, but more frequently is covered by a few


