
KILMORACK.                                                     363

three great glens of Strathglass, Glenstrafarrar, and Glencannich,
so called from the different streams which run through each.
   Meteorology.--The climate may be said to be generally humid
and mild.  The thermometer in the hot season ranges between
70 and 80, while in the depth of winter it has not for some
years past been observed below 24&deg; of Fahrenheit.  The average
temperature may be stated about 48&deg;.  The changes in the baro-
meter are frequent and rapid, often rising and failing half an inch
in the course of an hour.
   Hydrography.--The principal river is the Beauly, compos-
ed of the three lesser streams Farrar, Cannich, and Glass, in-
cluding Dheaick.  Lakes are found almost in every district of
the parish.  The principal of these, are Loch Monar, Loch
Beinevean, and Loch Affric, which are surrounded by the re-
mains of an extensive pine forest.  The scenery of these lakes
is of singular grandeur: and perhaps, in that respect they are un-
equalled by any in Scotland.  On the mountain of Maum Soule,
on the north side of Loch Beinevean, is the largest known body of
perennial snow in Britain.  In the middle of June, when the sun
is vertical, a very little part of it only is dissolved.  At the re-
mote end of Glen-Strathfarrar lies Loch Muilie.  In the centre of
this loch, there is a small island, to which it is reported the late
Lord Lovat retired, after the total defeat of his party , at Cul-
loden.  Here, there is now a very neat shooting-box, which
the present proprietor erected.  Four or five miles further to
the west, Loch Monar occupies a wild hollow a little to the north
of the mountain Scour-na-lapich, which in height almost equals
Beinnevis.  Here there is an excellent fishing station, which is
frequently resorted to by those who are fond of this sport.
   Geology and Mineraloyy.--The prevailing rocks in the parish
are gneiss, the old red sandstone, and the conglomerate rock, near
Little Struy.  A black lead mine, situated in a thick vein of heavy
spar, traversing gneiss, was opened some years ago by Lovat,
but it did not turn out profitable, the rock being exceedingly
tough and hard, and the quality of the plumbago rather inferior.
The soils in this parish are various-- rich loamy, clayey, sandy,
and gravelly.
   Zoology.--Most of the animals found in this parish are such as
are common to the Highlands in general.  In the western glens
the red-deer are found in abundance;--polecats, weasels, and
hares are numerous.  In many parts, the rabbits are a nui-


