
                       FALKIRK.                    15

the tenantry are bound, in their covenants of lease, to follow a par-
ticular system of cropping; but as it is one which experience has
proved to be best adapted for the land, it is very rarely departed
from, even in cases where the tenant is at liberty to do so.  It is
as follows: First year, fallow; 2d, wheat; 3d, beans; 4th, barley;
5th, clover and ryegrass; and 6th, and last of the rotation, oats.
According to this system of alternate cropping, it will be seen, that,
in order to secure a proportion of each kind of crop, as well as an
equal distribution of labour throughout the season, it is necessary
that each farm be divided into six equal parts, one of which is al-
lotted to each of the above-mentioned crops.  It has been objected
to, on account of the frequent recurrence of fallowing; but the ad-
hesive nature of the soil, and the circumstance of its being much
infested with root-grasses, seem to render this necessary.  A crop
of beans, indeed, is occasionally taken in place of fallow, in which
case the land is manured and ploughed as soon as possible after
the last crop of the previous rotation has been removed, and the
beans are drilled in the month of February or March following,
at the rate of six bushels per Scots acre.  The land never admit-
thing at that early season of being formed into drills, the drill-ma-
chine merely follows the plough, depositing the seed in every al-
ternate furrow, at the distance of from eighteen to twenty-two
inches betwixt the rows.  They are usually twice hand-hoed in
the early part of the summer, and if the land has been sufficiently
manured, and the beans got off in time to allow it to be properly
prepared for the wheat, the crop is not unfrequently equal to that
which has been preceded by a bare fallow.  In consequence, how-
ever, of the late season at which beans ripen in this climate, they
are seldom harvested in time to allow the land to be so prepared,
and a bare fallow is therefore generally preferred.
     "In this case, the land receives from four to six ploughing in the
course of the summer, and is reduced to a fine tilth by a plentiful
use of the barrows and rolles.  On account of the tendency of the
wheat crop to lodge, manure is rarely employed in its culture.
Lime is, however, occasionally applied, at the rate of ten to fifteen
cart loads of shells per acre, although it is not so largely used, as,
from its beneficial effects on the soil, might have been expected.
     "The seed is universally sown broadcast, and the season generally
preferred is from the beginning to the middle of October.  The
quantity of seed varies from two to three bushels per acre.  The
varieties in greatest esteem are Hunter's and white and yellow


