
     Statistical Account

the walls, were so distinct, a few years ago, as to shew, that a
landscape with trees, and several representations of scriptural

<FOOTNOTE>

   The boundaries of estates were early attended to.  There was a
distinct march, dividing Spynie and Findrassie from Kintrae and
Quarrywood, by agreement, in 1226, between Hugh de Mora-
via, and his brother the bishop, and establishing the road to
Sherriffmiln, Auchter Spynie, and Elgin, the march of proper-
ty, declaring the muirs to the east neutral ground  The
parish consisted of church lands and King's lands.  Those
of the church were Spynie, Myreside, Bishopmiln, Murrayston,
Burrowbrigs, Aughter-Spynie, and Auldroehty.  Those of the
Crown were Leggat, Kintrae, and Quarrywood, and Barony of
Westfield.
   The earliest feu of the bishop is that of a stance for a miln up-
on Auchter Spynie, (Sherriffmiln,) in a donation of the said
ANDREW, bishop of Murray, to WALTER of Duffus, his bro-
ther, anno 1237.  As on this stance alone, a miln is built, a
few rigs along with it, though 6 miles distant from the baro-
ny, continued the miln of that estate 500 years, and lately were
purchased, from Mr Arthur Duff, by the proprietor of Duffus,
whose grandfather sold them to Lord BRACO, in 1740.  The lands
themselves were feued before the year 1309, in favour of ADAM
STEVEN, burgess of Elgin; and the said stance of a miln is there
reserved.  They were in the person of THOMAS URQUHART of
Burdsyards, in 1390.  The lands of Auldrochty belonged to Ro-
bert Sibbald, in 1398  Findrassie was sewed by the bishop to
JOHN, Dominus de Toilres, and MARGARET his wife, anno 1378.
   The remaining lands of the church continued with the bishop
till the eve of the Reformation, when Bishop Hepburn made
great havock.  What of them were saved from his prodigal
hands, with the feu duties and patronages, were granted by
James VI. in favour, of ALEXANDER LINDSAY, who was created
LORD SPYNIE, and the bishopric erected into a temporal Lord-
ship to him and his heirs and assignees, and to JEAN LYON,
Countess of ANGUS, his wife,
   This Alexander Lindsay, a brother of the Earl of CRAW-
FURD, was a great favourite of this Prince, who wrote him from
Denmark, advising him to the marriage of Jean Lyon, in
these words: 'Dear Sandy, marry her-your young tout will
'blast her old horn.'-About the year 1605, LORD SPYNIE dis-
poned the bishopric to the Dunbars of Westfield, who after-
wards sold it to the family of Grange.


