
                        OLD MONKLAND.                      647

is of very local occurrence, like all the ironsiones, and has only
been found worth working at Palace-Craig.  It is inferior qua-
lity, and only about 18 inches thick.
   2. The Black-Band, also called Mushet's Black-Band, from the
name of the person who first wrought it to any extent.  This is
the great staple commodity for the supply of the iron-market,
and when found to any extent, is a certain source of wealth to the
proprietor.  Its average depth below the splint is about 15 or 16
fathoms, and it varies in thickness from 14 to 18 inches, and
occupies an area of from 8 to 10 square miles.
   3. Airdrie Hill Black Band.  In this property, which is in New
Monkland, there is a band of ironstone varying from 2 to 4 feet
in thickness, lying about 3 fathoms below the black-band, or
Mushet's Band.  It is found only in part of the lands of Airdie
Hill, and is by far the most local of all the ironstones.
   The black band of ironstone is thrown in by a dike formerly
mentioned, which runs in a north-west direction through the lands
of Woodhall Cathedral Park, the lands of Carbroe and Shaw-
head, and on to Kirkwood and Keelhill.  There is no ironstone
to the south and west, except a very little to north of Carnbroe.
A branch dike comes through the lands of Dundyvan, to the south-
west side of which none of the black-band is found.  This valuable
mineral is chiefly found in the lands of Monkland House, Faskin,
Carnboroe, Garturk, and Lower Coats, and terminates in the lands
of Dundyvan.  The Boundaries of the district in which these Vul-
canic treasures lie, are nearly as follows: It is bounded on the
west by a stright line drawn from Sommerlee House to Kip's
Bridge; from that to Glenmavis on the north; from Glanmavis
still northward, and in a south-east direction to the lands of Arden
in New Monkland; from Arden to Clerkstone in a southern di-
rection; and then from Clerkstone to Monkland House, &c.  The
principal ironstone pits now in operation in Old Monkland are as
follow:
   1. Raw.  Splint-coal and black-band; pit from 27 to 30 fa-
thoms.
   2. Locks.  Pit 20 fathoms, same band.
   3. Kairkhill, two ironstone pits, one 30, another 28 fathoms.
Coal, 40 athoms.
   4. Palace-craig, two pits, one 40 fathoms, another 70 fathoms.
The upper black-band occurs here.


