
                             ALLOA                           9

east; extremity of the parish, about two miles from Alloa. Its
waters form a permanent supply for driving the hydraulic machi-
nery of the Alloa colliery, and the water-wheels of various manu-
factories. The temperature of the water, at the depth of 15 feet,
was 52&deg; Fahr. and of the air 61&deg;, on lOth September 1836, at
four o'clock P. M.
   Zoology--Mammalia.--The wild animals of this class which
have been found in this parish, and  adjoining Firth, are the
following:
Scotophelus murinus	 Martes Foina		Arvicola agrestis
Plecotus auritus            Lutra vulgaris            Lepus timidus
Erinaceus Europeous (1.)   Vulpes,vulgaris.              Cuniculus
Sorex araneus               Sciurus vulgaris. (3.)   cervus Capreolus (6
      fodiens               Mus rattus                Phoca vitulina
Talpa Europea (2.)            decumanus (4.)        Phoccena communis (7.)
Meles Taxus                    Musculus               Rorqualis Borealis (8.)
Mustela putorius               sylvaticus             Phoemna Grampus
        Erminea                messorius (5.)        Globicephalus:deductor (9.)
        vulgaris            Arvicola amphibia         Beluga leucas (10.)

  (1.) The hedgehog was not known as an inhabitant of this parish when the last Ac-
count was written. It in now found in the woods. This innocent, although pro-
scribed animal, has been most absurdly accused, of sucking cows. It feeds altogether
upon slugs, beetles, cockchafers, and other insects, which are extremely injurious to
the agriculturist, both in their larva and perfect state.
  (2.) Worms and slugs, &c. are the food of the mole and, although in its, mining
process, it undoubtedly overturns many growing plants, yet it is probably, upon the
whole, more useful than injurious to man, wherever it exists in this parish.
  (3.) The squirrel, which was also unknown here when the last Account was written,
is now numerous in the woods. This nimble died elegant animal has been lately
accused by a certain author of destroying the small birds. This must be a mistek;
for it lives entirely on vegetable food, and is particularly fond of nuts and acorns.
When feeding,it sits ereet, and uses its fore-feet like hands. It is a curious circum-
stance, and not generally known, that most of those oaks, which are called, sponta-
neous, are planted by the squirrel which thus performs the most essential service  to
the British navy.
  (4.)  The brown or Norway rat (originally from Asia in 1750) is too numerous
throughout the parish. It is said by some naturalist but without sufficient evidence,
to have nearly extirpated the original British, or black rat, which is very seldom seen
here.
  (5.) This is the smallest of British quadrupeds, measuring only 21/2 inches, from the
nose to the  tail, and weighing not more than one-sixth of an ounce.
  (6.)Roo-door are not Mentioned among the wild animals in the Old Statistical Ad.
count; but have been seen occasionally, for more than thirty years, in Tullibody
woods, They are more rarely observed of late years.
  (7.) Porpoises and scals are constant inhabitants of the Firth here. The farmer not
only destroy the salmon, but prevent them from entering the river. The better are
also equally inveterate and destructive enemies of the berring.
  (8.)  One of this specimin, 1808,  ran it self ashore on the banks of the Forth between
Alloa and Cawbus, where it was discovered by two plaughmen, who endeavoured for
a long time to kill it with their, knives, but without effect, at the same
time making dreadful exertions to get away. At last a surgeon pointed out the mor-
tal part,-and, by applying a spit they soon effected their purpose.
  (9.) On the 7th of October 1814, anumber of large animals of the cesacous order
were discovered in the Firth of forth, opposite Tullibody House. The late John
Moubray, Esq. Of Cambus, having ordered out all the boats in that place, which
were manned by his servants, he went out, accoparied by Mr Dick offer of ex-
cise, to attack them. They killed seven, and succeeded in driving eight more up
the Devon to shallow water, where they also were killed. Two were killed a little


