
                           RENFREW.                           29

Society also exists, for the supply of the parish, and which has
hitherto done well.  The leading principle of the society is to af-
ford facilities for the purchase of Bibles.  This is accomplished
by having on hand an assortment of Bibles at different prices, bound
in the most efficient and tasteful manner, and offered unreservedly
to all, while the price may be advanced by instalments.  This re-
moves entirely the idea of pauper terms and pauper Bibles, and
yet allows to the poor, as well as the rich, full access to the Word
of God.  And they have hitherto justified the confidence put in
them; few, indeed, having expressed any unwillingness to pay for
what they were to receive.  The consequence is, almost every
child who can read has either a Bible or Testament. -A consi-
derable sum is also raised for purposes of education and for libra-
ries.  There are particularly two schools of industry dependent
in part on subscriptions, one of which from its extent, as well as
proper management, has proved a very great blessing to many.  Our
Sabbath schools are numerous, and are furnished with juvenile li-
braries, the expenses of which are met by collections and donations.
We have also a parish library; partly dependent on similar resources.
But beyond these and other parochial institutions we have no or-
ganized associations; and we assist other objects only by collec-
tions and individual subscriptions.
   Education.-There are six week-day schools in this parish, and
these are attended by about 327 day scholars, and 90 evening scho-
lars ; thus leaving little more than one-ninth of the population at
school during day, and somewhat more than one-seventh when
evening scholars are included.  The burgh grammar-school is en-
dowed to the extent of L.36, 13s. 4d. a-year.  The teacher of a
district school has a limited allowance; but this is by private ar-
rangement, and the expense is met chiefly by an individual heri-
tor.  One of the teachers in the burgh has the school-room free,
but even this is, we believe, by subscription, and another is wholly
unaided.  In addition to these, there are, as already notice, two
schools of industry for girls.  The teacher of one of these has a
salary without fees; but this is made up out of subscriptions and the
produce of the school; and the other has a few pounds from the town-
council, and the produce of her school.  The branches taught in
these different schools are numerous, embracing all the usual depart-
ments of school education, and they are on the whole well taught.  In
all of them the children are made acquainted with the Scriptures
and the Shorter Cathechism; and in most of them they are well


