
270             	FORFARSHIRE.

jects who cost the session annually L. 15, 12s. The average an-
nual amount of the poor funds is L. 90, composed as follows:
church collections, L. 40; donations, L. 20; interest of money
lent, L. 15; and about L. 15 from seat rents, mortcloth, &c. As
yet, happily, assessment, either compulsory or voluntary, is un-
known amongst us; and it is gratifying to remark, that there still
exists among the people generally a feeling of independence which
shrinks from asking parochial relief as long, as possible, and which,
at the same time, induces them to contribute to their poorer bre-
thren so long as they have the means of doing so.
   Fairs.--There are two fairs now held in this parish, which for-
merly used to be in the parish of Dun. They are still held on a
part of the moor of Dun, on the second Tuesday of May and the
third Thursday of June, and are for the sale principally of cattle
and horses.
   Alehouses, &c.--There is a public house at one of the mills, be-
sides those at the two toll-houses at the North-water and Mary-
kirk bridges, which last are chiefly frequented by travellers, and
are in general well kept.
   Fuel.--The fuel commonly used is English coal, procured at the
shore of Montrose at from 1s. to 1s. 3d. per barrel, and. frequent-
ly also hag or brushwood, which is to be had in great abundance
in the parish, and at a very reasonable rate, varying from 1s. to
3s. per cart load.

                       MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   Since the time of the last Statistical Account, (1791,) the two
most stiking variations in the state of the parish appear to be the
now highly improved system of husbandry, which is nowhere bet-
ter understood,--and the great increase, as already mentioned,
which has taken place in the manufacturing establishments.
   With regard to the improvements of which the parish is still
susceptible, it may just be noticed, in conclusion, that the great desi-
deratum, undoubtedly, is the improvement or amendment of the
parish roads, nearly all of which are in a wretched state; the
money hitherto expended upon them being utterly inadequate to
keep them in decent repair. But it is hoped and believed that
soon more attention will be paid to them, and that the mode of
keeping them up will be put on a better footing than at present,--
one of them tending to increase the facility of internal communi-
cation, and also greatly to enhance the value of property in the
parish.

   January 1835.


