
                             RAFFORD.                                 245

ed, and one preferred which does not distinguish it from the inglo-
rious erections of the present day.

                      II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   The parish of Rafford, at one time, comprehended part of that
of Kinloss, the latter being formed, partly from Rafford, partly
from Alves. In 1661, Altyre, then a distinct parish belonging to
the parsonage of Dollas, was by Act of Parliament annexed to
Rafford. In the days of Episcopacy, Rafford was the seat of the
subchanter of Moray. Reference is made to the parish in the re-
cords of the Presbytery of Forres, which commence in 1651.
Those of the parish commence in 1668; but are defective during
the periods between 1709 and 1722, and between 1733 and 1738.
They bear evidence of a discipline more strict than would be to-
lerated in this age, when all who are disaffected to the Establish-
ed Church, or feel aggrieved by her discipline, can obtain privile-
ges from Dissenting bodies. Frequent reference is make in them
to charges of witchcraft, malison, and exorcism, indicating the pre-
valence of a superstition, which, we regret to say, is not yet whol-
ly extirpated. The register of births commences in 1682, and is
wanting from 1730 to 1738. It cannot be said that any disincli-
nation is evinced to register the births, unless it be in a rare in-
stance among the poorer classes, arising from a wish to evade the
small fee.
   Eminent Characters.-Dr Alexander Adam, for many years Rec-
tor of the High School of Edinburgh, and author of "Roman
Antiquities," "Classical Biography," &c. was a native of this
parish, and received the first rudiments of his education at the pa-
rish school. Dr Duncan Shaw, son of the well-known author of
the History of the Province of Moray, was minister of the parish
from 1753 to 1783. Towards the latter end of that period, he
was elected to the Moderatorship of the General Assembly, and
was translated to the East Church of Aberdeen, in which charge
he died. He was a man of cultivated mind, and of pleasing man-
ners, possessing in no ordinary degree the affections of the people.
He published several works, which are respectable proofs of his
literary research and taste, viz. "A comparative View of the several
methods of promoting Religious Instruction," 2 vols.-"the His-
tory of Gamaliel"-"the History of the Jews"-"the Centurion."*

<FOOTNOTE>Although not of eminence, yet if respect and honour, beyond the ordinary lot of
men, the consequence of unblemished character and useful exertion, claim notice in
a record of this kind, a place is due here to Mr George Fiddes, long the laborious
and successful schoolmaster of this parish. Besides doing much for the cultivation



