
548                             FIFESHIRE.

near it, as can now be obtained. Some years ago, the Teeswater,
or short-horned breed, was introduced, and some very fine cattle
were raised from it. They were profitable to the breeder, from his
being able to sell them fat, a year sooner, than the Fife and Angus
kinds. But they are too fine, and delicate for our climate, and
pasture. They have a tendency to degenerate, unless they are
kept up at a great expense, or the breed renewed from warmer
and richer soils. The original breed of the county, if equally at-
tended to, although kept to a greater age, affords a richer article
to the butcher, and is nearly, if not altogether, as profitable to the
farmer. A cross betwixt the Teeswater and the Fife breed is
generally considered an advantageous one. The stock thus rais-
ed, if placed in favourable circumstances, acquire a greater weight
than the pure Fife breed, and, although more delicate, are sooner
ready for the market. There are about 200 cattle of various kinds
raised in the parish annually, and the most of them are sold fat,
about three years of age. There are few horses raised for the
market. Those bred for agricultural purposes are strong and hand-
some.
   Rotation of Crops.-On the best soils the following five shif is
common 1. Fallow or green crop; 2. wheat; 3. barley sown down
with grass seeds; 4. grass cut, or pastured; 5. oats. This is a
severe rotation, and has a tendency in the course of years to wear
out the best of land. It can be justified only from the want of en-
closures, which prevents the farmer from adopting, as he would
wish to do, the stock husbandry. This is gradually giving way to
the six shift, which, in every agricultural point of view, is supe-
rior to it, although at first less protitable.  I. Fallow, or green
crop ; 2. wheat ; 3. pease , or beans, or turnips manured with bones,
and eaten off with sheep; 4. barley with grass seeds; 5. gross
cut, or pastured;. 6. oats. This rotation would be much improy-
ed, by allowing the land to lie in pasture for two or three yeo
after barley, and would be unquestionably so, if the farnis were
properly enclosed. There. is little.land,in the parish whic can-
not bear this last course. Whrre it does exist, barley is substituted
for wheat; then, white and green crops alternately, and pasture
for several years.
  Great improvements have been made within the last forty years
in ploughing.and. draning; and they ar still processing
draining, which promises such happy results, has been introduced,
and will in a short time be carried to a great extent. the subsoil


