
268                          PERTHSHIRE.

tation in the parish, chiefly upon the estates of Monzie, Glenal-
mond, Callander, and Cultoquhey.  These consist principally of
larch, Scotch fir, oak, ash, elm, and willow; for the growth of all
of which, the soil is well adapted.
   Extraordinary Larches.-In the garden of Monzie are five
larches, remarkable for their age, growth, and symmetry. They
are coeval with the celebrated larches of Dunkeld, having been
brought along with them to this country from the same place, and
are now superior to them in beauty and size.  The tallest mea-
sures 102 feet in perpendicular height: another is 22 feet in cir-
cumference at the ground, and at the distance of 21/2 feet from the
ground, 16 feet, and it throws out branches to the extraordinary
distance of 48 and 55 feet from the trunk.  The late Duke of
Athol, it would appear, evinced a more than ordinary degree of
interest in the progress of these fine trees,-sending his gardener
annually thither to observe their growth. When this functionary
returned and made his wonted report, that the larches at Monzie
were leaving those of DUnkeld behind in the race, his Gr`ce would
jocularly allege, that his servant had permitted General Campbell's
good cheer to impair his powers of observation.

                         II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   There is no account of the parish, either printed or in manu-
script, so far as is known, except that contained in Sir John Sinclair's
national work. We shall, therefore, avail ourselves of the little
informatinn that can be gleaned from the session records, aided by
tradition.
   Establishment of Presbyterianism.- The records of session com-
mence 5th April 1691, and are dated at Logy, where there was
and still is a chapel. The first fact they record is the ordination
of nine elders for the parish of Monzie, by Mr William Reid,
minister of Rattray, "according to the appointment of the pres-
bytery of Perth thereanent." The next minute is dated at Mon-
zie, 15th July 1691, and records the ordination of Mr William
Chalmer, the first Presbyterian minister of Monzie,-Mr Reid of
Rattray again preaching and presiding.
   Traits of Ancient Manners, Witches, &c.-It affords a curious
picture of the manners of the age, to be informed, that the parish-
ioners were in the practice of assembling upon the Green of Monzie
on the Sabbath mornings to play at foot-ball; and that on these
occasions, Mr Chalmer, who experienced great difficulty in indu-
                                  3


