
     of Callander.

Cryptogamia, has been discovered, but what is described by
Mr. LIGHTFOOT in his Flora Scotica.

   Seed Time and Harvest.-Our seed time is regulated by the
season.  Oats and pease are generally sown about the begin-
ning of April, and flax-seed towards the latter end of it.  Po-
tatoes are planted about the beginning of May; the barley,
with or without grass seeds, about the middle of May; turnips
in June.  The flax is pulled about Lammas, or the middle of
August; the barley is reaped by the beginning of September;
the oats and late pease about the middle, and towards the end
of that month.  The late potatoes are ripe about the same
time; yams a little later; but the early potatoes are ready
in July*.

   Prices of Grain, Provisions and Labour.-The barley is
generally sold at from 15 s. to 18 s. per boll, Linlithgow mea-
sure; the oats from 13 s. 4 d. to 16 s.; the sown hay at 6 d. and the
bog hay at 3 d. per stone.  Butcher meat sells at from 3 d. to
4 d. per lb., according to its quality and the season of the year.
Lamb generally brings a higher price.  A man servant, who
is master of his business, is hired at 7 L. or 8 L. Sterling, and a
maid servant at 3 L. a year+.  Day-labourers receive 1 s. a day.
The prices of labour, of poultry, of butcher meat, of butter and

     4 G 2

<FOOTNOTE>

*N.B.  In the original account of the parish of Callander, these and other ar-
ticles were stated at greater length; but the author being now employed at the
desire of the BOARD OF AGRICULTURE, to draw up a general view of the
present state of the stock and husbandry of Strathern, and the southern parts of
Perthshire, has considerably abridged them here; as his remarks on the cul-
tivation of the ground, the nature of the grains, the improvement of the breed
of cattle, and the management of woods, etc.  will appear, with equal propriety,
in that publication; and the size of this paper will consequently be brought
within as moderate bounds as possible.
+About 20 years ago, a man servant, of the same qualifications, was got for
4 L., and a female servant for 1 L. 15 s. per annum; and, about 30 years ago, the
former got 3 L., and the latter only 24 s. a year:  Labourers 6 d. a day.


