
510                        LANARKSHIRE.

naged, makes a sufficient fence. If this system were once begun,
it could not fail to be universally approved of, and no difficulty
would occur in selecting such portions of land, as do not expose
the hedges to the sheep.
	These are all matters to which the proprietors themselves ought
to look; and, in addition to their encouragement of agriculture, by
laying out money on houses and dikes, and charging their tenants
six per cent. for it, it would be no injury to their real interest, if they
got an architect to plan suitable buildings, which, with slight mo
difications, might be convenient for all, and provided these at the
beginning of every lease: and if they both planted hedges and em-
ployed workmen to keep them in order. Trees undoubtedly should
be planted upon a large scale in many situations, but at first in hol-
low sheltered places by the sides of burns, and on good land; and
then, as they grow up, desirable shelter would be furnished by them;
and plantations might thus, in the course of time, reach the tops of
the highest hills. The lazy streams, with deep stagnant pools,
should all be made straight; which would at the same time increase
the rapidity of their currents, and render draining less laborious and
expensive. Blackburn, particularly, should undergo this change, as
on the surface and along the sides of it, the first threatenings of frost
are always observed. From the leases should be removed those re-
strictions to which, in most cases, it is reckoned inexpedient to make
the tenants submit. And, when it is mentioned, that for some lands
a multure of a seventeenth part is exacted, a most satisfying proof is
surely adduced of the necessity that exists, for exempting from every
form and degree of this bondage. Were these reasonable altera-
tions all introduced, and direct encouragement in this manner given
to skilful farmers, it could not but happen, that tenants, who, left
entirely to themselves, and struggling against many disadvantages,
have manfully surmounted many obstacles in their progress, would
advance with accelerated speed in the course of improvement, and
tread upon the heels of those, who imagine they are at an immea-
surable distance before them.
	Quarries, &c.--Two quarries of freestone are wrought, and many
of whinstone. There is one lime-work at Whitecleugh; but the
greatest quantity of lime is procured at Wildshaw, on the borders
of the parish, and about three miles from the village. A lead mine,
a few years since, was opened on the lands of Snar, and the ap-
pearances were reported to be most encouraging. They are at
present, working it.
	Society for Stock.--Last year the parishes of Crawford and Craw-


