
        	                 MUIRKIRK.   			    155

who have, at their own expense, improved their farms by surface-
draining, liming, and ploughing.
	The leases run from seven to fifteen years.
	Farm-Buildings.--The farm-houses are comfortable, many of
them having been lately erected, but the out-houses are in gene-
ral miserable. The stables and byres are small and unsuitable,--
little or no convenience for dairy husbandry, and, taken as a whole,
inconsistent with the extent of the farms, and the improvements of
the present times. There are few fences, composed mostly of
stone, and in many instances ill constructed, and in a ruinous con-
dition.
	Produce.--It is impossible to give a correct account of the value
of the raw produce, but it may be nearly as follows:

<TABLE>

Produce of grain of all kinds, whether cultivated for the food of man or the
	  	domestic animals,					            L. 2700
Of potatoes and other plants cultivated in the fields,               2000
Of bay, meadow and cultivated,                          		    350
Of land in pasture, rating it at L. 3, per cow grazed for the season, and at
	3s, 6d. per ewe, or full-grown sheep pastured for the year,	   3450
Of the annual thinning and periodical felling of wood,                 20
Of mines, whether coals, quarries, or metals,--say,                10,000
                                                                  -------
         Total amount of raw produce, as far as can be stated,  L. 18,520

	Manufactures.--The only manufactory, in the parish is that of iron.
Very extensive iron works were erected in 1787. These works con-
sist of three large blast furnaces for making pig-iron, an extensive
forge for making bar-iron, with a foundery and inferior works. Two
of the blast furnaces only have been going, for anumber of years, and
these employ about 400 workmen, who work six days in the week,
and eight hours per day. The materials used in making iron are
ironstone, coal, and lime, and it takes 2 tons 12 cwt. of ironstone,
8 tons 12 cwt. of coals; and 19 cwt. and 3 quarters of lime, to make
one ton of pig iron. Founders esteem it soft, easily melted, and
of the best quality. The bar iron is also very superior, being lit-
tle if at all inferior to the best Swedish iron. This proceeds partly
from the coals used in manufacturing it being nearly free of sul-
phur, and partly from the manner of beating out the bars, instead
of drawing them out by rollers as in other iron works.
	The coal field and other minerals under lease by the present
Company are extensive, and we may look forward to this manufac-
tory supplying for many years the means of wealth to all parties
concerned, and promoting, as it has hitherto done, the agricultural
interests of the parish.


