
206			DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

	In this as in Canoby parish, we have distinctly laid open the
great connecting links of the various formations which compose
the mineral history of this county. The transition rocks which
compose the mountains of Moffat, and stretch southwards, inclose
the vale of Annan; and, after being hid by the soil, are discovered
again in the bed of the Annan at Williamwath ford, and near the
Kettleholm bridge in the bed of the Milk. The transition rocks
can be traced from Williamwath ford to the Almagil hills in Dal-
ton parish; whilst the same rocks on the Milk, after being covered
for some miles by soil and the secondary rocks, are again discovered
forming the base of Burnrwark in the parish of Hoddam. The
transition rocks in this parish are greywacke, which occurs mas-
sive in the Annan; whilst in the bed of the Milk the greywacke
alternates with greywacke-slate. This rock in its slaty form has
not yet been found so thin and solid as to be applied to economi-
cal purposes.
	The independent coal formation makes its appearance in the
bed of the Annan, at the head of the St Mungo glebe. Slate-clay
and sandstone are traced lying over the transition rocks. This
junction is beautifully laid open by a small quarry on the glebe.
At Dalton Hook, a quarter of a mile up the river Annan from this
ford, there occurs a large mass of conglomerate limestone, which
evidently belongs to this series of rocks. This limestone is com-
posed of fragments of compact grayish-coloured limestone, quartz,
and greywacke, cemented by a clayey basis. The sandstone of
this formation is here white; and the same coloured sandstone oc-
curs at Cone, in the parish of Kirkpatrick, and at Cowdens, in this
parish, though in the latter situation its colour is rather grayish-
white. This formation again appears at Rotchell to the south-
east of the manse, continues from that point to the shores of the
Solway Firth, and extends through the lower part of Annandale
and Eskdale. At Whitehill, on the north border of this parish, the
independent coal formation may be traced in beds of clay ironstnne,
slatd-clay containing impressions of shells, and ash gray-coloured
limestone, containing petrifactions, principally mytulites.
	Secondary trap formation.--In this parish, and, indeed, through
the whole county, only individual rocks which compose this form`-
tion are found; but no where is the series complete. Nutholm
hill is composed of porphyritic amygdaloid. This rock can be
traced on both sides of the river Annan, to the little hill of Whiny-
rigg, where it terminates, and is succeeded by the coal formation.
                                   4


