
	                      ANNAN.                        529

on the coast on the west side of the Annan, belonging to Mr Ir-
ving of Newbie, which is let to a tacksman at present for L. 350
per annum. The other belongs to the burgh, on the coast to the
east of the town at Seafield, on lease at L. 200 a-year. Both
these fisheries were very productive, last season affording a good
return to the tacksman.
	Trade and Shipping.--The trade and shipping of the port of
Annan, which is formed by a creek of the Solway Frith at the
mouth of the river, is mostly engaged in the importation from Ame-
rica and the Baltic, of timber, deals, lathwood, and tar. Four
cargoes from America and two from Memel have been imported
this year. From the regular communication by steam packets
from Liverpool to Annan Waterfoot, the greatest part of the
merchant goods are conveyed to this place, and grain, wool, live-
stock, bacon, and hams, and other produce of the country, besides.
passengers, are shipped on board these vessels in return, for the
Liverpool market, and the adjacent manufacturing towns in Lan-
cashire. There are, at present, thirty-four vessels belonging to
Annan in employment. Two of these are engaged in the foreign
trade; thirty are employed in the coasting trade of Great Britain
and Ireland; and two are pleasure yachts. The whole are regis.
tered at 1639 tons burthen.
	The imports coastwise here, exclusive of what is carried on by
the steam packets, are, coals, slates, salt, iron, herrings, and grain,
and sundry other merchant goods from Glasgow, and other ports
on the coasts of England and Ireland. The exports coastwise,
exclusive of the steamers, are very trifling, with the exception of
a few cargoes of grain, shipped for the Liverpool and Glasgow
markets, or a few loads of timber and freestone for other ports in
England. The navigation of the Solway Frith is attended with
considerable danger and difficulty, occasioned by the frequent
changes in the course of the ch`nnel, from the shifting of the sand-
banks, &c. The port of Annan, as stated above, is formed by the
creek or inlet to the river, which has been rendered more con-
venient for the shipping trading in the Solway Frith, by the em-
banknient of a piece of carse ground of considerable extent, called
Hallmeadow, a part of the Newbie estate, the property of John
Irving, Esq. lying on the north -east side of the river,--whereby the
channel is rendered deeper, for bringing up the shipping to good
and safe anchorage-ground, and also better protected from the
prevailing south-west winds, by a narrow promontory or point of


