
352                    STIRLINGSHIRE.

called Ard Whillary, the shooting and fishing belonging to which
be rented.
  In an inclosure of a few acres at Kinnaird, he had some fallow-
deer, and would show his skill as a marksman, by bringing down
a fat buck with his rifle, when he intended to give a venison feast.
   He had a pair of swans to ornament his pond, and the neigh-
bours said he was wont to pass off his geese for swans too.
  He was undoubtedly a wonderful boaster, and had no inclina-
tion to follow the precept of the moralist, "Let nothing be done
through strife and vain glory."* Mr Bruce, on the contrary, was
always striving to appear great and mighty, and claiming the palm
due to superior ability.
  With such a disposition to put himself forward, he necessarily
excited the envy and malice of many.
  Walcot, known by the name of Peter Pindar, published a sati-
rical epistle to Mr Bruce. Mr Bruce used to speak of this, and
said that a relation of his in London, who bore him some ill-will,
had employed Walcot to write the satirical verses, and that the poet
would not have published them of his own accord. Mr Bruce
thus consoled himself with the opinion that the production was
not proprio motu of Peter Pindar.
   Mr Bruce was a tall stout man. In his youth, he was hand-
some; in the latter part of his life, he was corpulent and red-faced.
  His manly appearance, and his bold and commanding manner,
were suited to procure him the respect of the people amongst
whom he travelled.
  The uncle of Mr Bruce's wife was a native of this part of the
country, and had acquired a large fortune of about half a million,
as Commissary of the army in the German campaigns of the
Duke of Cumberland, son of George II. in 1745, 1747, and 1757,
The fortune and activity of this gentleman gave him considerable
power and influence in the country. He and his connections were
Whigs. But Mr Bruce was of a contrary persuasion in politics;
he saw Government in a different point of view, and was adverse
to the destructive revolutionary system of Robespierre, tbe Duke
of Orleans, surnamed Egalitä, and other malignant and sangui-
nary men who co-operated with them. This system had begun to
work, and to be respectively propagated in Europe not long before

<FOOTNOTE>"Let nothing be done through strife or vain glory, but, in lowliness of mind, let
each esteem other better than themselves,"--St Paul's Epistles.  "Let another
praise thee, and not thy own lips."--Proverbs of Solomon.


