
                          SYMINGTON.                      867

ance to the great body of the people.  How can those on whom
a bountiful God has bestowed an abundant portion of the good
things of this world, better demonstrate their gratitude to Him,
who has given them all, than by their attention to the necessities,
whether temporal or spiritual, of those to whom he has been less
bountiful, and whose comfort he has made in a great measure
dependent upon their care and kindness?  The blessings of the
poor, and of those who are ready to perish are highly valued by
every right thinking man, and they will not fail to descend upon
the head of those, who Jay out a portion of their substance in im-
proving the dwellings where the sick and the aged await the will
of the Lord of all.

   May 1840.  Revised August 1840.


                    PARISH OF SYMINGTON.

       PRESBYTERY OF BIGGAR, SYNOD OF LOTHIAN AND TWEEDDALE.

               THE REV. JOHN FORBES, MINISTER. *


             I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Situation, Extent, &c.-SYMINGTON is situated 30 miles south-
west from Edinburgh, and 38 miles south-east from Glasgow.  The
parish is 3 miles in length and 1 1\3 miles in breadth.  It is bounded
on the north and east by the Clyde; on the south by the parish of
Wiston ; and on the west by the parishes of Carmichael and Co-
vington.
   The arable land lies along the banks of the Clyde, and the pas-
ture reaches to the top of Tinto, on which there is a cairn of
stones, said to be the remains of a Druidical temple.  This moun-
tain, though not the highest in Scotland, yet being about 2400
feet above the level of the sea, commands a beautiful and most
extensive prospect: With the naked eye, you can see part of sixteen
different counties. The village is situated at the foot of a rising
ground, called the Castle-hill, which has formerly been a place of
strength, and is now planted with various kinds 6f trees. +
   Name.-The parish of Symington is said by Chalmers in his

<FOOTNOTE>Drawn up from Notes furnished by Mr John Bell, Parochial Schoolmaster of
Symington.
          Old Statistical Account.


