
					SCONE.                       1063

	on a pedestal, surrounded by steps, and gradually diminishing to a
	small flat octagonal stage from which the pillar rises.
	   Antiquities.-The greater part of the ground in the immediate
	neighbourhood of the palace seems to have been disturbed at a for-
	mer period,probably about sixty years ago.  In making some altera-
	tions on the terraces in 1841,and up to the present date, various frag-
	ments of grave and other stones have been found.  In 1841, the
	workmen came upon what may have  been the foundations of the
	monastery.  One apartment, which seemed to be a sort of cell, was
	found in pretty good repair.  It was surrounded by stone seats,
	about 15 inches broad, and might be from 10 feet to 12 feet in di-
	mension.  Near the same place was two stone-coffins in good pre-
	servation, but from the appearance of the skeletons, they appeared
	to have been previously disturbed.  They were of different shapes
	and covered with flat stones, but with no inscription.  Between the
	present palace and the church-yard, there were a great many stone-
	coffins, some rough, and others in some degree hewn, in which the
	skeletons were very entire.  In one of these were found a piece of gold
	lace,a piece of a leatbern belt, and some buckles.  Above these were
	large stones, rising like a ridge in the middle, and bearing inscriptions,
	but so much defaced as to be illegible.  At no great distance were many
	skeletons without any coffin, and apparently committed to the dust
	in the most confused manner.  Very recently a coffin was found com-
	posed of various stones, and covered with a large flat stone, on one
	end of which there is apparently part of an inscription.  There is
	no date, but the form of the letters strongly resembles that used
	about the year 1216, as given, for example, on the great seal of
  Henry III.  The first line is "Alexander Mar"-the second
	seems to contain the following letters: " A b b a s s e x d e m ;" the
	letters beyond the d, and the m are unknown.  It is probably the
	grave of an early abbot of the monastery.  One of the oldest grave-
	stones bearing date, lately found, is that of " ane honest voman,
	Bessy Ferry, spouse of Gilbert Couper, quba depertit this 1607."
	The ancient gateway on the east is supported on either side by a
	round tower.  Walls at one time seem to have run from each of
	these towers towards the houses.  The royal arms are cut in
	stone immediately above the gateway, and in the towers there are,
	the same arms and mottos as those represented on the seat in the
	church.  The only additional pieces of antiquity dug up are parts
of a rude leaden water-pipe, in the neighbourhood of what seems
	to have been the site of the monastery; and an old bell found about
	a hundred years ago.


