
                        NIGG.                              31

ago.  They consist of three volumes. There were sessional re-
cords of an older date: but they have been lost.
               III.-POPULATION.
The earliest census of the population is that procured by Dr
Webster in the middle of the last century.  It was then 1261.

 <TABLE>  Population in 1801,     1443
                        1811,     1349
                        1821,     1436
                        1831,     1404

There are three fishing villages, which contain 420 souls. All
the rest of the population are more or less connected with agricul-
ture; and even the fishers spend a considerable part of their time
in raising potatoes.
The number of landed proprietors is seven in all; of these three
reside in the parish; and there is no rental under L. 350.
The people are not remarkable for any personal qualities.  But
it may be observed of the fishermen, that though their marriages
are, and have been from time immemorial, confined to themselves,
like those of the royal families of Europe, they are in general a
fine-looking set of men, and give no evidence of deterioration in
any way. Rheumatism and scrofula are, however, common among
them.
There are no blind, nor deaf and dumb persons in the parish.
The only fatuous individual is a well-known one, named Angus,
a native of Sutherland, who has been for many years a favourite re-
sidenter in the kind mansion-house of Nigg. He is a curiosity in
his way, preferring a halfpenny to a shilling,-delighting in solitary
rambling among the tombs,-incapable of comprehending one ab-
stract idea, and yet a perfect pattern of innocence, devotion, and
love to all that is good.
During the last three years, there were 3 illegitimate births in
the parish.
Languages.-The Gaelic* language is that generally spoken;
but the English has made rapid progress of late. There is no-
thing peculiar in the habits of the people. On Sabbath days,
they are all well dressed., and on other days their dress corre-
sponds with their employments. Thnugh their lot in the world
be not of the most enviable description, in as far as bodily comforts
and intellectual improvement are concerned, they exhibit a moral

<FOOTNOTE>The Gaelic of the parish is not classical, though it cannot be said to be bad. As,
from time immemorial, there have been occasional immigrations from various parts
of the north of Shetland, the language of the people has been modified, and conse-
quently their Gaelic and English have little off a jeculiar' provincialism in them.


