
                               SALTON.                   121

                        V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

   Markets &c.-The nearest market-towns are Haddington and
Dalkeith, the former being five and a-half, and the latter about
ten miles distant from the centre of the parish. It is chiefly to the
former that the agricultural produce of the parish is conveyed.
   Villages.-There are two villages in the parish, East and West
Salton, so called from their relative situation to each other. The
former is almost exactly in the middle of the parish, and is situat-
ed on the road which leads from Edinburgh, across the Lammer-
moors, to Dunse. The latter is situate a mile to the west of East
Salton, nearly on the verge of the parish, and within a few hundred
yards of the Salton water.
   Means of Communication.-The above-mentioned road from
Edinburgh to Dunse traverses the parish for upwards of three miles.
The whole extent of turnpike roads may be about seven miles.
The only regular means of communication with the capital, from
which Salton is fifteen miles distant, is by a carrier, who goes and
returns once a-week. A carrier from Gifford to Edinburgh also
passes once a-week through the parish. For some months during
summer a one-horse coach runs every alternate day between Gif-
ford and Tranent, passing through the village of East Salton, and con-
veying passengers to the Haddington coaches. This means of con-
veyance, however, does not meet with all the encouragement which
it were desirable it should receive. There is a post-office at West
Salton, established in 1812, which maintains a daily communication
with Haddington, the post-town. The range of its delivery ex-
tends to the whole parish, and to different places in the adjoining
parishes of Humbie, Ormiston, Bolton,and Pencaitland. One penny
additional is charged on the postage to Haddington. The post-
master's salary is L. 5,-a sum scarcely adequate as a remuneration
for the duties performed.
   There are three stone bridges in the parish, or rather connect-
ing it with those adjoining, all of which are in good repair; be-
sides these, there are two also of stone, and of tasteful architec-
ture, within the park at Salton Hall.
   Ecclesiastical State, &c.-Of the ancient ecclesiastical history of
the parish little is known. During the reign of David I. (about 1130)
Hugh de Morville, the then lord of the manor, granted the church
of Salton, with a carrucate of land, and the tenth of a multure of
the mill of Salton, to Dryburgh Abbey. About the close of



