
588                    AYRSHIRE.

this parish. He was eldest son of William Shedden, who was
second son of Robert Shedden of Roughwood, by Beatrice, daugh-
ter of Robert Dobie, Chamberlain of Giffen. In early life he
went to America, and settled as a merchant at Norfolk in Vir-
ginia. At the commencement of the American war he left Vir-
ginia, and, after living some time in Bermuda and New York, re-
turned to England in 1783, and settled in London as an under-
writer and, general merchant. His unwearied attention and cor-
rect and honourable principles soon acquired an extensive busi-
ness, which in due time brought him great wealth. He proved a
distinguished benefactor to the place of his nativity. In particu-
lar, he purchased the lands of Gatend, in this parish, which he
burdened with a perpetual annuity of L.50, which he vested in
trustees, who were directed to apportion the same among persons
of respectable character, and who bad resided three years in the
parish, in annuities not exceeding L.10, nor less than L.5 to each.
This grant has been of great benefit to the receivers, and the
same has hitherto been awarded by the trustees in the most judi-
cious manner. Mr Shedden died in London, 29th September
1826, aged 85. He was married to Agatha, daughter of John
Godrich, Esq. She died at the Isle of Wight, 31st January 1838.
        Among other eminent individuals connected with this pariah,
must be noticed William Wilson of Cumnock. He was one of
the original partners of the house of Messrs John Gilmore and
Company of Calcutta, and returning to this country in 1814, he
purchased the property of Cumnock, where he resided until his
death in 1836, at the age of 84. He was unwearied in well-do-
ing, giving liberally to all the public and private subscriptions of
the place. In 1832, he purchased the estate of Willowyards,
which had belonged to his maternal ancestors. In his deed of
settlement he left L.160 to be laid out in paying house-rents, or
purchasing clothes for aged people residing in the parish.
	Dr Robert Patrick of Trearne entered the army in early life, and
was for upwards of ten years employed in foreign service.  Upon
his return home after the peace, he was appointed Inspector of
Hospitals for a district in England, and afterwards was promoted
to be an Inspector General. He devoted much of his time to ru-
ral, and to his duties as a magistrate, and was deservedly
held in high esteem in the parish. He died in Edinburgh, 24th
March 1838, and left L. 100 for charitable purpose, and L. 20


