

         212             GENERAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE

            Civil History.-The ancient history of Orkney is very interest-
         ing; and it is said that "there are probably few districts of the
         same size in the world, about which more has been written."  In
         "Thoughts on Orkney and Zetland," will be found a listlof nearly
         fifty printed volumes, and fifteen manuscripts, relating solely or prin-
         cipally to these islands, besides a greater number of volumes contain-
         ing passages relating to them; but for the ancient history, we shall
         only refer to the Orkneyinga Saga, and Torfaeus' Orcades; and
         for more modern accounts, to Wallace's description in 1693, and
         Barry's history, 4to, in 1805, which is the most comprehensive
         that we have.  From these accounts, it appears that the first per-
         manent inhabitants of Orkney probably came from Caithness;
         that the Picts retained possession of it, for a conshderable time,
         and Belus, Gaius, and Gunnas, are mentioned as three of their
         kings, but they were conquered by Harold Harfager, King of
         Norway, who arrived A. D. 876, and on his return to Norway, in-
         vested Ronald, Count of Merea, with the government of Orkney.
         It was thus held by a long line of about thirty Scandinavian Earls,
         whose practice it was to fit out fleets, and sail during summer to
         neighbouring places, whicli they plundered, or laid under contri-
         bution,-so that they were generally known and feared, through-
         out Great Britain, and were also so much respected, that they
         intermarried even with the royal families of Scotland and Norway.
         After them, the

                           "St Clairs beld princely sway,
                           O'er isle and islet, strait and bay;"

         Earl Henry Sinclair having obtained a renewal of his investiture.
         from Norway in 1379.  This rule of Scandinavian Earls was
         finally terminated in 1468 when Orkney and Zetland were
         handed over to James III. in pledge for the portion of the
         Princess Margaret of Denmark, whom he married; and ever
         since, they have remained politically united to Scotland.  Af-
         ter this, the Earldom was several times annexed to the Crown,
         not to be alienated again, and as often granted to some one of
         the nobility, or sons of the King, till a redeemable mortgage to
         James, Earl of Morton, was rendered irredeemable in 1742, and
         in 1766 be scild his estate for L.60,000 to Sir Lawrence Dundas,
         the great  grandfather of the present Earl of Zetland who is the
         greatest proprietor in Orkney.  The Crown has also a consider-
         able estate here.  Besides these, there are few who have a rental of
         L.1000 a year; and in some parishes, so great is the subdivision


