
270                         EDINBURGHSHIRE.

who, on the expiry of his three years of office, was succeeded by
Sir John Hope, Bart., of Craighall. , Alexander Vernor, Esq.
now holds the office.
   It may be noted, as a circumstance not unworthy of record,
that, on the election immediately succeeding the passing of the
Reform Bill, Musselburgh was the only town in Scotland, except-
ing Queensferry, that returned a majority of Conservative coun-
cillors.
   By the treasurer's accounts for 1839, it was found that the
debts of the burgh amounted to L. 16,406, 14s. 4d., and its reve-
nue for the twelve months preceding to L. 2244, 1s. 2d.
   Anquities.--At the epoch of record, there existed two manors,
the one entitled Great, and the other Little Inveresk. The lat-
ter was granted by Malcolm Canmore and his Queen Margaret to
the monks of Dunfermline; and this grant was confirmed by Da-
vid J., who added a donation of Great Inveresk, with the mill, the
fishing, the church of St Michael, and other pertinents.
   The church is thus mentioned by Chalmers: " The church
of Inveresk was dedicated to St Michael the Archangel.  It was,
in early times, from its location, and populous parish, of great
value, and was rated in the ancient Taxatio, by the name of Mus-
cilburg, at 70 merks. The monks enjoyed the revenues of the
parsonage, while the cure was served by a vicar.  Even the vicars
of Muscilburg appear as witnesses to many charters, among men
of consequence."
   In the church of Inveresk there were several altars with their
chaplains, who were endowed for performing at them their appro-
priate worship.* To this mother church various chapels in the
parish were subordinate; and, among others, the celebrated cha-
pel of our Lady of Loretto, with the hermit's cell adjoining; the
chapel dedicated to Mary Magdalene, on the bank of the Niddry-
burn,+ and a third at the head of Market-Street, where the ruins of
an Alms-house still remain.  The venerable church of St Michael,++
which continued as a place of worship till 1804, was then ta-

<FOOTNOTE>In Bagimont's roll, as it stood under James V., the vicarage of Muscelburg was
taxed At L. 3, 6s. 8d. This vicarage is also recorded in the Archbishop's rent-roll
1547. In 1475, Sir Simon Preston of Craigmillar gave an annual rent ten marks
out of the lands of Cameron to a chaplain in Musselburgh church, for such appro-
Oriate worship. MS. Donation.
         From this chapel Magdalene Bridge, and Magdalene Pans derived, and still re-
tain their names.
         In this church the operated Wishart performed divine service a short time
prior to his martyrdom.


