
228                      KINCARDINESHIRE.

high rock at the entrance, and the erection of an extensive pier on
the south side, brought out in a direction towards the old pier on the
north side, and leaving between their extremities an opening towards
the sea for the admission of vessels. A large space of harbour room,
with commodious wharfs, was thus enclosed; but the state of the
funds had not admitted of completing the plan, by the erection of
a breakwater, designed to proceed from the north side, so as to
cover and protect the entrance; and the consequence was, that the
harbour was far from being yet safe in great easterly storms. This
defect has, however, been completely obviated by the recent erec-
tion of interior piers, or it may be said of one line of pier, running
from the point of, and at right angles with, the great new pier, to
the shore, and having an opening just sufficient to admit a vessel.
In this way, an inner harbour has been formed, so well protected that
vessels with but slight mooring ropes now lie still and safe in any
weather. Under the authority of the Commissioners of Northern
Lights, guiding lights have of late been erected, corresponding
with the line of the fair way; and, upon the whole, Stonehaven
harbour, to the advantage it has always possessed of being acces-
sible in easterlygales, when few if any, of the other harbours on the
east coast could be approached, now adds the advantage of ample
interior accommodation and security; and, accordingly, the masters
of coasting-vessels, who formerly preferred the risk, often very great,
of keeping the sea, or running for one of the friths, to any shelter
which it afforded, now willingly and gladly avail themselves of it
when overtaken by adverse weather. The steam-ships plying be-
tween Leith and Aberdeen call in the bay on their passage to and
fro, and the landing and embarking of passengers and goods by
those vessels, add something to the business and revenue of the
harbour.
			V.--PAROCHIAL EC0NOMY.
	Means of Communication.--No parish is better accommodated
with roads than Dunnottar. Along the sea-coast it has the road
by which the Edinburgh mails pass. It is kept in excellent con-
dition under the management of turnpike trustees.  The great
Strathmore road, also turnpike, and in equally good condition,
runs through the interior of the parish.  These roads meet at
Stonehaven, giving it the advantage of a thoroughfare. Besides
these great lines, cross roads scarcely inferior to them pass over
the parish in all requisite directions. These are maintained by
				4


