
     Statistical Account

yet at not the distance of a mile from the village of Mary-kirk,
there is a most extensive prospect.  Looking to the west,
through the hollow of Strathmore, in a clear day, you can
see Lord Privy Seal's Observatory at Belmount castle; and
casting your eye still farther, some appearance of hills in the
neighbourhood of Stirling, at the distance perhaps of 64 miles.
In this parish, there are no less than 9 rivulets, or brooks,
and one river that descend into and form a junction with the
North-Esk.  There is no place where the inhabitants are bet-
ter supplied with good water than here.  The spring and mi-
neral waters are accounted excellent.  In and about the vil-
lage of Mary-kirk, there are no less than 3 spring-wells.
Two of them are in Mary-mill bank, and both perhaps equal
in quality; but that which is called Lady-banks-well, (con-
cerning which, many fabulous stories have been related,) is
esteemed best, on account no doubt of its larger stream.
Certain it is, however, that this water is uncommonly refresh-
ing and pleasant to the taste.  In fevers, when patients de-
cline all other kinds of drink, they call for Lady-banks water,
and are refreshed by it; and sometimes it happens, that the quan-
tity they take, is some way or other instrumental in removing
the fever.  At Balmaleedie, not far from the village, there is
a well of the chalybeate kind; and nearer to Mary kirk, on
the edge of the Burn, there is another, both much impreg-
nated with mineral substance; and which have been not a lit-
tle characterised and recommended by physicians of great
eminence.  The former, which is supposed lightest, has been
for some years quite neglected; and the latter, for scorbutic
disorders, and chronical distempers, has been much resorted
to, by the inhabitants of the village; and it is believed, not a
few have received from it great benefit.  There is also at Bal-
mano, a fine spring-well, called St John's-well, which in an-
cient times, was held in great estimation.  Numbers who

     2


