
                        DALMENY.                           101

1332 by Sir George Dundas of Dundas. It consists of a square
tower with two wings, the one of which is entire, and is now the
burial-place of the family. The tower, which was the dwelling-
place of the monks, bears the marks of fire. One of the brethren
of this monastery was Symon de Cramond, son of the family of
Cramond of that Ilk, who, going abroad, rose to the dignity of pa-
triarch of Antioch. Father Hay, in his "Scotia Sacra," men-
tions that there was a monastery of the order of the Holy Trinity
at Dalmeny in 1297, and another of the same order at Queens-
ferry.
   The small island of Inchgarvey, which signifies rough or rocky
island, in the middle of the Frith, between the south and north
ferries, is another of the ancient possessions of the family of Dun-
das. It was granted to John Dundas in 1491 by King James IV.
in lieu of his extensive property of Bothkenner, which had been
forfeited by his adherence to James III., with power to build a
fort upon it, of which,and his heirs were to,perpetual govern
nors, and with the right of levying certain duties on vessels pas-
sing up the Frith. In the regency of Albany, during the minn-
rity of James V., Inchgarvey * seems to have been employed as
a state prison, to which the celebrated Secretary Panter was com-
mitted by that weak and tyrannical ruler. When Albany went to
France in 1517, he left Inchgarvey, together with Dunbar and
Dumbarton, garrisoned with French soldiers, at the charge, and to
the great oppression, of the nation. It surrendered to Cromwell
in 1651. The fortifications seem from that period to have been
much neglected, till Paul Jones appeared in the Frith in 1779,
when they were repaired and mounted with four twenty-pounders.
   During the late war, when an invasion was threatened from
France, it was again repaired, and strengthened with some addi-
tional pieces of ordnance, which, together with the batteries on
shore sweeping the whole range of the Frith, was judged sufficient
to protect the upper part of it from any hostile aggression. Among
the antiquities of this parish, not the least remarkable is the pa-
rish church, though its early history is unhappily lost in antiquity.
   From the style of its architecture, which is Anglo-Norman,
and from its striking resemblance to the church of Narcoide, near
Carlisle, which was built before the time of William the Conque-

<FOOTNOTE> The charter conveying this island is an autograph of His Majesty. There is al-
so in the possession of the family a letter of James VI. invhting the them representa-
tive to the baptism of his son, Charles I., and mother from the same monarch re-
questing the loan of a pair of silk stockings.




