
			   ECCLES!			                   55

the English Ambassador, that he could not prevail on his clergy
and laity to give the Saladin tenth demanded. *
   On the 17th March 1290, after a dispensation had been ob-
tained from Pope Nicholas IV. for the marriage of Prince Ed-
ward, son of Edward I. with Margaret of Scotland, a numerous
meeting of the community of Scotland assembled at Birgham, and
expressed their approbation of the intended match, upon condition
of Edward's giving them security for certain matters relating to
the state of their country.  This assembly also wrote a letter to
the King of Norway, informing him of their consent, and request-
ing him to send his daughter as speedily as possible to England.
Another meeting, furnished with greater powers, was held at the
same place about the middle of July following, at which were
present the Bishop of Durham and five others, who solemnly as-
sented, in their master's name, to every important regulation made
by the Scots for securing the independence of their kingdom.
The death of the young queen soon after in one of the Orkneys,
as is well known, defeated the intended marriage. +
   Purves-Hall, the seat of John Purves of that ilk, is situated in
the parish.  This family was founded early in the seventeenth
century.
   Eminent Men.-Eccles was the native parish of Henry Home,
Lord Kames.  He was born at Kames in 1696, and there spent
his youth. It was in this quiet retreat that he entertained Dr
Benjamin Franklin and his son in 1759; that he wrote many of
his philosophical works; and studied those agricultural processes
which he has so ably described in his "Gentleman Farmer."
   Land-owners.-The principal land-owners at present connected
with the parish are, the Marquis of Tweeddale; the Earl of
Home; Sir W. Purves Hume Campbell; and Sir John Marjo-
ribanks.
   Parochial Registers.-The earliest date of the parochial regis-
ter is 1698.  The present incumbent introduced a great improve-
ment in the mode of registration.  Every two opposite pages are
divided into ten columns, and each column has a distinct title,
stating the names of the parents, their residence, and profession,
the names of the children, dates of birth and baptism, whether
public or private, and the names of the witnesses.  Two copies

<FOOTNOTE>Ben Petrol. p. 514.-Ridpath's Border History, p. 104.
         Rymer, Tom. ii. p. 448.-Ridpath's Border Hist. p. 166.


