
220                         FIFESHIRE.

lands situated round the village. These were found to be in a very
entire state, and useful for domestic purposes.
  Every variety of soil, from the richest loam and clay, to the
poorest sand or moorish clay, is found in this parish; but DO marl,
lime, or coal. This parish seems to have been cultivated from the
earliest times. Its productiveness is best evidenced by its affording
teinds to the ministers of other parishes, even to the parish of Dull,
in Peithshire.
  Wood.--In the north-east part of the parish, where the soil is ex-
tremely light and sandy, the Scotch pines grow to a considerable
size. This parish does not abound much in hard wood; that which
seems to thrive best, is the ash. Some fine old trees are found
at Earlshall, Pitlethie, Pitcullo, and Airdit.

	            II.-CIVIL HISTORY.

  The Earls of Southesk and the Bruces of Earlshall were the
oldest proprietors of the greater part of the parish; but their his-
tory contains nothing so important as to merit a place in this work.
The famous Alexander Henderson, who was minister of this pa-
rish for more than twenty years, is so well known to the public,
and his life and character so fully delineated in the late work of Dr
Aiton, that any observations of ours upon the history of that re-
markable individual, would be superfluous.
  Land-owners.--The present land-owners are, 1. Colonel Lindsay,
who has just succeeded to his much lamented father, the Honour-
able Robert Lindsay, who purchased the estate of Leuchars from
Sir David Carnegie; 2. Lieutenant-Colonel Long, who purchased
Earlshall from the late Sir Robert Bruce Henderson; 3. A. B.
Stewart, the late purchaser of Airdit; 4. Cheape of Pusk and
Welfield; 5. The Bank of Scotland; 6. George Macgill of Kem-
back, the proprietor of Lucklaw; 7. Russell of Hayston and
Brocklay; 8. William Lawson of Pitlethie; 9. Mr Pitcairn of
Pitcullo; 10. Peter Walker of Muirhead. Four of the proprietors
only are resident, and farm their own estates.
  Parochial Registers.--The earliest register extant of births and
the session records commence with the year 1665. In the register
of births, there is a hiatus of seven years, extending from 1699-
1705. The session minutes consist of three volumes, the first
reaching from 1666-1737; the second from 1737 to 1762; the
third from 1762 to the present year. No register of deaths pre-
vious to 1766.
  Antiquities.--The chief object worthy of the attention of the


