
     Statistical Account

   Eminent Persons.-Dunfermline was the birth place of
the Princess Elizabeth from whom his present Majesty is
descended.  As Dunfermline was the usual residence of
Malcolm Canmore and his illustrious Queen, some short
notice of these personages will not, it is presumed, be im-
proper.  Malcolm Canmore was the eldest son of Duncan,
King of Scotland, who was assassinated by Macbeth.  Upon
the usurpation of Macbeth, Malcolm fled into England,
and during his exile in that country, resided a considerable
time at the court of Edward the Confessor; through the 
exertions of Macduff, Thane of Fite, and Siward, Earl of 
Northumberland, the usurper was slain, and Malcolm as-
cended the throne of his father in 1057.  About 1070
Malcolm espoused the celebrated Margaret*.  Malcolm,
(says Lord Hailes), " was a prince utterly illiterate, of in-
trepid courage, but of no distinguished abilities." With
respect to the internal polity of his kingdom, he appears
to have been guided by Queen Margaret.  An incident 
is related of Malcolm, which is highly descriptive of his
character.  Having received intelligence that one of his

<FOOTNOTE>

*Margaret was the daughter of Edward, son of England Lon-
side, King of England.  Upon William the Conqueror ascending the
English throne, Edgar, son of Edward, with his mother Agatha, and
two sisters, Margaret and Christian, retired into Scotland.  Some authors
say, that being on a voyage to Hungary, they were accidentally driven
thither by a storm.  The place in the Frith where the ship anchored is 
a small bay, about a mile N. W. of the N. Queensferry, near the pre-  
sents toll-bar.  This bay is called St Margaret's Hope.  On a fair cafe in
the house of Pennycurk, in Mid Lothian, there is a painting which repre-
sents the landing of Margaret at the Hope, the procession from thence
to Dunfermline, and the King and Queen, the day after their marriage,
entertaining a number of mendicants.  The procession is said to have
been on foot.  On the the side of the present road, near Pitreavie, about two
miles from Dunfermline, is a large stone called St Margaret's stone.
Here she is said to have rested leaning on this stone.  N. and S. Queens-
ferry derive their name from St Margaret.


