
312                     KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

	The name of Kirkdale parish is derived from the Anglo-Saxon
Cyrc-dale signifying tlte church in the vale.
	The names, therefore, of Kirkmabreck and Kirkdale have evi-
dently a reference to the situation or dedication of their respec-
tive churches, an account of which may not here be out of place.
	The church of Kirkmabreck belonged to the monks of Dun-
drainan previous to the Reformation, and it was afterwards rested
in the King, by an Act of General Annexation, in 1581. This
church, with the other property of the monastery of Dundrainan,
were granted by the King, in 1606, to John Murray, and the
grant was ratified in Parliament in'1609 and 1612.* In 1621,
this church, with all its tithes and revenue, were, by Act of Par-
liament, disjoined from the Abbey of Dundrainan, and granted to
Sir Robert Gordon of Lochinvar, and his heirs.+ The parish of
Kirmabreck, and the adjacent parish of Kirkdale, were afterwards
annexed to the parish of Anwoth; but this union was dissolved in
1636, when a new and more convenient arrangement was, made,
whereby a small part of Kirkdale was annexed to Anwoth, and the
greater part was united to Kirkmabreck. These changes were
finally ratified by Parliament in 1641, and the boundaries of the
parish have continued the same ever since,--though Symson says
Skairbourn was the march with Anwoth in 1684. In 1645, how-
ever, an Act of Parliament was passed for transplanting the church
of Kirkmabreck, and a new church was built for the united parish
of, Kirkmabreck and Kirkdale, in a more accessible and convenient
situation, at what was then called the Ferry Town of Cree, were
there had been of old a chapel, and where there is now a prospe-
rous village, called Creetown. The ruins of the old church of
Kirkmabreck may still be seen standing in the old churchyard, in
a very lonely and sequestered spot, near a farm-house of the same
name. The old churchyard is still used, and contains many old
and, curious grave-stones, some of which are the workmanship of
"Old Mortality."
	The patronage of the old parish of Kirkmabreck belonged,
in 1684, to the Laird of Rusco. The patronage of the united
parish of Kirkmabreck and Kirkdale now belongs to John M'Cul-
loch, Esq. of Barholm, and the Crown.++

<FOOTNOTE>Act. Par. IV. 326, 444, 495.
          This grant stipulated, that the grantee and his heirs should pay the minister
serving the same yearly stipend which Murray was obliged to pay by the
previous grant and that they should furnish the communion elements, and repair the
church.
         Symson's Account of Galloway.



