
			CRAWFORDJOHN.				513

individuals of all these denominations, and one of them an elder,
were in the parish church,--a most severe reproof to their own
pastors, which should never be forgotten by them.
	There is a Bible Society whose contributions amount to L. 5 yearly.
	The manse was built in 1803, and has been repaired during my
incumbency every four or five years. The glebe is rather more
than 8 Scotch acres, and would let for L. 16. The stipend is 15
chalders, half meal and half barley, with L. 8, 6s. Sd. for com-
niunion elements. The average of the last seven years, including
the communion allowance, is L. 244, 2s. 10 1/4d. In 1755 it was
L.51, 4s. 5d. In 1803 it was L. 75, 13s. 4d.; then it was aug-
mented to L. ll0, at which it remained till l8l8 when the last
augmentation was got. The minister has also a right to fuel, feal,
foggage, and divot, on the farm of Balgray, worth from L. 1, 10s.
to L. 2 yearly.
	Education.--There is one parochial school. The teacher has
the legal accommodations, and a salary of L. 32, 10s., which,
along with his school fees and other emoluments, makes his income
on an average L. 65. He teaches English, writing, arithmetic,
geography, and the Latin, Greek, and French languages. At pre-
sent, he has 3 advanced scholars, the 2 oldest only fourteen years old,
and the youngest eleven years old; who have read the usual por-
tions of the Latin classics, and lately have gone through three
books of Livy, and nearly the whole of Horace, who are regular-
ly drilled upon grammar, are acquainted with mythology and Ro-
inan antiquities, and accustomed to write Latin verses. Two of
the gospels in Greek have been read by them, and some of Pro-
fessor Dunbar's Collectanea Minora; and, at the same time, they
have acquired some knowledge of geography and wrought almost
all the accounts in Gray's Arithmetic. They are about to begin
the study of French. The average number of scholars for the last
ten years is 79 9/10.
	At Abington there is a private school, and one of the heritors
gives a salary of L. 6. Of late no other branches have been re-
quired to be taught than English, writing, and arithmetic. The
average of scholars for the last ten years is 34. Children do not
usually go to school till they are about six years old; and all learn
both to read and write, the parents being alive to the benefits of
education, and several of them submitting to severe privations
that their continuance at school may be prolonged. In the remote
parts of the parish, it is customary for families to associate together
in getting a young person, who teaches all their children assembled


