                                                          
                           DALMENY.                              99

quiete tam libere et tam honorifice ut nullus miles de borone tenet
liberius et quietius et honorificentius in tota term Regis Scotie.
His testibus, Joanne filio Orm. Waldevo filio Baldwin Roberto de
Sancto Michaele, Helio de Hadestanden a Willielmo de Copland,
Willielmo de Hellebes. Alano Dapifero, Gerardo Milite Joanne de
Gragin." This charter which has no date, must have been granted
previous to 1122, in which year, Robertus de Sancto Michaele, one
of the witnesses, was made Bishop of St Andrews. The lands of
Dundas continued in the direct male line for twelve generations,
when James de Dundas died, without male issue, in 1450, and was
succeeded by his brother, Sir Archibald, whose son and successor
was several times sent on an embassy to England, and enjoyed the
confidence of King James 111. to such a degree, that he created
him Earl of Forth in 1488; but the patent, though signed, not hav-
ing passed the King's seal, previous to the death of that unfortunate
monarch, was held to be invalid. From this period, the property
has again descended in the male line direct through other twelve ge-
nerations, some of them figuring conspicuously both in the civil and
ecclesiastical history of the country, and giving rise to the collateral
branches of the families of that name, of Melville, Arniston, Dud-
dingstone, and Carron-hall. The estate had nearly again diverged
from this line-of succession, on the death of the father of the present
proprietor, who perished in command of the Winterton East India-
man, on the coast of Madagascar, in August 1792. His son, James
Dundas, Esq. the present proprietor, who was born in January fol-
lowing, having, by his wife Lady Mary Duncan, daughter of the
Hero of Camperdown a family of six sons and five daughter of the
bids fair to transmit this venerable name and inheritance to a late
posterity.
   Eminent Men.-The only person eminent as an author knows
to have belonged to this parish, was William Wilkie, born at
Echline in 1721. He was first minister of Ratho, and then Pro-
fessor of Natural Philosophy in the University, where he died in
1772. His principal work, the Epigoniad, has been much and
justly admired, especially the Episode of Hercules.
   Auldcathy, the portion of the parish lying to the Wests, as for-
merly described, appears to have been formerly part of the crown
lands, but was along with the lands of Kinneil and Larbert, be-
stowed by King Robert Bruce in 1324, upon Sir Walter Hamil-
ton of Cadzow, ancestor of the Duke of Hamilton, and, continued
a long time in that noble family. After passing through the hands


