
                               LARGO.                            445

latter fund has been falling off, in consequence of a subscription
mortcloth being most frequently employed. It used to be L. 8.
Voluntary contributions are the only other source of income for
the poor, and these, from the unwonted number of insane and fa-
tuous persons of late, have been very high, amounting for three
years, in 1835 to L. 100; in 1836, to L. 250; in 1837, to L. 100.
Nevertheless, the heritors most wisely refrain from resorting to pa-
rochial assessment. It is desirable that this forbearance were met
by a more general disposition, on the part of the people, to contri-
bute to the funds of the poor, and also by a greater reluctance to
resort to the aid of these funds. There are many in need, by whom
relief will not be sought as a favour; by the majority, it is consi-
dered and claimed as a right.
  Inns and Ale-houses.-Tbere are 4 inns and 16 licensed ale-houses
in the parish. The latter are much more numerous than necessary,
and unquestionably have a pernicious influence on the morals of many
of the people. At the same time, it may be doubted if their being
compelled to observe the regulations imposed on them by law
more strictly, would prove beneficial, unless it were possible to pre-
vent a most detrimental practice beginning here, and prevalent
elsewhere, viz. their selling spirits, which are used not on the pre-
mises, but in private houses.
  Fuel.-Scarcely any fuel except coal is consumed. It is obtain-
ed, in the parish, of an inferior sort at 6s.; and from Wemyss and
Largo ward, at 10s. per ton, inclusive of driving.
               MISCELLANEOUS OBSFRVATIONS.
  There can be no doubt that the general condition of the parish has
been improved since the date of the last Statistical Account. Much
has been done for it in every department of agriculture, and the
common comforts of life are more extensively diffused. The ga-
therings at tent-preachings, which used to amount to 3000 and
4000 at every Sacrament, are now entirely unknown. Beggars,
with whom the parish was wont to be infested, are now, by the ex-
ertions of a new system of police, scarcely ever seen. Religious
animosities, which were carried to a disgraceful height, have great-
ly subsided. And withal, wbilst it must be wished that family wor-
ship were more cultivated, the "honouring of all men" more practis-
ed, and their mental resources more employed by the body of the
population, still they may be viewed as distinguished by shrewd-
ness, and industry, and intelligence, and will no doubt participate
in the progressive changes and improvements of the age.
  November 1837.


