
696                      ABERDEENSHIRE.

grain in the parish, one on the Shevock, one on the Gady at
Auchleven, and one at Gariochsford, the southern extremity of the
parish.  At the village of Auchkleven, there are three engines for
carding wool, and two spinning jennies, and the owner manufac-
tures woollen cloth on a small scale.

                     V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Means of Communication.-The parish is intersected by two
public roads, which cross each other near its centre.  The one
leads from Insch to Keig, and crosses the Gady at Auchleven,
by neat bridge of two arches, erected in 1836, at a cost of L.70.
The other road leads from the upper district of the country to In-
verury and Aberdeen.  In 1824, this road was made turnpike
from the church to Mill of Carden, where it joins the great north
road from Inverness to Aberdeen, and affords easy access to the
canal basin at Inverury, where lime and bones, for manure, and
coals are to be had at all seasons, and where granaries have late-
ly been erected for storing grain to be carried to Aberdeen by the
canal.  The distance from the church of Premnay to the canal
basin is eleven miles.  Another branch of turnpike road has late-
ly, been made, leading from Kennethmont to Inverury ; passing
through the north side of this parish, it joins the former road a
mile below the church.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The church, which was built in 1792, af-
fords accommodation for 360 persons, and, with additional galle-
ries, could be made to accominodate 120 more.  The sittings are
all free, with the exception of 60 in a gallery erected by the kirk-
session, with consent of the heritors, in 1828.  These sittings are
let annually for behoof of the poor, at a rent of from 6d. to 1s. 6d.
each.  The number of communicants is usually about one-half of
the whole population.  The number of Dissenters in the parish
does not exceed 15 grown up persons of both sexes, exclusive of
their children.  The manse is very old ; date of building not
known.  It received an addition, with repairs, upwards of fifty
years ago, and also some repairs seventeen years ago.  The glebe,
including some pasture land, and sites of the manse and offices,
extends to about six Scotch acres, and may be estimtited at L.12
of yearly value.  The teinds of the parish are exhausted, and the
stipend is paid, partly in money, and partly in victual.  The mo-
ney stipend is L.95 13.s 6 2/12d.  The victual stipend consist of
71 bolls, 1 peck, and 1 lippie of meal, and 14 bolls, 1 firlot, 8
peeks, and 3 lippies of bear.  The patronage of the church and
parish belongs to Sir Andrew Leith Hay of Rannes.


