
		PARISH OF NORTH BERWICK.

	PRESBYTERY OF HADDINGTON, SYNOD OF LOTHIAN AND
		      TWEEDDALE.

	THE REV. ROBERT BALFOUR GRAHAM, MINISTER.

        I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-Various etymologies are given of the name. One
only appears unexceptionable. Aber is well known to signify the
termination or mouth of a river, and wick, a town; hence the
name 'Berwick,' dropping the initial letter which is retained in
Aberdeen, Abernethy, Aberdour, Aberbrothic, &c. This is pre-
cisely descriptive of the situation of the town of North Ber-
wick, on a corner or an angle of land at the mouth of the river or
Frith of Forth. It is called North Berwick, evidently to distin-
guish it from South Berwick, so designated in the charters of the
twelfth, thirteenth, and fourteenth centuries; which was also ori-
ginally a Scotch town, though now an English one, and now styl-
ed Berwick-upon-Tweed. One other etymology may be cited.
Chalmers, in his Caledonia, states, that in those early charters, and
in the Northumbrian topography, the orthography of the name is
Bar-wic or Barwick: the bare or naked village; appropriate, as
he conceives, to the site of North Berwick, which, according to
his representation, stands on the naked shore of the Forth.
   Extent-Boundaries.-The parish consists of a royal burgh
and a landward district, and extends 3 miles from west to east, and
upwards of 2 1/2 miles from north to south. It is bounded on the
north by the Frith of Forth; on the south, by the parishes of
Whitekirk and Preston kirk; on the west, by the parish of Dirleton;
and on the east, partly by the Frith of Forth, and partly by Auld-
hame, an ancient parish now united with the conjoined parishes of
Whitekirk and Tynninghame.
   Mountains.-There is a picturesque range of trap rocks
from east to west, at Balgone and Rockville, about two miles south
from the town, partly wooded and partly bare, of great beauty; a
deep pass through which line, forming the public road to Linton,
   HADDINGTON.


