
622			     FORFARSHIRE.

  Lyndesay of Glenesk (Lyndesius de Glenesk) was companion
to Lord Douglas, King Robert Bruce's right-hand man, and he
accompanied The Douglas towards Jerusalem, with King Roberts
heart.
  This family, Lyndsay, now of Edzell, seems to have used their
power over their vassals, as other great chieftains, with sufficient
kindliness, unless when their vassals were needed as instruments
for vindicating their own greatness, or that of their friends or
party.  The Gallows-hill remains to this day.  There is a small
lake which was employed when drowning was the order of the day.
A snug little lairdship was held by the Duries of Duryhill, as he-
ritable dempsters to the Lairds of Edzell.
  In 1643, the Laird, his Lady, the Wishart, his brother, factor,
and other friends, the minister and session-clerk, subscribed the
Solemn League and Covenant, with names appended of about 170
male parishioners.  A change of views seems, however, to have
soon taken place.  Whether it was the same laird or another, or why
or wherefore, it is vain to inquire; but, in 1661, I find rejoicings
for Charles II's accession; for King Jame's victory over Mon-
mouth and Argyle; for the birth of King James II.'s son, and
every disrespect to King William's fasts and thanksgivings; and
hostility to the re-establishment of Presbytery, in so much, that,
in 1714, there was a very serious riot and deforcement, to the
bodily hurt and danger of Mr Robert Gray, Presbyterian mini-
ster of Edzell, which affair the laird was glad to settle by the ad-
vice of the Lords of Justiciary.
  In the latter end of 1714, or beginning of 1715, the estate of
Edzell were brought to sale in Edinburgh for behoof of creditors,
and were purchased by the Earl of Panmure, who fought and was
wounded at Sheriffmuir; and these newly acquired lands, with the
Earl's paternal estates, became escheat to the Crown.  They lat-
terly fell into the hands of lessess under the York Building Com-
pany, who endeavoured to make the most of them by short tacks
of three or four years.
  William (Irish) Earl of Panmure, then in His Majesty's ser-
vice, a near branch of the family, bought back all the estates, both
original and acquired.
  Antiquities.-"The castle of Edzell is a very extensive ruin, and
consists of two towers connected together by what had once been a
range of magnificent apartmants.  The square tower on the south, call-
ed Stirling's Tower, is evidently of much older date than the rest of



