
                             ABERDEEN.                        13

ago, made the experiment at their manufactory, in the lower part
of the town, and with the result of obtaining an abundant supply
of water.  In sinking this well, they cut through about thirty feet
of mossy soil and gravel befnrd coming to the rock, into which they
made a bore of eight inches diameter, which was successively con-
tracted to six inches, and at the bottom to four inches.  The depth
to which this bore was carried through the rock was 150 feet, and
in the course of the operation they found the matter cut through
mostly granite, though of different degrees of hardness at different
depths.  The water thus obtained, which probably comes from seve-
ral fissures in the rock, rose to within about eight feet of the surface,
but on putting in a pump the supply was found to be copious and
capable of increase.  On first using the pump a good deal of air
rose along with the water, but in about a month this ceased, and
it was then found that, by increasing the power of the pump, a
larger supply of water (accompanied, however, by a renewal of the
escape of air) might be obtained.  The supply thus acquired is
now equal to nearly 180 gallons per minute, but the quality of the
water is hardish, so that it cannot he used except for condensing.
   They have more recently sunk another well about 100 feet dis-
tant from the first, and this they carried to the depth of 220 feet,
the bore throughout being eight inches wide.  Here they found
the water rose only to within about fifteen feet of the surface, and
on applying a pump the supply was by no means so grdat as from
the first, not exceeding fifty gallons per minute, of the same qua-
lity as the other, and apparently derived from the same fissures,-
for the yielding of the first well is so much diminished by the
working of the second, that both together scarcely give more water
than the first did alone, before  the second was made.
   Messrs Richards and Co., on hearing of the suce"s which had
attended the attempts of Messrs Hadden, began to bore, and after
cutting through 18 feet of moss and black earth, 14 feet of gravel
and small stones, 4 or 5 feet of reddish clay, and, below that, about
6 feet of loose sand and clay, they reached, the rock, through Wbich
a bore of 8 inches diameter was driven to the depth of 132 feet
making 175 feet in all from the surface.  The rock was of varia-
ble hardness, but mostly granitic.  At the depth of 115 feet, a
layer of sand was met with, accompanied by much water which was
obtained came from this bed of sand.  Below this the rock was
very hard.  The boring was continued for 60 feet further, but


