
     of Kilconqubar.

it appears. its erection into a royal borough, is of very an-
cient date.  The original charter is lost, having been de-
stroyed by a fire of the borough of Edinburgh, as specified
in the copy above mentioned. In this borough there are 3 ma-
gistrates, 15 councillors and a treasurer, the oldest magistrate
acting as provost.  The election is annual and by poll. They
forfeited their right of voting in the election of members of
Parliament, in common with some other towns in this coun-
try, through their inability to pay their proportion of the
sums necessary for defraying the expenses of a commission-
er in Parliament some centuries ago; when 'the anxiety

<FOOTNOTE>

rying him over the frith, at the hazard of their lives and liberties, while
he was escapmg from the cruelty of Macbeth the Earl obtained from
King Malcolm the following privilege in their favour, viz that the per-
sons of all who pass the frith from Earl's Ferry in a vessel belonging to
the town, were declared inviolable, or sate train their pursuers till they
were half sea over.  This, it would appear, is the origin of the name of
Earl's Ferry.  There is one sloop, and a few small fishing-boats, belong-
ing to Earl's Ferry.  Formerly there were 18 fishermen; but since the
year 1766, when 7 of them were lost in a storm in one boat, only a very
few are employed in fishing occasionally.-There is in our records a copy
of the inscription on Macduff's cross, written in a language unknown
in this part of the country, as follows:

     Maldraradrum dragos, maleria largia largos,
     Spalando spados, sive nig fig grippite gnaros,
     Lauria lauriscos lauringen, lauria luscos,
     Et Columburtos et he tibi curcia curtos
     Exitus et baradrum, five lim, five laln, five labrum;
     Proptet magidrum et he oblatum,
     Ampi smileridum, super limpida, lampide, labrum.

Part of the above inscription has been translated as follows:
'I King Malcolm Kenmore, grant to thee Macduff Earl of Fife, free
liberty to punish all traytors that desert, and troublers of the peace, and
free indemnity to thy own kin; thou paying to the King nine cows
and a heifer.'


