
		SOUTH RONALDSAY AND BURRAY.                    195

	Burray fell into ruins, during the incumbency of the Rev. James
	Watson, and it has not since been repaired ; while it stood, there
	was sermons, in each of the three parishes by turns. Thus the
	people could have sermon, only once in three weeks. And the
	effects of this, as May bid imagined, weredeplorable.
	   Since Ist January 1837, the minister has preached every Sab-
	bath in North , Church, and his son has volunteered to preach
	twice every three weeks in South Church, when health and weather
	permit.
	   In 1832, the parishioners offered to put a loft in North Church,
	to accommodate 250 people. Lord Dundas, as chief beritor, con-
	sented; but some of the other heritors discouraged the proposal.
	Baptists have, in consequence, invaded the parish.
	   Education.-William Tomison, a native of South parish, who
	went into the service of the Hudson's Bay Company, about the
	year 1770, and, by his fidelity and industry, acquired a consider-
	able fortune, left, about forty 'years ago, his gains for the first
	twenty-five years, for the endowment of a free school to the inha-
	bitants of the three united parishes. There is, in consequence,
	a commodious house, and a salary of L. 40 for the teacher.  To
	this endowment, the Right Honourable Lord Dundas added a croft
	of land surrounding the house.
	   Mr Tomison also left L.200 in aid of the poor's funds of his
	native parish, and a sum for the erection and endowment of a fe-
	male school; which, in terms of his will, is left to accumulate for
	a certain period.
	   A parochial school was erected, about twellty-SiX years ago, near,
	the village of St Margaret's Hope. We have excellent teachers
	in South and North parishes.  But the vast extent of these pa-
	rishes requires many more than the above scbools, and the inha-
	bitants have made great exertions to supply the deficiency. At
	present, we have eight subscription schools, making altogether ten
	schools in the three united parishes.
	   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The people are very patient in tri-
	bulation and content with little.  The heritors have not been called
	upon for an assessment. But some of them have contributed li-
	berally on occasions.
	   Inns.-There are sixteen public-houses in the united parishes,
	though seven would be sufficient.
	   Fuel.-Fuel is fast wearing out in the three unite4 parishes.
	   October 1841.


