
460			AYRSHIRE.

a portion who wander from work to work, having no character to
lose, and bringing discredit on the steady and the stationary. * There
are also at times ringleaders who mislead them. The weavers were
for some years, from scarcity of work, and lowness of wages, in very
straitened circumstances; and the long-continued depression this
season has again been very hard on them. Almost all the females
in the parish are dexterous muslin flowerers, but they were thrown
idle also last summer. Many of them are quite distinguished in
this line, and, as the finest and best paid articles are given to such,
they add greatly to the emoluments of the family when trade is
good. A good flowerer can earn from 1s. to 1s. 6d., and 2s. per
day.
   That the people in general can obtain a competent portion of
substantial food, appears by the quantity of meat sold by the flesh-
ers in the town of Stevenston. By a return made to us, we find
that about 2864 stones of flesh meat are sold by them in the course
of the year, and this is not all that is used in Stevenston and the
neighbourhood, for much meat in addition to this is brought from
Saltcoats; and of the 500 dozen rabbits killed in the parish an-
nually, the people of Stevenston have their share.
			IV.--INDUSTRY.
   Much that belongs to this department has already come under
our notice in treating of the colliery and the quarries. But there
are other branches of industry which we shall as briefly as possible
mention.
   The Salt and Magnesia Works.--The marine salt-works at Salt-
coats, like all others on the west coast, have been materially in-
jured by the introduction of English rock-salt from Liverpool,
since the excise duties on salt have been repealed. Formerly, the
English salt paid a higher duty than the Scotch, which prevented
its importation; but as it is produced at less expense, it is now
sold cheaper. There only remain two salt-pans in operation,
where there used to be seven; and even these could not be em-
ployed, if it were not that the country people prefer marine salt
for their dairy, and give a higher price for it than for rock-salt.
The salt-works manufacture at the rate of 200 tons of salt per
annum, price L. 2, 10s. per ton; all consumed within about fif-
teen miles of the place.
   From the bittern or mother-water of the salt-pans, and from
other materials derived from the sea water, there is a considerable

<FOOTNOTE>Notwithstanding their blackamoor work, the colliers are cleanly in their habits,
and undergo a complete ablution every day as won as they return home.


