
			KILBIRNIE.                         713

<TABLE>
		    Acres.    Average bolls per acre.    Amount.

          Wheat,       40                 6                  240
          Barley,      29                 5                  145
          Oats,       677                 6                 4062
          Beans,       71                 8                  572

                      817 1/2 acres.                        5019 bolls.

Acres under turnips, 31 1/4; under potatoes,148; under sown grass,
278; under meadow hay, 135; under flax, 4 3/4.
	Wheat was, for several years, much more extensively cultivated
than at present; but, in consequence of repeated partial failures,
it has been deemed expedient, of late, to restrict its cultivation.
In 1836, there were from 120 to 160 acres under this crop, and
the returns averaged 9 bolls per acre. Since that period, the
average produce per acre has not exceeded 6 bolls. The soil ap-
pears to be too retentive of moisture, and the climate too humid
and cold to admit of this fine grain ever being successfully culti-
vated to any extent, in this quarter. Oats, on the contrary, thrive
remarkably well, and potatoes, with the exception of three or four
years' failure, as well as turnips and beans, yield abundant returns.
	The parish is divided into 643 enclosures, and the farms 62
in all, are of various sizes, the arable ones ranging from 50 to 180
acres. The lower grounds are mostly enclosed by ditch and thorn
hedges,and the upper and pastoral lands by high stone walls.
Fifteen of the principal farms have thrashing-mills, and there is
one corn-mill in the parish. All the lands are thirled to this mill.
The multure exacted for grinding oats raised on the Kilbirnie es-
tate, is the forty-first peck; if raised on other lands, it is from the
fifteenth to the twentieth peck.
	The duration of leases is generally nineteen years,--a term con-
sidered sufficiently long to permit the tenant to reap the benefit
of ordinary outlays; but when improvements are to be made on
an extensive scale, and much hazardous expenditure is consequent-
ly incurred, it might be expedient that this period should be ex-
tended to twenty-five years.
	There are still extant a number of the old, mean, and incom-
modious thatch-roofed farm-houses, in the construction of which,
the comfort of the cattle seems to have been as much studied as
that of their owners. These, however, are gradually being dis-
placed by larger and more commodious houses, built after regu-
lar and well-arranged plans. All of those erected on the Kilbir-
nie estate within the last forty years, along with their attached of-
fices, possess every convenience their occupants could possibly de-


