
90                        EDINBURGHSHIRE.

the time of divine service, the different parts of the parish where
the neglect prevailed, to enter the houses of the inhabitants, to
ascertain who were absent from divine service, with the causes of
their absence, and to report to the next meeting of session.  The
report thus given in is termed "the Searchers' Report."  A simi-
lar measure might not be without its advantages in many parishes
at the present time.
   Antiquities.-Encampments.-The South Platt hill is the site
of an ancient encampment.  The remains of it were to be seen
about thirty years ago, when the ground was turned up, and the
stones appropriated for building the present fences upon the Ra-
tho Hall property.  The camp, as described in a letter by George
Reid, Esq. at that time proprietor of the grounds of which it formed
a part, occupied about an acre of ground on the summit of the emi-
nence, and was surrounded with a ditch and rampart, formed with
large stones mixed with black earth.  There were also two circular
enclosures, one on the east, the other on the west side of the main
camp, of from 30 to 40 feet diameter, surrounded in like man-
ner with a rampart of large blocks and black earth, and paved in
the area with flags of freestone which last must have been brought
from a distance.
   On the removal of the rubbish, the bones of some persons of
large dimensions were discovered, all of which were enclosed in
coffins formed with flags of freestone.  One of these stones now
forms a seat on the top of the hill, at the corner of the wood.
Some large beads of a blue and yellow colour also were discover-
ed; none of which are known to have been preserved.
   At the time the improvements upon the hill were going on, a
tradition existed of a woman's having been burnt here for witch-
craft.  This led to examination of the spot specified as the
scene of the superstitious execution, when a quantity of burnt ashes
were found quite entire.
   It is difficult arriving at any thing like a satisfactory solution of
the nature of this and similar positions throughout the country, es-
pecially when not only history is silent in regard to the events there
transacted, but when the demolition of the works has been conduct-
ed more with a view to immediate agricultural improvement than
the the furtherance of scientific inquiry.  We know from the re-
mains of bodies found in the plain to the north about Newbridge
and Gegar Camp, (Henley), that these fields were the scene of
not a few severe struggles, generally supposed to have been with


