
			       ST ANDREWS.		       	      455

	of a pilot becomes necessary for its safe navigation.  Towards its
	centre it contains extensive beds of cockles and mussels.  The
	former are collected and disposed of as a wholesome article of
	diet, and the latter are sometimes applied to this use, but they
	are chiefly employed as bait by the fishermen, not only of St An-
	drews, but of most of the fishing stations within the range of
	twenty or thirty miles.  There are no lakes nor cascades within
	the limits of the parish.
	   Geology. *-The geology and mineralogy of the parish are
	possessed of considerable interest, in consequence of the ex-
	tent of rocky coast by which it is bounded on the north.  The
	prevailing strata are sandstone, containing thin seams of coal,
	and strata of slate clay, with courses of clay ironstone; thus in-
	dicating that the whole group belongs to the carboniferous se-
	ries.  That they form the lowest members of that series, is, how-
	ever, no less certain, both from the character of the strata on which
	they rest, which do not belong to the coal formation at all, and
	from their deficiency in carboniferous matter.
	   The sandstone is of a grayish-vellow colour.  The general dip
	of its strata, where their bearings are most uniform, is towards the
	south.  But in these places, especially those that lie to the east.
	ward of the town, from the agency of causes concerning which
	there are differences of opinion, all uniformity of dip and direction
	has either been originally prevented, or subsequently destroyed.
	The most curious convolutions and tortuous windings among the
	strata are everywhere to be observed; while in some places, on
	the other hand, all traces of stratification vanish.  So variable al-
	so is the state of adhesion among the particles of the rock, that in
	one place a mass will be found quite friable, and in another, not
	an hundred yards distant, another mass almost as hard as flint.
	In this sandstone, globular and botryoidal masses of iron pyrites are
	of frequent occurrence, and those vegetable organic remains which
	are usually met with in analogous strata are in some places abun-
	dant.
	   The sandstone strata are very frequently separated by strata of
	slate clay, in which the vegetable impressions proper to tbat rock,
	when associated as here, are of occassional occurrence.  And what
	gives the slate clay a certain degree of economic interest, are the
	courses and thin beds of clay ironstone which it usually con-

        <FOOTNOTE>  

	   For the information contained in this section, the writer of this article is indebt-
	ed to the Rev. John Macvicar, A. M. late Lecturer on Natural History in the United
	College of St Andrews.

