
     of Stirling

Commodious school houses, in airy situations, and a spacious
market place, have been crewed within there few years.  A
noble walk along the summit of the rock, at the very root of
the south wall, from the one end of the town to the other,
shaded from the fun by a shelving thicket of fine thriving
trees, has been lately finished at considerable expence.
This walk, which is perhaps the finest thing of the kind, thane
any place can boast of, was begun, anno 1723, by a Mr. Edmon-
stoun of Cambus-Wallace, and finished only in the year 1791,
under the patronage of the present magistrates.  Much how-
ever, as has been done to improve the beauty of Stirling, a
great deal still remains to be done.  The castle and Gowan
Hills, which admit of great improvement, and which could
no way hurt the fortress, though improved to the utmost,
remain like all other government property, as barren, rugged,
and neglected as if the stern Genius of the north had said,
Let them never be touched by the hand of Art or Industry.
   From an attentive observation of the grounds on which
Stirling stands, and from the best traditional accounts, Stir-
ling seems to have been neither much increased nor diminish-
ed, for several centuries.  The court raised it to its present
size.  When that was withdrawn, necessity stimulated to in-
dustry and kept it up.  It yeas erected into a royal burgh
probably as far back as the middle of the 9th century, It
holds the fifth place in the rank of royal burghs, and was
one of the Curiae quatuor burgorum, a court which gave birth
to the present Convention of Burghs.  The jealous and con-
trained spirit of incorporation, ever tenacious of ancient cur-
toms, and hostile to all novelty and invention, nay, expul-
five of the enterprising stranger, has kept the inhabitants of
Stirling trudging on in the routine of their great-great-grand-
fathers, as it must ever do those of all places, where improve-
ment is not forced, by peculiarly advantageous local circum-
stances.

     M m 2


