
146                       ROXBURGHSHIRE.

of this tract is richly cultivated. Though in some places it is
marshy and interspersed with mosses, yet almost the whole of it is
susceptible of cultivation. With the exception of Linton hill, the
higher parts of which are still waste, the plough has reached the
summit of the highest eminences. The valley on the western ex-
tremity, and of Which 300 acres belong to this parish, is bounded
on the north and north-east by the church of Linton, and Clifton
Park, a seat of Mr Pringle of Clifton, M. P. surrounded by a fine
old plantation; on the west, by Marlefield, formerly the residence
of Sir William Bennet of Grubbet, the well-known patron of Allan
Ramsay, and of whose hospitable mansion, Thomson, the author of
the Seasons, is said to have frequently been an inmate; on the east,
by Wideopen, the paternal inheritance of Thomson; and on the
south and south-west, by the village of Morbattle and Cessford, the
massive remains of whose baronial fortress, once the residence of
the ancestors of the noble family of Roxburghe, still frown in an-
cient dignity on the adjacent territory. This valley, both on ac-
count of its delightful scenery and local associations, has been often
surveyed with no small interest.
   Meteorology.-The climate, which, in the western and most po-
pulous portion of the parish is peculiarly mild, in the eastern and
central district undergoes a considerable change for the worse. Here
the increased coldness of the atmosphere, the greater poverty of the
soil, the absence of plantations, and the greater elevation of the
ground, all combine to render the aspect of the fields bleaker and
more barren. The winds likewise vary in the eastern and western dis-
tricts; while the east and north winds chiefly prevail in the former, and
prove in no small degree hurtful to vegetation,-in the latter, these
winds are little felt; while gales from the southwest blow across the
valley, and strike the rising ground opposite to it with considerable
violence. Severe blasts not unfrequently range from the Cheviot
on the south-east, assail this portion of the parish. The wind always
blows from that direction in a severe storm.-The climate of this
parish has always been deemed, upon the whole, peculiarly healthy,
At one period, agues were not unfrequent; but, since the draining
of the lakes and marshy lands, these have totally ceased; and in
the parish there are several individuals who have reached a very
advanced age.
   Hydrography and Geology.-There are two lakes in the parish.
Linton Loch is nearly circular in form, and contains fifty acres.
It occupies a natural basin formed by hills of considerable height,


