
550         	GENERAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE

early history of that high and fortunate family, and has established
it, as in the case of the Douglasses, on the "evidence of charters."
Much information will also be collected on this subject in Craw-
ford's History of Renfrewshire, and in Andrew Stewart's General
History of the Stewarts. It appears that, up to the era of David L.
in the twelfth century, this district was chiefly inhabited by
Celts, from whom, according to the chartulary of Glasgow, the
King obtained an annual kane of swine, and other animals; a Celtic
tax, payable to the sovereign or the superior, by the occupiers of
land. Next to the arrival and planting of the sons of Allan in the
district of Renfrew and Stragryffe, was the settlement by Walter,
in 1164, of a colony Of Cluniac monks from Wenlock in Shrop-
shire, who became the founders of the Abbey of Paisley; and car-
ried with them from the south into these regions of Celtic rude-
ness and barbarity, the light of knowledge, and the influences of
religion and morality. One of the earliest monuments of these
times was a mount or tumulus, between Renfrew and Paisley, sur-
rounded by a fosse at the base, and having an upright stone on its
summit said to be the spot where Somerled fell, a ruthless sea-
king, who arrived in the Clyde in the same year as the monks, and
landing at Renfrew fought, and fell by the bands of the heroes of
Stragryffe. It is probable that the people of this district had a
task to perform, not less formidable, and equally hazardous, when
in 1263, under the banners of Alexander, the Steward of Scotland,
they marched against the Norwegians under their leader, Haco,
at the Largs, and gallantly drove the haughty invaders back into
the sea. In 1296, when Edward I. of England attempted, partly
by intrigue, and partly by force of arms, to deprive Scotland of her
regal independence, a great many individuals in the barony of
Renfrew swore fealty to him ; but the noble and distinguished
family of Stewart always adhered to the Bruce. From the par-
liamentary records, it appears that  property was so much depre-
ciated by the troublous and unsettled state of the country, that
Renfrew "per verum valorem" was then only estimated at L.535,
9s. Sd. Among those who swore fealty to Edward were "John
Hunter of the forest of Paisley; Hugh the Hunter of Stragryffe;
Richard the Hunter of Stragryffe; Thomas the Brewster of the
forest of Paisley; Thomas the Wright of the Blackball ; John
Petit of Mearns; and William Knightesson of Eglisham." The
Iords of the barony of Renfrew in 1371 gave a king to Scotland
in the person of Robert II. His successor, Robert III. erected


