
32                       CAITHNESS-SHIRE.

would let for" 5 12'sitters, but will accommodate more.  ' There are
no free; sittings.
The manse received an extensive repair at-the same time with
the church, but cannot be made a comfortable house.  The grebe,
including garden and stance of manse and offices, is barely 41
Scotch acres in extent, and may be valued at about L, 8 Sterling.
The stipend is 1.20 imperial bolls of oat-meal ; 87 quarters, 3
bushels barley; and L. 10 for communion elements.
There are no Government churches in the parish; but to the Go-
vernment church at Keiss, in the parish, of Wick, there is annexed a
contiguous district of this parish, containing, according to the cen-
sus of 1831, exactly 160 individuals.  There is no Dissenting place
of worship in the parish, unless we give that name to a meeting of
a few Scotch Baptists in a room situate at the west end of the
parish.
From a survey made in the spring of the year 1836, it appears
that there are in the parish, quoad sacra, 24 haptists, and 6 Inde-
pendents, who along with their families make in all 77 souls.  The
members of the Establishment in full communion are 182 and with
their families, and such as attend the Established Church but are
not communicants, comprehend all the other inhabitants.  The
parish church is well attended in the summer months, but, from the
badioess of the roads in-many places, often indifferently in winter.
Elfucation.-Tbe schools are, the parochial school, two sup-
ported by the Society in Scotland for Propagating.  Christian Know-
ledge., one subscription school, and two others on the teachers' own
adventure.  Theparoebialteacherhastbelegalaccommodations;
and the salary is the maximum, with an allowance of two guineas
in lieu of a garden.   The usual branches are taught, and the fees
are extremely moderate.  The total income, including the emolu-
ments arising from the office of session clerk, does not exceed L, 45
per annum.  The Society for.  Propagating Christian Knowledge al-
low their teacher at Mey L. 15; and their teach er in Stroma L. I 0,
with I- 4 to his wife for teaching females to knit and sew.  The
whole income, of each does not exceed I., 24 per annum.  The
teacher of thesubscription school at Freswick receives L.14, but no
fees: and the schools on -the teacben'own adventure being in the re-
mote and poo!er distri6tst cannot be reckoned as yielding more than
from L.5 to I. 8- each, The branches principally taught in all the
schools,aror, English reading, writing, and, arithmetic. All b etween
six and fifteen years of age can read, but the females are not come
Wouly taught to write.  There are none upwards of fifteen years of
who cannot read, except    a very few aged individuals. The


