
                          KILMANY.                            541

David Carswells, Esq. of Rathillet; Captain Hugh Pearson, R.N. of
Myre-Cairnie; James Horsburgh, of Lochmalonie; Henry Wed-
derburn Esq. of Birkhill &c. and W. Kinnear; Henry Inglis,
Esq. of Newington; Mrs Robertson of Ballendean and Newbig-
ging; and John Inglis, Esq. of Colluthie. Only a few acres of Mr
Inglis' property are in Kilmany parish.
   Parochial Registers.-The parochial registers I examined with
great care in November 1828, and I then made the following mi-
nute with regard to them: Kilmany, November 16th 1828, "I
have examined with considerable care the records of the session of
Kilmany, and I have found them wonderfully complete, notwith-
standing their present miserable condition. They have been ori-
ginally bound up as a volume; but at this date they consist of se-
parate sheets and leaves. When they were put into my posses-
sion, they were in great disorder, and it required nearly a week's
labour to put them into their present condition. A considerable
part of them are consumed with damp and bad care. The mark-
ing of the pages is gone ; and I am afraid, that, in their present
wasted state, they will not keep together for many years.  The
paper is so much consumed, that they cannot be bound into a vo-
lume. All that I cau do to preserve them after being arranged
is to enclose them in a portfolio. They commence 1st of Novem-
ber 1696, and they go down to 1729; the month at which they
close, is worn off. In the records there is a blank from October
31st 1697 to June Ist 1701; also a leaf of distribution of kirk-
session 1728. I have observed in these early records of the kirk-
session no other blank. I have put the registers of births toge-
ther at the end.  They consist of three fragments. The first of
the register of births begins May 5th 1706, and is very accurate,
although a good deal decayed, until August l8th l7lO. These
Cond portion of the register of births commences November 18th
1711, (leaving a blank from August 1710,) and continues regular
although much wasted at the bottoms of the pages, until October
12th 17 1 & Third portion of the registers of births commences No-
vember 18th 1721, (leaving a blank from October 1718,) and it
goes down to l727. This is in far worse condition than the other
two. It is so mouch wasted that I could, not ascertain the particular
month in 1717, when it close.The records which I have exa-
mneed and described begin, as before stated, November 1698
and come down to 1729."  This volume of minutes of session has
been long in bad condition. So far back as when Mr Adamson.


