
428                      STIRLINGSHIRE.

in the peaceful settlement of the country. The agriculture of the
fertile district, of which Stirling is the centre, has been improved.
An impulse has been given to trade and manufactures. The pas-
sage of travellers through the town has immensely increased with
the increasing inducements presented, and facilities given, to in-
tercourse between different parts of the kingdom; and, in particu-
lar, by the opening up of the Highlands to tourists and other visi-
tors. And in proportion as the attractions of Stirling itself have
been increased, a greater number of strangers have been led to
settle in it.
    There are no resident nobility in the parish; and the num-
ber of individuals, or families, of independent fortune residing
in it, it is impracticable to ascertain. The number of land-
owners of L.50 annual value and upwards, is 10. The average
number of persons in a family is nearly 41 1/2. The people are not
remarkable for strength, size, complexion, or any other personal
qualities. The number of insane persons is 8; fatuous, 6; blind,
4; deaf and dumb, 4. The people are not peculiar in respect of
language, customs, domestic habits, or comforts. In all these re-
spects, they partake of the character of that part of the lowlands of
Scotland which borders on the Highlands; from which, immigra-
tions are frequently taking place of individuals and families, who
for a time retain their peculiarities, until they gradually assume the
general character of the population.
   Pawnbroking is carried on to a great extent ; and, instead of
proving any effectual relief to the poor, aggravates the evil, from
which they resort to it for aid. The same class of persons, who
avail themselves of this delusive remedy, are in too many instances
already demoralized by the use of ardent spirits; and it rapidly ac-
celerates their downward progress.

                         IV.--INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.-The whole rural portion of the parish may be said
to be either actually cultivated, or occasionally under the plough.
The Cow-parks, extending to 50 or 60 acres, and a portion of the
Constabulary farm, to about 23 acrres, are kept in grass; but these
are rather suburban than rural. There are trees scattered, and in
a few instances covering the ground continuously in groves or rows,
in different parts of the parish; chiefly in the outskirts of the town.
Of these the indigenous are chiefly alders, birches, and oaks;
the planted, many of which are magnificent and lofty, are chiefly
elm, 'beech, ash, plane, and oak trees.
   The rent of land has been gradually rising during the last seven


