

58                        HADDINGTONSHIRE.

<TABLE>
             1811,     -     -     -     -     686
             1821,     -     -     -     -     685
             1831,     -     -     -     -     686
             Males,    -     -     -     -     320
             Females,  -     -     -     -     366

   The disparity in the number of mates and females probably
arises from a number of young men leaving the parish in search
of employment; and the young women remaining as outworkers,-
in which occupation a good many single women, householders, are
employed, who receive 9d. every day they are called upon to work,
with 600 yards of potatoes planted, coals driven, &c. for their year-
ly service.
The number of families in the parish is      -         -            -          151
                       chiefly employed in agriculture,             -           92
                                        in trade, manufactures, or handicraft,  29
Average of baptisms about          -         -         -            -           14
           marriages,              -         -         -            -            6
           deaths about            -         -         -            -           12
   Poaching in game is beginning to shew itself, from the strict
system of preserving recently adopted by the surrounding landed
proprietors. This, along with night watching in the game season,
is not favourable to the improvement of morals.
   During the last three years there have been six illegitimate births
in the parish.

                         IV.-INDUSTRY.
   The population is purely agricultural, with only its proportional
accompaniment of carpenters, masons, blacksmiths, &c. The coun-
try weaver was formerly one of these accompaniments, but he has
now almost disappeared. About twelve years ago there were no
less than nine in the parish, whereas now there are only two; and
were it not that spinning is given out at Beil to the old women,
these two would not be half employed. This change in the do-
mestic economy has operated injuriously on in-door industry, and
is the cause why many a bride is unprovided with gear of this kind
at the time when the nuptials are celebrated.

Agriculture.-
         Under till1age about       -      200 acres.
         wood about        -        -      400
         permanent pasture          -      500
         moor do.          -        -      unknown.

   Rent of Land and Produce.-Average rent per acre, 7 bushels
wheat = 2537 quarters; ditto at second fiars, wheat L.2, 9s. per
quarter; rental of the parish, about L.7105.
   It is calculated that of the portion of land under tillage one-half
is annually in corn. Average produce per acre, wheat 4 quarters;
                               3



