
444			LANARKSHIRE.

formed the exploit, took the gibbet and words for his arms and
name, which to this day are borne by his posterity. The name is
now written Dalziel or Dalzell."
	The parish is a small one, containing only 2283 Scotch acres.
It is about 4 four miles long and 3 broad. Its figure is irregu-
lar, in consequence of a small part of the parish lying on the south
of the Clyde; and two parts of the parish of Hamilton, the one ex-
tending nearly into the centre, and the other, in the north-west cor-
ner, on the river Calder, are entirely separated by this parish from
that of Hamilton. There is a tradition that these portions of the
parish of Hamilton formerly belonged to this parish, but no pro-
per account is given of their disjunction. Why they have not been
restored, if ever they formed a part of the original parish, is not
known. But certainly the addition of these lands, hnd of Muir-
house, in the parish of Cambusnethan, which is situated three miles
from the parish church, and little more than one from the church
here, with the teinds parsonage and vicarage, would render this
parish more compact, would improve the living, (one of the small
ones,) and would be more convenient for the inhabitants, who in
general are indebted to the minister of this parish for the means
of religious instruction.
	Topographical Appearances.--The land in general rises gradu-
ally from the rivers Clyde and Calder, interspersed with occasional
inequalities, to a flat ridge in the centre of the parish; conse-
quently there is always, with the exception of a few flat pieces of
ground, a sufficient declivity to carry off the water, and snow does
not lie so long as on some high grounds in the neighbourhood.
The banks of the Clyde are in general low, except at the Roman
camp opposite the Ross wood, where they are precipitous; those
of the Calder are so in several places, and particularly on the farm
of Ravenscraig, near Wishaw House, where they are quite preci-
pitous, resembling the wall of a house. There are several glens
of different sizes. The principal one is that contiguous to Dalziel
House, and which is about two miles in length. No part of the
parish is more than 200 feet above the level of the sea.
	Hydrography.--Before the Clyde reaches this parish, it has tra-
versed a distance of 50 miles, and after running about 18 miles
farther it reaches Glasgow. It is liable occasionally to great in-
undations, which have sometimes been productive of injurious con-
sequences. In the harvest of 1807, the tenant of the haugh grounds
				     4

