
			ALVAH.                              165

   	From the above tables it appears, that, during the fifty-six years
   which elapsed between 1755 and 1811, there was a remarkable
   decrease of 170 in the population of the parish, and that during
   the twenty years which elapsed between 181 1 and 1831, there has
   been an increase of 287. Some years after 1755, the parish be-
   gan to assume a new aspect, by the introduction of the improved
   system of husbandry, in the prosecution of which most of the
   farmers removed their subtenants, and began to farm on a more
   extensive scale, and to this cause alone is to be ascribed the par-
   tial depopulation which took place during the period in question,
   Since 1811, the number of subtenants removed has been very in-
   considerable, and much more than compensated by the introduc-
   tion of a number of crofters, who are now thickly and extensively
   scattered over the drearier districts of the parish, and are rapidly
   bringing into cultivation large tracts of waste land, which, at one
   tinie, were scarcely thought susceptible of improvement. Thus
   both the decrease between 1755 and 1811, and the increase be-
   tween 1811 and 1831 are easily accounted for.
   	The yearly average of births for the last seven years is 32", of
   which one-thirteenth are illegitimate. The yearly average of mar-
   riages for the last seven years is 4 6/7. No register of deaths is kept.
   The number of persons of independent fortune is 2, viz. the two
   resident heritors. There are no proprietors of land but the six
   heritors formerly mentioned. The number of persons insane is 1;
   fatuous, 1 ; and blind, 2. The language generally spoken is a
   coarse mixture of Scotch and English, with an accent broad and
   drawling ; but within the last forty years, considerable improvement
   in this respect is certainly perceptible. There are no customs,
   games, or amusements peculiar to this part of the country. As a
   general fact, indeed, it may be observed, that all ranks and ages
   seem to have lost much of the relish for what formerly constituted
   the chief amusements of their forefathers. The habits of the peo-
   ple are in general cleanly, although among the poorer classes, ne:-
   gligence in this respect, particularly in the matter of dress and
   bed-clothes, is but too frequently met with, and is, no doubt, oc-
   casionally the foundation of disease. The ordinary food of the
   peasantry consists of milk, meal, kail, or colewort, turnips, and
   potatoes, variously prepared. Among  the aged poor, particularly
   females, tea is used to a great, perhaps to an injurious extent.
   Beef, mutton, bacon, or fish, seldom forms any part of the labour-
   er's dinner; but it is to be hoped that one or other of these way


