
210                        FORFARSHIRE.

the very surface, har four strata of puddingstone regularly intersper-
sed among the strata, and detached yolks imbedded in the pure
strata. It furnishes stones of very large dimensions. Its strata
towards the surface are thin, but, thickening downwards, they be-
come so massy that they cannot be raised vithout the assistance of
gunpowder. The slate-rock, which is a species of fine gray sand-
stone, and the only rock of the kind yet discovered and opened in
the parish, does not appear to be very extensive. It is situated on
the north bank of the rivulet, and appears to form part of that
slaty range which extends, with several interruptions, from the
commencement to the termination of the Siedlaw hills. It fur-
nishes slates, but particularly flags, of good quality, of considerable
size, and of a dark gray colour.
	From a minute examination of the component parts of our globe,
geologists and mineralogists have been led to conclude, that its
structure has been formed by the junction of various formations.
In support of this conclusion, all the rocks in this parish discover
evident marks of stratification and seams of distinct concretions.
The strata and beds of the whinstone rocks have a direction from
E. to W., an inclination of 7&deg; 12' to the W., and a dip of 9&deg; 45'
to the N. The strata and beds of the sandstone rock have a di-
rection frnm E. to W. nearly, an inclination of 11&deg; 45' to the S. W.,
and a dip of 15&deg; 30' to the N. W. The strata and beds of the
slate-rock have a direction from E. to W., an inclination of 15&deg; 28'
to the W., and a dip of 18&deg; 10' to the N. W. In the three spe-
cies of rock which have just been described, numerous veins are puite
discernible. They frequently cut across the strata, and occasion-
ally derange their structure. But while the veins, which cut the
whinstone strata in all directions, are generally filled with a ferru-
ginous cement, those which ramify in the freestone and slate strata
are generally filled with clay, and sometimes with camstone,--which
applies more particularly to the veins of the slaty strata.
	In the different species of rock already mentioned, various ores
are to be found. The sandstone contains copper imbedded, and
lead disseminated in veins; but the quantity is so small, that it
would not pay the expense of extraction. The whinstone, parti-
cularly that species of it called basalt, abounds in manganese, dis-
seminated in veins, but is not worth working.
	The freestone rocks contain various minerals,--such as garnet,
mica, calc-spar, quartz, limd-spar.
	The solid rocks of whinstone, sandstone, and slate, which com-


