
     Statistical Account

difuse, and in a short time will be totally abolished.  In order
to effectuate this, and to introduce the method of building
stone fences, men have been brought from other countries, to
carry on this useful improvement.  Since the year 1788, be-
tides drains*, ditches and hedges, about 1000 falls of dry
stone wall have been built:  and the fame work is frill going
on with great spirit.

   Cultivation and Produce.-They begin plowing about the
1st of February, and work with 4 horses in a plough The
principal proprietor, however, works with only 2 horses, a
method which is now becoming general in several parts of
the county+.  There are 24 ploughs in the island, of which
2 are of the low country kind; the rest aukward and heavy.
Their harrows are all wooden, end generally take 2 horses to
drag each of them.  The teeth (or wooden pins), which wear
fast, must be made long, in order to be driven through to
supply the waste; so that one is at a loss to know which is

<FOOTNOTE>

*Great additions may be made to the arable and pasture ground, by draining,
and by blasting and clearing away stones; and pains are taken, both by example
and advice, to make the inhabitants sensible of the advantages arising from the
kind of improvement.  Upon the whole, all the improvements which have been
carried on since the year 1788, and which have cost upwards of 2000L. Sterling,
have contributed greatly to the interest of both the proprietor and the tenants.
The barbarous practice of working with four horses abreast, which still pre-
vails in some parts of the Highlands, is said n ver to have obtained here.  But
another practice, no less barbarous, is sometimes used, though not so common as
in other places, that is, tying the harrow to the horse's tail.  This is often done
to save the expence and trouble of harness, and sometimes to tame young horses,
as they term it, which, indeed, it does with a vengeance.  For the honour of
human nature, as well as from a regard to the safety and ease of that noble ani-
mal, to which we are so much indebted for a great share of the pleasures and
conveniences of life, it were to be wished that other proprietors would form a
resolution, as is now the case in Gigha, to put an effectual stop to such cruelty.
A merciful man hath compassion on his beast."


