
148                            AYRSHIRE.

to west, and 7 miles broad from north to south. Its area must
therefore contain 56 square miles, or above 30,000 acres. It is
bounded on the east and south-east, by the parishes of Douglas
and Crawfordjohn; on the north and north-east, by the parishes of
Avondale and Lesmahagow; on the south and south-west, by
Auchinleck; and on the west and north-west, by Sorn and Gal-
ston.
	Topographical Appearances.--Its surface is uneven, often rising
into considerable eminences, covered with dark heath, and presents
nothing either grand or striking to the beholder. The highest
hill in the parish, or indeed in the county, is called Cairntable.
It has two cairns or heaps of stones upon its top, and is 1650 feet
above the level of the sea. Breccia or pudding-rock enters largely
into its composition, which is here formed of small pieces of quartz
minutely mixed with sandstone, and nearly as hard as granite. It
supplied for many years the millstones used in the parish for grinding
oats, and I make no doubt it would still be found admirably adapted
for this purpose. Traditional also assert still that it was a place of worship.
The level land is mostly to be found near the banks of the rivers
--the adjoining land rising sometimes into gentle eminences,
and at other times swelling abruptly into hills. These again run-
ning into each other, and, gradually ascending, form the boundary
of the parish nearly in all directions, and at a medium altitude of
about 1000 feet.
	The prevailing winds are from the east and south. During
a thunder storm about four years ago, a water-spout fell on the
farm of High Priesthill, possessed by Mr Weir, near the nor-
thern extremity of the parish, which washed away about thirty
acres of land, and otherwise did considerable damage. From the
altitude of the parish, and from the great extent of moss earth
constituting its surface, fogs are frequent and rain abundant. The
torpid moss, earth engenders cold, and the great quantity of mois-
ture retained upon its surface is a fruitful source of vapour, render-
ing the air humid and disagreeable. The evaporation, however,
from moss seems not to prove injurious to the constitution. The
plants which go to the formation of this earth do not, as on lands
covered with rich herbage, putrify and render the air unwholesome.
Being possessed of an antiseptic quality, they remain long in their,
original form and consistency. Hence the copious exhalations,
drawn from a source so cold and damp, may indeed benumb vege-


