
                              ELIE.                           281

bert Nairns, skippers there, praying for assistance to repair the
harbour, which was then in a ruinous condition.*
   How much money was collected throughout Scotland for the
purpose stated, we have no means to ascertain. But as we hear
of no more complaints, the probability is, that it was sufficient to
accomplish the object. In the former Statistical Account, it is stat-
ed that this useful harbour was going fast to ruin. Since then,
something has been done to hasten its decay, and nothing for its
repair or improvement. It is now in a very dilapidated state;
from being once so accessible, it cannot, without danger, be now
approached by those who are not fully acquainted with it; and
even when it is entered the anchorage is not good. The family
of Anstruther is the proprietor.+ For the last thirty or forty years,

   <FOOTNOTE>As the paper is rather curious we give it entire.--"Act for repairing the Har-
bour of the Elie. At Edinburgh, the tenth day of April, one thousand six hundred
ninety and six, anent an petition given in to the Lords of his Majesty's Privy Coun-
cil by William Reid, present bailie of Elie, and James and Robert Nairns, skippers
there, in their own name and in name of the whole inbabitants of the said town,
showing, that the ruinous condition of the harbour of the Elies is witnessed by a tes-
tificat under the hands of several skippers of the burghs of Pittenweem, Anstruther
Easter, and Earlsferry, produced with the said petition, and the same will be abun-
dantly testified by many of the merchants of Edinburgh, if any doubt remain with
their Lordships, anent the verity of the representation. It is very well known to
their Lordships, and to the most part of the kingdom, that the harbour of the Elie is
the greatest refuge, and was the securest in storms, when ships are put from their an-
chors in Leith Road and other places of the Forth, and had no other places to go
to but that harbour, and if speedy course be not taken to repair the same, the trade
and shipping of the kingdom will be exceedingly prejudged, and the petitioners are
no ways in a condition, by their own proper means, to repair the same, so that the
harbour must utterly perish unless their Lordships afford their wonted assistance, by
granting a contribution through all the kingdom, seeing the ships and trade of the
whole kingdom have benefit by it, and a necessity of it, the merchants in the western
towns and shires, having their trade at Borrowstounness and Queensferry, and other
places of the Firth; it is nottour that three hundred of his Majesty's soldiers had
been lost, had it not been the conveniency and safety of that harbour: And therefore
humbly craving to the effect underwritten, as the said petition bears. The said Lords
of his Majesty's Privy Council having considered this petition given into them by
the above William Reid and others, with the testificat mentioned therein, and pro-
duced therewith, and the estimation of the reparation of the harbour ofthe Elie, they
do hereby allow a voluntar contribution to be made at all the paroch churches with-
in this kingdom, for reparation of the said harbour of the Elie, and that upon such
days as the petitioners shall think fit; and nominats and appoints the said William
Reid, and Thomas Cook, skipper in the Elie, to be collectors for uplifting, ingather-
ing, and collecting of the said contribution, in respect they have given bond,and found
sufficient caution, acted in the books of Privy Council, that they shall employ the
contributions to be collected by them as said is, upon the reparation of the said harbour,
and that they shal make payment of the surplus, (if any shall be,) to such persons as
their Lordships shall appoints: And appoints the Ministers of the several paroches,
to cause intimate thir presents at their paroch churches upon the Lord's day, after
the forenoon's sermon, immediately preceding the day upon which the said collec-
tion is to be made. And allows thir presents to be printed. Extracted by me,
GILE. ELIOT, Cl. Sti. Concitil."-"Edinburgh: Printed by the Heirs and Succes-
sors of Andrew Anderson, Printer to His Most Excellent Majesty, 1696." Reprixt-
ed, in the fifeshire Journal Office, Cupar-Fife, 6th June 1836.
       There was once a village named Buchlyvie in the neighbourhood of the man-


