
176                        LANARKSHIHE.

1688, Mr John Snell, with a view to support Episcopacy in Scot-
land, devised to trustees a considerable estate near Leamington,
in Warwickshire, for educating Scotch students at Baliol College,
Oxford. By the rise in the value of land, and the improvements
which have from time to time been made on that estate, the fund
now affords about L. 130 per annum to each of ten exhibitioners.
Another foundation, by John Warner, Bishop of Rochester, of L.20
per annum, to each of four Scotch students of the same college,
during their residence at Oxford, is generally given to the Glasgow
exhibitioners; so that four of them have a stipend of L. 150 per an-
num. The exhibitions are tenable for ten years, but vacated by mar-
riage, or on receiving preferment of a certain amount. The right
of nomination belongs to the Principal and Professors of the faculty.
	Candidates, to be eligible to Snell's exhibitions, must first be na-
tives of Scotland, which the master of Baliol requires to be proved
by the production of an extract from the parish register of births;
secondly, they must have attended as public students at least two
sessions at the University of Glasgow, or one session there, and
two at some other Scottish university. Warner's exhibitions are
in the gift of the Archbishop of Canterbury, and Bishop of Roches-
ter, who usually nominate on the recommendation of the master of
Baliol College. Amongst the distinguished persons of several pro-
fessions who have been educated on Mr Snell's foundation, may be
mentioned Dr John Douglas, Bishop of Salisbury; Dr Adam Smith;
and Dr Matthew Baillie.
	This University has had from its origin men of the highest talent
and literary eminence among its professors and office-bearers. The
names of Melville, Baillie, Leishman, Burnet, Simpson, Hutchi-
son, Black, Cullen, Adam Smith, Reid, Miller, and Richardson,
are conspicuous; and the names of Henry Dundas, Edmund Burke,
Sir James Mackintosh, and other distinguished individuals, are to
be found in the list of rectors.
	Education.--The attention which has been paid to education in
Scotland for centuries past has been acknowledged all over Europe.
Amidst all the tumult and violence of civil contention, and at a
time when the very existence of the Presbyterian church was at
stake, the subject of education and of schools was never overlooked.
	By act 43 Geo. III cap. 54, the salaries of parochial school-
masters, whose schools are not entirely confined in royal burghs,
are to be fixed, from and after the 11th September 1803, at a sum
of from 300 to 400 merks Scots, by the minister, and the heritors
whose lands in the parish amount to L. 100 Scots. In twenty-five
				4


