
                         OLD MONKLAND.                        661

ling's patent was, that "a constant stream of heated air might be
kept up by its being-passed through long and narrow flues, alter-
nately heated, by which a more intense heat might be produced
with less expenditure of fuel.  This was the first patent taken out
for the application of heated air to furnaces.
   3. In October 1828, James Beaumont Neilson, Esq. of Glas-
gow, obtained letters-patent from His Majesty, for an improved
application of air, to produce heat in furnaces, where bellows or
other blowing apparatus are required. In this patent, it was ex-
pressly specified, that "the blast or current of air so produced
is to be passed from the bellows or blowing apparatus into an
air-vessel or receptacle, made sufficiently strong to endure the
blast, and through and from that vessel or receptacle, by means
of a tube, pipe, or aperture, into the fire, forge, or furnace."  This
application of Mr Neilson's, although not a new principle, has
been deservedly highly prized by all who understand it, and he
has the merit of being the first to apply heated air, especially, to
the fusion of iron.  The great defect of Mr Neilson's apparatus
was, that it did not long resist the united action of heat and oxygen,
and did not admit of the air being heated above 200&deg; Fahrenheit.
   4. Mr Dixon of the Calder Iron-works has the merit of hav-
ing been the first to discover that, with heated air, common pit-coal
could be used instead of coke.  He also substituted for Mr. Neil-
son's apparatus, a long range of pipe through wbich the air was
driven, and to which, surrounded by a flue, the heat was applied.
   5. The Messieurs Baird of Gartsberrie found that the insertion
of a pipe of less diameter, closed at the end, for receiving the blast
within the main one, so as to force the air through space left
betwixt the circular surface of the pipe, so introduced, and the in-
ner surface of the main pipe to which the flame was applied, pro-
duced a more intensd and equal heat; and therefore, the result to
which they arrived was, that the benefit of the heated air in the
smelting process could only be obtained by a method the reverse of
that which had been recommended by Mr Neilson; that is to
say, by diminishing the space for the passage of the air, where heat
was to be applied, instead of increasing the quantity of air, by
having a large vessel or receptacle for that purpose.
   6. In the last stage of this great and important discovery, the
merit is also unquestionably due to the Messrs Baird, of having
been the first to lead the heated air through a series of branch-


