
     of Lochcarron,

against Whig ministers, as they called them, made the situa-
tion of a clergyman at that time very disagreeable.  A 
wife Providence, however, which always raises fit instru-
ments for carrying forward its plans of mercy towards
men, sent among them Mr AEneas Sage, a man of an un-
daunted spirit, who did not know what the fear of man was*.
He had, however, the fear of God, and great zeal for the
good cause in tis highest perfection.  He was the determi-
ned enemy of vice, and a true friend to the gospel.

<FOOTNOTE>

*The people were so barbarous, that they attemped to set fire to the 
house he was boarded in, at a time when there was a meeting of clergy
there.  Such usage made it necessary for him, not only to make use of
the sword of the Spirit, but likewise to have recourse to the arm of flesh.
He was a true soldier in every sense of the word.  For some time he had
the oversight of the parish of Applecrois as well as Lochacarron.  There
was a wicked fellow in Torgag, who kept a mistress in the same house
with his lawful married wife.  When Mr Sage went to see him, Malcolm
Roy drew his dirt; Mr Sage drew his sword; and the consequence was,
that Malcolm Roy turned his mistress off Mr Campbell, Seaforth's fac-
tor, sent him once a challenge upon the morning of a Lord's day.  Mr
Sage knew his own situation, and accordingly accepted the challenge.
He went out with his claymore, and no sooner did he begin to draw it
out of the scabbard, than Mr Campbell made a pair of heels, and did not
look behind him for some time.
   He was very hospitable and benevolent.  He was warm and affectionate
in his friendship, and perfectly sincere in his professions   A gentleman
who had the misfortune to be concerned in the late rebellion, came to see
Mr Sage, as he was going to leave the country.  Mr Sage made him an
offer of his purse.  Although the gentleman did not accept of his offer,
he always retained a grateful sense of Mr Sage's friendship  He was sub-
ject to sudden starts of passion, and this was his great weakness; but this
very circumstance was subservient to the gospel.  He struck terror into
vice; and by enforcing the discipline of the church and composing differ-
ences among the people, he reduced them to a state of civilization.  He 
ploughed up the fallow ground, plucked up many of the thorns and
speeds, and made it easier for his successors to low the good feed.


