
376                         AYRSHIRE.

	That these meetings accomplish some, or perhaps the most,
important of these purposes, the kindly relations, unbroken by
differences of party, in which the Carrick brethren have long
lived, afford a most pleasing proof. Nor have they been abor-
tive in a literary and professional view. Dr Macknight, for-
merly alluded to as minister of Maybole, read the substance
both of his Harmony and Truth of the Gospel histories as
essays in the class, before sending them to the press; and with-
out presuming to say any thing directly of the present members,
one of whom at least is well known to the church by his high
character and useful publications; the following list of subjects
lately treated of will show, that they have not laid aside, amid
their more sacred duties, those literary tastes and habits of study,
which never fail to give additional influence to the clerical cha-
racter: On the Interpretation of the Apocalypse, one of a Series,
by Mr Inglis, of Kirkoswald; Critical examination of the latter

part of the 7th chapter of the Epistle to the Romans, by Dr Hill
of Dailly; Critical essay on the 19th verse of the 3d chapter of
1st Peter, by Mr Blair of Colmonell; On what has been denomi-
nated the Golden Era of the Church, or Second Reformation, by
Mr Wallace of Barr; On the Etymology, and Scripture use of
the Hebrew word ?? by Mr Gray of Maybole; On the pro-
posal for a now form of Process, and the introduction of Trial by
Jury into the Church Courts, by Mr Paton of Straiton; On the
Deluge, by Mr Wallace of Dalrymple; Whether the Election of
Ministers by the People is a right founded on Scripture, by Mr
Milroy of Ballantrae; Outline of an argument for the Truth and
Reasonableness of the peculiar doctrines of Christianity, by Mr
Houston of Dalmellington; On the authorship and original lan-
guage of the Epistle to the Hebrews, Mr M'Ewen of Kirkmichael.
	Education.--Total number of schools in the parish, 13; of paro-
chial, 1; supported by subscription, 1; free school-room, 2; un-
endowed in any way, 9. English reading and grammar, writing and
arithmetic, are taught in all the schools; and in the parochial and
three of the others, Latin, Greek, French, and geography.
	The parochial schoolmaster, at present Mr John Inglis, preacher
of the Gospel, has the maximum salary; an allowance of L. 30 per
annum for house rent, and L.5 for school prizes, and the averafe
amount of fees is L. 100.
	There is a general anxiety for the education of the young
throughout the parish; and since the establishment of the sub-


