
			COUNTY OF WIGTON.                  225

two last daughters were born to him by his second wife, the
daughter of the Earl of Huntingdon. Devorgille's marriage was
productive of five children; a daughter, married to John Cumyn
of Badenoch,--and four sons, one of whom, John B`liol, succedded.
to the Scottish throne, as the descendant of David of Huntingdon.
John Baliol, King of Scotland, who was grandson of Allan, the
last of the Lords of Galloway, possessed great estates in both Wig-
tonshire and the Stewartry of Kirkcudbright, the chief seat of the
family being Buittle Castle, in thd l`tter. The county of Wig-
ton, with the title of Earl, was conferred by David II. in 1341,
on Sir Malcolm Fleming; but Fleming, amid the distraction of
the times, was obliged, in 1372, to dispose of his estates (though
be retained the title) to Archibald Douglas. From this date, the
Douglases ruled supreme till their forfeiture in 1453. The
county was then parcelled out among different families; many of
which still remain; and the Agnews of Lochnaw were created
heritable sheriffs. This office remained in their family till the
abolhtion of hereditary jurisdiction in 0747, with the exception of
seventeen years previous to the Revolution, when Graham of
Claverhouse, and his brother, Colonel David Graham, were ap-
pointed joint-sheriffs. (Chalmers's Caledonia, Vol. 1. passim.
Murray's Literary History of Galloway, 2d edit. pp. 330-2).
	Antiquity of Families.--Whether any family hn Wigtonshire
can claim descent from the ancient Lords of Galloway, is a ques-
tion that has long been agitated, and, from its nature, will never
probably be ascertained; but it seems to be generally allowed
that the M'Dowalls, if not lineally descended from them, are
of the same race and lineage. (Caledonia, iii. 379.) The
M'Dowalls have always been a powerful race in this country, and
their origin is lost in its antiquity,--ultra memoriam hominum, to
quote the words of one of their earlidst charters. The name is
still eminent; but the number that bear it is reduced.--The
M'Cullochs, of whom the laird of Merton, in the parish of Mo-
chrum, was the chief, are perhaps next in point of antiquity to the
M'Dowalls. Both families, during the successive wars, espoused
the cause of the Baliols; and Edward I. appointed Thomas
M'Culloch sheriff of the province. In 1337, Edward III. granted
Patrick M'Culloch an annual pension of L.20 for his good ser-
vices in Scotland. The last of the Merton line, Sir Godfrey
M'Culloch, a dissolute character, who squandered and sold his
estates, was beheaded at the Cross of Edinburgh for murder in
1697. In those distracted times, private property was not in
	WIGTON.                         P


