
			FORGANDENNY.                             953

its position, it must have been admirably fitted to prevent any par-
ties from descending in that direction to the adjacent valley of
Strathearn. Its figure is an exact square, each side of which is
about 90 yards long. On its south side, it is defended by a deep
hollow, through which a small brook runs; and on the remaining
three sides by deep trenches. The width of these trenches at
the top is about ten yards; their depth, on the sides next the en-
campment, is about 14, while on the outside it is 10.
   There are the remains of another fortification on what is
called the Law of Dumbuils, belonging to the estate of Freeland,
about a mile south-east of the village. This Law is a low craggy
eminence; it is elliptical in its form; the south and west sides, be-
ing a precipitous rock, form of themnselves a natural wall; while
on the north and east sides a wall has been formed of very large
granite boulders, many of which still occupy their original position.
This Law commands a beautiful and extensive view of the lower
part of Strathearn, of the north part of the coast of Fife, of the
windings of the Tay, and of the Carse of Gowrie, all the way to
Dundee, a distance of more than twenty miles.
   Land-Owners.--The principal land-owners in the parish are, the
Right Honourable Lord Ruthven of Freeland; Lawrence Oliphant,
Esq. of Condie; James S. Oliphant, Esq. of Rossie; and Mrs
Fechney of Ardargie. With the exception of the barony of Struie,
which holds feu of Stirling of Keir, and which formerly belong-
ed to that family, and also that part of the parish, containing
about 1000 acres, which lies in the county of Kinross, and which
holds feu of the Grahams of Kinross; the remainder appears to
have been divided betwixt the houses of Oliphant and Ruthven, who,
during the fourteenth, fifteenth, and sixteenth centuries, possessed
large estates in this neighbourhood. About three-fourths of the
parish still belong to the descendants of these houses.
   List of ministers who have been settled in this parish since the Re-
formation:--
   1. Mr William Row, who preached before James VI. at Stir-
ling.
   2. Mr John Row, who died in 1589.
   3. Mr William Row, who died October 1634, in the seventy-
first year of his age,
   4. Mr  William Row, who was ordained assistant to his father,
and died in 1658, in the thirty-fourth year of his ministry.
   5. Mr David Orme, who was called in 1659, ordained on


