
                ARGYLESHIRR.
tance west from it that the church is distant from it to the east.
This cross is of a different form, and apparently of a different era
from any others to be seen in the Hebrides or Highlands; and no
wonder, as it appears to be contemporary with Columba and the
oldest monument extant in the Island of Iona, and probably the
most ancient Christian monument in Scotland.
At a little distance from this cross to the south, there stands
awther of a much larger size, and more entire. It is also one
solid column of the hardest whin rock, 14 feet bigli, and yet
only 18 inches broad, and six inches thick. It is fixed in a
pedestal of one stone, which is about three feet high, and hewn
quite round into three steps. Though very probably posterior to
the former, it appears to be very ancient. The labotir and art of
quarrying such a colu.mn, of transporting it to the island, and of
polishing and erecting it when it was brought, are circumstances
really astonishing, when one considers how inadequate the powers
and skill of that part of the country would be at present to the exe-
cution of such a work. The Hebrides, and this part of them in
particular, must have at some former epoch been possessed of re-
sources, wealth, power, and civilization totally incompatible with
the ideas usually adopted in regard to their ancient history.
From this cross to another ancient building which was a nun-
nery, there runs a causeway about 300 paces in length, and about
15 feet broad. It is joined by two others, one of them called
the Royal Street, and the other Martyr Street, leading to the biy
of Martyrs.
Nunnery--The successors of Columba did not, it would ap-
pear, adhere to his strict prohibition for the exclusion of fernales
from the Island. We are sure there were no monastic establish-
ments for females during the times of Columba's discipline, nor
under the Culdees, The proper monastic establishments of Iona
belong to the age of the Romish influence. - Indeed, there were DO
nunneries in Scotland until the introduction of the regular Popish
clergy, and, therefore the date of this building is brought down
to a period latefr at least than 1200. The architecture is purely
Norman.
The chapel has been a very neat building, and is said to have
been the burial-place for ladies of high rank, as St Mary's churell
and Oran's chapel were for men.
Ai the eastern end of tha chapel is the tomb of the last prioress,
which is how much defaced.
                    4


