
52                     INVERNESS-SHIRE.

madness.  Hence Boleskine appears to signify the summit of the
furious cascade.  The cascade here in view is now extensively
known under the name of the Fall of Foyers.
   Extent, Boundaries.-The united parish from the N. E. to the
S. W. following the course of the Military Road, measures 21
miles.  It is of unequal breadth, being partly indented by Loch
Ness; but the average breadth may be stated at 10 miles.  On
the south it is bounded by the parish of Laggan; on the W. S. W.
by Kilmanivaig; on the north by Urquhart; on the N. E. by Do-
res; and on the east by Daviot. There is one farm in the dis-
trict of Boleskine which is completely detached from the rest of the
parish, and is surrounded by the parishes of Daviot and Dores;
and in like manner there is another farm locally situated within
the parish, but which belongs to Dores.
   Topographical appearances.-The parish of Boleskine embraces
a portion of the country called Strath-herric, composed of flat lands
interspersed with some undulating banks.  Adjoining to the
strath there is a great extent of high hill ground, Corry-yearrig;
over which the old military line of road passes from Fort-Augustus
to the south; and adjoining it to the east, a range of equally high
hills called Monadhliath.
   There is a considerable extent of low and flat lands in the pa-
rish, favourable in good seasons for the growth of oats, barley and
potato crops.
   Climate.-Boleskine is often parched during the summer months
while Abertarff is favoured with fostering dews and gentle rains.
The clouds which swiftly fly along the high hills on each side of
Loch Ness carrying rain in their bosom to other quarters disap-
point the anxious wishes and hopes of Boleskine, day after day,
and are to it literally clouds without rain.
   The prevailing winds are the W. S. and S. W.,-Which, from
the adjacent elevated hills, acquire irresistible force, and sometimes
overthrow houses, and spread havoc among the woods.
   The climate of Boleskine is, on the whole, severe,-owing to the
great number of lakes, to the elevation of the parish above the level
of the sea, and to its lofty and extensive chain of hills.  The ri-
gorous climate, induces rheumatism and pulmonary complaints;
and the spare diet on potatoes, particularly if coupled with a habit
of tippling, is thought to occasion the frequent occurrence of dropsy.
These are the prevalent distempers of the parish.
   Hydrography.-There are at least a dozen lakes in the parish,-


