
162                     ROXBURGIISHIRE.

Teesdalia nudicaulis, Trifolium striatum, T. scabrum, Sedum Te-
lephium, Dianthus deltoides in great luxuriance and abundance,
Cichorium Intybus, Carduus nutans, Anchusa sempervirens ; and
in the dry channel of the river Thlaspi arvense.  On the hills are
the Rubus Chamamorus, Cistus Helianthemum, Vaccinizim Vitis-
ldcra, Tormentilla reptans, Empetrum nigrum, Hieracium pulmo-
narium, Cornus Suecica (perhaps on the borders of the parish only,
not in it.) In and on the maroin of Yetliolm Loch, and in other
moist situations, are the Cicuta virosa, Vaccinium oxycoccus (abun-
dant in Hoselaw Loch, on the borders of the parish,) Potamogeton
compressum, P. pectinatum, Scutellaria galericulata, and Lycopus
Europeaus (abundant at Linton Loch,) Typha latifolia, -Ranuncu-
lus Lingua, Hippuris vulgaris, Solanum Duleamara, Trollius -Eu-
rop,Tus, Leontodon palustre, Nuphar lutea, Gymnadenia viridis,
Lythrum Salicaria, Eriophorum vaginatum, Valeriana dioica,
V. officinalis, Listera ovata, Sium anqustifolium, Parnassia palus-
tris, &c.; a remarkable and dwarfish variety of the Ranunculus au-
ricomus in a boggy situation among the hills, without any calyx, and
claws or pores at the termination of the petals, and correspond-
ing in its general characters with the Anemone ranunculoides, for
which it was at first mistaken.

                      II.-CIVIL HISTORY.

It is said that, 11 in 1304, Edward the First came to Yetham on
his return from hisnorthern expedition;" (Caledonia, Vol. ii. p. 193.)
There is a tradition that the Douglas appointed Yetholin kirk as
the place of rendezvous for the Scottish army, before marching to
the celebrated battle of Otterburn. It is also said, and perhaps
with more truth, that after the battle of Flodden Field, the scene
of which is situated about six miles to the east of the parish, the
bodies of tb,6 Scottish nobles who fell in that enfagement were
brought and buried in the church and churchyard of Yetholm, as
the nearest consecrated ground in Scotland to the field of battle.
It is a better known fact, though traditional, I believe, like the
others, that, in 1745, a small party of Scotch -Highlanders, who
followed the fortunes of Prince Charles, marched from the south
through the parish and village of Yetholm, up the Bowmont
Water, to receive some supplies of money, which had been re-
mitted from France, and entrusted to the care of a Northumber-
land gentleman, Charles Selby, Esq. of Earl.  An old man, lately
deceased, in Town Yetholm, distinctly remembered baviti seen
tbese Highlanders passing his father's house.

Eminent Characters.-Dr Scott, one of the lairds of Thirlestane,


