
314                    KINCARDINESHIRE.

Dr William Young of Fawsyde; the Town of Montrose, as Trus-
tees for Erskine's Fund; the Heirs of the late Rev. P. Stewart of
Coltbank of Hilton; and the Heirs of the late John Low of Mains
of Hilton.
        Parochial Registers.-The session records are complete from
the settlement of Mr Honeyman, in 1663, though the first volume
is much injured, and in many places illegible.
        Antiquities.-Of the Castle of Kinneff nothing now remains
but a small part of the foundations. It is mentioned by Buchanan
in his History as having been garrisoned by the English, when they
overran the country during the minority of David Bruce. At
what period it was permitted to fall to ruin does not appear; but
early in last century "one high wall of the said castle" is describ-
ed as standing "so strongly cemented, that stones may be easier
won out of a quarry" than from it. *
	A religious house, called St Arnty's Kill, (St Arnold's Cell,
Macf. MSS.) is mentioned in the former Statistical Account as
standing "at the north corner of the farm garden, in a straight
line between the church and the castle." It has since wholly dis-
appeared.
	"Near the Castle of Kinneff, and beyond a small headland
about one hundred paces north-east, thdre are to be seen the
remains of an old work upon the top of a peninsular rock, call-
ed the Castle of Cadden. It seems to have had a ditch and
drawbridge to protect it from an attack by land, where there re-
main some vestiges of masonry. The rest seems to have been
an earthen mound thrown up about the top of the rock. About
two hundred paces further north-east is another peninsular rock,
having the remains of a drawbridge to the land side. Upon the
top of this rock are still extant the remains of a small house and
other buildings said to have been inhabited by a private gentle-
man about one hundred and fifty years ago, and is named the
Castle of Whistleberry. And about two hundred paces north-
east from this last mentioned castle are the remains of a third
stronghold, very much like the first in every respect, but much
larger. It is called Adam's Castle,  With respect to the Castle of
Cadden, and Adam's Castle, there are no traditionary accounts." +


<FOOTNOTE>Macfar. MSS. p. 323.
The remains of these strongholds are now less distinct, and the older description,
therefore. is here retained. The coast must have presented a striking appearance,
with its fortified castles thus crowning the bolder headlands, and standing in so close

                                            4


