
                                DUNDARNY.                 793

       forbidden to give them passage at Dunberny boat, and Thomas
       Drummond desired to spread the report, that they are to be stop-
       ped by constables, by authority of the justices of the peace."
          About sixty years ago, great complaints were made that the
       waters were turbid and foul. This happened from a variety of
       causes, but principally from persons laving their distempered limbs
       in them. Subsequently, a building was erected on what is now
       the property of John Grant, Esq. of Kilgraston, in which the
       water might be dealt out, and hot baths furnished. Great num-
       bers of individuals crowd to this district every year for the benefit
       of the water.
          The following observations on the Pitkeathly waters are from
       the pen of Dr Ddward, one of the medical practitioners at the
       Bridge of Earn.
          " The mineral water of Pitkeathly belongs to the class saline, as
       distinguished from the acidulous, chalybeate, and sulphureous.
       Along, however, with the alkaline and earthy salts which form the
       basis of its constitution, it likewise contains a notable portion
       of carbonic acid, and it is the presence of this acid which gives to
       this mineral, when poured from one vessel to another, in a slight
       degree, the sparkling appearance so characteristic of water impreg-
       nated with this gas.
          When the Pitkeathly water is heated, its transparency is slightly
       affected, from tbe expulsion of the carbonic acid, and consequent
       deposition of carbonate of lime, which was held in solution by the
       gas, and this takes place in all mineral waters where carbonic acid
       and carbonate of lime exist together. There is also the escape
       of a quantity of atmospheric air, and an inconsiderable portion of
       nitrogen gas.
          Its other constituents are alkaline and earthy salts, and on these
       whatever medicinal properties it possesses altogether depend.
       The salt present in largest quantity is the muriate of lime, or, more
       properly speaking, chloride of calcium, and it is also the most im-
       portant in a medicinal point of view.
          There are different analyses of the Pitkeathly water, but they
       all nearly agree in the ultimate constitution of the mineral, although
       there  is great disparity as regards their quantity, and state of

       tuated at Dunbarny. It would appear from this minute of session, that a boat was
       regulaly connected with it, furnishing a more expeditious route to Perth than the
       circuitous one by the Bridge of Earn. The Dunbarny family have the privilege,
       when they choose to avail themselves of it, of going to Perth by a ferry-boat, and
       traveling through the fields on the opposite side, though belong to a different
       proprietor.


