
28                         ARGYLESHIRE.

would risk their capital in farm produce, or who possessed suffi-
cient wealth to stock, or industry to cultivate the soil.  John Duke
of Argyle (father to the present and late Duke) laid out large
sums on the farms which he held under his own management ; but
still agriculture has not made that progress which could be
wished or might be expected, and much land that might be cul-
tivated with advantage remains covered with heath, or yielding
crops of cotton grass, deer's hair, or rushes.  Large sheep farms
are principally valuable for grazing.  Some of them contain very
little ground capable of being advantageously brought into tillage;
and while the tenant naturally directs his attention to the source
from which he expects to be benefited, he is not led to engage in
the more laborious and expensive employments from which he may
not receive due remuneration.
   When farms are divided, as here, among a number of joint te-
nants who share the land under culture, and feed their sheep and
cattle in common on the pasture, the inducements to raise as much
crop as possible for the support of their families has issued in the
turning up of the poorer dry soils, rather than in the improvement
of those which are by position more fit for cultivation.  On these
farms, consequently, the old system of ploughing outfields or pas-
ture lands till they are exhausted, and then leaving them to rest,
is practised ; while the infield or winter town, consisting of the best
fields around the dwelling house, is in perpetual tillage, and re-
ceives the whole manure.  In dividing the land the ridges are
either taken alternately, or portions of a field are allotted.  It is
gratifying to be able to say, that a spirit of improvement has lately
been infused into the tenantry which promises to banish these evil
practices.
   It is the general opinion, that the farmer in this country should
give his attention principally to his hay crop, as that which is most
suitable for the climate, and of greatest utility in feeding his cat-
tle during long and inclement winters.  For whatever improve-
ments may be made in agriculture, pasturing must continue to be
the support of this district.
   The rearing of cattle is much attended to, and though the breed
has declined much since the Dukes of Argyle promoted this object
by farming some of their own lands, it is still considered good.
The most esteemed is that known by the name of the West High-
land or Argyleshire breed, which is almost execlusively reared.
They fatten here to from thirty to forty stone imperial, and when


