
292                          FIFESHIRE.

     parish. Of these the parochial is the chief. In it reading, writ-
ing, arithmetic, and Latin are required to be taught. The school-
master's salary is the maximum; and his income as session-clerk
may amount to betwixt L. 6 and L. 7. The fees will average
L. 40; and besides this, be is in the habit of keeping boarders,
for which the healthiness of the situation is well adapted. The
schoolhouse has more than the legal accommodation, but the gar-
den is deficient. An allowance of L. 2 is made in place of what
is wanting. One of the other schools is taught by a female. Be-
des reading, sewing forms one of the branches of education. The
third is very trifling, and little known of it. But about fifty boys
and girls from the parish attend a school at Earlsferry, where the
wagesmaybeabalf-pennyperweekebeaper. Allappeartobesen-
sible of the advantages of knowledge; and there is nothing which
parents labour so hard to procure as a good education for their
children. In cases where, from poverty, nothing can be spared for
this object, the session is ready to give assistance, always insisting,
however, that the parents, if possible, shall give something-be it
ever so little. There are none above fifteen years of age who can-
not read. Perhaps a very few old people may be unable to 'write;
but all betwixt five and fifteen can either read and write, or are
learning to do so.
     Library.-A subscription library has existed in the village for
a considerable period. It contains some hundreds of volumes on
the various branche of literature and divinity. New books of
merit tire constantly added as the state of the funds will admit.
But as the yearly payment is small, and the number of the sub-
scribers not great, it does not increase so fast as might be desired.
     Friendly Societies.-The only institution of this kind is what is
called the. Sea Box, an association of masters of vessels and sea-
men for their mutual benefil It lately obtained a charter from
the King, conferring on it all the usual privileges of a corporations
and, as its income, ariring from land, houses, &e. is large, and the
number of widows and other annuitants small, the funds are in a
flourishing state. It is fitted to be of great use to those for whom
it is desilrned. and there is no class of men, perhaps, that require
more the aid of such institutions. We have no savings' banks.
And I know not that this is much to be regretted. It may be
doubted whether they have ever been of much advantage.
     Poor and Parochial Funds.-Tbe average number of persons
on the poor's roll is 20 ; of these some receive Ss. per, month ;
some. 6s. ; some 4s. ; and some as low as 2s. 6d., according to cir-

