
                           KILCONQUHAR.                    317

cholera morbus lately visited the country, this parish entirely
escaped its ravages.
   We have certain prognostics of changes of weather. When
clouds rest on Largo Lawi, we expect soon to have rain.* When
the wind blows from the west or north-west we have our best wea-,
ther. When the sea is heard making a noise towards Ardross, or
St Monance, we are sure soon to have bad weather from the east.
When the same kind of noise is heard towards Kineraig, or up the
Frith we expect the storin to abate. This noise is only heard
when the wind is from the east.
   Hydrography.-Largo bay, which forms the S.W. boundary of
the parish, from being protected by the bold headland or promon
tory of Kincraig, from the heavy seas, which roll with great fury
along the shore in high easterly winds, affords a safe and excellent
anchorage. for ships, when detained in the Frith by E. and N,
winds. It is not uncommon to see forty or fifty vessels of diffe-
rent sizes, lying here in perfect safety, during heavy N. E. winds.
In this bay stake-nets have lately been erected, and salmon are
caught, although not in great numbers.
Kilconquhar loch is a beautiful sheet of fresh water, lyiiig 'unine-
diately to the south of the church and village, about two miles in cir-
cumference, and half a mile in diameter, encircled with wood on
the west, south, and south-east sides. This lake abounds with
pike and eel, both of which are often caught of large size. In
some parts it is very deep, and long in freezing. The oldest tomb-
stone in the churchyard bearing an inscription, is upon the grave
of 11 William Ballantine, -laird of 'Kilconquhar who was drown,-
ed skating on the loe-h, on the 28th February 1593 aged 28
years." Little or no water runs into the lake. It is supplied al-
most entirely by springs. A clear and copious stream issues
from it, and falls into the sea at Elie. This lake has long been a
'favourite haunt of swans.+ There are thirty of these  majestic

<FOOTNOTE>The two following old distiches, which are in use among the people here, express
e regulator their obsrvations: Largo Law lies to the weat, Kellie Law to the east,
our raips xaost frequqxtly come froim the west.
                                     1
                        When Largo Law cuts on his box,
                        Let Kellie Law be;,are of that.
                                     2.
                      When Kellie Law gets on his cap,
A famous witch of Pittenweem is said to have here drowned here, and the
appears to have had swans in it at that time':-


