
                           KINCLAVEN.                     1137

   and tithes of the bishopric to his chief and patron, the Earl of
   Argyle, retaining for his successors scarce so much as would be a
   moderate competency for a minister in Brechin." The church
   bell has long been celebrated in this neighbourhood for the loud-
   ness and, mellowness of its tones. There are upon it the two fol-
   lowing inscriptions, viz. "Joannes Bourkerhouis me fecit;" and
   "John Young of Touchet-hillocks gifted me to the kirk of Kin-
   claven in September 1656;"-Touchet-hillocks is,ttis name of a
   small hamlet, now forming part of the farm of Innernytie.
      Manse, Glebe, &c.-The manse was built in 1802, and received
   repairs and additions in 1830, so that it now forms an ample and com-
   modious dwelling-house.  The offices are also in good order.
   The manse, church, and churchyard, are all very beautifully si-
   tuated on a rising ground above the Tay, which is here a fine river
   of about 120 yards brnad, flowing in a full and majestic stream
   through the richly adorned policy grounds and woods of Melkle-
   our.
      There are eleven acres of glebe, which may be worth L.16 or
   L.18 per annum. The stipend is as follows, viz. L.225, 14s 57/18d.
   Sterling, and 38 bolls 3 firlots 2 pecjs 3 1?/12 lippies of oatmeal,
   and 19 bolls I firlot 3 pecks 1 1?/12 lippies of barley, amounting on
   an average to about L.275 annually.  There is no allowance for
   communion elements, as the teinds are exhausted and surrendered
      The number of communicants at the sacrament generally
   amounts to 180.  There are 86 families, including 413, individuals
   belonging to the Established Church, and 96 families, including
   465 individuals, who belong to the United Secession.  It may
   also be mentioned, that, within these few months, three Roman
   Catholic families have been brought to the parish, as servants to
   the Rev. Mr Mackay, the clergyman of the Roman Catholic
   church in Perth, who has obtained in lease a farm of seventy acres
   on the Arntully estate, which he is improving at great expense.
      Ecclesiastical History.-It appears, both from authentic ancient
   records, and from the, old charters and title deeds of the present
   patron, that, at a very remote date, anno Domini 1260, the teinds
   of this parish vere appropriated, with certain deductions, and under
   certain obligations, to the maintenance of the precentor in their ca-
   thedral church of Dunkeid; and- also that this arrangement con-
   tinued with incidental alterations until the period of the Reforma-
   tion.  One of these obligathons was, that the precentor should
   find both chaplain and a vicar to officiate in the parish church.
   PERTH.                                       4 c


