
                            ANNAN.                              519

clearness and purity which it possesses when issuing from the Irish
sea. The colour to which, perhaps it most nearly approaches,
is Roman ochre. In ordinary tides, the depths of water in the chan-
nel is about thirty feet, which gradually shallows to the shore-
Spring water, purer or in greater abundance is nowhere to be
found than in the town and throughout the greater part of the
parish. To this circumstance may in some degree be attributed
the absence of prevalent diseases among the inhabitants. Chaly-
beates abound, one of which, near the port, being a combination of
alum and iron, somewhat similar to Hartfell Spa, at Moffat, has,
with much benefit, been made use of by those labouring under
chronic complaints of the stomach. A very strong mineral spring
was, in July last, discovered near Battlehill. * It has not yet been
analyzed. Hundreds of individuals daily resorted to it during the
autumn; and from the wonderful cures said to have been effected
by means of its water, its fame has already spread considerably be-
yond the bounds of Annandale. Should it continue to retain its
present reputation, it would be of great importancd to the place,
because, being only a few hundred yards from the shore, there
would be combined the advantages of a sea-bathing and a water-
ing-place.
	Geoloqy.--The rocks in this parish, and indeed those through-
out the whole of the lower part of Annandale, belong to the inde-
pendent coal formation. The secondary sandstone which pervades
the parish, lies immediately under the soil, which in depth varies
from a few to a considerable number of feet. The general stretch of
the strata is from east to west, the depth of which varies from a few
inches to several feet. The general inclination is towards the south;
and the dip eight inches and a-half in the foot.  In texture, the
rock is considdrably fine,--weigbing eleven imperial stones per cu-
bic foot,--and well adapted for architectural purposes.  Sometimes
it contains mica in such quantity, that without difficulty it can be
raised in thin sections, or flags, which are occasionally used in-
stead of slate for the covering of houses.  In the upper part of
the parish, it occurs loosely, aggregated, and easily friable. It
assumes a variety of colours, such as reddish-brown brick red,
white, steel-gray and yellow. Sometimes it is interspersed with
spots of a mountain-green colour. Considerable fragments of

<FOOTNOTE>So named on account of a severe engagement which here took place during the
border forays, between the Scots and the English, in which the latter were wholly
discomfited; their forces to a man, being either put to the sword, or in attempting
to escape, drowned in the frith.


