
     Statistical Account

ably of late years; manufactures have been introduced; and
the town may be pronounced in a thriving state.  In 1756,
the number of inhabitants was 1378.  In 1792, 1827.  The
revenues of the town are small, arising from some landed
property and the harbour dues.
   Pathhead is named from its situatian near a steep descent
called the Path.  It is divided into Pathhead Proper, or Duni-
keer, situated on Dunikeer estate, and Sinclairton situated on
Sinclair estate.  Dunikeer is the old town:  the greatest part
of Sinclairton has been built within these 40 years.  The
chief employment in Pathhead was, for a long time, the mak-
ing of nails.  They sent great quantities to Edinburgh, to
Glasgow, and to the north of Scotland.  Two things favour-
ed this trade, plenty of good coal near them, and the facility
of getting old iron, by the ships trading from Dysart to Hol-
land.  But when other places came to have the same advan-
tages, and nail factories were erected in different quarters, the
profits of this trade were diminished.  Manufactures have
been introduced since that time.  Many bred smiths have be-
come weavers:  the women too are beginning to handle the
shuttle with success.  Several manufacturers of substance now
reside there, who have raised themselves by sober industry:
and the town is in a fair way of flourishing, if the sudden
rise of wages do not lead the young men into habits of dissi-
pation.  Symptoms of this have appeared of late:  but the
practice is as yet happily not general; and we hope the inha-
bitants, in general, will continue to show that regard to the
laws of the land, and that respect for the precepts of the
gospel, without which they cannot hope to prosper.  In 1756,

<FOOTNOTE>

morals of the people are not yet entirely effaced.  New laws and greater vi-
gilance on the part of government rendered the trade very hazardous; and it
is now seldom attempted.  A fair trade has succeeded it, where the profits
may be less, but the security is greater.


