
72                         SHETLAND.

ed together, but have been separated, not by volcanic eruptions,
but by the billows of the ocean, which nothing almost can reshst,
during the winter storms. There is another rock, called Dorholm,
from a lofty and spacious arch passing through its centre, and
which has the appearance of a door in certain directions. The
height of this rock is 76 feet from the water, and the height of
the arch is said to be 54 feet. To the north of this, there is a
rock called the Maiden Skerry, which is very near, but completely
detached from the shore, and on which, it is reported, the foot
of man has never trod. Two miles farther north, there is a rock
of very great height, called the Osse Skerry, through which also
there is a very large arch, wbich may be seen at an immense distance.
Near to Fetheland, there is also a number of very high
rocks, called the Ramnastacks. All these rocks and bolms, and
others that could be mentioned, differ in their appearance from
one another, and stand forth amid the waters of the ocean ; consequently
they are excellent sea-marks to, mariners in search of a
harbour or place of safety.
  Meteorology-The temperature of the atmosphere is very variable,
and very moist. Sometimes, howewer, the barometer remaios
stationary for sevesal days and weeks, and then the weather
is uncommonly fine. I have seeo the basometer as high as 31,
and as low as 28, in a tremendous gale of wiod from the west.
The barometer always rises wben the wind is northerly, even al-
though iu rainr heavily. And when it falls suddenly, a very heavy
sea may be expected, or a gale of wind.
   Rains dre frequent, and sometimes very heavy. Some seasons,
howewer, are very dry; the peat-baoks are reot asuoder, and the
grass and crops are injured, even although, in summer eveniogs,
there may be thick fogs and heavy dews to refresh the soil.
    The winds are very variable, and the prevailing wind is westerly.
Duriog the winter season, when storms and tempests prevail, the
wind often changes from one direction to another, suddenly and
unexpectedly . Houses are unroofed, crops destroyed, and boats
and other property lost; and every season, shipwrecks take place.
   The climate is considered mild and temperate. The summer
season is very seldom disagreeably or oppressively hot, ao equality
in the atmosphere being preserved by the surrounding waters.
The winter, sometimes also is, very mild, at other times the cold
aod frost ase intense. But although the climate is very damp, it
is not considered by any means unhealthy and warm clothing is
                                 4


