
94                        BERWICKSHIRE.

one part, this parish intersects that of Cranshaws. The boundaries
of several contiguous parishes in this district are extremely in-
volved.
   Topographical Appearances.-The greatest elevation in the pa-
rish is Meikle Cese or Sayrs Law, which lies in the line of division
between Berwickshire and East Lothian. It is under 1500 feet
high. Two conical hills of considerable beauty, the Dirringtons,
also lie in this parish. The greater of these, great Dirrington
Law, is 1145 feet high.
   Mineralogy.-Appearances of copper ore were noticed in the
former Statistical Account of the parish. Various attempts have
been made to work it; but after a recent trial upon a considerable
scale, by an English company, it was abandoned; the ore, it is un-
derstood, not being sufficiently rich and plentiful to cover the ex-
pense of working it. These mining operations were carried on
near the spot where the old church of Ellim stood. It is said
that there are appearances of a richer vein, not far from this spot,
on the opposite side of the river Whitadder, in the lands of Rig-
foot, but no attempts have been made to work it.
   Botany.-The parish affords a good field for the botanist.
Amongst other plants which are to be found here, there are the
following: Arbutus uva-ursi (Dirrington;) Melampyrum sylvati-
cum, (Banks of Dye;) Orobus sylvaticus, Fumaria claviculata,
Oscillatoria violacea, (Flora of Berwick on Tweed, Vol. ii.) and
Jungermannia byssacea (Dirrington.)

                    II-CIVIL HISTORY.

   Historical Notices.-There is a farm in the parish called Otter-
burn. It is not likely that the contest between Douglas and
Hotspur took place here; but as the field of that contest has not
been determined, and as it could not have been at a very great
distance from this parish, the fact of there being a place of the
name of Otterburn here, deserves to be stated. That there were
several severe contests in this neighbourhood, may well be pre-
sumed from its vicinity to the debateable land. Indeed, the name
of an adjoining bill, Main, or Man-Slaughter Law, hands down
the memory of a bloody conflict, supposed to be that which took
place in 1402, between the Earl of Dunbar and Hepburn of Hailes;
and a large heap of stones at Byrecleugh, in this parish, 240 feet
long, of irregular breadth and height, but where broadest and
highest, 75 feet broad and 18 feet high, appears to attest a simi-
lar conflict. The stones composing this heap have been carried


