
     of Borthwick.

Borthwick lies about 12 miles S. E. from Edinburgh, and
1 mile N. E. from Middleton.  Its limits are somewhat irre-
gular; but, on an average, its extent from E. to W. is about
6 miles, and from S. to N. about 4 miles.  The climate is
various; but upon the whole, mild and temperate.  In this
tract of country there is considerable less rain than falls on
either hand of us.  The hills to the S. and N. W. break the
clouds, and with the attraction of the frith of Forth on
N. E. carry off the rain, and frequently preserve us dry,
while our neighbours are threatened with a deluge.  The
air is pure; the inhabitants in general are healthy, and
subject to no particular local distempers.  Remarkable in-
stances of logevity now and then occur; one man in par-
ticular, not long ago reached his hundredth year, and to
live upwards of 80 years is not reckoned at all uncommon.

<FOOTNOTE>

but those who wish to see at large the descent, noble alliances, and history
of this once flourishing family, may consult Douglass's Peerage.  What
now constitutes this parish formerly belonged to the College Kirk of
Crichton, which lies about a mile N. E. of this place.  In april 1596,
King James I.  of England dissolved from the said College Kirk the pre-
bendaries of Ardnalestoun (now Arniston) of Middleton first and second,
and of Vogrie, of old called Lochquharret, and also two boys, or clerks, to
assist in the performance of Divine Service, with suitable salaries annexed
to their office.  These prebendaries, with the haill vicarage of Borthwick,
fruits, rents, manse, and glebe thereof, were then, by a Royal charter,
erected into a distinct and separate charge, to be in all time coming called
the parsonage of Borthwick.  The year before this, the presbytery of Dal-
keith had designed a glebe for Mr Adam Colt, the then ossiciating parson;
but this they seem to have considered only as a measured of expediency,
the parish having been constituted before the Royal Charter could be ob-
tained.  This deed must have been regarded at the time as a transaction
of considerable importance; for, in 1606, the erection of the parsonage
by the said charter was solemnly retified in Parliament, and in 1609, con-
firmed by George Archbishop of St. Andrew's, as the undoubted patron of
said prebendaries; always reserving, however, the presenation and advo-,
cation of all the promiss, gifts, and benefices to himself and successors in
office.


