
82                   INVERNESS-SHIRE.

as these have not been measured, their elevations above the. level
of the sea cannot be correctly stated.
   Meteorology.--According to a register kept by Sir David Brews-
ter at Belleville, about 700 feet above the level of the sea, the
mean temperature of 1834 was about 45&deg;, and the hour of mean
temperature about 7\ph 33' A. M., and 6\ph 47' P. M. The prevail-
ing winds in this parish, and over the whole valley of Badenoch,
are the south-west and north-east. In the immediate vicinity of the
Grampians, through the narrow valley of Glenfeshie, the wind some-
times blows down from the hills in violent gusts, resembling the hur-
ricanes of tropical climates,--unroofing houses, tearing the largest
trees from the root, and carrying all loose substances in its progress
irresistibly before it. There is no other wind that claims particular
notice, if we except the whirlwind, which occurs seldom, and only
in the summer season. The ignorant country people, particularly
the old, who are strongly wedded to the absurd superstitions of
their venerated ancestors, consider the whirlwind as indicative of a
procession of the imaginary beings called fairies. This supersti-
tion, however, is wearing fast away; and it is probable that in less
than half a century, not a trace of it will remain, providing the pro-
gress of education shall not be obstructed by the failure of adequate
means to support the schools at present so extensively in operation.
The venerable Principal Baird, whose labours of love will be long
remembered with heartfelt gratitude in the Highlands of Scotland,
has contributed, by his benevolent exertions, in an eminent degree
to the expulsion of fairies from the Highland hills.
   The Strath of Badenoch being at this place probably not less
than 650 feet above the level of the sea, it cannot be expected
that there should be the same quantity of genial warmth as in
lower situations. There is nothing in which the inferiority of
the climate is, in these respects, so perceptible as in the partial
and often total failure of orchard fruit, such as apples, pears, and
plums, &c. which never ripen sufficiently in any garden in this
parish, except on wall-trees. But when the ground is well-culti-
vated and manured, there are as rich crops of corn raised in this
parish, though, somewhat later in ripening, as in any district of
the low country.  The circumstances connected with the climate
most unfavourable to the produce of the soil are, the long continu-
ance of frost in the month of May, and the early visit of mildew
in the month of August. The former retards vegetation, and oc-
casions a late harvest; the latter, by blasting potatoe crops and



