		             PENICUIK.                        33

constant extensions are going on. The whole planting is done on,
the Scotch or pitting system. Though shelter and picturesque,
effect form probably the chief inducements to extend these plant-
ings, yet the wood also yields a profitable return,--single trees
having brought as high a price as L.30. A saw-mill has lately
been erected, and is in nearly constant use. There are upwards
of 1000 acres under wood in the parish, of which 800 or so are on
the barony of Penicuik. The present appearance and rental of
this last-mentioned estate strikingly shows what great effect judi-
cious perseverance in improving land will produce. It is not much
more than five and thirty years since there were scarcely any en-
closures on that property, save some few in the vicinity of Penicuik
House, and now, nearly through its whole extent, it presents the as-
pect of an enclosed and well sheltered country. Its natural and but
recent wildness is every where relieved by stripes of planting, dikes,
or hedge-rows. In that period, the rents have trebled, without be-
ing at all oppressive. The waste has been converted into a fo-
rest, and the wilderness into a fruitful field.
             	      II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
   There is but very little deserving of notice under this head. A
short account of the principal events which had occurred within
the memory of the Inhabitants was published by one of their num-
ber, some years ago; but it contains nothing of general interest.
"The simple annals of the poor," however amusing to the lover
of nature, are unsuitable to this work. The agricultural im-
provements of the district have been ably detailed in an essay,
which obtained the Highland Society's silver medal for the year
1829. It was written by Mr James Jackson of Plaintree Shade,
by Penicuik, and has been published by him in a volume of great
merit, along with five other prize essays. To Mr Jackson's in-
telligence on all points of agricultural interest, the public are in-
debted for nearly all the information on these matters in this account
of the parish. The essays referred to may be confidently recom-
mended to the perusal of the farmer, not merely for the informa-
tion to be derived from them, but also from the example which
they furnish of what, even in disadvantageous circumstances, dili-
gence and good sense may accomplish.
   The uniform quiet of a country Paris was, in the case of Penicuik
interrupted about the year 1810, by its extensive paper manufacturies
being turned by Government into depots prisoners of war, and the
peaceful cottages attached to them into barracks for the military ne-
  EDINBURGH.                                c


