
                   ANSTRUTHER EASTER.                     299

is prepared, also a brewery, and a rope and sail-work.  The proxi-
mity of the large fishing town of Cellardyke affords facilities for
the business of fish-curing.  About 600 barrels of cod are cured
annually, besides great quantities of herrings in the month of Fe-
bruary, when a shoal usually appears at the mouth of the Frith of
Forth, and every person fit for labour finds employment.  These
are exported chiefly to the West India market.  Considerable
quantities of baddocks are smoked for the home-market.  There
are at present six fish-curers in the town. The vessels belonging
to the port are eleven in number, including two packets which sail
weekly to and from Leith; the import being chiefly goods for the
merchants, and the export, grain from the surrounding district of
country.  A weekly corn-market is held in the town on Saturday.
The number of shops is considerable, greater than is necessary for
the accommodation of the inhabitants of the parish; but they are
frequented by the population of the neighbourhood, and afford at
reasonable prices the articles required for household use.  There
is a mill in Anstruther Easier for the preparation of all kinds of
meal.
   Waqes.-Wages are according to the rate usually given in the
country, and vary of course with its commercial prosperity. Those
of seamen, from L. 2 to L. 2, l0s. per month; of wrights about 3s.
per day; of masons 2s. in winter, and 2s. 6d. in summer; of day-
labourers from 1s. 6d. to 2s.; of women employed in fish-curing
1 1/2d. per hour, in field labour 1d. per hour.
 	           V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Means of Communication.-There is a post-office in the town,
(not a sorting office.) The means of public conveyance are, a stage
coach, three times a-week, to Edinburgh, by way of Pettycur; a daily
coach to the same city, during the greater part of the year, by way
of Largo; and one daily to and from St Andrews.  A branch of the
National Bank of Scotland was established in Anstruther Easter in
May 1832.  The number of tradesmen is very considerable: bakers,
5; tailors, 5; master-masons, 4; blacksmiths, 3; saddlers, 2 ;
tinsmith and plumber, 1; shoemakers, 9; wrightsi 5; weavers, 6;
butchers, 3; watchmaker, 1; bookbinder and stationer, 1. There
are two excellent inns in the town; houses in which ale and spi-
rituous liquors are sold, 13--a number far too great for the wants
of the inhabitants; and there is no doubt that they have exercised
a very prejudicial influence on their morals, by affording undue
facilities to intemperance. In general, it may be observed, that

