
498                          AYRSHIRE.

concerned, or only a marketable commodity to be made over to
the highest offerer. But Lady Jane was not to be so easily ma-
naged. Neither the threats of her ambitious father, nor the im-
portunities of her noble suitor, could divert her affections from the
object of her first attachment.
  Having considered a great many plans, it was finally arranged
that Sir John should go to the continent under a solemn pledge of
returning in a few months. Two full years, however, passed with-
out furnishing any intelligence of his situation. This circumstance
naturally induced the belief that some dreadful calamity had be-
fallen him,--a supposition which seemed to be confirmed by a let-
ter from the English ambassador at Madrid, giving assurance of his
death by the hands of some bravos. Upon receiving this intimation,
the lady at last reluctantly yielded her hand to the Earl of Cassillis.
This nobleman was a person of stern and forbidding presence, and
of that haughty and imperious temper that might create awe, but
was ill fitted to awaken confidence and affections finding that his
Countess preferred solitude and the musings of a gloomy melan-
choly to his society and pleasure, he conceived for her, if not a
violent dislike, at least a settled indifference. She accompanied him
in none of his travels, nor shared in any of his pastimes. He con-
tinued to attend his public duties, or to pursue his schemes of am-
bition, while she remained for months at home, dejected and heart-
broken, without friend or attendant.
  While leading this miserable life, one evening, as she was taking
her accustomed walk on the battlements of the Castle, she descri-
ed a band of Gipsies making with haste to the house. Such bands
were very common at that period, but the number and the suspi-
cious appearance of this company were calculated to create consider-
able alarm, the more especially as the Earl was from home attend-
ing the Assembly of Divines at Westminster. On approaching
the house, however, instead of offering violence, they commenced
some of those wild strains, by which they generally succeeded in at-
tracting the notice, and exciting the liberality of those to whom
they appealed. The Countess was in the act of dropping from
her window the usual gratuity, when all at once she recognized in
the leader of the Gipsies the tall commanding figure of Sir John
Faa. An intervew immediately ensued, and the mysterious cause of
his absence was fully explained. He had been confined for four
years in the Inquisition, on account of some unguarded expression
he had used respecting the Church of Rome. Upon his enlarge-


