
     Statistical Account

slates in their form.  Once in three years, all the earthy part
of these houses is thrown on the dunghill, and new houses
built again of the same materials.  The cattle commonly oc-
cupy one end of the house, during the winter season.  Some
holes in the walls and roofs serve for windows and chimneys.
An iron pot, for boiling their food, constitutes their principal
furniture.  Nothing can exceed the wretched appearance of
these habitations.  As to the occupations of the people, the
women begin to earn a little money by spinning.  The young
men go early in the spring to the south country, and hire
themselves for all kinds of country labour; towards harvest,
many of the women also go the same way, to assist in cutting
down and getting in the crop.  They all return before winter,
and are said to pals their time round good fires of peat, which
the country every where furnishes, and to do very little work.
In the south country, however, to which they go, they are
remarked for their assiduity, and are said to be indesatigable
in executing all manner of task work.  Those, who, remain at
home, attend to the concerns of their corn, potatoes, and cattle,
and to the providing of their fuel from the neighbouring peat
mosses.  The climate, near the banks of the Kyle, or Frith
of Dornoch, ripens wheat, barley, oats, and pease; becoming
gradually colder, as you recede therefrom, and ascend the hills,
which are covered with heather, interspersed with coarse grass.
The vallies among the hills, and the ground on the tides of the
hills, appear to be capable of being cultivated; and there are
many little rising grounds, some flat moors, and the face of
some of the hills so bare and stoney, as to be fit for plantations
only.  It need hardly be mentioned, that the inhabitants are in
general poor;-that is, possess little money or goods, except
a stock of very indifferent cattle.
   It is not the intention, therefore, of the proprietors, to ex-
act, for some time, any increase of rents from there people;


