

  346                    PERTHSHIRE.

  voil, and runs smoothly in a serpentine direction to the south-east,
  about five miles through the strath, and discharges itself into Loch-
  lubnaig.  Calair, a lesser river than Balvag, flows from Glenbuckie,
  and rages furiously in time of flood, from which circumstance the
  name is derived.
    Geology.-The rocks in this parish are mica-slate, clay-slate,
  quartz rock, primitive greenstone, and porphyry.  Veins of galena
  or lead glance traversing the mica-slate occur in several parts, but
  none of these appear to have been worked for the ore they contain.
    Woods.-There are several woods in the parish, consisting
  chiefly of oak, coppice, birch, ash, alder, and mountain-ash.  There
  are likewise several young plantations of Scotch, larch, and spruce
  firs, which are thriving well.  There are some plane-trees of con-
  siderable size, and also oaks.  The soil seems to be well adapted
  for growing all kinds of wood usually planted in the country, such
  as firs, oak, plane-tree, &c.

                         II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
    Antiquities.-In a field somewhat to the south-east of the manse,
  there is a stone resembling an obelisk, about five feet high.  The
  people call it Puidrac: but the nature and origin of it, the writer
  has not ascertained.
    About a mile to the eastward of the manse, a desperate battle
  was fought between the M'Larens and the Leneys, some suppose
  in the time of the Alexanders.  The M'Larens from time imme-
  morial were inhabitants of Balquhidder, and the Leneys resided
  near Callander.  The natives mention every circumstance relating
  to this conflict with great exactness.
    Eminent Men.-The late Sir John MacGregor Murray, of Mac-
  Gregor, Bart. was buried in the family vault, about a mile to the east-
  ward of the manse; he was a distinguished Gaelic scholar, and zea-
  lous and unwearied in his exertions to collect and preserve the ancient
  poetry of the Highland bards.  He held the rank of colonel in
  the army, and raised a regiment of infantry, called the Clan Al-
  pins, for the service of his country, which was commanded by his
  brother, Colonel Alexander MacGregor Murray, who was also bu-
  ried in the mausoleum belonging to the family.
    Land-owners.-The chief land-owners are, the Marquis of
  Breadalbane; Sir Evan J. Murray MacGregor of MacGregor, Bart.;
  Alexander Buchanan, Esq. oi Arnprior; Earl of Moray; and
  John Lorn Stewart, Esq. of Glenbuckie.
    arochial Registers.-There is a register of baptisms and mar-


