
                              PEEBLES.                              5

cultural Survey of Peebles-shire, " extending on the hills for six or
seven miles downward to Gatehope burn, would seem to have been
granted to Peebles in property, or in right of pasturage, the rights
to which are now lost, from encroachment, or through dereliction."*
In 1712, in a petition to the presbytery against the induction of
the presentee to the church by the magistrates, chiefly on account
of his youth, they lay much stress on their payino, one-third of the
stipend.  At present the stipend paid by the burgh is, on an average,
only L. 16 a-year.  (+)
  In 1545, when the Earl of Hertford, afterwards Protector So-
merset, in revenge for the defeat which the English had sustained
the year before under Lord Evers, from the Scots, commanded by
the Earl of Angus, destroyed the towns of Kelso and Melrose,
with their magnificet abbeys,-Peebles shared the same fate, and
was reduced to ashes.  The churches, greatly inferior to those
two splendid edifices, seem to have escaped the vengeance of the
invaders and were spared.  In 1604, the town suffered severely
from in accidental fire.  The houses being thatched, the destruc-
tion of property was very great. In the civil war, Cromwell's troops
occupied Peebles during the siege of Neidpath Castle, and, from
want of accommodation, they stabled their horses in St. Andrew's
Church, the principal place of worship in the parish.  From there
being, no record or tradition of excesses committed, it is probable
that the severe discipline of the Protector secured the ihabi-
tants against any outrage of the soldiers. " The inhabitants of
this district," says Pennecuhk, " are of so loyal and peaceable dis-
positions, that they have seldom or never appeared in arms against
their lawful sovereign ; nor were there amongst that great number
twelve persons from Tweeddale at the insurrection of Rullion-green
or Bothwell Bridge.  Of their loyalty they gave sufficient testi-
mony it the fight of Philiphaugh, where several of them were kil-
led by David Leslie's army, and others, the most eminent of their
gentry, taken prisoners."    In the Rebellions of 1715 and 1745,
the inhabitants of Peebles remained unconcerned spectators of the
struggle; and, though there were Jacobite families in the district,
they had fortunately the prudence to take no part in the unhappy
conflict.
  But though the inhabitants of Tweeddale have been distinguish-

<FOOTNOTE> Findlater's Survey, p. 10.
 Mr John Hay, the youthfuly preseintee, after five years' litigation before the su-
perior courts, overcame the objections made against him on the ground of his youth,
and was an able and efficient minister till 1760.


