

                         YARROW.                             47

date of the event which the old ballad describes.  Some suppose
it to have been a duel fought betwixt John Scott of Tushielaw,
and Walter Scott of Thirlestane, that proved fatal to the latter;
but, as appears from authentic records, this took place on Deuchar
Swire.*  Others have identified it with the fray it a hunting-
match in Ettrick Forest, in which a son of Scott of Harden, resident
at Kirkhope, was killed by  his kinsman the Scotts of Gilmans-
cleugh.  But the tales of tradition, which are often a few scatter-
ed leaves torn from the book of time, it is difficult to collect or con-
nect with accuracy.  About 300 yards westward, when the cultiva-
tion of this moor began, the plough struck upon a large flat stone
bearing a Latin inscription.  Bones and ashes lay beneath it, and
on every side the surface presented verdant patches of grass.  It
was examined by Sir Walter Scott, Dr John Leyden, Mungo Park,
and others of antiquarian lore.  From the rudeness and indistinct-
ness of the carving upon the hard block, only the following charac-
ters can be deciphered : HIC MEMORIAE ET -- -- -- -- HIC IACENT
IN TVMVLO DVO FILII LIBERALI. +

     On Dryhope Haugh, there stood large cairn called Herton's
Hill, in the midst of which, when the stones were removed about thirty
years ago, to enclose the surrounding fields, some urns were found,
besides a coffin formed of slabs, and containing ashes.   There may
still be seen to westward of Altrive Lake, on rising knolls,
five considerable tumuli, probably remains of the ancient Britons.
None of them have been opened; but the surface of the largest
exhibits a mixture of charcoal and ashes.  Its top was surrounded
by a circle of stones thirty yards in circumference, with a small
square of stones in the centre that were taken away to build dikes;
a purpose, to which also feudal castles and sepuchral cairns have
been so often applied. " To what base uses ve may return,
Horatio!"

<FOOTNOTE>To this Sir W. Scott latterly believed the ballad to refer, in which case the stones
must commemorate a different event, as Deuchar Swire is at a considerable distance.
     Dr Leyden was disposed to regard it as a relic of the Romans.  Such an intro-
duction, however, as hic memoria is foreign to the Latin idiom ; and hie jacent are
words, which, if they do occur in a genuine prose antique, (Dis Manibus Sacrum or
D. M. S. being almost universal,) are at least so rare as to justify a suspicion that the
stone where they are found is of Christian inscription.  Neither does the material,
which is unhewn greywacke, seem to smack of classical antiquity.  The altars, mile-
stones, &c. excavated along the line of Adrian's wall, are uniformly of sandstone, and
in places where it must have been far transported.
     For further details of the antiquitids of this parish, see the MS. of this account,
preserved among the Archives of the Church.



