
                         ABBOTSHALL.                              147

  Boundaries-Extent.-The parish being a good deal intersected
by other parishes, is of an irregular shape; but its greatest length,
from the coast to the north-west, is not less than 4 miles, and
its breadth, which varies much at different points, may average
2. It is bounded on the north-east by Kirkaldy; on the south-
east by the Frith of Forth; on the south-west by the parish of
Kinghorn; and on the north-west by that of Auchterderran. The
parish of Auchtertool touches it on the west.
  Topographical Appearances.-Along the coast, the grounds are
flat and level to the distance of more than half a-mile from the sea,
when they begin to rise into fine sloping banks, with occasional
interruptions, for the distance of three miles; afterwards they gra-
dually descend till they reach the extremity of the parish.
  Soil, &c.-The soil, as may be expected, is different in different
parts; but on the average is greatly superior to that of most parishes in
Fife. Near the sea shore, it is free and healthy,-being very ge-
nerally the soil arising from decomposed whin or trap rock, and is
particularly favourable for raising crops of barley and turnips. Fur-
tlier back, and where the grounds begin to ascend, the soil is
richer and stronger, being for the most part of a clayey or dark
loamy substance, and well adapted for wheat, beans, and other
heavy crops. Towards the extreme points, and furthest from the
coast, the soil is, for the most part, of a cold tiny bottom, and con-
sequently less productive. It is very susceptible, however, of im-
provement, and is in the immediate vicinity of coal and lime, tho
less favoured in regard to other kinds of manure than the rest of the
parish.
  The climate throughout the whole is good, and no diseases of
an epidemic nature can be said to prevail. To this, the washing of
our shores by the Forth twice every four and twenty hours doubt-
less contributes, as well as the many dry and inviting walks on all
hands within reach of the inhabitants. At present the parish fur.
nishes no very remarkable instances of longevity; but there are
123 persons who have outlived three score years and ten,-of
whom 24 are upwards of eighty, and 2 upwards of ninety. The
most prevalent winds are the westerly, and the quantity of rain which
falls is 33 inches, a larger quantity than usual, 31 inches. (accord-

century, speaks of the mansion-house of Abbotsball as at that time "a large and fine
new house," which house must have been built by the then proprietor, Mr Andrew
Ramsay, the remains of which were standing not more than forty years ago, on the
same spot, there is reason to believe, on which the original house or hall of the abbot
stood.


