
     Statistical Account

   In consequence of all those improvements, agriculture
and husbandry, in the two baronies of the parish, were
fast advancing to that signal stage at which they are now
arrived.  Not only on the infield, but almost the whole
outfield and moor-land, was, from the year 1770 to the

<FOOTNOTE>

tried with much success.  A vegetable that could be easily reared, and at
little expense, which, desirable at the tables of the rich, afforded a whole
some and cheap food to the poor, and might be used in place of bread,
appeared to deserve the attention and labour of the husbandman in a great
degree.  But the production of it in large quatities, was soon found to
reduce the value to little or nothing.  As it could answer all the pur-
poses of corn-meal, it could never be made such an object to the cultiva-
tion of land, or the public in general, as the latter.  Crops of potatoes
came, therefore, to be regarded as subsidiary only to those of grain; so
useful, indeed, that they could not be wanted in the most plentiful years;
and, in those of scarcity, would keep lower the price of meal, when poor
families, having the resource of potatoes, would require smaller quanti-
ties of it.  The fine light mould of Chirnside crofts, was well adapted to
their production; and accordingly, all the common kinds, were advanta-
geously cultivated by the acre-men; while the farmers found it of equal
benifit to themselves and their cottagers, to have a proper supply of them,
in every season.  In this stage of agriculture, and from about the year 1769,
or 1765, the S. croft land had risen from 12 and 15, to 16 and 20 shil-
lings.  The price of a summer's grass for a cow, in an enclosure, was a gui-
nea; open, but improved fields, laid down in grass, were rated at 16 shil-
lings:  Still the value of land was advanced, not only in fields of 10, 20 or
30 acres, but in extensive farms.  A great encouragement to it arose from
the cultivation and growth of field turnips; by means of which a food,
cheaper, and more nourishing than hay, could be procured for the winter
maintenance of sheep and black cattle.  Besides this important use, no
plant was found to meliorate the land so much, by delivering it from
all weeds.  It might be cultivated to advantage, either in broad cast or
in drills.  The repeated hoeings requisite to reduce the immense vege-
tation of the plants, so that those allowed to remain might grow to a
anseful size, might be reckoned the only considerable expense attending
the culture of the turnips, fed on which, more milk could be got from
the cows in winter; the sheep and black cattle, kept in good condition,
or some of the latter being taken up and stall-fed, might be fattened and
well fold to the butcher market in the spring.


