
64                         ELGINSHIRE.

lindalloch, the house and offices of one Subten-ant were complete-
ly swept away, and the ground covered with sand to a considerable
depth. The following will suffice for specimenso.f damage on the
estate of Mr Grant of Wester Elchies:-On the Broom Isle, 3
acres covered with sand to the depth of 2 feet; 7 acres, do. Ij
feet; 6 acres, do. I foot; 1 acre, do. 3 feet; 4 acres, do. 15 inches.
-On the Haugh of Wester Elchies, 5 acres, 2 of which average 4
feet of sand, and 3 do. 1 foot; 3-L acres, do. 3-1 feet of sand and
gravel; 5 acres, do. Ij feet; I acre, do. 2-1-On the Haughs of
Dellagyle and Dellowlie, 4 acres averaging 2 feet. On the Boat-
man's Haugh, I acre, averaging 3 feet. The appearance of the
country on this memorable occasion was 'awfully grand, and will
long be remembered in Knockando.
  Geology and Mineralogy.-The rocks are all primitive, and
consist of granite, felspar, mica, sandstone, slate, gravel, and rock
crystal. There is a considerable variety of soil. Near the river it
is sandy; higher up, black gravelly mould - still higher up, a heavy
clay soil, and near the hills, mossy. In some places the substra-
tum is clay, in others gravel. The alluvial deposits consist of clay,
bog iron ore, peat, fuller's earth, and inarl. The mosses are of
considerable extent; the chief are, Milton, Monahoudie, and Man-
noch. Oak and fir roots, and sometimes whole trees, have been
found imbedded in the mosses, and in all probability have lain
there concealed for ages. Hazel-nuts have also been found at the
depth oftwelve feet. Fronimbich circumstances, there is consider-
able reason for supposing that the country bad at one period been
covered with wood. Neither coal nor lime have been found in the
parish. There is a small vein of slate, from which stones have oc-
casionally been taken, and which is capable of being wrought.
Zoology.-The only rare animals are a few Thibet sheep at
Wester Elchies, sent home from India b Mr Grant. They do
not appear to thrive well in this part of the country, owing, as is
thought, to the damp of the climate. The cross breed, however,
have- succeeded well, and afford excellent mutton, and lamb of the
most delicate quality. The wool has degenerated; but is still of
A very soft texture and superior to the common.
Amongst,the animals commonly found in the parish may be
mentioned the toe-deer, which frequents the woods of Wester El-
chies during; iwinter; the fox, polecat (MustelEa putorius,) weasel
(M. vulgaris,) rabbit (Lepus cuniculus,) blue, white, and brown


