
                              CREICH                         651

man, practised on his farm upwards of twenty years ago, the pre-
sent approved mode of furrow-draining, with great success. More
draining is necessary, and the farmers, who are well aware of its ad-
vantages, are carrying it on in the most apporved and judicious
manner. Deep ploughing is resorted to, in order to renew the soil,
and to get it cleared of stones.
     Quarries.---There is an excellent qauarry of basaltic clinkstone
on East Luthrie, the property of George Tod, Esq. with stones
from which many of the houses in the parish and neighbourhood
have been built. On Carphin, the property of C. B. Raitt, Esq.
there is a gray sandstone quarry. Particulars regarding these quar-
ries are stated in the account of the Geology,of the parish.
     Manufactures.---The chief branch of manufacture is hand-loom
weaving. Osnaburghs, brown and plain white sheetings, and dow-
]as of almost all qualities, are worked here. Two resident manu-
facturers, and some resident agents of manufacturers in Cupar
and Newburgh, give employment to all the weavers in the parish
and to many in the neighbourhood. The average quantity of cloth
woven by them annually, as I am informed by one of the manu-
facturers after a careful examination, is 177,200 yards, the value
of which is L. 5293, 6s. 8d. Of this quantity, 84,000 yards are
woven by the weavers employed by the resident manufacturers,
the value of which is L. 2916, 13s. 4d, and the sum given for
weaving which, is about L. 612, 10s. The price of all,the weav-
ing at 1 5/4 d. per yard is L. 1292, 1s. 8d. The number of weavers
of all ages in the parish is 39, of whom 27 are males and 12, are fe-
males, and there are 19 winders all females. The average income
of each of the weavers is about 7s. per week throughout the year;
good hands from 9s. to 10s. They work about fourteen hours per day.
A winder receives 6d. per day when employed, but the employ-
ment is not constant. Since the introduction of machinery the
spinning-wheel has been almost entirely laid aside,as no adequate
remuneration for, labour can be procured by it. There is but one
in operation in the parish, and that one only occasionally.

                V.---PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

     Market-Town.---There is no market-town in parish. The
nearest, is Cupar, which is distant from the centre of the parish
     Villages.---There are two villages, Luthrie and Brunto, which
are pleasantly situated, and at the distance of a mile from each
other. The former contains a population of 145, and the latter


