
               KILMVIR EASTER.                                 307

an opportunity of acquiring it to the poorest of the people. Along
with the improved education of the lower classes, arising from
their general acquaintance with the English language, there is a
growing improvement likewise in their customs and habits. Those
popular amusements which formerly engrosed much of their time,
and dissipated their means and attention, and were the inlets to
much low debauchery, are almost entirely given up, and when
resorted to, occasionally, are not at all so keenly prosecuted as
they usdd to be, in former generations. The habits of the people
are cleanly and respectable. The ordinary food of the peasantry
consists of potatoes and meal, with fish and milk occasionally; and
in general, they are sober, steady, moral, and disposed to pay a de-
corous attention and respect to the observances and ordinances of
religion. Poaching in game is a crime almost unknown, and smug-
ling seems to have been entirely given up for several years.

<TABLE=IV.-INDUSTRY>

                        IV.-INDUSTRY.

       Agriculture.-
	Arable land, about	        2,500 acres.
	Natural wood and plantations,	4,500
	Moor, meadow, and pasture,     10,000
                                       ------
		                       17,000

Agriculture is well understood, and practised upon the most
approved and scientific principles. Many of the farmers in
the parish are connected with the Ross-shire Farming Socie-
ty for the Improvement of Corn, and of the different Breeds of
Cattle. The usual five-shift course is adopted: green crop,
barley or wheat, two years grass, and oats, or beans, or pease.
Proprietors appear anxious to improve their land, and lime and
bone manure are generally employed.
Rent.-Arable land averages from L. 1 to L. 1, 10s. per acre.
The rent of grazing per ox or cow varies from L. 2 to L. 2, 10s.
per annum.
Wages. -The rate of wages for farm-labourers is generally 1s.
per day without victuals; women 6d. per day. Masons and car-
penters get from 1s. 6d. to 2s. per day. Farm-servants who reside
with farmers have an income, including all they receive, of from
L.18 to L. 20 per annum, besides a house.
The Cheviot and black-faced and Leicester sheep are common
in the parish, and the polled Aberdeen black-cattle are in the
course of being introduced on several farms. It is thought by com-
petent judges, that, by a proper application of capital, a consi-


