
320                     HADDINGTONSHIRE.

view of the Frith, embracing the Isle of May, the east nook of
Fife, and Craigleith.
   Geology.-The rocks in this parish belong to the secondary and
Alluvial classes, and of these the predominating kinds are secondary.
   I. Secondary formations.-These are sandstone, limestone, and
trap. The sandstone, generally of a red colour, sometimes con-
tains beds of limestone; one of these, remarkable for its offensive
smell, occurs at Rhodes quarry, about half a mile from North
Berwick. The sandstone and limestone are older than the true
coal metals, and, therefore, workable coal is not to be expected
under or in them. The trap or whinstone rocks which form the
greater part of the parish, either cover or traverse in various ways
the sandstone strata. Immediately above the town of North Ber-
wick, rises the beautiful conical hill, named North Berwick-Law,
whose summit is about 940 feet above the level of the sea, and
800 feet above its base. The district around the hill is low, and
slightly undulated. The lowest rock visible is a variety of trap
tufa; higher up is amygdaloid. The middle and upper parts of
the hill are of a beautiful and very, sonorous variety of clinkstone
porphyry; and the summit rock is clinkstone porphyry, intermixed
with crystals of augite, thus forming a transition to augite-green-
stone. The clinkstone is, in some places, columnar, and forms
cliffs of considerable magnitude. The Bass Rock, so celebrated in
history, is a vast mass of secondary trap, resembling that of North
Berwick-Law. It is an augite greenstone, generally fine granular,
but sometimes so abounding in felspar as to verge on clinkstone.
It exhibits, in a very marked manner, the tabular structure, as is
also the case in the similarly composed Isle of May.
   II. Alluvial Strata.-These do not differ in individual and ge-
characters from the alluvial deposits in the neighbouring pa-
rishes. A more detailed account of the geology of this parish is
given by Professor Jameson, in the third volume of the Memoirs
of the Wernerian Natural History Society.
   Soil.-The soil of this parish is, in general, as stated in the for
mer Statistical Account, rich, fertile, and well cultivated, pro-
ducing large crops of wheat, barley, oats, peas and beans. No
hemp is raised, nor flax. Turnips are now extensively cultivated,
and potatoes are raised in considerable quantities. This parish
has largely shared in the improvements of modern agriculture;
and is distinguished for the science, and care, and success of its
husbandry.


