
                           CULTS.                           567

  "Pitlessie Fair," which was his first regular effort as an ar-
tist, is now in the possession of a proprietor in an adjoining parish,
Charles Kinnear, Esq. of Kinloch. It is a fine picture, contain-
ing upwards of 150 figures graphically delineated and admirably
grouped, including portraits of. Wilkie himself, his father, brothers
and sisters, and of many other characters well known in the pa-
rish and neighbourhood, during the painter's earlier years. This
picture is by competent judges considered equal in merit to some
of the most admired productions of its distinguished artist, although,
having never been engraved, it is less generally known.
  To mention or characterize any of his more recent performan-
ces, would be quite superfluous. These are well known, and have
been justly appreciated. As an artist he may be well accounted
the boast not merely of a parish, or of a county, or even of a king-
dom, but of the art in general, wherever it is cultivated; while
in private life, as is well known, there is no man morejustly esteemed
for his simple and unaffected manners, and his amiable and friend-
ly disposition.-Sir David Wilkie was appointed by King George
IV.Limner to his Majesty for Scotland, and in 1836 he received
the honour of knighthood from King William IV.
  The Rev. David Wilkie, father of this celebrated artist, merits
a special notice in this place, as the author of a valuable "Trea-
tise on the Theory of Interest and Annuities; with an illustration
of the widow's scheme in the Church of Scotland:" as also Dr
Thomas Gillespie, the present learned and able Professor of Hu-
manity in the University of St Andrews, who succeeded Mr
Wilkie in the ministry of the parish of Cults, and held that office
for fifteen years. Dr Gillespie, besides numerous other literary
productions, has published a volume of beautiful sermons on "The
Seasons contemplated in the Spirit of the Gospel."
  Land-owners and Rental.-There are three land-owners in this
parish, none of them permanently resident, viz. The Right Ho-
nourable the Earl of Glasgow, George Heggie, Esq. of Pitlessie,
and George Hope, Esq. of Upper Rankeillor and Hospital Mill.

<TABLE>
  The valued rent of the parish is as follows:
                     The Earl of Glasgow,      L.1442 0 0 Scots.
                     George Heggie, Esq.          490 0 0
                     George Hope, Esq.            137 6 8
                                                  _________
                    Total valued rental,       L.2069 6 8

<FOOTNOTE>In the eighth vol. of Blackwood's Edinburgh Magazine, there is an admirable
series of poetical sketches, entitled "Skeidas of Village Character," the subjects of
which were in a great measure furnished from the parish of Cults. No. iv. of these
sketches is professedly and accurately descriptive of some of the principal features of
Wilkie's" Pitlessie Fair."


