
			CULTER.                                  341

	Topographical Appearances.--The lower part of the parish con-
sists of a long tract of land, partly level and partly undulating,
running from S. W. to N. E., bounded on the one side by the
river Clyde, and part of Biggar; and on the other by the hills rising
toward the south. The whole of this vale is uncommonly beautiful.
Here no less than five proprietors have their residences at no great
distance from each other. Two of these are delightfully situated on
the banks of the Clyde, and the other three stand nearer the hills.
These, surrounded with their lawns and gardens, and partly seen
from amongst long lines and clumps of fine old trees, present to the
eye a landscape partaking more of the richness of England, than of
our northern clime. The hilly part of the parish again exhibits a
striking contrast to the division now mentioned. A long range of
green hills, partly planted and parked, rises abruptly from the vale.
These as they recede southward increase into mountains covered
with heath, the chief of which is the Fell, ascertained by a late mea-
surement to be 2330 feet above the level of the sea, thus overtop-
ping the neighbouring hill of Tinto by 94 feet. But neither is this
mountainous district without its peculiar beauty. There is no
sweeter glen than that of Culter water. As far as Birthwood, two
miles upward, it is partially cultivated and wooded. Beyond this
it narrows, affording little more than room for the stream, which
here has its linns with their necessary accompaniments of "rock
and roar" to captivate the admirer of wild and romantic beauty
The hills which border on the arable, part of the parish range from
S. W. to N. E. But in the higher district, their range is; exceed-
ingly varied. Sometimes they are lumpish and detached, and some-
times they run into chains, lying in all possible directions.
	Meteorology.--In the vicinity of such mountain ranges, the at-
mosphere must be moist and rains frequent: but as we have no
bogs or undrained marshes, the people are in general healthy, and
in many instances live to a very advanced age. On the 28th day
of July 1829, the thermometer at the manse stood at 83&deg; in the
shade: and on one day towards the beginn' ng of the same month
in the year 1834 at 82&deg;. These are the greatest, heights observ-
ed by the writer for the last seven years. On the evening of Ja-
nuary the 17th of the present year it stood as low as 10&deg;.
	Hydrography.--Towards the southern extrtmity of the, parish
is a spring which has generally been considered to have a petrify-
ing power. The moss by which it is bordered is completely in-
durated, and many beautiful specimens have been preserved, which
	LANARK.                             Z


