
                           KIRKWALL AND ST OLA.                     5

	St Clair, a very inconsiderable and ruined portion now remaines to
	mark the spot on which it once stood.
	  Parochial Registers.-The parochial registers, in the custody of
	the kirk-session, consist of five volumes of register of baptisms, ex-
	tending from 1657 to the present time, without interruption; three
	volumes of register of marriages, from 1657 to the current year;
	and five volumes of the minutes of session, containing the res gesto,
	from 1626 to 1840, with the exception of ten years, from 1659 to
	1669, the records of which appear to have been lost. No regular
	or continuous register of deaths or burials was kept till within the
	last fifty years.

                           <TABLE=III.-POPULATION.>

	Amount of population in 1801,	2621
                                 1811,       2243
                                 1821,       8246
                                 1831,       3721

	   It appears from a comparison of successive censuses taken since
	the commencement of the present century, that the population of
	Kirkwall was, for many years, progressively on the increase. It is,
	however, the general belief that, since 1831, the population if not
         decreasing, has been at least stationery . This, indeed, is evident
	from the fact, that house building, which in former years went on
	very briskly, has of late been almost at a stand, and many habita-
	tions in the town are at present untenanted. This arrest on the
	increase of population is mainly to be ascribed to the failure of the
	kelp trade, formerly the staple of these islands, the large profits of
	which gave a stimulus to industry and trade; and though the
	fisheries have been greatly extended since that Manufacture was
	given up, or nearly so, yet the emolument arising from the former
	source has passed into other hands. Those who profit be the
	fishing are chiefly boatmen and labourers, who lay out their little
	capital, not in trade in the towns, but in farming or an extension
	of their fishing speculations.
	   The average number of marriages, births, and deaths for the
	five years ending with 1839, appears from the parish registers to
	be,-marriages, 26; births, 41; deaths, 59.
	   The inhabitants of the town consist chiefly of shopkeepers, trades-
	men of the different crafts, sailors, boatmen, and labourers. Be-
	sides these. there are a few resident Proprietors, officers of customs
	and excise, three medical practitioners, two bankers, six gentlemen

         <Footnote>The new census, taken while this Account was in the press, exhibits accordingly
	a decrease of 147 in the ten years,-the population being now only 3574.


