
                    ALLOA.                                 53

trees bn each side. The streets are well paved and regularly
cleaned, with the exception of the old town, part of which is in a
ruinous state. The town is extending rapidly toward the west,
where several elegant villas have been erected.
   Means of Communication.--Besides the post-office twice every
day, there is a daily communication with Edinburgh, Stirling, and -
all the towns on the Firth, by steam-packets. A coach runs daily
between Alloa and Glasgow, by way of Falkirk; and another runs
by way of Stirling, for the Glasgow canal boats. There is one
weekly carrier for Edinburgh, and two for Glasgow, who generally
go twice a-week. There are, besides, carriers from Alloa to all
the principal towns in the neighbourhood. There are about twelve
Miles of turnpike-road in the parish. All the bridges are in good
order, and the fences generally well kept.
   The revenue of the Post-Office, on an average of three years
preceding the commencement of the penny postage, may be state
at L. 1500. Since the alteration in the rates of postage, the num-
ber of letters has increased threefold, and averages at least 2000
weekly.
   Banks.--There are in the town branches of the Commercial
Bank, the Western Bank, and the Glasgow Union Bank; for. the
last of which, an elegant and substantial building has lately been
erected.
   Stamp-Office.--The amount of the sale of stamps in the Stamp-
Office at Alloa, for five years ending 21st March 1840, was
L.8852, 18s., being an average of about L. 1770 per annum.
   Mechanical Ingenuity.--Michael Stirling, who resided at Cam-
bus, in this parish, was the first in Scotland that thought of thrash-
ing by machinery. He invented what is called a "scutch.mill,"
a rude machine, long ago disused.
   The first effective thrashing-machine in Scotland was con-
structed, in 1787, by Mr George Meikle, the son of its celebrated
inventor; both of whom resided here. The last thrashing-michine
at which old Meikle himself worked was lately in complete repairs
upon the estate of Mar. Mr Meikle, Junior, made a decided im-
provement upon what has been called the Persian wheel; and
Mr Whitworth I the celebrated engineer, adopted, without hesita-
tion, the improvement suggested by Mr Meikle, in preference to
his own, in the construction of a wheel for carrying off the moss, at
Blair Drummond.
   Mr James Brownhill, Miller at Alloa, first applied the stones


