
     Statistical Account

and sometimes 5 d. or 6 d.  The day's wages of a labourer
in husbandry are 9 d. in summer, and 7 d. in winter, or in
summer 6 d. with victuals; of a carpenter 1 s. mason 1 s.
6 d. tailor 6 d. with his victuals.  The usual wages of a
man-servant employed in husbandry are L. 5 a-year, when
hired for harvest L. 1, 10 s.  Sterling; of a woman-servant
are from L. 2, 5 s. to L. 2, 10 s.  Sterling a-year, when hi- 
red for harvest 16 s. 8 d. or 18 s. 4 d. receiving their vic-
tuals in the house.  The farmers are obliged to hire ser-
vants for the whole harvest, as day-labourers cannot be
procured.  The wages of a man in harvest for a day are 1 s.
with his victuals.  The fuel generally used is peat or turf.
The casting, drying their peat and turf, and driving them,
employ the farmers servants and horses during a great part
of the summer, and prove a great obstacle to the improve-
ment of their grounds.  The farmers are far from being
in comfortable circumstances.  Few of them have at first
money for purchasing a sufficient stock of cattle, and are ne-
ver able to improve them.  By following the old mode of
farming, as above mentioned, though they work hard a-
long with their servants, and live with great sobriety, they
can scarcely pay their rents, and the wages of their ser-
vants, which have of late risen fully one-third more than 15
or 20 years ago.  The women and children are employed
in working stockings for the manufacturers in Aberdeen.
They or their servants come once a-fortnight to different
parts of the parish, give wool to be spun, and worked on
the wires into stockings.  A woman gains from 1 s. 6 d. to
2 s. a-week.  Some few spin lint, by which a little more
may be gained.  It is not easy precisely to ascertain the
expence of a common labourer when married.  He has a
boll's sowing or two from the tenant; it is plowed to him;
his cow kept in summer with the farmer's cattle; and the
straw of his corn from his croft maintains the cow during


