
                          UNITED PARISHES OF

                    GLENMUICK, TULLICH, & GLENGAIRN.

         PRESBYTERY OF KINCARDINE O'NEIL, SYNOD OF ADERDEEN.

  	            THE REV. HUGH BURGESS, MINISTER.

                 I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-GLENMUICK is compounded of two Gaelic words,
Glean Muic, signifying the swine's valley or glen.  There is a
tradition that wild hogs once abounded in an oak forest, skirting
both sides of a small river, called the water of Muick, from which
the parish takes its name.
   Tullich is a corruption of a Gaelic word, Tullach, signifying
hillocks; and on such a situation stands a small village, named
Tullich, which gives name to this parish, and also to the burying-
ground around the walls of its old church, now in ruins.
   Glengairn is a corrupted compound of three Gaelic words,
Glen-qarbh-amhain, signifying the glen of the rough water; and
this is very applicable to a small river intersecting this parish, and
giving name to it, called the Gairn, or rough water, on account
of,its rocky and precipitous channel.
   Extent.-Glenmuick, at an average, is about 15 miles long
from east to west, by 51 miles broad, from north to south. It lies
all on the south side of the river Dee, with the exception of a
small part which, at some remote period, has been evidently cUt
off, or disjoined from the rest, by the Dee changing its course.
   Tullich, at an average, is about 14 miles long from east to west,
by 7 miles broad from south to north, and lies all on the north
side of the Dee, extending farther to the east than Glenmuick,
but not nearly so far to the west.  It is, however, intersected,
about the middle of its length, by the parish of Glengairn, which
stretches along both sides of the water of Gairn about 8 miles, at
the average breadth of 4 miles, in a direction from north-west to
south-east.  This is one specimen of the many injudicious divisions
of parishes at their origin; for nearly one-half of Tullich lies on


