
90			KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

bourhood and taken some refreshment. Continuing her flight;
she crossed the Dee by a wooden bridge, hastily thrown over it
for her accommodation, about a mile from the present church.
The river is very narrow at this spot, which is still pointed out
and known as "Mary's Brig." There is a well, also, at a short
distance, called by her name, from whence tradition says that she
drank.
	Land-owners.--The principal land-owners are, Alexander
Murray of Broughton, at present M. P. for the stewartry; Ro-
bert Ker of Argrennan; David Maitland of Barcaple; William
Campbell of Queenshill; Thomas Maitland of Dundrennan;
Mrs Hall of Valle field; Allan Bell of Hillowtown; and James
Carrick Moore of Corsewall, eldest brother of the late Sir John
Moore, and author of his life. Of these, Mr Ker is the only one
who resides permanently in the parish.
	Eminent Men.--The name of Alexander Montgomery is so
closely connected with this parish, by the passages of the "Cher-
ry and the Slae," which describe its scenery, that, although he never
lived within its bounds, it cannot be out of place to mention him.
His residence, now a ruin, was in a neighbouring parish, at Cumpston
Castle, close by the junction of the Tarff and the Dee. Part of
the ruin is still standing, surrounded with fine old trees. A sweeter
abode for a man of letters could not be desired; but much of its
original beauty has disappeared amidst recent pleasure grounds,
and the residence of the bard is rendered a secondary object in the
landscape, by a large mansion-house which was erected some years
ago between it and the river by the late Mr Maitland of Dun-
drennan.* How Montgomery happened to come thither is un-
certain. Different stories are told, but none of them are
sufficiently authenticated to justify belief. One is, that he
obtained the castle and the property connected with it by mar-
riage, and that his poem is meant to allegorize that portion of
his personal history which relates to what seemed at first to be a
desperate, but ultimately turned out a successful and even easy
courtship. He was a native of Ayrshire, and related to the fa-
mily of Eglinton. The date of his birth is not known; but it
mas probably a little before the middle of the sixteenth century.

<FOOTNOTE>The present owner of "this lovely spot of earth" is Thomas Maitland, Esq. Her
Majesty's Solicitor-General for Scotland under the administrations Lord Mel-
bourne, a gentleman who, as is well-known, combines fine forensic talents with the
love and cultivation of literary pursuits.


