
			ARBUTHNOTT.                        159

David Sibbald, having been preceptor to the Duke of Gloucester,
son of Charles I., was imprisoned in London for his attachment
to the royal cause, and bad his estate forfeited. He lived, how-
ever, to see the restoration, and died in his own house of Kair in
1661.
	James Sibbald, D. D. Minister of Aberdeen, appears to have
been the son of this Dr David Sibbald, and the only daughter of
John Arbuthnott of Mondynes. On the death of Charles I. he
laid down his charge, and fled to Dublin, where, being elected pas-
tor of a congregation, be ended his days in the office of the minis-
try. His brother, John Sibbald, minister of Arbutbnott, (and pre-
decessor of Alexander Arbuthnott.) was noted "for his pious and
religious life, his great painfulness in his calling, his learning and
charitable work; for he was instrumental, and contributed liberal-
ly for building an edifice for training of youth, and mortified con-
siderable sums of money for maintenance of a schoolmaster and
the poor of the parish; and also bequeathed his books to the Aisle
of Arbuthnott, worth more than a thousand merks, for the use of
his successors, incumbents in that place." Of these books not a
fragment now remains. They appear to have been all carried off
upwards of fifty years ago.
	Land-owners.--The land-ownersare, Viscount Arbuthnott; Vis-
countess Keith; Robert Barclay Allardyce, Esq. of Ury and Al-
lardyce; John Gordon, Esq. W. S. Edinburgh; and George Far-
quhar Kinloch, Esq. of Kair.
	Parochial Registers.--The oldest date of these is 1630; from
which period they are complete.
	Antiquities--The most ancient buildings in the parish are, the
House of Allardyce, which was for a long period the residence
of the ancient family of Allardyce, now represented by Robert
Barclay Allardyce, Esq. of Ury, but it is now a ruin: the parish
church; and an aisle attached to, it on the south-east, in which
is the burying-ground of the Arbuthnott family.
	This aisle was rebuilt by Sir Robert Arbutbuott of that Ilk, in
1505, of finely hewn ashlar. The entrance is on the west side
by an arched door. On the south side are four buttresses of
carved stone work; but the ravages of the weather have greatly.
injured the beauty of the workmanship, particularly on the south-
west part of the building. The lower part, which is arched, was
originally dedicated as a chapel to the Virgin Mary: and the up-
per, which is accessible by a narrow winding stair in a round tower


