
			BORTHWICK.				153

waters are swollen, the appearance of the valley and of its bor-
dering laughs, is often very striking. I have repeatedly seen the
whole valley in a state of inundation on such occasion-and men
with long poles breaking the ice, and endeavouring to clear the
course of the stream, as if they had been natives of some of the far
northern or polar regions. On one occasion the valley was so com-
pletely covered, that nothing appeared above water but the castle
and the green knoll on which it stands-and persons were seen
making their way home, by first scrambling along the tops of stone
walls, and then plunging more than knee-deep into the turbid and
ice-covered waters that surrounded them on every side. There was
no danger, except from cold or moisture-but the scene at any rate
was unusual-and in some respects ludicrous.
  When the stream is in its usual state, flowing quietly down the
valley, most strangers are apt to remark, that it seems to them to be
flowing in a direction different from that which they had expected.
Its course through the valley is to the north-west. and the first im-
pression of strangers is that it ought to have flowed to the north-east,
or eastwards by Crichton Castle. The truth is that the stream flows
during the first portion of its course towards the north-east, but it
suddenly turns round the knoll on which the castle is situated, and
then its course is in the opposite direction towards the north-west
-but strangers not being aware of this turn of its course, naturally
express their surprise that it seems to them to be running the wrong
way. Almost every stranger falls into this mistake, and there is
scarcely one of them who does not express his surprise nearly
the same words.
  Many springs of pure and salubrious water issue from the lime-
stone rocks which form the chief material of the district-and often
in such abundance at their very first appearance on the surface, as
to be highly useful to the inhabitants, and at all times to afford a
pleasing subject of observation and study.
One of the most copious of these springs opens from a limestone
rock exactly below the arch of the bridge which crosses the road
close by the little inn at North Middleton. It passes immediately
into the mill-dam-and is the chief means of working a thrashing-
mill on the farm of Torcraik. The whole of the valley between that
bridge and the manse abounds in similar springs-and there are se-
veral on the glebe-one of which is worthy of notices for the excel-
lence of its water, and its traditional history. It goes by the name


