
4                             WIGTONSHIRE.

sentiments, and a violation of her conscience, she replied. " she
wished the salvation of all men, and, the damnation of none." One
of the spectators, deeply affected with the death of the one martyr,
and the approaching dissolution of the other said, " Dear Mar-
garet, say, God save the King,--say, God save the King." With
the greatest firmness and presence of mind, she, immediately re-
plied, " God save him if he will, for it is his salvation I desire."
These words were not regarded by Windram explicit enough; and
though the heroic Christian martyr was again tried to recant, she
mildly but firmly refused. " Upon which," says Wodrow, (ib.) " she
was thrust down again into the water, where she finished, her course
with joy."
	At what time the monument to the memory of these two "faith-
ful witnesses" was erected in the church-yard of Wigton cannot
be ascertained. But from the orthography and style; of the in-
scription, it must have been soon after the Revolution. The in-
scription is subjoined.
	" Here'lyse Margrat Wilson, Doughter to Gilbert Wilson in
Gleavervach, who was drouned Anno 1685, aged 18."*
        " Here lys Margrat M'Lauchlan, who was by injust law con-
demned to die by Lagg, Strachan, Winram and Grahame, ty'd to
a stake within the flood for her adherence to Scotland's reforma-
tion and national and solem league, age 63."
	There is another martyr's tomb in this churchyard. This tomb
is to the memory of three individuals belonging to the parish of
Penninghame,--William Johnston, gardener to the Laird of Fin-
tilloch, John Milroy, chapman, living at, Fintilloch, and George
Walker, servant in Kirkauly, who being brought to Wigton, and
not answering satisfactorily the question put to them by Windram,
particularly refusing to attend the ministry of the curate, were,
without an assize or trial, caused to be publicly executed next day.
The inscription on their-monument is subjoined. +

<FOOTNOTE>Let earth and stone still witness beare,
		This lys a Virgine martyre here,
		Murther'd for owning Christ Supreame
		Head of his Church, and no more crime,
		But not abjuring Presbytry,
		And her not owning Prelacy.
		Of Heaven nor Hell, they stood no awe;
		Within the (??), ty'd to a stake,
		She suffered for Christ Jesus' sake.
		The actors of this cruel crime
		Was Legg, Strachan, Winram and Ghrame;
		Neither young years, nor old age
		Could stop the fury of their rage.
 + Here lys  William Johnstone, John Milroy, and George Walker, who was, with-


