
     of Dundonald.

upon the eve of the Wednesday of Marymass fair in Irvine.
As most fair days in this country were formerly popish holy
days, and their eyes were usually spent in religious ceremo-
nies and in diversions; it has been supposed, that tawnles
were first lighted up by our catholic fathers, though some
derive their origin from the druidical times.
   The Troone, which might be made an excellent harbour,
is the west point of Dundonald parish.  In its natural condi-
tion, it affords safe anchoring ground from every quarter but
the north-west.  It is an arm of rock running near a mile in-
to the sea, and bending from south to north, broad and
covered with rich pasture towards the land, and narrowing
into a barren point, part of which is for a little distance con-
cealed even at low water.  Within the point at half a cables
length from the rock, the mariner may trust to have three
fathoms water at half-flood.  The merchants of Glasgow,
sensible of the advantages of this natural harbour, near a cen-
tury ago made offer to the proprietor of seuing the lands ad-
joining to it.  But their offer was rejected, for a reason, as
it is reported, which however ridiculous it may now appear,
would be accounted very cogent in those days; left a rise
should be occasioned in the price of butter and eggs.  The
place, where Port Glasgow now stands, was deemed by the
merchants the next station most eligible for their trade.  The
Lady-Isle, which lies in the mouth of Ayr Bay, is a pendi-
cle to this parish; and, as it affords security to vessels upon
this flat and dangerous coast, the Magistrates of Glasgow have
erected two pillars to direct them*.  Upon the Troone stands

<FOOTNOTE>

*The following is the best statistical account of the sea-coast
of this parish that can be given to the sailor.  'Lady Isle is
'about half a mile in length, of an oval figure, and lies in the
'Frith of Clyde, about 15 miles east south-east from Holy Isle
'in the mouth of Lamlash, 9 miles south from Saltcots, 5 miles


