
	1052			PERTSHIRE.

	complied with, and, consequently, with the other articles pillaged
	by Edward, it still remains in England. "This fatal stone,"
	says Sir Walter Scott, "was said to have been brought from Ire-
	land by Fergus, the son of Eric, who led the Dalriads to the
	shores of Argyleshire.  Its virtues are preserved in the celebrated
	leonine verse :

		       "Ni fallat fatum, Scoti quocunque locattum
			Invenient lapidem, regnare tenentur ibidem."

	   "There were Scots who hailed the accomplishment of the pro-
	phecy at the accession of James VI. to the crown of England,
	and exulted that, in removing their palladium, thd policy of Ed-
	ward resembled that which brought the Trojan horse in triumph
	within their walls, and which occasioned the destruction of their
	royal family.  The stone is still preserved, and forms the support
	of King Edward the Confessor's chair, which the sovereign occu-
	pies at his coronation ; and independent of the divination, so long
	in being accomplished, is in itself a very ancient remnant of ex-
	treme, antiquity."  In preparing this chair for the coronation of her
	present Majesty, some small fragments of this stone were broken off.
	I have been assured by a geological friend who contrived to obtain
	part of them, that stone, of exactly the same kind, is to be found
	in some of the quarries on the Scone property.  Edward seems to
	have carried away, besides the stone, the regalia of Scotland.
	John Batiol is said to have been stripped of the regal ornaments
	when be surrendered his kingdom after the battle of Dunbar.
	When, therefore, Robert Bruce was crowned and inaugurated at
	Scone, 27th March A. D. 1306, neither the ancient crown nor the
	stone could bave been used.  A circlet or ring of gold, was hast-
	ily prepared for the occasion, and the Bishop of Glasgow furnished
	robes and a banner.  The ceremony was performed on the 27th
	by the Bishop of St Andrews; and on the 29th, Isabella, sister
	of Duncan Earl of Fife (whose family had the privilege of crown-
	ing the Kings of Scotland,) and wife of the Earl of Buchan, hav-
	ing secretly repaired to Scone, placed the crown on the King's
	head, in assertion of the pretensions of her family.  At this coro-
	nation there were present William of Lambyrton, Bishop of St
	Andrews; Robert Wisheart, Bishop of Glasgow; the four bro-
	thers of Bruce, Edward, Nigil, Thomas, and Alexander; his ne-
	phew, Thomas Randolph of Strathdon; his brother-in-law, Chris-
	topher Seaton of Seaton  Malcolm, fifth Earl of Lennox; John
	of Strathbogie, tenth Earl of Athole; Sir James Douglas ; Gil-




