
                        KILBRIDE.                               31

ous farms, better adapted for grazing than cropping, were convert-
ed into sheep-walks and let to men of capital skilled in the ma-
nagement of store farms. Other stimulants to improvement have
been more recently applied, by liberal allowances for the opening
of drains; and the subdividing of lots with fences; the esta-
blishment of a farmer's club which gives premiums for ploughing,
sheep, black-cattle, and general rural management.
   	Improvements are accordingly going on now with spirit. The
better class of farmers have introduced all the improved modes of
husbandry which prevail in the more advanced agricultural, districts,
with horses, ploughs, thrashing-mills, &c. to correspond. And
hence their returns in produce are as good as the quality of the
soil and nature of the climate will admit of. By the liberal use of
bone manuture, they are able to lay down their lands in good con-
dition for summer pasture, and to feed cattle in winter with turnips
and hay for the butcher. With the addition of furrow draining,
which has been recently adopted by a few  of the tenants,
and the introduction of the subsoil plough, their system of rural
management would be complete. The smaller tenants have yet
much to learn. They put little lime on their lands; neglect the
cleaning and Protecting of their thorn fences; evade the rotation
of crops laid down for them when they can, `nd are not sufficiently
alive to the advantages of green crops and sown grasses. Hence
their fodder is sorce in winters and their pasture detective in sum-
mer; and their cattle a stinted-breed, unproductive either for the
dairy or the butcher. Even in this class, however, there are se
veral very exellent farmers, who for horses and cows, farming im-
plements, and produce of all kinds, will not suffer by being com-
pared to those who farm on a larger seale. Nothing is wanted to
place the agriculture of Arran on the most thriving footing, but
to give encouragement to such meritorious farmer, by extending
the duratin of their leases from the present short term of seven
to nineteen years, and enlarging their lots, as the lands around
them fall out of lease.
	Produce.--Of the gross annual produce of the parish, it is diff-
cult to form a very accurate estimate. The following approxima-
tion to it has been suplied by a gentleman intimately acquainted
with the agricutural state of the parish:
            Wheat. 30 quarters.
            Barley and big, 947 do.
            Oats, 2727 do.
            Beans and pease, 495 do.
            Potatoes, 4176 bolls of 12 imperial bushels each.


