
144                  HADDINGTONSHIRE.

years as may suit the proprietor. In general, the farms are well
cultivated, and improvements carried on with spirit by the tenants.
In some farms, draining has been practiced to a considerable extent,
and the operations are still going on.
   When the improvements were in their infancy, rape was grown
in the parish, but it has long been discontinued. Of late, however,
rape-cake or rape dust has come to be pretty much used as a ma-
nure, particularly in the upper parts of the parish, and after seve-
ral years trial, has been found to succeed. And it would appear
from the increasing demand for it, that it is coming more and more
into use. Lime has been much used for a great number of years.
There is one kiln in the parish and several in the vicinity. Byre
and stable dung is the only other manure employed.
   The number of imperial acres in the parish is 3245. Of these
2938 are in cultivation, 132 in meadow and constant pasture, 5
waste, and 170 under wood, of which 132 are in the barony of Or-
miston, and 37 in the barony of Paiston. The trees are of various
kinds, but a great proportion of them are oak. Of the land in cul-
tivation the average number of acres in fallow is 320.
   Rent of Land.-The average rent of arable land is very low.
What is let on perpetual leases is about 6s. per acre. What has
been let lately on common leases averages about L. 2, 5s. per
acre. The average rate of grazing for the year is about L.4 per
ox or cow, and 18s. per ewe or full-grown sheep.
   Live-Stock.-There are few sheep reared in the parish. The far-
mers buy in, occasionally, what quantity they need of the Cheviot
breed crossed with the Leicester, and of the black-faced. Black-
cattle are not reared, except milch cows, which are chiefly of across-
ed breed of the Ayrshire and Angus. The Ayrshire are coming more
into use, from their being of a small size, and giving a proportion-
ally large quantity of milk and butter. But no attention is paid
to the keeping up of any particular breed. When milch cows are
wanted, they are selected wherever they can be found most suitable,
without regard to the breed.
   Husbandry.-Till lately, most of the farms in the parish were in
the possession of non-resident tenants, and there are still several of this
descriptions,- circumstance by no means favourable to the prospe-
rity and improvement of the parish. Some of the village lands
even are in this situation. Within these few years, several of the
farms of this description have been let to tenants who reside upon
their farms, and for whose accommodation very commodious and
                               3


