
                           RESCOBIE.                          601

with clay, sand, moss, and other extraneous substances; the lower
bed is of inferior quality, of a sandy colour, and has but few shells.
The marl in the loch was dragged till of late years, and used as a
manure, especially in compost. And the farmers of Drimmie and
Turin, that are liferenters, have still a right by their leases to
drag marl yearly for their respective farms; and they had for
many years a boat for the purpose. This privilege, however, for
some time past, has not been exercised.
	The soils in the parish are very various. Some fields are of a
thin moorish soil. Some are gravelly sharp land, and bear a
heavy boll. Some are clayey, and some loamy. There is not
unfrequently a considerable variety of soil, not only on the
same farm, but in the same field. On a goodpart of the estate
of Carse, and also of the estate of Pitscandly, the soil is for this
part of the country, particularly fertile.
        Zoology.-The writer knows of no very rare species of animals
in the parish. The roebuck, Cervus capreolus, is now and then
seen in tile woods of Burnside. Falco aeruqinosus, moor-buzzard,
was seen by Mr Don on the hills of Turin and Pitscandly. The
wild swan, Anas cygnus, has occasionally visited our lake, but very
seldom. Anas Strepera, the gadwall or grey duck, and A. penelope,
or wigeon, are visitors of it. Ardea stellaris, the bittern, a rare
bird, is sometimes to be seen in the lake of Rescobie. Tegrao te-
trix, the blackcock, (two of which Mr Don of Forfar mentions
were shot at Turin hill in the winter of 1794,) is now not uncom-
mon. It is seen occasionally in the eastern quarter of the parish.
Emberiza Schoeniclus, reed-bunting, is common near the lake. Mo-
tacilla salicaria, reed-sparrow, is seen among the reeds by the
side of the lake, but it is not very common.
	The loch of Rescobie would abound, were it not for the nume-
rous fishers from Forfar, in pike, and perch, and eel; but there is
no trout. Pike has occasionally been taken out of the lake, of a
large size. The largest that the writer has himself seen, was about
17 or 18 pound weight, and about a 3 feet long; but considerably
larger are said to have been caught. Of worms, of the order In
testina, the following, Planaria fusca and lactea, are found in the,
lake of Rescobie.
        Botany.-Mr Don, in his "Account of the native plants in the
county of Forfar," says,  Helvella spathulata, and Clavaria mili-
taris, are to be found in General Hunter's woods at Burnside, be-
sides a great many others. I may also add the Boletus perennit,


