
     of Kilbarchan.

North-west, and the Bar Brae to the East, all most beautiful-
ly adorned with thriving plantations of trees.

   Extent, Boundaries, Rivers.-The parish of Kilbarchan is
betwixt 8 and 9 miles in length, from West to East.  Its
greatest breadth is 5 miles, two where narrowest; and its
average breadth about 3 miles.  Its whole surface may a-
mount to about 24 square miles.  It is bounded on the South
and East by the water of Black Cart, which runs from the
lakes of Kilburnie and Lochwinnock, on the West; on the
North by Cryfe water, which takes its rise in Duchal muir,
in the adjoining parish of Kilmacolm; these two streams
form a junction at the North-east corner of the parish+.

     3 Q 2

<FOOTNOTE>

+There is also a considerable rivulet, named Locher, which has its source
in Lochwinnock muir, and divides the parishes of Lockwinnock and Kilma-
colm, before it enters this parish.  It then runs nearly the whole length of
the parish, parallel to the two streams above mentioned; forming, in its pro-
gress, several beautiful cascades, of which to convey a proper idea, would
require the pencil.
   The whole fall of the Black Cart is occupied with cotton mills, four of
which are situated in the Abbey parish of Paisley, on the southern bank of
the river, and one on the Northern bank, to be afterwards described.
   From the Gryfe on the North, this county derived its most ancient name
of Strathgryfe.  The tide makes about a mile up both Gryfe and Cart, and they
are navigable to that extent from their point of junction.  But from the cot-
ton mills erected on Cart, it is ascertained that the elevation of Kilburnie
loch, above the level of the sea, does not exceed 84 feet.  This loch runs in-
differently, either Eastward or Westward, and might easily be conveyed East-
ward by a canal to Paisly and Glasgow, or Westward to the ocean.
   Gryfe, Cart, and Locher abound with salmon, pyke, trout, parr.  The
salmon are caught in June and July, weigh from 3 to 8 lb., and bring about
3 d. per lb.  The other fish are seldom sold.
   The whole parish is abundantly supplied with springs and rivulets of very
pure water, which is of great advantage to the bleachers settled here, in
whitening their cloth.  In the low part of the parish, where the soil is deep


