
550                       FORFARSHIRE.

smuggling of foreign liquors, tobacco, &c. along the coast was un-
fortunately too common within these thirty years past, but is now
wholly unknown. Surer and honester methods of acquiring a live-
lihood are now adopted, as much from choice as from necessity;
so that a competency is enjoyed by most, and even riches, ac-
cording to thier station, have been amassed by many of the in-
habitants.
	Three lunatics are kept in the Dondee asylum.  Three others are
fatuos, and five are deaf and dumb.

                     IV.-INDUSTRY.
  Agriculture.-The number of imperial acres in the parish is
6054. Of these are,

<TABLE>

    Under cultivation,        4574 acres
		Pasture (chiefly links),	 926
    Wood (planted),            554

	The rent of the best land may be stated at L.3, 10s. per acre,
(though some is let at above L.4); that of the worst at L.1 per
acre. The valued rent, extracted from the valuation roll of the
county, published in 1823, is L.5941, 13s, 4d.; but the actual
rent may be about L.9500. The sessional record mentions, that,
in 1633, an assessment being made for the reparation of the kirk,
the number of ploughs in the parish was 48. Every thing consi-
dered, this shows that not much more than one-third of the land
now ctltivated was at that time under the plough.
	The whole of the reclaimable land in the parish is now under
tillage, all the rest being either planted, or sandy links, which can
hardly be inproved. The large farm on nineteen years leases
vary from 100 to 300 acres. There are, besides two or three
smaller farms, numerous pendicles of from five to fifteen acres.
The possessors of these in some instances pursue other trades, or
employ the spare power of thier horses in cartage, &c. for hire.
They generally keep a number of cows out of proportion to their
lands, by buying in grass, turnips, and fodder; and they find con-
siderable profit from the sale of milk, butter, and cheese in Dun-
dee, or among their manufacturing neighbors who can keep no
dairy. Several of the large farmers also find it advatageous to
keep extensive dairies for the supply of the Dondee market, send-
ing the milk, either sweet or skimmed, into town once a day in
summer, and twice a week in winter. Less stock is thus reared
in the parish than might be expected, and sheep huskandry is al-
most unknown. Monifieth has long been famous for its potatoes;
and there is a considerable trade in planting them early for the


