
                  	TORBOLTON.                      751

	In 1619, Walter Whytefurd was minister of Failford.
	The rental of the ministry of Failford, as given up by Robert
Cuningham, the minister, in 1562, amounted to L. 174, 6s. 8d.
in money; 3 chalders of bear; 15 chalders, 4 bolls of meal; 30
stones of cheese; 10 hogs (young sheep); 3 stirks (young cows);
2 dozen grilses or salmon.
	There belonged to this convent five p`rish churches, viz. the
churches of Barnwell, Symington, and Galston in Kyle, of Tor-
thorwald in Dumfries-shire, and the church of Inverchoalan in
Argyleshire.
	The estate of Fail is the property of Colonel Thomas Hunter
Blair, of Brownhill and Dunskey. The estate and the monastery
are in retours sometimes called Fail, but more frequently Failford.
The latter name is the designation given in the county valuation
book to the lands on which the ruin is situate. Nothing of the
monastery now remains, saying one gable and part of a side-wall
of the manor-house of the chief or minister.
	King Coil's Tomb.--To the south of Coilsfield House, and in-
mediately west of the farm-offices, is a circular mound, enclosed
by a hedge, and planted with oak and other trees. On the centre
and highest part of this mound, are two large stones, masses of ba-
salt--which, according to tradition, mark the spot where the mor-
tal remains of Old King Coil were deposited. The names borne
by places in the vicinity are in keeping with this tradition. The
beautiful mansion adjoining, one of the seats of the Earl of Eglin-
ton, is named Coilsfield, i. e. the field of Coil. Kyle, the name
of the central district of Ayrshire, is supposed to be the same word
Coil, A little brook that empties itself into the Fail is called
	"The Bloody Burn," and so testifies by its names of the blood by
which its waters had, on some memorable occasion, been polluted;
and a flat alluvial piece of ground along the Fail, opposite the
mouth of the bloody burn, is still called "The Dead-men's-holm,"
probably from its having been the burial-place of the soldiers.
High authority.--Chalmers, author of the Caledonia, denies that
there ever was such a person as King Coil. Although it is well
known that that author at times allows himself to be carried away
by an undue love of theory, still his scepticism has had the effect
of degrading into mere fable, in the estimation of many, tradition-
ary history, in regard to the west of Scotland. Regard, therefore,
for traditionary evidence, respect for the memory of the mighty


