
              		 PAISLEY.                         153

   The thickness of the Nitshill rock, measured downwards from
the surface, is as follows:

<TABLE>
                                     Ft.  In.                                            Ft.  in.

1. Coarse sandstone,                 26    0	7. Lower seam of rock (bestkind)          17   0
2. Upper stratum of coal,             1    0	8. Schistus or blaize, like that of
3. Rock of thin layers with black                  No. 3,                                  1   0
     blaize mixed,                    7    6    9. Coal, with thin irregular strata
4. Second stratum of coal,            0    6	   of blaize                               2   6
5. Fire clay containing iron balls,   3    0                                              ------
6. Third stratum of coal,             1    8                                              60   2

   The lower stratum of coal only can be wrought by mining.  The
other seams, Nos. 2, 4, and 6, are taken in the course of working
the rock, for which there is a brisk demand.
In addition to the above, there are fields of coal on the south
side of the turnpike road leading from Paisley to Beith, on the
grounds of High Auchenlodmont, Elderslie, and Craigenfeoch.  In
this last field, 4 under seams of coal have lately been discovered;
the seam above these having been wrought above thirty years ago.
In all, there are five distinct strata of coal, varying from 3 1/2 to 5
feet in thickness; one of them having a straturn of gas coal of,9
inches in thickness.  These five seams of coal are at present wrought
in separate lofts or storeys.  The three under strata have, how-
ever, been frequently joined in one mass, forming a bed of coal
upwards of 12 feet in thickness.  In working, a considerable num-
ber of men are constantly employed.  The superincumbent mi-
nerals at this place are whinstone, sandstone and blaize, or till.
   Ironstone has been extensively found in different parts of the
Lower division of the parish.  It occurs in greatest abundance in
the form of clay-ironstone, lenticular iron ore, and proto and.  per-
sulphuret.  The first two of these ores occur, for the most part, in
beds of various thickness, alternating with limestone, fire-clay, alu-
minous sechistus, &c. and are often very rich in metal.  About thirty
years ago, many hundred tons were annually sent from the parish
to the smelting furnaces of Clyde iron-works.  Ores of iron are
still found in considerable quantities at Hawkhead, Hurlet, Black-
hall, Sacel, &c. and at most localities where there are heads of coal
or lime.  It occurs most frequently in the form of rounded masses
of a moderate degree of magnitude, and very frequently of a le-
ticular form.  These contain often beautiful specimens of Cornu
ammonis, Anomias, Prpducts, &,c, in a state of very perfect preserva-
tion. In other instances, the specimens are divided by septa of
calcareous matter, or are filled with beautiful crystallized per-
sulphurets of iron.  At Hurlet, betwixt the aluminous schistus and
main seam of coal a thin irregular layer of pyrites is sometimes


