
          120                   INVERNESS-SHIRE.

          afterwards, an eloquent writer, the present Dr Macknight of Edin-
          burgh, wrote a description of its scenery and geology, which was
          published in the Memoirs of the Wernerian Natural History So-
          ciety.  Some years afterwards, Dr Macculloch, who set at nought
          every thing done by his predecessors, attempted, but unsuccess-
          fully, to make geologists believe that the mountain was unknown
          geolically till he set foot on it.  Several foreign geologists also
          have published remarks on this, the highest mountain in Great
          Britain.
             Zoology.-Much attention is paid to the management of sheep
          farms in this parish, as well as in the neighbouring Highland pa-
          rishes.  Wedders from extensive farms here, are considered in the
          south country markets, second only to wedders reared on the farm
          of Auch in Glenorchy, on the Marquis of Breadalbane's property.
          Goats are scarcely known now in this parish.  They are very de-
          structive to oak wood.
            Salmon, herrings, red-cod, lythe, skate, flounders, whitings are
          found in the salt water lakes.  Formerly, salmon were found in
          Locharkaig; but a cascade at Mucomre Bridge has cut up the com-
          munication between the sea and Locharkaig, so that no salmon is
          now to be found where they abounded of old.  This is one disad-
          vantage which has followed the making of the Caledonian Canal.
            Woods and Plantations.-There was a very extensive and ex-
          cellent wood on Mr Cameron of Lochiel's property; but much of
          it was cut down about twenty years ago.  There is still remaining,
          on the south side of Locharkaig, a cosiderable quantity of excel-
          lent fir, and of great size.  On Lochiel and Ardgour's properties
          there is a good deal of oak wood, and kept in the best order, par-
          ticularly by Colonel M'Lean of Ardgour, who is enthusiastically
          fond of wood.  He has several spots planted with fir, well enclos-
          ed, which no doubt will be profitable hereafter.  In the meantime,
          it is a great ornament to the country.

                                     II.-CIVIL HISTORY.

            This parish was a nursery for the army, particularly in the late
          war. *   There is a good deal of tradition relative to events which

          <FOOTNOTE>There is an obelisk erected in this parish.  It has the following inscription,
          which is givenat length, as it indicates the character and achievements of an eminent
          individual connected with this parish:--"Sacred to the memory of Colonel John
          Cameron, eldest son of Sir Ewen Cameron of Fassfern, Baronet, whose mortal remains
          transported from the field of glory, where he died, rest here with those of his fore-
          fathers.  During twenty years of active military service, with a spirit which knew no
          fear, and shunned no danger, he accompanied or led, in marches, sieges, and battles, tile
          gallant 92d Regiment of Scottish Highlanders, always to honour, almost always to vic-

                                                   4


