
                             PERTH.                                133

      free proceeds accruing to the poor from the hospital of King James
      VI. is on an average L.435, 5s. 1d. and those accruing to them
      from the mortifications of Butter and Jackson are L. 312, 10s.
         I have not access to know to what extent the Seceders and Dis
      senters contribute to the support of their poor.
         It may not be out of place here to state, that there is a charity
      school for young females, supported by a subscription; the sum
      subscribed is about L.46,--two for infants, supported by a sub-
      scription also; the sum subscribed is L. 50,--one for the poor
      generally, supported by the magistrates and council-the accommo-
      dation furnished by the hospital; the sum given is L.50, there is
      also a dispensary for the poor; the sum subscribed is about L.50.
      Thd sum total, arising from these sources, may thus be about L.196.
         There is no indisposition in the great body of the poor to ap-
      ply for parochial relief.  The high-toned feeling of independence,
      which at one time characterized the lower orders of society in Scot-
      land, is now seldnm to be met with in town and country parishes, that
      are densely peopled; and by few comparatively is mendicity account-
      ed degrading.  The causes of the poverty, which exists in Perth,
      are various.  Among women, they are chiefly the want of suitable
      employment, such as spinning, knitting, &c. by which many of
      them were wont to earn a comfortable subsistence; and, in not a few
      cases, to improvident marriages, and an extravagance in dress, and
      living, which they have unfortunately acquired when in the service
      of the more opulent.  Among men, they are chiefly the frailties
      of age, or weakness occasioned by diseases, which incapacitate
      them from engaging in laborious work.  I lament that I am ne-
      cessitated to confess, that no small number of poverty cases in
      Perth must be ascribed to habits of intemperance, in both men and
      women,--an evil which the increased number of dram-drinking-shops
      has greatly promoted.
         The great proportion of thosd who are on the Perth pauper list
      are foreigners.  They have come down from the Highlands of the
      county, driven from their cottages, and pendicles, and little farms,
      by the unpatriotic and illiberal system, prosecuted by some proprie-
      tors, of letting out their estates to a few indivhduals.  They come
      with the miserable capital of a few pounds, scraped together with
      much toil and industry, into the town, and generally at an advan-
      ced stage of life.  There it is soon spent, and they sink into pau-
      perism.
         Police.-The police is administered under two statutes,  obtain.


