
     Statistical Account

tion.  It is further confirmed by a stanza, which is still re-
cited by the old people of the country.

     Chaidh mo bheans bhatha',
     Ain uisg ath-fhin, nan clachan sleamhuin;
     'S bho chaidh mo bheans' bhatha',
     Bheirmeid ath-fhin, ainm an amhuin.

   "On the limpid water of the slippery stones, has my wife
been drowned, and since my wife has there been drowned,
henceforth its name shall be the water of Fingal."  It is the
tradition of the country, that in one of Fingal's excursions,
in pursuit of the deer of the mountains, after having crossed
the river, he was followed by his wife, who being carried
down by the violence of the stream, sunk, and was drowned.
To commemorate this melancholy event, in which the hero
was tenderly interested, he uttered the above stanza.  Since
that period, the water, which was formerly called An-uisge-
geal, or the White Water, in allusion to its transparency, as-
sumed by an easy transition, the name of the ford or river of
Fingal.
   The parish of Kirkmichael* is divided into 10 little dis-

<FOOTNOTE>

*It is presumable, from its desolated situation, the natural barriers by which
it is separated from the circumjacent countries, the detached hills, and numer-
ous streams, by which it is intersected, that the parish of Kirkmichael has not
been inhabited till of a late period.  Several old people, now alive, remember
the first culture of a space of ground within its precincts, that may contain, at
present, a tenth part of the whole population.  To this circumstance, and the
coldness of the climate, it has been owing, that the possession of the property
has undergone so few changes.  The first proprietor, as far as can be traced
back by the light of authentic records, seems to have been Macduff, Thane of
Fife.  In a charter, where he makes a gift of the contiguous parish of Inver-
aven, it is said, "Malcolmus de Fife, falutem.  Sciant praesentes, me dedisse,
et hac carta confirmasse, Deo et Efiscopo Moraviensi, ecclesiam beati Peteri de


