
6                      EDINBURGHSHIRE.

virtue was supposed to reside in this well, and it was much frequent-
ed by persona afflicted with cutaneous complaints. The nuns of the
Sheens made an annual procession to it in honour of St Catherine.
King James VI. visited it in 1617, and ordered it to be properly en-
V closed and provided with a door and staircase, but it was destroy-
ed and filled up by the soldiers of Cromwell in 1650. It has again
been opened and repaired, and is now in a good state of preserva-
tion.
   The whole of the lands of Mortonhall and St Catherine's in an-
cient times formed part of the princely estate of the Sinclairs of
Roslin,-the Trotters being originally from Catchelraw, in Ber-
wickshire, and a very old family there.
   Burdiehouse is supposed to be a corruption of Bourdeaux-
house, and to have been so called by some of Queen Mary's French
attendants in 1561.
   There is at Gilmerton a singular cave, dug out of the solid rock.
It contains several apartments, and was finished in 1724 by an ec-
centric inhabitant of that place, after five years hard labour. The
person by whom it was made lived with his family, and carried on
his occupation as a smith, in this place till 1735. It is still visited
by the curious.
   In the lawn of Drum, the ancient residence of the Somerville
family, right opposite the front of the house, stands the old mar-
ket-cross of the city of Edinburgh. It was brought here in 1756.
It is composed of several stones, 20 feet high, and 18 inches in
diameter, and ornamented with thistles, the ancient badge of Scot-
land.
   The Castle of Craigmillar is one of the most striking historical
objects in this parish. The name is Gaelic, Craig-moil-ard, and
signifies a rock, bare and high, running out into a plain. It is im-
possible to say how old this Castle is. The wall around it was
built in 1427, as appears from the inscription on the gate, and the
modern portion to the west was built in 1661 by Sir John Gil-
mour, then Lord President of the Court of Session, and was, for
some time, the mansion-house of the family. The Castle belong-
ed for 300 years to the Prestons of Gowton or that ilk, and be-
came the property of the Gilmours about 1661. John Earl of Marr,
a younger brother of James Ill., was confined here in 1477. It
was for some time the residence of James V. during his minority,
when he left Edinburgh, because of the plague, (Leslie's History,
p.368.)  It was taken, and partly burnt and demolished, accord-


