                           GREENOCK.                        431

tioui and imposing machinery, substituting, as it does responsibi-
lity to man for responsibility to God, wilt nevor-prevail against
that hideous vice, or remove this pestilential scourge of Scottish
society.  The blessing of God resting on the diffusion of pure re-
ligious knowledge, and the persevering efforts of masters, heads
of families, and others, to abolish what have been called the " drink-
ing usages, can alone avail to the restraining of the vice of in
temperance, and realize the wish of every Christian philanthropist
for the revival of the sober industrious habits of Scottish artisans.
                                   IV.-INDUSTRY.
  Agriculture.-Robertson, in his Continuation of Crawfurd's His-
tory of Renfrewshire, states the total number of acres (Scotch) in
this parish to be 6365; of which 2315 were, arable; 980 in sounds
pasture; 2780 moor land; 300 were taken up for sites of houses,
roads, &c.; and 40 were covered with wood, natural or planted.
Robertson publirhed his Continuation in 1818.  Since that time,
with the exception of a few acres of thin soil, which have been
planted, and perhaps an equal number recently taken up as the
sites of villas in the neighbourhood of the town, scarcely any change
has taken place in the distribution of the ground of which the pa-
rish is composed.  It is evident, from what has been already said
of its general aspects that little or no addition can be made to the
land now under cultivation, with wny prospect of an adequate re-
turn.  It may, indeed, be questioned whether it might not be pro-
fitable to drain a part at least, of the meadow-lands now devoted
to the raising of winter fodder.  With that exception, and per-
haps it ought not to be made, its is obviously the wisest course to
permit the uncultivated ground to remain in its present state, at
least, to abstain from bringing it under tillage, applying to it only
thet valuable improvement of modern times, surface-draining, and
such other means of cultivation as may be suited to thd nature of
the soil, and, afford the reasonable expectation of an early and suf
ficient return.
   Rent of Land.-The compiler has not been able to ascertain
with any degree of accuracy the average rent of arable land within
the parish. The greater number of the farms having a proportion
of pasture and meadow land joined with arable, it is impossible for
the landlord to make even an approximation to the truth on this
subject, Mr Wilson states the average rental in the whole country
in 1795, to have been 10s. 2d. per Scotch acre, and supposes 18s.
3d. to be very near thr average in 1812.  The rent of land has
  RENFREW.                               F f


