
                        KETTLE.                        103

Blackdikes, the ruin of a hut, which was reported to have been the
house of the King's herdsman. It is perfectly known, that a consi-
derable part of the lands of the parish was once the property of the
Crown, by the forfeiture of the Duke of Albany, whose palace was
at Falkland; and was afterwards feued out in runrig, in eight divi-
sions, at the rents then paid. These divisions are fully recogniz-
ed at this day, and the rents are still paid to the King under
the name of Crown rents. In 1695, the runrig division, with the
unanimous consent of the parties concerned, was put an end to,
and each proprietor's land was placed by itself.
   Boundaries--Extent.--Kettle hs bounded by Falkland on the
west; by Markinch, Kennoway, and Scoonie or Leven, on the
south; by Ceres and Cults on the east; and by Collessie and Auch-
termuchty on the north. The parish is of an irregular oblong fi-
gure, about 3 miles broad where broadest, but sharpening very much
to the east and west ends, and about 8 miles in length. It may con-
tain something more than 9 square miles, or 5100 Scots, or 6375
imperial acres. The great thoroughfare road between the Friths
of Tay and Forth, by Cupar, runs four miles through the parish.
The road from New Inn by Melville gate and Letham to Dundee,
runs about one mile through the parish.
   Soil, &c.--The most productive parts of the parish are those in
the course of that strath, which extends from near Kinross to the
Guard Bridge, near St Andrews,--in which the surface is generally
level and water-fed. Yet even here the soil is extremely variable-
sometimes there are excellent carse lands,--but at a small distance
from these are extensive beds of sand, with a mossy surface, on a
strong stiff clay,--or again a light and friable mould. On the rising
grounds which lie in the direction of the parish, from the Lomond
hills, eastward and backward toward the south, there are excellent
soils, sometimes strong and clayey, sometimes light and friable.  But
the climate, as the ground rises, is less genial. This is manifested
by the crops being slower in growth, and coming later to maturity.
Even the highest parts of the parish are covered with verdure, and
afford, in summer, excellent pasture for all sorts of cattle. It may
be remarked, that for upwards of fifty years (excepting 1826) the
third or fourth day of May has never failed to give us rain more or
less; and the crops and grass, especially on light and sandy soils,
feel sadly the effects, if it be not then abundant.
   The climate, for the most part, is dry and healthy, and not sub-
ject to any local diseases. The ague is reported to have prevailed


