	                  STRAITON.                345

little more in addition per quarter. There are few children above
ten years of age unable to read. Four families have teachers in
their houses. Last month the number attending Straiton school
was 86, and Patna 60, and all the schools, public and private, 170,
or about one-eighth of the whole population. The total number
attending in the course of a year for longer or shorter periods,--
a test which we believe is often used, may be 240, or one-sixth of
the whole population. The number of Latin scholars has been gra-
dually diminishing, and for some years has been only one. Geo-
graphy is by degrees studied more and more.
	There is a parish library at Straiton, possessing between 400
and 500 volumes. There are two Sabbath schools, one at Strai-
ton, taught by myself, and attended by 45 children and young
people, and one at Patna, attended by 35, which is taught by
the schoolmaster and elder of the district.
	Friendly Societies, &c.--The parish has two societies of this
kind, one formed in 1812, and the other in 1818. The one has
L.50 of funds, and the other about L.80. The members in both
amount to 130. The aliment allowed is 6s. weekly to bed-rid
members, and 3s. to the sick that can walk about; and for fune-
rals an allowance of L.2, 10s. is given. They are highly useful,
though they would be still more beneficial were they deemed only
to savings banks. In 1829, a bank of this kind was
established at Maybole, with a branch at Straiton. Though it
was warmly recommended both privately and from the pulpit, it
has not been by any means successful. The farm-servants are
paid half-yearly, and when they wish to be provident, open an ac-
count for themselves in a bank in Ayr. The villagers, who might
economize, are unwilling to let their circumstances be known.
Notwithstanding the apparent failure of the bank in this parish, I
have no doubt that the aggregate of the sums, which servants, la-
bourers, and mechanics, have saved and deposited in banks, amounts
to L.1000 or L.2000. And since the feeling which prompts to
secret saving is characteristic of Scotsmen, it has occurred to the
writer of this account, that it would be for the good of the work-
ing classes  were the ordinary banks in provincial towns to receive
smaller sums in deposit than they do at present.
	Poor.--The `verage number of regular paupers for the last
five years has been 26, about the same number as were twenty
years ago. The average monthly allowance may be 5s. con-
siderably more than was given, twenty years ago. The an-


