
                                   KENMORE.                        475

    find their way among us, I doubt not but we shall also be gradual-
    ly stimulated to further exertion, by learning the facilities present-
    ed on both sides of the island, from the Tay on the east and the
    Clyde on the west, for transporting with unerring speed our sur-
    plus produce to the great marts of London and Liverpool.
       Leases.- Leases have as yet been but rarely granted,-the prac-
    tice in Breadalbane having been for the tenant to hold from year
    to year. Such, however, is and has been the working of this sys-
    tem, that, precarious and discouraging as it may appear, there
    have been as few removals, on an average of years among our pea-
    santry, as are found to happen where the system of letting on lease is
    in full practice.  At the same time, leases are occasionally given,
    and are for periods varying from seven to fifteen years.  The farm
    buildings, in general, are in an indifferent state; nor, so lnng as
    the land continues so much subdivided as it has heretofore been,
    can they well be otherwise.  As lots and croft, however, begin
    to be thrown together, so as to make something like farms, an im-
    provement now in progress, neater, more substantial, and more
    commodious farm-steadings as well as dwellings arise, and, as a
    matter of course, will more and more arise.  The iron plough is
    becoming not uncommon; and on a farm here and there you will
    see the drill-harrow, as you will Also see larger and stouter-built
    carts than were formerly used. Exclusive of roads, to be after-
    wards mentioned, one of the most obvious improvements recently
    carried on has been the clearing of land from large stones and
    rocks by blasting.  Another is that of draining such parts of the
    hill pasture as are too retentive of moisture, an operation which
    seems to promise results highly beneficial.  In these works it is
    needless to say, that the tenants are liberally assisted by the
    Noble proprietor.
      Quarries.-There are quarries both of limestone and of stone
    for building of different kinds, as is manifest from the mineralogi-
    cal part of our article.  That of which the Castle of Taymouth
    is built has already been mentioned.  It is stone which admits
    of being dressed tn a very fine surface, as may be seen from the
    castle and other buildings in the vicinity. The cross in particular,
    an elegant structure of a monumental character, midway between
    the castle and the lake, on the left bank of the river, maybe specified
    as an instance of the exquisite delicacy of workmanship of which
    the stone is susceptible. Here it is chiselled in every stage, from
    the large oblong block of perhaps twelve or fourteen feet, to the



