
                           ORWELL.                         65

the proceeds given to the poor. It contains about 90 sittings;
the front seats are let at 2s., the others at 6d. each. The poor
have seats in this loft gratis. The church is by far too small for
the congregation, and the demand for more accommodation is ra-
pidly encreasing: 150 additional sittings at least are required, and
nearly all of these for the working classes. The want of accom-
modation in the parish church deprives many of the parishioners
of the means of public worship, or compels them to attend Dis-
senting churches. The attendance at church is nearly the same
throughout the year; none of the parishioners belonging to the
Establishment attend worship out of the parish.
   The manse was built in 1788, and, though repaired in 1825, is
still very incommodious. The sum of L.200, judiciously laid out,
would render it very comfortable. The amount of stipend is L.68
7s. 10d. in money; 69 bolls, 2 firlots, 1 peck, 21 lippies meal;
46 bolls, 2 firlots, 3 pecks, and 2 lippes barley; and 7 bolls, 2
firlots oats. There is also a glebe worth about L.30 per annum.
   There are two Dissenting places of worship; the one belong-
ing to the Original Burgher Associate Synod: the other to the
United Associate Synod. Both these places of worship are in
the village of Milnathort; and the number of individuals attend-
ing them, as given up to the Church Commission in December
1837, was as follows, viz.-at the former, average attendance,
300; persons in the habit of attending, 450; communicants, little
more than 300; the average attendance at the United Secession
was about 400; those in the habit of attending, 580; communi-
cants, 485. The actual numbers belonging to these established.
ments are supposed to be, to the one, 472; to the other, 714;
but some of these may reside in other parishes.
   Education.-There are 6 schools in the parish, 1 parochial or
endowed school, and 5 not endowed. Of these two are female
schools: some of them are at the western extremity of the parish;
and, within a few yards of the eastern boundary, there is one si-
tuated in the parish of Strathmiglo, so that there are ample means
of education.
   The parochial school is in Milnathort, and the branches here

<FOOTNOTE>"The primary cause ofthere being Seceders in this parish, was a Mr Mair, a mi-
nister of the Establishment, who, changing his opinions, preached up the erroneous
doctrine of universal redemption, and was, in consequence of this, dismissed from his
charge; notwithstanding of this, he still continued in the village, preaching this doc-
trine till the day of his death, to his adherents, who were very numerous, and
built that large chapel presently occupied by the Burghers,"-Sir John Sinclair's
Statistical Account, Vol. xx. p. 184.
   KINROSS.                                          E


