
10                     ROSS AND CROMARTY.

yet strength enough left to follow the corpse of his companion to
the grave.  The sirname of the survivor was Fiddler,-a name
still common among the seafaring men of the town.  On the even-
ing of the interment, he felt oppressed and unhappy, -his imagi-
nation was haunted by a thousand feverish shapes of open graves,
with bones mouldering round their edges, and of coffins with the
lids displaced; and after he had fallen asleep, the images, which
were still the same, became more grisly and horrible.  Towards
morning, however, they had all vanished; and he dreamed that he
was walking alone by the sea shnre in a clear and beautiful day of
summer.  Suddenly, as he thought, some person stepped up be-
hind, and whispered into his ear, in the voice of his deceased com-
panion, "Go on, Willie, I shall meet you at Stormy." There is
a rock in the neighbourhood of Fiddler's well so called, from the
violence with which the sea beats against it when the wind blows
strongly from the east. On hearing the voice, he turned round,
and seeing no one, he went on, as he thought, to the place named,
in the hope of meeting with his friend, and sat down on a bank to
wait his coming; but he waited long, lonely and dejected; and
then remembering that he for whom he waited was dead, he burst
into tears.  At this moment a large field-bee came humming from
the west, and began to fly round his head. He raised his hand
to brush it away; it widened its circle, and then came humming
into his car as before.  He raised his hand a second time, but the
bee could not be scared off; it hummed ceaselessly round and
round him, until at length its murmurings seemed to be fashioned
into words, articulated in the voice of his deceased companion,
"Dig, Willie, and drink," it said, "Dig, Willie, and drink."
He accordingly set himself to dig, and no sooner had he torn a
sod out of the bank than a spring of clear water gushed from the
hollow; and the bee taking a wider circle, and humming in a voice
nf triumph that seemed to emulate the sound of a trumpet, flew
away. He looked after it, but as he looked, the images of his
dream began to mingle with those of the waking world;-the sce-
nery of the hill seemed obscured by a dark cloud, in the centre of
which there glimmered a faint light;-the rocks, the sea, the long
declivity faded into the cloud; and turning round, he saw only a dark
apartment, and the first beams of morning shining in at a window.
He rose, and after digging the well, drunk of the water and reco-
vered.  And its virtues are still celebrated; for though the water be
only simple water, it must be drunk in the morning, and as it gushes


