

	               KILRENNY.                               971

	plough, with the exception of about 10 or 12 acres of common,
	belonging to the towns of Kilrenny and Cellardyke, and lying in
	a state of nature, being partly covered with furze, and partly soured
	with water. There are also a few acres along the shore con-
	stantly kept in pasture, as they cannot be brought under the ope-
	ration of the plough. There are likewise some acres under plan-
	tation, but not to any great extent.
	   All along the coast the shore is covered with large masses of
	sandstone blocks. The stratum of sandstone projects over an-
	other of shale or indurated clay; so that by the action of the wa-
	ter upon the clay, it has been gradually removed, and these masses
	of the superincumbent rock have thus been broken down.
	   There are some remarkable caves or coves, as they are some-
	times called, situated in the eastern part of the parish and close
	by the shore. They are considerably above high water-mark, but
	the rocks, in their outward form, have every appearance of having
	been at one time tinder the action of water; while within the caves
	there are still further indications of such having been the case,
	by the rocks being drilled in many places by the Pholas. They
	stand at present several feet above high water-mark, and rise
	to the height of 30 or 40 feet. There are likewise to be seen
	in the interior of the caves, artificial cuttings and chiselled
	crosses, which indicate that at some period they have been used
	as the abode of men.
	   Some human bones were lately found, when removing a portion
	of earth from the interior of the caves; and a friend on hearing
	of this circumstance, has suggested the idea that they may have
	been the resort of the leper, or the hermit, or the, persecuted in
	evil times.
	   It is highly probable that they would be resorted to by smugglers,
	at the period when struggling was carried on to a very great ex-
	tent in the East Netik of Fife. They were at a later period used
	as the outhouses of a small farm; and they are still used as a place
	of shelter for cattle. There is no tradition regardinf them, ex-
	cept that there is a communication below ground between them
	and the house of Barnsmuir, situated nearly half a mile from the
	shore, where it is said that a piper was heard playing beneath the
	hearth stone of the kitchen; but these days of delusion have passed
	away.
	   The temperature of the atmosphere along the coast is rather
	mild than otherwise, so that the snow in winter seldom remains


