
     Statistical Account

miles broad, and of the coast of Fife, from Burntisland to 
the mouth of the Frith.  History assures us, that they had
a station here, and repeated discoveries* point out the spot 

<FOOTNOTE>

*At different times Roman coins, and once an altar, with this inscrip- 
tion, Apollini Granio, have been sound in levelling the adjacent grounds,
But if there had remained any doubt, concerning the situation of this Ro- 
man sort, it was fully cleared up a few years ago, when the proprietor of 
the villa had occasion to take two or three feet off the furface of his par-
terre, when there were discovered the floors and foundations of various 
buildings.  The owner being absent, attending his duty in Parliament,
the workmen were prevailed upon, by the author of this account, to clear 
the earth carefully away from one of them, and to leave the ruins standing 
for some time, for the inspection of the curious.  It was found to be a
Roman bath of two rooms.  The superstructure had been thrown down
and removed, but the floor remained entire, and about 6 inches high of 
the wall of the smallest room, which was 9 feet long, and 4 1/2 wide.  There
was a communication through the partition wall for water, by an earthen 
pipe.  The other room was 15 feet by 9.  The floors of these, and of the
other rooms, were covered with tarras uniformaly laid on, about two 
inches thick.  Below this coat there was a coarfer fort of lime and
gravel 'five inches deep, laid upon unshapely and unjointed flags.  This
floor flood on pillars two feet high, come of stone, and some or circular 
bricks.  The earth had been removed to come to folid foundation, on
which to erect the pillars.  Under the tarras of the smallest room there
was a coarfer tarras, fully to inches thick, which seemed intended to 
sustain or bear a more considerable fire under it, than the Hypocanslum of 
the largest room.  There appeared to have been large fires under it, as
the pillars were injured by them, and there was found a quantity of char- 
coal in perfect preservation.
The Hypocauslum of the larger room, or space under the tarra's floor.
was filled with earth, and with flews made of clay, which were laid every 
where between the rows of pillars, and were a little discoloured 
with smoke; a smaller degree of heat having been conveyed through 
them, than through those under the other room.  But these contrivances
under the floors seem only to have been intended to preserve heat in the 
water, which had been carried warm from a kettle, built up or hung on 
brick work, on one side of the largest room.  This brick work was much
injured by strong fires, and was four feet square.


