
96		            BUTESHIRE.

tricts of Kerry and Cowal in Argyleshire, and on the east by the
Frith of Clyde. The extent of its sea coast is about 30 mailes, fol-
lowing the windings of the principal bays and headlands. if to
this we add the small island of Inchmarnock, about 5 mile in
circumference, and separated from Rothesay on the west side
about 2 miles, we have 35 miles of coats in the parish. The shore
is in general shelving rock and gravel, and is neither bold nor flat.
The principal bays on the west side, are, Scalpsie, at the southern
extremity of the parish, Saint Ninian's farther north, lying opposite
to the island of Inchmarnock, and still farther north, about the
centre of the parish, Ettrick. On the-north east there are two,
Kames, and Rothesay, both of them remarkably beautiful, and the
latter, which is farthest to the east, affords the finest anchorage in
the west of Scotland. In stormy weather a hundred vessels may
be seen riding at anchor, which have found an easy entrance to it
from the Frith of Clyde.
	The surface of the parish is in general hilly, intersected from
east to west by two beautiful valleys, the one stretching from the
head of Rothesay bay to Ardscalpsie bay, and the other from the
head of Kames bay to Ettrick bay. It is conceived that these
may once have been arms of the sea, dividing what is now the pa-
rish of Rothesay into two islands. Barone hill, about a mile S.W.
from the town of Rothesay, has an elevation above the sea of 532
feet, Common hill, about 1 1/2 miles west of Rothesay, 430 feet; and
Kames hill, near the head of the bay of the most delightful views of the
these and many smaller elevations the most delightful views of the
surrounding scenery are obtained.
	Climate.--The air of Rothesay is remarkably mild and genial,
which has led many to call the place the Montpelier of Scotland:
the winter snows are hardly ever known to lie above a day or two
unmelted; and ever-green plants, which thrive admirably here,
are seldom or ever injured by the frosts.
	Such is the mildness and salubrity 6f the climate, that many
perhaps affected with consumption, asthma, and rheumastism derive
the general benefit from a winter residence in the island. The
range of the thermometer is here less than, perhaps, in any other
part of Scotland, which, together with the fine shelter of the town
of Rothesay, may account for its remarkable healthiness.
	The following tables, kept with great care and accuracy at the
cotton-works, deserve attention:


