
     Statistical Account

but the Sunday collections raised in the church, and small
fines occasionally arising from delinquencies.  These collections
scarce amount to 7 L. Sterling per annum; and even from
that, small salaries are paid to the session-clerk and other pa-
rochial officers.  Hence it is manifest, that the poor can derive
from this source but little relief.  They therefore collect their
subsistence by wandering from place to place, and from parish
to parish*.

   Burgh.-Dornoch was erected into a royal burgh by a
charter from Charles I. anno 1628.  The council consists of
.15, including the provost, 4 bailies, a dean of guild, and
treasurer.  By the constitution and practice of the burgh, 4
counsellors are annually changed.  This is one of five, which
compose what is called the northern district of burghs.  It
has no landed property, nor any other source of revenue, be-
sides the customs levied at fix annual fairs held here, and
which are on the decline, as indeed the place itself is in the
last stage of decay.  There is no other town or village in the
parish, and this hardly deserves the name.  It contains only
four merchant shops, such as they are.  Here, and through-
out the parish, there are several shoemakers, taylors, weavers
and smiths, scarce one of whom lives by these professions.  As
they excel not, so are they but occasionally employed in them,

<FOOTNOTE>

*In the year 1782, a severe dearth was experienced here; no lives, how-
ever, were lost from that cause, though many of the poorer fort endured ex-
treme hardship.  The managers for the Countess of Sutherland exerted themselves laudably for the supply and relief of the people.  A great quantity of
victual was imported into the country by her Ladyship's order, and at her
expence.  Some supply was also obtained from Government.  A benevolent
gentleman at Glasgow, a native of this country, sent a cargo to be sold,
part of it at prime cost, and part of it to be distributed gratis among the
Poor.


