
574                       FIFESHIRE.

is Cupar, about four miles to the eastward, where there is a week-
ly market held every Thursday.
  Means of Communication.-The high road from Dundee to
Edinburgh traverses the parish, and three coaches, one of them
the mail-coach, pass along it daily in each direction. There
is a carrier from Pitlessie to Cupar, every Thursday, and the Cu-
par and Mnburgh carriers pass that village thrice a week going
to Edinburgh, and thrice a week returning. letters are brought
from the post-office at Cupar, by a messenger who goes thither
with letters and parcels usually every day.
  Roads.-There are two miles of turnpike-road in the parish,
and six miles 1615 yards of statute labour roads.
  Villages.-The only village that can be properly so called is
Pitlessie, containing 516 inhabitants. There are also four small
hamlets or groups of houses; Crossgates, Walton, Cults Mill, and
Hospital Mill, containing from 22 to 70 inhabitants.
  Ecclesiasdeal State.-The church is situated in the centre of the
parish, but is nearly a mile distant from the village of Pitlessie, where
the mass of the population are Congregated. It was built in 1793,
and is in good repair. It was seated originally for 360 persons,
but a want of seat-room having been recently felt, the kirk-session,
in July 1835, requested the heritors to supply it, by affording ad-
ditional accommodation. The heritors, with commendable libera-
lity, acceded to our request, so that there is now ample seat-room
for 430 persons ; and the church, it may be added, is as well fil-
led, now that it is enlarged, as it was before the addition was made.
  The manse, which adjoins the church, was built in 1795, and is in
good repair. The grebe consists of four acres of good arable
land, and is at present let at a rent of L. 9. There is no foggage
or grass glebe,-the late Mr Wilkie having, with the concurrence
of the Presbytery of Cupar, agreed to accept of L. 2 Sterling in
lieu of it.
  The stipend, exclusive of vicarage and communion elements,
averages L.150. It is as follows: barley, 41 bolls, 3 firlots,
3 pecks, 2 1/1 1/2 lippies; meal, 16 bolls, 3 pecks, 2 1/1 1/2 lippies;
oats, 40 bolls, I peck, 2 1/1 1/2 lippies ; money stipend (including
L. 3, 6s. 8d. for communion elements), L. 12, 7s. 2d. ; sum al-
lowed from the Exchequer to augment the stipend, L. 60, 2s.;
vicarage, L. 2, 11s. 8d.
  Religious. Denominations.- The number of families and indivi-
duals of all ages belonging to the different religious denominations,
will appear from the following table:



