
			KILWINNING.                          827

200 people has sprung up within the last few years. There are
at present a considerable number of labourers employed in the
construction of the Kilmarnock branch of the railway, who are not
permanently connected with the parish; and when it is finished,
the whole population will probably not amount to more than
5000.
	The number of proprietors whose annual rental is L.50 or up-
wards, is 35. Of these, the only persons of independent for-
tune resident, are the Right Honourable the Earl of Eglinton and
Wintoun; William Millar, Esq. of Monkcastle; George Crighton,
Esq.; and Miss Bowman of Ashgrove.
	There are three individuals deaf and dumb in the parish, two
fatuous, and two blind.
	There is no smuggling. Poaching is carried on to a small ex-
tent.
			 IV.-INDUSTRY.
	About one-third of the whole population are employed in agri-
culture; about one-fifth in mining; probably another fifth are la-
bourers, shopkeepers, and artisans; and the remainder are hand-
loom weavers. A great proportion of the females in the town sew
the Ayrshire needlework, at which they can make a tolerably com-
fortable living.
	Agriculture.--The farms generally are very small, many of
them not more than 50 acres. The average extent may be stated
at 80 acres. But from the character of the soil, and the extreme-
ly undulating nature of the surface, the land is not well adapted
for large farms. They are cultivated chiefly by the farmers them-
selves and their families,--both those which are rented, and such
as belong to the occupants, of which there are a considerable
number.
	About one-third or one-fourth is generally under crop. The
rest is in pasture. There is a considerable extent of moss in the
upper district of the parish, which can scarcely be regarded as
improvable, as the soil is too poor to yield a profitable return for
the capital that must necessarily be expended. I cannot specify
the number of acres under wood, but they must amount to a good
many hundreds, and some of the timber in Eglinton Park is very
fine. The kinds of trees that chiefly abound are Scotch fir,
larch, ash elm, and oak. There are many very large old beeches
at Eglinton, but this species is not now planted. The manage-
ment of the wood is upon the whole good.


