
			SANQUHAR.                             313

It was begun, and is supported almost entirely by, the miners and
other inhabitants in that village, and has contributed much to pro-
mote the intelligence for which they have long been distinguished.
Each member pays on admission, 5s. and annually 2s. The annual
amount of the sums received is L.10, 13s. In both of these libraries,
some of the most esteemed periodical publications are regularly re-
ceived. The opportunities for reading thus so abundantly afforded
in both divisions of the parish, have been of great service for the
religious, moral, and intellectual improvement of the inhabitants.
	Savings Bank.--A savings bank was established in the town of
Sauquhar in 1819. The amount invested yearly on an average of
the last three years is L. 1175, 10s. 6d. The average amount
yearly withdrawn for the same time is L. 1158, 9s. The total
amount now lodged is nearly L. 5000. Investments are generally
made by servants, labourers and tradesmen.
	Poor.--The number of persons receiving parochial aid is about
50, and the average sum allotted to each is about L. 1, except when
under sickness. The annual amount of contributions for their
relief, under the management of the kirk-session, is L. 70, of which
sum about one-half arises from church collections, and the other
half from voluntary contributions, interest of money, and dues col-
lected by the kirk-session. The heritors have not yet been called
upon to make any legal provision for the poor. Few solicit paro-
chial relief, except from necessity. The more wealthy parishioners
generally manifest a charitable disposition, which produces a reci-
procal good feeling in the poor, and excites them to make exertions
for supporting themselves by their own industry.
	Jail, &c.--The jail in Sanquhar has three apartments for pri-
soners, and is far from being in a secure state. Debtors are some-
times confined in it for a few weeks, but such as are lodged for cri-
minal offences are sent off as soon as convenient to the jail at Dum-
fries.
	Four fairs are held annually at the town of Sanquhar, at regular
intervals. These have been continued for a long period, but they
are now merely nominal; for few persons attend, and little business
is done. There are also yearly a shew of sheep, and three cattle
markets, which are tolerably well attended. They have been but
recently established, and promise to be of considerable utility.
	Inns, &c.--There are in the parish twenty-one houses in which
Spirituous or malt liquors are sold by license, the effects of Which
on the morals of the people are far from being salutary. Coal
	DUMFRIES.                        X


