
380                      STIRLINGSHIRE.

pairing roads and other purposes. It was entirely removed about
six years ago, to form an embankment on the turnpike road near
Denny bridge. The strata of which this bill was composed, were
carefully observed during its removal. These were so regular,
and as if rising out of, and gradually returning again to similar
strata in the circumjacent level ground, as to afford conclusive evi-
dence that the hill was not the work of man. On the top of
this hill, and about three feet below the surface, was found a coffin
or tomb, composed of five large unwrought stones, in which were
the bones of a human body, scull and teeth not much decayed.
Along with these, was a vase of coarse unglazed earthenware, con-
taining a small quantity of material resembling the lining of a
wasp's nest, probably decayed paper or parchment, which in the
lapse of ages bad assumed that appearance. No conjecture could
be formed about the individual here interred, tradition being en-
tirely silent on the subject ; but this circumstance corroborates the
opinion of some writers, that the hills of Dunipace might have been
used as burying-places for ancient chiefs. For, previous to the
erection of bridges in this district, the ford in the vicinity of these
hills was the principal passage over the Carron, and would be the
scene of many a bloody conflict between hostile armies. Hence
the appropriateness of their name, "hills of death."

              <TABLE=II.-CIVIL HISTORY>

    Heritors.-There are twenty-nine heritors in this parish, of
which the principal are,

         Estates.         Proprietors' Names             Valued Rent.
       Denovan,	       James Johnston, Esq. of Alva,	 L.779	17   7
       Dunipace,       Thomas Spottiswoode, Esq.	   441	 3   9
       Quarter,	       John H. Brown, Esq.         	   305	 7   6
       Torwoodhead,    Major Dundas, Carron Hall,	   251	10  10
       Herbertshire    William Forbes, Esq, of Callender,  356	 4   4
       Burnhouse,      Peter Muirbead, Esq                 116	13   8
       Househill,      Sir Gilbert Stirling, Bart. Larbert,110	 5  11
       Bogend,         Robert Bauchop, Esq.	           102	 5   8
                                                          ____________
                                                        L.2263   9   3

The balance of L.875, 2s. 5d. is divided among the remaining
twenty-one heritors, in various proportions; only three of them are

    <FOOTNOTE>Perhaps after all, the learned criticism that has been bestowed on the name
"Dunipsee," the meaning simply may be "the round hills at the pass, i. e. over the
Carron, or, the pass at the round hills." It is in favour of our theory of these hills
that the French form ofthe Celtic word Dun is " La Dune," plural " Les Dunes,"
meaning small conical hillocks, such as those sand hills on the coast of Kent, near
Deal the most of which are now covered with the sea. Hence that well known
road ships in the neighbourhood of these hills is called "Downs." Tradition
says that the site of the Dunipace hills was formerly covered by the German Ocean.


