
                               KIRKCOLM.                                  105

slate and clay-slate, are distinctly visible : their position nearly
vertical, their direction nearly east and west by the compass, and
their being destitute of organic remains demonstrate their identity
with the strata of the great southern high land above referred to.
There are some minor points in reference to these strata which may
be noticed. When a rivulet flows into the sea, whether it traverses
the strata across the direction of their cleavage, or parallel to it,
some disturbance in their direction is observable. At Portmouilin,
the strata run in a direction nearly parallel to the sea, which here
washes the northern boundary of the parish ; on the east side of
a rivulet, the strata run in a direction nearly from north-east to
south-west ; while on the western side of the rivulet, their direc-
tion is nearly from south-west to north-east. At Cairnbrook,
where the western termination of the strata sinks nearly at right
angles into the sea, the rivulet does not cut the strata as at Port-

moulin, but flows nearly parallel to their direction ; a slight dis-
turbance, however, is also here observable : on the north side of the
brook, they run in a direction nearly from north-west to south-east,
while on its south side they run nearly due east and west. When-
ever these strata are exposed to the action of the other materials.
Deep and well-defined chasms are thus left, which the motion of
the waters is rapidly filling in some situations with the shingle of
the coast, consisting of water-worm fragments of granite, green-
stone, porphyry, basaltic amygdaloid, sand, and sea-weeds. From
this coast the sea seems to have everywhere receded, and, after
having for a time acted upon these strata, to have left them free
from its influence. In this case the site of the clay-slate strata
may be observed at some distance from the shore, to form green
swarded intervals, while the greywacke, &c. may be detected in their
original position in rocky releif. On the beach, the spaces be-
tween the greywacke strata vacated by her clay-slate, are used by
fishermen as small harbours or rather docks, into which they drag
and secure their boats. The tide fills these chasms, while the
greywacke strata are elevated above its influence. These appear-
ances are chiefly to be observed on the eastern and western shores
of the peninsula ; on the northern shore, where a stratum of grey-
wacke is exposed to the ocean in a lateral position, they are less
to be noticed. Where exposed to the action of rain and the at-
mosphere, these strata become nearly of a white colour; where-
ever they are exposed to the action of the sea, they become al-



