
                              KIRKCUDBRIGHT.                      5

	From the lower bridge of Tongland, taking the course of the
river, its run is about eight miles to the Solway. The highest
spring tides reach to the Lin mentioned in the preceding lines.
When the tide is full, the river becomes a picturesque object from
the top of Tongland hill, also from the higher grounds of Cul-
doch, the Borelands, and other places in the parish of Kirkcud-
bright. Its links and windings, from its confluence with the Tarff,
at Cumpston, gave it the appearance of a fine chain of lakes sweep-
ing round the town of Kirkcudbright and St Mary's Isle. The
Dee is navigable for ships of any size as far as the town of Kirk-
cudbright, and for vessels of 200 tons burden to the lower bridge
of Tongland. A brook, the sources of which are marshy ground,
runs betwixt this parish and Rerwick from Bombie, until it falls
into the Solway at the west side of Mullock-bay, where sometimes
vessels of small burden lie in fine weather. This brook crosses
the road to Dundrennan at Ringligget, and is there called Ring-
burn, probably from its occupying the line of march: it falls into
the sea under the name of Mullockburn.
	Another brook, dividing the parish into two not very unequal
parts, rises in the north end of it, at or near the march of Kelton.
It is first called Hartburn, passing southward through a farm of
that name, then, after receiving a rivulet of the same size, called
Gribdae-burn, it obtains the name of Bucklandburn, and is aug-
mented on one side by a rill called Clownstanegill, and on the
other by one issuing from a ravine named Glenlay Heugh. Pro-
ceeding onwards in its course, the brook at last gets the name of
Grangeburn, under which it falls into the Dee to the south of St
Mary's Isle.
	These brooks abound with yellow trout, and in the end of
autumn numbers of sea trout and herring ascend the streams in
order to deposit their spawn. In the upper end of the farm of
Jordieland, where it joins the contiguous farms of Culdoch and
Blackstockarton, there is a loch of considerable size, stocked with
a species of yellow trout equal to that of Loch Leven. They

			With tumbling and rumbling
                        Amang the rockis round,
                        Devalling and falling
                        Into a pit profound."
	The Dee at different times assumes very dissimilar appearances; at one time it
swells into a fearful size, and at another dwindies into a scarcely perceptible rill. In
1822, it rose to a height of nearly twenty feet of solid water, and could hardly find a
passage through the arches of the old bridge of Tongland, which appeared to vibrate,
and in 1826 it sunk so low that its whole waters were confined within a channel of
six inches in depth, and ten inches in breadth.


