
                                KINROSS.                            3

age, its extend or circuit is 12 miles, being 3 less than in its ori-
ginal state, its depth 14 feet at its medium height, being 4 1/2 feet
less than formerly.
     " The surface of the loch," says Dr Flemming of Abedeen, in
his Interim Report on its Fishings, "previous to the late partial
drainage, extended to 4638 imperial acres.  It is now dimunished
from the high-water flood to the top of the spill-water 1095 acres,
thus leaving its maximum state at 3543 acres, according to the
testimony of the Commissioners.  By this mode of estimating the
change, the loch would appear to have been diminished about one-
fourth of its extend.  but the water is seldom if ever allowed to
rise to the height of the spill-water.  Hence it appears expedient
to increase by one-fthird, 365 acres, the recognized diminution of
1095 acres, thus making in all the diminution of the area of the
loch, and its consequent value, as it may be viewed as a fish-pond,
of 1460 acres, as equal to one-third of its former dimensions."
     Within the circuit of lochleven there are several islands, but all
inconsiderable and insignificant, with the exception of two, one of
which is the island of St Serf or Servanus, or the Inch, which the pa-
rish of Portmoak claims as its own, and which, as such, has been de-
scribed in the old Statistical Account of that parish.  The other, al-
though considerably smaller, being only five acres in extent, is com-
monly called the Castle Island or Castle, in consequence of an ancient
fort and buildings being connected with it, which cover a great part of
its surface.  The oldest and largest building, (and for the particulars
of which the last Statistical Account may be consulted,) is ascribed to
a king of the Picts.  In the absence of any thing like historical
certainly on this point, it seems more reasonable to believe that
many additions and alterations have taken place in the course of
centuries, than to suppose, as Dr Walker (in his Essays on Natu-
ral History and Rural Economy, under the head Lochleven,) has
done, that from its form, it appears to have been built in the time
of James II. of Scotland, who began to reign in 1436.  Indeed, the
facts to be afterwards mentioned render such an opinion altogether
untenable.
    When, in the progress of arts and manufacturing industry, a very
considerable number of mulls and bleachfields, requiring a large and
permanent supply of water, had been erected on the Leven, which
runs out of the lake, and when in a dry season that supply was often
quite inadequate for the purpose,--it became an object of no small
moment to the owners of these worjs, to render the basin of Lochleven


