
                           INCH.                           87

town of the Novantes. It was situated on the Rerigonius sinus,
the modern Lochryan. In subsequent times there was the town
and Castle of Innermessan. The castle belonged to Sir Andrew
Agnew of Lochnaw. The town of Innermessan seems to have
been the most considerable place in the Rhins of Galloway, as
Symson, in his "Description of Galloway," says, "the greatest
town and thereabouts till Stranraer was built." Every vestige of the
town and castle is now obliterated, unless it be a sewer, about three
feet Inver Messan, signifying the influx of the Messan.
   Close by the present manse may be traced some of the founda-
tions of the Abbey of Soulseat or Saulseat. It was founded by
Fergus, Lord of Galloway, in the twelfth century, for Premonstra-
tensian monks. It was called in Latin, sedes Animarum and Monas-
terium viridis stagni. This latter name it acquired from being si-
tuated on a peninsula formed by a fresh green hue. Chalmers, in his
Caledonia, says, "it was the mother of the more celebrated and
opulent Priory of Whithorn, as well as the Abbey of Holywood,
both of which were planted by monks of the same order. It ap-
pears to have been original establishements of the Premonstra-
tensian monks in Scotland; and the abbots of Soulseat were the
superiors of that order in this kingdom." Not much is known of
the history of this abbey. It is mentioned in act of Parlia-
ment 1487, against purchasing livings at Rome, as one of the
Scottish abbeys, "that were not of old at the Court of Rome,"
i. e. the Pope had no right to dispose of it, the King having the
appointment. In 1532, David, Abbot of Soulseat, obtained a
precept from the King, commanding obedience to him, in visiting
and reforming all the houses in Scotland of the Premonstratensian
order. In 1568, the Abbot of Soulseat, along with others, sub-
scribed a bond, obliging themselves to defend the Queen. These
are all the notices I have been able to collect regarding the his-
tory of this abbey. It was in ruins in 1684, when Symson wrote
his Description of Galloway. Only a few of the remains are now
visible. An extensive burying-ground seems to have surrounded
the abbey. Human bones and pieces of coffins have been often
dug up. Part of the burying-ground still remains, and is occa-
sionally used as a place of interment. There are, however, no
very ancient inscriptions. The oldest inscription is the following:
--"Here lies ane honest man, Gilbert Mure, Marchand, burgess


