

                                UNST.                            41

       pulation at a very remote period. The vestiges of houses and
       stone-fences, now in ruins, and grown over with grass, or buried
       in moss, are no indistinct indications of this.  In former days, the
       inhabitants had but little intercourse with other countries, and had
       to depend chiefly on their own resources; the healing art was
       little known amongst them,-perbaps not one medical practitioner
       in the land. In 1729, and again in 1740, the small-pox appeared in
       Zetland in such a virulent form, and made such havock, almost de-
       populating some districts that they are yet spoken of under the name
       of the mortal pox.  Accordingly, we find, that, subsequent to that
       time, the population was very low; for, in the year 1755, it consisted
       only of 1368 souls.  From that period, the increase has been steady
       and rapid.  In 1780, it had risen to 1853; in 1790, to 1988;
       and in 1831, to 2909 souls.
          Vaccination, which has been resorted to ever since the year
       1800, may be assigned as one cause of this great increase.  An-
       other cause may be found in the very favourable seasons this
       country has enjoyed during the last thirty years.  There has been no
       failure of crops; the fishing has been successful; and trade has
       greatly improved.
          There are six proprietors of land of the value of L.50 and up-
       wards per annum.
          Much has been said, and much has been written, by men very
       superficially acquainted with the state of the country, about the
       wretchedness, the enslaved, and oppressed state of the peasantry.
       They have had all their information from hearsay, and have not
       given themselves the trouble to inquire after the truth, where they
       might have had it impartially stated to them; and the consequence
       has been, that they have geen greatly imposed upon, and they, in
       their turn, have imposed upon others.  They who have lived long
       amongst the people, and are intimately acquainted with their ways
       and means, and have seen the comforts they enjoy, can bear the most
       ample testimony to the fact, that there are but few of Her Majes-
       ty's subjects, of the same class, who ard treated in a more kindly
       and indulgent manner by their superiors; who enjoy so much li-
       berty; who pass through life with so little labour or care; or
       who have more reason to be contented with the situation and cir-
       cumstances a kind Providence has assigned them.  They do
       not live in affluence but they seldom want the necessaries,
       and they have many of the luxuries of life, with one-half of



