
354                       RENFREWSHIRE

ber of the names of the properties and farms in the higher district,
to westward of the church and village, are unquestionably of Cel-
tic origin; whereas those to eastward are designated -in the cornuaon
dialect of the low country of Scotland. Every person who has even
the slightest tincture ofthe , former language, must at once recognize
the traces ofit in Aucbinames or Butterfield, remarkable for its very
fine pasturage; Auchinsale (cast and west) i. e. Barnfield ; Auebin-
cloiclis, high and low, or StoDeyfield ; Branebell, (perhaps Brean-
choil, as in Monteith, near Calleiider) ; and if so, Wood-head, or
above the wood; Barnbetb, top or bead of the birches; and, to
specify no more, Torrs, a name indicating some striking 11 heights"
-a name occurring in numberless instances from the nor h of
Scotland to the Mam-Tors in the central, and the Torbay, Tor-
quay of the south of England, and Torres Vedras, on the south-
western limit of Celtic dominion in Europe.
 Situation.-In respect of local position, this parish may be re-
garded as forming the centre of Renfrewshire, at an equal distance
from Polnoon Lodge, a seat of the Earl of Eglinton, in Eagle-
sham parish, (some fifteen miles- to south-east,) and Ardgowan
14ouse, nearly as far to north-west, in the parish of Intiei-kip;-
both parishes forming the extreme points of this county, though
the former is in the presbytery of Glasgow, as the latter in that of
Greenock. In breadth, t ' he county extends scarcely seven miles
southwesterly from Kilbarcban village to Clerksbridge, on the
borders of Ayrshire, on the road to Beitb, and a like distance
northerly to the West Ferry on .. the Clyde, opposite to Dunbar-
ton Castle.'
 Extent.-This parish is in extent somewhat more than 7 miles
from east to west, with an average breadth of above 2 miles ; pre-
senting anarea of upwards of 14 square miles, or 9216 Engl,ish
acres.
 Boundaries and Figure.-Itsfigureisthatofiinisoseelestriano,,Ie,
of which the apex points eastward ; and its two sides are, on the
rotith-6ast the Black Cart, and on the rwrth the Gryfe, meeting
in the eastern extremity. The western and shortest side, forming
the base of'the isosceles triangle,'is, for a very considerable part of it,
marked by the natural boundary of St Bride's Burn ; which falls into
the Cart just where it issues from Castlesemple Loch,-these streams
by their confluence forming the south-west angle of the figure
already referred to.' The contiguous parishe s are, Lochwinnoch on
the west and south-west; the Abbey of Paisley south and south-east
               4


