
     of Glasserton.

it a stately mansion-house, formed an excellent garden and
scattered plantations over his grounds in that arrangement
in which they seemed likely to thrive the best, to afford the
most useful shelter, and the most to gratify the eye of taste.
In his own natural possession, he reserved nearly two thou-
sand acres of land, almost the whole estate of Glasserton (pro-
perly so called).  For managing the husbandry of this tract
of ground, he hired his upper farm servants, from those
counties in England, of which the agriculture is esteemed to
be the most skilful.  He formed, at the same time, a square
of farm office-houses, possessing every requisite accommoda-
tion for every sort of animal-stock, and for all the other uses
of rural oeconomy.  With equal attention, he provided all
the best instruments of improved agriculture, and breeds of
the best races of the different forts of animals to be fed upon
his lands.  In the system of farming which he thus adopted,
four hundred black cattle, forty score of sheep, and a pro-
portionate number of horses, formed his animal stock.  Out
of the 2000 acres, about two hundred might be annually plow-
ed to bear crops; and of these, sixty were usually planted with
turnips: Three hundred acres, nearly, were occupied by gar-
dens, houses, and woods: Two hundred acres more were re-
served as meadow; one half bearing sown grasses; the other
half being bog, and affording only the unimproved natural
sward.  A number of day-labourers, varying from 50 to 70,
were constantly employed in the farm-work on these grounds.
The use of oxen, for drawing the cart and plough, was zealous-
ly adopted.  For this purpose, the stoutest and largest boned
oxen were usually selected, out of those droves of Irish cattle,
which were continually imported, through this country, to-
wards England.  At the age of 4 years, these were yoked in
the draught: They were wrought, in this labour, for the next
4 year: On the 9th year, they were freed from the yoke,


