
     Statistical Account

   Advantages and Disadvantages.-By the 2 harbours in
the south end of the parish, upon the river Dee and Tarff,
the inhabitants have a great advantage for exporting their
grain and meal, and of importing manure in lime and sea-
shells.  They in general have an early seed time and har-
vest, from the dryness of the soil.  They have fine places
for electing water-machinery.  There is a paper mill and
corn mill, near the church, on the river Dee, that have
plenty of water in the greatest droughts; many fine situa-
tions for erecting cotton-mills.  Their greatest disadvan-
tage is scarcity of fuel  The peat mosses are all exhausted;
and the nearest moss is 6 miles distant, and is almost ex-
hausted.  Coals from England and the west of Scotland,
from the heavy duty, are very dear, and quite beyond the
reach of the common people.  The coals this winter have
been L. 1, 12 s. the ton; and they are seldom below L. 1,
8 s.  Sterling.  Unless the duty is taken off the coals by Go-
vernment, both manufactures and agriculture will in the
issue go to ruin.  The principal fuel in the southern parts
of this county is coal; and this article is become so high of
late, that it rises to an enormous expense, and is quite be-
yond the reach of the poor.  It is the united wish of all
ranks, to have the duty taken off, and laid upon some other
article.  Could Ministry know the real distress for fuel,
which many poor and shivering wretches suffer in this
corner, their humanity would instantly excite them to re-

<FOOTNOTE>

her flight from the fatal battle of Langside, on her way to the abbey of
Dundrenan, where she lodged, and from thence crossed the Solway Frith
to Cockermouth in Cumberland.  From this event, the farm has been
ever since called Queen's Hill.  There are some vestiges of, old encamp-
ments; but of what kind is uncertain.  In the moor of Kirkconnel, is a
monumental stone put upon the grave of a martyr of the name of Clemont,
who was shot at that spot in the persecution in the time of Charles II.  It
is at a great distance from any house.


