
			      MEIGLE.                             233

sionally running into it, there is a stratum of sand, apparently sea-
sand, which seems to be the deposit of an arm of the sea, that had
flowed through the strath, from near Perth to Douglaston, and
thence towards Arbroath. It may, however, be the deposit of an
interior lake long ago emptied. On the Sidla hills, distant only
one mile and a-half, geologists have observed some marine or aque-
ous remains.
   The soil in general is a fine black mould, inclining to brown, on
a bottom of mortar, and-yields good crops of wheat, barley, oats,
and green-crop. There are also some sandy and clayey soils.
Each of them is generally well improved and cultivated.
   In the river Dean, good perch, pike, and trout are caught.
The trout are often taken in February and March. Their flesh is
red, and the flavour excellent. A few salmon ascend the Isla, but
very few are taken. The common white trout and also pike are
caught in that river.
   There are no forests. The plantations are of oak, ash, beech,
elms, and of the plane and service-trees, of the larix and different
sorts of pines. On moist soils, the birch, alder, and willow are
planted, and occasionally elsewhere. There are some fine aged
elms, beeches, and ash, chiefly in Belmont park, formerly Kirkhill,
where the Bishop of Dunkeld occasionally resided. One of the
beeches, standing in a back-court at Belmont, is somewhat re-
markable. The height of it to the top is 74 feet, the girth is 13
feet 9 inches at 3 feet from the ground. The solid wood below the
offset of the branches, which are large and extended, is 276 feet.
   There are some springs of excellent water in the parish; some
of them flowing from sandstone rock, others from clay and gravel.

		      II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   No ancient history of this parish is known. Boece mentions it,
speaking of Vanora's tomb erected here. And there is no modern
account of it, previous to the late Statistical Account, by Dr Play-
fair, then minister of Meigle, afterwards Principal of the United
College of St Andrew's, and known to the world by his chronolo-
gical and geographical works.
   Land-owners.-The chief land-owners are, Lord Wharncliffe;
Lord Strathmore, by late purchase; Mr Murray of Simprim; Mr
Nairne of Drumkilbo; and Mr Kinloch of Kinloch, whose pro-
perty is "temporaliter" in Cupar Angus.
   Parochial Registers.-The earliest date of the register of bap-
tisms is the 31st of July 1727. It is pretty regularly kept; but


