
     of Stronsay and Eday.

by means of said conversions, which are now found detrimen-
tal to the interest of the minister.  The rise in value of the com-
modities paid in kind, was found to be so inconsiderable, that

<FOOTNOTE>

<TABLE>

                                         Lasts, Meils.  Meils of Malt.
"1. To Walls and Flotta,                  1       4       or     28
"2. Floy.  6 barrels butter, and ball,    3      20       or     92
"3. Stromness and sandwich,   6 ditto     3      12       or     84
"4. Orphir.                   6           3      12       or     84
"5. Holm.                     6           3      14       or     86
"6. Shapenstray.              6           3               or     72
"7. The reader in Kirkwall.   6                  12              12
"And to the moderator.                         One hundred pounds.

</TABLE>

   "Then the haill remanent kirks, being of his Majesty's annexed property,
"are for most part altogether unprovided; and those who have any thing at
"all, has yet so small means of maintenance, as no honest man will under-
"take to serve them.  Therefore resolved to unite and incorporate together,
"such paroch kirks as might be conjoined, so as to reduce the number of
"kirks and ministers, to such a few quantity, and their stipends such a mo-
"derate proportion, as might be the least diminution possible of his High-
"ness rent, as well for the help and supply of such kirks, as are meanly found-
"ed, as for the provision of others, which have no stipends.  To allow with
"the least detriment possible to his Majesty's rents, in the 1st, to the two
"parish kirks of South Ronaldstray, and parish kirk in Burray united, the
"the ministers stipend to be helped with 200 merks.
   "2d, The two kirks of St Andrews and Deerness, in the mainland of
"Orkney, united, the minister's stipend 400 merks money, with the glebes
"and vicarages of the said kirks.
   "3d, Birsay and Harray, twa parish kirks in the mainland, united, the
"minister's stipend 400 merks, with the glebes and vicarages of the said
"kirks.
   "4th, Evie and Rendal, twa parish kirks in the mainland, united, the mini-
"ster's stipend 300 merks, with the manse, glebes and vicarages of the said
"kirks.
   "5th, The isle of Rousay and Eglistray, twa parish kirks united, the mi-
"nister's stipend 300 merks, with the glebes and vicarages of the said kirks.
   "6th, The isles of Westray and Papa Westray, united, the minister's sti-
"pend to be helped 300 merks, with the vicarage, manse and glebes.


