
                           ALNESS.                              333

in the southern extremity, and on the shores of the Cromarty
Frith, are in general flat, and, with very little exception, cultivat-
ed. Towards the north, however, the character of the country is
entirely changed, and becomes mountainous and barren. The
hills, though some of them are of considerable height, do not occur
in any continuous chain or group, but, like the generality of those
in this county, present a scattered and straggling appearance.
There is nothing very remarkable in the structure or composition of
any of them; but one, having an elevation of about 1000 feet above
the level of the sea, may be conjectured, both from its name,* (Fy-
rish,) and from its proximity to the shores of the frith, to have been
employed at some remote period as a station for beacon lights.
  Climate.-The climate may be described as dry and salubrious.
There are no diseases which can be said to be peculiar to, or even
prevalent in, the parish; but, on the contrary, the inhabitants gene-
rally, and those of one of the highland districts in particular, are
characterized by their health and longevity. It is evident also
that the climate has undergone a considerable change for the bet-
ter since the year 1793, when the former Statistical Account was
written; for, since that period, the important operation of drainage,
together with other improvements in agriculture which have been
introduced, and the immense extent of moorland which has been
planted, must have greatly modified the general state of the at
mospbere.
   Hydrography.-The only body of salt water connected with the
district is the Cromarty Frith, which forms the southern bound-
ary of this parish. The entire length of the frith does not ex
ceed twenty miles, and at that part which is contiguous to Alness
its average breadth may be stated at two miles. So great, however,
is the quantity of fresh water continually flowing into it from the
rivers and occasional mountain torrents, that the character of the
water as regards its saltness is greatly modified. The water is ge-
nerally considered to decrease in strength in proportion to its dis-
tance inland, and at this point it may be regarded as having lost
one-half of its saltness, and is therefore by experiment, only one-
sixty-fourth part denser than common fresh water.  The parish
is well supplied with fresh water, in all the forms in which it is
found collected. Many springs are to be met with in the diffe-
rent districts, all of them supplying excellent water, and generally

<FOOTNOTE>Faire is the Gaelic word for beacon or watch.


