
                      LISMORE AND APPIN.                   241

dug in the rock underneath.  It was new-roofed and floored bY
Sir Donald Campbell of ArdnamurchaN in 1631 ; but some years
previous to the Revolution of 1688, Airds (the proprietor) was de-
prived of it as a dangerous person, And it was committed to the cus-
tody of the tutor of Appin, (Stewart of Ardsheal,)who was after-
wards reluctantly induced to restore it to the owner.  It is pretty
entire, as the roof was allowed to fall off, only a few years ago.
   Castle Shuna is an ancient ruin situated in the island of that
name, the property of Mr Downie of Appin.  It appears to be
much older, and is much less entire than the one already men-
tioned; yet I am told that it is by no means nf so ancient a date,
and that its appearance of antiquity arises from the circumstance
of its never having been completed.  The prison, in this case, is
an arched vault, built above ground, and serves as the foundation
on which the superstructure is reared.  About the door of the
vault is a circular tower, which must have served at once for a
lobby and staircase leading up to the second storey, on which were
the main apartments of the building.
   On the property of Donald Campbell, Esq. of Baileveolan, in
Lismore, stands Castle Coeffin, a very ancient building, whose
ivy-covered walls present a singular appearance.  From its style,
it appears to be coeval with Castle Shuna, and the only tradition
connected with it is, that it was built as a place of defence by
a Danish Prince, called Coeffin.  It is built upon a point jutting
out into Linne-Sheilich, or Linne Loch, the arm of the sea that
separates Kingerloch from Lismore and commanding fully that
sound.  There is nothing remaining of it but broken walls.  Right
opposite, on the Kingerloch coast, is Castle Mearnaig, Otherwise,
the Castle of Glensanda, built upon the summit of a conical rock
close to the shore, and about 150 feet high, and whose top is not
broader than the base of the castle.  This castle, from the style
of its architecture, seems to be of less ancient date, and is more
entire than Castle Coeffin.  The flight of stairs mounting to the
second story still remains, as also the fire-place and chimney-
stalk of what appears to have been the principal apartment.  It is
an oblong building, 45 feet by 20, and 33 feet in height, and the
side walls are entire.  There is a beautiful echo in this castle.  A
person standing at a particular spot, about 350 yards from the castle,
hears eight syllables distinctly repeated after he has ceased speak-
ing.  The Castle of Achinduin, in Lismore, on the property of
Mr Campbell of Lochnell, was one of the places where the Bishop
  ARGYLE                                   Q


