
                  DUNOON AND KILMUN.                        625

years,-1839, L.205, 5s. 6d.; 1840, L.126, 14s. 6d. ; 1841,
L.112, 19s. 2d.; and 1842, L.70, 8s. Od.
  Education.-There are, in the united parish, three parochial
schools,-one at Dunoon, one at Toward, and at Kilmun.
There are also two schools on the scheme of the General Assem-
bly's Education Committee,-one at Dalilongard, in the parish of
Dunoon, the other at Ardentinny, in the parish of Kilmun.
There is a school taught also in connection with the Dissenting
congregation in Dunoon. Within the last few years also, a fe-
male school of industry has been set on foot in Dunoon, with the
object of instructing the rising female generation in the necessary
and useful departments of knowledge. It owes its commencement
and support to an Association of ladies resident in the parish, and
usually resorting to Dunoon in the summer season. It has been
attended with very gratifying success, is well conducted by a com-
mittee of ladies annually chosen, and is very efficiently taught.
This seminary promises to be a very great benefit and blessing to
the female youth of the village and its neighbourhood.
   Of the three parochial schools, Latin is taught only in that at
Dunoon, and the higher branches of education at none of them.
These are, however, taught at the General Assembly schools men-
tioned. The parochial teachers have the full legal accommoda-
tions. The school-house and teacher's accommodations at Toward
have been liberally granted and erected at the sole expense of the
late Kirkman Finlay Esq.; and, at Ardentinny, a house for the
teacher has been provided by Mr Douglas, and adjoining to it,
a neat and comfortable school-house has been erected at the sole
expense of Mrs Douglas of Glenfinart. The accommodations
are fully equal to the average of parochial schools, and a mere
nominal rent is charged. The rates of school fees are as follow:
in the parochial and Assembly schools per quarter,-beginners,
2s.; reading and writing, 3s. ; arithmetic, 4s. 6d. ; Latin, 5s.;
book-keeping, 10s.; Greek, French, geography, mathematics,
and navigation, (where taught,) 10s.
  The salaries of the several teachers are as follow: Dunoon,
L.30; Toward, L.22; Kilmun, L.25, and L.2, 2s. allowance in
lieu of garden; Assembly school at Dalilongard, L.25; Assembly
school at Ardentinny, L.25; salary of teacher of Female School
of Industry, Dunoon, L.30, with house and garden; salary of
teacher of school connected with Dissenting chapel, not known.
The amount of school fees received by each, it would be difficult
to state with accuracy; but, generally speaking, such fees are
   ARGYLE.                                 R r


