
342                     KIRKCUDDRIGHTSHIRE.

	The situation of Creetown is very picturesque. It is built be-
tween two rivulets or burns and fbur bridges. The gardens are
so abundantly stocked with fruit-trees, that in spring, when the
blossoms are exuberant, the village appears as if it had been built
in an orchard. The scenery around is particularly beautiful.
On the west lies the Bay of Wigton with its boats and smacks;
on the north, the fine plantations and mansion-house of Barholm;
and above and behind the village stands Hill Housd, begirt with
ornamental trees; and the new church, with its handsome tower
and cathedral roof,--with the Larg hill and the woods of Cas-
sencarrie--close in and enrich the landscape in the south. These
beauties did not escape the observation of Mr M'Diarmid in his
Sketches of Nature. He describes them with much of his charac-
teristic humour and raciness, and numbers among the eccentrici-
ties of our streets, the cherry-trees that adorn the walls of some
of the houses, and the blacksmith's sign, who shod horses on the
principles of expansion. The drive between Creetown and Gate-
house is one of the finest in the south of Scotland.
	Post-Office.--There is a post-office in Creetown. The Irish
nail comes in at 11 o'clock, P. M., and the Dumfries mail at 2
o'clock, A. M. daily. Letters are delivered at the houses of all
within the burgh.
	Turnpike Roads.--The length bf the turnpike road that passes
through this parish is nine miles. The road is remarkably well
kept and thoroughly Macadamized. The Dumfries and Port-
patrick mail-coaches travel this road daily. There are also re-
gular carriers to Newton-Stewart, Gatebouse, and Dumfries.
The bridges are in good repair, and substantially built. There
are no railroads in the parish, except at the Quarry.
	Fences.--The fences in this parish are in general built of stone.
Some of them are well built and in good repair, but too many of
them are the very reverse. There are many specimens of both
the single and double dike, five and six quarters high.* There
are few hedges, although thorns grow remarkably well, and would
be a great ornament to the parish. Indeed there is a number of
very fine old thorn trees in the parish, of a large size. One hundred
years ago, there were few fences of any kind in this part of the
country. Now they are very numerous, such as they are, and
may measure not less than fifty miles in this parish.
	The land is stony, and the general plan is to quarry the stones
out of the field that is to be enclosed. This answers the double

<FOOTNOTE>A quarter is ten inches.


