
                       KILMARTIN.                        549

and rocky cones, crowding upon each other, and presenting an
endless variety of forms.  The opposite coast being flatter, exhi-
bits here and there smiling corn fields; and is terminated by the
plantations that enclose Craignish Castle, the seat of Mr Camp-
bell of Jura.  Parallel with the shores of Loch Craignish, lie se-
veral islands,the two principal of which, Island Righ and Island
Macasken, both belonging to this parish, are pleasantly diversified
with broken knolls and scattered woods, divided by little dells of
the richest verdure.  Numerous other islands and islet rocks, with
creeks between, gleaming in the sun, occupy the centre of the
picture; beyond which, in front of the spectator, rises the huge
rounded mass of Scarba, separated from the sister island of Jura, by
the far-famed gulf or whirlpool of Coryvreckan.  From this place,
too, may be seen, along the extended line of coast, every variety
of sea craft, from the stately ship under a cloud of canvass, to the
slender skiff, floating like a sea-gull on the surface of the ocean,
-each pursuing its devious course, or safely moored in some shel-
tered bay, as wind and tide, or the will of the mariners, may de-
termine.
   Indeed it is hardly possible to fancy a spot more suited to
awaken the associations so forcibly expressed by the bard of Hope,
who is said to have spent some of his early years in this immediate
neighbourhood.-
         "But who is he a dearer land
          Remembers, over the hills and far away?
          Green Albin, what though he no more survey
          Thy ships at anchor on the quiet bay,
          Thy Pellocks * rolling from the mountain bay,
          Thy lone sepulchral cairn upon the moor,
          And distant isles that hear the loud Coryvreckan roar."
                                               Gertrude of Wyoming, V.
Far to seaward, the low islands of Colonsay and Oransay appear
across the gulf, and the view is closed to the left by the lofty
and picturesque cones, named the Paps of Jura.  To the right, a
large portion of the Mull is seen, rising behind a multitude of
smaller islands, such as Lunga, Shuna, Luing, Seil, Easdale,
Garvallach, and Elachanove.  Its very noble and well-shaped
mountains form, perhaps, the most striking feature in the scene;
and the bold promontory with which its southern coast abruptly
terminates, the Ross of Mull, is particularly striking. In the
extreme distance to the north, a few blue summits mark the moun-
tains of Morven, Appin and Glencreran.

<FOOTNOTE>The Gaelic appellation for the porpoises.


