
610                           LANARKSHIRE.

	Mineralogy.--This parish forms part of the great coal-field of
Lanarkshire, and coals are wrought in a great many places through-
out its bounds. It maybe sufficient to mention only one of them.
The pit near Wishaw distillery is twenty-two fathoms deep, and
three seams are wrought in it. At the depth of fourteen fathoms,
the Ell coal occurs, which is here about seven feet thick. The
galleries are entered by means of a stage, but as the roof is chief-
ly of fire clay, there are only about five feet of coal wrought.
Eight feet farther down, the Pyatshaw and Main coal are found in
one seam, about nine feet thick. The metals between the Ell and
the Pyatshaw are chiefly blaes, with about a foot of sandstone. The
splint-coal lies about fifteen fathoms below the main coal. It is
wrought in the pits at Muirhouses, at the trifling depth of ten or
twelve fathoms. The whole metals are thrown up here by a great
dike, which may be seen at Bridgend. Another dike runs east
and west, passing below the distillery; and there are several other
dikes, which uniformly assume the same direction. At present
ten men are employed at the Wishaw colliery, each putting out
forty-five cwts. per day or 2700 cwts. per week. Fifteen cwts. are,
now sold at 3s.
	 Nearly the whole of the parish is full of coal, and in many places
it is of great thickness. Should the railway come through this
parish, as is expected, it will open up the coal-fields in various
places, where there is at present no demand; and will add great-
ly to the wealth and improvement of the district.
	The east end of the parish contains a great deal of valuable iron-
stone. The blackband ironstone is found in the neighbourhood of
Headlesscross, as well as on the estates of Coltness and Allanton.

Thomas Stewart of Kirkfield, for two yearly fairs, and two weekly mercats at the
town of Overtoun of Cambusnethan. About a century ago, the greatest quantity
of oatmeal brought into the Glasgow market, and which also sold dearer than any other,
was Cambusnethan meal, so called, because it came from that parish, where, two
days in the week, it was collected at a market, once held at the village of Overtoun,
and afterwards, by the authority of the gentlemen of the county,transported to a place
more conveniently situated on the great road from Glasgow to Carnwarth, called
Barnshell of Cambusnethan. In this market was collected the greater part of the meal
coming from the markets of Kelso, Peebles, Carnwath, and the parishes adjacent to
the market itself; for which reason the whole, when it arrived at Glasgow, was cal-
led Cambusnethan meal.
	This meal was sold at Barnhall by the load, containing thirty-three pecks Lanark
weight, and the expense of winter transportation on horsebackwas as follows: From
Poebles to Carawath, per load, 1s. 8d: from Carnwath to Barahall, 1s. 2d,; from
Harnhall to Glasgo, 1s. 8d.; tranportation of fifty miles, 4s. 6d. This load is the
eighth part of a chalder, as this the transportation of a chalder at this rate would be
L. 1. 16s. or 8 1/4d. per mile. Such was the winter price, when the roads were dread-
ful; but in summer, the price was scarcely one-half; for then a horse could carry
from three to four loads in a cart.
                                        3


