
                          MOULIN                                   641

being wearied with monotony, and without attending to the surround-
inf landscape. Whether low or full, whether the river glides
transparent over the rocks to burst in foam below, or whether it
descends like a torrent of snow from the very edge, this fall is al-
ways various and always graceful.  The immediate accompani-
ments are, however, no less beautiful and appropriate, and the ge-
neral landscape is, at the same time, rich and romantic, nothing
being left to desire to render this one of the most brilliant scenes
which our country produces." *
  Geology and Mineralogy.-Tbe rocks of which our mountains
are composed are chiefly the mica slate, which is penetr`ted
in every direction by veins of quartz. This rock contains schorll,
both the common and tourmaline, and also common and precious
garnets, which may be considered as forming an essential component
part of mica-slate. To form a correct idea of the geological and
mineralogical character of the parish, it may be best to begin in
the south-east extremity, and travel northward.  At Aldour, on the
north bank of the Tummel, the bed there consists of micaceour
granular quartz. This rock has the peculiarity, that its dip is to
the north-east, at an angle of from 15 to 20/d, whereas the inclina-
tion of all the other seams is in a different direction. It is of a
cream or buff colour, well adapted for architectural purposes, and
has been wrought fnr building the House of Faskally. A little far-
ther north, the stratum is hornblende slate dipping north-west.
The next deposit consists of primitive limestone, which traverses the
parish, as all the other strata do, in a north-east and south-west di-
rection. Its dip is at an angle which varies from 45/d to 60/d north-
west, its general thickness is about 60 feet; it is extremely hard,
and of a light blue colour. It is so intermixed with sandy particles,
that it is scarcely ever used for other than agricultural purposes.
The mountains to the north-west and the whole of the Pass of Kil-
liecrankie, are composed of mica-slate or quartzose mica-slate. The
strata in KiIliecrankie are nearly vertical. At the Girnag the dip
is south east, at an angle of 60/d to 70/d, so that the confOrmation:
of the strata within the parish resembles very much an arch. In
the How of, Moulin, there are scattered large  masses of Primitive
limestone or marble, of a beautiful crystalline texture, and of a

<FOOTNOTE>If is be true, that the Bruar had their petition franted in consequence of
Burn's poctical effusion in their behalf, would that a Burns undertook to plead the
muse of the Tummel. Its cause is not less urgeat, and the thems not less poctival.
PERTH.                                                      BS


