
                             MOY AND DALARROSSIE.                    111

     their good things on the tenants.  By degrees, however, they are
     improving, and in a few years we may expect to see as comfortable
     and substantial a set of tenantry here as we can see any where.
        Produce.-The amount and value of the raw produce raised in
     the parish, as far as can be ascertained, is as follows:


     Produce of grain of all kinds whether cultivated for food of
           man or of domestic animals,                                      L.5640 0 0
     Potatoes and turnips                                                      700 0 0
     Hay, wether meadow or cultivated,                                         225 0 0
     Of land pasture for cows, rating it at L. 1, 15s. per cow,                822 0 0
     Of land in pasture for sheep, rating it at 1s. 9d. per sheep per year,   1333 6 8
     Besides this the value of wool is at an average of the last seven years,
         13s. per double stone,                                                700 0 0
     Annual thinning and periodical felling of woods,                           30 0 0
     Miscellaneous produce,                                                     25 0 0
                                                                            _____________
                                    Total value of raw produce,             L.9475 6 8

                              V.-PAROCHIIAL ECONOMY.
        Markets,&c.-The nearest market-town is Inverness, which is dis-
     tant about twelve miles from Moy.  Here the people sell all their com-
     modities, such as butter, cheese, &c.  There are three principal mar-
     kets held there in the year, the Marymas in August, Martinmas in
     November, and Candlemas in February.  Inverness is also the near-
     est post-town; but it is in contemplation to bring the mail by the
     Highland road, and then letters can be had quite at hand.  This
     road passes through the parish for ten miles, and has lately under-
     gone a great improvement, both as to the line, which was formerly
     very steep, and as to the length, it being now shortened by about
     three miles.  The Highland coach to Perth from Inverness passes
     along it, once every day, and is generally well filled with passengers.
     Besides this, there are various district roads intersecting the pa-
     rish, which are made by the converted Statute Labour.  The bridges
     on the district roads are all wooden, and are often swept away by
     the streams.  The stone bridge over the Findhorn was swept away
     in 1829, and has been replaced by a handsome edifice, the arches
     of which are of wood supported on stone pillars. This bridge was
     built at an expense of L. 2600.
        Ecclesiastical State.-There are two churches in this parish, one
     at Moy and the other at Dalarrossie, in which divine service is per-
     formed alternately.  The one at Moy is very ill situated, being quite
     in a corner of the parish, and far from the great body of the po-
     pulation.  That at Dalarrossie is perfectly centrical, and, except
     when the river is high, easily accessible by the whole parish.
     Both the churches are old.  The church at Moy was built in the
     year 1765, and was substantially repaired in 1829.  It is, however,


