
32                     ROXBURGHSHIRE.

consisting of books presented as donations, or purchased from the
fees of admission and subscriptions.
  Friendly Societies.--There were a few aged individuals (now
deceased) within the last seventeen years, who derived aid from
a friendly society.  But no person here is now known to join any
society of this sort, each looking to the parochial funds.  Saving
banks are in similar disrepute.
  Poor and Parochial Funds.--The average number of individuals
or families who receive parochial aid is 20, each, according to
circumstances, receiving from L. 3 to L. 10, 8s. per annum, paid
quarterly.  In addition to which there are seven others who re-
ceive temporary or occasional supplies.  The average annual
amount obtained for their relief is, of church collections, L. 7,
6s. 4d. ; interest of mortified money, L. 4; from mortelotb, 13s.;
and of assessments on the heritors, L. 126, 10s. 4d.  Total,
L. 138, 9s. 8d.
  Assessments were introduced about sixty-eight years ago.  The
heritors meet quarterly by legal intimation to assess themselves
according to their rents.  Assessments have undoubtedly been of
great benefit when rightly applied; but they have also done much
evil, wherever there has been any want of discrimination betwixt
cases of real need, and clamorous applications from persons of
idle inclinations.   There are numbers who reckon it a degra-
dation, and are most unwilling, to become a burden on the poor's
funds, until obliged by necessity; but there are others who, from
inclination to idleness, and other irregularities, forsake the ho-
nourable path of industry, and exert every species of ingenuity
to be put upon the poor's roll; and, when once admitted to an
interim supply, have recourse to mean and degrading shifts to be
continued.  Arsessments for the poor being high in this parish
compared to its population, and drawn almost entirely from those
in wealthier circumstances, there is in consequence a diminution
of church collections.
  Inns.--There are four licensed houses in the village where spi-
rits and ale are sold; one-half of this number would be amply suf-
ficient.  They are of an injurious influence upon the lower orders.
  Fuel.--Coal, a little peat of inferior quality, brushwood, and
thinnings of plantations, constitute the fuel of this parish; the first
of wbich being about thirty miles distant from the Lothian and
English coal-mines, is very high in price,--higher, indeed, than in
any of the neighbouring parishes, which are nearer either to the


