
350                        PERTHSHIRE.

ought not to omit mentioning a very picturesque hill, which rises
above the village of Callander, and which, by having been planted
a few years ago by Lord Willoughby de Eresby, contributes much
to the beauty of the village.  The principal valley in this parish is
that in which the village is situated, bounded on the west by Ben-
ledi: on the north, by the romantic Crag of Callander and hills of
Leney, through which the river Teath meanders with its richly
wooded banks.  The valley may be about 40 feet above the level
of the sea.
Climate, &c.-The temperature of the atmosphere is consider-
ed mild, from the shelter afforded by the surrounding hills.  In
winter the thermometer commonly stands about 35&deg;; for a few days,
last winter, it stood at 24&deg;; in the spring months it commonly stands
at 40&deg;; in summer at 75&deg;; and in autumn, it varies considerably.
The prevailing wind is from the northwest.  But during April and
May, the periodical east wind blows, and being generally attended
with drought, it is conducive at this season to the operations of the
farmer.  The climate is reckoned healthy; and the prevalent dis-
eases are those chiefly induced by changes of temperature.
  From the position of the parish, its appearance partakes of all
the variety of the Highland scenery.  The valleys become gradu-
ally more narrow, and in many places are almost shut in by lofty
ridges.  The rivers find a difficult passage, and are often formed
into basins and lakes.  Upon two sides of Benledi, viz. the north
and south, lie two different sheets of water, the former called Loch
Lubnaig, and the latter Loch Venachoir, each about four miles in
length, and both equidistant from Callander about two miles.  Pur-
suing these valleys and lakes still farther on to the westward, we
find each of them connected with two lochs; those to the north-
west, called Loch Veoil, and Loch Doin, lie in the parish of Bal-
quhidder, while the two lakes to the south-west belong to this pa-
rish.  They are connected with each other by a considerable river;
and that which we approach after passing Loch Venachoir, (the
Lake of the Fair Valley,) is called Loch Achray, (or the Lake of
the Field of Devotion.)  The scenery here is most picturesque.
Advancing a little further, you enter the Trosachs, and have a
view of Loch Catharine.
   Loch Catharine, &c.-This is the largest and most interesting of the
lochs; it is nearly ten miles in length, terminating at Glengyle, which
is also the extreme point of the parish.  This lake and mountain
scenery is so celebrated, as to render any description of it here un-
                                 3


