
102                     ROXBURGHSHIRE.

tured at Hawick, Galashiels, and Jedburgh; formerly it went
mostly to Yorkshire.
    Within the last twenty years, black-cattle have been much bet-
ter kept than used to be the case,-which, with the introduction of
short-horned bulls from the south, has improved the breed in no
ordinary degree. The cattle in the parish may be estimated at
390, and the horses at 145.
    Quarries.-These consist, and in abundance, of red and white
sandstone, the last of which is admirably adapted for ornamental
buildings.
    Produce- The average gross amount and value of raw produce
yearly raised in the parish, (exclusive of pasture,) as nearly as can
be ascertained, is as follows:
			Corn,    -      -            L. 36000  0  0
			Turnips, 400 acres, at L. 4,    16000  0  0
			Potatoes, 80 acres, at L. 7,      360  0  0
			Natural or bog hay,  -   -        340  0  0
			Sown grass,      -   -   -        200  0  0
						     ______________
						     L. 6300   0  0
			V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
    Market-Towns, &c.-Jedburgh, our nearest post-town, is distant
ten miles. The inconvenience, however, is lessened by the recent
improvement in the roads. The road passing between Hawick and
Newcastle, is a great accommodation to this part of the country,
as well as that between Jedburgh and Newcastle, both of which
meet at the extremity of the parish.  The coach, Chevy Chace,
passes and repasses through Jedburgh between Edinburgh and
Newcastle every day. It enters England at the Carter Bar.
There is perhaps no entrance to Scotland more picturesque than
the one of which we now speak. In this road from England, the
border hills rise to a considerable height; and, as the first glimpse
that is caught of Roxburghshire is from the top of the Carter, there
is suddenly opened to the eye an extensive and beautiful landscape.
In this landscape is comprehended, not only Roxburghshire, lying
more immediately before us, with all its hills and dales, but also,
though in the distance, many parts of Selkirkshire and Berwick-
shire. As the road descends, the view is naturally more limited,
but not less beautiful. It varies along the banks of the Jed with
every turning and winding of the stream. Its high and precipitous
banks are everywhere clothed with wood, of oak, pine, and weep-
ing birch. These, with dwelling after dwelling imbedded in its
more sheltered nooks, present to the delighted traveller a rich va-
riety of scenery. This view is no doubt greatly enhanced by the


