
			FORDOUN.                              75

are fewer sections, nor, so far as we know, do they present much
of novelty. In this portion of the range, the geographical direc-
tion of the hills does exactly correspond with its mineral character,
the strata having a more northerly direction than the line of ele-
vation. The thickness of the strata is (as has already been hinted
at) considerably variable. At the Church and Braes of Fordoun,
the height of the sandstone is greater, though the strata remain
nearly horizontal.
	Alluvial Deposits.--The alluvial deposits are not extensive,
neither do they materially affect the original nature of the soil;
these deposits are chiefly on Mains of Fordoun and Pittarrow,
and on the low grounds below Kincardine, which may rather be
distinguished as clay loams than alluvial or haugh-land.  A con-
siderable extent of pure ravel, occasionally interspersed with
patches of clay loam, occurs on the farm of Castleton of Kincar-
dine, where it would appear the Ferdun, a rapid mountain stream,
has not only carried off the clay, depositing it lower down in the
How, but brought down and lodged vast quantities of stones and
pure gravel, of which this part of Castleton is composed, in place
of the original soil, carried to a lower level.
	Many deposits of gravel have been formed by the different
mountain torrents, which serve the purposes of building, and for
repairing the public roads; a very fine bank of gravel lies to the
south of the manse, on the side of the public road, on the east
end of Strathfinella hill. Many others of a similar description
might, if necessary, be pointed out.
	The whole summit of the Grampian ridge is covered with peat
moss of different depths, but almost invariably adapted for fuel.
There are now mosses in the lower part of the parish, these,
(which were never of great extent) as well as the bogs and swamps,
having been converted into arable land.
	Soils.--The soil is highly favourable for agricultural purposes;
in the lower or How district, it is composed of a ferruginous clay, of
moderate fertility, but seldom so tenacious as to render it unfit for
the cultivation of turnip and other green crops. A deep rich loam
runs along the base of the hills, from one extremity of the parish
to the other, and the rising grounds are uniformly a brown gravelly
loam, well adapted for the grass and turnip husbandry, which is
invariably followed. Some detached portions on the borders of
the larger farms, consist of a black moorish soil, on a cold clay
subsoil, and towards the hills of Glenfarquhar the land is either


