
         	     DUNKELD AND DOWALLY.                 969

men, by whose labours the character of the inhabitants in the
northern districts of Scotland was materially improved. Conal,
King of the Scots, about 570, built a monastery for them near to
the Castle of Calidon, now called Dunkeld, where Kentigerne and
Saint Columba, the leader of the order, resided about six months,
"teaching, and preaching to the people of Atholl, Calidon, and
Angus, who came in great numbers to hear their godlie instruc-
tions." * This establishment was conducted after the original at
Iona. Over it an abbot ruled. + The followers of St Columba.
though erroneously called monks, were yet a body of regular
clergy, whose form of government was essentially Presbyterian.
To the members of their synod or assembly was given the name
of seniores, or elders, to whom; in their collective capacity, be-
longed the right of appointing and ordaining those who engaged
in the ministerial office. To these, when settled in any particular
locality, was given the name of Bishop, a dignity not different from
that of presbyter or pastor. These bishops were subject to the
discipline of the College of Iona, with which they kept up a regu-
lar correspondence. They taught and preached the truths of the
Scriptures, but had no fellowship with the Church of Rome. ++
The Columbian institutions were formed for residence, teaching,
and for worship. They were not only beneficial to the Scots and
northern Picts; but were also advantageous to the northern Eng-
glisb, as an asylum from the severities of war.
   The original monastery of Dunkeld, like the Abbey of Iona,

<FOOTNOTE>Hollingshed, Vol. i. p. 204, and Smith's Life of St Columba, p. 13.  Dean
Mill, in his MS. History of the Dunkeld Bishops, says, that the monastery was
founded by Constantine III., King of the Picts, "about the year 729, being 226
years, 9 months, and 6 days after the church of Abernethy was built; others bring
it the length of 224 years." But Columba died on the 9th of June 597, leaving his
monasteries firmly settled, a people converted by his labours from Paganism to Christ-
ianity, and a name for the celebration of every age. Chalmers's Caled. Vol. 1. p. 323.
     The abbots of Dunkeld were persons of great influence in Scotland. Many of
them held offices of trust, and figured in several of the bloody scenes of the Scottish
Government. The Ulster Annals, under the year 865, state the death of Tuatbal
MacFergus, the Arcbbishop of Fortren, and Abbot of Dunkeld. The annalist mere-
ly means to speak of the primate by the florid expression of Archbishop. Under the
year 872, the same annals state the death of Flavertach Mac Murtach, the primate
of Dunkeld. These notices evince, in opposition to the claims of the Register of St
Andrews, that Dunkeld along held the primacy of the kingdom. Duncha, the Abbot
of Dunkeld, was slain at the battle of Duncrub, in the attempt to dethrone Duff.
Chron. No. 3. Innes. Under the year 964, the Ulster Annals state, that Crinan, the
Abbot of Dunkeld, married Bethoe, one of the two daughters of Malcolm JL., and fell
in battle 1045, in an attempt to restore her grandson to the throne. Ethelred, the
son of Malcolm III., was Abbot of Dunkeld. Crawford's Officers ofState, p. 430.
   The Culdees employed their time in teaching and transcribing the Scriptures,
not indeed in the Hebrew, but in the Latin translation. Religion of the Ancient
Irish, p. 6.  They also instructed the people in secular knowledge.


