
     of Dalry.

   Those spots of land which we call crofts are generally
allowed to be at least twice as valuable as the same spots
in their original state.  Some, indeed, have alleged, that
lands, which are naturally very rich pasture, or have been
made so by improvements, are damaged by tillage.  How-
ever this be, with respect to lands which are naturally poor
and scanty of soil, it is, if not self-evident, at least an un-
doubted fact, well known to every husbandman of expe-
rience, that the more they are cultivated and manured, the
fitter they must be for pasture, when prepared for and ap-
plied to that purpose.  Of this fact any one may have ocu-
lar demonstration in the farm of Grennan, which has been
long almost entirely used for pasturage.  The greater part of
it is hard land, yet some of it the best pasture of any in the
parish.  The hard land in this farm is of two kinds, com-
monly distinguished by the names of outfield and infield.
The former is that which has been generally applied to
pasturage, seldom tilled, and scantily manured, which,
therefore still continues to be the poorest part of the farm.
The latter is that which, lying nearest the farm-houses, has
been frequently tilled and plentifully manured, which,
therefore, is now the finest pasture in the farm, except in
dry summers, when the holming land, from the depth as
well as from the moistness of the soil, is greatly preferable.
What has been said, seems sufficient to cinvince proprietors
of arable lands which are not exceedingly rich, that they
are not damaged, but improved by tillage and manure.

<FOOTNOTE>

ser, may without expense, may, with clear profit afford lodging and sub-
sistence to many an honest and industrious family for if a farm let to one
man, yields the proprietor only L. 100 a-year, but would yield him L. 150,
at let to ten, is it not manifest that he would gain L. 50 a year, by letting
at to 10 instead of one?  By this method he would be a gainer, not only in
respect of the additional rent, but also of the superior melioration of the
lands when possessed by many, to that which would be expected, if they
were possessed by one.
    

