
     Statistical Account

   Character of the People, etc.-They are temperate, indu-
strious, and frugal, moderate in their principles, and regu-
lar in their attendance on public worship and the other or-
dinances of religion.  They are all of the Established
Church, except 5 or 6 who occasionally attend Episcopal
meetings.  The dress of both sexes is considerably impro-
ved of late, especially among the young.  In all places of
public resort they appear in their best clothes, with a chear-
ful countenance and contented mind.  Their houses in ge-
neral are bad, and have not that appearance of cleanliness
and neatness which is always commendable.  But as the
heritors are disposed to give every reasonable encourage-
ment to the sober and industrious, we may soon hope to
see a spirit of improvement prevailing in their houses si-
milar to that which they have already begun to show in
their dress.

   Advantages and Disadvantages.-The only disadvanta-
ges are short leases, services, and the distance from manure
and from market.  Most of these are capable of redress.
It has already been mentioned, that one gentleman, who is
proprietor of more than half of the parish, has dispensed
with the usual services; and it may be added, that he is
disposed to grant long leases on equal terms, with every o-
ther encouragement that has a tendency to make his te-
nants prosper.  If the other heritors were to convert their
services and customs, they would promote their own inte-

<FOOTNOTE>

progress, he may have seen or heard of Christ's Kirk.  Now, what place
more likely to strike the fancy of this Monarch, than one distinguished by
so singuar a custom.  The circumstance of the market at midnight, may
be supposed to fall in with his humour, and give birth to such scenes as
he had described.  Even the name of this performance is descriptive of
the place; for the Green still encircles the ruins of the Kirk, and it is be-
sides the only one in Scotland that I am acquainted with, to which the
name of the ballad is applicable.


