
52                      RENFREWSHIRE.

power; 300 persons employed in it; their average wages amount to
L.115 per week.
   Houston Cotton Mill, on the burn of Houston, occupied by Mr
Arrol, built about the year 1793. The present occupier has since
added about one-third to the building, and filled it with machinery.
It is 95 feet long within the walls, 33 1/2 wide, and 4 stories high,
containing 9000 mule spindles, with preparations, driven by a water
wheel 30 feet diameter, by 4 wide, reckoned at about IS horse power.
There is also an enoine attache d to this mill, which is employ-
ed in drv weather. The number of workers engaged is about
140; 17 of these are spinners from twenty-five to forty-five years of
age, the rest are boys and girls from ten to twenty years of age.
The occupier of this mill has not stated any thing respecting the
wages of the work-people; but remarks, that there are several capi-
tal sites in the upper parts of the united parishes for collecting
water in winter, which if held in lease by him, would supersede the
fire-engine, butthe rent asked for the land there was more than
could be given. Several of the proprietors of mills upon the Gryfe
have made similar remarks, stating their wish to have additional re-
servoirs of water, but that a higher rent for the land was asked than
they could agree to pay.
   Houston Bleachfield, on Houston Burn, occupied by Messrs J.
and J. Carlisle, is mostly employed by the manufacturers of Glas-
gow and Paisley. About 50 people are engaged in the bleaching
annually of about 4000 lbs. cotton yarn, and 60,000 lbs. linen yarn
and thread, and in the whitening and drying of about 12000 lbs. of
Chinese raw silk. The men are paid at the rate of 9s. to L. 1,
and the females from 5s. to 7s. per week. They are mostly na-
tives of Argyleshire.
                V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Villages.-There are three villages. The nearest market-town
is Paisle seven miles distant from the church of Houston; but
there is a market for a variety of articles also in the large and po-
polous village,of Johnstone, about three miles distant.
   Ecclesiastical State.-Tbe church was built in 1775, is con-
niently situated, an accommodates above 800 people. Di-
vine service is generally well attended. There are no Dissent-
ing or Seceding chapels within the united parishes; but there are
houses of worship for most of the different, descriptions of Dissent-
ers and Seceders, not distant, in several neighbouring parishes.
The manse was built about thirty-two vews ago. The grebe is


