
732                              FIFESHIRE.

 before,the session, in 1705, of one Dr Sibbald, a physician, who
appears to have been a very worthless character; and the exami-
nation, in 1704, of one Lillias Adie, accused of witchcraft, who
afterwards died in the jail of Dunfermline, and was buried within
the flood-mark between the villages of Torryburn and Torrie. Mr
Logan's great hobby appears to have been the prosecution of
witches; and, April 4, 1709, Helen Kay was rebuked before the
congregation for having said that the minister " was daft," when
she " heard him speak against the witches."
  In 1697, a great mortality prevailed in the parish, the burials
that year amounting to 114. It was a time of great scarcity all over
the country; and the tradition is, that the people died in conse-
quence of unwholesome food, and of an immoderate use of a particu-
lar kind of fish which they caught in the frith. Nothing is remem-
bered of a more modern date that is worthy of notice. Only it
may be noticed, that Torryburn appears to have been in its most
flourishing state about sixty or seventy years ago. As a place of
enterprise it never has recovered from the effects of the failure of
the then proprietor of Crombie. The coal and salt works, which
had previously been in full operation, were abandoned; and, in so
far as a flourishiog trade invests a locality with importance and in-
terest, it must now be said of Torryburn, that it has seen better
days.
  Chief Land-owners.- Without reckoning the lands annexed
quoad sacra to Saline, but including that part of Saline annexed
quoad sacra to Torryburn, the parish is divided among seven pro-
prietors, whose valued rent is L.5377 1/3 Scots, and whose real
rental may probably amount to nearly the same sum in Sterling
money. The present proprietors, with their valued rent in Scots
money, are:-

	Andrew Colville of Ochiltree and Croumbie,	    L. 1640 2/3
	Captain James Erskine Wemyss of Wernyss and Torrie,	1475
	Andrew Wellwood of Garvoch and Pitliver,  .   . 	738
	Henry Beveridge of Inzievar,  .      .        .         718
	The Heirs of Sir Robert Preston, Bart. of Valleyfield,	414 1/3
	The Heirs of General Farquharson of Oakley,     	335 3/20      '
	Miss Erskine of Dunimarle, &c.   .     .                 56

  Autiquities.-These are few in number, comprising the ruins of
the small church of Crombie, occupying a commanding situation
overlooking the frith; and a large stone at a place called the
Tolbzies, supposed to have been erected as a memorial of a fight
at some remote period.
  Modern Buildings. -The only edifice of this description worthy
                               3


