
     Statistical Account

immediately where it flows.  One half is within the parish of
Tungland, and the other in the parish of Kirkcudbright.  Al-
though it is commonly called the Tungland fishery, yet all
the grounds contiguous to the river, on the Kirkcudbright
side, belong to the Earl of selkirk+.  The fishery below is
carried on by what are called fish yairs.  They are 13 in num-
ber; one half adapted for the flood, and the other for the
ebb tide.  Some belong to the town, but the greater part to
the Earl of Selkirk.  They are rented at about 100 l.  The
leccee of the town's fishery is restricted by his tack, from sell-
ing his fish to any but the inhabitants of the burgh, and is
not allowed to sell them higher than 3 d. per pound, even
the earliest season.  In the month of June he must sell the
salmon at 2 d., and the grilses at 1 1/2 d. per pound.  This was a
very humane regulation of the magistrates and town council,
for the benefit of the poorer citizens, who, by this indulgence,
participate a little of the revenues of the burgh.
   The number of salmon, grilses, and white trouts, that are
annually caught in the doughs or cruives, in the upper, or
Tungland fishery, is almost incredible.  They are all shipped
for the English market, Liverpool and Whitehaven, and fetch
excellent prices, especially in the early fishing season.  But
the method of fishing, practised by the fishermen, in the up-
per works, is most destructive to the lower fisheries.  The
doughs are raised so high, that scarce a fish can get over, unless
there is an immense swell in the river Dee, which seldom hap-
pens during the fishing season.
   The spars also, which are fixed across the river, in these
doughs, to prevent the fish from getting up, instead of being

<FOOTNOTE>

+A considerable part of this fishery, called the Sand-bed, within the tide mark,
was also unquestionably, in former times,the property of his Lordship.  How-
ever, at present, he enjoys no part of this fishery.  By a gradual and iniquitious
encroachment upon his right, this part of the fishery was unjustly wrested from
him.


