
                          LANGTON.                        241

ed by the presbytery, after hearing the evidence (on oath) of
Messrs William Moscript and James Walkinshaw, wrights, and
John, Daniel, and Alexander Gilkie, * masons. A new manse
and offices were then built on a different site; and an excambion
of the grebe took place, with the consent of Sir Alexander Cock-
burn of Langton, and Alexander Cockburn of Blacksmiln, who
were present at the meeting. The manse then built was occupied
till 1766, when the present was erected by Mr Gavin. Another
excambion of the glebe was then also agreed to, but subsequently
amended, as being less advantageous to the living. In the year
1819, an important addition to the manse was made by the late
Marquis of Breadalbane.
   The minister of Langton before the Restoration was Mr John
Burn, who retained his charge till the time of his death in 1671.
He seems to have been an exceedingly pious and amiable man.
More zealously attached to Presbyterian principles than many of
his brethren, he attended the presbytery only twice after the es-
tablishment of Episcopacy, and yet be remained unmolested till                       I
the year 1670, when be allowed some of the ejected ministers to
assist him at a communion. He experienced much kindness and
countenance from the Cockburns of Langton. Like the Humes
of Polwarth and Redbraes, and the Kerrs of Nisbet, this distin-
guished family was eminent for piety, and suffered in the cause of
civil and religious liberty. In 1679 they established a meeting
in one of the houses attached to Langton Castle, where they had
regularly preaching from Mr Luke Ogle,+ (the friend of Mr Gil-
bert Rule, afterwards Principal of the University of Edinburgh,)
Mr John Veitch of Westruther, and Mr Daniel Douglas. This
meeting must have been connived at by the bishop and the Duke
of Lauderdale, for none of the parishioners were molested for at-
tending it, except John Galloway, the beadle, whom the presby-
tery appointed to be "put out of his office." There is reason to
believe that practical religion flourished greatly in the parish, and
that the preaching of Mr Ogle was eagerly resorted to by serious

<FOOTNOTE>The last three were ancestors of some of the present inhabitants of Gavinton.
          Sir Alexander Cockburn resided at that time in Langton Castle, which stood
in what is now called the Little Byres Park. A chapel was soon afterwards, erected
in Langton-wood, opposite Haining- Rigg, which was occupied by Mr Ogle, and
where John Veitch is reported to have preached occasionally, and baptized the chil-
dren of some of the parishioners. The Duke of Lauderdale, though applied to by
some of the Episcopalians, refused to institute proceedings against Mr Veatch for
preaching in the chpel. After the Revolution, when the parish church was again
filled by a Presbyterian minister, it is probable that the chapel was granted to the
handful of Episcopalians who resided in the neighbourhood; and from this circum-
stance it was erroneously supposed to have been an Episcopal chapel.

    BERWICK.                                    2


