
			GLASGOW.			229

first families in the country. Intermarriages with the neighbour-
ing gentry had been frequent in the preceding century; and early
in this, Robert Bogle, and Peter Murdoch, married daughters of
Sir Michael Stewart of Blackhall, and Peter Bogle married a
daughter of the Viscount of Garnock. The people were in ge-
neral religious, and particularly strict in their observance of the
Sabbath,--some of them, indeed, to an extent that was considered
by others to be extravagant. There were families who did not
sweep or dust the house, did not make the beds, or allow any food
to be cooked or dressed on Sunday. There were some who opened
only as much of the shutters of their windows as would serve to
enable the inmates to move up and down, or an individual to sit
at the opening to read.
	 "Influenced by this regard for the Sabbath, the magistrates em-
ployed persons termed 'compurgators,' to perambulate the city
on the Saturday nights; and when, at the approach of twelve
o'clock, these inquisitors happened to hear any noisy conviviality
going on, even in a private dwelling-house, they entered it, and
dismissed the company. Another office of these compurgators was
to perambulate the streets and public walks, during the time of
divine service on Sunday, and to order every person they met
abroad, not on necessary duty, to go home, and if they refused to
obey, to take them into custody.
	"The employment of these compurgators was continued till about
the middle of the century, when, taking Mr Peter Blackburn (fa-
ther of Mr Blackburn of Killearn,) into custody for walking on
Sunday in the Green, he prosecuted the magistrates for an unwar-
ranted exercise of authority, and prevailing in his suit in the Court
of Session, the attempt to compel this observance was abandoned.
	"The wealth introduced into the community after the union,
opening the British Colonies to the Scotch, gradually led to a
change of the habits and style of living of the citizens. About
the year 1735, several individuals built houses, to be occupied
solely by themselves, in place of dwelling on a floor, entering from
a common stair, as they hitherto had done. This change, how-
ever, proceeded veey slowly, and up to the year 1755 to 1760, very
few of these single houses had been built,--the greater part of the
most wealthy inhabitants continuing to a much later period to oc-
cupy floors, in very many cases containing only one public room.
	"After the year 1740, the intercourse of society was by evening
parties, never exceeding twelve or fourteen persons, invited to tea
	LANARK. 			2


