
                             BELLIE.                               121

ley was wont to be the staple crop, but since the suppression of
illicit distillation in the Highlands, which lessens the demand for
that produce, wheat is very generally cultivated, yielding from seven
to nine returns. Oats are still in favour, but not so extensively sown
as formerly. Potatoes and turnips form on every farm a large
proportion of the crop. The fields are well dressed, and, in addi-
tion to the manure of the stable and farm-yard, and sea-weed or
"ware" (which were formerly used,) lime is now very generally
adopted, both as a compost and spread in an unmixed state upon
the field. Considerable quantities of herring soil from the fishing
station at Port-Gordon, are now also purchased by the farmer, and
made into compost both for turnip and wheat. Bone manure has
likewise been tried, in some instances, with considerable success.
   Live-Stock.-The black-cattle amount to about 690; horses to
166; and sheep to 1370.
   Produce.-The average annual gross amount of raw produce
raised in the parish may be reckoned as follows, upon a moderate
calculation, viz.

<TABLE>

  Produce of grain of every description,                     L. 7659  0  0
             potato, turnip, and green crop,                     992  0  0
             hay,                                               1875  0  0
  On graziag cattle and pasturing sheep during the season,      1032  0  0
  Annual thinning of wood.                                      1000  0  0
  Average produce of the Spey fishing,	                    16,400  0	 0
  Miscellaneous produce,                                         150  0  0

                                                Total,     L. 29,108  0  0
   Salmon-Fishing.-The salmon-fishing of the Spey has long
been famous. It extends from the mouth of the river about
nine or ten miles, and yields a revenue to the Duke of Richmond
of L. 8200 Sterling a year. By a recent enactment of the Legis-
lature, the fishing begins on the 1st of February, and ends on the
14th September. Salmon trout appear in the end of March, and
grilse about the beginning of June. A spacious mansion for the
gentlemen holding the lease, with an extensive court and range
of buildings commodiously fitted for every purpose connected with
the fishings, occupies a prominent station on the beach near the
mouth of the river. The greater part of the fish  is sent to
London, covered with ice, in boxes peculiarly constructed for the
purpose. Eight smacks are, constantly employed in this traffic
during the season, each at the expense of L.40 a mouth. The
demand in the English market is usually so great, that the price
of salmon is always high on the river side, being usually sold
at 1s. 6d. per lb. to the 1st of June, when it falls during the re-


