
			  CORSTORPHINE.                        233

dow, in a vaulted arch, there is a recumbent stone figure of a man,
with a sword hanging at his side; the head resting on a stone-cushion,
and the feet on the figure of a dog.  On the front of the arch are
three armorial shields; 1 Party per fess, a ship within a bordure
in the upper half, and a cross raguled on the lower half, Sinclair
of Orkney impaling Forrester, three hunting horns stringed.
2. Forrester; 3.  Forrester, having in the centre an escutcheon of
pretence charged with a cross, raguled Sinclair.  From the family
arms being engraved on it, this must be the tomb of one of the
Forresters, and probably represents Sir Alexander Forrester.*
   On the north side of the chancel, under two similar vaults, are
other stone figures in the same style of antique sculpture. The
figures in the recess nearest to the body of the church represent
Sir John Forrester, the founder of the Collegiate Church, and
one of his ladies.  Fronting this arch are five shields armorial,
viz. 1. Forrester, three hunting horns stringed; 2. Forrester im-
paling St Clair of Orkney; quarterly, first and fourth, a ship, se-
cond and third, a cross; 3. Forrester; 4. Forrester impaling a
fess cheque Stewart; 5. Forrester.  The figures under the other
recess represent his son Sir John Forrester and his lady, and front-
ing these figures are the three following shields armorial, viz. 1.
Forrester; 2. Forrester impaling Stewart, a fess cheque; 3. For-
rester, indicating that his lady's name was Stewart.+
   On the wall of the chancel there is the following inscription
Istud Collegium incepit anno Domini 1429, et eodem anno
Magister Nicholayus Banachtyne prepositus hic, subtus jacens
qui obiit anno Domini 147-. Cujus anniversarius simul posterisque
Magistris celebrabitur 14 die mensis Junii pro quo annutis reddi-
tus 10 librarum in villa de novo Kirk Cramond.  Orate pro papa
et eo.+
   This inscription may be rendered thus in English:- "This Col-
legiate church was begun in the year of our Lord 1429, and in
the same year Mr Nicol Bannatyne was Provost here, who lying
beneath, died in the year 147-; a commemoration of him and his
successors in office will be celebrated on the 14th of June annually,
for which an annual rent of L. 10 is set apart out of the lands of
New Kirk Cramond.-Pray for the Pope and for him."
  There are besides in the chancel, the niche where the basin of

<FOOTNOTE>Douglas Perage by Wood, voce Forrester.    Ibid.
          This inscription is in English characters with numerous abbreviations, and
the last five words of it are partly erased.


