
     2                                ORKNEY.

     from the sea edge, being in height apparently from 12 to 20 feet,
     and adorned with beautiful stalactites of lime.
        Hydrography. -In the parish, are several ponds, rivulets, and
     springs of excellent water; and about two miles south of the town
     there is a pretty strong chalybeate spring, called Blakely's well, to
     which invalids formerly resorted.
        Geology.-- The prevailing rock is argillaceous schistus, frequent-
     ly alternating with a coarse sandstone, in some instances of a white
     and in others of a red colour, sometimes containing veins of limestone
     with iron pyrites. The clay-slate is frequently traversed by small
     veins of lime, and occasionally by heavy spar, containing small crys-
     tals of galena.  It is also often found highly impregnated with bitumi-
     nous matter, which gives it a black colour, and when recently brok-
     en, a tarry smell. The subsoil is, for the most part, a very reten-
     tive clay, as might be inferred from. the great prevalence of clayey
     strata.  There, are considerable extents of peat moss.  The soil
     in the arable grounds is chiefly a good black loam, with either a
     clay or gravelly bottom.
        Botany.-The botany of the parish presents nothing rare or pe-
     culiar.  Gardening is, for the climate, practised pretty successfully.
     Besides currants, gooseberries, and strawberries, which attain a good
     size and ripen well, apples, pears, and cherries tbriv well; and
     in one garden, grapes are produced by the aid of artificial heat.
     Forest,trees, except under shelter, do not succeed, partly, no doubt,
     owing to the sea air, but probably more to the strength of the tree
     being spent in repeated germinations during the winter, arising
     frow the prevalence of open weather alternating with slight frosts.
        Zoology.--Of animals the parish contains no rare species.  Rabbits
     are not numerous, and till about twelve years ago, there were no hares,
     but a few pairs having been then introduced,they have rapidly multi-
     plied, to the no small annoyance and damage of the farmers. The
     commons abound with plovers, grouse, snipe, and other species of
     game.  Sea birds in great variety frequent the rocks, and bays of
     the parish. Of the domestic animal the cows and horses are ge-
     nerally rather small in size, but considerbly larger than those of
     the Shetland Isles, Sheeep, pigs, geese, ducks, turkeys, and, fowls,
     are reared in considerable numbers, and many are exported, as well
     as horses and black-cattle, especially since the commencement of
     steam navigation.
        Fisheries.--On the coast, fish of all the kinds common in Scot-
     land, and of excellent qualit abound. The cole-fish, in all its


