
                             DALRY.                          233

introduction of the power-loom. For early directing their atten-
tion to the higher descriptions of work, with which the power-
looms cannot enter into competition, they thus saved their circum-
stances from undergoing that degree of depression which their fel-
low operatives endured in many other places.
  In the former Account it was mentioned, that a company had
erected a mill for the spinning of cotton, to which a large addition
was in progress of building. Since that time, it has fallen into the
possesion of one individual, who converted it into a woollen card-
ing and spinning-mill. It is driven by a large water-wheel, to
which a steam engine has lately been added. Last year it was
entirely fitted up with new machinery, for the slobing and spinning
of carpet yarn. It gives employment to nine men, four women,
and thirty boys and girls. The men receive from 6s. to 12s. per
week, the women 4s. to 6s., and the children from 2s. 6d. to 5s.
per week. This employment is not unfavourable to health.
  A large number of the females in the parish are employed in
sewing and embroidering for the Glasgow and Paisley markets,
usually denominated Ayshire needle-work. A good sewer may
earn 1d. each hour at ordinary white work. For a short pe-
riod during summer, when embroidery is brisk, 1s. 6d. to 2s. per
day is occasionally earned at from fourteen to sixteen hours sitting.
But this is gained at the probable sacrifice of health.
  At Auchingree a small manufactory is established for turning
wooden plates, ladles, and other culinary utensils,-it is driven
by a small steam engine of two horse power.
  Agricultural Association.-The Ardrossan Farmers' Society
comprises this parish within its bounds, the annual cattle exhibi-
tion and ploughing-match being occasionally held here. The
general Ayrshire Agricultural Association has determined to hold
their exhibition in Cunninghame, at Dalry, alternately with Kil-
marnock.

                V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
  Town.-Dalry, the only town in the parish, is distant five miles S.
W. from Beith, sixteen from  Paisley, seven N. W. from Irvine, and
fourteen from Kilmarnock, where a weekly grain market is held. It is
beautifully situated on a considerable eminence on the right bank
of the Garnock, betwixt the confluences of Rye and Caaf with
that river, and appears to considerable advantage when viewed from
the S. E. It owes its origin to the removal of the church to its
present site, about 1608. At the beginning of last century there







  


