

   92                               ORKNEY.


                                        Brought over,             232 tons.
  Thomas Traill,-In Cross,     .      .                 18
                 In Burness,                           220
                                                                 -238

  Bollaguoy and Skelbuster, with the minister's glebe in Cross,
     made about                                                    10
                                                                 ------
                                                  Total,          480 tons.

  Say 480 tons of marketable kelp, which, from its very superior
quality, always met with a ready sale at Dumbarton and Newcas-
tle, and so lately as the years 1825-26, and 27, (it having been
much higher priced previous to that time,) left a clear average re-
turn to the proprietor of L.9 per ton, making L.4320. This
source of revenue is now almost wholly cut off. The use of kelp
in the manufacture of glass has been superseded by Spanish
barilla, brought in at a low duty, and still more, it is said, by new
chemical discoveries in the art of glass making. The only de-
mand now for kelp comes from chemical works on the Frith of
Forth, and Lord Normanby's alum works near Whitby; but the
prices offered are such as will do little more than cover the ex-
pense of manufacture and the freight.
  It may be easily supposed that the abstraction of so large an
amount of revenue from the proprietors of these parishes, in com-
mon with the other proprietors of Orkney, must have been severe-
ly felt, not only by themselves, but also by the farmers, peasantry,
and trades-people dependent upon them; and this the more, that
formerly in Orkney every consideration was sacrificed to kelp. Agri-
culture was much, neglected, and even the fisheries, for which the
county is so well adapted, were unattended to. So long ago as 1804
Dr Patrick Neill of Edinburgh warned the proprietors, of what has
actually happened, in these words: " Should a cheap process for
extracting the I soda from sea water happen to be discovered, or
should the market for kelp on any other account unexpectedly fail,
the landholders of Orkney will find, when too late, the great il-
prudence of thug neglecting the cultivation and improvement of
their lands." The consequence has been, that several extensive
properties have been forced into the market, and partly from an
absurd notion that the failure in the manufacture of kelp would
have the effect of lowering the land rents, and making their reco-
very uncertain,-partly from the want of tenants of sufficient skill
and capital to take the manor farms, and follow out the very ex-
tensive and,in many cases, highly judicious improvements which
had been begun by the proprietors; but, above all, from the entire

<FOOTNOTE>Tour through Orkney and Shetland, by Patrick Neill. Edinburgh, 1806.


