
                                 KILMALIE.                              121

       took place in this parish during the rebellion of 1745.  Lochiel hav-
       ing joined Prince Charles, Clan Cameron followed their chief, a mea-
       sure of which they had sufficient cause to repent.  The royal army,
       after the Prince was finally defeated at Culloden, pitched their
       camp at Fort Augustus, and sent plundering parties to Lochaber,
       who drove away all the cattle in the country, burnt the houses, and
       drove the miserable inhabitants, old and young, without food or
       clothing, to the hills.  They killed several persons in cold blood.
       About 400 of the royal army, passing up Locharkaig side, found a
       young man of the name of Cameron, having a gun in his possession.
       Without civil or military trial, the unfortunate youth was posted
       up and shot, by an order from Grant of Knoc-ceanach, who com-
       manded a party of the Ross-shire militia.  Dugal Roy Cameron,
       the incensed father of the slain youth, watched the party as they
       were returning with their plunder.  Grant of Knoc-ceanach, whe-
       ther designedly or not, gave his horse to Major Munro of Culcairn;
       and Dugal, mistaking his man, shot the amiable major.  Dugal es-
       caped, after throwing away the discharged musket.  He got again
       before the party, and took his stand in a narrow pass, with the
       view of doing more execution; but the party were so long detained,
       that they escaped without meeting their incensed enemy again;-
       but he taught them not to come back on a similar expedition.  There
       was no more burning or plundering in Lochaber, though a party of
       the royal army were quartered for years at the head of Locharkaig.
       Dugal Roy Cameron was never discovered.  He served afterwards
       as a private in the royal army.  Many of his connections are still
       in this country. *
         Land-owners.-The land-owners in this parish are, Mr Came-
       ron of Lochiel; Colonel M'Lean of Ardgour; Sir Duncan Came-
       ron of Fassfern, Bart.; Mr Patrick Cameron of Glenevis; and Mr
       John Cameron of Berbice.
         Parochial Registers.-The parish register commences in 1772,

 <FOOTNOTE>tory; and at length in the 42d year of his age, upon the memorable 16th day of June
       A. D. 1815, was slain in the command of that corps, while actively contributing to
       achieve the decisive victory of Waterloo, which gave peace to Europe.  Thus closing
       his military career with the long and eventful struggle in which his services had been
       so often distinguished, he died, lamented by that unrivalled General to whose long train
       of success he had so often contributed; by his country, from which he had repeatedly
       received marks of the highest consideration ; and by his Sovereign, who graced his sur-
       viving family with those marks of honour which could not follow to this place, him
       whose merit they were designed to commemorate.  Reader, call not his fate untime-
       ly, who, thus honoured and lamented, closed a life of fame by a death of glory."
          * Samuel Cameron, who, by his Lochaber axe, killed the pious and brave Colonel
       Gardiner at Prestonpans, was a native of this parish.  His grandson is one of the
       elders of this parish at present.  He used to say, that he and his comrade acted in
       self-defenc for that the Colonel galloped up to them and attacked them.


