
74                     INVERNESS-SHIRE.

much reason to complain of insincerity even in religious profession,
and of mere formality in religious observances, there are still, com-
paratively speaking, but few instances of open profanation,, and of a
marked contempt of the ordinances of religion.  SMUggliDg, which
at one time prevailed to a great extent, and tended more to demo-
ralize the people than any thing ever introduced into the country,
has been of late years entirely abandoned, and a sensible ameliora-
tion in the morals of the inhabitants has in consequence taken place.
                       IV.--INDUSTRY.

Agriculture.--The parish, so far as known to the writer, not
having at any time undergone a regular measurement, no statement
to be relied upon can be given of the relative quantities of land,
arable or uncultivated, or of the number of acres which may be un-
der wood.  It may be mentioned, however, that it must always be
more a pastoral than an agricultural parish; and, consequently, the
land susceptible of regular culture is, comparatively speaking, but
of limited extent.  The greater part of it now consists of large
sheep walks.  The management of plantations, in respect of prun-
ing and thinning, is pretty good; and they are in a very thriving
condition.
Rent of Land.--Land rents at an average. of from L. 1, 5s. to
L. 1, 10s. per acre, so far as we can ascertain.
Rate Of Wages.-Day-labourers receive in summer Is. per day
with, and 1s. 6d. without, victuals; and women 6d. or 9d., ac-
cording as they supply themselves with food or not; when en-
gaged at harvest work, they receive Is. per day, with victuals.
Mason's work, at from 2s. 3d. to 2s. 6d., whenhired by the day,
and carpenters at 2s.  Carpenter work, per yard of roofing or
flooring, including materials, 3s. 6d.., and per foot of windows,
including glass, 2s. 6d. ; mason work, per rood, materials included,
L. 6, 1 Os. or exclusive of materials'.  L. 2. Plasterers work, Is.
6d. per yard; staters, L. 6 per rood, both including materials
blacksmiths when hired by the day receive in general about 2s. 6d.
  Prices of Provisions- Oatmeal on an average of seven years
has sold for about 20s. the boll, of nine stones; bear or big-meal,
the same as oatmeal, with ten stones to the boll: beef, 5d. or 6d.
per lb.; mutton, 6d. per ditto; cheese, 7s., and butter 18s., the
stone of 24 lbs.
  Husbandry.--The sheep reared here are generally of the black-
faced kind, with a very few Cheviots for family use; and the cattle
consist chiefly of the Highland, with a few of the Ayrshire breed.
                             3 

