
     Statistical Account

of its comforts; for which, as there is no market in the
country, there is generally sufficient consumption found in
the family through the largesses of hospitality, munificence,
and charity, for which they are justly celebrated.
   A small tenant farm is a little commonwealth of villagers,
whose houses or huts are huddled close together with too
little regard to form, order, or cleanliness, and whose lands
are yearly divided by lot for tillage, while their cattle graze
on the pastures in common.  The small tenants in this coun-
try, who hold immediately of the proprietor, have leases like
the principal tacksmen, and possess, some a penny, some half
a penny, and some a farthing, of lands.  The stock or soam-
ing for the pasture of a farthing land is 4 milch cows, 3 or
perhaps 4 horses, with as many sheep on the common as the
tenant has luck to rear.  The crops vary according to the
different qualities of the farms, but may be computed in ge-
neral at 4 or 5 bolls a farthing, for which the tenant gene-
rally pays from 30 s. to 40 s. rent.  This might be reckoned
good pennyworth of lands; but when it is considered that
the cattle of these tenants, miserably fed throughout the year,
and often dying through mere want in the spring season, are
neither marketable nor yield much milk, besides that their
crops are commonly insufficient to support their families for
half the year, the poverty of this class of people in general
is easily accounted for.  At the fame time most of them live
as well as people of their rank and occupation in other coun-
tries; and some more happily situated than others live even
in a comfortable stile.  In regard of living, the tacksmens
tenants are on much the same footing with those who hold
the same quantity of land of the proprietor, though in most
instances they pay more rent and are removable at pleasure.
Their common food is potatoes, fish, barley or oat bread,
milk, egg, kail, fowls, and sometimes a little mutton or


