
			   CRAWFORDJOHN.                      499

nured, and producing tolerable crops, only when, in the early part
of summer, the showers of rain are frequent. All the croft lands
are excellent, and present many varieties of soil; and, though at
one time rather exhausted by cropping, yet lately they have been
allowed to recover, and are now judiciously indulged with a rest
during a few years of pasturage. All the mossy grounds are deep,
and need both to be thoroughly drained, and to have gravel or hard
soil mixed with them, before the labours of husbandry can be exe-
cuted; but as soon as the moss is reduced in quantity, and it is
possible for the plough to get through it, and the cart over it, the
abundant crops, even for three or four years in succession, reward the
farmer with an ample recompense. To any one who has been in
the parish, it is superfluous to add, how many are the acres of deep
moss, which hold out such encouragement to the active cultivator.
	Climate.--The climate is particularly moist. In addition to
long tracts of incessant rain at every season, many are the showers
which often fall every day, even in the course of the warmest and
driest summer. Children are liable to croup, and many die of it;
persons approaching puberty, or a few years past it, are often car-
ried off by pulmonary complaints, and many of both sexes, but par-
ticularly women in the prime of life, suffer much from complaints
of the stomach. Rheumatism prevails to a considerable extent,
and at times affects persons of all ages and in all ranks.
	Hydrography.--Duneaton is the only river, unless Snar and
Blackburn be honoured with the same appellation. It rises at the
foot of Cairntable, and runs the whole length of the parish, re-
ceiving such a supply from the almost numberless streams, which run
down from the hills on both sides of it, that for the last four or five
miles of its course, it is at an average about 40 feet broad. Like
all rivers in similar situations, it overflows its banks, after heavy
rains or a dissolution of snow, and spreads over the adjoining
holms; and is liable to a change in its course and fords. Every-
where the finest springs of water are to be met with, and many of
them, not more agreeable to the taste, than fitted for all domestic
purposes. In several places, there are chalybeate and petrifying
springs; and one, a few yards off the public road near the thirty-third
mile-stone from Glasgow, seems worthy of the careful examination
of the chemist.
	Mineralogy.--It is the fixed opinion of the natives of this district,
that many different minerals would be found in the parish, if at-
tempts to discover them were conducted upon a liberal scale, and
by scientific miners. The same range of hills, which proceeds from


