
            110                     ELGINSHIRE.

               Leases of farms usually extend to nineteen years. The great
            and unlooked for changes in the value of farm produce in the course
            of nineteen years may render it very difficult for the farmer, with
            all his industry, to fulfil his engagements.  Vnen this occurs, the
            good sense and good feeling of the landed proprietors have gene-
            rally pointed out the remedy.  They have come forward, and al-
            lowed a reduction of fifteen or twenty per cent. on the rent due.
            This never fails to produce the happiest effects by cherishing good
            will between landlord and tenant; while it encourages the families
            of a whole neighbourhood to persevere in that unremitting industry
            which, " provides things honest in the sight of all men."
               The chief improvements on the farms, of late years, are the ex-
            tensive enclosures already noticed; and to these may be added the
            draining of two mosses consisting of upwards of 150 acres.  Those
            farms which have not the benefit of enclosures nor of proper drains
            shew at once how much is lost by the want of them.
               Produce.-The rental of the parish being about L. 6000, would,
            according to the usual computation, give about L. 15,000 as the
            average yearly value of the raw produce of all kinds raised within
            the parish.
               It may be added that the valuation of the rental of most of the
            land is of an old date.  It is stated in the last process of Augmenta-
            tion to have been made in April 1629, and to have been then set
            down as 1563 bolls, 2 firlots of victual, and L. 164 Scots of mo  ney.
               A great part of the grain raised within the parish is shipped at
            Burghead or Findhorn, and sold in the London market.
                            V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
            Market-towns, &c.-The nearest market-towns are Elgin on the
        east, and Forres on the west.  The turnpike, lying in the most cen-
        trical parts of the parish, renders the communication with the towns
        very convenient.    Besides the mail to Inverness, there are two
        stage-coaches.
            There is no village within the parish.  The largest group of
        houses lies along the high road sowth of the church.  Among
        these, are two shops for the sale of groceries, meal, &c. ; there are
        also here, a tailor,, two shoemakers, and two wrights.  The sale of
        spirits is allowed only in two houses within the parish.  These are
        at a considerable distance from each other, and on different estates.
        As there  are no feus, the proprietor or factor can exercise an ef-
        ficient control over an improprieties of conduct on the part of the
        occupants of single houses or shops.
            On one of the estates, a range of cottars' houses has been erect-


