
                             KINTAIL.

    Linum, cadiarticuni			Rumex acetosa
    Lithospermum. maritimum.		Saxifraga, various
    Lysimachia, various			Scabiosa succisa
    Mentha hirsuta			Solidago Virgaurea
    Myrica Gale				Stattice Armeria
    Nirtheciurn ossifragum,		Stellaria Holostea
    Orchis, various			Teucrium Scorodonia
    Parnassia palustris			Thlaspi bursa-pastoria
    Oxalis acetosella			Thymus serpyllum
    Pinguicula vulgaris			Tormentilla offinalis
    Polygala, vulgaris			Tussilago
    Polygonum, various			Valeriana officnalis
    Rhinanthus Crista-galli		Veronica, &c.
    Ranunculus				Viola in great and beautiful profusion


  The climate, notwithstanding its dampness, appears to be most
favourable to the growth of plants and forest trees,-all the sorts
hitherto introduced having attained great perfection. The plant i
ings are, by no means, extensive in this parish, but are most
thriving. Larch, spruce, and Scotch firs grow rapidly; as do-
all the common forest trees, oak, ash, elm, birch. Many hot-
house plants attain very great perfection and size, in the open air.
There is, in particular, a hydrangea, in the parish, of uncommon
dimensions in these northern climates. - Its height is nearly 8 feet,
circumference 31 feet 3 inches. Some of its flowers measure 17
inches in circumference, and its annual average of flowers is about
300.
  Zoology.-It might be expected that, in a country so mountain-
ous, a great variety of animals would be found. The case is very
much the contrary. There is nothing rare or uncommon in this'
department. The fox, badger, polecat, martin, and weasel, are
numerous; hare and roe seldom seen, and deer are not nearly sd
numerous as many of the older inhabitants remember them to have
been. The reason of this is obvious ; the grazing on which the
deer, in former times, pastured, is now stocked with sheep, and be-
ing continually annoyed by shepherds' dogs, &c. they have for-
saken their old haunts. The boar and wolf are said to have once
existed in the district; but if ever this was the case, they have been
for generations extinct. The eagle, raven, and a great variety of
the hawk genus, are common. Plover, in large covies, are frequent-:
ly met with. Grouse not being at all preserved are not numerous -
and the heath being nearly burnt (for the better pasturing of sheep,)
they are at once deprived of cover and sustenance..
  In a country where the rights of hunting and fishing were, till
lately, held, co minon, it is difficult to convince the , people, they
are doing wrong, in killing, fish or shooting deer. And they re-


