
194                         ARGYLESHIRE.

nantry, the session funds are decreasing in the ratio of the increase
of the demands upon them, insomuch that here, after deducting,
the usual charges, the session funds admit only of the almost no-
minal allowance of 3s. for each pauper.  In this state of things,
matters, it is clear, cannot long remain.  Doubtless the heritors
will perceive the expediency and bounden obligation of forming,
by voluntary contributions, a more adequate provision for the wants
oi the poor, otherwise the session must adopt, as they will, though
with great reluctance, the only remaining alternative from which
they have hitherto, through the unduly taxed benevolence of some
resident families and individuals, been enabled with difficulty to
abstain.  During the prevalence of destitution in 1837 and 1838,
large supplies of food, &c. were here as elsewhere distributed
among the needy and destitute, through the patriotic and benevo-
lent exertions of a Christian public.  That the provision thus made
should tend in some degree to abate, if not to extinguish that com-
mendable reluctance to receive eleemosynary aid, by which the
people of this country were distinguished, is what might naturally be
expected; but it is strange that many on this ground should ques-
tion the wisdom of a measure which though attended with partial
evil, has tended so largely to alleviate human misery.
   Fairs.-A fair is held in the parish twice a-year, on the days
preceding the Mull summer and winter markets, for the sale of
black-cattle, and the hiring of servants, and the transaction of
district business.
   Ale-houses.-Properly speaking, there are no inns.  There are
three public-houses, comparatively respectable; and there are,
besides, three places of inferior description where spirits are sold.
   FueL.-The fuel in general use is turf or peats, procured at very
considerable trouble and expense.  Those that can afford to pur-
chase them, have coals, which here can be procured sometimes as
low as 12s. per ton, including freight.

                  MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   The contrast prerented by comparing the present with the for-
mer condition of Morvern, is not of a character inviting to any
lengthened detail.  From the subdivision of property, the general
appearance of the country is, to a certain extent, improved by in-
creased attention, in the more cultivated parts, to a more judicious
system of husbandry, the formation of planted and other enclo-
sures; but, owing to the depopulation of some, and the over
peopling of other districts, and, among other causes, the great


