
                        SOUTH KNAPDALE.                        269

cient, and better adapted to the trade than it had hitherto proved.
This led to a renewed application to Government for farther aid,
and to an Act in 1816, empowering the Barons of Exchequer in
Scotland to advance the sum of L.19,300, to repair and improve
the state of the canal ; but which sum Government saw proper to
direct to be expended, under the management of the Commission-
ers for the Caledonian Canal.  Previous to the expenditure of
thi sum, means were, in 1815 and 1816, adopted to renew the em-
bankment of Glen Clachaig, which had occasioned the damage in
1811, and to enlarge other reservoir embankments, so as to increase
the supply of water, previously very inadequate.  The expenditure
of the grant of L.19,300 took place in 1817, under the direction
of the late Thomas Telford, Esq. civil-engineer, principally by
contract; and included an extensive repair and renewal of lock-
gates, cutting down acute rocky bends, and straightening portions
of the banks, new bridges of cast iron, with a breakwater to en-
large and increase the shelter and extent of harbour at Ardrissaig,
&c.  Afterwards, by order of the Treasury, the pecuniary affairs
of the canal were placed under control of the Barons of Exchequer
at Edinburgh, to whom all accounts and vouchers are statedly for-
warded,-while the management of the canal is by the same au-
thority confided to the Commissioners for the Caledonian Canal,
to whom stated monthly and all other reports are made and ini-
structions received, regarding the work and the management of
the canal.
   After the above repair, the annual revenue of the canal has
been sufficient for its support, and for improvements and renewal
of works; still the canal requires and admits of improvement,
which, under the pecuniary circumstances in which it is seen to
be placed, can only be effected at the public expense.  The ave-
rage annual outlay on the canal for ten years preceding 1839, in
salaries and wages of officers, lock-keepers, and others and in
furnishings and labour for ordinary repairs, is L. 1254, 12s. 1d. ;
and for extraordinary works, being improvements and important
renewals of decayed works, L.570, 0s. 6d.; besides which, up-
wards of L.2000 of previous reserved revenue was expended in
extraordinary repairs in 1835, and upwards of L. 1000 in 1837 for
a new steam-boat pier and slip in the harbour of Ardrissaig.
   The canal was originally formed of larger dimensions than the
trade which could be reasonably expected to take advantage of-it,
required; but the change which has since taken place in the


