
440                     ABERDEENSHIRE.

   Boundaries and Extent.-Tullynessle and Forbes became a
united parish in the year 1808; and it is one of those unions
against which it would be difficult to raise any objection.  Forbes
had previously been, from the year 1722, joined to Kearn, from
which it is separated by the range of hills which bound the dis-
trict of Alford in that,direction ; and the minister; whose residence
was in the former parish, preached, the one Sunday at Forbes and
the other at Kearn.  The parishioners of Forbes now enjoy the
public ministrations of religion every Lord's-day.  A great pro-
portion of them are nearer to the church at Tullynessle than they
were to that at Forbes; and none have a greater distance to travel
than about three miles and a half.  At the same time, the united po-
pulation is not too large for the pastoral superintendence and labours
of the minister.  The length of the parish is about 7 miles, and its
breadth 4 miles.  With the exception of a single farm, and the
part of Caille-var belonging to it, which lie on the opposite side,
the river Don forms the southern boundary, separating it from the
parish of Alford ; and the parish of Keig is the east boundary.
On the west, it is bouiided by Auchindoir; and on the north, by
Leslie, Clatt, and Rhynie.  In these two last directions, it is se-
parated from the parishes mentioned, by a mountainous range, of
considerable elevation, at several points.  As to their exact height
above the level of the sea, the writer is unable to speak.  Caille-
var, on the opposite side of the river, is about 1350 feet above the
level of the sea, and the points-of Coreen, which is the general
name of this chain, at Lord Arthur's Seat and Lord Forbes's
Cairn, are probably about the same height.
   Taking the river Don as a line which intersects the district of
Alford from northwest to southeast, and viewing the district
in the circular form which has been given to it by the shape of its
mountainous boundary on all sides, Tullynessle and Forbes, with
the part of Keig lying on the same side of the rhver, constitutes
the northern portion of the circle.  The parish is intersected by
various ridges of hills, which descend from the boundary-chain in
a south-easterly direction towards the river.
   Meteorology and Hydrography.- There is little to be said upon

<FOOTNOTE>assigned for this by Sir Samuel Forbes, in his " View of the Diocese of Aberdeen,"
(MS.) is, " because the first of this family slew a wild ravenous boar near Castle For-
bes, where, at this day on a stone, the figure of that boar, though rudely carved, is
still seen."  According to the prevailing story, the actor in this bold exploit was de-
sirous to give proof of his undaunted courage to the young and beautiful heiress of
the Castle, whose name was Bess, and, having received her hand, as his reward, very
properly assumed a name commemorative of his valour-" For Bess!"


