
              430                       ARGYLESHIRE.

              establishment; but, at the Revolution, recanted, and was minister
              of Killarow, in Islay, where he died, May 1700.  Mr Dugald
              Campbell was ordained minister of Southend I Ith May 1696.
              Mr David Campbell, ordained 22d September 1742.  Mr Donald
              Campbell, admitted 3d September 1794, and translated to Kilnin-
              ver, in the Presbytery of Lorn, in 1798.     Mr John M'Keicb, ad-
              mitted the 8th May 1799; died the 16th June 1815.  Mr Da-
              niel Kelly, ordained 12th June 1816, and translated to Campbel-
              town 23d January 1833.  Mr Donald Campbell, ordained 9th
              May 1 833.
                Modern Buildings.-Since tbe publication of the last Statistical
              Account, there have been several new mansion-houses built by the
              residing beritors, and particularly those of Mr MIDODald of Bal-
              lyshear ; Dr M'Larty, Keil; Colonel M'Neill at Carskey ; and
              Mr M'Millan at Levenstrath.  There has also been built a new
              manse and school-house.  The most valuable public building in
              the parish is the light house at the Mull of Kintyre.
                   Light House atthe Mull of Kintyre.-The Mull of Kintyre
              lighthouse was begun to be built in 1786, and was finished in the
              year 1788, and is a work of great utility and importance for the
              navigation of the channel between Scotland and Irel`nd.  This
              establishment is one of the extensive range of lighthouses erected on
              the coast by the Board of the Commissioners of the Northern Light-
              houses, instituted by Act of Parliament in the year 1786, whose
              jurisdiction extends to the entire coast of Scotland and the Isle of
              Man.  The Light-house Commissioners by their first Act were
              authorized to collect small duties upon shipping, and in the first
              instance to erect only four light-houses upon the principal bead-
              lands of the coast, of wh .ich the Mull of Kintyre was one. The
              site of this building was very inaccessible, both by sea and land, as
              it is perched on a cliff about 280 feet above the level of the sea,
              and near to those rocks, known to mariners by the familiar name of
               "the Merchants." Towards the sea, a landing is opposed by the
              strength and current of the tides,-and the almost continually bois-
              terous state of the waves dashing upon this iron-bound shore, which
              consists, of immense masses of mica-slate aud quartz. The
              lighthouse on the opposite side is environed by mountains and
              morasses, and is about five miles from the nearest habitation.  The
              buildings were erected by Mr Peter Stuart of Campbelton, but
              the light-room and the reflecting apparatus were brought from
              Edinburgh, and carried chiefly upon men's shoulders over the


