
				AYRSHIRE.

ing English and grammar are 2s. a quarte; with writing added to
the above branches, 2s. 6d.; with writing and arithmetib added, 3s.:
with Latin, 5s., and for georgraphy, &c. no extra charge is made.
The amount received by the teacher yearly may be L. 30: he
has also L. 6 a year as session-clerk. There is a private school at
Sinclairston, on the west side of the parish, without any salary at-
tached to it, and usually attended by about 40 scholars. The
inhabitants of this parish are very much alive to the advantages
of education. They make every effort to send their children to
school, and though some of them have to go a considerable dis-
tance, they are regular in their attendance. There are no children
in the parish above eight year who cannot read, and there is good
reason to believe, that a single grown up person of a sound mind
cannot be found who is not able both to write and to read.
  Since the appointment of the present teacher, Mr Patrick Simson,
to his charge, which was forty-five years ago, many have gone forth
from the school of Ochiltree who now occupy respectable stations
in society, as ministers, doctors, merchants, &c. whose attain-
ments reflect much credit upon the instructor of their youth. There
is a small library connected with the parish school. Some time
ago, there were three friendly societies in the parish; but as they
were founded upon erroneous calculations, they did not answer
the purposes for which they were instituted, and they are now
given up altogether. There is a savings bank, which was esta-
blished in the year 1831, and is found to be a great benefit to
trades-people, farm-servants, &C.
  Poor and Parochial Funds.-There are generally about twenty
persons on the poor's roll, who receive a stated monthly allowance
of from 4s. to 8s., according to their individual circumstances, with
a part of their house rent paid. There are many more who receive
occasional aid in money and coals. The sum distributed amounts
to about L. 114 yearly, which is made up by collections in the
church L. 62; by proclamations and mortcloth, L. 2; by a volun-
tary contribution from the heritors, L. 50,--last year it amounted
to L. 127. The burden of providing for three insane persons who
are taken care of in the village presses very heavy upon the funds,
The persons on the roll are generally old and infirm. They never
resort to public begging. They do all they can for themselves,
and trust to the help given by the kirk-session, and to the spon-
taneous charity of their neighbours and friends.
   The inhabitants of this parish having determined, about three
years ago, not to supply vagrants, contributed a small sum to pro-


