
6                        KINCARDINESHIRE.

persons and property. Mr Dow, upon learning that the troops un-
der the command of His Royal Highness the Duke of Cumber-
land could not be restrained from burning the boats of the fisher-
men, plundering and destroying the neighouring village of Johns-
haven, in the parish of Benholme, on account of some of the in-
habitants being suspected of sending out provisions in boats to
some of the Pretender's troops that were passing by sea, set out on
foot to meet His Royal Highness, for the purpose of mediating
in behalf of his parishioners. It is said that he met the army,
headed by the Royal equipage at the Bridge of Benholme, about
three miles from Bervie; that he was taken into the Duke's coach,
conveyed to his own door, and honoured with His Royal High-
ness, as his guest for the night. This interview afforded the mi-
nister an opportunity of assuring his distinguished guest, that the
inhabitants of Bervie were well affected to His Majesty's govern-
ment, and it was the means of saving them from the rough treat-
ment of the soldiers, who, otherwise, might have treated them as
they did their neighbours in Jobnshaven, upon groundless suspi-
cions of disaffection in these disturbed times.
	In the year 1800, a French sloop of war appeared one day on
the coast of Bervie, and pursued several merchant vessels that were
within her reach, till they took shelter in the mouth of the water,
and in the port at Gourdon. This would, unquestion-
ably, have made them her prizes; the crew might have landed,
destroyed and plundered the town, and carried off a great deal of
property; had it not been that the presence and gallantry of a
small body of volunteers, belonging to the parish, quite intimidat-
ed them. The volunteers were immediately called to arms by the
provost of the burgh, Mr Hudson, and marched in two divisions
to the beach, to face the enemy. The one party took the one side
of the water, and the other went in the direction of the old Castle
of Hallgreen. The guns of the privateer were pointed in the
direction of those who had gone to the beach, and taken up their
position among the rocks, and soon began to discharge their balls
in all directions among them, but happily without doing any mis-
chief. Several rounds of musketry were fired by the volunteers,
till the crew of the privateer began to suspect, that a heavy fire
was about to be opened upon them by the party who had gone in
the direction of the Castle of Hallgreen, whom they believed to be
a body of artillerymen belonging to that castle, which commands
the bay, and has much the appearance of a fort. But, be this as


