
			   KIRRIEMUIR.                           169

white flakes of turpentine, resembling hoar frost, on the tender
branches.
	C. pyri. This insect is very common on the fruit trees of the
garden walls of Kinnordy, and does great damage. The gardener
informs me, that in summer he is obliged to hunt them with candle
light, as they do not make their appearance during the day.
	The caterpillar.--The larvae of various species of butterfly commit
great devastation on the leaves of gooseberry bushes, white and
red currant bushes, and on cabbages. I have, never seen them
attack the black currant. The eggs are laid with great regularity
on the under part of the leaf; and I know of no remedy so effec-
tual as picking off the leaves as soon as the eggs are observed on
them. Mr Donn remarks, that the larvae of Musca fumetarius
and M. frit are sometimes injurious; the one to wheat, and the
other to barley. What is provincially called the wire-worm is the
larva of the Tipula oleracea, a long-legged large fly, common
about meadows, and also sometimes the larvae of the T. crocata.
This grub sometimes does much mischief to oats, after grass, par-
ticularly old grass. The Limax agrestis, or what is commonly cal-
led the grub, does much injury in some quarters in eating up the
young wheat in spring, and also the oats in the month of May. Vari-
ous plans have been tried for their destruction; but none have been
effectual. The most common ir to roll the ground at night with a
heavy roller, which crushes them, and puts a stop to their work of
destruction. Papilio napi is often destructive to the braird of
turnips, and I am acquainted with no remedy.
	But no insect has of late years been more destructive to the fruits
of the earth than Tipula tritici, or the wheat-fly,--an account of
which is to be found in the Transactions of the Linnean Society by
the Rev. Mr Kirby, and in the 8th Number of the Quarterly Journal
of Agriculture by Mr Archibald Gorrie. This last gentleman es-
timates the loss sustained by the farming interest in the carse and
braes of Gowrie to exceed L.90,000 Sterling. Like others of the
insect tribe, the wheat-fly in winter is in a state of larva; and
about the beginning of June, having assumed the shape of flies,
they begin to appear in those fields where wheat has been grow-
ing during the preceding year. When the wheat comes into ear,
the flies are led to it; but if they arrive at a field of wheat before
it is in ear, they conceal themselves among the foliage within a
foot of the ground, and as soon as any of the ears have appeared
with one side out of the sheath the female flies ascend to the ears,


